Hubbard
Imag. Voy.
n«3

LIFE
AND MOST SURPRIZING
ADVENTURES
O F
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
Of York, Mariner;
Who lived eight-and-twenty years in an uninhabited
island on the coast of America, near the mouth of the
great raver Oroonoque.
With an account of his deliverance thence, and his after
Surprizing ADVENTURES.
COMPLETE IN ONE VOLUME.
A New Edition, revised and corrected,
Adorned with several Elegant Plates.
LONDON-
Printed for WiuiamLake, Leadenhall-sti.eet.

T H E
PREFACE.
IF ever the story of any private man's
adventures in the world were worth
making public, and were acceptable
when publistied, the editor of this ac-
count thinks this will be so.
The wonders of this man's life exceed
all that (he thinks) is to be found ex-
tant; the life of one man being scarce
Capable of a greater variety.
The story is told wish modesty, with
seriousness, and with a religious applica-
tion of events to the uses to which *vise
men always apply them, viz. to the in-
struction of others by this example, and
to justify and honour the wisdom of Pro-
vidence in all the variety of our circum-
stances, let them happen how they will.
The
THE
LIFE and ADVENTURES
OF
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
IWas born at York, in the year 1632,. of a repu-
table samily. My sather Was a native of Bremen,
who, by merchandizing at Hull for some time, gain-
ed a very plentisul fortune. He married my mother
at York, who received her first breath in that coun-
try: and as her maiden name was Robinson, I was
called Robinson Kreut%naer; which not being easily
pronounced in the English tongue, we are commonly
known by the name of Crusoe.
I was the youngest of three brothers. The eldest
was a lieutenant-colonel in Lockhart's regiment, but
slain t>y the Spaniards: what became of the other, I
could never learn.
No charge nor pains were wanting in my educa-/
cation. My sather designed me for the law; yet no-
thing would serve me but I must go to sea, both a-
gainst the will of my sather, the tears of my mother,
and the entreaties of friends. One morning my sa-
ther expostulated very warmly with me. What rea-
son, says he, have you to leave your native country,
where there must be a more certain prospect of con-
tent and happiness, to enter into a wandering con-
dition of uneasiness and uncertainty? He recommend-
A 3 ed
OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 3
that, being extremely sea-sick, I concluded the judg-
ments of God deservedly followed me for my disobe-
dience to my dear parents. It was then I called to
mind the good advice of my sather; how easy and
comfortable was a middle state of lise; and I firmly
resolved, if it pleaied God to set me on dry land
once more, I would return to my parents, implore
their forgiveness, and bid a final adieu to my wan-
dering inclinations.
Such were my thoughts while the storm continued;
but these good resolutions decreased with the danger;
more especially when my companion came to me,
clapping me on the shoulder: What Bob! said he,
sure you was. rut frightened lajl night with scarce a cap-
full of wind? And do you., cried I, call such a vio-
lent Jlorm a cap-full of wind? A Jlorm, you fool you,
said he, this is nothing; a good ship and sea-room al-
ways baffles such a foolish squawl of wind as that: But
you're a fresh-water sailor: Come boy, turn cut, se
what sine weather we 'have now, and a good bowl of
punch will drown all your past sorrows. In short, the
punch was made, I was drunk, and in one night's
time drowned both my repentance and my good re-
solutions, forgetting entirely the vows and promises
I made in my distress: and whenever any reflections
would return on me, what by company, and what
by drinking, I soon mastered those sits, as F deriding-
ly called them. But this only made way for another
trial, whereby I could«iot but see how much I was
beholden to kind providence. _
Upon the sixth day we came to an anchor in Har-
wich road, where we lay wind-bound with some New-
castle ships; and there being good anchorage, and
our. cables found, the seamen forgot their late toil
and danger, and spent the time as merry as if they
had been on shore. But on the eighth day there arole
a brisk gale of wind, which prevented our tiding it
up the river; and still increasing, our ship rode fore-
castle in, and shipped several large seas.
A 4 It
and our men cast them a rope over the stern with a
buoy to it, which after great labour they got hold of,
and we hauling them to us, got into their boat, and
left our ship, which we perceived sink within less than
a quarter of an hour; and thus I learned what was
meant by Foundering at sea. And now the men in-
cessantly laboured to recover their own ship; but the
sea" ran so high, and the wind blew so hard, that
they thought it convenient to hale within shore;
which, with great difficulty and danger, at last we
happily effected, landing at a place called Cramer, not
sar from Winterton light-house; from whence we all
walked to Yarmouth, where, as objects of pity, many
good people surnished us with necessaries to carry us
either to Hull or London.
Strange, that after all this, like the prodigal son,
I did not return to my sather; who, hearing of the
ship's calamity, fora long time thought me intombed
in the deep. No doubt but I should have shared in
bis fatted calf, as the scripture expresseth it: but my
ill sate still pushed me on, in spite of the powersul
convictions of reason and conscience.
When we had, been at Yarmouth three days, I met
my old companion, who had given me the invitation
to go on board along with his sather. His behavi-
our and speech was altered, and in a melancholy man-
ner asked me how I did, telling his sather who I was
and how I had made this voyage for a trial only to
proceed surther abroad. Upon which the old gentle-
man turning to me gravely, said, Young man, you ought
never to go to sea any more, but to take this for a certain
sign that you will never prosper in a seafaring condition.
Sir, answered I, will you take the same resolution? It
is a different cafe, said he, it is my calling, and cons-
quently my duty; hut as you have made this voyage for
a trial, you fee what illsuccess heaven has set befdre your
eyes; and perhaps our miseries have been on your account,
like Jonah in the ship of Tarshish. But pray what are
xoh, and on what account did you go to sea? Upon
A 5. J which
ray return to London, almost three hundred pounds.
But in this voyage 1 was extremely sick, being thrown
into a violent calenture through excessive heat, trad-
ing upon the coast from the latitude of fifteen de-
grees north even to the line itfelf.
But alas 1 my dear friend the captain soon departed
this lise aster his arrival.' This was a sensible grief
to me; yet I resolved to go another voyage with his
mate, who had now got command of the ship. This
proved a very unsuccesssul one ; for though I did not
carry quite a hundred pounds of my late acquired
wealth, (so that I had twohundred pounds left, which
I reposed with the captain's widow, who was an ho-
nest gentlewoman) yet my misfortunes in this unhap-
py voyage were veiy great. For our ship sailing to-
wards the Canary islands, we were chased by a 8aV.ee
rover; and in spite of all the haste we could make, by
crouding as much canvas as.our yards could spread,
or oar masts carry, the pirate gained upon us, so that
we prepared ourselves to sight. They had eighteen
guns, and we had but twelve. About three in the
afternoon there was a desperate engagement, where-
in many were killed and wounded on both sides; but
finding ourselves overpowered with numbers, our
ship disabled, and ourselves too impotent to have the
least hopes of suceess, we were forced to surrender;
and accordingly were all carried prisoners into the
port of Sallee. Our men were sent to the Emperor's
court to be fold there; but the pirate captain taking
notice of me, kept me to be lus own slave.
In this condition, I thought myself the most miser-
able creature on earth, and the prophecy of my sather
came afresh into my thoughts. However, my condi-
tion was better than I thought it to be, as will soon
appear. Some hopes indeed I had that my new pa-
tron would goto sea again, where he might betaken
by a Spanish or Portuguese man of war, and then I
stiould be set at liberty. But in this I was mistaken;
for he never took me with him, but left me to look.
- A 6 aftec
their minds altering, my patron ordered us to go a
fishing, for that his guests would certain!)- sup with
him that night.
And now I began to think of my deliverance in-
deed. In order to this-1 persuaded the Moor to »et
some provisions on board, as not danng to meddle;
with our patron's; and he taking my advice, we sto-
red ourselves with rusk biscuit, and three jars of wa-
ter. Besides, I privately conveyed into the boat a
bottle of Brandy, some twine, thread, a hammer, hat-
chet, and a saw; and, in particular, some bees wax,
which was a great comfort to me, and served to make
candles. I thenpursuaded Muley (forsowas the Moor
called) to procure some powder and shot, pretending
to kill sea curlieus, which he innocently and readily
agreed to. In short, being provided with all thinos
necessary, we sailed out, resolving for my own part
to make my escape, tho' it should cost me my lise.
When we had passed the castle, we tell to fishing;
but, though I knew there was a bite, I dissembled the
matter, in order to put surther out to sea. Accord-
ingly we ran a league surther: when giving the boy
the helm, and pretending to stoop for something, I
seized Muley by surprize, and threw him overboard.
As he was an excellent swimmer, he soon arose, and
made towards the boat; upon which, I took out a
susee, and presented at him: Muley, said I, I never
yet designed to do you any harm, and seek nothing new but
my redemption. 1 know you are able enough to swim to
shore, and save your life; but is you are resolved to fl-
int) me, to the endangering os mine, the very moment you
proceed, I will flnot you through the head. The harm-
less creature, at these word?, turned himself from me,
and I make no doubt got sase to land. Then turn-
ing to the boy Xury, I perceived he trembled at the
action; but I put him ojut of all scar, telling him,
that is he would be true and saithsul to me, I would
do well by him. And therefore, said I, you mnftJlrcke
your face to be faithfu!r and, as the Turks have learned
-' y"'
rollings of the water, and other tokens, we justly
concluded one of those monsters made towards. our
boat. I could not see till it came within two oars
length, when taking my susee, I let fly at him. Whe-
ther I hit him or no, I cannot tell; but he made to-
wards the shore, and the noise of my gun increased
the stupendous noise of the monsters.
The next morning I was resolved to go on shore
to get fresh water, and venture my lise among the
beasts or savages, should either attack me. Xury said,
he would take one os the jars, and bring me some. I
asked him why he would go, and not I? The poor
boy answered, If wild mans come, they eat uu, you gt
jway. A mind scarcely now to be imitated, so con-
trary to self-preservation, the most powersul law of
nature! This indeed increased my affection to the
child. Well, dear Xury, said I, we will both go ajhore,
both kill wild mans, and they shall eat neither of us. So
giving Xury apiece of rusk bread to eat, and a dram,
we waded ashore, carrying nothing with us but our
arms, and two jars for water. I did not go out of
.sight of the boat, as dreading the savages coming
down the river in their canoes; but the boy seeing a
low descent or vale about a mile in the country, he
wandered to it; and then running back to me with
great precipitation, I thought he was pursued by
some savage or wild' beast upen wfvch 1 approach-
ed, resolving to perish or protect him from danger.
As he came nearer to me, 1 saw something hanging
over his shoulders, which was a creature he had (hot
like a hare, but different iii colour, and longer legs;
however, we were glad of it, for it proved whole-
some and nourishing meat; but what added to our
joy was, my boy assured me.therewas plenty of wa-
ter, and that hesee no wild mats. Andgreater still was
our comfort, when we found fresh water in the creek
where we were when the tide was out, without going
so sar up into the country.
In this place I began to consider that the Canary
and
ing close to the lion, put a period to his lise, by
shooting him again through the head.
But this was spending our ammunition in vain, the
flesh not being good to eat. Xury was like a cham-
pion, and comes on board for a hatched, to cut osf
the head of his enemy; but not having strength to
perform it, he cut off and brought me a foot. I be-
thought me however that his skin would be of use.
This work cost Xury and me a whole day; when
spreading it on the top of our cabin, the hot beams
of the sun effectually dried it in two days time, and
it afterwards served me for a bed to lie on.
And now we sailed southerly, living spanngly on
our provisions, and went no oftner on shore than we
were obiiged for fresh water. My design was to make
the river Gambia or Senegal, or any where about the
Cape de Verde, in hopes to meet some European
ship. If Providence did not so savour me, my next
course was to seek for the islands, or lose my lise a-
mong the Negroes. And in a word, I put my whole
stress upon this, " Either that I must meet with some
"ship, or certainly perish."
Onedayas wewere sailing along, wesawpeople stand
on the shore looking at us; we could also perceive
they were black and stark naked. I was inclined to
go on shore, but Xury cried no, no; however, I ap-
proached nearer, and I found they run along the shore
by me a good way. They had no weapons in their
hands, except one, who held a long stick, which Xu-
ry told me was a lance, with which they could kill at
a great distance. 1 talked to them by signs, and made
them sensible I wanted -something to eat; they beck-
oned to me to stop my boat, while two of them ran
up into the country, and in less than half an hour
came back, and brought with them two pieces of dry
flesh, and some corn, which we kindly accepted: and
to prevent any sears on either side, they brought the
food to the shore, laid it down, then went and stood a
great
is through their perspective glasses they had not per-
ceived me, and shortened their sail to let me come
up. Encouraged at this, I set up my patron's ancient,
and fired agun, both as signals of distress; upon which
they very kindly lay to, so that in three hours time I
came up with them. They spoke to me in Portuguese,
Spanish, and French, but neither of these did 1 un-
derstand; till at length a Scots sailor called, and then
I told him I was an Englishman, who had escaped
from the Moors at Sallee; upon which they took me
kindly on board, with all my effects.
Surely none can express the inconceivable joy I selt
at this happy deliverance ! who, from being a late mis-
erable and forlorn creature, was not only relieved,
but in favour with the master of the ship, to whom,
in return formy deliverance, I offered all I had. God
forbid, said he, that I should take any thing from you.
Every thing shall be delivered to you when you come to
Brazil. If I have saved your life, it is no more than I
Jhould expeSt to receive myself from any other, when in
the fame circumstances, I Jhould happen to meet the like
deliverance. And should I take from you what you have,
and leave you at Brazil, why, this would be only taking
away a life I have given. Mj charity teaches me bet-
ter. Those ejfecls you have will support you there, and
provide you a passage home again. And, indeed, he
acted with the strictest justice in what he did, taking
my things into his possession, and giving mz an exadt
inventory, even to my earthen jars. He bought my
boat of me for the ship's use, giving me a note of
eighty pieces of eight, payable at Brazil; and if any
body offered more, he would make it up. He also
give me sixty pieces for my boy Xury. It was with
great reluctance I was prevailed upon to sell the child's
liberty, who had served me so saithsully; but the boy
was willing himself; and it was agreed, that after ten
years he should be made free, upon his renouncing
Mah ometanifm, and embracing Christianity.
Having a pleasant voyage to the Brazils, we arrived
in
I was in some measure settled, before the captain,
who took me up, departed srom the Brazils. One
day I went to him, and told him what stock I had in
London, defiring his assistance in getting it remitted;
to which the' good gentleman readily consented, but
would only have me send for half my money, lest it
should miscarry; which, if it did, I might still have
the remainder to support me: and so taking letters
of procuration from me, bid me trouble myself no
sarther about it.
And, indeed, wondersul was his-kindness towards
me; for he not only procured the money I had drawn
for upon my captain's widow, but sent me over a ser-
vant with a cargo, proportionable to my condition.
He also sent me over tools of all sorts, iron work, and
utensils necessary for my plantation, and which pro-
ved of the greatest use to me in my business.
Wealth now accumulating on me, and uncommon
success crowning my prosperous labours., I might
have rested happy in that middle state of lise my sa-
ther had so often recommended; yet nothing would
content me, such was my evil genius, but I must
leave this happy station, for a foolish ambition in ri-
sing; and thus, once more, I cast myself into the
deepest gulf of misery that ever poor creature sell in-
to. Having lived four years in Brazil, I had not only
learned the language, but. contracted acquaintance
with the most eminent planters, and even the mer-
chants of St. Salvadore; to whom, once, by way of
discourse, having given an account of my two voyages
to the coast of Guinea, and the manner or trading
there for mere trisles, by which we surnish our plan-
tations with negroes, they gave such attention to what
I said, that three of them came one morning to me,
and -toH me they had a secret proposal to make. Af-
ter enjoining me to secrecy (it being an infringement
on the powers of the Kings of Portugal and Spain)
they told me they had a mind to sit out a ship to go
10 Guinea, in oiderto stock the plantation with ne-
i groes
soonercried out, but our ship struck upon a sand, and
in a moment the sea broke over her in such a man-
ner, that we expected we should all have perished .
immediately. We knew nothing where we were, or
upon what land we were driven; whether an island
or the main, inhabited or not inhabited; and we
could not so much as hope that the ship would hold
eut many minutes, without breaking in pieces, ex-
cept the wind by a miracle should turn about imme-
diately. While we stood looking at one another,
expecting death every moment, the mate lays hold of
the boat, and with the help of the rest got her flung
over the ship's side, and getting all into her, being
eleven of us, committed ourselves to God's mercy,
and the wild sea. And now we saw that this last ef-
fort would not be a sufficient protection from death;
so high did the sea rise, that it was imposlible the boat
should live. As to making sail, we had none; neither
if we had, could we make use of any. So that when
we had rowed, or rather were driven about a league
ana a half, a raging wave, like a lofty mountain,
came rolling astern of us, and took us with such fu^.
ry, that at once it overset the boat. Thus being swal-
lowed up in a moment, we had hardly time to call
upon the tremendous name of God: much less to
implore, in dying ejaculations, his infinite mercy to
receive our deparing fouls.
Men are generally counted insensible, when strug-
gling in the pangs of death; but while I was over-
whelmed with water, I had the most dreadsul appre-
hensions imaginable. For the joys of heaven and the
torments of hell, seemed to present themselves before
me in these dying agonies, and even small space of
time, as it were, between lise and death. I was go-
ing, 1 thought, I knew not whither, in a dismal gulf
unknown, and as yet unperceived, never to behold
my friends, nor the light of this world any more!
Could I even have thought of annihilation, or a total
dissolution of soulaswell asbody, the gloomy thoughts
hands, with the profoundest humility, to the divine
my eyes around, to behold what place I was in, and
what I had next to do. I could see nohouse nor peo-
ple: I was wet, yet had no clothes to shift me; hungry
and thirsty, yet had nothing to eat or drink; no wea-
pon to destroy any creature for my sustenance, nor de-
send myself against devouring beasts; in short, I had
nothing but a knise, a tobacco-pipe, and a box half
filled with tobacco. The darksome night coming up-
on me, increased my sears of being devoured by wild
creatures; my mind was plunged in despair, and hav-
ing no prospect, as I thought of lise before me, I
prepared for another kind of death than what I had
lately escaped. I walked about a surlong to see is I
could find any fresh water, which I did, to my great
joy ; and taking a quid of tobacco to prevent hunger,
I got up into a thick bushy tree, and seating myself so
that I could not sall, a deep sleep overtook me, and
for that night buried my sorrows in a quiet repose.
It was broad day the next morning before I a-
waked; when I not only perceived the tempest was
ceased, but saw the snip driven almost as sar as the
rock before mentioned, which the waves had dashed
me against, and which was about a mile from th«
place where I was. When I came down from my
apartment in the tree, I perceived the ship's boat two
miles distant on my right hand, lying on shore, as
the waves had cast her. I thought to have got to
her; but there being an inlet of water of about half
a mile's breadth between it and me, I returned again
towards the ship, as hoping to find something for my
more immediate subsistence. About noon, when the
sea was calm, that I could come within a quarter of
a mile of her, it was to my grief I perceived, that, if
we had kept on board, all our lives had been saved,
These thoughts, and my solitude, drew tears from

for savi
lise, when the rest of my com-
led. And now I began to cast
fi
nay
cordial waters, and four or five gallons of rack, which
I stowed by themselves. By this time the tide begin-
ning to flow, I perceived rhy coat, waistcoat, and
shirt, swim away, which I had left on the shore; as
for my linen breeches and stockings, I swam with
-them on to the ship: but I soon found clothes enough,
thought I took no more than I wanted for the present.
My eyes were chiefly on tools to work with; and,
after long search, I found out the carpenter's chest,
which I got sase down on my raft. I then looked for
arms and ammunition, and in the great cabin found
two good fowling pieces, two pistols, several powder
horns filled, a small bag of shot, and two old rusty
swords. I likewise found three barrels of powder,
two.of which were good, but the third had taken wa-
ter, also two or three broken oars, two saws, an axe,
and a hammer. I then put to sea, and in getting to
shore had three encouragements. I. A smooth calm
sea. 2. The tide rising and setting in to the shore.
3. The little wind there was blew towards land. Af-
ter I had sailed about a mile, I found the raft to drive
a little distance from the place where I first landed;
and then I perceived a little opening of the land, with
a strong current of. the tide running into it; upon
which I kept the middle of the stream. But great
was my concern, when on a sudden the forepart of
my raft ran aground; so that had I not, with great
difficulty, for near half an hour, kept my back strain-
ing against the chests to keep my effects in their
places, all I had would have gone into the sea. But
after some time, the rising of the water caused the
raft to float again, and coming up a little river^with
land on both sides, I landed in a little cave, as near
the mouth as possible, the better to discover a sail, if
any such providentially passed that way.
Not sar off, I espied a hill of a stupendous height,
surrounded with lesser hills about it, and thither I was
resolved to go and view the country, that I might see
what part was best to fix my habitation in. Accord-
B 2 ingty,
When I had gotten these esfects on shore, I went
to work, in order to make me a little tent with the
sail and some poles which 1 had cut for that purpose;
and having finished it, what things might be dama-
ged by the weather I brought in, piling all the empty
chests and casks in a circle, the better to fortify it
against any sudden attempt of man or beast. After
this, I blocked up the doors with some boards, and
an empty chest turned the long way out. I then
charged my gun and pistol, and, laying my bed on
the ground, slept as comfortably, till next morning,
as though I had been in a Christian country.
Now, thougn I had enough to subsist me a long
time, \et despairing of a sudden deliverance, or that
both ammunition and provision might be spent besore,
such thing happened, I coveted as much as I could;
and so long as the ship remained in that condition, I
daily brought away one necessary or other; particu-
larly the rigging, sails, and cordage, some twine, a
barrel of wet powder, some sugar, a barrel of meal,
three casks of rum, and, what indeed was most wel-
come to me, a whole hogshead of bread.
The next time I went I cut the cables in pieces,
carried off a hawser whole, with a great deal of iron
work, and made another raft with the mizen and
sprit-sail-yards; but this being so unwieldy, by the
too heavy burden I had upon it, and not being a%l«
so dexterously to guide it, as the former, both my
cargo and I were overturned. For my part, all the
damage I sustained was a wet skin ; and at low water,
after much labour in diving, I got most of the cables,
and lome pieces of iron..
Thirteen days had I now been in the island, and
eleven times on board, bringing away all that was
possible; and, I believe, had the weather been calm,
I should have brought away the whole Ihip, piece by
piece. As I was going the twelfth time, the wind
began to rise; however, I ventured at low water, and
rummaging the cabin, in a locker I found several ra-
B 3 zors
i
-beasts of prey, as more easily to discover 'any distant
-sail, should it ever so happen.
And, indeed, it was not long before I had my defire.
I found a little plain near a rising hill, the front to-
wards which being as steep as a house-side, nothing
could descend on me from the top. On the side of
this rock was a little hollow place, resembling the en-
trance or door of a cave. Just before this place, on.
the circle of the green, I resolved my tent should
stand. This plain did not much exceed a hundred yards
broad, and about twice as long, like a delightsul
green before my door, with a pleasing, though irre-
gular, descent every way to the low grounds by the
sea-side, lying on the N. N. W. side of the hill, lo
that it was sheltered from the excessive heat of the sun.
After this I drew a semicircle, containing ten yards in
• its semi-diameter, and twenty yards in the whole,
-driving down two rows of strong stakes not six inches
from each other. Then with the pieces of cable
which I had cut on board, 1 regularly laid them in
the circle between the piles up to their tops, which
-were more than five seet out of the earth, and after
drove another row of piles looking within side against
them, between two or three seet high, which made
me conclude it a little impregnable castle for men and
beasts. And for my better security I would have no
door, but entered in and came out by the help of a
ladder which I also made.
Here was my sence and fortress, into which I car-
ried all my riches, ammunition, and stores. After
which, working on the rock, what with the dirt and
stones I dug out, I not only raised my ground two
seet, but made a little cellar to my mansion-house;
.and this cost me many days labour and pains. One
day in particular a shower of rain salling, thunder and
lightning ensued, which put me in terror lest my
-powder should take fire, and not only hinder my ne-
ceflary subsistence, by killing me food, but even blow
up me and my habitation. To prevent which, I sell
B 4 to
post, and that on Sabbath was as long again as the
rest; and every first day of the month as long again
as that long one. In this manner I kept my callen-
dar, weekly, monthly, or yearly reckoning of time.
But had I made a more strict search, (as I did after-
wards) I need not have set up this mark. For among
the parcels belonging to the gunner, carpenter, and
Captain's mate, I found those very things I wanted.;
particularly pens, ink, and paper ;. also I found two
or three compasses, some mathematical instruments,
dials, perspective glasses, books of navigation, three
English bibles, and several other good books, which
I caresully put up. Here I cannot but call to mind
our having a dog and two cats on board, whom I
made inhabitants with me in my castle. Though
one might think I had all the necessaries that were de-
sirable, yet still I found several things wanting. My
ink was daily wasting :. I wanted needles, pins, and
thread to mend or keep my clothes together; and
particularly a spade, pix-axe, or shovel, to remove
the earth. It was a year before I sinished my little
bulwark; and having some intervals of relaxation,,
after my daily wandering abroad for provision, I drew
up this plan, alternately, as creditor and debtor, to-
semind me of the miseries and blessings of my lise,,
under so many various circumstances.
Evil. f G a o d.
/ am cajl upon a desolate] But yet J am preserve
island, having no hopes, 7; A ed, while my companions .
trojpecl of a welcome de-
liverance.
How miserably am I sin-
gled out from the enjoy-
ment or company of all man-
kind.
perijhed in the raging
an..
Tct set apart to le spared,
from death. And he, u ho has
\fi preserved me, can deliver
me from this condition.
Like an hermit ( rnthey . However, I have food to
fhouhl I fay a lonely ancho-\eat, and even a happy prof'
.... I I .-. / I. r-, r 1 r.i ',.iTi i.i/.
rite) am J forced from hu-hefi of jubjj/hnee whiljl Ufa
man converjation, j endures.
B 5 . M*
very pleasant sight to me, as being the result of vast
labour and diligence; which leaving fora while, and*
me to the enjoyment of, I mail give the reader an ac-
count of my Journal from the dav of my landing,
till the fixing and settling of my habitation, as here-
tofore shewn.
JOURNAL.
SEptember 30th, 1659,1 unhappy Robinson Cru-
soe, having susfered shipwreck, was driven on
this desolate Island, which I named the Desolate Island
of Despair, the rest being swallowed up in the tem-
pestuous ocean. The next day I spent in consider-
ation of my unhappy circumstances, having no pros-
pect but of death, either to be starved with hunger,
,or devoured by beasts or merciless savages.
Oct. 1. That morning, with great comfort, I be-
held the ship drove ashore. Some hopes I had, that
when the storm was abated, I might be able to get
ibme food and necessaries out of her; which I con-
ceived were not damaged, because the Clip did stand
upright. At this time I lamented the loss of my com-
panions, and our misfortune in leaving the vessel.
When I perceived the ihip a? it were lie dry, I wa-
ied through the sands, then iv/am aboard, the wea-
. ther being very rainy, and with scarcely any wind.
To the 14th of this month, my time was employ-
•ed in making voyages, every tide getting what I
could out of the ship. The weather very wet and
•uncertain.
Oct. 20. My raft and all the goods thereon were
.overset; yet I recovered most again at low water.
Oct. 25. It blew hard, and rained night and day,
when the ship went in pieces, so that nothing was
£ 6 seen
Nov. 17. I began to dig in the rock, yet was oblig-
ed to desist for want of a pick-axe, shovel, and
wheel-barrow. Iron crows I caused to supply the
place of the first; but with all my art I could not
make a wheel-barrow.
Nov. 18. It was my fortune to find a tree, resem-
bling what the Brazilians call an iron tree. I had like
to have spoiled my axe with cutting it, being very
hard and exceeding heavy; yet, with much labour
and industry, I made a sort of a spade out os it.
Nov. 23. These tools being made, I daily carried
on my business; eighteen days I allowed for enlarging
my cave, that it might serve me, not only for a ware-
house, but kitchen, parlour, and cellar. I commonly
lay in the tent, unless the weather was rainy that!
could not lie dry. So wet would it be at certain sea-
sons, that I was obliged to cover all within the pale
with long poles, in the form of rafters, leaning a-
gainst the rock, and load them with flags and large
leaves of trees, resembltng a thatch.• ,
Dec. 10. No sooner did I think my habitation fi-
nished, but suddenly a great deal of the top broke in,
so that it was a mercy I was not buried in the ruins.
This occasioned a great deal of pains and trouble to
me, before I could make it firm and durable.
Dec. 17. I nailed up some shelves and drove nails
and staples in the wall and posts to hang things out
•of the way.
Dec 20- E/ery thing I got into its place, then
made a sort of a dresser, and another table.
Dec. 24, 25. Rain in abundance.
Dec. 26. Very sair weather.
Dec. 27. I chanced to lighton some goats, shot one,
and wounded another. I Jed ithome in ;i string, bound
up its leg, and cured it in a little time; at length, it
became'so tame and samiliar as to seed before the
•door, and follow me where I pleased. This put me
in mind to bring up tame creatures, in order to sup-
ply me with food alter my ammunition was spent.
Dec.
any ignorance in not conceiving how it should come
there, made me conclude, that miracles were not yet
ceased: nay, I even thought that God had appointed
it to grow there without any seed, purely for my
sustenance in this miserable and desolate island. And
indeed such great effect this had upon me, that it
often made me melt into tears, through a gratesul
sense of God's mercies; and the greater still was my
thanksulness, when I perceived about this little field
«f barley, some rice stalks, also wondersully flourish-
ing
While thus pleased in mind, I concluded there
must be more corn in the island ; and therefore made
a diligent search narrowly among the rocks : but not
being able to find any, on a sudden it came into my
mind, how I had shaken the husks of corn out of the
bag, and then my admiration .ceased, with my grati-
tude to the divine Being, as thinking it was but natu-
ral, and not to be conceived a miracle : tho' even the
manner of its preservation'.might have made me own
it as a wonderful event of God's kind providence.
It was about the latter end of June when the ears
of this corn ripened, which I laid up very caresully,
together with 20 or 30 stalks of rice, expecting one
<]ay I should reap the fruit of my labour ; yet four
years were expired before I could allow myself to eat
any barley bread, and much longer time before I had
any rice. After this, with indesatigable pains and
industry sor three or four months, at last I finished
my wall on the 14th of April, having no way to go
into it, but by a ladder against the wall.
April 16. I finished my ladder, and ascended it;
afterwards pulled it up, then let it down on the other
£de, and descended into my new habitation, where I
had space enough, and so fortified, thatnothing could
attack me, without scaling the walk.
But what does all human pains and industry avail,
if theblestingof God does not crown our labours ? Or
1 who
cave, where I was forced to cut a channel through
my fortification to let the water out. It continued
raining all that night, and sometime the next day.
These accidents made me resolve, as soon as the wea-
ther cleared up, to build me a little hut in some open
place, walled round to desend me from wild crea-
tures and savages; not doubting but, at the next
earthquake, the mountain would sall upon my habita-
tion and me, and swallow up all in its bowels.
April 16,—20. These days I spent in contriving
how and in what manner I should fix my place of a-
bode. All this while I was under the most dreadsul
apprehensions. When I looked round my habitation,
every thing I sound in its proper place. I had several
resolutions whether I should move or not; but at
length I resolved to stay where I was, till I found out
a convenient place where I might pitch my tent.
April 22. When I began to put my resolutions in
practice, I was stopt for want of tools and instru-
ments to work with. Most of my axes and hatchets
were useless, occasioned by cutting the hard timber
that grew on the island. It took me up a sull week
to make my grindstone of use to me; and at last I
found out a way to turn it about with my foot, by
help of a wheel and a string.
April 28, 29. These days were spent in grinding
my tools.
April 30. My bread sallingshort, I allowed myself
but one biscuit a day.
May 1. As I walked along the sea-shore, I found
a barrel of gunpowder, and several pieces of the
wreck, which the sea had flung up. Having secured
those, I made to the ship, whose stern was torn osF,
and washed a great distance ashore; but the rest lay
in the sands. This I suppose was occasioned by the
earthquake. I now resolved to keep my old place of
abode: and also to go to the ship that day, but then
sound it impoflible.
seen on the island, though, as I afterwards found,
there were many on the other side of it.
June i-. This day I spent in cooking it, found
in her threescore eggs, and her flesh the most savory
and pleasant I ever tasted in my lise.
June 18. I staid within this day, there being a con-
tinual rain; and it was something more chilly and
cold than usual.
June 19. Exceeding bad, taken with a trembling
^and shivering.
June 20. Awake all night, my head racked with
pain, and severish.
June 21. Sick,unto death, and terrified with the
.dismal apprehensions of my condition. Prayed to
God more frequently, but very consusedly.
June 22. Something better, but still uneasy in my
.mind.
June ,23. Again relapsed much as before.
June 24. Mended a second time.
June 25. A violent ague for seven hoursi cold and
•Jiot sits, succeeded with saint sweats.
June 26. Better, but very weak; yet I scrambled
.out, shot .a she-goat, brought it home, and broiled
some of it: I would willingly have stewed it, and
made some broth, but had no pot.
June 27. All. this day I was aiHicted with an ague;
thirsty, yet could not help myself to water: Prayed
So God in these words: Lord in pity% look upon me:
Lard have mercy upon me: have mercy upon me! After
,this I sell asleep, which I found had much refreshed
me when I awaked. I sell asleep a second time, and
fell into this strange and terrible fort of dream.
Methought I was sitting on the same spot of ground
at the outside of the wall where I sat when the storm
blew after the earthquake; and that I saw a man de-
scending from a great black cloud, and light upon the
ground. He was all over as bright as a flash of fire
that a little before surrounded him ; his countenance
inconceivably
1The likelihood of wanting for neither food nor
conveniences, might have called upon me for a
thanksul acknowledgment to Providence. Indeed,
the growth of my corn touched me with some sense;
but that soon wore osf againl The terrible earth-
quake pointed to me, as it were, the finger of God,
but my dreadsul amazement continued no longer
than its duration. But now, when my spirits began
to sink under the burden of a strong distemper, and
I could leisurely view the miseries of death present
themselves before my eyes, then my awakened con-
science began to reproach me with my past lise, in
which I had so wickedly provoked the justice of God
to pour down his vengeance upon me.
Such reflections as these oppresied me even in the
violence of my distemper. Some prayers I uttered,
which only proceeded from my sear of death. But
when I considered my father's advice and prophecy,
I could not forbear weeping; for, he told me, That,
if I did persist in my filly, I should not only be deprived
of God's blessing, but have time enough to re/led upon
my despising,'his injlruclions, and this in a wretched
time, when none could help me. And now, concluding
it to be sulfilled, Having no soul in the island to ad-
minister any comfort to me, I prayed earnestly to the
Lord, that he would help me in this my great
calamity. And this, I think, was the first time I
prayed in sincerity for many years. But now I must
return to my journal.
June 28. Something refreshed with sleep, and the
fit quite off, I got up. My dream still occasioned in
me a great consternation; and, searing that the ague
might return the succeeding day, I concluded it
time to get something to comfort me. I filled a case
bottle with water, and set it within the reach of my
bed; and, to make it more nourishing and less chilly,
I put some rum in it. The next thing I did was to
bail me a piece of goat flesh, of which I ate but lit-
tle. I was very weak; however, walked about, dread-
.
the African, coast, or drowned here when all thy com-
panions suffered shipwreck in the ocean?
Struck dumb with these reflections, I rose up in a
pensive manner, being so thoughtsul that I could not
go to deep; and searing the dreadful return of my
distemper, it caused me to remember, that the Brazi-
lians use tobacco for almost all diseases. I then went:
to my chest, in order to sind some, where heaven, no
doubt, directed me to find a cure for both loul and
body; for there I found one of the bibles, which, till
this time, I had neither leisure nor inclination te look
into; I took both the tobacco and that out of the
chest, and laid them on the table. Several experi-
ments did I try with the tobacco: First, I took a
piece of leaf, and chewed it; but it being very green
and strong, almost stupified me. Next I steeped it
in some rum an hour or two, resolving when I went
to bed to take a dose of it; 'and, in the third place, I
burnt some over a pan of fire, holding my nose over
it so long as I could endure it without suffocation.
In the intervals of this operation, though my head
was giddy and disturbed by the tobacco, I took up
the bible to read. No sooner did I open it, but there
appeared to me these words. Call on me in the day os
trouble, and I will deliver thee, and thou shalt glorify
me.
At first this sentence made a very deep impression
on my heart; but it soon wore off again, when I
considered the word deliver was foreign to me. And
as the children of Israel said, when they were pro-
mised flesh to eat, Can God spread a table in the wil-
derness? in like manner I began to soy, Can God
himself deliver me from this desolate island? How^
ever, the words would still return to my mind* and
afterwards made a greater impression upon me. As
it now was very late, and the tobacco had dozed my
-head, I was inclined to sleep; but before I would lie
down, I sell on my knees, and implored the promise
that God bad made to me in the holy scriptures,
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
that, is I called upon him in the day os trouble, he
would deliver me. With much difficulty I after drank
the rum, wherein I had steeped the tobacco; which
flying into my head, threw me into such a profound
sleep, that it was three o'clock the next day before
I awaked; or rather, I believe, I flept two days, hav-
ing certainly lost a day in my account, and I could
never tell any other way. When I got up, my spi-
rits were lively and cheersul ; my stomach much bet-
ter, being very hungry; and, in short, no sit returned
she next day, which was the 29th, but I found my-:
self much altered for the better.
. The 30th, I went abroad with my gun, but not
far, and killed a sea-fowl or two, resembling a brand-
goose, which, however, I cared not to eat when I
brought them home, but dined on two more of the
turtle's eggs. In the evening I renewed my medicine,
excepting that I did not take so large a quantity,
neither did I chew the leaf, or hold my head over the
smoke: but next day, which was the 1st of July, hav-
ing a little return of the cold sit, I again took my
medicine as I did the first time.
July 3. The sit quite left me, butvery vve;.k. In
this condition, 1 often thought of these words, I will
deliver thee; and while at some times I would think
of the impossibility of it, other thoughts would re-
prehend me, for disregarding the deliverances I had
i-eceived, even from the most forlorn and distressed
condition. Tasked myself, what regard have I had to
God for his abundant mercies? Have I done my
part? He has delivered me, but I have not glorified him:as if I had said, I had not owned and been thank-
ful for these as deliverances, and how could I expect
greater? So much did this sensibly touch my heait,
that I gave God thanks for my recovery from sick-
ness in the most humble prostration.
July 4. This morning I began serioufly to ponder
on what is written in the New Testament, resolving
to te*d a chapter every morning and night as Jong
as
as my thoughts would engage me. As soon as I set
about this work seriously, I found my heart deeply af-
sected with the impiety of my past lise; these words
that I thought were spoken to me in my dream revi-
ved, All these things have not brought thee to rcpen-y
tance. After this, I begged of God to assist me with
his Holy S.pirit in returning to my duty. One day,
in perusing the scriptures, 1 came to these words, He
is exalted a Prince and a Saviour, to give repentance,
and to give remijjion: Immediately I laid down the
book, and, with uplifted hands to heaven, loudly
cried, 0 blessed fesus, thou son os David, Jesus, thou ex-
alted Prince and Saviour, give me repentance! And
now indeed I prayed with a true sense of my condi-
tion, and a more certain hope, founded on the word
of God. Now I had a different sense of these words,
Call on me, and I will deliver thee, that is, from the
dreadsul load of guilt, which oppressed my sinsul
foul, and not from a solitary lise, which might rather
be called a blessing, (seeing I wanted neither food
nor raiment) when compared with living among the
human race, surrounded with so much oppression,
misery, and affliction: In a word, I came to this con-
clusion, that a deliverance from sin was a much great-
er blessing than a deliverance from affliction. But
again I proceed to my journal.
To the 14th os July, I walked about with my gun,
little and little at a time, having been reduced to the
greatest extremity of weakness. The applications
and experiments I used were persectly new; neither
could I recommend them to any one's practice. For
though it carried off the sit, it very much weakened
"me; and I had frequently convulsions in my nerves
and limbs for some time. From hence J learned,
that going abroad in rainy weather, especially when
it was attended with storms and hurricanes of wind,
was most pernicious to health. I had now been a-
bove ten months in the island; and as I never had
feen any of the human kind, I therefore accounted
C myself
myself as sole monarch ; and as I grew better, having
secured my habitation to my mind, I resolved to make
a tour round my kingdom, in order to make new dis-
coveries.
The 15th of July I began my journey. I first went
to the creek, where I had brought my rafts on shore;
and travelling sarther, found the tide went no higher
than two miles up, where there was a little brook of
running water, on the bank of which were many plea-
sant savannahs or meadows, plain, smooth, and cover-
ed with grass. On the rising parts, where I supposed
the water did not reach, I perceived a great deal of
tobacco growing to a very strong stalk. Several other
plants I likewise found, the virtues of which I did not
understand. I searched a long time for the Cassava
xoot, which I knew the Indians in that climate made
their bread of; but all in vain. There were several
plants of aloes, though at that time I knew not what
they were; likewise I law several sugar-canes, but
irnpersect for want of cultivation. With these sew
discoveries I came back that night, and slept content-
edly in my little castle.
The next day, being the 16th, going the same way,
frut sarther than the day before, I found the country
inore adorned with woods and trees. Here I perceiv-
ed different fruits in great abundance. Melons in
plenty lay on the ground, and clusters of grapes, ripe
and very rich, spread over the trees. You may ima-
gine I was glad of this discovery, yet ate very spa-
ringly* lest 1 should throw myself into a flux or sever,
she grapes I found of excellent use; for when I had
jriedthem in the sun, which preserved them as dried
raifins are kept, they proved very wholesome and nou-
rishing and served me in those seasons when no grapes
v/ere to be had.
The night drawing on apace, I ascended up a tree,
j,nd slept very comfortably, though it was the first
time I hiid lain cut of my habitation. And when the
morning came, 1 proceeded with great pleasure on
my
my way, travelling about four miles, as I imagined,
by the length of the valley, directing my course north-
ward, there being a ridge of hills on the south and
north side of me. At the end of this valley I came
to an opening, where the country seemed to descend
to the west; there I found a little spring of fresh wa-
ter, proceedingoutof the stdeof the hill, with its crystal
streams running directly east. And indeed here my
senses were charmed with the most beautisul landscape
nature could afford ; for the country appeared so flou-
rishing, green, and delightsul, that to me it seemed
like a planted garden. 1 then descended on the side
of that delicious vale, when I found abundance of co-
coa, orange, lemon, and citron trees, but very wild
and barren at that time. As for the limes, they were
delightsul and wholesome, the juice of which I after
used to mix in water, which made it very cool and re-
freshing. And now I was resolved to carry home and
lay up a store of grapes, limes and lemons, against the
approaching wet season. So laying them up in sepa-
rate parcels, and then taking a sew of each with me, I
returned to my little castle, after having spent three days
in this journey. Before I got home, the grapes were so
bruised that they were utterly spoiled; the limes in-
deed were good, but of those I could bring only a sew.
July 19. -Having prepared two bags, I returned
thither again; but to my great surprize, found all the
grapes spread about, trod to pieces, and abundance
eaten, which made me conclude there were wild
beasts thereabouts. To prevent this happening again,
I gathered a large quantity of the grapes,. and hung
them upon the out branches of the tree, both to-
keep them unhurt, and that they might cure and dry
in the sun : and having well loaded myself with limes
and lemons, I returned once more to my old place of
residence.
And now contemplating on the fruitsulness of this
valley, the pleasantness of its situation, its security
from
C 2
from storms, and the delightsulness of the adjacent
vvoods, I concluded I was settled in the worst part of
the country, and therefore was thinking to remove
xny habitation. But when I considered again, that
though it was pleasant, it was off from the sea-side,
.where there was a poslibility, some time or other, a
ship might either be driven or sail by; and that to
inclose myself among hills and woods must certainly
put an erid to my hopes of deliverance; I resolved to
let my castle remain where Providence had first as-
signed if. Yet so ravished was I with this place, that
j made me a little kind of bower, surrounding it with
^ double hedge, as high as I could reach, well staked,
and filled with bullrushes; and having spent a great
.part of the month of July, I think it was the first of
^.ugust before I began to enjoy my labour.
Aug. 3. Perceiving my grapes to be dry, I took
.trhem from the trees, and they proved excellent good
^taiins of the sun: the most of which I carried to my
^ave; and happy for me I did so, by which I saved
.t.he best part of my winter food.
Aug. 14, This day it began to rain; and though I
•j-iad made me a tent like the other, yet having no shel-
ter of a hill to keep me from storms, nor a cave behind
to retreat to, 1 was obliged to return to my old cas-
^.je. Tne rain continued more or less every day,, till
middle of October; and sometimes so violently,
jiat I could not stir out of my cave for several days,
/~-["his season I found my samily to increase; for one
£ my cats that ran away from me, and who I thought
t^ad been dead, returned about August, with three
•ttens at her heels, like herself; which I thought
7i rapge, because both my cats were semales, and the
^ild cats of the island seemed to be of a different kind
rr0m our European cats; but from these cats proceed-
<j such numbers, that I was forced to kill and destroy
. ern as I would do wild beasts or vermin.
Tf o the 26th of this month, I could not stir out, it
raining
raining incessantly; when beginning to want food,
I was compelled to venture twice, the first of which I
shot a goat, and afterwards found a very large tor-
toise. The manner of my regulating my food was
thus: A bunch of raisins served me for my breaksast;
a piece of goat's flesh or turtle boiled for my dinner,
and two or three turtle eggs for my supper. While
the rain lasted, I daily worked two or three hours at
enlarging mj cave, and by degrees worked it on to-
wards one side, till I came to the outside of the hill,
and made a door or way out, which came beyond my
sence or wall, and so I came in and out this way.
But after I had done this, I was troubled to see my-
self thus exposed; though I could not perceive any
thing to sear, a goat being the biggest creature I had
seen upon this island.
Sept. 30. Casting up my notches on my post, which
amounted to 365, I concluded this to be the anniver-
sary of my landing; and, therefore, humbly prostat-
ing myself on the ground, consessing my sins, ac-
knowedging God's righteous judgments upon me,
and praying to Jesus Christ to have mercy upon me, I
sasted for twelve hours till the going down of the sun;
and then eating a biscuit and a bunch of grapes, laid
me on the bed, and with great comfort took my
night's repose. Till this time I never had distinguish-
ed the Sabbath day; but now I made a longer notch
than ordinary fox the days of rest, and divided the
weeks as well as I could, though I found I had lost a
day or two in my account. My ink sailing soon af-
ter, I omitted in my daily memorandum things of an
indisferent nature, and contented myself to write
down only the most remarkable events of my lise.
The rainy and dry seasons appeared now regular to
me, and experience taught me how to provide for
them ; yet, in one thing 1 am going to relate, my ex-
perience very much failed me. You may call to
mind what 1 have mentioned of some barley and rice
which I had saved; about thirty stalks of the former,
C 3 and
and twenty of the latter; and, at that time, the sun
being in its southern position, going from me, toge-
ther with the rains, made me conclude it a very pro-
per season to sow it. Accordingly I dug up a piece
of ground, with my wooden spade, and dividing it in
tv\To parts, sowed about two-thirds of my seed, pre-
serving by me about a handsul of each. And happy
Was I did so; for no rains salling, it was choked
^ip, and never appeared above the'earth till the wet
season came again, and then part of it grew, as if it
)sa<i been newly sown.
I was resolved still to make another trial; and
je'eking for amoister piece of ground near my bower,
j there sowed the rest of my ieed in Febiuary, a little
before the vernal ecjuinox; which having the rainy
^onths of March and April to water it, yielded a
iioble crop, and sprung up very pleasantly. I had still
javed part of the seed, not daring to venture all;
iiiid by the time I found out the proper seasons to
fcy\v in, and that I might expect every year two seed-
.citites and two harvests, my stock amounted to above
Jjslt a Peck of each sort of grain.
No sooner were the rains over, but the stakes
-^bich 1 had cut from the trees, shot out like willows
tfie first year after lopping their heads. I was igno-
j.aiit of the tree I cut them from: but they grew so
^-egularly beautisul, that they made a most lively ap-
g-,earance5 an^ fo flourished in three years time, that
^ resolved to cut more of them; and these soon
^rowing, made a glorious sence, as afterwards I shall
.And now I perceived that the seasons of the year
niight generally be divided, not into summer and'
sinter, as in Europe, but into wet and dry seasons,
«s in this manner:
[February, ~)
March, \ Rainy, fun earning near tht Equi-
April, \ nox.
Half
May,
Half.
suite,
, August,
~ August,
Hilf
J Seftemler,
[ Qaobtr,
'Oclober,
November,
Half i
December,
January,
. February,
Dry, fun getliag north of the Ijne.
Wet, the fun being then come buck.
K Dry, fun running south of the line.
The wet seasons would continue longer or shorter
as the winds happened to blow. But having found
the ill consequences of being abroad in the rain, I
took care beforehand to surnish myself with provi-
sions: and, during the wet months, sat within doors
as much as possible. At this time I contrived to make
many things that I wanted, though it cost me much
labour and pains, before I.could accomplish them.
The first I tried was to make a basket; but all the
twigs I could get proved so brittle, that I could not
then perform it. It now proved of great advantage
to me, that when a boy, I took great delight in
standing at a basket maker's in the same town where
my sather lived, to view them at work ; and like, o-
ther boys, curious to see the manner of the>r work-
ing these things, and very officious roassist, I persect-
ly learned the method of it, and wanted nothing but
the tools. And it coming into my mind, that the
twigs of that tree of which I made my stakes, might
be as tough as sallow, willow, or osiers, growing in
England, I resolved to make an experiment, and went
the next day to my country seat, and found some sit
for my turn; and after cutting down a quantity with
my hatchet, I dried them in my pale, and, when sit
to work with, carried them to my cave, where I em-
ployed
C 4
ployed mysef in making several sorts of baskets, in-
somuch that I could put in whatfoever I pleased. It
i s true, they were- not cleverly made, yet they served
xny turn upon all occasions.
But still I wanted two necessary things. I had no
cask to hold my liquor, except two rundlets almost
full of rum, a sew bottles of an ordinary size, and
some square case bottles; neither had I a pot to boil
^ny thing in, only a large kettle, unsit to make broth,
G\- stew a bit of meat: I wanted likewise at the be-
ginning of this dry season a tobacco-pipe; but for
.this I afterwards found an expedient.
I kept myself employed in planing my second row
^ff stakes. But remembering that when I travelled up
to the brook, I had a mind to see the whole island, I
l,oW resumed my intention, and taking my dog, gun,
j-»atchet, two biscuit-cakes, a great bunch of raisins,
.tarith a larger quantity of powder and shot than usual,
began my journey. Having passed the vale where
^xt.y Dower stood, I came within view of the sea lying
tne weft; when, it being a clear day I sairly de-
scried land, extending from the W. to the S. W. a-
-j^out io or 15 leagues, as I concluded ; but could not
-^~0.y whether it was an island or a continent. Neither
^-ould I tell what this place might be; only thought it
^ra.s part of America, and where I might have been in
iiiiserable condition, had I landed. Again I con-
^jcJered, that if this was the Spanish coast, certainly,
^ne time or other, J should see some ship pass by T
^X\d if it was not, then it must be the Savage coast,
between the Spanish country and Brazil, which ar
|-,oun^S wit'1 cannibals or man-eaters.
>ls 1 proceeded forward, 1 found this side of the
i/land much more pleasant than mine; the fields fra-
grant, adorned with sweet flowers and verd. nt grass,
^,^-cther with several very fine woods. There were
0-Jxi'ots ln plenty, which made me long for one to be
companion; but it was with great disficulty I
could
could knock one down with my stick; and I kept
him at home some years, before I could get him to
call me by my name.
In the low grounds I found various sorts of hares
and foxes as I took them to be, but much difserent
from those in England. Several of these I killed, but
never ate them; neither indeed had I any occasion • for
abounding with goats, pigeons, turtle, and grapes,
1 could defy Leadenhall market to surnish me a bet-
ter table. In this journey I did not travel above two
miles a day, because I took several turns and wind-
ings, to see what discoveries. 1 could make, returning
weary enough to the place were I designed to rest all
night, which was either in a tree, or to a place which
I surrounded with stakes, that no wild creature might
suddenly surprize me. When I came to the sea shore,
1 was amazed to see the splendor of it. Its strand
was covered with shells of the most beautisul fish,
and constantly abounding with innumerable turtles,
and fowls of many kinds, which I was ignorant of,
except those called Penguins. I might have mot as
many as I pleased, but was sparing of my ammuni-
tion, rather chusing to kill a she-goat, which I did
with much difficulty, on account of the slatness of
the country.
Now, though this journey produced the most plea-
sing satissaction, yet my habitation was so much to
my liking, that I did not repine at my being seated
on the worst part of the.island. I continued my jour-
ney, travelling about twelve miles surther towards the
east, where I set a great pile on the'shore for a mark,
concluding that my next journey should bring me to
the other iiJe ot the island, east from my castle, and'
so round till I came to my post again. As I had a
constant view of the country, I thought I could not
miss my way ; but scarce had I travelled three miles',
when 1 descended into a very large valley, so surround-
ed with hiils covered with wood, that 1 having no
guide but by the sun, nor even then, unless J knew
well the position of the sun at that time of the day;
3^11 <3, to add to my misfortune, the weather proving
very hazy, I was obliged to return to my post by the
ffesa. side, and so backwards the same way I came. In
tliis journey my dog surprized a kid, and would have
filled it, had I not prevented him. As I had often
been thinking of getting a kid or two, and so raising
^ "breed of tame goats to supply me after my ammu-
j-t \ t ion was spent, I took this opportunity of begin-
Xi-ing: and, having made a collar for this little crea-
t iare, with a string made of rope-yarn, I brought it to
xxxy bower, and there inclosed and left him; and, hav-
ixig spent a month in this journey, at length I re-
turned to my old habitation.
"Nobody tan doubt of my satissaction, when I re-
turned to my little castle, and reposed myself in my
J^ammock. After my journey I rested myself a week,
.^vhich time I employed in making a cage for my pret-
ty poll. I now began to consider of the poor kid
'A 1 "ft at the bower, ami I immediately went to setch
how. When I came there, I found the young
.creature almost starved; I gave it some food, and tied
Jt as before: but there was no occasion, for it follow-
ed me like a dog; and, as I constantly sed it, it be-
came so loving, gentle, and fond, that it commenced.
pne of my domestics, and would never leave me.
The rainy season of the autumnal equinox being
yiow come, I kept the 30th of September in the most
solemn manner, as usual, it being the thiid year of
.ffiv abode in the island. I spent the whole day in ac-
knowledging God's mercies, in giving him thanks
for making this solitary lise as agreeable, and Jess sin-
ful, than that of human society; and for the com-
munications of his grace to my soul, in supporting,
.comforting, and encouraging me to depend upon his.
Providence, and hope for his eternal presence in the
world to come.
Indeed, I often did consider bow much more happy
I was
I was, in this state of lise, than in that accursed man-
ner of living I formerly used: and sometimes when
hunting, or viewing the country, the anguish of my
foul would break out upon me, and my very heart
would sink within me, to think of the woods, the
mountains, the deserts I was in; and how I was a
prisoner locked up within the eternal bars and bolts
of the ocean, in an uninhabited wilderness, without
hopes, and without redemption. In this condition I
would often wring my hands, and weep like a child:
And even sometimes in the middle of my work this
fit would take me; and then I would sit down and
togh, looking on the ground for an hour or two to-
gether, till such time as my grief got vent in a flood
of tears.
Onemorning,as I was sadly employed in this man-
ner, I opened my Bible,, when immediately I fixed
my eyes upon these words, I will never leave thee, nor
forsake thee! Surely, thought I, these words are di-
rected to me; or else why should they appear just at a
moment when I am bemoaning my forlorn condition?
and if God does hot forsake me, what matters it,
since he can make me more happy in this state of lise,
than if I enjoyed the greatest splendor in the world?
But while I was going to return God thanks for my
present state, something seemed to shock my mind,
as if it had thus said: Unworthy wretch ; can you
pretend to be thanksul for a condition, from which
you would pray to be delivered! Here I stopt;—and
though I could not say, I thanked the Divine Majes-
ty for being there, yet I gave God thanks for placing
to my view my former wicked course of lise, and
granting me a true knowledge of repentance. And
whenever I opened or shut the Bible, I blessed kind
Providence, that directed my good friend in England
to send it among my goods without my order, and
for assisting me to save it from the power of the rag-
ing ocean.
And now beginning my thii3 year, my sever.il
C 6 ' daily
daily employments were these: First, My duty to
Heaven, and diligently reading the holy Scriptures,
.which I did twice or thrice every.day, Secondly, Seek-
ing provision with my gun, which commonly took
tne up, when it did not rain, three hours every morn-
ing. Thirdly, The ordering, curing, preserving, and
cooking what I killed, or catched for my supply,
.which took me up a great part of'the day: for, in the
iniddle of the day, the sun being in its height, it was
.so hot, that I could not stir out; so that I had only
put four hours in the evening to work in: and then
the want of tools, of assistance, and skill, wasted a
irreat deal of time to little purpose. I was no less
than two and forty days making a board sit for a
Jong shelf, which two sawyers, with their tools and
iTaw-pit, would have cut out of the same tree in half
,41 tlay. It was of a large tree, as my board was to be
troad, I was three days in cutting it down, and two
iyiore in lopping off the boughs, and reducing it to a
piece of timber. This I hacked and hewed off each
fide, till it became light to move; then I turned it,
iuade one side of it smooth and flat as a board from
end t0 end, then turned it downward, cutting the
other side, till I brought the plank to be about three
Jnches thick, and smooth on both sides. Any body
yiiay judge my great labour and satigue in such a piece
0f work; but this I went through with patience, as
zlICo many other things that my circumstances made
i^ccelTary for me to do.
The harvest months, November and December,
^cre now at hand, in which I had the pleasing prol-
pect of a very good crop. But here I met with a
,-,eW misfortune; for the goats and hares, having
tasted of the sweetness of the blade, kept it so short,
that it had not strength to shoot up into a stalk. To
prevent this, I inclosed it with a hedge, and by day
{hot some of its devourers; and my dog, which 1 had
ti;d to the tield-gate, keeping barking all night, so
frightened
frightened these creatures, that I got entirely rid of
them.
But, no sooner did I get rid of these, than other
enemies appeared, to wit, whole flocks of several
sorts of biids, who only waited till my back was
turned, to ruin me. So much did this provoke me,
that I Jet fly, and killed three of the malesactors;
and afterwards served them as they do notorious
theivesin England, hung them up in chains as a ter-
ror to others. And, indeed, so good an essect had
this, that they not only forsook the corn, but all that
part of the island, so long as these criminals hung
there.
My corn having ripened apace, the latter end of
December, which was my second harvest, I reaped it
with a scythe, made of one of my broad swords. I
had no satigue in cutting down my first crop, it was
so slender. The ears I carried home in a basket, rub-
bing it out with my hands, instead of thrashing it:
and when my harvest was o"ver, found my half peck
of seed produced near two bushels of lice, and two
bushels and a half of barley. And now I plainly
foresaw, that, by God's goodness, I should be surnish-
ed with bread; but yet I was concerned, because I
knew not how to grind or make meal of my corn,
nor bread, neither knew how to bake it. 1 would
not, however, taste any of the crop, but resolved to
preserve it against next season, and, in the mean while,
use my best endeavours to provide myself with other
food.
But where were my labours to end? The want of a
plough to turn up the earth, or shovel to dig it, I
conquered by making me a wooden spade. The. want
of a harrow 1 supplied myself, with dragging over the
corn a great bou»h of a tree. When it was growing,
I was forced to fence it; when ripe, to mow it, cany
it home, thresh it, part it from the chaff, and save it.
And, aster all, I wanted a mili to grind it, sieve to
drtss it, vest and salt to make it into bread, and an
oven
0ven to bake it. This set my brains on work to find
forne expedient for every one of these necessaries
^-rrainst the next harvest.
^ And now having more seed, my first care was to
•p-repare me more land. I pitched upon two large flat
pieces of ground near my castle, for that purpose, in
^v-liich I sowed my seed, and senced it with a good
Jaedge, This took me up three months: by which
^jnrie the wet season coming on, and the rain keeping
j-rie within doors, I found several occasions to employ
^i^yself; and, while at work, used to divert myself
^^ith talking to my parrot, learning him to know and
^"peak his own name Poll, the first welcome word I
^ver heard spoke in the island. I had been a long
^ime contriving how to make earthen vessels, which
-j .wanted extremely; and, when I considered the
-j^eat of tne climate, I did not doubt but if I could
^jnd any such clay, I might botch up a pot, strong
^n0ush, when dried in the sun, to bear handling, and
•to hold any thing that was dry, as corn, meal, and
^ther things.
rTo be.short, the clay I found; but it would occa-
sion the most serious person to smile, to see whatawk-
^.ijrcl ways I took, and what ugly mishapen things I
~i3.de; how many either sell out or cracked by the
violent heat of the fun, and"sell in pieces when they
vvrere removed; so that I think it was two months
time before I could persect any thing: and even then
\yiit two cl'umsey things, in imitation of earthen jars,
-.j-'hese, however, I very gently placed in wicker bas-
lrCts made on purpose few them, and between th;
ot and the baskets, stuffed it sull of rice and barley
j%raW: and- these, I presumed would hold my dried
corn, and perhaps the meal, when the corn was
bru.r1"'- As for the smaller things, I made them
with better success; such as little round pots, flat
dishes, pitchers, and pipkins, the sun baking them
vc) y hard.
yct still I wanted one thing absolutely necessary,
and
and that was an earthen pot, not only to hold my li-
quid, but also to bear the fire, which none of these
could do. It once happened, that as I was putting
out my fire, I found therein a broken piece of one of
my vessels burnt hard as a rock, and red as a tile.
This made me think of burning some pots; and hav-
ing no notion of a kiln* or of glazing them witk
lead, I fixed three large pipkins, and two. or three
pots in a pile one upon another. The fire I piled
round the outside, and dry wood on the top, till I
few the pots in the inside red-hot, and found that
they did not crack at all; and when I perceived them
persectly red, I let one of them stand in the fire a-
bout five or six hoursi till the clay melted by the ex-
tremity of the heat, and would have. run to glass,
had I suffered it; upon which I flacked my fire by
degrees, till the redness abated; and watching them
till the morning, I found I had three very good pip-
kins, and two earthen pots, as well burnt and sit for
my turn as I could desire.
No joy could be greater than mine at this discove-
ry. For after this, I may say, I wanted for no fort
of earthen ware- I filled one of my pipkins with
water to boil me some meat, which it did admirably
well, and with a piece of kid I made me some good
broth, as well as my circumstances would afford me
at that time.
The next concern I had was to get me a stone-
mortar to beat some corn in, instead of a mill to grind
it. Here indeed I was at a great loss, as not being
sit for a stonecutter; and many days I spent tc find
out a great stone big enough to. cut hollow and
make sit for a mortar, and strcng enough to bear
the weight of a pestil, that would break the corn
without filling it with sand. But all the stones of
the island being of a mouldering nature, rendered my
search fruitless; and then I resolved to look out a great
ilock of hard wood; which having found, I formed it
with my axe and hammer, and thea with infinite la-
bo ui
bour made a hollow in it, just as the Indians of Bra-
zil make their canoes. When I had sinished this, I
made a great pestil of iron wood, and then laid them
up against my succeeding harvest.
My next business was to make me a sieve, to sift
my meal, and part it from the bran and husk. Hav-
ing no fine thin canvass to search the meal through, I
could not tell what to do. What linen I had was
reduced to rags: I had goats hair enough, but nei-
ther tools to work it, nor did I know how to spin it:
J^.t length I remembered I had some neckcloths of
callico or muslin of the sailors, which I had brought
crut of the ship, and with these I made three small
sieves proper enough for the work.
I come now to consider the baking part. The
.want of an oven I supplied by making some earthen
pans very broad, but not deep. When I had a mind
to bake, I rm.de a groat fire upon my hearth, the tiles
0f which I had made myself 5 and when the wood
vvas burnt into live-coals, I spread them over it, till it
liecame very hot; then sweeping them away, I set
Jown my loaves, and whelming down the earthen
pots upon them, drew the ashes and coals all around
the outsides of the pots to continue the heat; and in
this manner I baked my barley loaves, as well as if I
Ytad been a complete pastry-cook, and also made of
the rice several cakes and puddings.
'It is no wonder, that all these things took me up
.the best part of a year, since what intermediate time
j had was bestowed in managing my new harvest
nn<J husbandry; for in the proper season I reaped my
corn, carried it home, and laid it up in the ear in my
large baskets, till I had time to rub, instead of thresh-
-n2- it. And now indeed my corn encreased so
mil' h, that it produced me twenty bushels of barley,
nnd as much of rice, that I not only began to use it
free)y, but.was thinljing how to enlarge my barn?,
-Hid resolved to sow as much at a time as would be
sufficient for me for a whole year.
1 All
All this while, the prospect of land, which I had
seen from the other side of the island, ran in my
mind. I still meditated a deliverance from this
place, though the sear of greater misfortunes might
have deterred me from it. 'For allowing that I had
attained that place, I run the hazard of being killed
and eaten by the devouring cannibals; and if they
were not so, yet I might be slain, as other Europeans
had been, \vhV.fe9 into their hands. Notwithstand-
ing all this, my thoughts ran continually upon that
siiore. I now wished for my boy Xury, and the
long boat, with the shoulder of mutton sail: I went
to the ship's boat, that had been cast a great way on
the shore in the late storm. She was removed but a
little; but her bottom being turned up by the impe-
tuosity and sury of the waves and wind, I sell to
work with all the strength I had, and with levers
and rollers I had cut from the wood, to turn her,
and repair the damages she had sustained. This
work took me up three or four weeks, when finding
my little strength all in vain, I sell to undermining
it by digging away the sand, and so to make it sall
down, setting pieces of wood to thrust and guide it
in the sall. But after this was done, I was still un-
able to stir it up, or to get under it, much less to
move it forwards towards the water, and so I was
forced to give it over.
Thisdisappointment, however,Hid notfrighten me.
I began to think, whether it was not possible for me
to make a canoe or Perigua, such as the Indians
make of the trunk of a tree. But here I lay under
particular inconveniences; want of tools to make it,
and want of hands to move it in the water when it
was made. However, to work I went upon it,
stopping all the enquiries I could make, with this
very simple answer i made to myself, let's first make
it, i'll warrant I'll find some way or other to get it
along when it is done.
I first cut down a cedar tree, which was five seet
ten
ten inches diameter at the lower part next the stump,
and four seet eleven inches diameter at the end of
twenty-two seet, after which it lessened for a space,
and then parted into branches. Twenty days was I
a hacking and hewing this tree at the bottom, four-
teen more in cutting off the branches and limbs, and
a whole month in shaping it like the bottom of a
boat. As for the inside, I was three weeks with a
rnallet and chissel, clearing it in such a manner, as
that it was big enough to carry 26 men, much big-
ger than any canoe i ever saw in my lise, and conse-
quently sufficient to transport me and all my effecti
to that wished sor shore I so ardently desired.
Nothing remained now, but, indeed, the greatest
difficulty, to get it into the water, it lying about 100
yards from it. To remedy the first inconvenience,
which was a rising hill between this boat and the
creek, with wondersul pains and labour I dug into
the sursace of the earth, and made a declivity. But
when this was done, all the strength I had was as in-
sufficient to move it, as it was when I attempted to
move the boat. I then proceeded to measure the
distance of ground, resolving to make a canal, in or-
der to bring the water to the canoe, since I could
not bring the canoe to the water. But as this seem-
ed to be impracticable to myself alone, under the
space of eleven or twelve years, it brought me into
some fort of consideration: so that 1 concluded this
also to be impossible, and the attempt altogether vain.
I now saw, and not before, what stupidity it is to be-
gin work before we reckon its costs, or judge right-
ly our own abilities to go through with its perform-
ance.
In the height of this work, my fourth year ex-
pired, from the time I was cast on this island. At
this time I did not forget my anniversary; but kept
it with rather greater devotion than before. For now
iny hopes being frustrated, I looked upon this world
<is a thing I had nothing to do with; and very well
might
might I say, as sather Abraham said unto Dives, Be-
tween me and thee there is a gulph fixed, And in-
deed I was separated from its wickedness too, having
neither the lust of the flesh, the lust of the eye, nor
the pride of lise; I had nothing to covet, being lord,
king, and emperor over the whole country I had in
possession, without dispute, and without controul: I
had loadings of corn, plenty of turtles, timber in a-
bundance, and grapes above measure. What was all
the rest to me? the money I had lay by me as despi-
cable dross, which I would freely have given for a
gross of tobacco pipes, or a hand-mill to grind my
corn: in a word, the nature and experience of these
things dictated to me this just reflection, That the
good things of this world are no sarther good to us,
than they are for our use; and that whatever we
may heap up to give others, we can but enjoy as
much as we use, and no more.
These thoughts rendered my mind more easy than'
usual. Every time I sat down to meat, I did it with
thanksulness, admiring the providential hand of God,
who, in this wilderness had spread a table to me.
And now 1 considered what I enjoyed, rather than
what I wanted; compared my present condition with
what I at first expected it should be; howl should
have done, if I had got nothing out of the ship ; that
I must have perished before I had caught fish or tur-
tles; or lived, had I found them, like a mere savage,
by eating them raw, and pulling them in pieces
with my claws, like abi-ast. I next compared my
station to that which I deserved: how undutisul I
had been to my parents; how destitute of the sear
of God; how void of every thing that was good;
and how ungratesul for those abundant mercies I had
received from heaven, being sed, as it were, by a
miracle, even as great as Elijah's being sed by ravens;
and cast on a place where there were no venemous
creatures to poison or devour me; in short, making
God's tender mercies matter of great consolation, I
relin-
relinquished all sadness, and gave way to content-
ment.
As long as my ink continued, which with water
I made last as long as I could, I used to minute down
the days of the month, on which any remarkable
thing happened. And,
First, I observed, that the same day I forsook my
parents and friends, and ran away to Hull, in order
to go to sea, the same day afterwards, in the next
year, I was taken and made a Have by the Sallee rovers:
That the very day I escaped out of the wreck of
the ship in Yarmouth roads, a year after, on the same
day, I made my escape from Sallee in my patron's
fishing-boat:
And, on the 30th os September, being the day of
the year I w.is born on, on that day twenty-fix years
after, was I miraculously saved, and cast ashore on
this island.
The next thing that wasted after my ink, was the
biscuit which I had brought out of the ship: and
though I allowed myself but one cake a day for above
a twelve month, yet 1 was quite out of bread for near
a year, before I got any corn of my own,
In the next place, my clothes began to decay, and
my linen had been gone long before. However, I
Jiad preserved about three dozen of the sailors che-
quered shirts, which proved a great refreshment to
rne, when the violent beams of the sun would not
suffer me to bear any of the seamens heavy watch-
coats; which made me turn tailor, and, after a mi-
serable botching manner, convert them to jackets.
f o preserve my head, I made me a cap of goat-
skins, with the hair outwards to keep out the rain;
•which indeed served me so well, that afterwards I
inadc me a waistcoat and open-kneed breeches ot the
fame: And then I contrived a sort of an umbrella,
covering it with skins, which not onlv kept out the
Jieat of the sun, but the rain also. Thus being easy
and settled iu my mind, my chiesest happiness was to
converse
converse with God, in most heavenly and comforta-
ble ejaculations.
For five years after this I cannot say any extraordi-
nary thing occurred to me. My chief employment
was to cure my raisins, and plant my barley and rice,
of both which I had a year's provision before-hand.
But though I was disappointed in my first canoe, I
made it, at intermediate times, my business to make
a second, of much inserior size; and it was two years
before I had finished it. But as I perceived it would
no-wise answer my design of sailing to the other
shore, my thoughts were confined to take a tour
round the island, to see what surther discoveries I
could make. To this intent, after having moved her
to the water, and tried how she would sail, I sitted
up a little mast to my boat, and made a sail of the
ship's fail that lay by me. I then made lockers or
boxes at the end of it, to put in necessaries, provi-
sion, and ammunition, which would preserve them
dry either from rain, or the spray of the sea; and in
the inside of the boat, I cut me a long hollow place
to lay my gun, and to keep it dry made a flag to hang
over it. My umbrella I fixed in a step in the stern,
• like a mast, to keep the heat of the sun off me. And
now resolving to see the circumserence of my little
kingdom, I victualled my ship for the voyage, putting
in two dozen of my barley bread loaves, an earthen
pot sull of parched rice, a little bottle of rum, half a
goat, powder and shot, and two watch coats. It
was the 6th of November, in the 6th year of my
reign,, or captivity, that I set out on this voyage;
which was much longer than I expected, being obli-
ged to put sarther out, by reason of the rocks that lay
a great way in the vsea. And indeed so much did
these rocks surprize me, that I was for putting back,
searing that if I ventured sarther, it would be out of
my power to return: In this uncertainty 1 came to
an anchor just off shore, to which I waded with my
gun on my shoulder, and then climbingnip a hill,
which
which over-looked that point, I saw the sull extent
of it, and so I resolved to run all hazards.
In this prospect from the hill, I perceived a violent
current running to the east, coming very close to the
point; which I the more caresully observed, thinking
it dangerous, and that when I came to it, I might be
drove into the sea by its force, and not able to return
to the island; and certainly it must have been so, had
I not made this observation; for on the other side
was the like current, with this difference, that it set
off at a greater distance; and I perceived there was a
strong eddy under the land ; so that my chief business
was to work out of the first current, and convenient-
ly get into the eddy. Two days I staid here, the
wind blowing very briskly E. S. E. which being con-
trary to the current, leaves a great breach of the sea
upon the point; so it was neither sit for me to keep
too near the shore, on account of the breach; nor
stand at too great a distance, for sear of the streams.
That night the wind abating, it grew so calm, that I
ventured out; and here I may be a monument to all
rash and ignorant pilots: For I was no sooner come
to the point, and not above the boat's length from
shore, but I was got into a deep water, with a cur-
rent like a mill, which drove my boat along so vio-
lently, that it was impossible for me to keep her near
the edge of it, but screed me more and more out
from the eddy to the left of me; and all I could do
with my padlers were useless, there being no wind to
help me.
Now I began to look upon myself as quite lost,
since, as the current ran on both sides of the island, I
was very certain they must join again, and then I had
no hopes but of penshing for want in the sea, after
what provision I had was spent, or before, if a storm
should happen to arise.
Who can conceive the present anguisii of my mind
at this calamity? with longing eyes did I loqk upon
my little kingdom, and thought the island the
plea-
pleasantest place in the universe. Happy, thrice
happy desert, said I, shall I never see thee more?
Wretched creature! whither am I going? Why did
I murmer at my lonesome condition, when now I
would give the whole world to be thither again?
While T was thus complaining, I found myself to be
driven about two leagues into the sea; however, I
laboured till my strength was sar spent, to keep my
boat as sar north as possibly I could, to that side of
the current where the eddy lay on. About noon I
perceived a little breeze of wind spring up from the
S. S. E. which overjoyed my heart; and I was still
more elated, when, in about half an hour, it blew a
gentle fine gale. Had any thick weather sprung up,
I had been lost another way: for having no compass
on board, 1 should never have found the way to steer
towards the island, if once it had disappeared; but it
proving the contrary, I set up my mast again, spread
my sail, and stood away northward, as much as I
could, to get rid of the current. And no sooner did
the boat begin to stretch away, but I perceived, by
the clearness of the water, a change of the current
was near; for, where it was strong, the water was
foul; and, where it was clear, the current abated.
To the east I soon saw, about half a mile, a bteach.
of the sea upon some rock?, which caused it again to
separate; and as the main force of it drove away
more southwardly, leaving the rocks to the north-
east, so the other came back by the repulse of the
rocks, making a sharp eddy, which returned back a-
gain to the north-west with a very swift stream.
They who have experienced what it is to be re-
prieved upon'the ladder, or to be saved from thieves,
just going to take away theit lives, or such as have
been in the like calamities with my own, may guess
my present excessof joy, how heartily I run my boat
into the stream of this eddy, and how joysully I
spread my sail to the refreshing wind, standing cheer-
fully before it, with a smart tide under foot. By the
the assistance of this eddy, I was carried above a league
home again, when, being in the wake of the island,
betwixt the two currents, I found the water to be in
a fort of a stand. About four o'clock in the after-
noon, I reached within a league of the island, and
perceived the points of the rock, which caused this
disaster, stretching out, as I observed before, to the
southward, which, throwing off the current more
southwardly, had occasionedanothereddy tothe north.
But having a sair brisk gale, I stretched across this
eddy, and in an hour came within a mile of the more,
where I soon landed, to my unspeakable comfort;
and after an humble prostration thanking God for
my deliverance, with a resolution to lay all thoughts
of escaping aside, I brought my boat sase to a little
cove, and laid me down to take a welcome repose.
When I awoke, I was considering how I might get
my boat home; and coasting along the shore I came
to a good bay, which ran up to a rivulet or brook,
where, finding a sase harbour, I stowed her as sase as
if she had been in a dry dock made on purpose for her.
I now perceived myself not sar from the place
where before I had travelled on foot; so taking no-
thing with me, except my gun and umbrella, I began
my journey, and in the evening came to my bower,
where I again laid me down to rest. I had not slept
Jong before I was awakened in great surprize, by a
fhange voice that called me several times, Robin,
Jtobin, Robin Crusoe, pool- Robin! Where" areycu, Ro-
bin Crusoe? where are you? where have you been?
So fast was I asleep at first, that I did not awake
thoroughly; but half asleep and half awake, I
thought I dreamed that somebody spoke to me. But,
as the voice repeated Robinson Crusoe several times,
being terribly affrighted, I started up in the utmost
consusion; and, no sooner were my eyes sully open,
but I beheld my pretty poll sitting on the top of the
hedge, and soon knew that it was he that called me;
for just in such bewailing language I used tatalk
and teach him; which he so exactly learned, that he
would sit upon my finger, and lay his bill close to
my sace, and cry, Poor Robinson Crusoe, where are you?
where have you been? how came you here? and such like
prattle I had constantly taught him. But even tho*
I knew it to be the parrot, it was a great while be-
fore I could adjust myself; being amazed how the
creature got thither, and that he should fix about
thaUplace, and no where else. But now, being as-
sured it could be other than my honest Poll, my
wonder ceased; and reaching out my hand, and call-
ing samiliarly Poll, the creature came to me, and
perched upon my thumb, as he was wont, constantly
prating to me, with Poor Robinson Crusoe, and how
did I come here, and where had I been? as if the bird
was overjoyed to see me; and so 1 took him home a-
long with me. ,, .
I was now pretty well cured of my rambling to
sea; yet" I could wish my boat, which had cost me
so much trouble and pains, on this side the island
,once more, but which indeed was impracticable. I
therefore began to lead a very retired lise, living
near a twelvemonth in a very contented manner,
wanting for nothing except conversation. As to
mechanic labours, which my necessities obliged me
to, I sancied I could, upon occasion, make a tolera-
ble carpenter,, were the poor tools I had to work
withal but good. Besides, as I improved in my
earthen ware, I contrived to make them with a wheel,
which I found much easier and better, making my
work shapely, which before was rude and ugly.
But, I think I was never so elevated with my own
persormance or project, than for being able to make
a tobacco pipe, which, though it proved an awkward
clumsy thing, yet it was very sound, and carried the
firioke persectly well, to my great satissaction.
1 also improved my wicker ware, making me abun-
dance of necessary baskets, which, though not very
handsome, were very handy and convenient to setch
D things
Si;
v
things home in, as also for holding my stores, barley,,
i-ice, and other provisions;
My powder beginning to sail, made me examine
after what manner I mould kill the goats or birds to
live on, after it was all gone. Upon which I con-
trived marry ways to ensnare the goats, and see if I
could catch them alive, particularly a she goat with
young. At last I had my defire; for, making pit-
falls and traps, baited with barley and rice, I found,
one morning, in one of them, an old he goat, and in
the other three kids, one male the other two semales.
So boisterous was the old one, that I could not
bring him away. But I forgot the old proverb, That
hunger will tame a lion: For, had I kept him three or
four days without victuals, and then given him some
vvater, with a little corn, he would have been as tame
as a young kid. The other creatures I bound with
firings together; but I had great difficulty before I
could bring them to my habitation. It was some
time before they would seed; but, throwing them
fweet corn, it so much tempted them, that they be-
gan to be tamer. From hence I concluded, that if I
Resigned to surnish myself with goat's flesh, when
iny ammunition was .spent, the tamely breeding them
vp, like a flock of sheep, about my settlement, was
the only method I could take. I concluded also I
must separate the wild from the tame, or else they
would always run wild as they grew up; and the best 1^'J"
way for this, was to have some inclosed piece of ^ J-
ground, well senced, either with hedge or pale, to ^ ™
iceep them soeffectually, that those within might not j '^
break out, or those without break in. Such an un- cj",S
Jertaking was very great for one pair of hands; but ... J1
as there was an absolute necessity for doing it, my ... °;:
first care was to find a convenient piece of ground ,^ ,
where there was likely to be herbage for them to eat, > <
water to drink, and cover to keep them from the sun. {^
Here again I gave another instance of my igno- a*.",
ranee
ranee and inexpenence, pitching upon a piece of
meadow land so large, that had I inclosed it, the hedge
or pale must have been at least two miles about. In-
deed, had it been ten miles, I had time enough to do
it in; but then 1 did not consider that my goats
would be as wild in so much compass, as if they had
had the whole island, and consequently as difficult for
me to catch them. This thought came into my head,
after I had carried if on, I believe, about fifty yards:
I therefore altered my scheme, and resolved to in-
close a piece of ground about 150 yards in length,
and 100 in breadth, sufficient enough for as many as
would maintain me, till such time as my flock in-
creased, and then I could add more ground. I now
vigorously prosecuted my work, and it took me about
three months in hedging the first piece; in which
time I tethered the three kids in the best part of it,
seeding them as near me as-possible, to make them sa-
miliar: and indeed I very often would carry some
ears of barley, or a handsul of rice, and seed them out
of my hand; by which they grew so tame, that when
my inclosure was finished, and I had let them loose,
they would run after me for a handsul of corn. This
indeed.answered my end; and in a year and a half's
time I had a flock of about twelve goats, kids and all;
and in two years after, they amounted to forty-three,
besides what I had taken and killed for my sustenance.
After which I inclosed five several pieces of ground
to seed them in, with pens to drive them into, that I
might take them as I had occasion.
In this project I likewise found additional blessings;
for I not only had plenty of goat's flesh, but milk
too, which, in my beginning, I did not so much as
think of. And, indeed, though I never had milked
a cow, much less a goat, or seen butter or cheese
made, yet, after some essays and miscarriages, I made
me both, and never afterwards wanted.
How mercisully can the orrjnipotcnt Power com-
• D 2 fort
fort his creatures, even in the midst of their greatest
calamities? How can he sweeten the bitterest provi-
dences, and give us reason to magnify him in dun-
geons and prisons; What a bounteous table was
Jiere spread in a wilderness for me, where I expected
nothing at sirst bus to perish for hunger?
Certainly a Stoic would have smiled to have seen
at dinner. There sat my royal majesty, an abso-
lute prince and ruler of my kingdom, attended by
fXiy dutisul subjects, whom, if I pleased, I could either
J-»ang> draw, quarter, give them liberty, or take it
^ vvay. When I dined, I seemed a king, eating alone,
fionc daring to presume to do so till I had done.
foW* as if he had been my principal court savourite,
^as the only person permitted to talk with me. My
^ld, hut saithsul dog, now grown exceeding crazy,
^pd who had found no species to multiply his kind
-^poni continually sat on my right hand; while my
tvvo cats sat on each side of the table, expecting a
-frit from nay hand, as a principal mark of my royal
-favour. These were not the cats I had brought
.^rr0m the ship; they had been dead long before, and
^ nterred near my habitation by mine own hand. But
^>ne o^ them, as I suppose, generating with a wild
^a.t, a couple of their young I had made tame; the
.i-eft run mt0 woods, and in time grew so
-rripudent as to return and plunder me of my stores,
^ilJ such time as I shot a great many, and the rest
test me without troubling me anymore. In this
plentiful manner did I live, wanting for nothing but
*^oJ1versation. One thing indeed concerned me, the
^jit of my boat; I knew not which way to get her
oUnd the island. One time I resolved to go along
1y^e shore by land to her; but had any one in Eng-
j,iid met such a figure, it would either have affright-
1 & them, or made them burst into laughter; nay, I
could not but smile myself at my habit, which I
think in this place will be very proper to describe.
^I'hf: cap I wore upon any head, was great, high,
and
and shapeless, made of a goat's (kin, with a flap or
pent-house hanging down behind, not only to keep
the sun from me, but to shoot the rain osf from run-
ning into my neck, nothing being more pernicious
than the rain salling upon the flesh in these climates.
I had a short jacket of goat's skin, whose hair hung
dawn such a length on each side, that it reached
down to the calves of my legs. As for shoes and
stockings, I had none, but made a resemblance of
something, I know not what to call them; they
were made like buskins, and laced on the sides like
spatterdashes, barbarously shaped like the rest of my
habit. 1 had a broad belt of goat's skin dried, girt
round me with a couple of thongs, instead of buckles;
on each of which, to supply the deficiency of sword
and dagger, hung my hatchet and saw. I had ano-
ther belt, not so broad, yet sastened in the same man-
ner, which hung over my shoulder, and at the end
of it, under my left arm, hung two pouches, made
also of goats skin, to hold my powder and shot. My
basket I carried on my back, and my gun on my
shoulder; and over my head a great clumsy ugly
goat skin umbrella, which, however, next to my gun,
was the most necessary thing about me. As for shy.
sace, the colour was not so swarthy as the Mulattoes,
.or as might have been expected from one who took
so little care of it, in a climate within nine or ten
degrees of the Equinox. At one time my beard
grew so long that it hung down above a quarter of a
yard; but as I had both razors and scissars in store,
I cut it all off, and suffered none to grow, except a
large pair of Mahometan whiskers, .the like of which
I had seen worn by some Turks at Sallee, not long
enough indeed to hang a hat upon, but of such a
monstrous size, . as would have amazed any in Eng-
land to have seen.
But all this was of no consequence here, there be-
ing none to observe my behaviour or habit. And so,
without sear and without controul, I proceeded on
D 3 my
my journey, the prosecution of which took me np
f\ve or six days. I first travelled along the sea shore,
directly to the place where I first brought my
l>oat to an anchor, to get upon the rocks; but
leaving now no boat to take care of, I went overland
at .nearer way to the same height that I was before
vi pon ; when looking forward to the point of the rock,
•w'hrch lay out, and which I was forced to double
,with my boat, I was amazed to see the sea so smooth
an<i quiet, there being no ripling motion, nor cur-
rent, any more than in other places. This made me
ponder some time to guess the reason of it, when at
Jast 1 was convinced, that the ebb setting from the
tvest and joining with the current of water from some
arreat river on more, must be the occasion of these
rapid streams; and that, consequently, as the winds
blew more westwardly, or more southwardly, so the
current came the nearer, or went the farther from
shore. To satisfy my curiosity, I waited there till
evening, when the time of ebb being made, I plainly
perceived from the rock the current again as before,
.vs'iih this disference, that it ran sarther off., near half
a league from the shore; whereas, in my expedition,
•yX. set close upon it, suriously hurrying me and my
cp,noe along with it, which at another time it would
pot have done. And now I was convinced, that, by
0bserving the ebbing and flowing of the tide, I might
easily bring my boat round the island again. But
^•Jien I be^an to think of putting it in practice, the
reniembrance of the late danger struck me with such
fiorvor, that I changed my resolution, and formed a-
ijother, which was more sase, though more laborious;
ar.d tsliS was to make another canoe, and so have one
f0r one side of the island, and one for the orher.'
X had now two plantations in the island; the sirst
little fortification, foit, or castle, with many
la., ge and spaciou improvements: for by this time I
/h'-J enlarged the cave behind me with sovc:al little
eaves,
caves, one within another, to hold my baskets, corn,
and straw. The piles with which I made my wall
were grown so lofty and great as obscured my habita-
tion. And near this commodious and pleasant set-
tlement, lay my well cultivated and improved corn
fields, which kindly yielded me their fruit in the pro-
per season. My second plantation was that near my
country-seat, or little bower, where my grapes
flourished, and where, having planted many stakes, I
made inclosures for my goats, so strongly fortified by
labour and time, that it was much stronger than a
wall, and consequently impoffible^for them to break
through. As for my bower itfeffy I kept it con-
stantly in repair, and cut the trees in such a man-
ner, as made them grow thick and wild, and form
a most delightsul" shade. In the centre of this
stood my tent, thus erected. I had driven four
piles in the ground, spreading over it a piece .of
the ship's sail: beneath which I made me a sort
of a couch with the skins of the creatures I had
slain, and other things; and having laid thereon one
-of the sailor's blankets, which I had saved from the
wreck of the ship, and covering myself with a great
•watch coat, I took up this place for my country re-
treat.
Very frequently from this settlement did I use to
visit my boat, and kept her in very good order. And
.sometimes I would venture in her a cast or two from
, shore, but no sarther, lest either a strong current, a
sudden stotmy wind, or some unlucky accident, should
hurry me from the island as before. But now I en-
treat your attention, whilst I proceed to inform you
of a new, but most surprising scene of lise which
here besel me.
You may easily suppose, that; after having been
here so long, nothing could be more amazing than
to see a human creature. One day it happened, that,
going to my boat, I saw the print of a man's naked
D 4 foot
foot on the shore, very evident on the sand, as the
toes, heels, and every part of it. Had I seen an ap-
parition in the most frightsul shape, I could not have
been more confounded. My willing ears gave the
strictest attention. I cast my eyes around, but could
satisfy neither the one or the other. I proceeded al-
ternately to every part of the shore, but with equal
effect; neither could I see any other mark, though the
sand about it was as susceptible to take impression, as
that which was so plainly stamped. Thus, struck with
consusion and horror, I returned to my habitation,
frightened at every bum and tree, taking every thing
for men; and polsefled with the wildest ideas! That
night my eyes never closed. I formed nothing but the
gxioft dismal imaginations, concluding it must be the
$nark of the devil's foot which I had seen. For o-
therwise how could any mortal come to this island?
^here' was the ship that transported them? and what
signs of any other footsteps? though these seemed
.very strong reasons for such a supposition, yet (thought
j ) why should the devil make the print of his foot
to no purpose, as I can see, when he might have ta-
icen other ways to have terrified me? why should hs
jeave his mark on the other side of the island, and
that too on the sand, where the surging Waves of the
ocean might soon have erased the impression. Surely
ifris action is not consistent with the fubtility of
£}atan, said I to myself; but rather must be some
^jgmgerous creature, some wild savage of the main
,-iiid over against me, that, venturing toe sar in the
cCean, has been driven here, either by the violent
clJrrents or contrary winds; and riot caring to stay
ori this desolate island, has gone back to sea again.
Happy indeed, thought I to myself, that none of
j,e savages had seen me in that place: yet I was not
j together without sear, lest, having found my boat,
tj,ey should return in numbers and devour me, or at
least cair7 away all my corn, and destroy my flock
f tame goats. In a word, all my religious hopes
vanished,
vanished, as though I thought God would not now
protect me by his power, who had so wondersully
preserved me so long.
What various chains of Providence are there in the
lise of man? How changeable are our affections, ac-
cording to different circumstances? We love to-day,
what we hate to-morrow; we shun one hour, what
we seek the next. This was evident in me in the
most, conspicuous manner: For I, who before had so
much lamented my condition, in being banished from
all human-kind, was now even ready to expire, when
I considered that a man had set his foot on this deso-
late island. But, when I considered my station of lise,
decreed by the infinitely wise and good providence of
God, that I ought not to dispute my Creator's sove-
reignty, who had an undoubted right to govern and
dispose of his creatures as he thinks convenient; and1
that his justice and mercy could either punish or de-
liver me: I say, when I considered all this, I com-
fortably found it my duty to trust sincerely in him,
pray ardently to him, and humbly jesign myself tct
has divine will.
One morning, lying on my bed, these words of the
sacred writings came again into my mind, Call upon
me in the day of trouble, and I will deliver thee, and
4hou Jhalt glorify me. Upon this sentence, rising more
cheersully from my bed, I offered up my prayers in
the most heavenly manner: and, when I had done,
taking up my Bible to read, these words appeared
first in my sight: Wait on the Lord, and be of good
cheer, and he jhallstrengthen thy heart: Wait, I Jay, on
the Lord. Such divine comfort did this give me, as
.to remove all cause of sadness upon that occasion.
Thus, after a world of apprehensions and/ears, for
three days and nights,' I at last ventured out of my
castle, and milked my goats, one of which was almost
.spoiled for want of it. I next (though in great sear)
^visited my bower, and milked my flocks there also
<when, growing bolder, I went down to the shore a-
D J gain.
gain, and measuring the print of the foot to mine, to
fee perhaps whether I myself had not occasioned that
yria.fc, I found it much superior in largeness; and so
returned home, now absolutely convinced, that either
some men had been ashore, or that the island must
t>e inhabited; and theiefore that I might be surprised
before I was aware.
I now began to think of providing for my security,
gind revolved in my mind many different schemes for
that purpose. I first proposed to cut down my inclo-
sures, and turn my tame cattle wild into the woods,
that the enemy might not find them, and frequent the
island in hopes of killing the same. Secondly., I was
for digging up my corn fields for the very same reason,
•/Vnd, lastly, I concluded to demolish my bower, lest,
feeing a place ofhuman contrivance, they mightcome
farther, and find out and attack me in my little castle.
Such notions did the sear of danger suggest to me;
guid I looked, I thought, like the unfortunate king
fjaul, when not only oppressed by the Philistines, but
jilso forsaken by God himself. And, it is strange,- that
a little before, having entirely resigned myself to the
5574] 1 of God, I should now have little considence in
him? searing those more who could kiJl this sading
Jiody, than he who could .destroy my immortal foul.
Sleep was an utter stranger to niy'eyes that night.;
yet .nature, spent and tired, submitted to a silent re-
dpole the .next morning. And then, joining reason
^ith my sear, :f "considered, that this delightsul and
^pleasant island might not.be so.entirely forsaken asl
yuight think; but that .the inhabitants from the o-
her shore might saij, either .with design, or fromne-
^effity, by cross winds.; and, if the latter circum-
stance, I had reason" to believe they would depart the
fixR opportunity,. However, my sear made me think
a place for retreat upon an attack. I now repent-
ed that I had made my door to come out beyond my
^fortification j to .remedy which, I resolved to make
sine:-a-second «ne: I sell to work, therefore^ and drove
ietwix*
betwixt that double row of trees, which I planted a-
bout twelve years before, several strong piles, thick-
ening it with pieces of timber and old cables, and
strengthening the foot of it with earth which I
dug out of my cave; I also made me seven holes,
wherein I planted my muskets like cannon, sitting
them into frames resembling carriages. This being
finished with indesatigable industry, for a great way
every where, I planted sticks of osier like a wood, a-
bout twenty thousand of them, leaving a large space
between them and my wall, that I might have room
to see an enemy, and that they might not be sheltered
among the young trees, if they offered~to approach
the outer wall. And, indeed, scarce two years had
passed over my head, when there appeared a lovely
shady grove, and in six years it became a thick wood
persectly impassible. For my sasety I left no avenue
to go in or out; instead of which I set.two ladders,
one to a part of the rock which was tow, and then
broke in, leaving room to place another ladder upon
that; so that when I took-those down, it was impos-
"lible for any man to descend' without hurting himself;
and if they had, they would still be at the outside of
my outer wall. But while I took all these measures
»f human prudence for rrry-own preservation, I was
not altogether unmindsul of other affairs. To .pre-
serve my'stock of .tame goats, that the enemy should
not take all at once, I looked out for the most retired
part of the island, which was the place where I had
iost myself before mentioned, and there finding a clear
piece of land, containing three acres, surrounded
with thick woods, I wrought so hard, that,.in less
than a month's time, I senced it so well round, that
tny flocks were very well secured in it,-and I put
therein two he-goats and ten she ones.
All this labour.was occasioned purely hy searful
. apprehensions, on account of seeing rthe print of a -
man's foot. And not contented yet with what I
.had done, I searched.for another place towards the
JD.6 west
,vvest point of the island, where I might also retain
another flock. Then wandering on this errand more
to the west of the island than ever I had yet done,
and casting my eyes towards the sea, methought. I
perceived a boat at a great distance; but could not
possibly tell what it was for want of my perspective
glass. I considered then it was no strange thing to see
the print of a man's foot; and, concluding them can-
nibals, blested God for my being cast on the other side
io( the island, where none of the savages, as I thought,
«ver came. But when I came down the hill to the
shore, which was the S. W. point of the island, I was
soon confirmed in my opinion; nor can any one de-
scribe my horror and amazement, when I saw the
ground spread with sculls, hands, seet, and bones of
human bodies; and particularly, I perceived a space
1'tke a circle, in the midst of which had been a fire,
.about which I conjectured these wretches sat, and
unnaturally sacrificed and devoured" their sellow
creatures.
The horror and loathsomeness of this dreadsul spec-
tacle, both confounded my senses, and made medif-
.charge from my stomach in ah excessive manner. I
then returnedtowards my habitation; and, in my way
thither, sledding floods of tears, and salling down on
iiny bended knees, gave God thanks for making my
^ature contrary to these wretches, and delivering
jjie so long out of their hands.
Though reason and my long residence here had air
^iired me, that these savages never came up to the
4hick woody parts of the country, and that I had no
--eason to be apprehensive of a discovery; yet such an
. . .» /I'll . ' • . 1 r . *\Ci.or
-abhorrence did I still 'retain, that, for two years after,
J confined myself only to my three plantations; I
^iiean my castle, country seat, and inclosure in the
..atfoods. And though, in process of time, my dread-
£u\ apprehensions began to wear away, yet my eyes •
^vere more vigilant for sear of heing surprised, and I
~y.as very cautious of siring my gun, lest, being heard (
by
by those creatures, they should proceed to attack me.
I resolved, however, mansully to lose my lise if they
.did, and went armed with three pistols stuck in my
girdle; which, added to the description I have given
of myself before, made me look with a very formida-
ble appearance.
Thus my circumstances for some time remained
very calm and undisturbed; and when I compared
my condition to others, I found it sar from being
miserable. And, indeed, would all persons compare
their circumstances, not with those above them, but
with those innumerable unhappy objects beneath them,
I am sure we should not hear those daily murmurings
and complainings that are in the world. For my
part, I wanted but sew things. Indeed, the terror
'which the savages had put me in, spoiled some in-
ventions for my own conveniencies. One of my
projects was to brew me some beer; a very whimsi-
cal one indeed, when it is considered, that I had nei-
ther casks sufficient, nor could I make any to pre-
serve it in i neither* had I hops to make it keep, yest
.to make it work, nor a copper or kettle to make it
•boil. Perhaps, indeed, after some years, I might
bring this to bear, as I had done other things. But
jiow my inventions were placed another way; and
day and night I could think of nothing but how I
might destroy some of these cannibals, when pro-
ceeding to their bloedy entertainments; and so sav-
ing a victim from being sacrificed, that he might
after become my servant. Many were my contri-
vances for this purpose, and as many more objections
•occurred, after I hatched them. I once contrived to
«lig a hole under the place where they made their
fire, and put therein five or six pounds of gun.r
powder, which would,consequently blow up all those
that were near it; but then I was loth to spend se
onuch upon them, lest it should not do that certain
,execution I could defire, and but only affright, and
•»ot ki\\ them. JHavingiaid this design, aside, I again
proposed
proposed to myself to lie privately in ambush, in
some convenient place, with my three guns double
Joaded, and let fly at them in the midst of their
dreadsul ceremony; and having killed two or three
of them at every shot, sall upon the rest suddenly
.vvith my three pistols, and not let one mother's son
escape. This imagination pleased my sancy so much
that I used to dream of it in the night time. To put
ixiy design in execution, I was not long seeking fora
place very convenient for my purpose, where unseen
I might behold every action of the savages. Here I
placed my two muskets, each of which was loaded
vvith a brace of slugs, and four or five smaller bul-
lets about the size of pistol .bullets; the fowling-
piece was charged with near a handful of the largest
fwan shot; and in every pistol were about four bul-
lets. And thus all things being prepared, no sooner
vvould the welcome light spread over the element,
ItUt, like a giant rejrejhed with wine, as the scripture
jias it, would I istue forth from my castle, and from
3 lofty hill, three miles distant, view if I could see
any invaders approach unlawsully to my kingdom.
Jjut having waited in vain two or three months, it
riot only grew very tiresome to me, but brought me
into some consideration, and made me examine my-
self, what right I had to kill these creatures in this
r fanner.
If (argued I • to myself) this unnatural custom of
theirs be a fin offensive to heaven, it belongs to the
i vine 'Being, who alone has the vindictive power in
jiis hands, to shower down his vengeance upon
^jieffl. And perhaps he does so, in making them be-
c0rn€ one another's executioners. Or, if not, if
^Jod thinks these doings just, accordingto the know-
ledge they conceive, what authority have I to pretend
XO thwart the decrees of '.Providence, which has per-
mitted these actions for. so many ages, perhaps front
^jrnost the beginning -of the creation f They
gieve* offended me; what-right have I then to con- •
. xern
tern myself in their shedding one another's blood?
And, indeed, I have since known, they value no
more to kill and devour a captive taken in war, than
we do to kill an ox, or eat mutton. I then conclud-
ed, it necessarily followed, that these people were no
more murderers than Christians, who many times put
whole troops to the sword, after throwing down their
arms. Again I considered, that if I sell upon them,
I should be as- much in the wrong as the Spaniards,.
who had committed the greatest barbarities upon these
people who never had offended them in their whole
lives; as if the kingdom of Spain was eminent for
a race of men without common compassion to the
miserable, a principal sign of the most generous tem-
per. These considerations made me pause, and
brought me to think I had taken wrong measures in.
my resolution; I now argued with myself, that it
was better for me never to attack, but to remain un-
discovered as long as possibly I could; that an op-
posite conduct would certainly prove destructive ; for
as it was scarcely to be .supposed I could kill them
all, I might either be overpowered by the remaining,
or that some escaping, might bring thousands to my
certain destruction. And, indeed, religion took their
part so much as to convince me how contrary it was
to my duty to be guilty of shedding human blood,
innocent.as to my particular, whatever they are to
one another.; .that I had nothing.to do with it, but
leave it to the God of all power and dominion, as I
soid before, .to do therein what seemed convenient to
his heavenly.wisdom. And, therefore, on my knees
I thaokedthe Almighty fordeliveringme from blood-
guiltiness, and begged his protection that I might ne-
ver sall into their hands.
Thus giving over .an attempt which I had rasiily
begun, I never ascended the hill on that occasion,
afterwards; I only removed my boat, which lay on
the other side, of the island, .and every thing that be~
imged to her, towards the east, into a little cove,
.that
that there might not be the least shaddow of discovery
of any boat near, or^habitation upon the island. My
castle then became my cell, keeping always retired
in it, except when I went out to milk my she-goats,
and order my little flock in the wood, which was quite
out of danger; for sure I was, that these savages
jiever came here with expectations to find any thing,
and consequently never wandered from the coast; how-
ever, as tjiey might have several times been on shore,
as well before as after my dreadsul apprehensions, I
looked back with horror to think in what state I
xnight have been, had I suddenly met them slenderly
armed, with one gun only loaded with small sliot;
and how great would have been my amazement, if,
instead of seeing the print of one man's foot, I had
perceived fifteen or twenty savages, who, having
once set their eyes upon me, by the swiftness of their
.feet, would have left me no possibility of escaping?
'These thoughts would fink my very foul, so that I
-^v.ould fall into a deep melancholy, till such time as
the consideration of my gratitude to the divine JBe-
jpg moved it from my heart- J then sell into a con-
templation of the sacred springs of Providence; and
-how wondersully we are delivered, when insensible
of it; and when intricated in uncertain mazes or
labyrinths of doubt or hesitation, what secret hint
Jirects us in the right way, when we intended to
go out of it; nay, perhaps, contrary to our busi-
ness, sense, or inclination.. Upon which, I fixed
^ithin me this as a certain rule, never to disobey
those secret impressidnsof mind, to the acting or not
acting any thing that offered, for which I yet could
assign no reason. But let it be how it will, the ad-
vantage of this conduct very eminently appeared in
the latter part of my abode on this island; I am a
As anger in determining whence these secret intima-
tions of Providence derive; yet methinks they are
«ot only some proof of the converse of spirits, but
oil'*
also os the secret communications they are supposed
to have with those that have not palled through the
gloomy vale of death.
- These anxieties of mind, and the care of my pre-
servation, put a period to all suture inventions and
contrivances, either for accommodation or conveni-
ence. I now cared not to drive a nail, chop a stick,
fire a gun, or make a fire, lest either tha noise should
be heard, or the smoke discover me. And on this
account I used to burn my earthen ware privately in
a cave which, I found in the wood, and which I made
convenient for that purpose; the principal cause that
brought me here was to make charcoal, so that I
might bake and dress my bread and meat without .
any danger. At that time a curious accident hap-
pened me, which I shall now relate.
While I was cutting down some wood for making
my charcoal, I perceived a cavity behind a very thick
branch of underwoqd. Curious to look into it, I
attained its mouth, and perceived it sufficient for me
to stand upright in. But when I had entered, and
took a surther view, two rolling shining eyes, like
flaming stars, seemed to dart themselves at me; so
that I made all the haste out that I could, as not
knowing whether it was the devil or a monster that
had taken his residence in that place. When I re-
covered a little from my surprise, I called myself a
thousand fools, for being afraid to see the devil one
moment, who had now almost lived twenty years in
the most retired solitude. And therefore resuming
all the courage I bad, I took up a flaming firebrand,
and in I rushed again. I had not proceeded above
three steps, when I was more asfrighted than before;
for then I heard a very loud sigh, like that of a hu-
man creature in the greatest agony, succeeded with
a broken noise, resembling words half expressed, and
then a broken sigh again. Stepping back, Lord!
(thought I to myself), where am I got? into what
iuchanted place have, I plunged myself, such as are
reported
reported to contain miserable captives, till death puts
an end to their sorrow? And, indeed, in such great
amazement was I, that it struck me into a'cold
sweat; and had my hat been on my head, I believe
my hair would have moved it off. But again en-
couraging myself with the hopes of God's protection,
[ proceeded forward, and, by the light of my fire-
brand, perceived it to be a monstrous he-goat, ly-
ing on the ground, gasping for lise, and dying of
mere old age. At first I stirred him, thinking to
drive him out, and the poor antient creature strove to
get upon his seet, but was not able; so I e'en let him
lie still, to affright the savages should they venture
into this cave. I now looked round me, and founds
the place but small and shapeless, At the sarther
side of it I perceived a sort of an entrance, yet so low,
as must oblige me to creep upon my hands and knees
to rt; so, having no candle, I suspended my enter-
prise till the next day, and then I came provided
ivith two large ones of my own making.
Having crept upon my hands and seet through this
strait, I found the roof higher up, I think about 20
feet. But surely never mortal saw such a glorious
fight before! the roof and walls of this cave reflect-
ed a hundred thousand lights to me srom my two
-andles, as though they were indented with shining
gold, precious stones, or sparkling diamonds. And
ndeed it was the most delightsul cavity or grotto of
-ts kind that could be defired, though entirely dark,
she floor was dry and level, and had a kind of gra-
vel upon it; no nauseous venomous creatures to be
een there, neither any damp or wet about it. I
;ould find no sault but in the entrance, and I began
o think that even this might be very necessary for
PV desence, and therefore resolved to make it my
nost principal magazine. I brought hither two
bwling pieces and three muskets, leaving only five
,ieces' at my castle, planted in the nature of cannon.
n a barrel of gun-powder, which I took up out of
the sea, I brought away about sixty pounds of good
powder, which was not damaged; and this, with
a great quantity of lead for bullets, I removed from
my castle to this retreat, now fortified both by art
and nature.
I sancied myself now like one of the giants of old,
who were said to live in caves and holes among the
rocks, inaccessible to any but themselves, or, at least,
most dangerous to attempt. And now I despised
both the cunning and strength of the savages, either
to find me out or to hurt me.
But I must not forget the old goat, who caused
my late dreadsul amazement. The poor creature
gave up the ghost the day after my discovery; and
it being very difficult to drag him out, I dug his
grave, and honourably intombed him in the same
place where he departed, with as much ceremony as
any Welch-goat that has been interred about the
high mountain Penmenmawr.
I think I was now in the twenty-third year of my
reign, and my thoughts much easier than formerly,
having contrived several pretty amusements and di-
versions to pass away the time in a pleasant manner.
By this time my pretty Poll had learned to speak
English, and pronounce his words very articulately
and plain; so that for many hours we used to chat
together after a very samiliar manner^ and he lived
with me no less than twenty-six years. My dog,
who was nineteen years old', sixteen of which he
lived with aie, died sometime ago of mere old age.
As for my cats, they multiplied so sast, that I was
forced to kill or drive them into the woods, except
two or three, which became my particular savourites.
Besides these, I continually kept two or three house-
hold kids about me, whom I did learn to seed out of
my hand, and two more parrots who could talk in-
differently, and call Robinson Crusoe, but not so ex-
cellently as the first, as not taking that pains with
them. I had also leveraj sea fowls which I had
wounded
wounded and cut their wings; and growing tame,
they used to breed among the low trees about my
castle-walls? all which made my abode verv agree-
able. 3 1 a
But what unforscen events suddenly destroy the
enjoyments of this uncertain state of lise, when we
least expect them! It was now the month of Decem-
ber, in the southern solstice, and particular time of
my harvest, which required my attendance in the
fields; wheri going out pretty early one morning,
before it was day-light, there appeared to me, from
the sea-shore, a flaming light, about two miles from
me, at the east end of the island, where I had ob-
lerved some savages had been before, not on the other
side, but to my great affliction it was on my side of
the island.
Struck with a terrible surprise, and my usual ap-
prehensions, that the savages would perceive my im-
provements, I returned directly to my castle, pulled
up the ladder after me, making all things look as
wild and natural as possibly I could. In the next
place, I put myself in a posture of desence, loading
rny muskets and pistols, and committing myself to
God's protection, I resolved to desend myself till my
last breath. Two hours after, impatient for intelli-
gence, I set niy ladder up to the side of the hill,
where there was a flat place, and then pulling the
ladder after me, ascended to the top, where laying my- f
self on my belly, with my perspective glass, 1 per-
ceived no less. than nine naked savages, sitting round
a small fire, eating, as I supposed, human flesh, with
their two canoes haled on shore, waiting for the
flood to carry them oft"again. You cannot easily ex-
press the consternation I was in at this sight, especial-
ly seeing them near me; but when I perceived their
coming must be always with the current of the ebb,
J became more easy in my thoughts, being verv sully
.convinced, that I might go abroad with security all
the time of stood, if they were not before landed.
And, indeed, this proved just as I imagined; for no
sooner did they all take boat and paddle away, but
the tide made N. W. Before they went off, they
danced, making ridiculous postures, and gestures, for
above an hour, all stark naked; but whether men or
women, or both, I could not perceive. When I saw
them gone, I took two guns upon my moulders, and
placing a couple of pistols in my belt, with my
great sword hanging by my side, I went to the hill,
where at first I made a discovery of these cannibals,
and then saw there had been three canoes more of
the savages on shore at that place, which, with the
rest, were making over to the main land.
But nothing could be more horrid to me, when
going to the place of sacrifice, the blood, the bones,
and other mangled parts of human bodies appeared
in my sight: and so fired was I with indignation, that
I was sully resolved to be revenged on the first that
came there, though I lost my lise in the execution.
It then appeared to me, that the visits which they
make to this island are not very frequent, it being
fifteen months before they came again: but still I
was very uneasy, by reason of the dismal apprehen- ,
sions I had of their surprizing me unawares; nor
dared I offer ta fire a gun on that side of the island
where they used to appear, lest, taking the alarm,
the savages might return with many hundred canoes,
and then God knows in what manner I should have
made my end; Thus was I a year or more before I
saw any of these devouring cannibals again.
But to wave this, the following accident, which
demands attention, for a while, eluded the force, of
my thoughts in revenging myself on those Heathens.
On the 16th of May (according to my wooden ca-
lendar) the wind blew exceeding hard, accompanied
with abundance of lightening and thunder all day,
and succeeded by a very stormy night, The seeming
anger of the heavens made me have recourse to my
Bible. Whilst I was seriously pondering upon it, s
was
was suddenly alarmed with the noise of a gun, which
I conjectured was fired upon the ocean. Such an
unusual surprize made me start up in a minute, when,
with my ladder ascending the mountain as before,
that very moment a flash of fire presaged the report
of another gun, which I presently heard, and found
it was from that part of the sea Where the current
drove me away. I could not but then think, that
this must be a ship in distress, and that these were
the melancholy signals for a speedy deliverance.
Great, indeed, was my sorrow upon this occasion;
but my labours to assist them must have proved alto-
gether vain and fruitless. However, I brought to-
gether all the dry wood that was at hand, and making
- a pretty large pile, set it on fire on the hill. I was
certain they plainly perceived it, by their firing ano-
ther gun as soon as it began to blaze, and after that
several more from the same quarter. All night long
I kept up my fire: and when the air cleared up, I
perceived something a great way at sea, directly E.
but could not distinguish what it was, even with my
glass, by reason the weather was so very foggy out
at sea. However, i -eping my eyes directly fixed
upon it, and perceiving it did not stir, I presently
concluded it must be a ship at anchor, and so very
hasty I was to be satisfied, that, taking .my gun, I
went to the S. E. part of the island, to the same
rocks where I had been formerly drove away by the
current; in which time the weather being persectly
cleared up, to my great sorrow, I perceived the wreck
of a ship cast away upon those hidden rocks I found
when I was out with my boat; and which, by
making a kind of an eddy, were the occasion of my
preservation.
Thus, what is one man's sasety, is another's ruin;
for undoubtedly this ship had been driven on them
in the night, the wind blowing strong at E. N. E.
Had they perceived the island, as I now guessed they
had not, certainly, instead of having.fired their guns
for
for help, they would rather have ventured in thek>.
boat, and saved themselves that way. I then thought,
that perhaps they had done so, upon seeing my fire,
and were cast away in the attempt; for I perceived
no boat in the ship. But then I again imagined,
that, perhaps, they had another veflel in company,
which, upon signal, saved their lives, and took the
. boat up: or that the boat might be driven into the
main ocean, where these poor creatures might be in
the most miserable condition. But as all these con-
jectures were very uncertain, I could do no more
than commiserate their distress, and thank. God for
delivering me, in particular, when so many perished
in the raging ocean.
When I considered seriously every thing concern-
ing this wreck, and could perceive no room to sup-
pose any of them saved, I cannot explain, by any
possible force of words, what longings my soul selt
on this occasion, often breaking out in this manner;
O that there had been but two or three, nay even
one person saved, that we might have lived together,
conversed with, and comforted one another! And,
so much were my desires moved, that when I repeat-
ed these words, " Oh ! that there had been but one!"
my hands would so clepch together, and my fingers
press the palms of my hands so close, that, had any
soft thing been between, it would have crushed it
involuntarily while my teeth would strike together,
and set against each other so strong, that it required
some lime for me to part them.
Till the last year of my being on this island, I ne-
ver knew whether or not any had been saved out of
this ship. I had the affliction, some time after, to-
see the corpse of a drowned boy come on shore, at the
end of the island which was next the shipwreck;
there was nothing on him but a seaman's waistcoat,
a pair of open-kneed linen drawers, and a blue linen
shirt; but no particular mark to guess what nation
he was of. In his pocket were two pieces of eight,
and a tobacco pipe, the last of which I preserred
much more than I did the first. And now the calm-
ness of the sea tempted me to venture out in my boat
to this wreck, not only to get something necessary
out of the ship, but, perhaps, some living creature
might be on board, whose lise I might preserve.
This had such an influence upon my mind, that im-
mediately I went home, and prepared every thing
necessary for the voyage, carrying on board my boat
provisions of all forts, with a good quantity of rum,
fresh water, and a compass: so putting off, I paddled
the canoe along the strore, till I came at last to the
north-east part of the island, from whence I was to
launch into the ocean; but here the currents ran so
violently, and appeared so terrible, that my heart
began to sail me; foreseeing, that if I was driven
into any of these currents, I might be carried not on-
ly out of the reach or sight of the island, but even
inevitably lost in the boiling surges of the ocean.
So oppressed was I at these troubles, that I gave
over my enterprise, sailing to a little creek on the
shore, where, stepping out, I sat me down on a rising
JiilJ, very pensive and thoughtsul. I then perceived
that the tide was turned, and the flood came on,
which made it impracticable for me to go out for
{o many hours. To be more certain how the sets
cf the tides ot currents lay when the flood came in,
J ascended a higher piece of ground, which overlook-
ed the sea both ways; and Here I found, that as the
current of the ebb set out close by the south point of
the island, so the current of the flood set in close by
tne shore of the north side; and all that I had to do,
yf/zs to keep to the north of the island in my return.
That night I reposed myself in my canoe, covered
With my watch coat instead of a blanket, the heavens
t,eing my tester. I set out 'with the first of the tide
fuW north, till I selt the benesit of the current, which
carried me at a great rate eastward, yet not with
such impetuosity as before, as to take from me all
govern-
government of my canoe; so that in two hours time
I came up to the wreck, which appeared to me a
most melancholy sight. It seemed to be a Spanish
vessel by its building, stuck sast between two rocks;
her stern and quarter beaten to pieces by the sea; her
main-mast and fore-mast were brought off by the
board; that is broken short off. As I approached
nearer, I perceived a Dog on board, who, seeing me
coming, yelped and cried; and no sooner did I call
him, but the poor creature jumped into the sea, out
of which I took him up, almost samished with hun-
ger and thirst; so that when I gave him a cake of
bread, no ravenous wolf could devour it more greedi-
ly: and he drank to that degree of fresh water, that
he would have burst himself, had I suffered him.
The sirst sight I met with in the ship, were two
men drowned in the cook-room or forecastle, in-
closed in one another's arms: hence I very probably
supposed, that when the vessel struck in the storm,
so high and incessantly did the waters break in and
over her, that the men, not being able to bear it,
were strangled by the constant rushing in of the
waves. There were several casks of liquor, whether
wine or brandy I could not be positive, which lay in
the lower hold, as were plainly -perceptible by the
ebbing out of the water, yet were too large for me to
pretend to meddle with: likewise I perceived several
chests, which I supposed to belong to the seamen,
two of which I got into my boat, without examin-
ing what was in them. Had the stern of the ship
been fixed, and the fore part broken off, I should
have made a very prosperous voyage; since, by what
I after found in these two chests, i could not other-
wise conclude, but that the ship must have abundance
of wealth on board; nay, if I must guess by the
course she steered, she must have been bound from
the Buenos Ayres, or the Rio de la Plata, in the
southern part of America, beyond the Brazils, to the
Havannah, in the gulph of Mexico and so perhaps to
'- ,' E Spain.
Spain. What became of the rest of her sailors, I
could not certainly tell; and all her riches signified
nothing at that time to any body.
Searching sarther, I found a cask, containing a-
foout twenty gallons, sull of liquor, which, with
some labour, I got into my boat; in a cabin were
several muskets, which I let remain there; but took
away with me a great powder horn, with about four
pounds of powder in it. I took also a fire shovel and
tongs, two brass kettles, a copper pot to make
chocolate, and a grid-iron; all which were extrerae-
Jy necessary to me, especially the fire shovel and
tongs. And so with this cargo, accompanied with
rny dog, I came away, the tide serving for that pur-
pose; and the same evening, about an hour within
night, I attained the island, after the greatest toil
and satigue imaginable.
That night I reposed my wearied limbs in the
boat, resolving the next morning to harbour what I
J»ad gotten in my new-found subterraneous grotto;
and not carrying my cargoe home to my antient
caftle. Having refreshed myself, and got all my ef-
fects on shore, I next proceeded to examine the par-
ticulars; and so tapping the cask, J found the liquor
to be a kind of a rum, but not-like what we had at
the Brazils, nor indeed near so good. At the open-
- ing of the chest, several things appeared very usesul
to me; for instance, I found in one a. very sine case
of bottles, containing the finest and best forts of
cordial waters; each bottle held about three pints,
curiously tipt with silver. I found also two pots
full-of the choicest sweetmeats, and two more which
the water had utterly spoiled. There were likewise
several good shirts, exceeding welcome to me, and
about one dozen and a half of white linen handker-
chiefs and coloured neckcloths, the former of which
was absolutely necessary for wiping my sace in a hot
<1ay; and, in the till, I found three bags o'f pieces of
eight, about eleven hundred in all, in one of which,
decently
decently wrapt up in a piece of paper, were fix dou-
bloons of gold, and some small bars and wedges of
the same metal, which I believe might weigh near a
pound. In the other chest, which 1 guessed to be-
long to the gunner's mate, by the mean circum-
stances that attended it, I only found some clothes
of very little value, except about two pounds of fine
glazed powd<r, in three flasks, kept, as I believe, for
charging their fowling pieces on any occasion; so
that, on the whole, I had no great advantage by this
voyage. The money was indeed as mere dirt to me,
useless and unprositable, all which I would have
freely parted with for two or three pair of English
shoes and. stockings., things that for many years I
had not worn, except lately those which I had taken
off the seet of those unfortunate men I found drown-
ed in the wreck, yet not so good as English shoes
either for ease or service. I also found in the sea-
man's chest about fifty pieces of eight in royals, but
no gold; so concluded that what I took from the
first belonged td an officer, the latter appearing to
have a much inserior person sor its owner. How-
ever, as despicable as the money seemed, I likewise
Jugged it to my cave, laying it up securely, as I did
the rest of my cargo: and after I had done all this,
I returned back to my boat, rowing or paddling her
along till I came to my old harbour, where I care-
sully laid her up, and so made the best of my way to
Riy castle. When I arrived there, every thing seem-
ed sase and quiet; so that now my only business was
to repose myself after my wonted manner, and take-
care of my domestic affairs. But though I might
have lived very easy, as wanting for nothing absolute-
ly needsul; yet still I was more vigilant than usual
upon account of the savages; never going much a-
broad; or, if I did, it was to the east part of the island,
where I was well assured that the savages never came,
and where I might not be troubled to carry that hea-
vy load of weapons for my desence, asSt was obliged
to do if I went the other way. Two
E 2
Two years did I live in this anxious condition, in
all which time, contrary to my former resolutions,
my head was filled with nothing but projects and de-
signs, how I might escape from this, island; and so
much were my wandering thoughts bent on a ram-.
£>ling disposition, that had I had the same boat that
X went from Sallee in, I should have ventured once
xxiore to the uncertainty of the raging ocean.
I cannot however but consider myself as one of the
unhappy persons, who make themselves wretched
\>y their dissatissaction with the stations which God
i-,as placed them in; for, not to take a review of my
primitive condition, and my sather's excellent ad-
vice (the going contrary to which was, as I may say,
my original stn) the following mistakes of the same
mature certainly h;.d been the means of my present
unhappy station. What business had I to leave a
settled fortune, and well stocked plantation, improv-
irig and increasing, where, by this time, I might
£,ave been worth a hundred thousand moidores, to
tin'11 supercargo to Guinea, to setch negroes, when
time and patience would have so much enlarged my
{{ock at home, as to be able to employ those whole
r^ore immediate business it was to setch them home,
evcti to my own door.i
But as this is commonly the sate of young heads,
f0 a serious reflection upon the folly of it ordinarily
attends the exercise of suture years, when the dear-
bought experience os time teaches us repentance,
^fhus was it with me; but notwithstanding, the
thoughts of my deliverance ran so strongly in my
mind, that it.seemed to check all the dictates of rta-
f0n and philosophy. And now to usher in ray kind
reader with great pleasure to the remaining part of
n-,y relation, I flatter myself it will not be taken a-
iriiss, to give him an account of my first conceptions
cf the manner of escaping, and upon what founda-
tion I laid my foolish ichemes.
Having retired to my castle, after my late voyage
to
/
to the ship, my frigate laid up and secured, as usual,
and my condicion the same as before, except being
richer, though I had as little occasion for riches as
the Indians of Peru had for gold, before the cruel
Spaniards came among them: One night in March,
being the rainy season, in the four and twentieth
year of my solitude, I lay down to sleep, very well in
health, without distemper, pain, or uncommon unea-
siness, either of body or mind; yet notwithstanding,
I could not compose myself to sleep all the night
long. All this tedious while, it is impossible to ex-
press what innumerable thoughts came into mv'head.
I traced quite over the whole history of my lise in
miniature, from my utmost remembrance of things
till I came to this island; and then proceeded to ex-
amine every action and pailage that had occurred
since I had taken possession of my kingdom. In my
reflections upon the latter, I was .comparing the hap-
py posture of my affairs in the beginning of my reign,
to this lise of anxiety, sear, and concern, since I had
dilcovered the print of a foot in the sand; that while
I continued without apprehension, I was incapable
of seeiing the dread and terror 1 now suffered. How
thanksul rather ought I to have been for the know-
ledge of my daiager, since the greatest happiness one
can be possessed of is to have sufficient time to pro-
vide against it? How stupendous is the goodness of
Providence, which si.ts such narrow bounds to the
sight and knowledge of human nature, that while
men walk in the midst of so many dangers they are
kept serene and calm, by having the events of things
hid from their eyes, and knowing noth ng of those
many dangers that surround them, till perhaps they
are dissipated and vanish away.
When I came more particularly to consider of the
real danger I had for so many years escaped; how I
had walked about in the greatest security and tran-
quility, at a time, perhaps, when even nothing but
the brow of a hill, a great tree, or the common ap-
E 3 proach
p roach of night, had interposed between me and the
cl instructive hands of the cannibals, who would devour
iane with as good an appetite, as I would a pigeon or
purlieu; surely all this, I say, could not but make
,-rie sincerely thanksul .to my great Preserver, whose
iingular protection I acknowledged with the greatest
\y umility, and without which I must inevitably have
/alien into the cruel hands of those devourers.
Having thus discussed my thoughts in the clearest
anner3 according to my weak understanding, I next
proceeded to consider the wretched nature of these
destroying savages, by seeming, though with great
^-everence, to enquire, why God should give up any
cyf his creatures to such inhumanity, even to brutali-
«jS LIFE AND ADVENTURES
tJi er matter of obstruse speculation, and as my mi-
.^rable situation made me think this of mine the most
^iricomforable situation in the world, I then began
i-jither to enquire what part of the world these
>vretches lived in; how sar off the coast was from
^lience they came; why they ventured over so far
f'rom home; what kind of boats conveyed them
j^ither: and why I could not order myself and my
foiiiinefe so, that I might be as able to attain their
^0tintry, as they were to come to my kingdom?.
But then, thought I, how shall I manage myself
^lien I corne thither? what will become of me if I
into the hands of the savages? or how shall I
escape from them, if they make an attempt upon me?
^,,0 supposing I sliould not sail into their power,
.^bat shall I do for provision, or which way shall I
foetid my" course! These counter thoughts threw me
-nto tne greatest horror and consusion imaginable;
Lut then I still looked upon my present condition to
foe the most miserable that possibly could be, and that

came to some inhabited country, where I might meet
with some relief, or sall in with some Christian ship
that might take me in; and if I failed, why then I
could but meet with death, which would put an end
to all my miseries. These thoughts, I must consess,
were the fruit of a distempered mind, an impatient
temper made desperate, as it Were, by long continu-
ance of the troubles and disappointments I had met
with in the wreck, where I hoped to have, found
some living person to speak to, b^ whom I might
have known in what place I was, and of the prova-
ble means of my deliverance. Thus, while my
thoughts were agitated, my resignation to the will of
heaven was entirely suspended! so that I had no
power to fix my mind to any thing, but to the pro-
ject of a voyage to the main land. And indeed se
much was I inflamed upon this account, that it set
my blood into a serment, and my pulse beat high, as
though I had been in a sever, till nature being, as it
were, satigued and exhausted with the very thoughts
,of it, made me submit myself to a silent repose.
In such a situation, it is very strange, that I did
riot dream of what I was so intent upon; but, instead
T>fit, my mind roved on a quite different thing, al-
together foreign. I dreamed, that as I was issuing
"from my castle, one morning, as customary, I per-
ceived upbn the shore, two canoes, and eleven sa-
vages, coming to land, who had brought with them
another Indian, whom they designed to make a sacri-
:sice of, in order to devour; but just as they were go-
•ing!togive the satal blow, methought the poor de-
signed victim jumped away, and ran directly into my
•little thick grove before my fortification, to abscond
-from his enemies; when perceiving that the others
'Aid not follow him that way, I appeared to him; that
he humbly kneeled down before me, seeming to pray
for my assistance; upon which I shewed him my
-ladder, made him ascend, carried him to my cave,
and he became my servant; and when I had gotten
£ 4 this
ioo • life and adventures
this man, I said to myself, now surely I may have some
hopes to attain the mainland; tor this sellow will
serve me as a pilot, tell me what to do, and where
I must go for provisions; what places to shun,
-what to venture to, and what to escape. But when
I awaked, and found all these inexpressible im-
pressions of joy entirely vanished, I sell into the great-
est dejection of spirit imaginable.
Yet thisd ream brought me to reflect, that one sure
vv»y of escaping was to get a savage; that after I had
ye ntured mylitbto deliver him from the bloody jaws
c,< nis devourers, the natural sense he might have of
such a preservation, might inspire him with a lasting
gratitude and most sincere affection. But then this
objection reasonably interposed: How can I effect
tbJs (thought I) without 1 attack a whole company
<yf them, and kill them all? why should I proceed on
inch a desperate attempt, which my scruples before
frail suggested to be unlawsul? and indeed my heart
trcmbled at the thoughts of so much blood, though it
vvere a means to procure my deliverance. 'Tis true,
J might reasonably enough suppose these men to be
xc\x\ enemies to my lise, men who would devour me,
V/nS it in their power: so that it was sclf-prescrva-
t \ot\ in the highest degree to free myself, by attack-
ing tn-m rn my own desence, as lav/sully as if they
w't re actually assaultingme: though all thele things,
j fay, seemed to me to be of the greatest weight, yet,
aS I just (aid bcfoie, the dreadsul thoughts of shedding
iiUtrtan blood, struck such a terror to my.soul, that it
a long time before I could reconcile myself to it.
But how sar will the ardency of desire prompt us
? For notwithstanding the many disputes and
perplexities I had with myself, I at length resolved,
p-ght or wrong, to get one of these savages into my
j^nds, cost wiTat it would, or even though I mould
j0fe my lise in the attempt. Inspired with this firm
rcsolution, I set all my wits at work, to find out
yyhat methods I should take to answer my design:
this
this, indeed, was so difficult a task, that 1 could not
pitch upon any probable means to execute it: I,
therefore, resolved continually to be in a vigilant
posture, to perceive when the savages came on shore,
and to leave the rest to the event, let the opportuni-
ties offer as they would.
Such were my fixed resolutions; and accordingly
I set myself upon the scout, as often as I could, till
such time as I was heartily tired of it. I waited for
above a year and a half, the greatest part of which
time I went out to the west, and south west corner of
the island, almost every day, to look for canoes; but
none appeared. This was a very great discourage-
ment; yet, though I was very much concerned, the
edge of my design was as keen as ever, and the longer
it seemed to be delayed, the more eager was I for it:
in a word, I never before was so caresul to shun the
loathing sight of these savages, as I was now eager
to be with them: and I thought myself sufficiently
able to manage one, two, or three savages, if 1 had
them, so as to make them my entire slaves, to do what-
soever I should direct them, and prevent their being
able at any time to do me a mischief. Many times
did I use to please myself with these thoughts, with
long and ardent expectations; but nothing present-
ing, all my deep projected schemes, and numerous
sancies, vanished away, as though, while I retained
such thoughts, the decree of Providence was such,
that no savages were to come near me.
About a year and a half after, when I was seriously
musing of sundry other ways how I should attain my
end, one morning early I was very much surprized by
feeing no less than five canoes all on shore together, on
my side the island, and the savages that belonged to
them all landed, and out of my sight. Such a'num-
ber of them disconcerted all my measures; for; s<e-
ing so many boats, each of which would contain six,
and sometimes more, I could not tell what to think
*f it, or how to order my measures to attack twenty
£ 5 .* -'"°r
X©2
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
or thirty men single handed: upon which, much dis-
pirited and perplexed, I lay still in my castle; which,
jiowever, I put in a proper posture for an attack;
Sind, having formerly provided all that Was necessary'
^v~as soon ready to enter upon an engagement, should
they attempt it. Having waited for fdrne time, my
impatient temper Would let me bear it no longer; I
set my guns at the foot of my ladder', and, as usual,
^fcen&tA up to the top of the hill at two stages, stand-
ing? however, in such a manner, that my head did
.giot appear above the hill, so that they could not eafi-
jy perceive me: and here, by the a'Aistahce of my
perspective glass, I observed no less than thirty it!
^umber.around a fire, seasting upon What meat they
fja-d dressed: how they cooked it, or what it Was, I
^ould not then persectly tell; but they Were all
dancing and capering about the flames, usihg many
/rightsul ar>d barbarous gestures.
But while, with a curious eye, I was beholding
tfaese wretches, my spirits sunk within m'e, when I
perceived them drag two miserable creatures from
tfie boats, to act afresh the dreadful tragedy, as I sup-
posed they had done before. It was not long before
Cr\e of them sell upon the ground, knocked down, as
X /upose, with a club or wooden sword, for that was
jheir manner; while two or three others went im-
mediately to worki cuttinghim open for their cook-
^ry, and then sell to "devour him as they had done
tbe forrner; while the last unhappy captive was left
j,y himself, till such time as they were ready /or him.
The poor creature looked round him with a wishsul
eye, trembling at the thoughts of death; yet, seeing
Himself a little at liberty, nature, that very moment,
,- it were, inspired him with hopes of lise; He start-
ed away from them, and ran, with incredible swift-
ness, along the sands, directly to that part of the
ct>ast where my antient and venerable castle stood.
You may well imagine, I was dreadsully affright-
«<1, «4Pon this occasion,, when, as,I thought they pur-
sued
.faed -him in a whole body, all running towards wiy
palace. And, now, indeed, I expected, that part of
my dream was going to be sulfilled, and that he
for the rest of my dream, I Could depend nothing on
ft-, that the savages would pursue him thither, and
find him there. However, my spirits beginning to
recover, I still kept upon my guard; and I now plain-
ly perceived, there Were but three men out of the
dumber that pursued him. i was insinitely pleased
"with what swistness the poor creature ran from bis
pursufers, gaming so much ground upon them, that I
plainly perceived, could he thus hold it for half an
hour, there was Hot the least doubt tut he would
save his lise from the power of his enemies.
Between them and my castle there was a creek,
that very same which I sailed into with all my effects
From the wreck of the ship, on the .steep banks of
which I very much seared the poor victim would be
taken, if he could not swim for his escape: But sooin
"was T out of pain for him, when I perceived.he made
nothing of it, though at sull tide, but, with an intre-
pid courage, spurred on by the sense of danger, he
plunged into the flood, swimming over in about
thirty strokes, and then landing, ran with the same
incredible strength and swiftness as before. When
the'three pursuers came to the creek, one of them,
who I perceived could not swim, (happily for his
part), returned back to his company, While the o-
'thers, with as equal courage, but much less swiftness,
.attained the other fide, as though they were resolved.
never to give over their pursuit.. And now or never
J thought was the time for me to procure me a ser-
vant, companion, or assistant: and that I was de-
creed by Providence to be the instrument to save this
poor creature's Jise. I. immediately descended my,
two ladders with the greatest expedition; I took up
my two guns, which, I said before, were at the bot-

£ -4
torn
torn of them: and, getting up again with the same
haste towards the hill, I made nearer the sea. In a
word, talcing a short cut down the hill, I interposed
between the pursuers and pursued, hallooing aloud
to the latter, who, venturing to look back, was, no
doubt, as much terrified at me as I at them. I beck-
oned to him, with my hand, to return back, in the
rnean time advancing towards the pursuers, and
rushing on the foremost, I knocked him down with
the stock of my piece, and laid him,flat on the ground.
J was very unwilling to fire lest the rest mould hear,
plough, at that distance, I questioned whether they
could or no; and, being out of sight of the smoak,
they could not easily have known what to make of it.
"she other savage seeing his sellow sall, stopped as if
Jic had been amazed; when, advancingtowards him,
J could perceive him take his bow from his back, and,
fixing an arrow to it, was preparing to shoot at me,
andi without dispute, might have lodged the arrow
|n my breast; but, in this absolutely necessary case
fif self-preservation, I immediately fired at him, and
{hot him dead, just as his hand was going to draw
the satal string. All this while, the savage who had
fied before stood still, and had the satissaction to see
jiis enemies killed, as he thought, who designed to
take away his lise: so affrighted was he with the sire
noise of my piece, that he stood as it were like
J^ot's wise, fixed and immoveable, without either
feiife or motion. This obliged me to halloo to him
3gain, making the plainest signs I could to him to
(n^iw nearer. I perceived he understood those tokens
by his approaching to me a little way, when, as.if
afraid I should kili him too, he stopped again. Several
t inies did he advance, and as often stop in this man-
ner, till, coming more to my view, I perceived him
tl-emMing, .as if he was to undergo the same sate.
XJpon which I looked upon him with a smiiiug
countenance, and still beckoning to him; at length
jje came dole to me, and kneeled down, killtci the
groui.d,
ground, laid his head upon it, and taking me by the
foot, set it upon his head; and this, as I understood
afterwards, was a token of swearing to be my slave
forever. I tqok him up, and, making much of him,
encouraged him in the best manner I could. But
my work was not yet finished; for I perceived the
savage whom I knocked down, was not killed, but
stunned with the blow, and began to come to him-
self Upon which I pointed to my new servant, and
shewing him that his enemy was not yet expired, he
spoke some words to me, but which 1 could not un-
derstand; yet being the first sound of a man's voice
I had heard for above twenty-five years, they were-
very pleasing to me. But there was no time for re-
flection now, the wounded savage recovering himself
so sar as to sit upon the ground, which made my poor
prisoner as much afraid as before: to put him out of
which sear, I presented my other gun at the man,
with an intent to shoot him; but my savage, sor so I
must now call him, prevented my firing, by making
a motion to me, to lend him my sword, which hung
naked in a belt by my side. No sooner did I grant
his request, hut away he runs to his enemy, and at
one blow cut osf his head as dexterously as the most
accomplished executioner in Germany could have'
done: for, it seems, these creatures make use of
wooden swords made of hard wood, which will bear
edge enough to cut off heads and arms at one blow.
"When this valorous exploit was done, he comes to
me laughing, as a token of triumph, delivered me my
sword again, with abundance of surprising gestures,
laying it along, with the bleeding and ghastly head
of the Indian at my seet.
The greatest astonishment that my new servant
conceived, was the manner of killing the savage at
such a distance, without a bow and arrow: and such
was his longing defire to know it, that he first point-
ed to the dead carcase, and then made signs to me to
. .grant him leave to go to him. Upon which I bid
him
him go, and, as well as I could, made him sehsible
i granted his request. But when he came there, how
-wondersully was he struck with amazement! First
<he turned him on one fide, then on another, wonder-
ing he could perceive no quantity of blood, he bleed-
ing inwardly: and after sufficiently admiring the
.wound the bullet had made in his breast, he took up
"his bow and arrows, and came back again; upon
•.which I turned to go away, making many sign's to
h»m to follow, lest the rest miffing their companions,
might come in pursuit of them. And this I found
he understood very well, by his making me under-
stand that his design was to bury them, that they
.anight not be seen if it happened; and which vy
'/rgns again I made him sensible I very much approved
of. Immediately he sell to work, and never was
•^rave-digger more dexterous in the world than he
-tvas; for in an instant, as I might say, he scraped a
Jarge hole in the sands with his hands, sufficient to
bury the first in; there he dragged him, and with',
out any ceremony he covered him over ; in like man-
gier he served the other; so that I am sure no under-
taker could be more expert in his husinefs; for all
this was done in less than a quarter of ah hour. I
then called him away, and instead Of carrying him
-directly to my castle at first, I conveyed him to my
cave on the sarther part of the island ; and so my
-^[ream Was now fulfilled in that particular, that my
irrove should prove an asylum or sanctuary to him.
Weary ahd saint,'hungry and thirsty, undoubted-
ly must this poor creature be, supported chiefly by
-j-hat vivacity of spirit, and uncommon transports of
- Qy that his deliverance occasioned. Here I gave him
i^ead and a bunch of raisins to eat, and water to
^rink, on which he sed very chearsully, to his ex-
ceeding refreshment. I then made him a convenient
£,ecl, .with a parcel of rice straw, and a blanket upon
& (abed which I used myself sometimes) and the»
pointing to it, made signs for him to lic'dbwn to sleep,
.fi . upon
\tpbh which the poor creature went to take a "wel-
come repose.
Indeed he was a very comely handsome young sel-
low, extremely Well made, with ttraight'iong limbs,
riot too large, tall and 'we'll shaped, and, asriear #s 1
couhl reckon, about <twenty-fix years of age. His
countenance had 'nothing in it fierce or surly, but
rather a sort of majesty in hrs sace; and yet, espe-
cially when he smiled, he had all the sweetness and
softness of an European. Mis hair was not curled
like wool, as many of the blacks are, but long and'
black, with the most beautisul, yet careless, treffe's
spreading over his shoulders. He bad a very high
and large forehead, with a great "Vivacity and spark-
ling sharpness in his eyes. His fkih Was not so TaWny
its the Virginians, Brazilians, br other Americans;
but rather^>f a bright dun olive colour, that had
something agreeable in it, though not very easy to
give a description of. His sace was round and plurrip,
with a small nose, very different from the flatness of
she negroes, a pretty small mouth, thin lips, sine
tteeth, very well set, and white as the driven snow.
In a word, such handsome seatures, and exact fym*
rhetry in every part, made me.consider, that I had
saven the lise of an Indian prince, no less graceful
and accomplished than the great Oroonoko, whose
memorable behaviour and unhappy contingencies of
life have charmed the world, both to admiration of
his person, and compassion to his sufferings.
JBut let him be either prince or peasant, all my
happiness centered in this, that I had now got a good
servant or companion, to whom, as he deserved, I
wasresolved to prove a kind master and lasting friend.
He had not, I think, flept above an hour, when he
awakened again, and while I was milking my goats
hard by, out he runs from the cave towards me in
.my inclosure, and laying himself down on the ground
in the lowest prostration, made all the antic gestured
imaginable, to "express' his thanksulness to me for
bein^j
being his deliverer. I consess, though the manner
of his behaviour seemed to be ludicrous enough to
occasion laughter; yet I was very much moved at
his affection, so that my heart melted within me,
searing he might die away in excess of joy, like re-
prieved malesactors; especially as I was incapable
either to let him blood, or administer physic. It
were to be wished, that Christians would take ex-
ample by this Heathen, to have a lasting remem-
brance of the benefits and deliverances they have re-
ceived, by the kind mediation and powersul interpo-
-/ition of their henesactors and deliverers; and, it
would likewise be happy for mankind, were there no
occasion to blame many, who, instead of thanksully
acknowledging savours and benesits, rather abuse
and contemn those who have been the instruments
to save them from destruction.
But, leaving these just reflections, I return to the
object that occasioned them; for my man, to con-
clude the last ceremony of obedience, laid down his
bead again on the ground, close to my foot, and set
iny other foot upon his head, as he had done before,
making all thesignsof subjection, servitude, and sub-
mission imaginable, to let me understand he would
serve me as long as his lise endured. As I under-
stood him in many things, I made him sensible I was
very well pleased with him; and, in a little time, I
began to speak to him,, and learn him how to talk
to me a<*ain. in the first place, I made him.under-
fland his name was to be Friday, because it was upon
that day I saved his lise: then I taught him to lay
JVlaster, which I made him sensible was to be my
.pame. I likewise taught him to say Yes and No,
and to know what they meant. I gave him seme
inilk in an earthen pot, making him view me while
J drank it before him, and soaked my bread it it; I
crave him a cake of bread, and caused him to soak it
Jikewise, to which he readily consented, making signs
iof «Lie greatest satisfaction imaginable.
• All that night did I keep him there ; but no sooner
did the morning light appear, when I ordered him to
arise, and come along with me, with certain tokens
that I would give him some clothes like mine, at
which he seemed very glad, being stark naked, with-
out the least covering whatever. As we passed by
the place where the two men had been interred, my
man pointed directly to their graves, shewing me the
marks that he had made to find them again, giving
me to understand, by signs, that we should dig them
up, and devour them. At this I appeared extremely
displeased, expressed my utmost abhorrence, as if I
would vomit at the apprehensions of it, beckoning
with my hand to come away, which he did with the
greatest reverence and submission. After this I con-
ducted him to the top of the hill, to view if the rest
of the savages were yet remaining there; but when
I looked through my perspective glass, I could see
no appearance of them, nor of their canoes; so that
it was very evident.they never minded their deceased
companions whom we had slain; which if they had,
they would surely have searched for, or left one boat
behind for them to follow, after they returned from
their pursuit.
Curiosity, and a defire of satissaction, animating
me with courage to see this scene of barbarity, I took
my man Friday with me, putting a sword into his
hand, with-the bow and arrows at his back, which
I perceived he could use very dextrously, causing him
to carry one gun for me, and I two for myself; and
thus equipped against all attacks, away we marched
directly to the place of their bloody entertainment.
But when I came there, I was struck with the ut-
most horror at so dreadsul a spectacle, whilst Friday
was no way. concerned about it, being no doubt in
his turn one of these devourers. Here lay "several
human bones, there several pieces of mangkd flesh,
half eaten, mangled and scorched, whilst streams of
Wood ran promiscuously as waters from a fountain.
As I was musing on this dreadsul sight, Friday took
all the pains he could, by particular signs, to make
me understand, that they had brought over four pri-
soners to feast upon, three of whom they had eaten
tip, and that he was the fourth, pointing to himself:
that there having been a bloody battle between them
and his great king, m the just desence of whom he
Was taken prisoner, with many others; all of these
were carried osf to different places, to be devoured
by'their conquerors; and that it was his misfortune
to be brought hither by these wretches for the fame
futpdse. .
After I was made sensible of tbeseshmgs, I caused
Friday to gather those horrid remains, and lay them
together upon a heap, which I ordered to be set on
fire, and burnt them to ashes: my man, however,
still retained the nature of a cannibal, having a han-
kering stomach after some of the flesh: but such an
extreme abhorrence.did I express.at the least appear-
ance of it, that he durst not but conceal it; for I
iiiadehim very sensible, that if he offered any such
thing, I would certainly shoot him.
This being done, l earned my man with me to
rny castle, and gave him a pair of linen drawers,
Which I had taken out df the poor gunner's chest
before mentioned; and which, with a little alter-
ation, fitted him very well : -in the next place, I
tiiade him a jerkin of goat-skin, such as my skill was
.able.to manage, and indeed I thought myself then a
-tolerable good tailor. I gave him also a cap, which
J made of a hare's skin, .vfery convenient and sa-
shionable. Thus being clothed tolerably well, my
.0iart was no less proud of his habit, than I was in
^eing him in it. Indeed he went very awkwardly
&t first, the drawers being too heavy On his thighs,
not used to bear any weight, and the sleeves of th:
vvaistcoat galled his shoulders, and the inside of his
arms; but by a little easing where he complained
they hurt him, and by using himself to them, .at
length he took to them very well.
My next concern was, where I should lodge him:
and that I might do well toy him, and yet be persect-
ly easy myself, I erected a tent for him in the vacant
place between my two fortifications, in the inside of
the last, and the outside of the first; and as there
was an entrance or door into my cave, I made a for-
mal framed door-case, and a door to open on the in-
side; I 'barred it .©p in the night time, taking in my
ladders too, so that, was my man to,prove treacher-
ous, there could be no way to come.at-me i-n the in^
side of . «>y innermost wall, without making so much
noise in getting over, that it must needs waken me;
for my first wall had now a complete roof ovef it of
long poles, spreading over my tent, and leaning up
to the side of the mountain, which Was again laid
cross with smaller sticks instead of lath?,, and thatch-
ed over a great thickness with the rice^ftww, which
was as strong as reeds; and at the h^l£ of the place,
left on purpose to go in or out by j)fe ladder, I had
placed a kind of a trap door, which, if it had been
n attempted on the outfide, would not have opened at
all, but have sallen down, and made a great noise;
and as to my weapons, every night I took them all
to my bed side.
.But there was no occasion for this precaution ; for
surely never master had a more sincere, saithsul anil
loving.servant than-Friday.proved to me. Without
paffion, sullenness, or design, persectly obliging and
engaging, his affections were as much tied to me,
as those of a child to his parents; and I might ven-
ture to fay, he would have sacrificed his lise for the
saving mine, upon any occasion whatfoever. And
indeed the many testimonies he gave me of .this, suf-
ficiently convinced me that I had mo occasion to use
these precautions. And here I could not but reflect
with great wonder, that however it hath pleased the
Almighty in his providence, and in the government
of the creation, to take from so great a part of the
world of his creatures, the noblest uses to which
their saculties, and the powers of their fouls are
adapted; yet that he has bestowed upon them the
same reason, affections, sentiments of kindness, and
obligation, passions of resentment, sincerity, sidelity,
and all the capacities of doing and receiving good
that he has given us ; and that when he is graciously
pleased to offer them occasions of exerting these,
they are as ready, nay, more ready, to apply them
to the proper uses for which they were bestowed,
than we often are. These thoughts would make me'
melancholy, especially when I considered how mean
a use we make of all these, even though we have
these powers enlightened by the Holy Spirit of God,
and by the knowledge of this world, as an addition
to our understanding; and why it has pleased the
heavenly wisdom to conceal the like saving know-
ledge srom so many millions of souls, who would
certainly make a much better use of it than generally
mankind do at this time; These reflections would
sometimes lead me so sar, as to invade the sovereignty
of Providence, and, as it were, arraign the justice
of such an arbitrary disposition of things, that should
obscure that light from some, and reveal it to others,
and yet expects like duty from all. But I closed it
up, checking my thoughts with this conclusion;
firji, That we were ignorant of that right and law
by which these should be condemned; but that as
the Almighty was necessarily, and by the nature of
bis essence, infinitely just and holy; so it could not
be otherwise, but that if these creatures were all
destined to absence from himself, it was on account
of sinning against that light, which, as the scripture
fays, was a Taw to themselves, and by such rules as
their consciences would acknowledge to be just, tho
the first foundation was not discovered to us. And,
secondly, That still as we were the clay in the hand
of the patter, no vessel could thus say to him, Why
J>ast thou sashioned me after this manner? *
I had not been above two or three days returned
to my castle, but my chief design was, how I should
bring Friday osf from his horrid way of seeding;
and, to take from him that inhuman relish he by na-
ture had been accustomed to, I thought it my duty
to let him taste other flesh, which might the rather
tempt him-to the same abhorrence I so often expres-
sed against their accursed way of living. Upon
which, one morning ! took him out with me, with
an intention to kill a kid out of the flock, and bring
it home, and dress it. As I was going, I perceived
a she-goat lying down in the shade, and two young
kids sitting by her. Immediately I catched hold of
my man Friday, and bidding him stand still, and
not stir, I presented my piece, and shot one of the
kids. My poor servant, who had at a distance per-
ceived me kill his adversary, and yet did not know
by what means, or how it was done, stood trembling
and surprised, and looked so amazed, that I thought
he would have sunk into the earth. He did not see
the kid I aimed at, or behold I had killed it, but
ripped up his waistcoat to see if he was not wound-
ed, thinking my resolution was to kill him; for
coming to me, he sell on his knees, earnestly pro-
nouncing many things which I did not understand
the meaning of; which at length I perceived was,
that I would not take away his lise.
Indeed I was much concerned to see him in that
condition, where nature is upon the severest trial,
when the immediate hand of death is ready to put
forever a period to this mortal lise: and indeed so
much compassion had I to this creature, that it was
with difficulty I refrained from tears. But, how-
ever, as another sort of countenance was necessary,
and to convince him that I would do him no harm,
I took him, smiling, by the hand, then laughed at
at him, and pointing to the kid which I had slain,
made signs to him to setch it, which accordingly he
did. No less curious was he in viewing how the
creature
A
creature was killed, than he had been before in be-
holding the Indian; which, while he was admiring
at, I charged my gun again, and presently perceived
a great fowl like a hawk, perching upon a tree with-
in shot; and, therefore, to let Friday understand
what I was going to do, I called him to me again,
pointing at the fowl, which I found to be a parrot.
I made him understand that I would shoot and kill
that bird; accordingly I fired, and bade him look,
when immediately he saw the parrot saii down.
Again he stood like one amazed, notwithstanding all
I had said to him; and the more confounded he was,
because he did not perceive me put any thing into
my gun. Undoubtedly a thing so utterly strange,
carrying death along with it, sar or near, either to
man or beast, must certainly create the greater a-
stonishment to one who never had heard such a thing
in his whole lise: and really his amazement con-
tinued so long, that had I allowed it, he would have
prostrated himself before me and my gun, with the
greatest worship and adoration. As for the gun in
particular, he would not so much as suffer his fingers
to touch it for several days after; but would come
and communicate his thoughts to it, and talk to it,
as if the senseless piece had understood and answered
htm; all this I conld perceive him do, when he
thought my back was turned, the chief intent of
which was, to defire it not to kill him, as I after-
wards came to understand.
I never strove to prevent his admiration, nor hin-
der him from those comical gestures he used on such
occasions; but when his astonishment was a little
©ver, I made tokens to him to run and setch the par-
rot that I had shot; which he accordingly did, stay-
ing some time longer than usual, by reason the bird,
not being quite dead,'had fluttered some way sarther
f om the place where she sell. In the mean time, as
h was looking for her, I took the advantage of charg-
ing my gun again, that so I might be ready for any
m other
other mark that offered; but nothing more occured
at that time. So I brought home the kid, and the
same evening took off the skin, and divided the car-
case as well as I could. Part of the flelh I stewed
and boiled, in a pot I had for this purpose. And
then spreading my table, I sat down, giving my
man some of it to eat, who was wondersully pleased,
and seemed to like it very well: but what was the
-most surprising to him. was to see me eat salt with it:
upon which he made me understand, that the f$lt
was very bad for me; when putting a little into his
mo,uth, he seemed to nauseate it in such a manner,
as to spit and sputter at it, and then washed his
mouth with fresh water: but to shew him how con-
trary his opinion was to mine, I put some meat into
my mouth without salt, and seigned to spit and
sputter as much for the want of it, as he had done
at it; yet all this proved of no signification to Fri-
day; and it was a long while before he, could en-
dure salt in his meat or broth, and even then but a
small quantity.
Thus, having sed him sufficiently with boiled meat
and broth at that time, the next day I was re-
solved to seast him with a roasted piece of the kid.
And having no spit to sasten it, nor jack to turn it,
I made use of that common artifice which many of
the people of England have, that is, to set two poles
upon each side of the fire, and one cross on the top,
hanging the meat thereon with a string, and so turn-
ing round continually, roast it in the same manner as
we read bloody tyrants of old cruelly roasted the
holy martyrs. This practice caused great admiration
in my man Friday, being quite another way than
that to which the savages were accustomed. But
when he came to taste the sweetness and tenderness of
the flesh, he expressed his entire satissaction above a
thousand different ways. And as I could not but
understand his meaning, you may be sure I was as
wondecsully pleased, especially whe^Jie made it also
very plain to me, that he would never, while he
lived, eat man's flesh more.
It was now high time I mould set my servant to
work; so, next day, I put him to beat out some corn,
and sift it in the same manner as I had done before.
And really the sellow was very quick and handy in
the execution of any thing I ordered him to go about.
I made him understand that it was to make bread for
us to eat, and afterwards let him see me bake it. In
short, he did every thing as I ordered him, and in a
little time as well as I could perform it myself.
But now considering that I had two mouths to seed
instead of one, it was necessary that I must provide
more ground for my harvest, and plant a larger
quantity of corn than I commonly used to do; upon
which I marked out a larger piece of land, sencing
it in, in the same manner as I had done before; in
the execution of which I must give Friday this good
word, that no man could work more hardy, or with
better will than he did: and when I shade him sensi-
ble that it was for bread to serve him as well as me,
be then very passionately made me understand, that
be thought I had much more labour on his account,
than I had for myself; and that no pains or diligence
should be wanting in him, if I would but direct him
in those works wherein he might proceed.
I must certainly own, that this was the most plea-
sant year I ever had in the island; for, after some
time, Friday began to talk pretty well, and under-
stand the names of those things which I was wont
to call for, and the places where I used to send him.
So that my long silent tongue, which had been use-
jess so many years, except in an exclamatory man-
ner, either for deliverance or blessings, now began to
Iie occupied in teaching, and talking to my man Fri-
day; for indeed I had such a singular satissaction in
tbe seUow himself, so innocent did his simple and un-
jrei£,ned honesty appear more and more to me every
dayr that I'reallj^ began, entirely to love him; and
for his part, I believe there was no love lost, and that
"his nature had been more charmed with my exceed-
ing kindness, and his affections more placed upon
me, than any other object whatfoever among his
own countrymen. I once had a great mind to try
if he had any ankering inclination to his own coun-
try again.; and by this time having learned him Eng-
lith so well, that he could give me tolerable answers
to any question which I demanded, I asked him,
whether that nation to which he belonged, ever con-
quered in battle? This question made Friday to
smile, and to which he answered yes,yes, we always
fight the better; as much as to say, they always got
the better in sight. Upon which we proceeded on
the following discourse: You say, said I, that you
always sight the better; why then, Friday, how came
you to betaken prisoner?
Friday. But for all that, my nation beat much.
Majler. How, say you, beat! if your nation beat
them, how came you to be taken?
Friday, They more many mans than my nation in
the place where me was, they take one, two, three
and me: my nation much overheat them in the
yonder place where me no was, there my nation
mans beat one, two, three great tousand.
Majler. Then why did not vour men recover vou
from the hands of your enemies?
Friday. They run one, two, or three, and me;
they make all go in the canoo; my nation have no
canoo that time,
Majler. 'Tis very well, Friday; but what does
your nation do with the prisoners they take? Do they
carry them away and eat them as these have done?
Friday. Yes, Yes, my nation eat mans too, eat
up all. •
Majler. To what place do they carry them t3 be
devoured.
Friday. Go to other nations where they think.
Majler. Do {,hey bring them hither?
F Friday
Friday. Yes, come over hither, come over other
place.
Master. And have you been with them here, Fri-
day?
Fnday. Yes, me been here, (pointing to the north-
west of the island, being the fide where they used to land.)
Thus having got what account I could from my
man, I plainly understood, that he had been as bad
as any of the rest of the cannibals, having been for-
merly among the savages who used to come on shore
on the sarthest part of the island, upon the fame
bloody occasions as he was brought hither for: and
some time after I carried him to that place where he
pointed; and no sooner did he come there, but he
presently knew the ground, signifying to me that he
was once there when they ate up twenty men, two
.women, and a young child; but as he could not ex-
plain the number in Englijh, he did it by so many
stones in a t ow, making a sign to me to count them.
This passage I have the rather mentioned, because
it led to things more important and usesul forme to
know: for after I had this satissactory discourse with
him, my next question was, how sar.it was from the
island to the shore, and whether the canoes were not
often lost in the ocean? to which he answered, There
was no danger; that no canoes were ever lost; but
that after a little way out to the sea, there was a
strong current, and a wind always one way in the
afternoon. This I thought at fast to be no more than
the sets of the tide, of going out or coming in; but I
afterwards understood it was occasioned by the great
draught and reflux of the mighty river Oroonoko,
in the mouth or gulph of which I imagined my king-
dom lay; and that the land which I perceived to the
VV, and N. W. must be the great island Trinidad,
on the north of the river. A thousand questions, (if
that would satisfy me) did I ask Friday, about the
nature of the country, the sea, the coasts, the inha-
bitants, and what nations were nearest them;'to
which
which questions the poor sellow declared all he knew,
with the greatest openness, and utmost sincerity.
When I demanded of him the particular names of
the various nations of his fort of people, he could
only answer me in general, that they were called
Carabe. Hence it was T considered that these must
be the Caribbees, so much taken notice of by our
maps, to be on that part of America, which reaches
from the mouth of the river Oroonoko to Guiania,
and so on to St. Martha. Then Friday proceeded to
tell me, that, up a great way beyond the moon, as
much as to say, beyond the setting of the meon,
which must be W. from their country, there dwelt
white bearded men, such as I was, pointing to my
whiskers, and that they kill much mans. 1 was not
ignorant with what barbarity the Spaniards treated
these creatures; so that I presently concluded it must
be them, whose cruelties had spread throughout A-
merica, to be remembered even to ^succeeding ge-
nerations. V
Well, you may be sure, this knowledge, which
the impersect information of my man had ied rr.e to,
was very comfortable to me, anc! made me so curious
as to ask him, how I might depart from this island,
and get amongst those white men? He told me, Yes,
yes, I might go in two canoes. In two canoes, thoughf.
I, what does my man mean? Surely he means one
for himself, and another for me; and^if not, how must
two canoes hold me without being joined, or'one
part of my body being put in ort£, and another in the
other? And, indeed, it was a Wng while before I un-
derstood his meaning, which was, that it must be a
'large boat, as big as two canoes, able to bear with
the waves, and not so liable to be everwhelmed as
one must be.
I believe there is no state ef lise but what mav be
happy, if people would but endeavour for their part
to make it so. He is not the happiest man that has
the most riches, but he that is content with what he
F 2 hath.
bath. Before I had my servant, I thought myself
miserable till I had him; and now that I enjoyed the
happy benefits of bim, I still complained, and begged
a deliverance from a place of retirement, ease, and
plenty, where Providence had sufficiently blessed me.
I)i a word, from this time I entertained some hopes,
that one time or other I might find an opportunity to
make my escape from this island, and that this poor
savage might be a great surtherance thereto.
All the time since my man became so intelligent as
to understand and speak to me, I spared no pains nor
diligence to instruct him, according to my poor share
of knowledge, in the principles of religion, and the
adoration that he ought to pay to the True God. One
time, as I very well remember, I asked him who made
him? At first the innocent creature did not under-
hand what I meant, but rather thought I asked him
•who was his sather? Upon which I took another way
to make him sensible, by demanding from him an an-
swer to this question. Friday, said I, who is it that
made the sea, this ground whereon we walk, and all
these hills and woods which we behold? And here,
indeed, I did not miss of my intention; for he told
nie, it was old Benamuckee (the god whom I supposed
these savages adored) who lived a great way beyond
all. But as for his attributes, poor Friday was an
utter stranger. Hi could describe nothing of this
erreat person; and all that he could say was, that he
^ras very old, much older than the sea and land, the
moon, or the stars. Friday (said I again), if this
^rreat and old person has made all things in the world,
i.,ow comes it to pass, that all things, at you in par-
ticular, do not adore and worship him? Upon this,
looking very grave, with a persect sweet look of in-
nocence, ije replied, Majler, all things say 0 to him,
pv which it may reasonably be supposed he meant ado-
-..ition. And where, said I, do the people of your
country go when they die? He answered, they all go
to Bcnatnuckee. What, and those people that a;'e eaten
up,
up, do they go there? Benamuckee, said he, love 'em
dearly; me pray to Benamuckee in de canoe, and Bena-
muckee zuou'd love me when dey eat me all up.
Such discourses as theie had I with my man, and
such made me sensible, that the true God is worihip-
ped, though under impersect similitudes; and that
the salse adoration which the Heathens give to their
imaginary deity, is as great an argument of the divine
essence, as the most learned Atheists (falselyso called)
can bring against it: for God will be gloiihed in his
works, let the denomination be what it will; and I
cannot be of that opinion which some conceive, that
God should decree men to be damned for want of a
right notion of saith, in a place were the wisdom of
the Almighty has not permitted it to be preached;
and therefore cannot but conclude, that since obedi-
ence is the best sacrifice, these poor creatures, acting
by that light and knowledge which they are possesled
with, may undoubtedly obtain a happy salvation,
though not that enjoyment with Christ, as his saints,
consessors, and martyrs must enjoy.
But laying these determinations aside, more sit for
divines than me to discuss, I began tp instruct my
servant in the saving knowledge of the true Deity, in
which the directions of God's Holy Spirit assisted me.
I lifted up my hands to heaven, and pointing thereto,
told him, that the great Maker of heaven and earth
Jived there: that as his infinite power sashioned this
world out of a consused chaos, and made it in that
beautisul frame which we behold, so he governs and
preserves it by his unbounded knowledge, sovereign
greatness, and peculiar providence: that he was omni
potent, could do every thing for us, give every thing
to us, and take every thing away from us : that he was
a rewarder and punisher of good and evil actions: that
there was nothing but what he knew, no thoughts so
secret but what he could bnng to light; and thus, by
degrees, I opened his eyes, and described to him the
marines of the creation of the world, the situation of
F 3 > paradise,
paradise, the transgression of our first parents, the wick-
ed-ness of God's peculiar people, and the universal
fins and abominations of the whole earth. When
these things were implanted in his mind, I told him,
thatasGod'sjuslice was equal to his mercy, he resolv-
ed to destroy this world,, till his son Jesus Christ in-
terposed in our behalf; and,toprocureourredemption,
obtained leave of his heavenly sather to come down
from heaven into the world, where he took human
nature upon him, instrudted us in our way to eternal
) i fe, and died as a sacrifice for our sins; that he was
now ascended into heaven, mediating sor our pardon,
delivering our petitions, and obtaining all those good
benefits which we ask in his name, by humble and
hearty prayers, all which were heard at the throne of
heaven. As very frequently I used to inculcate things
into his mind, Friday one day told me, that if our
trreat God could hear us beyond the sun, he must sure-
Jy be a greater God than their Benamuckee, who lived
but a little way off, and yet could not hear them till
they ascended the great mountains where he dwelt, to
speak to him. What, said I, Friday, did you go thi-
ther to speak to him too? He answered, No, they ne-
ver went that were young men, none but old men cal-
led their Oowakakee^ meaning the Indian priests, who
went to say O, (so he called laying their prayers), and
they retuwied back, and told them what Benamuc-
feee said. From hence, I could not but observe how
h.appy we Christians are, who have God's immediate
revelation for our certain guide; and that our saith, is
^either misted, nor our reason imposed upon, by airy
set of men; such as these Indian impostors.
But, to clear up this palpable cheat to my man Fri-
day; I told him, that the pretence of their ancient
men going up to. the mountain to say O'to their god
JZenaatuckee was an imposture, and that their bringing
back an answer was all a sham, if not worse; for that,,
if .there was any such thing spoken to them, surely
it must proceed from an insernal spirit. And here I
thought
thought it necessary to enter into a long discourse
with him, which I did after this manner.
Friday (said I) you must know, that before this
world was made, there was an almighty Power exist-
ing, by whose power all things were made, and whose
Majesty shall have no end. To be glorified and ador-
ed by beings of a heavenly nature, he created angels
and arch-angels, that is, glorious spirits resembling
himself, to encompass his throne, eternally singing
forth his praise in the most heavenly sounds and di-
vine harmony. And, among this heavenly choir, Lu-
ciser bore a great sway, as being then one of the pe-
culiar savourites of these celestial abodes; but he,
contrary to that duty he owed his heaven! v Sovereign,
with unbounded ingratitude t9 his divine Creator,
not only envied him that adoration which was his
due, but thought to usurp that throne which he had
neither power to keep, nor title to pretend to. He
raised a dissension and civil war in heaven, and had
a number of angels to take his part. Unbounded fol-
ly! stupendous pride! thus to hope for victory, and
aspire above his powersul Creator! The Deity, wot
searsul of such an enemy, yet justly provoked at this
rebellion, commissions his arch-angel Michael to lead
forth the heavenly host, and give him battle; the
ad vantage of which was quickly perceived, by Satan's
being overthrown, and the prince o the air (for so
the devil was called) with all his fallen angeis, driven
headlong into a dismal place, which is called Hell.
The recital of this truth mads my man give the
greatest attention, and. be expressed a great satissac-
tion by his gestures, that God had sent the devil into
the deep hole. And then I desired him to give great
heed to what I had surther to say.
No sooner (proceeded I) was God freed from, and
the heavens clear of this arch-traitor, but the Father
speaks to the Son and Holy Spirit, who belonged to
his essence, and were equal to h'm in power and glory,
Come lei us make man (laid he) in our own image^ after
F 4 our
our own likeness, Gen. i. 26. to have dominion over
the creatures of the world which we have created.
J\nd these he intended should glorify him in heaven,
according to their obedience in this state of probation
on earth, which was, as it were, to be the school to
train them up for these heavenly mansions. Now,
Satan seeing him foiled; yet, that God had not taken
the power from him as prince of the air, which power
heaven designed he should retain, whereby his crea-"
tures might be tried; in revenge for the disgrace he
had received, he tempts Adam's wise, Eve, to taste
f>f the tree of knowledge of good and evil, which
£Jod had forbidden. He appears to her in the shape
0f a serpent, then a most beautisul creature, and tells
iier, that it was no better than an imposition which
(Jod had put upon her and her husband', not to eat
fji that sair fruit which he had created; thatthe taste
thereof would make them immortal like God him-
self; and consequently as great and powerftil as he..
l,Jpon which she not only eat thereof herself, but
^ arfe her husband eat also, which brought them both
v,n<Jrr the hiavenly displeasure.
Here Friday expressed a great concern; Ah, poor
rrtani! (critd he) naughty ivomans! naughty devil!
ruche God not love de mans, make mans like devH him-
Friday, said s, God still loved mankind; and the""

till they, like Luciser, disobeyed h.s corninands and
rt.b«?!ied against h;m ; and even then, how Jesus Christ,
only son, came to save sinners. But still every
iriiin that lives in the world is under temptation and.
-i i al. The devil has ye t a power, as prince of the
g^ir, to suggest evil cogitations in our minds, and
— roJT'Pt us on to wicked actions, that he mioht glory
Jji out destmcti< n. Whatever evil thoughts we have
proceed from him; so that God, in this our distress,
expects
expeils we should apply ourselves to him by servent
prayer for speedy redress. He is not like Benamuckee,
to let none come near him but Oowakakee, but suffers
the people as well as priests to offer themselves at his
seet, thereby to be delivered from the power and
temptation of the devil.
But though at first my man Friday expressed some
concern at the wickedness of Lucifer, I found it not
so easy to imprint the right notions of him in his
mind, as it was about the divine essence of God: for
there nature assisted me in all my arguments, to shew
to him plainly the necessity of a great first cause, and
over-ruling governing power, of a .secret directing
Providence, and of the equity and reasonableness of
paying adoration to our Creator; whereas there ap-
peared nothing os all this in the notion of an evil
spirit, of his first beginning, his nature, and, above
all, of his inclination to evil actions, and his power
to tempt us to the like. And indeed this unlearned
Indian, by the mere force of nature, puzzled me with
one particular question, more than ever 1 could have
expected.
1 had, it seems, one day, been talking to him of
the omnipotent .power of God, and his infinite abhor-
rence of' fin, insomuch that the iscri,plures styled him
e consuming fire to all the workers of iniquity; and
that it was in his power, whenever he pleased, to de-
stroy all the world in a moment, the greaœr- part of
«vhich are continually offending him.
When, with a serious attention, he had listened a
greatwhile to what I said, after 1 had been telling
hiirf'how the devil was God's enemy an the hearts of
men, and used all his malie* and skill .to deseat the
good designs of Providence, and destroy the kingdom
of Christ in the woild, and£0 forth: Very well,
master, said Friday, you. say God is/o .strong, Ib
great, is he not much strong,,much mightaei'-.than the
iiaughty devil? To be sure, Friday, sai&ij God is
Sbate wife, and sttonger than the serpept,: he is above
.F 5, the
ehc devil, which makes us pray to him, that he would,
tread down Satan under his seet, enable us to resist
his violent temptations, and quench his fiery darts.
.iVby then,, answered Friday quickly, if God, asymtsay,
has much strong, much might as the dcvilr, why God no
Jiill devil, make no more tempt, no more do ,wicked.
You may be certain, 1 was strangely surprized at
this question of my man's; and, though an old man,
I was but a young doctor, and consequently very ill
qualisied for a casuist,, or a resolver of intricate doubts
Jji religion. And, as it required some time for me
to study for an answer, I pretended not to hear him,
nor to ask him what he said: But, so earnest was he
fox art answer, as not to forget his question, which
Jie repeated in the very same broken words as above.
Whett I had recovered myself a little, Friday, said I,
God will at last punijh him severely, being reserved for
judgment, and is to be cajl into the bottomless pit, to re-
ffiain in fire everlasting. But all this did not satisfy
ft'iday; for, returning upon me, he repeated my
vyords, REsERVE AT Last, me no under/land; but,
<U>hy not kill devil now, not kill devil, great, great while
ggo? Friday said I, you may as well ask me why God
^0es not kill you and me, when, by our wicked
actions, we so much offend his divine Majesty? He
Irivesus time to repent of our sins,- that thereby we
i^,ay obtain pardon. At these words obtain pardon,
jpyltsey mused a great while; and, at last, looking me
^-edsastly in the sace, Well, well, said he, that's very
well; so you, J, devil, all wicked mans, nil preserve, re~
Zji'rtt, Godpardtn alL- "— •
*. Indeed, here I was run down to the last extremity,
^Jien it became very evident to me, how mere natural
^,otions guidz reasonable creatures to the know-
jedge of a Deity, and to the homage due to the su-
preme being of God; but, however, nothing but
*|ivine revehtion can form the knowledge of Jesus
^brist, and of a redemption purchased for us, of the
mediator of the new covenant, and of an intercessor
. • at
at the footstool of God's throne: and, therefore, the.
gospel of our Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ; that
is, the Word and Spirit of God, promised for the
guide and sanctisier of his people, are the most ne-
cessary instructors of the fouls of men, in the saving
knowledge of the Almighty, and the means to attain
eternal happiness.
And now I found it necessary to put an end to this
discourse between my man and me; for which pur-
pose I rose up hastily, and made as if I had some oc-
casion to go out, sending Friday for something that
was a good way off. I then sell on my knees and
beseeched God that he would inspire me so sar as to,
guide this poor savage in the knowledge of Christ,
to answer his questions more clearly, that his con-
science might be convinced, his eyes opened, and his
foul saved. When he returned again, I entered in-
to a very long discourse with him', upon the subject
of the world's redemption by the Saviour of it, and
the doctrine of repentance preached from heaven, to-
gether with an holy saith in our bkssed Redeemer
Jesus Christ: and then I proceeded to explain to him,
according to my weak capacity, the reason why out
Saviour took not on him the nature of angels, but
rather the seed (if Abraham; and how thei sallen an?
gels had no benesit by that redemption; and, lastly,
•that he came only to the lost sheep of the house of
Israel, and the like. God knows I had more sinceri-
ty than knowledge in all the Ways I took for this
poor Indian's instruction; and, I must acknowledge,
what I believe every body that acts upon the (ame
principle will find, that in laying heavenly truths
oprn before him, I informed and instructed myself
in many things, that either I did not know, or had
not persectly considered before; lo that, however
this poor creature might be improved by my instruc-
tion, certain it is, thai I myself had great reason to
be thanksul to Providence for sending him to *ae.
His company allayed my grief, and made my habi-
F i6 tation
Cation comfortable; and, when I reflected, that she-
solitary lise to which I had been so long confined,
had made me to look surther towards heaven, bymak-
ing me the instrument, under Providence, to save
the lise, and, for ought I know, the foul of this poor
.savage, by bringing him to the knowledge of Jesus
Christ, it caused a secret joy to spread through every
part of my foul; and I frequently rejoiced, that ever
I was brought to this place, which I once thought"
tfhe most miserable part of the world.
In this thanksul frame of mind did I afterwards
continue, while I abode on the island, and for tJ?ree
.vears did my man and I live in the greatest enjoyment
of happiness. Indeed, I believe the savage was as
good a Christian as.1; and I hepe we were equally
penitent; and sueh penitents as were comforted and
restored by God's Holy Spirit: for now we had the
tvord of the Lord to instruct us in the right way, as
inucb as if we had been on the English shore.
By the constant application I made of the Scrip-
tures, as I read them to my man Friday, Ieamestly
endeavoured to make him understand every part of ..
}r., as much as lay in my power, fie also, on the o-
thcr hand, by his very serious .questions and in-
quiries, made me a much better proficient in scripture
knowledge, than I should^&ave been by my own pri-
v/rte reading and study., 1 must not omit another
thing* proceeding from the.experience I had in my.
retirement: It was, that infinite and inexpressible
Y, Jessing, the knowledge of God through Jesus Christ,
^.hich was so^afin and easy to be understood, as im-
mediately to direct me to carry ou the great work of
sincere repentance for my fins/ and laying hold of a
g^viour for eternal lise, to a practical stated reforma-
tion, and oUedisnce to all God's instirutions. with-
out the assistance of a reverend ?.xf orthodox divine;.
9i»d eso-.cially iiy skis (ama instruction, so 'to *n-
jj^Wten this savage.crea^erre, as to make him so good
a Christian, as vcry.few could, exceed him.. AnA.
there
there was only this great thing wanting, that I had
no authority to administer the holy sacrament, that
heavenly participation of Christ's body and blood;
yet, however, we rested tfurselves content, that God
would accept our desires, and according to our saith,
have mercy on us.
But what we wanted" one way, was made up in a-
nother, and that was universal peace in our little
church. We had no disputes and wranglings about
the nature and equality of the holy, blessed, and un-
divided Trinity; no nicities in doctrine, or schemes
of church government; no four and morose dissenters
to impose more sublimated notions upon us; no pe-
dant sophisters to confound us with unintelligible-
mysteries: but, instead of all this, we enjoyed the*
most certain guide to heaven; that is, the word of
God; besides which, we had the comfortabic views
o£ his spirit leading us to the truth, and making us
both willing and obedient to the instruction os his
word. As the knowledge and practice of this are
the principal means of salvation, I cannot see what
rt avails any Christian Church, or man in the world,,
to amuse himself with speculations and opinions,
except it be to display their particular vanity and af-
sectation.
You may well suppose, that, by the frequent dis-
course we had together, my man and me became most
intimately-acquainted, and that there was but very
little that I coHld say, 4*ut .what Friday understood^-
and, indeed, he spoke very fluently, though it was
but broken English. I now took a particular plea-
sure in relating all my adventures, especially those
that occurred since my being cast on this island. I
made him understand that wondersul mystery, as he
. OF ROBINSON CRUSOE n9
»how to shoot. I also presented to him a knise, which
pleased him exceedingly, making him a belt, with a
ifrog hanging thereto, like those in •which we wear
Siangew in England y and., instead o£ a ganger to put
in
in the frog, I gave him, a hatchet, which was not
.oiily a good, but even a better weapon upon many
occasions. In a word, my man thus accoutred,
looked upon himself as great as Don Quixote, when
that celebrated champion went to combat the wind-
.rnill.
I next gave him a very particular description of
the territories ,gf Europe, and in a particular manner
of Old England, the place of my nativity. I laid
before him the manner of our woi sluppirig God, our
behaviour one to another, and how we trade in ships
to every part of the universe. I then told him my
jxiisfortunes in being shipwrecked, showing him, as
jiear as I could, the place where the ship lay, which
been gone long before; but I brought him to the
;i-uins of my boat, which besore rriy whole strength
could not move, but now was almost rotten, and
. fallen to pieces. I observed my man Friday to view
th»S koat with an uncommon curiosity; which, when
jie had done, he stood pondering a great while, and
.^id nothing. At last, said I, Friday, what makes
you ponder so much? He replied, Q master ^ me set
si Me boat come to place at my nation.
It was some time, indeed, before I understood what
man meant; but examining strictly into it, J
rj\A\n\y found, that such another boat, resembling
^-line, had come upon the country where he dwelt;
'that iS t0 ^ay' his sarther explanation, that the
•fcioat was driven there through violent storms and
stress of weather. It then came into my mind, that
.r0rne European ship having been cast away, the poor
"^j iflressed creatures were forced to have recourse to
tjie. boat to save their livns; and being all, as I
sought, drowned, I never concerned myself to alk
iiV thing concerning them, bu; my only inquiry was
^bout the boat, and what description my man could
^.^e of it.
* Indeed Friday answered my demands very well,
snaking every thing very plain to my understanding;
but
but beyond measure was I satissied, when he told me,
with great warmth and ardour, 0 master^ we save
white mans from drown; upon which I immediately
asked him, if there were any white mans, as he called
them, in the boat; Yes, yes, said he, the boat full, vers
full of white mans. How many, Friday? said I.
Hereupon he numbered his ringers, and counted se-
venteen. And when I asked him what became of
them all, and whether they lived or not? he replied,
Yes, master, they all live, they be live among my nation.
This information put fresh thoughts into my bead,
that these must be those very men who before I con-
cluded had been swallowed up in the ocean, after
they had left their ship, that had struck upon the
rocks of my kingdom, and after escaping the sury
of the deep, landed upon the wild shore, and com-
mitted themselves to the sury of the devouring In-
dians.
The manner of their cruelties to one another,
which consequently, as I thought, must be acted
with greater barbarity to strangers, created in me si
great anxiety, and made me still more curious to ask
Friday concerning them* He told me he was sure
they still lived there, having resided among them
above four years, and that the savages gave them
victuals to live upon. But pray, Friday, said I,
whence proceeded all this good nature and generosity?
How came it to pass that they did not kill and eat
them, to please their devouring appetites; and oc-
casion so splendid an entertainment among them?
No, no, said Friday, they mt till 'em, they make brother
with 'em$ by which I understood there was a truce
between thsm. And then-1 had a more .savourable
<*pinion of the Indians, upon Friday's uttering these
words: My nation, t'other nation no eat mans, but when
^nansmakewar fight: as though hehad said, that neither
those of his kingdom, .nor any other nations that he
knew of, ever ate their sellow-creatures, but such as
their law of arms allowed to be devoured; that is,
those

those miserable captives, whose misfortune it mould
t>e to be made prisoners of war.
Some considerable time after, upon a very pleasant
day, in most serene weather, my man and I stood
upon the top of a hill, on the east fide of the island,
•vvrhence I had once before beheld the continent of
America. I could not tell immediately what was the
piatter; for suddenly Fsiday sell a jumping and danc-
ing as if he had been mad; and upon my demand"
ing the reason of his behaviour, 0 joy, said he, 0
glad! there fee my country, there my nation, there live
jtuhite mans gether. And indeed* such a rapturous
fense of pleasure appeared in his countenance, that
Jiis eyes had an uncommon sparkling and brightness,
gtnd such a strange eage.rneiss, as if he had a longing
desire to'be in his own country again. This made
sue not so well satissied with my man Friday as be-
fore; for by this appearance, I made no-dispute, bul
ghat if he could get back thither again, lie would not <
only be unmindsul of what religion I had taught him,
ljut likewise of the great obligation he owed me for
fais -wonderful deliverance: nay, that he would not
only inform bis countrymen of me, but accompany
hundreds of them to my.kingdom, and make me a
miserable sacrifice like those unhappy wretches taken
-ifi battle.
Indeed I was very much to blame to have these
^ruel and unjust suspicions, and must freely own I
pronged the poor .creature very much, who was of a
quite contrary temper. And had he had that dis-
cerning acuteness which many Europeans ,have,
would certainly have perceived my .coldness and
-^ndifference, and also have been very much concern-
ed upon that account; as I was now more circum-
spect, I had mucli lefienedmTy kindness and samiliarity
^^ith him, and while this jealousy continued, I used
^)ia< artsul way (now too much in sashion, the oc-
casion of strise and disiention) of pumping him daily,
^tcreby to discover wheither he .was deceitful in his
though**
thoughts and inclinations; but certainly he had no-
thing in him but what was consistent with the best
principles, both as a religious Christian and a grate-
sul friend; and, indeed, I found every thing he said
was so ingenuous and innocent, that I had no room
for suspicion, and, in spite of all uneasiness, he not
only made me entirely his own again, but also cause-
ed me much to lament that I ever conceived one ill
thought of him. ,
As we were walking up the same hill another day,
when the weather was so hazy at sea, that I could
not perceive the continent, Friday, said I, don't you
wish yourself to be in your own country, your own
nation, among your old friends and acquaintances?
Yes, said he, me much O glad to be at my own nation.
And what would you do there Friday? Would you
tarn wild again, eat man's flesh, and be a savage as
you were formerly? No, no, (answered he, sull of
concern,, and shaking his head) Friday now tell them
to live good, tell them pray God, tell them to eat corn-
bread, cattle, flesh, milk, no eat man again. But sure-
ly, replied I, if you should offer to do all this, they
will. kill you; and to manisest their contempt of such
instruction, eat you up when they have done. He
then put on a grave, yet innocent and smooth coun-
tenance, saying, No, they no kill me, they xvilling love
learn: that is, that they would be very willing to
learn : adding withal, that they had learned much of the
bearded mans that come in the boat. Will you, said I,
go back :again, Friday? he smiled at that, and told
me, that he could-not swim so sar. But, said I, I
will make a canoe for you: Yes, mafler, said he, me
go if you go, me no go if youflay. I go, Friday! why,
would you. have them eat me up, and devour your
kind master ?• No, no, said he, me make them not eat
majler, me make them much love you; that is, he would
tell them how I had slain his enemies, and thereby
saved his lise, for which reason he would make them
love me: and then he related to me, as well as he
was
was able, how exceeding kind those of his nation
•were to the white, or bearded men, as he called them,
who, in their great calamity, were driven into their
country.
It was from this time, indeed, I had strong incli-
nations to venture over, and use my utmost effbrts,
if possible, to join these white bearded men, who
„ undoubtedly were Spaniards or Portuguese; for,
thought I, it must be certainly a better and safer way
to escape when there is a good company, than for me
alotij, from an island foity miles off the shore, and
without any assistance, Some days after, Friday and
I being at work, as usual, at the same time diverting
ourselves with various discourses, I told him I had
a boat which I would bestow upon him, whenever
Jie pleased to return to his own nation: and to con-
vince him of the truth of what 1 said, I took him
Wttn me to the other side of the island, where my fri-
gate lay, and then taking it from under the water,
(for I always kept it funk for sear of a discovery) we
t>oth went into it to see how it would manage such
an expedition.
And really never could any be more dexterous in
rowing than my saithsul servant, making the boat go
3s sast again as I could. Well, now, Friday, said I,
/JiaJl we now go to your so much desired nation?
gut instead of meeting with that chearsulness I ex-
pected, he looked very dull and melancholy at my
s-j.yi'g so; which indeed at first surprised me, till he
iiiade me sensible, that his concern was about the
goat's being too srnali to go so far a voyage. Upon
%^rhich I let him understand I had a much bigger;
an<J, accordingly, the next day went co the place
^vhere the first boat lay, which I had made, when
3jJ the sirngth I had, or art I could use, sailed me
in my attempt to get it into the water; but now it
jiving lain in the sun two and twenty years, and no
caj:e being taken of it all that while, it became in a
^uanner rotten. My man told me, that such a boat
would
would do very well for the purpose, sufficient tocarry
enough vittle, dring, bread, for that was his manner
of talking. In short, my mind being strongly fixed
upon my design of going over with him to the con-
tinent, I very plainly told him, that we would both
gq and make a boat sull as big, and more proportiona-
ble than that, wherein, he might sasely return to his
own nation.
These words made Friday look so very pensive,
that I thought he would have fallen at my seet. It
was some time before he could speak a word, which
made me ask him, what was the matter with him t
He replied, in a very soft and moving tone, What has
poor Friday done.? why are you angry mad with poor ser-
vant? what me done, O what me done? Friday, said
I, you never yet have osfended ;ne: what makes you
think I am angry with you, when I am not angry at
all You no angry, no angry, said he several times; if
you be no angry, why dm send Friday over great water
to my own nation? Why, surely, Friday, answered I, did
you not wish to be there, when, from a mountain,
you beheld the place where you was bora? and is it
not to satisfy your defires that I am willing to give
you leave to return thither? Yes, yes, said Friday,
me wiji> be there sure enough, but me den wish majier
there too: no wish Friday, there, no majier there. In
short, he could not endure the thoughts of going
these without me. I go therey Friday said I, what
shall I do there ?-.—p-Hc answered very quickly, 0"
mafiar, you do great deal much good, you teach all de wild-
mans to he goad tame mans: you learn dem to be sober,
live good life, to know God, and pray Gad. Alas! poop
Friday, said I, what can I do against their pri.est , of
Renamuckee, or indeed what good can I make your
nation sensible, of, when I myself am but a pooj ig-
norant man? No, no, majhr, said he, you be no ig-
norant, you teachee me good, you teachee dem good. You
skall go. without me, Friday, said, I, for I don't
care to accompany you thither; I would rather live
in this solitude than venture among such inhuman
savages. Go your way, since you defire it, and leave
me alone by myself, as I was before I saved your
Jise.
Never was any creature more thunder-struck than
Friday was at theie words. Go me away, leave majler
away, said he, after a long silence, no, no, Friday
die; Friday live net majler gone; as though he had said,
I neither can nor will live, if my master sends me
from him. And here I cannot but take notice of the
strong ties of friendship, which many times surpase
those of consanguinity: For often we find a great
disagreement among kindred ; and when there is any
seeming regard for each other, it is very seldom true,
.and scarce ever lasting, if powersul interest does not
bear rhe sway ; and that alone is often the occasion of
she greatest hatred in the world, which is To defire
the death of parents and relations, for the sake of ac-
quiring their fortunes. But there was no such thing
between my servant and me: instead of which there
.was the greatest gratitude, and the most sincere love;
be found me not only his deliverer, but his preserver
aiid comforter; not a severe and cruel tyrant, bat a
jcind, loving, and affable friend. He wanted for no
gamier of sustenance; and, when he was ill, or cut
of order, I was his physician, not only for his body,
his sou]; and therefore no wonder was it, that
siich an innocent creature, long since divested of his
farmer natural cruelty, should have an uncommon
cC)ncern at so cruel a separation from me, which
pierced him to the very soul, and made him defire
^yen to die, rather than 1 ve without me.
After I had told Friday, in a very careless manner,
tfizt 'ie shanld he at his liberty as soon as the boat was
^iade, the language of his eyes expressed all imagina-
tj}e consusion; when, immediately running to one of
P^s hatchets, which he used to wear as a desensive
**J^apon, he gives it into my hand, with a heart so
rv. H. tha£ he could scarcely speak. Friday, said I,
*** * r what
what is it you mean? What must I do with this t
Only kill Friday, said he, Friday care not live long. But
what must I kill you for? replied I again. Ah!
dear master, what made you Friday save from eat a me
up, so keep long Friday, make Friday love God, and not
love Benamuckee, and no w Friday send away, never see
Friday mori. As though the poor creature had said,
Alas, my dearest kind master, how comes it to pass,
that, after having ventured your precious lise to save
me from the jaws of devounng cannibals like myself,
after such a tender regard to provide for me such a
comfortable nourishment, and continuing so long a
kind master, and a most sincere friend; and aster
making me forsake the salse notion of an Indian deity,
and worship the true God in spirit and in truth;
after all this, how comes it now, that you are will-
ing to send me away to my former course os living,
by which means undoubtedly we shall bedead to each
other; but greater must be my misfortune, that I
shall never behold my best friend I have in the world
any more. And this undoubtedly, though he could
not express himself so clearly, must be his sentiments;
for the tears ran down his cheeks in such a plentisul
manner, that I had much ado.to refrain from weep-
ing also, when I beheld the poor creature's affection;
so that I was forced to commit him in the best man-
ner I could, which I did, by telling him, if he was
content to abide with me, I should be ever willing
to keep him. /
After Friday's grief was something abated, more
fully to convince me of his affection, he (aid, O
majler, me not care to be in my nation, leave you here;
me desire nation learn good, that's all; meaning, that
his defire was for the conversion of that barbarous
people. But as I had no apostolic mission, nor any
concern about their salvation; so I had not the least
intention or defire of undertaking it; and the strength
of my inclination, in order to escape, proceeded
chiefly from my late discourse with Friday, about
these
these seventeen white bearded men, that had been
driven upon the barbarian coast; whom I designed
to join, as the only means to farther our escape. To
which intent my man and I went to search for a pro-
per tree to sell, whereof we might make a large peri-
agua or canoe, to undertake the voyage; and, in-
deed, we were not long in finding one sit for our
purpose, there being enough of wood in the island
to have built a fleet of large vessels, but the thing; we
principally wanted was, to get one so near the^wa-
ter, that we might launch it after it was finished,
and not commit so horrid a mistake as I had done
once before.
Well, after a great search for what was best and
most convenient, Friday at last, whose judgment in
such affairs was much superior to mine, pitches upon
a kind of wood the most sitting for it. To this day
I cannot tell the name of the tree, nor describe it
any other way, than only by saying, that it is very
like what we call fustic^ or between that and the Ni-
caragua wood, being much of the same colour and
smell. But though my man exceeded m« in the
knowledge of the most proper tree, yet I shewed him
a much better and cleaner way to make a canoe than
ever he knew before: for he was for burning the hol-
]ow or cavity of the tree, in order to make this boat;
but I then told him how we might do it with tools,
learning him at the fame time how to use them, which
indeed he did very dexterously; so that in a month's
labour we finished it, making it very handsome, by
cutting the outside in the true.shape of a boat. After
this it took us a full fortnight before we could get
her into the water, which we did, as it were, inch
by inch, upon grezÆ rollers: but when she was in,
she would have-carried twenty men, with all the ease
imaginable.
As I was very well pleased, you may be sure, at
the launching of this man of war of mine, I was 110
Jese amazed. to behold with what dexterity my man
would
would manage her, turn her, and paddle her along.
Well, Friday, (aid I, what do you think of it now?
Do you think this will carry us over? Yes, master^
said he, me venture over well, though great blow wind.
But my delign was yet sarther, which he was insen-
sible of; and that was to make a mast and sail, and
to provide her .with an anchor and cable. As to a
mast, that was no difficult thing at all to procure;
so I fixed upon a straight young cedar-tree, which I
found near the place, great plenty of it abounding In
the island; and setting Friday to cut it down, I
gave him particular directions how to shape and or-
der it; but as to the sail, that I managed myself. I
very well knew I had some old ones, or pieces of
sails enough, which had lain fix and twenty years
by me-, but not being caresul to preserve them, as
thinking I should have no occasion to use them any
more, when I came to look them over, I found them
almost all rotten, except two; and with these I went to
work, and after a great deal of pains and awkward tedi-
ous stitching for want of needles, at length I finished a
three-cornered ugly thing like what we call in Eng-
land a shoulder of mutton sail, to go with a boom
at bottom, and a little small sprit at the top, like
those which our long-boats use, and which I very
weil knew how to manage; especially since it was
like that which I had in my patron's fishing boat,
when, with my boy Xury, I made my escape from
the Barbarian shore.
It was near two months, I think, before I com-
pleted this work, that is, the rigging, and sitting
my mast and sails ; and indeed they were nicely done,
having made a small stay, and a sail, or foresail to it,
to assist, if we should turn to the westward; and,
which was still more, I fixed a rudder to the stern of
her, to steer with; and though I was but a very in-
different sliipwright, yet, as I was sensible of the
great usesulness and absolute necessity of a thing like
this, I applied myself to it with such a constant
appli-
application, thatatlastl accomplished my design ; but
what with the many dull contrivances I had about it,
and the sailure of many things, it cost me as much
pains in ordering as in making the boat. Besides,
when all this was done, I had my man to teach what
belonged to its navigation: for though he very well
understood how to paddle a canoe along, he was an
utter stranger to a sail and a rudder, and was amazed
when he saw me work the boat to and again in the
sea, by them, and how the sailgibbed and filled this
way or that way, as the course we sailed changed.
Aster some time, and a little use, I made all these
things very samiliar to him, so that he became an
expert sailor, except in relation'to the compass, and
that I could make him understand but little of. But
as it happened, there was seldom occasion for it,
there being but little cloudy weather, and scarce ever
any fog in those parts; the stars were always visible
in the night, and the shore perspicuous by day, ex-
cept in the rainy season, which confined every one to
Jiis habitation.
Thus entered in the seven and twentieth year of
iny reign, or captivity, which you please, (the last
three of which, blessed with the company of my m^n
Friday, ought not to be reckoned) I kept the anni-
versary of my landing here, with the same thanksul-
ness to God, for his tender mereies, as I did before;
and certainly, as I had great cause for a thanksul ac-
jtnowldgment for my deliverance at first* I had much
greater now for such singular and additional testimo-
nies of the care of Providence over me, in all ray
distresses both of body and mind, and the great hopes
j had of being effectually and speedily delivered; for
J had a strong impression upon mymind, that Ishould
pot be another year in this island. But, however, I
jt.ill continued on with my husbandry, digging,'plant-
ing, and sencing, as usual; gathering and curing
grapes, and doing all other things that were ne-
ceil"ary/ And
And.now the rainy season beginning to come on,
obliged me to keep the longer within doors; but be-
fore this, I brought my new vessel into, the creek,
where I had landed my rafts from the ship, and ha-
ling her up to the shore, I ordered my man Friday to
dig a dock sufficient to hold her in, and deep enough
to give her water, wherein she might float; and then
when the tide was out, we made a strong dam cross
the end of it, to keep »ut the water; by which means
she lay dry, as to the tide from the sea; and to keep
the rain from her, we thatched her over, as it were,
with boughs of trees, like a house; so we waited
for the months of November and December, in which
I designed to venture over the ocean.
No sooner did the seasonable weather begin to draw
near, but so much was I elevated with this new de-
signed adventure, that I daily prepared for the voy-
age. The first thing I thought on was, to lay by a
certain quantity of provisions, as a sufficient store
for such an expedition, intending in a week or fort-
night's time to open the dock, and launch out the
boat for that purpose. But one morning as I was
very busy upon something necessary for this occasion,
I called Friday to me, and bid him goto the sea shore,
and see if he could find a turtle or tortoise, a thing
which we commonly had once a week, as much upon
account of the eggs, as for the sake of the flesh. He
had not been long gone, but he came running back,
as though he was pursued for lise, and as it were flew
over my outward wall, or sence, like One that selt
not the ground, or steps he set his seet on; and be-
fore I had time to enquire the reason of his precipi-
tation, he cries out, O dear master, Osorrow! sor-
row! Bad! O bad! Why, what's the matter, Fri-
day? said I. O, yonder, yonder, said he, there be one,
two, or three canoes! two, three. Surely (though I)
there must be six, by my man's way of reckoning;
but, on a stricter inquiry, I found there were but
three. Well, Friday, said I, don't be territied, I
G warrant
warrant you we will not onlydesend ourselves against
them, but kill the most of these cruel savages. Buttho'
I comforted.him in the bestmanner 1 could, the poor
Creature trembled so, that I scarce knew v. hat to.do
with, him: O, majler, said he., they come look Friday,
csd pieces Friday, cut a trie up. Why, Friday, said lr
they will eat me up as well as you, and my danger is
as great as yours. But sin.ce.it is so, we mull re-
solve to fight for our lives, What fay yuu? can you
fight, Friday? Yes, said he, very saintly, me shoot,
tne kijl.what I can, but there came great many number.
That's no matter, said I again, our guns, will territy
those that we do not kill; I am very willing to stand
by you to the last drop of my blood. Now, tell me,
if you will do the like by me, and obey my orders
in whatsoever I command? Friday then answered,
O master, me lose life for you, me die when you bid die'.
Thus concluding all questions concerning his fideli-
ty, irnrnediately I setched him a good dram of rum, (of
Vvhich I had.been a very good husband) and gave it
jiim to comfort his heart. After he had drank it, I
ordered him to take the two fowling pieces, which
we always carried, and load them with large swan
{hot, as big as small pistol bullets; then I took four
xnufkets, and loaded them with two slugs, and sive
small bullets each; charging my two pistols each
y/ith a brace, I hung my great sword, as customary,,
naked to my fide, and gave Friday his hatchet, as a
i^iost excellent weapon for desence.
Thus prepared, I•thought as wellsof myself as any
JfCiiilht-errant that ever handled a sword and spear. I
took my perspective glass, and went up to the fide
0f the hill, to see what J could discover; and 1 per-
ceived very soon, by my glass, that there were one
?nd twenty savages, three prisoners, and three canoes,
and that their chief concern seemed to be the tn*
uniphant banquet upon the three poor human bodies,
a thing which by this time I had observed was very
common with them. I also remarked, that they did
not land at that place from.whence Friday made his
escape, but nearer to the creek, where the shore was
low, and where a thick wood came very close to the
sea. My soul was then filled with indignation and
abhorrence at such inhuman wretches, which put a
period to all my former thoughts in their vindication;
neither would I give myself time to consider their
right of conquest, as I had done before: but de-
scending from the mountain, I came down to Fri-
day, and told him, I was resolved to go speedily to
them, and kill them all; asking him again, in the
same bn.ath, .if he would stand by me; When by
this time being recovered from his fright, and his
spirit much cheered with the dram I had given him,
he was very pleasant; yet seriously telling me, as he
did before, When I bid die, he would die.
And now it was, having fixed my resolution in so
strong a manner, that nothing could divest my breast
•of its uncommon sury. I immediately divided the
loaded arms betwixt us. To my man Friday I gave
a..pistol to stick in his girdle, with three guns upon
his shoulder, a weight too great I consess to bear;
but what must a poor king do, who had but one loi-
dier in the world I But to shew I made him bear no
more than what I would lay on myself, I stuck the
other pistol in my girdle, and other three guns upon
my shoulders; nay something more, but that was
like Æsop's buiden, a small bottle of rum, which
was soon lightened to our exceeding refreshment.
Thus we marched out, under a ponderous load of
armour, like two invincible champions, with a quan-
tity of powder and bullets to stand our battie, and
load again, when the pieces were discharged. And
now my orders being to be obeyed, I charged Friday
to keep close behind me, and not to stir, or iluot,
or attempt any thing till 1 commanded him; and,
in the interim, not to speak so much as one word.
It was in this order I setched a compass to the right
hand, of near a mile, as well to pet over the creek,
G 2 as
as to attain the wood ; and by this, I thought to come
-within sliot of them before 1 could be discerned, r.s 1
found by my glass, would not be difficult to accomplish.
But how fickle and wavering is the mind of men,
even in our greatest sury and strongest inclinations r
J"or while I was taking this march, my resolution'
began to abate, not through sear of their numbers,
•iyho were a parcel of naked unarmed wretches, but
thole reflections occurred to my thoughts: What
power was I commissioned with, or what occasion or
neccssity had 1 to go and imbrue my hand:; in human
blood, and murder people that had neither done nor
intended to do me any wrong? They were innocent
iii particular as to me; and their barbarous custom
-wrts not only their misfortune, but a sign that God
bad left them in the most.immense stupidity; but
yet did not warrant me to be a judge of their actions,
much less an executioner of his righteous judg-
ments: That, on the contrary, whenever he thought
fit, he would take vengeance on them himself, and
pu.nisti them in a national way, according to the'ir
national crimes; but this Was nothing at all to me,
tVbo had no concern with them. Indeed my man
pridft] might justify himself, because they were his
declared enemies, of that very same nation that went
to sacnfice him before; and, indeed, ir> was lawsul
far him to attack them, which I could not say was
£a with respect to me. So warmly did these things
press upon my thoughts, all ths way I went, that I
£,iiiy resolved to place myself so as to behold their
\f\ociy entertainment, without salling upon them,
f,3tcept something more than ordinary, by God's spe-
cial direction, should oblige me thereto.
Thus fixed in my resolution, I entered into the
Vjc-Jc wood, (my man Friday following me close be-
I ir.d) when, with all possible wariness and silence, I
parched till I came to the skirt of it, on that side
flitch was the nearest to them; for only one end of
v/ood interposed between me and them. Upon
II which
.which I called very softly to Friday; and shewing
him a great tree, that was just at the corner of the
wood, I ordered him to repair thither, and bring me
word, if he could plainly perceive their actions ; ac-
cordingly, he did as I commanded him, and came
back with this melancholy story, that they were all
about their fire, eating the flesh of one of their pri-
soners; and«that anofner lay bound upon the sand,
a little distant from them, which they designed for
their next sacrifice; and this, he told me, was not
one of their nation, but one of those very bearded
men, who was driven by a storm into their country, ,
and of whom he had so often talked to me about.
You may be sure, that upon hearing this, my foul
was ready to sink within me; when ascending up
into a tree, I saw plainly, by my glass, »white man,
who lay upon the beach of the sea, with his hands
and seet ty'd with flags, or things resembling rushes,
being covered with clothes, and seemed to be an Eu-
ropean. From the tree where I took this prospect, I
perceived another tree, and a thicket beyond it, about ,
fifty yards nearer to them than where I was, which,
by taking a small circle round, I might come at un-
discovered, and then I should be within half a shot
of these devourers. And this consideration alone,
to be more persectly revenged upon them, made me
withold my paffion, though I was enraged to the
highest degree imaginable; when going back about
twenty paces, I got behind some bushes, which held
all the way till I came to the other tree ; and then I
ascended to a little rising ground, not above eighteen
yards distance, and there f had a sull view of these
creatures, and I could perceive all their actions.
Such a sight did then appear, as obliged me not to
lose a moment's t.mc. No less than nineteen of these
dreadful wretches sat upon the ground, close huddled
together, expressing all th? desight imaginable at so
barbarous an entertainment; and they had just sent
ot,her two to murder this poor unhappy Christian,
G 3 and'
-
4
and bring hiralsmb by limb to their fires; for they
were just then going to untie the bands from his seet,
in order for death, as setters are knocked off the seet
of malesactors before they go to the place of execu-
tion. Hereupon, immediately turning to my man,
Now, Friday, said s, mind what I say, sail in no-
thing, but do exactly as you see me do. All which
he promising he would perform, I set down one of
« my muskets, and the fowling piece upon the ground,
and Friday did the same by his; and with the other
musket I rook my aim at the savages, bidding him
do the like: Are you ready, said I? Yes, master^
said he. Why then fire at them, said I; and that
very moment I gave fire likewise..
I only killed one, and wounded two; butmyman
.^Friday, taking his aim much hetter than I,, killed
two, and wounded three. You may be sure they
Vrere rn a dreadf ul consternation, at such an unex-
• pected disaster; and those who yet had escaped our
penetrating shot, immediately jumped upon their
feet, but were in such consusion, that they knew not
•wh ich way to run or look; not knowing from whence
their destruction came. We then threw down our
piece?, and took up others, giving a second dreadsul
volley; hut as they were loaded only with swan-shot,
or small pistol bullets, we perceived only two of
them sall; though many were wounded, who run
yelling, and fcieaming about like mad creatures.
Jvfov/i Friday, said I, lay down your piece, and take
up the musket, and follow me. He did so, with
great courage, when shewing ourselves to the savages,
vve gave a great shout, and made directly to the poor
victim, who would have been sacrificed, had not our
first fire obliged the butchers, with three others, to;
jump into a canoe. By my order, Friday fired at •
them, at which shot i thought he had killed them
all, by reason of their salling to the bottom of the
boat; however, he killed two, and mortally wound-
e J a third. In the mean time, I cut the slags that
tied.,
st'kd the hands and seet of the poor' creature, and
lifting him up, asked him in the Portuguese tongue,
Whdt he was? He answered me in Latin, Chriftiarrus:
but so "very Weak and saint, that, he could scarce
Hand or speak. Immediately I gave him a dram,
and a piece of bread to cherish him, and asked him,
What countryman he was? He said Espaniola, and
-then uttered all the thanksulness imaginable forhis
deliverance. Signior, (said I, with as much Spanijh
as I was master of) let us talk afterwards, but sight
now; here, take this sword and pistol, and do what
you can. And, indeed, he did so with such courage
and intrepidity, that he cut two of them to pieces
in an instant, the savages not having the^ power
-to fly for their lives. I ordered Friday to run for
those pieces we had left at the tree, which he brought
me with great swiftness, and then I g^ve him my
musket, while I loaded the rest. But now there hap-
•pened a fierce encounter between the Spaniard and
one of the savages, who had made at him with one
of their wooden swords; and though the former was
as brave as could be expected, having twice wound-
Hied his enemy in the head ; yet being weak and saint-,
the Indian had throw him upon the ground, and was
wresting my sword out of his hand, which the Spa*
ward very wisely quitting drew out his pistol, and
shot him through the body before I could come near
him, though I was running to his assistance. As to
Friday, he pursued the flying wretches with his hat-
.ehet, dispatching three, but the rest-were too nimble
'for him. The Spaniard taking ontj of the fowling-
pieces, wounded two, who ruSnftrg into the wood,
Friday pursued and killed orte; but the other not-
withstanding his wounds,, ptunged himself into the
sea,-and swam to those "two-who were left in the
canoe,. which with one wounded, were all that
.escaped out of one and twenty. The account is
,as follows:
G 4 Kiikd
Killed at firjl shot from the tree, 3
dt the Jecond jhot, - - - 2
By Friday in the boat, - 2
Ditto, of thfefirjl wounded, 2
Ditto, in the wood, - - 1
By the Spaniard, 3
Killed or died of their wounds, - - 4
Escaped in the boat, whereof one wounded, if notfain, 4
Total 21
The savages in the canoe worked very hard to get
»ut of our reach, and Friday was as eager in pur-
suing them; and, indeed, I was no less anxious
about their escape lest, after the news had been
carried [o their people, they should return in mul-
titudes, and destroy us. So being resolved. to pur-
sue them, I jumped into one of their canoes, and
bid Friday follow me; but no sooner was I in, than,
to my surprise, I found another poor creature, bound
band and foot for the slaughter, just as the Spaniard
b'ad been, with very little lise in him. Immediately
J unbound him, and would have helped him up; but
be could neither stanc' hor speak, but groaned so pi-
teously,as thinking he was only unbound in order to be
slain. Hereupon I bid Friday speak to him, and tell him
0f his deliverance1; when pulling out my bottle, I made
tbe poor wretch drink a dram, which, with the joysul
•pews he had received, so revived his heart, that he fat
Up in the boat. As soon as Friday began to hear him.
speak, and look more sully in his sace, it would have
rrioved any one to tears to perceive his uncommon
transports of joy; for he kissed, embraced him, hug-
ged him, cried, laughed, hallooed, jumped about,
jaiiced, sung, then cried again, wrung his hands,
beat his sace and head, then sung and jumped about
^o-ain, like a distracted creature: so that it was a
exe.xt while before I could make him speak to me,
tell me what was the matter with him; but
when
when he came to the liberty of his speech, at last he
told me it was his sather.
Here indeed I was infinitely moved to see that du-
tisul and tender affection this poor savage had to his
aged parent. He would sit down by him in the boat,
open his breast, and hold his sather's head close to
his bosom, half an hour together, to cherish it: then
he took his arms and ancles, which were stiff, and
numbed with binding, and chased and rubbed them
with his hands; by which means, perceiving what
the case was, I gave him some rum, which proved of
great benesit to him. .
While we were busy in this action, the savages had
gotten almost out of sight; and happy it was we did
not pursue them: For there arose from the north-
west, which continued all night long, such a violent
storm, that I could not suppose otherwise but that
they were all drowned. After this, I called Friday
to me, and asked him, if he had given his sather any
bread I He shook his head, and said, None, not one
£;7, me eat a up all; so I gave him a cake of bread
out of a little pouch I carried for this end. I like-
wise gave him a dram for himself, and two or three
bunches of raisins for his sather. Both these he car-
ried to him, for he would make him drink the dram,
to comfort him.
Away he then runs out of the boat as if he was
bewitched, with such an extraordinary swiftness,
that he was out of sight as it were in an instant;
but, at his return, I perceived him Oaken his pacej
because he had something in his hand. And this I
found to be as he approached nearer, an earthen jug
with some water fo>his sather, with two more cakes
of bread, which he delivered into my hands. Being
very thirsty myself, I drank some of the water, of
which when his sather had drunk sufficiently, it
more revived his spirits than all the rum I had given
him.
I then called Friday to me, and ordered him to carry
G 5 • the
the Spaniard one os- the cakes, and.fome. water, who
.was reposing himself upon a green place under the
shade of a tree, but so weak, that though he exert-
ed himself, h» could not Hand upon his seet. Upon
which I ordered Friday, to rub and bathe his ancles
with rum, as he did his sather's. But every minute:
he .was employed in. this,, he would cast a wishsul
eye towards the boat, where he left his sather sitting;
who suddenly disappearing, he flew like lightning to
him, and finding he only laid himself down to ease
his limbs, he returned back tome presently, and then
I spoke to the Spaniard to let Friday help him, and
Jead him to the boat, in order to be conveyed to my
dwelling, where I would take care of him.; Upon:
which Friday, took him upon his backhand socarried
him to-the'canoe, setting him^eiose by his sather^
and presently stepping out again, launched the boat
off» 3nd paddled it along the shore saster .than I could
Walk, though the wind'-blew very hard too; and
having brought them sase to the creek, away he runs
io setch the other canoe, which he brought to the
creek almost as soon as I got to it by land, when
wafting me over, he took our new guests out of the
{>oat; but so weak, were they, that I was forced to
iiiake a kind of a hand-barrow ; and when I came to
riiy castle, not being willing ,to, make an entrance
jnto my wall, we made them a handsome tent, co-
pied with old sails, and boughs of trees, making
fWP good beds of rice,, straw, with blankets to lie
upon and cover them. Thus, like an absolute king,
G\'cr subjects who owed their lives to. me, I thought
myself very considerable, especially as I had now
three religions in my kingdom, my man Friday be-
inga protestant, his sather a Pagan, and the Spa-
niard a Papist : but I gave liberty of conscience to them
To get provisions for my poor weak subjects, i
^r<d«evi Friday to kill me a yearling go.tt.; which
^vben he had done, I cut off uc hinder quarters, and
choping
choping it into small pieces, boiled and stewed it,
putting barley and rice into the broth. This I car-
ried into their tent, set a table, elined.with them my-
self, and encouraged them. Friday was my inter-
preter to his sather, and indeed to the Spaniard too,
who spoke the language of the savages pretty well.
After dinner I ordered Friday to setch home all our
arms from the field of-battle, and the next day to
•bury the dead bodies, which he did accordingly.
And now I made Friday enquire of his sather
whether he thought those savages had escaped the
late storm in their canoe; and if so, whether, they
would not return with a power too great for us to
resist? He answered, that he thought it impossible
-they could outlive the storm; or if they were driven
southwardly, they would come to a land where they
would as certainly .beT devoured* as if they were
.drowned in the-sea." And suppose they had attained
their own coantry, the strangeness of their satal and
bloody attack, would make then) tell their people,
that the-rest of them were killed by thunder and 1
lightening, not by the hand of man, but by two
heavenly spirits (meaning Friday and me) who were
sent'from above to destroy them. • And this he said, -
"he knew, because he heard them say the same to one
another. And indeed he-was in the right on't; for
I haye heard'since, that-these four men gave out,
that whoever went.to that inchanted island, would 1
be destroyed by fire from the.gods.
No canoes appearing some time"after, as I'expect-
«d, my apprehensions ceased : Jnstead of which my
former-thoughts of a voyage;took place, especially
when Friday's sather assured me I should have -good .
.usage in hrs nation. As to the Spaniard, he told,
me, that-sixteen more of his countrymen, iartd-Por-
tirguese',i who-had been shipwrecked, made: their-.e-
.seape thither -, •that though they were in^nionTwith
she.savages,.yet :they were very miibra&lo'' ior want
-ef-provisions, and-'.other, necessaries,- Wften I.asked
him'
him about the particulars of his voyage, he answer-
ed, that their ship was bound from'Æ/a de la Plata to
the Havannah; that when the ship was lost, only
five men perished in the ocean ; the rest having saved
themselves in the boat, were now landed on the main
continent. And what do they intend to do there?
said I. He replied, they have concerted measures to
escape, by building a vessel, but that they had nei-
ther tools nor provisions, so that all their designs
came to nothing. Supposing (said I) I should make
0 proposal, and invite them here, would they not
carry me prisoner to New Spain? he answered no;
for he knew them .to be such honest men, as would
scorn to act such inhuman baseness to their deliverer:
1"hat if I pleased, he and the old savage would go
over to them, talk with them about it, and bring me
3Ji answer: That they should all swear sidelity to
r\c as their leader, upon the holy sacrament; and,
f0r his part, he would not only do the same, but
.stand by me to the last drop of his blood, should there
occasion.
These solemn assurances made me resolve to grant
•them relief, and to send these two over for that pur-
pose: but whep every thing was ready, the Spaniard
i,^ised an objection, which carried a great deal of
weight in it: You know, Sir, said he, that having
faeen some time with you, I cannot but be sensible of your
flock of rice and corn, sufficient, perhaps, for us at pre-
-'fent, but not for them, [should they come over presently;
fjiuth less to visual a vessel for an intended voyage. Want
flight be as great an occasion for them to disagree and re-
foel^ as the children of Israel did againjl God himself,
^yken they wanted bread in the wilderness. And, there-
jra1-e my advice is, to wait another harvest, and in the mean
J{-irne cultivate and improve fim^more land, whereby we may
Urfve plenty of provisions, in order to execute our design. .
This advice of the Spaniard's I approved extreme-
lv; and so satisfied was I of his sidelity, that I
.^teemed him ever after. And thus we all four went
to work upon some more land, and against seed-time
we had gotten so much cured and trimmed up, suf-
ficient to sow 22 bushels of barley on, and 16 jars
of rice, which was.in short all the seed we had to
spare. As we were four in number, and by this
time all in good healths we seared not a hundred
Indians, should they venture to attack us:-and while
the corn was growing, I pitched upon some trees,
fit to build us a large vessel, in case the Spaniards
came over; which being marked, I ordered Friday
and his sather to cut them down, appointing the Spa-
niard, who was now my privy counsellor, to oversee
and direct the work. I likewise encreased my flocks
of goats, by shooting the wild dams, and bringing
home their kids to my inclosure: Nor did I neglect
the grape-season, but cured them as usual, though
I had such a quantity now, as would have filled 80
barrels with raisins. And thus, all of us being em-
ployed, they in working, and I in providing for
them, till harvest came, God Almighty blessed the
encrease of it so much, that from twenty-two bar-
rels of barley, we threshed out two hundred and
twenty, and the like quantity of rice, susficient to
victual a ship sit to carry me and all the Spaniards to
any part of America.
Thus the principal objection being answered, by
a susficient stock of provisions, I sent my two am-
bassadors over to the main-land, with a regal au-
thority to administer the oaths of allegiance and fide-
lity ^ and have an instrument signed under their hands,
though I never asked whether they had pen, ink, or
paper; when giving each of them a mulket, eight
charges of powder and ball, and provision enough
for eight days, they sailed away with a sair gale, on
a day when the moon was at sull.
. Scarce a fo.'tnight had passed over my head; but,
impatient for their return, I laid me down to ile< p
one morning, when a strange accident happened,
which was ushered in by my man's coming running
-co me, and calling aloud, Master, master,. they at*
.come, they are come. Upon which not dreaming of
any danger, out 1 jumped from my bed, put on"my
-clothes, and hurned through my little grove; when
looking towards the sea, 1 perceived a boat about a
league and a half distant, standing in for the shore,
with the wind sair. I beheld they did not come from
•the side where the land lay on, but from the souther-
most end of the island': So' these being none of the
people we wanted, I ordered Friday to lie still, till
such time as I came down from the mountain, which,
with my ladder, I now ascended, in order to discover
more sully what they were: and now, ivith the help
of my perspective glass, I plainly perceived an Eng-
lish ship, which I concluded itto be, by the sashion of
its long boat; and, which filled me with such uncom-
mon transports of joy, that I cannot tell how to
describe; and yet some secret doubts hung about me,
proceeding from I know not what cause, as though
I had reason to be upon my guard. And', indeed, I
would have no man contemn the secret hints and in-
timations of danger, which'very often are given,
when he may imagine there is no possibility of its-
ybeing rea< \ for, had not I been warned by this silent
admonition, I had been in a worse lunation than be-
fore, and perhaps inevitably ru;ned."
Not long it was, -before! perceived the boat to ap-
proach the shores .as though they looked sor a place
where they might conveniently land; and. at lust
they ran their.boat onshore upon the beach, about h;;lf
a mile's distance ; which proved so much the happier
for me, since, had they come inte the creek, they
jiad landed just at my door, and mighmot only have
forced me out of my castle, but plundered me of all
J had in the world. Nov/ I was sully convinced
they were all Englishmen, three of -which "were un-
armed anu bound; when immediately the first tour
0r five leaped on shore, and took thole three out of
jtheboat as prisoners; one ot' whom J could perceive
0
i&i ike ra,
ton, and
gree, (hew
Natk.no
low, to aft
sight. 0,
«' prism
think they
am much
hut as for
"ever do.
j And no
"ot havin'
aiso that 1
Perceived,
; and save t
$°rng to
i it was to,
Ree: ar
the tide h
cumspect
they sc;i
the other
tlir his ft
'ciUh<
K as 1
*aua]
to one.;
V|uced t
while i l
j ^t,;
used the most passionate gestures of entreaty, -afflic-
tion, and despair, while tke others, in a lefier .de-
gree, shewed abundance of concern.
Not knowingthe meaningof this, I was verv much
astonished, and I beckoned to Friday, who was be-
low,, to ascend the. mountain, and likewise view this .
sight. O majler, said'he to me, you see English mans
eat prisoners as well as Savage mans. And do you
think they will eat them, Friday? said I. 'Yes, said
Friday, they eat a all up. No, no, said I, Friday,'!
am much more concerned lest they murder them;
but as for eating them up, that I am sure they will..
never do. *
And now I not only lamented my misfortune in -
not having the Spaniard and Savage with me, but
also that I could not come within shot of them un-
perceived, (they having no fire arms amfing them)
and save these three men, whom I thought they were
-going to kill'with "their swords. But some comfort
It was to me,, that'I perceived they .were sefat liberty
to go*where they pleased} she rascally 'seamen scat-
te,ing about as though they had a mind.to see the
-place: and so long did they negligently ramble, that
the tide had ebbed so low, as to leave the boat aground.
Nor were the two men that were in her more cir-
cumspect : for having drunk a little too-much liquor,
they sell sast asteep; but one of them wakings before
the other, and perceiving the boat too sast aground
'for his strength to move it, he hallooed out to the
rest, who made all possible expedition to come to him;
but, as Providence ordered it, all their force was in-
effectual to launch her, when I could hear them (peak
to one . another, Why, let her.alone, Jack, can't ye,
she'll stoat next tide: by which words I was sully con-
vinced they were my own. countrymen. All .thrs
while I lay very quiet, as being sully sensible it could
"be no less than ten hours before the. boat would fre
rflo it, and then it would be so dark, as that they
couid not easily' perceive me, by whichmiearrs I
sliould
should be at more liberty to hear their talk, and ob-
serve all their motions: not but that 1 prepared for
my desence: yet as I had now another fort of ene-
mies to combat with, I acted with more caution. I
took two susees on my shoulder, and gave Friday
three muskrts ; besides, my formidable goat-skin coat,
and monstrous cap, made me look as] fierce and ter-
rible as Hercules of old, especially when two pistols
•were stuck in my belt, and my naked sword hanging
"by my side.
It was my design at first not to make any attempt
-till it was dark; but it being now two o'clock, in
the very heat of the day, the tailors were all strag-
gling inio the woods, and undoubtedly were lain
<]OWn to sleep. The three poor distressed creatures,
too anxious to get any sepose, were, however, seated
under the shade of a great tree, about a quarter of
a mile from me. Upon which, without any more
ado, 1 approached towards them, with my man fol-
lowing behind me, and, before I was perceived, I
called aloud to them in Spanish, What are ye, Gen-
tlemen?
At these words, they started up in great consusion,
•^v-hen tney beheld the strange sigure I made; they re-
turned no answer, but seemed as if they would fly
from me: Gentlemen, (said I in Englijh) don't be
afraid, perhaps you have a friend nearer than you expect.
j4e must be from heaven, said one of them, gravely pd-
ling 0ff h*S hat., for we are Pa^ a^ help in this world.
help is from Heaven, said I; but, Sir, as I have
perceived every action betiveen you and these brutes since
K/our landing, only inform me how to ajjtsi you, and I will
Ja it to the utmost os my power.
Am I talking with God or man, said he, in melt-
-ng tears. Are you of human kind, or an angel?
cjir, said I, my poor habit may tell you 1 am c man, and
^n Englishman, willing to assist you, having but this
'Servant only: here are arms and ammunition: tell freely
yeiir condition, can we save you f The story, said he,
™ is
is too long to relate, since our butchers are so near:
but, Sir, I was master of that ship, my men have
mutined, and it is a savour they have put my
mate, this passenger, and me, on shore without mur-
dering us, though Ave expect nothing but perishing
here. Are your enemies gone? said I. No, replied,
he, (pointing to a thicket) there they lie, while my
heart trembles, lest, having seen and heard us, they
should murder us all. Have they fire-arms? said i.
They have but two pieces, said he, one of which
is left in the boat. He also told me, there were two
enormous villains among them, that were the au-
thors of this mutiny, who, if they were killed or
seized, might induce the rest to return to their- o-
bedience. Well, well, said I, let us retire sarther
under the covering of the woods; and there it was I
made these conditions with him:
I. That, while they staid in the island, they should
not pretend to any authority; but should entirely
conform to my orders, and return me the arms
which I should put in their hands.
II. That, if the ship was recovered, they should
.afford Friday and myself our paflage gratis to Eng-
land.
When he had given me all the satissaction I could
defire, I gave him and his two companions each of
them a gun, with powder and hall sufficient, advi-
sing them to fire upon them as they lay fleeping.
The captain modestly said, that he was sorry to kill
them; though, on the other hand, to let these vil-
lains escape, who were the authors of his misery,
might be the ruin of us all. . Well, said he, do as
you think sit: and so accordingly I fired, killing one
of the Captain's chiesest enemies, and wounding the
other, who eagerly called for assistance; but the
Captain (who had reserved his piece) coming up to
him, Sirrah, said he, 'tis too late to call for ajft/lance,
you jhould rather cry to God to pardon your villany: and
so knocked him down with the stock of his gun:
three
-three others were also slightly wounded,' who, at my
•approach, cried out for mercy. This, the Captain
granted, upon condition that they Would swear to be
true to him in recovering the ship, which they
solemnly did ;. however, 1 obliged the Captain to
Jteep thtm bound. After which I sent Friday and
the Captain's mate to secure the boat, and bring away
the oars and sail; when, at their return, three men
-corning back, and seeing their hue distressed Captain,
now their conqueror, submitted to be bound also.
.And then it Waa, that having more liberty, I related
the adventures of my whole lise, which he heard
with a serious and wondersul attention. After this,
I carried him and his two companions into my little
fortified castle', shewed them aft my con leniencies,
and refreshed them with such provisions as I could
asford. When this was over, we began to consider
about regaining the slrip: he said, that there were
twenty-six hands'on board, who, knowing their lives
• were forseited by the law, for conspiracy and mutiny,
were so very hardened, that it would be dangeroirs
for our small company to attack them. This was a
reasonable inserence, indeed; hut something we must
resolve on, and immediately put in execution: we
. therefore heaved the- boat upon the beach so high that
./be could not shoot o/F at high water mark, and
• broke a hole in her net easily to be stopped; so that
all the signals they gave foi the boat to come on board
,were in vain. This obliged them to send another
boat ashore, with ten men armed, whose saces the
,£>ptain plainly descried, the boatfwain being., the
chief officer; but he said there,were three honcst
Jads among; them, who were forced into the con-
spiracy. Hereupon I gave him fresh courage, (for
J had perceived he was in concern) in the mean while
.securing our prisoners, except two,: whom we took
co our assistance, we thought ourselves able enough
adventure a battle. When tne sailors landed, and
„£>ehsid their boat in that? condition, they not only
JiaU •
late.
•hallooed, but fired, for their companions to hear^
yet they received no answer. This struck them with
horror and amazement,- thinking their companions
were murdered, they made as if they would return
to the ship. I could perceive the Captain's counte-
nance change at this^ till, of a sudden three men
were ordered "to look after the boat, while the other
seven leapt on shore, in order to search for their com-
panions: and, indeed, they came to the brow of the
hill, near my antient castle, from whence they could
see to a great distance in the woods, and there shout-
ing and hallooing till tired and weary, they at length
seated themselves under a spreading tree. My opi-
nion was, that nothing could be done till night,
when I might use some artifice to get them all out of
the boat; but, of a suddeni they started up, and
made to the sea side; hereupon I ordered Friday and
the Captain's mate to go over the creek, and halloo
as loud as they could, and so decoying them into
•t'ie woods, come round to me again. And, this, in-
deed, had good effect; for they followed the-noise,
till coming westward to the creek, they called for
their boat to carry them over, and taking one of the
men out of her, left two to look after her, having
sastened her to the stump of a little tree on shore.
Hereupon immediately the Captain and our party
passing the creek, out of their sight, we surprised
them botn, by the Captain's knocking down one,
anil ordering the other to surrender upon pain of
death, and who, being the honestest of them all,
sincerely joined with us. By this time it.was pretty
late; when the rest, returning to their boat, which
they found aground in the creek, the tide out,
and the men gone, they ran about, wringing their
hands, crying it was an inchanted island, and that
they ihou'ld be all murdered by spirits or devils. My
men would willingly have sallen upon them, but I
would not agree to hazard any of our party. But,
io be more certain, Friday and. tlie Captain erawied
upon,
upon their hands and seet, as near as possible; and,
when the boatfwain approached in sight, so eager
•was the Captain, that he fired, and killed him on
the spot; Friday wounded the next man, and a third
ran away. Hereupon I advanced with my whole
army; and, it being dark, I ordered the man we
had surprised in the boat, to call them by their names,
and to parley with them. Accordingly he called
out aloud, Tom- Smith, Tom smith s He answered,
Who's that? Robinson! answered the other, For God's
Jake, Tom, surrender immediately, or you're all dead
nun. Whom ust we surrender to? says Smith. To our
Captain and fifty men here, who have taken me prisoner,
wounded Will Frye, and killed the boatswain, shall
we have quarters then ? said he. Hereupon the Cap-
tain calls out, You, Smithy you know my voice, sur-
render immediately, and you shall all have your lives
granted, except Will Atkjns. Hereupon Atkins cries
out, What have I done, Captain, more than the resl,
ivho have been as bad as me? but that was a lie, for
he was the person that laid hold of him, and bound
him. However, he was ordered to submit to the
governor's mercy, for such was I called, And so,
Jaying down their arms, we bound them all, and
seized on their boat.
After this, the Captain expostulated with them,
telling them, that the governor was an Englishman,
who might execute them there; but he thought they
would be sent to England, except Will Atkins, who
,was ordered to prepare for death, next morning,
hereupon Atkins implored the Captain to intercede
for his lise, and ,the rest begged that they might not
he sent to England. This~answered our project for
seizing the ship. For after sending Atkins, and two
of the worst, fast bound to the cave, .and the rest
heing committed to mv bower, I sent the Captain to
ireat with them in the governor's name, offering thim
jpardon if they would assist in recovering the ship.
Upon which they all promised to stand by him till
the
the last drop of their blood; and whoever acted
treacheroufly, should be hanged in chains upon the
beach. They were all released on these assurances;
and then the Captain repaired the other boat, making;
his passenger Captain of her, and gave him four men
well armed; while himself, his mate, and five more,
went in the other boat. By midnight they came
within call of the ship, when the Captain ordered
Robinson to hail her, and tell them, that with great
difficulty they had found the men at last. But while
, they were discoursing, the Captain, his mate, and
the rest entered, and knocked down the second mate
and carpenter, secured those that were upon the deck,
by putting them under hatches, while the other
boat's crew entered and secured the forecastle; they
then broke into the round-house, where the mate,
after some resistance, shot the pirate Captain through
the head, upon which all the rest yielded themselves
prisoners. And thus the ship being recovered, the
joysul signal was fired, which I heardjwith the great-
est joy imaginable: nor was it long before he brought
the ship to an anchor at the creek's mouth, where
coming to me unawares, Then, says he, my dearest
friend and deliverer, there is your ship, and we are your
servants: a comfort so unspeakable, as made me
swoon in his arms, while, with gratitude to heaven,
we were tenderly embracing each other.
Nothing now remaining, but to consult what we
should do with the prisoners, whom he thought it
was not sase to take on board. Hereupon, concert-
ing with the Captain, I dressed myself in one of his
Ay ts, and sending for them, told them, that as I was
going to leave the island with all my people, if they
would tarry there, their lives should be spared; if
not, they should be handed at the first port they came
at. They agreed to stay. Hereupon I told them
my wi.ole story, charging them to be kind to the
Spaniards that Were expected, gave them all my
arms, and informing them of every thing necessary
for their subsistence, I and my man Friday went on
board. But the next morning two of the men came
swimming to the ship's side, desiring the Captain to
take them on board, though he hanged them after-
vards, complaining mightily how barbarously the
others used them. Upon which I prevailed with
the Captain to take them in; and being severely
whipt and pickled, they proved more honest for the
future. And so I bid sarewell to this island, carry-
ing along with me my money, my parrot, umbrella,
and goat-lkin cap; setting sail December 12, 1686,
after twenty eight years, two months, and nineteen
days residence, that same day and month that I es-
caped from Salee, landing in England, June 11,.
1687, after five and thirty years'abscnce from my
own country, which rendered me altogether a stran-
ger there.
Here I found my first Captain's widow alive, who
had buried a second husband, but in very mean cir-
cumstances, and whom I made mighty easy upon his
account. Soon after I went down to Yorkshire,
where all my samily were expired, except two sisters,
and as many of one of my brother's children. I
found no provision had been made for me, they con-
cluding I had been long since dead; so that I was
bxit in a very slender station. Indeed the Captain
did me a great kindness, by his reports.© the owners,
how I had delivered their ship on the desolate island,
upon which they made me a present of 200I. sterling.
I next went to Lisbon, taking my man Friday with
0ie, and there arriving in April, I met the Portu-
guese Captain, who had taken me on board on the
African coast; but being antient he had left off the
sea, and resigned all his business to his son, who fol-
lowed the Brazil trade. So altered both of us were,
that we did not know each other at first, till I dis-
covered myself more sully to him. After a sew em-
braces, I began to enquire of my concerns; and
then the old gentleman told me, that it was nine
'years
•years since he had been at Brazil, where my partner-
was then living, but my trustees were both dead-r
that he believed.! should have a good account of the
product of my plantation: that the imagination of
my being lost, had obliged my trustees to give an,
estimate of my share to the procurator-siscal, who,
in case of my not returning, had given one third to
the king,,and the rest to the monastry of St. Augus-
tine; but if. 1 put in my claim, .or any one for me,
it would be returned, except the yearly product
which was given to the poor. I then desired him to
tell me what improvement he thought had been made
of my plantation, and whether he imagined it was
worth my while to look after it? he answered, he
.did not know how much it was .improved; but this
he was certain of, that my partner was grown vastly
rich upon his half of it; and that he had been in-
formed, that the.king had 200 moidores per annum
for his thiid part. He added, that the survivors of
rny trustees were persons of an ingenuous character;
that my partner could witness my title, my name
being registered in the country, by which means I
should indispensibly recover considerable sums of
rnoney. But, answered I, how could my trustees
. dispose of my effects, when I made you only my heir?
This, he said, was true; but, there being no affida-
vit made of my death, he could not act as my ex-
ecutor. However, he had ordered his son (then at
Brazil) to act by procuration upon my account, and
he had taken possession of my sugar-house, having
accounted himself for eight years with my partner
and trustees for the prosits, of which he would give
pie a very good account.
And, indeed, this he performed very saithsully, in
a sew days, making himself indebted to me 470 moi-
dores of gold, over and above what had been lost at
sea, after I had left the place. And tiien he re-
counted to me what misfortunes he had gone through^
which forced my money out of his hands, to buy
part
164
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
part in a new ship: but, says he, you Jhall not want,
take this, and when my son returns, every farthing Jhall
be paid you. Upon which he put into my hand a
purse of 150 moidoresin gold, as likewise the instru-
ment, containing the title to the (hip which his son
was in, and which he offered- as security for the re-
mainder. But really when I saw so much goodness,
generosity, tenderness, and real honesty, I had not
the heart to accept it, for sear he should straiten him-
self upon my account. It is true, said he, it may be
Jo; but then the money is yours, not mine, and you may
have the greatejl occasion for it. However, I returned
fifty of them back again, promising, that I would
freely give him the other hundred when I got my ef-
sects in my hands, and, that I designed to go myself
for that purpose. But he told me he could save me
that trouble, and so caused me to enter my name,
with a public notary* as likewise my affidavit, with
a procuration affixed to it; and this he ordered me
to send in a letter to one of his acquaintance, a mer-
chant in Brazil: and, indeed, nothing could be more
saithsully and honourably observed; for, in seven
months time, 1 had a very saithsul account of all my
effects, what sums of money were raised, what ex-
pended, and what remained for my use: In a word,
I found myself to be worth 5000I. sterling, and
i cool, per annum. Nor was this all; for my partner
congratulated me upon my being alive, telling me
how much my plantation was improved, what ne-
groes were at work, and how many Ave Marias he
had said to the Virgin Mary for my preservation,
desiring me to accept kindly some presents he had
ient me, which I found shewed the greatest gener-
osity .
No sooner did the ship arrive, but I rewarded my
saithsul Captain, by returning him the hundred moi-
tJores; and not only forgiving him all he owed me,
J allowed him yearly a hundred more, and fifty to
his son, during their lives. And now being resolved
to
to go to England, I returned letters of thanks to the
Prior of St. Augustine, and in particular to my old
partner, with very suitable presents. By the Cap-
tain's advice, I was persuaded to go by Land to
Calais, and there take passage for England; when,
as it happened, I got a young English gentleman, a
merchant's son at Lisbon, to accompany me, to-
gether with two English, and two Portuguese gen-
tlemen; so that with a Portuguese servant, an Eng-
lish sailor, and my man Friday, there were nine of
us in number.
Thus armed and equipped, we set out, and came
to Madrid, when the summer decaying, we hasted
to Narvare, where we were informed, that there was
scarcely any pasting, by reason of the prodigious
quantity of snow; so that we were obliged to abide
near twenty days at Pampeluna, and at last to take
a guide to conduct us sase towards Tholouse. And
now twelve other gentlemen joining with us, toge-
ther with their servants, we had a very jolly company.
Away our guide led us by the frightsul mountains,
and through so many intricate mazes and windings,
that we insensibly passed them, which, as we travel-
led along, ushered us into the prospect of the fruit-
sul and charming provinces of Languedoc and Gas-
coigne.
But now came on two adventures, both tragical
and comical. First, our guide was encountered by
three wolves and a bear, who set upon him and his
horse, and wounded him in three places; upon which
my man, riding up to his assistance, shot one of them
dead upon the spot, which made the others retire to
the woods. But the pleasantest adventure was, to
behold my man attack the bear. 'Tis such a crea-
ture, that if you let him alone, he will never med-
dle with you : and this my man very well knew, and
so begging leave of me, in broken English, he told
us he would make good laugh. Why, you silly fool,
said I, he'll eat you up at a mouthsul. Eatee me up,
H replied
replied he, by way of scorn, me not only eatee him, hut
snake much good laugh. Upon which, pulling off his
boots, he claps on his pumps, and running after the
monstrous beast, he called out, that he wanted to dis-
course with him; and then throwing stones on pur-
pose to incenle him, the beast turns about in sury,
and with prodigious strides, shuffles after him. But
though he was not swift enough to keep up pace with
Friday, who made up to us as it were for help; yet
being angry, You dog, said I, immediately take horse,
and let us flioot the creature. But he cried, Dear mas-
ter, no shoot, mt make you laugh much. And so he
turned about,, making signs to follow, while the bear
ran after, till coming to a great oak, he ascended in
a minute, leaving his gun at the bottom of it. Nor
d\d the bear make any difficulty of it, but ascended
like a cat, though his weight was very great. You
iriiHl consider I was not a little amazed at the folly of
mv man, as not perceiving any thing to occasion our
laughter, till such time as we rode up nearer, arid
beheld the beast mounted upon the oak, on the be-
ginning of the same branch, to which Fiidav clung
at the sarther end, where the bear durst not come,
thereupon Friday cried out. Now majler, me make
tnuch laugh, me make de hear dance. Upon which he
fell a lhaking the bough, which made the creature
look behind him, to see how he could retreat. Then,
as if the bear had understood his stammering English;
jyhy you no come farther, Mr. Bear? said he, pray
Jidr. Bear, come farther: and then indeed we all burst
into laughter, especially when we perceived Friday
drop like a squirrel upon the ground, leaving the
foeast to. make the best of his way down the tree.
And now thinking it the most convenient time to
fkoot the creature, Friday cried out, 0 dear majler,
shoot, me stoot by and by; when taking up the gun,
J[4e no Jbact yet, said he, me make once more much laugh.
.And, accordingly, he was as good as his word; for
the creature descending backwards from the tree very
leisurely,
leisurely, before he could lay one soot on the ground,
Friday shot him through the ear, stone dead: and
looking to see whether we were pleased, he burst out
into hearty laughter, saying, So we kill de bear in my
country, not with the gun, but with much long arrows.
Thus ended pur diversion, to our great satissaction;
especially in a place where the terrible howlings
struck us with a continual terror. But the snows
now growing very deep, particularly on the moun-
tains, the ravenous creatures were obliged to seek
for sustenance in the villages, where coming by sur-
prize on the country people, they killed several of
them, besides a great number of their sheep and
horses.
Our guide told us, we had yet one more danger-'
ous place to pass by; and if their were any more
wolves in the country, there we should find them.
This was a small p'ain, encompassed with woods, to'
get through a long lane, to the village where we were
to lodge. When we entered the wood, the sun was
within half an hour of setting; and a little after it
was set, we came into the.plain, which was not above
two surlongs over, and then we perceived five great
wolves cross the road, without taking notice of us,
and so swift as though they were pursuing aster their
prey. Hereupon our guide, believing there were'
more coming, defired us to be upon our guard. Ac-
cordingly our eyes were very circumspect, till about
half a league sarther, we perceived a dead horse, and
near a dozen of wolves devouring its carcase. My
man Friday sain would have fired at them, but I
would not permit him; nor had we gone half over
the plain, but we heard dreadsul howlings in a wood
on bur left, when presently we saw an hundred come
up against us, as though they had been an ex-
perienced army. This obliged us to form ourselves
in the best manner; and then I ordered that every
other man should sire, that those who did not, might
be ready to give a second volley, sh6uld they advance
H 2 upon
upon us; and then every man should make use o£
his pistols. B',l there was no necessity for this; for
the enemy beinc terrified, stopped at the noise of the
fire; four of them were shot dead, and several others
being wounded, went bleeding away, as we could
very plainly discover by the snow. And now re-
membering what had been otten told me, that such
vvas the majesty of a man's voice, as to strike terror
even in the fiercest creatures, I ordered all our com-
panions to halloo as loud as possible; and in this no-
tion J was not altogether mistaken; for they imme-
diately turned about upon the first halloo,: nd began
to retire; upon which, ordenng a second volley in
their rear, they galloped into the woods with great
precipitation.
Thus we had some small time to load our pieces
tgain, and then made all the haste we could on our
ray ; but we had not rode sar, before we were obliged
fco Put ourselves in a posture of desence as before,
faeing alarmed with a very dreadsul noise in the same
^vood, on our left hand, the fame way as we were to
only that it was at some distance from us. By
£his time the darksome clouds began to spread over
the elements, and the night growing very dusky,
yiiade it so much the more to our disadvantage; but
the noise increasing, we were sully assured, that
-t .vvas the howling and yelling of those ravenous
creaturts; when presently three troops of wolves, on
ur front, appealed to our sight, as though a great
urnber of them had a design to surround us and de-
vour us in spite of sate. But as they did not sall
Vpon us immediately, we procee'ded.on our journey
,i, as swift a manner as the loads would permit our -
* orses, which was only a large trot. It was in this
*Lanner we travelled, till luch time as we discovered
*V»0ther wood, and had the prospect of its entrance
*Yi rough which we were to pass, at the sarthest side of
\fae plain. But surely none can express the terror
^e were in, v/hen, approaching the lane, we per-
ceived
•ceived a consused number of the fiercest wolves,
standing, and, as it were, gu?id..t r its entrance.
Nor were we long in this amazement, before another
occasion of horror presented itfelf; for suddenly we
heard the report of a gun at another opening into
the wood, and, looking that way, out ran a horse
bridled and saddled, flying with the greatest swift-
ness, and no less than sixteen or seventeen wolves
pursuing after him, in order to devour the poor crea-
ture: and unquestionably they did so, after they had
run him down, not being able to holdout that swift-
.ness with which he at first eseaped them.
When we rode up to that entrance from whence
.the horse came forth, there lay the carcases of ano-
ther horse and two men, mangled and torn by these
devouring wolves: and undoubtedly one of these
men was the person who fired the gun which we had
heard, for the piece lay by him; but, alas! most of
.the upper part of -his body and his head were en-
tombed in the bowels of these ravenous creatures. -
What course to take, whether to proceed or re-
treat, we could not tell; but it was not long before
the wolves themselves made us come to a resolution:
for such numbers surrounded us, every one of whom
expected their prey, that, were, our bodies to be di-
vided among them, there would not be half a mouth-
ful apiece. But happy, very happy it was for us,
that but a little way from the entrance, there lay
some very large timber trees, which I supposed had
been cut down and laid there for sale; amongst which
I drew my little troop, placing ourselves in a line
behind one long, tree, which served ,us for a breast-
work, when. desiring them to alight, we stood in a
triangle, or three fronts, inclosing our horses in the
centre, the only place where we could preserve them.
Never certainly was there a more surious charge
than what the'wolves made upon us in this placu;
and the sight of the horses, which was the principal
prey they aimed at, provoked their hunger, and ad-
H 3. ' ded
dcd to their natural fierceness. They came on us.
with a most dreadsul noise, that made the woods
ring again; and beginning to mount the pieces of
timber, I ordered every other man to fire as before
directed: and, indeed, so well did they take their
aim, that they killed several os the wolves at the first
volley; but still we were obliged to keep a continual
firing, by reason they came on like devils, pushing
one another with the greatest sury. But our second
volley something abated their courage, when, stop-
ping a little, we hoped they would have made the
best of their way; however, it did not prove so, for
others made a new atiempt upon us; and though in
four firings we killed seventeen or eighteen of them,.
Janiing twice as many, yet they several times suc-
cessively came on, as though they valued not their
lives for the sake of their prey.
Unwilling was I to spend our last shot too sudden-
ly, and therefore called my other servant, and giv-
ing him a horn of powder, bid him lay a large train,
quite along the limber, which he did, .while Friday
waS charging my susee and his own, with the greatest
dexterity. By rhis time the wolves coming up the
timber, I set fire to the train, by snapping a dis-
charged pistol close on the powder. This so scorch-
ed and terrified them, that some sell down,'and others
lumped in among us; but these we immediately dil-
patched, when all the rest, frighted with the light,
which the darksome night caused to appear more
dreadsul, began at length to retire; upon which,
ordering our last pistols to be fired at once, giving
?t the same time a great shout, the wolves were
t,bligtd to have recourse to their swiftness, and turn
tuil; and then we sallied out upon twenty lame ones,,
cutting them in pieces witn our swords, which
obliged them to howl lamentably, to the terror of
th<-'ir sellows, who resigned to us the field as vic-
torious conquerors. And, indeed, I qui:stion.whe-
ther Alexander king of Macedonia, in any ot his
conquests,
conquests, had more occasion for triumph than we
had; for he was but attacked by numerous armies
of soldiers; whereas our littte army was obliged to
combat a legion of devils, as it were, worse than
the cannibals, who, the same moment had they slain
us, would have sacrificed us, to satisfy their vora-
cious appetites.
Thus ended our bloody battle with the beasts, hav-
ing killed threescore of them, and saved our lives
from their sury. We still had a league sarther to go,
when, as we went, our ears were saluted with their
most unwelcome howlings, and we expected every
•moment another attack. But, in an hour's time,
we arrived at the town where we were to lodge; and
here we found the place strictly guarded, and all in
terrible consusion, as well they might, for sear of
the bears and wolves breaking into the village,- in
order to prey upon their cattle and people. The
next morning we were obliged to take a new guide,
by reason the other sell very bad of his wounds,
.which he had received, as before-mentioned. After
we had reached Tholouse, we came into a warm, plea-
sant, and fruitsul country, not insested with wolves,
nor any fort of ravenous creatures; and when we
told our story there, they much blamed our guide,
for conducting us through the forest at the foot of
the mountains, in such a severe season, when the
snow obliged the wolves to seek for shelter in the
woods. When we informed them in what manner
we placed ourselves, and the horses in the centre,
they exceedingly reprehended us, and told us, it was
an hundred to one, but we had all been destroyed;
for that it was the very sight of the horses, their so
much defired prey, that made the wolves more rag-
ingly surious than they would have been, which was
evident, by their being at other times really afraid of
.a gun; but then being exceeding hungry and su-
rious, upon that account, their eagerness to come
at the horses made them insensible of their danger;
H 4 and
and that, if we had not, by a continual fire, and
at last by the cunning stratagem of the train of pow-
der, got the better of them, it had been great odds
if their number had not overpowered us; besides, it
was a.great mercy we alighted from our horses, and
fought them with that courage and conduct, which,
had we sailed to do, every man. of us, with our
beasts, had been devoured; and indeed, this was no-
thing but truth : for never, in my lise, was I so sen-
sible of danger, as when three hundred devils came
roaring upon us, to shun whose unwelcome com-
pany, if I was lure to meet a storm every vveek, I
would ruher go a thousand leagues by sea.
I think I have nothing uncommon in my passage
through -France to take notice of, since other travel-
lers of greater learning and ingenuity, have given a
more ample account than my pen is able to set forth.
JTrom Tholouse I travelled to Paris, from thence to
(Calais, where I took shipping, and landed at Dover
jfh*5 14.th.of January, in a very cold season.
Thus come to the end of my travels, I soon dis—
covered my new found estate, and all the bills of ex-
change I had brought were currently paid. The
good ancient widow, my only privy counsellor,
t bought nopains, nor care too great to procure my ad-
V3.ntage; nor had I ever occasion toblame her sidelity,
^bich drew from me an ample reward. I was for
jeaving my essects in her hands, intending to set out
f0x Lisbon, and so to the Brazils ; but as in the Deso-
late Ifaxd.l had some doubts about the Romish re-
yiZ\on, so I knew there was little encouragement to
.settle there, unless I would apostatize from the ortho-
ioX saith, or live in continual sear of the Inquisi-
tion, Upon this account, I resolved to sell my plan-
* £ion; and, for that intent, I wrote to my old
5. send at Lisbon, who returned me an answer to my
reat satissaction; which was, that he could sell it
& good account: however, if I thought it con-
^-riient to give him liberty to offer it in my .name to
* the
.the two merchants, the survivors of my trustees, re-
siding at the Brazils, who consequently understood
its intrinsic value, having lived just upon the spot,
and who I was sensible were very rich, and, there-
fore, might be the more willing to purchase it 5 he
did not in the least doubt, but that I should make
four or five thousand pieces of eight more of it, than
I could do, if I disposed of it in any other manner
whatfoever.
You may be sure I could not but agree with this
kind and ingenuous proposal; and immediately I
sent him an order to offer it to them, which he ac-
cordingly did; so that, about eight months after,
the (hip being in that time returned, he~gave me a
. satissactory account, that they not only willingly ac-
cepted the. offer, but that they had also remitted
33,000 pieces of- eight to a correspondent of their
own at Lisbon,' in order to pay for the purchase.
Hereupon, in return," I signed the instrument of
sale according to.form^ which they had sent from
Lisbon, and returned it again to my old friend, he
having sent me, for my estate, bills of three hundred
twenty-eight thousand pieces of eight, reserving the
payment of one hundred moidores jto- annum, which
I had allowed him during lise, likewise fifty to his
son during lise also, according to my saithsul pro-
mise, which the plantation was to make good as a
rent-charge-
And thus having led my reader to the knowledge
.of the first parts of my lise, so remarkable for the ma-
ny peculiar providences that attended it, floating in
an ocean of uncertainty and disappointment, of ad-
versity and prosperity, beginning foolishly, and yet
ending happily; methinks, now that I am come to
a sase and pleasant haven, it is time to cast out my
.anchor, and,-laying up my vessel, bid, fora while,
, adieu to foreign adventures. I had no other con-
cerns to look after,-but the care of my brother's two
^sort's, which,-with- the good widows persuasions,
Ji?$: ..otitigei.'
obliged me to continue at home seven years'. One-
os these children I bred up a gentleman, and the
other an experienced sailor, remarkable for his cou-
rage and bravery. Besides-this, I married a virtuous
young gentlewoman, of a very good family, by
whom 1 had. two sons and one daughter. But my
dear and tender wise leaving this earthly stage, (as
in the second part of my lise you will hear) which
rent my soul as it were asunder, my native country
became weary and tiresome to me: and my nephew
happening to come from the sea, tempted me to ven-
ture another voyage to the East-Indies, which I did
in the year 1694, at which time I visited my island,
and intormed myself of every thing that ha.ppenGd
since my departure.
One might reasonably imagifie, that what I had
suffered, together with ,an advanced age, and the sear
of losing, not only what I had gotten, but my life
also, might have choaked up all the.seeds of youth-
ful ambition and curiosity, and put a lasting period
t<? my wandering inclinations. But as .nothing but
death can sully allay the active part of my lise, no.
Jess remarkable for the many various contingencies
of it; you will, next perceive how I visited my little
Jcingdom, .saw my successors the Spaniards, had an
account of the usage they met with from the English-
rnen,. agreeing and disagreeing, uniting and separa-
ting, till at last they were subjected to the Spaniards,
;wrho yet used them very honourably, together with
the wondersul and successsul battles over the Inr
dians, who invaded, and thought to have conquered
the island, but were repelled by their invinciblecou-
,-age and bravery, having taken eleven men and five
women prisoners, by which, at my return, I found
about 20 young children on.my little kingdom. Here
I staid twenty days, left them supplies of all necef-
Ja'ry things, as also a.,carpenter and smith, ami shared
the island into parts, reserving the whole property to
myselt. Nor will y.ou.,be. insensible,, by the account
of
of these things, of several new adventures I have
been engaged in, the battles I have fought, the de-
liverances 1 have met with: and while, in the sur-
prising relation of such remarkable occurrences, I
shall desqribe many of God's kindest providences to
me in particular, no less conspicuous in the same
goodness, power, and majesty of our great Creator,
shewn, one way or other, over the sace of the earth,
if duly adverted to.
]
"tent,
/rat
?J times
such
ion. M
font tl
2°tr<*
and
ter
V, si
***** * ********* * J»,
The further Adventures of Robinson Crusoe, wherein
are contained severalstrange andsurprizing accounts of
his travels, and the most remarkable transactions both
by sea and land; with his wonderful vision of the
Angelic World.
WHEN we consider the puissant force of Na-
ture, and what mighty influence it has ma-
ny times over the temper of the mind, it will be no
such great wonder to think, that my powersul rea-
son should be overcome by a much stronger inclina-
tion. My late acquired kingdom ran continually in
my thoughts all the day, and I dreamed of it in the
night; nay, 1 made it the continual subject of my
• talk, even to impertinence, when I was awake, s
had such vapours in my head, that I actually sup-
fosed myself at my castle; that I not only perceived
riday's sather, but the old Spaniard, and the wick-
ed sailors, but that I talked and discoursed with them
about their manner*-of living: that I heard these
•things related to me, which I found afterwards to be
too true; and that I executed my judgments with
,the greatest severity upon the offenders. And, in-
deed, this anticipating all the pleasing joys of my
•lise, scarcely afforded me one pleasant hour : my dear
and tender wise could, not but take notice of it,
which drew these affectionate speeches from her: My
. dear, said she, / am really persuaded that some secret
- impulse from heaven occasions in you a determination to fee
the island again; nor am I less sensible, but your being
engaged to me-, and these dear children, is the only hinder-* -\
ance of your departure. J know, my dear, if J was in
..thegraves you would not long continue at home; prevent
. mi your~ .happiness upon my. accounty. whose wJy ^comfort
'iseuttrs
centers in you. All that I can objecl is, that such an
hazardous undertaking is no way consistent with a person
your years; but if you are resolved to go, added she,
weeping, only permit me to bear you company, and that
. is oil that I desire.
Such endearing tenderness, graced with the most
innocent, and yet most powersul charms, brought
me insensibly into my right understanding; and when
J considered all the transactions of my lise, and par-
ticularly my new engagement; that I had now one
child already born, and my wise big of another; and
.that I had no occasion to seek for more riches, who
already was blessed with sufficiency, with much
•struggling 1 altered my resolutions at last, resolving
-to apply myself to some business or other, which
'.rnight put a period to such wandering inclinations.
.Hereupon I bought a little sarm in the county of
Bedford, with a resolution to move thither: upon
this there was a pretty convenient house, surrounded
•with land, very capable of improvement, which
suited my temper as to planting, managing and cul-
tivating. Nor was I long before I entered upon my
.new settlement, having bought ploughs, harrows,
,carts, waggons, horses, cows, and sheep: so that
X now led the lise as-a country gentleman, and as
happy in my retirement as the greatest monarch in
the world. And what made me think my happiness
the greater was, that I was in that' middle slate os life;
which my sather had so often recommended, much
. resembling the selicity of a rural retirement, which
is elegantly described, by the .poet in these lines:
Free from all vices, ft:ee from ciire%
Age has no pain, and youth no snare ~
But, in the midstof this my happiness, X was sud-
denly plunged in the greatest sorrow• that I could
possibly endure; for when I least expected it, my
.' Jear and tender wise was forced to submit to the ir-
..refisti.ble power .of death, leaving this transitory lise
, .for-
'for a better. It is impossible for me to express the
beauties of her mind, or the loveliness of her persons
neither can I too much lament her loss, which my
• latest breath sball record;. her influence was greater
over me, than the powers of my own reason, the im-
portunities of friends, the instructions of a sather,
or the melting tears of a tender and disconsolate mo-
ther; in a word, she was the spirit of all my asfairs,
and the center of m,y enterprizes. But now, since
the cruel hand.of death had closed'my dearest's eyes,
I seemed in my thoughts a stranger to the world; ray
privy counsellor being gone, I was like a.ship with-
out a pilot, that could only run before the wind.
And when I looked around me in this busy world,
one part labouring for bread, and the other squan-
dering away their estates; this put me in mind how
I had lived in my little kingdom, where both reason
and religion dictated to-me, that-there was something
that certainly was .the reason and end of lise, which
.was sar superior to what could be hoped for on this
side the grave. My.country delights were now as
insipid and,dull, as music or science to those who
have neither taste nor ingenuity. In short, resolving ,
to leave oft" house-keeping, I left my sarm, and, in
-a sew months, returned to London.
But neither could that great city, so samous for
'its variety of entertainment, asford me any agreeable
delight; a state of idleness I found to be the very
•dregs of lise, and most hurtsul to body and foul. It
was now the beginning of the year 1694, at which
time my nephew (who, as I before observed, had
been brought up to the sea, and advanced to be cap-
.tain of a ship) was returned from a short voyage to
Bilboa, the first he-had made in that station. He
comes to me one morning, telling me, that some
-merchants of his acquaintance had proposed to him
• to go a voyagerfor them, to the East Indies and
China, in 'the manner of private traders: and now5
-wictfe.,. laid he^ifym'Jl accompany-me thither, III engage
to land you upon your old i/land, to visit the Jiate of your
little kingdom.
Just before he came in, my thoughts were fixed to
get a patent for its possession, and then to fill it with
inhabitants. After I had paused a littlewhile, and
looked stedsastly on him, TVhat devil, or spirit, said I,
sent you with this unlucky errand? He started at sirst;
but recovering himself, when he perceived I was not
offended ; Sir, replied he, what I have proposed can-
not, I hope, be styled unlucky, since certainly you
must be desirous to see your little territory, where
you reigned with more content than any of your bro-
. tber kings in the universe. Nephew, said I, if you
.will leave me there, and call for me as you come
. back, I care not if I give my consent; but he an-
swered, that the merchants would not allow their
vessel, loaden with an infinite value, to return there
again, which was a month's sail out of the way;
"besides, Sir, said he, if I should miscarry, was your
request granted, why then you would be locked up
as before. This, indeed, carried a great deal of rea-
son in it; but we found out a remedy, and that was
to carry a framed sloop on board, ready to be set up
." in the island, by the assistance os some carpenters,
zwiiich we should carry with us, that might be fitted
. in a sew days to go to sea. I was not long in form-
ing my resolution, which over-swayed my good
friend the-widow's persuasions, and the natural af-
fection f bore to my young children. I made my
^vill, and settled, my estate in such a manner, that:I
Y^as persectly sure that my. poor insants would have
justice done them. The good widow not only un-
• ^ei't00^ to .make provision for my voyage, but also
took the charge of my domestic affairs, and to pro-
vide for my children's education ; and indeed no mo-
ther could take more care, or understood that office
better; for which I lived to reward, and return her
^*ny hearty thanks.
.Xhe beginning of- January,..1,604-5, my nephew
.beirtg
being ready to sail, I and Friday went on board io
the Downs on the 8th, having, beside that stoop al-
ready mentioned, a very considerable cargo for my
new colony. Firfi, I had some servants, whom I
proposed to leave there as inhabitants, or to work
while I staid there, as they should appear willing;
there were two carpenters, a smith, and a very in-
genious sellow who was Jack of all trades; for he
was not only a cooper by trade, but also he was dex-
terous at making wheels and hand-mills to grind
corn, likewise a good turner, and a good pot-maker.
I also carried a tailor, who consented to stay in my
plantation, and proved a most necessary sellow in the
island. As to my cargo, it consisted of a sufficient
quantity of linen, and English stuffs, for clothing
the Spaniards that I expected to find there; as like-
wise gloves, hats, shoes, stockings; together with
beds, bedding, and household stuff, especially kitchen
utensils, with pots, kettles, pewter, brass, &c. also
nails, tools of all sorts, staples, hooks, hinges, and
all other things necessary; all which, I think, cost
me about three hundred pounds. Nor was this all;
for I carried an hundred spare arms, mufleets, and
susees, besides some pistols, a considerable quantity
of several sorts of shot, two brass cannon, besides
swords, cutlasses, and the iron part of some pikes
and halberts. I made my nephew take with us two
small quarter deck guns, more than he had occasion
for in his ship, to ieave behind, if there was a ne-
cessity; so we might build a fort there, and man it
against all opposers whatsoever.
Well, we put out to sea4 and though I can't say
this voyage was so unprosperous as my others had
been, yet contrary winds drove us so sar northward,
that we were obliged to put in at Galway in Ire-
land, where we lay wind bound two and twenty
days. Here indeed our provisions were very cheap,
and we added to our ship's stores, by taking in se-
veral live hogs, two cows and calves, which I then
resolved
resolved to put on shore in my island, if our neces-
sities did not call for them. , On the 5th of February
we sailed from Ireland, with a very sair gale, which
lasted for some days; and I think it was about the
20th of the same month, late in the evening, when
the mate informed us that he saw a flash of fire, and
heard a gun fired: and when he was speaking, a boy
came in, and told us, that the boatfwain had heard
another. Upon which we all ran to the quarter-deck,
from whence in a sew' moments we perceived a ter-
rible fire at a distance. We had immediately re-
course to our reckonings, in which we were all of
opinion, that there^could be no land that "way, it ap-
pearing to be at N. N. W. Hereupon we conclud-
ed that some ship had taken fire at sea, and that it
could not be sar off, by the report of the guns which
we had heard. We made up directly to it, and in
half an hour's time, the wind being sair, we could
plainly perceive a great ship on fire in the middle of the
sea. Touched with this unhappy disaster, and con-
sidering my former circumstances, when the Portu-
guese Captain took -me up, I immediately ordered
live guns to be fired, that the poor creatures, not
seeing us, it being dark, (though we eould perceive
their flame) might be sensible there was deliverance
at hand, and consequently might endeavour to save
themselves in their boat. Nor was it long before
the ship blew up in the air, and the fire was extin
guished in the ocean. But supposing them all to be
in their boats, we hung out our lanterns, and kept
siring till eight o'clock in the morning; when, with
our perspectives, we beheld two boats, sull of peo-
ple, making towards us, though the tide was against
them: then spreading out .our antient, and hanging
out a waft, as a signal for them ta come on board,
in half an hour's time, we came up to them, and
took them all in^ there being no less than sixty four
men, women^ and children. It was a French mer-
chant ship of 300 tons, homeward-bound from Que-
bec,
bee, in the river of Canada. The master informed'
me how, by the riegligence of the steersman, the
steerage was set on fire: that, at his out-cry for
help, the fire was, as they thought, totally extin-
guished; but, that some sparks getting between the
timber, and within the ceiling, it proceeded into the
hold, where there was no resisting it: that then they
got into their boats, as creatures in the last extre-
mity, with what provision they had, together with
oars, sails, and a compass, intending to go back to
Newfoundland, the wind blowing at S. E. and by
E. though there were several chances against them,
as storms to overset and founder them, rains and
colds to benumb.and, perish their limbs, and contrary
winds to keep them back and starve them; but, said
he, in this our great distress, we heard the welcome
report of your guns, when, with unspeakable joy,
taking down our masts and sails, we were resolved to
lie by till morning: but perceiving your light, we
set our oars at work to keep our boat a-head, the
sooner to attain your ship, the happy instrument of
our deliverance. .
Indeed, no one can express the joy of these poor
creatures on this occasion; sear and grief are easily
set forth; sighs and tears, with a sew motions of the
hands and head, are all the demonstrations of these
passions; but an excess of joy, carries in it a thou-
sand extravagancies; especially, -I think, amongst
the French, whose temper is allowed-to be more vo-
latile, passionate, sprightly and gay, than that of
other nations. Some were weeping, .tearing them-
selves in the greatest agonies of sorrow^ and.j'unning
stark mad about the ship, while the rest, were stamp-
ing with their seet, wringing t'.ieir hands, singing,
laughing, swooning away, vomiting, sainting, with
a sew returning.hearty thanks to the Almighty, and
crossing themselves. I think, if I am not mistaken,
our surgeon was obliged to let thirty of them blood.
But among the passengers, there were two priests,.
the
the one an old, and the other a young man; but
what amazed me more was, that the oldest was in
the worst plight; for no sooner did he perceive him-
self freed from danger, but he dropt down, as it were
without lise, and, to every one's appearance, quite
dead; but the surgeon, chafing and rubbing his arm,
opened a vein, which at first dropped, and then flow-
ing more freely, the old man began to open his eyes,
and in a quarter of an hour was well again. But
soon remembering his happy change, the joy of which
whirled his blood about saster than the vessels could
convey it, he became so severish, as made him more
fit for bedlam than any other place; but the sur-
geon giving him a sleepy dose,. he was persectly com-
posed the next morning.
Remarkable, indeed, was the behaviour of the
young priest. At his entrance on board the ship, he
fell on his sace in the most humble prostration to the
Almighty. I thought, indeed,, he had sallen into a
swoon, and so ran to help him up; but he modestly
told me, he was returning his thanks tothe Almighty,
defiring me to leave him a sew moments, and that,
next to his Creator, he would return me thanks also.
And, indeed, he did so, about three minutes after,
with great seriousness and affection, while the tears'
flood in his eyes, which convinced me of the grati-
.tude of his soul. Nor did he less shew his piety and
,wisdom, in applying himself to his country people,
and labouring to compose them, by the most power-
ful reasons, arguments, and persuasions. And when,
,indeed, these people had taken their night's repose,
in such lod: ings as our ship would allow, we found
nothing but the best of manners, and the most civil
acknowledgments, for which the French are eminent-
ly remarkable. The next day the Captain and one
of the priests defired to speak with me, and my
nephew the commander. They told us, that they
had saved some money and valuable things out of
the ruined vessel, which was at our service: only
that they desired to be set on shore some where in our
way. At the first, my nephew was for accepting the
money; but I (who knew how hard my case would
have been, had the Portuguese Captain served me so)
persuaded him to the contrary; and therefore told
them, that as we had done nothing but what we
were obliged to do, by nature and humanity, and
what we ourselves might expect from others in such
calamity; so we took; them up to save them, not to
plunder them, or leave them naked upon the land,
to perish for want of subsistence, and therefore would
not accept their money: but as to landing them,
that was a great difficulty; for, being bound to the
. East-Indies, it was impossible wilsully to change our
voyage upon their particular account, nor could my
nephew (who was under charter-party to pursue it
by way of Brazil) answer it to the freighters. All
that we could do, was to put ourselves in the way of
meeting fomt ships homeward bound from the West
Indies, that, if possible, they might get a passage to
J'ranee or England. Indeed, they were very thank-
ful for our first kindness; but were under great con-
cern, especially the passengers, at their being carried
to the East-Indies. They begged, therefore, I would
keep on the banks of Newtoundland, where, pro-
bably, they might meet with some lhip or sloop to
carry them to Canada, whence they came. As this
was but a reasonable request, I was inclined to grant
it, since it was no breach of charter-party, and that
the laws of God and nature obliged us to do what
good we could to our sellow.creatures; and besides,
the danger we ourselves (hould be in for want of
provisions: so we consented to carry them to New-
foundland, if wind and weather would permit; if not,
that we should carry them to Martinico in the West
Indies. But as it happened, in a week's time, we
made the banks of Newfoundland, where the French
people hired a bark to carry them to France. But
the young priest being defirous to go to the East-Indies,
J
i86
OF
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
I readily agreed to it, because I liked his conversa-
tion, and two or three of the French sailors also en-
tered themselves on board our ship.
Now, directing our course for the West-Indies,
steering S. and S. by E. about twenty days, with
little wind, another adventure happened, to exercise
our humanity. In the latitude of 27 degrees 5
rr.inutes north, the 19th of March 1694-5, we per-
ceived a sail, (our course S. E. and by S.) which
boie up to us, and then she appeared to be a large
vessel, having lost her main top-mast, fore-mast, and
bolt sprit; when siring a gun, as a signal of distress,
,wind N. N. W. we soon came to speak with her.
She was a ship from Bristol, bound home, from Bar-
b.Woes, out of which road she had been forced by a
hurricane to the westward, in which they lost their
masts.
They told us, their expectations were to see the
Bahama islands, but were driven away by a strong
wind at N. N. W. and having no sails to work the
ship with, but the main course, and a kind of square
siil upon a jury fore-mast, because they could not
come near the land, were endeavouring to stand for
the Canaries; nay, what was worse, besides all their
satigue, they were almost starved for want of pro-
vision, having ate nothing sor eleven days; all that
they had aboard was sugar, a barrel of fresh water,
and seven casks of rum. In this ship were three pas-
sengers, a youth, his mother, and a maid servant,
who were in a most deplorable condition for want of
food.^. If I had not gone on board their ship, the
knowledge of their misery had been concealed from
me, and they would have inevitably perished, though,
indeed, their second mate (who was Captain, by rea-
son the true Captain was not on board when the hur-
ricane happened) had before informed me that there
were such persons on board, whom he supposed to
be dead, being afraid to enquire after them, because
he had nothing to give them for relief. Hereupon
we
we resolved to let them have what we could spare,,
ordering the mate to bring some of his men on board
us, which he did accordingly; as he and they looked
like skeletons, when meat was set before them, I or-
dered them to eat sparingly. JJut, however,-they
soon sell sick; which obliged the surgeon to mix
something in their broth, which was to be to them
both food and physic. When they were sed, we or-
dered our mate to carry them a sack of bread, ani
four or five pieces of beef; but the surgeon charged
them to see it boiled, and to keep a guard on the
cook-room, to prevent the men from eating it raw,
and consequently killing themselves with what was
designed for their relief. But, particularly, I de-
sired the mate to see what condition the poor paf-
lengers were in, and the surgeon gave him a pitcher
of the same broth which he had prepared for the men.
And being curious to see this scene of misery myself,
1 took the Captain (as we called the mate of the
ship) in our own boat, and sailed aster them..
Here was a sad sight indeed ! scarce were the vic-
tuals half boiled in the pot, but they were ready to
break open the cook-room door. To stay their sto-
machs, the mate gave them biscuits, which were
dipped in, and softened with the liquor of the meat,
which they call Breuise-, telling them, it was for
their own sasety, that he was obliged to give them
but a little at a time: and so seeding them gradually,
their bellies were comfortably filled, and the men
did very well again. But when they came to the poor
gentlewoman in the cabin, who, for several days,
had continued without food, giving what she had to
her son, thty found her as it wi re in the arms of
death.. She was sitting upott.the floor of the deck,
with her back up against the sides, between two
chairs, which were lashed sast, and her head shrunk
between her shoulders, like a senseless corpse. No-
thing was wanting in my mate to revive and en-
courage her; ©pening her lips, and putting some
broth
broth into her mouth with a spoon. But not hav-
ing strength to speak, she lifted up her head with
much difficulty, intimating that it was now too
late! at the lame time pointing to the youth her
son, as though she desired him to do what he could
lo (ave the lad; and, in a little time after, she died.
'I he youth, indeed, was not so sar gone, yet lay
stretched out in a cabin bed, like one that had scarce
any lise. In his mouth was a piece of an old glove,
the rest of which he had ate up. At first he vomited
what the mate had given him; but at length began
sensibly to revive, though in the greatest concern for
the death of his tender mother.
As to the poor maid, she lay by her mistress, like
one in the last pangs of death: her limbs were dis-
torted, one of her hands was clasped round the frame
of a chair, which she griped so hard, that it was
with some difficulty we separated her from it; her
other arm lay over her head, and her seet lay both
together, set sast against the frame of the cabin table:
not only being starved with hunger, but overcome
with grief for the loss of her mistress, whom she loved
most tenderly. It was a great while before the sur-
geon could bring her to lise, and a much longer time
before she came to her senses.
After we had sailed with them some days, we sent
them five barrels of beef, one of pork, two hogs-
heads of biscuit, with pease, flour, and other things,
taking three casks of sugar, some rum, and- some
pieces of eight for satissaction, we left them, but took
the youth .and maid with us, with all their goods.
The lad was about seventeen years old, very hand-
some, modest, sensible, and well bred, but mightily
concerned for the soss of his honoured mother, hav-
ing lost his sather at Barbadoes but a sew months be-
fore. He besceched the surgeon to intercede with
me to take him out of the ship; for that the sailors,
not sparing a small sustenance, had starved his mo-
ther. But hunger has no bounds, no right, and
con-
consequently is incapable of any compassion. Whcri
the surgeon told him, that our voyage might put him
in bad circumstances, and sarther from his friends,
he answered, he did not care, so he was delivered
from that terrible crew: that as the Captain (mean-
ing me) had saved him from death, so he was sure
he would do him no harm; and as for the maid,
when she was restored to her senses, she would be no
kss thanksul, let us carry them where we would.
And, indeed, the surgeon so represented their case
to me, that I contented, and took them on board,
•with all their goods, except eleven hogsheads of su-
gar; but the youth having a bill of lading, I made
the commander oblige himself to deliver a letter and
the deceased widow's goods to Mr. Rogers, a mer-
chant in Bristol; but I believe the ship was lost at
sea, for we could never hear what became of her af-
terwards, f We were now in the latitude of 19 deg.
32. min. having as yet a tolerable good voyage. But
passing by several little incidents relating to wind and
weather, I shall relate what is most remarkable con-
cerning my little kingdom, to which I was then
drawing near. I had great difficulty in finding it;
for as I came to, and went from it before, on the
south and east side of the island, as coming from the
Brazils; so riow approaching between the main and
the island; not having any chart for the coast, nor
land-mark, it obliged us to go on shore several islands
on the mouth of the river Oroonoko, but to no pur-
pose. This I perceived, that what I thought was a
continent before, was no such thing, but a long
island, or rather a ridge of sands. On one of these
islands I found some Spaniards, but they belonged
to the Isle de Trinidad, who came hither in a sloop
to make salt, and to try to find some pearl muscles.
But, at length, I came sair on the south side of my
islr.nd, and then I presently knew the countenance
»f my little kingdom, so we brought the ship safe to
I an
07
ch6r, broadside within the little creek, where
my antient and venerable casHe.
> l.ioner did I see the place, but calling for Fri-
I asked him where he was? But when he look-
iittle, he clapped his hands, crying, 0 joy, 0
0 yes, O there! pointing to our old abode, and
fell a dancing and capering as if he was mad,
had much ado to keep him from jumping into
n, to swim ashore. Friday, said I, what do
hink, shall we go see your sather? At the men-
ig his sather's name, the poor afsectionate crea-
sell a weeping: No, no, says he, me Jee him no
never fee poor father more I he long ago die, die
igo; he much old wan. You don't know that,
y, laid I, but shall we see any body else? He
ibout,. and pointing to the hill above my house,
out, IVe fee, we Jee, there much men and there!
i, though I could not perceive them with my
:ctive glass, was true, by what the men them-
1 told me the next day.
hen the English ancient was spread, and three
find as a sigrral of friendship, we perceived a
e rile from the creek; upon which I ordered
jat out, taking Friday with me, and hanging
white flag of truce, i went on shore, accom-
J also by the young friar, to whom I had rela-
le history of the first part of my lise; besides we
xteen men well armed, in caie we had met with
ippofuion.
Ler we had rowed directly into the creek, the
nan I fixed my eye upon, was the Spaniard,
: lise I nr.d saved, and whose sace I persectly
knew. I ordered them all to stay in the boat
while; but Friday perceiving his sather at a •
ice, would have jumped into the sea, had they
let the boat go. No sooner was he on Ihore,
e flew like a swift arrow out of a bow, to em-
his aged sather. Certainly it would melt a
as the firmest resolution, into the softest tears,
to
to see with what uncommon transports of joy he sa-
luted him: he first kissed him, then stroked his sace,
took him in his arms, laid him under a shady tree,
sat down by him, then looked as earnest at him, as
one would do at a picture, for a quarter of an hour
together. After this, he would lie upon the ground,
stroke his legs, and kiss them, then get up and stare
at him, as though he was bewitched: but the next
dayonecouid notforbearlaughterto see his behaviour,
for he would walk several hours with his sather along
the shore, leading him by the hand, as though he was
a lady; while, every now and then he would run to
the boat, to get something for him, as a lump of su-
gar, dram, biscuit, or something or other that was
good. His frolics ran in another channel in the af-
ternoon; for when he set old Friday on the ground,
he would dance round him, making comical postures
and gestures: and all this while would be telling
him one story or other of his travels and adventures.
It was on the ioth of April, anno 1695, that I
set my foot upon the island a second time. When
my saithsul Spaniard, accompanied by one more, ap-
proached the boat, he little knew who I was, till I
discovered myself to him: Seignior, said I, in Por-
tuguese, don't you know me r He spoke never a word,
but giving his musket to his attendant, extended
his arms, and saying something in Spanish, that I
did not then understand, he came forward, and em-
braced me, saying, he was inexcusable, not to know
his deliverer; who, like an angel sent from heaven,
had saved his lise. He then beckoned to the man to
call out his companions, asking me, if I would walk
to my own habitation, and take posiesiion, where I
should find some mean improvements: but indeed
they were extraordinary ones; for they had planted
so many trees so close together, thit the place was
like a labyrinth, which none could find out, except
themselves, who knew its intricate windings. 1 aik-.
ed him the meaning of all these fortifications; hs
I 2 toid
,o!d me he would give me a large account of what
i;id palled since.my departure to this time, and how
he had subdued some English, who thought to be
their murderers, hoping 1 would not be displeased,
since necessity compelled them to it. As I knew
;hey were wicked villains, so 1 told him, that I was
not only sar from finding sault with it, but was ra-
:her heartily glad i^hat they had subdued them.
vVhile we were thus talking, the man whom he had
sent returned, accompanied by eleven more, but in
such habits, that it was impoilible to tell what na-
tions they were of. He first turned to me, and point-
ing to them: These, Sir, said he, are some of . the
rentlemen who owe their lives to your goerdness;
:hen turning to them, and pointing to me, he made
:hem sensible who I was: and then indeed they sa-
uttd me one by one; not as ordinary men, but as
:hough they had been ambassadors or noblemen,
>nd 1 a triumphant conqueror; for their behaviour
iot only agreed with a manlike majestic gravity, but
it the same time was so obliging and courteous, as
rade them admirable to the last degree.
Before I relate the history of the transactions of
kingdom, as I had it from the Spaniard's own
pouih, I must here insert what I omitted in my sor-
rier relation. The matter is thus: Just before we
veighed anchor to set sail, there happened a quarrel
>n board the ship, which had like to have occasioned
i second mutiny, till such time as the courageous
Japtain, taking two of the most resactory prisoners,
aid them in irons, threatening, as they were con-
erned in the former disorders, to have them hanged
n England, for running away with the ship. This
rightened some of the rest, as thinking the Captain
A'ourd serve them in the same manner, though he
iremed to give them good words for the present.
Hut the mate having'intelligence of this, made me
icquainted with their sears; so that, to make them
nore easy, and ourselves more sase from their con-
spiracies,
spiracies, I was obliged to go down, and pass my
honour's word for it, that, upon their good beha-
viour, all that was past should be pardoned; in tes-
timony of which I ordered the two men's irons to be
taken off, and themselves forgiven. But as this had
brought us to an anchor that night, in which there
was a calm, the two men that had been in irons,
stole each of them a musket, and some other weapons,
and taking the ship's pinnace, not yet haled up, ran
away to their brother rogues. The next morning
we sent the long boat, with men to pursue them;
but all in vain; the mate, in revenge, would have
demolished my little castle, burnt its surniture, and
destroyed their plantations; but having no orders for
it he did not put in execution. And thus there were
five Englishmen in the island, which caused great
differences, as my saithsul Spaniard gave me a per-
sect account of rt in the following manner:
You cannot, Sir, but remember the embassy you
sent me about, and what a disappointment we met
with, by your absence, at our return. There is but
little variety in the relation of our voyage, being
blested with calm weather, and a smooth sea. Great,
indeed, was the joy of my countrymen to see me
alive, having acted as the principal man on board,
the Captain of the flypwrecked vessel dying before.;
nor was their surprize less, as knowing I was taken
prisoner by the savages of another nation, they
thought me long since entombed in their monstrous
bowels. But when I shewed them the arms, am-
munition, and provisions I had brought for them,
they looked upon me as a second Joseph advanced in
Pharaoh's court, and immediately prepared to come
along with me. Indeed, the) were obliged to tres-
pass upon their friendly savages, by borrowing two
of their canoes, under a pretext for fishing; and
they came away the next morning, but without any
provisions of their own, except a sew roots, which
served them instead of bread. After three weeks ab-
I 3 sence,
sence, we arrived ?.t your habitation. Here we met
with three English sailors, who, I consess, gave us
provisions, and that letter of directions you had left
lor us, which informed us how to bring up tame
goats, plant corn, cure grapes, make pots; and, in
short, every thing that was neceflary for our use; as
in particular, I knew your method best, so taking
Kriday's sather to allist me, we managed all the af-
sairs; nor were the rest of the Spaniards wanting in
their kind offices, dressing food for the Englishmen,
who did nothing but ramble and divert themselves in
the woods, either shooting parrots, or catching tor-
toises. But we had not been long ashore, before
* e wi re informed of two more Englishmen, un-
naturally turned out of their common place of resi-
dence by the three others above mentioned: this made
my Spaniards and me (whom they now looked upon as
their governor in your absence) endeavour to per-
iuade them to take them in, that we might be as one
family; but all our entreaties were in vain, so that
the poor sellows, finding nothing to be done with-
out industry, pitched their tents on the north fide of
the island, a little inclining to the west, for fear ot
savages. Here they built two huts, one to lodge,
and the other to lay their stores in ; for my good na-
tured Spaniards giving them some seeds, they dug
and planted as I had done, and began to live prettily.
But while they were thus comfortably going on,
the three unnatural brutes, their countrymen, in a
mere bullying humour, insulted them, by saying,
the governor (meaning you) had given them pofleffion
of the island, and d-tnn 'em, they shall build no
houses upon their ground, without paying rent.
The two honest men (for so let me now distinguish
them) thought their three countrymen only jested,
and one of them invited them in, to see their sine
habitations; while the other sacetiously told them,
that since they built tenements, with great improve-
ments, they should, according to the custom of
land-
landlords,, give them, a longer lease; at the same
time desiring them to setch a scrivener to draw the
writings. One of the wretches swearing he should
pay for the jest, snatches up a fire-brand, and clap-
ping it to the"outside of their hut, very sairly set it
on fire, which would soon have consumed it, had
not the honest man thrust himaway, and trod it put
with his seet. Hereupon the sellow returns with a
pole, with which he would have ended his days,
had not the poor man avoided the blow; when,
setching his musket, he knocked down the villain
that began the quarrel. The other two coming to
assist their sellow, obliged the honest man to take his
musket also, and both of them presenting their pieces,
bid. the villains stand off"; and if they did not Ly
down their arms, death should decide the dispute
one way or other. This brought them to a parley,
in which they agreed to take their wounded man and
be gone; but they were in the wrong that they did
not disarm* them when they had the power, and then
make their complaint to me and my Spaniards for
justice, which might have prevented their sarther de-
signs against them. And indeed so many trespastes
did they afterwards commit, by treading down their
corn, shooting their youngkids and goats, and plagu -
ing them night and day, that they resolved to come
to my castle, challenge all the three, and decide their
right by one plain battle, while the Spaniards stood
by to see sair play. One day it happened, that two
of my Spaniards (one of whom understood English)
being in the woods, were met by one of the honest
men, who complained how barbarous their country-
men had been in destroying their corn, killing tlicir
milch-goat, and three kids, which deprived them of
their subsistence; that if we did not grant them re-
lief, they must be inevitably starved; and so they
parted; but when my Spaniard came home at night,
and supper being on the table, one of them began
.to reprehend the Englishmen, but in a very mannerly
I 4 way;
way: which they resenting-, replied, What bu-
siness had their countrymen there without leave,
when it was none of their ground? Why, said my
Spaniard, calmly, sngUse, they must not starve; but
they replied, Let them starve and be d—mn'd, they
should neither plant nor build, and d—inn them they
should be their servants, and work for them, for
the island was theirs, and they would burn all the
huts they should sind in the land. By this rule, said
niy Spaniard, smiling, we shall be your servants too.
.Aye, by G—d, and so you shall, replied the impu-
dent rascal. Upon which, starting up, Will. At-
Jcins cries, Come Jack, lot's have t'other brush with
them; who dare to build in our dominions? Thus
leaving us something heated with a just passion, away
they trooped, every man having a gun, pistol, 3nd
fvvord, muttering some threatening words, that we
could then but impersectly understand. That night
they designed to murder their two companions, and
slept till midnight in the bower, thinking to sall
upon them in their sleep: nor were the honest men
iess thoughtsul concerning them; for, at this junc-
ture, they were coming to find them out, but in a
inuch sairer way. As soon as the villains came to
the huts, and found nobody there, they concluded
that I and my Spaniards had given them notice, and
therefore swore te be revenged on us. Then they
demolished the poor mens habitation; not by fire,
as they attempted before, but pulled down their
souses, limb from limb, not leaving stick nor stone.
on the ground where they stood; broke their house-
hold stuft'in pieces, tore up their trees, spoiled their
inclosures, and, in short, quite ruined them of every
thing they had. Had these people met together, no
doubt but there would have been a bloody battle;
but Providence ordered it for the better; for just as the
three weregot thither, the two were atour castle; and,
when they left us, the three came back again, but in
a great rage, scosEngly telling us what they had done;
when one taking hold of a Spaniard's hat, twirls it
round, saying, And you, Seignior, Jack Spaniard,
Jhall have the same sauce, is you don't mend your manners.
A4y Spaniard, a grave, but courageous man, knocked
him down with one blow of his £st; at which a-
nother villain fired his pistol, and narrowly miffed
his body, but wounded him a little in the ear.
Hereat enraged, the Spaniard takes up the sellow's
musket whom he had knocked down, and would have
shot him, if I and the rest had not come out, and
taken their arms from every one of them.
These Englishmen, perceiving they had made all
of us their enemies, began to cool; but notwith-
standing their better words, the Spaniards would
not return them their arms again, telling them, they
would do them no manner of harm, if they would-
live peaceably ; but, if they offered any injury to the
plantation or castle, they would shoot them as they
would do ravenous beasts. This made them so mad,
that they went away raging like suries of hell. They
were no sooner gone, but in came the two honest
men, fired with the justest rage, if such can be, hav-
ing been ruined as aforesaid. And, indeed, it was
very hard, that nineteen of us should be bullied by
.three villains, continually offending with impunity.
It was a great while, bir, before we could per-
suade the two Englishmen from pursuing, and un-
doubtedly killing them with their fire arms; but
we promised them justice should be done them, and
in the mean time they should reside with us in our
habitation. In about five days after, these three va-
grants, almost starved with hunger, drew near our
.grove, and perceiving me, the governor, and two
others, walking by the side os the creek, they very sub-
.miffively defired to be received into the samily again.
We told them of their great incivility to us, and of
their unnatural barbarity to their countrymen; but
•yet we would see to what the rest agreed to,, and in
.half an hour's time would bring them word. After
J 5 some
some debate^ we called them in, where their two
countrymen laid a heavy charge against them, for
not only ruining, but designing to murder them,
which they could not deny. But here I was forced
to interpose as a mediator, by obliging the two Eng-
lishmcn not to hurt them, beingnaked and unarmed;
and that the other three should make them restita-
tion, by building their two huts, and sencing their
ground in the same manner as it was before. Well,
being in a miserable condition, they submitted to
this at present, and lived some time regularly enough,
except as to the working part, which they did not
care for, but the Spaniards would have dispensed
with that, had they continued easy and quiet. Their
iirms being given them again, they scarce had them
a week, when they became as troublesome as ever;
but an accident happening soon after, obliged us to
lay aside private resentments, and look to our com-
mon preservation.
One night, Sir, I went to bed, persectly well in
bealth, and yet by no means could I compose myself
to fleep. Upon which, being very uneasy, I got up,
and looked out; but it being dark, I could perceive
nothing but the trees around our castle. I went to
bed again; but it was all one, I could not sleep;
ivhen one os my Spaniards, .hearing me walkabout,
asked who it was up? I answered, It is I. When
J told him the occasion; Sir, said he, such things
Ære" not to be slighted 4 for certainly there is some
mischief plotting near us. Where are the English-
men? said L He answered, in thudr huts; for they
jay separate from us, Sir, since the last mutiny.
.\j\seU, said I, some kind spirit gives this informa-
tion, for our advantage. Come, let us go abroad,
-md see if any thing offers to justify our sears. Upon
.which I and some of my Spaniards went up the
mountain, not by the ladder, but through the grove;
jand then we were struck with a .panic sear, on see-
ing a light* ^ though it weie.a stre, at a very little
distance.
distance, and hearing the voice of several men,
Hereupon we retreated immediately, and raising the
rest of our forces, made them sensible of the impend-
ing danger; but, with all my authority, I could not
make them stay where they were, so earnest were
they to see how things went. Indeed, the darkness
of the .night gave them opportunity enough to view
them (by the light of the fire) undiscovered. As
they were in different parties, and straggling over the
shore, we were much afraid that they should find out
our habitations, and destroy our flocks of goats. To
prevent which, we sent an Englishman and two Spa-
niards to drive the goats into the valley where the
cave lay; or, if there was occasion, into the cave
itfelf. As to ourselves, resuming our native courage,
and prudent conduct, had we not been divided, we
durst venture to attack an hundred of them; but,
before it was yet light, we resolved to send out Fri-
day's sather as a spy, who, immediately, stripping
himself naked, gets among them undiscovered, and,
in two hours time, brings word, that they were two
parties of two different nations, who lately having
a bloody battle with one another, happened to land,
by mere chance, in the same island, to devour their
miserable prisoners: That they were entirely igno-
rant of any person's inhabiting here; but rather,
being filled with rage and sury against one another,
be believed, that as soon as day-light appeared, there
would be a terrible engagement. Old Fiiday had
scarce ended his relation, when we heard an uncom-
mon noise, and perceived, that there was a horrid
engagement between the two"armies-
Such was the cariosity .of our party, especially the
Englishmen, that they would not lie close, though
Old Friday told them, their sasety depended upon
it; and that, if we had patiences we should behold
the savages kill one another. However, they used
feme caution, by going surther into the woods, and
i 6 placing
placing themselves in a convenient place to behold
the battle.
Never could there be a more bloody engagement,
nor men of more invincible spirits, and prudent con-
duct, according to their way and manner of fight-
ing. It lasted near two "hours, till that party which .
was nearest to our castle began to decline, and, at
last, to fly from their conquerors. We were un-
doubtedly put into a great consternation on this ac-
count, lest they should run into our grove, and con-
sequently bring us into the like danger. Hereupon
vire resolved so kill the sirst that came, to .prevent
discovery; and that too with our swords, and the
putt enrl of our muskets, for sear the report of oiir
guns should be heard.
And so indeed, as we thought, it happened: for
three of the vanquished army crossing the creek, ran
directly to the place, as to a thick wood, for feelter;
nor was it long before our scout gave us notice of
it; as also, that the victors did not think sit to pur-
sue them. Upon this I would not suffer them to be
slain, but had them surprised and taken by our par-
ty: and afterwards they proved very good servants
to us, being stout young creatures, and able to do a
great deal of work. The remainder of the conquer-
ed savages fled to their canoes, and put out into the
.ocean, while the conquerors, joining together, shout-
ed by way of triumph: and about three in the af-
ternoon, they also embarked for their own nation.
TThus we were freed at once from the savages and
•our sears, not perceiving any of these creatures for
•some considerable time after. We found two and
thirty men dead in the field of battle; some were
/lain with long arrows, which we found sticking in
their bodies; and the rest were killed with great un-
tveildy wooden swords, which denoted their vast
strength, and of which We found seventeen, besides
bows and arrows: but we could not find one wound-
ed creature among them alive; for they either kill
.their
their enemies quite, or carry those wounded away
with them.
This terrible sight tamed the Englishmen for some
time, considering how unfortunate they might have
teen, had they sallen into their hands, who would
not only kill them as enemies, but also for food, as
we do cattle; and, indeed, so much did this nauseate
their stomachs, that it not only made them very sick,
but more tractable to the common necessary business
of the whole society, planting, sowing, and reap-
ing, with the greatest signs of amity and friendships
so that now, being all good friends, we began to
consider of circumstances in general; and the first
thing we thought of, was, whether, as we perceived
the savages haunted that side of the island, and there
being more retired parts of it, and yet as well suited
to our manner of living, and equally to our advan-
tage, we ought not rather to move our place of re-
sidence, and plant it in a much saser place, both for
the secunty of our corn and cattle?
After a long debate on this head, it was resolved,
or rather voted, nemine contraditente, not to remove
<our antient castle, and that for this very good rea-
son, that, some time or other, we expected to hear
from our supreme governor, (meaning you Sir)
whose messengers not finding us there, might think
the place demolished, and all his subjects destroyed
by the savages*
As to the next concern, relating to our corn and
cattle, we consented to have them removed to the
valley where the cave was, that being most proper
-and sufficient for both. But yet, when we consider-
ed surther, we altered one part of our resolution;
which was, to remove part of our cattle thither, and
plant only part of our corn there; so that in case
one part was destroyed, the other might be preserved.
Another resolution we took, which really had a great
•deal of prudence -in it; and that was, in not trust-
ing the three savages whom we ha3 taken prisoners,
with
with any knowledge of the plantations which we
had made in that valley, of what number of cattle
we had there, much less of the cave, wherein were
kept several arms, and two barrels of powder you
left for us, at your departure from this island. But
though we would not change our habitation, we re-
solved to make it more fortified, and more secret.
To this end, Sir, as you had planted trees at some
distance before the entrance of your palace; so we,
whole space of ground, even to the banks of the
creek, nay, into the very ooze, where the tide slow-
ed, not leaving a place for landing: and among those
I had planted, they had intermingled so many short
ones, all of which growing wondersully sast and
thick, a littledogscarcely could find a passage through
them. Nor was this susficient, as we thought; for
we did the same to all the ground, to the right and
left hand of us, even to the top of the hill, without
so much as leaving a passage for ourselves, except
by the ladder: .which being taken down, nothing
but what had wings or witchcraft .could pretend to
come near us. And, indeed, this was exceedingly
well contrived, especially to serve that occasion, for
which we afterwards found it necessary.
Thus we lived two years in a happy retirement,
having, all this time, not one visit from the savages.
Indeed, one morning, we had an alarm, which put
us in some amazement; for a sew of my Spaniards
being out very early, perceived no less than twenty
•canoes, as it were coming on shore; upon which,
returning home, with great precipitation, they gave
.us the alarm, which obliged us to keep at home all
that day, and the next, going out only in the night-
time, to make our observations; but, as good luck
-would have it, they were upon another design, and
did not land that time.upon the island.
But now there happened another -quarrel between
xhe three wicked Englishmen, and some of my Spa-
k iiiaflds.

iple, planted and filled up the
iiiards. The occasion was this : One of them being
enraged at one of the savages, whom he had taken
prisoner, for not being able to comprehend some-
thing which he was mewing him, snatched up a
hatchet in a great sury, not to correct, but to kill
him; yet missing his head, gave him such a barba-
rous cut in the shoulder, that he had like to have
struck off his arm; at which one of my good-na-
tured Spaniards interposing between the Englishman
and savage, beseeched the former not to murder the
poor creature; but this kindness had like to have
cost the Spaniard his lise, for the Englishman struck
at him in the same manner; which he nimbly and
wisely avoiding, returned suddenly upon him with
his shovel, (being all at work about their corn-land)
and very sairly knocked the brutish creature down.
Hereupon, another Englishman, coming to his sel-
low's assistance, laid the good Spaniard on the earth;
when immediately two others coming to his relief,
were attacked by the third Englishman, armed with
an old cutlass, who wounded them both. This up-
roar soon reached our ears, when we, rushing out
.upon them, took the three Englishmen prisoners;
and then our next question was, what should be done
to such mutinous and impudent sellows, so surious,
.desperate, and idle, that they were mischievous to
ihe highest degree, and consequently not safe for the
society to let them live among them.
Now, Sir, as I was governor in your absence, so
I also took the authority of a judge; and, having
- them brought before me, I told them, that if they
had been of my country, I would have hanged every
mother's son of them; but, since it was an English-
man (meaning you, kind Sir) to whom we were in-
debted for our preservation and deliverance, I would,
in gratitude, use them with all possible mildness;
but, at the fame .time, leave them to the judgment
•of the other two Englishmen, who, I hoped, for-
Settiiig
getting their resentments, would deal impartially by
them.
Hereupon, one of his countrymen stood up; Sir,
said he, leave it not to us, for you may be sensible we
Jiave reason to sentence them to the gallows: besides, Sir,
ibis fellow, WilL Atkins, and the two others, proposed
to us, that we might murder you all in your sleep, which
we would not consent to : but, knowing their inability, and
your vigilance, we did not think fit to discover it before
now.
How, Seignior, said I, do you hearwhat is alledged
against you r What can you say to justify so hor-
rid an action, as to murder us in cold" blood? So
sar, Sir, was the wretch from denying it, that he
swore, d—n him but he would do it still. But what
have we done to you, Seignior Atkins, said I, or
vvhat will you gain by killing us? What shall we
do to prevent you? Must we kill you, or you kill
us: Why will you, Seignior Atkins, (said I, smil-
ing) put us to such an unhappy dilemma, such a sa-
tal necessity: But so great a rage did my scoffing,
and yet severe jest, put him into, that he was going
to fly at me, and undoubtedly had attempted to kill
me if he had been possessed of weapons, and had not
been prevented by three Spaniards. This unparal-
Jelled and villainous carriage, made us seriously con-
sider what was to be done. The two Englishmen
and the Spaniard, who had saved the poor Indian's
lise, mightily petitioned me to hang one of them,
for an example to the others, which stiould be him
.that had twice attempted to commit murder with hi.s
hatchet, it being at that time thought impossible the
poor slave should recover. But they could never gain
.my consent to put him to death, for the reasons
above-mentioned, since it was an Englishman (even
yourself) who was my deliverer: and as mercisul
counsels are most prevailing, when earnestly pressed,
.so I got .them to be of the same opinion as to cle-
mency. .But, to prevent iheir doing us any farther
.mischies,
.mischief, we all agreed, that they should have no
weapons, as sword, gun, powder, or shot, but be
expelled from the society, to live as they pleased, by
themselves; that neither the two Englishmen, nos
the rest of the Spaniards, should have conversation
with them upon any account whatfoever: that they
should be kept from coming within a certain distance
of our castle; and if they dared to offer us any vio-
lence, either by spoiling, burning, killing, or de-
stroying any of the corn, plantings, buildings, sences,
or cattle belonging to the society, we would shoot
them as freely as we would do beasts of prey, in
whatfoever places we should find them.
This sentence, seemed very just to all but them-
selves; when, like a mercisul judge, I called out to
the two honest Englishmen, saying, You must con-
sider they ought not to be starved neither; and since
it will be some time before they can raise corn and
cattle of their own, let us give them some corn to
last them eight months, and for seed to sow, by
which time they'll raise some for themselves; let us
also bestow upon them six milch-goats, four he ones,
and six kids, as well for their present support, as for
a surther increase; with tools necessary for their work,
as hatches, an ax, saw, and other things conveni-
ent to build them huts; all which were agreed to;
but before they took them in possession, I obliged
them solemnly to swear, never to attempt any thing
against us or their countrymen for the suture. Thus
dismissing them from our society, they went away,
sullen and refractory, as though neither willing to
go nor stay; however, seeing no remedy, they took
what provision was given them, proposing to chuse
a convenient place, where they might live by them-
selves. '*''>. . 1
About five days after, they came to those limits
appointed, in order for more victuals, and sent me
word by one of my Spaniards, whom, they called to,
where they had pitched their tents, and marked
them-
themselves out an habitation and plantation, at the
N. E. and most remote part of the island. And in-
deed there they built themselves two very handsome
cottages, resembling our little castle, being under
the side os a mountain, with some trees already grow-
ing on three fides of it; so that planting a sew more,
it would be obscured from sight, unless particularly
sought for. When these huts were finished, we gave
them some dry goats skins for bedding and covering;
and upon their giving us suller assurances of their
good behaviour for the suture, we gave them some
peas, barley, and rice for sowing, and whatever
tools we could spare.
Six months did they live in this separate condition,
in which they got their first harvest in, the quantity
of which was but small, because they had planted
but little land: for indeed, all their plantations be-
ing to form, made it the more difficult, especially as
it was a thing out of their element; and when they
were obliged to make their boards and pots, &c. they
could make little or nothing of it. But the rainy
season coming on, put them into a greater perplexity
for want of a cave to keep their corn dry, and pre-
vent it from spoiling: and so much did this humble
them, that they begged of my Spaniards to help them,
to which the good-natured men readily consented,
and, in four days space, worked a great hole in the
fide of the hill for them, large enough sor their pur-
pose, to secure their corn and other things from the
rain, though not comparable to ours, which had se-
veral additional apartments.
But a new whim possessed these rogues about three
quarters of a year after, which had liked to have
ruined us, and themselves too: for, it seems, being
tired and weary of this sort of living, which made
them work for themselves, without hopes of chang-
ing their condition, nothing would serve them, but
they would make a voyage to the continent, and try
of they could seize upon some of the savages, and
bnng
bring them over as slaves, to do their drudgery, while
they lived at ease and pleasure.
Indeed the project was not so preposterous, if they
had not gone sarther; but they neither did, nor pro-,
posed any things but what had mischief in the de-
sign, or the event. One morning, these three sel-
lows came down to the limited station, and humbly
desired to be admitted to talk with us, which we
readily granted; they told us, in short, that being
tired of their manner of living and the labour of their
hands, in such employments, not being sufficient to
procure the necessaries of lise, they only defired one
of the canoes we came over in, with some arms and
ammunition, for their desence, and they would seek
their fortunes abroad, and never trouble us any more.
To be sure, we were glad enough to get rid of such
wretched plagues; but yet honesty made us ingenu-
ously represent to them, by what we ourselves had
suffered, the certain destruction they were running
into, either of being starved to death, or murdered
by the savages. To this they very audaciously re*,
plied, that they neither could nor would work; and
consequently, that they might as well' be starved a-
broad as at home; and as to their salling into the
hands of the savages, why, if they were murdered,
that was nothing to us, there was an end of them;
neither had they any wives or children to cry after
them; nay, so intent were they upon their voyage,
that if the Spaniards had not given them arms, so
they had but the canoe, they would have gone with-
out them.
Though we could not well spare our fire-arms, ra-
ther than they should go like naked men, we let them
have two muskets, a pistol, a cutlass, and three hat-
chets, which were thought very sufficient: we gave
them also goats flesh, a great basket sull of dried
grapes, a pot of fresh butter, a young live kid, and
a large canoe sufficient to carry twenty men. And
thus, with a mast, made of a long pole, and a sail
of
of fix large goats (kins dried, having a sair breeze,
and a flood tide with them, they merrily sailed away,
she Spaniards calling after them, Bon veyajo, no man
ever expecting to see them more.
When they were gone, the Spaniards and English-
men would often say to one another, 0 how peace-
ably do we now live, since those turbulent fellows have
left us? Nothing could be sarther from their thoughts
than to behold their saces any more; and yet scarce
two and twenty days had pafied over their heads, but
one of the Englishmen, being abroad, a planting,
perceived, at a distance, three men, well armed, ap-
proaching towards him. Away he flies with speed
to our castle, and tells me and the rest, that we were
nil undone, for that strangers were landed upon the
island, and who they were he could not tell; but
added, that they were not savages, but men habited,
bearing arms. Why then, said I, we have the less
occasion to be concerned, since, if they are not In-
dians, they must be friends; for I am sure there is
rio Christian people upon earth, but what will do
us good rather than harm. But while we were con-
sidering of the event, up came the three Englishmen,
whose voices we quickly knew, and so all our admi-
ration of that nature ceased at once. And our won-
der was succeeded by another sort of enquiry, which
was, what could be the occasion of their returning
/o quickly to the island, when we little expected,
and much less defired their company? But as this
was better to be related by themselves, I ordered them
to be brought in, when they gave me the following
•relation of their voyage:
After two days sail, or something less, they reach-
ed land, where they found the people coming to give
them another fort of reception than what they ex-
pected or defired : for as the savages were armed with
bows and arrows, they durst not venture on shore,
but steered northward, six or seven hours, till they
gained an opening, by which they plainly perceived,
v ' '' that
that the land that appeared from this place, » not
the main land,, but the island. At their entrance
into the opening of the sea, they discovers^ another
island, on the right hand northward, and several
more lying to the westward; but being resolved to
go on shore some where or other, they put over to
one of the western islands. Here they found the na-
tives verycorteous to them, giving them several roots
and dried fish; nay, even their women too werej as
willing to supply them with what they could procure
them to eat, bringing it a great way to them upon their
heads Among these hospitable Indians they continued
some days, enquiring by signs and tokens, what na-
tions lay around them^and were informed, that there
were several fierce and terrible people lived every
way, accustomed to eat mankind: but for themselves,
they never used such diet, except those that were
taken in battle, and of them they made a solemn
seast.
The Englishmen enquired how long it was since
they had a seast of that kind? they answered, about
two moons ago, pointing to the moon; and then
to two fingers; that, at this time, their king had
two hundred prisoners, which were sattening up for
the slaughter. The Englishmen were mighty desi-
rous of seeing the prisoners, which the others mis-
taking, thought that'they wanted some of them for
their own food: upon which they beckoned to them,
pointing to the rising, and then to the setting of the
sun: meaning, that by the time that it appeared in
the east next morning, they would bring them some: ,~
and indeed they were as good as their word; for by
that time they brought eleven men and five women,
just as so many cows and oxen are brought to sea-
port towns, to victual a ship. But as brutish as
these Englishmen were, theif stomachs turned at the
sight. What to do in this case, they could not tell:
to resuse the prisoners, would have been the highest
affront offered to the savage gentry; and to dispose
of them, they knew not in what manner.: however,
they resolved to accept them, and so gave them, in
return, one of their hatchets, an old key, a knife
and six or seven of their bullets; things which, tho'
they were wholly ignorant of, yet seemed entirely
contented with; and dragging the poor wretches in-
to the boat, with their hands bound behind them,
delivered them to the Englishmen. But this obliged
them to put ofF as soon as they had these presents,
lest the doners should have expected two or three of
them to be killed, and to be invited to dinner the
next day: and so taking leave with all possible re-
spects and thanks, though neither of them under-
stood what the others said, thfy sailed away back to
the first island, and there set eight of the prisoners at
liberty. In their voyage thev endeavoured to com-
fort, and have some conversation with the poor cap-
tives; but it was impossible to make them sensible of
any thing; and nothing they could say, or give or
do for them, could make them otherwise persuaded,
but that they were unbound only to be devoured : if
they gave them any food, they thought it was only
to satten them for the slaughter; or looked at any
one more particularly, the poor creature supposed it-
self to be the first sacrifice; and even when We brought
them to our island, and began to use them with the
greatest humanity and kindness, yet they expected
every day that their new masters would devour them.
And thus, Sir, did these three strange wanderers
conclude their unaccountable relation of their voy-
age, which was both amazing and entertaining.
Hereupon, I asked them, where their hew samily
was? They told me, they had put them in one of
their huts, and they came to beg some victuals for
them. This, indeed, made us all long to see them;
and taking Friday's sather with us, leaving only two
at our castle, we came down to behold these poor
creatures.
When we arrived at the hut, (they being bound
again
again by tiie Englishmen, for sear of escaping) we
found them stark, naked, expecting their satal tra-
gedy; there were three lusty men, well shaped, with
straight and'sair limbs, between thirty and five and
thirty years old; and five women, two of them might
be from thirty to fortv, two more not above four and
twenty; and the last a comely tall maiden of about
seventeen. Indeed, all the women were very agree-
able, both in their proportion and seatures, except
that they were tawny, which their modest behaviour,
and other graces, made amends for, when they af-
terwards came to be clothed.
This naked appearance, together with their miser-
able circumstances, was no very comfortable sight
to my Spaniards, who, for their parts, I may ven-
ture, Sir, without flattery, to say, are men of the
best behaviour, calmest tempers, and sweetest na-
ture, that can possibly be; for they immediately or-
dered Friday's sather to see if he knew any of them,
or if he understood what they could say. No sooner
did the old Indian appear, but he looked at them
with great seriousness; yet, as they were not of his
nation,, they were utter strangers to him, and none
could understand his speech or signs, but one wo-
man. This was enough to answer the design, which
was to assure them they would not be killed, being
sallen into the hands of Christians, who abhorred
such barbarity. When they were sully satisfied of
this, they expressed their joy by such strange ges-
tures, and uncommon tones, as it is not possible for
me to describe. But the woman, their interpreter,
was ordered next to inquire, whether they were con-
tent to be servants, and would work for the men, who
bad brought them hither to save their lives? Here-
upon, (being at this time unbound) they sell a ca-
pering and dancing, one taking this thing upon her
moulders, and the other that, intimating, that they
were willing to do any thing for them. But now,
Sir, having women among us, and dreading that it •
might
might occasion some strise, if not blood. J asked the
three men what they would do, and how they in-
tended to use these creatures, whether as servants or
women? One of them very pertly and readily an-
swered, they would use them as both. Gentlemen,
said I, as you are your own masters, I am not going
to restrain you from that; but, methinks, for avoid-
ing dissentions among you, I would only desire you.
to engage, that none of you will take more than one
for a woman or a wise, and^ that Having taken this
one, none else should presume to touch her; for
though we have not a priestly authority to marry you,
yet it is but reasonable, that whoever thus takes a
woman, should be obliged to maintain her: since
nobody else has any thing to do with her: and this,
indeed, appeared so just to all present, that it was
unanimously agreed to. The Englishmen then asked
my Spaniards, whether they designed to take any of
them? but they all answered, No; some declaring
they had already wives in Spain; and others, that
they cared not to join with insidels. On the re-
verse, the Englishmen took each of them a tempo-
rary wise, and so set up a new method os living. As
to Friday's sather, the Spaniards, and the three sa-
vage servants we had taken in the late battle, they
all lived with me in our antient castle; and indeed
we supplied the main part of the istand with food,
.as necessity required. But the most remarkable
part of the story is, how these Englishmen, who had
been so much at variance, stiould agree about the
choice of these women; yet they took a way good
enough to prevent quarreling among themselves.
They set the five women in one of their huts, and
going themselves to the other, drew lots which should
have the first choice. Now, he that had the first lot
went to the hut, and setched out her he chose, and
it is remarkable, that he took her that was the most
homely and eldest of the number, which made the rest
of the Englishmen exceeding merry; the Spaniards
them-
themselves could not but smile at it: but, as it hap-
pened, the sellow had the best thought, in chusing
one sit for application and business; and indeed she
proved the best wise of all the parcel.
But when the poor creatures perceived themselves
placed in a row, and separated one by one, they were
again seized with an unspeakable terror, as now
thinking they were going to be slain in earnest: and
when the Englishman came to take the first, the rest
set up a lamentable cry, clasped their arms around
her neck, and hanging about her, took their last
sarewell, as they thought, in such trembling ago-
nies, and afsectionate embraces, as would have sof-
tened the hardest heart in the world, and made the
dryest eyes melt into tears; nor could they be per-
suaded, but that they were going to die, till such
time as Friday's sather made them sensible that the
Englishmen had chosen them for their wives, which
ended all their terror and concern upon this occa-
sion.
Well, after this, the Englishmen went to work,
and being assisted by my good natured Spaniards, in
a sew hours they erected every one of them a new
hut or tent, for their separate lodging, since those
they had already were filled with tools, household
stuff, and provision. They all continued on the
north shore of the island, but separate as before;
the three wicked ones pitching sarther off, and the
two honest men nearer our castle; so that the island
seemed to be peopled in three places, three towns
beginning to be built for that purpose. And here I
cannot but remark, what is very common, that the
two honest men had the worst wives, (I mean as to
industry, cleanliness, and ingenuity) while the three
reprobates enjoyed women of quite contrary qua-
lities.
But another observation I made was, in savour of
the two honest men, to shew what disparity there is
between a diligent application to business, on the
_ K one
one hand, and a slothsul, negligent, and idle tem-
per, on the other. Both of them had the same par-
cel of ground laid out, and corn to sow, sufficient
for them; both did not make the same improve-
ments, either in their cultivation or in their plant-
ing. The two honest men had a multitude of young
trees planted about their habitations, so that when
you approached near them, nothing appeared but a
wood, very pleasing and delightsul Every thing
they did prospered and flourished; their grapes plant-
ed in order, seemed as though managed in a vine-
yard, and were infinitely preserable to any of the
ethers. Nor were they wanting to find out a place
of retreat, but dug a cave in the most retired part os
thick wood, to secure their wives and children,
l^ith their provision, and chiesest goods, surrounded
with innumerable stakes, and having a most subtile
entrance, in case any mischief should happen, either
from their sellow countrymen, or the devouring sa-
vages.
As to the reprobates, (though I must own they
were much more civilized than before) instead of a
delightsul wood surrounding their dwellings, we
found the words of King Solomon too truly verified;
/ Went by the ,vineyard of the siouthsul, and it was all
overgrown with thorns. In many places their crop
was obscured by weeds; the hedges having several
gaps in them, the wild goats had got in, and eatert
up the corn, and here and there was a dead bush,
to stop in those gaps for the present, which was no
more than shutting the stable-door after the steed
was stolen away. But as to their wives, they (as I
•observed before) were more diligent, and cleanly e-
nough, especially in their victuals, being instructed
by one of the honest men, who had been a cook's
mate on board a ship: and very well it was so; for
as he cooked himself, his companion and their fa-
milies lived as well as the idle husbands, who did
•nothing but loiter about, setch turtles eggs, catch
fish and birds, and do any thing but work, and
lived accordingly; while the diligent lived very hand-
somely and plentisully, in the moll comfortable man-
ner.
And now, Sir, I gome to lay before your eyes, a
scene quite disferent from any thing that ever hap-
pened to us before, and perhaps ever besel you in all
the time of your residence on this island. 1 shall .In-
form you of its original in the following manner:
One morning, Sir, very early, there came sive or
six canoes of Indians on shore, indisputably upon
their old custom of devouring their prisoners. All
that we had to do upon such an occasion, was to lie
concealed, that they, not having any notice of in-
habitants, might depart quietly, after performing
their bloody execution: whoever first discovered the
savages, was to give notice to all the three planta-
tions to keep within doors, and then a proper scout
was to be placed to give intelligence of their depar-
ture. But, notwithstanding these wise measures, an
unhappy disaster discovered us to the savages,. which
was like to have caused the desolation of the whole
island; for, after the savages were gone osf in their
canoes, some of my Spaniards and 1 looking abroad,
and being inflamed with a curiosity to see what they
had been doing, to our great amazement, beheld
three savages sast asieep on the ground, who, either
being gorged, could not awake when the others went
off, or having wandered too sar into the woods, did
not come back in time.
What to do with them at first, we could not tell •
as for staves, we had enough of them already'; and
as to killing them, neither Christiany nor humanity
would suffer us to shed the blood of persons who ne-
ver did us wrong. We perceived they had no boat
left them to transport them to their own nation; and
that, by letting them wander about, they might diC
cover us, and inform the first savages,th.at mould
happen to land upon the same blooJj occasion,
K 2 which
which information might entirely ruin us; and
therefore I counselled my Spaniards to secure them,
and set them about some work or other, till we could
better dispose of them.
Hereupon we all went back, and making them
awake, took them prisoners. It is impossible to ex-
press the horror they were in, espcially when bound,
as thinking they were going to be murdered and
eaten, but we soon eased them of their sear as to that
point. We first took them to the bower, where the
• chief of our country-work lay, as keeping goats,
planting corn, &c. and then carried them to the two
Englishmens habitation, to help them in their busi-
ness; but happy it was for us all, we did not carry
them to our castle, as by the sequel will appear.
The Englishmen, indeed, found them work to do;
but whether they did not guard them strictly, or that
they thought they could not better themselves, I can-
not tell; but certainly one of them ran away into
the woods, and they could not hear of him for along
time after.
Undoubtedly, there was reason enough to suppose
he got home in some of the canoes, the iavages re-
turning in about four weeks time, and going off in
the. space of two days. You may be certain, Sir,
this thought could not but terrify us exceedingly,
and make us justly conclude, that this savage would
inform his countrymen of our abode in the island,
Jiow sew and weak we were in comparison to their
numbers; and we expected it would not belong
before the Englishmen would be attacked in their ha-
bitations: but the savages had not seen their places
of sasety in the woods, nor our castle, which it was
a great happiness they did not know.
Nor were we mistaken in our thoughts upon this
occasion; for, about eight months after this, six ca-
noes, with about ten men in each canoe, came fail-
ing by the aottfc side of the island, which they were
never accustofc^ to do before, and landed about an
hour
hour after sun-rise, near a mile from the dwelling of
the two Englishmen, who, it seems, had the good
fortune to discover them about a league osf; so that
it was an hour before they could attain the shore, and
some longer time before they could come at them.
And now, being confirmed in this opinion, that they
were certainly betrayed, they immediately bound the
two slaves which were left, causing- two of the three
men, whom they brought with the women, and who
proved very saithsul, to lead them with their wives,
and other conveniencies, into their retired cave in
the wood, and there to bind the two sellows hand and
foot, till they had surther orders. They then opened
their sences, where they kept their milch goats, and
drove them all out, giving the goats liberty to ram-
ble in the woods, to make the savages believe that
they were wild ones; but the slave had given a truer
information, which made them come to the very in-
closures. The two frighted men sent the other slave
of the three, who had been with them by accident,
to alarm the "Spaniards, and defire their assistance;
in the mean time, they took their arms and ammu-
nition, and made to the cave where they had sent
their wives, and securing their slaves, seated them-
.feives in a private place, from whence they might
behold all the actions of the savages. Nor had they
gone sar, when ascending a rising ground, they could
see a little army of Indians approach to their,beauti-
ful dwelling, and in a sew moments more, perceive
the same, and their surniture, to their unspeakable
grief, burning in a consuming flame: and wnen this
was done, they spread here and there, searching every
bum and place tor the people, of whom, it was very
evidentj they had information. Upon which the
two Englishmen, not thinking themselves secure
where they stood, retreated about half a mile highey
in the country, rightly concluding, that the sarther
the fa/ages strolled, there would be lesser numbers to-
gether: upon which they next took their stand by
K 3 'the
the trunk of an old tree, very hollow and large,
whence they resolved to see what would osser; but
they had not stood long there, before two savages
came running directly towards them, as though hav-
ing knowledge of their being there, who seemed re-
solved to attack them; a little sarther were three
more, and sive more behind them again, all running
the same way. It cannot be imagined what per-
plexity the poor men were in at this sight, thinking
that if assistance did not speedily come, their cave in
the wood would be discovered, and consequently all
therein lost: so they resolved to resist them there,
and, when overpowered, to ascend to the top of
tn« trees, when they might desend themselves as
long.as their ammunition lasted, and sell their lives
as dear as possible to those devouring savages.
*"J~hus fixed in their resolution, they next consi-
dered, whether they should fire at the first two,
cr wait for the three, and so take the middle party,
by which the two first and the five last would be
separated. In this regulation the two savages also
confirmed them, by turning a little to another part
the wood; but the three, and the five after them,
came directly towards the tree. Hereupon they rer
solved to take them in a direct line, as they approach-
ed nearer, because perhaps the first shot might hit
them a" three; and, upon this occasion, the man
fi ho was to sire, charged his piece with three or four
|iullets. And thus, while they were waiting, the
/avages came on, one of them was the runaway, who
I ad caused all the mischief: so they resolved he should
rot escape, if they both fired at once. But however,
though they did not fire together, they were ready
charged; when the first that let fly, was too good a
nlarkiman to mil's his aim; for he killed the foremost
outright, the second, (who was the runaway Indian)
fell on the ground, being shot through the body*
but not dead, and the third was a little wounded in
the shoulder, who, sitting down on the ground, sell
a
a screaming in a most searsul manner. The noise of
the guns, which not only made the most resounding
echoes, from one side to another; but raised the birds
of all sorts, fluttering with the most consused noise,
so much terrified the five savages behind, that they
stood still at first, like so many inanimate images.
But when all things were in profound silence, they
came to the place where their companions lay: and
here, not being sensible that they were liable to the
same sate, stood over the wounded man, undoubtedly
enquiring the occasion of his sad calamity; and,
'tis as reasonable to suppose, he told them, that it
came by thunder and lightning from the gods, having
never seen nor heard of a gun before, in the whole
course of their lives. By this time the Englishmen,
having loaded their pieces, fired both together a se-
cond time, when seeing them all sall immediately on
the ground, they thought they had killed every crea-
ture of them. This made them come up boldly be-
fore they had charged their guns, which, indeed,
was a wrong step; for, when they came to the place,
they found four alive, two of them very little wound-
ed," and one not at all, which obliged them to sall
upon them with their muskets; they first knocked
the runaway savage on the head, and another that
was but a little wounded in the arm, and then put
the other languishing wretches out of their pain;
while he that was not hurt, with bending knees, and
uplifted hands, made piteous moans, and signs to
them to spare his lise-, nor, indeed, where they un-
mercisul to the poor wretch, but pointed to him to
sit down at the root of a tree hard by; and then, one
of the Englishmen, with a piece of rope twine he
had in his pocket by mere chance, tying his two
feet sast together, and his two hands behind him,
they left him there, making all the haste they could
after the other two, searing they should find out their
cave; but though they could not overtake them,
they had the satissaction to perceive them, at a dis-
K 4 tance.,
tance, cross a valley towards the sea, a quite con-
trary way to their retreat; upon which they return-
ed to the tree, to look after their prisoner; but when
they came there, he was gone, leaving the pieces os
rope-yarn, wherewith he was bound, behind him.
Well, now they were as much concerned as ever,
as not knowing how near their enemies might be, or
in what numbers. Immediately they repaired to
their cave, to see if all was well there, and found
every thing sase except the women, who were fright-
ed upon their husbands account, whom now they
loved entirely. They had not been long here, be-
fore s.ven of my Spaniards came to assist them: while
the other ten, their servants, and Friday's sather,
•were gone to desend their bower, corn and cattle,
in case the savages should have rambled so sar. There
accompanied the seven Spaniards, one of the three
savages that had formerly been taken prisoner; and
.with them also, that very Indian whom the Eng-
lishmen had, a little before, left under the tree; for
it seems, they passed by that way where the slaugh-
ter was made, and so carried along with them that
poor wretch that was left bound. But so many pri-
soners now becoming a burthen to us, and searing
the dreadsul consequence of their escaping, most of
the Spaniards and English urged the absolute Ne-
cessity there was of killing them for our common pre-
servation: but, Sir, the authority I bore, as a go-
vernor, over-ruled that piece of cruelty; and then
I ordered them to be sent prisoners to the old cave
in the valley, bound hands and seet, with two Spa-
niards to guard them,
So much encouraged were the Englishmen at the
approach of the Spaniards, and so great was their
fury against the savages, for destroying their habi-
tations, that they had not patience to stay any lon-
ger; but, taking five Spaniards along with them,
armed with four muskets, a pistol, and a quarter-
staff, away they went in pursuit of their enemies.
As they passed by the place where the savages were
slain, it was very easy to be perceived that more of
them had been there, having attempted to carry off
their dead bodies, but found it impracticable. From
a rising ground, our party had the mortification to
see the smoke that proceeded from the ruins; when
coming farther in sight of the shore, they plainly per-
ceived that the savages had embarked in their ca-
noes, and were putting out to sea. This they were
very sorry for, there being no coming at them to
give them a parting salute; but, however, they
were glad enough to get clear of such unwelcome
guests.
Thus the two honest, but unfortunate English-
men, being ruined a second time, and their im-
provements quite destroyed, most of my good-na-
tured Spaniards helped them to rebuild, and we all
assisted them with needsul supplies; nay, what is
more remarkable, their three mischievous country-
men, when they heard it, (which was after all these
disasters were over, they living remote eastward) very
friendly sympathised with them, and worked for
them several days; so that, in a little time, their ha-
bitation was rebuilt, their necessities supplied, and
themselves restored to their former tranquillity.
Though the savages had nothing to boast of
in this adventure, (several canoes being driven
ashore, followed by two drowned creatures, having
undoubtedly met with a storm at sea that very night
they departed) yet it was natural to be supposed, that
those whose better fortune it was to attain their na-
tive shore, would inflame their nation to another
ruinous attempt, with a greater force, to carry all
before them. And, indeed, so it happened; for,
about seven months after, our island was invaded
with a most formidable navy, no less than eight and
twenty canoes full of savages, armed with wooden
swords, monstrous clubs, bows and arrows, and
K j such
OF
such like instruments of war, landing at the east fide
of the island.
You may well, Sir, imagine, what consternation
our men were in upon this account, and how speedy
they were to execute their resolution, having only
that night's time allowed them. They knew, that
since they could not withstand their enemies, con-
cealment was the only way to procure their sasety:
and, therefore, they took down the huts that were
built for the two Englishmen, and drove their flock
of goats, together with their own at the bower, to
the old cave in the valley, leaving as little "appear-
ance of inhabitants as possible; and then posted
themselves, with all their force, at the plantation of
the two men. As they expected^ so it happened;
for, early the next morning, the Indians, leaving
th'eir canoes at the east end of the island, came run-
ning along the shore, about two hundred and fifty
in number, as near as could be guessed. Our army
was but little indeed; and what was our greater
misfortune, we had not arms sufsicient for them.
The account, as to the men, Sir, is as follows:
i 7 Spaniards.
5 Englishmen,
i Old Friday. .
2 The three savages, ta-
ke)^ with the women,
who proved faithfuls
servants.
3 Other slaves, Kv'mg\
,with the Spaniards.
Muskets.
Pistols.
Fowling-pieces.
Swords.
Old halberts.
Muskets, or fowling-
pieces, taken from the
sailors whom you re-
duced.
As to the slaves, we gave three of them halberts,
»nd the other three long staves, with great iron
spikes at the end of them, with hatchets by their
sides: we also had hatchets sticking in our girdles,
besides the fire-arms: nay, two of the womtn, in-
spired with Amazonian fortitude, could not be dis-
suaded from fighting along with their dearest hus-
bands,
.bands, and if they died, to die with them. Seeing
their resolution, we gave them hatchets likewise;
ibut what pleased them best, were the bows and ar-
rows (which they dexterously knew how to use)
that the Indians had left behind them, after their
memorable battle one against another.
Over this army, which, though little, was of great
intrepidity, I was constituted chief general and com-
mander; and knowing Will. Atkins, though exceed-
ing wicked, yet a man of invincible courage, I gave
him the power of commanding under me; he and
six men with their muskets loaded, with fix or seven
bullets a-piece, were planted just behind a small
thicket of bushes, as an advanced guard, having or-
ders to let the first pass by; and then, when he sired
into the middle of them, make a nimble retreat
round part of the wood, and so come in the rear of
the Spaniards, who were shaded by a ticket of trees:
for though the savages came on with the fierceness of
lions, yet they wanted the subtilty of foxes, being
out of all manner of order, and straggling in heaps
everyway; and, indeed, when Will. Atkins, after
sifty of the savages had passed by, had ordered three
.of his men to give fire, so great was their conster-
nation, to see so many-men killed and wounded, and
hear such a dreadsul noise, and yet not know whence
it came, that they were frightened to the highest de-
gree; and when the second volley was given, they
•concluded no less but that their companions were
slain by thunder and lightning from heaven. In
this notion they would have continued, had Will.
Atkins and-his men retired, as soon as they fired,
according to order: or had the rest been near them,
to pour in their shot continually, there might have
been a complete victory obtained; but staying tp
load their pieces again, discovered the whole mat-
ter, ^hey were perceived by some of the scatter-
ing savages at a distance, who let fly their arrows
amor/g them, w.ounded Atkins himself, and killed
K 6 his
his sellow Englishman, and oneof the Indians taken
.with the women. Our party did not sail to answer
them, and in their retreat killed about twenty sa-
vages. Here I cannot but take notice os our poor
dying slave, who, though, stopt from his retreat by
a satal arrow, yet with his staff and hatchet, despe-
rately and gallantly assailed the pursuers, and killed
five of the savages, before his lise submitted to a
multiplicity of wounds. Nor is the cruelty or ma-
lice ot the Indians to be less remarked, in breaking
the arms, legs, and heads of the two (lead bodies
with their clubs and wooden swords, after a most
wretched manner. As Atkins retreated, our party
advanced, to interpose between him and the savages;
but. after three volleys, we were obliged to retreat
also; for they were so numerous and desperate, that
they came up to our very teeth, shot their ar-
rows like a cloud, and their wounded men, enraged
v/ifh cruel pain, fought like mad-men. They did
not, however, think fit to follow us, but drawing
themselves up in a circle, they gave two triumphant
shouts in token of victory, though they had the grief
to see several of their woundea men bleed to death
before them.
After I had, Sir, drawn up our little army toge-
ther upon a rising ground, Atkins, wounded as he
Wisi would have had us attack the whole body of
the savages at once. I was extremely well pleased
with the gallantry of the man: but, upon consider-
ation, I replied, You perceive, Seignior Atkins, how
tJieis wounded men fight; let them alone till morning,
yubM they .will be faint, stiff* and sore, and then ,we
shall have fewer to combat with. . To which Will. At-
jins, smiling, replied, That's very true, Seignior, and
so shall I t»o; and that's the reason I would fight them
noVJ I am war)tu We all answered, Seignior At-
Jtins, for your part, you have behaved very gallant-
ly i and, if you are not able to approach the enemy
in the morning, we will fight for you, till then we
think it convenient to wait, and so we tarried.
By the brightness of the moon that night, we per-
ceived the savages in great disorder about their dead
and wounded men. This made us change our reso-
lution, and resolve to sall upon them in the night,
if we could give them one volley undiscovered. 'This
we had a sair opportunity to do, by one of the two
Englishmen's leading us round, between the woods
and the sea-side westward, and turning short south,
came privately to a place where the thickest of them
were. Unheard and unperceived, eight of us fired
among them, and did dreadsul execution; and, in
half a minute after, eight more of us let sly, killing
and wounding abundance of them; and then divid-
ing ourselves into three bodies, eight persons in each
body, we marched from among the trees, to the very-
teeth of the enemy, sending forth the greatest shouts
and acclamations. The savages hearing a different
noise from , three quarters at once, stood in the ut-
most consusion; but coming in sight of us, let fly a
volley of arrows, which wounded poor old Friday,
yet happily it did not prove mortal. We did not,
however, give them a second opportunity; but rustl-
ing in among them, we fired three several ways, and
then sell to work with our swords, staves, hatchets,
and the butt end of our muskets, with a sury not to
be resisted; so that, with the most dismal screaming
and howling, they had recourse to their seet, to save
their lives by a speedy flight. Nor must we forget
the valour of the two women; for they exposed theij-
selves to the greatest dangers, killed many with their
arrows, and valiantly destroyed several more with
their hatchets.
In fighting these two tattles, we were so much
tired, that we did not then trouble ourselves to pur-
sue them to their canoes, in which we thought they
would presently put to the ocean ; but there happen-
ing a dreadsul stormat sea, which continuing all that
night
.7.6
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
light, it not only prevented their voyage, but dash-
d several of their boats to pieces against the beach,
nd drove the rest so high upon the shore, that it re-
tired infinite pains to get them off. After ourmen
lad taken some refreshment and a little repose, they
esblved early in the morning to go towards the place
>f their landing, and see whether they were gone off,
>r in what posture they remained. This necessarily
ed them to the place of battle, where several of the
avages were expiring, a sight no way pleasing to
renerous minds, to delight in their misery, though
>bliged to conquer them by the law of arms; but our
>wn Indian flaves put them out of their pain, by dis-
>atching them with their hatchets. At length, com-
ng in view of the remainder of their army, we found
hem leaning upon their knees, which were bended
owards their mouth, and the head between the two
lands. Hereupon, coming within mufket-shot os
hem, I ordered two pieces to be fired without ball,
n order to alarm them, that we might plainly know,
whether they had the courage to venture another
lattle, or were utterly dispirited from such an at-
empt, that so we might accordingly manage them,
^nd, indeed, the project took very well; for, no
ooner did the savages hear the first gun, and per-
eive the flash of the second, but they suddenly started
pon their seet, in the greatest consternation; and
?hen we approached towards them, they ran howl-
ig and screaming away up the hill into the coun-
ry.
We could rather, at first, have wished, that the
weather had permitted them to have gone off to the
;a; but when we considered, that their escape might
ccasiost the approach of multitudes, to our utter
iin and dissolution, we were very well pleased the
intrary happened: and Will. Atkins (who, tbo
roundec], would not part from us all this while) aa-
ised us not to let flip this advantage, but clapping
stween them and their boats, deprive them of the
capacity
OF R(
capacity 0s en
m is, that i
k k taw
* faff, i
yjmt. 'f
JWjt „
,t5)'»'eres0w
?w«made,
* As soo
!* d0iD8 r
ra %bt of'us
>»Uei
H Were in
ierceiv
fe
capacity of ever returning to plague the island: /
know, (said he) there is but one objeSiion you can make,
,which is, that these creatures, living like beasts in the
,wood, may mcke excursions, rifle the plantations, and de-
Jlroy the. tame goats; but then consider, we had bet-
ter to do with an hundred men, whom we' can kill, or
make Jlaves of, at leisure, than with an hundred nations,
whom it is impossible we Jbouldsave ourselves from, much
less subdue. This advice, and these arguments being
approved of, we set fire to their boats; and though
they were so wet that they would not burn entirely,
yet we made them incapable for swimming in the
seas. As soon as the Indians perceived what we
were doing, many of them ran out of the woods,
in sight of us, and kneeling down pitioufly, cried
out, Oa, Oa, IVaramakoa, intimating, I suppose,
that, if we would but spare their canoes, they would
never trouble us again.
But all their complaints, submissions, and entrea-
ties, were in vain; for self-preservation obliging us
to the contrary, we destroyed every one of them that
had escaped the sury of the ocean. When the In-
dians perceived this, they raised a lamentable cry,
and ran into the woods, where they continued rang-
ing about, making the woods ring with their la-"
mentation. Here we should have considered, that
making these creatures thus desperate, we ought, at
the same time, to have set a sufficient guard upon
the plantations: for the savages, in their ranging
about, found out the bower, destroyed the sences,
trod the corn down under their seet, and tore up
the vines and grapes- It is true, we were always
able to sight these creatures; but, as they were too
swift for us, and very numerous, we durst not go
out single., for sear of them; though that too was
needless, they having no weapons, nor any mate-
rials to make them; and, indeed, their extremity
appeared in a little time after.
Though the savages, as already mentioned, had
destroyed
dcfl royed our bower, and all our corn, grapes, &c.
yet we had still left our stock of cattle in the valley
by the cave, with some little corn that grew there,
and the plantation of Will. Atkins and his Com-
panions, one of whom being killed by an arrow,
they were now reduced to two: it is remarkable,
that this was the sellow who cut the poor Indian with
his hatchet, and had a design to murder me and my
countrymen the Spaniards. As our condition was
so low, we came to the resolution to drive the sava-
ges up to the sarther part of the island, where no In-
dians landed; to kill as many of them as we could,
till we had reduced their number; and then to give
the remainder some corn to plant, and to teach them
how to live by their daily labour. Accordingly, we
pursued them with our guns, at the hearing of which,
;hey were so terrified, that they would sall to the
rround, Every day we killed and wounded some
3s them, and many we found starved to death, so
:hat our hearts began to relent at the sight of such
niserable objects. At last, with great difficulty,
:aking one of them alive, and using him with kind-
iess and tenderness, we brought him to Old Fri-
lay, who talked to him, and told him, how good we
tfould be to them all, giving them corn and land to
>lant and live in, and present nourishment, pro-
dded they would keep within such bounds as should
>e allotted them, and not do prejudice to others: Gt
hen, said he, and inform your countrymen of this;
uhicb, if they will not agree to, every one of tlitmjboll
.e slain.
The poor creatures, thoroughly humbled, being
educed to about thirty-seven, joysully accepted the
ffer, and earnestly begged for food; hereupon we
ent twelve Spaniards and two Englishmen, well
rmed, together with Old Friday, and three Indian
aves who marched to the place where they were,
"he slaves were loaded with a large quantity of
read, and rice cakes* with three live goats: and the
poor
poor Indians being ordered to sit down on the side of
the hill, they ate the victuals very thanksully, and
have proved saithsul to the last, never trespassing be-
yond their bounds, where, at this day, they quietly
and happily remain, • and where we now and then
visit them.. They are confined to a neck of land
about a mile and a half broad, and three or four in
lengths on the south-east corner of the iQand, the
sea being before, and lofty mountains behind them,
free from the appearance of canoes : and indeed their
countrymen have never made any enquiry after them.
We gave them twelve hatchets, and three or four
knives ; have taught them to build huts, make wood-
en spades, plant corn, make bread, breed tame go.its,
and milk them, as likewise to make wicker-work,
in which, I must ingenuously consess, they insinitely
outdo us, having made themselves several pretty ne-
cessaries and sancies, as baskets, sieves, bird cages,
and cupboards, as also stools, beds, and couches,
no less useful than delightsul ; and now the live the
most innocent and inoffensive creatures that ever
were subdued in the world, wanting nothing but
wives to make them a nation.
Thus, kind Sir, have I given you, according to
ray ability; an impartial account of the various trans-
actions that have happened in the island since your
departure, to this day; and we have great reason to
acknowledge the kind providence of heave.n in our
mercisul deliverance. Whan you inspect your little
kingdom, you will sind sn it some little improve-
ment, your flocks increased, and your iubjects aug-
mented . so that from a desolate island, as this was
before your wondersul deliverance upon it, here is a
visible prospect of its becoming a populous and well
governed little kingdom, to your immortal fame and
glory.
The end of the Spanijh governor's relation.
The continuation of the life of Robinson Crusoe, loth
os those passages that happened during the time of his
his continuance on the island, and after his departure,
till he arrived agabi in his native country.
THERE is no doubt to.suppose but that thepre-'
cedent relation of my saithsul Spaniard wa«
.yei V agreeable, and no less surprizing to me, to the
young priest, and to all who heard it: nor were these
people less pleased with those necessary utensils that
J.brought them, such as the'knives, icissars, spades,
shovels, and pickaxes, with which they now adorn
their habitations. So much had they adicted them-
selves to. wicker-work, prompted by the ingenuity of
the Indrans, who aslisted them, that when I viewed
the Englishmen's colonies, they setnied at a distance
as though they had lived like bees in a hive: for
\VilI. A kins who was now become a very industri-
ous and sober man, had made hinrlclf a tent of bas-
ket-work round the outfide; the walls were worked
in as a basket, in pannels or strong squares of thirty-
tvvo in number, standing about (even seet high: in
the middle was another, not above twenty-two paces
round, but much stronger built, being of an.octo-
rronal form, and in the eight corners stood eight
strong posts, round the top of which he laid strong-
pieces, pinned with wooden pins, from which he
raised a pyramid for the roof, mighty pretty, I allure
you, and joined very well together with iron spikes,
which he made himself; for he had made him a
forge, with a pair of wooden bellows and charcoal
for his work, forming an anvil out of one of the iron
crov/s, to work upon, and in this manner would hi
make himself hooks, staples, spikes, bolts, and hinges.
After he had pitched the roof of his innermost tent,
he made it so firm between the rafters with basket-
work, thatching that over again with rice-straw,
and over that a large leaf of a tree, that his house
was as dry as if it had been tiled or slated. The
outer circuit was covered as a lean-to quite round
this inner apartment, laying long rafters from the
thirty-two angles to the top-posts of the inner house,
about twenty seet distant: so that there was a space
like a walk betwixt the outer and inner wall, near
twenty seet in breadth. The inner place he parti-
tioned off with the same wicker-work, dividing it
iato six neat apartments, every one of which had a
door, first into the entry of the main tent, and ano-
ther into the space and walk that was round it, not'
only convenient for retreat, but for samily necessaries.
Within the door of the outer circle, there was a pas-
sage directly to the door of the inner h®use ; on either
side was a wicker partition, and a door, by which •
you go first into a large room twenty-two seet wide,
and about thirty long, and through that into ano-
ther of a smaller length, so that in the outer circle
were ten handsome rooms, tix of which were only
to be come at through the apartments of the innes
tent, serving as retiring rooms to the respective cham-
bers of the inner circle, and four large warehouses,
which went in through one another, two on either
hand of the passage chat led through the outer door
to the inner tent.^ In short, nothing could be built
more ingeniously, kept more neat, or have better
conveniences; and here lived the three samilies,
Will. Atkins, his companion, their wives and chil-
dren, and the widow of the deceased. As to re-
ligion, the men seldom taught their wives the know-
ledge of God, any more than the sailors custom of
swearing by his name. The greatest improvement
their wives had, was, they taught them to speak
English, so as to be understood.
None of their children were then above six years
• 1 old;
old; they were all fruitsul enough; and, I think,
the cook's mate's wise was big of her sixth child.
When I enquired of the Spaniards about their
circumstances while among the savages, they told
me, that they abandoned themselves to despair,
reckoning themselves a poor and miserable people,
that had no means put into their hands, and conse-
quently must soon be starved to death. They own-
ed, however, that they were in the wrong to think
so, and for resusing the assistance that reason offered
for their support, as well as suture deliverance, con-
sessing that grief was a most insignificant passion, as
it looked upon things as withouc remedy, and having
no hope of things to come; all which verified this
noted proverb,
In trouble to be troubled,
Is to have your trouble doubled.
Nor did his remarks end here; for, making ob-
servations upon my improvements, and on my con-
dition at first, infinitely worse than theirs, iie told me,
that. Englishmen had, in their distress, greater pre-
sence of mind than those of any other country that
he had met with; and that they and the Portuguese
were the worst men in the world to struggle under
misfortunes. When they landed among the savages,
they found but little provision, except they would
turn cannibals, there being but a sew roots and herbs,
with little substance in them, and of which the na-
tives gave them but very sparingly. Many were the
ways they took to civilize and teach the savages,
but in vain: for they would not own them to be
their instructors, whose lives were owing to their
bounty. Their extremities were very great, many
days being entirely without food, the savages there
being more indolent and less devouring than those
who had, better supplies. When they went out to
battle, they were obliged to assist these people, in one
of which my saithful Spaniard being taken, and like
to have been devoured. They had lost their ammu-
nition, which rendered their fire arms useless; nor
could they use the bows and arrows that were given
them, so that while the armies were at a distance,
they had no chance, but when close, then they could
be of service with halberts, and sharpened sticks put
into the muzzles ,of their muskets. They made
themselves targets of wood, covered with the skins
of wild beasts; and when one happened to be
knocked down, the rest of the company fought over
him till he recovered: and then standing close in a
line, they would make their way through a thousand
• savages. At the return of their friend who they
thought had been entombed in the bowels of their
enemies, their joy was inconceivable. Nor were
they less surprized at the sight of the loves of bread
I had sent them, things that they had not seen for se-
veral years, at the same time crossing and blessing it,
as though it was manna sent from heaven : but when
thev knew the errand, and perceived the boat which
was to carry them to the person and place from
whence such relief came, this struck them with such
a surprize of joy as made some of them saint away,
and others burst out into tears.
This was the summary account that I had from
them. I shall now inform the reader what I next
did for them, and in what condition I left them. As
we were all of opinion that the savages would scarce
trouble them any more, so we had no apprehensions
on that score. I told them I was come putely to
establish, and not to remove them; and, upon that
occasion, had not only brought them necessaries for
convenience and desence, but also artisicers, and o-
ther persons, both for their neceflary employments,
and to add to their number, they were all together
when I thus talked to them; and before I delivered
to them the stores I brought, I asked them one by
one, if they had entirely forgot their first animosities,
would
would engage in the strictest friendship, and shake
hands with one another? On this Will. Atkins,
with abundance of good humour, said, they bad
afflictions enough to make them all sober, and ene-
mies enough to make them all friends: as for himself,
he would live and die among them, owning, that
what the Spaniards had done to him, his own mad
humour had made necessary for them to do. Nor
had the Spaniards .occasion to justify their proceed-
ings tome; but they to'd me, that, since Will. At-
kins had behaved himself so valiantly in sight, and at
other times shewed such a regard to the common in-
terest of them all, they had not only forgotten all
that was past, but thought he ought as much to be
trusted with arms and necessaries as any of them,
which they testified by making him next in com-
mand to the governor: and they most heartily em-
braced the occasion of giving me this solemn as-
surance, that they would never separate their interest
again as long as they lived.
After these kind declarations of friendship, we ap-
pointed all of us to dine together the next day; upon
this I caused the ship's cook and his mate to come
on shore for that purpose, to assist in dressing our
dinner. We brought from the ship six pieces os
beef, and four of pork, together with our punch-
bowl, and materials to fill it; and in particular, I
gave them ten bottles of French claret, and ten of
English beer, which was very acceptable to them.
The Spaniards added to our seast five whole kids,
•which being roasted, three of them were sent as fresh
meat to the sailors on board, and the other two w«
ate ourselves. After our merry and innocent feast
was over, I began to dii.ribute my cargo among
them. First, I gave them lineh sufficient to make
every one of them four shirts, and at the Spaniards
request made them up six. The thin English stuffs
I allotted to make every one a light coat like a frock,
agreeable to the climate, and left them such a quanti-
ty'
k
U
1
ty, as to make more upon their decay: as also
punps, (hoes, hats, and stockings. It is not to be
expressed the pleasing satissation which sat upon xhz
countenances of these poor men, when they per-
ceived what care I took of them, as if I had been a
common sather to them all; and they all engaged
never to leave the island, till I gave my content for
their departure. I then presented to them the peo-
ple I brought, to wit, the tailor, smith, and the two
carpenters; but my Jack of all trades was the most
acceptable present I could make them. My tailor
sell immediately to work, and made every one of
them a shirt; after which, he learned the women
how to sew and stitch, hereby to become the more
helpsul to their husbands. Neither were the car-
penters less usesul, taking in pieces their clumsey
things, instead of which, rhe) made convenient and
handsome tables, stools, bedsteads, cupboards, lockers
and shelves. But when I carried them to see Will
Atkins's basket-house, they owned they never saw
such a piece of natural ingenuity before: I am sure,
said one of the carpenters, the man that built this
has no need of us: you need, Sir, do nothing but give him
tools.
I divided the tools among them in this manner: to
every man I gave a digging spade, a shovel and a
rake, as having no harrows or ploughs; and to
every separate place a pick axe, a crow, a broad axe,
and a saw, with a store for a general supply, should
any be broken or worn out. 1 left them also nails,
staples, hinges, hammers, chissels, knives, seissars,
and all forts of tools and iron work; and, for the
use of the smith, gave them three tons of unwrought
iron for a supply: and as to arms and ammunition,
I stored them even to prosusion; or, at least, to
equip a sufficient little army against all opposers
whatsoever.
The young man (whose mother was unfortunate-
236
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
ly starved to death), together with the maid, a pious
and well educated young woman, seeing things (a
well ordered on short (for I made them accompany
me), and considering they had no occasion to go so
far a voyage as to the East-Indies, they both desired
of me, that I would leave them there, and enter
them among my subjects. This I readily agreed to,
ordering them a plat of ground, on which were three
little houses erected, environed with basket work, pal-
lisadoed like Atkins's, and adjoining to his planta-
tion. So contrived were their tents, that each os
them had a room apart to lodge in, while the middle
tent was not only their store-house, but their place
foreatiny ami drinking. At this time the two
Englishmen removed their habitation to their sor-
mer place; so that now the island was divided into
three colonies; fir/}, Those I have just now menti-
oned ; secondly, That of Will. Atkins, where there
were four samilies of Englistimen, with their wives
and children, the widow and her children: the young
man and the maid, who, by the way, we made a
wise of before our departure; three savages, who
were slaves; the tailor, smith,, (who served also as a
gunsmith), and my other celebrated person called
"Jack of all trades. Thirdly j my chief colony, which
consisted of the Spaniards, with old Friday, who
still remained at my old habitation, which was my
capital city: and surely never was there such a me-
tropolis, it now being hid in so obscure a grove, that
i thousand men might have ranged the island amonth,
and looked purposely for it, without being able to
ind it, though the Spaniards had enlarged its boun-
laries, both without and within, in a most fur-
fifing manner.
But now I think it high time to speak of the
'oung French priest of the order of St. Benedict,
vhose judicious and pious discourses, upon sundry
iccasions, merit an extraordinary observation; nor
an his being a French Papist priest, I presume, give
offence
OF R(
Act to any (
*nncesroia,
««teous dtfpoj
n Hisar?
H his co
Pfothalh.
A&idhet
4t|™etimt <
Pity; i
,i net.
leased
"Knot
i? *
offence to any of my readers, when they have this
assurance from me, that he was a person of the most
courteous disposition, extensive charity, and exalted
piety.- His arguments were always agreeable to rea-
son, and his conversation the most acceptable of any
person that I had ever yet met wkh in my lise.
Sir, said he to me one day, since, under God (at
the same time crossing his breast) you have not only
saved my life; but, by permitting me to go this voyage,
have granted me the happiness of free coversation, I think
it my duty, as my profession obliges me, to save what souls
I can, by bringing them to the knowledge of some Catho-
lic doctrine, necessary to salvation; and, since these peo-
ple are under your immediate government, m gratitude,
justice i and decency Jor what you have done for me, I
/hall offer m farther points in religion, them what shall
merit your approbation. Being pleased with the mo-
desty of his carriage, I told him he should not be
the worse used for being of a different persuasion, if,
upon that very account, we did not differ in points
of saith, not decent in a part of the country, where
the poor Indians ought to be instructed in the know-
ledge of the true God, and his son Jesus Christ.
To this he replied, that conversation might easily
be separated from disputes; that he would discourse
with me rather as a gentleman than a religious; but
that, if we did enter upon religious arguments, upon
my defiring the same, I would give him liberty to
desend his own principles. He sarther added, that
he would do all that became him in his office, as a
priest as well as a Christian, to procure the happi-
ness of all that was in the ship: that though he
could not pray with, he would pi ay for us, on all
occasions; and then he told me several extraordinary
events of his lise, within a sew years past; but par-
ticularly in this last, which was the most remarkable;
that, in this voyage, he had the misfortune to be
five times shipped and unshipped: his first design
was to have gone to Martinico; for which, taking
L ship
ship at St. Malo, he was forced into Lisbon by bad
weather,' the vessel running aground in the mouth
of the Tagus; that from thence he went on board a
Portuguese ship, bound to the Madeiras, whose mas-
ter being but an indisserent mariner, and out of his
reckoning, they were drove to Fial, where felling
their commodity, which was corn, they resolved to
take in their loading at the Isle of May, and to sail
to Newfoundland; at the banks of which, meeting
a French ship bound to Quebec, in the river of Ca-
nada, and from thence to Martinico, in this ship he
embarked ; the master of which dying at Quebec,
that voyage was suspended; and lastly, shipping him-
self for France, this last ship was destroyed by fire,
as before has been related.
At this time we talked no further; but another
morning he comes to me, just as I was going to visit
the Englishmen's colony, and tells me, that, as he
knew the prosperity of the island was my principal
defire, he had something to communicate agreeable
to my desigi), by which perhaps he might put it,
more than he yet thougjn it was, in the way of the
benediction of heaven. How, Sir? said I, in a sur-
prize, are we not yet in the way of God's blessing,
after all these signal providences and deliverances,
of which you have had such an ample relation? He
replied, I hope, Sir, you are in the way, and that
your good design will prosper: but still there are
some among you that are not equally right in their
actions; and remember, I beseech youv Sir, that
Jchan, by his crime, removed God's blessing from
the camp of the children of Israel; that though six
and thirty were entirely innocent, yet they became
the objects of divine vengeance, and bore the weight
of the punishment accordingly,
So sensibly was I touched with this discourse, and
so satisfied with that ardent piety that inflamed his
foul, that I defired him to accompany me to the
Englishmens plantations, which he was very glad ff>
k reas
K did he,
f«i but
^ereic
fe
%stCa,nd,
by reason they were the subjects of what he de-
signed to discourse with me about: and while we
walked on together, he began in the follow man-
ner:
Sir, did he, I must consess it is a great unhappi-
ness that we disagree in several doctrinal articles of
religion; but, surely both of us acknowledge this,
that there is a God, who having given us some stated
rules for our service and obedience, we ought not
willingly anslknowmgly to offend him, eitherby neg-
lecting what he has commanded, or by doing what
he has forbidden. This truth every Christian owns,
that whenever any one presumptuoufly sins against
God's command, the Almighty then withdraws his
blessing from him; every good man therefore ought
certainly to prevent such neglect of, or sin against
God and his commands. I thanked the young priest
for expressing so great a concern for us, and defired
him to explain the particulars os what he had ob-
served, that, according to the parable of Achan, I
might remove the accursed thing from' among us.
Why then, Sir, said he, in the first place, you have
four Englishmen, who have taken savage women to
their wives, by whom they have several children,
though none of them are legally married, as the
law of God and man requires; they, I say, Sir, zxe
no less than adulterers, and as they still live in adul-
tery, are liable to the curse of God. I know, Sir,
you may object the want of a priest, or clergyman
of any kind; as also, pen, ink, and paper, to write'
down a contract of marriage, and have it signed be-
tween them. But neither this, nor what the Spanisli
governor has told you of their chusing by consent,
can be reckoned a marriage, nor any more than an
agreement' to keep' them from quarreling among
themselves; for, Sir, the essence or sacrament of
matrimony (so he called it) not only consists in mu-
tual consent, but in the legal obligation, which
compels them to own and acknowledge one another,
»4°
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
to abstain from other persons, the men to provide
for their wives and children, and the women to tht
fame and like conditions, mutatis, mutandis, on their
side : whereas, Sir, these men, upon their own plea-
sure, on any occasion, may forsake those women,
and marry others, and by disowing their children,
suffer them utterly to perish. Now, Sir, added he,
can God be honoured in such an unlawsul liberty as
this? how can a blessing succeed the best endeavours,
it men are allowed to live in so licentious a way? I
was indeed struck with the thing myself, and thought
that they were much to blame, that no formal con-
tract had been made, though it had been but break-
ing a stick between them, to engage them to live as
man and wise, never to separate, but love, cherish,
and comfort one another all their lives; yet. Sir,
said I, when they took these women, I was not here,
and if it is adultery, it is past my remedy, and I can-
not help it. True, Sir, answered the young priest,
you cannot be charged with that part of the crime which
•was done in your absence: but I beseech you, don't fatter
yourself, that you are under no obligation now to put ave-
rted to it: which if you neglect to do, the guilt will be
entirely on you alone, since it is certainly in nobody's power
but yours, to alter their condition. I must confess, I
was so dull, that I thought he meant I should part
them, and knowing that this would put the whole
island in consusion, I told him I could not consent
to it upon any account whatfoever. Sir, said he, in
a great surprise, I do not mean that you should fepareti,
but marry them, by a written contract, signed by both
man and woman, and by all the witnesses present, whkb
ell the European laws decree to he of sufficient efficacy.
Amazed with such true piety and sincerity, and con-
sidering the validity of a written contract, I ac-
knowledged all that he said to be very just and kind;
and that I would discourse with the men about it;
neither could I see what reason they could have not
to let him marry them, whose authority in that affair
is owned to be as authentic as if they were married
.by any of our clergymen in England.
The next complaint he had to make to me was
this, that though these English subjects of mine had
lived with these women seven years, and though
they were of good understanding, and capable of
instruction, having, learned not only to speak, but
to read English, yet all this while they had never
taught them any thing of the Christian religion, or
the knowledge of God, much less in what manner
he ought to be served. And is not this art unaccount-
able negleSt? said he warmly. Depend upon it, God
Almighty will call the/n to account for such contempt. And
though I am not of your religion, yet I should be glad t»
see these people released from the devil's power, and be
saved by the principles of the Christian religion, the
knowledge of God, of a Redeemer, the refurreSlion, and
cf a suture Jlate. But, as it is not too late, if you please
to give me leave to instruct them, I doubt not but I foall
supply this great defecl, by bringing them into the great
circle of Christianity, even while you continue in the
Island.
I could hold no longer, but embracing him, told
him, with a thousand thanks, I would grant what-
ever he requested, and defired him to proceed in the
third article, which he did in the following manner:
Sir, said he, it should be a maxim among all
Christians, That Christian knowledge ought to be pro-
pagated by all possible means, and on all occasions Upon
thisaccount our church sends missionaries into Persia,
India, and China, men who are willing to die for
the sake of God and the Christian saith, in order to
bring poor Infidels into the way of salvation. Now,
Sir, as here is an opportunity to convert seven and
thirty poor savages, I wonder how you caa pass by
such an occasion of doing good, which is really
worth the expence of a man's whole lise.
I must consess I was so confounded at this dis-
course, that I could not tell how to answer him. Sir,
L 3 said
said he, seeing me in disorder, I /hall be very sorry if
J have given you offence. No, Sir, laid I, I am rather
confounded ; and you know my circumstances, that
being bound to the East Indies in a merchant ship,
I cannot wrong the owners so much, as to detain
the ship here, the men lying at victuals and wages on
their account. If I slay above twelve days, 1 must
pay 3I. sterling per diem demurrage, nor must the
sliip stay above eight days more; so that I am unable
to engage in this work, unless I would leave the
ship, and be reduced to my former condition. The
priest, though he owned this was hard upon me,
yet laid it to my conscience, whether the blessing of
laving seven and thirty souls was not worth venturing
all that I had in the world? Sir, said I, it is very
. true: but as you are an ecclesiastic, it naturally salls
into your prosession; why, therefore, don't you ra-
ther offer to undertake it yourself/than press me to
it? Upon this he turned about, making a very low
bow, I most humbly thank God and you, Sir, said
he, for so blessed a call; and most willingly under-
take so glorious an office, which" will sufficiently
compensate all the hazards and difficulties 1 have
gone through in a long and uncomfortable voyage.
While he was thus speaking, I could discover a
rapture in his sace, by his colour going and coming;
at the same time his eyes sparkled like fire, with all
the sign6 of the most zealous transports. And when
I asked whether he was in earnest? Sir, said he, it
was to preach to the Indians, I consented to come
along with you; these infidels, even in this little
island, are infinitely of more worth than my poor
jise; if so that I should prove the happy instrument
of saving these poor creatures souls, I care not if I
never see my native country again. One thing I
only beg of you more, is, that you would leave
Friday with me, to be my interpreter, without
whose assistance neither of us will understand each
ether.
This
This request very sensibly troubled me; first, upon
Friday's being bred a Protestant; and, secondly, for
the affection I bore to him for his sidelity: But, im-
mediately the remembrance of Friday's sather com-
ing into my head, I recommended him to him as
having learned Spanish, which the priest also under-
stood: and so was thoroughly satisfied with him.
When we came to the Englishmen, after I had
told them what necessary things I had done for them,
I talked to them of the scandalous lise they led, told
-them what notice the clergyman had taken of it, and
asked them if they were married men or bachelors?
They answered, two of them were widowers, and
the other three single men. But, said I, with what
conscience can you call these your wives, by whom
you have so many children, and yet are not law-
sully married? They all said, that they took them
before the governor as such, having nobody else to
marry them, which they thought as legal, as is they
had had a parson. No doubt, said I, but in the eye
God it is so: but unless I am assured of your ho-
nest intent, never to desert these poor creatures, I
can do nothing more for you, neither can you ex-
pect God's blessing while you live in such an open^
course of adultery. Hereupon, Will Atkins, who
spoke for the rest, told me, That they believed their
wives the most innocent and virtuous creatures in
the world: that they would never forsake them while
they had breath; and that, if there was a clergyman
in the ship, they would be married to them with all
their heart. I told you before, said I, that I have a
minister with me, who shall marry you to-morrow
morning, is you are willing; so I would have you
consult to-night, with the rest, about it. I told him
the clergymen was a Frenchman, and knew not a
word of English, but that I would act as a clerk be-
tween them. And indeed this business met with
such speedy success, that they all told me, in a sew
minutes after, that they were ready to be formally
L 4 married,
married, as soon as 1 pleased; with which inform-
ing the priest, he was exceedingly rejoiced.
Nothing now remained, butthat the women should
Ije made sensible of the meaning of the thing; with
which being well satisfied, they, with their.husbands,
attended at my apartment the next morning; there
was my priest, habited in a black vest, something
Jike a cassock, with a sash round it, much resem-
bling a minister, and I was his interpreter. But the
seriousness of his behaviour, and the scruples he made
of marrying the women, who were not baptized,
gave them an exceeding reverence for his person: nor
indeed would he marry them at all, till he obtained
ray liberty to discourse both with the men and wo-
men, and then he told them, That, in the sight os
all indifferent men, and in the sense of the laws of
society, they had lived in open adultery, which no-
shing now, but their consent to marry, or final se-
paration, could put an end to; and even here was »
difficulty with respect to the laws of Christian ma-
trimony, in marrying a prosesied Christian to a hea-
then idolater, unbaptized; but yet there was time
enough to make them prosess the name of Christ,
without which nothing could be done; that, besides,
Jie believed themselves very indifferent Christians;
and consequently had not discoursed with their wives
upon thatsubject; and that unless they promised him
to do so, he could not marry them, as being expressly
forbidden by the'laws of God.
All this they heard attentively, and owned readily,
But, Lord,. Sir, fold Will Atkins to me, bow shouli
uue teach them religion, who know nothing of it ourselves?
JJow can we talk to our wives of 'God, Jesus Christ, hea-
ven and hel 1 ? why they would only laugh at us, who never
yet have promised religion, but on the contrary all manner
ef wickedness. Will Atkins, said I, cannot you tell
your wise she is in the wrong, and that her gods are
idols, which can neither hear, speak, nor under-
stand: but that our God, who has made, can destroy
all things; that he rewards the good, and punishes
the wicked; and at last will bring us to judgment?
cannot you tell her these things; That's true, said
Atkins, but then she'll tell me, it is utterly salse,
since I am not punished and sent to the devil, who
hath been such a wicked creature. These words I
interpreted to the priest! O! said he, tell him, his
repentance will make him a very good minister to his
spouse, and qualify him to preach on the mercy and
long-suffering of a mercisul Being, who desires not
the death of a sinner, and even desers damnation to
the last judgment; this will lead him to the doctrine
of, and will make him an excellent preacher to his
wise. I repeated this to Atkins, who, being more
than ordinary affected with it, replied, I know all
this, Sir, and a great deal more; but how can I
have the impudence to talk thus to my wise, when
my conscience witnesses against me? ALAS ! said
he, (with tears in his eyes, and giving a great sigh)
as for repenting* that is for ever past me. Past you-!
Atkins, said I, what do you mean? You know well
enough, said he, what I mean; / mean it is too
~late.
When I told the priest what he said, the poor af-
sectionate man could not refrain from weeping; but
recovering himself, Pray, Sir, said he, ajkhitnifhe
.is contented that it is too late; or is he..concerned, and
wishes it were not so? This question I put sairly to
Atkins, who. replied in a passion, How can J be easy
* in a Jlate which I know must terminate in my ruin ? for
I really believe, some time or other, I shall cut my throat,
4o put a period both to my life and to the terrors of my
conscience.
At this the clergyman shook his head. Sir, said
,he, Pray tell him is not too late; Chrijl will give him
repentance, if he has recourse to the merit of his passion.
JDo£S hie think hi is beyond the power of divine mercy?
~ibert may indeed be a time when provoked mercy will no •
Jenger J}rive, but never too late for men to repent in this
JL £ world*-
world. I told Atkins every word the priest had said,
who then parted from us to talk to his wise, while
we dilcouried with the rest. But these were very
stupid in religious matters, yet all of them promised
to do their endeavours to make their wives turn
Christians; and upon which promises the priest
married the three couple-. But as Atkins was the
only sincere convert, and of more senlc than the
rest, my clergyman was earnestly enquiring after
him: Sir, said he, let us walk out of this labyrinth,
and I dare fay we shall find this poor man preaching Is
his wife already. And indeed we found it true; for
coming to the edge of the wood, we perceived At-
lcins and his savage wise sitting under the shade of a
bush, in very earnest discourse; he pointed to the
sun, to the quarters of the earth, to himself, to her,
the woods, and the trees. Immediately we could
perceive him start upon his seet, fall down upon his
knees, and lift up both his hands; at which the
tears ran down my clergyman's cheeks; but our
great misfortune was, we could not hear one word
that passed between them. Another time he would
embrace her, wiping the tears from her eyes, kissing
her with the greatest transports, and then both kneel
down for some minutes together. Such raptures of
joy did this occasion in my young priest, that he
could scarcely contain himself $ And a little after
this, we observed by her motion, as frequently lift-
ing up her hands, and laying them on her breast,
that she was mightily asfected with his discourse,
and so they withdrew from our sight.
When we came back, we found them both wait-
ing to|be called in; upon which we agreed to examine
him alone, and so I began thus to discourse him.
Prithee, Will Atkins, laid I, what education had
you? What was your sather?
JV. A. A better man than ever I shall be: he was,
Sir, a clergyman, who gave me good instruction, or
correction,
correction, which I despised, like a brute as I was,
and murdered my poor sather.
Pr. Ha! a murderer!
[Here the priejl jlprted and looked pale, a; thinking
he had really killed his father.]
R. C. What, did you kill him with your hands?
W. A. No, Sir, I cut not his throat, but broke
his heart, by the most unnatural turn of disobedience
to the tenderest and best of sathers.
R. C. Well, I pray God grant you repentance;
I did not ask you to extort a consession; but I asked
you, because I see you have more knowledge of what
is good, than your companions.
IV. A. O, Sir, whenever I look back upon my
past lise, conscience upbraids me with my sather:
the sins against our parents make the deepest wounds,
and their weight lies the heaviest upon the mind.
R. C. You talk, Will, too seelingly and sensibly
for me; I am not able to bear it.
IF. A. You bear it, Sir! you know nothing of it.
R. C. But yes, Atkins, I do; and every shore,
valley, and tree in this island, witness the anguish
of my soul for my undutisulness to my kind sather,
whom I have murdered likewise; yet my repentance
salls infinitely short of yours. But Will, how
comes the sense of this matter to touch you just
now?
W. A. Sir, the work you have set me about, has
occasioned it; for talking to my wise about God
and religion, she has preached me such a sermon,
that I shall retain it in lasting remembrance.
R. C. No, no, it is your own moving pious ar-
guments to her, has made conscience fling them
back upon you. But pray, Atkins, inform us what
pasted between you and your wise, and in what
manner did you begin.
IV. A. I talked to her of the laws of marriage, the
reason of such compacts, whereby order and justice
is maintained; without which, men would run from
L 6 their
tVueir wives and children, to the dissolution of sami-
lies or inheritances.
R. C. Well, and what did (he say to all this?
W. A. Sir, we began our discourse in the follow-
ing manner, which 1 shall exactly repeat according
to my mean capacity, if you think it worth your
•while to honour it with your attention.
<tfie DIALOGUE between Will. Atkins and hit-
Wife in the wood.
Wife. X7"OU tell me marriage God appoint, have
JL you God in your country?
A. Yes, child, God is in every nation.
Wife. No; great old Benamuckee god is in my
country, not yours.
W. A. My dear, God is in heaven, which he
made; he also made the eatth, the sea, and all that
is ihetein.
Wife. Why you not tell me much long ago?
IV. A. My dear, I have been a wicked wretch,
Jraving a long time Jived without the knowledge of
God in the world.
Wife. What, not know great God in own na-
tion? No do good ting? No say O to him? that's
strange!
W. A. But, my dear, many live as. if there was
f\p God in heaven for all that.
Wife. Why God suffer this f whv makee not live-
well ?.
W. Æ: It is our own faults, child'.
Wise. But if he much great, can makee kill, why
tio makee kill when noferye him? No be good mans
no cry O to him?
W. A: That's true, my dear, he may strike us
dead, but his abundant mercy fpareth us.
.Wife. Did not you tell God tankee for that?
W.JL
OF 8
"m, nor se
% The
"ormakee kill
* I Ala
from believing
ire,
»«wedo
git
^ times
,w. *• %
W. A. No, I have neither thanked him for his
mercy, nor seared him for his power.
Wife. Then me not believe your God be good,
nor makee kill, when you makee him angry.
W. A. Alas! must my wicked lise hinder you
from believing in him ?.
Wise. How can me thlk your God live there?
(pointing to heaven.) Sure he no ken what you do
here.
W. A. Yes, yes, my dear, he hears us speak, sees
what we do, and knows what we even think.
Wife. Where then makee power strong, when he
hears you curse, swear de great damn?
W. A. My dear this shew* heis indeed a God arid
not a man, who has such tender mercy.
Wife. Mercy \ what you cail mercy?
W^. A. He pities and spares us: as he is our great
Creator, so is He also our tender sather.
Wife. So God never angry, never kill wicked,
then he no good, no great mighty.
W. A. O my dear, don't say so, he is both; and'
many times he shews terrible examples of hisjudge-
ment and vengeance;
'Wife. Then you makee de'bargarn with him; you
do bad ting, he no hurt you, he hurt other mans.
W. A'. No, indeed, my sins are all presumptions
upon his goodness.
.Wife. Well, and yet no makee you dead? and
you give him no tankee neither?
W. A. Itis true,.I am an ungratesul,, unthanksul
dog, that I am.
Wife. Why, you fay, "he makee you, why makee
you no much better then.
W. A. it is I alone that have deformed myself,
and abused his goodness.
Wife. Pray makee God know me, me no makee
him angry, no So bad tingi
W. Al You triean, my dear„*that you defire I
«Kiuld teach yott to- know God t alas I poor tfear
creature.
creature, he must teach thee, and not I. But I'll
pray earnestly to him to direct thee, and to forgive
tnc, a miserable sinner. (Hereupon be went a- little
dijlance, and kneeling down, prayed earnejlly to God to
enlighten her mind, and to pardon his fins; when this
U/as done, they continued their discourse thus.)
Wife. What you put down knee for? For what
hold up hand? Who you speak to?
W. A. My dear, I bowed in token of submission
to him that made me, and prayed that he would open
your eyes and understanding.
Wife. And can he do that too? And will he hear
.yvhat you say?
W, A. Yes, my dear, he bids us pray, and has
given us promise that he will hear us;
Wife. When did he bid you pray? What do you
hear him speak?
W- A. No, my dear, but God has spoken for-
merly to good men from heaven; and by divine re-
velation they have written all his laws down in a
book.
Wife. O where dat good book?
W. A. I have it not now by me; but one time or
0ther I shall get it for you to read. Then he embraced
far with great affeclion.
Wife. Pray tell a mde did God teachee them write
tha1 book?
W' A. Yes, and by that rule we know him to be
God,'
Wife, What way, what rule you know him?
W- A. Because he teaches what is good, just, and
jioly; and forbids all wicked and abominable actions
that incur his displeasure.
Wife- O me sain understand that, and if he do
all things you say he do, surely heheaY me say O to
him; he makee me good if I wish to be good; he
kill me if I love him j me tink, believe him great
God; rne say O tp him; along with you, my dear.
Mere the poor man fell upon his knets, and made her
hieel down by him, praying with the greatest fervency,
that God would instrucl her by his Holy Spirit; and that
God by his providence would fend them a Bible for both
their instructions. And such was the early piety of this new
convert, that Jhe made him promise never to forsake God
any more, lest, being made dead, as she called it, Jhe
should not only want her injlruclor, but himself be miser-
able in a long eternity.
Such a surprizing account as this was, proved
very assecting to us both, but particularly to the
young clergyman, who was mightily concerned he
could not talk to her himself. Sir, said he, there is
something more to be done to this woman than to
marry her: I mean that she ought to be baptized.
To this I presently agreed: Pray, said he, ask her
husband, whether he has ever talked to her of Jesus
Christ, the salvation of sinners, the nature of saith,
and redemption in and by him, of the Holy Spirit,
the resurrection, last judgment, and a suture state;
but the poor sellow melted into tears at this ques-
tion, say ing, that he had said something to her of these
things, but his inability to talk of them, made him
afraid lest her knowledge of them should rather make
her contemn religion, than be benesited by it: but
that, if I would discourse with her, it would be very
evident ray labour would not be in vain. Accord-
ingly I called her in, and placing myself as inter-
preter between the religious priest and the woman, I
entreated him to go on; but surely never was such
a sermon preached by any clergyman in these latter
days, with so much zeal, knowledge, and sincerity;
in short, he brought the woman to embrace the
knowledge of Christ, and of redemptioa by him,
with so surprising a degree of understanding, that
flie made it her own request to be baptized.
He then performed his osfice in the sacrament of
baptism, first, by saying some words over to himself
in Latin, and then asking me to give her a name, as
fceing her godfather, and pouring a whole dish sull
.of
of water upon the woman's head, he said, MARY,
1 baptize thee in the name of the Father, and of the
,Son, and of the Holy Ghost; so that none could
1cnow of what religion he >was. After this he pro-
nounced the benediction in Latins Thus the wo-
„ man being made a Christian, he married her to Will
Atkins; which being finished, he asfectionately ex-
horted him to lead a holy life for the suture; that
since the Almighty, by the convictions of his con-
science, had honoured him to be the instrument of
4iis wise's conversion, he should not dishonour the
grace of God, that while the savage was converted,
the instrument should be cast away. Thus ended
a ceremony, to me the most pleasant and agreeable
X ever passed in my lise.
The affairs of the island being settled, I was pre-
paring to go on board, when the young man (whose
pother was starved) came to me, saying, that as he
understood I had a clergyman with me, who had
married the Englishmen with savages, he had a
match to make between two Christians, which h«
desired might be finished before I departed. Think-
ing that it was he himself that had courted his mo-
ther's maid, I persuaded him not to do any thing
rashly upon the account of his solitary circum-
stances; that the maid was-an unequal match soj
him, both 'in respect to -substance and years; and
that it was very probable he would live to return to
his own country, where he might have.a sar better
choice. At these words, smiling, he interrupted me,
shanking me for my good advice;-that as he had no-
thing to beg of me, but a small settlement, with a
/ervantor-two, or some sew necessaries, so he hoped
J would not be unmindsul of him when I returned
to England, but give his letters to his friends; and
,that when he was redeemed,, the plantation, and all
ats improvements, however .valuable, ihauld be re-
suzncd ta me again, But as for the.jnacmge he
proDosedi
proposed, that it was not himself, but that it was
between my Jack of all trades, and the maid Susan.
I was indeed agreeably surprised at the mention-
ing this match, which seemed very suitable, the one
being a very ingenious sellow, and the other an ex-
cellent, dexterous, and sensible house-wise, sit to
be governess of the whole island: so we married
them the same dayj and, as I was her sather, and
gave her away, so I gave her a handsome portion,
appointing her and her husband a convenient large
space of ground for their plantation. The sharing
out of the land I left to Will Atkins, who really
divided it very justly, to every person's satissaction;
they only defired one general writing under my hand
for the whole, which I caused to be drawn up, sign-
ed, and sealed to them, setting out their bounds,
and giving them a right to the whole poffeffion of
their respective plantations, with their improve-
ments, to them and their heirs, reserving all the rest
of the island as my own property, and a certain rent
for every particular plantation, after eleven years,
As to their laws and government, I exhorted them
to love one another: and as to the Indians who
lived in a nook by themselves, I allotted three or
four of them plantations^ and the rest willingly chose
to become servants to the other samilies, by which
means they were employed in usesul labour, and
sared much better than they did before. Besides,
the savages, being thus mixed with the Christians,
the work of their conversion might be set on foot by
the latter, in the clergyman^ absence, to our equal
satissaction. The young priest, however, was a
little anxious left the Christians should not be will-
ing to do their parts in instructing those poor In-
dians; I therefore told him, we should, call them all
together; that he should speak to the Spaniards who
were Papists, and I to the Englisliwho were Protes-
tants, and make them promise that they would never
.make any distinction in religion, but teach the ge-
neral
neral true knowledge of God, and his Son Jesus
Christ, in order to convert the poor savages. And
this, indeed, they all promised us accordingly.
When I came to Will Atkins's house, I found
bis baptized wise, and the young woman newly mar-
ried to my Jack of all trades, were become great in-
timates, and discoursing of religion together. 0,
Sir, says Will Atkins, when God has sinners to
reconcile to himself, he never wants an instructor:
I knew I was unworthy for so good a work, and
therefore this young woman has been sent hither as
it were from heaven, who is sufficient to convert a
whole island of savages. The young woman blush-
ed, and was going to rise: but I defired her to sit
flill, and hoped that God would bless her in so good
a work; and then, pulling out a Bible, (which I
brought on purpose in my pocket for him) Here,
.Atkins, said I, here is an assistant that perhaps you
bad not before. So confounded was the poor man,
that it was some time before he could speak: at last,
turning to his wise, My dear, he said, did I not tell
you that God could hear what we said? Here's the
book I prayed for, when you and I kneeled under
lYie bush: God then heard us, and now has sent it.
.The woman was surprised, and thought really God
bad sent that individual book from heaven; but I
turned to the young woman, and defired her to ex-
plain to the new convert, that God may properly
be said to answer our petitions, when, in the course
0{ his providence, such particular things come to
pass as we petitioned for. This the young woman
did effectually; but surely Will Atkins's joy can-
not be expressed; no man being more thanksul for
any thing in the world, than he was for his Bible,
xior defired it from a better principle.
After several religious discourses, I defired the
young woman to give me an account of the anguish
{he selt when she was starving to death for hunger;
to
to which she readily consented, and began in the fol-
lowing manner:
"Sir," said she, " all our victuals being gone,
after I had sasted one day, my stomach was very
fickisli, and, at the approach of night, I was in-
clined to yawning and sleepy. When I slept upost'
the couch three hours, I awaked a little refreshed:
three hours after, my stomach being more and more
sickish, I lay down again, but could not sleep, being
veTy saint and ill. Thus I passed the second day
with a strange variety, first hungry, then sick again,
with teachings to vomit: that night I dreamed I
was at Barbadoes, buying plenty of provisions, and
dined heartily. But when I awaked, my spirits were
exceedingly sunk, to find myself in the extremity of
samine. There was but pne glass of wine, which
being mixed with sugar, I drank up; but for want
of substance to digest upon, the sumes of it got into
my head, and made me senseless for some time. The
third day I was so ravenous and surious, that I could
have eaten a little child if it had come in my way;
during which time, I was as mad as any creature in
Bedlam. In one of these sits I sell down, and struck
my sace against the corner of a pallet bed, where my
mistress lay: the blood gushed out of my nose, but
by my excessive bleeding, both the violence of the
sever, and the ravenous part of the hunger •abated.
After this, I grew sick again, strove to vomit, but
could not; then bleeding a second time, I swooned
away as dead; when I came to myself I had a dread-
sul gnawing pain in my stomach, which went off
towards night, with a longing defire for food. I
took a draught of water and sugar, but it came up
again; (hen I drank water without sugar, and that,
staid with. me. I laid me down on the bed, praying
CJod would take me away; after I had slumbered, I
thought myself a-dying, therefore recommended my
soul to God, and wished somebody would throw me
into the sea. All this while my departing mistress
Jay by me; the last bit of bread (he had, Ihe gave it
to her dear child, my young master. The morning
after, I fell into a violent passion of crying, and after
that into hunger. I espied the blood that came from
my nose in a bason, which I immediately swallowed
up. At night I had the usual variations, as pain
in the stomach, sick, sleepy, and ravenous; and I
had no thought but that I should die before morn-
ing- In the morning came on terrible gripings in
nly bowels. At this time, I heard my young roas-
ter's lamentations, by which I understood his mo-
ther was dead. Seon after, the sailors cried, A sails
ji fsil! hallooing as if they were.distracted for joy
of that relief, which afterwards we received from
from your hands."
Surely never was a more distinct account of starv-
ing to death than this. But to return to the dis-
position of things among my people, I did not take
arty notice to them of the sloop that I had framed,
iieither would I leave' them the two pieces of brass
cannon, or the two quarter deck guns that I had
on board, lest, upon any disgust, they should have
separated, or turned pirates, and so made she island
a den of thieves, instead of a plantation of sober pi-
ous people: but leaving them in a flourishing con-
dition, with a promise to send them surther relief
from Brazil, as sheep, bogs, and cows, (being o-
biiged to kill the latter at sea, having no hay to seed
them), I went on board the ship again, the first of
May 16951, after having been twenty days among
them: and next morning giving them a salute of
five guns at parting, we set sail for the Brazils,
she third day, towards evening, there happening a
calm, and the current being'very strong, we were
drove to the N. N. E. towards the land. Some
hours after we perceived the sea covered as it were
with something very black, not easily at first to be
discovered: upon which our chief mate ascending
.the shrouds a little way,, and taking a view with a
perspective
perspective glass, he cries out, an army! An army,
you fool, said I, what do you mean? Nay, Sir, said
he, don't be angry, I assure you it is not only an ar-
my, but a fleet too; for I believe there are a thou-
sand canoes paddling along, and making with great
haste towards us.
Indeed every one of us were surprised at this re-
lation: and my nephew the captain could not tell
what to think of it, but thought we should all be
devoured. Nor was I free from concern, when I
considered how much we were becalmed, and what
a strong current set towards the shore: however, I
encouraged him not to be afraid, but bring the ship
to an anchor, as soon as we were certain that we
must engage them. Accordingly we did so, and
surled all our sails: as to the savages, we reared
nothing, but only that they might set the ship on
fire; to prevent which, I ordered them to get their
boats out, and sasten them, one close by the head,
and the other by the stern, well manned, with skeets
and buckets to extinguish the flames, mould it so
happen. The savages soon came up with us, but
there were not so many as the mate had said, for in-
stead of a thousand canoes, there were only one
hundred and twenty; too many indeed for us, se-
veral of their canoes containing about sixteen or
seventeen men.
As they approached us, they seemed to be in the
.greatest amazement, not knowing what to make of
us. They rowed round the ship, which occasioned
us to call to the men in the boats, not to suffer them
to come near them. Hereupon they beckoned to
the savages to keep back, which they accordingly
did; but at their retreat they let fly about fifty ar-
rows among us, and very much wounded one of our
men in the long-boat. I called to them not to fire
upon any account, but handing them down some
deal boards., the earpenters made them a kind of a
fence to shield them from the arrows. In half an
hour
hour after they came so near astern of us, that we
had a persect sight of them; then they rowed a little
farther out, till they came directly along fide of us,
and then approached so near as they could hear us
speak : this made me order all our men to-keep close,
and get their guns ready. Jn the mean time I or-
dered Friday to go out upon deck, and ask them in
his language what they meant? no sooner did he do
so, but six of the savages, who were in the foremost
canoes, stooping down, shewed us their naked back-
sides, as much as to say in Englijb, kiss our:
but Friday quickly knew what this meant, by im-
mediately crying out they were going to shoot; un-
fortunately for him, poor creature! who sell under
the cloud of three hundred arrows, no less than seven
piercing through his body, killing one of the best
servants, and saithsulest of companions in all my
solitudes and afflictions.
So enraged was I at the death of poor Friday, that
the guns, which before were charged with only
powder, to frighten them, I ordered to be loaded
vvith small shot; nor did the gunners sail in their
aim, but at this broadside split and overset thirteen
cr fourteen of their canoes, which killed numbers of
them, and set the rest a swimming: the others,
frightened out of their wits, little regarding their
fellows drowning, scoured away as sast as they could.
One poor wretch our people took up, swimming for
bis lise, an hour after. He was very sullen at first,.
so that he would neither eat nor speak: but I took a
-way to cure hhn, by Ordering them to throw him
into the sea, which they did, and then he came
swimming back like a cork, calling in his tongue,
aS J suppose, to save him. So we took him on board, •
but it was a long time before we could make him
speak or understand English; yet when we had
taught him, he told us they were going with their
itings to fight a great battle; and when we asked him,
what made them come up to us? he said, to mate at
.. • great
great wonder look: where, it is tp be noted, that those
natives, and those of Africa, always add two e's at
the end of English words, as makee, takee, and the
like, from which it is a very difficult thing to make
them break osf.
Being now under sail, we took our last sarewell of
poor honest Friday, and interred him with all possi-
ble decency and solemnity; putting him into a cof-
fin, and committing him to the. deep, at the same
time causing eleven guns to be fired for him. Thus
ended the lise of one of the most gratesul, faithsul,
honest, and affectionate servants, that ever any man
was blessed with in the world.
Having now a sair wind for Brazil, in about
twelve days time we made land in the latitude of live
degrees south of the line. Four days we kept on S.
by E. in sight of shore, when we made cape St. Au-
gustine, and in three days we came up to an anchor
off the bay of All Saints. I had great difficulty here
to get leave to hold correspondence on shore; for
neither the sigure of my partner, my two merchant
trustees, nor the same of my wondersul preservation
in the island, could procure me the savour, till such
time as the prior of the monastry of the Augustines
(to whom I had given 500 moidores) obtained leave
from the governor, for me personally, with the cap-
tain and one more, together with eight sailors, to
come on shore; upon this condition, that we (hould
not land any goods out of the ship, or carry any per-
son away without licence: I found means however
to get on shore three bales of English goods, such as
fine broad cloths, stuffs, and some linen, which I
brought as a present for my partner, who had sent
me on board a present of fresh provisions, wine, and
sweetmeats, worth above thirty moidores, including
some tobacco, and three or four sine gold medals.
Here l delivered my partner in goods to the value
of 1 ool. sterling, and obliged him to sit up the sloop
I bought for the use of my island, in. order to send
them
them refreshments: and so active was he in this mat-
ter, that he had the vessel finished in a sew days, ta
the master of which I gave particular instructions to
find the place. I soon loaded him with a small ear-
go; and one of our sailors offered to settle theie,
upon my letter to the Spanish governor, if I would
allot him tools and a plantation. This I willingly
granted, and gave him the savage we had taken pri-
soner to be his slave. All things being ready for the
voyage, my old partner told me, there was an ac-
quaintance of his, a Brazil planter, who having
fallen under the displeasure of the church, and in
fear of the Inquisition, which obliged him to be
concealed, would be glad of such an opportunity to
make his escape, with his wise and two daughters;
and if I would allot them a plantation in my island,
he would give them a small stock to begin with, for
that the officers had already seized his effects and
estate, and left him nothing but a little houshold
stuff, and two slaves. This request I presently
granted, concealing him and his samily on board our
ship, till such time as the sloop (where all the effects
•vvere) was gone out of the bay, and then we put
them on board, who carried some materials, and
plants for planting sugar-canes, along with them.
By this sloop, among other things, I sent my sub-
jects three milk cows and five calves, about 22 hogs,
three sows big with pig, two mares and a stone
horse. I also engaged three Portugal women to go
for sake of the Spaniards, which, with the perse-
cuted man's two daughters, were sufficient, since
the reft had wives of their own, though in another
country; all which cargo arrived sase, no doubt to
their exceeding comfort, who, with this addition,
virere about sixty or seventy people, besides children.
At this place, my truly honest and pious clergy-
man left me; for a ship being ready to set sail for
J^isbon, he asked me leave to go thither; but I assure
you, it was with the greatest reluctancy I parted
from a person, whose virtue and piety merited the
greatest esteem.
From the Brazils, we made directly over the At-
lantic Ocean, to the Cape of Good Hope, having a
tolerable good voyage, steering for the most part S.
E. We were on a trading voyage, and had a super-
cargo on board, who was to direct all tht ship's
motions after she arrived at the Cape, only being
limitted to a certain number of days, for stay, by
charter party i at the several ports she was to go to.
At the Cape, we only took in fresh water, and then
sailed for the coast or Coromandel: we were there
informed, that a French man of war of 50 guns,
and two large merchant ships, were sailed for the
Indies, but we heard no more of them.
In our passage, we touched at the island of Mada-
gascar, where, though the inhabitants are naturally
fierce and treacherous, and go constantly armed with
bows and lances, yet for some time they treated us
civily enough; and, in exchange for knives, scissors,
and other trisles, they brought us eleven good sat
bullocks, which we took partly for present fresh
victuals, and the remainder to salt for the ship's use.
So curious was I to view every corner of the world
where I came to, that I went on shore as often as I
could. One evening when on shore, we observed
numbers of the people stand gazing at us at a dis-
tance. We thought ourselves in no danger, as they
had hitherto used us kindly. However, we cut
three boughs out of a tree, sticking them at a distance
from us, which, it seems, in that country, is not
only a token of truce and amity, but when poles or
boughs are set up on the other side, it is a sign the
truce is accepted. In these treaties, however, there
is one principal thing to be regarded, that neither
party come beyond one another's three poles or
boughs; so that the middle space is not only secure,
but is also allowed as a market for trasfic and com-
M merce:
nierce: when the truce is thus accepted, they stick
up their javelins and lances at the first poles, and
come on unarmed; but, if any violence is offered,
away they run to their poles, take up their wea-
pons, and then the truce is at an end. This even-
ing it happened that a greater number of people than
usual, both men and women traded among us for
such toys as we had, with such great civility, that
we made us a little tent of large boughs of trees,
some of the men resolving.to lie on shore all night:
but, for my part, I and some others took our lodg-
ing in the boat, with boughs of trees spread over it,
having a sail spread at the bottom to lie upon. A-
bout two o'clock in the morning, we were awaken-
ed by the firing of muskets, and our men crying out
for help, or else they would all be murdered. Scarce
had we time to get the boat ashore, when our men
came plunging themselves into the water, with about
four hundred of the islanders at their heels. We
took up seven of the men, three of them very much
wounded, and one left behind killed, while the ene-
my poured their arrows so thick among us, that we
were forced to make a barricade, with boards lying
at the side of a boat, to shield us from danger; and,
having got ready our fire arms, we returned them a
volley, which wounded several of them, as we could
hear by their cries. In this condition we lay till
break of day, and then making signals of distress to
the ship, which my nephew the captain heard and un-
derstood, he weighed anchor, and stood as near the
shore as possible, and then sent another boat with
ten hands in her to assist us; but we called to them
not to come near, informing them of our unhappy
condition. However, they ventured; when one of
the men taking the end of a tow line in one hand,
and keeping our boat between him and our adverse- .
ries, swam on board us, and made fast our line to
the boat; upon this, slipping our cables, they tow-
ed us out of the reach ot' their arrows, and quickly
after,
: • The,
./g?,andtw
keatT ' that
fe
fslftoul3
after, a broadside was given them from the ship,
which made a most dreadsul havock among them.
When we got on board, we examined into the occa-
sion of this fray? the men who fled informed us,
that an old woman, who fold milk within the poles,
had brought a young woman with her, who carried
roots or herbs, the sight of whom so much tempted
our men, that they offered rudeness to the maid, at
which the old woman set up a great cry; nor would
the sailors part with the prize, but carried her amorig
the trees, while the old woman went, and brought
a whole army down upon them. At the beginning
of the attack, one of our men was killed with a lance,
and the sellow who began the mischief, paid dear
enough for his mistress, though as yet we did not
know what had become of him; the rest luckily es-
caped. The third night aster the action, being cu-
rious to understand how affairs stood, I took the super-
"cargo, and twenty stout sellows with me, and land-
ed about two hours before midnight, at the same
place where those Indians stood the night before,
and there we divided our men into two bodies, the
boatfwain commanding one, and I another. It was
so dark, that we could see nobody, neither did we
hear any voice near us: but by and by the boatfwain
salling over a dead body, we agreed to halt till the
moon should rise, which we knew would be in an
hour after. We perceived here no sewer than two
and thirty bodies upon the ground, whereof two
were not quite dead. Satisfied with this discovery,
I was for going on board again; but the boatfwain
and the rest told me, they would make a visit to the
Indian town, where those dogs, so they called them,
resided, asking me at the same time to go along with
them; for, they did not doubt, besides getting a
good booty, but they should find Tom Jeffery there,
for that was the unhappy man we miffed. But I
utterly resused to go, and commanded them back,
being. unwilling to hazard their lives, as the sasety of
M %. the
the ship wholly depended upon them. Notwith-
standing all I could say to them, they all left me
but one, and the supercargo; so we three return-
ed to the boat, where a boy was left, resolving
to stay till they returned. At parting I told them I
supposed most of them would run the same sate with
Tom Jeffery. To this they replied. Come boys,
come atong, we'll warrant we 11 come off safe enough:
and so away they went, notwithstanding all my ad-
monition?, either concerning their own sasety, or
the preservation of the ship. Indeed, they were gal-
lantly armed, every man having a musket, bayonet,
and a pistol, besides cutlasses, hangers, pole-axes,
'and hand granadoes. They came to a sew Indian
houses at first, which not being the town they ex-
pected, they went farther, an3 finding a cow tied
to a tree, they concluded that she would be a sufficient
guide, and so it proved; for, after they untied her, she
led them directly to the town, which consisted of above
two hundred houses, several samilies living in some of
the huts together. At their arrival, all being in a
profound sleep, the sailors agreed to divide themselves
into three bodies, and set three parts of the town on
fire at once, to kill those that were escaping, and
plunder the rest of the houses. Thus desperately re-
solved, they went to work; but the first party had
not gone sar, before they called out to the rest, that
they had found Tom Jeffery; whereupon they all
ran up to the place, and found the poor sellow in-
deed hanging up naked by one arm, a«d his throat
cut almost from ear to ear: In a house that was hard
uy the tree they found sixteen or seventeen Indians,
who had been concerned in the fray, two ot three of
them being wounded, who were not gone to sleep:
this house they set on fire first, and, in a sew minutes
after, five or six places more in the town appeared
in flames.. The conflagration spread like wild fire,
their houses being all of wood, and covered with
flags or rushes. The poor affrighted inhabitants en-
deavoured
deavoured to run out to save their lives, but they
were driven back into the flames by the sailors, and
killed without mercy. At the first house above-men-
tioned, after the boatfwain had slain two with his
pole-axe, he threw a hand-granado into the house,
which bursting, made a terrible havock, killing and
wounding most of them; and their king and most of
his train, who were then in that house, sell victims
to their sury, every creature of them being either
smothered or burnt. All this while they never fired
a gun, lest the people should awaken saster than they
could overpower them. But the fire awakened them
sast enough, which obliged our sellows to keep to-
gether in bodies. By this time the whole town was
in a flame, yet their sury rather increased, calling
out to one another to remember Tom Jeffery. The
terrible light of this conflagration made me very un-
easy, and roused my nephew the Captain, and the
rest of his men, who knew nothing of the matter.
When he perceived the dreadsul smoke, and heard
the guns go off, he readily concluded his men were
in danger; he theiefore takes another boat, and
comes ashore himself, with thirteen men well arm-
ed. He was greatly surprized to see me and only two
men in the boat, but more so when I told him the
story; but though I argued with him, as I did with
his men, about the danger of the voyage, the interests
of the merchants and owners, and the sasety of the
ship, yet my nephew, like the rest, declared, that,
he would rather lose the ship, his voyage, his lise,
and all, than his, men should be lost for want of
help; and so away he went. For my part, seeing
him resolved to go, I had not power to stay behind.
He ordered the pinnace back again for twelve men
more, and then we marched directly as the flame
guided us. But surely never was such a scene of
horror beheld, or more dismal cries heard, except
when Oliver Cromwell took Drogheda in Ireland,
where he neither spared man, woman, or child.
M 3 The
The first object, I think, we met with, was the
ruins of one of their habitations, before which lay
four men and three women killed, and two more
burnt to death among the fire, which was now de-
caying. Nothing could appear more barbarous than
this revenge; none more cruel than the authors of
it. As we went on, the fire increased, and the cry
proceeded in proportion. We had not gone much
farther, when we beheld three naked women, fol-
lowed by sixteen or seventeen men, flying with the
greatest swiftness from our men, who shot one of
them in our sight. When they perceived us, whom
they supposed also their murderers, they set up a most
dreadsul shriek, and both of them swooned away in
the fright. This was a sight which might have soft-
ened the hardest heart: and, in pity, we took some
ways to let them know we would not hurt them,
while the poor creatures, with bended knees, and
lifted up hands, made piteous lamentations to us to
save their lives. I ordered our men not to hurt any
of the poor creatures whatsoever; but being willing
to understand the occasion of all this, I went among
these unhappy wretches, who neither understood
tne, nor the good I meant them. However, being
resolved to put an end to this barbarity, I ordered
the men to follow me. We had not gone fifty yards
before we came up with the boatfwain, with four
of our men at his heels, all of them covered with
blood and dust, and in search of more people to sa-
tiate their vengeance. As soon as we saw them, we
called out, and made them understand who we were;
upon which they came up to us, setting up aholloo
of triumph, in token that more help was come.
Jtfoble captain, said he to my nephew, I'm glad
Jou'i e come: we have not half done with these vil-
ainous hell-hound dogs, we'll root out the very na-
tion of them from the earth, and kill more than poor
Tom has hairs upon his head: and thus he went on
till I interrupted him. Blood thirsty dog! said I>
will
will your cruelty never end? I charge you touch
not one creature more; stop your hands, and stand
still, or you're a dead man this moment. Why, Sir,
said he, you neither know whom you are protecting,
nor what they have done: but, pray, come hither,
and behold an instance of compassion, if such can
merit your clemency; and with that he shewed me
the poor sellow with his throat cut, hanging upon
the tree.
Indeed, here was enough to fill their breasts with
rage, which, I however, thought had gone too sar,
agreeable to these words of Jacob to his sons Simeon
and Levi: Cursed be their anger, for it was fierce; and
their wrath, for it was cruel. But this sight made
my nephew and the rest as bad as they . nay, my
nephew declared, his concern was only for his men;
as for the people, not a soul of them ought to live.
Upon this, the boatfwain and eight more directly
turned about, and went to finish the intended trage-
dy; which being out of my power to prevent, I re-
turned back both from the dismal sight, and the pi-
teous cries of thole unsortunate creatures, who were
made victims to their sury. Indeed, it was an egre-
gious piece of folly in me to return to the boat with
but one attendant; and I had very near paid for it,
having narrowly escaped forty armed Indians, who
had been alarmed by the conflagration; but having
passed the place where they stood, I got to the boat,
accompanied with the supercargo, and so went on
board, sending the pinnace back again, to assist the
men in what might happen. When I had got to
the boat, the fire was almost extinguished, and the
noise abated; but I had scarce been half an hour on
board the ship, when I heard another volley given
by our sailors, and a great smoke, which, as I
asterwards found, was our men salling upon those
houses and persons that stood between them and the
sea: but here they spared the wives and children,
and killed only the men, to the number os about
M 4 sixteen
sixteen or seventeen. By the time they got to the
shore, the pinnace and the ship's boat were ready to
receive them, and they all got sase on board, not a
nian of them having received the least hurt, except
two, one of whom strained his foot, and the other
burnt his hand a little; for they met with no re-
sistance, the poor Indians being unprepared, amazed,
and confounded.
I was extremely angry with every one of them,
but particularly with the captain, who, instead of
cooling the rage of the men, had prompted them on
to sarther mischief: nor could he make me any other
excuse, but, that as he was a man, he could not
piaster his passions at the sight of one of his men so
cruelly murdered. As for the rest, knowing they
.were not under my command, they took no notice
of my anger; but rather boasted of their revenge.
Recording to all their accounts, they killed or de-
stroyed about one hundred and fifty men, women,
and children, beMes burning the town to ashes.
1'hey took their companion Tom Jeffery from the
tree, covered him with some of the ruins, and so lett
jiim. But, however, this action of our men might
seem to them justifiable, yet I always openly con-
demned it with the appellation of the Massacre of
jf/fadagafear. For, though they had stain this Jef-
fery, yet certainly he was the first aggressor, by at-
tempting to violate the chastity of a young innocent
.tvoman, who venturing down to them, on the saith
cf the public capitulation, which was so treacherously
broken. •
While we were under sail, the boatfwain would
0ften desend this bloody action, by saying, that the
Jndiam had broke the truce the night before, by footing
one of our men without juft provocation: and what if
the poor fellow had taken a little liberty with the wench,
he ought not to have been murdered in so villainous a man-
ner " and that they had aSied nothing but what the divine
laws commissioned to be done to such homicides. How-
ever,
ever, I was in the same mind as before, telling them,
that they were murderers, and bid him depend upon't
that God would blast their voyage for such an un-
parallelled piece of barbarity.
When we came into the gulf of Persia, five of our
men, who ventured on shore, were either killed or
made slaves by the Arabians, the rest of them having
scarce time to escape to their boat. This made me
upbraid them afresh with the just retribution of hea-
ven for such actions; upon which the boatfwain very
warmly asked me, Whether those men on whom the
tower of Siloam sell, weregreater sinners than the rest
of the Galileans? and besides, Sir, said he, none of
these five poor men that are lost, were with us at the
massacre of Madagascar, as you call it; and, there-
fore, your reprehension is very unjust, and your ap-
plication improper. Besides, added he, you are con-
tinually using the men very ill, upon this account,
and being but a passenger yourself, we are not obliged
to bear it; nor can we tell what ill designs you may
have to bring us to judgment for it in England;
and, therefore, if you do not leave this discourse, as
also not concern yourself with any of our affairs, I
will leave the ship, and not sail among such danger-
ous company.
All this I heard very patiently; but, it being often
repeated, I at length told him, the concern I had on
board was none of his business; that I was a consi-
derable owner in the ship, and therefore had a right
to speak in common, and that I was no way ac-
countable to him, nor to any body else. As no more
passed for some time after, I thought all had been
over. At this time we were in the road of Bengal,
where, going on shore with the supercargo, one day
in the evening, as I was preparing to go on board,
one of the men came to me, and told me, I need
not trouble myself to come to the boat, for that the
cockswain and others had ordered him not to carry
me on board any more. This insolent message much
M 5 surprized
27°
OF
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
surprized me; yet I gave him no answer to it, but
went directly and acquainted the supercargo, en-
treating him to go on board, and, by acquainting
the Captain with it, prevent the mutiny which I
perceived would happen. But before I had spoken
this, the matter was essected on board; for no sooner
was he gone off in the boat, but the boatfwain,
gunner, carpenter, and all the inserior officers, came
to the quarter-deck, desiring to speak with the Cap-
tain; and there the boatfwain made a long harrangue,
exclaiming against me, as before-mentioned, that,
if I had not gone ashore peaceably, for my own di-
version, they, by violence, would have compelled me
for their satissaction: that, as they had shipped with
the Captain, so they would saithsully serve him;
but, if I did not quit the ship, or the Captain oblige
me to it, they would leave the ship immediately;
hereupon, turning his face about by way of signal,
thev all cried out, ONE and ALL, ONE and
ALL.
You may be sure, that though my nephew was a
man of great courage, yet he could not be but sur-
prised at their sudden and unexpected behaviour;
and, though he talked stoutly to them, and after-
wards expostulated with them, that, in common
justice to me, who was a considerable owner in the
iBip, they could not turn me, as it were, out of my
own house, which might bring their lives in dan-
ger, should they ever be taken in England; nay,
though he invited the boatfwain on shore to accom-
modate matters with me; yet all this, I say, signi-
fied nothing,; they, would have nothing to do with
me; and they were resolved to go on shore if I came
on board. Well, said my nephew, if you are so re-
solved, permit me to talk with him, and then I have
done; and so he came to me, giving me an account
of their resolution, how one and all designed to for-
sake the Jhip when I. came, on boards for which he
*vus mightily concerned. I am glad to see you, ne-
phew,
phew, said I, and rejoice it is no worse, since they
have not rebelled against you; I only defire you to
send my necessary things on shore, with a sufficient
sum of money, and I will find my way to England,
as well as I can. Though this grieved my nephew
to the heart, yet there was no remedy but compli-
ance; in short, all my necessaries were sent me, and
so this matter was over in a sew hours.
I think I was now near a thousand leagues sarther
off England by sea, than at my little kingdom, ex-
cept this difference, that I might travel by land over
the Great Mogul's country to Surat, from thence to
to Bassora, by sea up the Persian gulf, then take the
way of the caravans over the Arabian desert to Alep-
po aud Scanderoon, there take shipping to Italy,
and so travel by land into France, and from thence
cross the sea t* England.-
My nephew left me two persons to attend me;
one of them was his servant, and the other clerk to
the purser, who engaged to be mine. I took lodg-
ings in an English woman's house, where several
French, one English, and two Italian merchants re-
sided. The handsome entertainment I met with
here, occasioned me to stay nine months consider-
ing what course I should take. Some English goods
I had with me of great value, besides a thousand
pieces of eight, and a letter of credence for more,
if there was such necessity. The goods I soon dis-
posed of to advantage, and bought here several good
diamonds, which I could easily carry about with
me. One morning the English merchant came to
me, as being very intimate together, Countryman,
said he, / have a projecJ fa communicate to you, which,
I hope, will suit to both our advantage. To be short,
Sir, we are both in a remote part of the worldfrom our
country; but yet in a place where men of business may get
a great deal of money. Now, if you will put a thousand
pounds to my thousand pounds, we will hire a ship to our
satisfaclion ; you shall be Captain, I will be merchant:
M 6 and
and we'll go a trading voyage to China; for why jhsuli
we hejlill like drones, while the whole world is in a con-
tinual motion.
This proposal soon got my consent, being very
agreeable to my rambling genius; and the more so,
because I looked upon my countryman to be a very
sincere person; it required some time before we could
get a vessel to our mind, and sailors to man it ac-
cordingly; at length, we bought a ship, and got an
English mate, boatfwain, and gunner, a Dutch car-
penter, and three Portuguese foremast-men; and,
for want of others, made shift with Indian seamen.
We first sailed to Achin, in the island of Sumatra,
and then to Siam, where we bartered our wares for
some arrack and opium, the last of which bore a
great price among the Chinese; in a word, we went
up to Suskan, making a very great voyage ; and,,
after eight months time, I returned to Bengal, very
vvell satisfied with this adventure, having not only
got a sufficient quantity of money, but an insight
of getting a great deal more.
The next voyage my friend proposed to me, was
to go among the Spice islands, and bring home a load
of cloves from the Manillas, or thereabouts, islands
belonging partly to Spain, but where the Dutch
trade very considerably. We were not long prepar-
ing for this voyage, which we made no less success-
ful than the last, touching at Bornea, and several
other places which I do not persectly remember, and
returning home in about five months time. We
soon fold our spices, which were chiefly cloves, and
some nutmegs, te the Persian merchants, who car-
ried them away for the gulf; and, in short,, making
five to one advantage, we were loaded with money.
Not long after my friend and I had made up our
accounts, to our entire satissaction, there came in a
Dutch coaster from Batavia, of about two hundred
tons. The crew of this vessel pretended themselves
so sickly, that there were not hands sufficient to
undertake
undertake a voyage; and she Captain having given
out that he intended to go to Europe, public notice
was given- that the ship was to be sold. No sooner
did this come to our ears, but we bought the ship,
paid the master, and took pofleffion. We would
also have very willingly entertained some of the
men: but they having received their share of booty,
were not to be found, being altogether' fled to Agra,
the great city of the Mogul's residence; and from
thence were to travel to Surat, and so by the sea to
the Persian gulf. And indeed they had reason to fly
ia this manner; for the truth of it was, the pretend-
ed Captain was.the gunner only, and not the com-
mander: that having been on a trading voyage, they
were attacked on shore by the Malayans, who killed
three men, and the Captain; after whose death the
other eleven men nm away with the ship to the bay
of Bengal, and left the mate and five men more on
lhore ; but of this affair we shall have occasion to
speak at more length hereafter.
However they came by the ship, we thought we
bought it honestly \ neither did we suspect any thing
of the matter; when the man shewed us a bill of
sale for the ship (undoubtedly forged) tooneEmanuei
Clostershoven, which name he went by. And so
without any more to do, we picked up some Dutch
and English seamen, resolving for another voyage
for clovesamong the Philippine and Molucca islands;
in short, we continued thus five or six years, trad-
ing from port to port with extraordinary success; in
the seventh year we u.ndertook a voyage to China,
designing to touch at Siam, and buy some rice by
the way. In this voyage, contrary winds beat us up
and down for a considerable time among the islands
in the straits of Molucca. , No sooner were we clear
.of those rugged seas, but we perceived our ship had
sprung a leak, which obliged us to put into the river
Cambodia, which lies northward of thcgulf3 and
goes up to Siam.
One
One day as I was on shore refreshing myself, there
comes to me an Englishman, who was a gunner's
mate on board an English East India ship, riding up
the river near the city of Cambcdia. Sir, said he,
you may nvonder at my business, having never seen me in
your Use; but though I am a sir anger, I have something
to tell you that very nearly concerns you; and indeed it is
the imminent danger you are in, has moved me to give
you this timey notice. Danger! said I, what danger?
I know of none, except my ship being leaky, for
v^hich I design to have her run aground to-morrow
itiorning. Sir, said he, J hope you will be better em-
ployed, when you Jhall hear what I have to fay to you.
Jsou know the town os Cambodia is about 15 leagues up
this river; about three leagues on this fide of it, there
lies two Dutch and three English ships. And would
you venture here, without considering what strength you
have to engage them? I knew not what he meant by
(his discourse, and turning short upon him, Sir,
said I, I know no reason shave to he afraid either
0f any English or Dutch ships. I am no inter-
lope1"? and what business have they then with me?
jfatt, Sir, said the man, is you do think yourself fe-
euf'* a^ as i cansay, you mufl take your chance; how-
ever, I am very sorry you are so deaf to good advice; but
J assure you if you do not put to sea immediately, you will
he attacked by five long boats full of men, hanged yourself
for a pirate, if you are taken, and the particulars ex-
amined afterwards. I thought, Sir, added he, I might
have met with better reception for such a singular piece of
service. Sir, said I, I was never ungratesul to any
ioan; but pray explain yourself, and I'll go on
hoard this minute, whether the leak be stopped or
no. Why, Sir, said, he, to be short, because time is
precious, the matter is tis: You know well enough that
you was with the ship at Sumatra, where your Captain
stjas murdered by the Malayans, with three of his sai-
lers i and that either you, or some who were on boar a
you, ran ewqy with the ship, and are sma turned pi-
"' rates
rates at fea. Now, Sir, this is the sum of what I had
to say; and I can positively assure you, that is you be
taken, you will be executed without much ceremony ; for
undoubtedly you cannot but be sensible what little law mer-
chant slips Jhew to pirates^ whenever they fall into their
unmerciful hands.
Sir, said I, I thank you for your kind, informa-
tion; and" though, lam sure, no man could come
more honestly by the ship than I have done, yet
knowing their enterprise, and being satisfied of your
honest intention, I'll be upon my desence. Prithee,
Sir, said the man, don't talk of being upon your de-
fence, the besi that you can make is to be out of danger;
and therefore, if you have any regard to your life, and
the lives of your men, take the advantage, without fail,
of putting out to sea at high water; by which means, as
you have a whole tide before you, you will be gone too far
out of their reach before they can come down.
I am mighty well satisfied, said. I, in this parti-
cular, and of your kindness, which merits my great-
est esteem? pray, Sir, what amends shall I make
you? He replied, / know not what amends you are
willing to make, because you may have some doubts of its
certainty; but, to convince you of the truth of what I
fay, I have one offer to make to you. On board one of
the English ships, I have nineteen months pay due to me*
and this Dutchman that is with me has seven months
pav due to him, which if you will make good to us, we
will go along with you. If you shall find, that there is
nothing in what we have said, then we stall desire no-
thing: but, when you art convinced that we have saved
the ship, your life, and the lives of the men, we will
leave the whole to your generosity.
So reasonable did this every way appear, that I
immediately consented, and we went directly on
board. As soon as we came on board, my partner
calls joyfully out, That they had stopped the leak!
Well, thank God, said I, but pray let us weigh an-
chor forth with. Weigh I said he, what is the mean-
irtg of this hurry? Pray, ask no questions, said I,
but all hands to work, without losing a moment's
time: Upon which, in great surprize, the Captain
was called, who immediately ordered the anchor to
"be got up; and though the tide was not quite down,
yet, being assisted with a little land breeze, we stood
out to sea. I then called my partner into the cabin,
and related the stery at large, which was confirmed,
and more amplified by the two men I had brought
on board. Scarce had we finished our discourse, up-
on this head, but a sailor came to the cabin door,
•with a message from the Captain, that we were
.chased by five sloops sull of armed men. Very well,
/aid I, it is plain now there is something in it. And
so, going upon deck, I told all the men there was a
design for seizing the ship, and of executing us for
pirates; and asked them, whether they would saith-
fully stand by us, and by one another?. To which
they unanimously replied, that they would sight to
their last drop of blood. I then asked the Captain,
•which way he thought best for us to manage the bat-
tle? Sir, said he, the only method is to keep them off
jijuitb our great shot as long as we are able, and then hem
recourse to our small arms; and when both these sail us,
then retire to close quarters, when perhaps the enemj,
ifjanting materials, can neither break open our bulk heads, ,
nor get in upon us. Mean time the gunner was or-
dered to bring two guns to bear fore and aft out of
the steerage, and so lbad them with musket bullets,
and small pieces of old iron; and the deck being
cleared, we prepared for the engagement, still, how-
ever, keeping out at sea. The boats followed us
^ith all the sail they could make, and we could per-
ceive the two foremost were English, which outsailed
the rest by two leagues, and which we found would
come up with us: hereupon, we fired a gun without
Dall, intimating that they should bring to, and we
put out a stag of iruce, as a signal for parky; but,
^d*ng<them crowding after usr lill they came with-
in shot, we-took in our white, and hanging out the
red flag, immediately fired at them with ball: we
then called to them with a speaking trumpet, bid-
ding them at their peril keep off.
But all this signified nothing ; for, depending up-
on the strength that followed them, they were reso-
lutely bent for mischief: hereupon, I ordered them
to bring the ship to, by which means, they lying
upon our broadside, we let fly at them at once, one
of whom carriedaway the stern of the hindermost
boat, and obliged them not only to take down their
fail, but made them all run to the head of the boat,
to keep them from sinking; and so she lay by, hav-
ing enough of it. In the mean time, we prepared
to welcome the foremost boat in the same manner.
While we were doing this, one of the three hinder-
most boats came up to the relief of that which was
disabled, and took the men out os her. We again
called to parley with them; but, instead of an an-
swer, one of the boats came close under our stern;
whereupon, our gunner let fly his two chase guns,
but miffing, the men in the boat shouted, and wav-
ing their caps, came on with greater sury. To re-
pair this seeming disgrace, the gunner soon got ready,
and, firing the se.ond time, did a great deal of mis-
chief among the enemy. We waved again, and,
bringing cur quarter to bear upon them, fired three
guns more, when we found the boat a sinking, and
ieveral men already in the sea; hereupon, manning
our pinnace, I gave orders to save as many as they
could, and instantly to come on board, because the
rest of their boats were approaching: accordingly
they did so, and took up three of them, one of wh,im
was almost past recovery; and then crouding all the
sail we could, after our men came on board, we
stood out sarther to sea, so that the other three boats
gave over their chace, when they came up to the first
two. Thus delivered from imminent danger, we
changed
changed our course to the eastward, quite out of the
course of all European ships.
Being now at sea, and inquiring more particularly
of the two seamen, the meaning of all this, the
Dutchman, at once let us into the secret. He told
us, that the sellow who sold us the ship was an ar-
rant thief, who had ran away with her: that the
Captain was treacherously murdered on the coast of
flÆolucca by the natives there, with three of his men;
that he, the Dutchman, and four more, being o-
bliged to have recourse to the woods for their sasety,
at length escaped by means of a Dutch ship, in its
vray to China, which had'sent their boat on-shore
for fresh water: That, after this, he went to Ba-
tavia, where two of the seamen belonging to the
{hip (who had deserted the rest in their travels) ar-
rived, and there gave an account that the sellow
vrho ran away with the ship had sold her at Bengal
to a set of pirates, who went a cruising, and had
already taken one English, and" two Dutch sliips
j-ichly laden.
Now, though this was absolutely salse, yet con-
cerning us directly, my partner truly said, that our
deliverance was to be esteemed so much the more, by
reason, had we fallen into their hands we could have
expected nothing from them but immediate death,
considering our accusers would have been our judges;
and, therefore, his opinion was, to return directly
to Bengal, where, being known, we could prove
JioW honestly we came by the ship, of whom we
bought her, and the like, and where we were sure of
some justice; at least would not be hanged first, and
judged afterwards. I was at first of my partner's
opinion; but when I had more seriously considered
of the matter, I told him we ran a great hazard in
attempting to return, being on the wrong side of the
flraits of Molucca, and that if, upon alarm given,
vve should be taken by the Dutch of Batavia or Eng-
lish ellewhere, or running away would be a susficient
evidence
evidence to condemn us. This danger indeed start-
led not only my partner, but likewise all the ship's
company; so we changed our former resolution, and
resolved to go to the coast of Tonquin, and so to that
of China, where, pursuing our first design as to trade,
we might likewise have an opportunity to dispose of
the ship some way or other, and to return to Ben-
gal in any country vessel we could procure. This
being agreed to, we steered away N. N. E. about
50 leagues off the usual course to the east, which
put us to some inconveniencies. As the wind blew
steadily against us, our voyage became more tedious,
and we began to be afraid of want of provision ; and
what was still worse, we apprehended, that as those
ships, from whose boats we had escaped, were bound
to China, they might get before us, and have given
fresh information, which might create another vigor-
ous pursuit. Indeed, I could not help being griev-
ed, when I considered that I, who had never wrong-
ed or defrauded any person in my life, was now pur-
sued like a common thief; and, if taken, to run the
greatest danger of being executed as such; and,
though innocent, I found myself under the neces-
sity of flying for my sasety; and thereby escape be-
ing brought to shame,' of which I was even more
asraid than of death itfelf. It was ealy to read my
dejection in my countenance. My mind was op-
pressed, like those unhappy innocent persons, who,
being overpowered by blasphemous and perjured e\
dences, wickedly resolved to take away their lives,
or ruin their, reputation, have no other recourse in
this world to ease their sorrow, but sighs, prayers,
and tears. My partner seeing me so concerned, en-
couraged me as well as he could ; and, after des-
cribing to me the several ports of that coast, he told
me, he would either put me in on the coast of
Cochinchina, or else in the bay of Tonquin, frem
wnence we might go to Macao, a town once pos-
sessed.
iessed by the Portuguese, and where still many Eu-
ropean samilies resided.
To this place we steered, and, early next morn-
ing, came in sight of the coast; but thought it ad-
visable to put into a small river where we could,
either over land, or by the ship's pinnace, know what
veflcls were in any ports thereabouts. This happy
flep proved our deliverance ; for, nextmorning, there
came to the bay of Tonquin two Dutch ships, and
a third without any colours; and, in the evening,
two-English ships steered the same course. The river
vphere we were was but small, and run but a sew
leagues up the country northward; the country was
^vild and baibarous, and the people thieves, hav-
ing no correspondence with any oiher nation, deal-
ing only in fish, oil, and such gross commodities;
and one barbarous custom they still retained, that
when any vessel was unhappily shipwrecked upon
•their coast, they make the men prisoners or slaves;
so that now we might fairly fay we were surround-
ed by enemies both by sea and land.
As the ship had been leaky, we took the opportu-
nity, in this place, to search her, and to stop up the
places which let in the water. We accordingly
jightened her, and bringing our guns and other
jriovcuble things to one side, we essayed to bring her
fjown, that we might come at her bottom : but, up-
0fi second consideration, we did not think it sase to
jet her lie on dry ground, neither indeed was the
place convenient for it. The inhabitants, not used
to such a sight as to see a ship lie down on one side,
3nd heel in towards the shore, not perceiving her
iiien, who were at work on her bottom, with stages
and boats on the off-side, presently imagined the ship
j,ad been cast away, and lay sast on the ground.
Agreeable to this supposition, they surrounded us
•vvTth ten or twelve large boats, with a resolution,
undoubtedly, to plunder the ship, and to carry away
.those they found alive for slaves to their king. But
when
»b they pe,
Vs bottom
Hk, itfi
}7 stood gaz
*f could we
for fear
Munition
Selves; a
*e native,, c,
J that we v
1 kJ thought
a&> LIFE AND ADVENTURES
its:*
^ withx
'S^ry
Net • ^
When they perceived our men hard at work on the
ship's bottom and side, washing, graving, and stop-
ping her, it filled them all with such surprise, that
they stood gazing as though they were confounded.
Nor could we imagine what their design was; how-
ever, for sear of danger, we handed down arms and
ammunition, to those at work, in order to desend
themselves; and, indeed, this precaution was ab-
solutely neceflary ; for, in a quarter of an hour after,
the natives, concluding it was really a shipwreck,
and that we were saving our lives and goods, which
they thought belonged to them, came down upon
our men, as though it had been in a line of battle.
We lay at present but in a very unsit posture to fight j
and before the stages could be got down, or the men
in the boat come on board as they were ordered, the
Cochinchineses were upon them, and two of their
boats boarding our long-boat, they began to lay hold
of our men as prisoners. The first they seized was
a stout English sailor, who never fired his musket,
like a fool as I imagined, but laid it down in the
boat: but he knew what he was doing; for, by main
force, he dragged the Pagan out of the boat into ours
by the two ears, and knocked his brains out against
the boat's gunnel: a Dutchman that was next him
snatched up the musket, and knocked down five
more with the butt-end of it; however, this was
doing very little to their number; but a strange un-
expected accident, which rather merits laughter than
any thing else, gave our men a complete victory over
them.
It seems the carpenter, who was preparing to grave
the outside of the ship, as well as to pay the scams,
where he caulked to stop the leaks, had gotten two
kettles just let down in the boat, one filled with
boiling pitch, and the other with rosin, tallow, oil,
and such stuff as the shipwrights use: the carpenter's
man had a great iron laddie with which he used to
supply the workmen with hot stuff, and as two of
OFR
the enemies entered the hoat where the sellow stood,
he saluted them with a full laddie of the hot boiling
liquor, which, the poor creatures being half naked,
made them roar out, and jump into the sea. Well
done Jack, says the carpenter, give them the other
dose: and so stepping forward himself, takes a mop,
and dipping it into the pitch pot, he and his man so
plentisully slung it among them, as that none escaped
being scalded; upon which they all made the best
of their way, crying and howling in such a fright-
sul manner, that, in all my adventures, I never heard
the like. And, indeed, never was I better pleased
with any conquest than I was with this, there being
so little bloodshed, and having an aversion to killing
such savage wretches, (more than was necessary), as
knowing they came on errands, which their laws
and customs made them think were just and equita-
ble. By this time, all things being in order, and
the ship sw imming, they found their mistake, so
they did not venture a second attack. Thus ended
our merry fight; and, having got rice, bread, roots,
and sixteen good hogs, on board the day before, we
set sail, not daring to go into the bay of Tonquin,
but steered N. E. towards the isle of Formosa, or as
though we would go to the Manillas, or Phillippine
islands, for sear of meeting with any European ships,
when we anchored at the isle Formosa, the inhabi-
tants, not only courteously supplied us with provi-
sions and fresh water, but dealt very sairly and ho-
nestly with us in their bargains and agreements.
From this place we steered north, keeping still off
:he coast of China, till we were beyond all its ports
vhere European ships usually come; and, at length,
>eing come to the latitude of thirty degrees, we re-
blved to put into the first trading port we should
ome at; and standing for the shore, a boat came off
wo leagues to us, with an old Portuguese pilot on
oard, who offered his service; we very gladly ac-
epted him, and sent the boat back again. And now,
^r"gthe old;
'oNanquin, tl
Uma. VVha
1 'old him we
ca'iicoes, raw
lura the same
,er pyt in at
"w a cheap
!t "greater ad
, Kf!ellasnier(
I J China, v
?rngP°, wher
the he
J Sty le;
;,slui«s and
.IS
fN,°> said I u
al °r
having
having the old man on board, I talked to him of going
to Nanquin, the most northward part of the coast of
China. What will you do there? said he, smiling.
I told him we would sell our cargo, and purchase
callicoes, raw and wrought silks, tea, &c. and so re-
turn the same way back. O, said he, you had bet-
ter put in at Macao, where you may buy China
wares as cheap as at Nanquin, and sell your opium
at a greater advance. But, said I, we are gentlemen
as well as merchants, and design to see the great city
of Pekin, and the magnificent court of the monarch
of China. Why, then, said he, you should go to
Ningpo, where there is a navigable river that goes
through the heart of that vast empire, two hundred
and seventy leagues from the sea, which crosses all
the rivers, passes considerable hills, by the help of
the fluices and gates, and goes even up to the city of
Pekin. You may go to Nanquin, if you please, and
travel to Pekin, and there is a Dutch ship just before
bound that way. At the name of a Dutch or Eng-
lish ship, I was struck with confusion; they being as
great a terror to me in this vessel, as an Algerine
man of war is to them in the Mediterranean. The
old man sinding me troubled, Sir, said he, I hope
the Dutch are not now at war with your nation:
No, said I, but God knows what liberty they may
take when out of the reach of the law. Why, says
he, what occasion is there for peaceable merchants
to fear? For, believe me, they never meddle with
any but PIRATES.
At the mentioning the word pirates, my coun-
tenance turned to that of scarlet; nor was it possible
for me to conceal it from the old pilot; who taking
notice of it, Sir, said he, take what course you please,
Til do you all the service I can. Seignior, said I, I am a
little concerned at your mentioning pirates; I hope
there are none such in these seas, because you see in
what a weak condition we are to desend ourselves.
O, Sir, said he, if that's all, don't le concerned, I don't
remember
remember one in these seas these fifteen years, except about
a month ago one was seen in the bay os Siam, but
Jhe is gone to the Southward; neither was she built fir
a pnvateer, but was run away with by a reprobate cap-
tain, andsome of his men, the right Captain having been
murdered by the Malayans.
What! said I, as though ignorant of what had
happened) did they kill the Captain? No, said he,
it is generally thought the Malayans murdered him; but
perhaps they might procure them to do it, and therefore
theyjujlly deserve hanging. The rogues were lately dis-
covered in the Lay of Siam, in the river of Cambodia,
by some Dutchmen who belonged to the ship, and had
ninth ado to escape the five boats that pursued them, but
they have all given such an exact description os the Jhip,
that wherever they find her, they will be sure to know
her; and they have solemnly swore to give no quarter to
the Captain or the seamen, but hang them every one up at
the yard-arm, without any formal business of bringing
them to a court of judicature.
Being sensible, that, having the old man on
board, he Was incapable of doing me any mischief,
"Well, Seignior, said I, it is for this very reason I
•Would have you carry us up to Nanquin, where nei-
their English nor Dutch ships come: and I must
tell you, their Captains are a parcel of rash, proud,
insolent rascals, that neither know what belongs to
j ustice, nor how to behave themselves as the laws
of God or nature direct; sellows that would prove
murderers to punish robbers, and take upon them to
adi udgc innocent men to death, without any proof
to prove them guilty; but perhaps I may live to call
them to account for it, in a place where they
may be taught how justice is to be executed. And
so I told him all the story of buying the ship, and
bow we were saved by the means of two men: that
the murder of the Captain by the Malayans, as also
the running awfty with the sliip, I believe to be true;
but that we, who bought it, were turned pirates,
was
was a mere fiction, to cover their cowardice and
foolish behaviour, when they attacked us, and the
blood of those men we killed in our own just de-
sence, lay to their door, who sent to attack us by
surprise.
Sir, said the old man amazed, you have taken the
right course to jleer to the north, and, if I might advise
you, I would have you sell your ship in China, and buy »r
build another in that country; and I'll procure people to
buy the one and sell the other. Well but, Seignior,
said I, if I sell the ship in this manner, I may bring
some innocent persons into the same danger as I have
gone through, perhaps worse, even death itfelf,
whereby I should be as guilty of their murder as
villainous executioners. That need not trouble you,
says the old man; I'll find away to prevent that; for
these commanders you talk of I know very well, and will
inform them rightly of the matter as you have related,
and I am persuaded they will not only believe me, but ail
more cautiously for the future. And will you deliver
one menage from me to them? Yes, said he, if you
will give it under your hand, that I may prove it is not
of my own produSlion. Hereupon I wrote a large ac-
count of their attacking me in their long boat, the
pretended reason and unjust design of it; that they
had done what they might be ashamed of, and could
not answer for at any tribunal in England. But
this letter was writ in vain. "Providence ordered
things another way. We sailed directly for Nan-
quin, and in about thirteen days sail, came to an
anchor at the south west point of the great gulph of
that place, where we learned, that two Dutch ships
were gone the length before us, and that we should
certainly sall into their hands. We were all at a
great loss in this exigency, and would very gladly
have been on shore almost any where; but our old
pilot told me, that if I would sail to the southward
about two and forty leagues, there was a little port
called Quinchange, where no European Clips ever
N came,
came, and where we might consider what was fur-
ther to be done. Accordingly we weighed anchor
the next day, calling only twice on shore by the way
to get fresh water. 1 he country people very cour-
teously sold us roots, tea, rice, towls, and other pro-
visions. After five days sail we came, to the port,
and landed with unspeakable joy. We resolved to
dispose of ourselves and effects in any other way
possible, than enter on board that ill-sated vessel
roore; for no state can be more miserable than a
continued sear, which is a lise of death, a confoun-
derof our understandings, that sets the imagination
at work to form a thousand frightsul things that may
never happen. And we scarce slept one night, with-
out dreaming of halters, yard-arms, or gibbets; os
fighting, being taken, and being killed; nay, so vio-
lent were our apprehensions, that we would bruise
our hands and heads against the sides of the cabin, as
though actually engaged. The story of the Dutch
cruelty at Amboyna often came into our thoughts
when awake; and, for my part, I thought my con-
dition very hard, that, after so many difficulties, and
such signal deliverances, I should be hanged in my
old age, though innocent of any crime that deserved
such punishment; but then religion would seem to
represent to me, as though the voice of it had said,
Consider, O man! what fins you have been former-
ly guilty of, which now thou art called to an ac-
count for, to expiate with thy blood! And as to
thy innocence, what art. thou more innocent than
thy blessed Redeemer Jesus Christ, who suffered for
thy offences, and to whose providence you ought to
submit, let what will happen? after this natural
courage would inspire me to resist to the last drop os
blood, and sooner die than suffer myself to be taken
by boorish, rascally Dutchmen, who had arts to tor-
ment beyond death itfelf.
But now, thank kind Heaven, being ashore our
old pilot procured us a lodging and a warehouse for
cur
our ?oods; it was a little hut with a large ware-
house joining to it, all built with canes, and pal-
lifuloed round with large ones, to keep out pilser-
in" thieves, which are very numerous in that coun-
try. The magistrates allowed us a little guard dur-
ing the night, and we employed a centinel with a
kind of halbert for three pence a day. The sair or
mart, we found, had been over for some time; how-
ever, there remained in the river four juncks and
two Japan ships, the merchants of the latter being
on shore. In the first place, our old pilot brought us
acquainted with the missionary Roman priests, who
were converting the people to Christianity: two of
them were reserved, rigid, and austere, applying
themselves to the work they came about with great
earnestness; but the third, who was a Frenchman,
called Father Simon, was of a freer conversation,
not seemingly so serious and grave, yet no worse
Christian than the other two, one of whom was a
Portuguese, and the other a Genoese. Father Si-
mon, it seems, was appointed to go to Pekin, the
royal seat of the Emperor of the Chinese; and he
snly waited for another priest, who was ordered
from Macao to accompany him. We never met to-
gether, but he was prompting me to keep him com-
pany in that journey: Sir, said he, I will shew you
the glorious things of this mighty empire, and a ci-
ty, the city of Pekin, far exceeding London or Paris,
put them both together. - One day in particular,
. being at dinner with him, I shewed some inclina-
tion to go! which made him press the more upon
me and my partner, to gain our persect consent.-
But, father Simon, said my partner, what sathsaaion
can < ou have in our company, whom you ejleem as heretics,
and consequently objects not worthy your regard? Oh!
said he, you may be as good Catholics in time as
those I hope to convert to our religion. And so, said
I, we Jhall have you preaching to us all the way, injlead
ef pleajin^ us with a description of the country. Sir,
N 2 faiJ
said he, however our religion may be villified by
some people, it is very certain it neither divests us
of good manners or Christian charity; and as we
are gentlemen, as such we may converse together,
without making one another uneasy.
But we shall leave him a while, to consider our
ship and the merchandise which we had to dispose of.
There was but very little trade in the place where
we were; and I was once resolved to venture to sail
to the river Kilam, and so to she city of Nanquin:
but Providence ordered it otherwise, by our oldpilot's
bringing a Japan merchant to us, to see what goods
we had. He immediately bought our Opium, for
which he gave us a very good price in gold by weight,
some wedges of which were about ten or eleven oun-
ces. It came into my head, that perhaps he might
buy the ship too; and I ordered his interpreter to
propose it to him. He said nothing then, butshruged
up his sboulders; yet in a sew days after he came
accompanied by a missionary priest, who was his in-
terpreter with this proposal, That as he had bought a
great quantity of our goods, he had not money enough t»
purchase our ship; but if I pleased he would hire her,
with all my men, to go to Japan, and from thence with
another loading to the Philippine island*, the freight of
froth which he would very willingly pay to us before; and
#t their return to Japan, would buy the ship. Upon
this we asked the captain and his men, if they were
willr11? to go to Japan; to which they unanimous-
Jy agreed. While this was in agitation, the young
man my nephew left to attend me, told me, That as
J did not care to accept this profpeil of advantage, he
^uould manage it for me as I pleased, and render me a
faithful account of his success, which should be wholly
tnine. Indeed I was very unwilling to part with
him; but considering it might be for the ycung
man's good, I discoursed my partner about it, who,
of his own generosity, gave him his share of the ves-
sel, so that 1 could, do no otherwise than give him
mine:
mine: but, however, we let him have but the pro-
perty of half of it, and preserved a power, that when
we met in England, if he had obtained success, he
should account to us for one half of the prosits of
the ship's freight, and the other should be his own.
Thus having taken a writing under his hand, away
he sailed to Japan, where the merchant dealt very
honestly by him, got him a licence to come on shore,
sent him loaded to the Philippines with a Japanese*
supercargo, from whence he came back again load-
ed with European goods, cloves, and other spiceries.
By this voyage he cleared a considerable sum of mo-
ney, which determined him not to sell his ship, but
to trade on his own account: so he returned to the
Manillas, where, getting acquaintance, he made
his ship free, was hired by the governor privately to
go to Acapulco in America, on the Mexican coast,
with a licence to travel to the great city of Mexico.
This traffic turned out greatly to account, and my
friend finding means to get to Jamaica, returned
nine years after exceeding rich into England.
In parting with the ship, it comes in course to con-
sider of those men who had saved our lives when in
the river of Cambodia; and though, by the way,
they were a couple of rogues, who thought to turn
pirates themselves, yet we paid them what they had
before demanded, and gave each of them a small sum
of money, making the Englishman a gunner, and
the Dutchman a boatfwain, with which they were
very well contented.
We were now above 1000 leagues sarther from
home, than when at Bengal. All the comfort we
could expect was, that there being another sair to be
kept in a month's time, we might not or/ly purchase
all sorts of that country's manusactures, bu t very pos-
sibly find some Chinese junks, or vessels from Ton-
quin, to be sold, which would carry us and our
goods wheresoever we pleased. Upon these hopes,
we resolved to continue; and, to divert ourselves,
N 3- we
we took several little journies in the country. About
ten days after we parted with our sliip, we travelled
to see the city of Nanquin. This city 1 ies in la-
titude 30 deg. north of the line : it is regularly built,
and the streets are exactly straight, and cross one a-
nother in direct lines, which sets it out to the great-
est advantage. At our return, we found the priest
was come from Macao that was to accompany sather
Simon to Pekin. That sather earnestly solicited me
to accompany him, and I reserred him to my part-
ner. In short, we both agreed, and prepared ac-
cordingly; and we were so lucky as to have liberty
to travel among the retinue of one of their Manda-
rins, who is' a principal magistrate, and much re-
verenced by the people.
We were five and twenty days travelling through
this miserable country, infinitely populous, but as
indifferently cultivated: and yet their pride is in-
finitely greater than their poverty, insomuch that
the priests themselves derided them. As we passed
by the house of one of their country gentlemen, two
leagues off Nanquin, we had the honour forsooth,
to ride with the Chinese squire about two miles.
2*sever was Don Quixote so exactly imitated! Ne-
ver such a compound of pomp and poverty seen be-
sore!
His habit, made of callico, Was dirty, greasy, and
very proper for a Merry Andrew or Scaramouch, with
all its tawdry trappings, as hanging sleeves, tassels,
&c. though torn and rent in almost every part: hii
vest underneath it was no less dirty, but more greasy,
resembling the most exquisite sloven or greasy but-
cher. His horse (worse than Rosinante, or the sa-
mous steed of doughty Hudibras) was a poor starved,
decrepid thing, that would not sell for thirty shil-
lings in England: and yet this piece of worsliipful
pomp was attended with ten or twelve slaves, who
guarded their master to his country-seat. We stop-
ped at a little village for refreshment; and when we
came
came by the country-seat of this great man, we found
him sitting under a tree before his door, eating a
mess of boiled rice, with a great piece of garlic in
the middle, and a bag filled with green pepper by
him, and another plant like ginger, together with a
piece of lean mutton in it: this was his Worship's
repast; but pray observe the state of the fool! two
women flaves brought him his food, which being
laid before him, two others appeared to perform
their respective offices; one sed him with a spoon,
while the other scraped off what sell upon his beard
and taffety vest, and gave it; to a particular savour-
ite to eat. And thus we left the wretch pleased with
the conceit of our admiring his magnificence, which
rather merited our scorn and detestation.
At length we arrived at the great city of Pekin,
accompanied by two servants, and the old Portu-
guese pilot, whose charges we bore, and who served
us as an interpreter by the way. We had scarce
been a week at Pekin, but he comes laughing to us,
Ah! Seignior Inglise, said he, me something tell you
make your heart glad, but make me sorry : for you bring
me here 25 days journey, and now you leave me go back
alone; and which way shall 1 make my port after, with-
out de ship, without de horse, without pecune? so he
called money in his broken Latin. He then in-
formed me, that there was a great caravan of Mus-
covite and Polish merchants in the city, who were
preparing to set out for Muscovy by land within six
weeks; and, that he was certain we would take this
opportunity, and consequently that he must go home
by himself. Indeed this news infiniiely surprized
and pleased me. Are you certain of this? said I.
TeSy Sir, said he, me sure it's true. And so he told
me, that having met an old acquaintance of his, an Ar-
menian, in the street, who was among them, and who
bad come from Astracan, with a design to go to Ton-
quin, but for certain reasons having altered his resolu-
tion, he was now resolved to go with the caravan, and
N 4. to
292
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
ta return by the river Wolga to Astracan. Well,
Seignior, laid I, don't be discontented about your
returning alone; and, if by this means I can find a
passage to England, it will be your own sault if you
return to Macao at all. And so consulting with my
partner, what was best to be done, he reserred it to
rne as 1 pleased, having our affairs so well settled at
Bengal, that, if we could convert the good voyage
we had made in China silks, wrought or raw, he
would be satisfied to go to England, and so return to
Bengal in the Company's (hips. Thus resolved, we
agreed, that if our pilot would go with us, we
would bear his charges either to Moscow or Eng-
Jand; and to give him in a present the sum of 170
pounds sterling. Hereupon we called him in, and
told him the cause of his complaint should be re-
moved, if he would accompany us with the caravan;
and, therefore, we defired to know his mind. At
this he shook his head, Great long journey, said he,
irie no pecune, carry me to Moscow, or keep me there.
JJut we soon put him out of that concern, by mak-
ing him sensible of what we would give him here to lay
©ut to the best advantage; and, as for his charges,
we would set him sase onshore, God willing, either
Jn Moscovy, or England, as he pleased, at our own
charge, except the carriage of his goods. At this
proposal, he was like a man transported, telling us,
pe would go with us all the world over; and we
rnade preparations for our journey} but it was near
four months before all the merchants were ready.
In the mean time, my partner and the pilot went
express to the port where we first put in, to dispose
0{ what goods had been left tHere, while I accom-
panied a Chinese merchant, who was going to Nan-
qiiin, and there bought 29 pieces of damask, with
about 300 more of other fine silks; and, by the time
my partner returned to Pekin, I had them all car-
ried thither: our cargo in silks amounted to 45C0I.
sterling, which, together with tea, sine calicoes, nut-
megs,
megs, and cloves, loaded 18 camels for our share,
besides what we rode upon, with two or three spare
horses, and two more loaden with provisions; the
company now was very great, making about 400
horse, and above 120 men, well armed and pro-
vided. We were of several nations, among whom
were five Scots merchants, inhabiting in Moscow,
and well experienced in trade.
We set out from Pekin the beginning of February
our style; and in two days more, we passed through
the gate of the great China wall, which was erected
as a fortification against the Tartars, being 100 Eng-
lish miles long. We then entered a country not
near so populous, chiefly under the power of plun-
dering Tartars, several companies of whom we per-
ceived riding on poor* starved horses, contemptible
as themselves, without order or discipline. One
time our leader for the day gave us leave to go a
hunting. But what do you think we hunted? only
a parcel of sheep, which indeed exceeded any in the
world for wildness and swiftness; but while we
were pursuing this game, it was our chance to meet
with about forty Tartars, who no sooner perceived
us, but one of them blew a horn, at the sound of
which there soon appeared a troop of forty or fifty
more, at about a mile's distance. Hereupon, one
of the Scots merchants (who knew their ways) or-
dered us to advance towards them, and attack them
immediately. As we advanced, they let fly a volley
of arrows, which happily sell a little short as us:
this made us halt a little, to return the compliment
with bullets; and then being led up by the bold Scot,
we fired our pistols in their saces, and drew out our
swords; but there was no occasion; for they flew
like timorous sheep, and only three of them remain-
ed, beckoning to the rest to come back. But our
hrave commander gallops up to them by himself,
shot one dead, knocks another off his horse, while
N 5 the
OF R
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
the third ran away; and thus ended our battle with
the Tartars.
We travelled a month more through the Emperor
of China's dominions; and at length coming to one
of their towns about a day and a half's journey from
the city of Naum, I wanted to buy a camel. The
person I spoke to would have brought me one, but,
like a fool, I must go along with him, about two
miles from the village. My old pilot and I walked
on foot, forsooth, for some variety, when coming
to the place where the camels were kept as in a park
guarded by Chinese soldiers, we there agreed and
bought one, which the Chinese man that came with
me led along the road. But we had not gone sar,
before we were attacked by five Tartars, mounted
on horseback, two of whom seized the man, took
the camel from him, and rode away, while the other
three approached us, the first of whom suddenly
seized me as I was drawing my sword, the second
Jcnocked me down; but my old trusty Portuguese,
taking a pistol out of his pocket, which I knew no-
thing of, and coming up to the sellow that struck
ine, he with one hand pulled him off his horse, and
then shot him dead upon the spot; then taking his scy-
mitar, he struck at the man that stopt us, but missing
bim, cut off one of his horse's ears, the pain of
tvhich made him thrpw his rider to the ground. The
poor Chinese, who had led the camel, seeing the
'Tartar down, runs to him, and seizing upon his
polc«ixe, wrenched it from his hands, and knocked
jiis brains out. But there was another Tartar to
<ieal with, who seeming neither inclined to sight nor
fly, and my old man having begun to charge his pis-
tol, the very sight of it struck such a terror into the
wretch, that away he scoured, leaving my old pilot
rather my champion and desender, an absolute vic-
tory.
By this time being awakened from my trance, i
began to open my eyes,, wondering where I was,
having quite so
returning, and
seeing the blooc
siantly jumped
in my hand, w
no enemies no\
with his horse 1
ln? me recover
wrdsme, and
ie™s?, at the
™rch was sar
to the villac
feca*el, wh
Wore a Chine
Havin
?efc man that
Jlr> kid he,
ltrailger at hi<
):°u were the)
If** ^el
"I had not
°rth«Iwas
^before
. he city c
>*, so f
«w of T,c
0ns would
flons.
!ehad infer
fe
having
having quite forgot all that passed; but my senses
returning, and seeling a great pain in my head, and
seeing the blood was running over my clothes, I in-
stantly jumped upon my seet, and grasped my sword
in my hand, with a resolution to take revenge; but
no enemies now remained, except the dead Tartar,
with his horse standing by him. The old man see-
ing me recovered, whom he thought slain, ran to-
wards me, and embraced me with the greatest ten-
.derness, at the same time examining into my wound,
which was sar from being mortal; when we return-
ed to the village, the man demanded payment tor
his camel, which I resusing, we brought the cause
before a Chinese judge, who acted with great impar-
tiality: Having heard both sides, he asked the Chi-
nese man that went with me, whose servant he was?
Sir, said he, I am nobody's, but went with the
stranger at his request: why then, said the judge,
you were the stranger's servant for the time, and the
-camel being delivered to his servant, it is the same
as though deliverd to himself, and accordingly he
must pay for it. Indeed, the case was so sairly stated,
that I had nothing to object to it; so, having paid
for that I was robbed of,, I sent for another, but did
not go myself to setch it, as I had enough of that
sport before.
The city of Naum is a frontier of the Chinese
empire, so fortified, as some will tell you, that mil-
lions of Tartars cannot batter down their walls;
by which certainly one might think one of our can-
nons would do more executions than all thfir le-
gions.
When we were within a day's march of that city,
we had information that the governor had sent mes-
sengers to every .part of the road, to inform the tra-
vellers and caravans to halt, till a guard was sent tp
protect them from the numerous bodies of Tartars
that lately appeared about the city. This news put .
•us into great consternation; but, obeyingthe orders,,
N 6 we
we stopt; and, two days after, there came two hun-
dred soldiers from a garrison of the Chinese, and
three hundred more from Naum ; thus guarded both
in the front and rear, with our own men on the
flanks, we boldly advanced, thinking we were able
to combat with ten thousand Mogul Tartars, if they
appeared.-
Early next morning, in our march from a little
well situated town called Changu, after having pasted
a river, and entered upon a desert of about 15 or 16.
miles over, we soon beheld, by a cloud of dust that
was raised, that the enemy was approaching. This
tx\uch dispirited the Chinese. My old pilot took no-
tice of it, and called out, Seignior Inglise, those
fellows must be encouraged, or they will ruin us all;
end I am afraid, if the Tartars attack us, they will
run away. Why, Seignior, said I, what shall
t>e done in this cafe? Done, says he, why, let fifty os
©ur men advance, and flank them on each wing. I
Jcnow the sellows will sight well enough in com-
pany. We accordingly took his advice, and march-
ed, fifty to the right wing,.and the same number to
the left, and with the rest made a line of reserve,
Jeaving the last two hundred men to guard the ca-
Uiels, or to assist us as occasion required.
Thus prepared, a party of the enemy came for-
ward, viewing our posture, and traversing the ground
0n the front of our line. Hereupon, we ordered
the two wings to move on, and give them a salute
^irith their shot; which accordingly was done. This-
put a stop to their proceedings; for immediately
wheeling off to their left, they all marched away,
and we saw no more of them. They had undoubt-
edly given an account to their companions of what
reception they might expect, which made them so
easily give over their enterprize.
When we came to the city of Naum, we returnrd
the governor hearty thanks, and dispersed a hundred
erowns among the soldiers that guarded us. We
6 rested
rested there one day, and then proceeded on our tra-
vels, passing several great rivers and deserts; and on
the 13th of April,*we came to the frontiers ©f Mus-
covy, the first town of which was called Argun.
This happy occasion, as I thought, of coining in-
to a Christian country, made me congratulate the
Scots merchant upon it. He smiled at that, telling
me not to rejoice too soon; for, said he, except the
Russian soldiers in garrison,, and a sew inhabitants'
of the cities upon the road, all the rest of this coun-
try, for above a thousand miles, is inhabited by the
most ignorant and barbarous Pagans.
We advanced from the river Arguna, by moder-
ate journies, and found convenient garrisons on the
road, filled with Christian soldiers, for the security
©f commerce, and for the convenient lodgings of
travellers: but the inhabitants of the country were
mere Pagans, worshipping the sun, moon, and stars.
We particularly observed this idolatry near the ri-
ver Arguna, at a city inhabited by Tartars and Rus-
sians, called Nerisinkey. Being curious to see their
way of living, while the caravan continued to refr
themselves in that city, I went to one of their vil-
lages, where there was to be one of their solemn sa-
crifices. There I beheld, upon the stump of an old
tree, an idol of wood, more ugly than the repre-
sentation of the devil himself; its head resembled
no living creature; its ears were as big and as high
as goats horns., a crooked nose, four cornered mouth;
and horrible teeth: it was cloathed in sheep skins,
had a great Tartar bonnet, with two horns grow-
ing through it, and was eight seet high, without
seet, legs, or porportion. Before this idol there lay
16 or 17 people, who brought their offerings, and
were making their prayers, while at a distance stood
three men, and one bullock, as victims to this ugly
monster.
Such, stupendous sacrilege as this, in robbing the
true God of his honour, silled me with the greatest
astonishment
astonishment and reflection; which soon turning to
rage and sury, I rode up to the image, and cut in
pieces the bonnet that was upon his head with my
sword, so that it hung down by one of the horns,
-while one of my men that was with me, pulled at it
by his sheep's (kin garment. Immediately an hide-
ous howling and outcry ran through the village, and
two or three hundred people coming about our ears,
we were obliged to fly for it.
But I had no.t done with the monster; for the ca-
ravan being to rest three nights in the town, I toM
the Scots merchant what I had seen, and that I was
resolved to take four or five men well armed with
Hie, in order to destroy the idol, and shew the peo-
ple how little reason they had to trust in.a God who
.could not save himself. At first he laughed at me,
representing the danger of it, and when it was de-
stroyed, what time had we to preach to them better
things, whose zeal and ignorance was in the highest
Jegree, and both unparalleled? that if I should be
taken by them, I should be served as a poor ruffian,
^vho contemned their worship; that is, to be strip-
ped naked, and tied to the topof the idol, there shot at
yyith arrows till my body was sull of them, and then
piirnt as a sacrifice to the monster; but Sir, said he,
since your ^eal carries you so sar, rather than you
/frould be alone I will accompany you, and bring a
{tout sellow equal to yourself, if you will, to assist
you in this design: and accordingly he brought one
Captain Richardson, who, hearing the story, readily.
consented; but my partner declined it, being alto-
gether out of his way; and so we three, and my
*^,an servant, resolved to execute this exploit about
midnight; but, upon second thoughts we deserred
jt to the next night, by reason that the caravan being
to Bo from thence next morning, we should be
of the governor's power. The better to effec-
tuate my design, I procured a Tartar's sheep skin
x«be, a bonnet, with bow and sutows, and every
one
one of us got the like habits. The first night we
spent in mixing combustible matter with aqua vitæ,
gunpowder, &c. having a good quantity of tar in a
little pot: next night we came up to the idol about
eleven o'clock, the moon being up. We found
none guarding it; but we perceived a light in the
house, where we had seen the priests before. One
of our men was for firing the hut, another for kill-
ing the people, and a third for making them pri-
soners, while the idol was destroyed. We agreed
to the latter; so knocking at the door, we seized the
first that opened it, and stopping his mouth, and
tying his seet, we left him. We served the other
two in the like manner; and then the Scots mer-
chant set fire to the composition, which frightened
them so much, that we brought them all away pri-
soners to their wooden god. There we sell to work
with him, daubing him all over with tar mixed
with tallow and brimstone, stopping his eyes, ears,
and mouth sull of gunpowder, with a great piece of
wild-fire in his bonnet, and environed it with dry
forage. All this being done, we unloosed and un-
gaged the prisoners, and set the idol on fire, which
the gunpowder blowing up, the shape of it was de-
formed, rent, and split, which the forage utterly
consumed; for we staid to see its destruction, lest
the ignorant idolatrous people should have thrown
themselves into the flame. And thus we came away
undiscovered, in the morning appearing as busy
among our sellow-travellers, as nobody could have
suspected any other, but that we had been in our
beds all night.
Next morning we set out, and had gone but a
small distance from the city, when there came a mul-
titude of the people of the country to the gates of
the city, demanding satissaction of the Russian go-
vernor for insulting their priests, and burning their
great Cham Chi-Tbaungu, who dwelt in the sun, and
xlo mortal would violate this image, but some Chris-
tian
"» i .
tian miscreants; and being already no less than
thirty thousand strong, they announced war against
him and all his Christians.
The governor assured them he was ignorant of
the matter, and that none of his garrison had been
abroad; that indeed there was a caravan that went
away that morning, and that he would send after
them to enquire into it; and whoever where the of-
fenders, should be delivered into their hands. This
satissied them for the present, but the governor sent
to inform us, that if any of us had done it, we
should make all the haste away possible, while he
Jcept them in play as long as he could. Upon this
vve marched two days and two nights, stopping but
very little, till at last we arrived at a village called
Plothus, and hasted to Jarawena, another of the
Czar's colonies. On the third day, havingentered
the desert, and passed the lake called Shaks Oser, we
beheld a numerous body of horse on the other side
of it to the north, who supposed we had passed on
that side of the lake; but having either found
their mistake, or, being certainly informed os the
%vay we took, they came upon us towards theduik
of the evening, just as we had pitched pur camp be:
tween too little but very thick woods, with a little
river running before our front, and some felled trees
vvith which we cohered our rear; a precaution we
always took, and which we had just sinished, when
the enemy came up. They did not sall on us im-
mediately, but sent three messengers, demanding
the men who had insulted their priests, and burnt
their god Cham Chi-Thaungu, that they might be
burnt with fire, that if this was complied with, they
^vould peaceably depart; but if not, they wou Id destroy
one and all of us. Our men stared at one another
on receipt of this message, but Nobody was the word,
As indeed nobody knew itr but he who did it. Up-
^n which the leader of th« caravan returned for an-
swer,
swer, That they were peaceable merchants, who
meddled with none of their priests and gods; and
therefore desired them not to disturb us, and put us
to the necessity of desending ourselves. But so sar
was this from satisfying them, that the next morn-
ing, coming to our right, they let fly a volley of
arrows among us, which happily did not hurt any,
because we sheltered ourselves behind our baggage.
We expected however to come to a closer engage-
ment; but were happily saved by a cunning sellow, a
Cassock, who- obtaining leave of the leader to go
out, mounts his horse, rides directly from our rear,
and taking a circuit, comes up to the Tartars, as
though he had been sent express, and tells them a
formal story, that the wretches who had burnt the
Cbam-Cbi-Thaungu, were gone to Shiheilka, with a
resolution to burn the god Shal-Isar, belonging to
the Tongueses, Upon which, believing this cun-
ning Tartar who was servant to our Moscovites,
away they drove to Shiheilka, and in less than three
minutes were out of our sight, nor did we ever hear
of them more.
When we came to the city of Jarawena, we rest-
ed five days, and then entered into a frightsul de-
sert, which held us twenty three days march, in-
sested with several small companies of robbers, or
Mogul Tartars, who never had the courage to at-
tack us. After we had passed over this desert, we
sound several garrisons to desend the caravans from
the violence of the Tartars. In particular, the
Governor of Adinskoy offered us a guard of fifty
men to the next station, if we apprehended any dan-
ger. The people here retained the same paganism
and barbarity, only they were not so.dangerous, be-
ing conquered by the Moscovites. The cloathing,
both of men and women, is of the skins of beasts,
living under the ground in vaults and caves, which
have a communication with one another. They
have idols almost in every samily; besides, they
adore
adore the sun and stars, water and snow; and1
and the least uncommon thing that happens in the
elements, alarms them as much as thunder and
lightning does the unbelieving Jews.
Noth ing remarkable occurred in our march through
tbis country. When we had gone through the de-
sert, after two days sarther travel, we came to Je-
nezoy, a Muscovite city, on the great river so called,
which, we were told, parted Europe from Asia.
'I" he inhabitants here were very little better, tho'
intermixed with the Muscovites; but the wonder
itrill cease, when I inform my reader of what was
observed to me, that the Czar rather converts the
Tartars with soldiers than clergymen, and is more
proud to make them saithsul subjects, than good
Christians.
From this city to the river Oby, we travelled over
a pleasant, fruitsul, but very uncultivated country,
for want of good management and people, and those
few are mostly Pagans. This is the place where
she Muscovite criminals are banished to, if they are
iiOt put to death, the next city we came to, was the
capital city of Siberia, called Tobolski, when, hav-
jiig been almost seven months on our journey, and
^inter drawing on apace, my partner and 1 con-
jilted about our particular affairs, in what manner
yre should dispose of ourselves. We had been told
0f fledges and rein deer to carry us ever the snow in
the winter season, the snow being frozen so hard,
^fcat the sledges can run upon the sursase without any
ganger of going down. As I was bound to Eng-
land, I now behoved either to go with the caravan
to Jeroslaw, from thence west to Marva, and the
gulf of Finland, and so by land or sea to Denmark;
^r else I must leave the caravan at a little town on
tlie Dwiiva, and so to Archangel, where I was cer-
tain of shipping either to England, Holland, or Ham-
burgh. One night I happened to get into the com-
pany of an illustrious but banished Prince, whose
company
company and virtues were such as made me propose
to him a method how he might obtain his liberty.
My dear friend, said he, as I am here happily free from
my miserable greatness, with all its attendants of pride,
ambition, avarice, and luxury, if I should escape from
this place, those pernicious feeds may again revive, to my
Lifting disquietude; therefore let me remain in a blessea
confinement, for lam but flesh, a mere man, with passions
ana affections as such; 0'be not my friend and tempter too!
Struck dumb with surprise, I stood filent a while;
nor was he in less disorder, by which, perceiving he
wanted to give vent to his mind, I defired him to
consider of it, and so withdrew. But about two
hours after, he came to my apartment: Dear friends
said he, though I cannot consent to accompany you, Ishall
have this satisfaction in parting, that you leave mean
honejl manji'ill; but as a tejlimony of my affection to
you, be pleased to accept this present of sables.
In return for his compliment, I sent my servant
next morning to his Lordship with a small present
of tea, two pieces of China damask, and four little
wedges of gold; but he only accepted the tea, one
piece of damask, and one piece of gold, for the curi-
osity of the Japan stamp that was upon it. Not
long after he sent for me, and told me, that what he
had resused himself, he hoped, upon his account,
I would grant to another, whom he should name:
In short, it was his only son, who was about 200
miles distant from him, on the other side of the ©by,
whom he said he would send for, if I gave my con-
sent. This I soon complied with; upon which he
sent his servants next day for his son, who returned
in twenty days time, bringing seven horses loaded
with valuable surs. At night the young Lord was
conducted incognito into our apartment, where his
sather presented him to me. We then concerted the
best ways for travelling, and after having bought a
considerable quantity of sables, black fox ikins, fine
ermines, &c. (which I sold at Archangel at a good
price}
price) we set out from this city the beginning of
June, making a small caravan, being about thirty-
two horses and camels, of which 1 represented the
bead. My young Lord had with him a very saith-
ful Siberian/ervant, well acquainted with the roads:
"We shunned the principal towns and cities, as Tu-
rnen, Soli-Karr.oslcoi, and several others, by reason
of their strictness in, examining travellers, lest any
of the banished persons of distinction should escape,
slaving passed the river Kama, we came to a city on
the European side, called Soloy Kamoslcoi, where
yve found the people mostly Pagans, as before. We
then passed a desert of about two hundred miles over;
put in other places it is near seven hundred. In
passing this wild place, we were beset by a troop of
men on horseback, and about Jive and forty men
armed with bows and arrows. At first they looked
earnestly on us, and then placed themselves in our
v^ay- We were above sixteen men, and drew up a
Jittle line before our camels. My young Lord sent
0ut his Siberian servant, to know who they were;
put, when he approached them, he neither knew a
,yyord they said, nor would they admit him to come
yicar them at his peril, but prepared to shoot him.
j±t his return, he t©ld us he believed them to be Cal-
jiiuck Tartars; and that he thought there were
iiiore of them upon the desert. This was but a small
comfort to us; yet seeing a little grove, about a
quarter of a mile's distance, we moved to it, by the
0ld Portuguese pilot's advice, without meeting with
aI1y opposition. Here we found a marshy piece of
ground, and a spring of water running into a little
prook on one side, which joined, another like it a little
farther off, and these two formed the head of the
river called Writslca. As soon as we arrived, we
^irent to work, cutting down great arms off the trees,
aIid laying them hanging (not quite off) from one
tree to another. In this situation we waited the mo-
tions of theenemy, without perceiving any advance-
ment
ment they made towards us. About two hours be-
fore night, being joined by some others, in all about
fourscore horse, among whom we sancied were some
women, they came upon us with great sury. We
fired without ball, calling to them, in the Ruffian
tongue, to know their business: but they, either
not knowing, or seeming not to understand us, came
directly to the wood-side, not considering that we
we were so fortified, as that they could not break in.
Our old pilot, the Portuguese, proved both our
captain and engineer, and defired us not to • fire,
till they came within pistol shot; and when he gave
the word of command then to take the surest aim:
but he did not bid us give fire, till they were within
two pikes length of us, and then we killed fourteen
of them, wounded several, as also their horses, hav-
ing every one of us loaded our pieces with two or
three bullets at least. So much were they surprised
at our undauntedness, that they retired about ah
hundred roods from us. In the mean while we
loaded our pieces again, and sallying out, secured
four or five of their horses, whose riders we found
were killed, and perceived them to be Tartars. A-
bout an hour after, they made another attempt, to
see where they might break in; but finding us ready
to receive them, they retired.
All that night we wrought hard, in strengthening
our situation, and barricading the entrances into the
woods; but, when day-light came, we had a very
unwelcome discovery; for, the enemy, being en-
couraged by their assistance, had set up eleven or
twelve tents, in form of a camp, about three quar-
ters of a mile from us. I must consess, I was never
more concerned in my lise, giving myself and all
that I had over for lost. And my partner declared,
that as the loss of his goods would be his ruin, before
they should be taken from him, he would sight to the
last drop of his blood.. As we could not pretend to
force our way, we had recourse to a stratagem; we
kindled
kindled a large fire, which burnt all night; and n»
sooner was it dark, but we pursued our journey to-
wards the pole, or north star, and travelling all
night, by six o'clock, in the morning we came to a
Ruffian village, called Kertza, and fromJhence,
came to a large town named Ozonoys, where we
beard that several troops of Calmuck Tartars had
been abroad upon the desert, but that we were past
all danger. In five days after we came to Veuslima,
upon the river Witzedga; from thence we came to
X>aw; enskoy, on the third of July, where, providing
ourselves with two luggage boats, and a convenient
bark, we embarked the seventh, and arrived at Arch-
angel the eighteenth, after a year, five months, and
three days journey, including the eight months and
©dd days at Tobolfki. We came from Archangel
the twentieth of August in the same year, and ar-
rived at Hamburgh the thirtieth of September,
flere my partner and I made a very good sale of our
goods, both those of China and Siberia; when di-
viding our effects, my share came to 3475I. 17s. 3d.
after all the losses we had sustained, and charges we
bad been at. Here the young Lord took his leave of
ine, in order to go to the Court of Vienna, not only
tO seek protection, but to correspond with his sather's
^riends. After we had staid four months in Ham-
burgh, I went from thence over land to the Hague,
^vrhere embarking in the packet, I arrived in Lon-
don the tenth of January, 1705, after ten years and
iiine months absence from England.
Robinson Cruioe's Vision of the Angelic Word.
Chap. I. Of SOLITUDE.
Owever solitude is looked upon as a restraint
to the pleasures of the world, in company and
cenversation,
conversation, yet it is a happy state of exemption
from a sea of troublo, an inundation of vanity and
.vexation, of consusion and disappointment. While
.ew enjoy ourselves, neither the joy nor sorrow of
other men affect us: We are then at liberty, with
-the voice of our foul, to speak to God. By this we
shun such frequent trivial discourse, as even becomes
an obstruction to virtue: and how often do we find
that we had reason to wish we had not been in com-
pany, or said nothing when we were there? for
either we offend God by the impiety of our discourse,
or lay ourselves open to the violence of designing
people by our ungu irded expressions; and frequent-
ly seel the coldness and treachery of pretended friends,
.when once involved in trouble and affliction; of
such unsaithful intimates (I should say enemies)
who rather by salse inuendoes would accumulate
miseries upon us, than honestly assist us when suf-
sering under the hard hand of adversity. But in a
.state of solitude, when our tongues cannot be heard,
except by the great Majesty of Heaven, how happy
are we, in the blessed enjoyment of conversing with
our Maker! It is then we make him our friend,
which sets us above the envy and contempt of wick-
ed men. When a man converses with himself, he is
sure that he does not converse with an enemy.
Our retreat should be to good company, and good
books. I mean not by solitude, that a man should
retire into a cell, a desert, or a monaslry: which
would be altogether an useless and unprofitable re-
straint: for as men are formed for society, and have
an absolute necessity and dependence upon one ano-
ther; so there is a retirement of the soul, with
which it converses in heaven, even in the midst of
men; and indeed no man is more sit to speak freely,
than he who can, without any violence to himself,
refrain his tongue, or keep silence altogether. As
to religion, it is by this the soul gets acquainted
with the hidden mysteries of the holy writings; here
she
she finds those flood of tears, in which good men
waft themselves day and night, and only makes a
visit to God, and his holy angels. In this conversa-
tion the truest peace and most solid joy are to be
found; it is a continual seast of contentment on
earth, and the means of attaining everlasting hap-
piness in heaven.
Chap. II. Os HONESTY.
Ho nesty is a virtue beloved by good men, and
pretended to by all persons. In this there are se-
veral degrees: to pay every man his own is the com-
mon law of honesty; but to do good to all man-
kind, is the chanceiy law of honesty: and this chan-
cery-court is in every man's breast, where his con-
science is a Lord Chancellor. Hence it is, that a
miser, though he pays every body their own, cannot
be an honest man, when he does not discharge the
good offices that are incumbent on a friendly, kind,
and generous person: for, saith the prophet Isaiah,
chap xxxii. ver. 7. 8. The injirutnents of a churl are
gvil: he devifetk wicked devices to dejlroy the poor with
lying words, even when the needy spealccth right. But
the liberalsoul devijeth liberal things, and by liberal things
Jhall he Jland. It is certaii ly honesty to do every
thing the law requires; but should we throw every
poor debtor into prison till he has paid the utmost
farthing, hang every malesactor without jnercy, ex-
act the penalty of every bond, and the forseiture os
every indenture, this would be downright cruelty,
and not honesty: and, it is contrary to that general
rule, To do to another, that which you wouTd.have done
unto you. Sometimes necessity makes an honest man
a knave; and a rich man an honest man, because he
Jias no occasion to be a knave. The trial of honesty
is this: Did you ever want bread, and had your
neighbour's loaf in keeping, and would starve rather
than eat it? Were you ever arrested, having in ycur
custody
OF RC
custody another
K than bre.
re*>ned,honest
n»d name i5 i
ChaP. HI. q
•fe'
^Pofed^to
*Her fm 1
wickel rottla
<2 nt fc
oswicLma.y be
findit S>J<*lo
>kabL J- W1
J* <ire%i
•custody another man's cash, and would rather go to
o.aol, than break it? if so, this. indeed may be
reckoned.honesty. For King Solo/nan tells us, That
a good name is better than life, and is a precious oint-
ment, and vjbich, when a man has once lojl, he has no-
thing left mirth keeping.
Chap. III. Of suffering AFFLICT 10 NS.
Afflictions are common to all mankind; and,
whether they proceed from losses, disappointments,
or the malice of men, they often bring their advan-
tages along with them: for this shews man the va-
nity and deceitsulness of this lise, and is an occasion
of rectifying our measures, and bringing us to a
more modest opinion of ourselves: it tells us, how
necessary the assistance of divine grace is unto us,
when lise itfelf becomes a burden, and death even
desirable; but, when the greatest oppression comes
upon us, we must have recourse to patience, beg-
ging of God to give us that virtue; and, the more
composed we are under any trouble, the more com-
mendable is our wisdom, and the larger will be our
recompence. Let the provocation be what it will,
whether from a good natured and conscientious, or a
wicked, perverse, and vexatious man; all this we
should take as from the over-ruling hand of God, as
a punishment for our sins. Many times injured in-
nocence may be abused by salse oaths, or the power
of wicked, jealous, or malicious men; but we often
find it, like the palm, rise the higher, the more it
is depressed; while the justice of God is eminently
remarkable in punishing those, one way or other,
who defire to endeavour to procure the downfall of
an innocent man: nor does God sail comfortino- an
afflicted person, who, with tears and prayers, soli-
cits the throne of Heaven for deliverance and protec-
tion. David says, that his foul was full of trouble,
and his life drew near unto the grave. But certainly
O David's
David's afflictions made him eminently remarkable,
as particularly when pursued by .King Saul, and
hunted as a patridge over the mountains. But one
thing which stands by innocence, is the love of God;
for, were we to suffer disgrace, nay an ignominious
death itfelf, what consolation does our innocence
procure at our latest conflict, our last moments!
Chap. IV. Of the immorality of conversation, and the
vulgar errors of behaviour.
As conversation is a great part of human happi-
ness, so it is a pleasant sight to behold a sweet tem-
pered man, who is always sit for it, to see an air of
humour and pleasantness sit ever upon his brow, and
even something angelic in his very countenance:
whereas, if we observe a designing man, we shall
sind a mark of involuntary sadness break in upon
his joy, and a certain insurrection in the soul, the
natural concomitant of profligate principles.
They err very much, who think religion, ora
strict morality, discomposes the mind, and renders
it unsit for conversation: for, it rather inspires us to
innocent mirth, without such a counterseit joy as
vicious men appear with; and indeed wit is as con-
sistent with religion, as religion is with good man-
ners ; nor is there any thing in the limitation of vir-
tue and religion that should abate the pleasures of
this world, but, on the contrary, rather serves to en-
crease them.
On the other hand, many men, by their own
vice and intemperance, disqualify themselves for
conversation. Conversation is immoral, where the
discourse is indecent, immodest, scandalous, slander-
ous, and abusive. How great is their folly, and
and how much do they expose themselves, when
they atfront their best friend, even God himself,
who laughs at the fool when his fear cometh.
The great scandal atheistical andj immoral dis-
course
course gives to virtue,ought, methinks to be punish-
ed by all good magistrates: make a man once cease
to believe a God, and he has nothing left to limit
his foul. How incongruous is it to good govern-
ment, that a man shall be punished for drunkenness,
and yet have liberty to affront, and even deny the
Majesty of Heaven? when if, even among men, one
gives the lie to a gentleman in company, or perhaps
speaks an affronting word, a quarrel will ensue, and a
combat, and perhaps murder be the consequence; at
the least he will prosecute him at law with the ut-
most virulence and oppression.
The next thing to be refrained, is obscene dis-
course, which is the language only of proficients in
debauchery, who never repent but in gaol or hos-
pital; and whose carcases relish no better than their
discourse, till the body becomes too nasty for the
foul to stay, any longer in it.
Nor is salse talking to be less avoided; for lying
is the sheep's clothing hung upon the wolf's back.
It is the pharisee's prayer, the whore's buss, the
hypocrite's paint, the murderer's smile, the thief's
cloak, it is Joab's embrace, and Judas's kiss; in a
word, it is mankind's darling sin, and the devil's
distinguishing character. Some add lies to lies, till
it not only comes to be improbable, but even im-
possible too: others lie for gain, to deceive, delude,
and betray: and a third lies for sport, or for sun.
There are other liars, who are personal and mali-
cious ; who foment difserences, and carrv tales from
one house to another, in order to gratify their own
envious tempers, without any regard or reverence
to truth.
Chap. V. Os the presentslate os religion in the world.
I doubt, indeed, there is much more devotion
than religion in the world, more adoration than sup-
plication, and more hypocrisy than sincerity; and
O 2 it>
it is very melancholy to consider, what numbers of
people there are surnished with the powers of reason
and gifts of nature, and yet abandoned to the gros-
sest ignorance and depravity. But it would be un-
charitable for us to imagine (as some Papists, abound-
ing with too much ill nature, the only scandal to
religion, do) that they will certainly be in the state
of damnation after this lise; for how can we think
it consistent with the mercy and goodness of an in-
finite Being, to damn those creatures, when he has
not surnished them with the light of his gospel ? or
how can such proud, conceited, and cruel bigots,
prescribe rules to the justice and mercy of God?
We are told by some people, that the great image
which King Nebuchadnezzer set up to be adored by
Jiis people, held the representation of the sun in its
right hand, as the principal object of adoration,
^ut to wave this discourse of Heathens, how many
self-contradicting principles are there held among
Christians? and how do we doom one another to
the devil, while all prosess to worship the same
Tpeity, and to expect the same salvation?
When I was at Portugal, there was held at that
tirne the court of justice of the inquisition. All
the criminals were carried in procession to the great
church, where eight of them were habited in gowns
and caps of canvass, whereon the torments of hell
^ere displayed, and they were condemned and burnt
for crimes against the Catholic saith and blessed
Virgin.
I am sorry to make any reflection upon Christians,
but, indeed, in Italy the Roman religion seems the
piost cruel and mercenary upon earth; and a very
;udicious person, who travelled through Italy from
^Turkey, tells us, " That there is only the sace and
ft outward pomp of religion there: that the church
*i protects murderers and assassins; and then delivers
*' the civil magistrates over to Satan for doing juf-
«« tice; interdicts whole kingdoms, and shuts up
« the
** the churches for want of paying a, sew ecclesiaf-
"tical dues, and so puts a stop to religion for want
"of their money; that the court of Inquisition
"burnt two men for speaking dishonourably of the
"blessed Virgin; and the miflionaries of China
"tolerated the worshipping the devil by their new
*' converts: that Italy was the theatre, where re-
"ligion was the grand opera; and that the Popish
"clergy were no other than the stage-players."
As to religion in Poland, they deny Christ to
be the Messiah, or that the Messiah has come in the
flesh. And as to their Protestants, they are the fol-
lowers of Lælius Socinus, who denied our Saviour's
divinity; and have no concern about the divine in-
spiration of the Holy Ghost.
In Muscovy their churches are built of wood,
and, indeed, they have but wooden priests, though
of the Greek church; they pray as much to St. Ni-
cholas, as the Papists do the Virgin Mary, for pro-
tection in all their difficulties or afflictions,
As to Lutherans, they only differ from the Ro-
mans in believing consubstantiation, instead of tran-
substantiation; but, like them, they are much plea-
sed with the external gallantry and pomp, more than
the true and real practice of it.
In France I found a world of priests, the streets
every where crouded with them, and the churches
sull of women; but surely never was a nation so
sull of blind guides, so ignorant of religion, and
even as void of morals, as those people who con-
sess their sins to them.
Does it not seem strange, that, while all men own
the Divine Being, there should be.somany different
opinions as to the mannr of paying him obedience
in the Christian church? I know not what reason
to assign for this, except it be their different capa-
cities and saculties.
And, indeed, upon this account, we have per-
ceived, in all Christian countries, what mortal seuds
O 3 have
have been about religion: what wars and bloodshed
have molested Europe, till the general pacification
of the German troubles at the treaty of Westphalia;
and, since those times, what prosecution in the same
country among the churches of the Lutherans;
and should I take a prospect at home, what unhap-
py divisions are between Christians in this kingdom,
about Episcopacy and Presbytery, the church of
.England-men and the Dissenters; opposing one a-
riother like St. Paul and St. Peter, even to the sace;
that is, they carry on the dispute to the utmost ex-
tremity.
It might be a question, why there are such dif-
ferences in religious points, and why these breaches
should be more hot and irreconcileable? All the an-
swer I can give to this, is, that we enquire more
concerning thetiuth of religion, than any other na-
tion in the world ; and the anxious concern we have
about it, makes us jealous of every opinion, and
tenacious of our own; and this is not because we
are more surious and rash than other people; but
the truth is, we arc more concerned about them,
and being sensible that the scripture is the great rule
of saith, the standard for lise and doctrine, we have
recourse to it ourselves, without submitting to any
pretended insallible judge upon earth.
There is another question, pertinent to the for-
mer, and that is, What remedy can we apply to
f his malady? And to this I must negatively answer,
jssot to be less religious, that we may differ the less,
fhis is striking at the very root of all religious dif-
ferences; for, certainly, where they to be carried
0n with a peaceable spirit, willing to be informed,
our variety of opinions would not have the name
cf differences; nor should we separate in communion
of charity, though we did not agree in several ar-
ticles of religion.
Nor is there a less usesul question to start, name-
ly, Where will our unhappy religious differences
end!
end ? To which, I hope, I may answer, in Heaven;
there all unchristian and unbrotherly differences
will find a period; there we shall embrace many a
sinner, that here we think it a dishonour to converse
with; and perceive many a heart we have broken
here with censures, reproachings, and revilings,
made whole again by the balm of the same Re-
deemer's blood. Here We shall perceive there have
been other flocks than those of our fold; that those
we have excommunicated, have been taken into that
superior communion; and, In a word, that those
contradicting notions and principles which we
thought inconsistent with.true religion, we shall
then find reconcileable to themselves, to one ano-
ther, and to the fountain of truth. If any man ask
me, Why our differences cannot be ended on earth?
I answer, Were we all thoroughly convinced, that
then they would be reconciled, we would put an
end to them before; but this is impossible to be
done; for, as men's certain convictions of truth are
not equal to one another, or to the weight or figni-
ficancy of such veracity; so neither can a general
effect of this affair be expected on this side of time,
on this side of the grave.
Before I conclude this chapter, I shall beg leave
to discourse a little of the wondersul excellency of
negative religion and negative virtue. The htter
sets out, like the pharisee, with, God, I thank thee;
it is a piece of religious pagentry, the hypocrite's
hope: and, in a word, it is positive vice; for it is
either a mask to deceive others, or a mist to deceive
ourselves. A man that it clothed with negatives, •
thus argues: tarn not such a drunkard as'my land-
lord, such a thief as my tenant, such a swearer as
his neighbour; neither am I a cheat, an atheist, a
rakish sellow, or a highwayman; no! I live a so-
ber, regular, retired lise: I am a good man, I go
to church; God, I thank thee. Now, though a
man boasts of his virtue in contradiction to the vices
O 4 mentioned
mentioned, yet a person had better have them alto-
gether, than the man himself; for he is so sull of
himself, so persuaded that he is good and religious
enough already, that he has no thoughts of any
thing, except it be to pull off his hat to God Al-
mighty now and then, and thank him, that he has
no occasion for him; and has the vanity to think
that his neighbours must imagine well of,him too.
The negative man, though he is no drunkard, is
yet intoxicated with the pride of his own worth: a
good neighbour and peace-maker in other samilies,
but a tyrant in his own: appears in church for a
/how, h'.'.t never falls upon his knees in his closet;
does all his alms before men, to be seen of them;
eager in the duties of the second table, but regard-
Jess of the sirst; appears religious, to be taken no-
tice of by men, but without intercourse or com-
munication between God and his own soul: Pray,
.what is the man? or what comfort is there of the
lise he lives? he is insensible of saith, repentance,
and a Christian mortified lise; in a word, he is per-
fectly a stranger to the essential part of religion.
Let us for a while enter into the private and re-
tired part of his conversation: What notions has
be of his mispent hours, and of the progress of
time to the great centre and gulf of lise, eternity-?
J}oes he know how to put a right value on time, or
esteem the lise-blood of his soul, as it really is, and
act In all the moments of it, as one that must ac-
count for them? If then you can form an equality
between what he can do, and what he sliall receive;
jess can it be founded upon his negative virtue, or (
^vhat he has forborn to do, and if neither his nega-
tive nor positive piety can be equal to the reward,
-iiid to the eternity that reward is to last for, what
then is to become of the Pharisee, when he is to be
:udged by the sincerity of his repentance, and re-
garded, according tc the infinite grace of God,
with a state of blessedness to an endlels eternity?
When
When the negative man converses with the invisi-
ble world, he is silled with as much horror and dread
as Felix, when St. Paul reasoned to him of temper-
ance, righteousness, and of judgment to come; for
Felix, though a great philosopher, of great power
and reverence, was a negative man, and he was
made sensible by the apostle, that, as a lise of vir-
tue and temperance was its own reward, by giving
a healthy body, a clear head, and a composed lise;
so eternal happiness must proceed from another
spring; namely, the infinite unbounded grace of a
provoked God, who having erected a righteous tri-
bunal, Jesus Christ would separate such as by saith
and repentance he had brought home and united to
himself by the grace of adoption, and on the foot
of his having laid down his lise as a ransom for them,
had appointed them to salvation, when all the phi-
losophy, temperance, and righteousness in the world
besides had been inesfectual. And fiiis, I say, it
was, that made Felix, this negative man, tremble.
Chap. VI. Os listening to the voice os Providence.,
The magnificent and wise king Solomon bids ur
cry after knowledge, and lift up our voice for un-
derstanding; by which is meant, religious know-
ledge; for it follows: Then Jhalt thou understand the
fear of the Lord? and find the knowledge of God. By
which undoubtedly he meant, to enquire after every
thing that he has permitted us to know, and not to
search into those ways that are unsearchable, and
are effectually locked up from our knowledge. Now,
as listening to the voice of Providence is my present sub-
ject, I intend, in the first place, to write to those
who own, 1. That there is a God, a first great
moving cause of all things, and eternal power, prior,
and consequently superior to all created power oc
being, 2. That this eternal power, which is God,
is the sovereign creator and governor of heaven and
earth.
To avoid all needless distinctions, what persons
in the Godhead exercise the creating, and what the
governing power, I offer that glorious text, Psal.
xxxiii. 6, where the whole Trinity is intitled to
the whole creating work: and therefore, in the next
place, I shall lay down these two propositions.
I. That the eternal God guides by his providence the
whole universe, which was created by his power.
II. That this providence manifejh a particular care
over, and concern in, the governing and directing
man, the mojl noble creature upon earth.
It is plain, that natural religion proves the first,
by intimating the necessity of a providence guiding
gnd governing the world, from the consequence of
the wisdom, justice, prescience, and goodness of
the almighty Creator: for otherwise it would be
absurd to think, that God should create a world,
.vvithoutany care or providence over it, in guiding the
operations of nature, so as to preserve the order of
jiis creation.
Revealed religion gives us a light into the care
^nd concern of his providence, by the climate's being
,nade habitable, the creatures subjected and made
flourishing, and all vegetative lise made medicinal;
and all this for the sake of man, who is made vice-
roy to the King of the earth. The short descrip-
tion I shall give of providence is this: That it is
that operation of the power, of the wisdom, jus-
tice, and goodness of God, by which he influences,
governs, and directs, not only the means, but the
Events of all things, which concern us in this sub-
lunary world; the sovereignty of which we ought
always to reverence, obey its motions, observe its
dilates, and listen to its voice. The prudent man
/creseeth the evil, and hideth himself; that is, as I
iake it, there is a secret providence intimates to us,
that
that some danger threatens, if we .strive not to shun
it.
The same day that Sir John Hotham kept out
Hull against the royal martyr King Charles I. the
same day Sir John Hotham was put to death by the
parliament for that very action; the same day that
the King himself signed the warrant for the execu-
tion of the Earl of Stafford, the same day of the
month was he barbarously murdered by the blood-
thirsty Oliverian crew: and the same day that King
James II. came to the crown against the bill of ex-
clusion, the same day he was voted abdicated by the
parliament, and the throne filled with King Wil-
liam and Queen Mary.
The voice of signal deliverances from sudden dan-
gers, is not only a just call to repentance, but a
caution against salling into the like danger; but
such who are utterly careless of themselves after,
shew a lethargy of the worst nature, which seems
to me to be a kind of practical atheism, or at least
a living in a contempt of Heaven, when he receives
good at the hand of his Maker, but is unconcerned
from whence it comes, or to thank the bountisul
hand that gave it; neither, when he receives evil,
does it alter his manner of lise, or bring him to any
state of humiliation.
We have a remarkable story of two soldiers being
condemned to death in Flanders. The general be-
ing prevailed upon to spare one of them, ordered
them to cast dice upon the drum-head for their lives;
the first having thrown two sixes, the second sell a
wringing his hands, having so poor a chance to
escape; however, having thrown, he was surprized
when he also threw other two sixes. The officer,
appointed to see the execution, ordered them to throw
again; they did so, and each of them threw fives;
at which the soldiers that stood round, shouted, and
said neither of them was to die. Upon this, the
.officer acquainted the council of war, who ordered
O 6 them
them to throw a third time, when they threw twa
fours: the general being acquainted with it, sent
for the men, and pardoned them: I love, said he,
in such extraordinary cases, to listen to the voice of
providence.
We read in the holy writings, how God speaks
to men, by appearance of angels, or by dreams and
visions of the night. As God appeared to Abra-
ham, Lot, and Jacob: so angels have appeared to
rnany in other cases, as to Manoah and his wise,,
^echariah, the Virgin Mary, and to the apostles;
others have been warned in a dream, as king Abi-
inelech, the salse prophet Balaam, and many others.
It is certainly a very great and noble enquiry,
\\7hat we shall be after this lise? for there is scarce
a doubt, that there is a place reserved for the re-
ception of our fouls after death: for if we are to
jie, we must hi.ve a where, which the fcript&es
^flert by the examples of Dives and Lazarus. The
^o^ri.ne of spirits was long believed before our Sa-
vour's time; for when the disciples of the blessed
Tesus perceived our Saviour walking on the sea,
X•Yiey were much surprized as though they had seen
& spirit. Nay, in those ages of the world, it was
Relieved that spirits intermeddled in the affairs of
^ankind; and, throughout the Old Testament, I
j0 not find any thing that in the least contradicts it.
^Jl the pains and labour that some learned men have
tajcen, to consute the story of the witch of Endor,
nd the appearance of an old man personating Samu-
j cannot make such apparitions inconsistent with
e gture or religion; and it is plain, that it was either
good or bad spirit, that prophetically told the un-
?ortunate king what should happen the next day;
for* hid the spirit, The Lord will deliver thee into the
%ar~ds of the Philijlines; œnd to-morrow shalt thou and
dhy sms ^e wltk me'
^Abundance of strange notions possessed me, when
j *vas in the desolate illand; especially on a rnoen-
ibiut
shine night, v/hen every bush seemed a man, and
every tree a man on horseback. When I crept into
the dismal cave, where the old goat lay expiring,
whose articulate groanseven resembled those of a man,
how was I surprized! my blood chilled in my veins,
a cold sweaty dew sat on my forehead, my hair stood
upright, and my joints, like Balshazzar's knees,
struck against one another. And, indeed, though I
afterwards found what it was, the remains of this
surprize did not wear off for a great while; and I
had frequently returns of those vapours on different
occasions, and sometimes without any occasion at
all.
One night, after having seen some appearance in
the air, as I had just lain down in my bed, one of
my seet pained me; after that came a rrumbnessr
succeeded with a tingling in my blood; when on a
sudden I thought something alive lay upon me, frorr*.
my knee to above half my leg. Upon this I flung
myself out of bed where I thought the creature lay ^
but finding nothing, Lord deliver me from an evil
spirit, said I, what can this be? When I lighted a
candle, I could perceive no living creature in the
place with me, but the poor parrot, who being
frighted, cried out, Hold your tongue, and, What's
the matter ,with you? which words I had taught him,,
by saying so to him, when he made such screaming
noises as I did .not like. Lord, said I aloud, lufely the
devil has been here. Hold your tongue, says Poll. \
was then mad at the brid, and putting on my clothes,
cried, I am terribly frighted. What's the matter
with you? says Poll. You toad, said I, I'll knock
your brains out. Hold your tongue, cried he again,
and so sell a chattering, and calling Robinson Cru-
soe, as he did before. But, after I had composed
myself, and went to bed again, I began plainly to
see it was a distemper that affected my nerves, and
so my terrors vanished at once.
How intelligences are given or received, we do
not
not know; nor are we sensible how they are con-
veyed from spirits embodied, to ours that are in lise,;
or, on the contrary, from us to them; the iatter
certainly is done without the help of the organs,
and the former is conveyed by the understanding,
and the retired saculties of the soul.
The spirits, without the help of voices, converse,
and the more particular discoveries of the converse
0f spirits, seem to me as follow: to wit, dreams,
voices, noises, impulses, hints, apprehensions, in-
voluntary sadness, &c.
Dreams of old were the ways by which God him-
self was pleased to warn men what services to per-
form, and what to shun. Joseph was directed of
(Jod in a dream to go to Egypt; and so were the
v^ise men warned in a dream to depart into their
jivvrn country another way, to avoid the sury of He-
i.0d. I am not like those who think dreams are the
niere dosings of a delirious head, or the relics of a
day's perplexities or pleasures; but, on the con-
trary, mu^ leave t0 say, I never met with any
apital mifchief in my lise, but I had some notice of
-t by a dream; and, had I not been a thoughtless
urlbelieving creature, I might have taken many a
V/»rrnnS> an^ avoided many of the evils I after-
wards sell into, merely by total neglect of those
jreams,
1 was once present at a dispute between a layman
iid a clergyman, upon the subject of dreams. The
crft thought no regard sliould be given unto them;
*hat tnelr communication from the invisible to the
isible world was a mere chimera; without any so-
foundation. For, i. said he, if dreams were
from the agency of any prescient being, the motives
W0uld be more direct, and the discoveries more plain,
not by allegories and emblematic sancies, ex-
—i-effing things impersect and obscure. 2. Since,
^rith the notice of evil, there was not a power given
^0 avoid it, it is not likely to proceed from a spirit,
but
but merely fortuitous. 3. That the inconstancy
of such notices, in cases equally important, proves
they did not proceed sromanysuch agent. 4. Thatas.
our most distinct dreams had nothing in them of any
significancy, it would be irrational and vain to think
that they'came from heaven. And, 5. Thatasmen
were not always thus warned or supplied with no-
tice of good or evil, so all men are not alike sup-
plied with them; and what reason could we give,
why one man or one woman should not have the
same hints as another 1
To all this the clergyman gave answer; 1. That
as to the signification of dreams, and the objections
against them as being dark and doubtsul, they are
expressed generally by hierogliphical representations,
similies, allusions, and sigurative emblematic ways,
by which means, for want' of interpretation, the
thing was not understood, and, consequently, the
€vil not shunned. 2. That we charge God fool-
ishly, to say, that he has given the notice of evil,
without the power to avoid it; for, if any one had
not power to avoid the evil, it was no notice to him;
and it was want of giving due heed to that notice,
that men first neglected themselves, and then charg-
ed the Judge of all the earth with injustice. 3.
That we ought not to find sault with the inconstancy
of these notices; but rather with our weak under-
standings, by pretending dreams were not to be re-
garded, and negligent when the voice really spoke
to us for our good. It is a mistake to say, dreams
have no import at all: we might, with more rea-
son, have said, none that we could perceive thq
reason of, owing to our blindness and supine neg-
ligence, too secure at one time, and too much a-
larmed at another; so that the spirit, which we
might be said to be conversing with in a dream,
was constantly and equally kind and caresul; but
our powers are not always in the same state of ac-
tion, not equally attentive to, or retentive of the
.hints
hints that were given. And, 5. To answer the last
question, Why people are not equally supplied?
This seemed to be no question; for Providence it-
self might have some share in the direction of it,
and then that providence might be limited by a su-
perior direction; that as to the converse of spirits,
lie could not call it a stated converse; such a thing
there was, but why there was so much of it, and
rio more, was none of his business, and that no such
discovery, had ever yet been made to mankind.
j«Jor were we to imagine less of waking dreams,
trances, visions, noises, hints, impulses, and all
the waking testimonies of an invisible world, and
of the communication that there is between us and
tliem, which commonly entertain us with our eyes
open.
One time my sancy soared on high, to see what
discoveries I could make in those clearer regions. I
found that such immense bodies as the sun, stars,
pjanets, and moon, in the great circle of the lower
jieaven, are sar from being found in the study of na-
ttire on the sursace of the earth. Here I saw many
things that we can entertain little or no notion of,
i:J1 a state of common lise, and the emptiness of our
^otion, that the planets are habitable worlds; that
created like oui s, for the subsistence and existence
0f man and beast, and the preservation of the ve-
getative and sensitive lise: No, no, this is, I assure
y0u> a world of spirits; for here I saw a clear de-
monstration of Satan being the prince of the power of
tfoe air, keeping his court or camp, with innumer-
able angels to attend him; but his power is not so
g-i.eat as we imagine, he can tempt us to the crime,
|^ut cannot force us to commit it: Humanum ejl
peccare. Neither has the devil power to force the
•^rorld into a rebellion against heaven, though his
jegions are employed among savage nations, to set
wp their master for a god, who make the heathens
either worship him in person, or by his represen-
tatives,.
tatives, idols and monsters, with the cruel sacrifices
of human blood. Now, as to the limitations of the
devil's power, you must understand, that, as there
are numbers of evil spirits employedjn mischief, so
there are numbers of good angels sent from the
higher and blessed abodes to disconcert and oppose
their measures; and this every Christian, I hope,
believes, when he prays to God, the sather of spi-
rits, togivehis angels charge over him while he slum-
bereth and fleepeth. For if by these preventing
powers the devil was not restrained, theearth would
be subjected to dearth, droughts, and samine; the
air insected with noxious sumes; and, *in a word,
mankind would be utterly destroyed, which might
oblige our maker (if I may be allowed the expres-
sion) to the necessity of a new fiat, or else have no
more creatures to honour and worship him.
As the devil never wanted insinuators, I lhall
observe, that I learned a way how to make a man
dream of what I pleased. For instance, let us sup-
pose one to be sound asleep; let another lay his
mouth close to his ear, and whisper any thing so
softly as not to awake him, the steeping man shall
dream of what has been so whispered in his ear;
nay, I can assure you, those insinuating devils can
do this even when we are awake, which I call im-
pulses of the mind: for from whence, but from
these insinuator3, come our causeless passions, in-
voluntary wickedness, or sinsul defires? Who else
form ideas in the mind of man when he is asleep,
or present terrible or beautisul sigures to his sancy?
Mr. Milton represents the devil tempting Eve in
the shape of a toad, lying just at her ear, when in
her bower she lay sast asleep; and brings in Eve
telling Adam what at uneasy night's rest she had,
and relating her dream to him. And likewise I be-
lieve that good spirits have the same intercourse with
us, in warning.us against those things that are evil,
and prompting us to that which is good.
Were
Were we to have the eyes of our souls opened,
through the eyes of our bodies, we should fee this
very immediate region of air which we breath in,
thronged with spirits now invisible, and which
©thciwise woui 1 be the most terrible: we should
view the secret trans ctions of those messengers who
are employed when the parting foul takes its leave of
the reluctant body, and perhaps see things nature
•would sliriiik back from with the utmost terror and
am?zemei:r. In a word, the curtain of providence
for the disposition of things here, and the curtain
of judgment for the determination of the" state of
fbuls hereafter, would be alike drawn back; and
^vhat heart could support here its suture state in life;
ifiuch Jess that of its suture state after lise, even
good or bad.
A gentleman of my acquaintance, being about
seven miles distant from London, a friend that came
to dine with him, solicited him to go to the city.
.^Vhat, said the gentleman, is there any occasion for
rrie? No, Sir, igid the other, nothing at all, ex-
cept tne enjoyment of your good company; and so
^ve over importuning him. Just then a strong im-
pulse of mind urged the gentleman, and pursued
jiirri like a voice, with, Goto London, Go to Lon-
don, Hark ye, says he to his friend, is all well at
j^oCidon? Am I wanted there? Or, did you ask me
to So witn you on any Particular account? Are all
-^y samily well? Yes, indeed, Sir, said he, I per-
cCived them all very hearty; and I did not ask you
to go t0 Lon^on upon any particular account what-
soever, except it was for the sake of your good com-
pany, Again he put off his resolution: but still
the impulse suggested to him, God to London; and
at length he did so. When he came there, he found
a Jetter and messenger had been there to seek him,
^piJ to tell him of a particular business, which was
£rfr and last above a thousand pounds to him, and
which
which might inevitably have been lost, had he not
gone to London that night.
The obeying of several hints, or secret impulses
argues great wisdom. I knew a man thatwas under
misfortunes, being guilty of misdemeanors against
the government; when, absconding for sear of his
ruin, all hb'friends advising him not to put him-
self in the hands of the law, one morning as he
awaked, he selt a strong impulse darting into his
mind thus, Write a letter to them; and this was re-
peated several times to his mind, and at last he an-
swered to it, as if it had been a voice, Wl)om sbaO I
write to? Immediately it replied, Write to the judge;
and this impulse pursued him for several days, till
at length he took pen, and ink, and paper, and sats
down to write to him; when immediately words
flowed from his pen, like streams from a sair foun-
tain, that charmed even himself with hopes of suc-
cess. In short, the letter was so strenuous in ar-
gument, so pathetLc in its eloquence, and so per-
suasively moving, that when the judge had read it,
he sent him an answer he might be easy, he would
endeavour to make that matter light to him; and,
indeed, never left exerting himself, till he had stopt
the prosecution, and restored him to his liberty and
samily.
I know a person who had so strong an imprefliori
upon her mind, that the'house she was in would be
burnt that very night, that she could not sleep; the
impulse she had upon her mind prefled her not to go
to bed; which, however, she got over, and went to
bed; but was so terrified with the thought which
run in her mind, that the house would be burnt,
that she could not go to sleep; but communicating
her apprehensions to another in the samily, they
were both in such a fright, that they applied them-
selves to search from the top of the house to the
bottom, and to.see every fire and ca,iv,ie sase out,
so that, as they both said, it was impossible anything
could
could happen in the house, and they sent to the
neighbours on both sides to do the like. Thus sar
they did well: but had she obeyed the hint which
pressed upon her strangely not to go to bed, she had
done much better; for the fire was actually kindled
at that very time, though not broken out.' About
an hour after the whole samily was in bed, the house
Just over the way, directly opposite, was all in flames,
and the wind, which was very high, blowing the
flame upon the house this gentlewoman lived in,
so filled it with smoak and fire, in a sew moments,.
the street being narrow, that they had not air to
breathe, or time to do any thing, but jump out of
their beds, and save their lives. Had she obeyed
the hint given, and not gone to bed, she might have
saved several things; but the sew moments she had
/pared to her, were but just sufficient to leap out of
fc>ed, put some clothes on, and get down stairs, for
the house was on fire in half a quarter of an hour.
While I am mentioning these things, methinks
jt is very hard, that we should obey tne wifpers of
evil spirits, and not much rather receive the notices
^rhich good ones are pleased to give. We never
perceive the misfortune of this, but when in real:
ganger: and then we cry, My mind misgave me when
J uuasgoing about it: but if so, why do you slight
{fae caution? Why not listen to it as to a voice? and
tjien there had been no reason to make this com-
plaint.
I remember about 14 or 15 years ago (as to time
j cannot be very positive) there was a young cler-
gyman in the-city of Dublin in Ireland, who dream-
ed a very uncommon dream, That a gentleman had
filled his wise, a relation of his, by stabbing her
.£n several places; the fright of this awaked him,
jiut finding it a dream, he composed himself again
to sleep, when he dreamed a second time the same
^jream. This made him a little uneasy; but think-
jpg it proceeded from the impreslion made on his
mind
mind. by the former, he went to sleep again, and
dreamed the same dream a third time also. So
troubled was he at this, that he arose, and knocked
at his mother's chamber, told his concern, and his
apprehensions that all were not right at his relation's
house. Dear son, says the good old gentlewoman,
do not mind these foolisli dreams: and I very much
wonder, that you, being a person in holy orders,
should have regard to such allusions. Upon this he
went to bed again, sell asleep,. and dreamed a fourth
time as before. And then indeed he put on his
night-gown, and wentto Smithfield, theplace where
his relation dwelt. Here it was, alas! he perceived
his dream teo sadly sulfilled, by seeing his retlation,
the young lady, big with child, who was a Pro-
testant, stabbed in seven places, by her barbarous
husband Mr. Eustace, a violent Papist, only for
some discourses of religion that happened the day
before After the wretch had stabbed her in three
places, he went to make his escape out at a win-
dow; but she cried out, My dear I don't leave mey
come back, end I shall be well again. At which he
returned in a hellish rage, and gave her four wounds
more; when, even in this condition, rising from
her bed, she wrapped herself in her night-gown,
and went to the Lord Bishop of Rapho's chamber-
door (the bishop lodging at that time in the house)
My Lord, said she, O, my Lord, make hajle unto me:
but as soon as his Lordship came she expired in his
arms, resigning their precious foul into the hands
of Almighty God. The cruel wretch her husband
was shot by the pursuers, too good a death for one
who deserved the gibbet: and the lady was univer-
sally lamented by all tender and religious people.
And this tragical relation I have mentioned, upon
the account of that impulse, or dream, that the
clergyman had at the satal time of the bloody action.
It might be expected I should enter upon the sub-
ject of apparitions, and discourse concerning the
reality
33° LIFE AND ADVENTURES
reality of them; and whether they can revisit the
place of their former existence, and resume those
fs.cuities of speech and sliape as they had when liv-
ing; but, as these are very doubtsul matters, I
stall only make a sew observations upon them.
I once heard of a man that would allow the reality
of apparitions, but laid it all upon the devil, think-
ing that the fouls of men departed, or good men,
did never appear. To this very man something did
appear; he said, he saw the shape of an ancient
man pass by him in the dusk, who, holding up his
hand in a threatening posture, cried out, 0, wicked
wan, repent, repent! Terrified with this apparition,
he consulted several friends, who advised him to take
the advice. But, after all, it was not an appari-
tion, but a grave and pious gentleman, who met
him by mere accident, and had been sensiWe of his
.wickedness; and who never undeceived him, lest it
stould hinder his reformation. Were we always
willing to make good use of Satan's real appear-
ances, T know not but it would go a'great way to
banish him from the visible world: for I am very
positive, he would seldom visit us, if he thought
his coming would do us any good; but so ablo-*
Jutely is he at the command of heaven, that he must
cro, even to do the work he abhors.
Some people make a very ill use of the general
potion, that there are no apparitions nor spirits at
all: which is worse than those who sancy they see
them upon every occasion; for those carry their no-
tions sarther, even to annihilate the devil, and be-
lieve nothing about him, neither of one kind or
0ther: the next step they come to, is to conclude,
*shere is no God, and so atheism takes its rile in the
^rne sink, with a carlefiness about suturity. But
tbere is no occasion to enter upon an argument to
prove he being of the Almighty, or to illustrate
jifs power by words, who has so many undeniable
testimonies in the breasts of every rational being
to
to prove his existence: and we have sufficient proofs
enough to convince us of the great superintcnden-
cy of divine Providence in the minutest affairs of
this world; the manisest existence of the invisible
world: the reality of spirits, and intelligence be-
tween us and them. What I have said, I hope,
will not mislead any person, or be a means where-
by they may delude themselves; for I have spoken
of these things with the utmost seriousness of mind,
and with a sincere and ardent defire for the general
good and benefit of the world.
FINIS.
Imag. Voy.
n«3

AND MOST SURPRIZING
ADVENTURES
O F
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
Of York, Mariner;
Who lived eight-and-twenty years in an uninhabited
island on the coast of America, near the mouth of the
great raver Oroonoque.
With an account of his deliverance thence, and his after
Surprizing ADVENTURES.
COMPLETE IN ONE VOLUME.
A New Edition, revised and corrected,
Adorned with several Elegant Plates.
LONDON-
Printed for WiuiamLake, Leadenhall-sti.eet.
T H E
PREFACE.
IF ever the story of any private man's
adventures in the world were worth
making public, and were acceptable
when publistied, the editor of this ac-
count thinks this will be so.
The wonders of this man's life exceed
all that (he thinks) is to be found ex-
tant; the life of one man being scarce
Capable of a greater variety.
The story is told wish modesty, with
seriousness, and with a religious applica-
tion of events to the uses to which *vise
men always apply them, viz. to the in-
struction of others by this example, and
to justify and honour the wisdom of Pro-
vidence in all the variety of our circum-
stances, let them happen how they will.
The
LIFE and ADVENTURES
OF
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
IWas born at York, in the year 1632,. of a repu-
table samily. My sather Was a native of Bremen,
who, by merchandizing at Hull for some time, gain-
ed a very plentisul fortune. He married my mother
at York, who received her first breath in that coun-
try: and as her maiden name was Robinson, I was
called Robinson Kreut%naer; which not being easily
pronounced in the English tongue, we are commonly
known by the name of Crusoe.
I was the youngest of three brothers. The eldest
was a lieutenant-colonel in Lockhart's regiment, but
slain t>y the Spaniards: what became of the other, I
could never learn.
No charge nor pains were wanting in my educa-/
cation. My sather designed me for the law; yet no-
thing would serve me but I must go to sea, both a-
gainst the will of my sather, the tears of my mother,
and the entreaties of friends. One morning my sa-
ther expostulated very warmly with me. What rea-
son, says he, have you to leave your native country,
where there must be a more certain prospect of con-
tent and happiness, to enter into a wandering con-
dition of uneasiness and uncertainty? He recommend-
A 3 ed
that, being extremely sea-sick, I concluded the judg-
ments of God deservedly followed me for my disobe-
dience to my dear parents. It was then I called to
mind the good advice of my sather; how easy and
comfortable was a middle state of lise; and I firmly
resolved, if it pleaied God to set me on dry land
once more, I would return to my parents, implore
their forgiveness, and bid a final adieu to my wan-
dering inclinations.
Such were my thoughts while the storm continued;
but these good resolutions decreased with the danger;
more especially when my companion came to me,
clapping me on the shoulder: What Bob! said he,
sure you was. rut frightened lajl night with scarce a cap-
full of wind? And do you., cried I, call such a vio-
lent Jlorm a cap-full of wind? A Jlorm, you fool you,
said he, this is nothing; a good ship and sea-room al-
ways baffles such a foolish squawl of wind as that: But
you're a fresh-water sailor: Come boy, turn cut, se
what sine weather we 'have now, and a good bowl of
punch will drown all your past sorrows. In short, the
punch was made, I was drunk, and in one night's
time drowned both my repentance and my good re-
solutions, forgetting entirely the vows and promises
I made in my distress: and whenever any reflections
would return on me, what by company, and what
by drinking, I soon mastered those sits, as F deriding-
ly called them. But this only made way for another
trial, whereby I could«iot but see how much I was
beholden to kind providence. _
Upon the sixth day we came to an anchor in Har-
wich road, where we lay wind-bound with some New-
castle ships; and there being good anchorage, and
our. cables found, the seamen forgot their late toil
and danger, and spent the time as merry as if they
had been on shore. But on the eighth day there arole
a brisk gale of wind, which prevented our tiding it
up the river; and still increasing, our ship rode fore-
castle in, and shipped several large seas.
A 4 It
and our men cast them a rope over the stern with a
buoy to it, which after great labour they got hold of,
and we hauling them to us, got into their boat, and
left our ship, which we perceived sink within less than
a quarter of an hour; and thus I learned what was
meant by Foundering at sea. And now the men in-
cessantly laboured to recover their own ship; but the
sea" ran so high, and the wind blew so hard, that
they thought it convenient to hale within shore;
which, with great difficulty and danger, at last we
happily effected, landing at a place called Cramer, not
sar from Winterton light-house; from whence we all
walked to Yarmouth, where, as objects of pity, many
good people surnished us with necessaries to carry us
either to Hull or London.
Strange, that after all this, like the prodigal son,
I did not return to my sather; who, hearing of the
ship's calamity, fora long time thought me intombed
in the deep. No doubt but I should have shared in
bis fatted calf, as the scripture expresseth it: but my
ill sate still pushed me on, in spite of the powersul
convictions of reason and conscience.
When we had, been at Yarmouth three days, I met
my old companion, who had given me the invitation
to go on board along with his sather. His behavi-
our and speech was altered, and in a melancholy man-
ner asked me how I did, telling his sather who I was
and how I had made this voyage for a trial only to
proceed surther abroad. Upon which the old gentle-
man turning to me gravely, said, Young man, you ought
never to go to sea any more, but to take this for a certain
sign that you will never prosper in a seafaring condition.
Sir, answered I, will you take the same resolution? It
is a different cafe, said he, it is my calling, and cons-
quently my duty; hut as you have made this voyage for
a trial, you fee what illsuccess heaven has set befdre your
eyes; and perhaps our miseries have been on your account,
like Jonah in the ship of Tarshish. But pray what are
xoh, and on what account did you go to sea? Upon
A 5. J which
ray return to London, almost three hundred pounds.
But in this voyage 1 was extremely sick, being thrown
into a violent calenture through excessive heat, trad-
ing upon the coast from the latitude of fifteen de-
grees north even to the line itfelf.
But alas 1 my dear friend the captain soon departed
this lise aster his arrival.' This was a sensible grief
to me; yet I resolved to go another voyage with his
mate, who had now got command of the ship. This
proved a very unsuccesssul one ; for though I did not
carry quite a hundred pounds of my late acquired
wealth, (so that I had twohundred pounds left, which
I reposed with the captain's widow, who was an ho-
nest gentlewoman) yet my misfortunes in this unhap-
py voyage were veiy great. For our ship sailing to-
wards the Canary islands, we were chased by a 8aV.ee
rover; and in spite of all the haste we could make, by
crouding as much canvas as.our yards could spread,
or oar masts carry, the pirate gained upon us, so that
we prepared ourselves to sight. They had eighteen
guns, and we had but twelve. About three in the
afternoon there was a desperate engagement, where-
in many were killed and wounded on both sides; but
finding ourselves overpowered with numbers, our
ship disabled, and ourselves too impotent to have the
least hopes of suceess, we were forced to surrender;
and accordingly were all carried prisoners into the
port of Sallee. Our men were sent to the Emperor's
court to be fold there; but the pirate captain taking
notice of me, kept me to be lus own slave.
In this condition, I thought myself the most miser-
able creature on earth, and the prophecy of my sather
came afresh into my thoughts. However, my condi-
tion was better than I thought it to be, as will soon
appear. Some hopes indeed I had that my new pa-
tron would goto sea again, where he might betaken
by a Spanish or Portuguese man of war, and then I
stiould be set at liberty. But in this I was mistaken;
for he never took me with him, but left me to look.
- A 6 aftec
their minds altering, my patron ordered us to go a
fishing, for that his guests would certain!)- sup with
him that night.
And now I began to think of my deliverance in-
deed. In order to this-1 persuaded the Moor to »et
some provisions on board, as not danng to meddle;
with our patron's; and he taking my advice, we sto-
red ourselves with rusk biscuit, and three jars of wa-
ter. Besides, I privately conveyed into the boat a
bottle of Brandy, some twine, thread, a hammer, hat-
chet, and a saw; and, in particular, some bees wax,
which was a great comfort to me, and served to make
candles. I thenpursuaded Muley (forsowas the Moor
called) to procure some powder and shot, pretending
to kill sea curlieus, which he innocently and readily
agreed to. In short, being provided with all thinos
necessary, we sailed out, resolving for my own part
to make my escape, tho' it should cost me my lise.
When we had passed the castle, we tell to fishing;
but, though I knew there was a bite, I dissembled the
matter, in order to put surther out to sea. Accord-
ingly we ran a league surther: when giving the boy
the helm, and pretending to stoop for something, I
seized Muley by surprize, and threw him overboard.
As he was an excellent swimmer, he soon arose, and
made towards the boat; upon which, I took out a
susee, and presented at him: Muley, said I, I never
yet designed to do you any harm, and seek nothing new but
my redemption. 1 know you are able enough to swim to
shore, and save your life; but is you are resolved to fl-
int) me, to the endangering os mine, the very moment you
proceed, I will flnot you through the head. The harm-
less creature, at these word?, turned himself from me,
and I make no doubt got sase to land. Then turn-
ing to the boy Xury, I perceived he trembled at the
action; but I put him ojut of all scar, telling him,
that is he would be true and saithsul to me, I would
do well by him. And therefore, said I, you mnftJlrcke
your face to be faithfu!r and, as the Turks have learned
-' y"'
rollings of the water, and other tokens, we justly
concluded one of those monsters made towards. our
boat. I could not see till it came within two oars
length, when taking my susee, I let fly at him. Whe-
ther I hit him or no, I cannot tell; but he made to-
wards the shore, and the noise of my gun increased
the stupendous noise of the monsters.
The next morning I was resolved to go on shore
to get fresh water, and venture my lise among the
beasts or savages, should either attack me. Xury said,
he would take one os the jars, and bring me some. I
asked him why he would go, and not I? The poor
boy answered, If wild mans come, they eat uu, you gt
jway. A mind scarcely now to be imitated, so con-
trary to self-preservation, the most powersul law of
nature! This indeed increased my affection to the
child. Well, dear Xury, said I, we will both go ajhore,
both kill wild mans, and they shall eat neither of us. So
giving Xury apiece of rusk bread to eat, and a dram,
we waded ashore, carrying nothing with us but our
arms, and two jars for water. I did not go out of
.sight of the boat, as dreading the savages coming
down the river in their canoes; but the boy seeing a
low descent or vale about a mile in the country, he
wandered to it; and then running back to me with
great precipitation, I thought he was pursued by
some savage or wild' beast upen wfvch 1 approach-
ed, resolving to perish or protect him from danger.
As he came nearer to me, 1 saw something hanging
over his shoulders, which was a creature he had (hot
like a hare, but different iii colour, and longer legs;
however, we were glad of it, for it proved whole-
some and nourishing meat; but what added to our
joy was, my boy assured me.therewas plenty of wa-
ter, and that hesee no wild mats. Andgreater still was
our comfort, when we found fresh water in the creek
where we were when the tide was out, without going
so sar up into the country.
In this place I began to consider that the Canary
and
ing close to the lion, put a period to his lise, by
shooting him again through the head.
But this was spending our ammunition in vain, the
flesh not being good to eat. Xury was like a cham-
pion, and comes on board for a hatched, to cut osf
the head of his enemy; but not having strength to
perform it, he cut off and brought me a foot. I be-
thought me however that his skin would be of use.
This work cost Xury and me a whole day; when
spreading it on the top of our cabin, the hot beams
of the sun effectually dried it in two days time, and
it afterwards served me for a bed to lie on.
And now we sailed southerly, living spanngly on
our provisions, and went no oftner on shore than we
were obiiged for fresh water. My design was to make
the river Gambia or Senegal, or any where about the
Cape de Verde, in hopes to meet some European
ship. If Providence did not so savour me, my next
course was to seek for the islands, or lose my lise a-
mong the Negroes. And in a word, I put my whole
stress upon this, " Either that I must meet with some
"ship, or certainly perish."
Onedayas wewere sailing along, wesawpeople stand
on the shore looking at us; we could also perceive
they were black and stark naked. I was inclined to
go on shore, but Xury cried no, no; however, I ap-
proached nearer, and I found they run along the shore
by me a good way. They had no weapons in their
hands, except one, who held a long stick, which Xu-
ry told me was a lance, with which they could kill at
a great distance. 1 talked to them by signs, and made
them sensible I wanted -something to eat; they beck-
oned to me to stop my boat, while two of them ran
up into the country, and in less than half an hour
came back, and brought with them two pieces of dry
flesh, and some corn, which we kindly accepted: and
to prevent any sears on either side, they brought the
food to the shore, laid it down, then went and stood a
great
is through their perspective glasses they had not per-
ceived me, and shortened their sail to let me come
up. Encouraged at this, I set up my patron's ancient,
and fired agun, both as signals of distress; upon which
they very kindly lay to, so that in three hours time I
came up with them. They spoke to me in Portuguese,
Spanish, and French, but neither of these did 1 un-
derstand; till at length a Scots sailor called, and then
I told him I was an Englishman, who had escaped
from the Moors at Sallee; upon which they took me
kindly on board, with all my effects.
Surely none can express the inconceivable joy I selt
at this happy deliverance ! who, from being a late mis-
erable and forlorn creature, was not only relieved,
but in favour with the master of the ship, to whom,
in return formy deliverance, I offered all I had. God
forbid, said he, that I should take any thing from you.
Every thing shall be delivered to you when you come to
Brazil. If I have saved your life, it is no more than I
Jhould expeSt to receive myself from any other, when in
the fame circumstances, I Jhould happen to meet the like
deliverance. And should I take from you what you have,
and leave you at Brazil, why, this would be only taking
away a life I have given. Mj charity teaches me bet-
ter. Those ejfecls you have will support you there, and
provide you a passage home again. And, indeed, he
acted with the strictest justice in what he did, taking
my things into his possession, and giving mz an exadt
inventory, even to my earthen jars. He bought my
boat of me for the ship's use, giving me a note of
eighty pieces of eight, payable at Brazil; and if any
body offered more, he would make it up. He also
give me sixty pieces for my boy Xury. It was with
great reluctance I was prevailed upon to sell the child's
liberty, who had served me so saithsully; but the boy
was willing himself; and it was agreed, that after ten
years he should be made free, upon his renouncing
Mah ometanifm, and embracing Christianity.
Having a pleasant voyage to the Brazils, we arrived
in
I was in some measure settled, before the captain,
who took me up, departed srom the Brazils. One
day I went to him, and told him what stock I had in
London, defiring his assistance in getting it remitted;
to which the' good gentleman readily consented, but
would only have me send for half my money, lest it
should miscarry; which, if it did, I might still have
the remainder to support me: and so taking letters
of procuration from me, bid me trouble myself no
sarther about it.
And, indeed, wondersul was his-kindness towards
me; for he not only procured the money I had drawn
for upon my captain's widow, but sent me over a ser-
vant with a cargo, proportionable to my condition.
He also sent me over tools of all sorts, iron work, and
utensils necessary for my plantation, and which pro-
ved of the greatest use to me in my business.
Wealth now accumulating on me, and uncommon
success crowning my prosperous labours., I might
have rested happy in that middle state of lise my sa-
ther had so often recommended; yet nothing would
content me, such was my evil genius, but I must
leave this happy station, for a foolish ambition in ri-
sing; and thus, once more, I cast myself into the
deepest gulf of misery that ever poor creature sell in-
to. Having lived four years in Brazil, I had not only
learned the language, but. contracted acquaintance
with the most eminent planters, and even the mer-
chants of St. Salvadore; to whom, once, by way of
discourse, having given an account of my two voyages
to the coast of Guinea, and the manner or trading
there for mere trisles, by which we surnish our plan-
tations with negroes, they gave such attention to what
I said, that three of them came one morning to me,
and -toH me they had a secret proposal to make. Af-
ter enjoining me to secrecy (it being an infringement
on the powers of the Kings of Portugal and Spain)
they told me they had a mind to sit out a ship to go
10 Guinea, in oiderto stock the plantation with ne-
i groes
soonercried out, but our ship struck upon a sand, and
in a moment the sea broke over her in such a man-
ner, that we expected we should all have perished .
immediately. We knew nothing where we were, or
upon what land we were driven; whether an island
or the main, inhabited or not inhabited; and we
could not so much as hope that the ship would hold
eut many minutes, without breaking in pieces, ex-
cept the wind by a miracle should turn about imme-
diately. While we stood looking at one another,
expecting death every moment, the mate lays hold of
the boat, and with the help of the rest got her flung
over the ship's side, and getting all into her, being
eleven of us, committed ourselves to God's mercy,
and the wild sea. And now we saw that this last ef-
fort would not be a sufficient protection from death;
so high did the sea rise, that it was imposlible the boat
should live. As to making sail, we had none; neither
if we had, could we make use of any. So that when
we had rowed, or rather were driven about a league
ana a half, a raging wave, like a lofty mountain,
came rolling astern of us, and took us with such fu^.
ry, that at once it overset the boat. Thus being swal-
lowed up in a moment, we had hardly time to call
upon the tremendous name of God: much less to
implore, in dying ejaculations, his infinite mercy to
receive our deparing fouls.
Men are generally counted insensible, when strug-
gling in the pangs of death; but while I was over-
whelmed with water, I had the most dreadsul appre-
hensions imaginable. For the joys of heaven and the
torments of hell, seemed to present themselves before
me in these dying agonies, and even small space of
time, as it were, between lise and death. I was go-
ing, 1 thought, I knew not whither, in a dismal gulf
unknown, and as yet unperceived, never to behold
my friends, nor the light of this world any more!
Could I even have thought of annihilation, or a total
dissolution of soulaswell asbody, the gloomy thoughts
hands, with the profoundest humility, to the divine
my eyes around, to behold what place I was in, and
what I had next to do. I could see nohouse nor peo-
ple: I was wet, yet had no clothes to shift me; hungry
and thirsty, yet had nothing to eat or drink; no wea-
pon to destroy any creature for my sustenance, nor de-
send myself against devouring beasts; in short, I had
nothing but a knise, a tobacco-pipe, and a box half
filled with tobacco. The darksome night coming up-
on me, increased my sears of being devoured by wild
creatures; my mind was plunged in despair, and hav-
ing no prospect, as I thought of lise before me, I
prepared for another kind of death than what I had
lately escaped. I walked about a surlong to see is I
could find any fresh water, which I did, to my great
joy ; and taking a quid of tobacco to prevent hunger,
I got up into a thick bushy tree, and seating myself so
that I could not sall, a deep sleep overtook me, and
for that night buried my sorrows in a quiet repose.
It was broad day the next morning before I a-
waked; when I not only perceived the tempest was
ceased, but saw the snip driven almost as sar as the
rock before mentioned, which the waves had dashed
me against, and which was about a mile from th«
place where I was. When I came down from my
apartment in the tree, I perceived the ship's boat two
miles distant on my right hand, lying on shore, as
the waves had cast her. I thought to have got to
her; but there being an inlet of water of about half
a mile's breadth between it and me, I returned again
towards the ship, as hoping to find something for my
more immediate subsistence. About noon, when the
sea was calm, that I could come within a quarter of
a mile of her, it was to my grief I perceived, that, if
we had kept on board, all our lives had been saved,
These thoughts, and my solitude, drew tears from

for savi
lise, when the rest of my com-
led. And now I began to cast
fi
nay
cordial waters, and four or five gallons of rack, which
I stowed by themselves. By this time the tide begin-
ning to flow, I perceived rhy coat, waistcoat, and
shirt, swim away, which I had left on the shore; as
for my linen breeches and stockings, I swam with
-them on to the ship: but I soon found clothes enough,
thought I took no more than I wanted for the present.
My eyes were chiefly on tools to work with; and,
after long search, I found out the carpenter's chest,
which I got sase down on my raft. I then looked for
arms and ammunition, and in the great cabin found
two good fowling pieces, two pistols, several powder
horns filled, a small bag of shot, and two old rusty
swords. I likewise found three barrels of powder,
two.of which were good, but the third had taken wa-
ter, also two or three broken oars, two saws, an axe,
and a hammer. I then put to sea, and in getting to
shore had three encouragements. I. A smooth calm
sea. 2. The tide rising and setting in to the shore.
3. The little wind there was blew towards land. Af-
ter I had sailed about a mile, I found the raft to drive
a little distance from the place where I first landed;
and then I perceived a little opening of the land, with
a strong current of. the tide running into it; upon
which I kept the middle of the stream. But great
was my concern, when on a sudden the forepart of
my raft ran aground; so that had I not, with great
difficulty, for near half an hour, kept my back strain-
ing against the chests to keep my effects in their
places, all I had would have gone into the sea. But
after some time, the rising of the water caused the
raft to float again, and coming up a little river^with
land on both sides, I landed in a little cave, as near
the mouth as possible, the better to discover a sail, if
any such providentially passed that way.
Not sar off, I espied a hill of a stupendous height,
surrounded with lesser hills about it, and thither I was
resolved to go and view the country, that I might see
what part was best to fix my habitation in. Accord-
B 2 ingty,
When I had gotten these esfects on shore, I went
to work, in order to make me a little tent with the
sail and some poles which 1 had cut for that purpose;
and having finished it, what things might be dama-
ged by the weather I brought in, piling all the empty
chests and casks in a circle, the better to fortify it
against any sudden attempt of man or beast. After
this, I blocked up the doors with some boards, and
an empty chest turned the long way out. I then
charged my gun and pistol, and, laying my bed on
the ground, slept as comfortably, till next morning,
as though I had been in a Christian country.
Now, thougn I had enough to subsist me a long
time, \et despairing of a sudden deliverance, or that
both ammunition and provision might be spent besore,
such thing happened, I coveted as much as I could;
and so long as the ship remained in that condition, I
daily brought away one necessary or other; particu-
larly the rigging, sails, and cordage, some twine, a
barrel of wet powder, some sugar, a barrel of meal,
three casks of rum, and, what indeed was most wel-
come to me, a whole hogshead of bread.
The next time I went I cut the cables in pieces,
carried off a hawser whole, with a great deal of iron
work, and made another raft with the mizen and
sprit-sail-yards; but this being so unwieldy, by the
too heavy burden I had upon it, and not being a%l«
so dexterously to guide it, as the former, both my
cargo and I were overturned. For my part, all the
damage I sustained was a wet skin ; and at low water,
after much labour in diving, I got most of the cables,
and lome pieces of iron..
Thirteen days had I now been in the island, and
eleven times on board, bringing away all that was
possible; and, I believe, had the weather been calm,
I should have brought away the whole Ihip, piece by
piece. As I was going the twelfth time, the wind
began to rise; however, I ventured at low water, and
rummaging the cabin, in a locker I found several ra-
B 3 zors
i
-beasts of prey, as more easily to discover 'any distant
-sail, should it ever so happen.
And, indeed, it was not long before I had my defire.
I found a little plain near a rising hill, the front to-
wards which being as steep as a house-side, nothing
could descend on me from the top. On the side of
this rock was a little hollow place, resembling the en-
trance or door of a cave. Just before this place, on.
the circle of the green, I resolved my tent should
stand. This plain did not much exceed a hundred yards
broad, and about twice as long, like a delightsul
green before my door, with a pleasing, though irre-
gular, descent every way to the low grounds by the
sea-side, lying on the N. N. W. side of the hill, lo
that it was sheltered from the excessive heat of the sun.
After this I drew a semicircle, containing ten yards in
• its semi-diameter, and twenty yards in the whole,
-driving down two rows of strong stakes not six inches
from each other. Then with the pieces of cable
which I had cut on board, 1 regularly laid them in
the circle between the piles up to their tops, which
-were more than five seet out of the earth, and after
drove another row of piles looking within side against
them, between two or three seet high, which made
me conclude it a little impregnable castle for men and
beasts. And for my better security I would have no
door, but entered in and came out by the help of a
ladder which I also made.
Here was my sence and fortress, into which I car-
ried all my riches, ammunition, and stores. After
which, working on the rock, what with the dirt and
stones I dug out, I not only raised my ground two
seet, but made a little cellar to my mansion-house;
.and this cost me many days labour and pains. One
day in particular a shower of rain salling, thunder and
lightning ensued, which put me in terror lest my
-powder should take fire, and not only hinder my ne-
ceflary subsistence, by killing me food, but even blow
up me and my habitation. To prevent which, I sell
B 4 to
post, and that on Sabbath was as long again as the
rest; and every first day of the month as long again
as that long one. In this manner I kept my callen-
dar, weekly, monthly, or yearly reckoning of time.
But had I made a more strict search, (as I did after-
wards) I need not have set up this mark. For among
the parcels belonging to the gunner, carpenter, and
Captain's mate, I found those very things I wanted.;
particularly pens, ink, and paper ;. also I found two
or three compasses, some mathematical instruments,
dials, perspective glasses, books of navigation, three
English bibles, and several other good books, which
I caresully put up. Here I cannot but call to mind
our having a dog and two cats on board, whom I
made inhabitants with me in my castle. Though
one might think I had all the necessaries that were de-
sirable, yet still I found several things wanting. My
ink was daily wasting :. I wanted needles, pins, and
thread to mend or keep my clothes together; and
particularly a spade, pix-axe, or shovel, to remove
the earth. It was a year before I sinished my little
bulwark; and having some intervals of relaxation,,
after my daily wandering abroad for provision, I drew
up this plan, alternately, as creditor and debtor, to-
semind me of the miseries and blessings of my lise,,
under so many various circumstances.
Evil. f G a o d.
/ am cajl upon a desolate] But yet J am preserve
island, having no hopes, 7; A ed, while my companions .
trojpecl of a welcome de-
liverance.
How miserably am I sin-
gled out from the enjoy-
ment or company of all man-
kind.
perijhed in the raging
an..
Tct set apart to le spared,
from death. And he, u ho has
\fi preserved me, can deliver
me from this condition.
Like an hermit ( rnthey . However, I have food to
fhouhl I fay a lonely ancho-\eat, and even a happy prof'
.... I I .-. / I. r-, r 1 r.i ',.iTi i.i/.
rite) am J forced from hu-hefi of jubjj/hnee whiljl Ufa
man converjation, j endures.
B 5 . M*
very pleasant sight to me, as being the result of vast
labour and diligence; which leaving fora while, and*
me to the enjoyment of, I mail give the reader an ac-
count of my Journal from the dav of my landing,
till the fixing and settling of my habitation, as here-
tofore shewn.
JOURNAL.
SEptember 30th, 1659,1 unhappy Robinson Cru-
soe, having susfered shipwreck, was driven on
this desolate Island, which I named the Desolate Island
of Despair, the rest being swallowed up in the tem-
pestuous ocean. The next day I spent in consider-
ation of my unhappy circumstances, having no pros-
pect but of death, either to be starved with hunger,
,or devoured by beasts or merciless savages.
Oct. 1. That morning, with great comfort, I be-
held the ship drove ashore. Some hopes I had, that
when the storm was abated, I might be able to get
ibme food and necessaries out of her; which I con-
ceived were not damaged, because the Clip did stand
upright. At this time I lamented the loss of my com-
panions, and our misfortune in leaving the vessel.
When I perceived the ihip a? it were lie dry, I wa-
ied through the sands, then iv/am aboard, the wea-
. ther being very rainy, and with scarcely any wind.
To the 14th of this month, my time was employ-
•ed in making voyages, every tide getting what I
could out of the ship. The weather very wet and
•uncertain.
Oct. 20. My raft and all the goods thereon were
.overset; yet I recovered most again at low water.
Oct. 25. It blew hard, and rained night and day,
when the ship went in pieces, so that nothing was
£ 6 seen
Nov. 17. I began to dig in the rock, yet was oblig-
ed to desist for want of a pick-axe, shovel, and
wheel-barrow. Iron crows I caused to supply the
place of the first; but with all my art I could not
make a wheel-barrow.
Nov. 18. It was my fortune to find a tree, resem-
bling what the Brazilians call an iron tree. I had like
to have spoiled my axe with cutting it, being very
hard and exceeding heavy; yet, with much labour
and industry, I made a sort of a spade out os it.
Nov. 23. These tools being made, I daily carried
on my business; eighteen days I allowed for enlarging
my cave, that it might serve me, not only for a ware-
house, but kitchen, parlour, and cellar. I commonly
lay in the tent, unless the weather was rainy that!
could not lie dry. So wet would it be at certain sea-
sons, that I was obliged to cover all within the pale
with long poles, in the form of rafters, leaning a-
gainst the rock, and load them with flags and large
leaves of trees, resembltng a thatch.• ,
Dec. 10. No sooner did I think my habitation fi-
nished, but suddenly a great deal of the top broke in,
so that it was a mercy I was not buried in the ruins.
This occasioned a great deal of pains and trouble to
me, before I could make it firm and durable.
Dec. 17. I nailed up some shelves and drove nails
and staples in the wall and posts to hang things out
•of the way.
Dec 20- E/ery thing I got into its place, then
made a sort of a dresser, and another table.
Dec. 24, 25. Rain in abundance.
Dec. 26. Very sair weather.
Dec. 27. I chanced to lighton some goats, shot one,
and wounded another. I Jed ithome in ;i string, bound
up its leg, and cured it in a little time; at length, it
became'so tame and samiliar as to seed before the
•door, and follow me where I pleased. This put me
in mind to bring up tame creatures, in order to sup-
ply me with food alter my ammunition was spent.
Dec.
any ignorance in not conceiving how it should come
there, made me conclude, that miracles were not yet
ceased: nay, I even thought that God had appointed
it to grow there without any seed, purely for my
sustenance in this miserable and desolate island. And
indeed such great effect this had upon me, that it
often made me melt into tears, through a gratesul
sense of God's mercies; and the greater still was my
thanksulness, when I perceived about this little field
«f barley, some rice stalks, also wondersully flourish-
ing
While thus pleased in mind, I concluded there
must be more corn in the island ; and therefore made
a diligent search narrowly among the rocks : but not
being able to find any, on a sudden it came into my
mind, how I had shaken the husks of corn out of the
bag, and then my admiration .ceased, with my grati-
tude to the divine Being, as thinking it was but natu-
ral, and not to be conceived a miracle : tho' even the
manner of its preservation'.might have made me own
it as a wonderful event of God's kind providence.
It was about the latter end of June when the ears
of this corn ripened, which I laid up very caresully,
together with 20 or 30 stalks of rice, expecting one
<]ay I should reap the fruit of my labour ; yet four
years were expired before I could allow myself to eat
any barley bread, and much longer time before I had
any rice. After this, with indesatigable pains and
industry sor three or four months, at last I finished
my wall on the 14th of April, having no way to go
into it, but by a ladder against the wall.
April 16. I finished my ladder, and ascended it;
afterwards pulled it up, then let it down on the other
£de, and descended into my new habitation, where I
had space enough, and so fortified, thatnothing could
attack me, without scaling the walk.
But what does all human pains and industry avail,
if theblestingof God does not crown our labours ? Or
1 who
cave, where I was forced to cut a channel through
my fortification to let the water out. It continued
raining all that night, and sometime the next day.
These accidents made me resolve, as soon as the wea-
ther cleared up, to build me a little hut in some open
place, walled round to desend me from wild crea-
tures and savages; not doubting but, at the next
earthquake, the mountain would sall upon my habita-
tion and me, and swallow up all in its bowels.
April 16,—20. These days I spent in contriving
how and in what manner I should fix my place of a-
bode. All this while I was under the most dreadsul
apprehensions. When I looked round my habitation,
every thing I sound in its proper place. I had several
resolutions whether I should move or not; but at
length I resolved to stay where I was, till I found out
a convenient place where I might pitch my tent.
April 22. When I began to put my resolutions in
practice, I was stopt for want of tools and instru-
ments to work with. Most of my axes and hatchets
were useless, occasioned by cutting the hard timber
that grew on the island. It took me up a sull week
to make my grindstone of use to me; and at last I
found out a way to turn it about with my foot, by
help of a wheel and a string.
April 28, 29. These days were spent in grinding
my tools.
April 30. My bread sallingshort, I allowed myself
but one biscuit a day.
May 1. As I walked along the sea-shore, I found
a barrel of gunpowder, and several pieces of the
wreck, which the sea had flung up. Having secured
those, I made to the ship, whose stern was torn osF,
and washed a great distance ashore; but the rest lay
in the sands. This I suppose was occasioned by the
earthquake. I now resolved to keep my old place of
abode: and also to go to the ship that day, but then
sound it impoflible.
seen on the island, though, as I afterwards found,
there were many on the other side of it.
June i-. This day I spent in cooking it, found
in her threescore eggs, and her flesh the most savory
and pleasant I ever tasted in my lise.
June 18. I staid within this day, there being a con-
tinual rain; and it was something more chilly and
cold than usual.
June 19. Exceeding bad, taken with a trembling
^and shivering.
June 20. Awake all night, my head racked with
pain, and severish.
June 21. Sick,unto death, and terrified with the
.dismal apprehensions of my condition. Prayed to
God more frequently, but very consusedly.
June 22. Something better, but still uneasy in my
.mind.
June ,23. Again relapsed much as before.
June 24. Mended a second time.
June 25. A violent ague for seven hoursi cold and
•Jiot sits, succeeded with saint sweats.
June 26. Better, but very weak; yet I scrambled
.out, shot .a she-goat, brought it home, and broiled
some of it: I would willingly have stewed it, and
made some broth, but had no pot.
June 27. All. this day I was aiHicted with an ague;
thirsty, yet could not help myself to water: Prayed
So God in these words: Lord in pity% look upon me:
Lard have mercy upon me: have mercy upon me! After
,this I sell asleep, which I found had much refreshed
me when I awaked. I sell asleep a second time, and
fell into this strange and terrible fort of dream.
Methought I was sitting on the same spot of ground
at the outside of the wall where I sat when the storm
blew after the earthquake; and that I saw a man de-
scending from a great black cloud, and light upon the
ground. He was all over as bright as a flash of fire
that a little before surrounded him ; his countenance
inconceivably
1The likelihood of wanting for neither food nor
conveniences, might have called upon me for a
thanksul acknowledgment to Providence. Indeed,
the growth of my corn touched me with some sense;
but that soon wore osf againl The terrible earth-
quake pointed to me, as it were, the finger of God,
but my dreadsul amazement continued no longer
than its duration. But now, when my spirits began
to sink under the burden of a strong distemper, and
I could leisurely view the miseries of death present
themselves before my eyes, then my awakened con-
science began to reproach me with my past lise, in
which I had so wickedly provoked the justice of God
to pour down his vengeance upon me.
Such reflections as these oppresied me even in the
violence of my distemper. Some prayers I uttered,
which only proceeded from my sear of death. But
when I considered my father's advice and prophecy,
I could not forbear weeping; for, he told me, That,
if I did persist in my filly, I should not only be deprived
of God's blessing, but have time enough to re/led upon
my despising,'his injlruclions, and this in a wretched
time, when none could help me. And now, concluding
it to be sulfilled, Having no soul in the island to ad-
minister any comfort to me, I prayed earnestly to the
Lord, that he would help me in this my great
calamity. And this, I think, was the first time I
prayed in sincerity for many years. But now I must
return to my journal.
June 28. Something refreshed with sleep, and the
fit quite off, I got up. My dream still occasioned in
me a great consternation; and, searing that the ague
might return the succeeding day, I concluded it
time to get something to comfort me. I filled a case
bottle with water, and set it within the reach of my
bed; and, to make it more nourishing and less chilly,
I put some rum in it. The next thing I did was to
bail me a piece of goat flesh, of which I ate but lit-
tle. I was very weak; however, walked about, dread-
.
the African, coast, or drowned here when all thy com-
panions suffered shipwreck in the ocean?
Struck dumb with these reflections, I rose up in a
pensive manner, being so thoughtsul that I could not
go to deep; and searing the dreadful return of my
distemper, it caused me to remember, that the Brazi-
lians use tobacco for almost all diseases. I then went:
to my chest, in order to sind some, where heaven, no
doubt, directed me to find a cure for both loul and
body; for there I found one of the bibles, which, till
this time, I had neither leisure nor inclination te look
into; I took both the tobacco and that out of the
chest, and laid them on the table. Several experi-
ments did I try with the tobacco: First, I took a
piece of leaf, and chewed it; but it being very green
and strong, almost stupified me. Next I steeped it
in some rum an hour or two, resolving when I went
to bed to take a dose of it; 'and, in the third place, I
burnt some over a pan of fire, holding my nose over
it so long as I could endure it without suffocation.
In the intervals of this operation, though my head
was giddy and disturbed by the tobacco, I took up
the bible to read. No sooner did I open it, but there
appeared to me these words. Call on me in the day os
trouble, and I will deliver thee, and thou shalt glorify
me.
At first this sentence made a very deep impression
on my heart; but it soon wore off again, when I
considered the word deliver was foreign to me. And
as the children of Israel said, when they were pro-
mised flesh to eat, Can God spread a table in the wil-
derness? in like manner I began to soy, Can God
himself deliver me from this desolate island? How^
ever, the words would still return to my mind* and
afterwards made a greater impression upon me. As
it now was very late, and the tobacco had dozed my
-head, I was inclined to sleep; but before I would lie
down, I sell on my knees, and implored the promise
that God bad made to me in the holy scriptures,
that, is I called upon him in the day os trouble, he
would deliver me. With much difficulty I after drank
the rum, wherein I had steeped the tobacco; which
flying into my head, threw me into such a profound
sleep, that it was three o'clock the next day before
I awaked; or rather, I believe, I flept two days, hav-
ing certainly lost a day in my account, and I could
never tell any other way. When I got up, my spi-
rits were lively and cheersul ; my stomach much bet-
ter, being very hungry; and, in short, no sit returned
she next day, which was the 29th, but I found my-:
self much altered for the better.
. The 30th, I went abroad with my gun, but not
far, and killed a sea-fowl or two, resembling a brand-
goose, which, however, I cared not to eat when I
brought them home, but dined on two more of the
turtle's eggs. In the evening I renewed my medicine,
excepting that I did not take so large a quantity,
neither did I chew the leaf, or hold my head over the
smoke: but next day, which was the 1st of July, hav-
ing a little return of the cold sit, I again took my
medicine as I did the first time.
July 3. The sit quite left me, butvery vve;.k. In
this condition, 1 often thought of these words, I will
deliver thee; and while at some times I would think
of the impossibility of it, other thoughts would re-
prehend me, for disregarding the deliverances I had
i-eceived, even from the most forlorn and distressed
condition. Tasked myself, what regard have I had to
God for his abundant mercies? Have I done my
part? He has delivered me, but I have not glorified him:as if I had said, I had not owned and been thank-
ful for these as deliverances, and how could I expect
greater? So much did this sensibly touch my heait,
that I gave God thanks for my recovery from sick-
ness in the most humble prostration.
July 4. This morning I began serioufly to ponder
on what is written in the New Testament, resolving
to te*d a chapter every morning and night as Jong
as
as my thoughts would engage me. As soon as I set
about this work seriously, I found my heart deeply af-
sected with the impiety of my past lise; these words
that I thought were spoken to me in my dream revi-
ved, All these things have not brought thee to rcpen-y
tance. After this, I begged of God to assist me with
his Holy S.pirit in returning to my duty. One day,
in perusing the scriptures, 1 came to these words, He
is exalted a Prince and a Saviour, to give repentance,
and to give remijjion: Immediately I laid down the
book, and, with uplifted hands to heaven, loudly
cried, 0 blessed fesus, thou son os David, Jesus, thou ex-
alted Prince and Saviour, give me repentance! And
now indeed I prayed with a true sense of my condi-
tion, and a more certain hope, founded on the word
of God. Now I had a different sense of these words,
Call on me, and I will deliver thee, that is, from the
dreadsul load of guilt, which oppressed my sinsul
foul, and not from a solitary lise, which might rather
be called a blessing, (seeing I wanted neither food
nor raiment) when compared with living among the
human race, surrounded with so much oppression,
misery, and affliction: In a word, I came to this con-
clusion, that a deliverance from sin was a much great-
er blessing than a deliverance from affliction. But
again I proceed to my journal.
To the 14th os July, I walked about with my gun,
little and little at a time, having been reduced to the
greatest extremity of weakness. The applications
and experiments I used were persectly new; neither
could I recommend them to any one's practice. For
though it carried off the sit, it very much weakened
"me; and I had frequently convulsions in my nerves
and limbs for some time. From hence J learned,
that going abroad in rainy weather, especially when
it was attended with storms and hurricanes of wind,
was most pernicious to health. I had now been a-
bove ten months in the island; and as I never had
feen any of the human kind, I therefore accounted
C myself
myself as sole monarch ; and as I grew better, having
secured my habitation to my mind, I resolved to make
a tour round my kingdom, in order to make new dis-
coveries.
The 15th of July I began my journey. I first went
to the creek, where I had brought my rafts on shore;
and travelling sarther, found the tide went no higher
than two miles up, where there was a little brook of
running water, on the bank of which were many plea-
sant savannahs or meadows, plain, smooth, and cover-
ed with grass. On the rising parts, where I supposed
the water did not reach, I perceived a great deal of
tobacco growing to a very strong stalk. Several other
plants I likewise found, the virtues of which I did not
understand. I searched a long time for the Cassava
xoot, which I knew the Indians in that climate made
their bread of; but all in vain. There were several
plants of aloes, though at that time I knew not what
they were; likewise I law several sugar-canes, but
irnpersect for want of cultivation. With these sew
discoveries I came back that night, and slept content-
edly in my little castle.
The next day, being the 16th, going the same way,
frut sarther than the day before, I found the country
inore adorned with woods and trees. Here I perceiv-
ed different fruits in great abundance. Melons in
plenty lay on the ground, and clusters of grapes, ripe
and very rich, spread over the trees. You may ima-
gine I was glad of this discovery, yet ate very spa-
ringly* lest 1 should throw myself into a flux or sever,
she grapes I found of excellent use; for when I had
jriedthem in the sun, which preserved them as dried
raifins are kept, they proved very wholesome and nou-
rishing and served me in those seasons when no grapes
v/ere to be had.
The night drawing on apace, I ascended up a tree,
j,nd slept very comfortably, though it was the first
time I hiid lain cut of my habitation. And when the
morning came, 1 proceeded with great pleasure on
my
my way, travelling about four miles, as I imagined,
by the length of the valley, directing my course north-
ward, there being a ridge of hills on the south and
north side of me. At the end of this valley I came
to an opening, where the country seemed to descend
to the west; there I found a little spring of fresh wa-
ter, proceedingoutof the stdeof the hill, with its crystal
streams running directly east. And indeed here my
senses were charmed with the most beautisul landscape
nature could afford ; for the country appeared so flou-
rishing, green, and delightsul, that to me it seemed
like a planted garden. 1 then descended on the side
of that delicious vale, when I found abundance of co-
coa, orange, lemon, and citron trees, but very wild
and barren at that time. As for the limes, they were
delightsul and wholesome, the juice of which I after
used to mix in water, which made it very cool and re-
freshing. And now I was resolved to carry home and
lay up a store of grapes, limes and lemons, against the
approaching wet season. So laying them up in sepa-
rate parcels, and then taking a sew of each with me, I
returned to my little castle, after having spent three days
in this journey. Before I got home, the grapes were so
bruised that they were utterly spoiled; the limes in-
deed were good, but of those I could bring only a sew.
July 19. -Having prepared two bags, I returned
thither again; but to my great surprize, found all the
grapes spread about, trod to pieces, and abundance
eaten, which made me conclude there were wild
beasts thereabouts. To prevent this happening again,
I gathered a large quantity of the grapes,. and hung
them upon the out branches of the tree, both to-
keep them unhurt, and that they might cure and dry
in the sun : and having well loaded myself with limes
and lemons, I returned once more to my old place of
residence.
And now contemplating on the fruitsulness of this
valley, the pleasantness of its situation, its security
from
C 2
from storms, and the delightsulness of the adjacent
vvoods, I concluded I was settled in the worst part of
the country, and therefore was thinking to remove
xny habitation. But when I considered again, that
though it was pleasant, it was off from the sea-side,
.where there was a poslibility, some time or other, a
ship might either be driven or sail by; and that to
inclose myself among hills and woods must certainly
put an erid to my hopes of deliverance; I resolved to
let my castle remain where Providence had first as-
signed if. Yet so ravished was I with this place, that
j made me a little kind of bower, surrounding it with
^ double hedge, as high as I could reach, well staked,
and filled with bullrushes; and having spent a great
.part of the month of July, I think it was the first of
^.ugust before I began to enjoy my labour.
Aug. 3. Perceiving my grapes to be dry, I took
.trhem from the trees, and they proved excellent good
^taiins of the sun: the most of which I carried to my
^ave; and happy for me I did so, by which I saved
.t.he best part of my winter food.
Aug. 14, This day it began to rain; and though I
•j-iad made me a tent like the other, yet having no shel-
ter of a hill to keep me from storms, nor a cave behind
to retreat to, 1 was obliged to return to my old cas-
^.je. Tne rain continued more or less every day,, till
middle of October; and sometimes so violently,
jiat I could not stir out of my cave for several days,
/~-["his season I found my samily to increase; for one
£ my cats that ran away from me, and who I thought
t^ad been dead, returned about August, with three
•ttens at her heels, like herself; which I thought
7i rapge, because both my cats were semales, and the
^ild cats of the island seemed to be of a different kind
rr0m our European cats; but from these cats proceed-
<j such numbers, that I was forced to kill and destroy
. ern as I would do wild beasts or vermin.
Tf o the 26th of this month, I could not stir out, it
raining
raining incessantly; when beginning to want food,
I was compelled to venture twice, the first of which I
shot a goat, and afterwards found a very large tor-
toise. The manner of my regulating my food was
thus: A bunch of raisins served me for my breaksast;
a piece of goat's flesh or turtle boiled for my dinner,
and two or three turtle eggs for my supper. While
the rain lasted, I daily worked two or three hours at
enlarging mj cave, and by degrees worked it on to-
wards one side, till I came to the outside of the hill,
and made a door or way out, which came beyond my
sence or wall, and so I came in and out this way.
But after I had done this, I was troubled to see my-
self thus exposed; though I could not perceive any
thing to sear, a goat being the biggest creature I had
seen upon this island.
Sept. 30. Casting up my notches on my post, which
amounted to 365, I concluded this to be the anniver-
sary of my landing; and, therefore, humbly prostat-
ing myself on the ground, consessing my sins, ac-
knowedging God's righteous judgments upon me,
and praying to Jesus Christ to have mercy upon me, I
sasted for twelve hours till the going down of the sun;
and then eating a biscuit and a bunch of grapes, laid
me on the bed, and with great comfort took my
night's repose. Till this time I never had distinguish-
ed the Sabbath day; but now I made a longer notch
than ordinary fox the days of rest, and divided the
weeks as well as I could, though I found I had lost a
day or two in my account. My ink sailing soon af-
ter, I omitted in my daily memorandum things of an
indisferent nature, and contented myself to write
down only the most remarkable events of my lise.
The rainy and dry seasons appeared now regular to
me, and experience taught me how to provide for
them ; yet, in one thing 1 am going to relate, my ex-
perience very much failed me. You may call to
mind what 1 have mentioned of some barley and rice
which I had saved; about thirty stalks of the former,
C 3 and
and twenty of the latter; and, at that time, the sun
being in its southern position, going from me, toge-
ther with the rains, made me conclude it a very pro-
per season to sow it. Accordingly I dug up a piece
of ground, with my wooden spade, and dividing it in
tv\To parts, sowed about two-thirds of my seed, pre-
serving by me about a handsul of each. And happy
Was I did so; for no rains salling, it was choked
^ip, and never appeared above the'earth till the wet
season came again, and then part of it grew, as if it
)sa<i been newly sown.
I was resolved still to make another trial; and
je'eking for amoister piece of ground near my bower,
j there sowed the rest of my ieed in Febiuary, a little
before the vernal ecjuinox; which having the rainy
^onths of March and April to water it, yielded a
iioble crop, and sprung up very pleasantly. I had still
javed part of the seed, not daring to venture all;
iiiid by the time I found out the proper seasons to
fcy\v in, and that I might expect every year two seed-
.citites and two harvests, my stock amounted to above
Jjslt a Peck of each sort of grain.
No sooner were the rains over, but the stakes
-^bich 1 had cut from the trees, shot out like willows
tfie first year after lopping their heads. I was igno-
j.aiit of the tree I cut them from: but they grew so
^-egularly beautisul, that they made a most lively ap-
g-,earance5 an^ fo flourished in three years time, that
^ resolved to cut more of them; and these soon
^rowing, made a glorious sence, as afterwards I shall
.And now I perceived that the seasons of the year
niight generally be divided, not into summer and'
sinter, as in Europe, but into wet and dry seasons,
«s in this manner:
[February, ~)
March, \ Rainy, fun earning near tht Equi-
April, \ nox.
Half
May,
Half.
suite,
, August,
~ August,
Hilf
J Seftemler,
[ Qaobtr,
'Oclober,
November,
Half i
December,
January,
. February,
Dry, fun getliag north of the Ijne.
Wet, the fun being then come buck.
K Dry, fun running south of the line.
The wet seasons would continue longer or shorter
as the winds happened to blow. But having found
the ill consequences of being abroad in the rain, I
took care beforehand to surnish myself with provi-
sions: and, during the wet months, sat within doors
as much as possible. At this time I contrived to make
many things that I wanted, though it cost me much
labour and pains, before I.could accomplish them.
The first I tried was to make a basket; but all the
twigs I could get proved so brittle, that I could not
then perform it. It now proved of great advantage
to me, that when a boy, I took great delight in
standing at a basket maker's in the same town where
my sather lived, to view them at work ; and like, o-
ther boys, curious to see the manner of the>r work-
ing these things, and very officious roassist, I persect-
ly learned the method of it, and wanted nothing but
the tools. And it coming into my mind, that the
twigs of that tree of which I made my stakes, might
be as tough as sallow, willow, or osiers, growing in
England, I resolved to make an experiment, and went
the next day to my country seat, and found some sit
for my turn; and after cutting down a quantity with
my hatchet, I dried them in my pale, and, when sit
to work with, carried them to my cave, where I em-
ployed
C 4
ployed mysef in making several sorts of baskets, in-
somuch that I could put in whatfoever I pleased. It
i s true, they were- not cleverly made, yet they served
xny turn upon all occasions.
But still I wanted two necessary things. I had no
cask to hold my liquor, except two rundlets almost
full of rum, a sew bottles of an ordinary size, and
some square case bottles; neither had I a pot to boil
^ny thing in, only a large kettle, unsit to make broth,
G\- stew a bit of meat: I wanted likewise at the be-
ginning of this dry season a tobacco-pipe; but for
.this I afterwards found an expedient.
I kept myself employed in planing my second row
^ff stakes. But remembering that when I travelled up
to the brook, I had a mind to see the whole island, I
l,oW resumed my intention, and taking my dog, gun,
j-»atchet, two biscuit-cakes, a great bunch of raisins,
.tarith a larger quantity of powder and shot than usual,
began my journey. Having passed the vale where
^xt.y Dower stood, I came within view of the sea lying
tne weft; when, it being a clear day I sairly de-
scried land, extending from the W. to the S. W. a-
-j^out io or 15 leagues, as I concluded ; but could not
-^~0.y whether it was an island or a continent. Neither
^-ould I tell what this place might be; only thought it
^ra.s part of America, and where I might have been in
iiiiserable condition, had I landed. Again I con-
^jcJered, that if this was the Spanish coast, certainly,
^ne time or other, J should see some ship pass by T
^X\d if it was not, then it must be the Savage coast,
between the Spanish country and Brazil, which ar
|-,oun^S wit'1 cannibals or man-eaters.
>ls 1 proceeded forward, 1 found this side of the
i/land much more pleasant than mine; the fields fra-
grant, adorned with sweet flowers and verd. nt grass,
^,^-cther with several very fine woods. There were
0-Jxi'ots ln plenty, which made me long for one to be
companion; but it was with great disficulty I
could
could knock one down with my stick; and I kept
him at home some years, before I could get him to
call me by my name.
In the low grounds I found various sorts of hares
and foxes as I took them to be, but much difserent
from those in England. Several of these I killed, but
never ate them; neither indeed had I any occasion • for
abounding with goats, pigeons, turtle, and grapes,
1 could defy Leadenhall market to surnish me a bet-
ter table. In this journey I did not travel above two
miles a day, because I took several turns and wind-
ings, to see what discoveries. 1 could make, returning
weary enough to the place were I designed to rest all
night, which was either in a tree, or to a place which
I surrounded with stakes, that no wild creature might
suddenly surprize me. When I came to the sea shore,
1 was amazed to see the splendor of it. Its strand
was covered with shells of the most beautisul fish,
and constantly abounding with innumerable turtles,
and fowls of many kinds, which I was ignorant of,
except those called Penguins. I might have mot as
many as I pleased, but was sparing of my ammuni-
tion, rather chusing to kill a she-goat, which I did
with much difficulty, on account of the slatness of
the country.
Now, though this journey produced the most plea-
sing satissaction, yet my habitation was so much to
my liking, that I did not repine at my being seated
on the worst part of the.island. I continued my jour-
ney, travelling about twelve miles surther towards the
east, where I set a great pile on the'shore for a mark,
concluding that my next journey should bring me to
the other iiJe ot the island, east from my castle, and'
so round till I came to my post again. As I had a
constant view of the country, I thought I could not
miss my way ; but scarce had I travelled three miles',
when 1 descended into a very large valley, so surround-
ed with hiils covered with wood, that 1 having no
guide but by the sun, nor even then, unless J knew
well the position of the sun at that time of the day;
3^11 <3, to add to my misfortune, the weather proving
very hazy, I was obliged to return to my post by the
ffesa. side, and so backwards the same way I came. In
tliis journey my dog surprized a kid, and would have
filled it, had I not prevented him. As I had often
been thinking of getting a kid or two, and so raising
^ "breed of tame goats to supply me after my ammu-
j-t \ t ion was spent, I took this opportunity of begin-
Xi-ing: and, having made a collar for this little crea-
t iare, with a string made of rope-yarn, I brought it to
xxxy bower, and there inclosed and left him; and, hav-
ixig spent a month in this journey, at length I re-
turned to my old habitation.
"Nobody tan doubt of my satissaction, when I re-
turned to my little castle, and reposed myself in my
J^ammock. After my journey I rested myself a week,
.^vhich time I employed in making a cage for my pret-
ty poll. I now began to consider of the poor kid
'A 1 "ft at the bower, ami I immediately went to setch
how. When I came there, I found the young
.creature almost starved; I gave it some food, and tied
Jt as before: but there was no occasion, for it follow-
ed me like a dog; and, as I constantly sed it, it be-
came so loving, gentle, and fond, that it commenced.
pne of my domestics, and would never leave me.
The rainy season of the autumnal equinox being
yiow come, I kept the 30th of September in the most
solemn manner, as usual, it being the thiid year of
.ffiv abode in the island. I spent the whole day in ac-
knowledging God's mercies, in giving him thanks
for making this solitary lise as agreeable, and Jess sin-
ful, than that of human society; and for the com-
munications of his grace to my soul, in supporting,
.comforting, and encouraging me to depend upon his.
Providence, and hope for his eternal presence in the
world to come.
Indeed, I often did consider bow much more happy
I was
I was, in this state of lise, than in that accursed man-
ner of living I formerly used: and sometimes when
hunting, or viewing the country, the anguish of my
foul would break out upon me, and my very heart
would sink within me, to think of the woods, the
mountains, the deserts I was in; and how I was a
prisoner locked up within the eternal bars and bolts
of the ocean, in an uninhabited wilderness, without
hopes, and without redemption. In this condition I
would often wring my hands, and weep like a child:
And even sometimes in the middle of my work this
fit would take me; and then I would sit down and
togh, looking on the ground for an hour or two to-
gether, till such time as my grief got vent in a flood
of tears.
Onemorning,as I was sadly employed in this man-
ner, I opened my Bible,, when immediately I fixed
my eyes upon these words, I will never leave thee, nor
forsake thee! Surely, thought I, these words are di-
rected to me; or else why should they appear just at a
moment when I am bemoaning my forlorn condition?
and if God does hot forsake me, what matters it,
since he can make me more happy in this state of lise,
than if I enjoyed the greatest splendor in the world?
But while I was going to return God thanks for my
present state, something seemed to shock my mind,
as if it had thus said: Unworthy wretch ; can you
pretend to be thanksul for a condition, from which
you would pray to be delivered! Here I stopt;—and
though I could not say, I thanked the Divine Majes-
ty for being there, yet I gave God thanks for placing
to my view my former wicked course of lise, and
granting me a true knowledge of repentance. And
whenever I opened or shut the Bible, I blessed kind
Providence, that directed my good friend in England
to send it among my goods without my order, and
for assisting me to save it from the power of the rag-
ing ocean.
And now beginning my thii3 year, my sever.il
C 6 ' daily
daily employments were these: First, My duty to
Heaven, and diligently reading the holy Scriptures,
.which I did twice or thrice every.day, Secondly, Seek-
ing provision with my gun, which commonly took
tne up, when it did not rain, three hours every morn-
ing. Thirdly, The ordering, curing, preserving, and
cooking what I killed, or catched for my supply,
.which took me up a great part of'the day: for, in the
iniddle of the day, the sun being in its height, it was
.so hot, that I could not stir out; so that I had only
put four hours in the evening to work in: and then
the want of tools, of assistance, and skill, wasted a
irreat deal of time to little purpose. I was no less
than two and forty days making a board sit for a
Jong shelf, which two sawyers, with their tools and
iTaw-pit, would have cut out of the same tree in half
,41 tlay. It was of a large tree, as my board was to be
troad, I was three days in cutting it down, and two
iyiore in lopping off the boughs, and reducing it to a
piece of timber. This I hacked and hewed off each
fide, till it became light to move; then I turned it,
iuade one side of it smooth and flat as a board from
end t0 end, then turned it downward, cutting the
other side, till I brought the plank to be about three
Jnches thick, and smooth on both sides. Any body
yiiay judge my great labour and satigue in such a piece
0f work; but this I went through with patience, as
zlICo many other things that my circumstances made
i^ccelTary for me to do.
The harvest months, November and December,
^cre now at hand, in which I had the pleasing prol-
pect of a very good crop. But here I met with a
,-,eW misfortune; for the goats and hares, having
tasted of the sweetness of the blade, kept it so short,
that it had not strength to shoot up into a stalk. To
prevent this, I inclosed it with a hedge, and by day
{hot some of its devourers; and my dog, which 1 had
ti;d to the tield-gate, keeping barking all night, so
frightened
frightened these creatures, that I got entirely rid of
them.
But, no sooner did I get rid of these, than other
enemies appeared, to wit, whole flocks of several
sorts of biids, who only waited till my back was
turned, to ruin me. So much did this provoke me,
that I Jet fly, and killed three of the malesactors;
and afterwards served them as they do notorious
theivesin England, hung them up in chains as a ter-
ror to others. And, indeed, so good an essect had
this, that they not only forsook the corn, but all that
part of the island, so long as these criminals hung
there.
My corn having ripened apace, the latter end of
December, which was my second harvest, I reaped it
with a scythe, made of one of my broad swords. I
had no satigue in cutting down my first crop, it was
so slender. The ears I carried home in a basket, rub-
bing it out with my hands, instead of thrashing it:
and when my harvest was o"ver, found my half peck
of seed produced near two bushels of lice, and two
bushels and a half of barley. And now I plainly
foresaw, that, by God's goodness, I should be surnish-
ed with bread; but yet I was concerned, because I
knew not how to grind or make meal of my corn,
nor bread, neither knew how to bake it. 1 would
not, however, taste any of the crop, but resolved to
preserve it against next season, and, in the mean while,
use my best endeavours to provide myself with other
food.
But where were my labours to end? The want of a
plough to turn up the earth, or shovel to dig it, I
conquered by making me a wooden spade. The. want
of a harrow 1 supplied myself, with dragging over the
corn a great bou»h of a tree. When it was growing,
I was forced to fence it; when ripe, to mow it, cany
it home, thresh it, part it from the chaff, and save it.
And, aster all, I wanted a mili to grind it, sieve to
drtss it, vest and salt to make it into bread, and an
oven
0ven to bake it. This set my brains on work to find
forne expedient for every one of these necessaries
^-rrainst the next harvest.
^ And now having more seed, my first care was to
•p-repare me more land. I pitched upon two large flat
pieces of ground near my castle, for that purpose, in
^v-liich I sowed my seed, and senced it with a good
Jaedge, This took me up three months: by which
^jnrie the wet season coming on, and the rain keeping
j-rie within doors, I found several occasions to employ
^i^yself; and, while at work, used to divert myself
^^ith talking to my parrot, learning him to know and
^"peak his own name Poll, the first welcome word I
^ver heard spoke in the island. I had been a long
^ime contriving how to make earthen vessels, which
-j .wanted extremely; and, when I considered the
-j^eat of tne climate, I did not doubt but if I could
^jnd any such clay, I might botch up a pot, strong
^n0ush, when dried in the sun, to bear handling, and
•to hold any thing that was dry, as corn, meal, and
^ther things.
rTo be.short, the clay I found; but it would occa-
sion the most serious person to smile, to see whatawk-
^.ijrcl ways I took, and what ugly mishapen things I
~i3.de; how many either sell out or cracked by the
violent heat of the fun, and"sell in pieces when they
vvrere removed; so that I think it was two months
time before I could persect any thing: and even then
\yiit two cl'umsey things, in imitation of earthen jars,
-.j-'hese, however, I very gently placed in wicker bas-
lrCts made on purpose few them, and between th;
ot and the baskets, stuffed it sull of rice and barley
j%raW: and- these, I presumed would hold my dried
corn, and perhaps the meal, when the corn was
bru.r1"'- As for the smaller things, I made them
with better success; such as little round pots, flat
dishes, pitchers, and pipkins, the sun baking them
vc) y hard.
yct still I wanted one thing absolutely necessary,
and
and that was an earthen pot, not only to hold my li-
quid, but also to bear the fire, which none of these
could do. It once happened, that as I was putting
out my fire, I found therein a broken piece of one of
my vessels burnt hard as a rock, and red as a tile.
This made me think of burning some pots; and hav-
ing no notion of a kiln* or of glazing them witk
lead, I fixed three large pipkins, and two. or three
pots in a pile one upon another. The fire I piled
round the outside, and dry wood on the top, till I
few the pots in the inside red-hot, and found that
they did not crack at all; and when I perceived them
persectly red, I let one of them stand in the fire a-
bout five or six hoursi till the clay melted by the ex-
tremity of the heat, and would have. run to glass,
had I suffered it; upon which I flacked my fire by
degrees, till the redness abated; and watching them
till the morning, I found I had three very good pip-
kins, and two earthen pots, as well burnt and sit for
my turn as I could desire.
No joy could be greater than mine at this discove-
ry. For after this, I may say, I wanted for no fort
of earthen ware- I filled one of my pipkins with
water to boil me some meat, which it did admirably
well, and with a piece of kid I made me some good
broth, as well as my circumstances would afford me
at that time.
The next concern I had was to get me a stone-
mortar to beat some corn in, instead of a mill to grind
it. Here indeed I was at a great loss, as not being
sit for a stonecutter; and many days I spent tc find
out a great stone big enough to. cut hollow and
make sit for a mortar, and strcng enough to bear
the weight of a pestil, that would break the corn
without filling it with sand. But all the stones of
the island being of a mouldering nature, rendered my
search fruitless; and then I resolved to look out a great
ilock of hard wood; which having found, I formed it
with my axe and hammer, and thea with infinite la-
bo ui
bour made a hollow in it, just as the Indians of Bra-
zil make their canoes. When I had sinished this, I
made a great pestil of iron wood, and then laid them
up against my succeeding harvest.
My next business was to make me a sieve, to sift
my meal, and part it from the bran and husk. Hav-
ing no fine thin canvass to search the meal through, I
could not tell what to do. What linen I had was
reduced to rags: I had goats hair enough, but nei-
ther tools to work it, nor did I know how to spin it:
J^.t length I remembered I had some neckcloths of
callico or muslin of the sailors, which I had brought
crut of the ship, and with these I made three small
sieves proper enough for the work.
I come now to consider the baking part. The
.want of an oven I supplied by making some earthen
pans very broad, but not deep. When I had a mind
to bake, I rm.de a groat fire upon my hearth, the tiles
0f which I had made myself 5 and when the wood
vvas burnt into live-coals, I spread them over it, till it
liecame very hot; then sweeping them away, I set
Jown my loaves, and whelming down the earthen
pots upon them, drew the ashes and coals all around
the outsides of the pots to continue the heat; and in
this manner I baked my barley loaves, as well as if I
Ytad been a complete pastry-cook, and also made of
the rice several cakes and puddings.
'It is no wonder, that all these things took me up
.the best part of a year, since what intermediate time
j had was bestowed in managing my new harvest
nn<J husbandry; for in the proper season I reaped my
corn, carried it home, and laid it up in the ear in my
large baskets, till I had time to rub, instead of thresh-
-n2- it. And now indeed my corn encreased so
mil' h, that it produced me twenty bushels of barley,
nnd as much of rice, that I not only began to use it
free)y, but.was thinljing how to enlarge my barn?,
-Hid resolved to sow as much at a time as would be
sufficient for me for a whole year.
1 All
All this while, the prospect of land, which I had
seen from the other side of the island, ran in my
mind. I still meditated a deliverance from this
place, though the sear of greater misfortunes might
have deterred me from it. 'For allowing that I had
attained that place, I run the hazard of being killed
and eaten by the devouring cannibals; and if they
were not so, yet I might be slain, as other Europeans
had been, \vhV.fe9 into their hands. Notwithstand-
ing all this, my thoughts ran continually upon that
siiore. I now wished for my boy Xury, and the
long boat, with the shoulder of mutton sail: I went
to the ship's boat, that had been cast a great way on
the shore in the late storm. She was removed but a
little; but her bottom being turned up by the impe-
tuosity and sury of the waves and wind, I sell to
work with all the strength I had, and with levers
and rollers I had cut from the wood, to turn her,
and repair the damages she had sustained. This
work took me up three or four weeks, when finding
my little strength all in vain, I sell to undermining
it by digging away the sand, and so to make it sall
down, setting pieces of wood to thrust and guide it
in the sall. But after this was done, I was still un-
able to stir it up, or to get under it, much less to
move it forwards towards the water, and so I was
forced to give it over.
Thisdisappointment, however,Hid notfrighten me.
I began to think, whether it was not possible for me
to make a canoe or Perigua, such as the Indians
make of the trunk of a tree. But here I lay under
particular inconveniences; want of tools to make it,
and want of hands to move it in the water when it
was made. However, to work I went upon it,
stopping all the enquiries I could make, with this
very simple answer i made to myself, let's first make
it, i'll warrant I'll find some way or other to get it
along when it is done.
I first cut down a cedar tree, which was five seet
ten
ten inches diameter at the lower part next the stump,
and four seet eleven inches diameter at the end of
twenty-two seet, after which it lessened for a space,
and then parted into branches. Twenty days was I
a hacking and hewing this tree at the bottom, four-
teen more in cutting off the branches and limbs, and
a whole month in shaping it like the bottom of a
boat. As for the inside, I was three weeks with a
rnallet and chissel, clearing it in such a manner, as
that it was big enough to carry 26 men, much big-
ger than any canoe i ever saw in my lise, and conse-
quently sufficient to transport me and all my effecti
to that wished sor shore I so ardently desired.
Nothing remained now, but, indeed, the greatest
difficulty, to get it into the water, it lying about 100
yards from it. To remedy the first inconvenience,
which was a rising hill between this boat and the
creek, with wondersul pains and labour I dug into
the sursace of the earth, and made a declivity. But
when this was done, all the strength I had was as in-
sufficient to move it, as it was when I attempted to
move the boat. I then proceeded to measure the
distance of ground, resolving to make a canal, in or-
der to bring the water to the canoe, since I could
not bring the canoe to the water. But as this seem-
ed to be impracticable to myself alone, under the
space of eleven or twelve years, it brought me into
some fort of consideration: so that 1 concluded this
also to be impossible, and the attempt altogether vain.
I now saw, and not before, what stupidity it is to be-
gin work before we reckon its costs, or judge right-
ly our own abilities to go through with its perform-
ance.
In the height of this work, my fourth year ex-
pired, from the time I was cast on this island. At
this time I did not forget my anniversary; but kept
it with rather greater devotion than before. For now
iny hopes being frustrated, I looked upon this world
<is a thing I had nothing to do with; and very well
might
might I say, as sather Abraham said unto Dives, Be-
tween me and thee there is a gulph fixed, And in-
deed I was separated from its wickedness too, having
neither the lust of the flesh, the lust of the eye, nor
the pride of lise; I had nothing to covet, being lord,
king, and emperor over the whole country I had in
possession, without dispute, and without controul: I
had loadings of corn, plenty of turtles, timber in a-
bundance, and grapes above measure. What was all
the rest to me? the money I had lay by me as despi-
cable dross, which I would freely have given for a
gross of tobacco pipes, or a hand-mill to grind my
corn: in a word, the nature and experience of these
things dictated to me this just reflection, That the
good things of this world are no sarther good to us,
than they are for our use; and that whatever we
may heap up to give others, we can but enjoy as
much as we use, and no more.
These thoughts rendered my mind more easy than'
usual. Every time I sat down to meat, I did it with
thanksulness, admiring the providential hand of God,
who, in this wilderness had spread a table to me.
And now 1 considered what I enjoyed, rather than
what I wanted; compared my present condition with
what I at first expected it should be; howl should
have done, if I had got nothing out of the ship ; that
I must have perished before I had caught fish or tur-
tles; or lived, had I found them, like a mere savage,
by eating them raw, and pulling them in pieces
with my claws, like abi-ast. I next compared my
station to that which I deserved: how undutisul I
had been to my parents; how destitute of the sear
of God; how void of every thing that was good;
and how ungratesul for those abundant mercies I had
received from heaven, being sed, as it were, by a
miracle, even as great as Elijah's being sed by ravens;
and cast on a place where there were no venemous
creatures to poison or devour me; in short, making
God's tender mercies matter of great consolation, I
relin-
relinquished all sadness, and gave way to content-
ment.
As long as my ink continued, which with water
I made last as long as I could, I used to minute down
the days of the month, on which any remarkable
thing happened. And,
First, I observed, that the same day I forsook my
parents and friends, and ran away to Hull, in order
to go to sea, the same day afterwards, in the next
year, I was taken and made a Have by the Sallee rovers:
That the very day I escaped out of the wreck of
the ship in Yarmouth roads, a year after, on the same
day, I made my escape from Sallee in my patron's
fishing-boat:
And, on the 30th os September, being the day of
the year I w.is born on, on that day twenty-fix years
after, was I miraculously saved, and cast ashore on
this island.
The next thing that wasted after my ink, was the
biscuit which I had brought out of the ship: and
though I allowed myself but one cake a day for above
a twelve month, yet 1 was quite out of bread for near
a year, before I got any corn of my own,
In the next place, my clothes began to decay, and
my linen had been gone long before. However, I
Jiad preserved about three dozen of the sailors che-
quered shirts, which proved a great refreshment to
rne, when the violent beams of the sun would not
suffer me to bear any of the seamens heavy watch-
coats; which made me turn tailor, and, after a mi-
serable botching manner, convert them to jackets.
f o preserve my head, I made me a cap of goat-
skins, with the hair outwards to keep out the rain;
•which indeed served me so well, that afterwards I
inadc me a waistcoat and open-kneed breeches ot the
fame: And then I contrived a sort of an umbrella,
covering it with skins, which not onlv kept out the
Jieat of the sun, but the rain also. Thus being easy
and settled iu my mind, my chiesest happiness was to
converse
converse with God, in most heavenly and comforta-
ble ejaculations.
For five years after this I cannot say any extraordi-
nary thing occurred to me. My chief employment
was to cure my raisins, and plant my barley and rice,
of both which I had a year's provision before-hand.
But though I was disappointed in my first canoe, I
made it, at intermediate times, my business to make
a second, of much inserior size; and it was two years
before I had finished it. But as I perceived it would
no-wise answer my design of sailing to the other
shore, my thoughts were confined to take a tour
round the island, to see what surther discoveries I
could make. To this intent, after having moved her
to the water, and tried how she would sail, I sitted
up a little mast to my boat, and made a sail of the
ship's fail that lay by me. I then made lockers or
boxes at the end of it, to put in necessaries, provi-
sion, and ammunition, which would preserve them
dry either from rain, or the spray of the sea; and in
the inside of the boat, I cut me a long hollow place
to lay my gun, and to keep it dry made a flag to hang
over it. My umbrella I fixed in a step in the stern,
• like a mast, to keep the heat of the sun off me. And
now resolving to see the circumserence of my little
kingdom, I victualled my ship for the voyage, putting
in two dozen of my barley bread loaves, an earthen
pot sull of parched rice, a little bottle of rum, half a
goat, powder and shot, and two watch coats. It
was the 6th of November, in the 6th year of my
reign,, or captivity, that I set out on this voyage;
which was much longer than I expected, being obli-
ged to put sarther out, by reason of the rocks that lay
a great way in the vsea. And indeed so much did
these rocks surprize me, that I was for putting back,
searing that if I ventured sarther, it would be out of
my power to return: In this uncertainty 1 came to
an anchor just off shore, to which I waded with my
gun on my shoulder, and then climbingnip a hill,
which
which over-looked that point, I saw the sull extent
of it, and so I resolved to run all hazards.
In this prospect from the hill, I perceived a violent
current running to the east, coming very close to the
point; which I the more caresully observed, thinking
it dangerous, and that when I came to it, I might be
drove into the sea by its force, and not able to return
to the island; and certainly it must have been so, had
I not made this observation; for on the other side
was the like current, with this difference, that it set
off at a greater distance; and I perceived there was a
strong eddy under the land ; so that my chief business
was to work out of the first current, and convenient-
ly get into the eddy. Two days I staid here, the
wind blowing very briskly E. S. E. which being con-
trary to the current, leaves a great breach of the sea
upon the point; so it was neither sit for me to keep
too near the shore, on account of the breach; nor
stand at too great a distance, for sear of the streams.
That night the wind abating, it grew so calm, that I
ventured out; and here I may be a monument to all
rash and ignorant pilots: For I was no sooner come
to the point, and not above the boat's length from
shore, but I was got into a deep water, with a cur-
rent like a mill, which drove my boat along so vio-
lently, that it was impossible for me to keep her near
the edge of it, but screed me more and more out
from the eddy to the left of me; and all I could do
with my padlers were useless, there being no wind to
help me.
Now I began to look upon myself as quite lost,
since, as the current ran on both sides of the island, I
was very certain they must join again, and then I had
no hopes but of penshing for want in the sea, after
what provision I had was spent, or before, if a storm
should happen to arise.
Who can conceive the present anguisii of my mind
at this calamity? with longing eyes did I loqk upon
my little kingdom, and thought the island the
plea-
pleasantest place in the universe. Happy, thrice
happy desert, said I, shall I never see thee more?
Wretched creature! whither am I going? Why did
I murmer at my lonesome condition, when now I
would give the whole world to be thither again?
While T was thus complaining, I found myself to be
driven about two leagues into the sea; however, I
laboured till my strength was sar spent, to keep my
boat as sar north as possibly I could, to that side of
the current where the eddy lay on. About noon I
perceived a little breeze of wind spring up from the
S. S. E. which overjoyed my heart; and I was still
more elated, when, in about half an hour, it blew a
gentle fine gale. Had any thick weather sprung up,
I had been lost another way: for having no compass
on board, 1 should never have found the way to steer
towards the island, if once it had disappeared; but it
proving the contrary, I set up my mast again, spread
my sail, and stood away northward, as much as I
could, to get rid of the current. And no sooner did
the boat begin to stretch away, but I perceived, by
the clearness of the water, a change of the current
was near; for, where it was strong, the water was
foul; and, where it was clear, the current abated.
To the east I soon saw, about half a mile, a bteach.
of the sea upon some rock?, which caused it again to
separate; and as the main force of it drove away
more southwardly, leaving the rocks to the north-
east, so the other came back by the repulse of the
rocks, making a sharp eddy, which returned back a-
gain to the north-west with a very swift stream.
They who have experienced what it is to be re-
prieved upon'the ladder, or to be saved from thieves,
just going to take away theit lives, or such as have
been in the like calamities with my own, may guess
my present excessof joy, how heartily I run my boat
into the stream of this eddy, and how joysully I
spread my sail to the refreshing wind, standing cheer-
fully before it, with a smart tide under foot. By the
the assistance of this eddy, I was carried above a league
home again, when, being in the wake of the island,
betwixt the two currents, I found the water to be in
a fort of a stand. About four o'clock in the after-
noon, I reached within a league of the island, and
perceived the points of the rock, which caused this
disaster, stretching out, as I observed before, to the
southward, which, throwing off the current more
southwardly, had occasionedanothereddy tothe north.
But having a sair brisk gale, I stretched across this
eddy, and in an hour came within a mile of the more,
where I soon landed, to my unspeakable comfort;
and after an humble prostration thanking God for
my deliverance, with a resolution to lay all thoughts
of escaping aside, I brought my boat sase to a little
cove, and laid me down to take a welcome repose.
When I awoke, I was considering how I might get
my boat home; and coasting along the shore I came
to a good bay, which ran up to a rivulet or brook,
where, finding a sase harbour, I stowed her as sase as
if she had been in a dry dock made on purpose for her.
I now perceived myself not sar from the place
where before I had travelled on foot; so taking no-
thing with me, except my gun and umbrella, I began
my journey, and in the evening came to my bower,
where I again laid me down to rest. I had not slept
Jong before I was awakened in great surprize, by a
fhange voice that called me several times, Robin,
Jtobin, Robin Crusoe, pool- Robin! Where" areycu, Ro-
bin Crusoe? where are you? where have you been?
So fast was I asleep at first, that I did not awake
thoroughly; but half asleep and half awake, I
thought I dreamed that somebody spoke to me. But,
as the voice repeated Robinson Crusoe several times,
being terribly affrighted, I started up in the utmost
consusion; and, no sooner were my eyes sully open,
but I beheld my pretty poll sitting on the top of the
hedge, and soon knew that it was he that called me;
for just in such bewailing language I used tatalk
and teach him; which he so exactly learned, that he
would sit upon my finger, and lay his bill close to
my sace, and cry, Poor Robinson Crusoe, where are you?
where have you been? how came you here? and such like
prattle I had constantly taught him. But even tho*
I knew it to be the parrot, it was a great while be-
fore I could adjust myself; being amazed how the
creature got thither, and that he should fix about
thaUplace, and no where else. But now, being as-
sured it could be other than my honest Poll, my
wonder ceased; and reaching out my hand, and call-
ing samiliarly Poll, the creature came to me, and
perched upon my thumb, as he was wont, constantly
prating to me, with Poor Robinson Crusoe, and how
did I come here, and where had I been? as if the bird
was overjoyed to see me; and so 1 took him home a-
long with me. ,, .
I was now pretty well cured of my rambling to
sea; yet" I could wish my boat, which had cost me
so much trouble and pains, on this side the island
,once more, but which indeed was impracticable. I
therefore began to lead a very retired lise, living
near a twelvemonth in a very contented manner,
wanting for nothing except conversation. As to
mechanic labours, which my necessities obliged me
to, I sancied I could, upon occasion, make a tolera-
ble carpenter,, were the poor tools I had to work
withal but good. Besides, as I improved in my
earthen ware, I contrived to make them with a wheel,
which I found much easier and better, making my
work shapely, which before was rude and ugly.
But, I think I was never so elevated with my own
persormance or project, than for being able to make
a tobacco pipe, which, though it proved an awkward
clumsy thing, yet it was very sound, and carried the
firioke persectly well, to my great satissaction.
1 also improved my wicker ware, making me abun-
dance of necessary baskets, which, though not very
handsome, were very handy and convenient to setch
D things
Si;
v
things home in, as also for holding my stores, barley,,
i-ice, and other provisions;
My powder beginning to sail, made me examine
after what manner I mould kill the goats or birds to
live on, after it was all gone. Upon which I con-
trived marry ways to ensnare the goats, and see if I
could catch them alive, particularly a she goat with
young. At last I had my defire; for, making pit-
falls and traps, baited with barley and rice, I found,
one morning, in one of them, an old he goat, and in
the other three kids, one male the other two semales.
So boisterous was the old one, that I could not
bring him away. But I forgot the old proverb, That
hunger will tame a lion: For, had I kept him three or
four days without victuals, and then given him some
vvater, with a little corn, he would have been as tame
as a young kid. The other creatures I bound with
firings together; but I had great difficulty before I
could bring them to my habitation. It was some
time before they would seed; but, throwing them
fweet corn, it so much tempted them, that they be-
gan to be tamer. From hence I concluded, that if I
Resigned to surnish myself with goat's flesh, when
iny ammunition was .spent, the tamely breeding them
vp, like a flock of sheep, about my settlement, was
the only method I could take. I concluded also I
must separate the wild from the tame, or else they
would always run wild as they grew up; and the best 1^'J"
way for this, was to have some inclosed piece of ^ J-
ground, well senced, either with hedge or pale, to ^ ™
iceep them soeffectually, that those within might not j '^
break out, or those without break in. Such an un- cj",S
Jertaking was very great for one pair of hands; but ... J1
as there was an absolute necessity for doing it, my ... °;:
first care was to find a convenient piece of ground ,^ ,
where there was likely to be herbage for them to eat, > <
water to drink, and cover to keep them from the sun. {^
Here again I gave another instance of my igno- a*.",
ranee
ranee and inexpenence, pitching upon a piece of
meadow land so large, that had I inclosed it, the hedge
or pale must have been at least two miles about. In-
deed, had it been ten miles, I had time enough to do
it in; but then 1 did not consider that my goats
would be as wild in so much compass, as if they had
had the whole island, and consequently as difficult for
me to catch them. This thought came into my head,
after I had carried if on, I believe, about fifty yards:
I therefore altered my scheme, and resolved to in-
close a piece of ground about 150 yards in length,
and 100 in breadth, sufficient enough for as many as
would maintain me, till such time as my flock in-
creased, and then I could add more ground. I now
vigorously prosecuted my work, and it took me about
three months in hedging the first piece; in which
time I tethered the three kids in the best part of it,
seeding them as near me as-possible, to make them sa-
miliar: and indeed I very often would carry some
ears of barley, or a handsul of rice, and seed them out
of my hand; by which they grew so tame, that when
my inclosure was finished, and I had let them loose,
they would run after me for a handsul of corn. This
indeed.answered my end; and in a year and a half's
time I had a flock of about twelve goats, kids and all;
and in two years after, they amounted to forty-three,
besides what I had taken and killed for my sustenance.
After which I inclosed five several pieces of ground
to seed them in, with pens to drive them into, that I
might take them as I had occasion.
In this project I likewise found additional blessings;
for I not only had plenty of goat's flesh, but milk
too, which, in my beginning, I did not so much as
think of. And, indeed, though I never had milked
a cow, much less a goat, or seen butter or cheese
made, yet, after some essays and miscarriages, I made
me both, and never afterwards wanted.
How mercisully can the orrjnipotcnt Power com-
• D 2 fort
fort his creatures, even in the midst of their greatest
calamities? How can he sweeten the bitterest provi-
dences, and give us reason to magnify him in dun-
geons and prisons; What a bounteous table was
Jiere spread in a wilderness for me, where I expected
nothing at sirst bus to perish for hunger?
Certainly a Stoic would have smiled to have seen
at dinner. There sat my royal majesty, an abso-
lute prince and ruler of my kingdom, attended by
fXiy dutisul subjects, whom, if I pleased, I could either
J-»ang> draw, quarter, give them liberty, or take it
^ vvay. When I dined, I seemed a king, eating alone,
fionc daring to presume to do so till I had done.
foW* as if he had been my principal court savourite,
^as the only person permitted to talk with me. My
^ld, hut saithsul dog, now grown exceeding crazy,
^pd who had found no species to multiply his kind
-^poni continually sat on my right hand; while my
tvvo cats sat on each side of the table, expecting a
-frit from nay hand, as a principal mark of my royal
-favour. These were not the cats I had brought
.^rr0m the ship; they had been dead long before, and
^ nterred near my habitation by mine own hand. But
^>ne o^ them, as I suppose, generating with a wild
^a.t, a couple of their young I had made tame; the
.i-eft run mt0 woods, and in time grew so
-rripudent as to return and plunder me of my stores,
^ilJ such time as I shot a great many, and the rest
test me without troubling me anymore. In this
plentiful manner did I live, wanting for nothing but
*^oJ1versation. One thing indeed concerned me, the
^jit of my boat; I knew not which way to get her
oUnd the island. One time I resolved to go along
1y^e shore by land to her; but had any one in Eng-
j,iid met such a figure, it would either have affright-
1 & them, or made them burst into laughter; nay, I
could not but smile myself at my habit, which I
think in this place will be very proper to describe.
^I'hf: cap I wore upon any head, was great, high,
and
and shapeless, made of a goat's (kin, with a flap or
pent-house hanging down behind, not only to keep
the sun from me, but to shoot the rain osf from run-
ning into my neck, nothing being more pernicious
than the rain salling upon the flesh in these climates.
I had a short jacket of goat's skin, whose hair hung
dawn such a length on each side, that it reached
down to the calves of my legs. As for shoes and
stockings, I had none, but made a resemblance of
something, I know not what to call them; they
were made like buskins, and laced on the sides like
spatterdashes, barbarously shaped like the rest of my
habit. 1 had a broad belt of goat's skin dried, girt
round me with a couple of thongs, instead of buckles;
on each of which, to supply the deficiency of sword
and dagger, hung my hatchet and saw. I had ano-
ther belt, not so broad, yet sastened in the same man-
ner, which hung over my shoulder, and at the end
of it, under my left arm, hung two pouches, made
also of goats skin, to hold my powder and shot. My
basket I carried on my back, and my gun on my
shoulder; and over my head a great clumsy ugly
goat skin umbrella, which, however, next to my gun,
was the most necessary thing about me. As for shy.
sace, the colour was not so swarthy as the Mulattoes,
.or as might have been expected from one who took
so little care of it, in a climate within nine or ten
degrees of the Equinox. At one time my beard
grew so long that it hung down above a quarter of a
yard; but as I had both razors and scissars in store,
I cut it all off, and suffered none to grow, except a
large pair of Mahometan whiskers, .the like of which
I had seen worn by some Turks at Sallee, not long
enough indeed to hang a hat upon, but of such a
monstrous size, . as would have amazed any in Eng-
land to have seen.
But all this was of no consequence here, there be-
ing none to observe my behaviour or habit. And so,
without sear and without controul, I proceeded on
D 3 my
my journey, the prosecution of which took me np
f\ve or six days. I first travelled along the sea shore,
directly to the place where I first brought my
l>oat to an anchor, to get upon the rocks; but
leaving now no boat to take care of, I went overland
at .nearer way to the same height that I was before
vi pon ; when looking forward to the point of the rock,
•w'hrch lay out, and which I was forced to double
,with my boat, I was amazed to see the sea so smooth
an<i quiet, there being no ripling motion, nor cur-
rent, any more than in other places. This made me
ponder some time to guess the reason of it, when at
Jast 1 was convinced, that the ebb setting from the
tvest and joining with the current of water from some
arreat river on more, must be the occasion of these
rapid streams; and that, consequently, as the winds
blew more westwardly, or more southwardly, so the
current came the nearer, or went the farther from
shore. To satisfy my curiosity, I waited there till
evening, when the time of ebb being made, I plainly
perceived from the rock the current again as before,
.vs'iih this disference, that it ran sarther off., near half
a league from the shore; whereas, in my expedition,
•yX. set close upon it, suriously hurrying me and my
cp,noe along with it, which at another time it would
pot have done. And now I was convinced, that, by
0bserving the ebbing and flowing of the tide, I might
easily bring my boat round the island again. But
^•Jien I be^an to think of putting it in practice, the
reniembrance of the late danger struck me with such
fiorvor, that I changed my resolution, and formed a-
ijother, which was more sase, though more laborious;
ar.d tsliS was to make another canoe, and so have one
f0r one side of the island, and one for the orher.'
X had now two plantations in the island; the sirst
little fortification, foit, or castle, with many
la., ge and spaciou improvements: for by this time I
/h'-J enlarged the cave behind me with sovc:al little
eaves,
caves, one within another, to hold my baskets, corn,
and straw. The piles with which I made my wall
were grown so lofty and great as obscured my habita-
tion. And near this commodious and pleasant set-
tlement, lay my well cultivated and improved corn
fields, which kindly yielded me their fruit in the pro-
per season. My second plantation was that near my
country-seat, or little bower, where my grapes
flourished, and where, having planted many stakes, I
made inclosures for my goats, so strongly fortified by
labour and time, that it was much stronger than a
wall, and consequently impoffible^for them to break
through. As for my bower itfeffy I kept it con-
stantly in repair, and cut the trees in such a man-
ner, as made them grow thick and wild, and form
a most delightsul" shade. In the centre of this
stood my tent, thus erected. I had driven four
piles in the ground, spreading over it a piece .of
the ship's sail: beneath which I made me a sort
of a couch with the skins of the creatures I had
slain, and other things; and having laid thereon one
-of the sailor's blankets, which I had saved from the
wreck of the ship, and covering myself with a great
•watch coat, I took up this place for my country re-
treat.
Very frequently from this settlement did I use to
visit my boat, and kept her in very good order. And
.sometimes I would venture in her a cast or two from
, shore, but no sarther, lest either a strong current, a
sudden stotmy wind, or some unlucky accident, should
hurry me from the island as before. But now I en-
treat your attention, whilst I proceed to inform you
of a new, but most surprising scene of lise which
here besel me.
You may easily suppose, that; after having been
here so long, nothing could be more amazing than
to see a human creature. One day it happened, that,
going to my boat, I saw the print of a man's naked
D 4 foot
foot on the shore, very evident on the sand, as the
toes, heels, and every part of it. Had I seen an ap-
parition in the most frightsul shape, I could not have
been more confounded. My willing ears gave the
strictest attention. I cast my eyes around, but could
satisfy neither the one or the other. I proceeded al-
ternately to every part of the shore, but with equal
effect; neither could I see any other mark, though the
sand about it was as susceptible to take impression, as
that which was so plainly stamped. Thus, struck with
consusion and horror, I returned to my habitation,
frightened at every bum and tree, taking every thing
for men; and polsefled with the wildest ideas! That
night my eyes never closed. I formed nothing but the
gxioft dismal imaginations, concluding it must be the
$nark of the devil's foot which I had seen. For o-
therwise how could any mortal come to this island?
^here' was the ship that transported them? and what
signs of any other footsteps? though these seemed
.very strong reasons for such a supposition, yet (thought
j ) why should the devil make the print of his foot
to no purpose, as I can see, when he might have ta-
icen other ways to have terrified me? why should hs
jeave his mark on the other side of the island, and
that too on the sand, where the surging Waves of the
ocean might soon have erased the impression. Surely
ifris action is not consistent with the fubtility of
£}atan, said I to myself; but rather must be some
^jgmgerous creature, some wild savage of the main
,-iiid over against me, that, venturing toe sar in the
cCean, has been driven here, either by the violent
clJrrents or contrary winds; and riot caring to stay
ori this desolate island, has gone back to sea again.
Happy indeed, thought I to myself, that none of
j,e savages had seen me in that place: yet I was not
j together without sear, lest, having found my boat,
tj,ey should return in numbers and devour me, or at
least cair7 away all my corn, and destroy my flock
f tame goats. In a word, all my religious hopes
vanished,
vanished, as though I thought God would not now
protect me by his power, who had so wondersully
preserved me so long.
What various chains of Providence are there in the
lise of man? How changeable are our affections, ac-
cording to different circumstances? We love to-day,
what we hate to-morrow; we shun one hour, what
we seek the next. This was evident in me in the
most, conspicuous manner: For I, who before had so
much lamented my condition, in being banished from
all human-kind, was now even ready to expire, when
I considered that a man had set his foot on this deso-
late island. But, when I considered my station of lise,
decreed by the infinitely wise and good providence of
God, that I ought not to dispute my Creator's sove-
reignty, who had an undoubted right to govern and
dispose of his creatures as he thinks convenient; and1
that his justice and mercy could either punish or de-
liver me: I say, when I considered all this, I com-
fortably found it my duty to trust sincerely in him,
pray ardently to him, and humbly jesign myself tct
has divine will.
One morning, lying on my bed, these words of the
sacred writings came again into my mind, Call upon
me in the day of trouble, and I will deliver thee, and
4hou Jhalt glorify me. Upon this sentence, rising more
cheersully from my bed, I offered up my prayers in
the most heavenly manner: and, when I had done,
taking up my Bible to read, these words appeared
first in my sight: Wait on the Lord, and be of good
cheer, and he jhallstrengthen thy heart: Wait, I Jay, on
the Lord. Such divine comfort did this give me, as
.to remove all cause of sadness upon that occasion.
Thus, after a world of apprehensions and/ears, for
three days and nights,' I at last ventured out of my
castle, and milked my goats, one of which was almost
.spoiled for want of it. I next (though in great sear)
^visited my bower, and milked my flocks there also
<when, growing bolder, I went down to the shore a-
D J gain.
gain, and measuring the print of the foot to mine, to
fee perhaps whether I myself had not occasioned that
yria.fc, I found it much superior in largeness; and so
returned home, now absolutely convinced, that either
some men had been ashore, or that the island must
t>e inhabited; and theiefore that I might be surprised
before I was aware.
I now began to think of providing for my security,
gind revolved in my mind many different schemes for
that purpose. I first proposed to cut down my inclo-
sures, and turn my tame cattle wild into the woods,
that the enemy might not find them, and frequent the
island in hopes of killing the same. Secondly., I was
for digging up my corn fields for the very same reason,
•/Vnd, lastly, I concluded to demolish my bower, lest,
feeing a place ofhuman contrivance, they mightcome
farther, and find out and attack me in my little castle.
Such notions did the sear of danger suggest to me;
guid I looked, I thought, like the unfortunate king
fjaul, when not only oppressed by the Philistines, but
jilso forsaken by God himself. And, it is strange,- that
a little before, having entirely resigned myself to the
5574] 1 of God, I should now have little considence in
him? searing those more who could kiJl this sading
Jiody, than he who could .destroy my immortal foul.
Sleep was an utter stranger to niy'eyes that night.;
yet .nature, spent and tired, submitted to a silent re-
dpole the .next morning. And then, joining reason
^ith my sear, :f "considered, that this delightsul and
^pleasant island might not.be so.entirely forsaken asl
yuight think; but that .the inhabitants from the o-
her shore might saij, either .with design, or fromne-
^effity, by cross winds.; and, if the latter circum-
stance, I had reason" to believe they would depart the
fixR opportunity,. However, my sear made me think
a place for retreat upon an attack. I now repent-
ed that I had made my door to come out beyond my
^fortification j to .remedy which, I resolved to make
sine:-a-second «ne: I sell to work, therefore^ and drove
ietwix*
betwixt that double row of trees, which I planted a-
bout twelve years before, several strong piles, thick-
ening it with pieces of timber and old cables, and
strengthening the foot of it with earth which I
dug out of my cave; I also made me seven holes,
wherein I planted my muskets like cannon, sitting
them into frames resembling carriages. This being
finished with indesatigable industry, for a great way
every where, I planted sticks of osier like a wood, a-
bout twenty thousand of them, leaving a large space
between them and my wall, that I might have room
to see an enemy, and that they might not be sheltered
among the young trees, if they offered~to approach
the outer wall. And, indeed, scarce two years had
passed over my head, when there appeared a lovely
shady grove, and in six years it became a thick wood
persectly impassible. For my sasety I left no avenue
to go in or out; instead of which I set.two ladders,
one to a part of the rock which was tow, and then
broke in, leaving room to place another ladder upon
that; so that when I took-those down, it was impos-
"lible for any man to descend' without hurting himself;
and if they had, they would still be at the outside of
my outer wall. But while I took all these measures
»f human prudence for rrry-own preservation, I was
not altogether unmindsul of other affairs. To .pre-
serve my'stock of .tame goats, that the enemy should
not take all at once, I looked out for the most retired
part of the island, which was the place where I had
iost myself before mentioned, and there finding a clear
piece of land, containing three acres, surrounded
with thick woods, I wrought so hard, that,.in less
than a month's time, I senced it so well round, that
tny flocks were very well secured in it,-and I put
therein two he-goats and ten she ones.
All this labour.was occasioned purely hy searful
. apprehensions, on account of seeing rthe print of a -
man's foot. And not contented yet with what I
.had done, I searched.for another place towards the
JD.6 west
,vvest point of the island, where I might also retain
another flock. Then wandering on this errand more
to the west of the island than ever I had yet done,
and casting my eyes towards the sea, methought. I
perceived a boat at a great distance; but could not
possibly tell what it was for want of my perspective
glass. I considered then it was no strange thing to see
the print of a man's foot; and, concluding them can-
nibals, blested God for my being cast on the other side
io( the island, where none of the savages, as I thought,
«ver came. But when I came down the hill to the
shore, which was the S. W. point of the island, I was
soon confirmed in my opinion; nor can any one de-
scribe my horror and amazement, when I saw the
ground spread with sculls, hands, seet, and bones of
human bodies; and particularly, I perceived a space
1'tke a circle, in the midst of which had been a fire,
.about which I conjectured these wretches sat, and
unnaturally sacrificed and devoured" their sellow
creatures.
The horror and loathsomeness of this dreadsul spec-
tacle, both confounded my senses, and made medif-
.charge from my stomach in ah excessive manner. I
then returnedtowards my habitation; and, in my way
thither, sledding floods of tears, and salling down on
iiny bended knees, gave God thanks for making my
^ature contrary to these wretches, and delivering
jjie so long out of their hands.
Though reason and my long residence here had air
^iired me, that these savages never came up to the
4hick woody parts of the country, and that I had no
--eason to be apprehensive of a discovery; yet such an
. . .» /I'll . ' • . 1 r . *\Ci.or
-abhorrence did I still 'retain, that, for two years after,
J confined myself only to my three plantations; I
^iiean my castle, country seat, and inclosure in the
..atfoods. And though, in process of time, my dread-
£u\ apprehensions began to wear away, yet my eyes •
^vere more vigilant for sear of heing surprised, and I
~y.as very cautious of siring my gun, lest, being heard (
by
by those creatures, they should proceed to attack me.
I resolved, however, mansully to lose my lise if they
.did, and went armed with three pistols stuck in my
girdle; which, added to the description I have given
of myself before, made me look with a very formida-
ble appearance.
Thus my circumstances for some time remained
very calm and undisturbed; and when I compared
my condition to others, I found it sar from being
miserable. And, indeed, would all persons compare
their circumstances, not with those above them, but
with those innumerable unhappy objects beneath them,
I am sure we should not hear those daily murmurings
and complainings that are in the world. For my
part, I wanted but sew things. Indeed, the terror
'which the savages had put me in, spoiled some in-
ventions for my own conveniencies. One of my
projects was to brew me some beer; a very whimsi-
cal one indeed, when it is considered, that I had nei-
ther casks sufficient, nor could I make any to pre-
serve it in i neither* had I hops to make it keep, yest
.to make it work, nor a copper or kettle to make it
•boil. Perhaps, indeed, after some years, I might
bring this to bear, as I had done other things. But
jiow my inventions were placed another way; and
day and night I could think of nothing but how I
might destroy some of these cannibals, when pro-
ceeding to their bloedy entertainments; and so sav-
ing a victim from being sacrificed, that he might
after become my servant. Many were my contri-
vances for this purpose, and as many more objections
•occurred, after I hatched them. I once contrived to
«lig a hole under the place where they made their
fire, and put therein five or six pounds of gun.r
powder, which would,consequently blow up all those
that were near it; but then I was loth to spend se
onuch upon them, lest it should not do that certain
,execution I could defire, and but only affright, and
•»ot ki\\ them. JHavingiaid this design, aside, I again
proposed
proposed to myself to lie privately in ambush, in
some convenient place, with my three guns double
Joaded, and let fly at them in the midst of their
dreadsul ceremony; and having killed two or three
of them at every shot, sall upon the rest suddenly
.vvith my three pistols, and not let one mother's son
escape. This imagination pleased my sancy so much
that I used to dream of it in the night time. To put
ixiy design in execution, I was not long seeking fora
place very convenient for my purpose, where unseen
I might behold every action of the savages. Here I
placed my two muskets, each of which was loaded
vvith a brace of slugs, and four or five smaller bul-
lets about the size of pistol .bullets; the fowling-
piece was charged with near a handful of the largest
fwan shot; and in every pistol were about four bul-
lets. And thus all things being prepared, no sooner
vvould the welcome light spread over the element,
ItUt, like a giant rejrejhed with wine, as the scripture
jias it, would I istue forth from my castle, and from
3 lofty hill, three miles distant, view if I could see
any invaders approach unlawsully to my kingdom.
Jjut having waited in vain two or three months, it
riot only grew very tiresome to me, but brought me
into some consideration, and made me examine my-
self, what right I had to kill these creatures in this
r fanner.
If (argued I • to myself) this unnatural custom of
theirs be a fin offensive to heaven, it belongs to the
i vine 'Being, who alone has the vindictive power in
jiis hands, to shower down his vengeance upon
^jieffl. And perhaps he does so, in making them be-
c0rn€ one another's executioners. Or, if not, if
^Jod thinks these doings just, accordingto the know-
ledge they conceive, what authority have I to pretend
XO thwart the decrees of '.Providence, which has per-
mitted these actions for. so many ages, perhaps front
^jrnost the beginning -of the creation f They
gieve* offended me; what-right have I then to con- •
. xern
tern myself in their shedding one another's blood?
And, indeed, I have since known, they value no
more to kill and devour a captive taken in war, than
we do to kill an ox, or eat mutton. I then conclud-
ed, it necessarily followed, that these people were no
more murderers than Christians, who many times put
whole troops to the sword, after throwing down their
arms. Again I considered, that if I sell upon them,
I should be as- much in the wrong as the Spaniards,.
who had committed the greatest barbarities upon these
people who never had offended them in their whole
lives; as if the kingdom of Spain was eminent for
a race of men without common compassion to the
miserable, a principal sign of the most generous tem-
per. These considerations made me pause, and
brought me to think I had taken wrong measures in.
my resolution; I now argued with myself, that it
was better for me never to attack, but to remain un-
discovered as long as possibly I could; that an op-
posite conduct would certainly prove destructive ; for
as it was scarcely to be .supposed I could kill them
all, I might either be overpowered by the remaining,
or that some escaping, might bring thousands to my
certain destruction. And, indeed, religion took their
part so much as to convince me how contrary it was
to my duty to be guilty of shedding human blood,
innocent.as to my particular, whatever they are to
one another.; .that I had nothing.to do with it, but
leave it to the God of all power and dominion, as I
soid before, .to do therein what seemed convenient to
his heavenly.wisdom. And, therefore, on my knees
I thaokedthe Almighty fordeliveringme from blood-
guiltiness, and begged his protection that I might ne-
ver sall into their hands.
Thus giving over .an attempt which I had rasiily
begun, I never ascended the hill on that occasion,
afterwards; I only removed my boat, which lay on
the other side, of the island, .and every thing that be~
imged to her, towards the east, into a little cove,
.that
that there might not be the least shaddow of discovery
of any boat near, or^habitation upon the island. My
castle then became my cell, keeping always retired
in it, except when I went out to milk my she-goats,
and order my little flock in the wood, which was quite
out of danger; for sure I was, that these savages
jiever came here with expectations to find any thing,
and consequently never wandered from the coast; how-
ever, as tjiey might have several times been on shore,
as well before as after my dreadsul apprehensions, I
looked back with horror to think in what state I
xnight have been, had I suddenly met them slenderly
armed, with one gun only loaded with small sliot;
and how great would have been my amazement, if,
instead of seeing the print of one man's foot, I had
perceived fifteen or twenty savages, who, having
once set their eyes upon me, by the swiftness of their
.feet, would have left me no possibility of escaping?
'These thoughts would fink my very foul, so that I
-^v.ould fall into a deep melancholy, till such time as
the consideration of my gratitude to the divine JBe-
jpg moved it from my heart- J then sell into a con-
templation of the sacred springs of Providence; and
-how wondersully we are delivered, when insensible
of it; and when intricated in uncertain mazes or
labyrinths of doubt or hesitation, what secret hint
Jirects us in the right way, when we intended to
go out of it; nay, perhaps, contrary to our busi-
ness, sense, or inclination.. Upon which, I fixed
^ithin me this as a certain rule, never to disobey
those secret impressidnsof mind, to the acting or not
acting any thing that offered, for which I yet could
assign no reason. But let it be how it will, the ad-
vantage of this conduct very eminently appeared in
the latter part of my abode on this island; I am a
As anger in determining whence these secret intima-
tions of Providence derive; yet methinks they are
«ot only some proof of the converse of spirits, but
oil'*
also os the secret communications they are supposed
to have with those that have not palled through the
gloomy vale of death.
- These anxieties of mind, and the care of my pre-
servation, put a period to all suture inventions and
contrivances, either for accommodation or conveni-
ence. I now cared not to drive a nail, chop a stick,
fire a gun, or make a fire, lest either tha noise should
be heard, or the smoke discover me. And on this
account I used to burn my earthen ware privately in
a cave which, I found in the wood, and which I made
convenient for that purpose; the principal cause that
brought me here was to make charcoal, so that I
might bake and dress my bread and meat without .
any danger. At that time a curious accident hap-
pened me, which I shall now relate.
While I was cutting down some wood for making
my charcoal, I perceived a cavity behind a very thick
branch of underwoqd. Curious to look into it, I
attained its mouth, and perceived it sufficient for me
to stand upright in. But when I had entered, and
took a surther view, two rolling shining eyes, like
flaming stars, seemed to dart themselves at me; so
that I made all the haste out that I could, as not
knowing whether it was the devil or a monster that
had taken his residence in that place. When I re-
covered a little from my surprise, I called myself a
thousand fools, for being afraid to see the devil one
moment, who had now almost lived twenty years in
the most retired solitude. And therefore resuming
all the courage I bad, I took up a flaming firebrand,
and in I rushed again. I had not proceeded above
three steps, when I was more asfrighted than before;
for then I heard a very loud sigh, like that of a hu-
man creature in the greatest agony, succeeded with
a broken noise, resembling words half expressed, and
then a broken sigh again. Stepping back, Lord!
(thought I to myself), where am I got? into what
iuchanted place have, I plunged myself, such as are
reported
reported to contain miserable captives, till death puts
an end to their sorrow? And, indeed, in such great
amazement was I, that it struck me into a'cold
sweat; and had my hat been on my head, I believe
my hair would have moved it off. But again en-
couraging myself with the hopes of God's protection,
[ proceeded forward, and, by the light of my fire-
brand, perceived it to be a monstrous he-goat, ly-
ing on the ground, gasping for lise, and dying of
mere old age. At first I stirred him, thinking to
drive him out, and the poor antient creature strove to
get upon his seet, but was not able; so I e'en let him
lie still, to affright the savages should they venture
into this cave. I now looked round me, and founds
the place but small and shapeless, At the sarther
side of it I perceived a sort of an entrance, yet so low,
as must oblige me to creep upon my hands and knees
to rt; so, having no candle, I suspended my enter-
prise till the next day, and then I came provided
ivith two large ones of my own making.
Having crept upon my hands and seet through this
strait, I found the roof higher up, I think about 20
feet. But surely never mortal saw such a glorious
fight before! the roof and walls of this cave reflect-
ed a hundred thousand lights to me srom my two
-andles, as though they were indented with shining
gold, precious stones, or sparkling diamonds. And
ndeed it was the most delightsul cavity or grotto of
-ts kind that could be defired, though entirely dark,
she floor was dry and level, and had a kind of gra-
vel upon it; no nauseous venomous creatures to be
een there, neither any damp or wet about it. I
;ould find no sault but in the entrance, and I began
o think that even this might be very necessary for
PV desence, and therefore resolved to make it my
nost principal magazine. I brought hither two
bwling pieces and three muskets, leaving only five
,ieces' at my castle, planted in the nature of cannon.
n a barrel of gun-powder, which I took up out of
the sea, I brought away about sixty pounds of good
powder, which was not damaged; and this, with
a great quantity of lead for bullets, I removed from
my castle to this retreat, now fortified both by art
and nature.
I sancied myself now like one of the giants of old,
who were said to live in caves and holes among the
rocks, inaccessible to any but themselves, or, at least,
most dangerous to attempt. And now I despised
both the cunning and strength of the savages, either
to find me out or to hurt me.
But I must not forget the old goat, who caused
my late dreadsul amazement. The poor creature
gave up the ghost the day after my discovery; and
it being very difficult to drag him out, I dug his
grave, and honourably intombed him in the same
place where he departed, with as much ceremony as
any Welch-goat that has been interred about the
high mountain Penmenmawr.
I think I was now in the twenty-third year of my
reign, and my thoughts much easier than formerly,
having contrived several pretty amusements and di-
versions to pass away the time in a pleasant manner.
By this time my pretty Poll had learned to speak
English, and pronounce his words very articulately
and plain; so that for many hours we used to chat
together after a very samiliar manner^ and he lived
with me no less than twenty-six years. My dog,
who was nineteen years old', sixteen of which he
lived with aie, died sometime ago of mere old age.
As for my cats, they multiplied so sast, that I was
forced to kill or drive them into the woods, except
two or three, which became my particular savourites.
Besides these, I continually kept two or three house-
hold kids about me, whom I did learn to seed out of
my hand, and two more parrots who could talk in-
differently, and call Robinson Crusoe, but not so ex-
cellently as the first, as not taking that pains with
them. I had also leveraj sea fowls which I had
wounded
wounded and cut their wings; and growing tame,
they used to breed among the low trees about my
castle-walls? all which made my abode verv agree-
able. 3 1 a
But what unforscen events suddenly destroy the
enjoyments of this uncertain state of lise, when we
least expect them! It was now the month of Decem-
ber, in the southern solstice, and particular time of
my harvest, which required my attendance in the
fields; wheri going out pretty early one morning,
before it was day-light, there appeared to me, from
the sea-shore, a flaming light, about two miles from
me, at the east end of the island, where I had ob-
lerved some savages had been before, not on the other
side, but to my great affliction it was on my side of
the island.
Struck with a terrible surprise, and my usual ap-
prehensions, that the savages would perceive my im-
provements, I returned directly to my castle, pulled
up the ladder after me, making all things look as
wild and natural as possibly I could. In the next
place, I put myself in a posture of desence, loading
rny muskets and pistols, and committing myself to
God's protection, I resolved to desend myself till my
last breath. Two hours after, impatient for intelli-
gence, I set niy ladder up to the side of the hill,
where there was a flat place, and then pulling the
ladder after me, ascended to the top, where laying my- f
self on my belly, with my perspective glass, 1 per-
ceived no less. than nine naked savages, sitting round
a small fire, eating, as I supposed, human flesh, with
their two canoes haled on shore, waiting for the
flood to carry them oft"again. You cannot easily ex-
press the consternation I was in at this sight, especial-
ly seeing them near me; but when I perceived their
coming must be always with the current of the ebb,
J became more easy in my thoughts, being verv sully
.convinced, that I might go abroad with security all
the time of stood, if they were not before landed.
And, indeed, this proved just as I imagined; for no
sooner did they all take boat and paddle away, but
the tide made N. W. Before they went off, they
danced, making ridiculous postures, and gestures, for
above an hour, all stark naked; but whether men or
women, or both, I could not perceive. When I saw
them gone, I took two guns upon my moulders, and
placing a couple of pistols in my belt, with my
great sword hanging by my side, I went to the hill,
where at first I made a discovery of these cannibals,
and then saw there had been three canoes more of
the savages on shore at that place, which, with the
rest, were making over to the main land.
But nothing could be more horrid to me, when
going to the place of sacrifice, the blood, the bones,
and other mangled parts of human bodies appeared
in my sight: and so fired was I with indignation, that
I was sully resolved to be revenged on the first that
came there, though I lost my lise in the execution.
It then appeared to me, that the visits which they
make to this island are not very frequent, it being
fifteen months before they came again: but still I
was very uneasy, by reason of the dismal apprehen- ,
sions I had of their surprizing me unawares; nor
dared I offer ta fire a gun on that side of the island
where they used to appear, lest, taking the alarm,
the savages might return with many hundred canoes,
and then God knows in what manner I should have
made my end; Thus was I a year or more before I
saw any of these devouring cannibals again.
But to wave this, the following accident, which
demands attention, for a while, eluded the force, of
my thoughts in revenging myself on those Heathens.
On the 16th of May (according to my wooden ca-
lendar) the wind blew exceeding hard, accompanied
with abundance of lightening and thunder all day,
and succeeded by a very stormy night, The seeming
anger of the heavens made me have recourse to my
Bible. Whilst I was seriously pondering upon it, s
was
was suddenly alarmed with the noise of a gun, which
I conjectured was fired upon the ocean. Such an
unusual surprize made me start up in a minute, when,
with my ladder ascending the mountain as before,
that very moment a flash of fire presaged the report
of another gun, which I presently heard, and found
it was from that part of the sea Where the current
drove me away. I could not but then think, that
this must be a ship in distress, and that these were
the melancholy signals for a speedy deliverance.
Great, indeed, was my sorrow upon this occasion;
but my labours to assist them must have proved alto-
gether vain and fruitless. However, I brought to-
gether all the dry wood that was at hand, and making
- a pretty large pile, set it on fire on the hill. I was
certain they plainly perceived it, by their firing ano-
ther gun as soon as it began to blaze, and after that
several more from the same quarter. All night long
I kept up my fire: and when the air cleared up, I
perceived something a great way at sea, directly E.
but could not distinguish what it was, even with my
glass, by reason the weather was so very foggy out
at sea. However, i -eping my eyes directly fixed
upon it, and perceiving it did not stir, I presently
concluded it must be a ship at anchor, and so very
hasty I was to be satisfied, that, taking .my gun, I
went to the S. E. part of the island, to the same
rocks where I had been formerly drove away by the
current; in which time the weather being persectly
cleared up, to my great sorrow, I perceived the wreck
of a ship cast away upon those hidden rocks I found
when I was out with my boat; and which, by
making a kind of an eddy, were the occasion of my
preservation.
Thus, what is one man's sasety, is another's ruin;
for undoubtedly this ship had been driven on them
in the night, the wind blowing strong at E. N. E.
Had they perceived the island, as I now guessed they
had not, certainly, instead of having.fired their guns
for
for help, they would rather have ventured in thek>.
boat, and saved themselves that way. I then thought,
that perhaps they had done so, upon seeing my fire,
and were cast away in the attempt; for I perceived
no boat in the ship. But then I again imagined,
that, perhaps, they had another veflel in company,
which, upon signal, saved their lives, and took the
. boat up: or that the boat might be driven into the
main ocean, where these poor creatures might be in
the most miserable condition. But as all these con-
jectures were very uncertain, I could do no more
than commiserate their distress, and thank. God for
delivering me, in particular, when so many perished
in the raging ocean.
When I considered seriously every thing concern-
ing this wreck, and could perceive no room to sup-
pose any of them saved, I cannot explain, by any
possible force of words, what longings my soul selt
on this occasion, often breaking out in this manner;
O that there had been but two or three, nay even
one person saved, that we might have lived together,
conversed with, and comforted one another! And,
so much were my desires moved, that when I repeat-
ed these words, " Oh ! that there had been but one!"
my hands would so clepch together, and my fingers
press the palms of my hands so close, that, had any
soft thing been between, it would have crushed it
involuntarily while my teeth would strike together,
and set against each other so strong, that it required
some lime for me to part them.
Till the last year of my being on this island, I ne-
ver knew whether or not any had been saved out of
this ship. I had the affliction, some time after, to-
see the corpse of a drowned boy come on shore, at the
end of the island which was next the shipwreck;
there was nothing on him but a seaman's waistcoat,
a pair of open-kneed linen drawers, and a blue linen
shirt; but no particular mark to guess what nation
he was of. In his pocket were two pieces of eight,
and a tobacco pipe, the last of which I preserred
much more than I did the first. And now the calm-
ness of the sea tempted me to venture out in my boat
to this wreck, not only to get something necessary
out of the ship, but, perhaps, some living creature
might be on board, whose lise I might preserve.
This had such an influence upon my mind, that im-
mediately I went home, and prepared every thing
necessary for the voyage, carrying on board my boat
provisions of all forts, with a good quantity of rum,
fresh water, and a compass: so putting off, I paddled
the canoe along the strore, till I came at last to the
north-east part of the island, from whence I was to
launch into the ocean; but here the currents ran so
violently, and appeared so terrible, that my heart
began to sail me; foreseeing, that if I was driven
into any of these currents, I might be carried not on-
ly out of the reach or sight of the island, but even
inevitably lost in the boiling surges of the ocean.
So oppressed was I at these troubles, that I gave
over my enterprise, sailing to a little creek on the
shore, where, stepping out, I sat me down on a rising
JiilJ, very pensive and thoughtsul. I then perceived
that the tide was turned, and the flood came on,
which made it impracticable for me to go out for
{o many hours. To be more certain how the sets
cf the tides ot currents lay when the flood came in,
J ascended a higher piece of ground, which overlook-
ed the sea both ways; and Here I found, that as the
current of the ebb set out close by the south point of
the island, so the current of the flood set in close by
tne shore of the north side; and all that I had to do,
yf/zs to keep to the north of the island in my return.
That night I reposed myself in my canoe, covered
With my watch coat instead of a blanket, the heavens
t,eing my tester. I set out 'with the first of the tide
fuW north, till I selt the benesit of the current, which
carried me at a great rate eastward, yet not with
such impetuosity as before, as to take from me all
govern-
government of my canoe; so that in two hours time
I came up to the wreck, which appeared to me a
most melancholy sight. It seemed to be a Spanish
vessel by its building, stuck sast between two rocks;
her stern and quarter beaten to pieces by the sea; her
main-mast and fore-mast were brought off by the
board; that is broken short off. As I approached
nearer, I perceived a Dog on board, who, seeing me
coming, yelped and cried; and no sooner did I call
him, but the poor creature jumped into the sea, out
of which I took him up, almost samished with hun-
ger and thirst; so that when I gave him a cake of
bread, no ravenous wolf could devour it more greedi-
ly: and he drank to that degree of fresh water, that
he would have burst himself, had I suffered him.
The sirst sight I met with in the ship, were two
men drowned in the cook-room or forecastle, in-
closed in one another's arms: hence I very probably
supposed, that when the vessel struck in the storm,
so high and incessantly did the waters break in and
over her, that the men, not being able to bear it,
were strangled by the constant rushing in of the
waves. There were several casks of liquor, whether
wine or brandy I could not be positive, which lay in
the lower hold, as were plainly -perceptible by the
ebbing out of the water, yet were too large for me to
pretend to meddle with: likewise I perceived several
chests, which I supposed to belong to the seamen,
two of which I got into my boat, without examin-
ing what was in them. Had the stern of the ship
been fixed, and the fore part broken off, I should
have made a very prosperous voyage; since, by what
I after found in these two chests, i could not other-
wise conclude, but that the ship must have abundance
of wealth on board; nay, if I must guess by the
course she steered, she must have been bound from
the Buenos Ayres, or the Rio de la Plata, in the
southern part of America, beyond the Brazils, to the
Havannah, in the gulph of Mexico and so perhaps to
'- ,' E Spain.
Spain. What became of the rest of her sailors, I
could not certainly tell; and all her riches signified
nothing at that time to any body.
Searching sarther, I found a cask, containing a-
foout twenty gallons, sull of liquor, which, with
some labour, I got into my boat; in a cabin were
several muskets, which I let remain there; but took
away with me a great powder horn, with about four
pounds of powder in it. I took also a fire shovel and
tongs, two brass kettles, a copper pot to make
chocolate, and a grid-iron; all which were extrerae-
Jy necessary to me, especially the fire shovel and
tongs. And so with this cargo, accompanied with
rny dog, I came away, the tide serving for that pur-
pose; and the same evening, about an hour within
night, I attained the island, after the greatest toil
and satigue imaginable.
That night I reposed my wearied limbs in the
boat, resolving the next morning to harbour what I
J»ad gotten in my new-found subterraneous grotto;
and not carrying my cargoe home to my antient
caftle. Having refreshed myself, and got all my ef-
fects on shore, I next proceeded to examine the par-
ticulars; and so tapping the cask, J found the liquor
to be a kind of a rum, but not-like what we had at
the Brazils, nor indeed near so good. At the open-
- ing of the chest, several things appeared very usesul
to me; for instance, I found in one a. very sine case
of bottles, containing the finest and best forts of
cordial waters; each bottle held about three pints,
curiously tipt with silver. I found also two pots
full-of the choicest sweetmeats, and two more which
the water had utterly spoiled. There were likewise
several good shirts, exceeding welcome to me, and
about one dozen and a half of white linen handker-
chiefs and coloured neckcloths, the former of which
was absolutely necessary for wiping my sace in a hot
<1ay; and, in the till, I found three bags o'f pieces of
eight, about eleven hundred in all, in one of which,
decently
decently wrapt up in a piece of paper, were fix dou-
bloons of gold, and some small bars and wedges of
the same metal, which I believe might weigh near a
pound. In the other chest, which 1 guessed to be-
long to the gunner's mate, by the mean circum-
stances that attended it, I only found some clothes
of very little value, except about two pounds of fine
glazed powd<r, in three flasks, kept, as I believe, for
charging their fowling pieces on any occasion; so
that, on the whole, I had no great advantage by this
voyage. The money was indeed as mere dirt to me,
useless and unprositable, all which I would have
freely parted with for two or three pair of English
shoes and. stockings., things that for many years I
had not worn, except lately those which I had taken
off the seet of those unfortunate men I found drown-
ed in the wreck, yet not so good as English shoes
either for ease or service. I also found in the sea-
man's chest about fifty pieces of eight in royals, but
no gold; so concluded that what I took from the
first belonged td an officer, the latter appearing to
have a much inserior person sor its owner. How-
ever, as despicable as the money seemed, I likewise
Jugged it to my cave, laying it up securely, as I did
the rest of my cargo: and after I had done all this,
I returned back to my boat, rowing or paddling her
along till I came to my old harbour, where I care-
sully laid her up, and so made the best of my way to
Riy castle. When I arrived there, every thing seem-
ed sase and quiet; so that now my only business was
to repose myself after my wonted manner, and take-
care of my domestic affairs. But though I might
have lived very easy, as wanting for nothing absolute-
ly needsul; yet still I was more vigilant than usual
upon account of the savages; never going much a-
broad; or, if I did, it was to the east part of the island,
where I was well assured that the savages never came,
and where I might not be troubled to carry that hea-
vy load of weapons for my desence, asSt was obliged
to do if I went the other way. Two
E 2
Two years did I live in this anxious condition, in
all which time, contrary to my former resolutions,
my head was filled with nothing but projects and de-
signs, how I might escape from this, island; and so
much were my wandering thoughts bent on a ram-.
£>ling disposition, that had I had the same boat that
X went from Sallee in, I should have ventured once
xxiore to the uncertainty of the raging ocean.
I cannot however but consider myself as one of the
unhappy persons, who make themselves wretched
\>y their dissatissaction with the stations which God
i-,as placed them in; for, not to take a review of my
primitive condition, and my sather's excellent ad-
vice (the going contrary to which was, as I may say,
my original stn) the following mistakes of the same
mature certainly h;.d been the means of my present
unhappy station. What business had I to leave a
settled fortune, and well stocked plantation, improv-
irig and increasing, where, by this time, I might
£,ave been worth a hundred thousand moidores, to
tin'11 supercargo to Guinea, to setch negroes, when
time and patience would have so much enlarged my
{{ock at home, as to be able to employ those whole
r^ore immediate business it was to setch them home,
evcti to my own door.i
But as this is commonly the sate of young heads,
f0 a serious reflection upon the folly of it ordinarily
attends the exercise of suture years, when the dear-
bought experience os time teaches us repentance,
^fhus was it with me; but notwithstanding, the
thoughts of my deliverance ran so strongly in my
mind, that it.seemed to check all the dictates of rta-
f0n and philosophy. And now to usher in ray kind
reader with great pleasure to the remaining part of
n-,y relation, I flatter myself it will not be taken a-
iriiss, to give him an account of my first conceptions
cf the manner of escaping, and upon what founda-
tion I laid my foolish ichemes.
Having retired to my castle, after my late voyage
to
/
to the ship, my frigate laid up and secured, as usual,
and my condicion the same as before, except being
richer, though I had as little occasion for riches as
the Indians of Peru had for gold, before the cruel
Spaniards came among them: One night in March,
being the rainy season, in the four and twentieth
year of my solitude, I lay down to sleep, very well in
health, without distemper, pain, or uncommon unea-
siness, either of body or mind; yet notwithstanding,
I could not compose myself to sleep all the night
long. All this tedious while, it is impossible to ex-
press what innumerable thoughts came into mv'head.
I traced quite over the whole history of my lise in
miniature, from my utmost remembrance of things
till I came to this island; and then proceeded to ex-
amine every action and pailage that had occurred
since I had taken possession of my kingdom. In my
reflections upon the latter, I was .comparing the hap-
py posture of my affairs in the beginning of my reign,
to this lise of anxiety, sear, and concern, since I had
dilcovered the print of a foot in the sand; that while
I continued without apprehension, I was incapable
of seeiing the dread and terror 1 now suffered. How
thanksul rather ought I to have been for the know-
ledge of my daiager, since the greatest happiness one
can be possessed of is to have sufficient time to pro-
vide against it? How stupendous is the goodness of
Providence, which si.ts such narrow bounds to the
sight and knowledge of human nature, that while
men walk in the midst of so many dangers they are
kept serene and calm, by having the events of things
hid from their eyes, and knowing noth ng of those
many dangers that surround them, till perhaps they
are dissipated and vanish away.
When I came more particularly to consider of the
real danger I had for so many years escaped; how I
had walked about in the greatest security and tran-
quility, at a time, perhaps, when even nothing but
the brow of a hill, a great tree, or the common ap-
E 3 proach
p roach of night, had interposed between me and the
cl instructive hands of the cannibals, who would devour
iane with as good an appetite, as I would a pigeon or
purlieu; surely all this, I say, could not but make
,-rie sincerely thanksul .to my great Preserver, whose
iingular protection I acknowledged with the greatest
\y umility, and without which I must inevitably have
/alien into the cruel hands of those devourers.
Having thus discussed my thoughts in the clearest
anner3 according to my weak understanding, I next
proceeded to consider the wretched nature of these
destroying savages, by seeming, though with great
^-everence, to enquire, why God should give up any
cyf his creatures to such inhumanity, even to brutali-
«jS LIFE AND ADVENTURES
tJi er matter of obstruse speculation, and as my mi-
.^rable situation made me think this of mine the most
^iricomforable situation in the world, I then began
i-jither to enquire what part of the world these
>vretches lived in; how sar off the coast was from
^lience they came; why they ventured over so far
f'rom home; what kind of boats conveyed them
j^ither: and why I could not order myself and my
foiiiinefe so, that I might be as able to attain their
^0tintry, as they were to come to my kingdom?.
But then, thought I, how shall I manage myself
^lien I corne thither? what will become of me if I
into the hands of the savages? or how shall I
escape from them, if they make an attempt upon me?
^,,0 supposing I sliould not sail into their power,
.^bat shall I do for provision, or which way shall I
foetid my" course! These counter thoughts threw me
-nto tne greatest horror and consusion imaginable;
Lut then I still looked upon my present condition to
foe the most miserable that possibly could be, and that

came to some inhabited country, where I might meet
with some relief, or sall in with some Christian ship
that might take me in; and if I failed, why then I
could but meet with death, which would put an end
to all my miseries. These thoughts, I must consess,
were the fruit of a distempered mind, an impatient
temper made desperate, as it Were, by long continu-
ance of the troubles and disappointments I had met
with in the wreck, where I hoped to have, found
some living person to speak to, b^ whom I might
have known in what place I was, and of the prova-
ble means of my deliverance. Thus, while my
thoughts were agitated, my resignation to the will of
heaven was entirely suspended! so that I had no
power to fix my mind to any thing, but to the pro-
ject of a voyage to the main land. And indeed se
much was I inflamed upon this account, that it set
my blood into a serment, and my pulse beat high, as
though I had been in a sever, till nature being, as it
were, satigued and exhausted with the very thoughts
,of it, made me submit myself to a silent repose.
In such a situation, it is very strange, that I did
riot dream of what I was so intent upon; but, instead
T>fit, my mind roved on a quite different thing, al-
together foreign. I dreamed, that as I was issuing
"from my castle, one morning, as customary, I per-
ceived upbn the shore, two canoes, and eleven sa-
vages, coming to land, who had brought with them
another Indian, whom they designed to make a sacri-
:sice of, in order to devour; but just as they were go-
•ing!togive the satal blow, methought the poor de-
signed victim jumped away, and ran directly into my
•little thick grove before my fortification, to abscond
-from his enemies; when perceiving that the others
'Aid not follow him that way, I appeared to him; that
he humbly kneeled down before me, seeming to pray
for my assistance; upon which I shewed him my
-ladder, made him ascend, carried him to my cave,
and he became my servant; and when I had gotten
£ 4 this
this man, I said to myself, now surely I may have some
hopes to attain the mainland; tor this sellow will
serve me as a pilot, tell me what to do, and where
I must go for provisions; what places to shun,
-what to venture to, and what to escape. But when
I awaked, and found all these inexpressible im-
pressions of joy entirely vanished, I sell into the great-
est dejection of spirit imaginable.
Yet thisd ream brought me to reflect, that one sure
vv»y of escaping was to get a savage; that after I had
ye ntured mylitbto deliver him from the bloody jaws
c,< nis devourers, the natural sense he might have of
such a preservation, might inspire him with a lasting
gratitude and most sincere affection. But then this
objection reasonably interposed: How can I effect
tbJs (thought I) without 1 attack a whole company
<yf them, and kill them all? why should I proceed on
inch a desperate attempt, which my scruples before
frail suggested to be unlawsul? and indeed my heart
trcmbled at the thoughts of so much blood, though it
vvere a means to procure my deliverance. 'Tis true,
J might reasonably enough suppose these men to be
xc\x\ enemies to my lise, men who would devour me,
V/nS it in their power: so that it was sclf-prescrva-
t \ot\ in the highest degree to free myself, by attack-
ing tn-m rn my own desence, as lav/sully as if they
w't re actually assaultingme: though all thele things,
j fay, seemed to me to be of the greatest weight, yet,
aS I just (aid bcfoie, the dreadsul thoughts of shedding
iiUtrtan blood, struck such a terror to my.soul, that it
a long time before I could reconcile myself to it.
But how sar will the ardency of desire prompt us
? For notwithstanding the many disputes and
perplexities I had with myself, I at length resolved,
p-ght or wrong, to get one of these savages into my
j^nds, cost wiTat it would, or even though I mould
j0fe my lise in the attempt. Inspired with this firm
rcsolution, I set all my wits at work, to find out
yyhat methods I should take to answer my design:
this
this, indeed, was so difficult a task, that 1 could not
pitch upon any probable means to execute it: I,
therefore, resolved continually to be in a vigilant
posture, to perceive when the savages came on shore,
and to leave the rest to the event, let the opportuni-
ties offer as they would.
Such were my fixed resolutions; and accordingly
I set myself upon the scout, as often as I could, till
such time as I was heartily tired of it. I waited for
above a year and a half, the greatest part of which
time I went out to the west, and south west corner of
the island, almost every day, to look for canoes; but
none appeared. This was a very great discourage-
ment; yet, though I was very much concerned, the
edge of my design was as keen as ever, and the longer
it seemed to be delayed, the more eager was I for it:
in a word, I never before was so caresul to shun the
loathing sight of these savages, as I was now eager
to be with them: and I thought myself sufficiently
able to manage one, two, or three savages, if 1 had
them, so as to make them my entire slaves, to do what-
soever I should direct them, and prevent their being
able at any time to do me a mischief. Many times
did I use to please myself with these thoughts, with
long and ardent expectations; but nothing present-
ing, all my deep projected schemes, and numerous
sancies, vanished away, as though, while I retained
such thoughts, the decree of Providence was such,
that no savages were to come near me.
About a year and a half after, when I was seriously
musing of sundry other ways how I should attain my
end, one morning early I was very much surprized by
feeing no less than five canoes all on shore together, on
my side the island, and the savages that belonged to
them all landed, and out of my sight. Such a'num-
ber of them disconcerted all my measures; for; s<e-
ing so many boats, each of which would contain six,
and sometimes more, I could not tell what to think
*f it, or how to order my measures to attack twenty
£ 5 .* -'"°r
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
or thirty men single handed: upon which, much dis-
pirited and perplexed, I lay still in my castle; which,
jiowever, I put in a proper posture for an attack;
Sind, having formerly provided all that Was necessary'
^v~as soon ready to enter upon an engagement, should
they attempt it. Having waited for fdrne time, my
impatient temper Would let me bear it no longer; I
set my guns at the foot of my ladder', and, as usual,
^fcen&tA up to the top of the hill at two stages, stand-
ing? however, in such a manner, that my head did
.giot appear above the hill, so that they could not eafi-
jy perceive me: and here, by the a'Aistahce of my
perspective glass, I observed no less than thirty it!
^umber.around a fire, seasting upon What meat they
fja-d dressed: how they cooked it, or what it Was, I
^ould not then persectly tell; but they Were all
dancing and capering about the flames, usihg many
/rightsul ar>d barbarous gestures.
But while, with a curious eye, I was beholding
tfaese wretches, my spirits sunk within m'e, when I
perceived them drag two miserable creatures from
tfie boats, to act afresh the dreadful tragedy, as I sup-
posed they had done before. It was not long before
Cr\e of them sell upon the ground, knocked down, as
X /upose, with a club or wooden sword, for that was
jheir manner; while two or three others went im-
mediately to worki cuttinghim open for their cook-
^ry, and then sell to "devour him as they had done
tbe forrner; while the last unhappy captive was left
j,y himself, till such time as they were ready /or him.
The poor creature looked round him with a wishsul
eye, trembling at the thoughts of death; yet, seeing
Himself a little at liberty, nature, that very moment,
,- it were, inspired him with hopes of lise; He start-
ed away from them, and ran, with incredible swift-
ness, along the sands, directly to that part of the
ct>ast where my antient and venerable castle stood.
You may well imagine, I was dreadsully affright-
«<1, «4Pon this occasion,, when, as,I thought they pur-
sued
.faed -him in a whole body, all running towards wiy
palace. And, now, indeed, I expected, that part of
my dream was going to be sulfilled, and that he
for the rest of my dream, I Could depend nothing on
ft-, that the savages would pursue him thither, and
find him there. However, my spirits beginning to
recover, I still kept upon my guard; and I now plain-
ly perceived, there Were but three men out of the
dumber that pursued him. i was insinitely pleased
"with what swistness the poor creature ran from bis
pursufers, gaming so much ground upon them, that I
plainly perceived, could he thus hold it for half an
hour, there was Hot the least doubt tut he would
save his lise from the power of his enemies.
Between them and my castle there was a creek,
that very same which I sailed into with all my effects
From the wreck of the ship, on the .steep banks of
which I very much seared the poor victim would be
taken, if he could not swim for his escape: But sooin
"was T out of pain for him, when I perceived.he made
nothing of it, though at sull tide, but, with an intre-
pid courage, spurred on by the sense of danger, he
plunged into the flood, swimming over in about
thirty strokes, and then landing, ran with the same
incredible strength and swiftness as before. When
the'three pursuers came to the creek, one of them,
who I perceived could not swim, (happily for his
part), returned back to his company, While the o-
'thers, with as equal courage, but much less swiftness,
.attained the other fide, as though they were resolved.
never to give over their pursuit.. And now or never
J thought was the time for me to procure me a ser-
vant, companion, or assistant: and that I was de-
creed by Providence to be the instrument to save this
poor creature's Jise. I. immediately descended my,
two ladders with the greatest expedition; I took up
my two guns, which, I said before, were at the bot-

£ -4
torn
torn of them: and, getting up again with the same
haste towards the hill, I made nearer the sea. In a
word, talcing a short cut down the hill, I interposed
between the pursuers and pursued, hallooing aloud
to the latter, who, venturing to look back, was, no
doubt, as much terrified at me as I at them. I beck-
oned to him, with my hand, to return back, in the
rnean time advancing towards the pursuers, and
rushing on the foremost, I knocked him down with
the stock of my piece, and laid him,flat on the ground.
J was very unwilling to fire lest the rest mould hear,
plough, at that distance, I questioned whether they
could or no; and, being out of sight of the smoak,
they could not easily have known what to make of it.
"she other savage seeing his sellow sall, stopped as if
Jic had been amazed; when, advancingtowards him,
J could perceive him take his bow from his back, and,
fixing an arrow to it, was preparing to shoot at me,
andi without dispute, might have lodged the arrow
|n my breast; but, in this absolutely necessary case
fif self-preservation, I immediately fired at him, and
{hot him dead, just as his hand was going to draw
the satal string. All this while, the savage who had
fied before stood still, and had the satissaction to see
jiis enemies killed, as he thought, who designed to
take away his lise: so affrighted was he with the sire
noise of my piece, that he stood as it were like
J^ot's wise, fixed and immoveable, without either
feiife or motion. This obliged me to halloo to him
3gain, making the plainest signs I could to him to
(n^iw nearer. I perceived he understood those tokens
by his approaching to me a little way, when, as.if
afraid I should kili him too, he stopped again. Several
t inies did he advance, and as often stop in this man-
ner, till, coming more to my view, I perceived him
tl-emMing, .as if he was to undergo the same sate.
XJpon which I looked upon him with a smiiiug
countenance, and still beckoning to him; at length
jje came dole to me, and kneeled down, killtci the
groui.d,
ground, laid his head upon it, and taking me by the
foot, set it upon his head; and this, as I understood
afterwards, was a token of swearing to be my slave
forever. I tqok him up, and, making much of him,
encouraged him in the best manner I could. But
my work was not yet finished; for I perceived the
savage whom I knocked down, was not killed, but
stunned with the blow, and began to come to him-
self Upon which I pointed to my new servant, and
shewing him that his enemy was not yet expired, he
spoke some words to me, but which 1 could not un-
derstand; yet being the first sound of a man's voice
I had heard for above twenty-five years, they were-
very pleasing to me. But there was no time for re-
flection now, the wounded savage recovering himself
so sar as to sit upon the ground, which made my poor
prisoner as much afraid as before: to put him out of
which sear, I presented my other gun at the man,
with an intent to shoot him; but my savage, sor so I
must now call him, prevented my firing, by making
a motion to me, to lend him my sword, which hung
naked in a belt by my side. No sooner did I grant
his request, hut away he runs to his enemy, and at
one blow cut osf his head as dexterously as the most
accomplished executioner in Germany could have'
done: for, it seems, these creatures make use of
wooden swords made of hard wood, which will bear
edge enough to cut off heads and arms at one blow.
"When this valorous exploit was done, he comes to
me laughing, as a token of triumph, delivered me my
sword again, with abundance of surprising gestures,
laying it along, with the bleeding and ghastly head
of the Indian at my seet.
The greatest astonishment that my new servant
conceived, was the manner of killing the savage at
such a distance, without a bow and arrow: and such
was his longing defire to know it, that he first point-
ed to the dead carcase, and then made signs to me to
. .grant him leave to go to him. Upon which I bid
him
him go, and, as well as I could, made him sehsible
i granted his request. But when he came there, how
-wondersully was he struck with amazement! First
<he turned him on one fide, then on another, wonder-
ing he could perceive no quantity of blood, he bleed-
ing inwardly: and after sufficiently admiring the
.wound the bullet had made in his breast, he took up
"his bow and arrows, and came back again; upon
•.which I turned to go away, making many sign's to
h»m to follow, lest the rest miffing their companions,
might come in pursuit of them. And this I found
he understood very well, by his making me under-
stand that his design was to bury them, that they
.anight not be seen if it happened; and which vy
'/rgns again I made him sensible I very much approved
of. Immediately he sell to work, and never was
•^rave-digger more dexterous in the world than he
-tvas; for in an instant, as I might say, he scraped a
Jarge hole in the sands with his hands, sufficient to
bury the first in; there he dragged him, and with',
out any ceremony he covered him over ; in like man-
gier he served the other; so that I am sure no under-
taker could be more expert in his husinefs; for all
this was done in less than a quarter of ah hour. I
then called him away, and instead Of carrying him
-directly to my castle at first, I conveyed him to my
cave on the sarther part of the island ; and so my
-^[ream Was now fulfilled in that particular, that my
irrove should prove an asylum or sanctuary to him.
Weary ahd saint,'hungry and thirsty, undoubted-
ly must this poor creature be, supported chiefly by
-j-hat vivacity of spirit, and uncommon transports of
- Qy that his deliverance occasioned. Here I gave him
i^ead and a bunch of raisins to eat, and water to
^rink, on which he sed very chearsully, to his ex-
ceeding refreshment. I then made him a convenient
£,ecl, .with a parcel of rice straw, and a blanket upon
& (abed which I used myself sometimes) and the»
pointing to it, made signs for him to lic'dbwn to sleep,
.fi . upon
\tpbh which the poor creature went to take a "wel-
come repose.
Indeed he was a very comely handsome young sel-
low, extremely Well made, with ttraight'iong limbs,
riot too large, tall and 'we'll shaped, and, asriear #s 1
couhl reckon, about <twenty-fix years of age. His
countenance had 'nothing in it fierce or surly, but
rather a sort of majesty in hrs sace; and yet, espe-
cially when he smiled, he had all the sweetness and
softness of an European. Mis hair was not curled
like wool, as many of the blacks are, but long and'
black, with the most beautisul, yet careless, treffe's
spreading over his shoulders. He bad a very high
and large forehead, with a great "Vivacity and spark-
ling sharpness in his eyes. His fkih Was not so TaWny
its the Virginians, Brazilians, br other Americans;
but rather^>f a bright dun olive colour, that had
something agreeable in it, though not very easy to
give a description of. His sace was round and plurrip,
with a small nose, very different from the flatness of
she negroes, a pretty small mouth, thin lips, sine
tteeth, very well set, and white as the driven snow.
In a word, such handsome seatures, and exact fym*
rhetry in every part, made me.consider, that I had
saven the lise of an Indian prince, no less graceful
and accomplished than the great Oroonoko, whose
memorable behaviour and unhappy contingencies of
life have charmed the world, both to admiration of
his person, and compassion to his sufferings.
JBut let him be either prince or peasant, all my
happiness centered in this, that I had now got a good
servant or companion, to whom, as he deserved, I
wasresolved to prove a kind master and lasting friend.
He had not, I think, flept above an hour, when he
awakened again, and while I was milking my goats
hard by, out he runs from the cave towards me in
.my inclosure, and laying himself down on the ground
in the lowest prostration, made all the antic gestured
imaginable, to "express' his thanksulness to me for
bein^j
being his deliverer. I consess, though the manner
of his behaviour seemed to be ludicrous enough to
occasion laughter; yet I was very much moved at
his affection, so that my heart melted within me,
searing he might die away in excess of joy, like re-
prieved malesactors; especially as I was incapable
either to let him blood, or administer physic. It
were to be wished, that Christians would take ex-
ample by this Heathen, to have a lasting remem-
brance of the benefits and deliverances they have re-
ceived, by the kind mediation and powersul interpo-
-/ition of their henesactors and deliverers; and, it
would likewise be happy for mankind, were there no
occasion to blame many, who, instead of thanksully
acknowledging savours and benesits, rather abuse
and contemn those who have been the instruments
to save them from destruction.
But, leaving these just reflections, I return to the
object that occasioned them; for my man, to con-
clude the last ceremony of obedience, laid down his
bead again on the ground, close to my foot, and set
iny other foot upon his head, as he had done before,
making all thesignsof subjection, servitude, and sub-
mission imaginable, to let me understand he would
serve me as long as his lise endured. As I under-
stood him in many things, I made him sensible I was
very well pleased with him; and, in a little time, I
began to speak to him,, and learn him how to talk
to me a<*ain. in the first place, I made him.under-
fland his name was to be Friday, because it was upon
that day I saved his lise: then I taught him to lay
JVlaster, which I made him sensible was to be my
.pame. I likewise taught him to say Yes and No,
and to know what they meant. I gave him seme
inilk in an earthen pot, making him view me while
J drank it before him, and soaked my bread it it; I
crave him a cake of bread, and caused him to soak it
Jikewise, to which he readily consented, making signs
iof «Lie greatest satisfaction imaginable.
• All that night did I keep him there ; but no sooner
did the morning light appear, when I ordered him to
arise, and come along with me, with certain tokens
that I would give him some clothes like mine, at
which he seemed very glad, being stark naked, with-
out the least covering whatever. As we passed by
the place where the two men had been interred, my
man pointed directly to their graves, shewing me the
marks that he had made to find them again, giving
me to understand, by signs, that we should dig them
up, and devour them. At this I appeared extremely
displeased, expressed my utmost abhorrence, as if I
would vomit at the apprehensions of it, beckoning
with my hand to come away, which he did with the
greatest reverence and submission. After this I con-
ducted him to the top of the hill, to view if the rest
of the savages were yet remaining there; but when
I looked through my perspective glass, I could see
no appearance of them, nor of their canoes; so that
it was very evident.they never minded their deceased
companions whom we had slain; which if they had,
they would surely have searched for, or left one boat
behind for them to follow, after they returned from
their pursuit.
Curiosity, and a defire of satissaction, animating
me with courage to see this scene of barbarity, I took
my man Friday with me, putting a sword into his
hand, with-the bow and arrows at his back, which
I perceived he could use very dextrously, causing him
to carry one gun for me, and I two for myself; and
thus equipped against all attacks, away we marched
directly to the place of their bloody entertainment.
But when I came there, I was struck with the ut-
most horror at so dreadsul a spectacle, whilst Friday
was no way. concerned about it, being no doubt in
his turn one of these devourers. Here lay "several
human bones, there several pieces of mangkd flesh,
half eaten, mangled and scorched, whilst streams of
Wood ran promiscuously as waters from a fountain.
As I was musing on this dreadsul sight, Friday took
all the pains he could, by particular signs, to make
me understand, that they had brought over four pri-
soners to feast upon, three of whom they had eaten
tip, and that he was the fourth, pointing to himself:
that there having been a bloody battle between them
and his great king, m the just desence of whom he
Was taken prisoner, with many others; all of these
were carried osf to different places, to be devoured
by'their conquerors; and that it was his misfortune
to be brought hither by these wretches for the fame
futpdse. .
After I was made sensible of tbeseshmgs, I caused
Friday to gather those horrid remains, and lay them
together upon a heap, which I ordered to be set on
fire, and burnt them to ashes: my man, however,
still retained the nature of a cannibal, having a han-
kering stomach after some of the flesh: but such an
extreme abhorrence.did I express.at the least appear-
ance of it, that he durst not but conceal it; for I
iiiadehim very sensible, that if he offered any such
thing, I would certainly shoot him.
This being done, l earned my man with me to
rny castle, and gave him a pair of linen drawers,
Which I had taken out df the poor gunner's chest
before mentioned; and which, with a little alter-
ation, fitted him very well : -in the next place, I
tiiade him a jerkin of goat-skin, such as my skill was
.able.to manage, and indeed I thought myself then a
-tolerable good tailor. I gave him also a cap, which
J made of a hare's skin, .vfery convenient and sa-
shionable. Thus being clothed tolerably well, my
.0iart was no less proud of his habit, than I was in
^eing him in it. Indeed he went very awkwardly
&t first, the drawers being too heavy On his thighs,
not used to bear any weight, and the sleeves of th:
vvaistcoat galled his shoulders, and the inside of his
arms; but by a little easing where he complained
they hurt him, and by using himself to them, .at
length he took to them very well.
My next concern was, where I should lodge him:
and that I might do well toy him, and yet be persect-
ly easy myself, I erected a tent for him in the vacant
place between my two fortifications, in the inside of
the last, and the outside of the first; and as there
was an entrance or door into my cave, I made a for-
mal framed door-case, and a door to open on the in-
side; I 'barred it .©p in the night time, taking in my
ladders too, so that, was my man to,prove treacher-
ous, there could be no way to come.at-me i-n the in^
side of . «>y innermost wall, without making so much
noise in getting over, that it must needs waken me;
for my first wall had now a complete roof ovef it of
long poles, spreading over my tent, and leaning up
to the side of the mountain, which Was again laid
cross with smaller sticks instead of lath?,, and thatch-
ed over a great thickness with the rice^ftww, which
was as strong as reeds; and at the h^l£ of the place,
left on purpose to go in or out by j)fe ladder, I had
placed a kind of a trap door, which, if it had been
n attempted on the outfide, would not have opened at
all, but have sallen down, and made a great noise;
and as to my weapons, every night I took them all
to my bed side.
.But there was no occasion for this precaution ; for
surely never master had a more sincere, saithsul anil
loving.servant than-Friday.proved to me. Without
paffion, sullenness, or design, persectly obliging and
engaging, his affections were as much tied to me,
as those of a child to his parents; and I might ven-
ture to fay, he would have sacrificed his lise for the
saving mine, upon any occasion whatfoever. And
indeed the many testimonies he gave me of .this, suf-
ficiently convinced me that I had mo occasion to use
these precautions. And here I could not but reflect
with great wonder, that however it hath pleased the
Almighty in his providence, and in the government
of the creation, to take from so great a part of the
world of his creatures, the noblest uses to which
their saculties, and the powers of their fouls are
adapted; yet that he has bestowed upon them the
same reason, affections, sentiments of kindness, and
obligation, passions of resentment, sincerity, sidelity,
and all the capacities of doing and receiving good
that he has given us ; and that when he is graciously
pleased to offer them occasions of exerting these,
they are as ready, nay, more ready, to apply them
to the proper uses for which they were bestowed,
than we often are. These thoughts would make me'
melancholy, especially when I considered how mean
a use we make of all these, even though we have
these powers enlightened by the Holy Spirit of God,
and by the knowledge of this world, as an addition
to our understanding; and why it has pleased the
heavenly wisdom to conceal the like saving know-
ledge srom so many millions of souls, who would
certainly make a much better use of it than generally
mankind do at this time; These reflections would
sometimes lead me so sar, as to invade the sovereignty
of Providence, and, as it were, arraign the justice
of such an arbitrary disposition of things, that should
obscure that light from some, and reveal it to others,
and yet expects like duty from all. But I closed it
up, checking my thoughts with this conclusion;
firji, That we were ignorant of that right and law
by which these should be condemned; but that as
the Almighty was necessarily, and by the nature of
bis essence, infinitely just and holy; so it could not
be otherwise, but that if these creatures were all
destined to absence from himself, it was on account
of sinning against that light, which, as the scripture
fays, was a Taw to themselves, and by such rules as
their consciences would acknowledge to be just, tho
the first foundation was not discovered to us. And,
secondly, That still as we were the clay in the hand
of the patter, no vessel could thus say to him, Why
J>ast thou sashioned me after this manner? *
I had not been above two or three days returned
to my castle, but my chief design was, how I should
bring Friday osf from his horrid way of seeding;
and, to take from him that inhuman relish he by na-
ture had been accustomed to, I thought it my duty
to let him taste other flesh, which might the rather
tempt him-to the same abhorrence I so often expres-
sed against their accursed way of living. Upon
which, one morning ! took him out with me, with
an intention to kill a kid out of the flock, and bring
it home, and dress it. As I was going, I perceived
a she-goat lying down in the shade, and two young
kids sitting by her. Immediately I catched hold of
my man Friday, and bidding him stand still, and
not stir, I presented my piece, and shot one of the
kids. My poor servant, who had at a distance per-
ceived me kill his adversary, and yet did not know
by what means, or how it was done, stood trembling
and surprised, and looked so amazed, that I thought
he would have sunk into the earth. He did not see
the kid I aimed at, or behold I had killed it, but
ripped up his waistcoat to see if he was not wound-
ed, thinking my resolution was to kill him; for
coming to me, he sell on his knees, earnestly pro-
nouncing many things which I did not understand
the meaning of; which at length I perceived was,
that I would not take away his lise.
Indeed I was much concerned to see him in that
condition, where nature is upon the severest trial,
when the immediate hand of death is ready to put
forever a period to this mortal lise: and indeed so
much compassion had I to this creature, that it was
with difficulty I refrained from tears. But, how-
ever, as another sort of countenance was necessary,
and to convince him that I would do him no harm,
I took him, smiling, by the hand, then laughed at
at him, and pointing to the kid which I had slain,
made signs to him to setch it, which accordingly he
did. No less curious was he in viewing how the
creature
A
creature was killed, than he had been before in be-
holding the Indian; which, while he was admiring
at, I charged my gun again, and presently perceived
a great fowl like a hawk, perching upon a tree with-
in shot; and, therefore, to let Friday understand
what I was going to do, I called him to me again,
pointing at the fowl, which I found to be a parrot.
I made him understand that I would shoot and kill
that bird; accordingly I fired, and bade him look,
when immediately he saw the parrot saii down.
Again he stood like one amazed, notwithstanding all
I had said to him; and the more confounded he was,
because he did not perceive me put any thing into
my gun. Undoubtedly a thing so utterly strange,
carrying death along with it, sar or near, either to
man or beast, must certainly create the greater a-
stonishment to one who never had heard such a thing
in his whole lise: and really his amazement con-
tinued so long, that had I allowed it, he would have
prostrated himself before me and my gun, with the
greatest worship and adoration. As for the gun in
particular, he would not so much as suffer his fingers
to touch it for several days after; but would come
and communicate his thoughts to it, and talk to it,
as if the senseless piece had understood and answered
htm; all this I conld perceive him do, when he
thought my back was turned, the chief intent of
which was, to defire it not to kill him, as I after-
wards came to understand.
I never strove to prevent his admiration, nor hin-
der him from those comical gestures he used on such
occasions; but when his astonishment was a little
©ver, I made tokens to him to run and setch the par-
rot that I had shot; which he accordingly did, stay-
ing some time longer than usual, by reason the bird,
not being quite dead,'had fluttered some way sarther
f om the place where she sell. In the mean time, as
h was looking for her, I took the advantage of charg-
ing my gun again, that so I might be ready for any
m other
other mark that offered; but nothing more occured
at that time. So I brought home the kid, and the
same evening took off the skin, and divided the car-
case as well as I could. Part of the flelh I stewed
and boiled, in a pot I had for this purpose. And
then spreading my table, I sat down, giving my
man some of it to eat, who was wondersully pleased,
and seemed to like it very well: but what was the
-most surprising to him. was to see me eat salt with it:
upon which he made me understand, that the f$lt
was very bad for me; when putting a little into his
mo,uth, he seemed to nauseate it in such a manner,
as to spit and sputter at it, and then washed his
mouth with fresh water: but to shew him how con-
trary his opinion was to mine, I put some meat into
my mouth without salt, and seigned to spit and
sputter as much for the want of it, as he had done
at it; yet all this proved of no signification to Fri-
day; and it was a long while before he, could en-
dure salt in his meat or broth, and even then but a
small quantity.
Thus, having sed him sufficiently with boiled meat
and broth at that time, the next day I was re-
solved to seast him with a roasted piece of the kid.
And having no spit to sasten it, nor jack to turn it,
I made use of that common artifice which many of
the people of England have, that is, to set two poles
upon each side of the fire, and one cross on the top,
hanging the meat thereon with a string, and so turn-
ing round continually, roast it in the same manner as
we read bloody tyrants of old cruelly roasted the
holy martyrs. This practice caused great admiration
in my man Friday, being quite another way than
that to which the savages were accustomed. But
when he came to taste the sweetness and tenderness of
the flesh, he expressed his entire satissaction above a
thousand different ways. And as I could not but
understand his meaning, you may be sure I was as
wondecsully pleased, especially whe^Jie made it also
very plain to me, that he would never, while he
lived, eat man's flesh more.
It was now high time I mould set my servant to
work; so, next day, I put him to beat out some corn,
and sift it in the same manner as I had done before.
And really the sellow was very quick and handy in
the execution of any thing I ordered him to go about.
I made him understand that it was to make bread for
us to eat, and afterwards let him see me bake it. In
short, he did every thing as I ordered him, and in a
little time as well as I could perform it myself.
But now considering that I had two mouths to seed
instead of one, it was necessary that I must provide
more ground for my harvest, and plant a larger
quantity of corn than I commonly used to do; upon
which I marked out a larger piece of land, sencing
it in, in the same manner as I had done before; in
the execution of which I must give Friday this good
word, that no man could work more hardy, or with
better will than he did: and when I shade him sensi-
ble that it was for bread to serve him as well as me,
be then very passionately made me understand, that
be thought I had much more labour on his account,
than I had for myself; and that no pains or diligence
should be wanting in him, if I would but direct him
in those works wherein he might proceed.
I must certainly own, that this was the most plea-
sant year I ever had in the island; for, after some
time, Friday began to talk pretty well, and under-
stand the names of those things which I was wont
to call for, and the places where I used to send him.
So that my long silent tongue, which had been use-
jess so many years, except in an exclamatory man-
ner, either for deliverance or blessings, now began to
Iie occupied in teaching, and talking to my man Fri-
day; for indeed I had such a singular satissaction in
tbe seUow himself, so innocent did his simple and un-
jrei£,ned honesty appear more and more to me every
dayr that I'reallj^ began, entirely to love him; and
for his part, I believe there was no love lost, and that
"his nature had been more charmed with my exceed-
ing kindness, and his affections more placed upon
me, than any other object whatfoever among his
own countrymen. I once had a great mind to try
if he had any ankering inclination to his own coun-
try again.; and by this time having learned him Eng-
lith so well, that he could give me tolerable answers
to any question which I demanded, I asked him,
whether that nation to which he belonged, ever con-
quered in battle? This question made Friday to
smile, and to which he answered yes,yes, we always
fight the better; as much as to say, they always got
the better in sight. Upon which we proceeded on
the following discourse: You say, said I, that you
always sight the better; why then, Friday, how came
you to betaken prisoner?
Friday. But for all that, my nation beat much.
Majler. How, say you, beat! if your nation beat
them, how came you to be taken?
Friday, They more many mans than my nation in
the place where me was, they take one, two, three
and me: my nation much overheat them in the
yonder place where me no was, there my nation
mans beat one, two, three great tousand.
Majler. Then why did not vour men recover vou
from the hands of your enemies?
Friday. They run one, two, or three, and me;
they make all go in the canoo; my nation have no
canoo that time,
Majler. 'Tis very well, Friday; but what does
your nation do with the prisoners they take? Do they
carry them away and eat them as these have done?
Friday. Yes, Yes, my nation eat mans too, eat
up all. •
Majler. To what place do they carry them t3 be
devoured.
Friday. Go to other nations where they think.
Majler. Do {,hey bring them hither?
F Friday
Friday. Yes, come over hither, come over other
place.
Master. And have you been with them here, Fri-
day?
Fnday. Yes, me been here, (pointing to the north-
west of the island, being the fide where they used to land.)
Thus having got what account I could from my
man, I plainly understood, that he had been as bad
as any of the rest of the cannibals, having been for-
merly among the savages who used to come on shore
on the sarthest part of the island, upon the fame
bloody occasions as he was brought hither for: and
some time after I carried him to that place where he
pointed; and no sooner did he come there, but he
presently knew the ground, signifying to me that he
was once there when they ate up twenty men, two
.women, and a young child; but as he could not ex-
plain the number in Englijh, he did it by so many
stones in a t ow, making a sign to me to count them.
This passage I have the rather mentioned, because
it led to things more important and usesul forme to
know: for after I had this satissactory discourse with
him, my next question was, how sar.it was from the
island to the shore, and whether the canoes were not
often lost in the ocean? to which he answered, There
was no danger; that no canoes were ever lost; but
that after a little way out to the sea, there was a
strong current, and a wind always one way in the
afternoon. This I thought at fast to be no more than
the sets of the tide, of going out or coming in; but I
afterwards understood it was occasioned by the great
draught and reflux of the mighty river Oroonoko,
in the mouth or gulph of which I imagined my king-
dom lay; and that the land which I perceived to the
VV, and N. W. must be the great island Trinidad,
on the north of the river. A thousand questions, (if
that would satisfy me) did I ask Friday, about the
nature of the country, the sea, the coasts, the inha-
bitants, and what nations were nearest them;'to
which
which questions the poor sellow declared all he knew,
with the greatest openness, and utmost sincerity.
When I demanded of him the particular names of
the various nations of his fort of people, he could
only answer me in general, that they were called
Carabe. Hence it was T considered that these must
be the Caribbees, so much taken notice of by our
maps, to be on that part of America, which reaches
from the mouth of the river Oroonoko to Guiania,
and so on to St. Martha. Then Friday proceeded to
tell me, that, up a great way beyond the moon, as
much as to say, beyond the setting of the meon,
which must be W. from their country, there dwelt
white bearded men, such as I was, pointing to my
whiskers, and that they kill much mans. 1 was not
ignorant with what barbarity the Spaniards treated
these creatures; so that I presently concluded it must
be them, whose cruelties had spread throughout A-
merica, to be remembered even to ^succeeding ge-
nerations. V
Well, you may be sure, this knowledge, which
the impersect information of my man had ied rr.e to,
was very comfortable to me, anc! made me so curious
as to ask him, how I might depart from this island,
and get amongst those white men? He told me, Yes,
yes, I might go in two canoes. In two canoes, thoughf.
I, what does my man mean? Surely he means one
for himself, and another for me; and^if not, how must
two canoes hold me without being joined, or'one
part of my body being put in ort£, and another in the
other? And, indeed, it was a Wng while before I un-
derstood his meaning, which was, that it must be a
'large boat, as big as two canoes, able to bear with
the waves, and not so liable to be everwhelmed as
one must be.
I believe there is no state ef lise but what mav be
happy, if people would but endeavour for their part
to make it so. He is not the happiest man that has
the most riches, but he that is content with what he
F 2 hath.
bath. Before I had my servant, I thought myself
miserable till I had him; and now that I enjoyed the
happy benefits of bim, I still complained, and begged
a deliverance from a place of retirement, ease, and
plenty, where Providence had sufficiently blessed me.
I)i a word, from this time I entertained some hopes,
that one time or other I might find an opportunity to
make my escape from this island, and that this poor
savage might be a great surtherance thereto.
All the time since my man became so intelligent as
to understand and speak to me, I spared no pains nor
diligence to instruct him, according to my poor share
of knowledge, in the principles of religion, and the
adoration that he ought to pay to the True God. One
time, as I very well remember, I asked him who made
him? At first the innocent creature did not under-
hand what I meant, but rather thought I asked him
•who was his sather? Upon which I took another way
to make him sensible, by demanding from him an an-
swer to this question. Friday, said I, who is it that
made the sea, this ground whereon we walk, and all
these hills and woods which we behold? And here,
indeed, I did not miss of my intention; for he told
nie, it was old Benamuckee (the god whom I supposed
these savages adored) who lived a great way beyond
all. But as for his attributes, poor Friday was an
utter stranger. Hi could describe nothing of this
erreat person; and all that he could say was, that he
^ras very old, much older than the sea and land, the
moon, or the stars. Friday (said I again), if this
^rreat and old person has made all things in the world,
i.,ow comes it to pass, that all things, at you in par-
ticular, do not adore and worship him? Upon this,
looking very grave, with a persect sweet look of in-
nocence, ije replied, Majler, all things say 0 to him,
pv which it may reasonably be supposed he meant ado-
-..ition. And where, said I, do the people of your
country go when they die? He answered, they all go
to Bcnatnuckee. What, and those people that a;'e eaten
up,
up, do they go there? Benamuckee, said he, love 'em
dearly; me pray to Benamuckee in de canoe, and Bena-
muckee zuou'd love me when dey eat me all up.
Such discourses as theie had I with my man, and
such made me sensible, that the true God is worihip-
ped, though under impersect similitudes; and that
the salse adoration which the Heathens give to their
imaginary deity, is as great an argument of the divine
essence, as the most learned Atheists (falselyso called)
can bring against it: for God will be gloiihed in his
works, let the denomination be what it will; and I
cannot be of that opinion which some conceive, that
God should decree men to be damned for want of a
right notion of saith, in a place were the wisdom of
the Almighty has not permitted it to be preached;
and therefore cannot but conclude, that since obedi-
ence is the best sacrifice, these poor creatures, acting
by that light and knowledge which they are possesled
with, may undoubtedly obtain a happy salvation,
though not that enjoyment with Christ, as his saints,
consessors, and martyrs must enjoy.
But laying these determinations aside, more sit for
divines than me to discuss, I began tp instruct my
servant in the saving knowledge of the true Deity, in
which the directions of God's Holy Spirit assisted me.
I lifted up my hands to heaven, and pointing thereto,
told him, that the great Maker of heaven and earth
Jived there: that as his infinite power sashioned this
world out of a consused chaos, and made it in that
beautisul frame which we behold, so he governs and
preserves it by his unbounded knowledge, sovereign
greatness, and peculiar providence: that he was omni
potent, could do every thing for us, give every thing
to us, and take every thing away from us : that he was
a rewarder and punisher of good and evil actions: that
there was nothing but what he knew, no thoughts so
secret but what he could bnng to light; and thus, by
degrees, I opened his eyes, and described to him the
marines of the creation of the world, the situation of
F 3 > paradise,
paradise, the transgression of our first parents, the wick-
ed-ness of God's peculiar people, and the universal
fins and abominations of the whole earth. When
these things were implanted in his mind, I told him,
thatasGod'sjuslice was equal to his mercy, he resolv-
ed to destroy this world,, till his son Jesus Christ in-
terposed in our behalf; and,toprocureourredemption,
obtained leave of his heavenly sather to come down
from heaven into the world, where he took human
nature upon him, instrudted us in our way to eternal
) i fe, and died as a sacrifice for our sins; that he was
now ascended into heaven, mediating sor our pardon,
delivering our petitions, and obtaining all those good
benefits which we ask in his name, by humble and
hearty prayers, all which were heard at the throne of
heaven. As very frequently I used to inculcate things
into his mind, Friday one day told me, that if our
trreat God could hear us beyond the sun, he must sure-
Jy be a greater God than their Benamuckee, who lived
but a little way off, and yet could not hear them till
they ascended the great mountains where he dwelt, to
speak to him. What, said I, Friday, did you go thi-
ther to speak to him too? He answered, No, they ne-
ver went that were young men, none but old men cal-
led their Oowakakee^ meaning the Indian priests, who
went to say O, (so he called laying their prayers), and
they retuwied back, and told them what Benamuc-
feee said. From hence, I could not but observe how
h.appy we Christians are, who have God's immediate
revelation for our certain guide; and that our saith, is
^either misted, nor our reason imposed upon, by airy
set of men; such as these Indian impostors.
But, to clear up this palpable cheat to my man Fri-
day; I told him, that the pretence of their ancient
men going up to. the mountain to say O'to their god
JZenaatuckee was an imposture, and that their bringing
back an answer was all a sham, if not worse; for that,,
if .there was any such thing spoken to them, surely
it must proceed from an insernal spirit. And here I
thought
thought it necessary to enter into a long discourse
with him, which I did after this manner.
Friday (said I) you must know, that before this
world was made, there was an almighty Power exist-
ing, by whose power all things were made, and whose
Majesty shall have no end. To be glorified and ador-
ed by beings of a heavenly nature, he created angels
and arch-angels, that is, glorious spirits resembling
himself, to encompass his throne, eternally singing
forth his praise in the most heavenly sounds and di-
vine harmony. And, among this heavenly choir, Lu-
ciser bore a great sway, as being then one of the pe-
culiar savourites of these celestial abodes; but he,
contrary to that duty he owed his heaven! v Sovereign,
with unbounded ingratitude t9 his divine Creator,
not only envied him that adoration which was his
due, but thought to usurp that throne which he had
neither power to keep, nor title to pretend to. He
raised a dissension and civil war in heaven, and had
a number of angels to take his part. Unbounded fol-
ly! stupendous pride! thus to hope for victory, and
aspire above his powersul Creator! The Deity, wot
searsul of such an enemy, yet justly provoked at this
rebellion, commissions his arch-angel Michael to lead
forth the heavenly host, and give him battle; the
ad vantage of which was quickly perceived, by Satan's
being overthrown, and the prince o the air (for so
the devil was called) with all his fallen angeis, driven
headlong into a dismal place, which is called Hell.
The recital of this truth mads my man give the
greatest attention, and. be expressed a great satissac-
tion by his gestures, that God had sent the devil into
the deep hole. And then I desired him to give great
heed to what I had surther to say.
No sooner (proceeded I) was God freed from, and
the heavens clear of this arch-traitor, but the Father
speaks to the Son and Holy Spirit, who belonged to
his essence, and were equal to h'm in power and glory,
Come lei us make man (laid he) in our own image^ after
F 4 our
our own likeness, Gen. i. 26. to have dominion over
the creatures of the world which we have created.
J\nd these he intended should glorify him in heaven,
according to their obedience in this state of probation
on earth, which was, as it were, to be the school to
train them up for these heavenly mansions. Now,
Satan seeing him foiled; yet, that God had not taken
the power from him as prince of the air, which power
heaven designed he should retain, whereby his crea-"
tures might be tried; in revenge for the disgrace he
had received, he tempts Adam's wise, Eve, to taste
f>f the tree of knowledge of good and evil, which
£Jod had forbidden. He appears to her in the shape
0f a serpent, then a most beautisul creature, and tells
iier, that it was no better than an imposition which
(Jod had put upon her and her husband', not to eat
fji that sair fruit which he had created; thatthe taste
thereof would make them immortal like God him-
self; and consequently as great and powerftil as he..
l,Jpon which she not only eat thereof herself, but
^ arfe her husband eat also, which brought them both
v,n<Jrr the hiavenly displeasure.
Here Friday expressed a great concern; Ah, poor
rrtani! (critd he) naughty ivomans! naughty devil!
ruche God not love de mans, make mans like devH him-
Friday, said s, God still loved mankind; and the""

till they, like Luciser, disobeyed h.s corninands and
rt.b«?!ied against h;m ; and even then, how Jesus Christ,
only son, came to save sinners. But still every
iriiin that lives in the world is under temptation and.
-i i al. The devil has ye t a power, as prince of the
g^ir, to suggest evil cogitations in our minds, and
— roJT'Pt us on to wicked actions, that he mioht glory
Jji out destmcti< n. Whatever evil thoughts we have
proceed from him; so that God, in this our distress,
expects
expeils we should apply ourselves to him by servent
prayer for speedy redress. He is not like Benamuckee,
to let none come near him but Oowakakee, but suffers
the people as well as priests to offer themselves at his
seet, thereby to be delivered from the power and
temptation of the devil.
But though at first my man Friday expressed some
concern at the wickedness of Lucifer, I found it not
so easy to imprint the right notions of him in his
mind, as it was about the divine essence of God: for
there nature assisted me in all my arguments, to shew
to him plainly the necessity of a great first cause, and
over-ruling governing power, of a .secret directing
Providence, and of the equity and reasonableness of
paying adoration to our Creator; whereas there ap-
peared nothing os all this in the notion of an evil
spirit, of his first beginning, his nature, and, above
all, of his inclination to evil actions, and his power
to tempt us to the like. And indeed this unlearned
Indian, by the mere force of nature, puzzled me with
one particular question, more than ever 1 could have
expected.
1 had, it seems, one day, been talking to him of
the omnipotent .power of God, and his infinite abhor-
rence of' fin, insomuch that the iscri,plures styled him
e consuming fire to all the workers of iniquity; and
that it was in his power, whenever he pleased, to de-
stroy all the world in a moment, the greaœr- part of
«vhich are continually offending him.
When, with a serious attention, he had listened a
greatwhile to what I said, after 1 had been telling
hiirf'how the devil was God's enemy an the hearts of
men, and used all his malie* and skill .to deseat the
good designs of Providence, and destroy the kingdom
of Christ in the woild, and£0 forth: Very well,
master, said Friday, you. say God is/o .strong, Ib
great, is he not much strong,,much mightaei'-.than the
iiaughty devil? To be sure, Friday, sai&ij God is
Sbate wife, and sttonger than the serpept,: he is above
.F 5, the
ehc devil, which makes us pray to him, that he would,
tread down Satan under his seet, enable us to resist
his violent temptations, and quench his fiery darts.
.iVby then,, answered Friday quickly, if God, asymtsay,
has much strong, much might as the dcvilr, why God no
Jiill devil, make no more tempt, no more do ,wicked.
You may be certain, 1 was strangely surprized at
this question of my man's; and, though an old man,
I was but a young doctor, and consequently very ill
qualisied for a casuist,, or a resolver of intricate doubts
Jji religion. And, as it required some time for me
to study for an answer, I pretended not to hear him,
nor to ask him what he said: But, so earnest was he
fox art answer, as not to forget his question, which
Jie repeated in the very same broken words as above.
Whett I had recovered myself a little, Friday, said I,
God will at last punijh him severely, being reserved for
judgment, and is to be cajl into the bottomless pit, to re-
ffiain in fire everlasting. But all this did not satisfy
ft'iday; for, returning upon me, he repeated my
vyords, REsERVE AT Last, me no under/land; but,
<U>hy not kill devil now, not kill devil, great, great while
ggo? Friday said I, you may as well ask me why God
^0es not kill you and me, when, by our wicked
actions, we so much offend his divine Majesty? He
Irivesus time to repent of our sins,- that thereby we
i^,ay obtain pardon. At these words obtain pardon,
jpyltsey mused a great while; and, at last, looking me
^-edsastly in the sace, Well, well, said he, that's very
well; so you, J, devil, all wicked mans, nil preserve, re~
Zji'rtt, Godpardtn alL- "— •
*. Indeed, here I was run down to the last extremity,
^Jien it became very evident to me, how mere natural
^,otions guidz reasonable creatures to the know-
jedge of a Deity, and to the homage due to the su-
preme being of God; but, however, nothing but
*|ivine revehtion can form the knowledge of Jesus
^brist, and of a redemption purchased for us, of the
mediator of the new covenant, and of an intercessor
. • at
at the footstool of God's throne: and, therefore, the.
gospel of our Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ; that
is, the Word and Spirit of God, promised for the
guide and sanctisier of his people, are the most ne-
cessary instructors of the fouls of men, in the saving
knowledge of the Almighty, and the means to attain
eternal happiness.
And now I found it necessary to put an end to this
discourse between my man and me; for which pur-
pose I rose up hastily, and made as if I had some oc-
casion to go out, sending Friday for something that
was a good way off. I then sell on my knees and
beseeched God that he would inspire me so sar as to,
guide this poor savage in the knowledge of Christ,
to answer his questions more clearly, that his con-
science might be convinced, his eyes opened, and his
foul saved. When he returned again, I entered in-
to a very long discourse with him', upon the subject
of the world's redemption by the Saviour of it, and
the doctrine of repentance preached from heaven, to-
gether with an holy saith in our bkssed Redeemer
Jesus Christ: and then I proceeded to explain to him,
according to my weak capacity, the reason why out
Saviour took not on him the nature of angels, but
rather the seed (if Abraham; and how thei sallen an?
gels had no benesit by that redemption; and, lastly,
•that he came only to the lost sheep of the house of
Israel, and the like. God knows I had more sinceri-
ty than knowledge in all the Ways I took for this
poor Indian's instruction; and, I must acknowledge,
what I believe every body that acts upon the (ame
principle will find, that in laying heavenly truths
oprn before him, I informed and instructed myself
in many things, that either I did not know, or had
not persectly considered before; lo that, however
this poor creature might be improved by my instruc-
tion, certain it is, thai I myself had great reason to
be thanksul to Providence for sending him to *ae.
His company allayed my grief, and made my habi-
F i6 tation
Cation comfortable; and, when I reflected, that she-
solitary lise to which I had been so long confined,
had made me to look surther towards heaven, bymak-
ing me the instrument, under Providence, to save
the lise, and, for ought I know, the foul of this poor
.savage, by bringing him to the knowledge of Jesus
Christ, it caused a secret joy to spread through every
part of my foul; and I frequently rejoiced, that ever
I was brought to this place, which I once thought"
tfhe most miserable part of the world.
In this thanksul frame of mind did I afterwards
continue, while I abode on the island, and for tJ?ree
.vears did my man and I live in the greatest enjoyment
of happiness. Indeed, I believe the savage was as
good a Christian as.1; and I hepe we were equally
penitent; and sueh penitents as were comforted and
restored by God's Holy Spirit: for now we had the
tvord of the Lord to instruct us in the right way, as
inucb as if we had been on the English shore.
By the constant application I made of the Scrip-
tures, as I read them to my man Friday, Ieamestly
endeavoured to make him understand every part of ..
}r., as much as lay in my power, fie also, on the o-
thcr hand, by his very serious .questions and in-
quiries, made me a much better proficient in scripture
knowledge, than I should^&ave been by my own pri-
v/rte reading and study., 1 must not omit another
thing* proceeding from the.experience I had in my.
retirement: It was, that infinite and inexpressible
Y, Jessing, the knowledge of God through Jesus Christ,
^.hich was so^afin and easy to be understood, as im-
mediately to direct me to carry ou the great work of
sincere repentance for my fins/ and laying hold of a
g^viour for eternal lise, to a practical stated reforma-
tion, and oUedisnce to all God's instirutions. with-
out the assistance of a reverend ?.xf orthodox divine;.
9i»d eso-.cially iiy skis (ama instruction, so 'to *n-
jj^Wten this savage.crea^erre, as to make him so good
a Christian, as vcry.few could, exceed him.. AnA.
there
there was only this great thing wanting, that I had
no authority to administer the holy sacrament, that
heavenly participation of Christ's body and blood;
yet, however, we rested tfurselves content, that God
would accept our desires, and according to our saith,
have mercy on us.
But what we wanted" one way, was made up in a-
nother, and that was universal peace in our little
church. We had no disputes and wranglings about
the nature and equality of the holy, blessed, and un-
divided Trinity; no nicities in doctrine, or schemes
of church government; no four and morose dissenters
to impose more sublimated notions upon us; no pe-
dant sophisters to confound us with unintelligible-
mysteries: but, instead of all this, we enjoyed the*
most certain guide to heaven; that is, the word of
God; besides which, we had the comfortabic views
o£ his spirit leading us to the truth, and making us
both willing and obedient to the instruction os his
word. As the knowledge and practice of this are
the principal means of salvation, I cannot see what
rt avails any Christian Church, or man in the world,,
to amuse himself with speculations and opinions,
except it be to display their particular vanity and af-
sectation.
You may well suppose, that, by the frequent dis-
course we had together, my man and me became most
intimately-acquainted, and that there was but very
little that I coHld say, 4*ut .what Friday understood^-
and, indeed, he spoke very fluently, though it was
but broken English. I now took a particular plea-
sure in relating all my adventures, especially those
that occurred since my being cast on this island. I
made him understand that wondersul mystery, as he
. OF ROBINSON CRUSOE n9
»how to shoot. I also presented to him a knise, which
pleased him exceedingly, making him a belt, with a
ifrog hanging thereto, like those in •which we wear
Siangew in England y and., instead o£ a ganger to put
in
in the frog, I gave him, a hatchet, which was not
.oiily a good, but even a better weapon upon many
occasions. In a word, my man thus accoutred,
looked upon himself as great as Don Quixote, when
that celebrated champion went to combat the wind-
.rnill.
I next gave him a very particular description of
the territories ,gf Europe, and in a particular manner
of Old England, the place of my nativity. I laid
before him the manner of our woi sluppirig God, our
behaviour one to another, and how we trade in ships
to every part of the universe. I then told him my
jxiisfortunes in being shipwrecked, showing him, as
jiear as I could, the place where the ship lay, which
been gone long before; but I brought him to the
;i-uins of my boat, which besore rriy whole strength
could not move, but now was almost rotten, and
. fallen to pieces. I observed my man Friday to view
th»S koat with an uncommon curiosity; which, when
jie had done, he stood pondering a great while, and
.^id nothing. At last, said I, Friday, what makes
you ponder so much? He replied, Q master ^ me set
si Me boat come to place at my nation.
It was some time, indeed, before I understood what
man meant; but examining strictly into it, J
rj\A\n\y found, that such another boat, resembling
^-line, had come upon the country where he dwelt;
'that iS t0 ^ay' his sarther explanation, that the
•fcioat was driven there through violent storms and
stress of weather. It then came into my mind, that
.r0rne European ship having been cast away, the poor
"^j iflressed creatures were forced to have recourse to
tjie. boat to save their livns; and being all, as I
sought, drowned, I never concerned myself to alk
iiV thing concerning them, bu; my only inquiry was
^bout the boat, and what description my man could
^.^e of it.
* Indeed Friday answered my demands very well,
snaking every thing very plain to my understanding;
but
but beyond measure was I satissied, when he told me,
with great warmth and ardour, 0 master^ we save
white mans from drown; upon which I immediately
asked him, if there were any white mans, as he called
them, in the boat; Yes, yes, said he, the boat full, vers
full of white mans. How many, Friday? said I.
Hereupon he numbered his ringers, and counted se-
venteen. And when I asked him what became of
them all, and whether they lived or not? he replied,
Yes, master, they all live, they be live among my nation.
This information put fresh thoughts into my bead,
that these must be those very men who before I con-
cluded had been swallowed up in the ocean, after
they had left their ship, that had struck upon the
rocks of my kingdom, and after escaping the sury
of the deep, landed upon the wild shore, and com-
mitted themselves to the sury of the devouring In-
dians.
The manner of their cruelties to one another,
which consequently, as I thought, must be acted
with greater barbarity to strangers, created in me si
great anxiety, and made me still more curious to ask
Friday concerning them* He told me he was sure
they still lived there, having resided among them
above four years, and that the savages gave them
victuals to live upon. But pray, Friday, said I,
whence proceeded all this good nature and generosity?
How came it to pass that they did not kill and eat
them, to please their devouring appetites; and oc-
casion so splendid an entertainment among them?
No, no, said Friday, they mt till 'em, they make brother
with 'em$ by which I understood there was a truce
between thsm. And then-1 had a more .savourable
<*pinion of the Indians, upon Friday's uttering these
words: My nation, t'other nation no eat mans, but when
^nansmakewar fight: as though hehad said, that neither
those of his kingdom, .nor any other nations that he
knew of, ever ate their sellow-creatures, but such as
their law of arms allowed to be devoured; that is,
those

those miserable captives, whose misfortune it mould
t>e to be made prisoners of war.
Some considerable time after, upon a very pleasant
day, in most serene weather, my man and I stood
upon the top of a hill, on the east fide of the island,
•vvrhence I had once before beheld the continent of
America. I could not tell immediately what was the
piatter; for suddenly Fsiday sell a jumping and danc-
ing as if he had been mad; and upon my demand"
ing the reason of his behaviour, 0 joy, said he, 0
glad! there fee my country, there my nation, there live
jtuhite mans gether. And indeed* such a rapturous
fense of pleasure appeared in his countenance, that
Jiis eyes had an uncommon sparkling and brightness,
gtnd such a strange eage.rneiss, as if he had a longing
desire to'be in his own country again. This made
sue not so well satissied with my man Friday as be-
fore; for by this appearance, I made no-dispute, bul
ghat if he could get back thither again, lie would not <
only be unmindsul of what religion I had taught him,
ljut likewise of the great obligation he owed me for
fais -wonderful deliverance: nay, that he would not
only inform bis countrymen of me, but accompany
hundreds of them to my.kingdom, and make me a
miserable sacrifice like those unhappy wretches taken
-ifi battle.
Indeed I was very much to blame to have these
^ruel and unjust suspicions, and must freely own I
pronged the poor .creature very much, who was of a
quite contrary temper. And had he had that dis-
cerning acuteness which many Europeans ,have,
would certainly have perceived my .coldness and
-^ndifference, and also have been very much concern-
ed upon that account; as I was now more circum-
spect, I had mucli lefienedmTy kindness and samiliarity
^^ith him, and while this jealousy continued, I used
^)ia< artsul way (now too much in sashion, the oc-
casion of strise and disiention) of pumping him daily,
^tcreby to discover wheither he .was deceitful in his
though**
thoughts and inclinations; but certainly he had no-
thing in him but what was consistent with the best
principles, both as a religious Christian and a grate-
sul friend; and, indeed, I found every thing he said
was so ingenuous and innocent, that I had no room
for suspicion, and, in spite of all uneasiness, he not
only made me entirely his own again, but also cause-
ed me much to lament that I ever conceived one ill
thought of him. ,
As we were walking up the same hill another day,
when the weather was so hazy at sea, that I could
not perceive the continent, Friday, said I, don't you
wish yourself to be in your own country, your own
nation, among your old friends and acquaintances?
Yes, said he, me much O glad to be at my own nation.
And what would you do there Friday? Would you
tarn wild again, eat man's flesh, and be a savage as
you were formerly? No, no, (answered he, sull of
concern,, and shaking his head) Friday now tell them
to live good, tell them pray God, tell them to eat corn-
bread, cattle, flesh, milk, no eat man again. But sure-
ly, replied I, if you should offer to do all this, they
will. kill you; and to manisest their contempt of such
instruction, eat you up when they have done. He
then put on a grave, yet innocent and smooth coun-
tenance, saying, No, they no kill me, they xvilling love
learn: that is, that they would be very willing to
learn : adding withal, that they had learned much of the
bearded mans that come in the boat. Will you, said I,
go back :again, Friday? he smiled at that, and told
me, that he could-not swim so sar. But, said I, I
will make a canoe for you: Yes, mafler, said he, me
go if you go, me no go if youflay. I go, Friday! why,
would you. have them eat me up, and devour your
kind master ?• No, no, said he, me make them not eat
majler, me make them much love you; that is, he would
tell them how I had slain his enemies, and thereby
saved his lise, for which reason he would make them
love me: and then he related to me, as well as he
was
was able, how exceeding kind those of his nation
•were to the white, or bearded men, as he called them,
who, in their great calamity, were driven into their
country.
It was from this time, indeed, I had strong incli-
nations to venture over, and use my utmost effbrts,
if possible, to join these white bearded men, who
„ undoubtedly were Spaniards or Portuguese; for,
thought I, it must be certainly a better and safer way
to escape when there is a good company, than for me
alotij, from an island foity miles off the shore, and
without any assistance, Some days after, Friday and
I being at work, as usual, at the same time diverting
ourselves with various discourses, I told him I had
a boat which I would bestow upon him, whenever
Jie pleased to return to his own nation: and to con-
vince him of the truth of what 1 said, I took him
Wttn me to the other side of the island, where my fri-
gate lay, and then taking it from under the water,
(for I always kept it funk for sear of a discovery) we
t>oth went into it to see how it would manage such
an expedition.
And really never could any be more dexterous in
rowing than my saithsul servant, making the boat go
3s sast again as I could. Well, now, Friday, said I,
/JiaJl we now go to your so much desired nation?
gut instead of meeting with that chearsulness I ex-
pected, he looked very dull and melancholy at my
s-j.yi'g so; which indeed at first surprised me, till he
iiiade me sensible, that his concern was about the
goat's being too srnali to go so far a voyage. Upon
%^rhich I let him understand I had a much bigger;
an<J, accordingly, the next day went co the place
^vhere the first boat lay, which I had made, when
3jJ the sirngth I had, or art I could use, sailed me
in my attempt to get it into the water; but now it
jiving lain in the sun two and twenty years, and no
caj:e being taken of it all that while, it became in a
^uanner rotten. My man told me, that such a boat
would
would do very well for the purpose, sufficient tocarry
enough vittle, dring, bread, for that was his manner
of talking. In short, my mind being strongly fixed
upon my design of going over with him to the con-
tinent, I very plainly told him, that we would both
gq and make a boat sull as big, and more proportiona-
ble than that, wherein, he might sasely return to his
own nation.
These words made Friday look so very pensive,
that I thought he would have fallen at my seet. It
was some time before he could speak a word, which
made me ask him, what was the matter with him t
He replied, in a very soft and moving tone, What has
poor Friday done.? why are you angry mad with poor ser-
vant? what me done, O what me done? Friday, said
I, you never yet have osfended ;ne: what makes you
think I am angry with you, when I am not angry at
all You no angry, no angry, said he several times; if
you be no angry, why dm send Friday over great water
to my own nation? Why, surely, Friday, answered I, did
you not wish to be there, when, from a mountain,
you beheld the place where you was bora? and is it
not to satisfy your defires that I am willing to give
you leave to return thither? Yes, yes, said Friday,
me wiji> be there sure enough, but me den wish majier
there too: no wish Friday, there, no majier there. In
short, he could not endure the thoughts of going
these without me. I go therey Friday said I, what
shall I do there ?-.—p-Hc answered very quickly, 0"
mafiar, you do great deal much good, you teach all de wild-
mans to he goad tame mans: you learn dem to be sober,
live good life, to know God, and pray Gad. Alas! poop
Friday, said I, what can I do against their pri.est , of
Renamuckee, or indeed what good can I make your
nation sensible, of, when I myself am but a pooj ig-
norant man? No, no, majhr, said he, you be no ig-
norant, you teachee me good, you teachee dem good. You
skall go. without me, Friday, said, I, for I don't
care to accompany you thither; I would rather live
in this solitude than venture among such inhuman
savages. Go your way, since you defire it, and leave
me alone by myself, as I was before I saved your
Jise.
Never was any creature more thunder-struck than
Friday was at theie words. Go me away, leave majler
away, said he, after a long silence, no, no, Friday
die; Friday live net majler gone; as though he had said,
I neither can nor will live, if my master sends me
from him. And here I cannot but take notice of the
strong ties of friendship, which many times surpase
those of consanguinity: For often we find a great
disagreement among kindred ; and when there is any
seeming regard for each other, it is very seldom true,
.and scarce ever lasting, if powersul interest does not
bear rhe sway ; and that alone is often the occasion of
she greatest hatred in the world, which is To defire
the death of parents and relations, for the sake of ac-
quiring their fortunes. But there was no such thing
between my servant and me: instead of which there
.was the greatest gratitude, and the most sincere love;
be found me not only his deliverer, but his preserver
aiid comforter; not a severe and cruel tyrant, bat a
jcind, loving, and affable friend. He wanted for no
gamier of sustenance; and, when he was ill, or cut
of order, I was his physician, not only for his body,
his sou]; and therefore no wonder was it, that
siich an innocent creature, long since divested of his
farmer natural cruelty, should have an uncommon
cC)ncern at so cruel a separation from me, which
pierced him to the very soul, and made him defire
^yen to die, rather than 1 ve without me.
After I had told Friday, in a very careless manner,
tfizt 'ie shanld he at his liberty as soon as the boat was
^iade, the language of his eyes expressed all imagina-
tj}e consusion; when, immediately running to one of
P^s hatchets, which he used to wear as a desensive
**J^apon, he gives it into my hand, with a heart so
rv. H. tha£ he could scarcely speak. Friday, said I,
*** * r what
what is it you mean? What must I do with this t
Only kill Friday, said he, Friday care not live long. But
what must I kill you for? replied I again. Ah!
dear master, what made you Friday save from eat a me
up, so keep long Friday, make Friday love God, and not
love Benamuckee, and no w Friday send away, never see
Friday mori. As though the poor creature had said,
Alas, my dearest kind master, how comes it to pass,
that, after having ventured your precious lise to save
me from the jaws of devounng cannibals like myself,
after such a tender regard to provide for me such a
comfortable nourishment, and continuing so long a
kind master, and a most sincere friend; and aster
making me forsake the salse notion of an Indian deity,
and worship the true God in spirit and in truth;
after all this, how comes it now, that you are will-
ing to send me away to my former course os living,
by which means undoubtedly we shall bedead to each
other; but greater must be my misfortune, that I
shall never behold my best friend I have in the world
any more. And this undoubtedly, though he could
not express himself so clearly, must be his sentiments;
for the tears ran down his cheeks in such a plentisul
manner, that I had much ado.to refrain from weep-
ing also, when I beheld the poor creature's affection;
so that I was forced to commit him in the best man-
ner I could, which I did, by telling him, if he was
content to abide with me, I should be ever willing
to keep him. /
After Friday's grief was something abated, more
fully to convince me of his affection, he (aid, O
majler, me not care to be in my nation, leave you here;
me desire nation learn good, that's all; meaning, that
his defire was for the conversion of that barbarous
people. But as I had no apostolic mission, nor any
concern about their salvation; so I had not the least
intention or defire of undertaking it; and the strength
of my inclination, in order to escape, proceeded
chiefly from my late discourse with Friday, about
these
these seventeen white bearded men, that had been
driven upon the barbarian coast; whom I designed
to join, as the only means to farther our escape. To
which intent my man and I went to search for a pro-
per tree to sell, whereof we might make a large peri-
agua or canoe, to undertake the voyage; and, in-
deed, we were not long in finding one sit for our
purpose, there being enough of wood in the island
to have built a fleet of large vessels, but the thing; we
principally wanted was, to get one so near the^wa-
ter, that we might launch it after it was finished,
and not commit so horrid a mistake as I had done
once before.
Well, after a great search for what was best and
most convenient, Friday at last, whose judgment in
such affairs was much superior to mine, pitches upon
a kind of wood the most sitting for it. To this day
I cannot tell the name of the tree, nor describe it
any other way, than only by saying, that it is very
like what we call fustic^ or between that and the Ni-
caragua wood, being much of the same colour and
smell. But though my man exceeded m« in the
knowledge of the most proper tree, yet I shewed him
a much better and cleaner way to make a canoe than
ever he knew before: for he was for burning the hol-
]ow or cavity of the tree, in order to make this boat;
but I then told him how we might do it with tools,
learning him at the fame time how to use them, which
indeed he did very dexterously; so that in a month's
labour we finished it, making it very handsome, by
cutting the outside in the true.shape of a boat. After
this it took us a full fortnight before we could get
her into the water, which we did, as it were, inch
by inch, upon grezÆ rollers: but when she was in,
she would have-carried twenty men, with all the ease
imaginable.
As I was very well pleased, you may be sure, at
the launching of this man of war of mine, I was 110
Jese amazed. to behold with what dexterity my man
would
would manage her, turn her, and paddle her along.
Well, Friday, (aid I, what do you think of it now?
Do you think this will carry us over? Yes, master^
said he, me venture over well, though great blow wind.
But my delign was yet sarther, which he was insen-
sible of; and that was to make a mast and sail, and
to provide her .with an anchor and cable. As to a
mast, that was no difficult thing at all to procure;
so I fixed upon a straight young cedar-tree, which I
found near the place, great plenty of it abounding In
the island; and setting Friday to cut it down, I
gave him particular directions how to shape and or-
der it; but as to the sail, that I managed myself. I
very well knew I had some old ones, or pieces of
sails enough, which had lain fix and twenty years
by me-, but not being caresul to preserve them, as
thinking I should have no occasion to use them any
more, when I came to look them over, I found them
almost all rotten, except two; and with these I went to
work, and after a great deal of pains and awkward tedi-
ous stitching for want of needles, at length I finished a
three-cornered ugly thing like what we call in Eng-
land a shoulder of mutton sail, to go with a boom
at bottom, and a little small sprit at the top, like
those which our long-boats use, and which I very
weil knew how to manage; especially since it was
like that which I had in my patron's fishing boat,
when, with my boy Xury, I made my escape from
the Barbarian shore.
It was near two months, I think, before I com-
pleted this work, that is, the rigging, and sitting
my mast and sails ; and indeed they were nicely done,
having made a small stay, and a sail, or foresail to it,
to assist, if we should turn to the westward; and,
which was still more, I fixed a rudder to the stern of
her, to steer with; and though I was but a very in-
different sliipwright, yet, as I was sensible of the
great usesulness and absolute necessity of a thing like
this, I applied myself to it with such a constant
appli-
application, thatatlastl accomplished my design ; but
what with the many dull contrivances I had about it,
and the sailure of many things, it cost me as much
pains in ordering as in making the boat. Besides,
when all this was done, I had my man to teach what
belonged to its navigation: for though he very well
understood how to paddle a canoe along, he was an
utter stranger to a sail and a rudder, and was amazed
when he saw me work the boat to and again in the
sea, by them, and how the sailgibbed and filled this
way or that way, as the course we sailed changed.
Aster some time, and a little use, I made all these
things very samiliar to him, so that he became an
expert sailor, except in relation'to the compass, and
that I could make him understand but little of. But
as it happened, there was seldom occasion for it,
there being but little cloudy weather, and scarce ever
any fog in those parts; the stars were always visible
in the night, and the shore perspicuous by day, ex-
cept in the rainy season, which confined every one to
Jiis habitation.
Thus entered in the seven and twentieth year of
iny reign, or captivity, which you please, (the last
three of which, blessed with the company of my m^n
Friday, ought not to be reckoned) I kept the anni-
versary of my landing here, with the same thanksul-
ness to God, for his tender mereies, as I did before;
and certainly, as I had great cause for a thanksul ac-
jtnowldgment for my deliverance at first* I had much
greater now for such singular and additional testimo-
nies of the care of Providence over me, in all ray
distresses both of body and mind, and the great hopes
j had of being effectually and speedily delivered; for
J had a strong impression upon mymind, that Ishould
pot be another year in this island. But, however, I
jt.ill continued on with my husbandry, digging,'plant-
ing, and sencing, as usual; gathering and curing
grapes, and doing all other things that were ne-
ceil"ary/ And
And.now the rainy season beginning to come on,
obliged me to keep the longer within doors; but be-
fore this, I brought my new vessel into, the creek,
where I had landed my rafts from the ship, and ha-
ling her up to the shore, I ordered my man Friday to
dig a dock sufficient to hold her in, and deep enough
to give her water, wherein she might float; and then
when the tide was out, we made a strong dam cross
the end of it, to keep »ut the water; by which means
she lay dry, as to the tide from the sea; and to keep
the rain from her, we thatched her over, as it were,
with boughs of trees, like a house; so we waited
for the months of November and December, in which
I designed to venture over the ocean.
No sooner did the seasonable weather begin to draw
near, but so much was I elevated with this new de-
signed adventure, that I daily prepared for the voy-
age. The first thing I thought on was, to lay by a
certain quantity of provisions, as a sufficient store
for such an expedition, intending in a week or fort-
night's time to open the dock, and launch out the
boat for that purpose. But one morning as I was
very busy upon something necessary for this occasion,
I called Friday to me, and bid him goto the sea shore,
and see if he could find a turtle or tortoise, a thing
which we commonly had once a week, as much upon
account of the eggs, as for the sake of the flesh. He
had not been long gone, but he came running back,
as though he was pursued for lise, and as it were flew
over my outward wall, or sence, like One that selt
not the ground, or steps he set his seet on; and be-
fore I had time to enquire the reason of his precipi-
tation, he cries out, O dear master, Osorrow! sor-
row! Bad! O bad! Why, what's the matter, Fri-
day? said I. O, yonder, yonder, said he, there be one,
two, or three canoes! two, three. Surely (though I)
there must be six, by my man's way of reckoning;
but, on a stricter inquiry, I found there were but
three. Well, Friday, said I, don't be territied, I
G warrant
warrant you we will not onlydesend ourselves against
them, but kill the most of these cruel savages. Buttho'
I comforted.him in the bestmanner 1 could, the poor
Creature trembled so, that I scarce knew v. hat to.do
with, him: O, majler, said he., they come look Friday,
csd pieces Friday, cut a trie up. Why, Friday, said lr
they will eat me up as well as you, and my danger is
as great as yours. But sin.ce.it is so, we mull re-
solve to fight for our lives, What fay yuu? can you
fight, Friday? Yes, said he, very saintly, me shoot,
tne kijl.what I can, but there came great many number.
That's no matter, said I again, our guns, will territy
those that we do not kill; I am very willing to stand
by you to the last drop of my blood. Now, tell me,
if you will do the like by me, and obey my orders
in whatsoever I command? Friday then answered,
O master, me lose life for you, me die when you bid die'.
Thus concluding all questions concerning his fideli-
ty, irnrnediately I setched him a good dram of rum, (of
Vvhich I had.been a very good husband) and gave it
jiim to comfort his heart. After he had drank it, I
ordered him to take the two fowling pieces, which
we always carried, and load them with large swan
{hot, as big as small pistol bullets; then I took four
xnufkets, and loaded them with two slugs, and sive
small bullets each; charging my two pistols each
y/ith a brace, I hung my great sword, as customary,,
naked to my fide, and gave Friday his hatchet, as a
i^iost excellent weapon for desence.
Thus prepared, I•thought as wellsof myself as any
JfCiiilht-errant that ever handled a sword and spear. I
took my perspective glass, and went up to the fide
0f the hill, to see what J could discover; and 1 per-
ceived very soon, by my glass, that there were one
?nd twenty savages, three prisoners, and three canoes,
and that their chief concern seemed to be the tn*
uniphant banquet upon the three poor human bodies,
a thing which by this time I had observed was very
common with them. I also remarked, that they did
not land at that place from.whence Friday made his
escape, but nearer to the creek, where the shore was
low, and where a thick wood came very close to the
sea. My soul was then filled with indignation and
abhorrence at such inhuman wretches, which put a
period to all my former thoughts in their vindication;
neither would I give myself time to consider their
right of conquest, as I had done before: but de-
scending from the mountain, I came down to Fri-
day, and told him, I was resolved to go speedily to
them, and kill them all; asking him again, in the
same bn.ath, .if he would stand by me; When by
this time being recovered from his fright, and his
spirit much cheered with the dram I had given him,
he was very pleasant; yet seriously telling me, as he
did before, When I bid die, he would die.
And now it was, having fixed my resolution in so
strong a manner, that nothing could divest my breast
•of its uncommon sury. I immediately divided the
loaded arms betwixt us. To my man Friday I gave
a..pistol to stick in his girdle, with three guns upon
his shoulder, a weight too great I consess to bear;
but what must a poor king do, who had but one loi-
dier in the world I But to shew I made him bear no
more than what I would lay on myself, I stuck the
other pistol in my girdle, and other three guns upon
my shoulders; nay something more, but that was
like Æsop's buiden, a small bottle of rum, which
was soon lightened to our exceeding refreshment.
Thus we marched out, under a ponderous load of
armour, like two invincible champions, with a quan-
tity of powder and bullets to stand our battie, and
load again, when the pieces were discharged. And
now my orders being to be obeyed, I charged Friday
to keep close behind me, and not to stir, or iluot,
or attempt any thing till 1 commanded him; and,
in the interim, not to speak so much as one word.
It was in this order I setched a compass to the right
hand, of near a mile, as well to pet over the creek,
G 2 as
as to attain the wood ; and by this, I thought to come
-within sliot of them before 1 could be discerned, r.s 1
found by my glass, would not be difficult to accomplish.
But how fickle and wavering is the mind of men,
even in our greatest sury and strongest inclinations r
J"or while I was taking this march, my resolution'
began to abate, not through sear of their numbers,
•iyho were a parcel of naked unarmed wretches, but
thole reflections occurred to my thoughts: What
power was I commissioned with, or what occasion or
neccssity had 1 to go and imbrue my hand:; in human
blood, and murder people that had neither done nor
intended to do me any wrong? They were innocent
iii particular as to me; and their barbarous custom
-wrts not only their misfortune, but a sign that God
bad left them in the most.immense stupidity; but
yet did not warrant me to be a judge of their actions,
much less an executioner of his righteous judg-
ments: That, on the contrary, whenever he thought
fit, he would take vengeance on them himself, and
pu.nisti them in a national way, according to the'ir
national crimes; but this Was nothing at all to me,
tVbo had no concern with them. Indeed my man
pridft] might justify himself, because they were his
declared enemies, of that very same nation that went
to sacnfice him before; and, indeed, ir> was lawsul
far him to attack them, which I could not say was
£a with respect to me. So warmly did these things
press upon my thoughts, all ths way I went, that I
£,iiiy resolved to place myself so as to behold their
\f\ociy entertainment, without salling upon them,
f,3tcept something more than ordinary, by God's spe-
cial direction, should oblige me thereto.
Thus fixed in my resolution, I entered into the
Vjc-Jc wood, (my man Friday following me close be-
I ir.d) when, with all possible wariness and silence, I
parched till I came to the skirt of it, on that side
flitch was the nearest to them; for only one end of
v/ood interposed between me and them. Upon
II which
.which I called very softly to Friday; and shewing
him a great tree, that was just at the corner of the
wood, I ordered him to repair thither, and bring me
word, if he could plainly perceive their actions ; ac-
cordingly, he did as I commanded him, and came
back with this melancholy story, that they were all
about their fire, eating the flesh of one of their pri-
soners; and«that anofner lay bound upon the sand,
a little distant from them, which they designed for
their next sacrifice; and this, he told me, was not
one of their nation, but one of those very bearded
men, who was driven by a storm into their country, ,
and of whom he had so often talked to me about.
You may be sure, that upon hearing this, my foul
was ready to sink within me; when ascending up
into a tree, I saw plainly, by my glass, »white man,
who lay upon the beach of the sea, with his hands
and seet ty'd with flags, or things resembling rushes,
being covered with clothes, and seemed to be an Eu-
ropean. From the tree where I took this prospect, I
perceived another tree, and a thicket beyond it, about ,
fifty yards nearer to them than where I was, which,
by taking a small circle round, I might come at un-
discovered, and then I should be within half a shot
of these devourers. And this consideration alone,
to be more persectly revenged upon them, made me
withold my paffion, though I was enraged to the
highest degree imaginable; when going back about
twenty paces, I got behind some bushes, which held
all the way till I came to the other tree ; and then I
ascended to a little rising ground, not above eighteen
yards distance, and there f had a sull view of these
creatures, and I could perceive all their actions.
Such a sight did then appear, as obliged me not to
lose a moment's t.mc. No less than nineteen of these
dreadful wretches sat upon the ground, close huddled
together, expressing all th? desight imaginable at so
barbarous an entertainment; and they had just sent
ot,her two to murder this poor unhappy Christian,
G 3 and'
-
4
and bring hiralsmb by limb to their fires; for they
were just then going to untie the bands from his seet,
in order for death, as setters are knocked off the seet
of malesactors before they go to the place of execu-
tion. Hereupon, immediately turning to my man,
Now, Friday, said s, mind what I say, sail in no-
thing, but do exactly as you see me do. All which
he promising he would perform, I set down one of
« my muskets, and the fowling piece upon the ground,
and Friday did the same by his; and with the other
musket I rook my aim at the savages, bidding him
do the like: Are you ready, said I? Yes, master^
said he. Why then fire at them, said I; and that
very moment I gave fire likewise..
I only killed one, and wounded two; butmyman
.^Friday, taking his aim much hetter than I,, killed
two, and wounded three. You may be sure they
Vrere rn a dreadf ul consternation, at such an unex-
• pected disaster; and those who yet had escaped our
penetrating shot, immediately jumped upon their
feet, but were in such consusion, that they knew not
•wh ich way to run or look; not knowing from whence
their destruction came. We then threw down our
piece?, and took up others, giving a second dreadsul
volley; hut as they were loaded only with swan-shot,
or small pistol bullets, we perceived only two of
them sall; though many were wounded, who run
yelling, and fcieaming about like mad creatures.
Jvfov/i Friday, said I, lay down your piece, and take
up the musket, and follow me. He did so, with
great courage, when shewing ourselves to the savages,
vve gave a great shout, and made directly to the poor
victim, who would have been sacrificed, had not our
first fire obliged the butchers, with three others, to;
jump into a canoe. By my order, Friday fired at •
them, at which shot i thought he had killed them
all, by reason of their salling to the bottom of the
boat; however, he killed two, and mortally wound-
e J a third. In the mean time, I cut the slags that
tied.,
st'kd the hands and seet of the poor' creature, and
lifting him up, asked him in the Portuguese tongue,
Whdt he was? He answered me in Latin, Chriftiarrus:
but so "very Weak and saint, that, he could scarce
Hand or speak. Immediately I gave him a dram,
and a piece of bread to cherish him, and asked him,
What countryman he was? He said Espaniola, and
-then uttered all the thanksulness imaginable forhis
deliverance. Signior, (said I, with as much Spanijh
as I was master of) let us talk afterwards, but sight
now; here, take this sword and pistol, and do what
you can. And, indeed, he did so with such courage
and intrepidity, that he cut two of them to pieces
in an instant, the savages not having the^ power
-to fly for their lives. I ordered Friday to run for
those pieces we had left at the tree, which he brought
me with great swiftness, and then I g^ve him my
musket, while I loaded the rest. But now there hap-
•pened a fierce encounter between the Spaniard and
one of the savages, who had made at him with one
of their wooden swords; and though the former was
as brave as could be expected, having twice wound-
Hied his enemy in the head ; yet being weak and saint-,
the Indian had throw him upon the ground, and was
wresting my sword out of his hand, which the Spa*
ward very wisely quitting drew out his pistol, and
shot him through the body before I could come near
him, though I was running to his assistance. As to
Friday, he pursued the flying wretches with his hat-
.ehet, dispatching three, but the rest-were too nimble
'for him. The Spaniard taking ontj of the fowling-
pieces, wounded two, who ruSnftrg into the wood,
Friday pursued and killed orte; but the other not-
withstanding his wounds,, ptunged himself into the
sea,-and swam to those "two-who were left in the
canoe,. which with one wounded, were all that
.escaped out of one and twenty. The account is
,as follows:
G 4 Kiikd
Killed at firjl shot from the tree, 3
dt the Jecond jhot, - - - 2
By Friday in the boat, - 2
Ditto, of thfefirjl wounded, 2
Ditto, in the wood, - - 1
By the Spaniard, 3
Killed or died of their wounds, - - 4
Escaped in the boat, whereof one wounded, if notfain, 4
Total 21
The savages in the canoe worked very hard to get
»ut of our reach, and Friday was as eager in pur-
suing them; and, indeed, I was no less anxious
about their escape lest, after the news had been
carried [o their people, they should return in mul-
titudes, and destroy us. So being resolved. to pur-
sue them, I jumped into one of their canoes, and
bid Friday follow me; but no sooner was I in, than,
to my surprise, I found another poor creature, bound
band and foot for the slaughter, just as the Spaniard
b'ad been, with very little lise in him. Immediately
J unbound him, and would have helped him up; but
be could neither stanc' hor speak, but groaned so pi-
teously,as thinking he was only unbound in order to be
slain. Hereupon I bid Friday speak to him, and tell him
0f his deliverance1; when pulling out my bottle, I made
tbe poor wretch drink a dram, which, with the joysul
•pews he had received, so revived his heart, that he fat
Up in the boat. As soon as Friday began to hear him.
speak, and look more sully in his sace, it would have
rrioved any one to tears to perceive his uncommon
transports of joy; for he kissed, embraced him, hug-
ged him, cried, laughed, hallooed, jumped about,
jaiiced, sung, then cried again, wrung his hands,
beat his sace and head, then sung and jumped about
^o-ain, like a distracted creature: so that it was a
exe.xt while before I could make him speak to me,
tell me what was the matter with him; but
when
when he came to the liberty of his speech, at last he
told me it was his sather.
Here indeed I was infinitely moved to see that du-
tisul and tender affection this poor savage had to his
aged parent. He would sit down by him in the boat,
open his breast, and hold his sather's head close to
his bosom, half an hour together, to cherish it: then
he took his arms and ancles, which were stiff, and
numbed with binding, and chased and rubbed them
with his hands; by which means, perceiving what
the case was, I gave him some rum, which proved of
great benesit to him. .
While we were busy in this action, the savages had
gotten almost out of sight; and happy it was we did
not pursue them: For there arose from the north-
west, which continued all night long, such a violent
storm, that I could not suppose otherwise but that
they were all drowned. After this, I called Friday
to me, and asked him, if he had given his sather any
bread I He shook his head, and said, None, not one
£;7, me eat a up all; so I gave him a cake of bread
out of a little pouch I carried for this end. I like-
wise gave him a dram for himself, and two or three
bunches of raisins for his sather. Both these he car-
ried to him, for he would make him drink the dram,
to comfort him.
Away he then runs out of the boat as if he was
bewitched, with such an extraordinary swiftness,
that he was out of sight as it were in an instant;
but, at his return, I perceived him Oaken his pacej
because he had something in his hand. And this I
found to be as he approached nearer, an earthen jug
with some water fo>his sather, with two more cakes
of bread, which he delivered into my hands. Being
very thirsty myself, I drank some of the water, of
which when his sather had drunk sufficiently, it
more revived his spirits than all the rum I had given
him.
I then called Friday to me, and ordered him to carry
G 5 • the
the Spaniard one os- the cakes, and.fome. water, who
.was reposing himself upon a green place under the
shade of a tree, but so weak, that though he exert-
ed himself, h» could not Hand upon his seet. Upon
which I ordered Friday, to rub and bathe his ancles
with rum, as he did his sather's. But every minute:
he .was employed in. this,, he would cast a wishsul
eye towards the boat, where he left his sather sitting;
who suddenly disappearing, he flew like lightning to
him, and finding he only laid himself down to ease
his limbs, he returned back tome presently, and then
I spoke to the Spaniard to let Friday help him, and
Jead him to the boat, in order to be conveyed to my
dwelling, where I would take care of him.; Upon:
which Friday, took him upon his backhand socarried
him to-the'canoe, setting him^eiose by his sather^
and presently stepping out again, launched the boat
off» 3nd paddled it along the shore saster .than I could
Walk, though the wind'-blew very hard too; and
having brought them sase to the creek, away he runs
io setch the other canoe, which he brought to the
creek almost as soon as I got to it by land, when
wafting me over, he took our new guests out of the
{>oat; but so weak, were they, that I was forced to
iiiake a kind of a hand-barrow ; and when I came to
riiy castle, not being willing ,to, make an entrance
jnto my wall, we made them a handsome tent, co-
pied with old sails, and boughs of trees, making
fWP good beds of rice,, straw, with blankets to lie
upon and cover them. Thus, like an absolute king,
G\'cr subjects who owed their lives to. me, I thought
myself very considerable, especially as I had now
three religions in my kingdom, my man Friday be-
inga protestant, his sather a Pagan, and the Spa-
niard a Papist : but I gave liberty of conscience to them
To get provisions for my poor weak subjects, i
^r<d«evi Friday to kill me a yearling go.tt.; which
^vben he had done, I cut off uc hinder quarters, and
choping
choping it into small pieces, boiled and stewed it,
putting barley and rice into the broth. This I car-
ried into their tent, set a table, elined.with them my-
self, and encouraged them. Friday was my inter-
preter to his sather, and indeed to the Spaniard too,
who spoke the language of the savages pretty well.
After dinner I ordered Friday to setch home all our
arms from the field of-battle, and the next day to
•bury the dead bodies, which he did accordingly.
And now I made Friday enquire of his sather
whether he thought those savages had escaped the
late storm in their canoe; and if so, whether, they
would not return with a power too great for us to
resist? He answered, that he thought it impossible
-they could outlive the storm; or if they were driven
southwardly, they would come to a land where they
would as certainly .beT devoured* as if they were
.drowned in the-sea." And suppose they had attained
their own coantry, the strangeness of their satal and
bloody attack, would make then) tell their people,
that the-rest of them were killed by thunder and 1
lightening, not by the hand of man, but by two
heavenly spirits (meaning Friday and me) who were
sent'from above to destroy them. • And this he said, -
"he knew, because he heard them say the same to one
another. And indeed he-was in the right on't; for
I haye heard'since, that-these four men gave out,
that whoever went.to that inchanted island, would 1
be destroyed by fire from the.gods.
No canoes appearing some time"after, as I'expect-
«d, my apprehensions ceased : Jnstead of which my
former-thoughts of a voyage;took place, especially
when Friday's sather assured me I should have -good .
.usage in hrs nation. As to the Spaniard, he told,
me, that-sixteen more of his countrymen, iartd-Por-
tirguese',i who-had been shipwrecked, made: their-.e-
.seape thither -, •that though they were in^nionTwith
she.savages,.yet :they were very miibra&lo'' ior want
-ef-provisions, and-'.other, necessaries,- Wften I.asked
him'
him about the particulars of his voyage, he answer-
ed, that their ship was bound from'Æ/a de la Plata to
the Havannah; that when the ship was lost, only
five men perished in the ocean ; the rest having saved
themselves in the boat, were now landed on the main
continent. And what do they intend to do there?
said I. He replied, they have concerted measures to
escape, by building a vessel, but that they had nei-
ther tools nor provisions, so that all their designs
came to nothing. Supposing (said I) I should make
0 proposal, and invite them here, would they not
carry me prisoner to New Spain? he answered no;
for he knew them .to be such honest men, as would
scorn to act such inhuman baseness to their deliverer:
1"hat if I pleased, he and the old savage would go
over to them, talk with them about it, and bring me
3Ji answer: That they should all swear sidelity to
r\c as their leader, upon the holy sacrament; and,
f0r his part, he would not only do the same, but
.stand by me to the last drop of his blood, should there
occasion.
These solemn assurances made me resolve to grant
•them relief, and to send these two over for that pur-
pose: but whep every thing was ready, the Spaniard
i,^ised an objection, which carried a great deal of
weight in it: You know, Sir, said he, that having
faeen some time with you, I cannot but be sensible of your
flock of rice and corn, sufficient, perhaps, for us at pre-
-'fent, but not for them, [should they come over presently;
fjiuth less to visual a vessel for an intended voyage. Want
flight be as great an occasion for them to disagree and re-
foel^ as the children of Israel did againjl God himself,
^yken they wanted bread in the wilderness. And, there-
jra1-e my advice is, to wait another harvest, and in the mean
J{-irne cultivate and improve fim^more land, whereby we may
Urfve plenty of provisions, in order to execute our design. .
This advice of the Spaniard's I approved extreme-
lv; and so satisfied was I of his sidelity, that I
.^teemed him ever after. And thus we all four went
to work upon some more land, and against seed-time
we had gotten so much cured and trimmed up, suf-
ficient to sow 22 bushels of barley on, and 16 jars
of rice, which was.in short all the seed we had to
spare. As we were four in number, and by this
time all in good healths we seared not a hundred
Indians, should they venture to attack us:-and while
the corn was growing, I pitched upon some trees,
fit to build us a large vessel, in case the Spaniards
came over; which being marked, I ordered Friday
and his sather to cut them down, appointing the Spa-
niard, who was now my privy counsellor, to oversee
and direct the work. I likewise encreased my flocks
of goats, by shooting the wild dams, and bringing
home their kids to my inclosure: Nor did I neglect
the grape-season, but cured them as usual, though
I had such a quantity now, as would have filled 80
barrels with raisins. And thus, all of us being em-
ployed, they in working, and I in providing for
them, till harvest came, God Almighty blessed the
encrease of it so much, that from twenty-two bar-
rels of barley, we threshed out two hundred and
twenty, and the like quantity of rice, susficient to
victual a ship sit to carry me and all the Spaniards to
any part of America.
Thus the principal objection being answered, by
a susficient stock of provisions, I sent my two am-
bassadors over to the main-land, with a regal au-
thority to administer the oaths of allegiance and fide-
lity ^ and have an instrument signed under their hands,
though I never asked whether they had pen, ink, or
paper; when giving each of them a mulket, eight
charges of powder and ball, and provision enough
for eight days, they sailed away with a sair gale, on
a day when the moon was at sull.
. Scarce a fo.'tnight had passed over my head; but,
impatient for their return, I laid me down to ile< p
one morning, when a strange accident happened,
which was ushered in by my man's coming running
-co me, and calling aloud, Master, master,. they at*
.come, they are come. Upon which not dreaming of
any danger, out 1 jumped from my bed, put on"my
-clothes, and hurned through my little grove; when
looking towards the sea, 1 perceived a boat about a
league and a half distant, standing in for the shore,
with the wind sair. I beheld they did not come from
•the side where the land lay on, but from the souther-
most end of the island': So' these being none of the
people we wanted, I ordered Friday to lie still, till
such time as I came down from the mountain, which,
with my ladder, I now ascended, in order to discover
more sully what they were: and now, ivith the help
of my perspective glass, I plainly perceived an Eng-
lish ship, which I concluded itto be, by the sashion of
its long boat; and, which filled me with such uncom-
mon transports of joy, that I cannot tell how to
describe; and yet some secret doubts hung about me,
proceeding from I know not what cause, as though
I had reason to be upon my guard. And', indeed, I
would have no man contemn the secret hints and in-
timations of danger, which'very often are given,
when he may imagine there is no possibility of its-
ybeing rea< \ for, had not I been warned by this silent
admonition, I had been in a worse lunation than be-
fore, and perhaps inevitably ru;ned."
Not long it was, -before! perceived the boat to ap-
proach the shores .as though they looked sor a place
where they might conveniently land; and. at lust
they ran their.boat onshore upon the beach, about h;;lf
a mile's distance ; which proved so much the happier
for me, since, had they come inte the creek, they
jiad landed just at my door, and mighmot only have
forced me out of my castle, but plundered me of all
J had in the world. Nov/ I was sully convinced
they were all Englishmen, three of -which "were un-
armed anu bound; when immediately the first tour
0r five leaped on shore, and took thole three out of
jtheboat as prisoners; one ot' whom J could perceive
i&i ike ra,
ton, and
gree, (hew
Natk.no
low, to aft
sight. 0,
«' prism
think they
am much
hut as for
"ever do.
j And no
"ot havin'
aiso that 1
Perceived,
; and save t
$°rng to
i it was to,
Ree: ar
the tide h
cumspect
they sc;i
the other
tlir his ft
'ciUh<
K as 1
*aua]
to one.;
V|uced t
while i l
j ^t,;
used the most passionate gestures of entreaty, -afflic-
tion, and despair, while tke others, in a lefier .de-
gree, shewed abundance of concern.
Not knowingthe meaningof this, I was verv much
astonished, and I beckoned to Friday, who was be-
low,, to ascend the. mountain, and likewise view this .
sight. O majler, said'he to me, you see English mans
eat prisoners as well as Savage mans. And do you
think they will eat them, Friday? said I. 'Yes, said
Friday, they eat a all up. No, no, said I, Friday,'!
am much more concerned lest they murder them;
but as for eating them up, that I am sure they will..
never do. *
And now I not only lamented my misfortune in -
not having the Spaniard and Savage with me, but
also that I could not come within shot of them un-
perceived, (they having no fire arms amfing them)
and save these three men, whom I thought they were
-going to kill'with "their swords. But some comfort
It was to me,, that'I perceived they .were sefat liberty
to go*where they pleased} she rascally 'seamen scat-
te,ing about as though they had a mind.to see the
-place: and so long did they negligently ramble, that
the tide had ebbed so low, as to leave the boat aground.
Nor were the two men that were in her more cir-
cumspect : for having drunk a little too-much liquor,
they sell sast asteep; but one of them wakings before
the other, and perceiving the boat too sast aground
'for his strength to move it, he hallooed out to the
rest, who made all possible expedition to come to him;
but, as Providence ordered it, all their force was in-
effectual to launch her, when I could hear them (peak
to one . another, Why, let her.alone, Jack, can't ye,
she'll stoat next tide: by which words I was sully con-
vinced they were my own. countrymen. All .thrs
while I lay very quiet, as being sully sensible it could
"be no less than ten hours before the. boat would fre
rflo it, and then it would be so dark, as that they
couid not easily' perceive me, by whichmiearrs I
sliould
should be at more liberty to hear their talk, and ob-
serve all their motions: not but that 1 prepared for
my desence: yet as I had now another fort of ene-
mies to combat with, I acted with more caution. I
took two susees on my shoulder, and gave Friday
three muskrts ; besides, my formidable goat-skin coat,
and monstrous cap, made me look as] fierce and ter-
rible as Hercules of old, especially when two pistols
•were stuck in my belt, and my naked sword hanging
"by my side.
It was my design at first not to make any attempt
-till it was dark; but it being now two o'clock, in
the very heat of the day, the tailors were all strag-
gling inio the woods, and undoubtedly were lain
<]OWn to sleep. The three poor distressed creatures,
too anxious to get any sepose, were, however, seated
under the shade of a great tree, about a quarter of
a mile from me. Upon which, without any more
ado, 1 approached towards them, with my man fol-
lowing behind me, and, before I was perceived, I
called aloud to them in Spanish, What are ye, Gen-
tlemen?
At these words, they started up in great consusion,
•^v-hen tney beheld the strange sigure I made; they re-
turned no answer, but seemed as if they would fly
from me: Gentlemen, (said I in Englijh) don't be
afraid, perhaps you have a friend nearer than you expect.
j4e must be from heaven, said one of them, gravely pd-
ling 0ff h*S hat., for we are Pa^ a^ help in this world.
help is from Heaven, said I; but, Sir, as I have
perceived every action betiveen you and these brutes since
K/our landing, only inform me how to ajjtsi you, and I will
Ja it to the utmost os my power.
Am I talking with God or man, said he, in melt-
-ng tears. Are you of human kind, or an angel?
cjir, said I, my poor habit may tell you 1 am c man, and
^n Englishman, willing to assist you, having but this
'Servant only: here are arms and ammunition: tell freely
yeiir condition, can we save you f The story, said he,
™ is
is too long to relate, since our butchers are so near:
but, Sir, I was master of that ship, my men have
mutined, and it is a savour they have put my
mate, this passenger, and me, on shore without mur-
dering us, though Ave expect nothing but perishing
here. Are your enemies gone? said I. No, replied,
he, (pointing to a thicket) there they lie, while my
heart trembles, lest, having seen and heard us, they
should murder us all. Have they fire-arms? said i.
They have but two pieces, said he, one of which
is left in the boat. He also told me, there were two
enormous villains among them, that were the au-
thors of this mutiny, who, if they were killed or
seized, might induce the rest to return to their- o-
bedience. Well, well, said I, let us retire sarther
under the covering of the woods; and there it was I
made these conditions with him:
I. That, while they staid in the island, they should
not pretend to any authority; but should entirely
conform to my orders, and return me the arms
which I should put in their hands.
II. That, if the ship was recovered, they should
.afford Friday and myself our paflage gratis to Eng-
land.
When he had given me all the satissaction I could
defire, I gave him and his two companions each of
them a gun, with powder and hall sufficient, advi-
sing them to fire upon them as they lay fleeping.
The captain modestly said, that he was sorry to kill
them; though, on the other hand, to let these vil-
lains escape, who were the authors of his misery,
might be the ruin of us all. . Well, said he, do as
you think sit: and so accordingly I fired, killing one
of the Captain's chiesest enemies, and wounding the
other, who eagerly called for assistance; but the
Captain (who had reserved his piece) coming up to
him, Sirrah, said he, 'tis too late to call for ajft/lance,
you jhould rather cry to God to pardon your villany: and
so knocked him down with the stock of his gun:
three
-three others were also slightly wounded,' who, at my
•approach, cried out for mercy. This, the Captain
granted, upon condition that they Would swear to be
true to him in recovering the ship, which they
solemnly did ;. however, 1 obliged the Captain to
Jteep thtm bound. After which I sent Friday and
the Captain's mate to secure the boat, and bring away
the oars and sail; when, at their return, three men
-corning back, and seeing their hue distressed Captain,
now their conqueror, submitted to be bound also.
.And then it Waa, that having more liberty, I related
the adventures of my whole lise, which he heard
with a serious and wondersul attention. After this,
I carried him and his two companions into my little
fortified castle', shewed them aft my con leniencies,
and refreshed them with such provisions as I could
asford. When this was over, we began to consider
about regaining the slrip: he said, that there were
twenty-six hands'on board, who, knowing their lives
• were forseited by the law, for conspiracy and mutiny,
were so very hardened, that it would be dangeroirs
for our small company to attack them. This was a
reasonable inserence, indeed; hut something we must
resolve on, and immediately put in execution: we
. therefore heaved the- boat upon the beach so high that
./be could not shoot o/F at high water mark, and
• broke a hole in her net easily to be stopped; so that
all the signals they gave foi the boat to come on board
,were in vain. This obliged them to send another
boat ashore, with ten men armed, whose saces the
,£>ptain plainly descried, the boatfwain being., the
chief officer; but he said there,were three honcst
Jads among; them, who were forced into the con-
spiracy. Hereupon I gave him fresh courage, (for
J had perceived he was in concern) in the mean while
.securing our prisoners, except two,: whom we took
co our assistance, we thought ourselves able enough
adventure a battle. When tne sailors landed, and
„£>ehsid their boat in that? condition, they not only
JiaU •
late.
•hallooed, but fired, for their companions to hear^
yet they received no answer. This struck them with
horror and amazement,- thinking their companions
were murdered, they made as if they would return
to the ship. I could perceive the Captain's counte-
nance change at this^ till, of a sudden three men
were ordered "to look after the boat, while the other
seven leapt on shore, in order to search for their com-
panions: and, indeed, they came to the brow of the
hill, near my antient castle, from whence they could
see to a great distance in the woods, and there shout-
ing and hallooing till tired and weary, they at length
seated themselves under a spreading tree. My opi-
nion was, that nothing could be done till night,
when I might use some artifice to get them all out of
the boat; but, of a suddeni they started up, and
made to the sea side; hereupon I ordered Friday and
the Captain's mate to go over the creek, and halloo
as loud as they could, and so decoying them into
•t'ie woods, come round to me again. And, this, in-
deed, had good effect; for they followed the-noise,
till coming westward to the creek, they called for
their boat to carry them over, and taking one of the
men out of her, left two to look after her, having
sastened her to the stump of a little tree on shore.
Hereupon immediately the Captain and our party
passing the creek, out of their sight, we surprised
them botn, by the Captain's knocking down one,
anil ordering the other to surrender upon pain of
death, and who, being the honestest of them all,
sincerely joined with us. By this time it.was pretty
late; when the rest, returning to their boat, which
they found aground in the creek, the tide out,
and the men gone, they ran about, wringing their
hands, crying it was an inchanted island, and that
they ihou'ld be all murdered by spirits or devils. My
men would willingly have sallen upon them, but I
would not agree to hazard any of our party. But,
io be more certain, Friday and. tlie Captain erawied
upon,
upon their hands and seet, as near as possible; and,
when the boatfwain approached in sight, so eager
•was the Captain, that he fired, and killed him on
the spot; Friday wounded the next man, and a third
ran away. Hereupon I advanced with my whole
army; and, it being dark, I ordered the man we
had surprised in the boat, to call them by their names,
and to parley with them. Accordingly he called
out aloud, Tom- Smith, Tom smith s He answered,
Who's that? Robinson! answered the other, For God's
Jake, Tom, surrender immediately, or you're all dead
nun. Whom ust we surrender to? says Smith. To our
Captain and fifty men here, who have taken me prisoner,
wounded Will Frye, and killed the boatswain, shall
we have quarters then ? said he. Hereupon the Cap-
tain calls out, You, Smithy you know my voice, sur-
render immediately, and you shall all have your lives
granted, except Will Atkjns. Hereupon Atkins cries
out, What have I done, Captain, more than the resl,
ivho have been as bad as me? but that was a lie, for
he was the person that laid hold of him, and bound
him. However, he was ordered to submit to the
governor's mercy, for such was I called, And so,
Jaying down their arms, we bound them all, and
seized on their boat.
After this, the Captain expostulated with them,
telling them, that the governor was an Englishman,
who might execute them there; but he thought they
would be sent to England, except Will Atkins, who
,was ordered to prepare for death, next morning,
hereupon Atkins implored the Captain to intercede
for his lise, and ,the rest begged that they might not
he sent to England. This~answered our project for
seizing the ship. For after sending Atkins, and two
of the worst, fast bound to the cave, .and the rest
heing committed to mv bower, I sent the Captain to
ireat with them in the governor's name, offering thim
jpardon if they would assist in recovering the ship.
Upon which they all promised to stand by him till
the
the last drop of their blood; and whoever acted
treacheroufly, should be hanged in chains upon the
beach. They were all released on these assurances;
and then the Captain repaired the other boat, making;
his passenger Captain of her, and gave him four men
well armed; while himself, his mate, and five more,
went in the other boat. By midnight they came
within call of the ship, when the Captain ordered
Robinson to hail her, and tell them, that with great
difficulty they had found the men at last. But while
, they were discoursing, the Captain, his mate, and
the rest entered, and knocked down the second mate
and carpenter, secured those that were upon the deck,
by putting them under hatches, while the other
boat's crew entered and secured the forecastle; they
then broke into the round-house, where the mate,
after some resistance, shot the pirate Captain through
the head, upon which all the rest yielded themselves
prisoners. And thus the ship being recovered, the
joysul signal was fired, which I heardjwith the great-
est joy imaginable: nor was it long before he brought
the ship to an anchor at the creek's mouth, where
coming to me unawares, Then, says he, my dearest
friend and deliverer, there is your ship, and we are your
servants: a comfort so unspeakable, as made me
swoon in his arms, while, with gratitude to heaven,
we were tenderly embracing each other.
Nothing now remaining, but to consult what we
should do with the prisoners, whom he thought it
was not sase to take on board. Hereupon, concert-
ing with the Captain, I dressed myself in one of his
Ay ts, and sending for them, told them, that as I was
going to leave the island with all my people, if they
would tarry there, their lives should be spared; if
not, they should be handed at the first port they came
at. They agreed to stay. Hereupon I told them
my wi.ole story, charging them to be kind to the
Spaniards that Were expected, gave them all my
arms, and informing them of every thing necessary
for their subsistence, I and my man Friday went on
board. But the next morning two of the men came
swimming to the ship's side, desiring the Captain to
take them on board, though he hanged them after-
vards, complaining mightily how barbarously the
others used them. Upon which I prevailed with
the Captain to take them in; and being severely
whipt and pickled, they proved more honest for the
future. And so I bid sarewell to this island, carry-
ing along with me my money, my parrot, umbrella,
and goat-lkin cap; setting sail December 12, 1686,
after twenty eight years, two months, and nineteen
days residence, that same day and month that I es-
caped from Salee, landing in England, June 11,.
1687, after five and thirty years'abscnce from my
own country, which rendered me altogether a stran-
ger there.
Here I found my first Captain's widow alive, who
had buried a second husband, but in very mean cir-
cumstances, and whom I made mighty easy upon his
account. Soon after I went down to Yorkshire,
where all my samily were expired, except two sisters,
and as many of one of my brother's children. I
found no provision had been made for me, they con-
cluding I had been long since dead; so that I was
bxit in a very slender station. Indeed the Captain
did me a great kindness, by his reports.© the owners,
how I had delivered their ship on the desolate island,
upon which they made me a present of 200I. sterling.
I next went to Lisbon, taking my man Friday with
0ie, and there arriving in April, I met the Portu-
guese Captain, who had taken me on board on the
African coast; but being antient he had left off the
sea, and resigned all his business to his son, who fol-
lowed the Brazil trade. So altered both of us were,
that we did not know each other at first, till I dis-
covered myself more sully to him. After a sew em-
braces, I began to enquire of my concerns; and
then the old gentleman told me, that it was nine
'years
•years since he had been at Brazil, where my partner-
was then living, but my trustees were both dead-r
that he believed.! should have a good account of the
product of my plantation: that the imagination of
my being lost, had obliged my trustees to give an,
estimate of my share to the procurator-siscal, who,
in case of my not returning, had given one third to
the king,,and the rest to the monastry of St. Augus-
tine; but if. 1 put in my claim, .or any one for me,
it would be returned, except the yearly product
which was given to the poor. I then desired him to
tell me what improvement he thought had been made
of my plantation, and whether he imagined it was
worth my while to look after it? he answered, he
.did not know how much it was .improved; but this
he was certain of, that my partner was grown vastly
rich upon his half of it; and that he had been in-
formed, that the.king had 200 moidores per annum
for his thiid part. He added, that the survivors of
rny trustees were persons of an ingenuous character;
that my partner could witness my title, my name
being registered in the country, by which means I
should indispensibly recover considerable sums of
rnoney. But, answered I, how could my trustees
. dispose of my effects, when I made you only my heir?
This, he said, was true; but, there being no affida-
vit made of my death, he could not act as my ex-
ecutor. However, he had ordered his son (then at
Brazil) to act by procuration upon my account, and
he had taken possession of my sugar-house, having
accounted himself for eight years with my partner
and trustees for the prosits, of which he would give
pie a very good account.
And, indeed, this he performed very saithsully, in
a sew days, making himself indebted to me 470 moi-
dores of gold, over and above what had been lost at
sea, after I had left the place. And tiien he re-
counted to me what misfortunes he had gone through^
which forced my money out of his hands, to buy
part
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
part in a new ship: but, says he, you Jhall not want,
take this, and when my son returns, every farthing Jhall
be paid you. Upon which he put into my hand a
purse of 150 moidoresin gold, as likewise the instru-
ment, containing the title to the (hip which his son
was in, and which he offered- as security for the re-
mainder. But really when I saw so much goodness,
generosity, tenderness, and real honesty, I had not
the heart to accept it, for sear he should straiten him-
self upon my account. It is true, said he, it may be
Jo; but then the money is yours, not mine, and you may
have the greatejl occasion for it. However, I returned
fifty of them back again, promising, that I would
freely give him the other hundred when I got my ef-
sects in my hands, and, that I designed to go myself
for that purpose. But he told me he could save me
that trouble, and so caused me to enter my name,
with a public notary* as likewise my affidavit, with
a procuration affixed to it; and this he ordered me
to send in a letter to one of his acquaintance, a mer-
chant in Brazil: and, indeed, nothing could be more
saithsully and honourably observed; for, in seven
months time, 1 had a very saithsul account of all my
effects, what sums of money were raised, what ex-
pended, and what remained for my use: In a word,
I found myself to be worth 5000I. sterling, and
i cool, per annum. Nor was this all; for my partner
congratulated me upon my being alive, telling me
how much my plantation was improved, what ne-
groes were at work, and how many Ave Marias he
had said to the Virgin Mary for my preservation,
desiring me to accept kindly some presents he had
ient me, which I found shewed the greatest gener-
osity .
No sooner did the ship arrive, but I rewarded my
saithsul Captain, by returning him the hundred moi-
tJores; and not only forgiving him all he owed me,
J allowed him yearly a hundred more, and fifty to
his son, during their lives. And now being resolved
to
to go to England, I returned letters of thanks to the
Prior of St. Augustine, and in particular to my old
partner, with very suitable presents. By the Cap-
tain's advice, I was persuaded to go by Land to
Calais, and there take passage for England; when,
as it happened, I got a young English gentleman, a
merchant's son at Lisbon, to accompany me, to-
gether with two English, and two Portuguese gen-
tlemen; so that with a Portuguese servant, an Eng-
lish sailor, and my man Friday, there were nine of
us in number.
Thus armed and equipped, we set out, and came
to Madrid, when the summer decaying, we hasted
to Narvare, where we were informed, that there was
scarcely any pasting, by reason of the prodigious
quantity of snow; so that we were obliged to abide
near twenty days at Pampeluna, and at last to take
a guide to conduct us sase towards Tholouse. And
now twelve other gentlemen joining with us, toge-
ther with their servants, we had a very jolly company.
Away our guide led us by the frightsul mountains,
and through so many intricate mazes and windings,
that we insensibly passed them, which, as we travel-
led along, ushered us into the prospect of the fruit-
sul and charming provinces of Languedoc and Gas-
coigne.
But now came on two adventures, both tragical
and comical. First, our guide was encountered by
three wolves and a bear, who set upon him and his
horse, and wounded him in three places; upon which
my man, riding up to his assistance, shot one of them
dead upon the spot, which made the others retire to
the woods. But the pleasantest adventure was, to
behold my man attack the bear. 'Tis such a crea-
ture, that if you let him alone, he will never med-
dle with you : and this my man very well knew, and
so begging leave of me, in broken English, he told
us he would make good laugh. Why, you silly fool,
said I, he'll eat you up at a mouthsul. Eatee me up,
H replied
replied he, by way of scorn, me not only eatee him, hut
snake much good laugh. Upon which, pulling off his
boots, he claps on his pumps, and running after the
monstrous beast, he called out, that he wanted to dis-
course with him; and then throwing stones on pur-
pose to incenle him, the beast turns about in sury,
and with prodigious strides, shuffles after him. But
though he was not swift enough to keep up pace with
Friday, who made up to us as it were for help; yet
being angry, You dog, said I, immediately take horse,
and let us flioot the creature. But he cried, Dear mas-
ter, no shoot, mt make you laugh much. And so he
turned about,, making signs to follow, while the bear
ran after, till coming to a great oak, he ascended in
a minute, leaving his gun at the bottom of it. Nor
d\d the bear make any difficulty of it, but ascended
like a cat, though his weight was very great. You
iriiHl consider I was not a little amazed at the folly of
mv man, as not perceiving any thing to occasion our
laughter, till such time as we rode up nearer, arid
beheld the beast mounted upon the oak, on the be-
ginning of the same branch, to which Fiidav clung
at the sarther end, where the bear durst not come,
thereupon Friday cried out. Now majler, me make
tnuch laugh, me make de hear dance. Upon which he
fell a lhaking the bough, which made the creature
look behind him, to see how he could retreat. Then,
as if the bear had understood his stammering English;
jyhy you no come farther, Mr. Bear? said he, pray
Jidr. Bear, come farther: and then indeed we all burst
into laughter, especially when we perceived Friday
drop like a squirrel upon the ground, leaving the
foeast to. make the best of his way down the tree.
And now thinking it the most convenient time to
fkoot the creature, Friday cried out, 0 dear majler,
shoot, me stoot by and by; when taking up the gun,
J[4e no Jbact yet, said he, me make once more much laugh.
.And, accordingly, he was as good as his word; for
the creature descending backwards from the tree very
leisurely,
leisurely, before he could lay one soot on the ground,
Friday shot him through the ear, stone dead: and
looking to see whether we were pleased, he burst out
into hearty laughter, saying, So we kill de bear in my
country, not with the gun, but with much long arrows.
Thus ended pur diversion, to our great satissaction;
especially in a place where the terrible howlings
struck us with a continual terror. But the snows
now growing very deep, particularly on the moun-
tains, the ravenous creatures were obliged to seek
for sustenance in the villages, where coming by sur-
prize on the country people, they killed several of
them, besides a great number of their sheep and
horses.
Our guide told us, we had yet one more danger-'
ous place to pass by; and if their were any more
wolves in the country, there we should find them.
This was a small p'ain, encompassed with woods, to'
get through a long lane, to the village where we were
to lodge. When we entered the wood, the sun was
within half an hour of setting; and a little after it
was set, we came into the.plain, which was not above
two surlongs over, and then we perceived five great
wolves cross the road, without taking notice of us,
and so swift as though they were pursuing aster their
prey. Hereupon our guide, believing there were'
more coming, defired us to be upon our guard. Ac-
cordingly our eyes were very circumspect, till about
half a league sarther, we perceived a dead horse, and
near a dozen of wolves devouring its carcase. My
man Friday sain would have fired at them, but I
would not permit him; nor had we gone half over
the plain, but we heard dreadsul howlings in a wood
on bur left, when presently we saw an hundred come
up against us, as though they had been an ex-
perienced army. This obliged us to form ourselves
in the best manner; and then I ordered that every
other man should sire, that those who did not, might
be ready to give a second volley, sh6uld they advance
H 2 upon
upon us; and then every man should make use o£
his pistols. B',l there was no necessity for this; for
the enemy beinc terrified, stopped at the noise of the
fire; four of them were shot dead, and several others
being wounded, went bleeding away, as we could
very plainly discover by the snow. And now re-
membering what had been otten told me, that such
vvas the majesty of a man's voice, as to strike terror
even in the fiercest creatures, I ordered all our com-
panions to halloo as loud as possible; and in this no-
tion J was not altogether mistaken; for they imme-
diately turned about upon the first halloo,: nd began
to retire; upon which, ordenng a second volley in
their rear, they galloped into the woods with great
precipitation.
Thus we had some small time to load our pieces
tgain, and then made all the haste we could on our
ray ; but we had not rode sar, before we were obliged
fco Put ourselves in a posture of desence as before,
faeing alarmed with a very dreadsul noise in the same
^vood, on our left hand, the fame way as we were to
only that it was at some distance from us. By
£his time the darksome clouds began to spread over
the elements, and the night growing very dusky,
yiiade it so much the more to our disadvantage; but
the noise increasing, we were sully assured, that
-t .vvas the howling and yelling of those ravenous
creaturts; when presently three troops of wolves, on
ur front, appealed to our sight, as though a great
urnber of them had a design to surround us and de-
vour us in spite of sate. But as they did not sall
Vpon us immediately, we procee'ded.on our journey
,i, as swift a manner as the loads would permit our -
* orses, which was only a large trot. It was in this
*Lanner we travelled, till luch time as we discovered
*V»0ther wood, and had the prospect of its entrance
*Yi rough which we were to pass, at the sarthest side of
\fae plain. But surely none can express the terror
^e were in, v/hen, approaching the lane, we per-
ceived
•ceived a consused number of the fiercest wolves,
standing, and, as it were, gu?id..t r its entrance.
Nor were we long in this amazement, before another
occasion of horror presented itfelf; for suddenly we
heard the report of a gun at another opening into
the wood, and, looking that way, out ran a horse
bridled and saddled, flying with the greatest swift-
ness, and no less than sixteen or seventeen wolves
pursuing after him, in order to devour the poor crea-
ture: and unquestionably they did so, after they had
run him down, not being able to holdout that swift-
.ness with which he at first eseaped them.
When we rode up to that entrance from whence
.the horse came forth, there lay the carcases of ano-
ther horse and two men, mangled and torn by these
devouring wolves: and undoubtedly one of these
men was the person who fired the gun which we had
heard, for the piece lay by him; but, alas! most of
.the upper part of -his body and his head were en-
tombed in the bowels of these ravenous creatures. -
What course to take, whether to proceed or re-
treat, we could not tell; but it was not long before
the wolves themselves made us come to a resolution:
for such numbers surrounded us, every one of whom
expected their prey, that, were, our bodies to be di-
vided among them, there would not be half a mouth-
ful apiece. But happy, very happy it was for us,
that but a little way from the entrance, there lay
some very large timber trees, which I supposed had
been cut down and laid there for sale; amongst which
I drew my little troop, placing ourselves in a line
behind one long, tree, which served ,us for a breast-
work, when. desiring them to alight, we stood in a
triangle, or three fronts, inclosing our horses in the
centre, the only place where we could preserve them.
Never certainly was there a more surious charge
than what the'wolves made upon us in this placu;
and the sight of the horses, which was the principal
prey they aimed at, provoked their hunger, and ad-
H 3. ' ded
dcd to their natural fierceness. They came on us.
with a most dreadsul noise, that made the woods
ring again; and beginning to mount the pieces of
timber, I ordered every other man to fire as before
directed: and, indeed, so well did they take their
aim, that they killed several os the wolves at the first
volley; but still we were obliged to keep a continual
firing, by reason they came on like devils, pushing
one another with the greatest sury. But our second
volley something abated their courage, when, stop-
ping a little, we hoped they would have made the
best of their way; however, it did not prove so, for
others made a new atiempt upon us; and though in
four firings we killed seventeen or eighteen of them,.
Janiing twice as many, yet they several times suc-
cessively came on, as though they valued not their
lives for the sake of their prey.
Unwilling was I to spend our last shot too sudden-
ly, and therefore called my other servant, and giv-
ing him a horn of powder, bid him lay a large train,
quite along the limber, which he did, .while Friday
waS charging my susee and his own, with the greatest
dexterity. By rhis time the wolves coming up the
timber, I set fire to the train, by snapping a dis-
charged pistol close on the powder. This so scorch-
ed and terrified them, that some sell down,'and others
lumped in among us; but these we immediately dil-
patched, when all the rest, frighted with the light,
which the darksome night caused to appear more
dreadsul, began at length to retire; upon which,
ordering our last pistols to be fired at once, giving
?t the same time a great shout, the wolves were
t,bligtd to have recourse to their swiftness, and turn
tuil; and then we sallied out upon twenty lame ones,,
cutting them in pieces witn our swords, which
obliged them to howl lamentably, to the terror of
th<-'ir sellows, who resigned to us the field as vic-
torious conquerors. And, indeed, I qui:stion.whe-
ther Alexander king of Macedonia, in any ot his
conquests,
conquests, had more occasion for triumph than we
had; for he was but attacked by numerous armies
of soldiers; whereas our littte army was obliged to
combat a legion of devils, as it were, worse than
the cannibals, who, the same moment had they slain
us, would have sacrificed us, to satisfy their vora-
cious appetites.
Thus ended our bloody battle with the beasts, hav-
ing killed threescore of them, and saved our lives
from their sury. We still had a league sarther to go,
when, as we went, our ears were saluted with their
most unwelcome howlings, and we expected every
•moment another attack. But, in an hour's time,
we arrived at the town where we were to lodge; and
here we found the place strictly guarded, and all in
terrible consusion, as well they might, for sear of
the bears and wolves breaking into the village,- in
order to prey upon their cattle and people. The
next morning we were obliged to take a new guide,
by reason the other sell very bad of his wounds,
.which he had received, as before-mentioned. After
we had reached Tholouse, we came into a warm, plea-
sant, and fruitsul country, not insested with wolves,
nor any fort of ravenous creatures; and when we
told our story there, they much blamed our guide,
for conducting us through the forest at the foot of
the mountains, in such a severe season, when the
snow obliged the wolves to seek for shelter in the
woods. When we informed them in what manner
we placed ourselves, and the horses in the centre,
they exceedingly reprehended us, and told us, it was
an hundred to one, but we had all been destroyed;
for that it was the very sight of the horses, their so
much defired prey, that made the wolves more rag-
ingly surious than they would have been, which was
evident, by their being at other times really afraid of
.a gun; but then being exceeding hungry and su-
rious, upon that account, their eagerness to come
at the horses made them insensible of their danger;
H 4 and
and that, if we had not, by a continual fire, and
at last by the cunning stratagem of the train of pow-
der, got the better of them, it had been great odds
if their number had not overpowered us; besides, it
was a.great mercy we alighted from our horses, and
fought them with that courage and conduct, which,
had we sailed to do, every man. of us, with our
beasts, had been devoured; and indeed, this was no-
thing but truth : for never, in my lise, was I so sen-
sible of danger, as when three hundred devils came
roaring upon us, to shun whose unwelcome com-
pany, if I was lure to meet a storm every vveek, I
would ruher go a thousand leagues by sea.
I think I have nothing uncommon in my passage
through -France to take notice of, since other travel-
lers of greater learning and ingenuity, have given a
more ample account than my pen is able to set forth.
JTrom Tholouse I travelled to Paris, from thence to
(Calais, where I took shipping, and landed at Dover
jfh*5 14.th.of January, in a very cold season.
Thus come to the end of my travels, I soon dis—
covered my new found estate, and all the bills of ex-
change I had brought were currently paid. The
good ancient widow, my only privy counsellor,
t bought nopains, nor care too great to procure my ad-
V3.ntage; nor had I ever occasion toblame her sidelity,
^bich drew from me an ample reward. I was for
jeaving my essects in her hands, intending to set out
f0x Lisbon, and so to the Brazils ; but as in the Deso-
late Ifaxd.l had some doubts about the Romish re-
yiZ\on, so I knew there was little encouragement to
.settle there, unless I would apostatize from the ortho-
ioX saith, or live in continual sear of the Inquisi-
tion, Upon this account, I resolved to sell my plan-
* £ion; and, for that intent, I wrote to my old
5. send at Lisbon, who returned me an answer to my
reat satissaction; which was, that he could sell it
& good account: however, if I thought it con-
^-riient to give him liberty to offer it in my .name to
* the
.the two merchants, the survivors of my trustees, re-
siding at the Brazils, who consequently understood
its intrinsic value, having lived just upon the spot,
and who I was sensible were very rich, and, there-
fore, might be the more willing to purchase it 5 he
did not in the least doubt, but that I should make
four or five thousand pieces of eight more of it, than
I could do, if I disposed of it in any other manner
whatfoever.
You may be sure I could not but agree with this
kind and ingenuous proposal; and immediately I
sent him an order to offer it to them, which he ac-
cordingly did; so that, about eight months after,
the (hip being in that time returned, he~gave me a
. satissactory account, that they not only willingly ac-
cepted the. offer, but that they had also remitted
33,000 pieces of- eight to a correspondent of their
own at Lisbon,' in order to pay for the purchase.
Hereupon, in return," I signed the instrument of
sale according to.form^ which they had sent from
Lisbon, and returned it again to my old friend, he
having sent me, for my estate, bills of three hundred
twenty-eight thousand pieces of eight, reserving the
payment of one hundred moidores jto- annum, which
I had allowed him during lise, likewise fifty to his
son during lise also, according to my saithsul pro-
mise, which the plantation was to make good as a
rent-charge-
And thus having led my reader to the knowledge
.of the first parts of my lise, so remarkable for the ma-
ny peculiar providences that attended it, floating in
an ocean of uncertainty and disappointment, of ad-
versity and prosperity, beginning foolishly, and yet
ending happily; methinks, now that I am come to
a sase and pleasant haven, it is time to cast out my
.anchor, and,-laying up my vessel, bid, fora while,
, adieu to foreign adventures. I had no other con-
cerns to look after,-but the care of my brother's two
^sort's, which,-with- the good widows persuasions,
Ji?$: ..otitigei.'
obliged me to continue at home seven years'. One-
os these children I bred up a gentleman, and the
other an experienced sailor, remarkable for his cou-
rage and bravery. Besides-this, I married a virtuous
young gentlewoman, of a very good family, by
whom 1 had. two sons and one daughter. But my
dear and tender wise leaving this earthly stage, (as
in the second part of my lise you will hear) which
rent my soul as it were asunder, my native country
became weary and tiresome to me: and my nephew
happening to come from the sea, tempted me to ven-
ture another voyage to the East-Indies, which I did
in the year 1694, at which time I visited my island,
and intormed myself of every thing that ha.ppenGd
since my departure.
One might reasonably imagifie, that what I had
suffered, together with ,an advanced age, and the sear
of losing, not only what I had gotten, but my life
also, might have choaked up all the.seeds of youth-
ful ambition and curiosity, and put a lasting period
t<? my wandering inclinations. But as .nothing but
death can sully allay the active part of my lise, no.
Jess remarkable for the many various contingencies
of it; you will, next perceive how I visited my little
Jcingdom, .saw my successors the Spaniards, had an
account of the usage they met with from the English-
rnen,. agreeing and disagreeing, uniting and separa-
ting, till at last they were subjected to the Spaniards,
;wrho yet used them very honourably, together with
the wondersul and successsul battles over the Inr
dians, who invaded, and thought to have conquered
the island, but were repelled by their invinciblecou-
,-age and bravery, having taken eleven men and five
women prisoners, by which, at my return, I found
about 20 young children on.my little kingdom. Here
I staid twenty days, left them supplies of all necef-
Ja'ry things, as also a.,carpenter and smith, ami shared
the island into parts, reserving the whole property to
myselt. Nor will y.ou.,be. insensible,, by the account
of
of these things, of several new adventures I have
been engaged in, the battles I have fought, the de-
liverances 1 have met with: and while, in the sur-
prising relation of such remarkable occurrences, I
shall desqribe many of God's kindest providences to
me in particular, no less conspicuous in the same
goodness, power, and majesty of our great Creator,
shewn, one way or other, over the sace of the earth,
if duly adverted to.
"tent,
/rat
?J times
such
ion. M
font tl
2°tr<*
and
ter
V, si
***** * ********* * J»,
The further Adventures of Robinson Crusoe, wherein
are contained severalstrange andsurprizing accounts of
his travels, and the most remarkable transactions both
by sea and land; with his wonderful vision of the
Angelic World.
WHEN we consider the puissant force of Na-
ture, and what mighty influence it has ma-
ny times over the temper of the mind, it will be no
such great wonder to think, that my powersul rea-
son should be overcome by a much stronger inclina-
tion. My late acquired kingdom ran continually in
my thoughts all the day, and I dreamed of it in the
night; nay, 1 made it the continual subject of my
• talk, even to impertinence, when I was awake, s
had such vapours in my head, that I actually sup-
fosed myself at my castle; that I not only perceived
riday's sather, but the old Spaniard, and the wick-
ed sailors, but that I talked and discoursed with them
about their manner*-of living: that I heard these
•things related to me, which I found afterwards to be
too true; and that I executed my judgments with
,the greatest severity upon the offenders. And, in-
deed, this anticipating all the pleasing joys of my
•lise, scarcely afforded me one pleasant hour : my dear
and tender wise could, not but take notice of it,
which drew these affectionate speeches from her: My
. dear, said she, / am really persuaded that some secret
- impulse from heaven occasions in you a determination to fee
the island again; nor am I less sensible, but your being
engaged to me-, and these dear children, is the only hinder-* -\
ance of your departure. J know, my dear, if J was in
..thegraves you would not long continue at home; prevent
. mi your~ .happiness upon my. accounty. whose wJy ^comfort
'iseuttrs
centers in you. All that I can objecl is, that such an
hazardous undertaking is no way consistent with a person
your years; but if you are resolved to go, added she,
weeping, only permit me to bear you company, and that
. is oil that I desire.
Such endearing tenderness, graced with the most
innocent, and yet most powersul charms, brought
me insensibly into my right understanding; and when
J considered all the transactions of my lise, and par-
ticularly my new engagement; that I had now one
child already born, and my wise big of another; and
.that I had no occasion to seek for more riches, who
already was blessed with sufficiency, with much
•struggling 1 altered my resolutions at last, resolving
-to apply myself to some business or other, which
'.rnight put a period to such wandering inclinations.
.Hereupon I bought a little sarm in the county of
Bedford, with a resolution to move thither: upon
this there was a pretty convenient house, surrounded
•with land, very capable of improvement, which
suited my temper as to planting, managing and cul-
tivating. Nor was I long before I entered upon my
.new settlement, having bought ploughs, harrows,
,carts, waggons, horses, cows, and sheep: so that
X now led the lise as-a country gentleman, and as
happy in my retirement as the greatest monarch in
the world. And what made me think my happiness
the greater was, that I was in that' middle slate os life;
which my sather had so often recommended, much
. resembling the selicity of a rural retirement, which
is elegantly described, by the .poet in these lines:
Free from all vices, ft:ee from ciire%
Age has no pain, and youth no snare ~
But, in the midstof this my happiness, X was sud-
denly plunged in the greatest sorrow• that I could
possibly endure; for when I least expected it, my
.' Jear and tender wise was forced to submit to the ir-
..refisti.ble power .of death, leaving this transitory lise
, .for-
'for a better. It is impossible for me to express the
beauties of her mind, or the loveliness of her persons
neither can I too much lament her loss, which my
• latest breath sball record;. her influence was greater
over me, than the powers of my own reason, the im-
portunities of friends, the instructions of a sather,
or the melting tears of a tender and disconsolate mo-
ther; in a word, she was the spirit of all my asfairs,
and the center of m,y enterprizes. But now, since
the cruel hand.of death had closed'my dearest's eyes,
I seemed in my thoughts a stranger to the world; ray
privy counsellor being gone, I was like a.ship with-
out a pilot, that could only run before the wind.
And when I looked around me in this busy world,
one part labouring for bread, and the other squan-
dering away their estates; this put me in mind how
I had lived in my little kingdom, where both reason
and religion dictated to-me, that-there was something
that certainly was .the reason and end of lise, which
.was sar superior to what could be hoped for on this
side the grave. My.country delights were now as
insipid and,dull, as music or science to those who
have neither taste nor ingenuity. In short, resolving ,
to leave oft" house-keeping, I left my sarm, and, in
-a sew months, returned to London.
But neither could that great city, so samous for
'its variety of entertainment, asford me any agreeable
delight; a state of idleness I found to be the very
•dregs of lise, and most hurtsul to body and foul. It
was now the beginning of the year 1694, at which
time my nephew (who, as I before observed, had
been brought up to the sea, and advanced to be cap-
.tain of a ship) was returned from a short voyage to
Bilboa, the first he-had made in that station. He
comes to me one morning, telling me, that some
-merchants of his acquaintance had proposed to him
• to go a voyagerfor them, to the East Indies and
China, in 'the manner of private traders: and now5
-wictfe.,. laid he^ifym'Jl accompany-me thither, III engage
to land you upon your old i/land, to visit the Jiate of your
little kingdom.
Just before he came in, my thoughts were fixed to
get a patent for its possession, and then to fill it with
inhabitants. After I had paused a littlewhile, and
looked stedsastly on him, TVhat devil, or spirit, said I,
sent you with this unlucky errand? He started at sirst;
but recovering himself, when he perceived I was not
offended ; Sir, replied he, what I have proposed can-
not, I hope, be styled unlucky, since certainly you
must be desirous to see your little territory, where
you reigned with more content than any of your bro-
. tber kings in the universe. Nephew, said I, if you
.will leave me there, and call for me as you come
. back, I care not if I give my consent; but he an-
swered, that the merchants would not allow their
vessel, loaden with an infinite value, to return there
again, which was a month's sail out of the way;
"besides, Sir, said he, if I should miscarry, was your
request granted, why then you would be locked up
as before. This, indeed, carried a great deal of rea-
son in it; but we found out a remedy, and that was
to carry a framed sloop on board, ready to be set up
." in the island, by the assistance os some carpenters,
zwiiich we should carry with us, that might be fitted
. in a sew days to go to sea. I was not long in form-
ing my resolution, which over-swayed my good
friend the-widow's persuasions, and the natural af-
fection f bore to my young children. I made my
^vill, and settled, my estate in such a manner, that:I
Y^as persectly sure that my. poor insants would have
justice done them. The good widow not only un-
• ^ei't00^ to .make provision for my voyage, but also
took the charge of my domestic affairs, and to pro-
vide for my children's education ; and indeed no mo-
ther could take more care, or understood that office
better; for which I lived to reward, and return her
^*ny hearty thanks.
.Xhe beginning of- January,..1,604-5, my nephew
.beirtg
being ready to sail, I and Friday went on board io
the Downs on the 8th, having, beside that stoop al-
ready mentioned, a very considerable cargo for my
new colony. Firfi, I had some servants, whom I
proposed to leave there as inhabitants, or to work
while I staid there, as they should appear willing;
there were two carpenters, a smith, and a very in-
genious sellow who was Jack of all trades; for he
was not only a cooper by trade, but also he was dex-
terous at making wheels and hand-mills to grind
corn, likewise a good turner, and a good pot-maker.
I also carried a tailor, who consented to stay in my
plantation, and proved a most necessary sellow in the
island. As to my cargo, it consisted of a sufficient
quantity of linen, and English stuffs, for clothing
the Spaniards that I expected to find there; as like-
wise gloves, hats, shoes, stockings; together with
beds, bedding, and household stuff, especially kitchen
utensils, with pots, kettles, pewter, brass, &c. also
nails, tools of all sorts, staples, hooks, hinges, and
all other things necessary; all which, I think, cost
me about three hundred pounds. Nor was this all;
for I carried an hundred spare arms, mufleets, and
susees, besides some pistols, a considerable quantity
of several sorts of shot, two brass cannon, besides
swords, cutlasses, and the iron part of some pikes
and halberts. I made my nephew take with us two
small quarter deck guns, more than he had occasion
for in his ship, to ieave behind, if there was a ne-
cessity; so we might build a fort there, and man it
against all opposers whatsoever.
Well, we put out to sea4 and though I can't say
this voyage was so unprosperous as my others had
been, yet contrary winds drove us so sar northward,
that we were obliged to put in at Galway in Ire-
land, where we lay wind bound two and twenty
days. Here indeed our provisions were very cheap,
and we added to our ship's stores, by taking in se-
veral live hogs, two cows and calves, which I then
resolved
resolved to put on shore in my island, if our neces-
sities did not call for them. , On the 5th of February
we sailed from Ireland, with a very sair gale, which
lasted for some days; and I think it was about the
20th of the same month, late in the evening, when
the mate informed us that he saw a flash of fire, and
heard a gun fired: and when he was speaking, a boy
came in, and told us, that the boatfwain had heard
another. Upon which we all ran to the quarter-deck,
from whence in a sew' moments we perceived a ter-
rible fire at a distance. We had immediately re-
course to our reckonings, in which we were all of
opinion, that there^could be no land that "way, it ap-
pearing to be at N. N. W. Hereupon we conclud-
ed that some ship had taken fire at sea, and that it
could not be sar off, by the report of the guns which
we had heard. We made up directly to it, and in
half an hour's time, the wind being sair, we could
plainly perceive a great ship on fire in the middle of the
sea. Touched with this unhappy disaster, and con-
sidering my former circumstances, when the Portu-
guese Captain took -me up, I immediately ordered
live guns to be fired, that the poor creatures, not
seeing us, it being dark, (though we eould perceive
their flame) might be sensible there was deliverance
at hand, and consequently might endeavour to save
themselves in their boat. Nor was it long before
the ship blew up in the air, and the fire was extin
guished in the ocean. But supposing them all to be
in their boats, we hung out our lanterns, and kept
siring till eight o'clock in the morning; when, with
our perspectives, we beheld two boats, sull of peo-
ple, making towards us, though the tide was against
them: then spreading out .our antient, and hanging
out a waft, as a signal for them ta come on board,
in half an hour's time, we came up to them, and
took them all in^ there being no less than sixty four
men, women^ and children. It was a French mer-
chant ship of 300 tons, homeward-bound from Que-
bec,
bee, in the river of Canada. The master informed'
me how, by the riegligence of the steersman, the
steerage was set on fire: that, at his out-cry for
help, the fire was, as they thought, totally extin-
guished; but, that some sparks getting between the
timber, and within the ceiling, it proceeded into the
hold, where there was no resisting it: that then they
got into their boats, as creatures in the last extre-
mity, with what provision they had, together with
oars, sails, and a compass, intending to go back to
Newfoundland, the wind blowing at S. E. and by
E. though there were several chances against them,
as storms to overset and founder them, rains and
colds to benumb.and, perish their limbs, and contrary
winds to keep them back and starve them; but, said
he, in this our great distress, we heard the welcome
report of your guns, when, with unspeakable joy,
taking down our masts and sails, we were resolved to
lie by till morning: but perceiving your light, we
set our oars at work to keep our boat a-head, the
sooner to attain your ship, the happy instrument of
our deliverance. .
Indeed, no one can express the joy of these poor
creatures on this occasion; sear and grief are easily
set forth; sighs and tears, with a sew motions of the
hands and head, are all the demonstrations of these
passions; but an excess of joy, carries in it a thou-
sand extravagancies; especially, -I think, amongst
the French, whose temper is allowed-to be more vo-
latile, passionate, sprightly and gay, than that of
other nations. Some were weeping, .tearing them-
selves in the greatest agonies of sorrow^ and.j'unning
stark mad about the ship, while the rest, were stamp-
ing with their seet, wringing t'.ieir hands, singing,
laughing, swooning away, vomiting, sainting, with
a sew returning.hearty thanks to the Almighty, and
crossing themselves. I think, if I am not mistaken,
our surgeon was obliged to let thirty of them blood.
But among the passengers, there were two priests,.
the
the one an old, and the other a young man; but
what amazed me more was, that the oldest was in
the worst plight; for no sooner did he perceive him-
self freed from danger, but he dropt down, as it were
without lise, and, to every one's appearance, quite
dead; but the surgeon, chafing and rubbing his arm,
opened a vein, which at first dropped, and then flow-
ing more freely, the old man began to open his eyes,
and in a quarter of an hour was well again. But
soon remembering his happy change, the joy of which
whirled his blood about saster than the vessels could
convey it, he became so severish, as made him more
fit for bedlam than any other place; but the sur-
geon giving him a sleepy dose,. he was persectly com-
posed the next morning.
Remarkable, indeed, was the behaviour of the
young priest. At his entrance on board the ship, he
fell on his sace in the most humble prostration to the
Almighty. I thought, indeed,, he had sallen into a
swoon, and so ran to help him up; but he modestly
told me, he was returning his thanks tothe Almighty,
defiring me to leave him a sew moments, and that,
next to his Creator, he would return me thanks also.
And, indeed, he did so, about three minutes after,
with great seriousness and affection, while the tears'
flood in his eyes, which convinced me of the grati-
.tude of his soul. Nor did he less shew his piety and
,wisdom, in applying himself to his country people,
and labouring to compose them, by the most power-
ful reasons, arguments, and persuasions. And when,
,indeed, these people had taken their night's repose,
in such lod: ings as our ship would allow, we found
nothing but the best of manners, and the most civil
acknowledgments, for which the French are eminent-
ly remarkable. The next day the Captain and one
of the priests defired to speak with me, and my
nephew the commander. They told us, that they
had saved some money and valuable things out of
the ruined vessel, which was at our service: only
that they desired to be set on shore some where in our
way. At the first, my nephew was for accepting the
money; but I (who knew how hard my case would
have been, had the Portuguese Captain served me so)
persuaded him to the contrary; and therefore told
them, that as we had done nothing but what we
were obliged to do, by nature and humanity, and
what we ourselves might expect from others in such
calamity; so we took; them up to save them, not to
plunder them, or leave them naked upon the land,
to perish for want of subsistence, and therefore would
not accept their money: but as to landing them,
that was a great difficulty; for, being bound to the
. East-Indies, it was impossible wilsully to change our
voyage upon their particular account, nor could my
nephew (who was under charter-party to pursue it
by way of Brazil) answer it to the freighters. All
that we could do, was to put ourselves in the way of
meeting fomt ships homeward bound from the West
Indies, that, if possible, they might get a passage to
J'ranee or England. Indeed, they were very thank-
ful for our first kindness; but were under great con-
cern, especially the passengers, at their being carried
to the East-Indies. They begged, therefore, I would
keep on the banks of Newtoundland, where, pro-
bably, they might meet with some lhip or sloop to
carry them to Canada, whence they came. As this
was but a reasonable request, I was inclined to grant
it, since it was no breach of charter-party, and that
the laws of God and nature obliged us to do what
good we could to our sellow.creatures; and besides,
the danger we ourselves (hould be in for want of
provisions: so we consented to carry them to New-
foundland, if wind and weather would permit; if not,
that we should carry them to Martinico in the West
Indies. But as it happened, in a week's time, we
made the banks of Newfoundland, where the French
people hired a bark to carry them to France. But
the young priest being defirous to go to the East-Indies,
J
OF
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
I readily agreed to it, because I liked his conversa-
tion, and two or three of the French sailors also en-
tered themselves on board our ship.
Now, directing our course for the West-Indies,
steering S. and S. by E. about twenty days, with
little wind, another adventure happened, to exercise
our humanity. In the latitude of 27 degrees 5
rr.inutes north, the 19th of March 1694-5, we per-
ceived a sail, (our course S. E. and by S.) which
boie up to us, and then she appeared to be a large
vessel, having lost her main top-mast, fore-mast, and
bolt sprit; when siring a gun, as a signal of distress,
,wind N. N. W. we soon came to speak with her.
She was a ship from Bristol, bound home, from Bar-
b.Woes, out of which road she had been forced by a
hurricane to the westward, in which they lost their
masts.
They told us, their expectations were to see the
Bahama islands, but were driven away by a strong
wind at N. N. W. and having no sails to work the
ship with, but the main course, and a kind of square
siil upon a jury fore-mast, because they could not
come near the land, were endeavouring to stand for
the Canaries; nay, what was worse, besides all their
satigue, they were almost starved for want of pro-
vision, having ate nothing sor eleven days; all that
they had aboard was sugar, a barrel of fresh water,
and seven casks of rum. In this ship were three pas-
sengers, a youth, his mother, and a maid servant,
who were in a most deplorable condition for want of
food.^. If I had not gone on board their ship, the
knowledge of their misery had been concealed from
me, and they would have inevitably perished, though,
indeed, their second mate (who was Captain, by rea-
son the true Captain was not on board when the hur-
ricane happened) had before informed me that there
were such persons on board, whom he supposed to
be dead, being afraid to enquire after them, because
he had nothing to give them for relief. Hereupon
we
we resolved to let them have what we could spare,,
ordering the mate to bring some of his men on board
us, which he did accordingly; as he and they looked
like skeletons, when meat was set before them, I or-
dered them to eat sparingly. JJut, however,-they
soon sell sick; which obliged the surgeon to mix
something in their broth, which was to be to them
both food and physic. When they were sed, we or-
dered our mate to carry them a sack of bread, ani
four or five pieces of beef; but the surgeon charged
them to see it boiled, and to keep a guard on the
cook-room, to prevent the men from eating it raw,
and consequently killing themselves with what was
designed for their relief. But, particularly, I de-
sired the mate to see what condition the poor paf-
lengers were in, and the surgeon gave him a pitcher
of the same broth which he had prepared for the men.
And being curious to see this scene of misery myself,
1 took the Captain (as we called the mate of the
ship) in our own boat, and sailed aster them..
Here was a sad sight indeed ! scarce were the vic-
tuals half boiled in the pot, but they were ready to
break open the cook-room door. To stay their sto-
machs, the mate gave them biscuits, which were
dipped in, and softened with the liquor of the meat,
which they call Breuise-, telling them, it was for
their own sasety, that he was obliged to give them
but a little at a time: and so seeding them gradually,
their bellies were comfortably filled, and the men
did very well again. But when they came to the poor
gentlewoman in the cabin, who, for several days,
had continued without food, giving what she had to
her son, thty found her as it wi re in the arms of
death.. She was sitting upott.the floor of the deck,
with her back up against the sides, between two
chairs, which were lashed sast, and her head shrunk
between her shoulders, like a senseless corpse. No-
thing was wanting in my mate to revive and en-
courage her; ©pening her lips, and putting some
broth
broth into her mouth with a spoon. But not hav-
ing strength to speak, she lifted up her head with
much difficulty, intimating that it was now too
late! at the lame time pointing to the youth her
son, as though she desired him to do what he could
lo (ave the lad; and, in a little time after, she died.
'I he youth, indeed, was not so sar gone, yet lay
stretched out in a cabin bed, like one that had scarce
any lise. In his mouth was a piece of an old glove,
the rest of which he had ate up. At first he vomited
what the mate had given him; but at length began
sensibly to revive, though in the greatest concern for
the death of his tender mother.
As to the poor maid, she lay by her mistress, like
one in the last pangs of death: her limbs were dis-
torted, one of her hands was clasped round the frame
of a chair, which she griped so hard, that it was
with some difficulty we separated her from it; her
other arm lay over her head, and her seet lay both
together, set sast against the frame of the cabin table:
not only being starved with hunger, but overcome
with grief for the loss of her mistress, whom she loved
most tenderly. It was a great while before the sur-
geon could bring her to lise, and a much longer time
before she came to her senses.
After we had sailed with them some days, we sent
them five barrels of beef, one of pork, two hogs-
heads of biscuit, with pease, flour, and other things,
taking three casks of sugar, some rum, and- some
pieces of eight for satissaction, we left them, but took
the youth .and maid with us, with all their goods.
The lad was about seventeen years old, very hand-
some, modest, sensible, and well bred, but mightily
concerned for the soss of his honoured mother, hav-
ing lost his sather at Barbadoes but a sew months be-
fore. He besceched the surgeon to intercede with
me to take him out of the ship; for that the sailors,
not sparing a small sustenance, had starved his mo-
ther. But hunger has no bounds, no right, and
con-
consequently is incapable of any compassion. Whcri
the surgeon told him, that our voyage might put him
in bad circumstances, and sarther from his friends,
he answered, he did not care, so he was delivered
from that terrible crew: that as the Captain (mean-
ing me) had saved him from death, so he was sure
he would do him no harm; and as for the maid,
when she was restored to her senses, she would be no
kss thanksul, let us carry them where we would.
And, indeed, the surgeon so represented their case
to me, that I contented, and took them on board,
•with all their goods, except eleven hogsheads of su-
gar; but the youth having a bill of lading, I made
the commander oblige himself to deliver a letter and
the deceased widow's goods to Mr. Rogers, a mer-
chant in Bristol; but I believe the ship was lost at
sea, for we could never hear what became of her af-
terwards, f We were now in the latitude of 19 deg.
32. min. having as yet a tolerable good voyage. But
passing by several little incidents relating to wind and
weather, I shall relate what is most remarkable con-
cerning my little kingdom, to which I was then
drawing near. I had great difficulty in finding it;
for as I came to, and went from it before, on the
south and east side of the island, as coming from the
Brazils; so riow approaching between the main and
the island; not having any chart for the coast, nor
land-mark, it obliged us to go on shore several islands
on the mouth of the river Oroonoko, but to no pur-
pose. This I perceived, that what I thought was a
continent before, was no such thing, but a long
island, or rather a ridge of sands. On one of these
islands I found some Spaniards, but they belonged
to the Isle de Trinidad, who came hither in a sloop
to make salt, and to try to find some pearl muscles.
But, at length, I came sair on the south side of my
islr.nd, and then I presently knew the countenance
»f my little kingdom, so we brought the ship safe to
I an
07
ch6r, broadside within the little creek, where
my antient and venerable casHe.
> l.ioner did I see the place, but calling for Fri-
I asked him where he was? But when he look-
iittle, he clapped his hands, crying, 0 joy, 0
0 yes, O there! pointing to our old abode, and
fell a dancing and capering as if he was mad,
had much ado to keep him from jumping into
n, to swim ashore. Friday, said I, what do
hink, shall we go see your sather? At the men-
ig his sather's name, the poor afsectionate crea-
sell a weeping: No, no, says he, me Jee him no
never fee poor father more I he long ago die, die
igo; he much old wan. You don't know that,
y, laid I, but shall we see any body else? He
ibout,. and pointing to the hill above my house,
out, IVe fee, we Jee, there much men and there!
i, though I could not perceive them with my
:ctive glass, was true, by what the men them-
1 told me the next day.
hen the English ancient was spread, and three
find as a sigrral of friendship, we perceived a
e rile from the creek; upon which I ordered
jat out, taking Friday with me, and hanging
white flag of truce, i went on shore, accom-
J also by the young friar, to whom I had rela-
le history of the first part of my lise; besides we
xteen men well armed, in caie we had met with
ippofuion.
Ler we had rowed directly into the creek, the
nan I fixed my eye upon, was the Spaniard,
: lise I nr.d saved, and whose sace I persectly
knew. I ordered them all to stay in the boat
while; but Friday perceiving his sather at a •
ice, would have jumped into the sea, had they
let the boat go. No sooner was he on Ihore,
e flew like a swift arrow out of a bow, to em-
his aged sather. Certainly it would melt a
as the firmest resolution, into the softest tears,
to
to see with what uncommon transports of joy he sa-
luted him: he first kissed him, then stroked his sace,
took him in his arms, laid him under a shady tree,
sat down by him, then looked as earnest at him, as
one would do at a picture, for a quarter of an hour
together. After this, he would lie upon the ground,
stroke his legs, and kiss them, then get up and stare
at him, as though he was bewitched: but the next
dayonecouid notforbearlaughterto see his behaviour,
for he would walk several hours with his sather along
the shore, leading him by the hand, as though he was
a lady; while, every now and then he would run to
the boat, to get something for him, as a lump of su-
gar, dram, biscuit, or something or other that was
good. His frolics ran in another channel in the af-
ternoon; for when he set old Friday on the ground,
he would dance round him, making comical postures
and gestures: and all this while would be telling
him one story or other of his travels and adventures.
It was on the ioth of April, anno 1695, that I
set my foot upon the island a second time. When
my saithsul Spaniard, accompanied by one more, ap-
proached the boat, he little knew who I was, till I
discovered myself to him: Seignior, said I, in Por-
tuguese, don't you know me r He spoke never a word,
but giving his musket to his attendant, extended
his arms, and saying something in Spanish, that I
did not then understand, he came forward, and em-
braced me, saying, he was inexcusable, not to know
his deliverer; who, like an angel sent from heaven,
had saved his lise. He then beckoned to the man to
call out his companions, asking me, if I would walk
to my own habitation, and take posiesiion, where I
should find some mean improvements: but indeed
they were extraordinary ones; for they had planted
so many trees so close together, thit the place was
like a labyrinth, which none could find out, except
themselves, who knew its intricate windings. 1 aik-.
ed him the meaning of all these fortifications; hs
I 2 toid
,o!d me he would give me a large account of what
i;id palled since.my departure to this time, and how
he had subdued some English, who thought to be
their murderers, hoping 1 would not be displeased,
since necessity compelled them to it. As I knew
;hey were wicked villains, so 1 told him, that I was
not only sar from finding sault with it, but was ra-
:her heartily glad i^hat they had subdued them.
vVhile we were thus talking, the man whom he had
sent returned, accompanied by eleven more, but in
such habits, that it was impoilible to tell what na-
tions they were of. He first turned to me, and point-
ing to them: These, Sir, said he, are some of . the
rentlemen who owe their lives to your goerdness;
:hen turning to them, and pointing to me, he made
:hem sensible who I was: and then indeed they sa-
uttd me one by one; not as ordinary men, but as
:hough they had been ambassadors or noblemen,
>nd 1 a triumphant conqueror; for their behaviour
iot only agreed with a manlike majestic gravity, but
it the same time was so obliging and courteous, as
rade them admirable to the last degree.
Before I relate the history of the transactions of
kingdom, as I had it from the Spaniard's own
pouih, I must here insert what I omitted in my sor-
rier relation. The matter is thus: Just before we
veighed anchor to set sail, there happened a quarrel
>n board the ship, which had like to have occasioned
i second mutiny, till such time as the courageous
Japtain, taking two of the most resactory prisoners,
aid them in irons, threatening, as they were con-
erned in the former disorders, to have them hanged
n England, for running away with the ship. This
rightened some of the rest, as thinking the Captain
A'ourd serve them in the same manner, though he
iremed to give them good words for the present.
Hut the mate having'intelligence of this, made me
icquainted with their sears; so that, to make them
nore easy, and ourselves more sase from their con-
spiracies,
spiracies, I was obliged to go down, and pass my
honour's word for it, that, upon their good beha-
viour, all that was past should be pardoned; in tes-
timony of which I ordered the two men's irons to be
taken off, and themselves forgiven. But as this had
brought us to an anchor that night, in which there
was a calm, the two men that had been in irons,
stole each of them a musket, and some other weapons,
and taking the ship's pinnace, not yet haled up, ran
away to their brother rogues. The next morning
we sent the long boat, with men to pursue them;
but all in vain; the mate, in revenge, would have
demolished my little castle, burnt its surniture, and
destroyed their plantations; but having no orders for
it he did not put in execution. And thus there were
five Englishmen in the island, which caused great
differences, as my saithsul Spaniard gave me a per-
sect account of rt in the following manner:
You cannot, Sir, but remember the embassy you
sent me about, and what a disappointment we met
with, by your absence, at our return. There is but
little variety in the relation of our voyage, being
blested with calm weather, and a smooth sea. Great,
indeed, was the joy of my countrymen to see me
alive, having acted as the principal man on board,
the Captain of the flypwrecked vessel dying before.;
nor was their surprize less, as knowing I was taken
prisoner by the savages of another nation, they
thought me long since entombed in their monstrous
bowels. But when I shewed them the arms, am-
munition, and provisions I had brought for them,
they looked upon me as a second Joseph advanced in
Pharaoh's court, and immediately prepared to come
along with me. Indeed, the) were obliged to tres-
pass upon their friendly savages, by borrowing two
of their canoes, under a pretext for fishing; and
they came away the next morning, but without any
provisions of their own, except a sew roots, which
served them instead of bread. After three weeks ab-
I 3 sence,
sence, we arrived ?.t your habitation. Here we met
with three English sailors, who, I consess, gave us
provisions, and that letter of directions you had left
lor us, which informed us how to bring up tame
goats, plant corn, cure grapes, make pots; and, in
short, every thing that was neceflary for our use; as
in particular, I knew your method best, so taking
Kriday's sather to allist me, we managed all the af-
sairs; nor were the rest of the Spaniards wanting in
their kind offices, dressing food for the Englishmen,
who did nothing but ramble and divert themselves in
the woods, either shooting parrots, or catching tor-
toises. But we had not been long ashore, before
* e wi re informed of two more Englishmen, un-
naturally turned out of their common place of resi-
dence by the three others above mentioned: this made
my Spaniards and me (whom they now looked upon as
their governor in your absence) endeavour to per-
iuade them to take them in, that we might be as one
family; but all our entreaties were in vain, so that
the poor sellows, finding nothing to be done with-
out industry, pitched their tents on the north fide of
the island, a little inclining to the west, for fear ot
savages. Here they built two huts, one to lodge,
and the other to lay their stores in ; for my good na-
tured Spaniards giving them some seeds, they dug
and planted as I had done, and began to live prettily.
But while they were thus comfortably going on,
the three unnatural brutes, their countrymen, in a
mere bullying humour, insulted them, by saying,
the governor (meaning you) had given them pofleffion
of the island, and d-tnn 'em, they shall build no
houses upon their ground, without paying rent.
The two honest men (for so let me now distinguish
them) thought their three countrymen only jested,
and one of them invited them in, to see their sine
habitations; while the other sacetiously told them,
that since they built tenements, with great improve-
ments, they should, according to the custom of
land-
landlords,, give them, a longer lease; at the same
time desiring them to setch a scrivener to draw the
writings. One of the wretches swearing he should
pay for the jest, snatches up a fire-brand, and clap-
ping it to the"outside of their hut, very sairly set it
on fire, which would soon have consumed it, had
not the honest man thrust himaway, and trod it put
with his seet. Hereupon the sellow returns with a
pole, with which he would have ended his days,
had not the poor man avoided the blow; when,
setching his musket, he knocked down the villain
that began the quarrel. The other two coming to
assist their sellow, obliged the honest man to take his
musket also, and both of them presenting their pieces,
bid. the villains stand off"; and if they did not Ly
down their arms, death should decide the dispute
one way or other. This brought them to a parley,
in which they agreed to take their wounded man and
be gone; but they were in the wrong that they did
not disarm* them when they had the power, and then
make their complaint to me and my Spaniards for
justice, which might have prevented their sarther de-
signs against them. And indeed so many trespastes
did they afterwards commit, by treading down their
corn, shooting their youngkids and goats, and plagu -
ing them night and day, that they resolved to come
to my castle, challenge all the three, and decide their
right by one plain battle, while the Spaniards stood
by to see sair play. One day it happened, that two
of my Spaniards (one of whom understood English)
being in the woods, were met by one of the honest
men, who complained how barbarous their country-
men had been in destroying their corn, killing tlicir
milch-goat, and three kids, which deprived them of
their subsistence; that if we did not grant them re-
lief, they must be inevitably starved; and so they
parted; but when my Spaniard came home at night,
and supper being on the table, one of them began
.to reprehend the Englishmen, but in a very mannerly
I 4 way;
way: which they resenting-, replied, What bu-
siness had their countrymen there without leave,
when it was none of their ground? Why, said my
Spaniard, calmly, sngUse, they must not starve; but
they replied, Let them starve and be d—mn'd, they
should neither plant nor build, and d—inn them they
should be their servants, and work for them, for
the island was theirs, and they would burn all the
huts they should sind in the land. By this rule, said
niy Spaniard, smiling, we shall be your servants too.
.Aye, by G—d, and so you shall, replied the impu-
dent rascal. Upon which, starting up, Will. At-
Jcins cries, Come Jack, lot's have t'other brush with
them; who dare to build in our dominions? Thus
leaving us something heated with a just passion, away
they trooped, every man having a gun, pistol, 3nd
fvvord, muttering some threatening words, that we
could then but impersectly understand. That night
they designed to murder their two companions, and
slept till midnight in the bower, thinking to sall
upon them in their sleep: nor were the honest men
iess thoughtsul concerning them; for, at this junc-
ture, they were coming to find them out, but in a
inuch sairer way. As soon as the villains came to
the huts, and found nobody there, they concluded
that I and my Spaniards had given them notice, and
therefore swore te be revenged on us. Then they
demolished the poor mens habitation; not by fire,
as they attempted before, but pulled down their
souses, limb from limb, not leaving stick nor stone.
on the ground where they stood; broke their house-
hold stuft'in pieces, tore up their trees, spoiled their
inclosures, and, in short, quite ruined them of every
thing they had. Had these people met together, no
doubt but there would have been a bloody battle;
but Providence ordered it for the better; for just as the
three weregot thither, the two were atour castle; and,
when they left us, the three came back again, but in
a great rage, scosEngly telling us what they had done;
when one taking hold of a Spaniard's hat, twirls it
round, saying, And you, Seignior, Jack Spaniard,
Jhall have the same sauce, is you don't mend your manners.
A4y Spaniard, a grave, but courageous man, knocked
him down with one blow of his £st; at which a-
nother villain fired his pistol, and narrowly miffed
his body, but wounded him a little in the ear.
Hereat enraged, the Spaniard takes up the sellow's
musket whom he had knocked down, and would have
shot him, if I and the rest had not come out, and
taken their arms from every one of them.
These Englishmen, perceiving they had made all
of us their enemies, began to cool; but notwith-
standing their better words, the Spaniards would
not return them their arms again, telling them, they
would do them no manner of harm, if they would-
live peaceably ; but, if they offered any injury to the
plantation or castle, they would shoot them as they
would do ravenous beasts. This made them so mad,
that they went away raging like suries of hell. They
were no sooner gone, but in came the two honest
men, fired with the justest rage, if such can be, hav-
ing been ruined as aforesaid. And, indeed, it was
very hard, that nineteen of us should be bullied by
.three villains, continually offending with impunity.
It was a great while, bir, before we could per-
suade the two Englishmen from pursuing, and un-
doubtedly killing them with their fire arms; but
we promised them justice should be done them, and
in the mean time they should reside with us in our
habitation. In about five days after, these three va-
grants, almost starved with hunger, drew near our
.grove, and perceiving me, the governor, and two
others, walking by the side os the creek, they very sub-
.miffively defired to be received into the samily again.
We told them of their great incivility to us, and of
their unnatural barbarity to their countrymen; but
•yet we would see to what the rest agreed to,, and in
.half an hour's time would bring them word. After
J 5 some
some debate^ we called them in, where their two
countrymen laid a heavy charge against them, for
not only ruining, but designing to murder them,
which they could not deny. But here I was forced
to interpose as a mediator, by obliging the two Eng-
lishmcn not to hurt them, beingnaked and unarmed;
and that the other three should make them restita-
tion, by building their two huts, and sencing their
ground in the same manner as it was before. Well,
being in a miserable condition, they submitted to
this at present, and lived some time regularly enough,
except as to the working part, which they did not
care for, but the Spaniards would have dispensed
with that, had they continued easy and quiet. Their
iirms being given them again, they scarce had them
a week, when they became as troublesome as ever;
but an accident happening soon after, obliged us to
lay aside private resentments, and look to our com-
mon preservation.
One night, Sir, I went to bed, persectly well in
bealth, and yet by no means could I compose myself
to fleep. Upon which, being very uneasy, I got up,
and looked out; but it being dark, I could perceive
nothing but the trees around our castle. I went to
bed again; but it was all one, I could not sleep;
ivhen one os my Spaniards, .hearing me walkabout,
asked who it was up? I answered, It is I. When
J told him the occasion; Sir, said he, such things
Ære" not to be slighted 4 for certainly there is some
mischief plotting near us. Where are the English-
men? said L He answered, in thudr huts; for they
jay separate from us, Sir, since the last mutiny.
.\j\seU, said I, some kind spirit gives this informa-
tion, for our advantage. Come, let us go abroad,
-md see if any thing offers to justify our sears. Upon
.which I and some of my Spaniards went up the
mountain, not by the ladder, but through the grove;
jand then we were struck with a .panic sear, on see-
ing a light* ^ though it weie.a stre, at a very little
distance.
distance, and hearing the voice of several men,
Hereupon we retreated immediately, and raising the
rest of our forces, made them sensible of the impend-
ing danger; but, with all my authority, I could not
make them stay where they were, so earnest were
they to see how things went. Indeed, the darkness
of the .night gave them opportunity enough to view
them (by the light of the fire) undiscovered. As
they were in different parties, and straggling over the
shore, we were much afraid that they should find out
our habitations, and destroy our flocks of goats. To
prevent which, we sent an Englishman and two Spa-
niards to drive the goats into the valley where the
cave lay; or, if there was occasion, into the cave
itfelf. As to ourselves, resuming our native courage,
and prudent conduct, had we not been divided, we
durst venture to attack an hundred of them; but,
before it was yet light, we resolved to send out Fri-
day's sather as a spy, who, immediately, stripping
himself naked, gets among them undiscovered, and,
in two hours time, brings word, that they were two
parties of two different nations, who lately having
a bloody battle with one another, happened to land,
by mere chance, in the same island, to devour their
miserable prisoners: That they were entirely igno-
rant of any person's inhabiting here; but rather,
being filled with rage and sury against one another,
be believed, that as soon as day-light appeared, there
would be a terrible engagement. Old Fiiday had
scarce ended his relation, when we heard an uncom-
mon noise, and perceived, that there was a horrid
engagement between the two"armies-
Such was the cariosity .of our party, especially the
Englishmen, that they would not lie close, though
Old Friday told them, their sasety depended upon
it; and that, if we had patiences we should behold
the savages kill one another. However, they used
feme caution, by going surther into the woods, and
i 6 placing
placing themselves in a convenient place to behold
the battle.
Never could there be a more bloody engagement,
nor men of more invincible spirits, and prudent con-
duct, according to their way and manner of fight-
ing. It lasted near two "hours, till that party which .
was nearest to our castle began to decline, and, at
last, to fly from their conquerors. We were un-
doubtedly put into a great consternation on this ac-
count, lest they should run into our grove, and con-
sequently bring us into the like danger. Hereupon
vire resolved so kill the sirst that came, to .prevent
discovery; and that too with our swords, and the
putt enrl of our muskets, for sear the report of oiir
guns should be heard.
And so indeed, as we thought, it happened: for
three of the vanquished army crossing the creek, ran
directly to the place, as to a thick wood, for feelter;
nor was it long before our scout gave us notice of
it; as also, that the victors did not think sit to pur-
sue them. Upon this I would not suffer them to be
slain, but had them surprised and taken by our par-
ty: and afterwards they proved very good servants
to us, being stout young creatures, and able to do a
great deal of work. The remainder of the conquer-
ed savages fled to their canoes, and put out into the
.ocean, while the conquerors, joining together, shout-
ed by way of triumph: and about three in the af-
ternoon, they also embarked for their own nation.
TThus we were freed at once from the savages and
•our sears, not perceiving any of these creatures for
•some considerable time after. We found two and
thirty men dead in the field of battle; some were
/lain with long arrows, which we found sticking in
their bodies; and the rest were killed with great un-
tveildy wooden swords, which denoted their vast
strength, and of which We found seventeen, besides
bows and arrows: but we could not find one wound-
ed creature among them alive; for they either kill
.their
their enemies quite, or carry those wounded away
with them.
This terrible sight tamed the Englishmen for some
time, considering how unfortunate they might have
teen, had they sallen into their hands, who would
not only kill them as enemies, but also for food, as
we do cattle; and, indeed, so much did this nauseate
their stomachs, that it not only made them very sick,
but more tractable to the common necessary business
of the whole society, planting, sowing, and reap-
ing, with the greatest signs of amity and friendships
so that now, being all good friends, we began to
consider of circumstances in general; and the first
thing we thought of, was, whether, as we perceived
the savages haunted that side of the island, and there
being more retired parts of it, and yet as well suited
to our manner of living, and equally to our advan-
tage, we ought not rather to move our place of re-
sidence, and plant it in a much saser place, both for
the secunty of our corn and cattle?
After a long debate on this head, it was resolved,
or rather voted, nemine contraditente, not to remove
<our antient castle, and that for this very good rea-
son, that, some time or other, we expected to hear
from our supreme governor, (meaning you Sir)
whose messengers not finding us there, might think
the place demolished, and all his subjects destroyed
by the savages*
As to the next concern, relating to our corn and
cattle, we consented to have them removed to the
valley where the cave was, that being most proper
-and sufficient for both. But yet, when we consider-
ed surther, we altered one part of our resolution;
which was, to remove part of our cattle thither, and
plant only part of our corn there; so that in case
one part was destroyed, the other might be preserved.
Another resolution we took, which really had a great
•deal of prudence -in it; and that was, in not trust-
ing the three savages whom we ha3 taken prisoners,
with
with any knowledge of the plantations which we
had made in that valley, of what number of cattle
we had there, much less of the cave, wherein were
kept several arms, and two barrels of powder you
left for us, at your departure from this island. But
though we would not change our habitation, we re-
solved to make it more fortified, and more secret.
To this end, Sir, as you had planted trees at some
distance before the entrance of your palace; so we,
whole space of ground, even to the banks of the
creek, nay, into the very ooze, where the tide slow-
ed, not leaving a place for landing: and among those
I had planted, they had intermingled so many short
ones, all of which growing wondersully sast and
thick, a littledogscarcely could find a passage through
them. Nor was this susficient, as we thought; for
we did the same to all the ground, to the right and
left hand of us, even to the top of the hill, without
so much as leaving a passage for ourselves, except
by the ladder: .which being taken down, nothing
but what had wings or witchcraft .could pretend to
come near us. And, indeed, this was exceedingly
well contrived, especially to serve that occasion, for
which we afterwards found it necessary.
Thus we lived two years in a happy retirement,
having, all this time, not one visit from the savages.
Indeed, one morning, we had an alarm, which put
us in some amazement; for a sew of my Spaniards
being out very early, perceived no less than twenty
•canoes, as it were coming on shore; upon which,
returning home, with great precipitation, they gave
.us the alarm, which obliged us to keep at home all
that day, and the next, going out only in the night-
time, to make our observations; but, as good luck
-would have it, they were upon another design, and
did not land that time.upon the island.
But now there happened another -quarrel between
xhe three wicked Englishmen, and some of my Spa-
k iiiaflds.

iple, planted and filled up the
iiiards. The occasion was this : One of them being
enraged at one of the savages, whom he had taken
prisoner, for not being able to comprehend some-
thing which he was mewing him, snatched up a
hatchet in a great sury, not to correct, but to kill
him; yet missing his head, gave him such a barba-
rous cut in the shoulder, that he had like to have
struck off his arm; at which one of my good-na-
tured Spaniards interposing between the Englishman
and savage, beseeched the former not to murder the
poor creature; but this kindness had like to have
cost the Spaniard his lise, for the Englishman struck
at him in the same manner; which he nimbly and
wisely avoiding, returned suddenly upon him with
his shovel, (being all at work about their corn-land)
and very sairly knocked the brutish creature down.
Hereupon, another Englishman, coming to his sel-
low's assistance, laid the good Spaniard on the earth;
when immediately two others coming to his relief,
were attacked by the third Englishman, armed with
an old cutlass, who wounded them both. This up-
roar soon reached our ears, when we, rushing out
.upon them, took the three Englishmen prisoners;
and then our next question was, what should be done
to such mutinous and impudent sellows, so surious,
.desperate, and idle, that they were mischievous to
ihe highest degree, and consequently not safe for the
society to let them live among them.
Now, Sir, as I was governor in your absence, so
I also took the authority of a judge; and, having
- them brought before me, I told them, that if they
had been of my country, I would have hanged every
mother's son of them; but, since it was an English-
man (meaning you, kind Sir) to whom we were in-
debted for our preservation and deliverance, I would,
in gratitude, use them with all possible mildness;
but, at the fame .time, leave them to the judgment
•of the other two Englishmen, who, I hoped, for-
Settiiig
getting their resentments, would deal impartially by
them.
Hereupon, one of his countrymen stood up; Sir,
said he, leave it not to us, for you may be sensible we
Jiave reason to sentence them to the gallows: besides, Sir,
ibis fellow, WilL Atkins, and the two others, proposed
to us, that we might murder you all in your sleep, which
we would not consent to : but, knowing their inability, and
your vigilance, we did not think fit to discover it before
now.
How, Seignior, said I, do you hearwhat is alledged
against you r What can you say to justify so hor-
rid an action, as to murder us in cold" blood? So
sar, Sir, was the wretch from denying it, that he
swore, d—n him but he would do it still. But what
have we done to you, Seignior Atkins, said I, or
vvhat will you gain by killing us? What shall we
do to prevent you? Must we kill you, or you kill
us: Why will you, Seignior Atkins, (said I, smil-
ing) put us to such an unhappy dilemma, such a sa-
tal necessity: But so great a rage did my scoffing,
and yet severe jest, put him into, that he was going
to fly at me, and undoubtedly had attempted to kill
me if he had been possessed of weapons, and had not
been prevented by three Spaniards. This unparal-
Jelled and villainous carriage, made us seriously con-
sider what was to be done. The two Englishmen
and the Spaniard, who had saved the poor Indian's
lise, mightily petitioned me to hang one of them,
for an example to the others, which stiould be him
.that had twice attempted to commit murder with hi.s
hatchet, it being at that time thought impossible the
poor slave should recover. But they could never gain
.my consent to put him to death, for the reasons
above-mentioned, since it was an Englishman (even
yourself) who was my deliverer: and as mercisul
counsels are most prevailing, when earnestly pressed,
.so I got .them to be of the same opinion as to cle-
mency. .But, to prevent iheir doing us any farther
.mischies,
.mischief, we all agreed, that they should have no
weapons, as sword, gun, powder, or shot, but be
expelled from the society, to live as they pleased, by
themselves; that neither the two Englishmen, nos
the rest of the Spaniards, should have conversation
with them upon any account whatfoever: that they
should be kept from coming within a certain distance
of our castle; and if they dared to offer us any vio-
lence, either by spoiling, burning, killing, or de-
stroying any of the corn, plantings, buildings, sences,
or cattle belonging to the society, we would shoot
them as freely as we would do beasts of prey, in
whatfoever places we should find them.
This sentence, seemed very just to all but them-
selves; when, like a mercisul judge, I called out to
the two honest Englishmen, saying, You must con-
sider they ought not to be starved neither; and since
it will be some time before they can raise corn and
cattle of their own, let us give them some corn to
last them eight months, and for seed to sow, by
which time they'll raise some for themselves; let us
also bestow upon them six milch-goats, four he ones,
and six kids, as well for their present support, as for
a surther increase; with tools necessary for their work,
as hatches, an ax, saw, and other things conveni-
ent to build them huts; all which were agreed to;
but before they took them in possession, I obliged
them solemnly to swear, never to attempt any thing
against us or their countrymen for the suture. Thus
dismissing them from our society, they went away,
sullen and refractory, as though neither willing to
go nor stay; however, seeing no remedy, they took
what provision was given them, proposing to chuse
a convenient place, where they might live by them-
selves. '*''>. . 1
About five days after, they came to those limits
appointed, in order for more victuals, and sent me
word by one of my Spaniards, whom, they called to,
where they had pitched their tents, and marked
them-
themselves out an habitation and plantation, at the
N. E. and most remote part of the island. And in-
deed there they built themselves two very handsome
cottages, resembling our little castle, being under
the side os a mountain, with some trees already grow-
ing on three fides of it; so that planting a sew more,
it would be obscured from sight, unless particularly
sought for. When these huts were finished, we gave
them some dry goats skins for bedding and covering;
and upon their giving us suller assurances of their
good behaviour for the suture, we gave them some
peas, barley, and rice for sowing, and whatever
tools we could spare.
Six months did they live in this separate condition,
in which they got their first harvest in, the quantity
of which was but small, because they had planted
but little land: for indeed, all their plantations be-
ing to form, made it the more difficult, especially as
it was a thing out of their element; and when they
were obliged to make their boards and pots, &c. they
could make little or nothing of it. But the rainy
season coming on, put them into a greater perplexity
for want of a cave to keep their corn dry, and pre-
vent it from spoiling: and so much did this humble
them, that they begged of my Spaniards to help them,
to which the good-natured men readily consented,
and, in four days space, worked a great hole in the
fide of the hill for them, large enough sor their pur-
pose, to secure their corn and other things from the
rain, though not comparable to ours, which had se-
veral additional apartments.
But a new whim possessed these rogues about three
quarters of a year after, which had liked to have
ruined us, and themselves too: for, it seems, being
tired and weary of this sort of living, which made
them work for themselves, without hopes of chang-
ing their condition, nothing would serve them, but
they would make a voyage to the continent, and try
of they could seize upon some of the savages, and
bnng
bring them over as slaves, to do their drudgery, while
they lived at ease and pleasure.
Indeed the project was not so preposterous, if they
had not gone sarther; but they neither did, nor pro-,
posed any things but what had mischief in the de-
sign, or the event. One morning, these three sel-
lows came down to the limited station, and humbly
desired to be admitted to talk with us, which we
readily granted; they told us, in short, that being
tired of their manner of living and the labour of their
hands, in such employments, not being sufficient to
procure the necessaries of lise, they only defired one
of the canoes we came over in, with some arms and
ammunition, for their desence, and they would seek
their fortunes abroad, and never trouble us any more.
To be sure, we were glad enough to get rid of such
wretched plagues; but yet honesty made us ingenu-
ously represent to them, by what we ourselves had
suffered, the certain destruction they were running
into, either of being starved to death, or murdered
by the savages. To this they very audaciously re*,
plied, that they neither could nor would work; and
consequently, that they might as well' be starved a-
broad as at home; and as to their salling into the
hands of the savages, why, if they were murdered,
that was nothing to us, there was an end of them;
neither had they any wives or children to cry after
them; nay, so intent were they upon their voyage,
that if the Spaniards had not given them arms, so
they had but the canoe, they would have gone with-
out them.
Though we could not well spare our fire-arms, ra-
ther than they should go like naked men, we let them
have two muskets, a pistol, a cutlass, and three hat-
chets, which were thought very sufficient: we gave
them also goats flesh, a great basket sull of dried
grapes, a pot of fresh butter, a young live kid, and
a large canoe sufficient to carry twenty men. And
thus, with a mast, made of a long pole, and a sail
of
of fix large goats (kins dried, having a sair breeze,
and a flood tide with them, they merrily sailed away,
she Spaniards calling after them, Bon veyajo, no man
ever expecting to see them more.
When they were gone, the Spaniards and English-
men would often say to one another, 0 how peace-
ably do we now live, since those turbulent fellows have
left us? Nothing could be sarther from their thoughts
than to behold their saces any more; and yet scarce
two and twenty days had pafied over their heads, but
one of the Englishmen, being abroad, a planting,
perceived, at a distance, three men, well armed, ap-
proaching towards him. Away he flies with speed
to our castle, and tells me and the rest, that we were
nil undone, for that strangers were landed upon the
island, and who they were he could not tell; but
added, that they were not savages, but men habited,
bearing arms. Why then, said I, we have the less
occasion to be concerned, since, if they are not In-
dians, they must be friends; for I am sure there is
rio Christian people upon earth, but what will do
us good rather than harm. But while we were con-
sidering of the event, up came the three Englishmen,
whose voices we quickly knew, and so all our admi-
ration of that nature ceased at once. And our won-
der was succeeded by another sort of enquiry, which
was, what could be the occasion of their returning
/o quickly to the island, when we little expected,
and much less defired their company? But as this
was better to be related by themselves, I ordered them
to be brought in, when they gave me the following
•relation of their voyage:
After two days sail, or something less, they reach-
ed land, where they found the people coming to give
them another fort of reception than what they ex-
pected or defired : for as the savages were armed with
bows and arrows, they durst not venture on shore,
but steered northward, six or seven hours, till they
gained an opening, by which they plainly perceived,
v ' '' that
that the land that appeared from this place, » not
the main land,, but the island. At their entrance
into the opening of the sea, they discovers^ another
island, on the right hand northward, and several
more lying to the westward; but being resolved to
go on shore some where or other, they put over to
one of the western islands. Here they found the na-
tives verycorteous to them, giving them several roots
and dried fish; nay, even their women too werej as
willing to supply them with what they could procure
them to eat, bringing it a great way to them upon their
heads Among these hospitable Indians they continued
some days, enquiring by signs and tokens, what na-
tions lay around them^and were informed, that there
were several fierce and terrible people lived every
way, accustomed to eat mankind: but for themselves,
they never used such diet, except those that were
taken in battle, and of them they made a solemn
seast.
The Englishmen enquired how long it was since
they had a seast of that kind? they answered, about
two moons ago, pointing to the moon; and then
to two fingers; that, at this time, their king had
two hundred prisoners, which were sattening up for
the slaughter. The Englishmen were mighty desi-
rous of seeing the prisoners, which the others mis-
taking, thought that'they wanted some of them for
their own food: upon which they beckoned to them,
pointing to the rising, and then to the setting of the
sun: meaning, that by the time that it appeared in
the east next morning, they would bring them some: ,~
and indeed they were as good as their word; for by
that time they brought eleven men and five women,
just as so many cows and oxen are brought to sea-
port towns, to victual a ship. But as brutish as
these Englishmen were, theif stomachs turned at the
sight. What to do in this case, they could not tell:
to resuse the prisoners, would have been the highest
affront offered to the savage gentry; and to dispose
of them, they knew not in what manner.: however,
they resolved to accept them, and so gave them, in
return, one of their hatchets, an old key, a knife
and six or seven of their bullets; things which, tho'
they were wholly ignorant of, yet seemed entirely
contented with; and dragging the poor wretches in-
to the boat, with their hands bound behind them,
delivered them to the Englishmen. But this obliged
them to put ofF as soon as they had these presents,
lest the doners should have expected two or three of
them to be killed, and to be invited to dinner the
next day: and so taking leave with all possible re-
spects and thanks, though neither of them under-
stood what the others said, thfy sailed away back to
the first island, and there set eight of the prisoners at
liberty. In their voyage thev endeavoured to com-
fort, and have some conversation with the poor cap-
tives; but it was impossible to make them sensible of
any thing; and nothing they could say, or give or
do for them, could make them otherwise persuaded,
but that they were unbound only to be devoured : if
they gave them any food, they thought it was only
to satten them for the slaughter; or looked at any
one more particularly, the poor creature supposed it-
self to be the first sacrifice; and even when We brought
them to our island, and began to use them with the
greatest humanity and kindness, yet they expected
every day that their new masters would devour them.
And thus, Sir, did these three strange wanderers
conclude their unaccountable relation of their voy-
age, which was both amazing and entertaining.
Hereupon, I asked them, where their hew samily
was? They told me, they had put them in one of
their huts, and they came to beg some victuals for
them. This, indeed, made us all long to see them;
and taking Friday's sather with us, leaving only two
at our castle, we came down to behold these poor
creatures.
When we arrived at the hut, (they being bound
again
again by tiie Englishmen, for sear of escaping) we
found them stark, naked, expecting their satal tra-
gedy; there were three lusty men, well shaped, with
straight and'sair limbs, between thirty and five and
thirty years old; and five women, two of them might
be from thirty to fortv, two more not above four and
twenty; and the last a comely tall maiden of about
seventeen. Indeed, all the women were very agree-
able, both in their proportion and seatures, except
that they were tawny, which their modest behaviour,
and other graces, made amends for, when they af-
terwards came to be clothed.
This naked appearance, together with their miser-
able circumstances, was no very comfortable sight
to my Spaniards, who, for their parts, I may ven-
ture, Sir, without flattery, to say, are men of the
best behaviour, calmest tempers, and sweetest na-
ture, that can possibly be; for they immediately or-
dered Friday's sather to see if he knew any of them,
or if he understood what they could say. No sooner
did the old Indian appear, but he looked at them
with great seriousness; yet, as they were not of his
nation,, they were utter strangers to him, and none
could understand his speech or signs, but one wo-
man. This was enough to answer the design, which
was to assure them they would not be killed, being
sallen into the hands of Christians, who abhorred
such barbarity. When they were sully satisfied of
this, they expressed their joy by such strange ges-
tures, and uncommon tones, as it is not possible for
me to describe. But the woman, their interpreter,
was ordered next to inquire, whether they were con-
tent to be servants, and would work for the men, who
bad brought them hither to save their lives? Here-
upon, (being at this time unbound) they sell a ca-
pering and dancing, one taking this thing upon her
moulders, and the other that, intimating, that they
were willing to do any thing for them. But now,
Sir, having women among us, and dreading that it •
might
might occasion some strise, if not blood. J asked the
three men what they would do, and how they in-
tended to use these creatures, whether as servants or
women? One of them very pertly and readily an-
swered, they would use them as both. Gentlemen,
said I, as you are your own masters, I am not going
to restrain you from that; but, methinks, for avoid-
ing dissentions among you, I would only desire you.
to engage, that none of you will take more than one
for a woman or a wise, and^ that Having taken this
one, none else should presume to touch her; for
though we have not a priestly authority to marry you,
yet it is but reasonable, that whoever thus takes a
woman, should be obliged to maintain her: since
nobody else has any thing to do with her: and this,
indeed, appeared so just to all present, that it was
unanimously agreed to. The Englishmen then asked
my Spaniards, whether they designed to take any of
them? but they all answered, No; some declaring
they had already wives in Spain; and others, that
they cared not to join with insidels. On the re-
verse, the Englishmen took each of them a tempo-
rary wise, and so set up a new method os living. As
to Friday's sather, the Spaniards, and the three sa-
vage servants we had taken in the late battle, they
all lived with me in our antient castle; and indeed
we supplied the main part of the istand with food,
.as necessity required. But the most remarkable
part of the story is, how these Englishmen, who had
been so much at variance, stiould agree about the
choice of these women; yet they took a way good
enough to prevent quarreling among themselves.
They set the five women in one of their huts, and
going themselves to the other, drew lots which should
have the first choice. Now, he that had the first lot
went to the hut, and setched out her he chose, and
it is remarkable, that he took her that was the most
homely and eldest of the number, which made the rest
of the Englishmen exceeding merry; the Spaniards
them-
themselves could not but smile at it: but, as it hap-
pened, the sellow had the best thought, in chusing
one sit for application and business; and indeed she
proved the best wise of all the parcel.
But when the poor creatures perceived themselves
placed in a row, and separated one by one, they were
again seized with an unspeakable terror, as now
thinking they were going to be slain in earnest: and
when the Englishman came to take the first, the rest
set up a lamentable cry, clasped their arms around
her neck, and hanging about her, took their last
sarewell, as they thought, in such trembling ago-
nies, and afsectionate embraces, as would have sof-
tened the hardest heart in the world, and made the
dryest eyes melt into tears; nor could they be per-
suaded, but that they were going to die, till such
time as Friday's sather made them sensible that the
Englishmen had chosen them for their wives, which
ended all their terror and concern upon this occa-
sion.
Well, after this, the Englishmen went to work,
and being assisted by my good natured Spaniards, in
a sew hours they erected every one of them a new
hut or tent, for their separate lodging, since those
they had already were filled with tools, household
stuff, and provision. They all continued on the
north shore of the island, but separate as before;
the three wicked ones pitching sarther off, and the
two honest men nearer our castle; so that the island
seemed to be peopled in three places, three towns
beginning to be built for that purpose. And here I
cannot but remark, what is very common, that the
two honest men had the worst wives, (I mean as to
industry, cleanliness, and ingenuity) while the three
reprobates enjoyed women of quite contrary qua-
lities.
But another observation I made was, in savour of
the two honest men, to shew what disparity there is
between a diligent application to business, on the
_ K one
one hand, and a slothsul, negligent, and idle tem-
per, on the other. Both of them had the same par-
cel of ground laid out, and corn to sow, sufficient
for them; both did not make the same improve-
ments, either in their cultivation or in their plant-
ing. The two honest men had a multitude of young
trees planted about their habitations, so that when
you approached near them, nothing appeared but a
wood, very pleasing and delightsul Every thing
they did prospered and flourished; their grapes plant-
ed in order, seemed as though managed in a vine-
yard, and were infinitely preserable to any of the
ethers. Nor were they wanting to find out a place
of retreat, but dug a cave in the most retired part os
thick wood, to secure their wives and children,
l^ith their provision, and chiesest goods, surrounded
with innumerable stakes, and having a most subtile
entrance, in case any mischief should happen, either
from their sellow countrymen, or the devouring sa-
vages.
As to the reprobates, (though I must own they
were much more civilized than before) instead of a
delightsul wood surrounding their dwellings, we
found the words of King Solomon too truly verified;
/ Went by the ,vineyard of the siouthsul, and it was all
overgrown with thorns. In many places their crop
was obscured by weeds; the hedges having several
gaps in them, the wild goats had got in, and eatert
up the corn, and here and there was a dead bush,
to stop in those gaps for the present, which was no
more than shutting the stable-door after the steed
was stolen away. But as to their wives, they (as I
•observed before) were more diligent, and cleanly e-
nough, especially in their victuals, being instructed
by one of the honest men, who had been a cook's
mate on board a ship: and very well it was so; for
as he cooked himself, his companion and their fa-
milies lived as well as the idle husbands, who did
•nothing but loiter about, setch turtles eggs, catch
fish and birds, and do any thing but work, and
lived accordingly; while the diligent lived very hand-
somely and plentisully, in the moll comfortable man-
ner.
And now, Sir, I gome to lay before your eyes, a
scene quite disferent from any thing that ever hap-
pened to us before, and perhaps ever besel you in all
the time of your residence on this island. 1 shall .In-
form you of its original in the following manner:
One morning, Sir, very early, there came sive or
six canoes of Indians on shore, indisputably upon
their old custom of devouring their prisoners. All
that we had to do upon such an occasion, was to lie
concealed, that they, not having any notice of in-
habitants, might depart quietly, after performing
their bloody execution: whoever first discovered the
savages, was to give notice to all the three planta-
tions to keep within doors, and then a proper scout
was to be placed to give intelligence of their depar-
ture. But, notwithstanding these wise measures, an
unhappy disaster discovered us to the savages,. which
was like to have caused the desolation of the whole
island; for, after the savages were gone osf in their
canoes, some of my Spaniards and 1 looking abroad,
and being inflamed with a curiosity to see what they
had been doing, to our great amazement, beheld
three savages sast asieep on the ground, who, either
being gorged, could not awake when the others went
off, or having wandered too sar into the woods, did
not come back in time.
What to do with them at first, we could not tell •
as for staves, we had enough of them already'; and
as to killing them, neither Christiany nor humanity
would suffer us to shed the blood of persons who ne-
ver did us wrong. We perceived they had no boat
left them to transport them to their own nation; and
that, by letting them wander about, they might diC
cover us, and inform the first savages,th.at mould
happen to land upon the same blooJj occasion,
K 2 which
which information might entirely ruin us; and
therefore I counselled my Spaniards to secure them,
and set them about some work or other, till we could
better dispose of them.
Hereupon we all went back, and making them
awake, took them prisoners. It is impossible to ex-
press the horror they were in, espcially when bound,
as thinking they were going to be murdered and
eaten, but we soon eased them of their sear as to that
point. We first took them to the bower, where the
• chief of our country-work lay, as keeping goats,
planting corn, &c. and then carried them to the two
Englishmens habitation, to help them in their busi-
ness; but happy it was for us all, we did not carry
them to our castle, as by the sequel will appear.
The Englishmen, indeed, found them work to do;
but whether they did not guard them strictly, or that
they thought they could not better themselves, I can-
not tell; but certainly one of them ran away into
the woods, and they could not hear of him for along
time after.
Undoubtedly, there was reason enough to suppose
he got home in some of the canoes, the iavages re-
turning in about four weeks time, and going off in
the. space of two days. You may be certain, Sir,
this thought could not but terrify us exceedingly,
and make us justly conclude, that this savage would
inform his countrymen of our abode in the island,
Jiow sew and weak we were in comparison to their
numbers; and we expected it would not belong
before the Englishmen would be attacked in their ha-
bitations: but the savages had not seen their places
of sasety in the woods, nor our castle, which it was
a great happiness they did not know.
Nor were we mistaken in our thoughts upon this
occasion; for, about eight months after this, six ca-
noes, with about ten men in each canoe, came fail-
ing by the aottfc side of the island, which they were
never accustofc^ to do before, and landed about an
hour
hour after sun-rise, near a mile from the dwelling of
the two Englishmen, who, it seems, had the good
fortune to discover them about a league osf; so that
it was an hour before they could attain the shore, and
some longer time before they could come at them.
And now, being confirmed in this opinion, that they
were certainly betrayed, they immediately bound the
two slaves which were left, causing- two of the three
men, whom they brought with the women, and who
proved very saithsul, to lead them with their wives,
and other conveniencies, into their retired cave in
the wood, and there to bind the two sellows hand and
foot, till they had surther orders. They then opened
their sences, where they kept their milch goats, and
drove them all out, giving the goats liberty to ram-
ble in the woods, to make the savages believe that
they were wild ones; but the slave had given a truer
information, which made them come to the very in-
closures. The two frighted men sent the other slave
of the three, who had been with them by accident,
to alarm the "Spaniards, and defire their assistance;
in the mean time, they took their arms and ammu-
nition, and made to the cave where they had sent
their wives, and securing their slaves, seated them-
.feives in a private place, from whence they might
behold all the actions of the savages. Nor had they
gone sar, when ascending a rising ground, they could
see a little army of Indians approach to their,beauti-
ful dwelling, and in a sew moments more, perceive
the same, and their surniture, to their unspeakable
grief, burning in a consuming flame: and wnen this
was done, they spread here and there, searching every
bum and place tor the people, of whom, it was very
evidentj they had information. Upon which the
two Englishmen, not thinking themselves secure
where they stood, retreated about half a mile highey
in the country, rightly concluding, that the sarther
the fa/ages strolled, there would be lesser numbers to-
gether: upon which they next took their stand by
K 3 'the
the trunk of an old tree, very hollow and large,
whence they resolved to see what would osser; but
they had not stood long there, before two savages
came running directly towards them, as though hav-
ing knowledge of their being there, who seemed re-
solved to attack them; a little sarther were three
more, and sive more behind them again, all running
the same way. It cannot be imagined what per-
plexity the poor men were in at this sight, thinking
that if assistance did not speedily come, their cave in
the wood would be discovered, and consequently all
therein lost: so they resolved to resist them there,
and, when overpowered, to ascend to the top of
tn« trees, when they might desend themselves as
long.as their ammunition lasted, and sell their lives
as dear as possible to those devouring savages.
*"J~hus fixed in their resolution, they next consi-
dered, whether they should fire at the first two,
cr wait for the three, and so take the middle party,
by which the two first and the five last would be
separated. In this regulation the two savages also
confirmed them, by turning a little to another part
the wood; but the three, and the five after them,
came directly towards the tree. Hereupon they rer
solved to take them in a direct line, as they approach-
ed nearer, because perhaps the first shot might hit
them a" three; and, upon this occasion, the man
fi ho was to sire, charged his piece with three or four
|iullets. And thus, while they were waiting, the
/avages came on, one of them was the runaway, who
I ad caused all the mischief: so they resolved he should
rot escape, if they both fired at once. But however,
though they did not fire together, they were ready
charged; when the first that let fly, was too good a
nlarkiman to mil's his aim; for he killed the foremost
outright, the second, (who was the runaway Indian)
fell on the ground, being shot through the body*
but not dead, and the third was a little wounded in
the shoulder, who, sitting down on the ground, sell
a
a screaming in a most searsul manner. The noise of
the guns, which not only made the most resounding
echoes, from one side to another; but raised the birds
of all sorts, fluttering with the most consused noise,
so much terrified the five savages behind, that they
stood still at first, like so many inanimate images.
But when all things were in profound silence, they
came to the place where their companions lay: and
here, not being sensible that they were liable to the
same sate, stood over the wounded man, undoubtedly
enquiring the occasion of his sad calamity; and,
'tis as reasonable to suppose, he told them, that it
came by thunder and lightning from the gods, having
never seen nor heard of a gun before, in the whole
course of their lives. By this time the Englishmen,
having loaded their pieces, fired both together a se-
cond time, when seeing them all sall immediately on
the ground, they thought they had killed every crea-
ture of them. This made them come up boldly be-
fore they had charged their guns, which, indeed,
was a wrong step; for, when they came to the place,
they found four alive, two of them very little wound-
ed," and one not at all, which obliged them to sall
upon them with their muskets; they first knocked
the runaway savage on the head, and another that
was but a little wounded in the arm, and then put
the other languishing wretches out of their pain;
while he that was not hurt, with bending knees, and
uplifted hands, made piteous moans, and signs to
them to spare his lise-, nor, indeed, where they un-
mercisul to the poor wretch, but pointed to him to
sit down at the root of a tree hard by; and then, one
of the Englishmen, with a piece of rope twine he
had in his pocket by mere chance, tying his two
feet sast together, and his two hands behind him,
they left him there, making all the haste they could
after the other two, searing they should find out their
cave; but though they could not overtake them,
they had the satissaction to perceive them, at a dis-
K 4 tance.,
tance, cross a valley towards the sea, a quite con-
trary way to their retreat; upon which they return-
ed to the tree, to look after their prisoner; but when
they came there, he was gone, leaving the pieces os
rope-yarn, wherewith he was bound, behind him.
Well, now they were as much concerned as ever,
as not knowing how near their enemies might be, or
in what numbers. Immediately they repaired to
their cave, to see if all was well there, and found
every thing sase except the women, who were fright-
ed upon their husbands account, whom now they
loved entirely. They had not been long here, be-
fore s.ven of my Spaniards came to assist them: while
the other ten, their servants, and Friday's sather,
•were gone to desend their bower, corn and cattle,
in case the savages should have rambled so sar. There
accompanied the seven Spaniards, one of the three
savages that had formerly been taken prisoner; and
.with them also, that very Indian whom the Eng-
lishmen had, a little before, left under the tree; for
it seems, they passed by that way where the slaugh-
ter was made, and so carried along with them that
poor wretch that was left bound. But so many pri-
soners now becoming a burthen to us, and searing
the dreadsul consequence of their escaping, most of
the Spaniards and English urged the absolute Ne-
cessity there was of killing them for our common pre-
servation: but, Sir, the authority I bore, as a go-
vernor, over-ruled that piece of cruelty; and then
I ordered them to be sent prisoners to the old cave
in the valley, bound hands and seet, with two Spa-
niards to guard them,
So much encouraged were the Englishmen at the
approach of the Spaniards, and so great was their
fury against the savages, for destroying their habi-
tations, that they had not patience to stay any lon-
ger; but, taking five Spaniards along with them,
armed with four muskets, a pistol, and a quarter-
staff, away they went in pursuit of their enemies.
As they passed by the place where the savages were
slain, it was very easy to be perceived that more of
them had been there, having attempted to carry off
their dead bodies, but found it impracticable. From
a rising ground, our party had the mortification to
see the smoke that proceeded from the ruins; when
coming farther in sight of the shore, they plainly per-
ceived that the savages had embarked in their ca-
noes, and were putting out to sea. This they were
very sorry for, there being no coming at them to
give them a parting salute; but, however, they
were glad enough to get clear of such unwelcome
guests.
Thus the two honest, but unfortunate English-
men, being ruined a second time, and their im-
provements quite destroyed, most of my good-na-
tured Spaniards helped them to rebuild, and we all
assisted them with needsul supplies; nay, what is
more remarkable, their three mischievous country-
men, when they heard it, (which was after all these
disasters were over, they living remote eastward) very
friendly sympathised with them, and worked for
them several days; so that, in a little time, their ha-
bitation was rebuilt, their necessities supplied, and
themselves restored to their former tranquillity.
Though the savages had nothing to boast of
in this adventure, (several canoes being driven
ashore, followed by two drowned creatures, having
undoubtedly met with a storm at sea that very night
they departed) yet it was natural to be supposed, that
those whose better fortune it was to attain their na-
tive shore, would inflame their nation to another
ruinous attempt, with a greater force, to carry all
before them. And, indeed, so it happened; for,
about seven months after, our island was invaded
with a most formidable navy, no less than eight and
twenty canoes full of savages, armed with wooden
swords, monstrous clubs, bows and arrows, and
K j such
OF
such like instruments of war, landing at the east fide
of the island.
You may well, Sir, imagine, what consternation
our men were in upon this account, and how speedy
they were to execute their resolution, having only
that night's time allowed them. They knew, that
since they could not withstand their enemies, con-
cealment was the only way to procure their sasety:
and, therefore, they took down the huts that were
built for the two Englishmen, and drove their flock
of goats, together with their own at the bower, to
the old cave in the valley, leaving as little "appear-
ance of inhabitants as possible; and then posted
themselves, with all their force, at the plantation of
the two men. As they expected^ so it happened;
for, early the next morning, the Indians, leaving
th'eir canoes at the east end of the island, came run-
ning along the shore, about two hundred and fifty
in number, as near as could be guessed. Our army
was but little indeed; and what was our greater
misfortune, we had not arms sufsicient for them.
The account, as to the men, Sir, is as follows:
i 7 Spaniards.
5 Englishmen,
i Old Friday. .
2 The three savages, ta-
ke)^ with the women,
who proved faithfuls
servants.
3 Other slaves, Kv'mg\
,with the Spaniards.
Muskets.
Pistols.
Fowling-pieces.
Swords.
Old halberts.
Muskets, or fowling-
pieces, taken from the
sailors whom you re-
duced.
As to the slaves, we gave three of them halberts,
»nd the other three long staves, with great iron
spikes at the end of them, with hatchets by their
sides: we also had hatchets sticking in our girdles,
besides the fire-arms: nay, two of the womtn, in-
spired with Amazonian fortitude, could not be dis-
suaded from fighting along with their dearest hus-
bands,
.bands, and if they died, to die with them. Seeing
their resolution, we gave them hatchets likewise;
ibut what pleased them best, were the bows and ar-
rows (which they dexterously knew how to use)
that the Indians had left behind them, after their
memorable battle one against another.
Over this army, which, though little, was of great
intrepidity, I was constituted chief general and com-
mander; and knowing Will. Atkins, though exceed-
ing wicked, yet a man of invincible courage, I gave
him the power of commanding under me; he and
six men with their muskets loaded, with fix or seven
bullets a-piece, were planted just behind a small
thicket of bushes, as an advanced guard, having or-
ders to let the first pass by; and then, when he sired
into the middle of them, make a nimble retreat
round part of the wood, and so come in the rear of
the Spaniards, who were shaded by a ticket of trees:
for though the savages came on with the fierceness of
lions, yet they wanted the subtilty of foxes, being
out of all manner of order, and straggling in heaps
everyway; and, indeed, when Will. Atkins, after
sifty of the savages had passed by, had ordered three
.of his men to give fire, so great was their conster-
nation, to see so many-men killed and wounded, and
hear such a dreadsul noise, and yet not know whence
it came, that they were frightened to the highest de-
gree; and when the second volley was given, they
•concluded no less but that their companions were
slain by thunder and lightning from heaven. In
this notion they would have continued, had Will.
Atkins and-his men retired, as soon as they fired,
according to order: or had the rest been near them,
to pour in their shot continually, there might have
been a complete victory obtained; but staying tp
load their pieces again, discovered the whole mat-
ter, ^hey were perceived by some of the scatter-
ing savages at a distance, who let fly their arrows
amor/g them, w.ounded Atkins himself, and killed
K 6 his
his sellow Englishman, and oneof the Indians taken
.with the women. Our party did not sail to answer
them, and in their retreat killed about twenty sa-
vages. Here I cannot but take notice os our poor
dying slave, who, though, stopt from his retreat by
a satal arrow, yet with his staff and hatchet, despe-
rately and gallantly assailed the pursuers, and killed
five of the savages, before his lise submitted to a
multiplicity of wounds. Nor is the cruelty or ma-
lice ot the Indians to be less remarked, in breaking
the arms, legs, and heads of the two (lead bodies
with their clubs and wooden swords, after a most
wretched manner. As Atkins retreated, our party
advanced, to interpose between him and the savages;
but. after three volleys, we were obliged to retreat
also; for they were so numerous and desperate, that
they came up to our very teeth, shot their ar-
rows like a cloud, and their wounded men, enraged
v/ifh cruel pain, fought like mad-men. They did
not, however, think fit to follow us, but drawing
themselves up in a circle, they gave two triumphant
shouts in token of victory, though they had the grief
to see several of their woundea men bleed to death
before them.
After I had, Sir, drawn up our little army toge-
ther upon a rising ground, Atkins, wounded as he
Wisi would have had us attack the whole body of
the savages at once. I was extremely well pleased
with the gallantry of the man: but, upon consider-
ation, I replied, You perceive, Seignior Atkins, how
tJieis wounded men fight; let them alone till morning,
yubM they .will be faint, stiff* and sore, and then ,we
shall have fewer to combat with. . To which Will. At-
jins, smiling, replied, That's very true, Seignior, and
so shall I t»o; and that's the reason I would fight them
noVJ I am war)tu We all answered, Seignior At-
Jtins, for your part, you have behaved very gallant-
ly i and, if you are not able to approach the enemy
in the morning, we will fight for you, till then we
think it convenient to wait, and so we tarried.
By the brightness of the moon that night, we per-
ceived the savages in great disorder about their dead
and wounded men. This made us change our reso-
lution, and resolve to sall upon them in the night,
if we could give them one volley undiscovered. 'This
we had a sair opportunity to do, by one of the two
Englishmen's leading us round, between the woods
and the sea-side westward, and turning short south,
came privately to a place where the thickest of them
were. Unheard and unperceived, eight of us fired
among them, and did dreadsul execution; and, in
half a minute after, eight more of us let sly, killing
and wounding abundance of them; and then divid-
ing ourselves into three bodies, eight persons in each
body, we marched from among the trees, to the very-
teeth of the enemy, sending forth the greatest shouts
and acclamations. The savages hearing a different
noise from , three quarters at once, stood in the ut-
most consusion; but coming in sight of us, let fly a
volley of arrows, which wounded poor old Friday,
yet happily it did not prove mortal. We did not,
however, give them a second opportunity; but rustl-
ing in among them, we fired three several ways, and
then sell to work with our swords, staves, hatchets,
and the butt end of our muskets, with a sury not to
be resisted; so that, with the most dismal screaming
and howling, they had recourse to their seet, to save
their lives by a speedy flight. Nor must we forget
the valour of the two women; for they exposed theij-
selves to the greatest dangers, killed many with their
arrows, and valiantly destroyed several more with
their hatchets.
In fighting these two tattles, we were so much
tired, that we did not then trouble ourselves to pur-
sue them to their canoes, in which we thought they
would presently put to the ocean ; but there happen-
ing a dreadsul stormat sea, which continuing all that
night
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
light, it not only prevented their voyage, but dash-
d several of their boats to pieces against the beach,
nd drove the rest so high upon the shore, that it re-
tired infinite pains to get them off. After ourmen
lad taken some refreshment and a little repose, they
esblved early in the morning to go towards the place
>f their landing, and see whether they were gone off,
>r in what posture they remained. This necessarily
ed them to the place of battle, where several of the
avages were expiring, a sight no way pleasing to
renerous minds, to delight in their misery, though
>bliged to conquer them by the law of arms; but our
>wn Indian flaves put them out of their pain, by dis-
>atching them with their hatchets. At length, com-
ng in view of the remainder of their army, we found
hem leaning upon their knees, which were bended
owards their mouth, and the head between the two
lands. Hereupon, coming within mufket-shot os
hem, I ordered two pieces to be fired without ball,
n order to alarm them, that we might plainly know,
whether they had the courage to venture another
lattle, or were utterly dispirited from such an at-
empt, that so we might accordingly manage them,
^nd, indeed, the project took very well; for, no
ooner did the savages hear the first gun, and per-
eive the flash of the second, but they suddenly started
pon their seet, in the greatest consternation; and
?hen we approached towards them, they ran howl-
ig and screaming away up the hill into the coun-
ry.
We could rather, at first, have wished, that the
weather had permitted them to have gone off to the
;a; but when we considered, that their escape might
ccasiost the approach of multitudes, to our utter
iin and dissolution, we were very well pleased the
intrary happened: and Will. Atkins (who, tbo
roundec], would not part from us all this while) aa-
ised us not to let flip this advantage, but clapping
stween them and their boats, deprive them of the
capacity
OF R(
capacity 0s en
m is, that i
k k taw
* faff, i
yjmt. 'f
JWjt „
,t5)'»'eres0w
?w«made,
* As soo
!* d0iD8 r
ra %bt of'us
>»Uei
H Were in
ierceiv
fe
capacity of ever returning to plague the island: /
know, (said he) there is but one objeSiion you can make,
,which is, that these creatures, living like beasts in the
,wood, may mcke excursions, rifle the plantations, and de-
Jlroy the. tame goats; but then consider, we had bet-
ter to do with an hundred men, whom we' can kill, or
make Jlaves of, at leisure, than with an hundred nations,
whom it is impossible we Jbouldsave ourselves from, much
less subdue. This advice, and these arguments being
approved of, we set fire to their boats; and though
they were so wet that they would not burn entirely,
yet we made them incapable for swimming in the
seas. As soon as the Indians perceived what we
were doing, many of them ran out of the woods,
in sight of us, and kneeling down pitioufly, cried
out, Oa, Oa, IVaramakoa, intimating, I suppose,
that, if we would but spare their canoes, they would
never trouble us again.
But all their complaints, submissions, and entrea-
ties, were in vain; for self-preservation obliging us
to the contrary, we destroyed every one of them that
had escaped the sury of the ocean. When the In-
dians perceived this, they raised a lamentable cry,
and ran into the woods, where they continued rang-
ing about, making the woods ring with their la-"
mentation. Here we should have considered, that
making these creatures thus desperate, we ought, at
the same time, to have set a sufficient guard upon
the plantations: for the savages, in their ranging
about, found out the bower, destroyed the sences,
trod the corn down under their seet, and tore up
the vines and grapes- It is true, we were always
able to sight these creatures; but, as they were too
swift for us, and very numerous, we durst not go
out single., for sear of them; though that too was
needless, they having no weapons, nor any mate-
rials to make them; and, indeed, their extremity
appeared in a little time after.
Though the savages, as already mentioned, had
destroyed
dcfl royed our bower, and all our corn, grapes, &c.
yet we had still left our stock of cattle in the valley
by the cave, with some little corn that grew there,
and the plantation of Will. Atkins and his Com-
panions, one of whom being killed by an arrow,
they were now reduced to two: it is remarkable,
that this was the sellow who cut the poor Indian with
his hatchet, and had a design to murder me and my
countrymen the Spaniards. As our condition was
so low, we came to the resolution to drive the sava-
ges up to the sarther part of the island, where no In-
dians landed; to kill as many of them as we could,
till we had reduced their number; and then to give
the remainder some corn to plant, and to teach them
how to live by their daily labour. Accordingly, we
pursued them with our guns, at the hearing of which,
;hey were so terrified, that they would sall to the
rround, Every day we killed and wounded some
3s them, and many we found starved to death, so
:hat our hearts began to relent at the sight of such
niserable objects. At last, with great difficulty,
:aking one of them alive, and using him with kind-
iess and tenderness, we brought him to Old Fri-
lay, who talked to him, and told him, how good we
tfould be to them all, giving them corn and land to
>lant and live in, and present nourishment, pro-
dded they would keep within such bounds as should
>e allotted them, and not do prejudice to others: Gt
hen, said he, and inform your countrymen of this;
uhicb, if they will not agree to, every one of tlitmjboll
.e slain.
The poor creatures, thoroughly humbled, being
educed to about thirty-seven, joysully accepted the
ffer, and earnestly begged for food; hereupon we
ent twelve Spaniards and two Englishmen, well
rmed, together with Old Friday, and three Indian
aves who marched to the place where they were,
"he slaves were loaded with a large quantity of
read, and rice cakes* with three live goats: and the
poor
poor Indians being ordered to sit down on the side of
the hill, they ate the victuals very thanksully, and
have proved saithsul to the last, never trespassing be-
yond their bounds, where, at this day, they quietly
and happily remain, • and where we now and then
visit them.. They are confined to a neck of land
about a mile and a half broad, and three or four in
lengths on the south-east corner of the iQand, the
sea being before, and lofty mountains behind them,
free from the appearance of canoes : and indeed their
countrymen have never made any enquiry after them.
We gave them twelve hatchets, and three or four
knives ; have taught them to build huts, make wood-
en spades, plant corn, make bread, breed tame go.its,
and milk them, as likewise to make wicker-work,
in which, I must ingenuously consess, they insinitely
outdo us, having made themselves several pretty ne-
cessaries and sancies, as baskets, sieves, bird cages,
and cupboards, as also stools, beds, and couches,
no less useful than delightsul ; and now the live the
most innocent and inoffensive creatures that ever
were subdued in the world, wanting nothing but
wives to make them a nation.
Thus, kind Sir, have I given you, according to
ray ability; an impartial account of the various trans-
actions that have happened in the island since your
departure, to this day; and we have great reason to
acknowledge the kind providence of heave.n in our
mercisul deliverance. Whan you inspect your little
kingdom, you will sind sn it some little improve-
ment, your flocks increased, and your iubjects aug-
mented . so that from a desolate island, as this was
before your wondersul deliverance upon it, here is a
visible prospect of its becoming a populous and well
governed little kingdom, to your immortal fame and
glory.
The end of the Spanijh governor's relation.
The continuation of the life of Robinson Crusoe, loth
os those passages that happened during the time of his
his continuance on the island, and after his departure,
till he arrived agabi in his native country.
THERE is no doubt to.suppose but that thepre-'
cedent relation of my saithsul Spaniard wa«
.yei V agreeable, and no less surprizing to me, to the
young priest, and to all who heard it: nor were these
people less pleased with those necessary utensils that
J.brought them, such as the'knives, icissars, spades,
shovels, and pickaxes, with which they now adorn
their habitations. So much had they adicted them-
selves to. wicker-work, prompted by the ingenuity of
the Indrans, who aslisted them, that when I viewed
the Englishmen's colonies, they setnied at a distance
as though they had lived like bees in a hive: for
\VilI. A kins who was now become a very industri-
ous and sober man, had made hinrlclf a tent of bas-
ket-work round the outfide; the walls were worked
in as a basket, in pannels or strong squares of thirty-
tvvo in number, standing about (even seet high: in
the middle was another, not above twenty-two paces
round, but much stronger built, being of an.octo-
rronal form, and in the eight corners stood eight
strong posts, round the top of which he laid strong-
pieces, pinned with wooden pins, from which he
raised a pyramid for the roof, mighty pretty, I allure
you, and joined very well together with iron spikes,
which he made himself; for he had made him a
forge, with a pair of wooden bellows and charcoal
for his work, forming an anvil out of one of the iron
crov/s, to work upon, and in this manner would hi
make himself hooks, staples, spikes, bolts, and hinges.
After he had pitched the roof of his innermost tent,
he made it so firm between the rafters with basket-
work, thatching that over again with rice-straw,
and over that a large leaf of a tree, that his house
was as dry as if it had been tiled or slated. The
outer circuit was covered as a lean-to quite round
this inner apartment, laying long rafters from the
thirty-two angles to the top-posts of the inner house,
about twenty seet distant: so that there was a space
like a walk betwixt the outer and inner wall, near
twenty seet in breadth. The inner place he parti-
tioned off with the same wicker-work, dividing it
iato six neat apartments, every one of which had a
door, first into the entry of the main tent, and ano-
ther into the space and walk that was round it, not'
only convenient for retreat, but for samily necessaries.
Within the door of the outer circle, there was a pas-
sage directly to the door of the inner h®use ; on either
side was a wicker partition, and a door, by which •
you go first into a large room twenty-two seet wide,
and about thirty long, and through that into ano-
ther of a smaller length, so that in the outer circle
were ten handsome rooms, tix of which were only
to be come at through the apartments of the innes
tent, serving as retiring rooms to the respective cham-
bers of the inner circle, and four large warehouses,
which went in through one another, two on either
hand of the passage chat led through the outer door
to the inner tent.^ In short, nothing could be built
more ingeniously, kept more neat, or have better
conveniences; and here lived the three samilies,
Will. Atkins, his companion, their wives and chil-
dren, and the widow of the deceased. As to re-
ligion, the men seldom taught their wives the know-
ledge of God, any more than the sailors custom of
swearing by his name. The greatest improvement
their wives had, was, they taught them to speak
English, so as to be understood.
None of their children were then above six years
• 1 old;
old; they were all fruitsul enough; and, I think,
the cook's mate's wise was big of her sixth child.
When I enquired of the Spaniards about their
circumstances while among the savages, they told
me, that they abandoned themselves to despair,
reckoning themselves a poor and miserable people,
that had no means put into their hands, and conse-
quently must soon be starved to death. They own-
ed, however, that they were in the wrong to think
so, and for resusing the assistance that reason offered
for their support, as well as suture deliverance, con-
sessing that grief was a most insignificant passion, as
it looked upon things as withouc remedy, and having
no hope of things to come; all which verified this
noted proverb,
In trouble to be troubled,
Is to have your trouble doubled.
Nor did his remarks end here; for, making ob-
servations upon my improvements, and on my con-
dition at first, infinitely worse than theirs, iie told me,
that. Englishmen had, in their distress, greater pre-
sence of mind than those of any other country that
he had met with; and that they and the Portuguese
were the worst men in the world to struggle under
misfortunes. When they landed among the savages,
they found but little provision, except they would
turn cannibals, there being but a sew roots and herbs,
with little substance in them, and of which the na-
tives gave them but very sparingly. Many were the
ways they took to civilize and teach the savages,
but in vain: for they would not own them to be
their instructors, whose lives were owing to their
bounty. Their extremities were very great, many
days being entirely without food, the savages there
being more indolent and less devouring than those
who had, better supplies. When they went out to
battle, they were obliged to assist these people, in one
of which my saithful Spaniard being taken, and like
to have been devoured. They had lost their ammu-
nition, which rendered their fire arms useless; nor
could they use the bows and arrows that were given
them, so that while the armies were at a distance,
they had no chance, but when close, then they could
be of service with halberts, and sharpened sticks put
into the muzzles ,of their muskets. They made
themselves targets of wood, covered with the skins
of wild beasts; and when one happened to be
knocked down, the rest of the company fought over
him till he recovered: and then standing close in a
line, they would make their way through a thousand
• savages. At the return of their friend who they
thought had been entombed in the bowels of their
enemies, their joy was inconceivable. Nor were
they less surprized at the sight of the loves of bread
I had sent them, things that they had not seen for se-
veral years, at the same time crossing and blessing it,
as though it was manna sent from heaven : but when
thev knew the errand, and perceived the boat which
was to carry them to the person and place from
whence such relief came, this struck them with such
a surprize of joy as made some of them saint away,
and others burst out into tears.
This was the summary account that I had from
them. I shall now inform the reader what I next
did for them, and in what condition I left them. As
we were all of opinion that the savages would scarce
trouble them any more, so we had no apprehensions
on that score. I told them I was come putely to
establish, and not to remove them; and, upon that
occasion, had not only brought them necessaries for
convenience and desence, but also artisicers, and o-
ther persons, both for their neceflary employments,
and to add to their number, they were all together
when I thus talked to them; and before I delivered
to them the stores I brought, I asked them one by
one, if they had entirely forgot their first animosities,
would
would engage in the strictest friendship, and shake
hands with one another? On this Will. Atkins,
with abundance of good humour, said, they bad
afflictions enough to make them all sober, and ene-
mies enough to make them all friends: as for himself,
he would live and die among them, owning, that
what the Spaniards had done to him, his own mad
humour had made necessary for them to do. Nor
had the Spaniards .occasion to justify their proceed-
ings tome; but they to'd me, that, since Will. At-
kins had behaved himself so valiantly in sight, and at
other times shewed such a regard to the common in-
terest of them all, they had not only forgotten all
that was past, but thought he ought as much to be
trusted with arms and necessaries as any of them,
which they testified by making him next in com-
mand to the governor: and they most heartily em-
braced the occasion of giving me this solemn as-
surance, that they would never separate their interest
again as long as they lived.
After these kind declarations of friendship, we ap-
pointed all of us to dine together the next day; upon
this I caused the ship's cook and his mate to come
on shore for that purpose, to assist in dressing our
dinner. We brought from the ship six pieces os
beef, and four of pork, together with our punch-
bowl, and materials to fill it; and in particular, I
gave them ten bottles of French claret, and ten of
English beer, which was very acceptable to them.
The Spaniards added to our seast five whole kids,
•which being roasted, three of them were sent as fresh
meat to the sailors on board, and the other two w«
ate ourselves. After our merry and innocent feast
was over, I began to dii.ribute my cargo among
them. First, I gave them lineh sufficient to make
every one of them four shirts, and at the Spaniards
request made them up six. The thin English stuffs
I allotted to make every one a light coat like a frock,
agreeable to the climate, and left them such a quanti-
ty'
k
U
1
ty, as to make more upon their decay: as also
punps, (hoes, hats, and stockings. It is not to be
expressed the pleasing satissation which sat upon xhz
countenances of these poor men, when they per-
ceived what care I took of them, as if I had been a
common sather to them all; and they all engaged
never to leave the island, till I gave my content for
their departure. I then presented to them the peo-
ple I brought, to wit, the tailor, smith, and the two
carpenters; but my Jack of all trades was the most
acceptable present I could make them. My tailor
sell immediately to work, and made every one of
them a shirt; after which, he learned the women
how to sew and stitch, hereby to become the more
helpsul to their husbands. Neither were the car-
penters less usesul, taking in pieces their clumsey
things, instead of which, rhe) made convenient and
handsome tables, stools, bedsteads, cupboards, lockers
and shelves. But when I carried them to see Will
Atkins's basket-house, they owned they never saw
such a piece of natural ingenuity before: I am sure,
said one of the carpenters, the man that built this
has no need of us: you need, Sir, do nothing but give him
tools.
I divided the tools among them in this manner: to
every man I gave a digging spade, a shovel and a
rake, as having no harrows or ploughs; and to
every separate place a pick axe, a crow, a broad axe,
and a saw, with a store for a general supply, should
any be broken or worn out. 1 left them also nails,
staples, hinges, hammers, chissels, knives, seissars,
and all forts of tools and iron work; and, for the
use of the smith, gave them three tons of unwrought
iron for a supply: and as to arms and ammunition,
I stored them even to prosusion; or, at least, to
equip a sufficient little army against all opposers
whatsoever.
The young man (whose mother was unfortunate-
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
ly starved to death), together with the maid, a pious
and well educated young woman, seeing things (a
well ordered on short (for I made them accompany
me), and considering they had no occasion to go so
far a voyage as to the East-Indies, they both desired
of me, that I would leave them there, and enter
them among my subjects. This I readily agreed to,
ordering them a plat of ground, on which were three
little houses erected, environed with basket work, pal-
lisadoed like Atkins's, and adjoining to his planta-
tion. So contrived were their tents, that each os
them had a room apart to lodge in, while the middle
tent was not only their store-house, but their place
foreatiny ami drinking. At this time the two
Englishmen removed their habitation to their sor-
mer place; so that now the island was divided into
three colonies; fir/}, Those I have just now menti-
oned ; secondly, That of Will. Atkins, where there
were four samilies of Englistimen, with their wives
and children, the widow and her children: the young
man and the maid, who, by the way, we made a
wise of before our departure; three savages, who
were slaves; the tailor, smith,, (who served also as a
gunsmith), and my other celebrated person called
"Jack of all trades. Thirdly j my chief colony, which
consisted of the Spaniards, with old Friday, who
still remained at my old habitation, which was my
capital city: and surely never was there such a me-
tropolis, it now being hid in so obscure a grove, that
i thousand men might have ranged the island amonth,
and looked purposely for it, without being able to
ind it, though the Spaniards had enlarged its boun-
laries, both without and within, in a most fur-
fifing manner.
But now I think it high time to speak of the
'oung French priest of the order of St. Benedict,
vhose judicious and pious discourses, upon sundry
iccasions, merit an extraordinary observation; nor
an his being a French Papist priest, I presume, give
offence
OF R(
Act to any (
*nncesroia,
««teous dtfpoj
n Hisar?
H his co
Pfothalh.
A&idhet
4t|™etimt <
Pity; i
,i net.
leased
"Knot
i? *
offence to any of my readers, when they have this
assurance from me, that he was a person of the most
courteous disposition, extensive charity, and exalted
piety.- His arguments were always agreeable to rea-
son, and his conversation the most acceptable of any
person that I had ever yet met wkh in my lise.
Sir, said he to me one day, since, under God (at
the same time crossing his breast) you have not only
saved my life; but, by permitting me to go this voyage,
have granted me the happiness of free coversation, I think
it my duty, as my profession obliges me, to save what souls
I can, by bringing them to the knowledge of some Catho-
lic doctrine, necessary to salvation; and, since these peo-
ple are under your immediate government, m gratitude,
justice i and decency Jor what you have done for me, I
/hall offer m farther points in religion, them what shall
merit your approbation. Being pleased with the mo-
desty of his carriage, I told him he should not be
the worse used for being of a different persuasion, if,
upon that very account, we did not differ in points
of saith, not decent in a part of the country, where
the poor Indians ought to be instructed in the know-
ledge of the true God, and his son Jesus Christ.
To this he replied, that conversation might easily
be separated from disputes; that he would discourse
with me rather as a gentleman than a religious; but
that, if we did enter upon religious arguments, upon
my defiring the same, I would give him liberty to
desend his own principles. He sarther added, that
he would do all that became him in his office, as a
priest as well as a Christian, to procure the happi-
ness of all that was in the ship: that though he
could not pray with, he would pi ay for us, on all
occasions; and then he told me several extraordinary
events of his lise, within a sew years past; but par-
ticularly in this last, which was the most remarkable;
that, in this voyage, he had the misfortune to be
five times shipped and unshipped: his first design
was to have gone to Martinico; for which, taking
L ship
ship at St. Malo, he was forced into Lisbon by bad
weather,' the vessel running aground in the mouth
of the Tagus; that from thence he went on board a
Portuguese ship, bound to the Madeiras, whose mas-
ter being but an indisserent mariner, and out of his
reckoning, they were drove to Fial, where felling
their commodity, which was corn, they resolved to
take in their loading at the Isle of May, and to sail
to Newfoundland; at the banks of which, meeting
a French ship bound to Quebec, in the river of Ca-
nada, and from thence to Martinico, in this ship he
embarked ; the master of which dying at Quebec,
that voyage was suspended; and lastly, shipping him-
self for France, this last ship was destroyed by fire,
as before has been related.
At this time we talked no further; but another
morning he comes to me, just as I was going to visit
the Englishmen's colony, and tells me, that, as he
knew the prosperity of the island was my principal
defire, he had something to communicate agreeable
to my desigi), by which perhaps he might put it,
more than he yet thougjn it was, in the way of the
benediction of heaven. How, Sir? said I, in a sur-
prize, are we not yet in the way of God's blessing,
after all these signal providences and deliverances,
of which you have had such an ample relation? He
replied, I hope, Sir, you are in the way, and that
your good design will prosper: but still there are
some among you that are not equally right in their
actions; and remember, I beseech youv Sir, that
Jchan, by his crime, removed God's blessing from
the camp of the children of Israel; that though six
and thirty were entirely innocent, yet they became
the objects of divine vengeance, and bore the weight
of the punishment accordingly,
So sensibly was I touched with this discourse, and
so satisfied with that ardent piety that inflamed his
foul, that I defired him to accompany me to the
Englishmens plantations, which he was very glad ff>
k reas
K did he,
f«i but
^ereic
fe
%stCa,nd,
by reason they were the subjects of what he de-
signed to discourse with me about: and while we
walked on together, he began in the follow man-
ner:
Sir, did he, I must consess it is a great unhappi-
ness that we disagree in several doctrinal articles of
religion; but, surely both of us acknowledge this,
that there is a God, who having given us some stated
rules for our service and obedience, we ought not
willingly anslknowmgly to offend him, eitherby neg-
lecting what he has commanded, or by doing what
he has forbidden. This truth every Christian owns,
that whenever any one presumptuoufly sins against
God's command, the Almighty then withdraws his
blessing from him; every good man therefore ought
certainly to prevent such neglect of, or sin against
God and his commands. I thanked the young priest
for expressing so great a concern for us, and defired
him to explain the particulars os what he had ob-
served, that, according to the parable of Achan, I
might remove the accursed thing from' among us.
Why then, Sir, said he, in the first place, you have
four Englishmen, who have taken savage women to
their wives, by whom they have several children,
though none of them are legally married, as the
law of God and man requires; they, I say, Sir, zxe
no less than adulterers, and as they still live in adul-
tery, are liable to the curse of God. I know, Sir,
you may object the want of a priest, or clergyman
of any kind; as also, pen, ink, and paper, to write'
down a contract of marriage, and have it signed be-
tween them. But neither this, nor what the Spanisli
governor has told you of their chusing by consent,
can be reckoned a marriage, nor any more than an
agreement' to keep' them from quarreling among
themselves; for, Sir, the essence or sacrament of
matrimony (so he called it) not only consists in mu-
tual consent, but in the legal obligation, which
compels them to own and acknowledge one another,
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
to abstain from other persons, the men to provide
for their wives and children, and the women to tht
fame and like conditions, mutatis, mutandis, on their
side : whereas, Sir, these men, upon their own plea-
sure, on any occasion, may forsake those women,
and marry others, and by disowing their children,
suffer them utterly to perish. Now, Sir, added he,
can God be honoured in such an unlawsul liberty as
this? how can a blessing succeed the best endeavours,
it men are allowed to live in so licentious a way? I
was indeed struck with the thing myself, and thought
that they were much to blame, that no formal con-
tract had been made, though it had been but break-
ing a stick between them, to engage them to live as
man and wise, never to separate, but love, cherish,
and comfort one another all their lives; yet. Sir,
said I, when they took these women, I was not here,
and if it is adultery, it is past my remedy, and I can-
not help it. True, Sir, answered the young priest,
you cannot be charged with that part of the crime which
•was done in your absence: but I beseech you, don't fatter
yourself, that you are under no obligation now to put ave-
rted to it: which if you neglect to do, the guilt will be
entirely on you alone, since it is certainly in nobody's power
but yours, to alter their condition. I must confess, I
was so dull, that I thought he meant I should part
them, and knowing that this would put the whole
island in consusion, I told him I could not consent
to it upon any account whatfoever. Sir, said he, in
a great surprise, I do not mean that you should fepareti,
but marry them, by a written contract, signed by both
man and woman, and by all the witnesses present, whkb
ell the European laws decree to he of sufficient efficacy.
Amazed with such true piety and sincerity, and con-
sidering the validity of a written contract, I ac-
knowledged all that he said to be very just and kind;
and that I would discourse with the men about it;
neither could I see what reason they could have not
to let him marry them, whose authority in that affair
is owned to be as authentic as if they were married
.by any of our clergymen in England.
The next complaint he had to make to me was
this, that though these English subjects of mine had
lived with these women seven years, and though
they were of good understanding, and capable of
instruction, having, learned not only to speak, but
to read English, yet all this while they had never
taught them any thing of the Christian religion, or
the knowledge of God, much less in what manner
he ought to be served. And is not this art unaccount-
able negleSt? said he warmly. Depend upon it, God
Almighty will call the/n to account for such contempt. And
though I am not of your religion, yet I should be glad t»
see these people released from the devil's power, and be
saved by the principles of the Christian religion, the
knowledge of God, of a Redeemer, the refurreSlion, and
cf a suture Jlate. But, as it is not too late, if you please
to give me leave to instruct them, I doubt not but I foall
supply this great defecl, by bringing them into the great
circle of Christianity, even while you continue in the
Island.
I could hold no longer, but embracing him, told
him, with a thousand thanks, I would grant what-
ever he requested, and defired him to proceed in the
third article, which he did in the following manner:
Sir, said he, it should be a maxim among all
Christians, That Christian knowledge ought to be pro-
pagated by all possible means, and on all occasions Upon
thisaccount our church sends missionaries into Persia,
India, and China, men who are willing to die for
the sake of God and the Christian saith, in order to
bring poor Infidels into the way of salvation. Now,
Sir, as here is an opportunity to convert seven and
thirty poor savages, I wonder how you caa pass by
such an occasion of doing good, which is really
worth the expence of a man's whole lise.
I must consess I was so confounded at this dis-
course, that I could not tell how to answer him. Sir,
L 3 said
said he, seeing me in disorder, I /hall be very sorry if
J have given you offence. No, Sir, laid I, I am rather
confounded ; and you know my circumstances, that
being bound to the East Indies in a merchant ship,
I cannot wrong the owners so much, as to detain
the ship here, the men lying at victuals and wages on
their account. If I slay above twelve days, 1 must
pay 3I. sterling per diem demurrage, nor must the
sliip stay above eight days more; so that I am unable
to engage in this work, unless I would leave the
ship, and be reduced to my former condition. The
priest, though he owned this was hard upon me,
yet laid it to my conscience, whether the blessing of
laving seven and thirty souls was not worth venturing
all that I had in the world? Sir, said I, it is very
. true: but as you are an ecclesiastic, it naturally salls
into your prosession; why, therefore, don't you ra-
ther offer to undertake it yourself/than press me to
it? Upon this he turned about, making a very low
bow, I most humbly thank God and you, Sir, said
he, for so blessed a call; and most willingly under-
take so glorious an office, which" will sufficiently
compensate all the hazards and difficulties 1 have
gone through in a long and uncomfortable voyage.
While he was thus speaking, I could discover a
rapture in his sace, by his colour going and coming;
at the same time his eyes sparkled like fire, with all
the sign6 of the most zealous transports. And when
I asked whether he was in earnest? Sir, said he, it
was to preach to the Indians, I consented to come
along with you; these infidels, even in this little
island, are infinitely of more worth than my poor
jise; if so that I should prove the happy instrument
of saving these poor creatures souls, I care not if I
never see my native country again. One thing I
only beg of you more, is, that you would leave
Friday with me, to be my interpreter, without
whose assistance neither of us will understand each
ether.
This
This request very sensibly troubled me; first, upon
Friday's being bred a Protestant; and, secondly, for
the affection I bore to him for his sidelity: But, im-
mediately the remembrance of Friday's sather com-
ing into my head, I recommended him to him as
having learned Spanish, which the priest also under-
stood: and so was thoroughly satisfied with him.
When we came to the Englishmen, after I had
told them what necessary things I had done for them,
I talked to them of the scandalous lise they led, told
-them what notice the clergyman had taken of it, and
asked them if they were married men or bachelors?
They answered, two of them were widowers, and
the other three single men. But, said I, with what
conscience can you call these your wives, by whom
you have so many children, and yet are not law-
sully married? They all said, that they took them
before the governor as such, having nobody else to
marry them, which they thought as legal, as is they
had had a parson. No doubt, said I, but in the eye
God it is so: but unless I am assured of your ho-
nest intent, never to desert these poor creatures, I
can do nothing more for you, neither can you ex-
pect God's blessing while you live in such an open^
course of adultery. Hereupon, Will Atkins, who
spoke for the rest, told me, That they believed their
wives the most innocent and virtuous creatures in
the world: that they would never forsake them while
they had breath; and that, if there was a clergyman
in the ship, they would be married to them with all
their heart. I told you before, said I, that I have a
minister with me, who shall marry you to-morrow
morning, is you are willing; so I would have you
consult to-night, with the rest, about it. I told him
the clergymen was a Frenchman, and knew not a
word of English, but that I would act as a clerk be-
tween them. And indeed this business met with
such speedy success, that they all told me, in a sew
minutes after, that they were ready to be formally
L 4 married,
married, as soon as 1 pleased; with which inform-
ing the priest, he was exceedingly rejoiced.
Nothing now remained, butthat the women should
Ije made sensible of the meaning of the thing; with
which being well satisfied, they, with their.husbands,
attended at my apartment the next morning; there
was my priest, habited in a black vest, something
Jike a cassock, with a sash round it, much resem-
bling a minister, and I was his interpreter. But the
seriousness of his behaviour, and the scruples he made
of marrying the women, who were not baptized,
gave them an exceeding reverence for his person: nor
indeed would he marry them at all, till he obtained
ray liberty to discourse both with the men and wo-
men, and then he told them, That, in the sight os
all indifferent men, and in the sense of the laws of
society, they had lived in open adultery, which no-
shing now, but their consent to marry, or final se-
paration, could put an end to; and even here was »
difficulty with respect to the laws of Christian ma-
trimony, in marrying a prosesied Christian to a hea-
then idolater, unbaptized; but yet there was time
enough to make them prosess the name of Christ,
without which nothing could be done; that, besides,
Jie believed themselves very indifferent Christians;
and consequently had not discoursed with their wives
upon thatsubject; and that unless they promised him
to do so, he could not marry them, as being expressly
forbidden by the'laws of God.
All this they heard attentively, and owned readily,
But, Lord,. Sir, fold Will Atkins to me, bow shouli
uue teach them religion, who know nothing of it ourselves?
JJow can we talk to our wives of 'God, Jesus Christ, hea-
ven and hel 1 ? why they would only laugh at us, who never
yet have promised religion, but on the contrary all manner
ef wickedness. Will Atkins, said I, cannot you tell
your wise she is in the wrong, and that her gods are
idols, which can neither hear, speak, nor under-
stand: but that our God, who has made, can destroy
all things; that he rewards the good, and punishes
the wicked; and at last will bring us to judgment?
cannot you tell her these things; That's true, said
Atkins, but then she'll tell me, it is utterly salse,
since I am not punished and sent to the devil, who
hath been such a wicked creature. These words I
interpreted to the priest! O! said he, tell him, his
repentance will make him a very good minister to his
spouse, and qualify him to preach on the mercy and
long-suffering of a mercisul Being, who desires not
the death of a sinner, and even desers damnation to
the last judgment; this will lead him to the doctrine
of, and will make him an excellent preacher to his
wise. I repeated this to Atkins, who, being more
than ordinary affected with it, replied, I know all
this, Sir, and a great deal more; but how can I
have the impudence to talk thus to my wise, when
my conscience witnesses against me? ALAS ! said
he, (with tears in his eyes, and giving a great sigh)
as for repenting* that is for ever past me. Past you-!
Atkins, said I, what do you mean? You know well
enough, said he, what I mean; / mean it is too
~late.
When I told the priest what he said, the poor af-
sectionate man could not refrain from weeping; but
recovering himself, Pray, Sir, said he, ajkhitnifhe
.is contented that it is too late; or is he..concerned, and
wishes it were not so? This question I put sairly to
Atkins, who. replied in a passion, How can J be easy
* in a Jlate which I know must terminate in my ruin ? for
I really believe, some time or other, I shall cut my throat,
4o put a period both to my life and to the terrors of my
conscience.
At this the clergyman shook his head. Sir, said
,he, Pray tell him is not too late; Chrijl will give him
repentance, if he has recourse to the merit of his passion.
JDo£S hie think hi is beyond the power of divine mercy?
~ibert may indeed be a time when provoked mercy will no •
Jenger J}rive, but never too late for men to repent in this
JL £ world*-
world. I told Atkins every word the priest had said,
who then parted from us to talk to his wise, while
we dilcouried with the rest. But these were very
stupid in religious matters, yet all of them promised
to do their endeavours to make their wives turn
Christians; and upon which promises the priest
married the three couple-. But as Atkins was the
only sincere convert, and of more senlc than the
rest, my clergyman was earnestly enquiring after
him: Sir, said he, let us walk out of this labyrinth,
and I dare fay we shall find this poor man preaching Is
his wife already. And indeed we found it true; for
coming to the edge of the wood, we perceived At-
lcins and his savage wise sitting under the shade of a
bush, in very earnest discourse; he pointed to the
sun, to the quarters of the earth, to himself, to her,
the woods, and the trees. Immediately we could
perceive him start upon his seet, fall down upon his
knees, and lift up both his hands; at which the
tears ran down my clergyman's cheeks; but our
great misfortune was, we could not hear one word
that passed between them. Another time he would
embrace her, wiping the tears from her eyes, kissing
her with the greatest transports, and then both kneel
down for some minutes together. Such raptures of
joy did this occasion in my young priest, that he
could scarcely contain himself $ And a little after
this, we observed by her motion, as frequently lift-
ing up her hands, and laying them on her breast,
that she was mightily asfected with his discourse,
and so they withdrew from our sight.
When we came back, we found them both wait-
ing to|be called in; upon which we agreed to examine
him alone, and so I began thus to discourse him.
Prithee, Will Atkins, laid I, what education had
you? What was your sather?
JV. A. A better man than ever I shall be: he was,
Sir, a clergyman, who gave me good instruction, or
correction,
correction, which I despised, like a brute as I was,
and murdered my poor sather.
Pr. Ha! a murderer!
[Here the priejl jlprted and looked pale, a; thinking
he had really killed his father.]
R. C. What, did you kill him with your hands?
W. A. No, Sir, I cut not his throat, but broke
his heart, by the most unnatural turn of disobedience
to the tenderest and best of sathers.
R. C. Well, I pray God grant you repentance;
I did not ask you to extort a consession; but I asked
you, because I see you have more knowledge of what
is good, than your companions.
IV. A. O, Sir, whenever I look back upon my
past lise, conscience upbraids me with my sather:
the sins against our parents make the deepest wounds,
and their weight lies the heaviest upon the mind.
R. C. You talk, Will, too seelingly and sensibly
for me; I am not able to bear it.
IF. A. You bear it, Sir! you know nothing of it.
R. C. But yes, Atkins, I do; and every shore,
valley, and tree in this island, witness the anguish
of my soul for my undutisulness to my kind sather,
whom I have murdered likewise; yet my repentance
salls infinitely short of yours. But Will, how
comes the sense of this matter to touch you just
now?
W. A. Sir, the work you have set me about, has
occasioned it; for talking to my wise about God
and religion, she has preached me such a sermon,
that I shall retain it in lasting remembrance.
R. C. No, no, it is your own moving pious ar-
guments to her, has made conscience fling them
back upon you. But pray, Atkins, inform us what
pasted between you and your wise, and in what
manner did you begin.
IV. A. I talked to her of the laws of marriage, the
reason of such compacts, whereby order and justice
is maintained; without which, men would run from
L 6 their
tVueir wives and children, to the dissolution of sami-
lies or inheritances.
R. C. Well, and what did (he say to all this?
W. A. Sir, we began our discourse in the follow-
ing manner, which 1 shall exactly repeat according
to my mean capacity, if you think it worth your
•while to honour it with your attention.
<tfie DIALOGUE between Will. Atkins and hit-
Wife in the wood.
Wife. X7"OU tell me marriage God appoint, have
JL you God in your country?
A. Yes, child, God is in every nation.
Wife. No; great old Benamuckee god is in my
country, not yours.
W. A. My dear, God is in heaven, which he
made; he also made the eatth, the sea, and all that
is ihetein.
Wife. Why you not tell me much long ago?
IV. A. My dear, I have been a wicked wretch,
Jraving a long time Jived without the knowledge of
God in the world.
Wife. What, not know great God in own na-
tion? No do good ting? No say O to him? that's
strange!
W. A. But, my dear, many live as. if there was
f\p God in heaven for all that.
Wife. Why God suffer this f whv makee not live-
well ?.
W. Æ: It is our own faults, child'.
Wise. But if he much great, can makee kill, why
tio makee kill when noferye him? No be good mans
no cry O to him?
W. A: That's true, my dear, he may strike us
dead, but his abundant mercy fpareth us.
.Wife. Did not you tell God tankee for that?
W.JL
OF 8
"m, nor se
% The
"ormakee kill
* I Ala
from believing
ire,
»«wedo
git
^ times
,w. *• %
W. A. No, I have neither thanked him for his
mercy, nor seared him for his power.
Wife. Then me not believe your God be good,
nor makee kill, when you makee him angry.
W. A. Alas! must my wicked lise hinder you
from believing in him ?.
Wise. How can me thlk your God live there?
(pointing to heaven.) Sure he no ken what you do
here.
W. A. Yes, yes, my dear, he hears us speak, sees
what we do, and knows what we even think.
Wife. Where then makee power strong, when he
hears you curse, swear de great damn?
W. A. My dear this shew* heis indeed a God arid
not a man, who has such tender mercy.
Wife. Mercy \ what you cail mercy?
W^. A. He pities and spares us: as he is our great
Creator, so is He also our tender sather.
Wife. So God never angry, never kill wicked,
then he no good, no great mighty.
W. A. O my dear, don't say so, he is both; and'
many times he shews terrible examples of hisjudge-
ment and vengeance;
'Wife. Then you makee de'bargarn with him; you
do bad ting, he no hurt you, he hurt other mans.
W. A'. No, indeed, my sins are all presumptions
upon his goodness.
.Wife. Well, and yet no makee you dead? and
you give him no tankee neither?
W. A. Itis true,.I am an ungratesul,, unthanksul
dog, that I am.
Wife. Why, you fay, "he makee you, why makee
you no much better then.
W. A. it is I alone that have deformed myself,
and abused his goodness.
Wife. Pray makee God know me, me no makee
him angry, no So bad tingi
W. Al You triean, my dear„*that you defire I
«Kiuld teach yott to- know God t alas I poor tfear
creature.
creature, he must teach thee, and not I. But I'll
pray earnestly to him to direct thee, and to forgive
tnc, a miserable sinner. (Hereupon be went a- little
dijlance, and kneeling down, prayed earnejlly to God to
enlighten her mind, and to pardon his fins; when this
U/as done, they continued their discourse thus.)
Wife. What you put down knee for? For what
hold up hand? Who you speak to?
W. A. My dear, I bowed in token of submission
to him that made me, and prayed that he would open
your eyes and understanding.
Wife. And can he do that too? And will he hear
.yvhat you say?
W, A. Yes, my dear, he bids us pray, and has
given us promise that he will hear us;
Wife. When did he bid you pray? What do you
hear him speak?
W- A. No, my dear, but God has spoken for-
merly to good men from heaven; and by divine re-
velation they have written all his laws down in a
book.
Wife. O where dat good book?
W. A. I have it not now by me; but one time or
0ther I shall get it for you to read. Then he embraced
far with great affeclion.
Wife. Pray tell a mde did God teachee them write
tha1 book?
W' A. Yes, and by that rule we know him to be
God,'
Wife, What way, what rule you know him?
W- A. Because he teaches what is good, just, and
jioly; and forbids all wicked and abominable actions
that incur his displeasure.
Wife- O me sain understand that, and if he do
all things you say he do, surely heheaY me say O to
him; he makee me good if I wish to be good; he
kill me if I love him j me tink, believe him great
God; rne say O tp him; along with you, my dear.
Mere the poor man fell upon his knets, and made her
hieel down by him, praying with the greatest fervency,
that God would instrucl her by his Holy Spirit; and that
God by his providence would fend them a Bible for both
their instructions. And such was the early piety of this new
convert, that Jhe made him promise never to forsake God
any more, lest, being made dead, as she called it, Jhe
should not only want her injlruclor, but himself be miser-
able in a long eternity.
Such a surprizing account as this was, proved
very assecting to us both, but particularly to the
young clergyman, who was mightily concerned he
could not talk to her himself. Sir, said he, there is
something more to be done to this woman than to
marry her: I mean that she ought to be baptized.
To this I presently agreed: Pray, said he, ask her
husband, whether he has ever talked to her of Jesus
Christ, the salvation of sinners, the nature of saith,
and redemption in and by him, of the Holy Spirit,
the resurrection, last judgment, and a suture state;
but the poor sellow melted into tears at this ques-
tion, say ing, that he had said something to her of these
things, but his inability to talk of them, made him
afraid lest her knowledge of them should rather make
her contemn religion, than be benesited by it: but
that, if I would discourse with her, it would be very
evident ray labour would not be in vain. Accord-
ingly I called her in, and placing myself as inter-
preter between the religious priest and the woman, I
entreated him to go on; but surely never was such
a sermon preached by any clergyman in these latter
days, with so much zeal, knowledge, and sincerity;
in short, he brought the woman to embrace the
knowledge of Christ, and of redemptioa by him,
with so surprising a degree of understanding, that
flie made it her own request to be baptized.
He then performed his osfice in the sacrament of
baptism, first, by saying some words over to himself
in Latin, and then asking me to give her a name, as
fceing her godfather, and pouring a whole dish sull
.of
of water upon the woman's head, he said, MARY,
1 baptize thee in the name of the Father, and of the
,Son, and of the Holy Ghost; so that none could
1cnow of what religion he >was. After this he pro-
nounced the benediction in Latins Thus the wo-
„ man being made a Christian, he married her to Will
Atkins; which being finished, he asfectionately ex-
horted him to lead a holy life for the suture; that
since the Almighty, by the convictions of his con-
science, had honoured him to be the instrument of
4iis wise's conversion, he should not dishonour the
grace of God, that while the savage was converted,
the instrument should be cast away. Thus ended
a ceremony, to me the most pleasant and agreeable
X ever passed in my lise.
The affairs of the island being settled, I was pre-
paring to go on board, when the young man (whose
pother was starved) came to me, saying, that as he
understood I had a clergyman with me, who had
married the Englishmen with savages, he had a
match to make between two Christians, which h«
desired might be finished before I departed. Think-
ing that it was he himself that had courted his mo-
ther's maid, I persuaded him not to do any thing
rashly upon the account of his solitary circum-
stances; that the maid was-an unequal match soj
him, both 'in respect to -substance and years; and
that it was very probable he would live to return to
his own country, where he might have.a sar better
choice. At these words, smiling, he interrupted me,
shanking me for my good advice;-that as he had no-
thing to beg of me, but a small settlement, with a
/ervantor-two, or some sew necessaries, so he hoped
J would not be unmindsul of him when I returned
to England, but give his letters to his friends; and
,that when he was redeemed,, the plantation, and all
ats improvements, however .valuable, ihauld be re-
suzncd ta me again, But as for the.jnacmge he
proDosedi
proposed, that it was not himself, but that it was
between my Jack of all trades, and the maid Susan.
I was indeed agreeably surprised at the mention-
ing this match, which seemed very suitable, the one
being a very ingenious sellow, and the other an ex-
cellent, dexterous, and sensible house-wise, sit to
be governess of the whole island: so we married
them the same dayj and, as I was her sather, and
gave her away, so I gave her a handsome portion,
appointing her and her husband a convenient large
space of ground for their plantation. The sharing
out of the land I left to Will Atkins, who really
divided it very justly, to every person's satissaction;
they only defired one general writing under my hand
for the whole, which I caused to be drawn up, sign-
ed, and sealed to them, setting out their bounds,
and giving them a right to the whole poffeffion of
their respective plantations, with their improve-
ments, to them and their heirs, reserving all the rest
of the island as my own property, and a certain rent
for every particular plantation, after eleven years,
As to their laws and government, I exhorted them
to love one another: and as to the Indians who
lived in a nook by themselves, I allotted three or
four of them plantations^ and the rest willingly chose
to become servants to the other samilies, by which
means they were employed in usesul labour, and
sared much better than they did before. Besides,
the savages, being thus mixed with the Christians,
the work of their conversion might be set on foot by
the latter, in the clergyman^ absence, to our equal
satissaction. The young priest, however, was a
little anxious left the Christians should not be will-
ing to do their parts in instructing those poor In-
dians; I therefore told him, we should, call them all
together; that he should speak to the Spaniards who
were Papists, and I to the Englisliwho were Protes-
tants, and make them promise that they would never
.make any distinction in religion, but teach the ge-
neral
neral true knowledge of God, and his Son Jesus
Christ, in order to convert the poor savages. And
this, indeed, they all promised us accordingly.
When I came to Will Atkins's house, I found
bis baptized wise, and the young woman newly mar-
ried to my Jack of all trades, were become great in-
timates, and discoursing of religion together. 0,
Sir, says Will Atkins, when God has sinners to
reconcile to himself, he never wants an instructor:
I knew I was unworthy for so good a work, and
therefore this young woman has been sent hither as
it were from heaven, who is sufficient to convert a
whole island of savages. The young woman blush-
ed, and was going to rise: but I defired her to sit
flill, and hoped that God would bless her in so good
a work; and then, pulling out a Bible, (which I
brought on purpose in my pocket for him) Here,
.Atkins, said I, here is an assistant that perhaps you
bad not before. So confounded was the poor man,
that it was some time before he could speak: at last,
turning to his wise, My dear, he said, did I not tell
you that God could hear what we said? Here's the
book I prayed for, when you and I kneeled under
lYie bush: God then heard us, and now has sent it.
.The woman was surprised, and thought really God
bad sent that individual book from heaven; but I
turned to the young woman, and defired her to ex-
plain to the new convert, that God may properly
be said to answer our petitions, when, in the course
0{ his providence, such particular things come to
pass as we petitioned for. This the young woman
did effectually; but surely Will Atkins's joy can-
not be expressed; no man being more thanksul for
any thing in the world, than he was for his Bible,
xior defired it from a better principle.
After several religious discourses, I defired the
young woman to give me an account of the anguish
{he selt when she was starving to death for hunger;
to
to which she readily consented, and began in the fol-
lowing manner:
"Sir," said she, " all our victuals being gone,
after I had sasted one day, my stomach was very
fickisli, and, at the approach of night, I was in-
clined to yawning and sleepy. When I slept upost'
the couch three hours, I awaked a little refreshed:
three hours after, my stomach being more and more
sickish, I lay down again, but could not sleep, being
veTy saint and ill. Thus I passed the second day
with a strange variety, first hungry, then sick again,
with teachings to vomit: that night I dreamed I
was at Barbadoes, buying plenty of provisions, and
dined heartily. But when I awaked, my spirits were
exceedingly sunk, to find myself in the extremity of
samine. There was but pne glass of wine, which
being mixed with sugar, I drank up; but for want
of substance to digest upon, the sumes of it got into
my head, and made me senseless for some time. The
third day I was so ravenous and surious, that I could
have eaten a little child if it had come in my way;
during which time, I was as mad as any creature in
Bedlam. In one of these sits I sell down, and struck
my sace against the corner of a pallet bed, where my
mistress lay: the blood gushed out of my nose, but
by my excessive bleeding, both the violence of the
sever, and the ravenous part of the hunger •abated.
After this, I grew sick again, strove to vomit, but
could not; then bleeding a second time, I swooned
away as dead; when I came to myself I had a dread-
sul gnawing pain in my stomach, which went off
towards night, with a longing defire for food. I
took a draught of water and sugar, but it came up
again; (hen I drank water without sugar, and that,
staid with. me. I laid me down on the bed, praying
CJod would take me away; after I had slumbered, I
thought myself a-dying, therefore recommended my
soul to God, and wished somebody would throw me
into the sea. All this while my departing mistress
Jay by me; the last bit of bread (he had, Ihe gave it
to her dear child, my young master. The morning
after, I fell into a violent passion of crying, and after
that into hunger. I espied the blood that came from
my nose in a bason, which I immediately swallowed
up. At night I had the usual variations, as pain
in the stomach, sick, sleepy, and ravenous; and I
had no thought but that I should die before morn-
ing- In the morning came on terrible gripings in
nly bowels. At this time, I heard my young roas-
ter's lamentations, by which I understood his mo-
ther was dead. Seon after, the sailors cried, A sails
ji fsil! hallooing as if they were.distracted for joy
of that relief, which afterwards we received from
from your hands."
Surely never was a more distinct account of starv-
ing to death than this. But to return to the dis-
position of things among my people, I did not take
arty notice to them of the sloop that I had framed,
iieither would I leave' them the two pieces of brass
cannon, or the two quarter deck guns that I had
on board, lest, upon any disgust, they should have
separated, or turned pirates, and so made she island
a den of thieves, instead of a plantation of sober pi-
ous people: but leaving them in a flourishing con-
dition, with a promise to send them surther relief
from Brazil, as sheep, bogs, and cows, (being o-
biiged to kill the latter at sea, having no hay to seed
them), I went on board the ship again, the first of
May 16951, after having been twenty days among
them: and next morning giving them a salute of
five guns at parting, we set sail for the Brazils,
she third day, towards evening, there happening a
calm, and the current being'very strong, we were
drove to the N. N. E. towards the land. Some
hours after we perceived the sea covered as it were
with something very black, not easily at first to be
discovered: upon which our chief mate ascending
.the shrouds a little way,, and taking a view with a
perspective
perspective glass, he cries out, an army! An army,
you fool, said I, what do you mean? Nay, Sir, said
he, don't be angry, I assure you it is not only an ar-
my, but a fleet too; for I believe there are a thou-
sand canoes paddling along, and making with great
haste towards us.
Indeed every one of us were surprised at this re-
lation: and my nephew the captain could not tell
what to think of it, but thought we should all be
devoured. Nor was I free from concern, when I
considered how much we were becalmed, and what
a strong current set towards the shore: however, I
encouraged him not to be afraid, but bring the ship
to an anchor, as soon as we were certain that we
must engage them. Accordingly we did so, and
surled all our sails: as to the savages, we reared
nothing, but only that they might set the ship on
fire; to prevent which, I ordered them to get their
boats out, and sasten them, one close by the head,
and the other by the stern, well manned, with skeets
and buckets to extinguish the flames, mould it so
happen. The savages soon came up with us, but
there were not so many as the mate had said, for in-
stead of a thousand canoes, there were only one
hundred and twenty; too many indeed for us, se-
veral of their canoes containing about sixteen or
seventeen men.
As they approached us, they seemed to be in the
.greatest amazement, not knowing what to make of
us. They rowed round the ship, which occasioned
us to call to the men in the boats, not to suffer them
to come near them. Hereupon they beckoned to
the savages to keep back, which they accordingly
did; but at their retreat they let fly about fifty ar-
rows among us, and very much wounded one of our
men in the long-boat. I called to them not to fire
upon any account, but handing them down some
deal boards., the earpenters made them a kind of a
fence to shield them from the arrows. In half an
hour
hour after they came so near astern of us, that we
had a persect sight of them; then they rowed a little
farther out, till they came directly along fide of us,
and then approached so near as they could hear us
speak : this made me order all our men to-keep close,
and get their guns ready. Jn the mean time I or-
dered Friday to go out upon deck, and ask them in
his language what they meant? no sooner did he do
so, but six of the savages, who were in the foremost
canoes, stooping down, shewed us their naked back-
sides, as much as to say in Englijb, kiss our:
but Friday quickly knew what this meant, by im-
mediately crying out they were going to shoot; un-
fortunately for him, poor creature! who sell under
the cloud of three hundred arrows, no less than seven
piercing through his body, killing one of the best
servants, and saithsulest of companions in all my
solitudes and afflictions.
So enraged was I at the death of poor Friday, that
the guns, which before were charged with only
powder, to frighten them, I ordered to be loaded
vvith small shot; nor did the gunners sail in their
aim, but at this broadside split and overset thirteen
cr fourteen of their canoes, which killed numbers of
them, and set the rest a swimming: the others,
frightened out of their wits, little regarding their
fellows drowning, scoured away as sast as they could.
One poor wretch our people took up, swimming for
bis lise, an hour after. He was very sullen at first,.
so that he would neither eat nor speak: but I took a
-way to cure hhn, by Ordering them to throw him
into the sea, which they did, and then he came
swimming back like a cork, calling in his tongue,
aS J suppose, to save him. So we took him on board, •
but it was a long time before we could make him
speak or understand English; yet when we had
taught him, he told us they were going with their
itings to fight a great battle; and when we asked him,
what made them come up to us? he said, to mate at
.. • great
great wonder look: where, it is tp be noted, that those
natives, and those of Africa, always add two e's at
the end of English words, as makee, takee, and the
like, from which it is a very difficult thing to make
them break osf.
Being now under sail, we took our last sarewell of
poor honest Friday, and interred him with all possi-
ble decency and solemnity; putting him into a cof-
fin, and committing him to the. deep, at the same
time causing eleven guns to be fired for him. Thus
ended the lise of one of the most gratesul, faithsul,
honest, and affectionate servants, that ever any man
was blessed with in the world.
Having now a sair wind for Brazil, in about
twelve days time we made land in the latitude of live
degrees south of the line. Four days we kept on S.
by E. in sight of shore, when we made cape St. Au-
gustine, and in three days we came up to an anchor
off the bay of All Saints. I had great difficulty here
to get leave to hold correspondence on shore; for
neither the sigure of my partner, my two merchant
trustees, nor the same of my wondersul preservation
in the island, could procure me the savour, till such
time as the prior of the monastry of the Augustines
(to whom I had given 500 moidores) obtained leave
from the governor, for me personally, with the cap-
tain and one more, together with eight sailors, to
come on shore; upon this condition, that we (hould
not land any goods out of the ship, or carry any per-
son away without licence: I found means however
to get on shore three bales of English goods, such as
fine broad cloths, stuffs, and some linen, which I
brought as a present for my partner, who had sent
me on board a present of fresh provisions, wine, and
sweetmeats, worth above thirty moidores, including
some tobacco, and three or four sine gold medals.
Here l delivered my partner in goods to the value
of 1 ool. sterling, and obliged him to sit up the sloop
I bought for the use of my island, in. order to send
them
them refreshments: and so active was he in this mat-
ter, that he had the vessel finished in a sew days, ta
the master of which I gave particular instructions to
find the place. I soon loaded him with a small ear-
go; and one of our sailors offered to settle theie,
upon my letter to the Spanish governor, if I would
allot him tools and a plantation. This I willingly
granted, and gave him the savage we had taken pri-
soner to be his slave. All things being ready for the
voyage, my old partner told me, there was an ac-
quaintance of his, a Brazil planter, who having
fallen under the displeasure of the church, and in
fear of the Inquisition, which obliged him to be
concealed, would be glad of such an opportunity to
make his escape, with his wise and two daughters;
and if I would allot them a plantation in my island,
he would give them a small stock to begin with, for
that the officers had already seized his effects and
estate, and left him nothing but a little houshold
stuff, and two slaves. This request I presently
granted, concealing him and his samily on board our
ship, till such time as the sloop (where all the effects
•vvere) was gone out of the bay, and then we put
them on board, who carried some materials, and
plants for planting sugar-canes, along with them.
By this sloop, among other things, I sent my sub-
jects three milk cows and five calves, about 22 hogs,
three sows big with pig, two mares and a stone
horse. I also engaged three Portugal women to go
for sake of the Spaniards, which, with the perse-
cuted man's two daughters, were sufficient, since
the reft had wives of their own, though in another
country; all which cargo arrived sase, no doubt to
their exceeding comfort, who, with this addition,
virere about sixty or seventy people, besides children.
At this place, my truly honest and pious clergy-
man left me; for a ship being ready to set sail for
J^isbon, he asked me leave to go thither; but I assure
you, it was with the greatest reluctancy I parted
from a person, whose virtue and piety merited the
greatest esteem.
From the Brazils, we made directly over the At-
lantic Ocean, to the Cape of Good Hope, having a
tolerable good voyage, steering for the most part S.
E. We were on a trading voyage, and had a super-
cargo on board, who was to direct all tht ship's
motions after she arrived at the Cape, only being
limitted to a certain number of days, for stay, by
charter party i at the several ports she was to go to.
At the Cape, we only took in fresh water, and then
sailed for the coast or Coromandel: we were there
informed, that a French man of war of 50 guns,
and two large merchant ships, were sailed for the
Indies, but we heard no more of them.
In our passage, we touched at the island of Mada-
gascar, where, though the inhabitants are naturally
fierce and treacherous, and go constantly armed with
bows and lances, yet for some time they treated us
civily enough; and, in exchange for knives, scissors,
and other trisles, they brought us eleven good sat
bullocks, which we took partly for present fresh
victuals, and the remainder to salt for the ship's use.
So curious was I to view every corner of the world
where I came to, that I went on shore as often as I
could. One evening when on shore, we observed
numbers of the people stand gazing at us at a dis-
tance. We thought ourselves in no danger, as they
had hitherto used us kindly. However, we cut
three boughs out of a tree, sticking them at a distance
from us, which, it seems, in that country, is not
only a token of truce and amity, but when poles or
boughs are set up on the other side, it is a sign the
truce is accepted. In these treaties, however, there
is one principal thing to be regarded, that neither
party come beyond one another's three poles or
boughs; so that the middle space is not only secure,
but is also allowed as a market for trasfic and com-
M merce:
nierce: when the truce is thus accepted, they stick
up their javelins and lances at the first poles, and
come on unarmed; but, if any violence is offered,
away they run to their poles, take up their wea-
pons, and then the truce is at an end. This even-
ing it happened that a greater number of people than
usual, both men and women traded among us for
such toys as we had, with such great civility, that
we made us a little tent of large boughs of trees,
some of the men resolving.to lie on shore all night:
but, for my part, I and some others took our lodg-
ing in the boat, with boughs of trees spread over it,
having a sail spread at the bottom to lie upon. A-
bout two o'clock in the morning, we were awaken-
ed by the firing of muskets, and our men crying out
for help, or else they would all be murdered. Scarce
had we time to get the boat ashore, when our men
came plunging themselves into the water, with about
four hundred of the islanders at their heels. We
took up seven of the men, three of them very much
wounded, and one left behind killed, while the ene-
my poured their arrows so thick among us, that we
were forced to make a barricade, with boards lying
at the side of a boat, to shield us from danger; and,
having got ready our fire arms, we returned them a
volley, which wounded several of them, as we could
hear by their cries. In this condition we lay till
break of day, and then making signals of distress to
the ship, which my nephew the captain heard and un-
derstood, he weighed anchor, and stood as near the
shore as possible, and then sent another boat with
ten hands in her to assist us; but we called to them
not to come near, informing them of our unhappy
condition. However, they ventured; when one of
the men taking the end of a tow line in one hand,
and keeping our boat between him and our adverse- .
ries, swam on board us, and made fast our line to
the boat; upon this, slipping our cables, they tow-
ed us out of the reach ot' their arrows, and quickly
after,
: • The,
./g?,andtw
keatT ' that
fe
fslftoul3
after, a broadside was given them from the ship,
which made a most dreadsul havock among them.
When we got on board, we examined into the occa-
sion of this fray? the men who fled informed us,
that an old woman, who fold milk within the poles,
had brought a young woman with her, who carried
roots or herbs, the sight of whom so much tempted
our men, that they offered rudeness to the maid, at
which the old woman set up a great cry; nor would
the sailors part with the prize, but carried her amorig
the trees, while the old woman went, and brought
a whole army down upon them. At the beginning
of the attack, one of our men was killed with a lance,
and the sellow who began the mischief, paid dear
enough for his mistress, though as yet we did not
know what had become of him; the rest luckily es-
caped. The third night aster the action, being cu-
rious to understand how affairs stood, I took the super-
"cargo, and twenty stout sellows with me, and land-
ed about two hours before midnight, at the same
place where those Indians stood the night before,
and there we divided our men into two bodies, the
boatfwain commanding one, and I another. It was
so dark, that we could see nobody, neither did we
hear any voice near us: but by and by the boatfwain
salling over a dead body, we agreed to halt till the
moon should rise, which we knew would be in an
hour after. We perceived here no sewer than two
and thirty bodies upon the ground, whereof two
were not quite dead. Satisfied with this discovery,
I was for going on board again; but the boatfwain
and the rest told me, they would make a visit to the
Indian town, where those dogs, so they called them,
resided, asking me at the same time to go along with
them; for, they did not doubt, besides getting a
good booty, but they should find Tom Jeffery there,
for that was the unhappy man we miffed. But I
utterly resused to go, and commanded them back,
being. unwilling to hazard their lives, as the sasety of
M %. the
the ship wholly depended upon them. Notwith-
standing all I could say to them, they all left me
but one, and the supercargo; so we three return-
ed to the boat, where a boy was left, resolving
to stay till they returned. At parting I told them I
supposed most of them would run the same sate with
Tom Jeffery. To this they replied. Come boys,
come atong, we'll warrant we 11 come off safe enough:
and so away they went, notwithstanding all my ad-
monition?, either concerning their own sasety, or
the preservation of the ship. Indeed, they were gal-
lantly armed, every man having a musket, bayonet,
and a pistol, besides cutlasses, hangers, pole-axes,
'and hand granadoes. They came to a sew Indian
houses at first, which not being the town they ex-
pected, they went farther, an3 finding a cow tied
to a tree, they concluded that she would be a sufficient
guide, and so it proved; for, after they untied her, she
led them directly to the town, which consisted of above
two hundred houses, several samilies living in some of
the huts together. At their arrival, all being in a
profound sleep, the sailors agreed to divide themselves
into three bodies, and set three parts of the town on
fire at once, to kill those that were escaping, and
plunder the rest of the houses. Thus desperately re-
solved, they went to work; but the first party had
not gone sar, before they called out to the rest, that
they had found Tom Jeffery; whereupon they all
ran up to the place, and found the poor sellow in-
deed hanging up naked by one arm, a«d his throat
cut almost from ear to ear: In a house that was hard
uy the tree they found sixteen or seventeen Indians,
who had been concerned in the fray, two ot three of
them being wounded, who were not gone to sleep:
this house they set on fire first, and, in a sew minutes
after, five or six places more in the town appeared
in flames.. The conflagration spread like wild fire,
their houses being all of wood, and covered with
flags or rushes. The poor affrighted inhabitants en-
deavoured
deavoured to run out to save their lives, but they
were driven back into the flames by the sailors, and
killed without mercy. At the first house above-men-
tioned, after the boatfwain had slain two with his
pole-axe, he threw a hand-granado into the house,
which bursting, made a terrible havock, killing and
wounding most of them; and their king and most of
his train, who were then in that house, sell victims
to their sury, every creature of them being either
smothered or burnt. All this while they never fired
a gun, lest the people should awaken saster than they
could overpower them. But the fire awakened them
sast enough, which obliged our sellows to keep to-
gether in bodies. By this time the whole town was
in a flame, yet their sury rather increased, calling
out to one another to remember Tom Jeffery. The
terrible light of this conflagration made me very un-
easy, and roused my nephew the Captain, and the
rest of his men, who knew nothing of the matter.
When he perceived the dreadsul smoke, and heard
the guns go off, he readily concluded his men were
in danger; he theiefore takes another boat, and
comes ashore himself, with thirteen men well arm-
ed. He was greatly surprized to see me and only two
men in the boat, but more so when I told him the
story; but though I argued with him, as I did with
his men, about the danger of the voyage, the interests
of the merchants and owners, and the sasety of the
ship, yet my nephew, like the rest, declared, that,
he would rather lose the ship, his voyage, his lise,
and all, than his, men should be lost for want of
help; and so away he went. For my part, seeing
him resolved to go, I had not power to stay behind.
He ordered the pinnace back again for twelve men
more, and then we marched directly as the flame
guided us. But surely never was such a scene of
horror beheld, or more dismal cries heard, except
when Oliver Cromwell took Drogheda in Ireland,
where he neither spared man, woman, or child.
M 3 The
The first object, I think, we met with, was the
ruins of one of their habitations, before which lay
four men and three women killed, and two more
burnt to death among the fire, which was now de-
caying. Nothing could appear more barbarous than
this revenge; none more cruel than the authors of
it. As we went on, the fire increased, and the cry
proceeded in proportion. We had not gone much
farther, when we beheld three naked women, fol-
lowed by sixteen or seventeen men, flying with the
greatest swiftness from our men, who shot one of
them in our sight. When they perceived us, whom
they supposed also their murderers, they set up a most
dreadsul shriek, and both of them swooned away in
the fright. This was a sight which might have soft-
ened the hardest heart: and, in pity, we took some
ways to let them know we would not hurt them,
while the poor creatures, with bended knees, and
lifted up hands, made piteous lamentations to us to
save their lives. I ordered our men not to hurt any
of the poor creatures whatsoever; but being willing
to understand the occasion of all this, I went among
these unhappy wretches, who neither understood
tne, nor the good I meant them. However, being
resolved to put an end to this barbarity, I ordered
the men to follow me. We had not gone fifty yards
before we came up with the boatfwain, with four
of our men at his heels, all of them covered with
blood and dust, and in search of more people to sa-
tiate their vengeance. As soon as we saw them, we
called out, and made them understand who we were;
upon which they came up to us, setting up aholloo
of triumph, in token that more help was come.
Jtfoble captain, said he to my nephew, I'm glad
Jou'i e come: we have not half done with these vil-
ainous hell-hound dogs, we'll root out the very na-
tion of them from the earth, and kill more than poor
Tom has hairs upon his head: and thus he went on
till I interrupted him. Blood thirsty dog! said I>
will
will your cruelty never end? I charge you touch
not one creature more; stop your hands, and stand
still, or you're a dead man this moment. Why, Sir,
said he, you neither know whom you are protecting,
nor what they have done: but, pray, come hither,
and behold an instance of compassion, if such can
merit your clemency; and with that he shewed me
the poor sellow with his throat cut, hanging upon
the tree.
Indeed, here was enough to fill their breasts with
rage, which, I however, thought had gone too sar,
agreeable to these words of Jacob to his sons Simeon
and Levi: Cursed be their anger, for it was fierce; and
their wrath, for it was cruel. But this sight made
my nephew and the rest as bad as they . nay, my
nephew declared, his concern was only for his men;
as for the people, not a soul of them ought to live.
Upon this, the boatfwain and eight more directly
turned about, and went to finish the intended trage-
dy; which being out of my power to prevent, I re-
turned back both from the dismal sight, and the pi-
teous cries of thole unsortunate creatures, who were
made victims to their sury. Indeed, it was an egre-
gious piece of folly in me to return to the boat with
but one attendant; and I had very near paid for it,
having narrowly escaped forty armed Indians, who
had been alarmed by the conflagration; but having
passed the place where they stood, I got to the boat,
accompanied with the supercargo, and so went on
board, sending the pinnace back again, to assist the
men in what might happen. When I had got to
the boat, the fire was almost extinguished, and the
noise abated; but I had scarce been half an hour on
board the ship, when I heard another volley given
by our sailors, and a great smoke, which, as I
asterwards found, was our men salling upon those
houses and persons that stood between them and the
sea: but here they spared the wives and children,
and killed only the men, to the number os about
M 4 sixteen
sixteen or seventeen. By the time they got to the
shore, the pinnace and the ship's boat were ready to
receive them, and they all got sase on board, not a
nian of them having received the least hurt, except
two, one of whom strained his foot, and the other
burnt his hand a little; for they met with no re-
sistance, the poor Indians being unprepared, amazed,
and confounded.
I was extremely angry with every one of them,
but particularly with the captain, who, instead of
cooling the rage of the men, had prompted them on
to sarther mischief: nor could he make me any other
excuse, but, that as he was a man, he could not
piaster his passions at the sight of one of his men so
cruelly murdered. As for the rest, knowing they
.were not under my command, they took no notice
of my anger; but rather boasted of their revenge.
Recording to all their accounts, they killed or de-
stroyed about one hundred and fifty men, women,
and children, beMes burning the town to ashes.
1'hey took their companion Tom Jeffery from the
tree, covered him with some of the ruins, and so lett
jiim. But, however, this action of our men might
seem to them justifiable, yet I always openly con-
demned it with the appellation of the Massacre of
jf/fadagafear. For, though they had stain this Jef-
fery, yet certainly he was the first aggressor, by at-
tempting to violate the chastity of a young innocent
.tvoman, who venturing down to them, on the saith
cf the public capitulation, which was so treacherously
broken. •
While we were under sail, the boatfwain would
0ften desend this bloody action, by saying, that the
Jndiam had broke the truce the night before, by footing
one of our men without juft provocation: and what if
the poor fellow had taken a little liberty with the wench,
he ought not to have been murdered in so villainous a man-
ner " and that they had aSied nothing but what the divine
laws commissioned to be done to such homicides. How-
ever,
ever, I was in the same mind as before, telling them,
that they were murderers, and bid him depend upon't
that God would blast their voyage for such an un-
parallelled piece of barbarity.
When we came into the gulf of Persia, five of our
men, who ventured on shore, were either killed or
made slaves by the Arabians, the rest of them having
scarce time to escape to their boat. This made me
upbraid them afresh with the just retribution of hea-
ven for such actions; upon which the boatfwain very
warmly asked me, Whether those men on whom the
tower of Siloam sell, weregreater sinners than the rest
of the Galileans? and besides, Sir, said he, none of
these five poor men that are lost, were with us at the
massacre of Madagascar, as you call it; and, there-
fore, your reprehension is very unjust, and your ap-
plication improper. Besides, added he, you are con-
tinually using the men very ill, upon this account,
and being but a passenger yourself, we are not obliged
to bear it; nor can we tell what ill designs you may
have to bring us to judgment for it in England;
and, therefore, if you do not leave this discourse, as
also not concern yourself with any of our affairs, I
will leave the ship, and not sail among such danger-
ous company.
All this I heard very patiently; but, it being often
repeated, I at length told him, the concern I had on
board was none of his business; that I was a consi-
derable owner in the ship, and therefore had a right
to speak in common, and that I was no way ac-
countable to him, nor to any body else. As no more
passed for some time after, I thought all had been
over. At this time we were in the road of Bengal,
where, going on shore with the supercargo, one day
in the evening, as I was preparing to go on board,
one of the men came to me, and told me, I need
not trouble myself to come to the boat, for that the
cockswain and others had ordered him not to carry
me on board any more. This insolent message much
M 5 surprized
OF
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
surprized me; yet I gave him no answer to it, but
went directly and acquainted the supercargo, en-
treating him to go on board, and, by acquainting
the Captain with it, prevent the mutiny which I
perceived would happen. But before I had spoken
this, the matter was essected on board; for no sooner
was he gone off in the boat, but the boatfwain,
gunner, carpenter, and all the inserior officers, came
to the quarter-deck, desiring to speak with the Cap-
tain; and there the boatfwain made a long harrangue,
exclaiming against me, as before-mentioned, that,
if I had not gone ashore peaceably, for my own di-
version, they, by violence, would have compelled me
for their satissaction: that, as they had shipped with
the Captain, so they would saithsully serve him;
but, if I did not quit the ship, or the Captain oblige
me to it, they would leave the ship immediately;
hereupon, turning his face about by way of signal,
thev all cried out, ONE and ALL, ONE and
ALL.
You may be sure, that though my nephew was a
man of great courage, yet he could not be but sur-
prised at their sudden and unexpected behaviour;
and, though he talked stoutly to them, and after-
wards expostulated with them, that, in common
justice to me, who was a considerable owner in the
iBip, they could not turn me, as it were, out of my
own house, which might bring their lives in dan-
ger, should they ever be taken in England; nay,
though he invited the boatfwain on shore to accom-
modate matters with me; yet all this, I say, signi-
fied nothing,; they, would have nothing to do with
me; and they were resolved to go on shore if I came
on board. Well, said my nephew, if you are so re-
solved, permit me to talk with him, and then I have
done; and so he came to me, giving me an account
of their resolution, how one and all designed to for-
sake the Jhip when I. came, on boards for which he
*vus mightily concerned. I am glad to see you, ne-
phew,
phew, said I, and rejoice it is no worse, since they
have not rebelled against you; I only defire you to
send my necessary things on shore, with a sufficient
sum of money, and I will find my way to England,
as well as I can. Though this grieved my nephew
to the heart, yet there was no remedy but compli-
ance; in short, all my necessaries were sent me, and
so this matter was over in a sew hours.
I think I was now near a thousand leagues sarther
off England by sea, than at my little kingdom, ex-
cept this difference, that I might travel by land over
the Great Mogul's country to Surat, from thence to
to Bassora, by sea up the Persian gulf, then take the
way of the caravans over the Arabian desert to Alep-
po aud Scanderoon, there take shipping to Italy,
and so travel by land into France, and from thence
cross the sea t* England.-
My nephew left me two persons to attend me;
one of them was his servant, and the other clerk to
the purser, who engaged to be mine. I took lodg-
ings in an English woman's house, where several
French, one English, and two Italian merchants re-
sided. The handsome entertainment I met with
here, occasioned me to stay nine months consider-
ing what course I should take. Some English goods
I had with me of great value, besides a thousand
pieces of eight, and a letter of credence for more,
if there was such necessity. The goods I soon dis-
posed of to advantage, and bought here several good
diamonds, which I could easily carry about with
me. One morning the English merchant came to
me, as being very intimate together, Countryman,
said he, / have a projecJ fa communicate to you, which,
I hope, will suit to both our advantage. To be short,
Sir, we are both in a remote part of the worldfrom our
country; but yet in a place where men of business may get
a great deal of money. Now, if you will put a thousand
pounds to my thousand pounds, we will hire a ship to our
satisfaclion ; you shall be Captain, I will be merchant:
M 6 and
and we'll go a trading voyage to China; for why jhsuli
we hejlill like drones, while the whole world is in a con-
tinual motion.
This proposal soon got my consent, being very
agreeable to my rambling genius; and the more so,
because I looked upon my countryman to be a very
sincere person; it required some time before we could
get a vessel to our mind, and sailors to man it ac-
cordingly; at length, we bought a ship, and got an
English mate, boatfwain, and gunner, a Dutch car-
penter, and three Portuguese foremast-men; and,
for want of others, made shift with Indian seamen.
We first sailed to Achin, in the island of Sumatra,
and then to Siam, where we bartered our wares for
some arrack and opium, the last of which bore a
great price among the Chinese; in a word, we went
up to Suskan, making a very great voyage ; and,,
after eight months time, I returned to Bengal, very
vvell satisfied with this adventure, having not only
got a sufficient quantity of money, but an insight
of getting a great deal more.
The next voyage my friend proposed to me, was
to go among the Spice islands, and bring home a load
of cloves from the Manillas, or thereabouts, islands
belonging partly to Spain, but where the Dutch
trade very considerably. We were not long prepar-
ing for this voyage, which we made no less success-
ful than the last, touching at Bornea, and several
other places which I do not persectly remember, and
returning home in about five months time. We
soon fold our spices, which were chiefly cloves, and
some nutmegs, te the Persian merchants, who car-
ried them away for the gulf; and, in short,, making
five to one advantage, we were loaded with money.
Not long after my friend and I had made up our
accounts, to our entire satissaction, there came in a
Dutch coaster from Batavia, of about two hundred
tons. The crew of this vessel pretended themselves
so sickly, that there were not hands sufficient to
undertake
undertake a voyage; and she Captain having given
out that he intended to go to Europe, public notice
was given- that the ship was to be sold. No sooner
did this come to our ears, but we bought the ship,
paid the master, and took pofleffion. We would
also have very willingly entertained some of the
men: but they having received their share of booty,
were not to be found, being altogether' fled to Agra,
the great city of the Mogul's residence; and from
thence were to travel to Surat, and so by the sea to
the Persian gulf. And indeed they had reason to fly
ia this manner; for the truth of it was, the pretend-
ed Captain was.the gunner only, and not the com-
mander: that having been on a trading voyage, they
were attacked on shore by the Malayans, who killed
three men, and the Captain; after whose death the
other eleven men nm away with the ship to the bay
of Bengal, and left the mate and five men more on
lhore ; but of this affair we shall have occasion to
speak at more length hereafter.
However they came by the ship, we thought we
bought it honestly \ neither did we suspect any thing
of the matter; when the man shewed us a bill of
sale for the ship (undoubtedly forged) tooneEmanuei
Clostershoven, which name he went by. And so
without any more to do, we picked up some Dutch
and English seamen, resolving for another voyage
for clovesamong the Philippine and Molucca islands;
in short, we continued thus five or six years, trad-
ing from port to port with extraordinary success; in
the seventh year we u.ndertook a voyage to China,
designing to touch at Siam, and buy some rice by
the way. In this voyage, contrary winds beat us up
and down for a considerable time among the islands
in the straits of Molucca. , No sooner were we clear
.of those rugged seas, but we perceived our ship had
sprung a leak, which obliged us to put into the river
Cambodia, which lies northward of thcgulf3 and
goes up to Siam.
One
One day as I was on shore refreshing myself, there
comes to me an Englishman, who was a gunner's
mate on board an English East India ship, riding up
the river near the city of Cambcdia. Sir, said he,
you may nvonder at my business, having never seen me in
your Use; but though I am a sir anger, I have something
to tell you that very nearly concerns you; and indeed it is
the imminent danger you are in, has moved me to give
you this timey notice. Danger! said I, what danger?
I know of none, except my ship being leaky, for
v^hich I design to have her run aground to-morrow
itiorning. Sir, said he, J hope you will be better em-
ployed, when you Jhall hear what I have to fay to you.
Jsou know the town os Cambodia is about 15 leagues up
this river; about three leagues on this fide of it, there
lies two Dutch and three English ships. And would
you venture here, without considering what strength you
have to engage them? I knew not what he meant by
(his discourse, and turning short upon him, Sir,
said I, I know no reason shave to he afraid either
0f any English or Dutch ships. I am no inter-
lope1"? and what business have they then with me?
jfatt, Sir, said the man, is you do think yourself fe-
euf'* a^ as i cansay, you mufl take your chance; how-
ever, I am very sorry you are so deaf to good advice; but
J assure you if you do not put to sea immediately, you will
he attacked by five long boats full of men, hanged yourself
for a pirate, if you are taken, and the particulars ex-
amined afterwards. I thought, Sir, added he, I might
have met with better reception for such a singular piece of
service. Sir, said I, I was never ungratesul to any
ioan; but pray explain yourself, and I'll go on
hoard this minute, whether the leak be stopped or
no. Why, Sir, said, he, to be short, because time is
precious, the matter is tis: You know well enough that
you was with the ship at Sumatra, where your Captain
stjas murdered by the Malayans, with three of his sai-
lers i and that either you, or some who were on boar a
you, ran ewqy with the ship, and are sma turned pi-
"' rates
rates at fea. Now, Sir, this is the sum of what I had
to say; and I can positively assure you, that is you be
taken, you will be executed without much ceremony ; for
undoubtedly you cannot but be sensible what little law mer-
chant slips Jhew to pirates^ whenever they fall into their
unmerciful hands.
Sir, said I, I thank you for your kind, informa-
tion; and" though, lam sure, no man could come
more honestly by the ship than I have done, yet
knowing their enterprise, and being satisfied of your
honest intention, I'll be upon my desence. Prithee,
Sir, said the man, don't talk of being upon your de-
fence, the besi that you can make is to be out of danger;
and therefore, if you have any regard to your life, and
the lives of your men, take the advantage, without fail,
of putting out to sea at high water; by which means, as
you have a whole tide before you, you will be gone too far
out of their reach before they can come down.
I am mighty well satisfied, said. I, in this parti-
cular, and of your kindness, which merits my great-
est esteem? pray, Sir, what amends shall I make
you? He replied, / know not what amends you are
willing to make, because you may have some doubts of its
certainty; but, to convince you of the truth of what I
fay, I have one offer to make to you. On board one of
the English ships, I have nineteen months pay due to me*
and this Dutchman that is with me has seven months
pav due to him, which if you will make good to us, we
will go along with you. If you shall find, that there is
nothing in what we have said, then we stall desire no-
thing: but, when you art convinced that we have saved
the ship, your life, and the lives of the men, we will
leave the whole to your generosity.
So reasonable did this every way appear, that I
immediately consented, and we went directly on
board. As soon as we came on board, my partner
calls joyfully out, That they had stopped the leak!
Well, thank God, said I, but pray let us weigh an-
chor forth with. Weigh I said he, what is the mean-
irtg of this hurry? Pray, ask no questions, said I,
but all hands to work, without losing a moment's
time: Upon which, in great surprize, the Captain
was called, who immediately ordered the anchor to
"be got up; and though the tide was not quite down,
yet, being assisted with a little land breeze, we stood
out to sea. I then called my partner into the cabin,
and related the stery at large, which was confirmed,
and more amplified by the two men I had brought
on board. Scarce had we finished our discourse, up-
on this head, but a sailor came to the cabin door,
•with a message from the Captain, that we were
.chased by five sloops sull of armed men. Very well,
/aid I, it is plain now there is something in it. And
so, going upon deck, I told all the men there was a
design for seizing the ship, and of executing us for
pirates; and asked them, whether they would saith-
fully stand by us, and by one another?. To which
they unanimously replied, that they would sight to
their last drop of blood. I then asked the Captain,
•which way he thought best for us to manage the bat-
tle? Sir, said he, the only method is to keep them off
jijuitb our great shot as long as we are able, and then hem
recourse to our small arms; and when both these sail us,
then retire to close quarters, when perhaps the enemj,
ifjanting materials, can neither break open our bulk heads, ,
nor get in upon us. Mean time the gunner was or-
dered to bring two guns to bear fore and aft out of
the steerage, and so lbad them with musket bullets,
and small pieces of old iron; and the deck being
cleared, we prepared for the engagement, still, how-
ever, keeping out at sea. The boats followed us
^ith all the sail they could make, and we could per-
ceive the two foremost were English, which outsailed
the rest by two leagues, and which we found would
come up with us: hereupon, we fired a gun without
Dall, intimating that they should bring to, and we
put out a stag of iruce, as a signal for parky; but,
^d*ng<them crowding after usr lill they came with-
in shot, we-took in our white, and hanging out the
red flag, immediately fired at them with ball: we
then called to them with a speaking trumpet, bid-
ding them at their peril keep off.
But all this signified nothing ; for, depending up-
on the strength that followed them, they were reso-
lutely bent for mischief: hereupon, I ordered them
to bring the ship to, by which means, they lying
upon our broadside, we let fly at them at once, one
of whom carriedaway the stern of the hindermost
boat, and obliged them not only to take down their
fail, but made them all run to the head of the boat,
to keep them from sinking; and so she lay by, hav-
ing enough of it. In the mean time, we prepared
to welcome the foremost boat in the same manner.
While we were doing this, one of the three hinder-
most boats came up to the relief of that which was
disabled, and took the men out os her. We again
called to parley with them; but, instead of an an-
swer, one of the boats came close under our stern;
whereupon, our gunner let fly his two chase guns,
but miffing, the men in the boat shouted, and wav-
ing their caps, came on with greater sury. To re-
pair this seeming disgrace, the gunner soon got ready,
and, firing the se.ond time, did a great deal of mis-
chief among the enemy. We waved again, and,
bringing cur quarter to bear upon them, fired three
guns more, when we found the boat a sinking, and
ieveral men already in the sea; hereupon, manning
our pinnace, I gave orders to save as many as they
could, and instantly to come on board, because the
rest of their boats were approaching: accordingly
they did so, and took up three of them, one of wh,im
was almost past recovery; and then crouding all the
sail we could, after our men came on board, we
stood out sarther to sea, so that the other three boats
gave over their chace, when they came up to the first
two. Thus delivered from imminent danger, we
changed
changed our course to the eastward, quite out of the
course of all European ships.
Being now at sea, and inquiring more particularly
of the two seamen, the meaning of all this, the
Dutchman, at once let us into the secret. He told
us, that the sellow who sold us the ship was an ar-
rant thief, who had ran away with her: that the
Captain was treacherously murdered on the coast of
flÆolucca by the natives there, with three of his men;
that he, the Dutchman, and four more, being o-
bliged to have recourse to the woods for their sasety,
at length escaped by means of a Dutch ship, in its
vray to China, which had'sent their boat on-shore
for fresh water: That, after this, he went to Ba-
tavia, where two of the seamen belonging to the
{hip (who had deserted the rest in their travels) ar-
rived, and there gave an account that the sellow
vrho ran away with the ship had sold her at Bengal
to a set of pirates, who went a cruising, and had
already taken one English, and" two Dutch sliips
j-ichly laden.
Now, though this was absolutely salse, yet con-
cerning us directly, my partner truly said, that our
deliverance was to be esteemed so much the more, by
reason, had we fallen into their hands we could have
expected nothing from them but immediate death,
considering our accusers would have been our judges;
and, therefore, his opinion was, to return directly
to Bengal, where, being known, we could prove
JioW honestly we came by the ship, of whom we
bought her, and the like, and where we were sure of
some justice; at least would not be hanged first, and
judged afterwards. I was at first of my partner's
opinion; but when I had more seriously considered
of the matter, I told him we ran a great hazard in
attempting to return, being on the wrong side of the
flraits of Molucca, and that if, upon alarm given,
vve should be taken by the Dutch of Batavia or Eng-
lish ellewhere, or running away would be a susficient
evidence
evidence to condemn us. This danger indeed start-
led not only my partner, but likewise all the ship's
company; so we changed our former resolution, and
resolved to go to the coast of Tonquin, and so to that
of China, where, pursuing our first design as to trade,
we might likewise have an opportunity to dispose of
the ship some way or other, and to return to Ben-
gal in any country vessel we could procure. This
being agreed to, we steered away N. N. E. about
50 leagues off the usual course to the east, which
put us to some inconveniencies. As the wind blew
steadily against us, our voyage became more tedious,
and we began to be afraid of want of provision ; and
what was still worse, we apprehended, that as those
ships, from whose boats we had escaped, were bound
to China, they might get before us, and have given
fresh information, which might create another vigor-
ous pursuit. Indeed, I could not help being griev-
ed, when I considered that I, who had never wrong-
ed or defrauded any person in my life, was now pur-
sued like a common thief; and, if taken, to run the
greatest danger of being executed as such; and,
though innocent, I found myself under the neces-
sity of flying for my sasety; and thereby escape be-
ing brought to shame,' of which I was even more
asraid than of death itfelf. It was ealy to read my
dejection in my countenance. My mind was op-
pressed, like those unhappy innocent persons, who,
being overpowered by blasphemous and perjured e\
dences, wickedly resolved to take away their lives,
or ruin their, reputation, have no other recourse in
this world to ease their sorrow, but sighs, prayers,
and tears. My partner seeing me so concerned, en-
couraged me as well as he could ; and, after des-
cribing to me the several ports of that coast, he told
me, he would either put me in on the coast of
Cochinchina, or else in the bay of Tonquin, frem
wnence we might go to Macao, a town once pos-
sessed.
iessed by the Portuguese, and where still many Eu-
ropean samilies resided.
To this place we steered, and, early next morn-
ing, came in sight of the coast; but thought it ad-
visable to put into a small river where we could,
either over land, or by the ship's pinnace, know what
veflcls were in any ports thereabouts. This happy
flep proved our deliverance ; for, nextmorning, there
came to the bay of Tonquin two Dutch ships, and
a third without any colours; and, in the evening,
two-English ships steered the same course. The river
vphere we were was but small, and run but a sew
leagues up the country northward; the country was
^vild and baibarous, and the people thieves, hav-
ing no correspondence with any oiher nation, deal-
ing only in fish, oil, and such gross commodities;
and one barbarous custom they still retained, that
when any vessel was unhappily shipwrecked upon
•their coast, they make the men prisoners or slaves;
so that now we might fairly fay we were surround-
ed by enemies both by sea and land.
As the ship had been leaky, we took the opportu-
nity, in this place, to search her, and to stop up the
places which let in the water. We accordingly
jightened her, and bringing our guns and other
jriovcuble things to one side, we essayed to bring her
fjown, that we might come at her bottom : but, up-
0fi second consideration, we did not think it sase to
jet her lie on dry ground, neither indeed was the
place convenient for it. The inhabitants, not used
to such a sight as to see a ship lie down on one side,
3nd heel in towards the shore, not perceiving her
iiien, who were at work on her bottom, with stages
and boats on the off-side, presently imagined the ship
j,ad been cast away, and lay sast on the ground.
Agreeable to this supposition, they surrounded us
•vvTth ten or twelve large boats, with a resolution,
undoubtedly, to plunder the ship, and to carry away
.those they found alive for slaves to their king. But
when
»b they pe,
Vs bottom
Hk, itfi
}7 stood gaz
*f could we
for fear
Munition
Selves; a
*e native,, c,
J that we v
1 kJ thought
a&> LIFE AND ADVENTURES
its:*
^ withx
'S^ry
Net • ^
When they perceived our men hard at work on the
ship's bottom and side, washing, graving, and stop-
ping her, it filled them all with such surprise, that
they stood gazing as though they were confounded.
Nor could we imagine what their design was; how-
ever, for sear of danger, we handed down arms and
ammunition, to those at work, in order to desend
themselves; and, indeed, this precaution was ab-
solutely neceflary ; for, in a quarter of an hour after,
the natives, concluding it was really a shipwreck,
and that we were saving our lives and goods, which
they thought belonged to them, came down upon
our men, as though it had been in a line of battle.
We lay at present but in a very unsit posture to fight j
and before the stages could be got down, or the men
in the boat come on board as they were ordered, the
Cochinchineses were upon them, and two of their
boats boarding our long-boat, they began to lay hold
of our men as prisoners. The first they seized was
a stout English sailor, who never fired his musket,
like a fool as I imagined, but laid it down in the
boat: but he knew what he was doing; for, by main
force, he dragged the Pagan out of the boat into ours
by the two ears, and knocked his brains out against
the boat's gunnel: a Dutchman that was next him
snatched up the musket, and knocked down five
more with the butt-end of it; however, this was
doing very little to their number; but a strange un-
expected accident, which rather merits laughter than
any thing else, gave our men a complete victory over
them.
It seems the carpenter, who was preparing to grave
the outside of the ship, as well as to pay the scams,
where he caulked to stop the leaks, had gotten two
kettles just let down in the boat, one filled with
boiling pitch, and the other with rosin, tallow, oil,
and such stuff as the shipwrights use: the carpenter's
man had a great iron laddie with which he used to
supply the workmen with hot stuff, and as two of
OFR
the enemies entered the hoat where the sellow stood,
he saluted them with a full laddie of the hot boiling
liquor, which, the poor creatures being half naked,
made them roar out, and jump into the sea. Well
done Jack, says the carpenter, give them the other
dose: and so stepping forward himself, takes a mop,
and dipping it into the pitch pot, he and his man so
plentisully slung it among them, as that none escaped
being scalded; upon which they all made the best
of their way, crying and howling in such a fright-
sul manner, that, in all my adventures, I never heard
the like. And, indeed, never was I better pleased
with any conquest than I was with this, there being
so little bloodshed, and having an aversion to killing
such savage wretches, (more than was necessary), as
knowing they came on errands, which their laws
and customs made them think were just and equita-
ble. By this time, all things being in order, and
the ship sw imming, they found their mistake, so
they did not venture a second attack. Thus ended
our merry fight; and, having got rice, bread, roots,
and sixteen good hogs, on board the day before, we
set sail, not daring to go into the bay of Tonquin,
but steered N. E. towards the isle of Formosa, or as
though we would go to the Manillas, or Phillippine
islands, for sear of meeting with any European ships,
when we anchored at the isle Formosa, the inhabi-
tants, not only courteously supplied us with provi-
sions and fresh water, but dealt very sairly and ho-
nestly with us in their bargains and agreements.
From this place we steered north, keeping still off
:he coast of China, till we were beyond all its ports
vhere European ships usually come; and, at length,
>eing come to the latitude of thirty degrees, we re-
blved to put into the first trading port we should
ome at; and standing for the shore, a boat came off
wo leagues to us, with an old Portuguese pilot on
oard, who offered his service; we very gladly ac-
epted him, and sent the boat back again. And now,
^r"gthe old;
'oNanquin, tl
Uma. VVha
1 'old him we
ca'iicoes, raw
lura the same
,er pyt in at
"w a cheap
!t "greater ad
, Kf!ellasnier(
I J China, v
?rngP°, wher
the he
J Sty le;
;,slui«s and
.IS
fN,°> said I u
al °r
having
having the old man on board, I talked to him of going
to Nanquin, the most northward part of the coast of
China. What will you do there? said he, smiling.
I told him we would sell our cargo, and purchase
callicoes, raw and wrought silks, tea, &c. and so re-
turn the same way back. O, said he, you had bet-
ter put in at Macao, where you may buy China
wares as cheap as at Nanquin, and sell your opium
at a greater advance. But, said I, we are gentlemen
as well as merchants, and design to see the great city
of Pekin, and the magnificent court of the monarch
of China. Why, then, said he, you should go to
Ningpo, where there is a navigable river that goes
through the heart of that vast empire, two hundred
and seventy leagues from the sea, which crosses all
the rivers, passes considerable hills, by the help of
the fluices and gates, and goes even up to the city of
Pekin. You may go to Nanquin, if you please, and
travel to Pekin, and there is a Dutch ship just before
bound that way. At the name of a Dutch or Eng-
lish ship, I was struck with confusion; they being as
great a terror to me in this vessel, as an Algerine
man of war is to them in the Mediterranean. The
old man sinding me troubled, Sir, said he, I hope
the Dutch are not now at war with your nation:
No, said I, but God knows what liberty they may
take when out of the reach of the law. Why, says
he, what occasion is there for peaceable merchants
to fear? For, believe me, they never meddle with
any but PIRATES.
At the mentioning the word pirates, my coun-
tenance turned to that of scarlet; nor was it possible
for me to conceal it from the old pilot; who taking
notice of it, Sir, said he, take what course you please,
Til do you all the service I can. Seignior, said I, I am a
little concerned at your mentioning pirates; I hope
there are none such in these seas, because you see in
what a weak condition we are to desend ourselves.
O, Sir, said he, if that's all, don't le concerned, I don't
remember
remember one in these seas these fifteen years, except about
a month ago one was seen in the bay os Siam, but
Jhe is gone to the Southward; neither was she built fir
a pnvateer, but was run away with by a reprobate cap-
tain, andsome of his men, the right Captain having been
murdered by the Malayans.
What! said I, as though ignorant of what had
happened) did they kill the Captain? No, said he,
it is generally thought the Malayans murdered him; but
perhaps they might procure them to do it, and therefore
theyjujlly deserve hanging. The rogues were lately dis-
covered in the Lay of Siam, in the river of Cambodia,
by some Dutchmen who belonged to the ship, and had
ninth ado to escape the five boats that pursued them, but
they have all given such an exact description os the Jhip,
that wherever they find her, they will be sure to know
her; and they have solemnly swore to give no quarter to
the Captain or the seamen, but hang them every one up at
the yard-arm, without any formal business of bringing
them to a court of judicature.
Being sensible, that, having the old man on
board, he Was incapable of doing me any mischief,
"Well, Seignior, said I, it is for this very reason I
•Would have you carry us up to Nanquin, where nei-
their English nor Dutch ships come: and I must
tell you, their Captains are a parcel of rash, proud,
insolent rascals, that neither know what belongs to
j ustice, nor how to behave themselves as the laws
of God or nature direct; sellows that would prove
murderers to punish robbers, and take upon them to
adi udgc innocent men to death, without any proof
to prove them guilty; but perhaps I may live to call
them to account for it, in a place where they
may be taught how justice is to be executed. And
so I told him all the story of buying the ship, and
bow we were saved by the means of two men: that
the murder of the Captain by the Malayans, as also
the running awfty with the sliip, I believe to be true;
but that we, who bought it, were turned pirates,
was
was a mere fiction, to cover their cowardice and
foolish behaviour, when they attacked us, and the
blood of those men we killed in our own just de-
sence, lay to their door, who sent to attack us by
surprise.
Sir, said the old man amazed, you have taken the
right course to jleer to the north, and, if I might advise
you, I would have you sell your ship in China, and buy »r
build another in that country; and I'll procure people to
buy the one and sell the other. Well but, Seignior,
said I, if I sell the ship in this manner, I may bring
some innocent persons into the same danger as I have
gone through, perhaps worse, even death itfelf,
whereby I should be as guilty of their murder as
villainous executioners. That need not trouble you,
says the old man; I'll find away to prevent that; for
these commanders you talk of I know very well, and will
inform them rightly of the matter as you have related,
and I am persuaded they will not only believe me, but ail
more cautiously for the future. And will you deliver
one menage from me to them? Yes, said he, if you
will give it under your hand, that I may prove it is not
of my own produSlion. Hereupon I wrote a large ac-
count of their attacking me in their long boat, the
pretended reason and unjust design of it; that they
had done what they might be ashamed of, and could
not answer for at any tribunal in England. But
this letter was writ in vain. "Providence ordered
things another way. We sailed directly for Nan-
quin, and in about thirteen days sail, came to an
anchor at the south west point of the great gulph of
that place, where we learned, that two Dutch ships
were gone the length before us, and that we should
certainly sall into their hands. We were all at a
great loss in this exigency, and would very gladly
have been on shore almost any where; but our old
pilot told me, that if I would sail to the southward
about two and forty leagues, there was a little port
called Quinchange, where no European Clips ever
N came,
came, and where we might consider what was fur-
ther to be done. Accordingly we weighed anchor
the next day, calling only twice on shore by the way
to get fresh water. 1 he country people very cour-
teously sold us roots, tea, rice, towls, and other pro-
visions. After five days sail we came, to the port,
and landed with unspeakable joy. We resolved to
dispose of ourselves and effects in any other way
possible, than enter on board that ill-sated vessel
roore; for no state can be more miserable than a
continued sear, which is a lise of death, a confoun-
derof our understandings, that sets the imagination
at work to form a thousand frightsul things that may
never happen. And we scarce slept one night, with-
out dreaming of halters, yard-arms, or gibbets; os
fighting, being taken, and being killed; nay, so vio-
lent were our apprehensions, that we would bruise
our hands and heads against the sides of the cabin, as
though actually engaged. The story of the Dutch
cruelty at Amboyna often came into our thoughts
when awake; and, for my part, I thought my con-
dition very hard, that, after so many difficulties, and
such signal deliverances, I should be hanged in my
old age, though innocent of any crime that deserved
such punishment; but then religion would seem to
represent to me, as though the voice of it had said,
Consider, O man! what fins you have been former-
ly guilty of, which now thou art called to an ac-
count for, to expiate with thy blood! And as to
thy innocence, what art. thou more innocent than
thy blessed Redeemer Jesus Christ, who suffered for
thy offences, and to whose providence you ought to
submit, let what will happen? after this natural
courage would inspire me to resist to the last drop os
blood, and sooner die than suffer myself to be taken
by boorish, rascally Dutchmen, who had arts to tor-
ment beyond death itfelf.
But now, thank kind Heaven, being ashore our
old pilot procured us a lodging and a warehouse for
cur
our ?oods; it was a little hut with a large ware-
house joining to it, all built with canes, and pal-
lifuloed round with large ones, to keep out pilser-
in" thieves, which are very numerous in that coun-
try. The magistrates allowed us a little guard dur-
ing the night, and we employed a centinel with a
kind of halbert for three pence a day. The sair or
mart, we found, had been over for some time; how-
ever, there remained in the river four juncks and
two Japan ships, the merchants of the latter being
on shore. In the first place, our old pilot brought us
acquainted with the missionary Roman priests, who
were converting the people to Christianity: two of
them were reserved, rigid, and austere, applying
themselves to the work they came about with great
earnestness; but the third, who was a Frenchman,
called Father Simon, was of a freer conversation,
not seemingly so serious and grave, yet no worse
Christian than the other two, one of whom was a
Portuguese, and the other a Genoese. Father Si-
mon, it seems, was appointed to go to Pekin, the
royal seat of the Emperor of the Chinese; and he
snly waited for another priest, who was ordered
from Macao to accompany him. We never met to-
gether, but he was prompting me to keep him com-
pany in that journey: Sir, said he, I will shew you
the glorious things of this mighty empire, and a ci-
ty, the city of Pekin, far exceeding London or Paris,
put them both together. - One day in particular,
. being at dinner with him, I shewed some inclina-
tion to go! which made him press the more upon
me and my partner, to gain our persect consent.-
But, father Simon, said my partner, what sathsaaion
can < ou have in our company, whom you ejleem as heretics,
and consequently objects not worthy your regard? Oh!
said he, you may be as good Catholics in time as
those I hope to convert to our religion. And so, said
I, we Jhall have you preaching to us all the way, injlead
ef pleajin^ us with a description of the country. Sir,
N 2 faiJ
said he, however our religion may be villified by
some people, it is very certain it neither divests us
of good manners or Christian charity; and as we
are gentlemen, as such we may converse together,
without making one another uneasy.
But we shall leave him a while, to consider our
ship and the merchandise which we had to dispose of.
There was but very little trade in the place where
we were; and I was once resolved to venture to sail
to the river Kilam, and so to she city of Nanquin:
but Providence ordered it otherwise, by our oldpilot's
bringing a Japan merchant to us, to see what goods
we had. He immediately bought our Opium, for
which he gave us a very good price in gold by weight,
some wedges of which were about ten or eleven oun-
ces. It came into my head, that perhaps he might
buy the ship too; and I ordered his interpreter to
propose it to him. He said nothing then, butshruged
up his sboulders; yet in a sew days after he came
accompanied by a missionary priest, who was his in-
terpreter with this proposal, That as he had bought a
great quantity of our goods, he had not money enough t»
purchase our ship; but if I pleased he would hire her,
with all my men, to go to Japan, and from thence with
another loading to the Philippine island*, the freight of
froth which he would very willingly pay to us before; and
#t their return to Japan, would buy the ship. Upon
this we asked the captain and his men, if they were
willr11? to go to Japan; to which they unanimous-
Jy agreed. While this was in agitation, the young
man my nephew left to attend me, told me, That as
J did not care to accept this profpeil of advantage, he
^uould manage it for me as I pleased, and render me a
faithful account of his success, which should be wholly
tnine. Indeed I was very unwilling to part with
him; but considering it might be for the ycung
man's good, I discoursed my partner about it, who,
of his own generosity, gave him his share of the ves-
sel, so that 1 could, do no otherwise than give him
mine:
mine: but, however, we let him have but the pro-
perty of half of it, and preserved a power, that when
we met in England, if he had obtained success, he
should account to us for one half of the prosits of
the ship's freight, and the other should be his own.
Thus having taken a writing under his hand, away
he sailed to Japan, where the merchant dealt very
honestly by him, got him a licence to come on shore,
sent him loaded to the Philippines with a Japanese*
supercargo, from whence he came back again load-
ed with European goods, cloves, and other spiceries.
By this voyage he cleared a considerable sum of mo-
ney, which determined him not to sell his ship, but
to trade on his own account: so he returned to the
Manillas, where, getting acquaintance, he made
his ship free, was hired by the governor privately to
go to Acapulco in America, on the Mexican coast,
with a licence to travel to the great city of Mexico.
This traffic turned out greatly to account, and my
friend finding means to get to Jamaica, returned
nine years after exceeding rich into England.
In parting with the ship, it comes in course to con-
sider of those men who had saved our lives when in
the river of Cambodia; and though, by the way,
they were a couple of rogues, who thought to turn
pirates themselves, yet we paid them what they had
before demanded, and gave each of them a small sum
of money, making the Englishman a gunner, and
the Dutchman a boatfwain, with which they were
very well contented.
We were now above 1000 leagues sarther from
home, than when at Bengal. All the comfort we
could expect was, that there being another sair to be
kept in a month's time, we might not or/ly purchase
all sorts of that country's manusactures, bu t very pos-
sibly find some Chinese junks, or vessels from Ton-
quin, to be sold, which would carry us and our
goods wheresoever we pleased. Upon these hopes,
we resolved to continue; and, to divert ourselves,
N 3- we
we took several little journies in the country. About
ten days after we parted with our sliip, we travelled
to see the city of Nanquin. This city 1 ies in la-
titude 30 deg. north of the line : it is regularly built,
and the streets are exactly straight, and cross one a-
nother in direct lines, which sets it out to the great-
est advantage. At our return, we found the priest
was come from Macao that was to accompany sather
Simon to Pekin. That sather earnestly solicited me
to accompany him, and I reserred him to my part-
ner. In short, we both agreed, and prepared ac-
cordingly; and we were so lucky as to have liberty
to travel among the retinue of one of their Manda-
rins, who is' a principal magistrate, and much re-
verenced by the people.
We were five and twenty days travelling through
this miserable country, infinitely populous, but as
indifferently cultivated: and yet their pride is in-
finitely greater than their poverty, insomuch that
the priests themselves derided them. As we passed
by the house of one of their country gentlemen, two
leagues off Nanquin, we had the honour forsooth,
to ride with the Chinese squire about two miles.
2*sever was Don Quixote so exactly imitated! Ne-
ver such a compound of pomp and poverty seen be-
sore!
His habit, made of callico, Was dirty, greasy, and
very proper for a Merry Andrew or Scaramouch, with
all its tawdry trappings, as hanging sleeves, tassels,
&c. though torn and rent in almost every part: hii
vest underneath it was no less dirty, but more greasy,
resembling the most exquisite sloven or greasy but-
cher. His horse (worse than Rosinante, or the sa-
mous steed of doughty Hudibras) was a poor starved,
decrepid thing, that would not sell for thirty shil-
lings in England: and yet this piece of worsliipful
pomp was attended with ten or twelve slaves, who
guarded their master to his country-seat. We stop-
ped at a little village for refreshment; and when we
came
came by the country-seat of this great man, we found
him sitting under a tree before his door, eating a
mess of boiled rice, with a great piece of garlic in
the middle, and a bag filled with green pepper by
him, and another plant like ginger, together with a
piece of lean mutton in it: this was his Worship's
repast; but pray observe the state of the fool! two
women flaves brought him his food, which being
laid before him, two others appeared to perform
their respective offices; one sed him with a spoon,
while the other scraped off what sell upon his beard
and taffety vest, and gave it; to a particular savour-
ite to eat. And thus we left the wretch pleased with
the conceit of our admiring his magnificence, which
rather merited our scorn and detestation.
At length we arrived at the great city of Pekin,
accompanied by two servants, and the old Portu-
guese pilot, whose charges we bore, and who served
us as an interpreter by the way. We had scarce
been a week at Pekin, but he comes laughing to us,
Ah! Seignior Inglise, said he, me something tell you
make your heart glad, but make me sorry : for you bring
me here 25 days journey, and now you leave me go back
alone; and which way shall 1 make my port after, with-
out de ship, without de horse, without pecune? so he
called money in his broken Latin. He then in-
formed me, that there was a great caravan of Mus-
covite and Polish merchants in the city, who were
preparing to set out for Muscovy by land within six
weeks; and, that he was certain we would take this
opportunity, and consequently that he must go home
by himself. Indeed this news infiniiely surprized
and pleased me. Are you certain of this? said I.
TeSy Sir, said he, me sure it's true. And so he told
me, that having met an old acquaintance of his, an Ar-
menian, in the street, who was among them, and who
bad come from Astracan, with a design to go to Ton-
quin, but for certain reasons having altered his resolu-
tion, he was now resolved to go with the caravan, and
N 4. to
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
ta return by the river Wolga to Astracan. Well,
Seignior, laid I, don't be discontented about your
returning alone; and, if by this means I can find a
passage to England, it will be your own sault if you
return to Macao at all. And so consulting with my
partner, what was best to be done, he reserred it to
rne as 1 pleased, having our affairs so well settled at
Bengal, that, if we could convert the good voyage
we had made in China silks, wrought or raw, he
would be satisfied to go to England, and so return to
Bengal in the Company's (hips. Thus resolved, we
agreed, that if our pilot would go with us, we
would bear his charges either to Moscow or Eng-
Jand; and to give him in a present the sum of 170
pounds sterling. Hereupon we called him in, and
told him the cause of his complaint should be re-
moved, if he would accompany us with the caravan;
and, therefore, we defired to know his mind. At
this he shook his head, Great long journey, said he,
irie no pecune, carry me to Moscow, or keep me there.
JJut we soon put him out of that concern, by mak-
ing him sensible of what we would give him here to lay
©ut to the best advantage; and, as for his charges,
we would set him sase onshore, God willing, either
Jn Moscovy, or England, as he pleased, at our own
charge, except the carriage of his goods. At this
proposal, he was like a man transported, telling us,
pe would go with us all the world over; and we
rnade preparations for our journey} but it was near
four months before all the merchants were ready.
In the mean time, my partner and the pilot went
express to the port where we first put in, to dispose
0{ what goods had been left tHere, while I accom-
panied a Chinese merchant, who was going to Nan-
qiiin, and there bought 29 pieces of damask, with
about 300 more of other fine silks; and, by the time
my partner returned to Pekin, I had them all car-
ried thither: our cargo in silks amounted to 45C0I.
sterling, which, together with tea, sine calicoes, nut-
megs,
megs, and cloves, loaded 18 camels for our share,
besides what we rode upon, with two or three spare
horses, and two more loaden with provisions; the
company now was very great, making about 400
horse, and above 120 men, well armed and pro-
vided. We were of several nations, among whom
were five Scots merchants, inhabiting in Moscow,
and well experienced in trade.
We set out from Pekin the beginning of February
our style; and in two days more, we passed through
the gate of the great China wall, which was erected
as a fortification against the Tartars, being 100 Eng-
lish miles long. We then entered a country not
near so populous, chiefly under the power of plun-
dering Tartars, several companies of whom we per-
ceived riding on poor* starved horses, contemptible
as themselves, without order or discipline. One
time our leader for the day gave us leave to go a
hunting. But what do you think we hunted? only
a parcel of sheep, which indeed exceeded any in the
world for wildness and swiftness; but while we
were pursuing this game, it was our chance to meet
with about forty Tartars, who no sooner perceived
us, but one of them blew a horn, at the sound of
which there soon appeared a troop of forty or fifty
more, at about a mile's distance. Hereupon, one
of the Scots merchants (who knew their ways) or-
dered us to advance towards them, and attack them
immediately. As we advanced, they let fly a volley
of arrows, which happily sell a little short as us:
this made us halt a little, to return the compliment
with bullets; and then being led up by the bold Scot,
we fired our pistols in their saces, and drew out our
swords; but there was no occasion; for they flew
like timorous sheep, and only three of them remain-
ed, beckoning to the rest to come back. But our
hrave commander gallops up to them by himself,
shot one dead, knocks another off his horse, while
N 5 the
OF R
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
the third ran away; and thus ended our battle with
the Tartars.
We travelled a month more through the Emperor
of China's dominions; and at length coming to one
of their towns about a day and a half's journey from
the city of Naum, I wanted to buy a camel. The
person I spoke to would have brought me one, but,
like a fool, I must go along with him, about two
miles from the village. My old pilot and I walked
on foot, forsooth, for some variety, when coming
to the place where the camels were kept as in a park
guarded by Chinese soldiers, we there agreed and
bought one, which the Chinese man that came with
me led along the road. But we had not gone sar,
before we were attacked by five Tartars, mounted
on horseback, two of whom seized the man, took
the camel from him, and rode away, while the other
three approached us, the first of whom suddenly
seized me as I was drawing my sword, the second
Jcnocked me down; but my old trusty Portuguese,
taking a pistol out of his pocket, which I knew no-
thing of, and coming up to the sellow that struck
ine, he with one hand pulled him off his horse, and
then shot him dead upon the spot; then taking his scy-
mitar, he struck at the man that stopt us, but missing
bim, cut off one of his horse's ears, the pain of
tvhich made him thrpw his rider to the ground. The
poor Chinese, who had led the camel, seeing the
'Tartar down, runs to him, and seizing upon his
polc«ixe, wrenched it from his hands, and knocked
jiis brains out. But there was another Tartar to
<ieal with, who seeming neither inclined to sight nor
fly, and my old man having begun to charge his pis-
tol, the very sight of it struck such a terror into the
wretch, that away he scoured, leaving my old pilot
rather my champion and desender, an absolute vic-
tory.
By this time being awakened from my trance, i
began to open my eyes,, wondering where I was,
having quite so
returning, and
seeing the blooc
siantly jumped
in my hand, w
no enemies no\
with his horse 1
ln? me recover
wrdsme, and
ie™s?, at the
™rch was sar
to the villac
feca*el, wh
Wore a Chine
Havin
?efc man that
Jlr> kid he,
ltrailger at hi<
):°u were the)
If** ^el
"I had not
°rth«Iwas
^before
. he city c
>*, so f
«w of T,c
0ns would
flons.
!ehad infer
fe
having
having quite forgot all that passed; but my senses
returning, and seeling a great pain in my head, and
seeing the blood was running over my clothes, I in-
stantly jumped upon my seet, and grasped my sword
in my hand, with a resolution to take revenge; but
no enemies now remained, except the dead Tartar,
with his horse standing by him. The old man see-
ing me recovered, whom he thought slain, ran to-
wards me, and embraced me with the greatest ten-
.derness, at the same time examining into my wound,
which was sar from being mortal; when we return-
ed to the village, the man demanded payment tor
his camel, which I resusing, we brought the cause
before a Chinese judge, who acted with great impar-
tiality: Having heard both sides, he asked the Chi-
nese man that went with me, whose servant he was?
Sir, said he, I am nobody's, but went with the
stranger at his request: why then, said the judge,
you were the stranger's servant for the time, and the
-camel being delivered to his servant, it is the same
as though deliverd to himself, and accordingly he
must pay for it. Indeed, the case was so sairly stated,
that I had nothing to object to it; so, having paid
for that I was robbed of,, I sent for another, but did
not go myself to setch it, as I had enough of that
sport before.
The city of Naum is a frontier of the Chinese
empire, so fortified, as some will tell you, that mil-
lions of Tartars cannot batter down their walls;
by which certainly one might think one of our can-
nons would do more executions than all thfir le-
gions.
When we were within a day's march of that city,
we had information that the governor had sent mes-
sengers to every .part of the road, to inform the tra-
vellers and caravans to halt, till a guard was sent tp
protect them from the numerous bodies of Tartars
that lately appeared about the city. This news put .
•us into great consternation; but, obeyingthe orders,,
N 6 we
we stopt; and, two days after, there came two hun-
dred soldiers from a garrison of the Chinese, and
three hundred more from Naum ; thus guarded both
in the front and rear, with our own men on the
flanks, we boldly advanced, thinking we were able
to combat with ten thousand Mogul Tartars, if they
appeared.-
Early next morning, in our march from a little
well situated town called Changu, after having pasted
a river, and entered upon a desert of about 15 or 16.
miles over, we soon beheld, by a cloud of dust that
was raised, that the enemy was approaching. This
tx\uch dispirited the Chinese. My old pilot took no-
tice of it, and called out, Seignior Inglise, those
fellows must be encouraged, or they will ruin us all;
end I am afraid, if the Tartars attack us, they will
run away. Why, Seignior, said I, what shall
t>e done in this cafe? Done, says he, why, let fifty os
©ur men advance, and flank them on each wing. I
Jcnow the sellows will sight well enough in com-
pany. We accordingly took his advice, and march-
ed, fifty to the right wing,.and the same number to
the left, and with the rest made a line of reserve,
Jeaving the last two hundred men to guard the ca-
Uiels, or to assist us as occasion required.
Thus prepared, a party of the enemy came for-
ward, viewing our posture, and traversing the ground
0n the front of our line. Hereupon, we ordered
the two wings to move on, and give them a salute
^irith their shot; which accordingly was done. This-
put a stop to their proceedings; for immediately
wheeling off to their left, they all marched away,
and we saw no more of them. They had undoubt-
edly given an account to their companions of what
reception they might expect, which made them so
easily give over their enterprize.
When we came to the city of Naum, we returnrd
the governor hearty thanks, and dispersed a hundred
erowns among the soldiers that guarded us. We
6 rested
rested there one day, and then proceeded on our tra-
vels, passing several great rivers and deserts; and on
the 13th of April,*we came to the frontiers ©f Mus-
covy, the first town of which was called Argun.
This happy occasion, as I thought, of coining in-
to a Christian country, made me congratulate the
Scots merchant upon it. He smiled at that, telling
me not to rejoice too soon; for, said he, except the
Russian soldiers in garrison,, and a sew inhabitants'
of the cities upon the road, all the rest of this coun-
try, for above a thousand miles, is inhabited by the
most ignorant and barbarous Pagans.
We advanced from the river Arguna, by moder-
ate journies, and found convenient garrisons on the
road, filled with Christian soldiers, for the security
©f commerce, and for the convenient lodgings of
travellers: but the inhabitants of the country were
mere Pagans, worshipping the sun, moon, and stars.
We particularly observed this idolatry near the ri-
ver Arguna, at a city inhabited by Tartars and Rus-
sians, called Nerisinkey. Being curious to see their
way of living, while the caravan continued to refr
themselves in that city, I went to one of their vil-
lages, where there was to be one of their solemn sa-
crifices. There I beheld, upon the stump of an old
tree, an idol of wood, more ugly than the repre-
sentation of the devil himself; its head resembled
no living creature; its ears were as big and as high
as goats horns., a crooked nose, four cornered mouth;
and horrible teeth: it was cloathed in sheep skins,
had a great Tartar bonnet, with two horns grow-
ing through it, and was eight seet high, without
seet, legs, or porportion. Before this idol there lay
16 or 17 people, who brought their offerings, and
were making their prayers, while at a distance stood
three men, and one bullock, as victims to this ugly
monster.
Such, stupendous sacrilege as this, in robbing the
true God of his honour, silled me with the greatest
astonishment
astonishment and reflection; which soon turning to
rage and sury, I rode up to the image, and cut in
pieces the bonnet that was upon his head with my
sword, so that it hung down by one of the horns,
-while one of my men that was with me, pulled at it
by his sheep's (kin garment. Immediately an hide-
ous howling and outcry ran through the village, and
two or three hundred people coming about our ears,
we were obliged to fly for it.
But I had no.t done with the monster; for the ca-
ravan being to rest three nights in the town, I toM
the Scots merchant what I had seen, and that I was
resolved to take four or five men well armed with
Hie, in order to destroy the idol, and shew the peo-
ple how little reason they had to trust in.a God who
.could not save himself. At first he laughed at me,
representing the danger of it, and when it was de-
stroyed, what time had we to preach to them better
things, whose zeal and ignorance was in the highest
Jegree, and both unparalleled? that if I should be
taken by them, I should be served as a poor ruffian,
^vho contemned their worship; that is, to be strip-
ped naked, and tied to the topof the idol, there shot at
yyith arrows till my body was sull of them, and then
piirnt as a sacrifice to the monster; but Sir, said he,
since your ^eal carries you so sar, rather than you
/frould be alone I will accompany you, and bring a
{tout sellow equal to yourself, if you will, to assist
you in this design: and accordingly he brought one
Captain Richardson, who, hearing the story, readily.
consented; but my partner declined it, being alto-
gether out of his way; and so we three, and my
*^,an servant, resolved to execute this exploit about
midnight; but, upon second thoughts we deserred
jt to the next night, by reason that the caravan being
to Bo from thence next morning, we should be
of the governor's power. The better to effec-
tuate my design, I procured a Tartar's sheep skin
x«be, a bonnet, with bow and sutows, and every
one
one of us got the like habits. The first night we
spent in mixing combustible matter with aqua vitæ,
gunpowder, &c. having a good quantity of tar in a
little pot: next night we came up to the idol about
eleven o'clock, the moon being up. We found
none guarding it; but we perceived a light in the
house, where we had seen the priests before. One
of our men was for firing the hut, another for kill-
ing the people, and a third for making them pri-
soners, while the idol was destroyed. We agreed
to the latter; so knocking at the door, we seized the
first that opened it, and stopping his mouth, and
tying his seet, we left him. We served the other
two in the like manner; and then the Scots mer-
chant set fire to the composition, which frightened
them so much, that we brought them all away pri-
soners to their wooden god. There we sell to work
with him, daubing him all over with tar mixed
with tallow and brimstone, stopping his eyes, ears,
and mouth sull of gunpowder, with a great piece of
wild-fire in his bonnet, and environed it with dry
forage. All this being done, we unloosed and un-
gaged the prisoners, and set the idol on fire, which
the gunpowder blowing up, the shape of it was de-
formed, rent, and split, which the forage utterly
consumed; for we staid to see its destruction, lest
the ignorant idolatrous people should have thrown
themselves into the flame. And thus we came away
undiscovered, in the morning appearing as busy
among our sellow-travellers, as nobody could have
suspected any other, but that we had been in our
beds all night.
Next morning we set out, and had gone but a
small distance from the city, when there came a mul-
titude of the people of the country to the gates of
the city, demanding satissaction of the Russian go-
vernor for insulting their priests, and burning their
great Cham Chi-Tbaungu, who dwelt in the sun, and
xlo mortal would violate this image, but some Chris-
tian
"» i .
tian miscreants; and being already no less than
thirty thousand strong, they announced war against
him and all his Christians.
The governor assured them he was ignorant of
the matter, and that none of his garrison had been
abroad; that indeed there was a caravan that went
away that morning, and that he would send after
them to enquire into it; and whoever where the of-
fenders, should be delivered into their hands. This
satissied them for the present, but the governor sent
to inform us, that if any of us had done it, we
should make all the haste away possible, while he
Jcept them in play as long as he could. Upon this
vve marched two days and two nights, stopping but
very little, till at last we arrived at a village called
Plothus, and hasted to Jarawena, another of the
Czar's colonies. On the third day, havingentered
the desert, and passed the lake called Shaks Oser, we
beheld a numerous body of horse on the other side
of it to the north, who supposed we had passed on
that side of the lake; but having either found
their mistake, or, being certainly informed os the
%vay we took, they came upon us towards theduik
of the evening, just as we had pitched pur camp be:
tween too little but very thick woods, with a little
river running before our front, and some felled trees
vvith which we cohered our rear; a precaution we
always took, and which we had just sinished, when
the enemy came up. They did not sall on us im-
mediately, but sent three messengers, demanding
the men who had insulted their priests, and burnt
their god Cham Chi-Thaungu, that they might be
burnt with fire, that if this was complied with, they
^vould peaceably depart; but if not, they wou Id destroy
one and all of us. Our men stared at one another
on receipt of this message, but Nobody was the word,
As indeed nobody knew itr but he who did it. Up-
^n which the leader of th« caravan returned for an-
swer,
swer, That they were peaceable merchants, who
meddled with none of their priests and gods; and
therefore desired them not to disturb us, and put us
to the necessity of desending ourselves. But so sar
was this from satisfying them, that the next morn-
ing, coming to our right, they let fly a volley of
arrows among us, which happily did not hurt any,
because we sheltered ourselves behind our baggage.
We expected however to come to a closer engage-
ment; but were happily saved by a cunning sellow, a
Cassock, who- obtaining leave of the leader to go
out, mounts his horse, rides directly from our rear,
and taking a circuit, comes up to the Tartars, as
though he had been sent express, and tells them a
formal story, that the wretches who had burnt the
Cbam-Cbi-Thaungu, were gone to Shiheilka, with a
resolution to burn the god Shal-Isar, belonging to
the Tongueses, Upon which, believing this cun-
ning Tartar who was servant to our Moscovites,
away they drove to Shiheilka, and in less than three
minutes were out of our sight, nor did we ever hear
of them more.
When we came to the city of Jarawena, we rest-
ed five days, and then entered into a frightsul de-
sert, which held us twenty three days march, in-
sested with several small companies of robbers, or
Mogul Tartars, who never had the courage to at-
tack us. After we had passed over this desert, we
sound several garrisons to desend the caravans from
the violence of the Tartars. In particular, the
Governor of Adinskoy offered us a guard of fifty
men to the next station, if we apprehended any dan-
ger. The people here retained the same paganism
and barbarity, only they were not so.dangerous, be-
ing conquered by the Moscovites. The cloathing,
both of men and women, is of the skins of beasts,
living under the ground in vaults and caves, which
have a communication with one another. They
have idols almost in every samily; besides, they
adore
adore the sun and stars, water and snow; and1
and the least uncommon thing that happens in the
elements, alarms them as much as thunder and
lightning does the unbelieving Jews.
Noth ing remarkable occurred in our march through
tbis country. When we had gone through the de-
sert, after two days sarther travel, we came to Je-
nezoy, a Muscovite city, on the great river so called,
which, we were told, parted Europe from Asia.
'I" he inhabitants here were very little better, tho'
intermixed with the Muscovites; but the wonder
itrill cease, when I inform my reader of what was
observed to me, that the Czar rather converts the
Tartars with soldiers than clergymen, and is more
proud to make them saithsul subjects, than good
Christians.
From this city to the river Oby, we travelled over
a pleasant, fruitsul, but very uncultivated country,
for want of good management and people, and those
few are mostly Pagans. This is the place where
she Muscovite criminals are banished to, if they are
iiOt put to death, the next city we came to, was the
capital city of Siberia, called Tobolski, when, hav-
jiig been almost seven months on our journey, and
^inter drawing on apace, my partner and 1 con-
jilted about our particular affairs, in what manner
yre should dispose of ourselves. We had been told
0f fledges and rein deer to carry us ever the snow in
the winter season, the snow being frozen so hard,
^fcat the sledges can run upon the sursase without any
ganger of going down. As I was bound to Eng-
land, I now behoved either to go with the caravan
to Jeroslaw, from thence west to Marva, and the
gulf of Finland, and so by land or sea to Denmark;
^r else I must leave the caravan at a little town on
tlie Dwiiva, and so to Archangel, where I was cer-
tain of shipping either to England, Holland, or Ham-
burgh. One night I happened to get into the com-
pany of an illustrious but banished Prince, whose
company
company and virtues were such as made me propose
to him a method how he might obtain his liberty.
My dear friend, said he, as I am here happily free from
my miserable greatness, with all its attendants of pride,
ambition, avarice, and luxury, if I should escape from
this place, those pernicious feeds may again revive, to my
Lifting disquietude; therefore let me remain in a blessea
confinement, for lam but flesh, a mere man, with passions
ana affections as such; 0'be not my friend and tempter too!
Struck dumb with surprise, I stood filent a while;
nor was he in less disorder, by which, perceiving he
wanted to give vent to his mind, I defired him to
consider of it, and so withdrew. But about two
hours after, he came to my apartment: Dear friends
said he, though I cannot consent to accompany you, Ishall
have this satisfaction in parting, that you leave mean
honejl manji'ill; but as a tejlimony of my affection to
you, be pleased to accept this present of sables.
In return for his compliment, I sent my servant
next morning to his Lordship with a small present
of tea, two pieces of China damask, and four little
wedges of gold; but he only accepted the tea, one
piece of damask, and one piece of gold, for the curi-
osity of the Japan stamp that was upon it. Not
long after he sent for me, and told me, that what he
had resused himself, he hoped, upon his account,
I would grant to another, whom he should name:
In short, it was his only son, who was about 200
miles distant from him, on the other side of the ©by,
whom he said he would send for, if I gave my con-
sent. This I soon complied with; upon which he
sent his servants next day for his son, who returned
in twenty days time, bringing seven horses loaded
with valuable surs. At night the young Lord was
conducted incognito into our apartment, where his
sather presented him to me. We then concerted the
best ways for travelling, and after having bought a
considerable quantity of sables, black fox ikins, fine
ermines, &c. (which I sold at Archangel at a good
price}
price) we set out from this city the beginning of
June, making a small caravan, being about thirty-
two horses and camels, of which 1 represented the
bead. My young Lord had with him a very saith-
ful Siberian/ervant, well acquainted with the roads:
"We shunned the principal towns and cities, as Tu-
rnen, Soli-Karr.oslcoi, and several others, by reason
of their strictness in, examining travellers, lest any
of the banished persons of distinction should escape,
slaving passed the river Kama, we came to a city on
the European side, called Soloy Kamoslcoi, where
yve found the people mostly Pagans, as before. We
then passed a desert of about two hundred miles over;
put in other places it is near seven hundred. In
passing this wild place, we were beset by a troop of
men on horseback, and about Jive and forty men
armed with bows and arrows. At first they looked
earnestly on us, and then placed themselves in our
v^ay- We were above sixteen men, and drew up a
Jittle line before our camels. My young Lord sent
0ut his Siberian servant, to know who they were;
put, when he approached them, he neither knew a
,yyord they said, nor would they admit him to come
yicar them at his peril, but prepared to shoot him.
j±t his return, he t©ld us he believed them to be Cal-
jiiuck Tartars; and that he thought there were
iiiore of them upon the desert. This was but a small
comfort to us; yet seeing a little grove, about a
quarter of a mile's distance, we moved to it, by the
0ld Portuguese pilot's advice, without meeting with
aI1y opposition. Here we found a marshy piece of
ground, and a spring of water running into a little
prook on one side, which joined, another like it a little
farther off, and these two formed the head of the
river called Writslca. As soon as we arrived, we
^irent to work, cutting down great arms off the trees,
aIid laying them hanging (not quite off) from one
tree to another. In this situation we waited the mo-
tions of theenemy, without perceiving any advance-
ment
ment they made towards us. About two hours be-
fore night, being joined by some others, in all about
fourscore horse, among whom we sancied were some
women, they came upon us with great sury. We
fired without ball, calling to them, in the Ruffian
tongue, to know their business: but they, either
not knowing, or seeming not to understand us, came
directly to the wood-side, not considering that we
we were so fortified, as that they could not break in.
Our old pilot, the Portuguese, proved both our
captain and engineer, and defired us not to • fire,
till they came within pistol shot; and when he gave
the word of command then to take the surest aim:
but he did not bid us give fire, till they were within
two pikes length of us, and then we killed fourteen
of them, wounded several, as also their horses, hav-
ing every one of us loaded our pieces with two or
three bullets at least. So much were they surprised
at our undauntedness, that they retired about ah
hundred roods from us. In the mean while we
loaded our pieces again, and sallying out, secured
four or five of their horses, whose riders we found
were killed, and perceived them to be Tartars. A-
bout an hour after, they made another attempt, to
see where they might break in; but finding us ready
to receive them, they retired.
All that night we wrought hard, in strengthening
our situation, and barricading the entrances into the
woods; but, when day-light came, we had a very
unwelcome discovery; for, the enemy, being en-
couraged by their assistance, had set up eleven or
twelve tents, in form of a camp, about three quar-
ters of a mile from us. I must consess, I was never
more concerned in my lise, giving myself and all
that I had over for lost. And my partner declared,
that as the loss of his goods would be his ruin, before
they should be taken from him, he would sight to the
last drop of his blood.. As we could not pretend to
force our way, we had recourse to a stratagem; we
kindled
kindled a large fire, which burnt all night; and n»
sooner was it dark, but we pursued our journey to-
wards the pole, or north star, and travelling all
night, by six o'clock, in the morning we came to a
Ruffian village, called Kertza, and fromJhence,
came to a large town named Ozonoys, where we
beard that several troops of Calmuck Tartars had
been abroad upon the desert, but that we were past
all danger. In five days after we came to Veuslima,
upon the river Witzedga; from thence we came to
X>aw; enskoy, on the third of July, where, providing
ourselves with two luggage boats, and a convenient
bark, we embarked the seventh, and arrived at Arch-
angel the eighteenth, after a year, five months, and
three days journey, including the eight months and
©dd days at Tobolfki. We came from Archangel
the twentieth of August in the same year, and ar-
rived at Hamburgh the thirtieth of September,
flere my partner and I made a very good sale of our
goods, both those of China and Siberia; when di-
viding our effects, my share came to 3475I. 17s. 3d.
after all the losses we had sustained, and charges we
bad been at. Here the young Lord took his leave of
ine, in order to go to the Court of Vienna, not only
tO seek protection, but to correspond with his sather's
^riends. After we had staid four months in Ham-
burgh, I went from thence over land to the Hague,
^vrhere embarking in the packet, I arrived in Lon-
don the tenth of January, 1705, after ten years and
iiine months absence from England.
Robinson Cruioe's Vision of the Angelic Word.
Chap. I. Of SOLITUDE.
Owever solitude is looked upon as a restraint
to the pleasures of the world, in company and
cenversation,
conversation, yet it is a happy state of exemption
from a sea of troublo, an inundation of vanity and
.vexation, of consusion and disappointment. While
.ew enjoy ourselves, neither the joy nor sorrow of
other men affect us: We are then at liberty, with
-the voice of our foul, to speak to God. By this we
shun such frequent trivial discourse, as even becomes
an obstruction to virtue: and how often do we find
that we had reason to wish we had not been in com-
pany, or said nothing when we were there? for
either we offend God by the impiety of our discourse,
or lay ourselves open to the violence of designing
people by our ungu irded expressions; and frequent-
ly seel the coldness and treachery of pretended friends,
.when once involved in trouble and affliction; of
such unsaithful intimates (I should say enemies)
who rather by salse inuendoes would accumulate
miseries upon us, than honestly assist us when suf-
sering under the hard hand of adversity. But in a
.state of solitude, when our tongues cannot be heard,
except by the great Majesty of Heaven, how happy
are we, in the blessed enjoyment of conversing with
our Maker! It is then we make him our friend,
which sets us above the envy and contempt of wick-
ed men. When a man converses with himself, he is
sure that he does not converse with an enemy.
Our retreat should be to good company, and good
books. I mean not by solitude, that a man should
retire into a cell, a desert, or a monaslry: which
would be altogether an useless and unprofitable re-
straint: for as men are formed for society, and have
an absolute necessity and dependence upon one ano-
ther; so there is a retirement of the soul, with
which it converses in heaven, even in the midst of
men; and indeed no man is more sit to speak freely,
than he who can, without any violence to himself,
refrain his tongue, or keep silence altogether. As
to religion, it is by this the soul gets acquainted
with the hidden mysteries of the holy writings; here
she
she finds those flood of tears, in which good men
waft themselves day and night, and only makes a
visit to God, and his holy angels. In this conversa-
tion the truest peace and most solid joy are to be
found; it is a continual seast of contentment on
earth, and the means of attaining everlasting hap-
piness in heaven.
Chap. II. Os HONESTY.
Ho nesty is a virtue beloved by good men, and
pretended to by all persons. In this there are se-
veral degrees: to pay every man his own is the com-
mon law of honesty; but to do good to all man-
kind, is the chanceiy law of honesty: and this chan-
cery-court is in every man's breast, where his con-
science is a Lord Chancellor. Hence it is, that a
miser, though he pays every body their own, cannot
be an honest man, when he does not discharge the
good offices that are incumbent on a friendly, kind,
and generous person: for, saith the prophet Isaiah,
chap xxxii. ver. 7. 8. The injirutnents of a churl are
gvil: he devifetk wicked devices to dejlroy the poor with
lying words, even when the needy spealccth right. But
the liberalsoul devijeth liberal things, and by liberal things
Jhall he Jland. It is certaii ly honesty to do every
thing the law requires; but should we throw every
poor debtor into prison till he has paid the utmost
farthing, hang every malesactor without jnercy, ex-
act the penalty of every bond, and the forseiture os
every indenture, this would be downright cruelty,
and not honesty: and, it is contrary to that general
rule, To do to another, that which you wouTd.have done
unto you. Sometimes necessity makes an honest man
a knave; and a rich man an honest man, because he
Jias no occasion to be a knave. The trial of honesty
is this: Did you ever want bread, and had your
neighbour's loaf in keeping, and would starve rather
than eat it? Were you ever arrested, having in ycur
custody
OF RC
custody another
K than bre.
re*>ned,honest
n»d name i5 i
ChaP. HI. q
•fe'
^Pofed^to
*Her fm 1
wickel rottla
<2 nt fc
oswicLma.y be
findit S>J<*lo
>kabL J- W1
J* <ire%i
•custody another man's cash, and would rather go to
o.aol, than break it? if so, this. indeed may be
reckoned.honesty. For King Solo/nan tells us, That
a good name is better than life, and is a precious oint-
ment, and vjbich, when a man has once lojl, he has no-
thing left mirth keeping.
Chap. III. Of suffering AFFLICT 10 NS.
Afflictions are common to all mankind; and,
whether they proceed from losses, disappointments,
or the malice of men, they often bring their advan-
tages along with them: for this shews man the va-
nity and deceitsulness of this lise, and is an occasion
of rectifying our measures, and bringing us to a
more modest opinion of ourselves: it tells us, how
necessary the assistance of divine grace is unto us,
when lise itfelf becomes a burden, and death even
desirable; but, when the greatest oppression comes
upon us, we must have recourse to patience, beg-
ging of God to give us that virtue; and, the more
composed we are under any trouble, the more com-
mendable is our wisdom, and the larger will be our
recompence. Let the provocation be what it will,
whether from a good natured and conscientious, or a
wicked, perverse, and vexatious man; all this we
should take as from the over-ruling hand of God, as
a punishment for our sins. Many times injured in-
nocence may be abused by salse oaths, or the power
of wicked, jealous, or malicious men; but we often
find it, like the palm, rise the higher, the more it
is depressed; while the justice of God is eminently
remarkable in punishing those, one way or other,
who defire to endeavour to procure the downfall of
an innocent man: nor does God sail comfortino- an
afflicted person, who, with tears and prayers, soli-
cits the throne of Heaven for deliverance and protec-
tion. David says, that his foul was full of trouble,
and his life drew near unto the grave. But certainly
O David's
David's afflictions made him eminently remarkable,
as particularly when pursued by .King Saul, and
hunted as a patridge over the mountains. But one
thing which stands by innocence, is the love of God;
for, were we to suffer disgrace, nay an ignominious
death itfelf, what consolation does our innocence
procure at our latest conflict, our last moments!
Chap. IV. Of the immorality of conversation, and the
vulgar errors of behaviour.
As conversation is a great part of human happi-
ness, so it is a pleasant sight to behold a sweet tem-
pered man, who is always sit for it, to see an air of
humour and pleasantness sit ever upon his brow, and
even something angelic in his very countenance:
whereas, if we observe a designing man, we shall
sind a mark of involuntary sadness break in upon
his joy, and a certain insurrection in the soul, the
natural concomitant of profligate principles.
They err very much, who think religion, ora
strict morality, discomposes the mind, and renders
it unsit for conversation: for, it rather inspires us to
innocent mirth, without such a counterseit joy as
vicious men appear with; and indeed wit is as con-
sistent with religion, as religion is with good man-
ners ; nor is there any thing in the limitation of vir-
tue and religion that should abate the pleasures of
this world, but, on the contrary, rather serves to en-
crease them.
On the other hand, many men, by their own
vice and intemperance, disqualify themselves for
conversation. Conversation is immoral, where the
discourse is indecent, immodest, scandalous, slander-
ous, and abusive. How great is their folly, and
and how much do they expose themselves, when
they atfront their best friend, even God himself,
who laughs at the fool when his fear cometh.
The great scandal atheistical andj immoral dis-
course
course gives to virtue,ought, methinks to be punish-
ed by all good magistrates: make a man once cease
to believe a God, and he has nothing left to limit
his foul. How incongruous is it to good govern-
ment, that a man shall be punished for drunkenness,
and yet have liberty to affront, and even deny the
Majesty of Heaven? when if, even among men, one
gives the lie to a gentleman in company, or perhaps
speaks an affronting word, a quarrel will ensue, and a
combat, and perhaps murder be the consequence; at
the least he will prosecute him at law with the ut-
most virulence and oppression.
The next thing to be refrained, is obscene dis-
course, which is the language only of proficients in
debauchery, who never repent but in gaol or hos-
pital; and whose carcases relish no better than their
discourse, till the body becomes too nasty for the
foul to stay, any longer in it.
Nor is salse talking to be less avoided; for lying
is the sheep's clothing hung upon the wolf's back.
It is the pharisee's prayer, the whore's buss, the
hypocrite's paint, the murderer's smile, the thief's
cloak, it is Joab's embrace, and Judas's kiss; in a
word, it is mankind's darling sin, and the devil's
distinguishing character. Some add lies to lies, till
it not only comes to be improbable, but even im-
possible too: others lie for gain, to deceive, delude,
and betray: and a third lies for sport, or for sun.
There are other liars, who are personal and mali-
cious ; who foment difserences, and carrv tales from
one house to another, in order to gratify their own
envious tempers, without any regard or reverence
to truth.
Chap. V. Os the presentslate os religion in the world.
I doubt, indeed, there is much more devotion
than religion in the world, more adoration than sup-
plication, and more hypocrisy than sincerity; and
O 2 it>
it is very melancholy to consider, what numbers of
people there are surnished with the powers of reason
and gifts of nature, and yet abandoned to the gros-
sest ignorance and depravity. But it would be un-
charitable for us to imagine (as some Papists, abound-
ing with too much ill nature, the only scandal to
religion, do) that they will certainly be in the state
of damnation after this lise; for how can we think
it consistent with the mercy and goodness of an in-
finite Being, to damn those creatures, when he has
not surnished them with the light of his gospel ? or
how can such proud, conceited, and cruel bigots,
prescribe rules to the justice and mercy of God?
We are told by some people, that the great image
which King Nebuchadnezzer set up to be adored by
Jiis people, held the representation of the sun in its
right hand, as the principal object of adoration,
^ut to wave this discourse of Heathens, how many
self-contradicting principles are there held among
Christians? and how do we doom one another to
the devil, while all prosess to worship the same
Tpeity, and to expect the same salvation?
When I was at Portugal, there was held at that
tirne the court of justice of the inquisition. All
the criminals were carried in procession to the great
church, where eight of them were habited in gowns
and caps of canvass, whereon the torments of hell
^ere displayed, and they were condemned and burnt
for crimes against the Catholic saith and blessed
Virgin.
I am sorry to make any reflection upon Christians,
but, indeed, in Italy the Roman religion seems the
piost cruel and mercenary upon earth; and a very
;udicious person, who travelled through Italy from
^Turkey, tells us, " That there is only the sace and
ft outward pomp of religion there: that the church
*i protects murderers and assassins; and then delivers
*' the civil magistrates over to Satan for doing juf-
«« tice; interdicts whole kingdoms, and shuts up
« the
** the churches for want of paying a, sew ecclesiaf-
"tical dues, and so puts a stop to religion for want
"of their money; that the court of Inquisition
"burnt two men for speaking dishonourably of the
"blessed Virgin; and the miflionaries of China
"tolerated the worshipping the devil by their new
*' converts: that Italy was the theatre, where re-
"ligion was the grand opera; and that the Popish
"clergy were no other than the stage-players."
As to religion in Poland, they deny Christ to
be the Messiah, or that the Messiah has come in the
flesh. And as to their Protestants, they are the fol-
lowers of Lælius Socinus, who denied our Saviour's
divinity; and have no concern about the divine in-
spiration of the Holy Ghost.
In Muscovy their churches are built of wood,
and, indeed, they have but wooden priests, though
of the Greek church; they pray as much to St. Ni-
cholas, as the Papists do the Virgin Mary, for pro-
tection in all their difficulties or afflictions,
As to Lutherans, they only differ from the Ro-
mans in believing consubstantiation, instead of tran-
substantiation; but, like them, they are much plea-
sed with the external gallantry and pomp, more than
the true and real practice of it.
In France I found a world of priests, the streets
every where crouded with them, and the churches
sull of women; but surely never was a nation so
sull of blind guides, so ignorant of religion, and
even as void of morals, as those people who con-
sess their sins to them.
Does it not seem strange, that, while all men own
the Divine Being, there should be.somany different
opinions as to the mannr of paying him obedience
in the Christian church? I know not what reason
to assign for this, except it be their different capa-
cities and saculties.
And, indeed, upon this account, we have per-
ceived, in all Christian countries, what mortal seuds
O 3 have
have been about religion: what wars and bloodshed
have molested Europe, till the general pacification
of the German troubles at the treaty of Westphalia;
and, since those times, what prosecution in the same
country among the churches of the Lutherans;
and should I take a prospect at home, what unhap-
py divisions are between Christians in this kingdom,
about Episcopacy and Presbytery, the church of
.England-men and the Dissenters; opposing one a-
riother like St. Paul and St. Peter, even to the sace;
that is, they carry on the dispute to the utmost ex-
tremity.
It might be a question, why there are such dif-
ferences in religious points, and why these breaches
should be more hot and irreconcileable? All the an-
swer I can give to this, is, that we enquire more
concerning thetiuth of religion, than any other na-
tion in the world ; and the anxious concern we have
about it, makes us jealous of every opinion, and
tenacious of our own; and this is not because we
are more surious and rash than other people; but
the truth is, we arc more concerned about them,
and being sensible that the scripture is the great rule
of saith, the standard for lise and doctrine, we have
recourse to it ourselves, without submitting to any
pretended insallible judge upon earth.
There is another question, pertinent to the for-
mer, and that is, What remedy can we apply to
f his malady? And to this I must negatively answer,
jssot to be less religious, that we may differ the less,
fhis is striking at the very root of all religious dif-
ferences; for, certainly, where they to be carried
0n with a peaceable spirit, willing to be informed,
our variety of opinions would not have the name
cf differences; nor should we separate in communion
of charity, though we did not agree in several ar-
ticles of religion.
Nor is there a less usesul question to start, name-
ly, Where will our unhappy religious differences
end!
end ? To which, I hope, I may answer, in Heaven;
there all unchristian and unbrotherly differences
will find a period; there we shall embrace many a
sinner, that here we think it a dishonour to converse
with; and perceive many a heart we have broken
here with censures, reproachings, and revilings,
made whole again by the balm of the same Re-
deemer's blood. Here We shall perceive there have
been other flocks than those of our fold; that those
we have excommunicated, have been taken into that
superior communion; and, In a word, that those
contradicting notions and principles which we
thought inconsistent with.true religion, we shall
then find reconcileable to themselves, to one ano-
ther, and to the fountain of truth. If any man ask
me, Why our differences cannot be ended on earth?
I answer, Were we all thoroughly convinced, that
then they would be reconciled, we would put an
end to them before; but this is impossible to be
done; for, as men's certain convictions of truth are
not equal to one another, or to the weight or figni-
ficancy of such veracity; so neither can a general
effect of this affair be expected on this side of time,
on this side of the grave.
Before I conclude this chapter, I shall beg leave
to discourse a little of the wondersul excellency of
negative religion and negative virtue. The htter
sets out, like the pharisee, with, God, I thank thee;
it is a piece of religious pagentry, the hypocrite's
hope: and, in a word, it is positive vice; for it is
either a mask to deceive others, or a mist to deceive
ourselves. A man that it clothed with negatives, •
thus argues: tarn not such a drunkard as'my land-
lord, such a thief as my tenant, such a swearer as
his neighbour; neither am I a cheat, an atheist, a
rakish sellow, or a highwayman; no! I live a so-
ber, regular, retired lise: I am a good man, I go
to church; God, I thank thee. Now, though a
man boasts of his virtue in contradiction to the vices
O 4 mentioned
mentioned, yet a person had better have them alto-
gether, than the man himself; for he is so sull of
himself, so persuaded that he is good and religious
enough already, that he has no thoughts of any
thing, except it be to pull off his hat to God Al-
mighty now and then, and thank him, that he has
no occasion for him; and has the vanity to think
that his neighbours must imagine well of,him too.
The negative man, though he is no drunkard, is
yet intoxicated with the pride of his own worth: a
good neighbour and peace-maker in other samilies,
but a tyrant in his own: appears in church for a
/how, h'.'.t never falls upon his knees in his closet;
does all his alms before men, to be seen of them;
eager in the duties of the second table, but regard-
Jess of the sirst; appears religious, to be taken no-
tice of by men, but without intercourse or com-
munication between God and his own soul: Pray,
.what is the man? or what comfort is there of the
lise he lives? he is insensible of saith, repentance,
and a Christian mortified lise; in a word, he is per-
fectly a stranger to the essential part of religion.
Let us for a while enter into the private and re-
tired part of his conversation: What notions has
be of his mispent hours, and of the progress of
time to the great centre and gulf of lise, eternity-?
J}oes he know how to put a right value on time, or
esteem the lise-blood of his soul, as it really is, and
act In all the moments of it, as one that must ac-
count for them? If then you can form an equality
between what he can do, and what he sliall receive;
jess can it be founded upon his negative virtue, or (
^vhat he has forborn to do, and if neither his nega-
tive nor positive piety can be equal to the reward,
-iiid to the eternity that reward is to last for, what
then is to become of the Pharisee, when he is to be
:udged by the sincerity of his repentance, and re-
garded, according tc the infinite grace of God,
with a state of blessedness to an endlels eternity?
When
When the negative man converses with the invisi-
ble world, he is silled with as much horror and dread
as Felix, when St. Paul reasoned to him of temper-
ance, righteousness, and of judgment to come; for
Felix, though a great philosopher, of great power
and reverence, was a negative man, and he was
made sensible by the apostle, that, as a lise of vir-
tue and temperance was its own reward, by giving
a healthy body, a clear head, and a composed lise;
so eternal happiness must proceed from another
spring; namely, the infinite unbounded grace of a
provoked God, who having erected a righteous tri-
bunal, Jesus Christ would separate such as by saith
and repentance he had brought home and united to
himself by the grace of adoption, and on the foot
of his having laid down his lise as a ransom for them,
had appointed them to salvation, when all the phi-
losophy, temperance, and righteousness in the world
besides had been inesfectual. And fiiis, I say, it
was, that made Felix, this negative man, tremble.
Chap. VI. Os listening to the voice os Providence.,
The magnificent and wise king Solomon bids ur
cry after knowledge, and lift up our voice for un-
derstanding; by which is meant, religious know-
ledge; for it follows: Then Jhalt thou understand the
fear of the Lord? and find the knowledge of God. By
which undoubtedly he meant, to enquire after every
thing that he has permitted us to know, and not to
search into those ways that are unsearchable, and
are effectually locked up from our knowledge. Now,
as listening to the voice of Providence is my present sub-
ject, I intend, in the first place, to write to those
who own, 1. That there is a God, a first great
moving cause of all things, and eternal power, prior,
and consequently superior to all created power oc
being, 2. That this eternal power, which is God,
is the sovereign creator and governor of heaven and
earth.
To avoid all needless distinctions, what persons
in the Godhead exercise the creating, and what the
governing power, I offer that glorious text, Psal.
xxxiii. 6, where the whole Trinity is intitled to
the whole creating work: and therefore, in the next
place, I shall lay down these two propositions.
I. That the eternal God guides by his providence the
whole universe, which was created by his power.
II. That this providence manifejh a particular care
over, and concern in, the governing and directing
man, the mojl noble creature upon earth.
It is plain, that natural religion proves the first,
by intimating the necessity of a providence guiding
gnd governing the world, from the consequence of
the wisdom, justice, prescience, and goodness of
the almighty Creator: for otherwise it would be
absurd to think, that God should create a world,
.vvithoutany care or providence over it, in guiding the
operations of nature, so as to preserve the order of
jiis creation.
Revealed religion gives us a light into the care
^nd concern of his providence, by the climate's being
,nade habitable, the creatures subjected and made
flourishing, and all vegetative lise made medicinal;
and all this for the sake of man, who is made vice-
roy to the King of the earth. The short descrip-
tion I shall give of providence is this: That it is
that operation of the power, of the wisdom, jus-
tice, and goodness of God, by which he influences,
governs, and directs, not only the means, but the
Events of all things, which concern us in this sub-
lunary world; the sovereignty of which we ought
always to reverence, obey its motions, observe its
dilates, and listen to its voice. The prudent man
/creseeth the evil, and hideth himself; that is, as I
iake it, there is a secret providence intimates to us,
that
that some danger threatens, if we .strive not to shun
it.
The same day that Sir John Hotham kept out
Hull against the royal martyr King Charles I. the
same day Sir John Hotham was put to death by the
parliament for that very action; the same day that
the King himself signed the warrant for the execu-
tion of the Earl of Stafford, the same day of the
month was he barbarously murdered by the blood-
thirsty Oliverian crew: and the same day that King
James II. came to the crown against the bill of ex-
clusion, the same day he was voted abdicated by the
parliament, and the throne filled with King Wil-
liam and Queen Mary.
The voice of signal deliverances from sudden dan-
gers, is not only a just call to repentance, but a
caution against salling into the like danger; but
such who are utterly careless of themselves after,
shew a lethargy of the worst nature, which seems
to me to be a kind of practical atheism, or at least
a living in a contempt of Heaven, when he receives
good at the hand of his Maker, but is unconcerned
from whence it comes, or to thank the bountisul
hand that gave it; neither, when he receives evil,
does it alter his manner of lise, or bring him to any
state of humiliation.
We have a remarkable story of two soldiers being
condemned to death in Flanders. The general be-
ing prevailed upon to spare one of them, ordered
them to cast dice upon the drum-head for their lives;
the first having thrown two sixes, the second sell a
wringing his hands, having so poor a chance to
escape; however, having thrown, he was surprized
when he also threw other two sixes. The officer,
appointed to see the execution, ordered them to throw
again; they did so, and each of them threw fives;
at which the soldiers that stood round, shouted, and
said neither of them was to die. Upon this, the
.officer acquainted the council of war, who ordered
O 6 them
them to throw a third time, when they threw twa
fours: the general being acquainted with it, sent
for the men, and pardoned them: I love, said he,
in such extraordinary cases, to listen to the voice of
providence.
We read in the holy writings, how God speaks
to men, by appearance of angels, or by dreams and
visions of the night. As God appeared to Abra-
ham, Lot, and Jacob: so angels have appeared to
rnany in other cases, as to Manoah and his wise,,
^echariah, the Virgin Mary, and to the apostles;
others have been warned in a dream, as king Abi-
inelech, the salse prophet Balaam, and many others.
It is certainly a very great and noble enquiry,
\\7hat we shall be after this lise? for there is scarce
a doubt, that there is a place reserved for the re-
ception of our fouls after death: for if we are to
jie, we must hi.ve a where, which the fcript&es
^flert by the examples of Dives and Lazarus. The
^o^ri.ne of spirits was long believed before our Sa-
vour's time; for when the disciples of the blessed
Tesus perceived our Saviour walking on the sea,
X•Yiey were much surprized as though they had seen
& spirit. Nay, in those ages of the world, it was
Relieved that spirits intermeddled in the affairs of
^ankind; and, throughout the Old Testament, I
j0 not find any thing that in the least contradicts it.
^Jl the pains and labour that some learned men have
tajcen, to consute the story of the witch of Endor,
nd the appearance of an old man personating Samu-
j cannot make such apparitions inconsistent with
e gture or religion; and it is plain, that it was either
good or bad spirit, that prophetically told the un-
?ortunate king what should happen the next day;
for* hid the spirit, The Lord will deliver thee into the
%ar~ds of the Philijlines; œnd to-morrow shalt thou and
dhy sms ^e wltk me'
^Abundance of strange notions possessed me, when
j *vas in the desolate illand; especially on a rnoen-
ibiut
shine night, v/hen every bush seemed a man, and
every tree a man on horseback. When I crept into
the dismal cave, where the old goat lay expiring,
whose articulate groanseven resembled those of a man,
how was I surprized! my blood chilled in my veins,
a cold sweaty dew sat on my forehead, my hair stood
upright, and my joints, like Balshazzar's knees,
struck against one another. And, indeed, though I
afterwards found what it was, the remains of this
surprize did not wear off for a great while; and I
had frequently returns of those vapours on different
occasions, and sometimes without any occasion at
all.
One night, after having seen some appearance in
the air, as I had just lain down in my bed, one of
my seet pained me; after that came a rrumbnessr
succeeded with a tingling in my blood; when on a
sudden I thought something alive lay upon me, frorr*.
my knee to above half my leg. Upon this I flung
myself out of bed where I thought the creature lay ^
but finding nothing, Lord deliver me from an evil
spirit, said I, what can this be? When I lighted a
candle, I could perceive no living creature in the
place with me, but the poor parrot, who being
frighted, cried out, Hold your tongue, and, What's
the matter ,with you? which words I had taught him,,
by saying so to him, when he made such screaming
noises as I did .not like. Lord, said I aloud, lufely the
devil has been here. Hold your tongue, says Poll. \
was then mad at the brid, and putting on my clothes,
cried, I am terribly frighted. What's the matter
with you? says Poll. You toad, said I, I'll knock
your brains out. Hold your tongue, cried he again,
and so sell a chattering, and calling Robinson Cru-
soe, as he did before. But, after I had composed
myself, and went to bed again, I began plainly to
see it was a distemper that affected my nerves, and
so my terrors vanished at once.
How intelligences are given or received, we do
not
not know; nor are we sensible how they are con-
veyed from spirits embodied, to ours that are in lise,;
or, on the contrary, from us to them; the iatter
certainly is done without the help of the organs,
and the former is conveyed by the understanding,
and the retired saculties of the soul.
The spirits, without the help of voices, converse,
and the more particular discoveries of the converse
0f spirits, seem to me as follow: to wit, dreams,
voices, noises, impulses, hints, apprehensions, in-
voluntary sadness, &c.
Dreams of old were the ways by which God him-
self was pleased to warn men what services to per-
form, and what to shun. Joseph was directed of
(Jod in a dream to go to Egypt; and so were the
v^ise men warned in a dream to depart into their
jivvrn country another way, to avoid the sury of He-
i.0d. I am not like those who think dreams are the
niere dosings of a delirious head, or the relics of a
day's perplexities or pleasures; but, on the con-
trary, mu^ leave t0 say, I never met with any
apital mifchief in my lise, but I had some notice of
-t by a dream; and, had I not been a thoughtless
urlbelieving creature, I might have taken many a
V/»rrnnS> an^ avoided many of the evils I after-
wards sell into, merely by total neglect of those
jreams,
1 was once present at a dispute between a layman
iid a clergyman, upon the subject of dreams. The
crft thought no regard sliould be given unto them;
*hat tnelr communication from the invisible to the
isible world was a mere chimera; without any so-
foundation. For, i. said he, if dreams were
from the agency of any prescient being, the motives
W0uld be more direct, and the discoveries more plain,
not by allegories and emblematic sancies, ex-
—i-effing things impersect and obscure. 2. Since,
^rith the notice of evil, there was not a power given
^0 avoid it, it is not likely to proceed from a spirit,
but
but merely fortuitous. 3. That the inconstancy
of such notices, in cases equally important, proves
they did not proceed sromanysuch agent. 4. Thatas.
our most distinct dreams had nothing in them of any
significancy, it would be irrational and vain to think
that they'came from heaven. And, 5. Thatasmen
were not always thus warned or supplied with no-
tice of good or evil, so all men are not alike sup-
plied with them; and what reason could we give,
why one man or one woman should not have the
same hints as another 1
To all this the clergyman gave answer; 1. That
as to the signification of dreams, and the objections
against them as being dark and doubtsul, they are
expressed generally by hierogliphical representations,
similies, allusions, and sigurative emblematic ways,
by which means, for want' of interpretation, the
thing was not understood, and, consequently, the
€vil not shunned. 2. That we charge God fool-
ishly, to say, that he has given the notice of evil,
without the power to avoid it; for, if any one had
not power to avoid the evil, it was no notice to him;
and it was want of giving due heed to that notice,
that men first neglected themselves, and then charg-
ed the Judge of all the earth with injustice. 3.
That we ought not to find sault with the inconstancy
of these notices; but rather with our weak under-
standings, by pretending dreams were not to be re-
garded, and negligent when the voice really spoke
to us for our good. It is a mistake to say, dreams
have no import at all: we might, with more rea-
son, have said, none that we could perceive thq
reason of, owing to our blindness and supine neg-
ligence, too secure at one time, and too much a-
larmed at another; so that the spirit, which we
might be said to be conversing with in a dream,
was constantly and equally kind and caresul; but
our powers are not always in the same state of ac-
tion, not equally attentive to, or retentive of the
.hints
hints that were given. And, 5. To answer the last
question, Why people are not equally supplied?
This seemed to be no question; for Providence it-
self might have some share in the direction of it,
and then that providence might be limited by a su-
perior direction; that as to the converse of spirits,
lie could not call it a stated converse; such a thing
there was, but why there was so much of it, and
rio more, was none of his business, and that no such
discovery, had ever yet been made to mankind.
j«Jor were we to imagine less of waking dreams,
trances, visions, noises, hints, impulses, and all
the waking testimonies of an invisible world, and
of the communication that there is between us and
tliem, which commonly entertain us with our eyes
open.
One time my sancy soared on high, to see what
discoveries I could make in those clearer regions. I
found that such immense bodies as the sun, stars,
pjanets, and moon, in the great circle of the lower
jieaven, are sar from being found in the study of na-
ttire on the sursace of the earth. Here I saw many
things that we can entertain little or no notion of,
i:J1 a state of common lise, and the emptiness of our
^otion, that the planets are habitable worlds; that
created like oui s, for the subsistence and existence
0f man and beast, and the preservation of the ve-
getative and sensitive lise: No, no, this is, I assure
y0u> a world of spirits; for here I saw a clear de-
monstration of Satan being the prince of the power of
tfoe air, keeping his court or camp, with innumer-
able angels to attend him; but his power is not so
g-i.eat as we imagine, he can tempt us to the crime,
|^ut cannot force us to commit it: Humanum ejl
peccare. Neither has the devil power to force the
•^rorld into a rebellion against heaven, though his
jegions are employed among savage nations, to set
wp their master for a god, who make the heathens
either worship him in person, or by his represen-
tatives,.
tatives, idols and monsters, with the cruel sacrifices
of human blood. Now, as to the limitations of the
devil's power, you must understand, that, as there
are numbers of evil spirits employedjn mischief, so
there are numbers of good angels sent from the
higher and blessed abodes to disconcert and oppose
their measures; and this every Christian, I hope,
believes, when he prays to God, the sather of spi-
rits, togivehis angels charge over him while he slum-
bereth and fleepeth. For if by these preventing
powers the devil was not restrained, theearth would
be subjected to dearth, droughts, and samine; the
air insected with noxious sumes; and, *in a word,
mankind would be utterly destroyed, which might
oblige our maker (if I may be allowed the expres-
sion) to the necessity of a new fiat, or else have no
more creatures to honour and worship him.
As the devil never wanted insinuators, I lhall
observe, that I learned a way how to make a man
dream of what I pleased. For instance, let us sup-
pose one to be sound asleep; let another lay his
mouth close to his ear, and whisper any thing so
softly as not to awake him, the steeping man shall
dream of what has been so whispered in his ear;
nay, I can assure you, those insinuating devils can
do this even when we are awake, which I call im-
pulses of the mind: for from whence, but from
these insinuator3, come our causeless passions, in-
voluntary wickedness, or sinsul defires? Who else
form ideas in the mind of man when he is asleep,
or present terrible or beautisul sigures to his sancy?
Mr. Milton represents the devil tempting Eve in
the shape of a toad, lying just at her ear, when in
her bower she lay sast asleep; and brings in Eve
telling Adam what at uneasy night's rest she had,
and relating her dream to him. And likewise I be-
lieve that good spirits have the same intercourse with
us, in warning.us against those things that are evil,
and prompting us to that which is good.
Were
Were we to have the eyes of our souls opened,
through the eyes of our bodies, we should fee this
very immediate region of air which we breath in,
thronged with spirits now invisible, and which
©thciwise woui 1 be the most terrible: we should
view the secret trans ctions of those messengers who
are employed when the parting foul takes its leave of
the reluctant body, and perhaps see things nature
•would sliriiik back from with the utmost terror and
am?zemei:r. In a word, the curtain of providence
for the disposition of things here, and the curtain
of judgment for the determination of the" state of
fbuls hereafter, would be alike drawn back; and
^vhat heart could support here its suture state in life;
ifiuch Jess that of its suture state after lise, even
good or bad.
A gentleman of my acquaintance, being about
seven miles distant from London, a friend that came
to dine with him, solicited him to go to the city.
.^Vhat, said the gentleman, is there any occasion for
rrie? No, Sir, igid the other, nothing at all, ex-
cept tne enjoyment of your good company; and so
^ve over importuning him. Just then a strong im-
pulse of mind urged the gentleman, and pursued
jiirri like a voice, with, Goto London, Go to Lon-
don, Hark ye, says he to his friend, is all well at
j^oCidon? Am I wanted there? Or, did you ask me
to So witn you on any Particular account? Are all
-^y samily well? Yes, indeed, Sir, said he, I per-
cCived them all very hearty; and I did not ask you
to go t0 Lon^on upon any particular account what-
soever, except it was for the sake of your good com-
pany, Again he put off his resolution: but still
the impulse suggested to him, God to London; and
at length he did so. When he came there, he found
a Jetter and messenger had been there to seek him,
^piJ to tell him of a particular business, which was
£rfr and last above a thousand pounds to him, and
which
which might inevitably have been lost, had he not
gone to London that night.
The obeying of several hints, or secret impulses
argues great wisdom. I knew a man thatwas under
misfortunes, being guilty of misdemeanors against
the government; when, absconding for sear of his
ruin, all hb'friends advising him not to put him-
self in the hands of the law, one morning as he
awaked, he selt a strong impulse darting into his
mind thus, Write a letter to them; and this was re-
peated several times to his mind, and at last he an-
swered to it, as if it had been a voice, Wl)om sbaO I
write to? Immediately it replied, Write to the judge;
and this impulse pursued him for several days, till
at length he took pen, and ink, and paper, and sats
down to write to him; when immediately words
flowed from his pen, like streams from a sair foun-
tain, that charmed even himself with hopes of suc-
cess. In short, the letter was so strenuous in ar-
gument, so pathetLc in its eloquence, and so per-
suasively moving, that when the judge had read it,
he sent him an answer he might be easy, he would
endeavour to make that matter light to him; and,
indeed, never left exerting himself, till he had stopt
the prosecution, and restored him to his liberty and
samily.
I know a person who had so strong an imprefliori
upon her mind, that the'house she was in would be
burnt that very night, that she could not sleep; the
impulse she had upon her mind prefled her not to go
to bed; which, however, she got over, and went to
bed; but was so terrified with the thought which
run in her mind, that the house would be burnt,
that she could not go to sleep; but communicating
her apprehensions to another in the samily, they
were both in such a fright, that they applied them-
selves to search from the top of the house to the
bottom, and to.see every fire and ca,iv,ie sase out,
so that, as they both said, it was impossible anything
could
could happen in the house, and they sent to the
neighbours on both sides to do the like. Thus sar
they did well: but had she obeyed the hint which
pressed upon her strangely not to go to bed, she had
done much better; for the fire was actually kindled
at that very time, though not broken out.' About
an hour after the whole samily was in bed, the house
Just over the way, directly opposite, was all in flames,
and the wind, which was very high, blowing the
flame upon the house this gentlewoman lived in,
so filled it with smoak and fire, in a sew moments,.
the street being narrow, that they had not air to
breathe, or time to do any thing, but jump out of
their beds, and save their lives. Had she obeyed
the hint given, and not gone to bed, she might have
saved several things; but the sew moments she had
/pared to her, were but just sufficient to leap out of
fc>ed, put some clothes on, and get down stairs, for
the house was on fire in half a quarter of an hour.
While I am mentioning these things, methinks
jt is very hard, that we should obey tne wifpers of
evil spirits, and not much rather receive the notices
^rhich good ones are pleased to give. We never
perceive the misfortune of this, but when in real:
ganger: and then we cry, My mind misgave me when
J uuasgoing about it: but if so, why do you slight
{fae caution? Why not listen to it as to a voice? and
tjien there had been no reason to make this com-
plaint.
I remember about 14 or 15 years ago (as to time
j cannot be very positive) there was a young cler-
gyman in the-city of Dublin in Ireland, who dream-
ed a very uncommon dream, That a gentleman had
filled his wise, a relation of his, by stabbing her
.£n several places; the fright of this awaked him,
jiut finding it a dream, he composed himself again
to sleep, when he dreamed a second time the same
^jream. This made him a little uneasy; but think-
jpg it proceeded from the impreslion made on his
mind
mind. by the former, he went to sleep again, and
dreamed the same dream a third time also. So
troubled was he at this, that he arose, and knocked
at his mother's chamber, told his concern, and his
apprehensions that all were not right at his relation's
house. Dear son, says the good old gentlewoman,
do not mind these foolisli dreams: and I very much
wonder, that you, being a person in holy orders,
should have regard to such allusions. Upon this he
went to bed again, sell asleep,. and dreamed a fourth
time as before. And then indeed he put on his
night-gown, and wentto Smithfield, theplace where
his relation dwelt. Here it was, alas! he perceived
his dream teo sadly sulfilled, by seeing his retlation,
the young lady, big with child, who was a Pro-
testant, stabbed in seven places, by her barbarous
husband Mr. Eustace, a violent Papist, only for
some discourses of religion that happened the day
before After the wretch had stabbed her in three
places, he went to make his escape out at a win-
dow; but she cried out, My dear I don't leave mey
come back, end I shall be well again. At which he
returned in a hellish rage, and gave her four wounds
more; when, even in this condition, rising from
her bed, she wrapped herself in her night-gown,
and went to the Lord Bishop of Rapho's chamber-
door (the bishop lodging at that time in the house)
My Lord, said she, O, my Lord, make hajle unto me:
but as soon as his Lordship came she expired in his
arms, resigning their precious foul into the hands
of Almighty God. The cruel wretch her husband
was shot by the pursuers, too good a death for one
who deserved the gibbet: and the lady was univer-
sally lamented by all tender and religious people.
And this tragical relation I have mentioned, upon
the account of that impulse, or dream, that the
clergyman had at the satal time of the bloody action.
It might be expected I should enter upon the sub-
ject of apparitions, and discourse concerning the
reality
33° LIFE AND ADVENTURES
reality of them; and whether they can revisit the
place of their former existence, and resume those
fs.cuities of speech and sliape as they had when liv-
ing; but, as these are very doubtsul matters, I
stall only make a sew observations upon them.
I once heard of a man that would allow the reality
of apparitions, but laid it all upon the devil, think-
ing that the fouls of men departed, or good men,
did never appear. To this very man something did
appear; he said, he saw the shape of an ancient
man pass by him in the dusk, who, holding up his
hand in a threatening posture, cried out, 0, wicked
wan, repent, repent! Terrified with this apparition,
he consulted several friends, who advised him to take
the advice. But, after all, it was not an appari-
tion, but a grave and pious gentleman, who met
him by mere accident, and had been sensiWe of his
.wickedness; and who never undeceived him, lest it
stould hinder his reformation. Were we always
willing to make good use of Satan's real appear-
ances, T know not but it would go a'great way to
banish him from the visible world: for I am very
positive, he would seldom visit us, if he thought
his coming would do us any good; but so ablo-*
Jutely is he at the command of heaven, that he must
cro, even to do the work he abhors.
Some people make a very ill use of the general
potion, that there are no apparitions nor spirits at
all: which is worse than those who sancy they see
them upon every occasion; for those carry their no-
tions sarther, even to annihilate the devil, and be-
lieve nothing about him, neither of one kind or
0ther: the next step they come to, is to conclude,
*shere is no God, and so atheism takes its rile in the
^rne sink, with a carlefiness about suturity. But
tbere is no occasion to enter upon an argument to
prove he being of the Almighty, or to illustrate
jifs power by words, who has so many undeniable
testimonies in the breasts of every rational being
to
to prove his existence: and we have sufficient proofs
enough to convince us of the great superintcnden-
cy of divine Providence in the minutest affairs of
this world; the manisest existence of the invisible
world: the reality of spirits, and intelligence be-
tween us and them. What I have said, I hope,
will not mislead any person, or be a means where-
by they may delude themselves; for I have spoken
of these things with the utmost seriousness of mind,
and with a sincere and ardent defire for the general
good and benefit of the world.
FINIS.
