hf!Kfe^^£*^^ -"'•'"" ':-"" ."'-.. '.
 
 
Hubbarti
Imag. Vojr.
 
 
KolmiJoii <Vu1on a« <l«f«'i*il»*«l Yayt^tfo/fonfy-'/ffifc <|
 
t a e
LIFE
A. N D MOST SURPRISING
-ADVENTURES
O F
ROBINSON CRUSOE,
of York, Marinek,
Who lived eight and twenty years in an uninhabi-
ted island on the coast of America, near the
mouth of the great river Oroonoque.
With an account of his deliverance thence, and bis
after surprising Adventures,
ELEVENTH £ D I T IO N, W 1 T ITTuTsT
 
EDINBURGH:
printed for W. Darling, and J. Donaldson* cor-
ner of Arundel-street, i»i the Strand, London.
M.DCC.LXXV,
 
THE
PREFACE.
IF ever the story of any private
man's adventures in the world
were worth making public, and were
acceptable when published, the editor
of this account thinks this will be so.
The wonders of this man's life ex-
ceed all that (he thinks) is to be found
extant; the life of one man being
scarce capable of a greater variety.
The story is told with modesty, with
seriousness, and with a religious appli-
cation of events to the uses to which
wife men always apply them, viz. to
the instruction of others by this ex-
ample, and to justify and honour the
wisdom of Providence in all the va-
riety of our circumstances, let them
happen how they will.
The
The editor believes the thing to be
a just history of fact; neither is there
any appearance of fiction in it: and
though he is well aware there are ma-
ny, who, on account of the very singu-
lar preservations the author met with,
will give it the name of a romance;
• yet,in which ever of these lights it shall
be viewed, he imagines, that the im-
provement of it, as well to the diver-
sion, as to the instruction of the rea-
der, will be the fame; and, as such,
be thinks, without farther compliment
to the world, he does them a great
service in the publication.
 
LIFE and ADVENTURES
O F
ROBINSON CUUSOE.
I Was bora at York, in the year 1632, of a repti*
table family. My father was a native of Bre-
men, who, by merchandising at Hull for sometime,
gained a very plentiful fortune, lie married my
mother at York, who received her sirs! breath in that
country: and as her maiden name was Robinson, I
was called Robinson Kreui-znaer, which not being ea-
sily pronounced in the English tongue, we are com-
monly known by the name of Crusoe.
I was the youngest of three brothers. The elicd
was a lieutenant-colonel in Lockhart's regiment, tut
stain by the Spaniards : what became of the other, I
could never learn.
No charge nor pains were wanting in my educa-
tion. My father designed me for the law; yet no-
thing would serve me but I must go to sea, both a-
gainst the will of my father, the tears of my mother,
and the entreaties of friends. One morning my fa-
ther expostulated very warmly with me. What rea-
son, fays he, have you to leave your native country,
where there must be a more certain prospect of con-
tent and happiness, to enter into a wandering con-
dition of uneasiness and uncertainty :He recommend-
A ed
 
ed to me Agur's w'dh, Neither to desire poverty nor
riches; that a middle il ite os life way the mod hap-
py ; and that the high towering thoughts us railing
our cotillion by wandering abroad, were surround-
ed with liiisriy and danger, and often ended with
consusoa and disappointment. 1 entreat you, nay,
1 command you, (lays he), to defbc from these inten-
tions. 'Consider your eldest brother, who laid down
Ids life H.r his honour, or rather lost it for his dis-
obedience to my will, is you will go, (added he), my
prayers inn!! however be olleied for your preservati-
on; but a time may come, when, ddblate, oppres-
sed, or forsaken, you may wiih you had taken your
poor despiied father's counsel. lie pronounced
these words with such a moving and pntcrnal elo-
quence, while floods of tears ran down his aged
cheek:-, th.it it seemed to Item the torrent of my re-
solutions. But this soon wore off, and a little aster
1 informed my mother, that I could not settle to any
business, my resolutions were so iirong to si e the
world; and begged she would gain my father's con-
tent only to go one voyrge; which, if it did nor prove
prosperous, I would never attempt a second. But my
define was as vain as my lolly in asking. My mother
passionately exprcilld her chHike of this proposal,
telling me, Thai asjlcfiiv liens bent upon my ciun
ac/it ;it!kij, contrary to their veill and ?ny duix^ jle
ivouldfay v.o incre^ cut Lave me to myself to do -what-
soever I plea/ed,
I was then, I think, nineteen years old, when one
time being at Ibd, I met a school-fellow of mine,
going along with his father, who was master of a ship,
to London j and acquainting him with my wandering
desires, he adored me of a htQ passage, and a plenti-
ful (bare of what was necesstry. Thus, without im-
ploring-a hlelring, or taking farewell of my parents,
1 took shipping on the first of September 165 1. We
let sul icon after; and our ship had scarce left the
Humber alien], when there aix;ic so violent a dorm,
that,
 
 
tliat* being extremely sea-sick, I concluded the judg-
ments oi God deservedly followed me for my disobe-
dience to my dear parents. It was then i called to
mind the good advice of my father; how easy and
comfortable was a middle state r.f life; and 1 firmly
resolved, if it pleaied God to set me on dry land
once mo re, I would rctmn to my parents, implore.
their fergivenness, and bid a final adieu to my wan-
dering inclinations.
Such were my thoughts while the storm continued;
bt;t these good resolutions decreased with the danger j
mere especially*when my companion came to me,
clapping me on the Ihoulder: IVhat, Bob! said he,
sure you vj.is not frightened last night vdih scarce a
capful os vAnd f—-And do yen, cried I, call such <a vio-
lent storm a cafisuH os wind? Asknn, you fool you,
fold he, th;* is TK-l'/wct ' -••' £s:</./e//> and fca-room al-
ways bjdles such ds*/rh Iquawi ts wind as that : Bui:
you re asrejh weittr suitor: Come boy^ turn out ^ see
what fine weather we have now* and a rood howl of
punch will drown all your fast sorrows. In shoit, \hz
punch was made, L was drunk, and in one n»g.ars
time drowned both my repentance and my good re-
Ib! mions, forgetting entire!y the vows and promises
I made in my distress : and whenever any reflections
would return on me, what by company, and what
by drinking, I soon mastered those (its, as I deri-
dingiy called them. But this only made way for ano-
ther trial, whereby I could not but fee how much I
was beholden to kind providence.
Upon the sixth day we came to an anchor in Har-
wich road, where we lay wind-bound with some New-
castle sliips; and there being good anchorage, and
our cables found, the seamen forgot their late toil
and danger, and spent the time as merry as if they
had been on shore. But on the eighth day there a-
rose -a brisk gale of wind, which prevented our ti-
ding it up the river; and still increasing, our ship
rode forecastle in, and shipped several large seas.
A 2 It
 
 
It was not long before horror seized the seamen
thcms« Ives, and I heard the Mailer express this me-
lancholy*, jacu lation, Lord have mercy upon its^we shall
be all fo/t and undone! For my part, sick unto death,
I kept my cabin, til] the universal and terribly dread-
ful apprehensions of our speedy sate made me get
upon deck: and there I was affrighted indeed. The
sea went mountains high: I could fee nothing but
dtibuK around us; two ships had cut their masts on
board, a?id another was foundered; two more that
had loft their anchors, were forced out to the mercy
of the ocean; and, to save our lives, we were forced
to cut our foremast and main-mast quite away.
Who is there so ignorant as not to judge of my
dreadful condition? I was but a fresh-water sailor,
and therefore it seemed more terrible. Our ship was
Tery good, but over-loaded ; which made the sailors
often cry-out, She won Id sounder: Words I then was
ignorant of. All this while the storm continuing,
and rather increasing, the master and the more so-
ber part of his men went to prayers, expecting death
every moment. In the middle of the night one cried
out, We hadsprung a leak : another, That there was
Jour foot water in the hold. I was just ready to ex-
pire with fear, when immediately all hands were call-
ed to the pump; and the men forced me also in that
extremity to {hare with them in their labour. While
thus employed, the master espying some light colliers
fired a gun as a signal of distress ; and I not under-
standing what it meant, and thinking that either the
ship broke, or some dreadful thing happened, fell
into a swoon. Even in that common condition of
woe, nobody minded me, excepting to thrust me a-
fule with their feet^ thinking me dead, and it was a
great while before I recovered.
Happy it was for us, when, upon the signal given,
they ventured out their boat to save our lives. All
our pumping had been in vain, and vain had all our
attempts been, had they not come to our ship's side,
and
rind our men cast them a rope over the stem with a
buoy to It, which aster great labour they got hold of,
and we haling them to us, got into their boat, and
left cur ship, winch we perceived (ink v'ubin lets than
a quarter of au hour; arid thin I learned what was
meant by Foundering at fed. And now the men in-
ccillintly laboured to recover their ovvn ibip *, but x\\z
jea ran'so high, and the wind blew so hard, that
they thought it convenient to Inde wham ihore;
which, with great dniindry and delves* at laii we
happily ejected, landing at a place called Cronicr, nut
far 'Worn Winterton light-houte •, from whence we
ail walked to Yarmouth, where, a> objects d p;ty,
nianv geod people {"unuihed us v>itli nece-Uencs to
carry us either to Mull or London.
String-, that after all this, like the prodigal Jbn,
I did not return to my father; who, hearing et the
ship's calamity, (bra long time thought me intomhed
in the deep. No doubt but I ihould h^xt stared in
his fatted calf as the scripture exprefleth it : but my
ill fate still pushed me on, in spite of the powerful
convictions of reason and con1cier.ee.
When we had been at Yannouih three dry?, I met
my old companion, who had given me the invitati-
on to go on bo.-ird along with h 13 lasher. IJb behavi-
our and speech was altered, and in a melancholy man-
ner aiked me how I did, telling his father who 1 was,
and how I had made this voyage fbr a trial only to
proceed farther abroad. Upon which the oh! grenle-
man turning to me gravely, iVui, lliP's-n-in^y::/ :eghi
never to go to fa any more9 cut to Ink' r/1; • ::r avert,d<i
sgn,tkatyou iv ill never p rosier hi a sc sa? 1ns rondtlion.
Sir, answered /, will you take tie- te:ee ud jiuiioii ? U
is a different rase, laid he, it is mv e:d';:g% and con-
sequently my duty , but as you have nride this voyage
for a trials you fee ivdhii ill slice's* heaven his Jet be-
sore your eyes; and perhaps our misries hrve been
on your account, like Jonah in the jhip of Tarihiili.
But pray -jehui are y:ity and on vv:at account did you
A 3 £?
 
 
go to sea? Upon which I very freely declared my
whole story; at the end of which he nvide this ex-
clamation. Ye sacred powers! what had 1 committed,
that such n wretch should enter into my ship, to heap
upon me such a dHnge ot miseries! But soon recol-
lecting his passions, Toting man, laid he, is you do not
j-o thuky depend upon it, where-ever you go, you will
meet with disasters and disappointments till your fa-
ther's vjerds are fuljillcd'upony:u. And so we parted.
I thought at fust to return home; but shame op-
pCicd that good motion, as thinking I should belaugh-
cd fit by my neighbours and acquaintance. So strange
is the nature of youth, who are not ashamed to fin,
hut ytt aili :med to repent; and so far from being a-
ihamed of thole actions for which they may be ac-
counted fools, they think it folly to leturn to their
duty, which is the principal mask of wisdom. In
short, I travelled ivp to London, resolving upon a voy-
age; and a voyage I loon heard of, by my acquaintance
with a captain who took a fancy to me, to go to the
coast of Guinea. Having some money, and appearing'
like a gentleman, I went on board,not as a common
jailor or foremast-man; nay, the commander a-
greed I should go that voyage with him without any
expence; that 1 should he his mess-mate and corn-
pa niom, and I was very welcome to carry any thing
with me, and make the best merchandise I could.
I blessed my happy fortune, and humbly thanked
mveaptain for thih offer; and acquainting my friends
in Yorkshire, forty pounds were sent me, the greatest
part of which my dear father and mother contri-
buted to, with which I bought toys and trifles, as the
captain directed me. My captain also taught me navi-
gation, how to keep an account of the (hip's course,
take an observation, and led me into the knowledge
of several useful branches of the mathematics. And
indeed this voyage made me both a sailor and a mer-
chant; for I brought home five pounds nine ounces
of gold dust far my adventure, which produced, at
my
mv return to London, almost three hundred pounds.
But in this voyage I was extremely sick, being thrown
into a violent calenture through excessive heat, tra-
ding upon the coast from the latitude of fifteen de-
grees north even to the line itieit.
But alas! my dear friend the captain soon departed
this life after his arrival. This was a ienfiole grief
to me j yet 1 resolved to go another voyage with his
mate, who had now got command of the lhip. This
proved a very unsuccessful one; for though 1 did not
carry quite a hundred pounds of my late acquired
wealth, (so that I had two hundred pounds left, which
I reposed with the captain's widow, who was an ho-
nest gentlewoman,) yet my misfortunes in this un-
happy voyage wei e very great. For our (hip filling to-
wards the Canary islands, we were chased by a Sake
rover; and in spite of al! the haste we could make, by
crouding as much canvas as our yards could spread,
or our masts carry, the pirate gained upon us, so that
we prepared ourselves to sight. They had eighteen
guns, and we had but twche. About three in the
afternoon there was a desperate engagement, where-
in many were killed and wounded on both sides : but
finding ourselves overpowered with numbers, our
ship disabled, and ourselves too impotent to have the
least hopes of success, we were forced to surrender;
and accordingly were all carried prisoners into the
port of Saiiee. Our men were sent to the Emperor's
court to be fold there; but the pirate captain taking
notice c( roe, kept me to be his own slave.
In this condition, I thought myself the most miser-
able creature on earth, and the prophecy of my father
came afresh into my thoughts. However, my condi-
tion was better than I thought it to be, as will soon
appear. Some hopes indeed I had that my new pa-
tron would go to sea again, where he might betaken
by a Spanish or Portuguese man os war, and then I
should be set at liberty. But in this I was mistaken;
for he never took me with him, but left me to look
after
aster his little garden, and do the drudgery of hh
ho use, and whoa lie returned from sea, would make
me lie in the cabin, and look aster the (hip. I had
no one that 1 could eumrrimieate my thoughts to,
which were continually meditating my escape; no
Englishman, Irishman, or Scotsman here but my-
self; a?id tor two years 1 could lee nothing practi-
cable, but only pleased myself with the imagination.
Alter some length os time, my patron, as I sound,
grew so poor, that he could not lit out his {hip as u-
iie.il: and then he used constantly, once or twice a-
vreck. is the weather w *s fair, to go out a-fiihing,
taking me and a young morefco boy to row the boat;
and. so much pleased was he with me for my dexte-
rity in catching the fish, th.it he would ostcu fend
me with a Moor, who was one of his kinsmen, and
the Morefco youth, to catch a dilli os sti'h for him.
One nlornmg as we were at the sport, there arose
such a thick fog, that we loll sight os the snore: and
rowing we knew not which way, we 1 iboured all the
night, and in the morning sound ourselves in the
ecan, two leagues from land. However, we attain-
ed there at length, and made the greater haste, be-
cause our stomachs were exceeding sharp and hun-
gry, in order to prevent such disasters for the sutnreD
my patron ordered a carpenter to build a little state-
room or cabin in -he middle of the long-boat, with a
place behind it to steer and hale home the main sheet,
with other conveniencies to keep him from the wea-
ther, as also lockers to put in all manner of provisions,
with a handsome slioukler»of-muttcn fail, gibing o-
ver the cabin.
In tliis he frequently took us cut a-fifhing; and
one time inviting two or three persons of distinction
to go with him, made previsions extraordinary, provi-
ding also three fusees with powder and snot, that they
mi^ht have some sport at fowling along the sea-coast.
The next morning the boat w^s made clean, her an-
cient and peadaiiis gut, and every thing ready j but
their
their minds altering, my patron ordered us to go a-
stilling, for that his guests would certainly sup with
him that night.
And now 1 began to think of my deliverance in-
deed. In order to this I persuaded the moor to get
some provisions on board, as not dating to meddle
with our patron's; and he taking my advice, we fla-
red ourselves with rusk biscuit, and three jars of wa-
ter. In sides, I privately conveyed into the boat a
bottle of randy, some twine, thread, a hammer, hat-
chet, and a sow; and in particular some bees wax,
which was a great comfort to me, and served to make
candles. 1 then'persnaded Mulcy (lor so was the moor
called) to procure some powder and shot, pretending
to kill sea curlic us, which lie innocently and readily
agreed to. In short, being provided with all things
necessary, we sailed out, resolving for my own part
to make my escape though it should €#a4i me my life.
When we had passed the castle, we Ml to stilling;
but though I knew there was a bite, 1 dissembled the
matter, in order to put further out to sea. Accord-
ingly we ran a league further; when giving the boy
the helm, and pretending to stoop for something, I
seized Muley by surprise, and threw him overboard.
As he was an excellent swimmer, he soon arose, and
made towards the boat; upon which I took out a
iuke, and presented at him: Muley, said I, / never
yet designed to do you any harm, and seek nothing now
but my redemption. I know you are able enough to swim
t$ store, and save ycur life; but is you are resolved to
follow me, to the endangering os mine> the very mo-
ment you proceed I will scot you through the head.
The harmless creature, at these words, turned himself
from me, and I make no doubt got fase to land. Then
turning to the boy Xury, 1 perceived he trembled at
the action ; but I put him out os all sear, telling him,
that is he would be true and faithful to me, 1 would
do well by him. Jud therefore, said I, you must stroke
pur face tobe faithful, and3 as /A* Turks have learned
you%
so?/, swear in MdumitT, and the beard ofyour father9
ar tlse I wil! throw you into the sea also. So innocent:
diil rhe ciu!d then look, ami with such an obliging
smiiv. consented, tint I readily believed him, and
from that cby forward began to love him entirely.
We then pursued our voy.igc : and left they should
think me gone to the Srreighis mouth, I kept to the
Southward to the truly liasharian coast: but in the
dusk ot the evening I changed my course, and (leered
directly S and by E. tE.it I might keep near the ihore;
and having a fresh gale os wind, with a pleasant
smooth sea, by three o'clock next day I was i qc miles
btvond the Emperor of Morocco's dominions. Yet
still having the dreadful apprehension of being reta-
ken, I continued sailing for five days successively, till
such timers the wind suis. lug to the southward, made
me conclude, that if any veill-l was in chacc of me,
th:y would proceed no farther After Co much fa-
tigue and thought, I anchored at the mouth of a lit-
3e river, I kmw not what, or where: neither did I
then fee any people. What I principally wanted was
sicfh water; ?nd I was rt solved alout the dusk to
swim ashore. But no sooner did the gloomy clouds of
night begin to fuceed the declining day. when we
heard such harking, roaring, and howling of wild
creatures, that one might have thought the very
strangest monsters of nature, or infernal fpuits, had
their residence there. Poor Xury5 almost dead with
sear, entreated me not to go on ihore that night. Sup-
posing I dont, Xury, said 1, and in the morning we
should see men who are worse than those we sear, what
then r 0 den ive may givedem dejhcot gut;, replied Xu-
ry, laughing, and degun make dan all run away. 1 he
wir, and broken English which the boy had learned
among the captives of our nation, pleased me entire-
ly; and to add to his cliearsulness, I gave him a dram
of the bottle: we could get but little sleep all the night
for those terrible bowlings they made; and indeed
we were both very much affrighted, when, by the
rollings
of ROBINSON CRUSOE, n
rollings of the writer, and other tokens, we justly
concluded one ot those monsters made towards our
hat. I could not sec it till it came within two oars
l.v-gih, when LiLirig^y fusee, i let (ly at him. Whe-
th.r i hit him or r.o, I ciimot tell \ hut he srude to-
w.o-c'-'i the shore, and th,» r.oife of my gun increased
the ih'pemious noise oi the monsters.
fi he in xt mornir.fr I was resolved to go on shore
10 get lidh water, and venture my life among the
I «.. ..IIs or savages, should either attack me. Xurysaid,
I. * wcn!d take one of the jars, and bring me some, I
. iked him why he would go, and not lr The poor
b<:y anhvercd, lsvjild mans ccr.iry they fat me, \:u go
r: ly. A iniml scarcely now to be imitated, so con-
t! vy t,j fe if-preservation, the mod powerful law of
n:ture I Thh indeed increased my a./lection to the
tidid. JVi-lldear XvryjJUid j% uv v:ill both go ajborc,
hth kill wild matiS) aiid-ihcy Jlcdi cut neither of us. So
rWiogXury a piece of rusk oread to tat, and a dram,
v. •: vaded ashore,, carrying nothing with ua but our
a .v.s, and two j -us for water. I ehd not go out of
i.it of the boas, as dreading the savages coming
d-.v/n the river in ihg-m canoes: bet the boy feeing a
*- "v descent or vale about a mile m the country, he
v.. nduxd to it; and then running K?ck to me with
peat precipitation, I thought he was pursued by
h :r:e savage or wild beast; upon which I approach-
'•', re Living to perish or protect him from danger.
As he came nearer to me, I saw something hanging
 over his shoulders, which was a creature he had shot
J:ke a hare, but different in colour, and longer legs;
'1 ewever, we were glad of it, for it proved whole-
-Joir.e and nourishing meat j but what added to our
; jr.y was, my boy assured me there was plenty of wa-
ter, and that hz fee no wild mans. And greater still
:Vv'uS our comfort, when we found fresh water in the
rc-eek where we were when the tide was out, without
1&^'ng so far up into the country.
f In tins place I began to consider that the Canary
and
and Cape de Verde islands lay not far off; but having
no instrument, I knew not what latitude, or when to
stand oil to sea for them; yet my hopes were, I should
meet some ot the English trading vessels, who would
relieve and take us in.
The place I was in was no doubt that wild coun-
try, inhabited only by a few, that lies between the
Emperor of Morocco's dominions and the Negroes.
It is filled with wild beasts, and the Moors use it for
hunting chiefly. From thio place I thought I saw
the top os the mountain Teneriiie in the Canaries \
which made me try twice to attain it; but as often
was I drove back, and ib forced to pursue my for-
tune along shore.
Early one morning we came to an anchor under a
little point os land, but pretty high j and the tide be-
ginning to flow, we lay ready to go further in, but
Xury, whose youthful and penetrating eyes were
(harper than mine, in a soft tone, desired me to keep
far from land, lest we sliould be devoured: For look
yonder fnayter&hl he, and see de dreadful monster fast
asieep on de side of de hllL Accordingly looking where
he pointed, I espied a fearful monster indeed. It was
a terrible great lion that lay on shore, covered as it
were by a shade of a piece of the hill. Xury, said I,
you shall go on sore and kill him. But the boy looked
amazed : Me kill him^ says he, he eat me at one month;
meaning one mouthfuL Upon which I bid him lie
still, and charging my biggest gtm with two slugs,
and a good charge of powder, I took the best aim I
could to (hoot him through the head ; but his leg ly-
ing over his nose, the slug broke his knee-bone.
The lion awaking with the pain, got up, but soon fell
down, giving the most hideous groan I ever heard:
but taking my second piece, I shot him through the
head, and then he lay struggling for life. Upon this
Xury took heart, anddeflred my leave to go on shore.
Go then said I. Upon which taking a little gun in
one hand, he swam to shore with the other, and co-
ming
 
jvting close to the lion, put a period to his life, by
Jhooting him again through the head.
But this was spending our ammunition in vain, the
sicih not heing good to eat. Xury was like a chani-
-pi'>n, and comes on hoard for a hatchet, to cut off
the head of his enemy; but not having strength to
perform it, he cut oil and brought me a loot, I be-
thought me however that his skin would be cf i:sc.
rJ his work cost Xury and me a whole day; when
spreading it on the top of our cabin, the hot beams
"s the sun effectually diied it in two days time, znd
It afterwards served me for a bed to lie on.
And now we sailed southerly, living sparingly on
our provisions, and went no oitener on shore than we
were obliged for fresh water. My design was to make
the river Gambia or Senegal, or any where about the
Cape de Verde, in hopes to meet some European
. ship. Is Providence did not so savour me, my next
course was to seek for the islands, or lose my life a-
* mong the negroes. And in a word, I put my whole
stress upon this; "Either that I mini meet with
€< some ship, or certainly perish."
One day as we were failing along, we saw people
stand on the (here looking at us ; we could also per-
ceive they were black and stark naked. I was inclined
to go on shore: but Xury cried, No, no; however I
approached nearer, and I found they run along th-»
', shore by me a good way. They had no weapons in their
; hands, except one, who held a long flick, which Xu-
11 < ry told me was a lance, with which they could kill ?.t
;. a jrreat distance. I talked to them by signs, and made
J them sensible I wanted something to eet; they bec-
ri hjixcd to me to stop my heat, while two them ran
5* up into the country, and in less than half an bout
J, came back, and brought with them two pieets of thy
|j iltsli, and some corn, which we kindly accepted ; and
.| to prevent any scars on either side, thev brought the
I sc?d to the shore, laid it dewu, then went and stood a
? B great
 
great way oss till we fetched it on board, and then
came close to us again.
But while we were returning thanks to them, be-
ing all we could afford, two mighty creatures came
from the mountains, one as it were pursuing the o-
(her with great fury, which we were the rather in-
clined to believe, as they seldom appear but in the
night; and both these swiftly palling by the negroes
jumped into the sea, wantonly swimming about, as
though the diversion of the waters had put a Hop to
their fierceness. Ac last one them coming nearer
to my boat than I expected or desired, I shot him di-
rectly through the head ; upi)n which he funk imme-
diately, yet rising again, would have willingly made
to the shore; but between the wound and the strang-
ling of the water, he died before he could reach it.
It is impossible to express the consternation the
poor negroes were in at the siring of my gun; much
less can I mention their surprise, when they perceived
the creature to be slain by it. I made signs to them
to draw near it with a rope, and then gave it to them
to hale on shore. It was a beautiful leopard, which
made me desire its skin: and the negroes seeming to
covet the carcase, 1 freely gave it to them. As for
the other leopard, it made to shore, and ran with a
prodigious swiftness out of sight. The negroes ha-
ving kindly furnished me with water, and with what
roots and grains their country afforded, I took my
leave, and, after eleven days faii, came in sight of
the Cape de Verde, andthofeislandscalledbyitsname.
But the great distance I was from it, and fearing con-
trary winds would prevent my reaching them, I be-
gan to gm.v melancholy and dejected, when upon a
sudden Xury cried out. Master y master > a Jhip -with
a fall! and looked ns affrighted as if it was his master's
slifp sent in search of us. But I soon discovered she
was a Portugueze ship, as I thought, bound to the
coast of Guinea for negroes. Upon which I strove
for life to come up to them, But vain had it been,
if
or ROBINSON CRUSOE. 15
is through their perspective glasses they had not per-
c-.ivedme, and shortened their fail to let me conic
"up. Encouraged at this, I set up my patron's ancient*
and find a. gun, both as signals of distress; upon
which they very kindly lay to, so that in three hours
t'mc I came up with them. They spoke to me in
}(Ttugutze, Spanish, and French, hut neither of
these did I underhand; till at length a Scots sailor
calkd, and then I told him I was an Englishman, who
had escaped from the Mc-crs at Sallee; upon which
they took me kindly on board, whh all my effects.
Surely none can express the inconceivable joy I ielt
at this happy deliverance ! who, from being a late mi-
serable and forlorn creature, was not only relieved,
but in savour with the master os the ship, to whom,
in return for my deliverance, I offered all 1 had. God
fr.rbid said be, that 1 should take any thing from you.
Every thing flail be delivered to you when you come to
liiazU. Isl have saved your Use, it is no more than I
Jhuld expect to receive'myself from any other, when,
in the same circumstances,J' jtcutdhappen tc meet the
Hie deliverance. J vd should 1 take from you -what
)C-t have, and leave you at l>rasil, why, this ivould be
inly taking away a'life I hav: given. My charity
teaches me better. Tlose 1 fells you have willsupport
you there, and provide you a pasjcge home again. And
indeed he acted with the stride 11 justice in what he
did, taking my things into his possession, and giving
me an exact inventory even to my earthen jars. He
bought my boat of me for the ship's use, giving me a
note of eighty pieces of eight, payable at Orasil *, and
if any body offered more, he would make it up. He
: also gave me sixty pieces for my boy Xury. It was
 with great reluctance 1 was prevailed upon to fell the
• child's liberty, who had served me so faithfully •, but
I the boy was willing himself; and it was agreed, that
i after ten years he mould be made free, upon his re-
 nouncingMahometism, and embracing Christianity.
Having a pleasant voyage to the Brasils, we arrived
B'a m
in the Bay de Tod os los Santos, or All-Saints Bay,
in twenty-two days after, And here I cannot forget
the generous treatment of the captain, lie would take
nothing for my passage, gave me twenty ducats for
the lopard's skin, and thirty for the lion's, Every
thing he caused to be delivered, and what I would
fell he bought. In short, I made about 220 pieces of
my cngo; and with this stock I entered once more,
as I may fay, into the scene of life.
Being recommended to an honest planter, I lived
with him till such time as I was informed of the man-
ner of their planting and making sugar; and feeing
how well they lived, and how suddenly they grew
rich, I was filled with a desire to settle among them,
and resolved to get my money remitted to me, and to
purchase: a plantation.
To le brief, I bought a settlement next door to an
honest and kind neighbour, horn at Lisbon, of En-
glish parents, whose plantation joining to mine, we
improved very amicably together. Both our stocks
were low, and for two years we planted only for food:
hut the third year we planted some tobacco, and each
of us dressed a large piece of ground the ensuing year
for planting canes. But now I found how much I
wanted assistance, and repented the loss of my dear
hoy Xury,
Having none to assist me, my father's words came
into my mind; and I nkd to ask myself, if what I
sought was only a middle station of life, why could it
not as well he obtained in England as here ? When I
pondered on this with regret, the thoughts of my late
deliverance forsook me. I had none to converse with
hut my neighbour; no work to be done but by my
own hands; it often made me fay, my condition was
like to that of a man cast upon a desolate island. 80
unhappy are we In our reflections, so forgetful of what
good things we receive ourselves, and so unthankful
for our deliverance frornlhofe calamities that others
endure.
I was
I was in some measure settled, before the captain,
who took me up, departed from the Brasils. One
day I went to him, and told him what stock I had m
London, desiring his assistance in getting it remitted;
to winch the good gentleman readily consented, but
would only have me fend for half my money, lest it
should miscarry; which if it did, I might still have
the remainder to support me: and so taking letters of
procuration from me, bid me trouble myself no far-
ther about it.
And indeed wonderful was his kindness towards
me ; for he not only procured the money 1 had drawn
for upon my Captain's widow, but sent me over a ser-
vant with a cargo, proportionable to my condition.
He also sent me over tools of all forts, iron work, and
utensils necessary for my plantation, and which pro-
ved of the greatest use to me in my business.
Wealth now accumulating on me, and uncommon
success crowning my prosperous labours, I might
have rested happy in that middle state of life my fa-
ther had so often recommended ; yet nothing would
content me, such was my evil genius, but I must
leave this happy station, for a foclith ambition in ri-
sing; and thus', once more, I cast myself into the
deepest gulf of misery that ever poor creature hl\ in-
to. Having lived sour years in Brasil, 1 had not only
learned the language, but contracted acquaintance
with the most eminent planters, and even the mer-
chants of St. Salvadore; to whom, once* by way.of
discourse, having given an account of my two voyages
to the coast of Guinea, and the manner of trading
there for mere trifles, by which we furnish cur plan-
tations with negroes, they gave such attention to what
I said, that three os them came one morning to me^
and told me they had a secret proposal to make. Af-
ter injoining me to secrecy, (it being an infringement
on the powers of the kings of Portugal and Spain),
they told me they had a mind to sit out a strip to go
to Guinea, in order to stock the plantation with ne-
B 3 groe$f
cro, , winch,as they could nit he publicly fold, they
would tllvi-I-.* amongthun; and if I would go their
s«.pen i'i;o hi the ihip, to manage the trading part, 1
r^ihf }i sve .an ecjuai (hare of the negroes, without
pi.^i i;,-(; any Hock. The thing indeed was fair e-
? ;*;Ji, h.td I b.vn in another condition. But I,
ho, i, to h.' my own destrouT, could not resist the pro-
»'*fi's hut a-.o-^cdihe olicr, upon condition of their
? - ^{.t ;i;>rr ,«y plantation. So making a formal
vet, i i q-icv.'.hed my effects to my good friend the
r*p;ain, a> my universal heir; but obliged him to
r..poi> of my effects as directed, one half of the pro-
duce lo himself, and the other to be shipped to Kng-
lmd.
*! he f!;ip Seif;7 fitted out, and all things ready, we
I :!..•! thi: flul oi September 1659, being the fame day
e.j.:,r year I hit ivy fattier arid mother in Yorkshire.
We i.;iL*d noithw ;rd upon the coast, in order to gain
An ha, till we made Cape Augustine-, from whence,
g ing farther in the ocean, out of light of land, we
l-\^ a* th nigh we were hound lor the ilbFernand
tb Norenb.i, leaving the islands on the east ; and then
it wts we met with a fernbie tempest, which conii-
i.a i\ ier twilve days fueceihvely, so that the winds
c*irrkd us where, soever they pleased. In this perplex-
ity, cue of our men died, and one man and a boy
v.-;rc w.-dlxd ever bo'-;rd. Vv'hen the weather cleared
tip d !v;,e, we :r>unJ ourselves eleven degrees north
i .O.iul:, upon the toast of Gmnea. Upon this the
c nn ;•; a3ve nMlons :\,r returning; which I opposed,
c-i-r ..-i;mg him to itmd away ior Barbadces, which,
?.< 1 ivpp v,d, might he attained in fifteen days. So
a.t.-ri::g our course, we silled north-well and by well,
in order to reach the leeward islands; but a second
Irorm succeeding, drove us to the westward; so that
we were juitly afraid of sdling into the hands of cruel
friMorrs or the paws of devouring beasts of prey.
"^^t KhlinU, one of our men, early in the
lit. this gr-aat distress
tr^nihie, crkdout, Lar J, land >, whVhhVVadno
sooner
;|sooner cried out, but our ship struck upon a und,and
lin a moment the sea broke over her in such a man-
if ner, that we expected we should ail have periihed
^immediately. We knew nothing where we were, or
-jupon what land we were driven \ whether an island
for the main, inhabited or not inhabited , and we
Sfcould not A) much as hope that the ship would hold
lout many minutes, without breaking in pieces, ex-
ifeept the wind by a miracle should turn about imnie-
liliately. While we flood looking at one another.
If expecting death every moment, the mate lays hold of
ft the bc.it, and with the help of the rest got her flung
jover the ihip'ti fide, and gating all into her, being
JUlevcn es us, committed ourselves to God's mercy,
Ifand the wild sea. And now we saw that this last ei>
If fort would not he a sufficient protection from death \
Mio high did the sea rife, that it was impossible the boat
f| should live. As to rr.aking fail, we hud nono; neither
Uif we had, could we make use os any. So that when
fifwe had rowed, or rather were driven about a league
^ and a half, a raging wave, like a lofty mountain,
§ came rolling astern of us, and took us with such fu-
ll ry, that at once it overset the boat. Thus being svval-
1 lowed up in a moment, we had hardly time to call
J upon the tremendous name of God: much Ids to
'^implore, in dying ejaculations, his infinite mercy to
[receive cur departing souls.
Men are general)y counted insensible, when strug-
gling in the pangs of death; but while I was over-
whelmed with water, I had the most dreadful appre-
[henhons imaginable; for the joys of heaven and the
|torments of full, seemed to present themselves before
[ine in these dying agonies, and even small space of
[time, as it were, between life and death. I was go-
jang, 1 thought, I knew not whether, in a dismal gulf
\ unknown, and as yet unperceived, never to behold
I iny friends, nor the light of this world any more!
Cotnd I even have thought of annihilation, or a total
diilolutioncf foul as well as body, the gloomy thoughts
of
of having no further being, no knowledge of what we
hoped for, but an eternal quictus% without life or
sense ; even that, I say, would have been enough to
firike me with horror and confusion! I strove how-
ever to the last extremity, while all my companions
were overpowered and intombed in the deep: and it
was with great difficulty I kept my breath till the
wave spent itself, and retiring back, left me on the
shore half dead with the water I had taken in. As
soon as I got on my feet, I ran as fast as I could, lest
another wave should pursue me, and carry me back a-
gain. But, for all the haste I made, I could not a-
void it; for the sea came after me like a high moun-
tain, or furious enemy ; so that my business was to
hold my breath, and by raising myself on the w?ater,
preserve it by swimming. The next dreadful wave
buried me at once twenty or thirty scot deep, but at
the same time carried me with a mighty force and
swiftness toward the stiore; when raising myself, I
held out as well as possible, till at length the water
having spent itself, began to return, at which I struck
seiward, and seeling ground with my sect, I took to
my heels again. Thus being served twice more, I
was at last dalhed against a piece of a rock, in such
a manner as left me senseless; but recovering a little
before the return of the wave, which, no doubt,
would then have overwhelmed me, I held fast by the
rock till those succeeding waves abated; and then
fetching another run, was overtaken by a small wave,
which was soon conquered. But before anv more
could overtake me, I reached the main land/where,
clambering up the clifts of the more, tired and al-
most spent, I sat down on the grass, free from the
dangers of the foaming ocean.
No tongue can express the ecstasies and transports
that my foul felt at this happy deliverance. It was
like a reprieve to a dying malefactor, with the halter
about his neck, and ready to be turned off. I was
wrapt up in contemplation, and often lifted up my
hands,
of ROBINSON CRUSOE. it
h.inds, with the profoundest humility, to the divine
poweis, for saving my life, when ike reft of my com-
panions were all drowned. And now I begun to call
my eyes around, to behold what place I was in, and
what 1 had next to do. I could fee no house nor poo*
pk : I was wet, yet had no cloalhs to illift me j hun-
giy mu\ thiisty, yet nothing to eat or drink; no wea-
|"cii to destroy any creature lor my sustenance, nor de-
i<_:"d nnkls against devouring beasts. In short I had
r.orhirg but a knife, a tobacco pipe, and a box half
siikd with tobacco. The darksome night coming up-
on me, increased my sears of being devoured by wild
i-re;.turcs ; my mind was plunged in despair, and ha-
*iug no prospect, as I thought, of life before me, I
piqvircd for another kind es death than what 1 had
. lately esenped. I walked about a furlong to see if I
could find any srefh water, which 1 did, to my great
joy; and taking a quid of tobacco to prevent hunger,
i got up into a thick bulky tree, and seating myself so
th it I ccukl not fall, a deep sleep overtook me, and for
that night buried my sorrows in a quiet repose.
h was broad day the next morning before I awa-
ked; when I rot only perceived the tempest was
ceaAd, but saw the skip driven almost as far as the
reek before mentioned, which the waves had dallied
me against, and which was about a mile from the
- place where I was. When I came down from my
j apartment in the tree, J perceived the ship's boat two
|. miles distant on my right hand, lying on shore, as
s| !he wavcs had cast her. I thought to have got to
4 r.-cr ; but there being an inlet of water of about half
I a mile's breadth between it and me, I returned again
| towards the ship, as hoping to find something for my
I more immediate subsistence. About noon when the
^jsea was calm, that I could come within a quarter of
.|a mile of her, it was to my grief I perceived that if
nve had kept on board, all our lives had been saved.
V-I nese thoughts, and my solitude, drew tears from
i mf
my eyes, though all in vain. So resolving to get t»
the ship, I stripped and leaped into the water -, when
swimming round her I was afraid I should not get
any thing to lay held of \ but it was my good fortune
to espy a small piece of rope hang down by the fore-
chains so low, that, by the help of it, though with
great difficulty, I got into the forecastle of the ship.
Here I found that the ship was bulged, and had a
great deal of water in her hold: her stern was lifted
up against a bank, and her head almost to the water.
All her quarter, and what was there, w^ere free and
dry. The provisions I found in good order, with which
I crammed my pockets; and, losing no time, ate
while I was doing other things; I also found some
rum, of which I took a hearty dram; and now I
wanted for nothing except a boat, which indeed was
all, to carry away what was needful for me.
Necessity occasions quickness of thought. We had
several spare yards, a spare topmast or two, and two
or three large spars of wood. With these 1 fell to
work, and flung as many of them over board as I
could manage, tying every one of them with a rope
that they might not drive away. This done, 1 went
down the ship's fide, and tied four of them fast toge-
ther at both ends, in form of a raft, and laying two
or three short pieces of plank upon them crosswise, I
found it would bear me, but not any considerable
weight. Upon which I went to work again, cutting
a spare topmast into three lengths, adding them to
my raft with a great deal of labour and pains. I then
considered what I mould load it with, it being not
able to bear a ponderous burden. And this I soon
thought os, first laying upon it all the planks and
boards I could get; next I lowered down three of the
seamen's chests, after I had filled them with bread,
rice, three Dutch cheeses, five pieces of dried goats
flesl], and some European corn, what little the rats had
spared; and for liquors, I found several cases of bot-
tles belonging to our skipper, in which were some
cordial
tngly, arming my self with a pistol, a fowling piece,
powder and ball, I ascended the mountain. There
I perceived I was in an island, encompassed by the
sea; no distant lands to be seen, but scattering rocks
that lay to the west: that it seemed to be a barren
place, and, as I thought, inhabited only by wild
beasts. I perceived abundance of fowls, but igno-
rant of what kind, or whether good for nourishment.
I shot one of them at my return, which occasioned a
confused screaming among the other birds; and I
found it, by its colours and beak, to be a kind of a
hawk, but its slesli was perfect carrion.
When I came to my raft, I brought my effects on
shore, which work spent that day entirely; and fear-
ing that some cruel beasts might devour me in the
night time while I slept, I made a kind of hut or bar-
ricade with the chests and boards I had brought on
shore. That night I slept very comfortable; and the
next morning my thoughts were employed to make
a further attempt on the ship, and bring away what
necessaries I could find, before another storm should
break her to pieces. Accordingly I got on board as
before, and prepared a second raft, far more nice than
the first; upon which I brought away the carpenters
stores, two or three bags full of nails, a great jack*
screw, a dozen or two of hatchets, and a grindstone.
I also took away several things that belonged to the
gunner, particularly two or three iron crows, two
barrels of musket bullets, another fowling piece, a
small quantity of powder, and a large bagful of
small shot. Besides these, I took all the men's cloaths
I could find, a spare foretop-sail, a hammock, and
some bedding; and thus, completing my second car-
go, I made all the haste to stiore I could, fearing some
wild beast might destroy what I had there already.
But I only found a little wild cat sitting on one of
the chests, who not seeming to fear me, or the gun
that I presented at her, I threw her a piece of biscuit,
which she instantly ate, and departed.
When
When I had gotten these effects on shore, I went
fto work, in order to make me a little tent with the
fill and some poles, which I had cut. for that purpose;
[and having finished it, what things might he dama-
ged by the weather I brought in, piling -ill the emp-
ty chests and calks in a circle, the better to fortify
it against: any sudden attempt of man or beast.
After this, I blocked up the doors with some boards,
and an empty chest, turned the long way out. I then
harged my gun and pistol, and laying my bed on
the ground, slept as comfortably, till next morning
as though I had been in a Christian country.
Now, though I had enough to subsist me a long
time, yet despairing of a sudden deliverance, or that
both ammunition and provision might be spent be-
fore such a thing happened, I coveted as much as I
j could; and so long as the (hip remained in that con-
jdkion, I daily brought away one necessary or other;
j particularly the rigging, soils, and cordage,some twine,
a barrel of wet powder, some sugar, a barrel os meal,
three casks of rum, and, what indeed was most wel-
come to me, a whole hogshead of bread.
The next time I went, I cut the cables in pieces,
carried off a hauiser wbt>Je, with a great deal of iron
work, and made an other raft with the mizen and
sprit-fail-yards; but this being so unwieldy, by the
too heavy burden I had upon it, and not being able
so dexterously to guide it as the former, both my
cargo and I were overturned. For my part, all the
damage I sustained was a wet (kin ; and at low water,
after much labour in diving, I got most of the
cables, and some pieces of iron.
Thirteen days had I now been in the island, and
dtvtn times on board, bringing away all that was
possible ; and, I believe, had the weather been calm,
I should have brought away the whole fliip piece by
piece. As I was going the twelfth time, the wind
began to rife ; however, I ventured at low water, and
rummaging the cabin, in a locker I found several r?-
C zors,
zors, scislars, and some dozens of knives and forks 5
and in another thirty fix pounds in pieces of eight,
silver and gold. Ah \simple vanity, said I, -whom this
ivorhi so much dotes on, where is now thy virtue, thy
excellency tome ? you cannot pr9 cure me one thing need-
ful, nor remove me from this desolate 'island to a place
of plenty. One of these knives, so meanly esteemed, is
to me more preferable than all this heap. E'en there-
fore remain where thou art, to fink in the deep as un-
regarded, even as a creature whose life is not worth
preserving. Yet, after all this exclamation, I wrapt
it up in a pieeeofean vase,and began to think of making
another raft; but 1 soon perceived the wind begin to
arise a fresh gale blowing from the shore, and the sky
overcast with clouds and darkness. So thinking a raft
to be in vain, I let myself into the water with what
tiling5? I had about me ; and it was with much difficulty
I grt a shore, when soon aster it blew a fearful storm.
That night I slept very contentedly in my little
tent, surrounded with all my effects; but When I
look:d cut in the morning, no more ship was to be
seen. This mu:h surprised me for the present: yet,
when I had considered I had lost no time, abated no
pains, and had got every thing useful out of her, I
comforted myself in the best manner, and entirely
submitted to the will of Providence.
My next thoughts were, how I should defend and
secure mysolf from savages and wild beasts, if any
such were in the island At one time I thought of
digging a cave, at another I was for erecting a tent,
and, at length, I resolved to do both: The manner
01 form of which will not, I hope, be unpleasing to
describe.
When I considered the ground where I was, that
it was moorish, and had no fresh water near it, my
resolutions were to search fora soil healthy and well
watered, where I might not only be sheltered from
the sun's scorching heat, but be more conveniently
situated, as well to be secured from wild men, and
beasts
#
 
 
27
easts of prey, as more easily to discover any distant
lil, should it ever so happen.
And indeed it was not long before I had my cksire.
found a little plain near a rising hill, the front to-
wards which being as steep as a house-side, nothing
cculd descend on me from the top. On the side os
this rock was a little hollow place, resembling the en-
trance cr door os a cave, just before this place, on
the circle of the green, I resolved my tent ihould
stand. This fkm did not much exceed a hundred
yards broad, and about twice as long, like a delight-
ful green I efore my door, with a pleasing, though ii>
I regular descent every way to the low grounds by the
sea-side, lying on the N. K. W. side of the hill, ib
that it was ilnkercd from the execstive heat os the sun.
Astet ih-b I drew a semicircle, containing ten yards iu
I its fcmidiuir.eier, and twenty yards in the whole,
j diivi.ig down two rows of strong stakes not'fix inches
irom c^h other. Then with the pieces of t\*b!o
which I had cut on board, 1 regularly Lid them in the
circle oetween me pics up :o thcli tops,
WCK
wtnch
meie than five feet out of the earth, and after drove,
another row of piles looking within hue against them,
three feet nig'
.*u
«!-
wincli rndtij me t\m-
impregnable eaitie for men and be-Jts,
h Icar-
Ait-r
between two or
elude it a lirtte
And for my better security I would have no uoer,
but entered in and came out by the help os a ladder,
which I also made.
Here was my fence ami fortress, into wh
rwA ail my riches, ammunition, and store
which, working on the rock, what with the dirt and
stones I dug out, I nut only raised my ground Lwo
feet, but made a little cellar" to my manson-houft y
and this cost me many days labour and pains, One
day in particular a shower of rain sailing, thumLr and
lightening ensued, which put me in terror lest my
powder should take lire, and not only hinder mv r.e-
cciiaiy subsistence, by killing me food, but even blow
ap me and mj habitation. To preveut which, i kit
C 2 to-
 
to making boxes and bags, in order to separate it, ha- j
ving by me near 150 weight. And thus being esta- 1
Wished as kin^ of the island, every day I went out j
with my gun to fee what I could kill that was fit to \
cat. I soon perceived numbers of goats, but very (hy;"^
yet having watched them narrowly, and seeing I could *
better (hoot oss the rocks than when in the low %
grounds, I happened to shoot a fhj$e-goat suckling a J
young kid; which not thinking its dam stain, stood ,
by her unconcerned; and when I took the dead crea- t
ture up3 the young one followed me even to the in- £
closure. I listed the kid over the pales, and would j
willingly have kept it alive; but finding it could not i
Le brought to eat, I was forced to slay it also for my s
own subs:Hence. |
Thus, entered into as strange a scene os life as ever |
any luuh was in, I had most melancholy apprehen- |
fioi\s concerning my deplorable condition; and ma- 3
ny times the tears would plentifully run down my
lace, when I considered how I was debarred from all
communication with human kind. Yet while these
desponding cogitations would seem to make me ac-
cuse Providence, other good thoughts would interpose
and reprove me aster this manner: Well, supposing
you are desolate, is it not better to be so than totally
perish? Why were you singled out to be saved, and
the rest destroyed .? Why should you complain, when
not only your life is preserved, but the ship driven;
even into your reach, in order to take what was ne-
cessary out of her for your subsistence? But to pro-
ceed. It was, by the account I kept, the 30th of
September, when I first landed on this island. About
twelve days after, fearing lest I should lose my rec-
koning os time, nay, even forget the Sabbath-days,
for want of pen, ink, and paper, I carved with a knife
upon a large post, in great letters, and set it up, in
the similitude of a cross, on the sea-more where I
landed, / came en store Sept. 30. 1659. Every day 1
cut a notch with my knife on the sides of this square
post*
of ROBINSON CRUSOE. 29
fust, and that on Sabbath was as long again as the
rest ; and every first day of the month as long again
as that long one. In this manner I kept my calen-
dar, weekly, monthly, or yearly reckoning of time,
But had I made a more strict search, (as I did after-
wards), I need not have set up this mark. For among
the parcels belonging to the gunner, carpenter and
ciptain's mate, I found those very things I wanted 5
particularly pens, ink, and paper •, also I found two
or three compasses, some mathematical instruments,
dials, perspective glasles, books of navigation, three
English bibles, and several other good books, which
I carefully put up. Here I cannot but call to mind
our having a dog and two cats on board, whom I
made inhabitants with me in my castle. Though one
might think 1 had all the neceflaries that were desire-
able, yet still I found several things wanting. My
ink was daily wasting: I wanted needles, pins, and
thread to mend or keep my cloaths together5 and
particularly a spade, pick-axe, or fhovH, to remove
the earth. It was a year before \ finished my little
bulwark; and having some intervals of relaxation,
after my daily wandering abroad for provision, I dr^w
up this plan, alternately, as creditor and debtor, to
.remind me of the mifeiks and Westings ot my life5
under so many various circumstances.
Evil.
/ am cast upon a desolate
1st ind) having no hopes, no
prospetl of a welcome de-
liverance.
How miserably am Ifin-
sjed out from the enjoy-
ment or company of all
mankind.
Like an hermit (rather
jl.ould I say a lonely ancho-
rite) am I forced from ha-
'nan conversation.
Good.
But yet I am preser-
ved^ white my companion*
are perished in the raging
ocean.
Yet set apart to bespared
from death. Andhc^jjho ha s
so preserved me, can deli-
ver me from this condition.
Howevery 1 have food
to eat, and even a hap*
fy prospect of subsistence
C3
whilst life endures.
My
Evil.
My deaths after some
time -will be ivorn out;
and then I /ball have none
to cover me.
When my ammunition is
wasted, then Jball I re-
main without any defence
against wild men and
beasts,
1 have no creature, no
foul to speak to \ none to
beg assistance from. Some
comfort would it be to re-
sound my woes where 1
am understood^ and beg
ty/istance vjhvre I might
hope for relief
Good.
At present I enjoy what^
is absolutely needful; andlji
the climate is so hot, thatM
had I never so many, i|
JhouId hardly wear them.^
Yet if it does, I fee no^
danger of any to hurt me^
as in Africa i And whai\f
if I had been cajl awayjl
upon that cotst.
Is there not God to con*\
verse to, and is not he able^
to relieve thee? Already^
has he afforded thee fujie- |J
nance, and put it in thy^
power to provide for thy-^
self till he fends thee a de- "s
live ranee*
And now easing my mind a little by these refleo fj
tions, I began to render my life as easy as possible. §j
I must here add, ro the description I have given of 8
my habitation, that having railed a turf-wall against f
~the outside of it, I thatched it so close, as might keep}
it from the inclemency of the weather ; I also impro- [
ved it within, enlarged my cave, and made a pas- j
sage and a door in the rock, which came out beyond I
the pale of my fortification. I next proceeded to make j
a chair and table, and so began to study such mecha- \
nical arts as seemed to me practicable. When 1 j
wanted a plank or board, I hewed down a tree with
my hatchet, making it as thin with my axe as possible,
and then smooth enough with an adze to answer my
designs: yet though ( could make no more this way
than one board out of a tree, in length of time I got
boards enough to shelter all my stores, every thing
being regularly placed, and my guns securely hang-
ing against the side of the rock. This made it a
vtry
very pleasent sight to me, and being the result os vast
labour and diligence •, which leaving for a while, and
me to the enjoyment of, I ihall give the reader an ac-
count of my Journal from the day of my landing,
till the fixing and settling of my habitation, as heie-
tofore shewn.
••<•< < <••<•<-<-«-<
«..«..« .«..«..<..<..<-•<•< <.<.•<•<••*•<<••<••.<
JOURNAL.
SEptember 30th, 1659,1 unhappy Robinson Crusoe,
having fullered shipwreck, was driven on this
desolate island, which 1 named the Desolate Island of
Despair, the rest being swallowed up in the tempes-
tuous, ocean. The next day I spent in consideration
of my unhappy circumstances, having no prospect
but of death, either to be starved with hunger, or de-
voured by beasts or merciless savages.
Octob. 1. That morning with great comfort I be-
held the ship drove ashore. Some hopes I had, that
when the storm was abated, 1 might be able to get
some food and necessaries out of her \ which 1 con-
ceived were rot damaged, because the (hip did stand
upright. At this time I lamented the loss of my com-
panions, and our misfortune in leaving the vessel.
When I perceived the (hip as it were lie dry, I wa-
ded through the sands, then swam aboard, the wea-
ther being very rainy, and with scarcely any wind.
To the 14th of this month, my time was employ-
ed in making voyages, every tide getting what I
could out of the ship. The, weather very wet and
uncertain.
Octob. 20. My raft and all the goods thereon were
overset j yet I recovered most again at low water.
Octob. 25. It blew hard, and rained night and day,
when the ship went in pieces* so that nothing was
seen
 
seen of her but the wreck at low water. This day
1 secured my goods froai the inclemency of the wea-
ther.
Octob. 26. I wandered to fee where I could find
a place convenient (or my abode. 1 hxed upon a reck
in the evening, marked out a halt-moon, intending
to erect a wall, fortified with piles, lined within with
pieces of cables, and covered with turf.
Nov. 1. I erected my tent under a rock, and took
up my lodgings very contentedly in a hammock that
night.
Nov. 2. This day I fenced myself in with timber,
chests, and boards.
Nov. 3. I sliot two wild fowl, resembling ducks,
which were good to eat, and in the afternoon made
me a table.
Nov. 4. I began to live regularly. In the morn-
ing I allowed myself two or tnree hours to walk out
with my gun ; I then worked till near tkven o'clock;
and afterwards refreshed myself with what I had to
eat. From twelve to two I would lie down to sleep,
Extreme sultry weather. In the evening go to work
again.
Nov. 5. Went out with my gun and dog, {hot a
wild cat with a soft skin, but her flesh was good for
nothing. The skins of those I killed I preserved. In
my return I perceived many wild birds, and was ter-
rified by some seals which made off to sea,
Nov. 6. Compleated my table.
Nov. 7. Fair weather. I worked till the 12th,
but ommitted the nth, which according to my cal-
culation, I supposed to be Sunday.
Nov. 13. Rain in abundance, which, however,
much cooled the earth; with thunder and lightening,
caused in me a terrible surprise. The weather clear-
ing, I kcuredmy powder in separate parcels.
Nov. 14.—16. I made little boxes for my pewder,
lodging them in iovtral places. I also shot a huge
fowl, which proved excellent meat.
Nov.
 
< Nov. 17. I began to dig in the rock, yet was obli-
ged to desist for want oi a pick-axe, shovel, and
wheel-barrow. Iron crows 1 caused to supply the
place os the first; but with all my art I could not
Hiake a wheel-barrow.
Nov. 18. It was my fortune to find a tree, resem-
bling what the Brasiliaus call an iron-tree. 1 had
like to have spoiled my axe with cutting it, being v^-
ry hard and exceeding heavy : yet with much labour
.and industry, I made a sort os a spade out of it.
Nov. 23. These tools bting made, i daily carried
on my business *, eighteen days I allowed for enlarging
my cave, that it might serve me, not only for a ware-
house, but kitchen, parlour, and cellar. 1 commonly
l.iy in the tent, unless the weather was rainy that I
could not lie dry. So wet would it be at certain
seasons, that I was obliged to cover all within the pale
with long poles, in the form of rasters, leaning a-
gainfl the rock, and load them with flags and large
leaves of trees, resembling a thatch.
Dec. io. No sooner did 1 think my habitation fi-
, nimed, but suddenly a great deal oi the top broke in,
so that it was a mercy 1 was not buried in the ruins.
This occasioned a great deal of pains and trouble to
me, before I could make it firm and durable.
Dec. 17. I nailed up some shelves, and drove nails
and staples in the wall, and pests to hang things out
-.-* ot the way.
I Dec. 20. Every thing I got into its place, then
I made a fort of a dresser, and another table.
\ Dec. 24, 25. Rain in abundance.
j. Dec. 26. Very fair weather.
;| Dec. 27, [ chanced to light on some goats, shot one,
fj wounded another •, 1 led it home in a string, bound
4| up his leg, and cured it in a little time; at length it
'<? became so tame and familiar as to feed before the
I? door, and follow me where I pleased. This put me
|| in mind to bring up tame creatures, in order to sup-
\i ply me with food after my ammunition was spent.
"j; Dec,
v
Dec. 28, 29, 30. The weather being excessive hot;
with little air, obiiged me for the molt part to kccp.j
within doors,
Jan. 1. Still sultry. However, obliged by neces 4
shy, I went out with my gun, and found ;i great store;/
of goats in the valleys; they were exceedingly shy, ^
nor could any dog hunt tlk-m down.
Jan. 3, to 14. My employment this time was to
finish the wall be sore described, and search the island,
I discovered a kind os pigeons like our house-pigeons
in a nest among the rocks, I brought them home.'
nursed them till they could fly, and then they left me,
After this I shot soise, which proved excellent food,
Some time I spent vainly in contriving to make a
cask j I may well say it was vain, because I ccuhl
neither join the staves, or fix the heads, so as tc
make it tight 5 so leaving that, 1 took some goats tal-
low I trad by me, and a little oakum for the wick, and
provided myself with a lamp, which served me in-
stead of candles.
But now a very strange event happened. For l,evf
ing in the height of my search, what i'hodd come in-£
to my hand, but a bag which was ufjd to Hold corns!
(as I supposed for the fowls, so immediately rcsol-Y
ving to put gunpowder in it, 1 {hoc k all ine huihsit
and dirt upon one lidc of the rock, linJe expectingS
what she eonkqutme would be. 1 he ram had sal- *'i
kn plentifully a ilw davs before; and about a month g
afar, to my great aninzcijp'.iir, something began tots
look out very green and flourishing: am! when III
came to view it more nicely, every d.-*y ?s it grew,l
1 found af out ten or fv/clve eais of green barley ap-
peared in the very seme shape and male as that in |
England. J|
I can scarce txpre^ the agitations of my mind at §j
this sight. Hirnerro I had locked upon /he actions j
of this life, no otherwise tlun <^\y as the events of 1
blind chance and so-:tune. But now, the apruar-|§
anceof this barley, flotuiflimg m a barren (qi'I, and fj
M
*ry ignorance in not conceiving how it should come
there, made me conclude, that miracles were not yet
&rhd\ nay, I even thought that God had appointed
it 10 grow'there without any seed, purely lor my
suiU nance in this miserable and desolate island. And
linked such great eilecl this had upon me, that it of-
ten made me melt into tears, through a grateful
fense of God's mercies •, and the greater still was my
thinkfuilness, when 1 perceived about this little field
of barley, some rice stalks, also wonderfully flouriih-
ing
While thus pleased in mind, I concluded there
must be more corn in the island; and therefore made
a diligent search narrowly among the rocks; but not
h iiig able to find any, on a sudden it came into my
rumd, how 1 had shaken the busies of corn out of the
fc.-;S and then my admiration ceased, with my grati-
f.'.V to the divine Being, as thinking it was hut na*
tuial, ar.d not to he conceived a miracle j tho* even
the manner of its preservation might have made me
own it as a wonderful event ot God's kind providence.
h was about the latter end of June when the ears
cf this corn ripened, which I laid up very carefully,
t'.g; ther with 20 or 30 stalks of rice, expecting one
diy I should reap the fruit of my labour; yet four
y.ars were expired before I could allow myself to eat
any barley bread, and much longer time before I h.;d
*anv rice, Aster this, with indefatigable pains and
Judustry for three or four months, at last I finished
\rr.y wall on the 14th of April, having no way to go
,\ir.u> it, but by a ladder against the wall.
';f April 16. I finished my ladder, and ascended it;
I afterwards pulled it up, then let it down on the other
,;fd,\ and descended into my new habitation, where I
|rncl space enough, and so fortified, that nothing could
^attick me, without scaling the walls.
^ But what does all human pains and industry avail,
'siiis the blessing of God do not crown our labours I Or,
- who
who can stand before the Almighty, when he stretch-
cth forth his arm? For one time, as I was at the en-
trance of my cave, there happened such a dreadful
earthquake, that not only the roof of the cave came
tumbling about my ears, but the posts seemed to crack
terribly at the same time. This put me in great a*
mazement; and running to the ladder, and getting
over the wall, I then plainly knew it was an earth-
quake, the place I stood on sustaining three terrible
shocks in less than three minutes. But judge of my
terror when I saw the top of a great rock roll into the
sea; I then expected the island would be swallowed
up every moment: And what made the scene still
more dreadful, was to fee the sea thrown into the most
violent agitations and disorders by this tremendous
accident.
For my pirt, I stood like a criminal at the place of
execution, ready to expire. At the moving of the
earth, I was, as it were, sea-sick; and very much a-
sraid lest the rock, under which was my fence and
habitation, mould overwhelm me and it in a lasting
tomb.
When the third dreadful stiock had spent itself, my
spirits began to revive ; yet still I would not venture
to ascend the ladder, but continued sitting, not know-
ing what I should do. So little grace had I then, as
only to soy, Lord have mercy upon me! and no sooner
was the earthquake over, but that pathetic prayer left
me.
It was not long after, when a horrible tempest a-
rose, at the same time attended with a hurricane of
wind. The sea seemed mountains high, and the
waves rolled so impetuously, that nothing could be
perceived but froth and foam. Three hours did this
storm continue, and in so violent a manner, as to tear
the very trees up by the roots, which was suceeded
by abundance of rain. When the tempest was over,
I went to my tent; but the rain coming on in a fu-
rious manner, F was obliged to take flicker in the
cavej
 
of ROBINSON CRUSOE. 37
cive, where I was forced to cut a channel tbreugb
irv fortification to let the water out. ft continued
Taming all that night, and sometime the next day.
These accidents made me resolve, as soon as the wca-
tl ' r cleared up, to build me n little hut in some open
pK:-e, walled round to defend me from wild creatures
ji: 'i savages ; not doubting, but, at the next earth-
q-.iako, the mountain would fall upon my habitation
aid me, and swallow up all'in its bowels.
April 161—20. These days I spent in contriving
how and in wlut manner 1 should fix my pbee ol a-
Jhode. All this while 1 was under the troll dreadful
apprehensions. When I looked round my habitation,
every thing I found in its proper place. 1 had several
resolutions whether I ihould move or not: but at
huu.uh I resolved to stay where I w?r, till I found out
a convenient place where I might pitch my tent.
April 22. "When I began to put my resolutions in
practice, I was slept for want of tools and instru-
mints to work with. Moil of my axes and hatchets
were useless, occasioned by cutting the hard timber
that grew* on the island. It took me up a full week
to make my grindstone of use to me; and at last I
found out a way to turn it a! out with my foot, by
li'Jp of a wheel and a string.
April 28, 29. These days was spent in grinding
my tools.
April 30. My bread falling (hort, I allowed my-
. seli but one biscuit a day.
May 1. As I walked along the sea-shore, I sound
a rune! of gunpowder, and several pieces of the
wi\xk, which the sea had flung up. Having secured
v thole i made to the ship, whose stern was torn off,
arid washed a great distance ashore; but the rest lay
.; in the sands. These I supposed was occasioned by the
^earthquake. I now resolved to keep mv old place of
: abode: and also to go to the ship that day, but then
."so»;;d it impossible.
£ D May
May 3. This day I went on board, and with my
saw sawed off one of the beams, which kept her quar-
ter deck. I then cleared the sand til J flood.
May 4. I caught some fish, but they were not
wholesome. The same day I also catched a young
dolphin.
May 5. This day I also repaired to the wreck, and
sawed another piece os timber -3 and when the flood
came, I made a float of three great planks, Which
Was driven ashore by the tide.
May 6, 7, 8, 9. These days I brought ossthe iron
bolts, opened tiie deck with the iron crow, and car-
ried two planks to land, having made away into the
very middle of the wreck.
May 10, 11, 12, 13, f 4. All this time I spent in
bringing off great quantities of hon and timber.
May 15. look with me two hatchets on purpose
to cut off some lead off the roll, but all in vain, for
it lay too low under water.
May 16. I omitted going to the wreck this day;
for employing myself in looking out pigeons, I out-
staid my time.
May 17. I perceived several pieces of the wreck
blown ashore, which I found belonged to the head
'of the ship.
May 24. To this day I worked on the wreck, and
with great difficulty loosened some things so much
with the crow, that at the first blowing tide several
casks floated out, and many of the seamens chests;
yet thai day nothing came to land but pieces oftiin-
ner, And a hogshead which had some Brafil pork in
it. I continued working to the 15th of June, (ex-
cept necessary times for food and rest); and had I
known how to have built a boat, I had timber and
plank enough: I had also near too weight of fliect-
lead.
June 16, As I was wandering towards the sea-fide,
I sound a large tortoise or turtle, being the first I had
seen
flips
of 'ROBINSON CRUSOE. 39
seen on the island, though, as I afterwards sound,
:here were many on the other side of it.
June 17, This day I spent in cooking it, found in
ler threescore eggs, and her flesh the moil savoury
and pleasant 1 ever tailed in my life.
June 18. I staid within this day, therebeing a con-
tinual rain; and-it was something more chilly and
ccltl than usual.
: June 19. Exceeding bad, taken with a trembling
and shivering.
June 20. Awake ail night, my head racked with
pain, and feverish.
June 21. Sick unto death, and terrified with the
dismal apprehensions of my condition. Prayed tea
God more frequently, but very confusedly.
June 22. Something better,'but i'Ul uneasy in my
mind.
June 23. A sain relapsed much as before.
June 24. Mended a second time. /
June 25. A violent ague for seven hours, cold and
hot fits, succeeded with faint sweats.
June 26. Better, hut very weak 1 yet i scrambled
out, shot a (lie-goat, brought it home, and broiled
some of it: 1 would willingly have liewed it, and
made seme broth, but had no pot.
June 27. All this day i was afflicted with an ague j
this sty,,, yet could not help myself to water: Prayed
to God in these words 5 Lord, in pity, look us on me \
Lord have mercy upon me \ have mercy upon me! Af-
ter this 1 fell afleep, which I found had much resnih*
ed me when I awaked. I sell asleep a second time, and
fell into this strange and terrible fort of dream.
Methought 1 was sittingonthe fame spot ot"ground,..
at the outiide of the wall where I fat when the storm
blew after the earthquake: and that I saw a man de-
scending from a^great biaex cloud, and light upon she
ground. He was all over as bright as a flash of fire
that a little before surrounded him ; his countenance
inconceiveably terrible ; the earth as it were trembled
D 2 when
when he slept upon the ground, and flashes of sire |
seemed to fist all the air. No sooner I thought hira"
landed upon the earth, but with a long spear or other Æ
weapon he made towards me j but first ascending a ri- '*
img ground, his voice added to my amazement, when I
thought I heard him pronounce these dreadful words,
Unhappy wretch! seeing all these things have not *
br-Aig-::-t thee to repentance^ thsu shalt immediately die,
in picnruncingthis dreadful sentence, I thought he
went to kill me with the spear that was in his hand.
Avy body may think it impossible for me to express
th-r horrors of my mind at this vision •, and even when
I awaked, this very dream made a deep impression
upon my mind. The little divine knowledge I had,
i received from my father's instructions, and that
was worn cut by an uninterrupted series of seafaring J
: —r-~*v ^)r fight years space. Except what sickneis .:<
i,.rvi;J horn me, i do not remember I had one thought;:
c/iifting up my heart towards God; but rather had '-"
a ccitain stupidity of foul, not having the least senses.*
of fear of the omnipotent Being when in distress, nor %
cs gratitude to him for his deliverances. Nay, when '%
I was on the desperate expedition on the desert Afri- ;1
can sliore, I cannot remember I had one thought oi?!
what would become of me, or to beg his consolation if
and assistance in my sufferings and distress. When ;?|
the Portugal captain took me up, and honourably ||
used me: nay, farther, when I was even delivered §j
from drowning by escaping to this island, I never H
looked upon it as a judgement, but only said I was 11
an unfortunate dog, and that's all. Indeed some se- *'"
cret transports of soul I had, which was not through f§
grace, but only a common flight of joy, that I was ff
yet alive, when my companions were all drowned, m
and no other joy could I conceive but what is com-
mon with the sailors over a bowl of punch, after they
have escaped the greatest dangers.
The
of ROBINSON CRUSOE. 41
The hkeV.hood os wanting for neither food nor
coi-vcnicnclts, might have called upon me for a
thankful acknowledgement to Providence. Indeed
the growth of my corn touched me with some sense;
but 'that soon wore oiF again. 'she terrible earth-
r Cjunke pointed to me as it were the linger of God,
but my dreadful amazement contii ued no longer
than its duration. But now, when my spirits begin
t> (Ink under the burthen of a strong distemper, and
I could leisurely view the miseries of death pre-
i; ,it themselves before my eyes; then my awakened
conscience began to reproach me with my past life,
in which I had so wickedly provoked the'justice of
C-i d, to pour down his vengeance upon me.
Such refections as these oppressed me even in the
violence of my distemper. Some prayers I uttered
wi.'ch only proceeded from my fear of death. But
w-:en I considered my father's advice and prophecy,
I oiild no: ferbesr weeping; sor he to-d me, Tbii
is s did persist in mys'My, I should not only be de-
prived os God's b'ef/ing, but have time enough to re-
's'•:! upon my demising his vsruflions \ and this in a
"^retched time* 11 hen rior.e could help me. And now
 excluding it to be fulfilled, having no soul in the
i'l md to administer any comfort to me, I prayed
*::•.«'nestK to the Lord, th..t he would help me in this
mv g-tat calamity, A'id trn, I think, was the fir it
tn.se I prayed in nr.-ceriiy ser many years. But" now
J mult return to rov journal.
June 28. Some-, lung refreshed with sleep, and the
;" n* quite o^ I got up. My dream itiii occasioned i»i
J Hie a great consternation , and fearing that the ague
\ m.ghi return the succeeding dav, I couclucied 3t time
t lo >:et lomethitig tocemfort me. I fined a case-feoftie
i u.-.h water, and set it wkhin the reach of my Ltd •
* and to make it more 'nourishing, a*,d kss chilly, I
put some rum into it. The next thing I'did was to
boil me a piece of g02t-flesii, of which I ate 1 ut iit-
tse. 1 was very weak : however, walked about, dread-
D 3 ing
m
ing the return of my distemper; and at night I sup-,f|
ped on three of the turtle's eggs, which I roasted and ?5
ate, begging God's blessing therewith.
After I had eaten, I attempted to walk again cut
of doors with my gun; but was so weak, that I lat
down, and locked at the sea, which was smooth and '«
calm. While I continued here, these thoughts came
into my mind.
In what manner is the production of the earth and
sea, which I have seen so much of? From whence ^
came im self, and all other creatures living, and of
what are we made?
Our beings were assuredly created by some ah
mighty invisible power, who framed the earth, tk
sea. and air, and all therein. But what is that power? «
Certainly it mull, follow, that God has created it
all. Yet, said F, is God has made all this, he must;
be the ruler of them all, aud what is relating there-
to; for certainly the power that makes, must indii- \-
puiably have a power to guide and direct them. And |?
if this be so (as certainly it must), nothing can hap-1?
pen without his knowledge or appointment. Then ;/
surely if nothing hrppctis without God's appoint- *'\
men*-, certainly God has appointed these my suffer* &
in^ji iole'al me. And here I fixed my firm belief, ^
that it was his will that it should be so; and thtn g
proceeded to enquire, why should God deal with me |j
in this manner? Or What have I done thus to de- %
il-rve his indignation? %
Here conscience Hew in my face, reprehending me ||
as -i blasphemer; erving with a loud and piercing j|
voice, Unworthy wretch! (sure yen ajl what yea have ||
done? Look upon your past Use^ and see what you have |
left undone f Ask thyself, why thou wert not long |
'$go in the merciless hands of death? Why not |
drowned in Yarmouth roads, or killed in the fight |
when the ship was taken by the Sallec man of war? g
Why not entombed hi the bowels of wild beasts on |
the 2
!
 
'If
tic African coast, or drowned here when all thy
Companions suite red shipwreck in the ocean?
StMickdumb with thde iclhctions, I rose up in a
pemive manner, being so thoughtful that I could not
g> to sleep-, and searing the dreadful return os my
* distemper, it caused me to remember that the lltdii-
lians tiled tobacco for almost nil diseases. I then went
to my chest, in order to sin! some, where Heaven no
cLubt directed me to find a cure for both foul and
body; for there 1 found one of the hi'* les, which till
thir/time 1 had neither leisure nor inclination to look
into; 1 took both the tobacco aud that out os the
ch-st, and laid them on the table. Several experi-
ments tlid I try with the tobacco: First I took a
. "f'.ire of leaf, and chewed it; but it being very green
and strong, almost itupisied me. Next 1 steeped it
in seme rum an hour or two, resolving when 1 went
to bed to take a dose os it; and in the third place, I
burnt seme over a pan of sre, holding my nose over
it so long as I could endure it without suffocation.
In the intervals of this operation, though my head
was giddy and disturbed at the tobacco, I took up
the bible to read. No sooner did I open it, but there
appeared to me these words. Call on me in the day
if trouble, and 1 will deliver thee, and thou stall glo-
rify me.
At fust this sentence made a very deep impression
.on my heait; but it soon wore oiF again, when I
considered the word deliver was foreign to me. And
,-as the children of Israel said, when they were pro-
.miled ilelh to eat, Can Cod spread a table in the vjil-
•xlerness P in like manner I began to say, Can God
'..Limiest deliver me from this desolate island? Howe-
ver, the words would still return to my mind, and
'.afterwards made a greater impression upon me. As
; ;|it now was very late, and the tobacco had dozed my
^ha-u!, I was inclined to ileep ; but before I would lie
.^<1- wiu I fell on my knees, and implored the promise
j^hat tiod had made to me in the holy scriptures,
';$ that
44 LIFE and ADVENTURES
that //' / called upon him In the day os iroul1-^ h
-would deliver me. With much difficulty 1 aster cl«'«•.;»-.
the rum, wherein I hid steeped the tobacco; whici:
fl)ing in my head, threw me into such a profound
sleeps that it was three o'clock the next day before
I awaked; or rather, 1 believe, I slept two days, ha-
ving certainly loll a day in my account, and I conk
never tell any other way. When I got up, my spi-
rits were lively and chearful \ my ilornach much bet-
ter, being very hungry ; and in short, no fit returned
the re\t day; which was the 2yth, but 1 found my-
self much altered lor the better.
The ^eth, I went abroad with my gun, but not
far, and killed a sea Owl or two, resembling a brand-
goose, which, however I cared not to eat when J
brought them home, but dined on two more of the
turtle's eg£s. In the evening 1 renewed my medicine,
excepting that I d'-d not take so large a quantity,
neither did 1 chew the 1 ;as, er hold my head over the
smoke: hut na: driy, which was the J si of July,'ha-
ving a little spice of the cole sit, I again took my me-
dicine as I did the first time.
July 3. The fit quite id: me, but very weak. In
this condition, I of-.en thought of these wotd*, IwtH
deliver thee; emd wh";e at some rimes I would think
of the imroliK
prebend n:ef i
uid rc-
viTatices I hr-d
1 Ciifrcji-' U
/e I had :o
ility of it, othe-* t
:*r difre^ding rht
,.civtd, even spun the melt ioilorn ai
rond'-ion. I ashed myself, what regard \r
God so- Li? abimd,:i:: mercies f have I done my part:'
He has d-Uvercd ?'.--.-, £/.-£ / -fc:;*' not glorified him ;—
an if I had said, I had not owned and r.cen thankful
lor these as deliverance:, arid how could I expect
greater: Ho m-.xh did this sensibly touch my heart,
that I gaveGed thinks for m? recovery irem sickness
in the moil: humble prostration.
July 4. This morning I began seriously to ponder
on what is written in the Nov Testament, resolving
to read a chapter every morning and flight as,long
a 3
s my thoughts would engage me. As soon as I set
bout this work seriously, t found my heart deeply af-
cted with the impiety of my past life; these words
Ijpbat I thought were spoken to me in my dream revi-
sed, ,*/// these things have not brought thee to repen-
unce. Alter this, I begged of God to assist me with
is Holy Spirit in returning to my duty. One day,
_n perusing the scriptures, I came to these words. He
|fj exalte! a Prince and a Saviour, to give repentance^
'ijkiui io give remission: Immediately I laid down the
Jjboek, ;md, with uplifted hands to heaven, loudly
Ijbri.-c2, 0 b les ed Jejiis> thou Jin oj'David, Jesus, ihoucx-
'0Riti.J Prince s):d Saviour, give me repentance J And
ffiicw indeed I prayed with a true ilmle of my conditi-
ftors, -?..:\d a more certain hope founded on the word
§§€t Gon. New I had a different fense os these words,
%Li d! on :ney and I -will deliver tbee9 that is, from the
Sfcmadiul loud of guilt, which oppitiled my sinful
p£';.il> and not from a solitary life, which might rather
§be cancel a bieilmg, (feeing I wan red neither food
ii.'? raiment), when compared with Jiving among the
human race, iuneunded with so much eppreision,
misery, and afllidtion; In a word I came to this con-
dition, that a deliverance from iln was a much greater
bleuirg than a deiiverance from sffiiciion. But again
I proceed te my journal.
To the 14th of July, I walked about with my gun
little and little at a time, having been reduced to the
greateit extremity of weakness. The applications
arm experiments 1 used weie perfectly new; neither
could 1 recommend them to any one's practice. For
though it carried off the fit, it very much weakened
me; and I had frequently convulsions in my nerves
and limbs for some time. From hence I learned,
that going abroad in rainy weather, especially when
it was attended with storms and hurricanes of wind,
v/as rncst pernicious to health. 1 had now been a-
bove ten months in the island -, and as I never had
seen any of the human kind, I therefoie accounted
myself
myself as sole monarch ; and as I grew better, having!
secured my habitation to my mind, I resolved to make!
a tour round my kingdom, in order to make new dis-j
coveries.
The 15th of July 1 began my journey. I first wentl
to the creek, where 1 had brought my rafts on shore;I
and travelling farther, found the tide went no higher!
than two miles up, where there was a little brook of I
running waters, 011 the bank of which were many plea- J
sent Savannas or meadows, plain, smooth, and cover-
ed with grafs. On the riling parts, where I supposed I
the water did not reach, I perceived a great deal of
tobacco growing to a very strong (talk. Several other j
plants 1 likewise found, the virtues of which I did not
understand. I searched a long time for the Cassava
root, which I knew the Indians in that climate made ]
their bread of j but nil in vain. There were several
plants of aloes, though at tint time 1 knew not what
they were; likewise I saw several sugar-cane, but
imperfect for want of cultivation. With these sew
discoveries I came back that night, and slept conten-
tedly in my little castle.
The next day, being the 16th, going the fame way
but farther than the day before, I found the country
more adorned with woods and trees. Here I percei-
ved different fruits in great abundance. Melons in
plenty lay on the ground, and clusters of grapes, ripe
and very rich, spread over the trees. You may ima-
gine I was glad of this discovery, yet ate very spa-
ringly, lest I mould throw myself into a flux or sever.
The grapes 1 found of excellent use, for when I had
dried them in the fun, which preserved them as dried
rasins are kept, they proved very wholesome and nou-
rishing, and served me in those seasons when no grapes
were to be-had.
The night drawing on apace, 1 ascended up a tree,
and slept very comfortably, though it was the first
time I had Iain out of my habitation. And when the
morning came, I proceeded with great pleasure out
my
by way, travelling about sour miles, as I imagined
by the length of the valley, di reeling my course noith-
|vard, there being a ridge of hills on the south and
jiorth side of me. At the end of this valley, I came
to an opening, where the country seemed to descend
|o the west ; there I sound a little spring of fresh wa-
fer, proceeding out of the side of a hill, with its crystal
(streams running directly east. And indeed here my
lenses were charmed with the most beautiful landscape
liature could afford: for the country appeared so flou-
Hihing, green, and delightful, that to me it seemed
like a planted garden. I then descended on the side
Di that delicious vale, when I found abundance of co-
coa, orange, lemon, and citron trees, but very wild
pini b irrcn at that time. As for the limes, they were
[delightful and wholesome, the juice cf which I aster
|ukd to mix in water, which male it very cool and re-
Isidbimi. And now 1 was resolved to carry home and
11,1" up a store of grapes, limes and lemons against the
preaching wet season. So laying them up in fepa-
{rated parcels, and then taking a few of each with me,
[1 returned to my little castle, after having spent three
lays In this journey. Before I got home, the grapes
! were Ib bruised that they utterly spoiled •, the limes in-
[deed were good, but of these I could bring only a few.
July 19. Having prepared two bags, I returned
[thither again; but to my great surprise found all the
grapes spread about, trod to pieces, and abundance
[ eaten, which made me conclude there were wild
I beasts thereabouts. To prevent this happening again,
[1 gathered a laige quantity of the grapes, and hung
[ them upon the out branches of the trees, both to
j Keep them unhurt, and that they might cure and dry
in the fun: and having well loaded my self with limes
I and lemons, I returned once more to my old place of
i residence.
And now contemplating on the fruitfulness of this
Talleyj the pleasantness of its situation, its security
from
4§
LIFE and ADVENTRUES
from storms, and the delightftiJness of the adjacent
woods, 1 concluded 1 was fettled in the worst part of
the country, and therefore was thinking to remove
my habitation. But when !considered again, that
though it was pleasant, it was off from the sea-fide
where there was a possibility, some time or other, a
ihip might either be driven or soil by; and that to
inclose myself among hills and woods must certainly
put an end to my hopes of deliverance; f resolved to
let my castle remain where Providence had first as-
signed it. Yet so ravished was 1 with this place, that
1 made me a little kind of bower, surrounding it with
a double hedge, as high as 1 could reach, well slaked,
and silled with bulrushes; and having spent a great
part of the month os July, 1 think it \va$ the first of
August before 1 began to enjoy my labour.
Aug. 3. Perceiving my grapes to be dry, I took
them from the trees, and they proved excellent good
rasins of the fun: the most of which I carried to my
cave; and happy for me I did so, by which I saved
the best part of my winter food.
Aug. 14. This day it began to rain ; and though 1
had made me a tent like the other, yet having no shel-
ter of a hill to keep me from storms, nor a cave behind
me to retreat to, I was obliged to return to my old ca-
stle. The rain continued more or less every day, till
the middle of October ; and sometimes so "violently
that 1 could not stir out of my cave for several days.
This season I found my family to increase t for one
of my cats that ran away from me, and who 1 thought
had been dead, returned about August, with three
kittens at her heels, like herself, which 1 thought
strange, because both my cats were females, and the
wild cats of the island seemed to be of a different
kind from our European cats; but from these cats
proceeded such numbers, that 1 was forced to kill arid
destroy them as ! would do wild beasts or vermin.
To the 26th of this month 1 could not stir out it
raining
-/mine inceffintlv; when beginning to want food,
I was compelled to feature twice, the first of wmch I
hot a goat, and afterwards found a very large tor-
knife. The manner of my regulating my food was
thus: A bunch of raisins served me for breakfast j a
piece of goat's flesh or turtle broiled for my dinner,
and two or three turtle eggs for my supper. While
the rain Listed, 1 daily worked two or three hours at
enlarging my cave, arid by degrees worked it on to-
wards one fide, till I came to the outside of the hill,
and made a door or way out, which came beyond my
fence or wall, and so I came in and out this way.
But after 1 had done this, I was troubled to foe my-
self thus exposed; though I could not perceive any
thing to fear, a goat being the biggest creature 1 had
seen upon this island.
Sept. 30. Casting up my notcheson my post, which
amounted to 365,*I concluded this to be the anni-
versary of my landing; anc! therefore humbly pro-
skating myself on the ground, confessing my fins, ac-
knowledging God's rightious judgements upon me,
and praying to Jesus Christ to have mercy on me, 1
fasted for twelve hours till the going down of the son;
and then eating a bisenit and a bunch of grapes, laid
me on the bed, and with great comfort took my
night's repose. Till this time'I never had distinguifh-
cef the Sabbath-day \ but now I made a longer notch
than ordinary for the days of rest, and divided the
weeks as' well as I could, though I founds had lost a
day or tw^o in my account. My ink failing soon as
ter, 1 omitted in my daily memorandum things of an
indifferent nature, and contented myself to write
down only the most remarkable events of my lifn.
The rainy and dry seasons appeared now regular to
me, and experience taught me how to provide for
them ; jet, in one thing 1 am going to relate, my ex-
perience very much failed me. 'You may call to
mind what 1 have mentioned of some barley and rice
which I had saved.; about thirty stalks of the former,
E and
5°
LIFE and ADVENTURES
1
and twenty of the latter; and at that time the sV*|
being In its southern position, going from me, to*f>
gether with the rains, made me conclude it a very--!
proper season to sow it. Accordingly I dug up a'#{
piece os ground, with my wooden spade, and divi-.-l
ding it in two parts, sowed about two-thirds of m|",;f{
Iced, preserving by me about a handful of ench.v*,j-
And happy it was 1 did so; for no rains falling, it/;^
was choked up, and never appeared above the earth-3
till the wet fen ion came again, and then part of it'";|
grew, as if it had been newly sown. ::j
I was resolved still to make another trial ; aiuhj?.
seeking for a moider piece os ground near my bower, r?«
1 there sowed the reft os nty seed in February, a little ^
before the vernal equinox; which having the rainy ,,>2
months of March and April to water it, yielded a no- i/j
ble crop, and sprung up \cy pleasantly. 1 had still ^
saved part of the seed, notd'rinsj to venture all; |v|
and by the time I found our the proper seasons to f||
sow in, and that I might expect every year two seed- t||
times and two harvests, my stock amounted to above m
half a peck ofeach fort of grain* ;||
No sooner were the rains over, but the stakes
which I had cut from the trees, shot out like willows
the first year after lopping their heads. 1 was igno-
rant of the tree 1 cut them from: but they grew .so
regularly beautiful, that they made a most lively ap-
pearance, and so flourished in three years time, that
I resolved to cut more of them; and these soon
growing, made a glorious fence, as afterwards I shall
observe.
And now I perceived that the seasons of the year
might generally be divided, not into summer and
winter, as in Europe, but into wet and dry seasons, as
In this manner*
C February, 1
Half -< March% > Rat'ny9sim coming near /foEqui-
j fiOX.
1M(
J;nl
of ROBINSON CRUSOE. 51
s April, 1
1 \ f <» June, \ Dry,sun getting north of the ant.
\ July, I
31 s ) September, > Wet, ihesun being then come back.
I October, 3
f Ottobvr, 1
I November \
I! .If <| December•, \ Dry,sunrunningsoutbostheline
I January, | -
L February J
The wet seasons would continue longer or shorter
. the winds, happened to blow. But having iotmd
. : ill coiisequences of bang abroad in the rain, I
: k care before band to furnish rnyfdf with provi-
1 -is ; and, during the wet months, lat within doors
. - much as possible. At this time 1 connived to minke
\ * ny things that 1 wanted, though it cod me much
'our and pains, before I could accomplish ihciti*
'-e first 1 tried was to make a basket; but all the
* - igs I could get proved so brittle, that 1 co:u!d not
' m perform it. it now proved of great advantage
"tae, that, when a boy, 1 took great delight in
s tiding at a basket-makers m the farce town where
f lather lived, to view them at work: ar.d, like
: ier boys, curious to fee the manner of their vrork-
i. 7 these things, and very offitnons to assist, 1 peried>
'learned the method of it, and wanted nothing uut
'•- tools. A rid it coming into my mind, that the
'-igs of that tree of which ! made my stakes, might
''as tough .as fallow, willow, or osiers, growing in
'lgland, I resolved to make an experiment, and went
;! e next da? to my country-seat, and sound some fit
• t my turn § and'after cuffing clown a quantity with
'7 hatchet, 1 dried them in my pale, and, when fir.
t- work with, cairiee them to my cave, where I cm-
E 2' ployed
v,
ployed myself in making several sorts of baskets,
ibmuch that I cook! put In whatsoever 1 pleased.
Is true, they were not cleverly made, yet they ser .
iny t u i n upon all occa si oi»3.
But sill 1 wanted two necessary things. 1 had
calk to hold my liquor, except two rundJets aln
lull of rum, a sew buttles of-an ordinary size, ;
seine square cnsc-hottles j neither had 1 a pot to 1
any thing in, only a large kettle, unsit to make bre .
or Isew a bit of meat: I wanted likewise at the"
ginning of this dry season a tobacco pipe j but 1.1
thij- I afterwards found an expedient.
J L.-pt myself employed in planting my second r
of stakes, ihit ^remembering that when i travelled ,;
to the brook, 1 had a mind to fee the whole island- i
now resinned my intention, and taking my dog5 gu- 
hatchet, two biscuit-cakes, a great bunch of raise .
with a larger quantify of powder and shot than use-1 -
1 began my journey. Having passed the vale wh-;
my bower flood, 1 came within view of the sea iy:>:
to the well 5 when, it being a clear day, I fairly d .•
cried land, extending from the W. to the S. W. .1-
bout 10 or 15 leagues, as 1 concluded ; but could i:
fay whether it was an island or a continent. Neitb *
could 1 tell what this place might be; only thoii| ''
it was part of America, and where I might In . 
been in a miserable condition, had 1 landed. Aga.--,
I considered, tli.it if this was the Spanish coast* c *
tainly, one time or other, I should fee some Ib /
pass by; and if it was net, then it must be the S
vage coast, between the Spaniih country and Bra.l'
which abends with cannibals or man-eaters*
As f proceeded forward, 1 found this side of t 
island much more pleasant than mine; the fields si:
grant, adorned with sweet flowers and verdant gr;
together with several very sine woods. There we:
parrots in plenty, which made me long for one to .'
my companion; "but it was with great difficult]'
€01 ' -
 -';ld knock orje down with my stick; and 1 kept
:.- i at home some yeats, before 1 could get him to
«  ! me by roy name.
!o the low grounds I found various sorts of hares
* 'foxes as I took them to be, but much different
i • ii those in England. Several of these 1 killed, but
r1 ^er ate them, •, neither indeed had I any occasion;
'"abounding with goats, pigeons, turtle, and grapes,
''.ould defy Leadenhall market to funitsti me a bet-
f- : table* in this journey I did not travel above two
n iles a-day, because I took several turns aud wirul-
i- .\s to fee what discoveries I could make, returning
v- iry enough to the place where 1 designed to rest
'id night, which was either in a tree, or to a place
--stch 1 surrounded with stakes, that no wild crea*
•' = - '* might suddenly surprise me. When i came to
;! i sea ihore, I was amazed to seethe splendor of it.
I strand was covered with shells of the most beauti-
1 'l full, and constantly abounding with innumerable
tfulcs, and fowls of many kinds, which I was ig-
':ant of, except those called Penguins. I might
;- ve (hot as many as I pleased, but was sparing of
'' ) ammunition, rather chusmg to kill a she-goaf,
v ' 'cli I did with much difficulty, on account of the
: * tness of the country*
*]ow, though this journey produced the most pka-
 < satisfaction, yet my habitation was so much to
' ; likings that 1 did not repine at my being seated
f-': ".he word part of the island. I continued my jour-
* "$ travelling about twelve miles further towards the
( :"'i where 1 set a great pile on the shore fora mark»
J- eluding that my next journey should bring me to
• other fide of the island, east from my castle, and
* -oand till 1 came to my post again. As !had a
'; -.slant ?iew of the country, 1 thought 1 could not
• -is my way; but scarce had 1 travelled three miles,
"! en' I descended into a very large valley, so sur-
'• :-=nded with hills covered with wood, that I having
wo guide but by the fun, nor even then, unless 1 kneiv
£ 3 well
54 L F I E a * d A D V E N T U 11 E S
well the position of the fun at that time of the day;
and to add to my misfortune, the weather proving
very hazy, 1 was obliged to return to roy poll by the
sea side, and so backwards the some way I came* lit
this journey my dog surprised a kid, and would have
killed it, had 1 not prevented him. As I had often
been thinking of getting a kid or two, and so raising
a breed of tunic goats to supply me after my ammu-
nition was spirit, I took this opportunity of begin-
ning: and having made a collar for this little crea*
turc with a string made of rope-yarn, 1 brought it
to my bower, and there inclosed and left him ; and
having spent a month in this journey, at length I re-
turned to my old habitat ion*
No body can doubt of my sot isfaction, when I re-
turned to my little castle, and reposed myself in my
hammock. After my journey I rested myself a week,
which time I employed in making a cage for my
pretty poll. I now began to consider of the poor kid
I had left at the bower, and 1 immediately went to
fetch it home. When I came there, 1 found the young
creature almost starved; 1 gave it some food, and tied
it as before: but there was no occasion, for it follow-
ed me like a dog • and as 1 constantly fed it, it be-
came io loving, gentle, and fond, that it commenced
one of my domestics, and would never leave me*
The rainy season of the autumnal equinox being
now come, I kept the 30th of September in the most
solemn manner, as usual, it being the third year of
my abode in the island. I spent the whole day in ac-
knowledging God's mercies; in giving him thanks
for making this solitary life as agreeable, and less
sinful, than that of human society j and for the com-
munications of his grace to my Ibid, in supporting,
comforting, and encouraging me to depend upon his
providence, and hope for bis eternal presence in the .
world to come.
Indeed 1 often did consider how. much more happy
1 was
I was in this state of life than in that accurs.:d man-
ner ot living I formerly nice!; and sometimes when
hunting, or viewing the country, the angitilh of my
ioul would break out upon me, and my very heait
would fink within me, to'think of the woods, the
mountains, the deserts [ was in j aud how I was a
prisoner locked up within the eternal bars and bolts
of the ocean, in an uninhabited wilderness without
hopes, and without redemption. In this condition, I
would often wring my hands, and weep like a child:
And even sometimes in the middle oi my work this
Ik would take me; and then I would sit down and
hgti, looking on the ground for an hour or two toge-
ther, till such time as my grief got vent in a Hood of
tears.
One morning as I was sadly employed In this
manner, 1 opened my Bible, when immediately I
fixed my eyes upon these words, I will never leave
ihse% nor forsake thee! .Surely, thought I, these
words are dirtcttd to me j or else why sliouid they
appear just at a moment when I am bemoaning my
forlorn condition? and if God does not forsake me,
what^matters it, since he can make me more happy
w this state of life, than if I enjoyed the greatest
splendor in the world? But while I was going to re-
turn God thanks for my present state, something
seemed to shock my mind, as if it had thus said:
Unworthy^wretch! can you pretend to be thankful
for a condition, from which you would pray to be
delivered! Here 1 stopt 5—and though 1 could not
fay, I thanked the Divine Majesty for being there,
yet 1 gave God thanks for placing to my view my
former wicked course of life, and granting me a true
knowledge of repentance. And whenever 1 opened
or flint the Bible, 1 blessed kind Providence, that di-
rected my good friend in England, to send it among
»«y goods without my order,. and for assisting me to
save it from the power-of the raging ocean.
And now beginning my. third year, my several
daily
duly employments were these, FhJI3 My duty to
Heaven* and diligently reading the holy feriptuses,
which I did twice or thrice every day, Secondly ^
Seeking provision with my gnn, which commonly
took me up, when it did not rain, three houis every
morning- Thirdly, 'The ordering, curing, pu-set*-
wf-g, and cooking what 1 had killed, or catchci for
my supply, which took roe up a great part of the day:
for in the middle of the day the sun being in its
height, it was so hot, that 1 could not fur out; so
that 1 had only but four hours in the evening to work
in : and then the want of fools, of assistance, and skill
wasted a great deal offline to little purpose. I was
no less than two and forty clays making a board lit
for a long shelf, winch two sawyers, with their tools
and saw-pit, would have cut out of the fame tree in
half a clay, it was of a large tree, as my hoard was to
be broad, I was three clays in cutting it down, and
two more in lopping oft the hows, and reducing it
to a piece of timber. Thus I hacked and hewed off
each side, till it became light to move ; then 1 turned
it, made one fide of it smooth and flat as a board
from end to end, then turned it .downward, cutting
the other side, till I brought the plank to he about
three inches thick, and smooth on both sides. A-
ny body may judge ray great labour and fatigue in
such a piece of work *, but this I went through with
patience, as also many other things that my circum-
stances made ncossary for me to do.
The harvest months, November, and Deccmrer,
were now at hand, in which 1 had the pleasing prospt£t
of a very good crop. But here J met with a new mis-
fortune; for the goats and hares, having tasted of
the sweetness of the blade, kept it so short, that it
had no strength to shoot up into a staik. To pre-
vent this, 1 inclosed it with a hedge, and by day (hot
some of its devourers; and my dog, which I had
tied to the field-gate, keeping barking all night,
, so
so frightened these creatures, that I got entirely rid
of them.
But no sooner did I get rid of these, than other
enemies appeared, to wit, whole locks of several
forts of birds, who only waited till my back was
turned to ruin me* So much did this provoke me,
that 1 kt fly, and killed three of the malefactors 1
and afterwards seived them as they do notorious
thieves in England, hung them up in chains as a
terror to others. And indeed so good an effect had
thls$ that they not only forsook the corn, but all that
part of the island, so long as these criminals hung
there.
My cern having ripened apsce, the latter end of
December, which was my second harvest, I reaped it
with a scythe, made of one of my broad swords. I
had no fatigue in cutting down my" first crop, it was
so slender. The ears I carried home in a basket, rub-
bing it out with my hands instead of threshing it;
and when my harvest was o?er, found my. half peck
of feed produced near two bushels of rice, and two
bushels and a half of barley. And now I plainly
foresaw, that, by God's goodness, I should be sur-
nished with bread ; but yet 1 was concerned, because
1 knew not how to grind or make meal of my corn,
nor bread, neither knew how to bake it* I would
not however taste any of the crop, but resolved to
preserve it against next season, and in the mean
while use my best endeavours to provide myself with
other food.
But where were my labours to end? The want of
a plough to turn up the earth, or shovel to dig it, I
conquered by making me a wooden spade : the want
of a harrow, I supplied myself with dragging over the
corn a great bough os a tree. When it was growing
I was forced to fence it j when ripe to mow it,
carry it home, thresh it, part it from the chaff, and
save it. And after all, 1 wanted a mill to grind it,
heve to dress it, yest and salt to make it into bread,
and
and an o?cn to bake it. This set my brains on work
to find some expedient for every one of these necessa-
ries against the next harvest*
And now having more feed, my first care was to
prepare me more hind. I pitched upon two large fiat
pieces of ground near my castle for that purpose, in
which 1 sowed my seed, and fenced it with a good
hedge* This took me up three months; by which
time the wet season coming on, and the rain keeping
me within doors, I found several occasions to employ
myself; and while at woik, used to divert myself
with talking to my parrot, learning him to know and
speak his own name Poll, the first welcome word I
twer heard spoke in the island. I had been a long
time contriving how to make catthen vessels, which
1 wanted extremely, and when I considered the
beat of the climate, 1 did i:ot doubt but if I could
find any such clay, I might botch up a pot, strong
enough when dried in the (n^ to bear handling, and
to hold ajiy thing that was dry, as corn, meal, and
other things.
To he short, the clay I found ; but it would occa-
sion the most serious person to smile to see what awk-
ward ways 1 tcok, and what ugly mi shape n things I
made; how many either fell out or cracked by the
•violent heat of the fun, one! fell in pieces when they
were removed; so that I think it was two months
time before 1 could perfect any thing ; and even then
but too clumsy things in imitation of earthen jare.
These howeter 1 tcry gently placed in wicker baf-
kde, made en jeipcfc for then:, and between tie
pet and the b;ihet.% stifftd it full of nec and barley
straw; and these 1 prcsvmed would held my diicd
corn, and perhaps the meal when the corn was brui-
sed. Ah for the smaller things, 1 made them with
better success; such as little round pots, fiat dishes,
pitchers, and pipkin?, the fun baking them very
hi n I
iV% /till I wanted one thing absolutely necessary,
atri
and that was an earthen pot, not only to hold my li-
quid, but also to bear the lire, which none of these
could do, It once happened, that as I was putting
out my sire, I found therein a broken piece of one of
my vessels burnt hard as a rock, and red as a tile.
This made me think of burning some pots; and ha-
ving no notion of kiln, or of glazing them with lead,
I fixed tbiee large pipkins, and two or three pots in a
pile one upon another. The lire 1 piled round the
outside, and dry wood on the top, till I saw the pots
in the inside red hot, and sound that they did not
crack at all; and when I perceived them perfectly red,
1 let one.of them stand in the sire about five or six
hours, till the clay melted by the extremity of the
hear, and would have run to glass, had I suffered it j
upon which I flacked my sire by degrees till the red-
iu'l<» abated; and watching them till the morning, I
found I had three very good pipkins, and two earthen
pots, as well burnt and sit for my torn as 1 Could de-
lire.
No joy could be greater than mine at this discove-
ry. For aster this, 1 may fay, 1 wanted for no sort
of earthen ware. I iilled one of nay pipkins with wa-
ter to boil me some meat, which it did admirably well,
and with a piece of kid i made roe some good broth,
as well as my circumstances would afford me at that
time.
The next concern 1 had was to get me a stone-mor-
tar to beat some corn in, instead of a mill to grind it.
Here indeed 1 was at a great loss, as not being lit for.
a stone-cutter; ar-d roan? days I spent to find out a
great stone big enough to cut hollow jthI make fit for
a mortar, and strong enough to bear the weight of a
pestil, that would break the corn without silling it
with sand. But all the stones of the island being of
3 mouldering nature, rendered my search fruitless 5
and then I resolved to look out a great block of hard
wood 1 which having soon found, I formed it with my
axe and hammer, and then with infinite labour m-Mc
a
a hollow in it, just: as the Indians of Brasil make their
canoes. When I had finished this, I made a great
pestilof iron wood, and then laid them up against my
succeeding harvest.
My next business was to make me a sieve, to sift
my meal, and part it from the bran and huik. Having
no fine thin canvass to search the meal through, 1
could not tell what to do* What linen I had was
reduced to rags: I had goats hair enoughs but nei-
ther tools to work it, nor did I know how to spin it:
At length I remembered 1 had some neckcloths of
callico or muflin of the sailors, which I had biought
out of the ship, and with these 1 made three small
sieves, proper enough for the work,
I come now to consider the baking part. The
want of an oven I supplied by making some earthen
pans very brood, but not deep. When I had a mind
to bake, I made a .great sire upon the hearth, the tiles
of which I made myself; and when the wood was
burnt into live coals, I spread them over it, till it be-
came very hot; then sweeping them away, I set down
my loaves, and whelming clown the earthen pots upon
them, drew the allies and coals all around the outside
of the pots to continue the heat; and in this manner I
baked my bailey loaves, as well as if I had been a
complete pastry-cook, and also made of the rice seve-
ral cakes and puddings.
It is no wonder, that all these things took me up
the best part of a year, since what intermediate time
I had was bestowed in managing my new harvest
and husbandry; for in the proper season I reaped my
corn, carried it home, and laid it up in the ear in my
large baskets, till I had time to rub, instead of
threshing it. And now indeed my corn increased so
much, that it produced me about twenty bushels of
barley, and as much of rice, that I not only began
to use it freely, but was thinking how to enlarge
my
a
my barns, and resolved to sow as much at a time as
would be sufficient for me fur a whole year.
All this while, the profp«.-ct of hind, which 1 had
seen from the other side os the island, ran in my
mind. I iiill meditated a deliverance from this
slice, though the fear of greater misfortunes might
have deterred ^me from it. For allowing that I had
attained that place, 1 run the hazard of being killed
nd eaten by the devouring cannibals; and if they
were not so, yet I might be slain, as other Euro-
peans had been, who fell into their hands* Not-
withstanding all this, my thoughts ran continually
upon that shore. I now wished for my boy Xury,
and the long boat, with the moulder of mutton sail;
1 went to the ship's boat, that had been cast a gre-it
way on the shore in the late storm. \She was remo-
ved but a little j but her bottom being turned up by
the impetuosity and fury of the waves and wind, I
fell to work with all the strength 1 had, and with le-
vers and rollers 1 had cut from the wood, to turn
.her, and repair the'damages (lie had sustained. This
work took-me up three or four weeks, when finding
my little strength all in vain, I fell to undermining
it by digging away the sand, and so to make it fall
down, setting pieces of wood to thrust and guide it
in the foil. But after this was done, 1 was still un-
able to stir it up, or to get under it, much less to
move it forwards towards the water, and so f was for-
ced to give it over.
This disappointment however did not frighten me*
1 began to think whether it was not possible for me
to make a canoe or Perigna, such as the Indians
make of the trunk of a tree. But here 1 lay under par-
ticular inconveniencies, want of tools to "make it,
and want of hands to move it in the water when it
was made. However, to work I went upon it,
stopping all the inquiries I could mske, with this
^ery simple answer 1 made to myself* Let*s fust make
F it
j
it, I'll warrant I'll find some way or other to get it
along when it is done.
i first cut down a cedar-tree, which was five feet
ten inches diameter at the lower part next the stomp,
arid four sect eleven inches diameter at the end of
twenty-two sect, aster which it lessened for a space,
and then parted into branches. Twenty days was I
a hacking and hewing this tree at the bottom, four-
teen more in cutting off the branches aud limbs* and
a whole month in shaping it like the bottom of a
boat. As for the inside, 1 was three weeks with a
mallet arul chiflel, clearing it in such a manner, ^as
that it was big enough to carry 26 men, much big-
ger than any canoe 1 ever hw in my life, and con fe -
ciienti? sufficient to transport me and ail my effects
to that'wUhed-sor shore 1 so ardently desired.
Nothing remained now, but indeed the greatest
difficulty/ to get into the water, it lying about 100
yards from it- To remedy the first inconvenience,
which was a rising hill between this bo.it and the
cree'e, with wonderful pains and labour 1^dug into
the surface of the earth, and made a declivity. But
when this was done, ail the strength I had was as hi-
sufficient to move it, as it was when I attempted to
move the boat. I then proceeded to measure the di-
stance os ground, resolving to make a canal, in or-
der to bring the water to the canoe, since 1 could not
bnn.o" the canoe to the water. But as this seemed
to be impracticable to myself alone, under the space
of eleven or twelve years, it brought me into some
fort of consideration: so that 1 concluded this also
to be impossible, and the attempt altogether vain. I
bow saw, and not before, what stupidity it is to be-
gin work before we reckon its costs, or judge right-
ly our own abilities to go through with its perform-
ance.
In the he:ght of this work, my fourth year expi-
red, from the time 1 was cast upon this island. At
[CS'ii-^ I cm not forest my anniversary; but kept
'of R O BIN* S O N C Jl V S O E. 6j
it with rather greater devotion than before. For now
niy hopes being frustrated, I looked upon this world
as a thing 1 had nothing to do with » and very well
might 1 fay, us father Abraham said onto Dives, Be-
tween me and thee there is a gulf fixed. And indeed
1 \v.is ft parted from its wickedness too, having nei-
ther the lust of the flesh, the lust of the eye, hor the
pride of Use ; I h a J nothing to covet, being lord, king,
and emperor over the whole country 1 had in pofll't-
son, without dispute, and without contral: I had
loadings of corn, plenty of turtles, limber in abun-
dance, and grapes above meafuie. What was all trus
rest to me ? The money 1 had by- me lay as despica-
ble dross, which f would freely have given for a gfo'^i
of tobacco pipes, or a hand-mill to grind my corn:
in a word, the nature and experience of these things
dictated to me this juil reflection; 'That the good
things of this world are no farther good to us, than
they are for our use j and that whatever we may
heap up to give others, we can but enjoy as much as
we use, and no more.
These thoughts rendered my mind more easy than
usual. Every time 1 sat down to meat, I did it with
thankfulness, admiring the providential hand of God
who in this wilderness had spread a table to me. And
now I considered what 1 enjoyed, rather than what
1 wanted -, compared my present condition with what
1 at 'first expected it should be; how I should hare
done, if 1 had got nothing cut of the snip"; That I
must hare perished before I had caught fish or tur-
'tle$5 or lived, had 1 sound them, like a mere la-
vage, by eating them raw, and pulling them in pie-
ces with my claws, like a beast. I next compared
'my station to that which 1 deserved ; how undutisiil
1 had been to my parents; how destitute of the senr
of Gocl i how void of every thing that was good;
and how ungrateful for those abundant mercies I had
received from Heaven,'being fed, as it were, by a
F 2 miracle
niiracltr, even as great as Elijah's being fed by ravens,;
anc! call on a place where there were -no venomous
creatures to poison or devour me; in short, making
God's tender mercies matter of great consolation, i
relinquished all sadness, and gave way to content-
ment.
Ah ?•:>*!s*" is my ink continued, which with water 1
made Ltd as long as I could, 1 used to minute down
the days of the month, on which any remarkable
thing hap pencil. And,
Firtl, I observed, that the si me day I forsook my
pareiius and friends, and ran away to Hull, in order
10 go so lea, the fame day afterwards in the next year
1 was taken and made a Have by the Sallce rovers:
Tint the very day I escaped out of the wreck ef
the snip in Yarmouth roads, a year after, on the fame
I'iiv, i made my escape from Sallee in my patron's
hdiing-boat.
And that on the 30th of September, being the day
of the year 1 w;is horn on, on that day twenty-six
vears after, was 1 miraculously saved, and*cast aftior.e
on this ifltncl.
The next thing that wasted after my ink, was the
biscuit which I had brought out of the ship: and
though 1- allowed myself but one cake a-day for above
a twelvemonth, yet 1 was quite out of bread for near
a tear, before 1 got any corn of my own.
In the next place, my cloaibs began to decay, and"
my linen had been gone long before. However, I
had preserved about three dozen of the sailors che-
quered (hiits, which proved a great refreshment t^-
me, when the violent beams of the fun would not
sutler me to bear any of the seamens heavy watchr
coats; which made me turn tailor, and, after a mi*
ferab'e botching manner, convert them to jackets.
To preserve  my head, I made me a cap of goat-
ikin.% with the hair outwards to keep out the rain *,
which indeed served me so well, that afterwards I
made
made me a waistcoat and open knced-breechcs of the
lame: And then i contrived a sort of an umbrella,
covering it with skirts, which not only kept out the
heat of the fun, but the rain also. Thus being easy
aud settled in my mind, my chiefest happiness'was
to converse with God, in moil heavenly and comfort-
able ejaculations.
For live years after this 1 cannot fay any extraordi-
nary thing occurred to me. My chief employment
was to cute my raisins, and plant my barley and rice,,
of both which"! had a year's provision before-hand.
But though I was disappointed in my first canoe, I
made it, at intermediate times, my business to make
a second, of much inferior size » and it was two years
before 1 finished it. But ss I perceived it would no-
wife answer my design of failing to the other shore,
my thoughts were confined to take a tour round the*
island, to fee what further discoveries I could make.
To this intent, after having moved her to the water,
and tiied horn- she would soil, I fitted up a little mail
10 my boat, and made a fail ot the ship's soil that lay
by me. I then made lockers or boxes at the end of
if, to put in necessaries, provisions, and ammunition,
which would preserve them dry either from rain, or
the spray of the sea; and in the inside os the boat, I
cut me a long hollow place to lay my gon,, and to keep
it dry made'a flag to hang over it. My umbrella I
fixed in a step in the stern, like a mast, to keep the
heat of the sun off me. And now resolving to see the
iircumscrcnce of my little kingdom, 1 victualled my
ihip for the vovage, putting in two dozen os my bar-
Is y-bread loaves, an earthen pot full of parched rice, a
little bottle of rum, huts a goat, powder and (hot, and
two watch-coats. It was the 6th of November, in
the sixth year of my reign, or ca-ptivity, that I set
out on this .vovage •, which was much longer tii.m I
expected, being obliged to put farther out, by season
of the rocks that lay a great way in the sea. And in-
F 3 deed
deed so much did these .rocks surprise me, that I was-
for putting back, fearing that if 1 ventured farther, it
would be out of my power to return: in this uncer-
tainty 1 came to an anchor just oil' shore, to which 1
waded with my gon on my shoulder, and then climb-
ing up a hill, which overlooked that point, I saw the
iull extent of it, and so f resolved to run all hazards,,
In this prospect from the hill, I perceived a violent
current running to the call, coming very close to the
point; which I the more carefully observed, thinking
it dangerous, and that when I came to it, Lmight be
drove into the sea by its force, and not able to return
to the island ; and certainly it must have been so, had
1 not made this observation ; for on the other side was
the like current, with this difference, that it set ess at
a greater distance ; and I perceived there was a strong
eddy under the land; so that my chief business was to
work out of the siist current, and conveniently get in-
fo the eddy. Two days I staid here, the wind blow-
ing very briskly E, S. E. which being contrary to the
current, leaves a great breach of the sea upon the
point; h it was neither lit for me to keep too near the
ihor» on account of the breach ; nor stand at too great
•a distance, for fear of the streams. That night the
"wind abating, it grew so calm, that I. ventured out j.
and here I may be a monument to all rash and igno-
rant pilots; For 1 was no sooner come to the point, and
not above the boat's length from shore, but I was got
into a deep water with a current like a mill, which
if rove my boatalong so violently, that it was impossible
for me to keep her near the edge of it, but forced me
more and more out from the eddy to the left of me j
and all 1 could do with my padlers was useless^ there
being no wind to help me.
Mow 1 began to look upon myself as quite lost,
since as the current ran on both fides of the island, I
wm \xrj eeurdri they mull join again, and then I had
fiO<
no hopes but of perishing for want in the sea, aster
what provision 1 had was spent, or before} if a storm
should happen to arise.
Who can conceive the present anguish of my mine!
at this calamity? With longing eyes did I look up-
on my little kingdom, and thought the island the
pleafantest place in the universe. Happy, thrice hap-
py desert, said I, shall I never, see thee more?
Wretched creature! whither I am going? Why did
1 murmur at my lonesome condition, when now I
would give the whole world to be thither again .?
While 1 was thus complaining, 1 found myself to
be driven about two leagues into the sea *, however, 1
laboured till my strength was far spent, to keep my
boat as far north as possibly I could, to that side of
the current where the eddy lay on. About noon 1
perceived a little breeze of wind spring up from the
*S. S. E. which overjoyed my heart; and 1 was still
more elated, when, in about half an hour, it blew a
gentle sine gale. Had any thick weather sprung up,
i had been lost another way; for having no eompals
on board, I should never have found the way to steer
towards the island, if once it had disappeared j.but it
proving the contrary, I set up my mast again, spread
my fail, and stood away northward as much as 1
could to get rid of the current. And no sooner did
the boat begin to stretch away, but I perceived by the
clearness of the water, a change of the current
was near: for where it was strong, the water was
faul; and where it was clear, the current abated.
'Jo the east I soon saw, about half a mile, a breach
of the sea upon some rocks, which caused it again to
separate ; and as the main force of it drove away
more southwardly, leaving the rocks to the north-
east, so the other came back by the repulse of the
rocks, making-a sharp eddy, which returned back
again to the north-west with a very swift stream.
They who have experienced what it is to be re-
prieved upon the ladder,' or to be saved from thieves
just
just going to tale away their lives, or such as have
been in the like calamities with my own, may gods
my present excess of joy, how heartily I run my boat
Into the stream of this eddy, and how joyfully I
spread my sail to the refreshing wind, Handing chear-
sully before it, with a smart tide under foot. By the
assistance of this eddy, 1 was carried above a league
home again, when being in the wake of the island,
betwixt the two currents, I sooner the water to be in
a fort of a stand. About four o'clock in the afternoon,
I reached within a league of the island, and perceived
the points of the rock, which caused this disaster,
stretching out, as I observed before, to the southward,
which throwing eff the current more southwardly,
had occasioned another eddy to the north. But hn»
Ting a fair brisk gale, 1 stretched across this eddy, and
in an hour came within a mile of the shore, where I
soon landed, to my unspeakable comfort j and after an
humble prostration, thanking God for my deliverance,
with a resolution to lay all thoughts of escaping aside,
1 brought my boat safe to a little cove, and laid me
down to take a welcome repose. When I awoke, 1
was considering how I might get my boat home ; and
coasting along the shore, I came to a good bay, which
ran up to a rivulet or brook, where finding a safe
harbour, 1 stowed her as safe as if she had been in a
dry clock made on purpose for her.
1 new perceived myself not far from the place
where before 1 had tra¥elled on foot; so taking no-
thing with me except my gun and umbrella, I began
my journey, and in the evening came to my bower,
where I again laid me down to rest, I had not slept
long before I was awakened in great surprise, by a
strange voice that called me several times, Robin>
Robin, Rohin Crusoe} poor Robin! I she re are you, Ro»
bin Crusoe f where are you P where have you been?
So fast was 1 asleep at first, that I did not awake
thoroughly, but half asleep and half awake, I
thought
 
 
thought I dreamed that somebody spoke to me* But
as the voice repeated Robinson Crusoe several times,
being tenibly affrighted, 1 started up in the utmost
confusion; aud no sooner were my eyes fully open,
but I beheld my pretty Poll sitting on the top of the
hedge, and soon knew that it was he that called me;
for just in such bewailing language I used to talk and
teach him ; which he so exactly learned, that he would
ft upon my finger, -and lay his bill close to my face,
and cry, Poor Robinson Crusoe, where are you? where
have you been? hoitj came you here? and such like
prattle 1 had constantly taught him. But even tho*
I knew it to be the parrot, it was a great while be-
fore 1 could adjust myself; being amazed how
the creature get thither, and that he should fix a-
bout that place, and no where else. But now, being
assured it could be no other than my honest Poll, my
wonder ceased; and reaching out my hand, and call-
ing familiarly Pell, the creature came to me, and
perched upon my thumb, as he was wont, constant-
ly pratting to me, with Poor Robinson Crusoe, and how
did I come heref a net where had I been? as if the bird
was overjojed to fee me; and so 1 took him home a-
long with me.
1 was now pretty well cured of my rambling to
sea; yet 1 could wish my boat, which had cost me so
much trouble and pains, on this side the island once
more, but which indeed was impracticable, I there-
fore began to lead a very retired life, living near a
twelvemonth in a very contented manner, wanting
for nothing except conversation. As to mechanic
labours, which my necessities obliged me to, I fancied
J could upon occasion make a tolerable carpenter,
were the poor tools I had to work withal but good.
Besides as I improved in my earthen ware, 1 contri-
ved to make them with a wheel, which 1 found much
casier and better > making my work shapely, which
before was rude and ugly. But 1 think I was never
*o elevated with my own performance or project, than
for
i»)
for being able to make a tobacco-pipe j which t
It proved an awkward clumsy thing, yet it was very
found and carried the smoke perfectly well, to my
great satisfaction.
I also improved my wicker-ware, making me abun-
dance of necessary baskets, which, though not ver?
handsome, were very handy and convenient to fetch
things home in, as also for holding my stores, barley,
rice, and other provisions.
My powder beginning to fail, made me examine
after what manner I should kill the goats or birds to
live on, after it was all gone. Upon which I con-
trived many ways to ensnare the goats, and. fee iff
could catch them alive, particularly a she-goat with
young. At last i had mj desire 5 for muting pit-
falls and traps baited with barley and rice, 1 found one
morning in one of them an oki he-goat, and in the
other three kids, one male, the other two females.
So boisterous was the old one, that 1 could not
bring him away* But 1 forgot the old proverb, That
hunger will tame a lion: for had I kept him tL-. ee or
four days without victuals, and then given him some
water with a little corn, he would have been as tame
as a young kid. The other creatures I bound with
strings together; but I had great difficulty before 1
could bring them to my habitation. It was some
time before they would'feed j but throwing them
sweet corn, it so much tempted them th.it they be-
gan to be tamer; from hence I concluded, that if 1
designed to furnish myself with goats fiefh, when my
ammunition was spent, the tamely breeding them up,
like a flock of sheep, about my settlement, was the
only method Tconld take. I concluded also 1 must
separate the wild from the tame, or else they would
always rim wild as they grew up; and the best way
for this, was to have some inclosed piece of ground,
'well fenced, either with hedge or pale, to keep them
so effectually, that those within might not break out,
or those without break in. Such an undertaking
was
was very great for one pair of hands; but as there
was an absolute necessity for doing It; my first care
was to find a convenient: piece of ground where there
wns likely to be herbage for them to eat, water to
drink, and cover to keep them from the fun.
Here again I gave another Instance of my Igno-
rance and inexperience, pitching upon a piece of mea-
dow land so large, that had I inclosed it, the hedge
or pale mull have been at least two miles about. In-
deed hud it been ten miles, 1 had time enough to do
it in: but then 1 did not consider that my goats would .
be as wild in so much compass, as if they had had
the whole island, and consequently as difficult for me
to catch them. This thought came Into my head, af-
ter 1 had carried it on, 1 believe, about fifty yards:
1 therefore altered my scheme, and resolved to inclose
a piece of ground about 150 yards In length, and
ice in breadth! sufficient enough for as many as would
maintain me till such time as my flock increased, and
then I could add more ground. I now vigorously pro-
secuted my work, and it took me about three months
in hedging the first piece; In which time 1 tethered
the three kids in the best part of it, feeding them as
near me as possible, to make them familiar: and in-
deed I very often would carry some ears of barley, or
a handful of rice and feed them out of my hand j by
which they grew so tame, that when my inclosure was
siniflied, and I had let them loose, they would rim
after me for a handful of corn. This indeed answer-
ed my end*, and In a year and a half's time 1 had a
stock of about twelve goats, kids and all; and in two
years after, they amounted to forty three, besides
what I had taken and killed for my sustenance. Af-
ter which I inclosed five several pieces of ground to
feed them in, with pens to drive them into, that I
might take them as 1 had occasion.
In this projc.n Uikvwiie found additional blessings,
for I not only Had plenty of goats flesh, but milk too,
which
which In my beginning I did not so much as think
of.' And indeed, though 1 never had milked a cow,
much less a goat, or seen butter or cheese made, yet,
after some essays and miscarriages, 1 made me both,
and never afterwards wanted*
How mercifully can the omnipotent Power coin-
fort his creatures, even in the midst of their greatest
calamities/* How can he sweeten the bitterest provi-
dences, and give us reason to magnify him in dun-
geons and prisons? What a bounteous table was here
spread in a wilderness for me, where I expected no-
thing at first but to perish for hunger?
Certainly a Stoic would have smiled to have seen
me at dinner. There sat my royal majesty an abso-
lute prince and ruler of my kingdom, attended by my
dutiful subjects, whom, if 1 pleased, I could either
hang, draw, quarter, give them liberty, or take it
away. When 1 dined, I seemed a king, eating alone,
none daring to presume to do so till I had done. Poll,
as if he had been my principal court-favourite, was
the only person permitted to talk with me. My old
but faithful dog, now grown exceeding crazy, and
who had found no species to multiply his kind upon,
continually fat on my right hand; while my cwo cats
sot on each fide of the table, expecting a bit from my
hand, as a principal mark of my royal favour. These
were not the cats I had brought from the ship; they
had been dead long before, and interred near roy ha-
bitation by mine own hand, But one of them, as I
suppose, generating with a wild cat, a couple of their
young 1 had made tame; the rest run wild into the
woods, and in time grew so impudent as to return
and plunder me of my stores, till such time as 1
shot a great many, and the rest left me without trou-
bling me any more. In this plentiful manner did I
live, wanting for nothing but conversation. One
thing indeed concerned me, the want of my boat;
I knew not which way to get her round the island
One time I resolved to go along the Chore bv land to
her;
h:r j but had any one in England net such a figure*
it would cither have affrighted them, or made them
burst into laughter: nay, I could not but smile my-
self at my habit, which I think in this place will be
very proper to describe.
The cap I wore upon my head was great, high, and
shapeless, made of a goat's skin, with a flap or pent-
house hanging down behind, not only to ketp the.
sv.n from me, but to shoot the rain off from running
into my neck, nothing being more pernicious than
the rain falling upon the ildh in these climates.- I
hid a short jacket of goats {kin, whole h dr hung
down such a length on either side, that it reached
d >\v:\ to the calves cs my legs. As for shoes aud
stocking, I hid nosv'j but made a relem'jdance of
ihmething, I know not what to call ;h:m; they were ,
in a --le like buskins, and heed on the (ides like spatter-
c-;!h,es, barbarously shaped like the rest of my habit.
I hui a broad belt of goats .kin dried, girt round me
with a couple of thongs, in Head of buckles; on each
o*" which, to supply the deficiency of sword and dag-
ger, hung my hatchet and saw. I had another belt,
not so broad, yet salrened in the same manner, winch
hung over my shoulder, and at the end of it, under
my left arm, hung two pouches, vnid<: also of geats
&'n, to hold my powder and ihot. My balket 1 car-
ried on my back, and my gun on my shoulder *, and
over my head a great clumsy ugly goat-(kin umbrella,
which, however next to my gum, was the moll ne-
cessary thing about me. As for my face, the colour
was not so swarthy as the Mulattoes, or as might have
been expected from one who took ib little care of it,
m a climate within nine or ten degrees of the Equinox.
At one time my beard grew so long that it hung down
above a quarter of a yard-, but as I had both razors
and scissars in store, I cut it all off, and suffered none
to grow, except a large pair of Mahometan whiskers,
the like of which I had seen worn by some Turks at
Bailee, not long enough indeed to hang a hat upon,
G but
but of such a monstrous size, as would have amazed
any in England to have seen.
But all this was of no consequence here, there be-
ing none to observe my behaviour or habit. And so
without fear, and without control, I proceeded on my
journey, the prosecution of which took me up Ike
or six days. 1 first travelled along the sea-shore, di-
rectly to the place where! first brought my boat to an
anchor, to get upon the rocks \ but having now no
boat to take care of, 1 went overland a nearer way to
the fame height that 1 was before upon ; when look-
ing forward to the point of the rock, which lay out,
znd which I was forced to double with my boat, 1 was
amazed to fee the sea so smooth and quiet, there
'being no ripling motion, nor current any more than
in other places. This made me ponder some time to
guess the reason of it, when at last I was convinced,
that the ebb setting from the west, and joining with
the current of water from some great river on shore,
must be the occasion of these rapid streams; and that
consequently, as the winds blew more westwardly,
or more southwardly, so the current came die nearer,
or went the farther from shore. To satisfy my curiosi-
ty, I waited there till evening, when the time of ebb
being made, 1 plainly perceived from the rock the cur-
rent again as before, with this difference, that it ran
farther off, near half a league from the shore ^where-
as, in my expedition, it set close jupon it, furiously
hurrving me and my canoe along with it, which at a-
nother *"ime it would net have done. And now 1
was convinced, that, by observing the ebbing and
flowing of the tide,  I might easily bring my boat
round the island ag:*itn But when 1 began to think
of putting it in practice, the remembrance of the late
danger struck me with such horror, that 1 changed
my resolution, and formed another, which was more
safe, though more laborious ; and this was to make an-
other carroe, gaud so have one for one side of the island*
and one for the ether.
1 had
I had now two plantations in the island; the first
my little fortification, fort, or castle, with many large
and spacious improvements: for by this time1 Jl had
enlarged the cave behind me with several little ca\es,
one within another, to hold my baskets, corn, and
straw. The piles with which I made my wall were
g:owst so lofty and great as obscured my habitation.
And near this commodious and pleasant settlement,
lay my well cultivated and improved corn fields,
which kindly yielded me its fruit in the proper sea-
son. My second plantation was that near my coun-
try-seat, or little bower, where my grapes flourished,
arid where having planted many stakes, I made inclo-
sures for my goats, so strongly fortified by labour and
time, that it was much stronger than a wall, and con-
sequently impossible for them to breakthrough. As
for my bower itself, 1 kept it constantly in rep ur, and
cut the trees in such a manner as made them grow-
thick and wild, and form a most delightful shade. In
the centre of this 'stood my tent, thus erected. I had
driven fourl piles in the ground, spreading over it a
piece of the strip's fail * beneath which I made me a
fort of couch with the skins of the creatures I had
slain, and other things; and hiving laid thereon one
of the sailors blankets, which I had saved from the
-wreck os the (hip, and covering myself with a grent
watch-coat, Itook up this place for my country re-
treat.
Very frequently from this settlement did I use to
visit my boat, and kept her in very good order. And
sometimes I would venture in her a cast: or two from
shore, but no farther, lest: either a. strong current, a
sudden stormy wind, or some unlucky accident, mould
hurry me from the island, as before. But now 1 en-
treat your attention, whilst 1 proceed to inform yea
of a new, but most surprising scene of life which here
befel me.
You may easily suppose, that, after having been
here so long, nothing could be more amazing than
G 2 to
 
to see a human creative. One day it happened, d«a';
going to my boat, I law the print of a man's nak; d
i^rt on the shore, very evident on the sand, as tl-c
lo;.-, hceN, ami every part of it. Had I it:en an ap-
pciritio-i in the mol\ siiphtful shapf\ I could not have
been mo?e confounded. -My wiiiing e-rs gave the
ifi'K.h?:t .mention. I c..dl my eyes around, but ecu hi
satis:v n; hher the one or the cvher. I proceeded ah
TcfToiiclv ;o every port of the shore, hut with tepid
tiled. ; I.-., ithcr could I sec any other mark, the/ the
s.uid .ihoi't it was a? urlccpfibie to take impreifion, al
rhat vhkh was so plainly stamped. Thus huick with
cooi'i ho:i and honor, I returned to my habitation,
fs i.Ji.vp-'d ut every hui'h and tree, taking every thing
fer men; and poflotiai with the wildest ideas i That
inght mv eye;- never closed. 1 formed nothing hut the
roost dismal imaginations* concluding it mult he the
rmvk ci" the devils scot winch I had seen. For other-
vise how could any mortal come to this island?
Where was the ship that transported them ? and what
signs of any other footsteps? Though these seemed
very strong reasons for such a supposition, yet (thought
1) why should the devil make the print of his foot to
no purpose, as I can fee, when he might have taken
cnber ways to have terrified me r Why fnould he leave
Ids mark on the other side of the island, and that too
en the sand, where the surging waves of the ocean
ir;ij>'ht soon have erased the impression, Surely this
ad ion is net consistent with the subtil ty of 3atan,faid
1 to mvseif, but rather must be some dangerous crea-
ture, some-wild savage of the main hnd over against
me, that venturing too far in the ocean, has been
thiven here, either by the violent currents or contra-
ry winds; aud not caring to si ay on this desolate
island, has gone back to sea again.
Happy indeed, thought I myself, that none of the
savages had seen me in that place: yet 1 was not al-
together wkhcUk sear3 lest, having found my boat,
'th*y
 
 
they should return in numbers and devour me, or at
least carry away all my corn, and destroy my Hock of
tame goats : in a word, ail my religious hopes vanish-
ed, as though I thought God could not now protect
me by his power, who had so wonderfully preserved
me so long.
What various chains of providence are there in the
life of man? How changeable are our affections, ac-
cording to different circumfiancesr We love to-day,
wh *t we hate to-morrow ; we shun one hour what we
feck the next.* This was evident in me in the molt
conspicuous manner: for 1, who before had sj much
lamented my condition, in being banished siorn all
humankind, was now even ready to expire, when I
considered that a man had set his foot on this desolate
island But when I considered my station os life, de-
creed by the infinitely wise and good providence os
God ; that I ought not to dispute my Creator's sove-
reignty, who had an undoubted right to govern and
dispose of his creatures as he thinks convenient; and
that his justice and mercy could either punish or deli-
ver me: I fay, when I considered all this^I comfort-
ably found it my duty to trust sincerely in him, pray-
ardently to him, and humbly resign myself to his di-
vine will.
One morning, lying on my bed, these words 6f the
sacred writings came again into my mind, Call upon
me in the day of trouble, and I will deliver thee* and
thou Jhalt glorify me. Upon this sentence, rising
morechearfully from my bed, I offered up my pray-
ers in the most heavenly manner: and when I had
done, taking up my Bible to read, these words appear-
ed first in my sight : Wait on the Lor dy and be of good
cheer> and he stall strengthen thy heart: Wait I fay,
c?2 the Lord, Such divine comfort did this give me,
as to remove all cause cf sadness upon that occasion.
Thus, after a world of apprehensions and fears, for
three days and nights, I at last ventured out of my
G 3 castle,
 
7B
LIFE and ADVENTURES-
eaiilc, and milked my goats, one of which was ahttef;
spoiled tor want ot it. I next (: hough in gre»:-t tear)
"visited my bower, and milked my hocks there also*,
when growing holder, I went down to the shore ag,ua,
and measuring the print os the loot to mine, to ice
perhaps wrutnu* I my-ids had not occasioned tb.t
mark, I sound it mudi supplier in largtmss j ami ib
letumeu homo, now abiokutly convinced, that eitl.tr
ilnne men had been aihore, or that the iibmd ir.iut
be ir.habitt.ii ; and thereiore that I might be surpiikd
before I w..s aware.
I now began to think os providing for my securi-
ty, and revolved in my mind many different iehemea
lor that purpose ; 1 fit It proposed to cut down my in-
closnres, and turn mv tame cattle wild into the woods,
th it the i.neniy might not find them, and sequent the
island in hop^s of killing the fame.
7/y, I w.J
ioi digging up mv corn- fields for the very fame reafean
.And, tojily* 1 concluded lo demolish my bower, kit
ibting a pi ace of human contrivance,they might con fi
farther* and find out and attack me in my Unic call's»
Such notions did the fear of danger ioggcil to me;
and I looked, I thought, like the unfortunate king
Saul, when not only oppressed by the Philistines » ut
alio sin taken by God inmlcls. And it ih strange that
a little be!->sv, having entirely resigned myself to the
/i\] or (*od« I should- now mu
little conhdenee ;n
him, scaring thole more who could kill this fading
bodv, thai he who couid destroy my immortal Ibid.
•Sleep was an utter sirang* r to my eyes that night,
yet nature.(pent and tired, submitted to a silent re-
pose the next morning. And then, joining rea'iost
with my sear, I considered, that this delight;ul and
pleasant island might not be so entirely forlaken as I
might think; hut that the inhabitants from the a-
th-r more might fail either with design, or from nc-
cufity3 by cross winds* and if the latter circum-
stance^
stance, I had reason to helieve they would depart the
suit opportunity. However, my fear made me think
oi a place tor retreat upon an attack* I now repent-
ed that 1 had made my door to come out beyond my
so'titv. ation; to remedy which, I resolved to make
me a second one : I tell towoik, therefore, and drove
betwixt that double row-of trees, which 1 planted a-
bout twelve years before, several strong piles, thick-
ening it with pieces of timber and old cables, and
strengthening the foot of it with earth which I
d^ig out of my cave j I also made me seven holes,
wherein 1 planted my muskets like cannon, fitting
them into frames reicmhling carriages. This being
iiiinhed with indefatigable industry, for a great way
every where, 1 planted sticks of osier like a wood, a-
lom twenty thousand of them, leaving a large (pace
between them and my wall, that 1 might have room
to see an em my, and that they might not be sheltered
among the young trees, if they offered to approach
t h e o u te r w a i I. And indeed se a r c e t w o yea r s h ad
passed over my ruad, when there appeared a lovely
ihady grove, and in lix years it became a thick wood
perfectly impaflmie. For my safety I left no avenue
to go iti or out j instead of which I set two ladders,
one to a part of the rock which was low, and then
broke in ; leaving room to pbee another ladder upon
that; ih chat when I took those down, it was impos-
sible for any man to descend without hurting himself;
and if they had, they would still be at the outside of
my cuter wall. But while I took all these measures
oi human prudence for my own preservation, I was
not altogether unmindful of other affairs. To pre-
serve my stock os tame goats, that the enemy should
not take all at once, I looked-out for the most retiied
part of the ifbnd, which was the place where 1 had
lost myself before mentioned, and there rinding a clear
piece of land, conrauung three acres, lurrounded
with thick woods, I weight so hard, that, in lese
ttun a month's time, I fenced it so v^eli round, that
 
 
my flocks were very well secured in it, and I put
therein two he goats and ten she ones.
All this labour was occasioned purely by fearful
apprehensions, on account ot seeing the print of a
man's soot. And not contented yet with what I
had done, I searched for another place towards the
west point of the island, where I might also retain
another flock. Then wandering on this errand more
to the west of the island than ever I had yet done,
and casting my eyes towards the sea, methought I
perceived a boat at a great distance; but could not
possibly tell what it was for want of my perspective
glass. I considered that it was no strange thing to fee
the print of a man's foot; and, concluding them can-
nibals, blessed God for my being cast on the other fide
of the island, where none of the savages, as I thought
ever came. But when 1 came down the hill to the
shore, which Was the S. W. point of the island, 1 was
soon confirmed in my opinion ; nor can any one de-
scribe my horror and amazement, when I saw the
ground spread with sculls, hands, feet, and hones of
human bodies; and particularly I perceived a space
like a circle, in the midst cf which had been a fire,
about which I conjectured these wretches fat, and
unnaturally sacrificed and devoured their fellow-crea-
tures.
The horror and loathsomeness of this dreadful spec-
tacle, both confounded my senses, and made me dis-
charge from my stomach in an excessive manner. I
then returned towards my habitation ; and in my way
thither shedding floods of tears, and falling down on
my bended knees, gave God thanks for making my
nature contrary to these wretches, and delivering me
so long out of their hands.
Though reason and my long residence here had as-
sured me, that these savages never came up to the
thick wcody parts of the country, and that I had no
reason to be apprehensive of a discovery; yet such an
abhorrence
 
abhorrence did 1 still retain, that for two years after
1 confined myself only to my thiee plantations; I
mt an my cafilc, country feat, and inclosure in the
weeds. And though in process of time, my dread-
ful apprehensions began to wear away, yet my eyes
were more vigilant lor fear of being surprised, and I
was very cautious of firing my gun, left being heard
by those' creatures, they i'houkl proceed to attack me.
I'resolved, however, manfully to lose my life is they
did, and went armed with three pistols stuck in my
girdle j which added to the description I have giveii
of myself before, made me look with a very formi-
dable appearance.
Thus my circumstances far some time remained
very calm and undisturbed \ and when I compared
my condition to others, I found it was far from being
miserable. And indeed would all persons compare
their circumstances, not with those above them, but
with those innumerable unhappy objects beneath
them, I am sure we should not hear those daily mur-
murings and complainings that are in the world.
For my part, I wanted but few things. Indeed the
terror which the savages had put me in, spoiled
some inventions for my own conveniences. One of my
projects was to brew me some beer; a very whimsical
one indeed, when it is considered, that I had neither
calks sufficient, nor could i make any to preserve it
in; neither had I hops to make it keep, yest to
make it work, nor a copper or kettle to make it
boil. Perhaps, indeed, after some years, I might
bring this to bear, as I had dene other things. But
now my inventions were placed another way; and
day and night I could think of nothing but how I
might destroy some of these cannibals, when pro-
ceeding to their bloody entertainments; and. so fa-
cing a victim from being sacrificed, that he might as-
ter become my servant. Many were my contrivan-
ces for this purpose, and as many more objections
occurred, after 1 had hatched them. I once contri-
ved.
 
ved to dig a hole under the place where they made
their fire, and put therein five or six pounds of gun-
powder, which would consequently blow up all those
that were near it *, but then I was loath to spend so
much upon them, lest it should not do that certain
execution I could desire; and but only affright, and
Kot kill them. Having laid this design aside, I again
proposed to myself to lie privately in ambuih, in
some convenient place, with my three guns double
loaded, and let ily at them in the midst of their
dreadful ceremony ; and having killed two or three of
them at every (hot, sell upon the rest suddenly with
my three pistols, and not let one mother's son escape,
This imagination pleased my fancy so much, that I
used to oVeam of it in the night-time, To put my
design in execution, I was not long seeking for a
place very convenient for my purpose, where unseen
I might behold every action of the sovages. Here I
placed my two muskets, each of which was loaded
with a brace of slugs, and four or five smaller bul-
lets about the size of pistol bullets; the fowling-
piece was charged with near a handful of the largest
swan (hot; and in every pistol were about four bul-
lets. And thus all things being prepared, no sooner
would the welcome light spread over the element,
but like a giant refreshed ivith xvine> as the scripture
has it, would I issue forth from my castle, and from
a lofty hill, three miles distant, view if I could fee
any invaders approach unlawfully to my kingdom.
But having waited in vain two or three month?,
it not only grew very tiresome to me but brought me
into some consideration, and made me examine my-
self, what right 1 had to kill these creatures in this
manner.
If ( argued I to myself ) this unnatural custom ot
theirs be a sin offensive to Heaven, it belongs to the
Divine Being, who alone has the vindictive power in
his hands, to mower down his vengeance upon
them. And perhaps he does so, in making them be-
come
 
 
came one another's executioners. Or, if not, if God
thinks these doings just, according to the knowledge
they conceive, what authority have I to pretend to
thwart the decrees of Providence, which has permitted
these actions for so many ages, perhaps from almost the
beginning of the creation? They never offended me,
what right have I then to concern myself in their
shedding one another's blood? And indeed I have
since known, they value no more to kill and devour a
captive taken in war, then we do to kill an ox, or eat
mutton. I then concluded, it necessarily followed,
that these people were no more murderers than Chri-
stians, who many times put whole troops to the sword,
aster throwing down their arms. Again I considered,
that if I fell upon them, I mould be as much in the
wrong as the Spaniards, who had committed the
greatest barbarities upon these people who never had
offended them in their whole lives; as if the kingdom
of Spain was eminent for a race of men without com-
mon compassion to the miserable, a principal sign of
the most generous temper. These considerations
made me pause, and brought me to think I had taken
wrong measures in my resolution; I now argued with
myself, that it was better for me never to attack, but
to remain undiscovered as long as possibly I could;
that an opposite conduct would certainly prove de-
structive *, for as it was scarcely to be supposed I could
kill them all, I might either be overpowered by the
remaining, ot that some escaping, might bring thou-
sands to mycertain destruction. And indeed religion
took their part so much as to convince me how contra-
ry it was to my duty to be guilty of stiedding human
blood, innocent as to my particular, whatever they are
to one another; that I had nothing to do with it, but
leave it to the God of all power and dominion, as I
said before, to do therein what seemed convenient to
his heavenly wisdom. And therefore on my knees I
thanked the Almighty for delivering me from blood-
guiltiness
 
 
guiltiness, and begged his protection that I might nfc-
ver fall into their hands.
Thus giving over an attempt which I had rashly he-
gun, I never ascended the hill on that occasion after-
wards; I only removed my boat, which lay on theo
ther side of the island; and every thing that belonged
to her, towards the eafT, into a little cove, that there
might not be the lead shadow os discovery of any boat
near, or habitation upon the island. My castle then
became my cell, keeping always retired in it, except
when I went out to milk my (he-goats, and order my
little dock in the wood, which was quite out of dan-
ger; for sure I was, that these savages never came
here with expectations to find any thing, and conse-
quently never wandered from the coatt; however, as
they might have several times been on ihore as well
before as after my dreadful apprehensions, I looked
back with horror to think in what a flue I mi^ht have
been, had I suddenly met them f!end.*rly armed, with
one gun only loaded with smlal shot; and how great
would have been my amazement, if instead of feeing
the piint of one man's foot, I had perceived fifteen or
twenty savages, who having once let their eyes upon
me, by the swiftness of their feet, would have left
me no possibility of escaping? These thoughts would
fink my very foul, so that I would fall into a deep me-
lancholy, till such time as the consideration of my gra-
titude to the Divine Being moved it from my heart.
I then fell into a contemplation of the secret springs
of providence; and how wonderfully we are deliver-
ed, when insensible of it; and when intricated in un-
certain mazes orlahyrinthsof doubtor hesitation, what
secret hint directs us in the right way,when we intend-
ed to go out of it; nay, perhaps, contrary to our bu-
siness, fense, or inclination. Upon which, I fixed with-
in me this as a certain rule, never to disobey those se-
cret impressions of mind to the acting or not acting
any thing that offered, for which I yet could assign
-' ao
 
to reason. But let it be how it will, the advantage
of this conduct very eminently appeared in the latter
part of my abode on this island; I am a stranger in
determining whence these secret intimations of Pro-
vidence derive: yet rnethinks they are not only some
proof of the converse of spirits, but also of the secret
communications they are supposed to have with
those that have not pafled through the gloomy vale
of death.
These anxieties of mind, and the caroef my pre-
servation, put a period to all future inventions and
contrivances, either for accommodation or conveni-
ence; I now cared not to drive a nail, chop a stick,
sire a gun, or make a sire, lest either the noise should
le heard, or the smoke discover me. And on this
account I used to burn my earthen ware privately lit
3 cave which I found in the wood, and which 1 made
convenient tor that purpose; the principal cause
that brought me here was to make charcoal, so that
I might bake and dress .my bread and meat without
any danger. At that time a curious accident hap-
pened me, which I shall now rdate.
While I was cutting down some weod for making
my charcoal, I perceived a cavity behind a very
thick branch of underwood. Cm ious to look into it,
I Attained its mouth, and perceived it sufficient for
me to stand upright in it. But when I rfcid entered,
and took a further \iew., two rolling shining eyes,
like flaming stars, seemed to dart themselves at me j
so that I made all the haste out that I could, as not
knowing whether it was the devil or a monster that
had taken his residence in that place. When I re-
covered a. little from my surprise, I called myself a
thousand fools, for being afraid to fee the devil one
moment, who had now almost lived twenty years in
the most retired solitude. And therefore resuming
all tbecouragel had, I took up a flaming firebrand, and
in I rustied again. I had not proceeded above three
steps when 1 wasmore affrighted than before $ for
v* H then
 
then I heard a very loud sigh, like that of a human
creature in the greatest agony, succeeded with a bro-
ben noise, resembling words half expressed, and then
a broken sigh again. Stepping back, Lord! (thought
I to myself), where am i got r Into what inchanted
place have I plunged myself, such as are reported to
contain miserable captives, till death puts an end to
their sorrow? And, indeed, in such a great amaze-
ment was I, that it struck me into a cold sweat 5 and
had my hat been on my head, I believe my hair
would have moved it off. But again encouraging
myself with the hopes of God's protection, I pro-
ceeded forward, and, by the light of my firebrand,
perceived it to be a monstrous he-goat, lying on the
ground gasping for life, and dying of "mere old age.
At first 1 stirred him, thinking to drive him out, and
the poor ancient creature strove to get upon his {cQt9
bat was not able; so I e'en let him lie still, to af-
fright the savages ihould they venture into this cave.
I now looked round me, and found the place but
small and shapeless. At the farther side of it 1 per-
ceived a fort of ai; entrance, yet so low, as must
oblige me to creep on my hands and knees to it; so,
having- no candle, I suspended my enterprise till the
next day, and then I came provided with two large
ones of my own making.
Having crept upon my hands and feet through this
strait, I found the roof rose higher up, I think about
twenty feet. But surely never mortal saw such a g\( -
rious sight before! The rocs and walls of this cave
reflected a hundred thousand lights to me from my
two candles, as though they were indented with
shining gold, precious stones, or sparkling diamonds.
And indeed it was the most delightful cavity or grot-
to of its kind that could be desired, though entirely
dark. The floor was dry and level, and had a kind
of gravel upon it; no nauseous venomous creatures
to be seen there, neither any damp or wet about it. I
could find 00 fault but in the entrance, and I began,
to
to think that even this might he very necessary for
my defence, and therefore resolved to make it my
moil principal magazine. 1 brought hither two
fowling-pieces , and three muskets, leaving only five
pieces at my castle, planted in the nature of cannon.
In a barrel of gun-powder, which I took up out cf
the sea, I brought away about sixty pounds of good
powder, which were not damaged; and these, with
a great quantity os lead for bullets, I removed from
my castle to this retreat, now fortified' both by art
and nature.
I fancied myself now like one of the giants of old,
who were said to live in caves and holes among the
rocks, inaccessible to any but themselves, or, at least,
most dangerous to attempt. And now I despised
both the cunning and strength of the savages, either
to find me out, or to hurt me.
But I must not forget the old goat, who»caused my
late dreadful amazement. The poor creature gave
up the ghost the dsy after my discovery -, and it being
very difficult to drag him out, I dug his grave, and
honourably intombed him in the fame place where
he departed, with as much ceremony as any Welch--
goat that has been interred about the high mountain
Penmenmoure.
I think I was now in the twenty-third year of my
reign, and my thoughts much easier than formerly,
having contrived several pretty amusements and di-
versions to pass away the time in a pleasant manner.
By this time my pretty Foil had learned to speak
English, and pronounce his words very articulately
and plain; so that for many hours we \zfed to chat
together after a very familiar manner, and he lived
with me no less than twenty-six years. My dog, who
was nineteen years old, sixteen of which he lived with
me, died sometime ago of mere old age. As for my
eats, they multiplied so fast, that I was forced to kill
or drive them into the woods, except two or three,
which became my particular favourites. Besides
H t these,,
$3
LIFE and ADVENTURES
these, I continually kept two or three household kids
abo«it me*, whom I did learn to feed out of my ham!,
and two more parrots who could talk indifferently,
and e.di Robin Ion Crusoe, but not fe excel ientlv .is
the fi: I*, as not taking that pains with them. I h.ul
uliu several fta-fowLs which I had wounded and cut
thur \vi•!;>?•, and growing tame, they nicd fc> breed
ymom* the low trees about my eaitie walls ', all whieh
ma
: a mv rioou
15.U
very u^cean:?.
at unforeseen events
s of this uncertain ft
,1 them! It w-s now t
earvt.i.
, ; when
.nne;
suddenly dt stroy the
are oi life, when we
he mem!) oi Decem-
n seoHee, and particular time of
wiv.ch required my attendance in
,^goui pretty early one morning, bc-
i was dav-li^ht, there appeared to ire, from the
iOre, a flaming lhr.br, ar out two miles from me,
 cast end of the island, where I had onfevu.d
ravages had been before, not on the other side,
o my great ailhction it was on my fide of the
ieme
hit ::
island.
Struck with a terrible surprise, and my usual sp-
prehensioos, that the savages would perceive my im-
provements, I.returned directly to my castle, pulled
up the bidder after me, making all things look as wild
and natural as possibly I could. In the next place, I
put ni] U:\f 'm a pollure of defence, loading my mus-
kets aud pistols, and committing myself to God's
protection, 1 resolved to defend mylois tiU my last
breath. Two hours akcr, impatient for intelligence*
] set mv ladder up to the side of the hill, where there
was a ilat pl'ice, and then polling the ladder after me,
ascended to the top, where laying myself on my bel-
ly, with my perspective glass, I perceived no lose than
nine naked favors, sitting round a small sire, eating
as I supposed human Huh, with their .two canoes
haled en shore, waiting for the flood to carry them
off again. You cannot easily express the consterna-
tion I was :n at this sight, especially seeing them near
mi %
me; but when I perceived their coming must be al-
ways with the current of the ebb, 1 became more ea-
sy in my thoughts, 1x1s ig very fully convinced, that I
might go abroad with security all the time ot flood,
if they were not before landed. And indeed this
proved juit as 1 imagined *, for no sooner did they all
take boat and paddle away, but the tide made N. W*
Before they went oil they danced, making ridiculous
pollutes and gestures, for above an hour, all stark
naked *, but whether men or women, or both, I
cotud not perceive. When I h\v them gone, I took
two guns upon my shoulders, and placing a couple
of pistols in my belt, with my great sword hanging by
my fide,-1 went to the hill, whereat sail I made a
discovery os these cannibals, w\d then saw there h^d
been three canoes more oi the savages on shore at
that place,.which, with the rest, were making over to
the main land.
But nothing could be mor<: horrid to me, when go-
ing to the place of sacrifice, the blood, the bones,'and
other mangled parts of human bodies appeared in my
sight: and so fired was I with indignation, that I was
fully resolved to be revenged on the first that came
there, though I lost my life in the execution. It
then appeared to me, that the visits which they make
to-this island are not very frequent, it being fifteen
months before they came again; but still I was very
uneasy, by reason of the dismal apprehensions 1 had
of their surprising me unawares: nor dared i offer
t'i sire a gun on that side of the ifland, where theyu--
fed to appear. Jest taking the alarm, the savages might
* return with many hundred canoes, and then God
knows in what manner i should have made my end.
Thus was I a )rear or more before I* saw any of these-'
devouring cannibals again.
But to wave this* the following" accident, which
demands attention, for a while, eluded the force of
my thoughts in revenging myself on those Heathens.
U 3, @^
 
On the 16th of May (according to my wootlen cn-
ieruier) ihe wind blew cxeetding bard, accompanied
with abund tnce os lightering and thuiuk-r all day,
j^and sueceeded by a vei y Uormy nhjdit. 'i'hc from in-j
TVg: r ej |{ie h(-.vciu» made me have recourse to n-y
'•iibie. WhiKl I was fenoefly pondering upon it, I
Was hnldeniy alaniK'd wkh the node ot*a gun, wh;Ui
*' cor.j* closed was lired \\]\n\ the ocevm. Such uu
nnusnal ibrpi ile m.-idc me ib it up in a mimm*, whin
"vjih my hdJrr alc-endmg the mountain as before,
that very moment a iU\lh of fire prefaced the report
of another gun, which I presently heard, and ionud
h was from that part of the sea where the current
drove me away. I could not hi;t then think, that
this rr.iiit he a (hip in distress, a?:d that these were
the melancholy signals lor a speedy deliverance Great
indeed was my sorrow upon this occasion j but my
labours to ailili them must have proved altogether
"vain and fruitless. However, i brought together all
the dry wood that was at hand, ami making a pretty
]:irge pile, set it on she on the hill. I was certain
they plainly perceived it, by their thing another gun
ss soon as it began to blaze, and after that several
more from the fame quarter. All night long I kept
up my sire : and when the air clearecf'up, 1 perceived -
something a great way at sea, directly E. but could
not diitinguii.h what it wap, even with my glass, by
reason the weather was so very fcgsjy out at sea,
However, keeping my eyes directly fixed upon it,
and perceiving it not to stir, I presently concluded
it-must be a ship- at anchor, and so very hasty
was to he satisfied, that taking my gun, I went to
the S II. part of the island, to the fame rocks where
I had been formerly drove away by the current\ .in
which time the weather being perfectly cleared up,
to my great sorrow, I perceived the wreck of a ship
cast away upon those hidden rocks-1 found when I
was out with my boat 5 and. which, by making a,
kind
kind of an eddy, were the occasion os my preserva-
tion.
Thus, what is one man's safety is another's ruin %
for undoubtedly this (hip had been driven on them ii! .4
the night, the wind blowing strong at E, N. E. Had
thev p.revived the island, as I now guessed they had
not*, certainly, instead of having fired their guns for
be!j>, they would rather have ventured in their boat,
and saved themselves that way. I then thought, that
perhaps they had done so, upon seeing my fire, and
wjre call away in the attempt; for I perceived no
boat in the ship. Hut then again i imagined, that
p-rhips they had another vessel in company, which,.
upon signal*.saved their lives, and took the boat up 5
or that this boat might be driven into the main ocean,
where these poor creatures might be in the moil .mise-
rable condition. But as all these conjectures were
very uncertain, J could do no more than commiserate
their dii:refc,and thank Gods r delivering me, in-par-
ticular, when so many perished in the raging ocean.
When I considered seriously every thing concerning
this wreck, and could perceive no room to suppose any
cf them saveil, I cannot explain by any possible iorce
of words, what longings my foul felt upon this sight,
chew breaking out in this manner: O that there had
been but two or three, nay even one person saved,
that we might have lived together, conversed with,
and comforted one another! And so much were my
desires moved, that when I repeated these words,
u Oh 1 that there had been but one!" my hands
would so clinch, together, and my singers press the
palms of my hands so close, that, had any soft thing
been between, it would have crushed it involuntarily,..
"while my teeth would strike together, and set against
each other so strong, that it required some time for
me to part them.
Till the last year of my being on this island, I ne-
ver, knew- whether or not any had been saved out of
th&.
this ship. I had the affliction some time after, to
fee the corpse' of a drowned boy come on shore, at the
end of the island which was next the shipwreck : there
was nothing on him hut a ieaman's waistcoat, a pair
of open-kneed linen drawers, and a blue linen shirt;
but no particular mark to guess what nation he was
of. In his pocket were two pieces of eight, and a to-
bacco pipe, the last of which I preferred much more
than I did the first. And now the calmness of the sea
tempted me to venture out in my boat to this wreck »
not only to get something necessary out os the ship,
but pei haps some living creature might be on board,
whose life 1 might preserve. This had such an influ-
ence upon my mind, that immediately I went home*
and prepared every thing necessary for the voyage,
carrying on board my boat provisions of all forts, with
a good quantity of rum, fresh water, and a compass:
so putting off, I paddled the canoe along the shore,
till I came at last to the north east part os the island,
from whence I was to launch into the ocean; but
here the currents ran ib violently, and appeared ib
terrible, that my heart began to fail me; foreseeing,-
that is I was driven into any of these currents,! might.
be carried not only out of the reach or fight of the i-
Bdtnd^ but even inevitably lost in the boiling'furges-
of the ocean.
So oppressed was I at these troubles, that I gave
over my enterprise, sailing to a little creek on the
shore, where stepping out, I sat me down on a rising
hill,, very pensive and thoughtful. I then perceived
that the tide was turned,, and the flood came on,.
which made it impracticable for me to go out for so
many hours. To be more certain how the sets of
the tides or currents lay when the flood came in, I
ascended a higher piece of ground, which overlook-
ed the sea both ways ; and here I found, that as the
current of th« ebb set out close by the south point of
the island, so the current of the flood set in close by
the shore of the north side;. and all that I had to
 
do, was to keep to the north of the island in my re-
turn.
That night I reposed myself in my canoe, covered
with my watch-coat instead ot a blanket, the heavens
being my teller. I set out with the first of'the tide
full north, till I felt the Ijemsitoi the current, which
carried me at a great rate eastward, yet not with such
impetuosity as before, as to take from me all govern-
ment of my canoe ; so that in two hours time I came
up to the wreck, which appeared to me a most me-
lancholy fight. It seemed to be a Spanish vessel by
its building, stuck fast between two rocks; her stern
#nd quarter 1 eaten to pieces by the sea ; her mainmast
and foremast were brought off by the board; that
is, broken short off. As I approached nearer I per-
ceived a dog on board, who feeing me coming, yelp-
ed and cried \ and no sooner did I call him, but the
poor creature jumped into the sea, out of which I
took him up, almost famished with hunger and thirst j
so that when I gave him a cake os bread, no raven-
ous wolf could devour it more greedily: and he drank
to that degree of fresh water, that he would have burst
himself, had I suffered him.
The first fight I met with in the ship* were two
men drowned in the cook room or forecastle, inclo-
sed in one another's arms: hence I very preb bly
supposed, that when the veflel struck in the storm,
so high and incessantly did the waters break in'4;?nd
over her, that the men not being able to bear it,
were strangled by the constant rushing in of the
waves. There were several casks os liquor, whether
wine or brandy I could not be positive, which lay in
the lower hold, as were plainly perceptible by the
ebbing out of the water, yet were too large for me to
pretend to middle with: likewise I perceived several
chests, which I supposed to belong to the seamen,
two of which 1 got into my boat, without exami-
ning what was in them. Had the stern of the ship
been fixed, and the fore part broken off, 1 should
haye
 
have made a very prosperous voyage ; since, by what
I after found in these two chests, I could not other-
wise conclude, hut that the ship must have abun-
dance of wealth on hoard; nay, if I must guels by
the course she steered, slie must have been bound
from the Buenos Ay res, or the R.io de la Plata, in
the southern part of America, beyond the Brasns
to the Havannah, in the gulph of Mexico, and so
perhaps to Spain. What became of the rest of her
sailors, I could not certainly tell; and all her riches
signified nothing at that time to any body.
Searching farther, I found a calk, containing a-
bout twenty gallons, full of liquor, which, with
some labour, 1 got into my boat; in a cabin were
several muikets, which I Jet remain there; but took
away with me a great powder-horn, with about four
pounds of powder in it. I took also a sire shovel and
tongs, two brass kettles, a copper pot to make cho-
colate, and a grid-iron; all which were extremely
r.eceflVy to me, especially the fire stiovel and tongs.
And so with this cargo, accompanied with my dog,
I came away, the tide serving for that purpose; and
the same evening, about an hour within night, I at-
tained the island, after the greatest toil and fatigue
imaginable.
That night I reposed my wearied limbs in the
boat, resolving the next morning to harbour what I
had gotten in my new-found subterraneous grotto^
and not carrying my cargo home to my ancient ca-
stle. Having refreshed myself, and got all my ef-
fects on sliore, I next proceeded to examine the par-
ticulars; and so tapping the caste, I sound the liquor
to be a kind os a rum, but not like what we had at
the Brasils, nor indeed near so good. At the open-
ing of the chest, several things appeared very useful
to me; for instance, I found in one a very fine case
of boitleF, containing the finest and best sorts of cor-
dial waters; each bottle held about three pints, cu-
riously tipt with silver. 1 found also two pots full
of
of the choicest sweetmeats, and two more which the
water had utterly spoiled. There were likewise se*
veral good shirts, exceeding welcome to me, and a*
bout one dozen and a half of white linen handker-
chiefs and coloured neckcloths, the former of which
were absolutely necessary for wiping my face in a hot
day; and in the till, I found three bags of pieces of
eight, about eleven hundred in all, in one of which,
decently wrapt up in a piece of paper, were six dou-
bloons of gold, and some small bars and wedges of
the fame metal, which I believe might weigh near a
pound. In the other chest, which I guessed to belong
to the gunner's mate, by the mean circumstances that
attended it, I only found some cloaths of very little
value, except about two pounds of fine glazed powder,
in three flasks, kept, as I believe, for charging their
fowling-pieces on any occasion; so that, on the
whole, I had no great advantage by this voyage. The
money was indeed as mere dirt to me, useless and un-
profitable, all which I would have freely parted with
for two or three pair of English stioes and stockings,
things that for many years I had not worn, except
lately those which I had taken off the feet of those un-
fortunate men I had found drowned in the wreck, yet
not so good as English stioes, either for ease or service.
I also found in the seamen's chest about fifty pieces of
eight in rials, but no gold •, so concluded that what I
took from the first belonged to an officer, the latter
appearing to have a much inferior person for its own*
er. However, as despicable as the money seemed, I
likewise lugged it to my cave, laying it up securely,
as I did the rest of my cargo ? and after I had done
all this, I returned back to my boat, rowing or pad-
dling her along till I came to my old harbour, where
I carefully laid her up, and so made the best of my
way to my castle. When I arrived there, every th'ng
seemed safe and quiet: so that now my only busiuels
was to repose myself after my wonted manner, and
take
 
take care of my domestic affairs. But tho'I might
have lived very easy, as wanting for nothing absolute-
ly needful, yet still I was more vigilant than usual
upori account of the savages, never going much a-
broad j or, if I did, it was to the east part of the ill and,
where I was well assured that the savages never came,
and wh~re I might not be troubled to carry that heavy
load of weapons for my defence, as I was obliged to
do if I went the other way.,
Two years did 1 live in this anxious condition, in
all which time, contrary to my former resolutions, my
head was silled with nothing but project; and designs,
how I might escape from this iilaiul, and ib much wue
my wandering thoughts bent on a rambling dbpoii-
tion, that had I had the tune boat that 1 went from
Sal'ec in, 1 should have ventured once more to the u:i~
certainty of trie raging ocean.
I cannot however but consider myself as one of the
unhappy poisons, who make themselves wretched by
their diiiatufaclion with the stations which God has
placed them in; for, not to take a review of my pri-
mitive condition and my father's excellent advice,
(the going contrary to which was, as I may fay, my
originaljiu)) the following mistakes of the fame na-
ture certainly had been the means of my present un-
happy station. What business had 1 to leave a fettled
fortune, and wd) stocked plantation, improving and
increasing, where, by this time, I might have been
worth a hundred thousand moidorcSj to turn super*
cargo ts Guinea, to fetch negroes, when time and
patience .would have so much enlarged my stock at
home, as to be able to employ those whose more im-
mediate business it was to fetch them home, even to
my own door?
But as this is commonly the fate of young heads,
so a serious reflection upon the folly of it ordinarily
attends the exercise of future years, when the dear-
bought experience of time teaches us repentance,
Thus was it with me5 but notwithstanding the
thought*
 
 
thoughts of my deliverance ran so strongly in my
mind, that it seemed to check all the dictates of rea-
son and philosophy. And now to usher in my kind
reader with gteat pleasure to the remaining part of
my relation, I flatter myself it will not be taken a-
miss, to give him an account of my first conceptions
of the manner of escaping, and upon whatsoundation
1 laid my .foolish schemes.
Having retired to my Castle, after my late voyage
to the sliip, my frigate laid up and secured, as usual,
and u y condition the same as before, except being
richer, though I had as little occasion for riches as
the I:: -linns of Peru had for gold, before the cruel
Spaniards came among them: one night in March,
being the rainy season, in the four and twentieth
year os my solitude, I lay down to sleep, very well
in health, without distemper, pain, or uncommon
uneasiness, either of body or mind; yet notwith-
standing, I could not compose myself to sleep all the
night long. All this tedious while, it is impossible
to express what innumerable thoughts came into my
head. 1 traced quite over the whole history of my
life in miniature, from my utmost remembrance of
things till I came to this ilhnd ; and then proceeded
to examine every action and passage that had occurred
since 1 had taken possession of my kingdom. In my
reflections upon the latter, I was comparing the
happy posture of my affairs in the beginning of
my reign, to this life of anxiety, fear, and concern,
since I had discovered the print of a foot in the sand,
that while I continued without apprehension, I was
incapable of feeling the dread and terror I now suf-
fered. How thankful rather ought I to have been
for the knowledge of my danger, since the greatest
happiness one can be possessed of is to have sufficient
time to provide against it? How stupendous is the
goodness of Providence, which sets such narrow
bounds to the fight and knowledge of human nature,
I that
that while men walk in the midst, os so many dangers,
they are kept serene and calm, by having the evuus
of things hid from their eyes, and knowing nothh-g
of those many dangers that surround them, till per-
haps they are dissipated and vanish away.
When I came more particularly to consider of the
real danger I had for so many years escaped; how I
had walked about in the greatest security and tran-
quility, at a time, perhaps, when even nothing bat
the brow of the hill, a great tree, or the common ap-
proach of night, had interposed between me <n:d the
d e II i u ct i v c h a n d s o f thee a nni b a 1 s, w h o w o t? I d d r v o u r
me with as good an appetite, as I would a pig* ca
or curlicu ;surely all this, I fay, could not but make
me sincerely thankful to my great preserver, vvhosj
singular protection I acknowledged with the greatest
humility, and without which I must inevitable have
fallen into the cruel hands of those devourers.
Having thus discussed my thoughts in the clearest
manner, according to my weak understanding, I next
proceeded to consider the wretched nature of these
destroying savages, by seeming, though with great
reverence, to enquire, why God should give up any
of his creatures to such inhumanity, even to brutality
itself, to devour its own kind r Bui as this was rather
matter of abstruse speculation, and as my miserable
situation mnde me think this el mine the most un-
comfortable situation in the world, I then began ra-
ther to enquire what part of the world these wretches
Jived in ; how far off the coast was from whence they
came; why they ventured over so far from home;
what kind of boats conveyed them hither; and why
1 could not order myself and my business so, that
I might be as able to attain their country, as they
were to come to my kingdom?
But then, thought I, how (hall I manage myself
when I come thither; what will become of me if
I fa:l into the hands of the favagei? or how shall I
est me from them, it they make an attempt upon me?
-nt!
and supposing I should not fall into their power, what
will I do for provision, or which way shall I bend air
course? These counter-thoughts threw me into the
greatest horror and confusion imaginable; but then
I still locked upon my present condition to bd the
most miserable that possibly could be, and that nothing
could be worse, except death. For (thought I) could
1 but attain the shore of the main, I might perhaps
meet with some relief, or coast it along, as I did with
my boy Xury, on the-African shore, till I came to
some inhabited country, where I might meet with
some relies, or fall in with some Christian ship that
might take me in j and is \ sailed, why then I could
but meet with death, which would put an end to all
my miseries. These thoughts I must confess, were
the fruit of a distempered mind, an impatient temper,
made desperate, as it were, by long continuance of
the troubles and the disappointments 1 had met with
iii the wreck, where I hoped to have found some living
person to speak to, by whom I might have known in
whn place I was, and of the probable means of my
deliverance. Thus, while my thoughts were agitated,
my resignation to the will of heaven was entirely sus-
pended! so thatl had no power to fix my mind to
any thing, but to the project of a voyage to the main
, land. And indeed so much was I inflamed upon this
account, that it ki my blood into a ferment, .and my
pulse beat high, as though I had been in a icvtTj till
nature being, as it were, fatigued and exhausted with
the very thoughts of it} made me submit myself to a
silent repose.
In such a situation it is very strange, that I did not
dream of what i was so intent upon; bur, instead of
it, my mind roved on a quite different thing, altoge-
ther foreign. I dreamed, that as I was issuing from
my castle* one morning, as customary, I perceived
upon the ihore, two canoes, and eleven savages, co-
ming to land, who had brought with them another In-
dian, whom they designed to make a saciisice of, in
I 2 older
©rder to devour; but just as they were going to give
the tata! blow, methought the poor designed victim
jumped away, aud ran directly into my little thick
grove before my fortification, to abscond from his e-
uemies : when perceiving that the others did not fol-
low him that way, I appeared to him; that he hum-
bly kneeled down before me, seeming to pray for my
assistance; upon which I thew ed him my ladder,
made him ascend, carried him to my cave, and he
"became my servant •, and when I had gotten this man,
1 laid to myself, Now sercly r may have some hopes to
attain the main-land; for this fellow will serve one as
a pilot, ttll me what to do^ and where I must go for
provisions; what places to {him, what to venture to,
and what to escape. But when I awaked, and found
all these inexpressible impressions of joy entirely va-
nlOiecl, I fell into the greatest dejection of spirit ima-
ginable.
Yet this dream brought me to reflect, that one sure
way of escaping was to get a savage ; that after I had
ventured my life to deliver him from the bloody jaws
of his devourers, the natural sense he might have of
such a preservation, might inspire him with a lasting
gratitude and most sincere affection. But then this
objection reasonably interposed: How can I effect
this (thought 1) without I attack a whole caravan of
them, and kill them all? Why should I proceed on such
a desperate attempt, which my scruples before had
suggested to be unlawful *, and indeed my heart trem-
bled at the thoughts of so much blood, tho* it were a
means to procure my deliverance. 'Tis true, I might
reasonably enough suppose these men to be real enemies
to my life, men who would devour me, was it in their
power, so that it was self preservation in the highest
degree to free my self by attackingthem in my own de-
fence, as lawfully as if they were actually assaulting
me : though all these things, I fay, seemed to me to be
of the greatest weight, yet, as I just said before, the
dreadful
 
dreadful thoughts of (bedding human blood, struck
such a terror to my soul, that it was a long time be-
sure I could reconcile myself to it.
But how far will the ardency of desire prompt us
on? For, notwithstanding the many disputes and
perplexities I had with myself, I at length resolved,
right or wrong, to get one of these savages into my
hinds, cost what it would, or even though I should
lose my life in the attempt. Inspired with this firm
resolution, I set all my wits at work, to find out
what methods I mould take to answer my design:
this indeed was so difficult a talk, that 1 could not
pitch upon any probable means to execute it: I
therefore resolved continually to be in a vigilant po-
sture, to perceive when the savages came on more*
and to leave the rest to the event, let the opportuni-
ties offer as they would.
Such were my fixed resolutions; and accordingly
I set myself upon the scout, as often as I could, till
such time as I was heartily tired of it. I waited for
above a year and a half, the greatest part of which
time I went out to the west and south-west corner
of the island, almost every day* to look for canoes \
but none appeared. This was a very great discou-
ragement Vyet, though I was very much concerned,
the edge of my desire was as keen as ever, and the
longer it seemed to be delayed, the more eager was
I for it: in a word I never before was so careful to
shun the loathing sight of these savages, as 1 was
now eager to be with them: and I thought myself
sufficiently able to manage one, two, or three sava-
ges, if I had them, so as to make them my entire
slaves, to do whatsoever I should direct them, and
prevent their being able at any time to do me a mis-
chief. Many times did I use to please myself with
these thoughts, with long and ardent expectations;
but nothing presenting* all my ifcep projected
schemes, and numerous fancies, vanished away, as
though* while I retained such thoughts* the ckeree
13 q£
 
of Providence was such, that no savages were to
come near me.
About a year and a half after, when I was seriously
musing of sundry other ways how I should attain my
end> one morning early I was very much surprised by
seeing no less than five canoes all on shore together on
my iide the island, and the savages that belonged to
them all landed, and out of my light. Such' a num-
ber of them disconcerted all my measures; for, feeing
so many boats, each of which would contain fix, and
sometimes more, f could not tell what to think of it,
or how to order my measures, to attack twenty or
thirty men single handed: upon which, much dispiri-
ted and perplexed, 1 lay still in my castle; which
however 1 put in a proper posture for an attack; and
having formerly provided all that was necessary, was
soon ready to enter upon an engagement, should they
attempt it. Having waited for some time, my impa-
tient temper would let me bear it no longer ; I set my
guns at the foot of my ladder, and, as usual, ascen-
ded up to the top of the hill at two stages, standing
however in such a manner that my head did not ap-
pear above the hill, so that they could not easily per-
ceive me: and here, by the assistance of my perspec-
tive glass, I observed no less than thirty in number a-
round a sire, feasting upon what meat they haddressed:
how they cooktd it, or what it was, I could not then
perfectly tell ; but they were all dancing and capering
about the iiames, using many frightful and barbarous
gestures.
But while, with a curious eye, I was beholding these
wretches, my spirits funk within me, when I percci-
vzd them drag two miserable creatures from the boats,
to act afresh the dreadful tragedy* as 1 supposed they
had done before* It was not long before one of them
fell u*pon the ground, knocked clown, as I suppose,
with a club or wooden sword, for that was their man-
ner; wKSe two or three others went immediately to
woikj cutting him open for their cookery* and then
sell
fell to devour him as they had done the former;
while the last unhappy captive was left by himself till
such time as they were ready for him. The poor
creature looked round him with a wishful eye, trem-
bling at the thoughts of death-, yet seeing himself a
little at liberty, nature that very moment, as it were,
inspired him with hopes of life : he darted away from
them, and ran with incredible swiftness along the
sands, directly to that part of the coast where my an-
cient and venerable castle stood.
You may well imagine I was dreadfully affrighted
upon this occasion, when, as I thought, they pursued
him in a whole tody, all running towards my palace.
And now, indeed, I expected that part of my dream
was going to be fulfilled, and that he would certainly
fly to my grove for protection, but for the rest of
my dream, I could depend nothing on it, that the sa-
vages would pursue him thither, and find him there,.
However, my spirits beginning to recover, I still kept
upon my guard; and I now plainly perceived there
were but three men out of the number that pursued
him. I was infinitely pleased with what swiftness the
poor creature ran from his pursuers, gaining so much
ground of them, that 1 plainly perceived, could he
thus hold it for half an hour, there was not the least
doubt but he would save his life from the power of
his enemies.
Between them and my castle there was a creek, the
very fame which I sailed into with all my effects from
the wreck of the iliip, on the steep banks of which I
very much feared the poor victim would be taken, if
he could not swim for his escape: but soon was I out
of pain for him, when I perceived he made nothing
of it, though at full tide; but with an intrepid cou-
rage, spurred on by the sense of danger, he plunged
into the flood, swimming over in about thirty strokes,
and then landing, ran with the fame incredible strength
and swiftness as before. When the three pursuers
came to the creek, oae of them, who I perceived
couli
 
 
could not swim (happily for his part), returned back
to his company, while the others, with as equal cou-
rage, but much less swiftness, attained the other side,
as though they were resolved never to give over their
pursuit. And now, or never, 1 thought was the time
for me to procure me a servant, companion, or assist-
ant; and that I was decreed by Providence to be the
instrument that should save this poor creature's life. I
immediately descended my two ladders with the great-
est expedition; I took up my two guns, which I said
before were at the bottom os them ; and getting up a-
gain with the same haste towards the hill, I made near-
er the sea. In a word, taking a short cut down the hill,
I interposed between the pursuers and pursued, halloo-
ing aloud to the latter, who venturing to look back,
was no doubt at first as much terrified at me as I at
them. I beckoned to him with my hand to return
back, in the mean time advancing towards the pur-
suers, and rustling on the foremost, I knocked him
down with the stock of my piece, and laid him fiat
on the ground. I was very unwilling to sire, kstthe
rest should hear, though at that distance I questioned
whether they could or no; and being out os fight of
the smoke, they could not easily have known what to
rhake of it. The other savage seeing his fellow fall,
stopped as if he had been amazed ; when, advancing
towards him, I could perceive him take his bow from
his back, and fixing an arrow to it, was preparing to
snoot at me, and without dispute might have lodged
the arrow in my breast; but, in this absolutely ne*
ceflary cafe of self preservation, I immediately sired
at him, and stiot him dead, just as his hand was going
to draw the fatal string. All this while the savage who
had fled before stood still, and had the satisfaction to
fee his enemies killed, as he thought, who designed
to take away his life: so affrighted was he with the
fire and noise of my piece, that he stood as it were
like Lot's wife, fixed and immoveable, without either
fense or motion. This obliged me to halloo to him
again*
 
 
again, making theplaincst signslcouldtohimto draw
nearer, I perceived he understood these tokens by his
approaching to me a little way, when, as if afraid I
should kill him too, he stopped again. Several times-
did he advance, and as often stop in this manner, till,
coming more to my view, I perceived him trembling,
as if he was to undergo the fame fate. Upon which
I locked upon him with a smiling countenance, and
still beckoning to him; at length he came close to me,
and kneeled down, kissed the ground, laid his head
upon it, and taking me by my scot, set the fame up-
on his head : and this, as I understood afterwards, was
a token of swearing to be my slave for ever. I took
him up, and making much of him, encouraged him
in the best manner I could. But my work w<as not
yet finished 5 for I perceived the savage whom I knock-
ed down, was not killed, but stunned with the blow,
and began to come to himself. Upon which I pointed
to my new servant, and shewing him that his enemy
was not yet expired, he spoke some words to me, but
which I could not understand; yet being the first
sound of a man's voice I had heard for above twenty-
five years, they were very pleasing to me. But there
was no time for reflection now, the wounded savage
recovering himself so far as to sit upon the ground,
which made my poor prisoner as much afraid as be-
fore; to put him out of which fear, I presented my
other gun at the man, with an intent to moot him;
but my savage, for so I must now call him, prevented
my firing, by making a motion to me, to lend him my
sword which hung naked in a belt by my side.- No
sooner did I grant his request, but away he runs to his
enemy, and at one blow cut off his head as dexterious-
ly as the most accomplistied.executioner in Germany
could have done : for it seems these creatures make use
of wooden swords made of hard wood, which will bear
edge enough to cut off heads and arms at one blow.
When this valorous exploit was done, he came to me
laugh-
laughing, as a token of triumph, delivered me my
sword again, with abundance of surprising gestures,
laying it along, with the blooding and ghaliiy head
of the Indian at my feet.
The greatest astonishment that mynew servant con-
ceived, was the manner of killing the savage at such a
distance, without a bow and arrow : and such was his
longing desire to know it, that he first pointed to the
dead carcase, and then made signs to me to grant him
leave to go to him. Upon which I bid him go, and
as well as I could, made him sensible I granted his
request. But when he came there, how wonderfully
was he struck with amazement! First he turned him
on one side, then on another, wondering he could
perceive no quantity of blood, he bleeding inwaidly;
and after sufficiently admiring the wound the bullet
had made in his breast, he took up his bow and ar-
rows, and came back again; upon which I turned to
go away, making many signs to him to follow, lest
the rest misting their companions, might come in
pursuit of him. And this f found be understood
very well, by his making me to understand that his
design was to bury them, that they might not be
seen if it happened; and which by signs again I
made him sensible I very much approved of. Imme-
diately he fell to work, and never was grave-digger
more dexterous in the world than he was; for in an
instant, as I might fay, he scraped a large hole in the
sands with his hands, sufficient to bury the first in;
there he dragged him, and without any ceremony
he covered him over; in like manner he served the
other: so that I am sure no undertaker could be
more expert in his business » for all this was done in
less than a quarter of an hour. 1 then called him a-
way, and instead of carrying him directly to my
castle at first, 1 conveyed him to. my cave, on the
further part of the island: and so mv dream was not
fulfilled in that particular, that my grove sliould
prove an asylum or sanctuary to him.
Weary
 
Weary and saint, hungry and thirsty, undoubt-
edly must this poor creature be, supported chiefly by
that vivacity of spirit, and uncommon transports of
joy that his deliverance occasioned. Here I gave him
tread, and a bunch of raisins to eat, and water to
drink, on which he fed very cheerfully, to his exceed-
ing refreshment. I then made him a convenient bed,
with a parcel of rice straw, and a blanket upon it, (a
bed which I used myself sometimes), and then point-
ing to it, made ligns for him to lie down to sleep, up-
on which the poor creature went to take a welcome
repose.
Indeed he was a very comely handsome young fel-
low, extremely well made, with straight long limbs,
not too large, tall and well shaped, and, as near as I
could reckon, about twenty-six years of age. His
countenance had nothing in it fierce or surly, but
rather a sort of majesty in his face; and yet, espe-
cially when he smiled, he had all the sweetness and
softness of an European. His hair was not curled
like wool, as many of the blacks are, but long and
black, with the most beautiful, yet careless, tresses
spreading over his (boulders. He had a very high
and large sorehead, with a great vivacity and spark-
ling stiarpness in his eyes. His skin was not so tawny
as the Virginians, Brasilians, or other Americans,
but rather of a bright dun olive colour, that had
something agreeable in it, though not very easy to
give a description of. His face w^s round and plump,
with a small nose, very different from the flatness of
the negroes, a pretty small mouth, thin lips, fine
teeth, very well set, and white as the driven snow*
In a word, such handsome features, and exact sym-
metry in every part, made me consider, that I had
saved the life of an Indian prince, no less graceful
and accomplished than the great Oroonoko, whose
memorable behaviour and unhappy contigencies of
life have charmed the world, both to admiration of
his person, and compassion to his sufferings.
But
 
 
But let him be either prince or peasant, all my
happiness centered in this, that I had now got a good
servant or companion, to whom, as he deserved, I
was resolved to prove a kind master and lasting
friend. He had not, I think, slept above an hour,
when he awakened again, and while I was milking
my goats hard by, out he runs from the cave towards
me in my inclosure, and laying himself down on the
ground in the lowest prostration, made all the antic
gestures imaginable, to express his thankfulness to
me for being his deliverer. I confess, though the
manner of his behaviour seemed to be ludicrous e-
nough to occasion laughter, yet I was very much
moved at his affection, so that my heart melted with-
in me, searing he might die away in excess of joy,
like reprieved malefactors 5 especially as I was inca-
pable either to let him blood, or administer physic.
It were to be wished, that Christians would take ex-
ample by this Heathen, to have a lasting remem-
brance of the benefits and deliverances they have re-
ceived, by the kind mediation and powerful interpo-
sition of their benefactors and deliverers: and it
would likewise be happy for mankind, were there no
occasion to blame many, who, instead of thankiully
acknowledging savours ami benefits, rather a use and
contemn those who have been the instruments to lave
them from destruction.
But, leaving these just reflections, I return to the
object that occasioned them: for my man, to con-
clude the last: ceremony of obedience, laid down his
head again on the ground, close to my foot, and set
my other soot upon his head, as he had done before,
making all the signs of subjection, servitude, and sub-
mission imaginable, to let me understand he would
serve me as long as his life endured. As I under-
stood him in many things, I made him sensible I was
very well pleased with him*, and in a little time I
began to speak to him, and learn him how to talk
to me again. In the first place, I made him un-
derstand
dcrstand bis name was to be Friday, because it was
upon that day I saved his life : then I taught him to
fay Master, which I made him sensible was to be my
name. I likewise taught him to say Yes and No,
and to know what they meant. I gave him some
milk in an earthen pot, making him view me while
I drank it before him, and soaked my bread in it j I
gave him a cake of bread, and caused him soak it
likewise, to which he readily consented, making signs
os the greatest satisfaction imaginable.
All that night did I keep him there; but no sooner
did the morning light appear, when I ordered him to
arise, and come along with me, with certain tokens
that 1 would give him some cloatbs like mine, at whicn
he seemed very glad, being stark naked, without the
Iraft covering whatever. As we passed by the place
where the two men had been interred, my man pointed
directly to their graves, shewing me the marks that he
had made to find them again, giving me to understand,
by signs, that he would dig them up, and devour them.
At this I appeared extremely displeased, expressed my
utmost: abhorrence, as if I would vomit at the apprehen-
sions of it, beckoning with my hand to come awav,
which he did with the greatest reverence and submis-
sion. Aster this I conducted him to the top of the
hill, to view if the rest of the savages were yet remain-
ing there; but when I looked through my perspec-
tive glass, I could fee no appearance of them, nor of
their canoes; so that it was very evident they never
minded their deceased companions whom I had
stain; which, if they had, they would surely have
£ arched for, or lest one boat behind for them to
follow, aster they returned from their pursuit.
Curiosity, and a desire of satisfaction,animating me
with courage to fee this scene of barbarity, 1 took my
man Friday with me, putting a sword into his hand,
"with the bow and arrows f.t his back, which I per-
ceived he could use very dexterioufiy> causing him to
K carry
carry one gun for me, and I two For myself; and
thus equipped against all attacks, away we march.d
directly to the place of their bloody entertainment.
But when I came there, I was struck with the utmost
horror at so dreadful a spectacle, whilst TYiday was
no way concerned about it, being no doubt in his
turn one of these devourers. Here lay several hu-
man bones, there seven] pieces of mangled flesh,
half eaten, mangled and scorched, whilst streams of
blood ran promiseoufly as waters from a fountain.
As I was musing on this dreadful sight, Friday rook
all the pains he could, by particular signs, to make
me understand, that they had brought over four
prisoners to feast upon, three of whom they had
eaten up, and that he was the souith, pointing to
himself: that there having been a bloody battle be-
tween them and his great king, in the just defence
of whom he was taken prisoner, with many others;
all of these were carried off to different places, to be
devoured by their conquerors; and that it was his
misfortune to be brought hither by these wretches
for the fame purpose.
After I was made sensible of these things, I caused
Friday to gather these horrid remains, and lay them
together upon a heap, which I ordered to be set on
fire, and burnt them to ashes : my man, however, still
retained the nature of a cannibal, having a hanker-
ing stomach after some of the fleih ; but such an ex-
treme abhorrence did I express at the least appear-
ance of it, that he g'usst not but conceal it: for I
made him very sensible, that is he offered any such
thing, I would certainly shoot him.
This being done, I carried my man with me to my
castle, and gave him a pair of linen drawers, which
I had taken out of the poor gunner's chest before
mentioned; and which, with a little alteration, fitted
him very well : in the next place, I made him a jer-
kin of goat-skin, such as my skill was able to ma-
nage, and indeed I thought myself then a tolerable
good
 
good tailor. I gave him also a cap, which I made
of a hare's skin, very convenient and fashionable.
Thus being cloathed tolerable well, my man was no
less proud of his habit, than I was in seeing him in
it. Indeed he went very awkwardly at first, the
drawers being too heavy on his thighs, not used to
bear any weight, and the sleeves as the waistcoat
galled his shoulders, and the inside of his arms; but
by a little easing where he complained they hurt
him, and by using himself to them, at length he
took to them very well.
My next cencern was, where I should lodge him:
and that I might do well by him, and yet be perfect-
ly easy myself, I erected a tent for him in the vacant
place between my two fortifications, in the inside of
the last, and the outside of the first: and as there was
an entrance or door into my cave, I made a formal^
framed door cafe, and a door to open on the inside;
1 barred it up in the night time, taking in my lad-
ders too f so that, was my man to prove treacherous,
these could be no way to come at me in the inside of
ffij innermost wall, without making so much noise ia
getting over, that it must needs waken me; for my
first wall had now a complete roof over it of long
poles, spreading over my tent, and leaning up to the
side of the mountain, which was again laid cross
with smaller sticks instead of laths, and thatched over
a great thickness with rice straw, which was as strong
as reeds; and at the hole of the place, left on pur-
pose to go in or out by the ladder, L had placed a kind
cf a trap door, which, if it had been attempted on
the outside, would not have opened at all, but have
fallen down, and made a great noise; and as to my
weapons, every night I took them all to my bed tide.
But there was no occasion for this precaution; for
surely never master had a more sincere, faithful, and
loving servant than Friday proved to me. Without
paffion, sulleuness, or design, perfectly obliging and
& 2 engaging*
 
engaging, his affections were as much tied to me, as
those of a child to his parents : and I might venture to
fay, he would have sacrificed his life for the saving
mine, upon any occasion whatsoever. And indeed
the many testimonies he gave me of this, sufficiently
convinced me that I had no occasion to use these pre-
cautions. And here I could not bat reflect, with
great wonder, that however it has pleased the Al-
mighty in his providence, and in the government of
the creation, to take from so great a part of the world
of his creatures, the noblest u(cs to which their facul-
ties, and the powers of their fouls are adapted, yet
that he has bestowed upon them the fame reason, af-
fections, sentiments of kindness, and obligation, pas-
sions of resentment, sincerity, fidelity, and all the
i apacities of doing and receiving good that he has
given us; and that when he is graciously pleased to
oiler them occasions of exerting these, they are as
ready, nay, more ready, to apply them to the proper
ides for which they were bestowed, than we often
cue. These thoughts would make me melancholy,
especially when I considered how mean a use we
make of all these, even though we have these powers
enlightened by the Holy Spirit of God, and by the
knowledge of his word, as an addition to our under-
standing; and why it has pleased the heavenly Wisdom
to conceal the like saving knowledge from so many
millions of fouls, who could certainly make a much
better use of it than generally mankind do at this
time. These reflections would sometimes lead me
so far, as to invade the sovereignty of providence, and,
as it were, arraign the justice of such an arbitrary
disposition of things, that should obscure that light
from some, and reveal it to others, and yet expect a
like duty from alb But I closed it up, checking my
thoughts with this conclusion ; firsts That we were
ignorant of that right: and law by which these mould
be condemned •, but that as the Almighty was necef-
arily, and by the nature of his essence, infinitely just
and
 
 
and holy •, so it could not be otherwise, but that if
these creatures were all destined to absence from him-
self, it was on account of fuming against that light,
which, as the scripture lays, was a law to themselves,
aud by such rules as their consciences would acknow-
ledge to be just, though the fust foundation was not
discovered to us. And,secondly. That still as we were
the clay in the hand of the potter, no vessel could thus
fay to him, Why hast thou faihioned me after this
manner.
I had not been above two or three days returned to
my castle, but my chief design was, how I should
bring Friday off from his horrid way of feeding; and
to take from him that inhuman relisti he by nature
had been accustomed to, I thought it my duty to let
him taste other flesti, which might the rather tempt
him to the fame abhorrence I so often expressed a-
gainst their accursed way os living. Upon which one
morning I took him out with me, with an intention
to kill a kid out of the flock, and bring it home, and
dress it. As I was going, I perceived a she-goat ly-
ing down in the (hade, and two young kids sitting by
her. Immediately I catched hold of my man Friday,
and bidding him stand still, and not stir, 1 presented
my piece, and (hot one of the kids. My poor servant,
who had at a distance perceived me kill his adveisary,
and yet did not know by what means, or how it was
done, stood trembling and surprised, and looked so a-
mazed, that I thought he would have sunk into the
earth. He did not see the kid 1 aimed at, or behold I
had killed it, but ripped up his waistcoat to fee if he
was not wounded, thinking my resolution was to kill
him ; for coming to me, he fell on his knees earnest-
ly pronouncing many things which I did not under-
stand the meaning of; which at length I perceived
Was, that I would not take away his life.
Indeed I was much concerned to fee him in that
condition, where nature is upon the severest trial,
when the immediate hand of death is ready to put for
K 3 ever
 
 
ever a period ic this mortal life : rind indeed so much
compassion had I to this creature, that it was with dif-
ficulty I refrained from tears. But, however, as ano-
ther sort of countenance was necclury,and toconviuce
him that I would do him no hinrn I took him, smi-
ling, by the hand, then laughed at him, and pointing
to the kid which I hail stun, made signs to him to
fetch it, which accordingly he did. No less carious was
he in viewing how the creature was killed, than he
hud been before hi hi-holding the Indian; which, while
lie was admiring at, 1 charred my gun again, and pre-
sently perceived a gioat fowl like a hawk, perching
upon a tree within shot *3 a i, therefore, to let Friday
'understand what I was going to do, I called him to
me again, pointing at the fowl, which I found to he
'a parrot. I made him understand that I would (hoot
and kill that bird; accordingly I fired, and bad him
look, when immediately he sow the parrot fall down.
Agaiu he stood like one amazed, notwithstanding all
1 had said to him ; and the more confounded he wjp,
because he did not perceive me put any thing into my
gun. Undoubtedly a thing so utterly strange, carry-
ing death along with it, far or near, either to man er
beau, miiif certainly create the greater astonishment
to one who had never heard os such a thing in his
whole life: and really his amazement continued so
long, th-.t had I allowed it, he would have prostrated
himself before me and my ^uru with the greatest
worship and adoption. As for the gun in particular,
he would not (o mush as suffer his singers to touch
it for several days after; hut would come and com-
municate his thoughts to it, and talk to it, as if the
senseless piece had understood and answered him : all
this I could perceive him.do, when he thought my
hack was turned, the chief intent of which was, to
desire it not to kill him, as I afterwards came to un»
derstand.
I never strove to prevent his admiration, nor hin-
der him from those comical gestures he used on such
occasions;
 
 
occasions; but when his astonishment was a little o-
ver, I made tokens to him to run and fetch the par-
rot that I had ihot; which he accordingly did, staying
sometime longer than usual, by reason the bird, not
being quite dead, had fluttered some way farther
from the place where she fell. In the mean time, as
he was looking for her, I took the advantage of char-
ging my gun again, that so I might be ready for any
oilier mark that offered ; but nothing more occurred
al that time. So I brought home the kid, and the
same evening took off the skin, and divided the car-
case as well as I could. Part of this flefli I stewed
aud boiled, in a pot I had for this purpose. And then
spreading my table, 1 sat down, giving my man some
of it to eat, who was wonderfully pleased, and seem-
ed to like it very well; but what was most surprising
to him was to fee me eat salt with it: upon which he
made me to understand, the salt was very bad for
me; when putting a little into his mouth he seemed
to nauseate it in such a manner, as to spit and sputter
at it, and then washed his mouth with fresti water:
but to stiew him how contrary his opinion was to
mine, I put some meat into my mouth without salt,
and feigned to spit and sputter as much for the want
of it, as he had done at it: yet all this proved of no
signification to Friday; and it was a long while be-
fore he could endure salt in his meat or broth, and
even then but a very small quantity.
Thus, having fed him sufficiently with boiled meat
and broth at that time, the next day I was resolved
to feast him with a roasted piece of the kid. And
having no spit to fasten it, nor jack to turn it, I made
use of that common artifice which many of the people
of England have, that is, to set two poles upon each
fide of the fire, and one cross on the top, hanging the
meat thereon with a string, and so turning round con-
tinually, roast it in the fame manner as we read
bloody tyrants of old cruelly roasted the holy mar-
tyrs. This practice caused great admiration in my
man
 
 
 
 
jnan Friday, being quite another way than that to
which the savages were accustomed. Bat when he
came to taste the sweetness and tenderness of the flesh,
he expressed his entire satisfaction above a thousand
different ways. And as I could not but understand
his meaning, you may be sure I was as wonderfully
pleased, especially when he made it also very plain to
me, that he would never, while he lived, cut man's
stem more.
It is now high time I should set my servant to
work; so next day I put him to beat out some corn,
and sift it in the same manner as I had done before,
And really the fellow was very quick and handy in
the execution of any thing 1 ordered him to go-about.
I made him undeistand it was to make bread for us
to eat, and afterwards ler him fee me bake it. In
short, he did every thing as I ordered him in a little
time as well as I could perform it myself.
But now considering I had two mouths to feed in-
stead of one, it was necessary that I must provide more
ground for my harvest, and plant a larger quantity of
corn than I commonly used to do \ upon which I
marked out a larger piece of land, fencing it in, in
the same manner as I had done before ; in the execu-
tion of which I must give Friday this good word3
that no man could work more hardy, or with better
will than he did; and when I made him sensible that
it was for bread to serve him as well as me, he then
very passionately made me understand, that he thought
I had much more labour on his account, than I had
for myself; and that no pains or diligence should be
wanting in him, if f would but direct him in those
works wherein he might proceed.
I must certainly own, that this was the most plea-
sant year I ever had in the island; for after some time
Friday began to talk pretty wet!, and understand the
names of those things which I was wont to call for,
and the places where I used to send him. So that my
long silent tongue, which had been useless so many
yearSj
 
y ears, except in an exclamatory, manner, either for
deliverance or blessings, now began to be occupied in
teaching, and talking to my man Friday \ for indeed
I had iuch a singular satisfaction in the fellow him-
self, so innocent did his simple and unfeigned honesty
appear more and more to me every day, that I really
began entirely to love him, and for his part, I be-
lieve there was no love lost, and that his nature had
been more charmed with my exceeding kindness, and
his affections more placed upon me, than any other
object whatsoever among his own countrymen. I
once had a great mind to try if he had any hankering
inclination to his own country again : and by this
time having learned him the English so well, that he
could give me tolerable answers to any question which
I demanded, I aiked him, whether that nation to which
he belongs d ever conquered in battle? This question
made Friday to smile, and to which he answered,yes9
yesy We al-ways fight the better; as much as to fay, they
always got the better in fight. Upon which we pro-
ceeded on the following discourse. You say, said I,
that you always fight the better ; why then, Friday,
how came you to be taken prisoner \
Friday. But for all that, my nation beat much.
Master. How, say you, beat 1 if your nation beat
them, how came you to be taken?
Friday, They more many mans than my nation in
the place where me was, they take one, two, three*
and me : my nation much overheat them in the yon-
der place where me now was, there my nation mans
beat one, two, three, great toufands.
Master. Then why did not your men recover you
from the hands of your enemies?
Friday. They run one, two, or three, and me;
they make all go in the canoo \ my nation have no
canoo that time.
Master. rsis very well3 Friday; but what does
your nation do with the prisoner? they take ? Bo they
carry them away and ^at them as these have done f
1 J Friday.
 
Friday. Yes, yes, my nation eat mans too, eat
up all.
Master, To what place do they carry them to be
devoured.
Friday. Go to other nations where they think.
Master. Do they bring them hither?
Friday. Yes, come over hither, come over other
place.
Master. And have you been with them here Fri-
day?
Friday, Yes, me been here, [pointing to the north-
nvest of the i/Iand, being the side where they used U
land.)
Thus having got what account I could from my
man, I plainly understood, that he had been as bad
as any of the rest of the cannibals, having been for-
merly among the savages who used to come on shore
on the farthest part of the island, upon the fame bloody
occasion as he was brought hither for: and sometime
after I carried him to that place where he pointed;
and no sooner did he come there, but he presently
knew the ground, signifying to me that he was once
there w?hen they ate up twenty men, two women,
and a young child -> but as he could not explain the
number in Englijh9 he did it by so many stones in a
row, making a sign to me to count them.
This passage 1 have the rather mentioned, because
it led to things more important and useful for me to
know: for after I had this satisfactory discourse with
him, my next question was, how far it was from the
island to the shore, and whether the canoes were not
often lost in the ocean r" To which he answered, there
was no danger; that no canoes were ever lost $ but
that after a little way out to the sea, there was a
strong current, and a wind always one way in the af-
ternoon. This I thought at fust to be no more than
the sets of the tide, of going out or coming in \ but
I afterward understood it was occasioned by the great
draught and reflux of the mighty river Oroonoko,
 
In the mouth or gulf os which I imagined my king-
dom lay j and that the land which 1 perceived to the
\v\ and N. W. mult be the great island Trinidad, on,
the north of the river. A thousand questions (if that
would satisfy me) did I ask Friday about the nature
of the country, the sea, the coasts, the inhabitants,
and what nations were nearest them ; to which que-
stions the poor fellow declared all he knew, with the
greatest oppenness and utmost sincerity. When I de-
manded of him the particular names of the various
nations of his fort of people, he could only answer
me in general, that they were called Carabe. Htnce
it was I considered that these must be the Curibbees,
so much taken notice of by our maps, to be on that
part of America, which reaches from the mouth of
the river Oroonoko toGuiania, and soon to St Mar-
tha. Then Friday proceeded to tell me, that up a
great way beyond the moon, as much as to fay, beyond
the setting of the moon, which must be W. from their
country, there dwelt white-bearded men such as I,
Was, pointing to my whiskers, and that they kill
much mans. I was not ignorant with what barbarity
the Spaniards treated these creatures ; so that I pre-
sently concluded it must be them, whose cruelties had
spread throughout America, to be remembered even
to succeeding generations.
Well, you may be sure, this knowledge, which the
imperfect information of my man had led me to, was
Very comfortable to me, and made me so curious as
to alk him, how I might depart from this island, and
get among those white men? He told me, Yes, yes, I
m:ght go in two canoes. In two canoes, thought I
"what does my man mean \ Surely he means one for
himself, and another for me; and is not, how must
two canoes hold me without being joined, or one
part of my body being put in one, and another in the
other? And indeed it was a long while before I un-
derstood his meaning, which was, that it must be a
large boat, at big as two canoes, able to bear with
the
 
 
the waves, and not so liable to be overwhelmed as
one must be.
I believe there is no state of life but what may he
happy, if people would but endeavour for their part
to make it so. He is not the happiest man that has
the most riches, but he that is content with what he
hath. Before I had my servant, I thought myself mi-
serable tiJl I had him; and now that I enjoyed the
happy benefits of him, I stiiJ complained, and begged
a deliverance from a place of retirement, ease, and
plenty, where Providence had sufficiently blessed me.
In a word, from this time I entertained some hopes,
that one time or other I might find an opportunity to
make my escape from this istand, and that this poor
savage might be a great furtherance thereto.
-All the time since my. man became so intelligent as
to understand and speak to me, 1 spared no pains nor
diligence to instruct him, according to my poor share
of knowledge, in the principles of religion, and the
adoration that he ought to pay to the True God. One
time, as I very well remember, I asked him who made
him? At first the innocent creature did not under-
stand what I meant, but rather thought I ailed him
who was his father; upon which I took another way
to make him sensible, by demanding from him an an-
swer to this question. Friday, said I, who is it that
made the sea, this ground whereon we walk, and all
these hills and woods which we behold? And here
indeed I did not miss of my intention; for he told
me, it was old Bcnamuckee (the god whom I supposed
these savages adored) who lived a great way beyond
all. But as for his attributes, poor Friday was an
utter stranger, He couid describe nothing of this
great person; and all that he could fay was, that he
was very old, much older th-n the sea and h:\di the
moon, or the stars. Friday, (said I again), if this
great and old person has made all things in the world,
how comes it to pise, that ail things, as you in par-
ticular, do not ado?<- and vroiia.-p l-iai? Upon this,
"kokinj
looking very grave, with a perfect sweet look of in-
nocence, he replied, Master•, all things fay 0 to lumf
by which it may reasonably be supposed he meant ado-
ration. And where, said I, do the people of your
country £o when they die f He answered, they all go
to Benamuckee. What, and those people that are eaten
up, do they go there? Benamuckee, said he, love 'etn
dearly ; me pray to Benamuckee in de canoe, and Be-
namuckee wou'd love me when dey eat a me all up.
Such discourses as these had 1 with my man, and
such mad* me sensible, that the true God is worship-
ped, though under imperfect similitude ; and that
the false adoration which the Heathens give to their
imaginary deity, is as great an argument of the divine
essence, as the most learned Atheist (faljly fe called)
can bring against it ; for God will be glorified in his
works, Jet the denomination be what it will; and I
cannot be of that opinion which some conceive, that
God should decree men to be damned for want of a
right notion of faith, in a place where the wisdom of
the Almighty has not permitted it to be preached;
and therefore cannot but conclude, that since obedi-
ence is the best sacrifice, these poor creatures, acting
by that light and knowlcge which they are possessed
with, may undoubtedly obtain a happy salvation,
though not that enjoyment with Christ, as his saints,
confessors, and martyrs must enjoy.
But laying these determinations asid«, more fit for
divines than me to discuss, I began to instruct my
servant in the saving knowledge of the true Deity, in
which the directions of God's Holy Spirit asiisted me. ,
I lifted up my hands to heaven, and pointing thereto,
told him, that the great Msker of heaven and earth
lived there: that as his infinite power fashioned this
world out of a confused chaos, and made it in that
beautiful frame which we behold, so he governs and
preserves it by his unbounded knowledge, sovereign
greatness, and peculiar providence : that he wasomni-
fotentj could do every thing for us, give every thing
L to
 
ro us, and take every thing away from us : that he was
arewarderandpunither of good and evil actions: that
there was nothing but what he knew, no thoughts so
secret but what he could bring to light ; and thus, by
degrees, I opened his eyes, and described to him the
mariner of the creation of the world, the situation of
paradise, the transgression of our first parents, the wic-
kedness of God's peculiar people, and the universal
sins and abominations of the whole earth. When
these things were implanted in his mind, I told him,
that as God's justice was equal to his mercy, he resol-
ved to destroy this world, till his Son Jesus Christ in-
terposed in our behalf j and, to procure our redemption,
obtained leave os his heavenly father to come down
from heaven into the world, where he took human na-
ture upon him, instructed us in our way to eternal
life, and died as a sacrifice for our sins; that he was
now ascended into heaven, mediating for our pardon,
delivering our petitions, and obtaining all those good
benefits which we ask in his name, by humble and
hearty prayers, all which were heard at the throne of
heaven. As very frequently I used to inculcate things
into his mind, Friday one day told me, that if our
great God could hear us beyond the fun, he must
surely be a greater God than their Benamuckee, who
Jived but a little way off, and yet could not hear them
till thf y ascended the great mountains where he dwelt,
to speak to him. What, said I, Friday, did you go
thither to speak to him too: He answered, No, they
never went that were young men, none but old men
called their Ooivakakee, meaning the Indian priestsf
who went to fay <9, (so he called saying their prayers),
and they returned back, and told them what Betia-
muckee said. From hence I could not but observe
how happy we Christians are, who have God's im-
mediate revelation for our certain guide; and tlrat
our faith is neither misled, nor our reason imposed
upon, by any set of men such as these Indian im-
joltcrs.
But,
But, to clear up this palpable cheat to my man
Friday, I told him, that the pretence of their ancient
men going up to the mountain to fay O to their god
Bcnamuckee was an imposture, and that their bring-
ing back an answer was all a {ham, if not worse; ior
that is there was any such thing spoken to them,
surely it must proceed from an infernal spirit. And
here I thought it necessary to enter into a long dis-
course with him, which I d;.d aster this manner.
Friday, (said I), you mull know that before this
world was made, there was an almighty power exist-
ing, by whose power all things were made, and who.fe
majesty shall have no end. To be glorified and ado-
red by beings of a heavenly nature, he created angels
and arch-angels, that is, glorious spirits resembling
himself, to encompass his throne, eternally singing
forth his praise in the most heavenly sounds and di-
vine harmony. And, among this heavenly choir, Lu-
cifer bore a great sway, as being then one of the pe-
culiar favourites of these celestial abodes; but he,
contrary to that duty he owed his heavenly sovereign,
with unbounded ingratitude to his divine Creator,
not only envied him that adoration which was his
due, but thought to usurp that throne which he had
neither power to keep, nor title to pretend to. lie
raised a dissension and civil war in heaven, and had
a number of angels to take his part. Unbounded fol-
ly ! stupendous pride! thus to hope for victory, and
aspire above his powerful Creator! The Deity, not
fearful of such an enemy, yet justly provoked at this
rebellion, commissions his arch-angel Michael to led
forth the heavenly host, and give him battle j the
advantage of which was quickly perceived, by Satan's
being overthrown, and the prince of the air (for so
the devil was called) with all his fallen angels, driven
headlong into a dismal place, which is called HelL-
The recital of this truth made my man give the
greatest attention, and he expressed a great satisfac-
tion by his gestures, that God had sent the devil into
L z * the
the deep hole. And then I desired him to give great
heed-to what I had further to say.
No sooner (proceeded 1) was God freed from, and
the heavens clear of this arch-traitor, but the Father
speaks to the Son and Holy Spirit, who belonged to
his estence, and were equA to him in power and glory,
Came lei us m ikeman, {h'n\ he) in our own image ^ after
eur civ/i like ness, Gen. i. 26. to have dominion over
the ere itures of the world which we have created.
And these he intended should glorify him in heaven,
according to their obedience in this Hate of probation
on earth, which was, as it were, to be the school to
train them up for those heavenly mansions. Now,
Satan seeing himself (biled, yet that God had not ta-
ken the power fiom him as prince of the air, which
power IIeavesi designed he should retain, whereby
his creatures might be tried; in revenge for the dis-
grace he had received, he tempts Adam's wife Eve
to taste of the tree of knowledge of good and evil,
which God had forbidden. He appears to her in the
shape of a serpent, then a most beautiful creature,
and tells her, that it was no better than an imposi-
tion which God had put upon her and her husband,
not to eat of that fair fruit which he had created;
that the taste thereof would make them immortal like
God himself; and consequently as great and power-
ful as he. Upon which she not only eat thereof her-
self, but made her husband eat also, which brought
them both under the heavenly displeasure.
Here Friday expressed a great concern •, Ab> poor
mans / (cried he) naughty wemans! naughty devil!
make God not love de mans, make mans like devil
himself
Friday, said T, God still loved mankind; and tho*
the devil tempted human nature so far, he would not
suffer him to have an absolute power over them, I
have told you before of his tender love to his people,
till they, like Lucifer, disobeyed his commands and
rebelled against him , and even then, how Jesus Christ,
his
his only Son, came to save sinners. But still every
man that lives in the world is under temptation and
trial. The devil has yet a power, as prince of the
air, to suggest evil cogitations into our minds, and
prompt us on to wicked actions, that he might glory
in our destruction. Whatever evil thoughts we have
proceed from him ; so that God, in this our distress,
expects we should apply ourselves to him by fervent
prayer for speedy redress. He is not like Benarnnckee>
to let none come near him but Oowakakce^ but suffers
the people as well as priests to oiler themselves at his
feet, thereby to be delivered from the power and
temptation of the devil.
But though at first my man Friday expressed some
concern at the wickedness of Lucifer, I found it net
so easy to imprint the right notions of him in his
mind, as it was about the divine essence of God: for
there nature assisted me in all my arguments, to (hew
to him plainly the necessity of a great first cause, and
over-ruling governing power, of a secret directing
Providence, and of the equity and reasonableness of
paying adoration to our Creator; whereas there ap-
peared nothing of all this in the notion of an evil
spirit, of his first beginning, his nature, and above all*
of his inclination to evil actions, and his power to
tempt us to the like. And indeed this unlearned In-
dicing by the mere force of nature, puzzled me with
one particular question, more than ever I could have
expected
I hid, it seems, one day been talking to him of
the omnipotent power of God, and his infinite abhor-
rence of sin, insomuch that the scriptures styled him
a consuming Ji re to all the workers of iniquity \ and
that it was in his power, wherever he pleased, to de-
stroy all the world in a moment, the greater part of
which are continually offending him.
When, with a serious attention, he had listened $
great while to what I said, after I had been telling
him how the devil was God's enemy in the hearts of
L3 jæ%
men, and used all his malice and skill to defeat the
good design of Providence, and destroy the kingdom
of Christ in the world, and (o forth : Very well, ma-
ster, (saidFriday ), you fay God is so strong, so great,
is he not much strong, much mightier than the
naughty devil? To be sure, Friday, said I, God is
more wife, and stronger than the serpent: he is above
the devil, which makes us pray to him, that he would
tread down Satan under our feet, enable us to refill
his violent temptations, and quench his fiery darts*
Why then, answered Friday quickly, if God, as you
fay, has much strongs much might as the devils -why God
no kill devils make no more tempt, no more do wicked?
You may be certain I was strangely surprised at
this question of my man's; and though an old man,
I was hut a young doctor, and consequently very id
qualified for a casuist, or a resoiver os intricate doubts
in religion. And as it required some time for me to
study for an answer, I pretended not to heir him,
nor to ask him what he said: but so earnest was he
for an answer, as not to forget his question, which he
repeated in the very fame broken words as above.
When I had recovered myself a little, Friday, said I,
Cod will at last punish him severely, being reserved for
judgment, and is to he cast into the bottomless pit, to
remain in fire everlasting. But all this did not satis-
fy Friday; for returning upon me, he repeated my
words, reserve at last, me no understand; but
ivhy not kill devil now, not kilt devil, great, gnat
•while ago? Friday, said I, you may as well a Ik me why
God does not kill you and me, when by our wicked
actions we so much offend his Divine Majesty? He
gives us time to repent of our sins, that thereby we
mav obtain pardon. At these words, obtain pardon*
Friday mused a great while?; and at last looking me
ftedsastly in the face; Well well, said he, that's very
well; so yon, /, devil, all wicked mans? all preserve^
re J ent God, pardon all.
Indeed here I was run down to the last extremity*
when
when it became very evident to me, how mere natu-
ral notions will guide reasonable creatures to the
knowledge of a Deity, and to the homage due to the
supreme being of God 5 but however, nothing but
divine revelation can form the knowledge of Jesus
Christ, and of a redemption purchased for us, of the
Mediator of the new covenant, and of an intercessor
at the footstool of God's throne; and therefore the
gospel of our Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ, that is,
the Word and Spirit of God, promised for the guide
and sanctifier of his people, are the most necessary in-
structors of the fouls of men, in the saving knowledge
of the Almighty, and the means to attain eternal hap-
piness.
And now I found it necessary to put an end to this
discourse between my man and me; for which pur-
pose 1 rose up hastily, and made as if I had some oc-
casion to go out, sending Friday for something that
was a good way off. I then fell on my knees, and
beseeched God that he would inspire me so far as to
guide the poor savage in the knowledge os Christ, to
answer his questions more clearly, that his conscience
might be convinced, his eyes opened, and his foul
saved. When he returned again, 1 entered into a
very long discourse with him, upon the subject of the
world's redemption by the Saviour of it, and the
doctrine of repentance preached from heaven, toge-
ther with an holy faith in our blessed Redeemer Jesus
Christ : and then I proceeded to explain to him, ac-
cording to my weak capacity, the reason why our Sa-
viour took not on him the nature of angels, but ra-
ther the feed of Abraham *, and how the fallen angels
had no benefit by that redemption; and, lastly, that
h( came only to the lost sheep of tf|e house of Israels
and the like. God knows I had snore sincerity than
knowledge in all the ways I tools for this poor In-
dians instruction ; and I must acknowledge, what I
believe everv body that acts upon the fame principle
will find, that in laying heavenly truths open before
him,
 
 
him, I informed and instructed myself in many things,
that either I did not know, or had not perfectly con-
sidered before; so that however this poor creature
might be improved by my instruction, certain it is,
that I myself had great reason to be thankful to Pro-
vidence for sending him to me. His company allayed
my grief, and made my habitation comfortable; and
when I reflected, that the solitary life to which I had
been so long confined had made me to look further
towards heaven, by making me the instrument, under
Providence, to save the life, and for aught 1 know,
the soul of this poor savage, by bringing him to the
knowledge of Jesus Christ, it caused a secret joy to
spread through every part of my soul; and I fre-
quently rejoiced, that ever I was brought into this
place, which I once thought the most miserable part
of the world.
In this thankful frame of mind did I afterwards
continue, while I abode on the island, and for three
years did my man and I live in the greatest enjoyment
of happiness. Indeed I believe the savage was as
good a Christian as I; and I hope we were equally
penitent; and such penitents as were comforted and
restored by God's Holy Spirit; for now we had the
word of the Lord to instruct us in the right way, as
much as if we had been on the English (bore.
By the constant application 1 made of the Scrip-
tures, as I read them to my man Friday, I earnestly
endeavoured to make him understand every part of it>
as much as lay in my power. He also, on the other
hand, by his verv serious questions and inquiries,
made me a much better proficient in scripture know-
ledge than I stiould have been by my own private
reading and study. I must not omit another thing,
proceeding from the experience I had in my retire-
ment: it was th?t infinite and inexpressible blessing,
the knowledge os God through Jesus Christ, which
was so plain and easy to be understood, as immediate-
ly to direct me to carry on the great work of sir,cere
repentance
repentance for my sins, and laying hold of a Saviour
sore ternal life, to a practical stated reformation, and
obedience to all God's institutions} without the assist-
ance of a reverend and orthodox divine*, and espe-
cially by this fame instruction, so to enlighten this sa-
vage creature, as to make him so good a Christian
as very few could exceed him. And there was only
this great thing wanting, that I had no authority to
administer the holy sacrament, that heavenly partici-
pation of Christ's . body and blood ;yet however we
rested ourselves content, that God would accept our
desires, and according to our faith have mercy onus.
But what we wanted one way was made up in a-
nether, and that was universal peace in our little
church. We had no disputes and wranglings about
the nature and quality of the holy, blessed, and un-
divided Trinity, no niceties in doctrine, or schemes
of church government ; no four and morose dissen-
ters to impose more sublimated notions upon us, no
pedent fephisters to confound us with unintelligible
mysteries : but, in stead of all this, we enjoyed the
most certain guide to Heaven, that is, the word of
God ; besides which, we had the comfortable views
of his Spirit leading us to the truth, and making us
both willing and obedient to the instruction of his
word. Æs the knowledge and practice of this are
the principal means of salvation, I cannot fee what
it avails any Christian church, or man, in the world,
to amuse himself with speculations and opinions, ex-
cept it be to display their particular vanity and affec-
tation.
You may well suppose, that, by the frequent dis-
course we had together, my man and me became most
intimately acquainted, and that there was but very
little that I could fay, but what Friday understood:
and indeed he spoke very fluently, though it was but
broken English. I now u,ck a particular pleasure in
relating all my adventures, especially those that oc-
curred since my being cast on this island. I made
him
 
him understand that wonderful mystery, as he con-
ceived, of gun powder and bullet, and taught him
how to stioot. I also presented to him a knife, winch
pleased him exceedingly, making him a belt, with a
frog hanging thereto, like those in which we wear
hangers in England ; and in stead of a hanger to put
in the frog, I gave him a hatchet, which was not only
a good, but even a better weapon upon many occasi-
ons. In a word, my man thus accoutered, looked
upon himself as great as Don Quixote, when that ce-
lebrated champion went to combat the wind mill.
I next gave him a very particular description of
the territories of Europe, and in a particular manner
of Old England, the place of my nativity. I laid be-
fore him the manner of our worsliipping God, our
behaviour one to another, and how we trade in ships
to every part in the universe. I then told him my
misfortunes in being shipwrecked, showing him, as
near as I could, the place where the ship lay, which
had been gone long before : but I brought him to the
ruins of my boat, which before my whole strength
could not move, but now was almost rotten, and
fallen to pieces. I observed my man Friday to view
this boat with an uncommon curiosity ; which when
he had done, he stood pondering a great^wbile, and
said nothing. At last, laid I, Friday, what makes you
ponder so much? He replied, 0 Master, me see like
beat come to place at my nation*
It was some time indeed before I understood wbst
my man meant; but examining flrickly into it, I
plainly found, that such another boat resemhlingmine
had come upon the country where he dwelt; that is
to fay, by his farther explanation, that the boat was
driven there through violent storms and stress of wea-
ther. It tKen came into my mind, that some Euro-
pean snip having been cast away, the poor distressed
creatures were forced to have recourse to the boat to
save their lives ; and being all, as I thought, drown-
ed, I never concerned myself to ask any thing con-
cerning
cerning them, but my only inquiry was about the
boat, and what description my man could give of it.
Indeed Friday answered my demands very well,
making every thing very plain to my understanding;
but beyond measure was I satisfied, when he told me,
with great warmth and ardour, 0 Master* we save
white mans from drown ; upon which I immediately
alked him, if there were any white mans, as he called
them, in the boat •, Yes, yes, said he, the boat fully
very full of white mans. How many, Friday ? said I,
hereupon he numbered his fingers, and counted se-
venteen. And when I alked him what became of
them all, arid whether they lived or not I he replied,
Tes master, they all live, they be live among my nation*
This information put fresh thoughts into my head,
that these must be those very men who before I con-
cluded had been swallowed up in the ocean after they
had lest their ship, that had struck upon the rocks of
my kingdom, and after escaping the fury os the deep,
landed upon the wild shore, and committed them-
selves to the fury of these devouring- Indians.
The manner of their cruelties to one another, which
consequently, as I thought, must be acted with greater
barbarity to strangers, created in me a great anxiety,
and made me still more curious to ask Friday concern-
ing them ; he told me he was sure they still lived there,
having resided among them above four years, and
that the savages gave them victuals to live upon. But
pray, Friday, said I, whence proceeded all this good
nature and generosity ? How came it to pass that they
did not kill and eat them, to please their devouring
appetites •, and occasion so splendid an entertainment
among them I No, no said Friday, they not kill 'em,
they make brother with 'em ; by which I understood
there was a truce between them. And then I had a
more favourable opinion of the Indians, upon Friday's
littering these words • My nation, s other nation no eat
mans, but when mans make war fight; as though he
tad said, that neither those of his kingdom, nor any
other
other nations that he knew of, ever ate their fellow-
creatures, but such as their Jaw of arms allowed to
be devoured ; that is, those miserable captives, whose
misfortune it should be to be made prisoners of war.
Some considerable time aster, upon a very pleasant
day, in most serene weather, my man and I stood up
on the top os a hill, on the east-fide of the island,
whence I had once before beheld the continent of
America. I could not tell immediately what was the
matter; for suddenly Fiiday fell a jumping and dan-
cing as if he had been mad ; and upon my demand-
ing the reason os his behaviour, Ojoy, said he 0gladI
there fee ivy country, there my nation, there live white
mans gether. And indeed such a rapturous fense of
pleasure appeared in his countenance, that his eyes
had an uncommon sparkling and brightness, and such
a strange eagerness, as if he had a longing desire to
be in his own country again. This made me not so
well satisfied with my man Friday as before ; for, by
this appearance, I made no dispute, but that if he
could get back thither again, he would not only be
unmindful os what religion I had taught him, but
likewise of the great obligation he owed me for his
wonderful deliverance : nay, that he would not only
inform his country-men of me, but accompany hun-
dreds of them to my kingdom, and make me a mi-
serable sacrifice like those unhappy wretches taken in
battle.
Indeed I was very much to blame to have these
cruel and unjust suspicions, and must freely own I
wronged the poor creature very much, who was of a
quite contrary temper. And had he had that discern-
ing acuteness which many Europeans have, he would
certainly have perceived my coldness and indifference,
and also have been very much concerned upon that
account; as I was now more circumspected, I had
much lessened my kindness and familiarity with hints
and while this jealousy continued, I used that art-
ful way (now too much in fashion, the occasion of
strife
Arise and dissent ion) os pumping him daily, thereby
to discover whether he was deceitful in his thoughts
and inclinations: but certainly he had nothing in
him hut what was consistent with the belt principles,
both as a religious Christian and a grateful friend;
and indeed 1 found every thing he laid was so inge-
nuous and i:inocents that I had no room for suspicion -,
and, in spite os all uneasiness, he not only made me
entirely his own again, hut also caused me much to
lament that I ever conceived one ill thought of him.
As we were walking up the same hill another day,
when the weather was so hazy at sea, that I could
not perceive the continent, Friday, said I, don't you
wish yourself to be in your own country, your own
nation, among your old friends and acquaintances >
Yes, said he, me much 0 glid to be at my own nation*
And what would you do there, Friday? Would you
turn wild again, eat man's flesh, and be a savage as
you were formerly? No, no^ (answered he, full of
concern, and shaking his head), Friday new tell them
to live good, tell them pray God, tell them to eat corn-
breads cattle flesh, milky no eat man again. But surely
replied I, if you mould offer to do all this, they will
kill you, and to manifest their contempt of such in-
struction, eat you up when they have done. lie then
put on a grave, yet innocent and smooth counte-
nance, saying, No, they no kill me,r they willing love
learn: that is, that they would be very willing to
learn: adding withal, that they had learned much of
the bearded mans that come in the boat. Will you, said
I? go hack again, Friday? He smiled at that, and told
me, that he could not swim so far. But, said I, I
will make a canoe for you: Yes, master, said he, me
go if you go, me no go if you stay. I go, Friday 1 why,
would you have them eat me up, and devour your
kind master \ No, no, said he, me make them not eat
master, me make they much love yon ; that is, he would
tell them how I had slain his enemies, and thereby
'M saved
 
saved his life, for which reason he would make them
Jove me: and then he related to me, as well as he
was able, how exceeding kind those of his nation
were to the white, or bearded men, as he called them,
who, in their great calamity, were driven into their
country.
It was from this time, indeed, I had strong incli-
nations to venture over, and use my utmost efforts,
if possible., to join these white bearded men, who un-
doubtedly were Spaniards or Portuguese *, for thought
I, it must be certainly a better and laser way to escape
when there ia a good company, than for me alone,
from an island forty miles off the shore, and without
any assistance. Some days after, Friday and I being
at woik, as usual, at the fame time diverting ourselves
with vaiious discourses, I told him I had a boat which
1 would bestow upon him, whenever lie pleased to re-
turn to his own nation: and to convince him of the
truth of what I said, I took him with me to the other
side of the island, where my frigate lay, and then ta-
king it from under the water, (for I always kept it
funk for fear of a discovery) we both went into it to
see how it would manage such an expedition.
And really never could any be more dexterous in
rowing than my faithful servant, making the boat go
as fast again as I could. Well, now, Friday, said I,
{hall we now go to your so much desired nation ? But in-
stead of meeting with that chearfulness I expected, he
looked very dull and melancholy at my faying so;
which indeed at first surprised me, till he made me
sensible, that his concern was about the boat's being
too small to go so far a voyage. Upon which I let
him understand I had a much bigger; and according-
ly the next day went to the place where the first boat
lay, which I had made, when all the strength I had,
or art I could use, failed me in my attempt to get it
into the water; but now it having lain in the sun
two and twenty years, and no care being taken of it
all that while, it became in a manner rotten. My
man
 
 
 
man told me, that such a boat would do very well to
the purpose, sufficient to carry enough vittle, dring,
breads for that was his manner of talking. In short*,
my mind being strongly fixed upon my design of go-
ing over with him to the continent, I very plainly
tcld him, that we would both go and make a boat
full as big, and more proportionable than that, where-
in he might safely return to his own nation.
These words made Friday look so very pensive,
that I thought he would have fallen at my feet. It
was some time before he could spe-ik a word, which
made me alk him what was the matter with him?
He replied in a very soft and moving tone, What has
poor Friday done ? why are you angry mad with poors er *
vantP What me done, 0 what me done? Friday, said I,
you never yet have offended me; what makes you
think L am angry with you, when I am not angry at
all ? Ton no angry, no angry, said he several times ; if
you be no angry, why den fend Friday over great water
to my own nation? Why, surely, Friday, answered I,
did not you wish to he there when from a mountain
you beheld the place where you was born? and Is it
not to satisfy your desires that I am willing to give
you leave to return thither ? Tes, yes, said Friday, me
wish be there sure'novgb, but me den wish master there
too ; no wish Friday there, no master there, in short,
hecould not endure the thoughts of going there with-
out me. I go there, Friday, said I, what shall 1 do
there? He answered very quickly, 0 master you
do great deal much good, you teach all de wild mans to be
good tame mans; you learn dem to be sober, live good
life, to know Cod and pray God. Alas! poor Friday,
said I, what can I do against thejr priests of Bena-
nuickee, or indeed what good can I make your natioa
sensible os, when 1 myself am but a poor ignorant
man? No, no, master said he, you be no ignorant,you
teachee me good, you teachee dim good. You shall go
without me, Friday, said I, for I don't care to ac-
company you thither ; I would rather live in this so-
M 2 litude
Jitr.de than venture among such inhuman savages. Go
your way, (luce you desire it, and leave me alone by
myself, as i waa before I saved your life.
Never was any creature more thunder-struck than
Friday was at these wordy. Gome aivay^ leave m<ijicr
aivay3 laid ht, after a long silence, wo, /?#, Friday (/,r,
Friday live mi* m^jier gone; as though he had said,
J neither can nor will live, if my matter sends me
from hum And here 1 cannot but take notice of the
strong ties of friendship which many times surpass
t>:se us consanguinity; lor oiten we find a great dis-
agreement among kindred; and when there is any
seeming regard soi each other, it is very seldom true,
and iearee ever jailing, if powerful interest does not
heir the sevay; and that alone is often the occasion
of the greased hatred in the world, which is to desire
the death of parents a?id relations, for the fake of ac-
quiring their fortunes: but there was no such thing
between my servant and me: instead of which the%J
was the greatest gratitude, and the most sincere love;
lie sound me not only his deliverer, but his preserver
and comforter; not a severe and cruel tyrant, but a
kind, loving, and affable friend. He wanted for no
manner of sustenance ; and when he was iii, or out
of order, I was his physician, not only for his body,
but his soul, and therefore no wonder.was it, that
such an innocent creature, long since divested of his
former natural cruelty, should have an uncommon
concern at so cruel a separation from me, which
pierced him to the very tout* and made him desire
even to die, rather than live without me.
'After I had told Friday, in a very careless manner,
that he should be at his liberty as soon as the boat was
made, the language of his eyes expressed all imagi-
nable confusion ; when immediately running to one
of his hatchets, which he used to wear as a defensive
weapon, he gives it into my hand, with a heart so
full, that he could scarcely speak. Friday, said I,
what is it you mean t what must I do with this?
Only
 
Only kill Friday, said he, Friday care not live long*
But what mult I kill you for? replied i again. Ab /
dear master, what made you Friday save from eat a m?
vp, so keep long Friday, make Friday love God and not
love Benamuckee, and now Friday send away, never
see Friday more. As though the poor creature had
said, Alas, my dearest kind mailer, how comes it to
pass, that after having ventured your precious life to
lave me from the jaws of the devouring cannibals like
myself, after such a tender regard to provide for me
such a comfortable nourishment, and continuing so
Jong a kind master, and a most sincere friend; and
after making me forsake the false notion of an Indian
Deity, and worship the true God in spirit and in
truth: aster all this, how Comes it now, that you are
willing to fend me away to my former course os li-
ving, by which means undoubtedly we (hall be dead
to each other; but greater must be my misfortune,
thai J stiali never behold my best friend I have in the
world any more. And this undoubtedly, though he
could not express himself so clearly, mull be his sen-
timents; for the tears ran down his cheeks in such a
plentiful manner, that I had much ado to refrain
from weeping also when I beheld the poor creature's
affection *, io that I was forced to comfort him. in the
best manner i could, which I did, by telling him, if
be was content to abide with me, I should be ever
willing to keep him.
After Friday's grief was something abaded, more
sully to convince me of his affection, he said, 0 ma-
ster, me not care to be in my nation, leave you here; me
desire nation learn good, thas s all; meaning, that, his
desire was tor the conversion of that barbarous people/
But as 1 had no apostolic mission, nor any concern
about their salvation, so I had not the least intention
or desire of undertaking it: and the strength of my
inclination, in order to escape, proceeded chiefly from,
tny late discourse with Friday, about these seventeen
white bearded men that had been driven upon the
M 3 barbarian
 
barbarian coast, whom I designed to join, as the only
means to further our escape. To which intent my
man and [ went to search for a proper tree- to fell,
whereof we might make a large periagua or canoe,
to inuh rtake the voyage*: and indeed we were not
Jong in finding one lit for our purpose, there being
enough of wood in the island to h.tve built a fleet ot
large vessels, but the thing we principally wanted
was, to get one so near the water* that we might
launch it aster it was finished, and not commit to
horrid a mistake as I had done once before.
Well, after a great search for what was best and
most convenient, Friday at lad, whose judgment in
such afiairs was much superior to mine, pitches up-
on a kind of wood the moil fitting for it. To tins
day I cannot tell the name of the tree, nor describe
it any other way, than only by saying, that it is very
like what we call sufiic% or betwixt that and the
Nicaragua wood, being much of the fame colour and
smell. But though my man exceeded me in the
knowledge of the most proper tree, yet ITbewed him
a much better and cleaner way to make a canoe than
ever he knew before: for he was for burning the
hollow or cavity of the tree, in order to make this
boat; but I then told him how we might do it with
tools, learning him at the some time how to use
them, which indeed he did very dexterously; so that
in a month's labour we finished it, making it very
handsome, by cutting the outside into the true shape
of a boat. -After this it took us a full fortnight be-
fore we could get her into the water, which we did,
as it were, inch by inch, upon great rollers: but
when (lie was in, Hie would have carried twenty men,
with all the ease .imaginable,
Ab I was very well pleased, you may be sure, at the
launching of this man of war o; mine, I was no less
amazed to behold with what dexterity my man would
manage her, turn her, and paddle her along. Well,
Friday, said I, what do you think of k now? Do you
think
think this will carry us over ? Tes, Master, said he,
m,. venture"over well, t.bwgb great blow wind. But
rm design was yet tart her, winch he was insensible of;
and rhut was to make a malt and fail, and to provide
her with an anchor and cable. As to a mad, that
was no difficult thing at all to procure \ so 1 fixed
U| on a straight young cedar-tree, which I iound near
the place, great plenty of it abounding in the island;
aiHt selling Fiiday to cut it down, 1 gave him parti-
cular directions how to shape and order it; but as to
\\v: fail, that I managed myself. I very well knew I
Iv.d some old ones, or pieces of fails enough, which
had lain fix and twenty years by me ;but not being
careful to preserve them, as thinking 1 mould have
no occasion to use them any more, when I came to
look them over, I sound them almost all rotten, ex-
cept two ; and with these I went to work, and after
a great deal os pains and awkward tedious stitching
for want o( needles, at length I finished a three cor-
nered ugly thing, like what we call in England a
shoulder of mutton sail, togo with a boom at bottom,
and a little small sprit at the top, like those which
our longboats use, and which I very well knew how
to manage: especially since it was like that which I*
had in my patron's fishing boat, when, with my hoy
Xury, I made my escape from the Barbarian shore.
It was near two months, I think, before I comple-
ted this work, that is, the rigging, and fitted my
mast and fails ; and indeed they were nicely done,
having made a small stay, and a sail, or foresail to it,
to assist, if we should turn to the westward j and,
which was still more, I fixed a rudder to the stern of
her, to steer with; and though I was but a very in-
different shipwright, yet, as I was sensible of the great
usefulness and absolute necessity of a thing like this,
I applied myself to it with such a constant application,
that at last I accomplished my design : but what with
the many dull contrivances 1 had about it, and the
failure of many things, it cost me as much pains
in
in ordering as in mak.su: \lv bovt. Besides, when all
this w-ts done, I had my man to teach what belonged
to its navigition : for though he very well understood
how to paddle a canoe along, he was an utter stran-
ger to a sail and a rudder, and was amazed when he
saw me work the boat to and again in the sea, by
them, and how the sail gibbed and silled this way or
that way, as the course we failed changed. Aster
some time, and a little use, I made all these things
very familiar to him, ib that he became an expert
salior, except in relation to the compass, and that I
could make him understand but little of. iiut as it
happened, there was seldom occasion for it, there
being but little cloudy weather, and scarce ever any
fog in those parts; the stars were always visible in the
night, and the shore perspicuous by day, except in
the rainy season, which confined every one to his ha-
bitation.
1 hus entered in the seven and twentieth year of
my reign, or captivity, which you please, (the last
three of which, blessed with the company of my man
Friday, ought not to be reckoned), I kept the anni-
versary of my landing here, with the same thankful-
ness to God, for his tender mercies, as I did before;
and certainly, as I had great cause fora thankful ac-
knowledgement for my deliverance at first, J had
much greater now, for such singular and additional
testimonies of the care of Providence over me, in all
my distresses, both of body and mind, and the great
hopes 1 had of being effectually and speedily deliver-
ed 5 for 1 had a strong impression upon my mind,
that I should not be another year in this island. But,
however, I still continued on with my husbandry,
digging, planting, and fencing, as usual ; gathering
and curing my grapes, and doing all other things
that were necessary.
And now the rainy season beginning to come on,
obliged me to keep the longer within doors ; but be-
fore ihis, I brought my new vessel into the creek,
where
where I had landed my rafts from the ship, and ha-
ling her up to the shore, I ordered my man Friday
to dig a dock sufficient to hold her in, and deep enough
to give her water, wherein she might float j and then,
when the tide was out, we made a strong dam cross
the end of it, to keep out the water ; by which means
(he lay dry, as to the tide from the sea; and to keep
the rain from her, we thatched her over, as it were,
with boughs of trees, like a house , and so we waited
for the months of November znd December, in which
I designed to venture over the octan.
No sooner did the seasonable weather begin to draw
near, but so much was I elevated with this new de-
signed adventure, that I daily prepared for the voy-
age. The first thing I thought on was, to lay by a
certain quantity of provisions, as a sufficient store for
such an expedition, intending in 3 week or fortnight's
time to open the dock, and launch out the boat for
that purpose. But one morning as I was very busy
upon something necessary for this occasion, I called
Friday to me, and bid him go to the sea shore, and
see if he could find a turtle or tortoise, a thing which
we commonly had once a week, as much upon ac-
count of the eggs, as for the fake of the flesh. He
had not been long gone, but he came running back,
as though he was pursued for life, and as it were flew
over my outward wall, or fence, like one that felt not
the ground, or steps he set his feet on; and before I
had time to enquire the reason of his precipitation,
he cries out, 0 dear master^ 0sorrow I sorrow ! Bad /
0 byd! Why, what's the matter, Friday ? said I. 0
yonder* yonder, slid he, there he one, two, or three
canoes ! tvjo, three. Surely (thought I) there must be
fix, l-.y my man's way of reckoning ; but, on a stricter
inquiry, 1 found there were but three. Well, Friday,
said I, don't be terrified, I warrant you we will not
only defend ourselves against 'em, but kill the most
of these cruel savages. But though I comforted him.
In the best manner I could, the poor creature trembled
so,
so, that I scarce knew what to do with him : 0 v:a>
fter% said he, they come look Friday, cut pieces Friday,
cut a me vp. Why, Friday, said I, they will eat me
up as well as you, and my danger is as great as yours.
But since it is so, we must resolve to fight for our
lives. What fay you ? can you sight, Friday? Yes,
said he very saintly, me shoots me kill what I can, but
there come great many number. That's no matter,
said I again, our guns will terrify those that we do not
kill: I am very willing to stand by you to the last drop
os my blood ? now tell me, if you will do the like by
me, and obey my orders in whatsoever I command?
Friday then answered, 0 master, me lose life for you^ me
die when you bid die. Thus concluding all questions
concerning his fidelity, immediately I fetched him a
food dram of rum, (of which I had been a very good
ufband), and gave it him to comfort his heart.
After he had drank it, I ordered him to take the two
fowling pieces, which we always carried, and load
them with large swan shot, as big as small pistol bul-
lets; then I took four muskets, and loaded them with
two slugs, and five small bullets each, charging my
two pistols each with a brace. J hung my great sword,
as customary, naked to my side, and gave Friday his
hatchet, as a most excellent weapon for defence.
Thus prepared, I thought as well of myself as any
knight errant that ever handled a sword and spear, I
took my perspective glass, and went up to the side of
the hill, to fee what I could discover ; and I perceived
"very soon, by the glass, that there were one and twen-
ty savages, three prisoners, and three canoes \ and
that their chief concern seemed to be the triumphant
banquet upon the three poor human bodies ; a thing
which by this time 1 had observed was very common
with them. I also remarked, that they did not land
at that place from whence Friday made his escape,
but nearer to the creek, where the shore was low,
and where a thick wood came very close to the sea.
My soul was then filled with indignation and abhor-
rence
 
 
 
rence at such inhuman wretches, which put a period
to all my former thoughts in their vindication: nei-
ther would I give myself time to consider their right
of conquest, as I had done before \ but descending
from the mountain, I came down to Friday, and told
him, I was resolved to go speedily to them and kill
them all; asking him again, in the same breath, if he
would Hand by me ? When by this time being reco-
veredfrom his fright, and his spirit much cheered with
the dram I had given him, he was very pleasant," yet
seriously telling me, as he did before, When I bid
die, he would die.
And now it was, having fixed my resolution in so
strong a manner, that nothing could divest my breast
of its uncommon fury, I immediately divided the
loaded arms betwixt us. To my man Friday I gave a
pistol to stick in his girdle, with three guns upon his
shoulder, a weight too great I confess to bear •, but
what must a p«or king do, who had but one soldier in
the world? But to (hew I made him bear no more
e than what 1 would lay on myself, I stuck the other
pistol in my girdle, and other three guns upon my
(boulders ; nay something more, but that was like
Æsop's burden, a small bottle of rum, which was
soon lightened to our exceeding refreshment. Thus
we marched out, under a ponderous load of armour,
like two invincible champions, with a quantity of
powder and bullets to stand our battle, and load again,
when the pieces were discharged. And now my or-
ders being to be obeyed, 1 charged Friday to keep
close behind me, and not to stir, or shoot, or attempt
any thing till I commanded him \ and, in the interim,
not to speak so much as one word. It was in this or-
der I fetched a compass to the right hand, of near a
mile, as well to get over the creek, as to attain the
wood 5 by this I thought to come within mot of
them before I could be discerned; as 1 found by my
glass would not be difficult to accomplish.
But how fickle and wavering is the mind of men,
even
 
even in our greatest fury and strongest inclination?
For while T was taking this march, my resolution be-
gan to abate, not through sear os their numbers, who
were a parcel of naked unarmed wretches, but those
reflections occurred to my thoughts; What power
was 1 commissioned with, or what occasion or neces-
sity had I to go and imbrue my hands in human blood,
and murder people that had neither done nor intend-
ed to do me any wrong? They were innocent in par-
ticular as to me ; and their barbarous custom was not
only their missostune, bur a sign that God had lest
them in the most immense stupidity ; but yet did not
warrant me to be a judge or their actions, much less
an executioner of his righteous judgements ; that, on
the contrary, whenever he thought fit, he would take
vengeance on them himself, and punish them in a
national way, according to their national crimes *, but
that was nothing at all to me, who had no concern
with them. Indeed my man Friday might justify
himself, because they were his declared enemies, of
that very fame nation that went to sacrifice him before,
and indeed it was lawful for him to attack them,
which i,could not fay was so with respect to me. So
warmly did these things press upon my thoughts ail
the way I went, that I only resolved to place myself
so as to behold their bloody entertainment, without
falling upon them, except something more than ordi-
nary, by God's special direction, should oblige me
thereto.
Thus fixed in my resolution, I entered in the thick
wood, (my man Friday following me close behind),
when with all possible weariness and silence I march-
ed till I came to the skirt of it, on that side which
was the nearest to them ; for only one end of the wood
interposed between me and them. Upon which I
called very softly to Friday, and (hewing him a great
tree, that was just at the corner of the wood, I order-
ed him to repair thither, and bring me word, if
he could plainly perceive their actions; Accordingly*
he
 
he did as I commanded him, and came back with
this melancholy story, that they were all about their
fire, eating the flesh of one of their prisoners; and
that another lay bound upon the sand, a little distant
from them, which they designed for their next sacri-
fice; and this, he told me, was not one of their na-
tion, but one of those very bearded men, who was
driven by a storm into their country, and of whom
he had so often talked to me about. You may be sure,
th~t upon hearing this, my foul was ready to fink
within me; when ascending up into a tree, I saw-
plainly by my glass, a white man, who lay upon
the beach of the sea, with his hands and feet ty'd
with flags, or things resembling rushes, being cover-
ed with cloaths, and seemed to be an European*.
From the tree where I took this prospect, I perceived
another tree, and a thicket beyond it, about fifty
yards nearer to them, than where I was*, which, by
taking a small circle round, 1 might come at undis-
covered, and then I ihould be within half a shot of
these devourers. And this consideration alone, to be
more perfectly revenged upon them, made me with-
hold my passion, though I was enraged to the highest
degree imaginable \ when going back about twenty
paces, I got behind some bushes, which held all the
way till I came to the other tree; and then I ascend-
ed to a little rising ground, not above eighteen yards
distance, and there I had a full view of these crea-
tures, and I could perceive all their actions.
Such a sight did then appear, as obliged me not to
lose a moments time. No less than nineteen of these
dreadful wretches sot upon the ground, close huddled
together, expressing all the delight imaginable at so
barbarous an entertainment; and they had just sent
other two to murder this poor unhappy Christian, and
bring him limb by limb to their sire; for they were
just then going to untie the hands from his feet, in
order for death, as fetters are knocked off the feet of
malefactors before they go to the place of execution.
Hereupon, immediately turniittto my man, Nowf
N ^* Friday,
 
 
Friday, said I, mind what I say, fail In nothing, but
do exactly as you sec me do. All which he promi-
sing he would perform, I set down one of my nuiikets,
and the fowling piece upon the ground, and Friday
did the some by his; and with the other musket I
took my aim at the sivages, bidding him do the like:
Are you ready, laid I ? 'Tjs9 master, soid he. Why
then fire at them, laid I; and that very moment I
gave i\re likewise.
I only killed one, and wounded two •, but my'man
Fr'uL-fVy taking his aim much better than I, killed
two, and wounded three. You may be sure they
were in a dreadful consternation, at such an unex-
pected disaster, and those who yet had escaped our
penetrating (hot, immediately jumped upon their
feet, but were in such confusion, that they knew not
which way to run or look, not knowing from whence
their destruction came. We then threw down our
pieces, and took up others, giving a second dreadful
•volley; but as they were loaded only with swan-shot,
or I'm nil pistol bullets, we perceived only two of them
fall; though many were wounded, who run yelling
and screaming about like mad creatures. Now, Fri-
day, said I, lay down your piece, and take up the
muiket, and follow me. He did so. with great cou-
rage, when shewing ourselves to the savages, we gave a
great shout, and made directly to the poor victim,who
would tawe been sacrificed, had not our first fire obli-
ged the butchers, with three others, to jump into a ca-
noe. By my c-der, Friday fiied at them, at which
(hot I thought he had killed them all, by reason of their
falling to the bottom of the boat ; however, he killed
two, and mortaliy wounded a third. In the mean time,
I cut the flags that tied the hands and feet of the poor
creature, and lifting him up, asked him in the Por-
tuguese tongue, What he was? He answered me in
Futin, Chris iavus; but \o very weak and faint, that
J,C could scarce stand or speak. Jmrm-dSmlv 1 gave
^p,-a drain* a»:d a piece of bread to cherish him,
^uil asked him what.countryman he was r He laid,
Ess a molds
 
 
Espaniofa) and then uttered M the thankfulness
imaginable for his deliverance. Signior, (said I,
with as much Spanish as I was mailer of), let us
talk afterwards, but fight new ;, here, take this sword
and pistol, 2nd do what you can. And indeed lie
did so with such courage and intrepidity, that he cut
two of them to pieces in an instant, the savages not
having the power to fly for their lives. I ordeicd
Friday to run for thole pieces we had left at the
tree, which he brought me with great swiftness,
and then I gave him my musket, while I loaded the
red. But now there happened a fierce encounter be-
tween the Spaniard and oneof the savages, who had
made at him with one of their wooden swords; and
though the former was as brave as could he expect-
ed, having twice wounded his enemy in the head;
yet, being weak and faint, the Indian had thrown
him upon the ground, and was wresting my sword
out of his hand, which the Spaniard very wifely
quitting drew out his pistol, and shot him through
the body before I could come near him, though I
was running to his assistance. As to Friday^ he pur-
sued the flying wretches with his hatchet, despatch-
ing three, but the rest were too nimble for him. The
Spaniard taking one of the fowling-pieces, wounded
two, who running into the wood, Friday puriued
and killed one \ but the other, notwithstanding his
wounds, plunged himself into the sea, znd swam to
those two who were left in the canoe, which, with
one wounded, were all that escaped out of one a ad
twenty, The account is as follows.
Killed at first shot 1 Killed or died of 7
from the tree 3 t^JCir rounds 3 4
At the second shot ~ 2 Escaped in the boat* ~)
By Friday in the boat 2 whereof one wound- > 4
Ditto of those first \ ed, if not slain J
 
woun
ded
Ditto in the wood" * Total 21
By the Spaniard 3 •***—**——*-.«
Na The
The savages in the canoe worked very hnrd to
get out of our reach, and Friday was as eager in
pursuing them , and indeed I was no less anxious
s.bout their escape, kit aster the news had been
cirri ed to their people, they should return in mul-
titudes, and destroy us. 80 being resolved to pur-
sue them, 1 jumped into one os their canoes, and
bid Friday fellow me; but no sooner was I in, than,
to my surprise, I sound another poor creature, bound
hznd and loot for the slaughter, just as the Spaniard
had been, with very little life in him. Immedi-
ately I unbound him, and would have helped him
up; but he could neither stand nor speak, but
groaned so piteous]y, as thinking he was only un-
bound in order to be U\'m. Hereupon 1 bid Friday
speak to him, and td\ him os his deliverance; when
pulling out my bottle, I made the poor wretch drink
a drum, which, with the joyful news he had recei-
ved, so revived his heart, that he fat up in the boat.
As soon as Friday began to hear him speak, and
look more sully in his face, it would have moved
any one to tears to perceive his uncommon trans-
ports of joy; for he kissed, embraced him, hug-
ged him, cried, laughed, hallooed, jumped about,
danced, fung, then cried again, wrung his hands,
beat his face and head, then fung and jumped about
again, like a distracted creature: so that it was a
great while before I could make him speak to me,
or tell me what was the matter with him; but
when he came to the liberty of his speech, at last he
told me it was his father.
Here indeed I was infinitely moved to fee that du-
tiful and tender affection this poor savage had to his
aged parent. He would sit down by him in the
boat, open his breast, and hold his father's head
close to bis bosom, half an hour together, to che-
rish it; then he took his arms and ancles, which
were stiff and numbed with binding, and chaffed and
rubbed them with his hands j by which means per-
ceiving
 
cciving what the case was, I gave him some rum,
which proved of great benefit to him.
While we were busy in this action, the savages
had gotten almost out of light; aud happy it was,
we did not pursue them; for there arose from the
north-west, which continued all night long, such,
a violent storm, that i could not suppose otherwise
but that they were all drowned. Aster this, I call-
ed Friday to me, and asked him, if he had given his
father any bread? He Ihock his head, and said,
None* not one bit, me eat a tip all F so 1 gave him a
cake of bread out of a little pouch 1 carried for this
tnd. I likewise gave him a dram for himielf, and
two or three bunches of raisins for his father. Both
these he carried to him, for he would make him
drink the dram to comfort him.
Away he then runs out of the boat as if he was be-
witched, with such an extraordinary swiftness, that
he was out of sight as it were in an instant; but
at his return i perceived him slacken his pace, be-
cause he had something in his hand. And this I
found to be, as he approached nearer, an earthen
jug with some water to his father, with two more
cakes of bread, which he delivered into my hands*
Being very thirsty myself, I drank some of the wa-
ter, of which when his father had drank sufficient-
ly, it more revived his spirits than all the rum 1 had
given him.
I then called Friday to me, and ordered him to
carry the Spaniard one of the cakes, and some wafer,
who was reposing himself upon a green pi ice under
the shade of a tree, but so wenk, that though he
exerted himself, he could not (land upon his feet.
Upon which I ordered Friday to rub and bath his
ancles with rum, as he did his father's But every
minute he was employed in this, he would cast a
wishful eye towards the boat, where he left his fa-
ther fitting; who suddenly disappearing, he flew
like lightening to him, and finding he only laid
N 3 himself
himself d wn to ease his limbs, he returned back to
me pre/enriy; and then I spoke to the Spaniard to
let Friday help him, and lead him to the boat, in
order to be conveyed to my dwelling, where I would
take care os him. Upon which, Friday took him
upon his back, and so carried him to the canoe,
setting him close by his father; and presently step-
ping out again, launched the boat off, and paddled
it along the more faster than I could walk, though
the wind blew very hard too: and having brought
them safe to the creek, away he runs to fetch the
other canoe ; which he brought to the creek al-
most as soon as I got to it by land; when wasting
me over, he took our new guests out of the boat;
but so weak were they, that I was forced to make
a kind of a hand-barrow \ and when I came to my
castle, not being willing to make an entrance into
mv wall, we made them a handsome tent, covered
with old sails, and boughs of trees, making two good
beds of rice straw, with blankets to lie upon and
cover them. Thus, like an absolute king, over
subjects who owed their lives to me, I thought
myself very considerable, especially as I had now
three religions in my kingdom, my rrran Friday be-
ing a Protestant, his father a Pagan, and the Spa-
niard a Papist: but I gave liberty cf conscience to
them all.
To get provisions for my poor weak subjects, I
ordered Friday to kill me a yearling goat; which,
when he had done, 1 cut off the hinder quarters, and
chopping it into small pieces, boiled and stewed it,
putting barley and rice into the broth. This I car-
ried into their tent, set a table, dined with them my-
self, and encouraged them. Friday was my inter-
preter to his father, and indeed to the Spaniard too,
who spoke the language os the savages pretty well,
After dinner 1 ordered Friday to fetch home all our
arms from the field of battle, and the next day to
bury the dead bodies^ which he did accordingly.
An*
And now I made Friday enquire os his father whe-
ther he thought those savages had escaped the late
storm in their canoe ; and is so, whether they would
not return with a power too great for us to relist?
He answered, that he thought it impossible they
could outlive the storm ;or if they were driven
southwardly, they would come to a land where they
would as certanly be devoured, as if they were
drowned in the sea. And suppose they had attained
their own country, the strangeness of their fatal and
bloody attack, would make them tell their people,
that the rest of them were killed by thunder and
lightening, not by the hand of man, but by two
heavenly spirits (meaning Friday and me) who were
sent from above to destroy them. And this, he said,
he knew, because he heard them say the same to one
another. And indeed he was in the right on't j for I
have heard since, that these four men gave out, that
whoever went into that inchanted island, would be de-
stroyed by fire from the gods.
No canoes appearing some time after, as I expected,
my apprehension ceased : Instead of which my form-
er thoughts of a voyage took place, especially when
Friday9! father assured me I should have good u-
sage in his nation. As to the Spaniard, he told me,
that sixteen more of his countrymen, and Portu-
guese, who had been shipwrecked, made their e-
ftape thither ; that thought they were in union with
the savages, yet they were very miserable for. want
of provision and other necessaries. When 1 asked
him about the particulars of his voyage, he an-
swered, that their ship was bound from Rio de la
Plata to the Havannah ; that when the ship was lost,
only five men perished in the ocean ; the rest having
saved their lives in the boat, were now landed on the
main continent. And what do they intend to' do
there ? said I, He replied, they have concerted mea-
sures to escape, by building a vessel, but that they
had neither tools nor provisions, so that all their de-
designs
 
signs came to nothing. Supposing (said I) I should
make a proposal, and invite them here, would they
not carry me prisoner to New Spain ? He answual,
no: for he knew them to he such honest men, as
would scorn to act such inhuman buseness to their de-
liverer: That if! pleased, he and the old savage would
go over to them, talk with them about it, and bring
mean answer; That tiny should all swear fidelity to
me as their leader, upon the holy sacrament: and
for his part, he would not only do the fame, but
(land by me to the last drep of his blood, ihould there
be occasion.
These solemn assurances made me resolve to grant
them relief, and to send these two over for that
purpose : but when every thing was ready, the Spa-
niard raised an objection, which carried a great deal
os weight in it :You know, Sir, said he, that ha-
ving been Joint time with yon, 1 cannot but be sensible rs
your sock of rice and corn, Jusjicicnt perhaps^ for us
at present, but not fir thcmjhould they come oiu.r pre-
sently ; much hfs to vicinal a vessel for an intended
voyage. Want might he as great an occasion for them
to disagree and rebels as the children ^Israel did a-
gainst Cod himfelj\ when they wanted bread in the
wilderness. And therefore, my advice is to wait ano-
ther harvests and in the mean time cultivate and im-
prove some mere land* whereby we may have plenty of
provisions) in order to execute our dehgn,
This advice of the Spaniard's 1 approved extreme-
ly; and so satisfied was I of his fidelity, that I esteem-
ed him ever after. And thus we all four went to
work upon some more land, and against seed-time we
had gotten so much cured and trimmed up, sufficient
to sow 22 bushels of barley ony and 16 jars of rice
Which was in short all the seed we had to spare.
As we were four in number, and by this time all in
pood health, we seared not a hundred Indians, should
they venture to attack us; and while the corn was
growing,-1 pitched upon ibme trees^ fit to build m a
large
large vessel, in case the Spanirads came over; which
being marked, 1 ordered Friday and his father to cut
them down, appointing the Spaniard) who was now
my privy counsellor, to oversee and direct the work.
I likewise increased my flocks of goats, by shooting
the wild dams, and bringing home their kids to my
inclosure: nor did i neglect the grape-season, but
cured them as usual, though i had such a quantity
now, as would have filled 80 barrels with raisins.
And thus all of us being employed, they in working,
and I in proving for them, till harvest came, God
almighty blessed the increase of it so much, that from
twenty-two barrels of barley, we threshed out two
hundred and twenty, and the like quantity of rice,
sufficient to victual a {hip fit to carry me and all the
Spaniards to any part of America.
Thus the principal objection being answered by
a sufficient stock of provision, I sent my two am-
bassadors over to the main-land, with a regal au-
thority to administer the oaths of allegiance and
fidelity, and have an instrument signed under their
hands, though I never asked whether they had pen,
ink or paper: when giving each of them a musket*
eight charges of powder and ball, and provision e-
nough for eight days, they sailed away with a fair
gale, on a day when the moon was at full.
Scarce a fortnight had passed over my head, but,
impatient for their return, I laid me down to sleep
one morning, when a strange accident happened,
which was ushered in by my man's coming run-
ning to me, and calling aloud, Master, majier> they
are come* they arc come. Upon which, not dream-
ing of any danger, out F jumped from my bed, put
on mycloaths, and hurried through my little grove;
when looking towards the sea, I perceived a boat
about a league and a half distant, standing in for
the shore, with the wind fair. I beheld they did
not come from the side where the land lay on, but
from the southermost end of the island: so these
being
 
 
 
 
being none os the people we wanted, I ordered Fri-
day to lie still, till such time as I came down from
the mountain, which with my ladder I now ascend-
ed, in orded to discover more sully what they were:
and now, with the help os my perspective glair-, 1
plainly perceived nn English ship, which I conclu-
ded it to be, by the fashion os its long heat; and which
filled me with such uncommon transports of joy, that
I cannot tell how to describe; and yet some secret
dc.-ubts hung about me, proceeding from I know not
what cause, as though i had reason to be upon my
guard. And indeed I would have no man contemn
the secret hints, and intimations of danger, which
very often are given, when he may imagine there is
no possibility of its being real : had not I been
warned by this silent admonition, I had been in a
worse situation than before, and peihaps inevitably
ruined.
Not long it was, before I perceived the boat to
approach the snore, as though they looked for a
place where they might conveniently land; and at
last they ran their boat on shore upon the beach,
about half a mile's distance ; which proved so much
the happier for me, since, had they come into the
creek, they had landed just at my door, and might
not only have forced me out os my castle, but plun-
dered me os all I had in the world. Now I was
fully convinced they were all Englishmen, three of
which were unarmed and bound; when immedi-
ately the first sour or "five leap on shore and took
those three out of the boat as prisoners; one of whom
1 could perceive used the most passionate gestures of
entreaty, affliction, and despair, while the others, ist
a lesser degree, (hewed abundance of concern.
Not knowing the meaning of this, I was very
much astonished, and I beckoned to Friday, who was
below, to ascend the mountain, and likewise view
this sight. 0 Master, siiys he to me, you see Eng-
lish mans mt prisoners as well as Savage mans. And
do
f,r«j],^,.;^-„..,;jt.
of ROBINSON CRUSOE. 15$
do you think they will eat them, Friday? said T,
Ycsl said Friday, they eat a all up. No, no, said I,
Friday, I am much more concerned lest they mur-
der them; but as for eating them up, that I am sure
they will never do.
And now I not only lamented my misfortune in
not having the Spaniard and Savage with me, hut
also that I could not come within shot of them un-
perceived, (they having no sire arms among them),
and save these three men, whom I thought they were
going to kill with their swords. But some comfort
it was to me, that I perceived they were set at liber-
ty to go where they pleased, the rascally seamen
scattering about as though they had a mind to see
the place: and so long did they negligently ramble,
that the tide had ebbed io low, as to leave the boat
aground. Nor were the two men that were in her
more circumspect: for having drunk a little too.
much liquor, they sell fast asleep-, but one of them
waking before the other, and perceiving the boat
too fait a-ground for his strength to move it, he hal-
looed out to the rest, who made all possible expedi-
tion to come to him: but, as Providence ordered
it, all their force was ineffectual to launch her,when
1 could hear them speak to one another. Why, let
her alone, Jack, cant ye, /he'll float next tide 5 by
which words 1 was fully convinced they were my
own countrymen. All this while I lay very quiet,
a& beirg fully sensible it could be no less than. tea
Louis Lursorc'the boat would be afloat, and then it
would be so dark, as that they could not easily per-
ceive me, by which means I should be at more li-
berty to hear their talk, and observe all their mo-
th;r.s: not but that I prepared for my defence: vet
cjs I h.;d r.cw another sort of enemies to com-bat
with, [ acted with more caution, I ra-k two ia-
soes on roy ihouiders and gave Frist;, .hn:e mv. !!:.!:•:;
b..iUU> ray formidable goar skin err, jmd jnou-
stroui, cane, made me look as fierce znd terrible vs
Bis Lines
Hercules of old, especially when two pistols were
stuck in my belt, and my naked sword hanging by
my side.
It was my design at first not to make any attempt
till it was dark, but it being now two o'clock, in
the very heat of the day, the sailors were all strag-
gling into the woods, and undoubtedly were lain
down to sleep. The three poor distressed creatures,
too anxious to get any repose, were, however,
seated under the shade of a great tree, about a quar-
ter of a mile from me. Upon which, without any
more ado, I approached towards them, with my
man following behind me, and, before I was per-
ceived, 1 called aloud to them in Spanish, What are
ye. Gentlemen?
At these words they started up in great confu-
sion, when they beheid the strange figure I made,
they returned no answer, but seemed as if they would
flv, from me; Gentlemen.sMd I in English), don't be
afraid, perhaps you have a friend nearer than you ex*
peel. He must be from Heaven said one of them,
gravely pulling off his hat, for we are past all help in
this world. All help is from Heaven, said 1 -, but, Sir,
as I have perceived every aflion between you and these
brutes since your landing, only inform me how to assist
you, and I will do it to the utmost of my power.
Am I talking with God or man? said he, in
melting tears. Are you of human kind, or an an-
gel r Sir, said I, my poor habit may tell you 1 am a
man, and an Englishman, willing to assist you, having
but this servant only ; here are arms and ammuni*
tion : tell freely your condition, can we save you? Tne
story, said he, is too long to relate, since our but-
chers are so near : but, Sir, I was mailer of that
ship, my men have mutinied, and it is a savour they
have put my mate, this p-islenger and me, on shore,
without murdering us, though we expect nothing
but perishing here /Jre your enemies gone? said 1.
3So, rcplkd he, ^pointing to a thicket), there they
lie,
lie, while my heart trembles, lest, having seen and
hoard us, they should murder us ail. Have they
fire-arms? so id L They have but two pieces, said
he, one of which in kit m the boat. In; also told
me, there were two enormous villains among them,
that were the authors of this mutiny, who, if they
were killed or seized, might induce the rest to re-
turn to their obedience. Weil, well, said I, let us
retire farther under the covering of the woods; and
there it was 1 made these conditions with him.
I. That while they flak! in the island, they should
not pretend to any authority; but ihould entirely
conform to my. orders, and return to me the anus
which 1 should put into their hands,
II. That if the (hip was recovered, they should
afford Friday and myself our pail age gratis to Eng-
land.
When he had given me all the satisfaction I could
desire, I gave him and his two companions each of
them a gnu, with powder and ball luJiieient, advi-
sing them to fire upon them as they lay sleeping.
The captain modestly said, that he wa;j sorry to kill
them ; though, on the other hand, to let these vil-
lains escape, who were the authors of his misery,
might be the ruin of us all. Well, laid he, do as you
think sit: and so accordingly I fired, killing one of
the captain's chiefest enemies, and wounding the
other, who eagerly called for assistance; but the
captain (who had reserved his piece) coming up to
him, Sirrah^ said he, 9tis too late to call for ajftft-
ancej you should rather cry to God to pardon your viU
iany; and so knocked him down with the stock of
his gun : three others were also slightly wounded, who
at my approach cried out for mercy. This the cap-
tain granted, upon condition that they would swear
to he true to him in recovering the ship, which they
solemnly did : however, I obliged the captain to keep
them Hound. After which I sent Friday and the
captain's mate to secure the boat, and bring away
O the
the oars and fails ; when, at their return, three men
coming hack, and seeing their late distressed captain,
now their conqueror, submitted to be hound also.
And then it was, that having more liberty, I related
the ^adventures of my whole life, which he heard
with a serious and wonderful attention. After tirs
I carried him and his two companions into my little
fortified castle, shewed them all my convenioncies,
and refreshed them with such provisions as I could
afford. When this was over, we began to consider
about regaining the ihip: he said, that there were
twenty-six hands on board, who knowing their lives
were forfeited by the law, lor conspiracy and mu-
tiny, were so very hardened, that it would be
dangerous for our small company to attack them.
This was a reasonable inference indeed; hut something
we must resolve on, and immediately put in executi-
on: we therefore heaved the boat upon the beach
so high that she could not shoot off at high water
mark, and broke a hole in her not easily to be stop-
ped; so that all the signals they gave for the boat
to come on board were in vain. This obliged
than to fend another boat ashore, with ten men
armed, whose faces the captain plainly descried, the
boatswain being the chief officer; but he said there
were three honest lads among them, who were
forced into the conspiracy. Hereupon I gave him
fresh courage, (for I had perceived he was in con-
cern) ; in the mean while securing our prisoners,
except two, whom we took to our assistance, we
thought ourselves able enough to adventure a battle.
"When the sailors landed, and beheld their boat in
that condition, they not only halooed, but sired for
their companions to hear, yet they received no an-
swer. This struck them with horror and amaze-
ment, thinking their companions were murdered,
they made as if they would return to the sliip. I could
perceive the captain's countenance change at this, till
of a sudden three men were ordered to look after the
boat,
 
 
boat, while the other seven leapt on snore, in order
to search for their companions: and indeed they
came to the brow of the hill, near my anckm caiile,
from whence they could fee to a great diuance in
the woods, and there shouting and hallooing till tired
and weary, they at length sea-;cd themselves under a
spreading tree. My opinion was, that nothing
could he done till mc/bc, when I might use some
artifice to get them ?.d out cs the boat; hut of a
sudden they slart^d up, and made to the sea-side;
hereupon I ordered Fiiday and the captain's mate to
go over the creek, and haiioo as I cud as they could,
and so decoying them into the woods, come round
to me again. And this indeed had a good effect; for
they followed the noise, till coming weilward to the
creek, they called for their boat to carry them over,
and taking one of the men out of \iqi^ left two to
look after her, having fastened her to the stump ot a
little tree on shore. Hereupon immediately the
captain and our party passing the creek, out of their
sight, we surprised them both, by the captain's knock-
ing down one, and ordering the other to surrender
upon pain of death* and who, being the honelleft. of
them all, sincerely joined with us. By thio time it
was pretty late; when the rest returning to their
boat, which they found aground in the creek, the
tide out, and the men gone, they ran about wring-
ing their hands, crying it was an inchana d island,
and that they should he all murdered by spirits or
devils. My men would willingly have fallen upori
them, hut f would not agree to hazard any of our
party. But to be moie certain, Friday and the
captain crawled upon their hands and feet as near
as possible; and when the boatswain approached in
sight, so eager was the captain, that he fired, and
killed him on the spot: Friday wounded the next
man, and a third ran away. Hereupon I advanced
with my whole army, and it being dark, I ordered
the men we had surprised with the boar, to call them
O 2 by
 
 
by th^ir names, and to parley with them. Accord,
ingly he c.Uied out aloud, Tom Smiths Tern S.r.ith?
He answered, IVbo's that P Tlobinson r answered ihs
other, for Cod's fake, Tom, surrender immedia!t!y3
cr pure all dt'ad men. Who must we surrender to,
says Snath. To our captain andf.sty men here, who
have taken me prisoner, mounded Will Fives, and kdi*
tid tint boatswain. iShaii we have quaners then i said
he. Hereupon the captain ealla out, Tea, Smith,
you hvjiv my voiee, surrender immediately, and you
"flail a/ihave your Hi cs granted except Will Atkins.
Hereupon Atkins cries out, What have 1 done, Cap-
tain, more than the re/i, who have been as bad as me?
but that was a lie, lor he was the person that laid
hold of him, and bound him. However, he was or-
dered to submit to the governor's mercy, for such
was I called. And ib laying down their arms, we
bound them all, and seized on their boat.
Aster this, the captain expostulated with them,
telling them, that the governor was an Englishman,
who might execute them there; but bethought they
would be sent to England, except Will Atkins, who
was ordered to prepare for death next morning.
Hereupon Atkins implored the captain to intercede
for his life, and the rest begged that they might not
be sent to England. This answered our project for
seizing the ship. For aster sending Atkins, and two
of the worst, fast boond to the cave, and the rest
being committed to my bower, I sent the captain to
treat with them in the governor's name, offering
them pardon if they would afl'ist in recovering the
ship. Upon which they ail promised to (land by him
till the List drop os their blood; and whoever acted
treacherously, should be hanged in chains upon the
beach. They were all released on these assurances;
and then the captain repaired the other boat, making
his passenger captain of her, and gave him four men
well armed; while himself, his mate, and five
more, went in <the other boat. By midnight they
cams
 
came within call oi the ihip, when the captain or-
dered Robinson to hail her, and tel) them, that with
great difficulty they had sound the men at last. But
while they were discoursing, the captain, his mate,
and the reft entered, and knocked down die second
mate and carp* nter, secured those that were upon
the deck, by putting them under hatches, while the
other boat's crew entered and secured the forecastle;
they then broke into the round-house, where the
mate, aster some resistance, shot the pirate captain
through the head, upon which all the rest yielded
themselves prisoners. And thus the ship being re-
covered, tli! joyful signal was fired, which I heard
with the greatest joy imaginable: nor was it Ions*
before lie b; ought the snip to an anchor at the creeks
mouth, where, coming to me unawares, There, fays
he, my dear r/I friend and deliverer^ there isyourjhip^
and ix) e are your servants; a comfort ib unspeakable,
as made me swoon in his arms, while, with grati-
tude to Heaven, we were tenderly embracing each
other.
Nothing now remained, but to consult what we
should do with the prisoners, whom he thought it
was not safe to take on board. Hereupon, concert-
ing with the captain, I dressed myself in one of bis
suits, and sending for them, told them, 'j'hat as I
v.'as going to leave the island with all my people, if
they would tarry there, their lives should be spared *,
is not, they should be hanged at the first poit they
came at. They agreed to stay. Hereupon I to?d
them rny whole (lory, charging them to be kind lo
the Spaniards that were expected, gave them ail my
arms, and informing them of every thing r.eeÆry
for their subsistence, 1 and my man Fruhy svtm on
board. But the next morning two of the men came
swimming to the ship's fide, desiring the captain to
take them on board, though he hanged them after-
wards, complaining mightily how barbarously the
others used them, Upon which I prevailed with the
O 3 captain
 
 
captain to take them in, and being severely whip!
and pickled, they proved more honest for the suture.
And so 1 bid larewel to this island, carrying along
with me my money, my parrot, umbrella, and goat-
skin cap; letting fail December 12, 1686, aster
twenty-eight years, two months, and nineteen days
residence, that seine day and month that I escaped
from Sale.e, landing in England, June ri. 1087, after
five Tind thirty years absence front my own country,
which rendered me altogether a stranger there.
Here I sound my first captain's widow alive, who
had buried a second husband, but in very mean cir-
cumstances, and whom I made mighty easy upon my
account. Soon aster J went down to York/hire,
where all my family were expired, except two
sisters, and as many of one of my brother's children.
I found no provision had been made for me, they
concluded I had been long since dead; so that 1
was but in a very (lender station. Indeed the cap-
tain did me a great kindness, by his report to the
owners, howl had delivered their ship on the deso-
late island, upon which they made me a present of
2ccl. Sterling. I next went to Lisbon, taking my
man Friday with me, and there arriving in April, I
met the Portuguese captain, who had taken me on
board on the African coast; but being ancient, he
had lest of the sea, and resigned all his business to
hjs son, who followed the Brasil trade. So altered
both of us were, that we did not know each other at
first, till I discovered myself more sully to him. As-
ter a sew embraces, I began to inquire of my con-
cerns; and then the old gentleman told me, that it
was nine years since he had been at Brasil, where my
partner was then living, but my trustees were both
dead; that he believed I should have a good account
of the product of my plantation; that the imagina-
tion of my being lost had obliged my trustees to give
an estimate of my share to the procurator-fiscal, who,
in case of my not retiiming, he had given one third to
the
 
 
the king, and the rest to the monastery of St Augu-
stine \ but if I put in my claim, or any one for me,
it would be returned, except the yearly product,
which was given to the poor. I then desired him to
tell me what improvement he thought had been made
of my plantation, and whether he imagined it was
worth my while to look after it? He answered, he
did not know how much it was improved ; but this
he was certain of, that my partner was grown vastly
rich upon his half of it; and that he had been in-
formed, that the king had 200 moidores per annum
for his third part. He added, that the survivors of
my trustees were persons of an ingenuous character;
that my partner could witness my title, my name
being registered in the country, by which means I
should indisputably recover a considerable sum of
money. But, answered I, how could my trustees
dispose of my effects, when I made you only my heir I
This he said was true j but there being no affidavit
made of my death, he could not act as my executor.
However, he had ordered his son (then at Brafil) to
act by procuration upon my account, and he had ta-
ken possession of my sugar-house, having accounted
himself for eight years with my partner and trustees
for the profits, of which he would give me a very
good account.
And indeed this he performed very faithfully in
a few days, making himself indebted to me 470 moi-
dores of gold, over and above what had been lost at
sea, after 1 had left the place. And then he re-
counted to me what misfortunes he had gone through^
which forced my money out of his hands, to buy
part in a new (hip: but, fays he, youjhallnot want,
take this, and when my son returns, every farthing
Jhalt be paid you. Upon which he put into my hand
a purse os j 5c moidores in gold, as likewise the instru-
ment containing the title to the sliip which his son
was in, and which he offered as security for the re-
mainder. But*reaily when I saw so much goodness,
generosity,
 
 
generosity, tenderness, and real honesty, I had not
the heart to accept it j for fear he should straiten
himself upon my account. It is true, said he, it may
be jo; but then the money is yours ^ not mines and you
may have the greatest occasion for it. However, I
returned fifty os them b^ck again, promising that
I would freely give him the other hundred when [
got my effects in my hands, and that I designed to
go myself for that purpose. But he told me he
could save me that trouble, and so caused me to en-
ter my name, with a public notary, as likewise my
affidavit, with a procuration affixed to it j and this
he ordered me to fend in a letter to one of his ac-
quaintance, a merchant in Brafii: and indeed no-
thing could be more faithfully and honourably ob-
served \ for in seven months time I rud a very faith-
ful account o\ all my effects, what sums of money
were raised, what expended, and what remained for
my use: in a word, 1 sound myself to be worth 5000 /.
Sterling, and iocc /. per annum. Nor was this -Ml)
for my partner congratulated me upon my being a-
live,, telling me how much my plantation was im-
proved, what negroes were at work, and how many
Ave Matias he had said to the virgin Mary for my
preservation, desiring me to accept kindly some pre-
sents he had sent me, which I sound shewed the great-
est generosity.
No sooner did the sliip arrive, but I rewarded my
faithful captain, by returning him the hundred moi-
dores ; and not only forgiving him all he owed me,
I allowed him yearly a hundred more, and fifty to his
son, during their lives. And now being resolved to
go to England, *i returned letters of thanks to the
prior of St Augustine, and in particular to my old
partner, with very suitable presents. By the cap-
tain's advice I was persuaded to go by land to Calais
and there take passage for England -, when, as it hap-
pened, I got a young English gentleman, a merchant's
son at Lisbon, to accompany me, together with two
English,
 
English, and two Portuguese gentlemen; so that,
with a Portuguese servant, an English sailor, and my
man Friday, there were nine os us in number.
Thus armed and equipped, we set out, and came to
Madrid, when the summer decaying, we hasted to
Navarre; where we were informed, that there was
scarcely any pasting, by reason os the prodigious
quantity of snow j io that we were obliged to abide
near twenty days at Pampduna, and at last to take
a guide to conduct us fare towards Tholoufe. And
now twelve other gentlemen joining with us, toge-
ther with their servants, we had a very jolly company.
Away our guide led us by the frightful mountains,
and through so many intricate mazes and windings,
that we insensibly passed them, which, as we travel-
led along, ushered us into the prospect os the fruit-
ful and charming provinces of Languedoc and Gas-
cog ne.
But now came on two adventures, both tragical
and comical. First, our guide was encountered by
three wolves and a bear, who set upon him and his
horse, and wounded him in three places : upon which
my man riding up to his assistance, shot one of them
dead upon the spot, which made the others retire to
the woods. But the pleafantest adventure was, to
behold my man attac' the bear. 'Tis such a crea-
ture, that is you let him alone, he will never meddle
with you: and this my man very well knew, and so
begging leave of me in broken English, he told us
he would ?nake good laugh. Why, \ou silly fool, said
ly he'll eat you up at a mouthful. Eatee me up, re-
plied he, by way of scorn, me not only eatee him, but
make much good laugh. Upon which, pulling off
his boots, he claps on his pumps, arid running after
the monstrous beast, he called out, that he wanted
to discourse with him; and then throwing stones on
purpose to incense him, the beast turns about in fury,
and with prodigious strides {hustles after him. But
though he was not swift enough to keep up pace
with
 
with Friday, who made up to us as it were for help,
yet being angry, You dog, said I, immediately take
horse, and let us shoot the creature. But he cried,
Dear Master, no jhoot, me make you laugh much. And
so he turned about making signs to follow, while the
bear ran after him, till coming to a great oak, he
ascended in a minute, leaving his gun at the bottom
of it. Nor did the bear make any difficulty of it,
but ascended like a cat, though his weight was very
great. You moll: consider I was not a little amazed
at the folly of my man, as not perceiving any thing
to occasion our laughter, till such time as we rode
up nearer, and beheld the beast mounted upon the
oak, on the beginning of the fame branch, to which
Friday clung at the farther end, where the bear durst
not come. Hereupon Friday cried out, Now master,
me make much laugh, me make de bear dance. Upon
which he fell a-shaking the bough, which made the
creature look behind him, to see how he could re-
treat. Then, as if the bear had understood his stam-
mering English ; Why you no come farther, Mr Bear,
said he, pray, Mr Bear, come farther: and then in-
deed we all burst into laughter, especially when we
perceivedFriday drop like a squirrel upon the ground,
leaving the beast to make the best of his way down
the tree. And now thinking it- the most convenient
time to shoot the creature, Friday cried out, O dear
master, no Jhoot, me/hoot by and by ; when taking up
the gun, Me no jhoot yet, said he, me make once more
much laugh. And accordingly he was as good as his
word ; for the creature descending backwards from
the tree very leisurely, before he could lay one loot
on the ground, Friday (hot him through the ear,
stone dead: and looking to see whether we were
pleased, he hurst out into a hearty laughter, sayiug,
So we kill de bear in my country, not with the gun
hut with much long arrows. Thus ended our diver*
sion, to our great satisfaction; especially in a place
where the terrible bowlings struck us with a conti-
nual
 
nual terror. But the snows now growing very deep,
particularly on the mountains, the ravenous creatures
were obliged to seek for sustenance in the villages,
where, coming by surprise on the country people,
they killed several of them, besides a great number
of their sheep and horses.
Our guide told us, we had yet one more dange-
rous place to pass by ; and if there were any more
wolves in the country, there we should find them.
This was a small plain, encompassed with woods, to
get through a long lane, to the village where we
were to lodge. "When we entered the wood, the fun
was within half an hour of setting; and a little aster
it was set, we came into the plain, which was not
above two furlongs over, and then we perceived five
great wolves cross the road, without taking notice
of us, and so swift as though they were pin suing af-
ter their prey. Hereupon our guide believing there
were more coming, desired us to be upon our
guard. Accordingly our eyes were very circumspect,
till about half a league farther, we perceived a dead
horse, and near a dozen of wolves devouring its car-
cafe. My man Friday fain would have sired at them,
but I would not permit him; nor had we gone half
over the plain, but we heard dreadful bowlings in a
wood on our left, when presently we saw an him*
dred come up against us, as though they had been
an experienced army. This obliged us to form our-
selves in the best manner •, and then I ordered that
every other man mould sire, that those who did not
might be ready to give a second volley, mould they
advance upon us ; and then every man mould make
use of his* pistols. But there was no necessity for
this; for the enemy being terrified, stopped at the
noise of the fire; four of them were shot dead, and
several others being wounded, went bleeding away,
as we could very plainly discover by the snow. And
now remembering what had been often told me, that
such was the majesty of a man's voice, as to strike
terror even into the fiercest creatures, I ordered all
our
 
 
our companions to halloo as loud as possible: and in
this notion I was not altogether mistaken; for they
immediately turned about upon the first halloo, and
began to retire; upon which, ordering a second vol-
ley in their rear, they galloped into the woods with
great precipitation.
Thus wre had some small time to load our pieces
again, and then made all the haste we could on our
way; but we had not rode far, before we were
obliged to put ourselves in a posture of defence as
before, being alarmed with a very dreadful noise in
the same wood, on our left hand, the same way as we
were to pass, only that it was at some distance from
us. By this time the darksome clouds began to
spread over the elements, and the night grow-
ing very dusky, made it so much the more to our
disadvantage; but still the noise increasing, we were
sully assured, that it was the howling and yelling
of those ravenous creatures; when presently three
troops of wolves, on our front, appeared to our sight,
as though a great number of them had a design to fur-
round us and devour us in spite of fate. But as they
did not fall upon us immediately, we proceeded on
our journey in as swift a manner as the roads would
permit our horses, which was only a large trot. It
was in this manner we travelled, till such time as we
discovered another wood, and had the prospect of its
entrance through which we were to pass, at the far-
thest side of the plain. But surely none can express
the terror we were in, when, approaching the lane,
we perceived a confused number of the fiercest wolves
standing, and as it were guarding its entrance. Nor
were we long in this amazement, before another oc-
casion of horror presented itself; for suddenly we
heard the report of vt gun at another opening into the
WQod, and looking that wp.y, out ran a horse bridled
and saddled, flying with the greatest swiftness, and no
less than sixteen "or seventeen wolves pursuing after
him, in order to devour the poor creature ; and un-
questionable they did so, aster they had run him
down,
down, not being able to hold out that swiftness with
which he at first escaped ih.m.
When we rode up to that entrance from whence
the horse came forth, there lay the carcasses of an-
other horse and two men, mangled and torn by these
devouring wolves: and undoubtedly one of these men
was the person who sired the gun which we had
heard, for the piece by by him; hut alas! most of
the upper part of his body and his he id were entomb-
ed in the bowels of th..se r.ivenous creatures.
What course to take, whether to proceed or re-
treat, we could not tell; but it was not long before
the wolves themselves made us come to a resolution:
for such numbers surrounded us, every one of whom
expected their prey, that, were our bodies to be di-
vided among them, there wouhinot be huf a mouth-
fed a piece. But happy, verv happy it was for us
that but a little way from the entrance, there lay
seme very large timber trees* which I supposed had
been cut down and laid there for sale ; amongst which
I drew my little troop, placing ourselves in a line be-
hind one long tree, which served us for a breast work,
when desiring them to alight, we stood in a triangse,
er three fronts, inclosing our horses in the centre, the
enly place where we could preserve them.
Never certainly was there a more furious charge
than what the wolves made upon us in this place;
ar»d the sight of the horses, which was the principal
thing they aimed at, provoked their hunger, and add-
ed to their natural fierceness. They came on us
with a dreadful noise, that made the woods to ring
?gain *, and beginning to mount the pieces of timber,
1 ordered eves y other man to fire as before directed:
aud indeed so well did they take their aim, that they
killed several of the wolves at the hist volley; but
ftid we were obliged to keep a continual siring, by
reaiem they came on like devils, pushing one another
with the greatest fury. But our second volley some-
thing abated their courage, when flopping a little,
P we
we hoped they would have made the best of their
way j however, it did not prove so, for others made
a new attempt upon us : and though in four firings
we killed seventeen or eighteen of them, laming twice
as many, yet they several times successively came on,
as though they valued not their lives for the fake of
their prey.
Unwillingly was I to spend our last shot too sudden-
ly, and therefore called my other servant, and giving
him a horn os powder, bid him lay a large train
quite along the limber, which he did, while Friday
was charging my fusee and his own, with the greatest
dexterity. 15y this time the wolves coming up the
timber, I set lire to the train, by snapping a dis-
charged pistol close on the powder. This so scorch-
ed and terrified them, that some sell down, and
others jumped in among us; but these we imme-
diately dispatched, when all the rest flighted with
the light, which the darksome night caused to appear
more dreadful, began at length to retire; upon which,
ordering our last pistols to be 11 red at once, giving at
the fame time, a great shout, the wolves were obliged
to have recourse to their swiftness, and turn tail;
and then we sallied out upon twenty lame ones, cut-
ting them in pieces with our swords, which obliged
them to howl lamentably, to the terror of their fel-
lows?, who resigned to us the field as victorious con-
querors. And indeed 1 question whether Alexander
Ling of Macedonia) in any of his conquests, had more
occasion for. triumph than we had ; for he was but at-
tacked by numerous armies of soldiers; whereas our
little army was obliged to combat a legion of devils,
ss it were, worse than the cannibals, who, the some
moment, had they slain us, would have sacrificed us,
to satisfy their voracious appetites.
Thus [ended our bloody battle with the beasts, ha-
ving killed threescore of them, and saved our lives
from their fury. We still had a league farther to go,
when, as we went, our ears were saluted with their
most
most unwelcome howlings, aud we expected every
moment another attack. But in an hour's time we
arrived at the town where we were to lodge; and
here we found the place strictly guarded, and ail iii
terrible confusion, as well they might, for tear of
the bears and wolves breaking into the village, in
order to prey upon their cattle and people. I'ho
next morning we were obliged to take a new guide,
by reason the other fell very bad of his wounds,
which he had received, as before mentioned. After
we had reached T/jouku/e, we came into a warm,
pleasant, and fruitful country, not infested with
wolves, nor any fort of ravenous creatures: and
when we told our story there they much blamed our
guide, for conducting, us through the forest at the
foot of the mountains, in such a severe season, when
the snow obliged the wolves to feck for (belief in the
woods. When we informed them in what manner
we placed ourselves, and the horses in the centre, they
exceedingly reprehended us, and told t*2, it was an
hundred to one, but we bad all been destroyed j for
that it was the very sight of the horses, tb-cir lo much
desired prey, that made the wolves more ragingly fu-
rious than they would have been, which was evident,
by their being at other times really afraid of a gun;
but then being exceeding hungry and furious, upon
that account, their eagerness to come at the horses
made them insensible of their danger; and that if
we had not by a continual fire, and at last by the cun-
ning stratagem of the train of powder, got the better
of them, it had been great odds if their number had
not overpowered us j besides, it was a great mercy we
alighted from our horses, and fought them wkh that
courage and conduct, which, had we failed to do, e-
very man of us, with our beasts, had been devoured:
and indeed this was nothing but truth; for never in
my life was I so sensible of danger, as when three
hundred devils came roaring upon us, to stum
whose unwelcome company, if I was sure to meet a
P 2 storm
storm every week, I would rather go a thousand
leagues by sea,
I think I have nothing uncommon in my passage
through France to take notice of, since other travel-
lers of greater learning and ingenuity, have given a
more ample account"than my p-:*n is able to set forth.
From Thciuonlc I travelled to Paris, from thence to
Caluh, where I to;k shipping, and landed at Dover
the J4th of January, in a vciy cold season.
Thus, come to the end of my travels, I loon dis-
covered my new found estate, and all the bills of
exchange I had brought were currently paid. The
flood ancient widow, my only privy counsellor,
thought no p.dns nor care too great to procure my
:'!Ctv,in*<jge; nor had I ever occasion to bh:rne her
fidelity, which drtw from me an ample reward. I
v;,v* for leaving my effects in her hands, intending
to Us (nit for Lilbon, and ib to the JirafiJs; hut as in
iih> Deszinie Ij'Lnui I h.ui some doubts about the lio-
jnisti religion, lo i knew there was little encourage-
ment to i\ trie there, unless 1 would apostatize from the
oithodux faith, or live in cmitinmd fear of the inqui-
iition. Upon this account I resolved to kl\ my plan-
tation i and for tli it intent I wrote to my old friend
at Lf'sbon, who returned me an answer to my great
satisfaction; which was, that he could Ml it to good
account: however, if i thought it convenient to give
him liberty to offer k in my name to the two mer-
chants, the survivors of my trustees, residing at the
Brasils, woo consequently understood its intrinsic va-
lue, having lived juit upon the snot, and who I was
sensible were very rich, and therefore might be the
more willing to purchase it; he did not in the least
doubt, but that 1 should make four or five thousand
pieces of eight more of it, than I could do, if I dis-
posed of it in any other manner whatsoever.
You may be sure I could not but agree with this
kind and ingenuous proposal ; and immediately I sent
him an order to ciier it to them, which he accord-
ing1?
 
ingly did; so that, about eight months after, the ship
being in that time returned, he gave me a satisiacto-
ry account, that they not only willingly accepted the
offer, out that they had also remitted 33,000 piece*
or eight to a correspondent os their own at Lisbon, 111
order to pay for the purchase.
Hereupon in return 1 signed the instrument os sale
according.to form, which they had sent from Lisbon,
and returned it again to my old friend, he having sent
me ior my estate, bills of three hundred twenty-tight
thousand pieces of eight, refening the payment of
one hundred moidores per annum, which i had al-
lowed him during life, likewise fifty to his son during
life also, according to my faithful promise, which the
plantation was to make good as a rent charge.
And thus having led my reader to the knowledge
of the suit part of my life, so remarkable for the ma»
ny peculiar providences that attended it, floating in
an ocean of uncertainty and disappointment of ad-
versity and prosperity, beginning foolishly, and yet
ended happily, methinks now that I am come to a
safe and pleasant haven, it is time to cast out my an-
chor, and laying up my vessel* bid for a while adieu
to foreign adventures. I had no other concerns to
look after, but the care of my brother's two sons>
which, with the good widow's persuasions, obliged
me to continue at home seven years. One of these
children I bred up a gentleman, and the other au
experienced sailor, remarkable for his courage and
bravery. Besides this, I married a virtuous young
gentlewoman of a very good family, by whom I had
two sons and one daughter. But my dear and ten-
der wife leaving this earthly stage, (as in the stcond
part of my life you will hear), which rent my foul as
it were asunder, my native country became* weary
and tiresome to me: and my nephew happening to
come from the sea, tempted me to venture another
voyage to the East Indies, which I did in the year 16^4^.
P 3 at
174 LIFE and ADVENTURES
at which time I visited my island, and informed my-
self of every thing that happened since my departure.
One might reasonably imagine, that what I hud
suffered, together with an advanced age, and the
fear of losing, not only what 1 had gotten, but my
life also, might have choked up all the seeds of youth-
ful ambition and curiosity, aud put a lading period
to my wandering inclinations. But as nothing but
death can fully allay the active part of my life, no less
remarkable for the many various contingencies of it *,
you will next perceive how I visited my little king-
dom, saw my successors the Spaniards,, had an ac-
count of the usage they met with from the English-
men, agreeing and disagreeing, uniting and separa-
ting, till at lail they were subjected to the Spaniards,
who yet used them very honourably, together with
the wonderful and successful battles over the Indians,
•who invaded, and thought to have conquered the
Island, but were repelled by their invincible courage
and bravery, having taken eleven men and five wo-
men prisoners, by which at my return [ found about
twenty young children on my little kingdom. Herel
staid twenty days, left them supplies of all necessary
things, as also a carpenter and smith, and shared the
island into parts, reserving the whole property to my-
self. Nor will you be insensible, by the account of
these things, of several new adventures I have been
engaged in, the battles I have sought, the deliveran-
ces I have met with: and while, in the surprising re-
lation of such remarkable occurrences, I (hall de-
scribe many of God's kindest providences to me in
particular, no less conspicuous in the fame goodness*
power and majesty of our great Creator, (hewn, one
way or other, over the sice of the earth, if duly ad-
verted to,
 
fh$
The further adventures ^/Robinson Crusoe, where*
in are contained]ever al Ji range and surprising ac-
counts of his travels* and the most remarkable
transactions both by sea and land \ with his wonder-
ful' vijion of the Angelic World.
W? II E N we consider the puiffhnt force of Na-
ture, and what mighty influence it has
many times over the temper of the mind, it will be
no luch great wonder to think, that my powerful
reason should he overcome by a much stronger in-
clination. My late acquired kingdom ran con-
tinually in my thoughts all the day, and I dreamed
of it in the night \ nay, I made it the continual sub-
ject of my talk, even to impertinence, when I was
awake. 1 had such vapours in my head, that I ac*
tually supposed myself at my castle; that I not only
perceived Friday's father, but the old Spaniard, and
the wicked sailors, but that I talked and discoursed
with them about their manner of living ; that I heard
these things related to me, which I found afterwards
to be but too true: and that I executed my judg-
ments with the greatest severity upon the offenders.
And indeed, this anticipating all the pleasing joys of
my life, scarcely afforded me one pleasant hour: my
dear and tender wise could not but take notice of it,
which drew these affectionate speeches from her:
My deary said (lie, 1 am really perjuaded that some
secret impulse from heaven occasions in you a determi-
nation to fee the island again t nor am I less senfibk*
hut your being engaged to me, and these dear children*
is the only hinderance of your departure* I know* my
deary if 1 was in the grave* you would not long con-
tinue at home; prevent not your happiness upon my
account* whose only comfort centers in you. All that
J can object is* that such an hazardous undertaking is
no way cons/lent with a person of your years; hut if
you are resolved to go* added she, weeping, only per*
mit me to bear you company* and that U allthat I desire.
Such,
Such endearing tenderness, graced with the most
innocent, and yet most powerful charms, brought
me insensibly into my right understanding ; and when
1 considered all the transactions of my life, and par-
ticularly my new engagement; that I had now one
child already born, and my wife big of another; and
that 1 had no occasion to seek for more riches, who
already was blessed with sufficiency, with much
struggling I altered my resolutions at last, resolving
to apply myself to some business or other, which
might put a period to such wandering inclinations.
Hereupon I bought a little farm in the county of
Bedford, with a resolution to move thither: upon
this there was a pretty convenient house, surrounded
with land, very capable os improvement, which suit-
ed my temper as to planting, managing and cultivate
ing. Nor was I long before I entered upon my new
settlement, having bought ploughs, harrows, carts,
waggons, horses, cows, and iheep; so that 1 now
led the life of a country-gentleman, and as happy in
my retirement as the greatest monarch in the world.
And what made me think my happiness the greater
was, that I was in that middle Jiate of life > which my
father had so often recommended, much resembling
the felicity of a rural retirement, which is elegantly
described by the poet in these lines:
Free from all vices yfree from carey
Jge has no pain, and youth no snare.
Bar, in the midst of this my happiness, I was sud-
denly plunged into" the greatest sorrows that 1 could
possibly endure: for, when I least expected it, my
dear and tender wife was forced to submit to the ir-
resistible power of death, leaving this transitory life
for a better. It is impossible for me to express the
beauties of her mind, or the loveliness of her person;
neither can J too much lament her loss, which my
latest breath shall record: her influence was greater
over me than the powers of my own reason, the im-
portunities
 
 
portunities of friends, the instructions of a father, or
the melting tears of a tender and disconsolate mo-
ther: in a word, she was the spirit csail my affairs,
and the center of my enterprises. But now, since
the cruel hand of death had closed my dearest's eyes,
I seemed in my thoughts a stranger to the world \ my
privy counsellor being gone, I was like a stiip with-
out a pilot, that could only run before the wind.
And when I looked around me in this busy world,
one part labouring for bread, and the other squander-
ing away their estates, this put me in mind how I had
lived in my little kingdom, where both reason and
religion dictated to me, that there was something
that certainly was the reason and end of life, which
was far superior to what could be hopped for on this
side the grave. My country delights were now as
insipid and dull, as music or science to those who
have neither taste nor ing. nuity. In short, resolving
to leave off house keeping, I left my farm, and in a
few months returned to London.
But neither could that great city, so famous for its
variety of entertainment, afford me any agreeable
delight: a state of idleness I found to be the very
dregs of life, and most hurtful to body and foul. It
was now the beginning of the year 1694, at which
time my nephew (who, as 1 before observed, had
been brought up to the*sea, and advanced to be cap-
tain of a ship) was returned from a ssort voyage to
Bilhoa, the first he had made in that station. He
comes to me one morning, telling me, that some
merchants of his acquaintance had proposed to him to
go a voyage for them, to the East Indies and China,
in the manner of private traders: and now, uncle,
hiid he, if you'll accompany me thither, PI! engage f 9
land you upon your oldisland\ to visit the Ji ate os your
little kingdom*
Just before he came in, my thoughts were fixed
to get a patent for its possession, aud then to fill it
with inhabitants. After I had paused a little while,
and looked stedfastly on him, What devils or spirit,
said
said \)sent you with ibis unlucky errand? He started
at first, but recovering himself, when he perceived
I was not offended, Sir, replied he, what I have
proposed cannot, I hope, be styled unlucky, since
certainly you must be desirous to fee your little ter-
ritory, where you reigned with more content than
any of your brother-kings in the universe. Nephew,
said I, if you will leave me there, and call for me as
you come back, I care not if I give my consent;
but he answered, that the merchants would not al-
low their vessel, loaden with an infinite value, to re-
turn there again, which was a month's fail out of the
way: besides, Sir, said he, if I should miscarry, was
your request granted, why then you would be iocktd
up as before. This indeed carried a great deal of
reason in it, but we found out a remedy, and that
was, to carry a framed sloop on board, ready to be
set up in the island, by tl.*j assistance of some carpen-
ters, which we mould carry with us, that might be
fitted in a few days to go to sea. I was not long in
forming my resolution, which over-swayed my good
fiiend the widow's persuasions, and the natural affec-
tion I bore to my young children. I made my will,
and settled my estate in such a manner, that I was
perfectly sure that my poor infants would have justice
done them. The good widow not only undertook to
make provision for my voyage, but also took the charge
of my domestic affairs, and to provide for my chil-
dren's education ; and indeed no mother could take
more care, or understood that office better; for which
I lived to reward, and return her my hearty thanks.
The beginning of January 1694-;, my nephew?
being ready to sjil, I and Friday went on henrd in
the Downs on the 8th, having, beside that sloop al-
ready mentioned, a very considerable cargo for my
new colony. Firsts I had some servants, whom I pro-
posed to leave there, as inhabitants, or to work while
I staid there, as they should appear willing: there
were two carpenters, a smith, and a very ingenious
fellow who was Jack of all trades j for he was not on-
ly
 
 
ly a cooper by trade, but also he was dexterous at
making wheels and hand-mills to grind corn, likewise
a good turner, and a good pot-maker. I also carri.
ed a taylor, who consented to stay in my plantation,
and proved a mod necessary fellow in the island.
As to my cargo, it consisted of a sufficient quantity
of linen, and English stuffs, for cloathing the Spa*
niards that I expected to find there; as likewise
gloves, hats, moes, stockings 5 together with beds,
bedding, and household stuff, especially kitchen uten-
sils, with pots, kettles, pewter, brass, &c. also nails,
tools of all forts, staples, hooks, hinges, and all o-
ther things necessary; all which, I think, cost me a*-
bout three hundred pounds. Nor was this all; for
I carried an hundred spare-arms, muskets, and fusees,
besides some pistols, a considerable quantity os several
sorts of mot, two brass cannon, besides swords, cut-
lasses, and the iron part for some pikes and halberts.
I made my nephew take with us two small quarter
deck guns, more than he had occasion for in his ship,
to leave behind, if there was a necessity; that so we
might build a fort there, and man it against all op-
posers whatsoever.
Well, we put out to sea ; and though I can't say
this voyage was so unprosperous as my others had
been, yet contrary winds drove us so far northward,
that we were obliged to put in at Gal way in Ireland,
where we lay wind bound two and twenty days, Here
indeed our provisions were very cheap, and we add-
ed to our ship's stores, by taking in several live
hogs, two cows and calves, which I then resolved to
put on shore in my ifland, if our necessities did not
call for them. On the 5th of February we sailed
from Ireland, with a very fair gale, which lasted for
some days j and I think it was about the 20th of
the fame month, late in the evening, when the mate
informed us, that he saw a flam of fire, and heard
a gun fired; and when he was speaking, a boy came
in, and told us, that the boatswain had heard ano-
ther. Upon which we all ran to the quarter deck,
from
 
iSo LIFE and ADVENTURES
from whence in a few moments we percived a ter-
rible fire at a distance. We had immediately .re-
course to our reckonings, in which we were all of o-
pinion, that there could be no land that way, it ap-
pearing to be at N. N W. Hereupon we con-
cluded that some snip had taken fire at sea, and tint
it could not be far off, by the report of the guns
which we had heard. We made up directly to it,
and in half an hour's time, the wind being fair, we
could plainly perceive a great ship on sire in the
middle of the sea. Touched with this unhappy
disaster, and considering my former circumstances,
when the Portuguese captain took me up, I imme-
diately ordered five guns to be sired, that the poor
creatures, not seeing us, it being dark, (though we
could perceive their flame), might be sensible there
was deliverance at hand, and consequently might en-
deavour to save themselves in their boat. ^ Nor was
it long before the sliip blew up in the air, and the
fire was extinguished in the ocean. But supposing
them all to be in their boats, we hung out our lan-
terns, and kept siring till eight o'clock in the morn-
ing 5 when, with our peripectives, we beheld two
boats, full of people, making towards us, though
the tide was against them \ then spreading out our
ancient, and hanging out a waft, as a signal for them
to come on board, in half an hour's time, we came
up to them, and took them ail in, there being no
less than sixty-four men, wemen and children. It
was a French merchant (hip of 300 tons, homeward
bound from Quebec in the river of Canada. The ma-
ster informed me how, by the negligence of the steers-
man, the steerage was let on sire; that, at his out-
cry for help, the fire was, as they thought, totally
extinguished ; but that some sparks getting between
the timber, and within the ceiling, it proceeded into
the hold, where there was no resisting it; that then
they got into their boats, as creatures in the last
extremity, with what provision they had, together
with oars, fails, and a coropafe, intending to go back
 
 
 
 
to Newfoundland, the wind Wowing at S. E. and bf
E. though there were several chances against them,
as ftorins to overset and founder them, rainsand colds,
to benumb and perish their limbs, and contrary winds
to keep them back and starve them; but, said he,
in this our great distress, we heard the welcome re-
port of your guns, when, with unspeakable joy, ta-
king down our masts and fails, we were resolved to
lie by till morning; but perceiving your light, we
set our oars at work to keep our boat a-head, the
sooner to attain your ship, the happy instrument of
our deliverance.
Indeed no one can express the joy of these poor
creatures on this occasion; fear and grief are easily
set forth; sighs and tears, with a few motions of the,
hands and head, are all the demonstrations of these
passions ; but an excess of joy carries in it a thousand
extravagancies; especially, I think, amongst the
French, whose temper is allowed to be more volatile,
passionate, sprightly, and gay, than that of other na-
tions. Some were weeping, tearing themselves m
the greatest agonies of sorrow, and running stark
mad about the ship; while the rest were stamping
with their feet, wringing their hands, singing,
laughing, swooning away, vomiting, fainting, with
a sew returning hearty thanks to the Almighty, and
crossing themselves. I think, if I am not mistaken,
our surgeon was obliged to let thirty of them blood.
But among the passengers, there were two priests,
the one an old, and the other a young man ; but
what amazed me more, was, that the oldest was in
the worst plight; for no sooner did he perceive him-
self freed from danger, but he dropt down, as it were
without life, and, to every one's appearance, quite
dead j but the surgeon, chasing and rubbing his arm,
opened a vein, which at first dropped, and then
flowing more freely, the old man began to open his
eyes, and in a quarter of an hour was well again.
But soon remembering his happy change, the joy of
which whirled his blood about faster than the vtiTch
Q^ could
 
i8a LIFE and ADVENTURES
 
could convey it, he Li-came so feverish, as made him
more sit for bedlam than any other place; but the
surgeon giving him a sleepy dose, he was perfectly
composed the next morning.
llematkable indeed was the behaviour of the young
priest At his entrance en board .the ship, he fell
on bis face in the most humble prostration to the Al-
mighty. I thought indeed he had fallen into a
swoon, and so ran to help him up; but he modestly
told me, he was returning his thanks to the Al-
mighty, desiring me to leave him a few moments,
and that, next to his Creator, he would return me
thanks also. And indeed he did so, about three
minutes after, with great seriousness and affection,
while the tears stood in his eyes, which convinced
me of the gratitude of his foul. Nor did he less shew
his piety and wisdom, in applying himself to his
country people, and labouring to compose them, by
the most powerful reasons, arguments, and persua-
sions. And when, indeed, these people had taken
their night's repose, in such lodgings as our Hup
Would allow, we found nothing but the best of
manners, and the most civil acknowledgments, for
which the French are eminently remarkable. The
next day the captain, and one of the priests, desired
to speak with me, and my nephew, the commander.
They told us, that they had saved some money, and
valuable things out of the ruined vessel-, which was
at our service; only that they desired to be set on
shore some where in our way. At the first my ne-
phew was for accepting the money; but I (who
knew how hard my cafe would have been, had the
Portuguese captain served me so) persuaded him to
the contrary j and therefore told them, that as we
had done nothing but what we were obliged to do,
by nature and humanity, and what we ourselves
might expect from others in such calamity; so we
took them up to save them, not to plunder them, or
leave them naked upon the land, to perisli for want
of subsistence, and therefore would not accept their
money;
 
money: but as to landing them, that was a great
difficulty , for, being bound to the East Indies, it
was impossible wilfully to change our voyage upon
their particular account, nor could my nephew (who
was und r charter-party to pursue it by way of Braid)
answer it to the freighters. All that we could do, whs
to put ourselves in the way of meeting feme ships
homeward bound from the West Indies, that if pos-
sible they might get a passage to Fiance or England,
Indeed they were very thankful for our first kindness %
but were under great concern, especially the passen-
gers, at their being carried to the East Indies.
They begged therefore I would keep on the banks < f
Newfound land, where probably they might mett
with some ship or sloop to carry them to Canada,
whence they came. As this was but a reasonable
request, I was inclined to grant it, since it was no
breach of charter-party, and that the laws of God
and nature obliged us to do what good we could to
our fellow creatures; and besides, the danger we
ourselves should be in for want of provisions: so we
consented to carry them to Newfoundland, if wind
and weather would permit ; -if not-, that we Ou>ukl
carry them to Martinico in the West indies. But as
it happened, in a week's time, we m use the banks of
Newfoundland, where the French people hired a
bark to carry them to France, Bat the young priest
being desirous to go to the E\st Indies, 1 readily a-
greed to ir, because I liked his conversation, and
two or three of the French sailors also entered them-
selves on board our ihip.
Now directing our course for the West Indies*
steering 8, and S. by E about twenty d-iys, with lit-
tle wind, another adventure happened to exercise our
humanity. In the latitude of 27 degrees 5 min.
north, the 19th of March, 1694-5, we perceived a
fail, (our course S. E. and by S ), which bore up
to us, and then stie appeared to be a large vessel,
having lost her main-top-mast, fore-mast, and holt-
fpritj when filing a gun as a signal of distress, wind
Q^ N.
 
N. N. W. we soon came to speak with her. She
was a (hip of Bristol, bound home from Burbadocs,
out of which road (lie had been forced by a hurricane
to the westward, in which they loil their ma (Is.
They told us, their expectations were to fee the Ba-
hama islands, but were driven away by a strong
wind at N. N. W. and having no fails to work the (hip
with, but the main course, and a kind of square soil
upon a jury foremast, because they could not come
near the land, were endeavouring to stand for the
Canaries; nay, what was worse, besides all their fa-
tigue, they were almost starved for want of provisi-
on, having ate nothing for eleven clays ; all that they
had aboard was sugar, a barrel of fresti water, and
seven casks of rum. in this ship were three passen-
gers, a youth, his mother, and a maid servant, who
were in a most deplorable condition for want of food.
If I had not gone on board their (hip, the knowledge
of their misery had been concealed from me, and they
would have inevitably perished, though indeed their
second mate (who was captain, by reason the true
captain was not on board when the hurricane hap-
pened) had before informed me that there were such
persons on board, whom he supposed to be dead, be-
ing afraid to enquire after them, because he had no-
thing to give them for relief. Hereupon we resolved
to let them have what we could spare, ordering the
mate to bring some of his men on board us, which
he did accordingly; as he and they looked like ske-
letons, when meat was set before them, I ordered
them to eat sparingly. But, however they soon fell
lick; which obliged the surgeon to mix something in
their broth, which was to be to them both food and
physic. When they were fed, we ordered our mate
to carry them a sack of bread, and four or five
pieces of beef •, but the surgeon charged them to see
it boiled, and to keep a guard on the cook-room, to
prevent the men from eating it raw, and consequent-
ly killing themselves with what was designed for
their relief. But particularly I desired the mate to
fee
 
fee what condition the poor passengers were in, and
the surgeon gave him a pitcher of the same broth
which he had prepared for the men. And neing cu-
rious to fee this scene of misery myself, I took the
captain (as we called the mate of the ihip) in our
own boat, and (ailed after them.
Here was a fad sight indeed! scarce were the vic-
tuals half boiled in the pot, but they were ready to
break open the cook room door. To stay their sto-
machs, the mate gave them biscuits, which were
dipped in, and softened with the liquor os the meat,
which they call Breuise \ telling them, it was for
their own safety, that he was obliged to give them
but a little at a time: and so seeding them gradually,
their bellies were comfortably silled, and the men did
very well again. But when they came to the poor
gentlewoman in the cabin, who for several days had
continued without food, giving what (he had to her
son, they found her as it were in the arm a of death.
She was sitting upon the floor of the deck, with her
backup against the sides, between two chairs, which
were lashed last, and her head shrunk between her
shoulders, like a senseless corpse. Nothing was
wanting in my mate to revive and encourage her;
opening her lips, anc! putting some broth into her
mouth with a spoon. But not having strength to
speak, she Yik^d up her head with much difficulty,
intimating that it was now too late! at the fame time
pointing to the youth her son, as though she desired
him to do what he could to save the lad *, and in a
little after she died.
The youth indeed was not so far gone, yet lay
stretched out in a cabin bed, like one that had scarce
any life, in his mouth was a piece of an old glove,
the reft of which he had ate up. At first he vomit-
ed what the mate had given him -7 but at length be-
gan sensibly to revive, though in the greatest concern
for the death of his tender mother.
As to the poor maid, she lay by her mistress, like
one in the last pangs of death ; her limbs were distort-
 
i86 LIFE and ADVENTURES
ed, one of her bands was clasped round the frame of
a chair, which {he gripped so hard, that it was with
some difficulty we separated her from it: her other
arm lay over her head, and her feet lay both toge-
ther set fast against the frame of the cabin table : not
only being starved with hunger, but overcome with
grief for the loss of her mistress, whom she loved
most tenderly. It was a great while before the sur-
geon eo'ild bring her to life, and a much longer time
before Die came to her senses.
After we had soiled with them some days, we sent
them five barrels of beef, one of pork, two hogs-
heads of biscuit, with pease, flour, and other things,
taking three casks of sugar, some rum. and some
pieces of eight for satisfaction, we left them, but took
the youth and maid with us, with all their goods.
The lad was about seventeen years old, very hand-
some, modest, sensible, and well bred, but mighti-
ly concerned for the loss of his honoured mother,
having lost his father at Barbadoes but a few months
before. He beseeehed the surgeon to intercede with
me to take him out of the sliip; for that the sailors,
not sparing a small sustenance, had starved his mo-
ther. But hunger has no bounds, no right, and
consequently is incapable of any compassion. When
the surgeon told him, that our voyage might put him
in bad circumstances, and farther from his friends,
he answered, he did not care, so he was delivered
from that terrible crew: that as the captain (mean-
ing me) had saved him from death, so he was sure
he would do him no harm; and as for the maid,
when (lie was restored to her fenses, slie would be
no less thankful, let us carry them where we would.
And indeed the surgeon so represented their case to
me, that I consented, and took them on board with
all their goods, except eleven hogsheads of sugar;
but the youth having a hill os lading, I made the
commander oblige himself to deliver a letter and the
deceased widow's goods to Mr R.ogers, a merchant
in Bristol 5 but I believe the ship was lost at sea, for
we
 
we could never hear what became of her afterwards.
We were now in the latitude of 19 deg, 32 min.
having as yet a tolerable good voyage. But, pasting
by several little incidents relating to wind and wea-
ther, i (hall relate what is molt remarkable concern-
ing my little kingdom, to which I was then draw-
ing near. I had great difficulty in finding it; for
as I came to, and went from it before, on the south
and cast side of the island, as coming from the Bra-
si Is; so now approaching between the main and the
island, not having any chart for the coast, nor land-
mark, it obliged us to go on shore on several islands in.
the mouth of the river Oroonoko, but to no purpose.
This I perceived, that what I thought was a conti-
nent before, was no such thing, but a long island,
or rather a ridge of sands. On one of these islands I
found some Spaniards, but they belonged to the
iile de Trinidad, who came hither in a sloop to make
salt, and to try to find some pearl musles. But at
length I came fair on the south side of my island, and
then I presently knew the countenance of my little
kingdom, so we brought the (hip safe to an anchor,
broadside within the little creek, where stood my
ancient and venerable castle.
No sooner did I see the place, but calling for Fri-
day, I asked him where he was? But when he look-
ed a little, he clapped^his hands, crying, 0 joy, 0
there) 0 yes, 0 there! pointing to our old abode, and
then fell a dancing and capering as if he was mad,
and I had much ado to keep him from jumping into
the sea, to swim amore, Friday, said F, what do you
think, shall we go see your father? At the men-
tioning his father's name the poor affectionate crea-
ture fell a weeping: No no% fays he, me fee htm no
tnore, never fee poor father more! he long ago die, die
long ago; he much old man. You don't know that,
Friday, said I, but sin 11 we see any body else? He
looks about, and pointing to the hill above my house,
cries out, Wejee^ we fee, there much men and there!
which,* though I could not perceive them with my
perspective
 
perspective glass, was true, by what the men them-
selves told me the next day.
When the English ancient was spread, and three
guns sired as a signal of friendship, we perceived a
smoke rise from the creek; upon which I ordered
the boat out, taking Friday with me, and hanging
out a white flag of truce, 1 wejnt on more, accom-
panied also by the young friar, to whom I had rela-
ted the history os the sir it part of my Hie: besides, we
had sixteen men well aimed, in cafe we had met with
any opposition.
After we had rowed directly into the creek, the
first man I fixed my eye upon, was the Spaniard,
whose life 1 had laved, and whose face I perfectly
well knew. I ordered them all to stay in the boat
for a while; but Friday perceiving his father at a
distance, would have jumped into the sea, had they
not let the boat go. No sooner was he on shore,
but he flew like a swift arrow out of a bow, to em-
brace his aged father. Certainly it would melt a
man of the firmest resolution, into the softeu tears,
to fee with what uncommon transports of joy he sa-
luted him: he first kissed him, then stroked his face,
took him in his arms, laid him under a shady treef
fat down by him, then looked as earnest at him as
one would do at a picture, for. a quarter of an hour
together. After this, he would lie upon the ground,
stroke his legs, and kiss them, then get up and stare
at him, as though he was bewitched: but the next
day one could not forbear laughter to fee his behavi-
our, for he would walk several hours with his father
along the shore, leading him by the hand, as though
he was a lady •, while, every now and then he would
run to the boat, to get something for- him, as a
lump of sugar, dram, biscuit, or something or other
thet was good. His frolics ran in another channel
in the afternoon ; for when he set old Friday on the
ground, he would dance round him, making comi-
cal postures and gestures; and ail this while would
be
be telling him one story or other of his travels and
adventures.
It was en the 10th of April, anno 1695, that I set
my soot upon the island a second time. When my
faithful Spaniard, accompanied hy one more, ap-
proached the boat, he little knew who I was, till I
discovered myself to him: Signior, said I, in Por-
tuguese, don't you know me ? he spoke never a word,
but giving his musket to his attendant, extended his
arms, and faying something in Spanish, that I did not
then understand, he came fore ward and embraced
me, saying, he was inexcusable, not to know his de-
liverer; who, like an angel sent from heaven, had
saved his life. He then beckoned to the man to call
out his companions, asking me, is I would walk to
my own habitation, and take possession, where I
mould find some mean improvements: but indeed
they were extraordinary ones; for they had planted
so many trees so close together, that the place was
like a labyrinth, which none could find out, except
themselves, who knew its intricate windings. 1 ask-
ed him the meaning of all these fortifications; he
told me he would give me a large account of what
had passed since my departure to this time, and how
he had subdued some English, who thought to be
their murderers, hoping I would not be displeased,
since necessity compelled them to it. As I knew
they were wicked villains, so I told him, that 1 was
not only far from finding fault with it, but wras ra-
ther heartily glad that they had subdued them.
"While we were thus talking, the man whom he had
sent returned, accompanied by eleven more, but in
such habits, that it was impossible to tell what na-
tions they were of. He first turned to me, and
pointing to them; These, Sir, said he, are some of
the gentlemen who owe their lives to your goodness;
then turning to them, and pointing to me, he made
them sensible who I was: and then indeed they sa-
luted me one by one ; not as ordinary men, but as
though they had been ambassadors or noblemen, and
I
 
I a triumphant conqueror; sor their behaviour not
only agreed with a manlike, majestic gravity, but at
the same time was so obliging and courteous,as niad^
them admirable to the last degree.
Before 1 relate the history of the transactions of
my kingdom, as I had it from the Spaniard's own
mouth, 1 mull here insert what I omitted in my for-
mer relation. The matter.is this: Just before we
weighed anchor to set sail, there happened a quarrel
on board the (hip, which had like to have occasioned
a second mutiny, till such time as the courageous cap-
tain, taking two of the moil refractory prisoners,
laid them in irons, threatening, as they were con-
cerned in the former disorders, to have them hang-
ed in England for running away with the ship This
frightened some of the relt, as thinking the captain
would serve them in the same manner, though he
seemed to give them good words for the present.
But the mate having intelligence of this, made me
acquainted with their fears ; so that, to make them
more easy, and ourselves more safe from their conspi-
racies, I was obliged to go down, and pass my hon*
our's word for it, that, upon their good behaviour,
all that was past mould be pardoned ; in testimony
of which I ordered the two men's irons to be taken
off, and themselves forgiven. But as this had brought
us to an anchor that night, in which there was a calm,
the two men that had been in irons, stole each of
them a musket, and some other weapons, and taking
the ship's pinnace, not yet haled up, ran away to their
brother rogues. The next morning we sent the
Jong-boat, with men to pursue them; but all in vain:
the mate, in revenge, would have demolished my
little castle, burnt its furniture, and destroyed their'
plantations; but having no orders for it, he did not
put it in execution. And thus there were five En-
glistimen in the island, which caused great differ-
ences, as my faithful Spaniard gave me a perfect ac-
count of, in the following manner:
You
You cannot, Sir, but remember the embassy you
sent me about, and what a disappointment we met
with, by your absence, at our return. There is but
little variety in the relation of our voyage, being
blessed with calm weather, and a smooth sea. Great
indeed was the joy of my countrymen, to fee me
alive, having actedas the principal man on board,
the captain of the shipwrecked vessel dying before j
nor was their surprise less, as knowing I was taken
prisoner by the savages of another nation, they
thought me long since entombed in their monstrous
bowels. But when 1 ihewed them the arms, ammu-
nition, and provisions I had brought for them, they
looked upon me as a second Joseph advanced in
Pharaoh's court, and immediately prepared to come
along with me. Indeed they were obliged to trespass
upon their friendly savages, by borrowing two of
th.ir canoes, under a pretext for fishing: and they
came away the next morning, but without any pro-
visions of their own, except a few roots, which
served them in stead of bread. After three weeks
absence, we arrived at your habitation. Here we
met with three English sailors, who, I confess, gave
us provisions, and that letter cf direction you had
left for us, which informed us how to bring up tame
goats, plant corn, cure grabes, make pots j and in
short, every thing that was necessary for our use;
?.s, in particular, 1 knew your method best, so taking
Friday's father to asist me, we managed all the af-
fairs ; nor were the rest of the Spaniards wanting in
their kind offices, dressing food for the Englishmen,
who did nothing but ramble and divert themselves in
the woods, either (hooting parrots, or catching tortoi-
ses, But we had not been long ashore, before we were
informed of two more Englishmen, unnaturally turn-
ed out of their commonplace of residence by the
three others above mentioned: this made mf Spa-
niards and me (whom they now looked upon as
their governor in your absence) endeavour to per-
suade them to take them in, that we might be as
one
 
one family; but all our entreaties were in vain, so
that the poor fellows, finding nothing to be done
without industry, pitched there tents on the north
fide of the island, a little inclining to the weft, for
fear of savages. Here they built two huts, one
to lodge, and the other to lay their stores in; for
my good natured Spaniards giving them some feeds,
they dug and planted as I had done, and began to
live prettily. But while they were thus comfortably
going on, ihe three unnatural brutes, their country-
men, in a mere bullying humour, insulted them,
by faying, the governor (meaning you) had given
them possession of the island, and d—mn 'em, they
should build no houses upon their ground, without
paying rent. The two honest men (for so let me
now distinguish them) thought their three country-
men only jested, and one of them invited them in*
to fee their fine habitations; while the other face-
tiously told them, that since they built tenements,
with great improvements, they should, according to
the custom of landlords, give them a longer lease;
at the fame time desiring them to fetch a scrivener
to draw the writings. One of the wretches swear-
ing he should pay for the jest, snatches up a fire-
brand, and chipping it to the outside of their hut,
very fairly sot it on sire, which would soon have con-
sumed it, had not the honest man thrust him away,
and trod it out with his feet. Hereupon the fellow
returns with a pole, with which he would have
ended his days, had not the poor man avoided the
blow; when fetching his musket, he knocked down
the villain that began the quarrel. The other two
coming to assist their fellow, obliged the honest man
to take his musket also, and both of them presenting
their pieces, lid the villains stand off; and if they
did not lay down their arms, death should decide the
dispute one way or other. This brought them to a
parley, in which they agreed to take their wounded
man and be gone; but they were in the wrong that
they did not disarm them when they had the power,
and
atul then make their complaint to me and roy Spa-
niards for justice, which might have prevented their
farther designs against them. And indeed so many
trespasses did they afterwards commit, by treading
down their corn, ihooting their young kids and
goats, and plaguing them night and day, that
they resolved to tome to my castle, challenge all
the three, and decide their right by one plain
battle, while the Spaniards stood by to fee fair play.
One day it happened, that two of my Spaniard, (ens
of whom understood Kngiiih) being in the woods,
were met by one of the honest men,* who complain-
ed bow barbarous their countrymen had been m
destroying their corn, killing there nn!eh~go>at, and
three kids, which deprived them of then subsistence;
that if we did not grant them relief, they must be
inevitably starved; and so they parted ^ but when
my Spaniards came home at night, and supper being
on the table, one of them began to reprehend the
Engliihmen, but in a very mannerly way; which they
relenting, replied, what business had their con Jury-
men there without leave, when it was none of tour
ground? "Why, laid my Spaniard, calmly, Ingkse%
they must not' starve 5 but they replied, Let them
starve and be d-mn\l, they should neither plant nor
build, and d-mn them they ihoukl be their ser-
vants, and work for them, for the island was theirs,
and they would bum all the huts they should stud
in the land. By this rule, said my Spaniard, smi!in;j,
we shall be your servants too Aye, by G—d, and
so you (hall, replied the impudent rascal. Upon
which, starting up, Will Ailkins cries, Ccme, Jack,
let's have t'other bruin with them ; who dare to
build in our dominions? Thus leaving us something
heated with a just passion, away they trooped, every
man having a gun, pistol, and sword, muttering some
threatening words, that we could then but imperfectly
understand. That night they designed to murder their
two companions, and slept till midnight in the bower,
thinking to fall upon them in their sleep; nor were
1\ the
 
i94 LIFE and ADVENTURES
the honest men less thoughtful concerning them;
for at this juncture they were coining to Had them
out, but in a much fairer way. As soon as the
villains came to the huts, and found no body there,
they concluded that 1 and my .Spaniards had given
them notice, and therefore swore to be revenged on
us. Then they demolished the poor men's habita-
tion; not by 'fire, a j they attempted before, hut
pulled down their house?, limb from limb, not lea-
ving stick nor stone on the ground where they stood,
broke their household l\un in pieces, tore up their
trees, spoiled their inclosures, and, in short, quite
ruined them of every thing they hid. Had these
people met together, no doubt hut there would have
been a bloodyVmlc; but Providence ordered it for
the better; for just as the three were got thither,
the two were at our castle; and when they left us,
the three came back again, but in a great rage,
fcoirmgly telling us what they had done; when one
taking hold of a Spaniard's hat, twirls it round, fay-
ing, dndyou, Seigniory jack Spaniard, Jballhave the
feunc sauce, if you don't mend your manners. My Spa-
niard, a grave, hut courageous man, knocked rnm
down with one blow of his fist; at which another
villain fired his pistol, and narrowly misted his body,
but wounded him a little in the ear. Hereat enraged,
the Spaniard takes up the fellow's musket whomhe
had knocked down, and would have shot him, if I
ami the rest had net come out, and taken their arms
from every one of them.
These Engjrfnmen perceiving they had made allot
us their enemies, began to cool; but notwithstand-
ing their better wordr,9 the Spaniards would not re-
turn them their arms again, telling them, they would
do them no manner of harm, if they would Jive
pcre^hly; but if they cifered any injury.to ihe plan-
tation or castle, they would (hoot them as they
would Ho ravenous beasts. This made them so mad,
that they went away raging like furies of hell. Ihey
were no sooner gone, but in came the two honed;
men,
men, sired with the juiieit rage, if such can he, ha-,
ving been ruined as aforesaid. And indeed it was
very hard, that nineteen of us should be bullied by
three villains continually offending with impunity.
It was a great while, Sir, beioie we ecu d perluadc
the two Englishmen from puisuing, and undoubtedly
tilling them with their sire-arms ', but wepiunnitl
them justice should be done them, and in the- mean
time they should reside with us m our habitation.
I?i about live days alter, these three vagrants, aimed:
starved with hunger, drew near our grove, and per-
ceiving me, the governor, and two Gibers, walking
by the side of the creek, they very submissively de-
sired to be received into the family again. We
told them os their great incivility to us, aud of their
unnatural barbarity to tour countrymen; hut yet
we would fee to what the n/fl agreed to, and in half
an horn's time would bring them word. After sorr.e
debate, we calli d thvm in, where their two coun-
try nTen laid a heavy ehuge ngonfl them, for not
only mining, but designing to murder then*, winch
they could not deny. But here I was Joiced to
interpose as a mediator, by obliging the two English-
men not to hurt them, btiog naked ami una.med;
and that the other three should make them reUou-
tion, by building their two huts, and fencing ih-ar
ground in the fame manner as it was before. Will,
being in a miserable condition, they submitted to
this at present, and lived some time ivguhniy enough,
except as to the working part, which th-y did not
care for, but the Spaniaulr, would ha\o defpr oied
with that, h id they continued easy and cuoet. there
arms being given them again, they scarce had them
a week, when they became as troublesome as ever;
but an accident happemmg soon aster, obliged us to
lay aside private resentments, and look to our com-
mon preservation.
One night, Sir, I went to bed, perfectly well in
health, and yet by no means could I compose myself
to sleep; upon which being very uneasy, I got up,
II" 2 and
 
io6 LIFE anb ADVENTURES
anil looked out; but it being dark, I could perceive
nothing but: ihe tiers around our castle; I went to
bed aga'n, bat it w..is all one, I could not sleep;
when one ot my Spaniards hearing me walk about,
asked who it was up? I answend, it is I. When
I told him the occasion; Sir, laid he, such things
are not to be lighted; ior certainly there is some
mischief pitting near us. Where are the English-
men? said L He answered, in their huts j (or they
jay snwate ;rom us, bir, since the hist mutiny. Well,
said 3, some kind spirit gives this information lor
our advantage. Conn? let us go abroad, and see if
any thing oilers to justify our fears. Upon which I
and some of mv Spaniards wens: up the mountain,
rot by the ladder, hut through the g^ove; and then
we were (truck with -a panic scar on seeing a light,
as though it were a ore, at a very little distance,
and. heann;^ the voice os several men. Hereupon we
retreated immediately-, and raising the relfc of" our
iorces, made them sendee of the impending danger:
but, with all my authority, I could not make them
Hay where they were, so earnest were they to fee
how things went. Indeed the darkness of the night
gave thorn oj$}s%rt unify enough to view them (by
the light of their fire) undiscovered. As they were
in different parties, and straggling over the (bore,
we were much afiaid that they should find out our
habitations, and destroy our flocks of goats; to
prevent which, we sent an Englishman aud two Spa-
niards to drive the goats into the valley where the
cave lay; or, if there was occasion, into the cave
itself. As to ourselves, resuming our native courage,
and prudent conduct, had we not been divided, we
durst venture to attack a hundred os them; but he-
fore it was yet light, we resolved to fend out Fridays
father as a spy, who immediately stripping himself
naked, gets among them undiscovered, and in two
hours time brings word, that they were two parties
of two different nations, who lately having a bloody
battle with one another, happened to land by mere
chance
 
chance in the fame island, to devour their miserable
prisoners: that they were eutiiely ignorant of any
person's inhabiting here ; but rather being tilled witti
rage and fury against one another, he believed, that
as soon as day-light appeared, there would ee ^ter-
rible engagement. Old Friday bad iearee ended his
relation when we heard an uncommon node, and
perceived that there was a hoi rid engagement be-
tween the two armies,
Such was the curiosity of our party, especially the
Englishmen, that they would not lie dole, though
Old Friday told them thrir safety depend, d upon it -,
and that if we had patience, we should behold the
savages kill one another. However, they used some
caution, by going further into the woods, and pla-
cing themselves in a convenient place to behold the
battle.
Never could there be a more bloody engagement,
nor men of more invincible spirits, and prudent con-
duct, according to their way and manner of fighting.
It lasted near two hours, till that party which was
nearest to our castle began to decline, and at last to
fly from their conquerors. We were undoubtedly
put into a great consternation on this account, lest
they mould run into our grove, afid consequently
bring us into the like danger. Hereupon we re-
solved to kill the first that came, to prevent discove-
ry; and that too with our swords, and the butt end
of our mufcets, for fear the report of our guns should
be heard.
And so indeed, as we though*, it happened: for
three of the v Tsquifhed army Grossing the cref.k, ran
directlv to the place, as to a thick wood for iheker*
nor was it long besote our scout gave us notice of it j
as also, that the victor* did not think fit to pursue
them. Upon this 1 would nm suffer them to be (lain,
but had them surprised and tak.-n by our party;
and afterwards they proved very good itr^znts to us,
being stout young creatures, and able to do a great:
6 2 R 3 deal
 
-djcal'-of work. The remainder of the conquered sa-
vages lice! to their canoes, and put out into the ocean,
while the conquerors joining together, fhouted^by
,way-( of triumph, and about three in the afternoon
.they, also embarked for their own nation. Thus
we were freed at once from the savages and out fears,
,not perceiving any of these creatures for some con-
siderable time after. We found two and thirty men
.dead in the field os battle ,* some were ilain with
long arrows, which we found flicking in their bodies;
and the rest were kilied with great unwieldy wood-
en swords, which denoted their vast strength, and
of which we found seventeen, besides bows and
arrows: but we could not find one wounded crea-
ture among them alive; for they either kill their
enemies quite, or carry those wounded away with
them.
This terrible sight tamed the Englishmen for some
time, considering how unfortunate they might have
been, had they fallen into their'hands, who would not
only kill them as enemies, but also for food, as we
do cattle j and indeed so much did this nauseate
their stomachs, that it not only made them very sick,
but more tractable to the common necessary busi-
ness of the whole society, planting, sowing* and
reaping, with the greatest signs of amity and friend-
ship; so that being now all good friends, we began
to consider of circumstances in general j and the
first thing we thought of, was, whether, as we per-
ceived the savages haunted that side of the island,
and there being more retired parts of it, and yet'as
well suited to our manner of living, and equally to
our advantage, we ought not rather to move our
place of _residence, and plant it in a much safer
place, both for-the security of our corn and cattle?
After a long debate on this head, it was resolved,
er rather voted, nemine contradicente^ not to remove-
our ancient castle, and that for this very good reason*
that some time or other we expected to hear from our
supreme governor (meaning you Sir)! whose mes- ^
sengers
 
 
of ROBINSON CRUSOE. 199
fencers not finding us there, might think the place
demolished, and ail his subjects destroyed by the fa-
^ As"to the next concern relating to our corn and
cattle, we consented to have them removed to the
valley where the cave was, that being moil proper
and sufficient for both. But yet, when we considered
further, we altered one part of our resolution;
which was, to remove part of our cattle hither, and
ptont onlv part of our corn there : so th.it in cafe one
part was'destroyed, the other might be preserved,
Another resolution we took, which really had a great
deal of prudence in it ; and that was,-in not trusting
th" three savages whom we had taken prisoners,
with any knowledge of the plantations which we
had made in the valley, of what number ol cattle we
had there, much U-ss of the cave, wherein we kept
several arms, and two barrels of powder you left lor
us, at your departure from this island. But though
we would not change our habitation, we resolved
to mak«- it more fortified and more secret. To this
end, Sir, as you had planted trees at some distance
before the entrance of your palace5 lo we, imita-
ting your example, planted and filled up the whole
space of grounds even to the banks of the creek, nay,
into the verv ooze, where the tide flowed, not lea-
vinrr a place for landing: and among those 1 had
planted, they had intermingled so many short ones,
all of which growing wonderfully fast and thick, a
little dog scarcely could find a passage through them.
Nor was this sufficient, as we thought j for we did
the fame*) all the ground, to the right and left hand
of us, even to the "top of the hill, without so much
as leaving a passage for ourselves except by the lad-
der: which being taken down, nothing but what
had wings or witchcraft could pretend to come near
us, And indeed this was exceedingly well contri-
ved, especially to serve that occasion, tor which we
afterwards found it nec^ihxry. ^
 
Thus we lived two years in a happy retirement,
having all this time not one visit fiom the iavag«-s.
Indeed one morning we had an alarm, which put us
in some amazement ; for a few os my Spaniaids be-
ing out very early, perceived no lets than twenty
canoes, as it were coming on shore; upon which,
returning home, with great percipitation, they g^\c
us the alarm, which obliged us to keep at home ail
that day and the next, going out only in the night-
time to make our observation: hut as good luck
would have it, they were upon another design, and
did not land that time upon the iiland.
But now there happened another quarrel between
the three wicked Englishmen, and fume os my Spa-
niards. The occasion was this: One of them being
enraged at one of the savages, whom he had taken
prisoner, for not being able to comprehend ionic-
thing which he was shewing him, snatched up a
hatchet in a great fury, not to correct, but to kill
him j yet misting his head, gave him such a barba-
rous cut in the shoulder, that he had like to hive
struck off his arm; at which one of my good natured
Spaniards interposed between the Englishman and
savage, besecched the former not to murder the poor
creature; but this kindness had like to have celt
the Spaniard his life, for the Englishman (Truck at
him in the fame manner, which he nimbly and
wisely avoiding, returned suddenly upon him with his
(hovel (being all at woik about their corn-land), and
very fairly knocked the brutish creature down*
Hereupon another Englishman, coming to his fel-
low's assistance, laid the good Spaniard on the earth;
when immediatedly two others coming to his relief,
were attacked by the third Englishman, armed with
an old cutlass, who wounded them both. This up-
roar soon reached our ears, when we rustling out
upon them, took the three Englishmen prisoners:
and then our next question was, whit should he
done to such mutinous and impudent fellows, so fu-
rious, desperate, and idle, that they were mischievous
to
 
 
to the highest: degree, and consequently not safe for
the society to let them live among them.
Now, Sir, as I was governor in your absence, so
I also took the authority or a judge; and having
them brought before me, 1 told them, that is they
hid been of my country,] would have hanged every
mother's ion of them ,• but since it was an Englishman
(meaning you, kind Sir), to whom we were indebted
kr our preservation and deliverance, I would in gra-
titude use them with all possible mildness j but at
the lame time leaving them to the judgement of the
other two Engliihmen, who, I hoped, forgetting
their refentmets, would <hd impartially by them.
J fen upon one of his countyrnen stood up; Sir,
f.nd he, leave it not to us% for you may he jcnjible we
have r er, son to sentence them to the gallows * br/ides fSir9
this fell-yiv, Will Atkins and the two others, proposed
to us, that we might murder you all in your sleeps
which we would not consent to; but knowing their in-
ability, and your vigilance, we did not think jit to dis-
cover it before now.
How Seignior, said I, do you hear what is alled-
ged against you? what can you fay to justify so hor-
rid an action, as to murder us in cold blood ? So far,
Sir, was the wretch from denying it, that he swore,
d-inn him but he would do it still. Out what ha\c
we done to you Seignior Atkins, said I, or what
will you gain by killing ui? What (hall we do
to prevent you? Must we kill you, or you kill us:
Why will you, Seignior Atkins, (said I smiling)., put
us to such an unhappy dilemma, such a fatal necessi-
ty i But so great a rage did my scoffing, and yet se-
vere jest, put him into, that he was going to fly at
me, and undoubtedly had attempted to kill me if he
had been possessed of weapons, and had not been pre-
vented by three Spaniards. This unparallelled and
viilianous carriage, made us seriously consider what
was to be done. The two Englishmen and the Spa-
niard, who had saved the poor Indian's life mightily
petitioned me to hang one of them, for an example
to
 
202 LIFE and ADVENTURES
to the others, which should be him that had twice at-
tempted to commit murder with his hatchet, it being
at that time thought impossible the poor slave should
recover. But they could never gain my consent to
put him to death, for the reasons above mentioned,
since it was an Englishman (even yourself) who was
my deliverer, and as merciful counsels are molt pre-
vailing, when earnestly pressed, so I got them to be
of the same opinion as to clemency. But, to prevent
their doing us any further mischief, we all agreed,
that they should have no weapons, as sword, gun,
powder, or shot, but be expelled from the society, to
live as they pleased, by themselves ; that neither the
two Englishmen, nor the rest os the Spaniards, should
have conversation with them upon any account what-
soever : that they should be kept from coming within
a certain distance os our castle; and if they dared to
offer us any violence, either by spoiling, burning,
killing, or destroying any of the corn, plantings,
buildings, fences, or cattle belonging to the society,
we would shoot them as freely as we would do beasts
of prey, in whatsoever places we should find them,
This sentence seemed very just to all but them-
selves ; wheti, like a merciful judge, I called out to
the two honest Englishmen, saying, You must consi-
der they ought not to be starved neither : and since it
will be some time before they can raise corn ami cut-
tle of their own, let us give them some corn to Jail
them eight months, and for feed to sow, by which
time they'll raise some for themselves : let us also he*
stow upon them six milch-goats, four he-ones, and
six kids, as well for their present support, as for a
further increase ; with tools necessary for their work,
as hatchets, an axe, saw, and other things conveni-
ent to build them huts; all which were agreed to;
but before they took them in possession, 1 obliged
them solemnly to swear, never to attempt any thing
against us or their countrymen for the suture. Thus
dismissing them from our society, they went away,
sullen aud refractory, as though neither willing to go
nor
 
nor stay: however, seeing no remedy, they took
what provision was given them, proposing, to chuse
a convenient place, where they might live by them-
selves.
About five days after, they came to those limits
appointed, in order for more victuals, and sent me
word by one of my Spaniards, whom they called to,
where they had pitched ihdr tents, andmaiked them-
selves cut an habitation and plantation, at the N. E.
and moil remote part of the island. And indeed
there they built themselves two very handsome cot-
tages, resembling our little castle, being under the
side of a mountain, with some treesalready growing
on three sides of it, so that planting a sew more, it
would be obscured from sight, unless particularly
sought for. When these huts were finished, we gave
them some dry goat Ikins for bedding and covering;
and upon their giving us fuller assurances of their
good behaviour for the suture, we gave them some
pease, barley, and rice for sowing, and whatever
tools we could "pare.
Six months did they live in this separate condition,
in which they got their first harvest in, the quantity
of which was but small, because they had planted
hut little land: for indeed, all their plantations be-
ing to form, made it the more difficult, e peciaily as
it was a thing out of their element: and when they
were obliged to make their boards and pots, &c.
they could make little or nothing of it. But the rai-
ny season coming on, put them into a greater per-
plexity for want of a cave to keep their corn dry, and
prevent it from spoiling: and so much did this hum-
ble them, that they begged of my Spaniards to help
them, to which the good-natured men readily con-
sented, and in sour days space worked a great hole in
the side of the hill for them, large enough for their
purpose, to secure their corn and other things from
the rain, though not comparable to ours, which had
several additional apartments.
But a new whim possessed these rogues about three
quarter
 
quarters of a year after, which had like to have ruin-
ed us and themselves too : for, it seems being tired
and weary of this fort of living, which made them
work for themselves, without hopes of changing their
condition, nothing would serve them, but they would
make a voyage to the continent, and try if they could
seize upon some of the savages, and bring them over
as slaves, to do their drudgery, while they lived at
ease and pie if me.
Indeed the project was not so preposterous, if they
had not gone farther; but they neither did, nor pro-
posed any thing, but what had mischief in the de-
sign, or the event. One morning these three fellows
came down to the limited station, and humbly desi-
red to be admitted to talk with us: which we readi-
ly granted; they told us, in short, that being tired
of their manner of living, and the labour of their
hands, in such employments, not being sufficient to
procure the necessaries of lite, they only desired one
of the canoes we came over in, with some arms and
ammunition, for their defence, and they would feck
their fortunes abroad, and never trouble us any more,
To be sure, we were glad enough to get rid of such
wretched plagues; but yet honesty made us ingenu-
ously represent to them, by what we ourselves had
suffered, the certain defuuction they were running
into, either of being starved to death, or murdered
by the savages, lo this they very audaciously re-
plied, that they neither could nor would work; and
consequently, that they might as wrell he starved a*
broad as at home: and as to their falling into the
hands of the savages, why, if they wrere murdered,
that was nothing to. us, there was an end of them,
neither had they any wives or children to cry after
them ; nay, so intent were they upon their voyage,
that if the Spaniards had not given them arms, so
they had but the canoe, they would have gone with-
out them.
Though we could not well spare our fire-arms, ra-
ther thea they mould go like n*ked men, we let them
have
have two muskets, a pistol, a cutlass, and three hat-
chets, which were thought very sufficient: we gave
them also goats flesh, a great basket full of dried grapes,
a pot of fresh butter, a young live kid, and a large
canoe sufficient to carry twenty men. And thus,
with a mast, made of a long pole, and a fail of six
large goats (kins dried, having a fair breeze, and a
flood tide with them, they merrily failed away, the
Spaniards calling after them, Bon veyajo, no man
ever expecting to fee them more.
When they were gone, the Spaniards and English-
men would often fay one to another, 0 how peace-
able do we now live,since those turbulent fellows have
left us? Nothing could be farther from their
thoughts, than to behold their faces any more; and
yet scarce two and twenty days had palled over their
heads, but one of the Englishmen, being abroad a-
planting, perceived at a distance, three men well
armed,"approaching towards him. Away he flies .
with speed to our castle, and tells me and-the rest,
that we were all undone,' for that strangers were
landed upon the 'island, and who they were he could
not tell; but added, that they were not savages, but
men habited, bearing arms. Why then, said I, we
have the Jess'occasion to be concerned, since, if they
are not Indians, they must befriends \ for 1 am sore
there is no Christian people upon earth, but. what
will do us good rather than harm. But while we
•were considering of the event, up came the three
Englishmen, whose voices we quickly knew, and' so
all our admiration of that nature ceased at once. And
our wonder was succeeded by another sort of inqui-
ry, which was, what could be the occasion of their re-
turning so quickly to the island, when we little ex-
peded, and much less desired their company? • But
as this was better to be related by themselves, I or-
dered them to be brought in, when they gave me
the following relation of their voyage.
After two days fail, or something less, they reach-
ed land, where they found the people corning to give
.. • .S' them
 
them another sort of reception than what they ex-
pected or desired: for as the savages were armed
with bows and arrows, they durst rot venture on
shore, but iteered northward, six or seven hours, till
ih'ey gained an opening, by which they plainly per-
ceived, that the land that appeared from this place,
was not the main land, but the island. At their en-
trance into the opening of the sea, they discovered
another island, on the right hand northward, and
several more lying to the westward; hut being re-
solved to go on ihore some where or other, they
pot over to one of the western islands, litre they
found the natives very courteous to them, giving
them several roots and dried fish; nay, even their
women too-were as willing to supply them with what
they could procure them to eat, bringing it a great
way to them upon their heads. Among these ho-
spitable Indians they continued some days, inquiring
bv signs and tokens, what nations lay around them;
and were informed, that there were several" fierce
and terrible people lived every way, accustomed to
cat mankind: but for themselves, they never used
such diet, except those that were taken in battle, and
os them they made a solemn feast.
The Englishmen inquired how long it was ''since
the? had a feast of that kind! They answered, about
two,moons ago, pointing to the moon; and then
to two singers; that, at this time, their king had two
hundred prisoners, which were fattening up for the
slaughter. The Englishmen were mighty desirous
of seeing"the prisoners, which the others mistaking,
thought they wanted some of them for their own
'food*: upon which they beckoned to them, pointing
to the rising, and then to the setting of the sun |
nier.ning, that by the time that it appeared in the east
next morning, they would bring them some: and
indeed they were as good as their word ; for by that
time they brought eleven men and five women, just
as To many cows and oxen are brought to sea-port
towns, to victual a 'ship. But as bfutiih, as these
," Englishmen
Englishmen were, their stomachs turned at the sight.
What to clo In this case, the)7 could not tell: to re-
fuse the prisoner?, would have been the highest af-
front offered to the savage gentry; and to dispose of
them, they knew not in what manner; however they
resolved to accept their*, arid sr, gave them, in re-
turn, 011c of their hatchers, an old key, a knife,
and six ot seven of their bullets: things which the/
they were wholly ignorant of, yet seemed entirely
contented with; and dragging the poor wretches in-
to the boat, with their hands bound behind them,
delivered them to the Englishmen. But this obliged
them to put ess as soon as they had these presents,
left the donors should have expected two or three of
them to be killed, and to be invited to dinner the
next day: and so taking leave with all postible re-
spect and thanks, though neither ot them uudci stood
whu. the other said, they failed away b.uk to the
first island, and there set eight of the piisonqrs rx
liberty, in their voyage they endeavowed to com-
fort, and have some conversation with the poor cap-
tives; but it was impcfiible to make them sensible
of any thing; and nothing they could fay, or give,
or clo for them, could make them 0; ha wife pa lea-
ded, but that they Were unbound only to be devour-
ed : if they gave them any food,they thought it wa.s only
to fatten them for the slaughter ; or looked at any one
more particularly,- the poor creature supposed itself 10
be the fiist sacrifice : and even when we brought them
to our island, and began to use them with the greateit
humanity and kindness, yet they expected every day
that their new mallei s would do our them.
And thus, Sir, did these thtee strange wanderers
conclude their unaccountable relation of their voy-
age, which was both amazing and entertaining. Here-
upon 1 asked them, where their new family was *
'1 hey told me, they had put them into one of their
huts, and they came to beg some victuals for them.
This, indeed, made us all long to fee them; and so
taking Friday's father with us, leaving only two at our
5 z castle,
 
 
acS LIFE and ADVENTURES
castle, we came down to behold these poor creatures,
When we arrived at the hut, (they being bound
ag.mi by the Englishmen, for fear of escaping), we
found them stark naked, expecting their fatal tra-
gedy: there were three lusty men, well shaped, with
straight and fair limbs, between thirty and live and
thirty years old; and five women, two of them
might te iiom thirty to forty, two more, not above
lour and twenty; and the last a comely tall maiden
of about seventeen. Indeed, all the women were
very agreeable, both in their proportion and features,
except that they w^ere tawny, which their modest
behaviour and oilier graces made amends for, when
they afterwards came to be clothed.
This naked appearance, together with their miser-
able circumstances, was no very comfortable sight
to my Spaniards, who, for their parts, I may ven-
ture, Sir, without fkttery, to fay, are men 01 the
belt behaviour, calmest tempers, and sweetest na-
ture, that en possibly be f for they immediately or-
dered Friday's father to fee if he knew any of them,
or if he understood what they could fay. No soon-
er did the old Indian appear, but he looked at them
with great seriousness; yet, as they were not of his
nation, they were utter strangers to him, and none
could understand his speech or signs, but one wo-
man. This was enough to answer the design,
which was to assure them they would not be killed,
being fallen into the hands of Chiistians, who ab-
horred such barbarity. When they were fully satis-
fied of this, they expressed their joy, by such
strange gestures, and uncommon tones, as it is not
possible for me to describe. But the woman, their
interpreter, was ordered next to inquire, whether
they weœ content to be servants, and would work
for the men, who had brought them fvther to save
their lives f Hereupon (being at this time unbound)
they itII a capering and dancing, one taking this
thing upon her fheulders, and the other that, inti-
mating, that they were willing to do any thing for
them*
 
them. But now, Sir, having women among us, and
(heading that it might occasion some llritc, if not
blood, I a iked the three tinn what they would do,
and how tiny intended to use thelt creatures, whe-
ther as servants or women? One of them very pert-
ly and readily answered, they would use them as
both. Gentlemen, said I, as you arc your own ma-
sters, 1 am not going lo restrain you from that; hut,
merhinks, for avoiding dissension among you, I
would only desire you to engage, that none of you
will take more than one for a woman or a wife, and
that having taken this one, none else should presume
to touch her; for though we have not a priestly au-
thority to marry you, yet it is bet reasonable, that
whoever thus takes a woman, should he obliged to
maintain her, since nobody else has any thing to do
with her : and this indeed appeared so just to nil pre-
sent, that it was unanimously agreed to. The Kn-
gbfhmen then asked my Spaniards, whether they de-
signed to take any of them i bat they ail answered,
No; some declaring they had already wives in Spain;
and others, that they eared not to join with infidels.
On the reverse, the Englishmen took each of them a
temporary wife, and so set up a new method of li-
ving. As to Fridays father, the Spaniard?, and
the three savage servants we had taken in the late
battle, they all lived with me in our ancient castle;
and indeed we supplied the main part os the.island
with food, as necessity required. Feat the most re-
markable part of the story is, how these Englishmen,
who had been so much at variance, should agree a-
bout the choice of these women; yet they took a
way good enough ^o prevent quarrellingamongthem-
sdves. They set the live women in one of their huts,
and going themselves to the other, drew lots which
should have the first choice. Now, he that had the
first lot went to the hut, and fetched out her he chose,
and it is remarkable, that he took her that was the
raoft homely and eldest of the number, which made
the rest of the Englishmen exceeding merry. The
S 3 Spaniards
 
 
Spaniards themselves could not but smile at it: but,
as if: happened, the kliow had the belt thought, in
chusing one fit for application aud business: and in-
deed iiic proved the bell wile of all the parcel.
But when the poor creatures perceived themselves
placed in a row, and separated one by one, they were
again seized with an unspeakable tenor, as now
thinking they were going to be slain in earnest: and
ivhen the Englishmen came to take the first, the rest
set up a lamentable cry, clapt their arms around
her neck, and hanging about her, took their 1 alt
farewell, as they thought, in such trembling ago-
nies, and asFeclionate embraces, as would have
softened the hardest heart in the world, and made
the dryeit eyes melt into tears; nor could they be
persuaded but that they were going to die, till such
time as Friday's father m?de them sensible that the
Englishmen had chosen them for their wives, which
ended all their tenor and concern upon this occasion,
Well, after this, the Englishmen went to work,
and being assisted by my good natured Spaniards, in
a few hours they erected every one of them a new
hut or tent, for their separate lodging, since those
they had already were filled with tools, household
stuff, and provision They all continued on the north
shore os the island, but separate as before; the three
wicked ones pitching farther off, and the two honest
men nearer our castle; so that the island seemed to
be copied in three piaces, truee towns beginning to
be built for that pin pose. And here I cannot but
remark, what is very common, that the two honest
men had the worst wives, (I mean as to industry,
cleanliness, and ingenuity), while the three repro-
bates enjoyed women of quite contrary qualities.
But another observation I made was, in favour of
the two honest men, to shew what disparity there is
between a diligent application to business on the one
hand, and a slothful, negligent, and idle temper, on
the other. Both of them had the fame parcel of
ground laid out, and corn to sow, sufficient for them *,
but
 
 
but both did not make the fame improvements, ei-
ther in their cultivation, or in their planting. The
two honest men had a multitude ot young trees plant-
ed about their habitations, ib that when you ap-
proached near them, nothing appeared hut a wood,
very pleasing and delightful, lCvery thing they did
prospered and llouriihed ; their giapib planted inor-
der, seemed as though managed in a vineyard, and
were infinitely preferable to any of the others. Nor
were they wanting to find out a place of retreat, but
dug a cave in the most retired part of a thick wood,
to secure their wives and children, with their pro-
vision and chiefest goods, surrounded with innumer-
able (takes, and having a most subtile entrance, in
cafe any mischief ihould happen either from their
fellow countrymen, or the devouring savages.
As to the reprobates, (though I must own they
were much more civilized than before), instead of a
delightful wood surrounding their dwellings, we
found the words of King Solomon too truely verified:
1 ivcnt by the vineyard ofthe slothful, and it ivas ail
overgrown iviih thorns* In many places their crop
was obscured with weeds; the hedges having several
gaps in them, the wild goats had got in, and eaten
up the corn, and here and there was a dead bush,
to stop in those gaps for the present, which was no
more than fluming the stable-door after the steed
was stolen away. But as to their wives, they (as I
observed before) were more diligent, and cleanly e-
nough, especially in their victuals, being instructed
by one of the honest men, who had been a cook's
mate on board a (hip: and very well it was so; for
as he cooked himself, his companions and their fa-
milies lived as well as the idle husbands, who did
nothing hut loiter about, fetch turtles eggs, catch
fish and birds, and do any thing but work, and lived
accordingly, while the diligent lived very handsomely
and plentifully, in the most comfortable manner.
-And now, Sir, I come to lay before your eyes a
scene quite diflereat from any tbingthateverhappen-
ed
 
ed us before, and perhaps ever befel you in all the
time of your residence on this island. 1 shall inform
you of its original in the following manner.
One morning, Sir, very early, there earne five or
fix canoes of Indians on shore, indisputably upon
their old custom of devouring their prisoners. All
that we had to, do upon inch an occasion, was to lie
concealed, that they, ridt having any notice of in-
habitants, might depart quietly, alter performing
their bloody execution: whoever full discovered
the savages, was to give notice to all the three
plantations to keep within doors, and then a proper
scout was to be placed to give intelligence of their
departure. But, notwithstanding these wise mea-
sures, an unhappy disaster discovered us to the sa-
vages, which was like to have caused the desolation
of the whole island: for, after the savages were
gone)off" in their canoes, some of my Spaniards and
1 looking abroad, and being inflamed with a curio-
sity to fee what they had been doing, to our great
amazement, beheld three savages fait asleep on the
ground, who, either being gorged, ccujd not awake
when the others went off, or having wandered too
far into the woods, did not comeback in time.
What to do with them at first, we could not tell;
as for slaves, we had enough of them already ; and as
to kill them, neither Christianity nor humanity
would suffer us to shed the_ blood of persons who ne-
ver did us wrong. We perceived they had no boat
left them to transport them to their own nation; and
that by letting them wander about, they might dis-
cover us, and inform the first savages that should
happen to land upon the fame bloody occasion,
which information might entirely ruin us ; andihere-
fore I counselled my Spaniard to secure them, and
set them about some work or other, till we could
better dispose of them.
Hereupon we all went back, and making them a-
wake, took them prisoners. It is impossible to ex-
press the horror they were in, efpeciallj when bound,
as
as thinking they were going to be murdered and
eaten, but we soon eased them os their fear as to
that point. We sirs I took them to the bower, where
the chief of our country-woik lay, as keeping goats,
pl.mtingcorn,&c. And then carried them to the two
Englishmen's habitation, to help them in their busi-
ness ; but happy it was ibr us ail, we did not carry
them to our caitie, as by the sequel wilt appear, The
Englishmen indeed found them work to do; hut whe-
ther they did not guard them flrcily, or that they
thought they could not better tbemkives, 1 cannot
tell; hut certainly oneof them ran away into the woods,
and they could not hear cf him for along time after*
Undoubtedly there was reason enough to suppose
he got home in some of the canoes, the savages re-
turning in about four weeks time, and going off in
the space of two days. You may be certain, Sir,
this thought could not but terrify us exceedingly,
and make us justly conclude that this savage would
inform his countrymen of our abode in the island,
how few and weak we were in comparison to their
numbers \ and we expected it would not be long
before the Englishmen would be attacked in their ha-
bitations i but the savages had not seen their places
of safety 11 the woods, nor our castle, which it was a
great happiness they did not know.
Nor were we mistaken in our thoughts upon this
occasion; for about eight months after this, six ca-
noes, with about ten men in each canoe, came fail-
ing by the north side of the island, which they were
never accustomed to do before, and landed about an
hour after Am rife, near a mile from the dwelling of
the two Englishmen, who, it seems, had the good for-
tune to diicover them about a league oiF; (o that it
was an hour before they could attain the snore, and
some longer time before they could come at them.
And now being confirmed in ibis opinion, that they
were certainly betrayed, they immediately bound the
two slaves which were left, causing two of the three
men, whom they brought with the women, and who
proved
 
proved very faithful, to lead them with their wins,
and other conveniencies, into their retired cave in the
wood, and there to bind the two fellows hand kind
foot, till they had further orders. They then o».tn-
ed their fences, where they kept their "milch goats
and drove them all out, giving the goats liberty \i
ramble in the wee-k, to make the savages believe
that they were wild ones ; but the slave had given a
truer information, which made them come to i\-:
very inclosures. Ihe two frighted men lint re
ether slave of the three who had been with them by
accident, to alarm the Spaniards, imd d^hre their ?(•
fistance / in the mean time, they took their arms
and ammunition, and made to the cave, where they
had sent their wives, and securing their slaves, seated
themselves in a private pLce, from whence they
might behold all the actions of the savages. Nor
had they gone far, when ascending a riling ground,
they could see a little army of Indians approaching to
their beautiful dwelling, and, in a few moments
more, perceive the lame, and their furniture, to their
unspeakable grief, burning in a consuming flame:
and when this was done, they spread here and there,
searching every bush and place for the people, of
whom, it was very evident, they had information.
Upon which the two Englishmen, not thinking them-
selves secure where they flood, retreated about half
a mile higher in the country, rightly concluding*
that the further the savages strolled, there would be
lesser numbers together: upon which they next took
their itand by the trunk of an old tree, very hulh.w
and large, whence they resolved to see what would
osier: but they had net flood lorn* there before two
savages came running directly towards them, as
though having knowledge of their being there, who
seemed resolved to attack them ; a little farther were
three more, and five more behind them again, all
running the same way, It cannot be imagined what
perplexity the poor men were in at this sight, think-
ing, that if assistance did not speedily come, their
cave
 
 
nve in the wood would be discovered, and conse»
quently all therein loll: ib they resolved to re (lit
them there; and when overpowered, to ascend to
the top of the trees, where they might defend theni-
Lhcs as long as their ammuniton lasted, and fell
their lives as clear as poillhle to those devouring sa-
v^es. Thus fixed m their resolution, they next
considered, whether they should fire at the sir it two,
or wait for the three, and ih take the middle party,
by which the two first and the five last would be se-
parated. In this regulation the two savages also
confirmed them, by turning a little to another part
of the wood ; but the three, and the five after them,
cime directly towards the tree. Hereupon they re-
solved to take them in a direct line, as they approach-
ed nearer, because perhaps the first shot might hit
them all three; and upon this occasion, the man
who was to fire, charged his piece with three or four
bullets. And thus, while they were waiting, the sa-
vages came on, one of them was the runaway, who
had caused all the mischief: so they resolved he
should not escape, if they both filed at once. But
however, though they did not fire together, they were
ready charged; when the first that let lly, was too
good a marksman to miss his aim; for he kided the
lormost outright, the second (who was the runaway
Indian) fell on the ground, being shot through the
body, but not dead, and the third was a little wound-
ed on the shoulder, who, fitting down on the ground,
fell a screaming in a most fearful manner. The noise
ps the guns, which not only made the most resound-
ing echoes, from one side to another, but raised
the birds of all forts, fluttering with the most con-
fused noise, so much terrified the five savages behind,
that they stood still at first, like ib many inanimate
images. But when all things were in profound si-
knee, they came to the place where their companions
«y: and there, being not sensible that they were
liable to the same sate, stood over the wounded
s&an, undoubtedly inquiring the occasion of this fed
calamity |
 
calamity; ami 'tis as reasonable to suppose, be told
them, that It came by thunder arid lightning from
the gods, having never seen nor heard of a gun lie-
fore, in the whole course of their lives. By this
time, the Englishmen hav ng loaded their pieces,
fired both together a second time, when seeing them
all fall immediately upon the ground, they thought
they had killed every creature of them. 'This made
them come up boldly before they had charged their
guns, which indeed was a wrong itep; for when
thev came to the place, they found tour alive, two
of them very little wounded, and one not at all,
which obliged them to fall upon them with their
roulkets; they first knocked the runaway savage
on the head, and another that was but a little wound-
ed in the arm, and then put the other languishing
wretches out of their pain; while he that was not
hurt, with bending knees, and uplifted hands, nude
piteous moans, and signs to them to spare his lite:
nor indeed were they unmerciful to the poor wretches,
but pointed to them to Ot down at the root of a tree
hard by; and then one of the Englishmen, with a
piece of rope twine he had in his pocket by mere
chance, tying his two feet together, and his two
hands behind him, they left him there, making all
the haste they could after the other two, searing they
should find out their cave; but though they could
not overtake them, they had the satisfaction to per-
ceive them, at a distance, cross a valley towards the
lea, a quite contrary way to their retreat; upon
which they retained to the tree, to look after their
prisoner; but when th^y came there he was gone,
leaving the piece ot rcpe-yaai wherewith he was
bound behind him.
Well, new thev were as much concerned as ever,
as not known g how near their enemies might be, or
in what numbers: immediately thev repaired to then*
cave, to fee if all was well there, and sound every
thing safe, except the women, who were frighted
upon
 
upon their husbands account, whom now they loved
entirely. They had not been jong here, before seven
of my Spaniards came to asliil them ; while the other
ten, their servants, and Friday's father, were gone to
defend their bower, corn, and cattle, in cafe the sa-
vages should have rambled so far. There accom-
panied the seven Spaniards, one of the three savages*
that had formely been taken prisoners | and with
them also, that very Indian whom the Englishmen,
had a little before lest under the tree \ for it seems
they pasted by that way where the slaughter was
made, and so carried along with them that poor
wretch that was left b; und. But so many prisoners
now becoming a burden to us, and fearing the
dreadful coiiirqucnce of their escaping, most of the
Spaniards and English urged the absolute necessity
there was of killing them for our common preser-
vation; but, Sir, the authority I bore as a gover-
nor, over-ruled that piece of cruelty; and then I
ordered them to be sent prisoners to the old cave in
the valley, bound hands and fect^ with two Spaniards
to guard them.
So much encouraged were the Englishmen at the
approach of the Spaniards, and so great was their
fury against the savages, for destroying their habi-
tations, that they had not patience to stay any longer;
but, taking five Spaniards along with them, armed
with four muskets, a pistol, and a quarterstaff, away
they went in pursuit os their enemies, As they passed
by the place where the savages were slain, it was ve-
ry easy to be perceived that more of them had been
there, having attempted to carry oss their dead bo-
dies, but found it impracticable. From a rising
ground, our party had the mortification to fee the
smoke that proceeded from the ruins \ when coming
farther in sight of the shore, they plainly perceived
that the savages had embarked in their canoes, and
were putting out to sea. This they were very sorry
fcr, there being no coming at them to give them a
T parting
 
 
 
pitting salute -, but, however, they were glad enough
to get clear os such unwelcome guests.
Thus the two honest, but unfortunate, Englishmen,
being ruined a second rime, and their improvements
quite destroyed, moil os my good Matured Spaniards
helped them to rebuild, and we al] assisted them with
needful supplies; nay, what is more remarkable, their
thiee mischievous countrymen, when they heard it,
(which was alter all these disasters were over, they
living remote eastward), very friendly sympathised
with them, and worked for them several days: so
that in a little time their habitation was rebuilt, their
ne.eeHi?its supplied, and themselves restored to their
feimer tranquillity.
'Enough the savages had nothing to boast of in
this advcntuie, (several canoes being driven ashore,
followed by two drowned creatures, having un-
doubtedly met with a storm at sea that very night
they departed), yet it was natural to be supposed, that
the/le, whose better fortune it was to attain their na-
tive -shore, would inilamc their nation to another
ruinous attempt, with a greater force, to carry all
before them. And indeed so it happened ; for, about
seven months asiei, our island was invaded with a
noil formidable nay,}', no less than eight and twenty
canoes full of savages, aimed with wooden swords,
monstrous clubs, bows, and arrows, and such like in-
struments of warjanding at the east side of the island.
You may well, Sir, huigme, what consternation our
men were in upon this account, and how speedily
they were to execute their resolution, having only
that nighl's time allowed them* They knew, that
since they could not withstand their enemies, con-
cealment was the only way to procure their safety:
and therefore they took down the huts that were
built (or the two Englishmen, and drove their flock of
goats, together with their own at the bower, to the
old cave in the valley, leaving as little appearance of
inhabitants as possible; and then posted themselves,
vdih all their force, at the plantation of the two men.
As
As they expected, so it happened ; for early the ruxt
mornii.-g, the Indiana, leaving their canoes at the c-ift
end of tiiC iiland, came miming along the
about two hundred and iiicy in number, us m
could be gutsivd. Our. army was but little in
and what was our greatc.fl n-isfoitur;e, we h<
tU HOC
b ftiiljcitJit lor them.
,3 follows:
Dicrj Sir, is
1 j Spania.» els.
5 Englishmen.
1 Old Friday*
3 The i hree fa v ages t a -
ken with the womtiiy
who proved faithful
servants*
3 Other staves, living
with the Spaniards.
Ihe account, as to the
f X KifKCtS.
\ 5 Pijhls.
\ 3 F'Aiding-pieces
I 2 Swords.
j 3 £/J halbcrts.
j 5 MnJketSy or fowling-
I pii'cts, taken from
j the faiiors whom you
! reduced.
As to our staves, we gave three of them halherfs,
and the other three long (Lives, with great iron
spikes at the end of them, with hatches by their
subs: we also had hatchets (ticking m our pud'ot;,
besides the sire arms: nay, two ot the v/omti»r i?i-
fphed with Amazonian forth ode, could not be dis-
suaded from lighting along with their deniest hus-
bands, and if they died, to die with them. Seeing
their resolution, we gave them hatchets likewise;
but what pleated them heft, were the tows and ar-
rows (which they dexteroully knew how to use) that
the Indians had left behind them, after thar memo-
rable ruttle one against another.
Over this army, which, though little, was of great
intrepidity, I was constituted chief general and com-
mamkr; and knowing Will. Atkins, though exceed-
ing wicked, yet a man of invincible courage, 1 gave
him the power of commanding under me: he and
six men, with their muikets loaded, with six or seven
bullets apiece, were planted just behind a small thick-
et of bushes, as an advanced guard, having orders
to let the first pass by; and then, when he sired into
T 2 ths
the middle of them, make a nimble retreat round
part of the wood, aud so come in the rear of the
Spaniards, who were shaded by a thicket of trees-,
for though the savages came on with the fierceness
of lions, yet they wanted the suhtilty of foxes, being
cut of a!) manner of order, and straggling in heaps
every way : and indeed when Will, atkins, after siiiy
of the savages had palled by, had ordered three of his
it en to give fire, so great was their consternation, to
Ice so many men killed and wounded, and hear such
a dreadful nolle, and yet not know whence it came,
that they were frightened to the highest degree;
and when the second volley was given, they con-
cluded no less but that their companions were stain
by thunder and lightening from heaven. In this no-
tion they would have continued, had Will. Atkins
and his men retired as soon as they fired, according
to ordsr; or had the rest been near them, to pour
in their shot continually, there might have been a
complete victory obtained; but staying to load their
pieces again, discovered the whole matter. They
were perceived by some os the scattering savages at a
distance, who let sty their arrows among them,
wounded Atkins himself, and killed his fellowEnglisti-
man, and one of the Indians taken with the women.
Our party did not fail to answer them, and in their
retreat killed about twenty savages. Here I cannot
but take notice of our poor dying slave, who, though
stopt from his retreat by a fatal arrow, yet with his
staff and hatchet desperately and gallantly assailed the
pursuers, and killed five of the savages, before his
life submitted to a multiplicity of wounds. Nor is
the cruelty or malice of the Indians to be less re-
marked, in breaking the arms, legs, and heads of
the two dead bodies with their clubs and wooden
swords,,after a most wretched manner. As Atkins
retreated, our party advanced, to interpose between
him and the savages; but after three volleys, we
were obliged to retreat also: for they were ib nume-
rous and desperate, that they came up to our very
teeth!
teeth, shot ilu ir arrows like a cloud, ;md their wound*
ed men, enraged with cruel pain, iought like naul-
men. '1 hey did nor, however, think ht to follow
y •:, hut drawing therolelves up in a circle, they gave
t--vo uiunu bant iiu.uts in token of vicioiy, though
they had the grief to fee several of ihcir wounded
nun bleed to death heiore t«ie*u-
A[;er i hud, Sir, drawn up our little army toge-
ther upuii a riling ground, Aitkius, wotuuhd as he
hm*, would \i:we hid Ub aUickthe wii do body us the
savages at once. I was extremely well pleased who
the gallantry of the roan; hut upo^ consideration i
replied, Ton perceive, Seignior, Aitkins, how their
ivAitidftl men Jii\ht; hi them alone till m^rninr, wbvi
they will be faints ft:j'% and jore^ and then V'e^ shall
have sewer to combat with. To which, IVi'l :tth:?:s9
smiling, replied, That's very tnu\ Seignior > and jo
skill I too; and that's the reason / wouLij'.^hi them
now i am rearm. We all answered, Sdgnior Aifkiu",
for your part, you have behaved very ga'bmtiy; and
is you are not ai»'e to approach the enemy in the
morning, we will sight for you; till then we think
it convenient ro wait \ and so we tarried.
By the brightness of the noon that night, we per-
ceived the savages in great disorder about: their dead
and wounded men. 1 ins made us change our reso-
lution, and rdoU's to Lli upon them in the nigh:,
is we could give them one volley undiscovered. This
we had a fair opportunity to do, by ohe rs the two
Englishmen's leadiog us round,-between the woodti
and the lea-fide westward, and turning fh-rc south,
came privately to a place where the thicker! or them
were. Unheard and unperecived, eight of us fired
among them, and did dreadful txccition-, ?nd in
h.df a minute after, eight mere of us let fly, killing
and wounding abundance of them; and then dhi~
ding ourselves into three bodies, eight persons in each
body, we marched from among the trees to the very
teeth of the cncmy} fending soith u*e greatest (hours
T 3 and
ami acclamations. The savages hearing a different
noise from three quarters at once, Hood in the utnnlt
confusion; but coming in sight of us, U't fly a
volley of arrows, which wounded poor old Friday,
yet happily it did not prove mortal. We did not
however give them a second opportunity, but rushing
in among them, we sired three several ways, and then
J el 1 to work with our swords /laves, hatchets, arid
the- butt-end of our mui\etH, with a fury not to he
relisted j so that, with the moll dismal screaming and
hewiing, tht.y bad recourse to their feet, to lave their
Jives by a speed 7 jhght. Nor must we forget the va-
lour of the wo women; for they exposed themselves
to the greatest dangers, killed many with their arrows,,
and valiantly deihoyed several more with their hat-
chets.
In fighting these two battles, we were so much
tired, that we did not then trouble ourselves to pur-
sue them to their c^nocs^ in which Ave thought they
•would presently put to the ocean : but there happen-
ing a dreadful storm at sea, which continuing all that
.flight, it not on]y prevented their voyage, but dashed
several of'their 1. oats to pieces against the beach..,
and drove the rest so high upon the shore, that it
required infinite pains to get them off After cur
men had taken some refreshment and a little repose,
they resolved early in the morning to go towards the
place of their landing, and fee whether they were
gone off, or in what posture they remained. This
necessarily hd them to the place of battle, where
several of the savages were expiring; a sight no way
pleasing to generous minds, to delight in their misery,
though obliged to conquer then) by the law of arms:
but our own Indian slaves put them out of their pain,
by dispatching them wnh their hatchets. At length,
coming in view of the reminder of their army, we
found them leaning upon their knees, which were
bended towards their mouth, and the head between
the two hands. Hereupon, coming within mulket-
fhot
(hot of them, I ordered two pieces to be fired with-
out ball, in order to alarm them, that we might
plainly know, whether they had the courage to ven-
ture another battle, or were utterly dispirited from
such an attempt, that so we might accordingly ma-
nage them. And indeed the project took very well;
for no sooner did the savages hear the suit gun, and
perceive the ilaih of the second, but they suddenly
Ratted upon their feet, in the greatest consternation;
and when we approached towards them, they rail
yowling and screaming away up the hill into the
country.
We could rather, at first, have wished, that the
weather had permitted them to have gone oil to the
sea j but when we considered, that their escape might
occasion the approach of multitudes, to oik utter ruin
and dissolution, we were very well pleased the contra-
ry happened : and Will Atkins (who,though wound-
ed, would not part from us all this while) advised us
not to let flip this advantage, but clapping between
them and their boats, deprive them of the capacity of
ever returning to plague the island : / know, (said he),
there is but one objection you c-ui make, which is, that
these ctensures, living like bcajls in the wood, may
make excursions, rifle the plantations, and dejiroy the
tame goats: but then consider, we had better to do
with an hundred men, whom we can kill, or make slaves
of, at leisure, than with an hundred nations, whom
it is impojjihle we should save our/eh es from, much less
subdue. This advice, and these arguments being ap-
proved of, we set sire to their boats; and though they
were so wet that they would not burn entirely, yet
we made them incapable for swimming in the leas.
As soon as the Indians perceived what we were doing,
many of them ran out of the woods, in light of us,
and kneeling down piteous! y cried out, Oa, Oa, l¥a~
ramakoa, intimating, I suppose, that if we would
but spare their canoes^ they would never trouble us
again.
But
But al! their complaints, submissions, and entrea-
ties, were in vain: lor self-preservation obliging us
to the contrary, we destroyed every one of them that
had escaped the fury of the ocean. When the la*
duns perceived this/ they raised a lamentable cry,
and ran into the woods where they continue! mu-
lling ahout, making the woods ring with their h«
mentation. Here we should have considered, that
making these creatures thus desperate, we ought, at
the fame time, to have set a sufficient guard upon
the plantations: for the savages, in their ranging
about, sound out the bower, destroyed the fences,
trod the corn down under their sect, and t<>re i'V
the vines and grapes. It is true we were always able
to fight these creatures; but as they were too 1 wiit lor
us, and very numerous, we durst not go out hnglr,
for sear of them; though that too was netdfcjs
they having no weapons, nor any materials to inase
them 5 and indeed their extremity appeared in a lit-
tle time alter. , ,
Though the savages, as already mentioned, iv.u>
destroyed our bower, and all our corn, grapes, &c.
yet we had still left our flock of cattle in the valiey
by the cave, with some little corn that grew there,
and the plantation of Will. Atkins and his com-
panions, one of whom being killed by an arrow,
they were now reduced to two: it is remarkaoie,
that this was the fellow who cut the p-or Indian witn
his hatchet, and had a design to murder me and my
countrymen the Spaniards, As our condition was
so low, we came to the resolution to drive the sava-
ges up to the farther part of the island, where no In-
dians landed: to kill as many of them as we couia,
till we had reduced their number? and then to give
the remainder some corn to plant, and to teach them
how to live by their daily labour. Accordingly wef
pursued them with our guns, at the hearing oj
which, they were so terrified, that they would ia*J
to the ground. Every day we killed and wound
 
ed some os them, and many we found starved to
death, so that our hearts began to relent at the sight
of such miserable objects. At last, with great diffi-
culty, taking one of them alive, and using him with
kindness and tenderness, we brought him to Old
Friday, who talked to him, and told him, how-
good we would be to them all, giving them corn
and land to plant and live in, and present nourish-
ment, provided they would keep within such bounds
as ihouid be alloted them; and not do prejudice to
others: Go then, said he, and inform your countrymen
oj this j which) if they will not agree to% every one of
them Jh a II he fain.
The poor creatures, thoroughly humbled, being
reduced to about thirty-seven, joyfully accepted the
oiler, and earnestly begged for food; hereupon we
sent twelve Spaniards and two Englishmen, well arm-
ed, together with Old Friday, and three Indian staves
who marched to the place where they were. The
staves were loaded with a large quantity of bread,
and rice cakes, with three live goats: and the poor
Indians being ordered to sit down on the side of the
hill, they ate the victuals very thankfully, and have
proved faithful tu the last, never trespassing beyond
their bounds, where at this day they quietly and
happily remain, and where we now and then visited
them, They are confined to a neck of land about
» mile and a half broad, and three or four in length
on the south-east corner of the island, the sea being
before, and lofty mountains behind them, free from
the appearance of canoes \ and indeed their counts y-
nien have never made any enquiry after them. We
gave them twelve hatchets, and three or four knives;
have taught them to build huts, make wooden spades,
plant corn, make bread, breed tame goats, and
trnht them, as likewise to make wicker-works, in
Jfrhich, I must ingenuously confess, they infinite-
ly outdo us, having made themselves several pretty
accessaries and fancies, as baskets, sieves, bird ca-
ges
ges, and cupboards, a£ stools, beds, and couch-
es, no less useful than delightful: and now they live
the mod innocent and inoffensive creatures that ever
were subdued in the world, wanting nothing bt
wives to make them a nation.
Thus, kind Sir, have I given you, according to
my ability, an impartial account of the various trans-
actions that have happened in the island since your
departure, to this day: and we have great reason to
acknowledge the kind providence of Heaven in our
merciful deliverance. When you inspect your little
kingdom, you will find in it some little improvement,
your flocks increased, and your subjects augmented:
so that from a desolate island, as this was before )our
wonderful deliverance upon it, here is a visible pro-
spect of its becoming a populous and well governed
little kingdom, to your immortal fame and glory.
The end of the Spanish governor s relation.
The continuation os the Vise gf Robinson crufoe, both^
of those passages that happened during the time of
his continuance on the island, and after his depar-
ture $ till he arrived again in his native country.
THere is no doubt to suppose, but that the pre-
cedent relation of my faithful Spaniard was
very agreeable, and no less surprising to me, to the
young priest, and to all who heard it : nor were these
people less pleased wiih those necessary utensils that
1 brought them, such as the knives, scislars, spades,
shovels, and pick-axes, with which they now adorn
their habitations. So much had they addicted them-
selves to wicker work prompted by the ingenuity of
the Indians, who assisted them, that when I viewed
the Englishmen's colonies, they seemed at a distance
as though they had lived like bees in a hive: for
1 Will.
 
 
Will Atkins, who 'was now become a very indu-
strious and sober man, had made himself a tent of
bniket-work round the outside; the walls were work-
ed in as a basket, in pirmels or strong squares of
thirty-two in number, {Landing about seven feet
high': in the middle was another, not above twen-
ty paces round, but much stronger built, being
of an octagonal form, arid in the eight corners stood
eight strong posts, round the top of which he laid
strong pieces, pinned with wooden pins, from which
he raised a pyramid for the roof, mighty pretty, I
assure you, and joined very well together with iron
spikes, which he made himself; for he had made
him a forge, with a pair of wooden bellows aud
charcoal for his work, forming an anvil out of one
of the iron-crows, to work upon, and in this manner
would he make himself hooks, staples, spikes, bolts,
and hinges. After he had pitched the roof of his
innermost tent, he made it so sum between the raf-
ters with basket-work, thatching that over again
with rice straw, and over that a large leaf of a tree,
that hjs hense was as dry as if it had been tiled or
slated. The outer circuit was covered as a lean-to
quite round this inner apartment, laying long raf-
ters from the thirty two angles, to the top posts of
the inner house, about twenty feet distance ; so that
there was a space like a walk betwixt the outer
and inner wall, near twenty feet in breadth. The
inner place he partitioned off with the same wicker-
work, dividing it into fix neat apartments, every one
of which had a door, first into the entry of the main
tent, and another into the space and walk that was
round it, not only convenient for retreat, but for
circle, there was a'pafsjge directly t > the deer of the
inner house; on either fide was » wicker partition,
and a door, by which you go first into a large
room twenty-two feet wide, and about thiity long,
aad through that into another of a smaller length,
so
 
so that in the outward circle were ten handsome
rooms, six of which were onlv to be come at throt^h
the apartments ot the inner tent, serving as retiring
rooms to the respective chambers of the inner circle,
and four large warehouses, which went in through
one another, two on either hand of the passage that
Jed through the outward door to the innner tent. In
short, nothing could be built more ingeniously, kept
more neat, or have better conveniencies; and here
lived the three families, Will. Atkins, his compa-
nion, their wives and children, and the widow of the
deceased. As to religon, the men seldom taught
their wives the knowledge of God, any more than
the sailors custom of swearing by his name. The
greatest improvement their wives had, was, they
taught them to speak English, so as to be undei stood.
None of their children were then above six years
old; they were all fruitful enough; and, 1 think,
the cook's mate's wife was big of her sixth child.
When I enquired of the Spaniards about their cir-
cumstances while among the savages, they told me,
that they abandoned themselves to despair, reckoning
themselves a poor and miserable people, that had no
mean put into their hands, and consequently must
soon be statved to "death. They owned, however,
that they were in the wrong to think so, and for re-
fusing the assistance that reaion offered for their sup-
port, as well as suture deliverance, confessing that
grief was a most insignificant passion, as it looked
upon things as without remedy, and having no hope
of good things to come ; all which verified this noted
proverb,
In trouble to be troubled.
Is to have your trouble doubled*
Nor did his remarks end here ; for making obser-
vations upon my improvements, and on my condi-
tion at first, infinitely worse than theirs, he told me,
that Englishmen had, in their distress, greater presence
of
os mind than those of any other country that ho had
r.u-t with •, and that they and the Portuguese were
the worfl nun in the world to struggle under mis-
fortunes. When they landed among the savages,
they found hut little provision, except they would
tiun cannibal?, there being hut a sew "roots and heib>f
with little iubitance in them, and of which the na-
tives gave them but verv sparingly. M.my were
the ways they took to civilize and teach the savages,
but in vain: for they would not own them to he
their inliruclors, wk.-te lives were owing to their
bounty. Their extremities were very grcot, many
chys being entirely without fco\^ the savages there
Ix-ing more indolent and less devouring than those
who had better supplies. "When they went out to
kittle, they were obliged to rdli.l these people, in
one of which my faithful Spaniard being taken, h.ul
hke to have been devoured. They had loft their am-
munition, which rendered th dr llre-anm useless;
r.nr could they use the hows and arrows that were
siven them, so that while the armies were at a di-
stance, they had no chance, but when close, then
they could be of service with halberts and sharpened
sticks, put into the muzzles of their mulkets. They
nude themselves targets or wood, covered with the
kins of wild heads \ and when one happened to be
knocked down, the reft of the company fought over
him till he recovered; and then standing close, in a
Hue, they would make their way through a thousand
savages. At the return of their friend, who they
thought had been entombed in the bowels of their
enemies, their joy was inconceivable, Nor wcie they
less surprised at the sight os the loaves of bread i had
sent them, things that they had not seen for several
years, at the fame time crossing and blessing it, as
though it was manna sent from heaven: but when
they knew the errand, and perceived the boat which
^as to carry them to the person and place from
whence such relics came, this struck them with iu^li
U a
a surprise os joy as made some of them faint away,
and others burst out into tears.
This was the summary account that I had from
them. I Hi ill now inform the reader what I next
did for them, and in what condition I Jest them, As
we were all of opinion that the savages would scarce
trouble them any more, so we had no apprehensions
on that (core, I told them i was come purely to
establish, and not to remove them *, and, upon that
occasion, had not only brought them necessaries for
convenience and defence, hut also artificers, and Ci-
ther persons, both for their necessary employments,
anil to add to their number. They were all to-
gether when I thus talked to them; and before I
delivered to them the stores I had brought, I asked
them one by one, if they had entirely forgot their
first animosities, would engage in the strictest friend-
ship, and make hands with one another? On this,
Will. Atkins, with abundance of good humour,
said, they had afflictions enough to make them all
sober, and enemies enough to make them all friends:
as for himself, he would Jive and duz among them,
owning, that what the Spaniards had done to him,
his own mad humour had made necessary for them
to do. Nor had the Spaniards occasion to justify
their proceeding to me ; but they told me, that, since
Will Atkins had hchaved himself so valiantly in
sight, and at other times ihewed inch a regard to
the common interest of them all, they had not only
forgotten all that was past, hut thought he ought as
much to be trusted with arms and necessaries as any
of them, which they testified by making him next
in command to the governor: and they most hear-
tily embraced the occasion of giving me this fokmn
aslurance, that they would never separate their in-
terest again as long as they lived.
After these kind declarations of friendship, we ap-
pointed all of us to dine together the next day ; upon
this i caused the ship's CGok and his mate come on
shore
 
shore for that purpose, to assist in dressing our din*
ner. We brought from the ship six pieces of beef,
and four of pork, together with our punch-bew),
and materials to fill it ; and in particulars 1 gave them
ten bottles of French claret, and ten of English beer,
which was very acceptable to them. The Spaniards?
added to our feast live whole kids, which being roast-
ed, three of them were sent as fresh meat to the
sailors on board, and the other two we ate ourselves.
After our merry and innocent feast was over, I be-
gan to distribute my cargoe among them. First, f
gave them linen sufficient to make every one of thenii
four shirts, and at the Spaniard's request made them
up six. The thin English stuffs 1 allotted to make
every one a light coat like a frock agreeable to the
climate, and left them such a quantity, as to rnaks
more upon their decay,- as also pumps, shoes, hats,
and stockings, It k not to he expressed the pleasing
satisfaction which fat upon the countenances of
, these poor men, when they perceived what care I
took of them, as if I had been a common father
to them all ; and they all engaged never to It ave
the island, till I gave my consent for their depar-
ture. 1 then presented to them the people 1 brought,
to wit, the tailor, smith, and the two caiperuers ;.
. but my Jack of all trades was the most acceptable
present 1 could make them. My tailor fell imme»
cliately to work, and made every one of them a
ftiirt; after which, he learned the women bow to
few and stitch, thereby to become the more helpful
to their husbands. Neither were the carpenters.
'Jess useful, taking in pieces their clumsy things,
instead of which they made convenient and $ hand-
some tables^ stools, bedsteads, cupboards, lockers
and shelf es. But when I carried them to fee Will.
Aikin's banket-house, they owned they never saw
such a piece of natural ingenuity before; / am
sure$ said one of the carpenters, the. man that built
U Z' this
this has no need of us ; you needy Sir^ do nothings but
£:ve him ico!s.
I divided the tools among them in this manner:
to every man 1 gave a digging-spade, a ihovel, and a
rake, as having no harrows or ploughs; and to eve-
ry separate place a pick-axe, a crow, a broad axe,
a:id a saw, with a store for a general supply, slioid.l
any he broken cr worn out. i Ivh them ado nails,
iiupies, hinges, hammers, chiflels, knives, fciflar.*,
;,nd ail sorts of tools and iron work; and tor th: use
cu the smith, pave them three tons of unwroug-at
iron lor a supply *. and as to arms a r.d aniinimittun,
i stored them even to profusion, cr at least to equipa
s; fTieient little army against all opposers whatsoever.
The young man (whose mother was unfortunately
starved to death), together with the maid, a pious
i.nci well educated voting woman, letting things io
x^'ii ordered on iboje (for I made them accompany
me}, ;i:id confides ing they hid no occasion to go so
iar a voyage as to the E«st Indies, they both desired
of me, that 1 would leave them there, and enter
them among my subjects. This I readdy agreed to,
ordering them a plat of ground, on which were three
little hotdes erected, environed with basket-work,
paUisadoed like Atkins, and adjoining to his planta-
tion. So contrived were their tents, that each of
them had a room apart to lodge in, while the mid-
dle tent was not only their storehouse, bm their place
for eating aud drinking, At this time the two
Englishmen removed their habitation to their former
place; so that now the ifl-irul was divided into three
colonies; first, Those I have just now mentioned,
secondly, That os Will Atkins, where there were four
families of Englishmen, with their wives and chil-
dren, the widow and her children: the young man,
and the maid, who, by the way we made a wife of be-
fore our departure; three! savages, who were slaves^
the tailor, smith, (who served also as a gunsmith),,
ar. J
and, my other celebrated person called J ac k of all
traises. Thirdly* My chits colony, which consisted
of the Spaniards, with Old Ftiday, who Hill remained
at my old habitation, which was my capitals city;
aud surely never was there such a- metropolis, it now
bring hid in so ohfciue a grove, that a thousand
men might have ranged the island a month, and
looked pin pose!y for it, without being able to find
it, though the Spaniards had enlarged its boundaries,
both without and within, in a mofi sufpiiiit.g m«u-
ner.
. But now I think it high time to speak of the
young French pried of the order of -St Benedict
whose judicious and pious discourses, upon sundry
occasions, merit an extraoidinary observation : nor
can his being a French Papist priest, I presume, give
offence to any of my readers, when they have this
assurance from me, that he was a person of the most
courteous disposition, extensive charity, and vxAnd
piety. His arguments were always agreeable to
reason, and his conversation the moil acceptable
of any person that I had ever yet met with in my
Ilk.
Sir% said he so me one dajyfnce under God (at the
fame time crofting his breast) you have not only saved
my life 1 but, by permit ting me to go this voyage^ have
granted me the happiness of free conversation^ I think
it my duty^ as my profession obliges me, to jayc -what
fiuls I can% by bringing them to the knowledge cfjome
Catholic. dcElsin(\nccflfary to salvation ; end J,nee these
people are under your immediate governments in gra-
tis ude9 justice, and dea neyj'or what you have done for
me j I offer no farther peints in riiig;.on>> than what
feall merit vour approbation. Being pic..fed with the
modesty of his carnage, I told him he should Jiot be
the worse used for being of a different persuasion, if,
upon ^hat very account, we did not differ in points
of faith, not decent in a part of the country, where
the poor Indians ought to be iniluCied in the know-
Is 3 ledge
ledge of the true God and his 8011 Jesus Christ. To
this he replied, that conversitiou might easily be sepa-
rated from disputes; that he would discourse with me
rather" as a gentleman, than a religious \ but thai
if he did enter upm religious arguments, upon my
deiiring the fame, I would give him liberty to de-
lend my own principles, lie farther added, ihac he
would do all that became him in his office, 'es a
priest as well as a Christian, to procure the happi-
rids of all th.it was in the ihip: that though he
v-:ni!d not pray with, be would pray for us, on all
occasions: and then he told me ieveral extraordi-
nary events ci his life, within a few years pad, but
particularly in this last, which was the most re-
makable; that: in this voyage he had the misfor-
tune to he five times shipped and unshipped: his first
design wjs to have gone to Martinico, for which ta-
king ihip at St IvLlo, he was forced into Lisbon by
Lad weather, the vefid running aground in the mouth
os the Tagus: that from thtnee he went 011 board
a Potugude (hip, bound to the Maderas, whole ma-
iler being but an indifferent mariner, ami out of his
reckoning, they were drove to rial, where felling
their commodity, which was corn, they resolved to
take in their loading at the isle os May, and to sail
to Newfoundland ; at the banks of which, meeting a
French ship bound to Quebec, in the river of Canada
and from thence to Martinico; in this ship he em-
barked, the mailer of which dying at Quebec, that
voyage was suspended : And lastly, {hipping himself
for France, this L\li ship was destroyed by sire, as be-
fore has been related.
At this time we talked no further: but another
morning he comes to me, just as I was going to visit
the Englishmen's colony, and tells me, that as he
knew the prosperity of the island was my principal
ciesire, he had something to communicate, agreeable
to my design, by which perhaps he might put jt,
more than he jzi thought it was, in the way of the
benedictUm
bem diction of Heaven. How, S'»rs Said I, in a sur-
prise, -arc we not }ct in tic way ol'God\s * -ldsing,alter
all these signal providences and deliverances, cf which
you have had such an ample relation? He replied, I
hope, Sir, you are in tru wi\, and that your good
design will prosper: hut iidl there ?.tc seme among
yon that are not equal;)' right in tlu ir actions: and
remember, I beseech you, Sir, that AJji>u by his
crime, removed God's bu <ling from the t.nnp ui the
childien of Israel; that though fix and thiity were
entirtly innocent, yet they became, she obpcU ot
divine vengeance, and boie the weight oi the puniih-
mrnt accordingly.
80 sensible wan I touched with this discourse, and
so satisfied with that ardent piety that inflamed his
foul, that I dcfiivd him to accompany me to the
Englishmen's plantations, which he was very glad of,
by reason these were the subjects os what he de-
signed to discourse with me about*, and while we
walked on together, he began in the following man-
ner.
Sir, said he, I must confess it is a great uchappi-
ness that we disagree in several doctrinal articles of
religion; but surely both of us acknowledge this,
that there is a God, who having given us some
stated rules for cur service and obedience, we ought
not willingly and knowingly to offend him, either
bv neglecting what he has commanded, or by doing
what be has forbidden us. This truth every Christian,
owns, that whenever anyone prespumtuoufly sins
against God's command, the Almighty then with-
draws his bltsting from him ; every good man there-
fore ought certainly to prevent such neglect: of, or
fin against God and bis commands. I thanked the
young priest for exprtsting so great a concern for ut,
and desired him to explain the particulars of what he
h<ul observed, that, according to the parable of
Jlchan^ 1 might remove the accursed thing from a-
iriorg us, Why then, Sir, said he, in the fust
puce.
place, you have sour Englishmen, who have nkcn
savage women to their wives, by whom they have
several children, though none of them are leg. My
manied, as the law of God ?r,d man requires ; ll.cy,
1 lay, Sir, are no less than adulterers, and as they
flM'iive in adiilttrv, are liable to the cutie c! God.
I know, Sir, you may obj.ct the want ot a puell, or
clergyman of any kind -, as &Ho,_ pen, ink, and
paper, to write down a contract <.1 immiage, and
have it signed between them. But neither this, nor
what the Spanish governor has told you ot their
chiding by consent, can be reckoned a marriage,
nor anv more than an agreement to keep them kom
cn;iiTeiiing amor- themselves, for, Sir, the dience
or iaerament of matrimony (se he called it) not only
consists in mutual consent, but in the legal oblige
tion which compels them to own and acknowledge
one another, to abstain from other persons, the men
to provide for their wives and chiidicn, and tne wo-
men to the s.me and like conditions, mutatis miUamm
on their Ode: whereas, Sir, these men, upon thur
own pleasure, on any occasion, may ioriake tnc-ie
women, and marry others, and by disowning tour
children suffer them utterly to penih. ^ow, Sir,
?ihhd he, can God be honoured in inch an unS.iwiul li-
berty as this? how can a bkffing succeed the best en-
deavours, if men are allowed to live in io heennous a
wav r I was indeed struck with the thing my ids, and
tbo^h that thev were much to blame, that no for-
mal 'contract had been made, though it had been
but breaking a stick between them, to engage them
to live as man and wire, never to separate •, but Jove,
cherish, and comfort one another all their lives .
yet, Sir, said I, when they took these women, 1
was not here ; aV.d if it is adultery, it is past my re-
medy, and I cannot help it. True Sir, answered the
young priest, you cannot be charged with that fart of
the crime which was done in ycur absence \ but 1 ee-
tech sou, dm t flatter yourself, that you are under no
* J ' obligation
d-ligaiion now to put a period to it; which, if you ne-
glect to do, guilt iv ill he entirely on you a lone; since
it is certains? in nobody s power but yours Jo alter their
condition. 1 must confess, I was so dull, that I
thought he meant f should part them, and knowing
that this would put the whole island in confusion, I
told him i could not consent to it upon any account
whatsoever. Sir, hk\ he, in a great surpiife, / do
not mean that you should separate, but marry thcmyhy a
written contract, signed by both man and woman, and
hi all the -witnesses present, which all the European
laws decree to be of jus] c lent efficacy. Amazed with
such true piety and sincerity, and considering the va-
lidity of a written contract, I acknowledged all that
he said to be very just and kind ; and that I would dis-
cern fe with the men about it; neither could 1 see what
reason they could have not to let him marry them,
whose authority in that affair is owned to be asauthen-
tic, as if they were married by any of our clergymen
in England.
The next complaint he had to make to me, was
this, that though these English subjects of mine had
lived with these women seven years, and though
they were of good understanding, and capable of in-
struction, having learned not only to speak, but to
read English, yet all this while they had never
taught them any thing of the Christian religion, or
the knowledge of God, much less in what manner
he ought to he served. And is not this an unaccount-
able neglecl ? said he warmly. Depend upon it, GgiI
Almighty will call them to account for such contempt.
And though f am not of your i dig ion,yet 1 should be glad
to see these people released sr om the devil's power, arid
be saved by the principles of the Christian religion,
the knowledge ofGod, of a re dt em er, the resurrection,
and, of a suture state. But as it is not toy late* if you
please to give me leave to hist ruff them, I doubt not but
IJhallsupply this great defect,by bringing them into the
great
 
great circlets Christianity, even while you continue m
the ifiand. t
I could bold no longer, but embracing him, toid
him, with a thousand thanks, I would grant whatever
he requested, and desired him to proceed m the tmrd
article, which he did in the following manner.^ ^
Sir, said he, it should he a maxim among all Chn-
ftter\s,ThatCbriflidn know ledge cvght to be propagated
by allpqfjible means, and on al! occasions. Vpoii tms
account our church sends rrnllionancs into P^iia, 1:1-
4 dia, and China, men who are willing to die lor uie
fake of God and the Christian faith, in order to bring
poor infidels into the way of salvation. Now, bir, as
here is an opportunity to convert seven and thirty
poor savages, I wonder how you can pass by such an
occasion of doing good, which is really worth the ex«
pence of a man's whole lire. r
I mult confess I was so confounded at this discourse,
that I could not tell how to answer him. Sir, J aid
he, seeing me in disorder, Ijhall he very sorry if 1
have given vou offence, No, Sir, laid I, I am rat».er
confounded'; aud you know my circumstances^ that
being bound to the'East Indies in a merchant imp, I
cannot wrong the owners so much, as to detain ue
{hip here, the men lying on vi£tuals and wages cm
their account. If I stay above twelve days,, I mutt
pay 3 1. Sterling per diem demurrage, nor must toe
ship'stay above eight days more; so that I am una^e
to engage in this work, unless I would leave tns
fliio, and be reduced to my former condition. 1 he
priest, thoujrh he owned this was hard upon me, yet
laid it to my conscience, whether the bleflii'g ™
saving seven and thirty souls was not worth venturing
all that I had in the world? Sir, said I, it is very
true: but as you are an ecclesiastic, it naturally tabs
into your profession: whs therefore don't you rather
offer to undertake it yourself, than press me to it.
Upon this he turned about, making a very low bow.
I most humbly thank God and you, Sir, slid he,
for so blessed a call ; and moil willingly undertake
so glorious an office, which will sufficiently compeii.
flue all the hazards and difficulties I have gone through
in a long and uncomfortable voyage.
While he was thus speaking, I could discover a
rapture in his face, by his colour going and coming;
at the fame time his eyes sparkled like sue, with ail
the signs of the most zealous transports. And when
I alked whether he was in earnest j Sir, laid he, it
was to preach to the Indians, I consented to come a~
Jong with you \ these infidels, even in this little
island, are infinitely of more worth than my poor
life : if so that I should prove the happy instrument
of saving these poor creatures fouls, 1 care not it I
never fee my native country again. One thing I
only beg of you more, is, that you would leave
Friday with me, to be my interpietcr, without
whole assistance neither of us will understand each
other.
This request very sensibly troubled me, first upon
Friday's being bred a protestant, aud, secondly, for
the affection 1 bore to him for his fidelity : but im-
mediately the remembrance of Friday's father com-
ing into my head, I recommended him to him as ha-
ving learned Spanish, which the priest also understood,
and so was thoroughly satisfied with him.
When we came to the Englishmen, after I had told
them what necessary things I had done for them, I
talked to them of the scandalous life they b:df told
them what notice the clergyman had iaken of it, and
asked them if they were married men or batchelors?
They-answered, two of them were widowers, and
the other three single men. But, said 1, with what
conscience can you call these your wives, by whom
you have so many children, and yet are not lawfully
married? They all said, that they took them before
the governor as such, having nobody else to marry
themj which they thought as legal as if they had
had
had a parson. No doubt, said I, but in the eye of
God you are so : but unless I am allured of your ho-
nest intention never to desert these poor creatures, I
can do nothing more for you, neither can you ex-
pect God's blessing while you live in such an open
course os adultery. Hereupon Will Atkins, who
spoke for the reii, told me, That they believed their
wives the most innocent and virtuous creatures in
the world; that they would never forsake them
while they had breath : and that is there was a cler-
gyman in the ihip, they would t-e married to them
with all their heart. 1 told you before, said I, that
I have a miniUer with me, who shall marry you
to-morrow morning, is you are willing; so I would
have you consult to-night, with the reii about it.
I told him, the clergyman was a Frenchman, aud
knew not a word of English, but that I would a61 as
a clerk between them. And indeed this business met
with inch speedy success, that they all told me, in a
few minutes niter, that they were ready to be for-
mally married as soon as I pleased; with which in-
forming the priest, he was exceedingly rejoiced.
Nothing now remained, but that the women
should be made sensible os the meaning os the thing;
with which being well satisfied, they with their hus-
bands attended at my apartment the next morning,:
there was my priest, habited in a black vest, some-"
thing like a cassock with a sash round it, much re-
sembling a minister, and I was his interpreter. But
the seriousness cs his behaviour, and the scruples he
made of marrying the women, who were not bap-
tized, gave them an exceeding reverence for his per-
son : nor indeed would he marry them at all, till he
obtained my liberty to discourse both with the men
and women, and then he told them, That in the
sight of all indifferent men, and in the sense os the
laws of society* they had lived in open adultery,
which nothing now but their consent to marry, or
final separation, could put an end to ; and even here
was
wn a difficulty with respect to the lawsosChriilian
matiirnony, in marrying a prostiled Chiiiiijti to a
heathen idolater, unboptbed; but yet there was
time enough to make tlum profeso the name of
Christ, without v/h.ch nothing could be done : that,
besides, he believed themselves very ii different Chri-
stians: aud consequently bad not ducouried^ with
their wives upon that subject; and that unless they
promised him to do so, he could not marry them, as
being expressly forbidden by the laws of God,
All this thev heard attentively, and owned readily,
But, Urd, Sirs laid Will //tkir.s to me, how fiat id
ive teach than rc!n;k?i% 11 ho knoiv miking of it our-
f'hes f New can \ve talk to our wives cj God, Jesus
Christ, heaven and hell? ivh'u thy nc-uldwly laugh
at us, who nevtryvi havepraMH religion, hut on the
contrary, all manner ofivicksdvsfs VV ill Atkms, laid
i, cannot you tell your wife, (he is in the wrong,
anc! that her gods are idols, which can neither hear,
speak, nor understand ; but that our God, who has
made, can destroy al! thim;? * tlut he rewards the
tfood, and puniihes the wicked; and at last will
bring us to judgement? cannot you tell her these
things I That's tree, said Atkins, hut then she'll tell
me, it is utterly snn-'i since J am not perched and
sent to she devil, who V.a\\ -et n such a wkked crea-
ture! These words I interpreted to the priest! O!
said he, tell him, Ids np^nianoe will, nuke him a
\ery good minister to oh spouse, and quads* hnn to
preach on the mercy and long duster me, os a mc;cisul
Being, who desires not the deu;h of a sirrer, and
even deseis-damnation to the last judgements this
will lead him to the above doctrine, and will make
him an excellent preacher to his wife, i repeated
this to'Atkins who, being more than ordinarily as-
fected with ir, replied, I knew all this, Sir, and a
great deal more / hut hove can i have the impudence
to talk thus to mv wife, when my conscience wit-.
Defies against inc 2 ALAS 1 fcid In-, (with tears in
X his
his eyes and giving a great sigh), as for repenting
that is for ever past me, Fast you! Atkins, said tf
what do you mean? You know well enough, fid
he, what I mean; / mean it is too late,
When I told the priest what he said, the poor af-
fectionate man could not refrain from weeping ; hut
recovering himself, /V/zy, Sir, said he, ask him if he
is contented that it is too late ; or is he concerned^ and
wishes it were not so P This question I put fairly to
Afkins, who replied in a passion, How can I he ea-
sy in a [late which I know must terminate in my ruin?
for I really believe, some time or other^ I shall cut mj
throat, to put a period to my };fe and to the terror:
of my cons ~i vice.
At this the clergyman sliook his head, u/r, said
he, pray tell him it is not too lave; Christ will give
him repentance^ if he has recourse t? the merit of his
faffon. Does he think he is beyond the p$wer of di-
vine mercy7 there may indeed he a time when provok-
ed mercy will no longer strive, hut never too late j or
vien to repent in this world, I told Atkins every word
the priest had said, who then parted from us to talk to
his wife, while we discoursed with the rest. But
these were very stupid in religious matters, yet all
of them promised to do their endeavours to make
their wives turn Christians; and upon which promi-
ses the priest married the three couple. But as At-
kins was the only sincere convert, and of more
fense than the rest, my clergyman was earnestly in-
quiring after him: £7r, said he, let us walk out of
this labyrinths and I dare fay we shall find this poor
man preaching to his wife already. And indeed we
found it true; for coming to the edge of the wood,
we perceived Atkins and his savage wife sitting under
the made of a bufli, in very earnest discourse: he
pointed to the sun, to the quarters of the earth, to
himself, to her, the wood?, and the trees. Immediately
we could perceive him start upon his feet, fall down
upon his knees, and lift up both his hands j at which
the
 
 
the tears ran down my clergyman's cheeks: but our
great misfortune was, we could not hear one wcrd
that palled between them. Another time he would
embrace her, wiping the tears irotn her eyes, killing
her with the greatest transports, and then ruth kneel
down for some minutes together. Such raptures ot
joy did this occasion in my young priest, that he
could scarcely contain himsois; And a little alter
this, we obsoived by her motion, as frequently list-
ing up her hands, aud laying them on her bread,
that she was mightily assented with his discourse, and
so they withdrew from our light.
When we came back, we sound them both wait-
Jug to be called in; upon which we agreed to cxi*
mine him alone, arul so 1 began thus to discount* him.
Prithee, Will Atkins, said I, what education had
you, What was your father?
IV. A. A better nun than ever I (hall be ; he was
Sir, a clergyman, who gave me good instruction, or
correction, which I despised like a brute, as 1 WdS,
and murdered my poor father.
Pr. Ha! a murderer!
[Here the pricjf Jiariclandlookedpah', as think-
ing he had really hilled his father. ]
R. C. What, did you kill him with your hands ,?
W. A. No, Sir, 1 cut not his throat, hut broke his
heart, by the most unnatural turn of disobedience to
the tenderer! and best of fathers.
R, C. Weil, 1 pray God g^ ant. you repentance ; I did
not ask you to extort a confession \ but 1 aik'd you, be-
cause I see you have more knowledge of what is good
than your companions.
Wt A, O, Sir, whenever I look back upon my past:
life, conscience upbraids me with my father % the hns
against our parents make the deepest wounds, aud
their weight lies the heaviest upon the mind.
Æ. C. You talk, Will too feelingly and sensibly
for me ; I am not able to bear it.
W. A, You bear it, Sir! you know nothing os it.
 
IL C. But ye?, Atkins, 1 do ; and every shore, vil-
Jay, and tree in this island, witness the jir.guiihos my
soul for my undutifulness to my kind father, whom I
•have murdered likewise : yet my repentance falls in-
finitely short of yours, liut, Will bow comes the
fense of this matter to touch you jud now?
IV. J. Sir, the work you have let me about has oc-
casioned it; for. talking to my wife about God and
religion, lite has preached me such a sermon that I
lhall retain it in lasting remembrance.
R, €. No, no, it is your own moving pious argu-
ments to her, has made conscience fling them luck
upon you. But pray, Atkins, inform us what p-slcJ
between you and your wife, and in what manner did
you begin.
IV. A. I talked to her of the laws of marriage, trie
reason'of such compacts, whereby order and justice is
maintained; without which men would run fmm
their wives and children, to the dissolution of families
or inheritances.
1L C. Well, and what did she fay to all this f ^
P/. J. Sir 5 we hegan our discourse in the following
manner, which 1 (hall exactly repeat according to m/
mean capacity, if you think it worth your while to
honour it with your attention.
The DIALOGUE between Will Atkins and his wife
in the wood*
Wife. "\T0XJ tell me marriage God appoint \ have
JL you God in your coyntry \
If, A. Yes, child, God is in every nation.
Wife,* No; great oki Benamuckee god is in tnj
country, not yours. * '; - i
IV. A. My dear, God is in heaven, which he made;
he also made the earth, the sea, and ail that is therein.
Wife. Why you not tell me muck long ago?
J IV. J*
IV. A. My dear, I have been a wicked wretch, ha-
ving a long time lived without the knowledge oi God
in the wo j id.
Wise, What, not know great God in own nation \
No no good ting? No say () to him \ -.hat's strange!
IV. A. lint, my dear, many live as it there was no
God in he.jvcii for aii that.
Wise. Why Godtuiler this ? why makee not lire
well'?
IV A. Ft is cur own faults, chihl.
Wife. Bsft, if he much great, can makee kill, why no
makee kill when no serve hiiii ? No be good maas no
cry O to him r
W. J. Tint's true, my dear, he may strike us dead*
but his abundant mercy fpareth us.
I Vise. Did not you tell God tankee for that?
IV. A. No, I have neither thanked him for his mer-
cy, nor seared him for his power.
Wife. Then me not believe your God he good, nor
makee kill, when you makee him angry.
W A, Alas! must my wicked life hinder you from
believing in him?
Wise. How can me tink your God live there?
{pGihting to heaven) Sure he no ken what you do
here,
IV. A. Yes, yes, my dear, he hears us speak, sees
what we do, and knows what we even think.
Wife. Where then makee power strong, when he
hears you curse, swear de great damn?
IV. A. My cUir this shews he is indeed a God and
not a man, who has such tender rnerev?
Wfg. Merc>! what you call mercy?
W- A. He pities and spares us : as he is our great
Creator, so is he also our tender father.
Wife, iSo God never angry, never kill wicked, then
he no good, no great mighty.
^ A. O my dear, don't'soy so, he is both; and
X 3 many
pi any time's lie shews terrible examples of his judge-
nicnt and vengeance.
Wise, Then you makee de bargain with him ; you
do bac! ting, he no hurt you, he hint other mans,
W. A. No indeed, my tins ar,e ali presumptions upon
bis goodness.
Wife. Well, and yet no makee yon dead? and you
give him no tankee neither \
W. A. It is true, I am an ungrateful, unthankful
dog that J am.
« Wife. Why, you fay, he makee you, why makee you
nomuch better then.
W. A. It is I alone that haYe deformed myself, and
abused his goodness.
Wife. Pray makee God know me, mono makee'him
angry? no do bad ting.
* W. A. You mean, my dear, that you desire I would
teach you to know God: alas! poor dear creature?
be must teach thee, and not L But I'll pray earnestly'
, to 'him to direct thee, and to forgive me, a miserable
inner. {Hereupon be-went a lit t le dijiance, and kneeling
downy prayed earnestly to Cod to enlighten her mindy
and to pardon his fins: when this was done, they
continues their discourse thus. )
. Wife. What you put down knee for? For what bold
up hand \ Who you speak to?
W. A. My dt-M3 1-bowed in token of submission to
him that made meyand prayed that hewould open your
eyes and understanding.
- Wife. And can he do that too I And will be hear
what you fay2
W. A. Yes, my dear, be bids us pray, and has given
us promise that he will hear us. '- ..
.. Wife. When did he bid you pray I What, do you
hear him speak?
Jf.'A. No my dear, but God has spoken formerly
'to 'good men'fram'heaven':.and by divine revelation
they have written alibis kwi dowa in a book/
J - Wife.
 
 
 
Wife. O where dat good book?
W. A. I have it not now by me: but one time or
other I tlull get it for you to read. Then he embraced
her with great ajfettion. .
Wife. Fray tell a mee did God tcachee them write
that nook .?
W. A. Yes, and by that rule we know him to be
God.
'Wise. What way, what rule you know him?
W. A. Because he teaches what is good, just, and
holy ; and forbids all wicked and abominable actions
that incur his displeasure.
Wife. O me fain understand that, and if he. do
all things you fay he do, surely he hear me soy O to
him; he makee me good if I wish to be good j
"he no kill me if I love him; me tink, believe him
great God | me* fay O to him, along with you my
dear.
'Here the poor man fell upon his knees, and made hepr
kneel down by him, praying with the greatejt fervency
that God would infirud her by his Holy Spirit j and
that God by his providence would fend them a Bible for
both their instructions. And such was the early piety
of this new converts that she made him promise y never
to forsake. God any morey lefty being made dead as she
called it, she should mi only want, her instructor % but
himself be miserable in a long eternity.
Such surprising account as this was, proved very
affecting to us both, but particularly to the young
- clergyman, who was mightily concerned he could
not talk to her himself. Sir, said he, there is some-
thing more to he done to this woman than to marry
her : d mean, that she ought to be baptized. To
. this I presently agreed; Pray, said he again, ask'her
husband, whether he has ever talked to her of Jesus
• Christ, the salvation of sinners, the nature of faith,
and' redemption in and by him, of the Holy Spirit,
the resurrection, last judgement, and a future state |
 but the poor fellow melted Into tears at this question,
faying
saying, that be had said something to her of these
things, but his inability to talk of them, made him
afraid left her knowledge of them should^ rather
make her contemn religion, than be benefited by
it: but that if I would discourse with her, it would
be very evident, my labour would not be in vain*
Accordingly 1 called her in, and placing myself as
interpreter between the religious priest and the wo-
man, 1 entreated him to goon : but surely never was
such a sermon preached by any clergyman in these
latter days, with so much zeal, knowledge, and sin-
cerity ; i'n short, he brought the woman to embrace
the knowledge os Christ, and of redemption by him,
with so surprising a degree of understanding, that
she made it her own request to be baptized.
He then performed his office in the sacrament of
baptism, first, by saying some words over to himself
in Latin, and then asked me to give her a name, as
being her godfather, and pouring a whole dim fust
of water upon the woman's head, he said MARY,
I baptize thee in the name of the Father, and of the
Son, and of the Holy Ghost*, so that none could
know of what religion he was. After this he pro-
nounced the benediction in Latin. Thus the woman
being made a Christian, he married her to Will At-
kins; which being finished, he affectionately exhort-
ed him to lead a holy life for the future; that since the
Almighty, by the convictions of his conscience, had
honoured him to be the instrument of his wife's
Conversion, he should not dist.onour the grace of
God, that while the savage was converted, the in-
strument should be cast away- Thus ended a cere-
monv, to me the most pleasant and agreeable i ever
passed in my life.
The affairs of the island being settled, I was pre-
paring to go on board, when the young man (whose
'mother was starved) came to me, faying, that as he
understood I had a clergyman with me, who had
carried the Englishmen' with savages, he had a
match
 
 
match to make between two Chnfiians, which he
desired might be stubbed before I depanvd. Think-
ing that it was he hiniicls that had courtid his mo-
ther's maid, I persuaded him not to do any thing
raihly upon the account of his solitary circumitances;
that the maid was an unequal match lor him, both
in respect to substance and years $ and that it was
very probable he would llvf: to return to Ids own
counts e, where he might have a far besier choice.
At these words, smiling, he interrupted me, thank*
leg me for my good advice; that as he had nothing
to beg of me* but a small settlement, with a servant
or two, or fame soyy necessaries; so he hoped I
would not be unmindful os bin when I returned to
England, but give his letters to his friends; and that
when he was redeemed, the plantation and all its im-
provements, however valuable, should be returned
to me again. But as for the marriage he proposed,
th>t it was not himself, but that it was between my
Jack of all trades, and the maid Susan.
I was indeed agreeably surprised at the mentioning
this match, which set med very suitable, the one being
a very ingenious fellow, and the other an excellent,
dexterous, and sensible housewife, sit to be gover-
ness of the who-e island: Ib we married them the
fame day; and as 1 was her father, and gave her
away, so I gave her a handsome portion, appoint-
ing her and her husband a convenient large space of
ground for their plantation. The sharing out of the
land I left to Will Atkins, who really divided it
very justly to every person's satisfaction; they only
desired one general writing under my hand for the
whole, which I caused to be drawn up, signed, and
sealed to them, setting out their bounds, and giving
them a right to the v^hole possession of their respec-
tive plantations, with their improvements, to them
and their heirs, reserving aJl the rest of the island as my
own propertv, and a certain rent sor cvzty particular
plantation after eleven years. As to their laws and go-
vernœent*
vernment, I exhorted them to love one another; and
as to the Indians who lived in a nook by themselves,
1 allotted three or four of them plantations, and the
reft willingly chose to become servants to the other
families, by which means they were employed in
useful labour, and fared much better than they did
before. Besides, the savages being thus mixed with
the Christians, the work of their conversion might
be set on foot by the Litter, in the clergyman's ab-
sence, to our equal satisfaction. The young priest,
however, was a little anxious lest the Christians
should not be willing to do their parts in instructing
those poor Indians : I therefore told him, we should
call them all together; that he should speak to the
Spaniards who were -Papists, and I to the English
who were Protestants, and make them promise that
they would never make any distinction in religion,
but teach the general true knowledge of God, and
his son Jesus Christ, in order to convert the poor
savages: and this indeed they all promised us ac*
cordingly.
When I came to Will Atkin's house, I found his
baptized wife, and the young woman newly married
to my Jack of all trades, were become great inti-
mates, and discoursing of religion together. O Sir,
says Will Atkins, when God has sinners to reconcile
to himself, he never wants an instructor: I knew I
was unworthy for so good a work, and therefore
this young woman has been sent hither as it were
from heaven, who is sufficient to convert a whole
island of savages. The young woman blushed, and
was going to rife; but I desired her to sit still, and
hoped that God would bliss her in so good a work:
and then pulling out a bible, (which I brought on
purpose in my pocket for him). Here Atkins, said I,
here is an assistant that perhaps you had not before.
So confounded was the poor man, that it was some
time before he could speak; at last turning to his
wife. My dear, he said, did I not tell you that God
could
could hear what we laid? Here's the book I prayed
for, when you and i kneeled under the bush: God
then heard us, and now his sent it. The woman
was surprised, and thought really God had sent that
individual hook from heaven; hut I turned to the
young woman, and desired her to explain to the new
convert, that God may properly be said to answer our
petitions, when, in the course os his providence, such
particular things come to pass as we petitioned for.
This the young woman did effectually; but surely
Will Atkins's joy cannot be expressed; no man being
more thankful, for any thing in the world, than he
was for his Bible, nor desired it from abetter principle.
After several religious discourses, i desired the
young woman to give me an account of the anguish
(he felt when she was starving to death for hunger;
to which she readily ccr. eated, and began in the
following manner.
<c Sir/' said she, i( all our victuals being gone,
after I had sailed one day, my stomach wjs very
siekisti, and at the approach of night, I was inclined
to yawning, and sleepy. When i slept upon the
couch three hours, I awaked a little reirestied : three
hours after my stomach being more aud more siekish,
I lay down again, but could not sleep, being very
saint and ill. Thus I passed the second day with a
strange variety, first hunger, then sick again, with
Teachings to vomit: that night I dreamed I was at
Barbadoes, buying plenty of provisions, and dined
heartily. But when I awaked, my spirits were ex-
ceedingly funk, to find myself in the extremity of
famine. There was but one glass of wine, which
being mixed with sugar, 1 drank up: but for want
os substance to digest upon, the fumes of it got into
my head, and made me senseless for some time. The
third day I was so ravenous and furious, that I could
have eaten a little child if it had come in my way \
during which time I was as mad as any creature in
bedlam.
 
bedlam. . In ope of these-fitffJtfrH dawn, and struck
my face against the corner of a pallet bed* where my
mistress lay : the blood gullied out of my,nofe, but by
my excessive bleeding,-botkthe violence of the lever,
and the ravenous part .of the hunger 'abated.  After
this 1 grew sick again, strove to vomit, but could not;
then bleeding a-second time, I swooned away m dead;
when I-came to myself I had a dreadful gnawing.
pain in my stomach* which went off towards night,
with a longing desire for food. I took a draught of
water and sugar, but it came up again ; then I drank
water without sugar, and that staid with me. I laid
me down on the bed, praying God would take me a-,
way j aster I had slumbered, 1 thought myself a -dying, 
therefore recommended my foul to God, nnd wiihed;
some body would throw me info the sea. All thja
while my departing mistress lay by me; the lafibit
of bread foe had, (he gave it to her dear child, rny
young master. The morning after, 1 fell into a vio-
lent passion of crying, and after that into hunger.- I>-
espied the blood that came from my. nose in-a oafon*
which 1 immediately swallowed up. At night I lv.A*
the usual variations, as pain in the stomach, sick,
sleepy, and ravenous-, a:-cl I had no thought but tint
1 should die before morning. J't the morning came orr
ternble griplngs in my bowels. At this time I
heard my vourig master's lamentations, by whietij.
understood his mother was dcMl: Soon after the sai-
lors cried, A full, * s<«U hallowing as if »bey were
distracted, far joy of that relief, which afterwards
we received from your hands."
Surely never was a more distinct account of star-
ving to death than this. . But to return to the disposi-
tion of things among mv people, I did not take any-
notice to them of the sloop that I had framed, neither
would 1 leave them the two pieces ol brass cannon,
or the two quarter deck guns that 1 had on board,
lest, upon any disgust, they should have separated,
or turned pirates, and so made the island a den of
thieves, instead of a plantation of sober pious people:
but leaving them in a flourishing condition, with a
promise to fend them further relief from Brafil, as
(heep, hogs, and cows, (being ooliged to kill the lat-
ter at lea, having no hay to iced them), 1 went on
board the ship again, the first of May 695, after
having been twenty days among them: and next
morning, giving them a salute of five guns at parting*
we set iaii for the Brafils. The third day, towards
evening, there happening a c dm, and the current
being very strong, we were drove to the JN1. N. E. to-
wards the land. Some hours after we perceived the
sea covered as it were with something very black, not
easily at first to be discovered: upon which our chief
mate ascending the shrouds a little way, and taking a
"view with a perspective glass, he cries out, an Army!
An army, you fool, said 1, what do you rnein ? Nay,
Sir, said he, don't be angry, i assure you it is not
only an army, hut a Beet too ; for I believe there are
a thousand canoes paddling along, and making with
great haste towards u?.
Indeed every one of us were surprised at this rela-
tion : and my nephew the captain could not tell what
to think of it, but thought we should all he devoured.
Nor was i free from concern, when I considered how
much we were bee dined, and what a strong current
set towards the shore: however, I encouraged him
not to he afraid, hut bring the ship to an anchor, as
soon as we were certain that we must engage them.
Accordingly we did so, and furled all our sails : as to
the savages, we feared nothing, but onlv that they
might set the ship on fire, to prevent which I order*
ed them to get their boats out, and fasten them, one
close by the head, arid the other by the stem, well
manned, with slceets and buckets to extinguish the
flames, should it so happen. The savages soon came
up with us, but there were not so many as the mate
had said j for instead of a thousand canoes, there were
Y only
 
 
 
only one hundred aud twenty; too many indeed for
*..-, several of their canoes containing about sixteen
or seventeen men.
As they approached us, they seemed to be in the
greatelt amazement, not knowing what to make of us.
They rowed lound the (hip, which occasioned us to
call to the men in the boats, not to suffer than :o
come near them. Hereupon they beckoned to the
savages to keep back, which they accordingly did j
but at their retreat they let fly about fifty arxows a-
mong us, and very much wounded one ot our men
In the longboat. I called to them not to sire upon any
account, but handing them down some deal boards,
the carpenters made them aki?'d of a fence to shield
them from the arrows, in half an hour after they
came so near astern of us, that we had a perfect sight
of them; then they rowed a httli: farther our, till",
they came dnectly alongside of us, and then approach-
ed so near, as they could hear us speak; this made
me order all our men to keep close, and get their
guns ready. In the mean time I ordered Friday to
go out upon deck, and ask them in his language
what they meant! No sooner did he do so, but i;&
of the savages, who were in the foiemost canoe, stoop-
ing down, shewed us their naked backsides, as'much
as to fay in English^ kijs our— : But Friday quickly
knew what this meant, fy immediately crying out
they were geing io moot •, unfortunately for ban,
poor creature 1 who kll under the cloud of three hun-
dred anows, no less than seven piercing through his
body, killing one of the best servants, and faithful-
lest of companions in all my solitudes and afflictions.
So enraged was! at the death of poor Friday, that
the guns, which before were charged with only pow-
der,*" to frighten them, I ordered to be Ioackd with
small stiot; nor did the gunners fail in their aim, but
at this broadside split and overset thirteen or fourteen
os their canoes, which killed numbers of them, and
set the rest a-swimming: the others, frightened out
of
of their wits, little regarding their fellows drowning,
scoured away as fait as they could. One poor wreten
our people took up, swimuiing for his life, an hour
after, lie was very sullen at first, so that he would
neither eat nor speak : hut I took a way to cure him,
by ordering them to throw him into the sea, which
they did, and then he came swimming hack like a
cojkycalling in his tongue, as 1 hippoie, to lave him.
Ho we took him en hoard, hut it was a long time be-
fore we could rruke him speak or understand English %
yet when we had taught him, he told us, they were;
going with their kings to fight a great battle: and
when we asked him, what made them come up to
us f he said, to makee ds great -wonder look: where
it is to be noted, thu those natives, and those of A-
frica, always add two e's at the end of English words,
as makeey takee, and the like, from wkich ft is a
very difficult thing to make them break off.
Being now under fail, we took our last farewel of
poor honest Friday, and interred him with all possible
decency and solemnity; putting him into a coffin,
and committiqg him to the deep,* at the same time
causing eleven guns to he sired for him. Thus ended
the lite of one of the most; grateful, faithful, honest,
and affectionate servants, that ever any man T. was
blessed with in the world.
Having now a fair wind for Brasils, in about twelve
days time we made land in the latitude of five degrees
south of the line. Four days we kept on S. by E. in
fight of siiore, when we made cape St Augustine, and
in three days we came to an anchor off the bay of
AU Saints. I had great difficulty here to get leave to>
hold correspondence on shore; for neither the figure
of my partner, my two merchant trustees, nor the
fame of my wonderful preservation in the island, could
procure me the favour, till such time as the prior of
the monastery of the Apgustines(to whom I had given
500 moidores) obtained leave from the governor, for
fiie personally, with the captain and one more, toge-
Y 2 ther
 
tber with eight sailors, to come on {here; upon this
condition, that we should not land any goods out of
the ship, or carry any person away without licence:
I found means however to get on shore three bales of
English goods* such as sine broad cloths, stuffs, ami
some linen, which I brought as a present for my part*
ner, who had sent me on board a present of srelh pro-
visions, wine, and fweatmeats, wonh above thirty
moidores, including some tobacco, and three or sour
fine gold medals.
Here I delivered my partner in goods to the value
of icol. Sterling, and obliged him to fit up thesioop
i bought, for the use os my island, in order to fend
them refreshments: and so active was he in this mat-
ter, that he had the vessel finished in a few days, to
the master of which I gave particular instructions to
find the place, 1 soon loaded him with a small car-
go; and one of our sailors offered to fettle there, upon
my letter to the Spanish governor, if I would allot
him tools and a plantation. This i willingly grant-
ed, and gave him the savage we had taken prisoner
to be his slave. All things being ready for the voy-
age, my old partner told me, there was an acquain-
tance of his, a Brasil planter, who having fallen un-
der the displeasure of the church, and in fear of the
Inquisition, which obliged him to be concealed, would
be glad of such an opportunity to make his escape,
with his wife and two daughters; and if I would al-
lot them a plantation in my island, he would give
them a small stock to begin with, for that the officers
had already seized his effects and estate, and left him
nothing but a little houihold stuff, and two slaves.
Hi is request I presently granted, concealing him and
his family on board our stiip, till such time as træ
sloop (where d\\ the effects were) was gone out of
the bay, and then we put them on board, who car-
ried some materials, and plants for planting sugar-
canes, along with them. By this sloop, among other
things, I sent my subjects 3 milk cows and 5 calves,
about
about 22 hogs,, 3 sows big with pig, 2 mares and a
stone-horfc. I also engaged three Portugal women,
to go for fake of the Spaniards, which, with the per-
secuted man's two daughters, were sufficient, since
the rest had wives of their own, though in anotlTcr
country: all which cargo arrived fife, no doubt to
their exceeding com tost, who, with this addition^
were about sixty or seventy people, besides children.
At this place my truly honest and pious clergyman
left me; for a (hip being ready to set sail for Lisbon,
he asked me leave to go thither; but I allure you, it
wa*; with th^greatest reluciaiicy 1 parted from a per-
son, whose virtue and piety merited the greatest, e-
steenv. . .
From the Rrasils we made directly over tbe Atlan-
tic ocean* to the Cape of Good Hope, having a toler-
able-good voyage, {leering for the moil part S. J£. We
were on a trading voyage, and had a supercaigo on
board, who was to direct all the (hip's ructions after
fiie arrived- at the Cape*, only being limited to a cer-
tain number of clays, or stay, by charter-party, at
the several ports (he was to go to. At the Cape we
only took in fresh water, and then failed for the
coast of Coromandel : we were there hi formed, that
% French man of war of 5c guns, and two large mer-
chant (hips, were failed for the Indies, but we heard
110 more of them.
• Jn our passage we touched at the island of Mada-
gascar, where, though the inhabitants are naturally
fierce and treacherous, and go constantly armed with
bows and lances, yet for some time they treated us
civilly enough ; and, in exchange for knives, scissun>>
and other trifles, they brought us eleven good fat bul-
locks, which we took partly for present frefli victuals^'
aud the remainder to salt for the ship's use. • - -
So curious was I to view every corner of the world
where I came to, that 1 went on shore as often as I
could.. One evening, when on shore, we observed
numbers of the people standing gazing at us at a di-
Y3 stance*
stance. We thought ourselves in no danger, as they
had hitherto used us kindly. However, we cut three
boughs out of a tree, sticking them at a distance from
us, which, it seems, in that country, is not only a to-
ken of truce and amity, but when poles or boughs
are set up on the other fide, it is a sign the truce is
accepted. In these treaties, however, there is one
principal thing to be regarded, that neither party
come beyond one another's three poles or boughs; (o
that the middle space is not only secure, but is also
allowed as a market for traffic and commerce : when
the truce is thus accepted, they stick up their javelins
and lances at the first poles, and come on unarmed;
but if any violence is offered, away they run to their
poles, take up their weapons, and then the truce is
at an end. This evening it happened that a greater
number of people than usual, both men and women,
traded among us for such toys as we had, with such
great civility, that we made us a little tent of large
boughs of trees, some of the men resolving to lie
on shore all night. But, for my part, I and some o-
thers took our lodging in the boat, with boughs of
trees spread over it, having a soil spread at the bottom
to Me upon. About two o'clock in the morning, we
were awakened by the firing of muskets, and our
men crying out for help, or else they would all be
murdered. Scarce had we time to get the boat ashore,
when our men came plunging themselves into the
water, with about four hundred of the islanders at
their heels. We took up seven ot the men, three of
them very much wounded, and one left behind killed,
while the enemy poured their arrows so thick among
us, th it we were forced to make a barricade, with
boards lying at the fide of the boat, to sliield us from
danger . and having got rc;-:dy our nre-arrns, we re-
turned them ai'cHev, which wounded several of them,
as we c^uKl he,n' by 'heir * r"es< In this condition
we lay till bre.;k of day, and then making signals of
distress to the iliip, which my nephew the captain
heard
beard am! understood, he weighed anchor and flood
as near the shore as possible, and then lent another
boat with ten hands in her to as Gil us; hut we called
to them not to come near, informing them of our
unhappy condition. However, they ventured ; when
one of the men raking the end of a tow-line in his
one hand, and keeping our boat between him and our
adversaries, swam on board us, and made fail our
line to the boat; upon this, slipping our cables, they
towed us out of the reach of their arrows, and quick-
ly after, a broadside was given them from the ship,
-which made a most dreadful havock among them*
When we got on board, we examined into the occa-
sion of this fray; the men who fled informed us, that
an old woman, who fold milk within the poles, had
brought a young woman with her, who carried roots
or herbs, the sight of whom so much tempted our
men, that they offered rudeness to the maid, at which
the old woman set up a great cry, nor would the
sailors pnrt with the prize, but carried her among
the trees, while the old woman went and brought a
whole army down upon them. At the beginning of
the attack one of our men was killed with a lance, and
the fellow, who began the mischief, paid dear enough
for his mistress, though as yet we did not know what
had become of him j the rest luckily escaped. The.
third night after the action, being curious to under-
stand how affairs stood, I took the supercargo, and
twenty stout fellows with me, and landed about two
hours Wore midnight, at the fame place where those
Indians stood the night before, and there we divided
our men into two bodies, the boatswain commanding
one, and i another. It was so cbrk, that we could
fee nobody, neither did we hear any voice near us:
but by and by the boatswain soiling over a dead bo-
dy, we agreed to halt till the moon mould rise, which
we km w would be in an hour aster We perceived
here no fewer than two and thirty bodies upon the
ground, whereof two were not quilt dead. Satisfied
with
with this discovery, 1 was for going on board again;
but the boatswain, and the rest told me, they would
make a visit to the Indian town, where those dogs, so
they called them, resided, asking me at the same time
to go along with them; for they did not doubt, be-
sides getting a good booty, but they should find Tern
JefTery there, lev that was the unhappy man we .mif-
fed. But I utterly refused to go, and commanded
them back* being unwilling to hazard their lives, as
the safety os the ihip wholly depended upon them.
Notwithstanding ail I could say to them, they all Jest
me but one, and the supercargo : so we three return*
ed to the boat, where a boy was left, reioh ing to (lay*
till they returned. At parting I told them 1 supposed
most os them would run the same sate with Tom
Je'ssery. To this they replied, Come fays3 come alon^
%veyii iv&rrant we911 come ojf safe enough', and so away
they went, notwithstanding all my admonitions, ei-
ther concerning thtir own safety, or the preservation
os the flvp. Indeed they were gallantly armed, e-
yery man having a musket, bayonet, and a pistol, be-
sides cutlasses, hangers, pole-axes, and hand gratia*
does. They came to a few Indian houses at first,
which not being the town they expected, they went
farther, and finding a cow tied to a tree, they con-
cluded that she would be a sufficient guide, and so it
proved; for after they untied her, (lie led them di-
rectly to the town, which consisted of above two bun-
dered houses, several families living in some os the huts
together. At their arrival, all being in a profound
sleep, the sailors agreed to divide themselves into
three bodies, and set-"three parts of the town on
sire at once, to kill those that were escaping, and
plunder the rest os the houses. Thus desperately re-
solved they went to work; but the first party had
not gone far, before they called o.ut to the rest, that
they had sound Tom Jeffery; whereupon they al Trail
up to the place, and found the poor Mlow indeed
hanging up nak«d by one arm* and his throat cut
almost
 
 
almost from ear to ear: in a house that was hard by
the tree they found sixteen or seventeen Indians, who
had been concerned in the fray, two or three of them
being wounded, who were not gone to sleep j this
house they set on fire first, and in a few minutes after
five or fix places more in the town appeared in flames.
The conflagration spread like wild sire, their houses
being all of wood, and covered with flags or rushes.
The poor affrighted inhabitants endeavoured to run
out to save their lives, but they were driven back in-
to the flames by the sailors, and killed without mer-
cy. At the first house above mentioned, after the boat-
swain had slain two with his pole-axe, he threw a
hand-granade into the house, which bursting, made a
terrible havock, killing and wounding most of them;
and their king and most of Jiis train, who were then
in that house, fell victims to their fury, every crea-
ture of them being either smothered or burnt. AU
this while they never fired a gun, lest the people mould
awaken faster than they could overpower them. But
the sire awakened them fast enough, which obliged
our fellows to keep together in bodies. By this time
the whole town was in a flame, yet their fury rather
increased, calling out to one another to remember
Tom Jeffery. The terrible light of this conflagration
made me very uneasy, and roused my nephew the
captain, and the rest of his men, who kr*w nothing
of the matter. When he perceived the dreadful smoke,
and heard the guns go off, he readily concluded his
men were in danger ; he therefore takes another
boat, and conies astiore himself, with thirteen men
well armed. He was greatly surprised to see me and
only two men in the boat, but more so when I told
him the story ; but though I argued with him, as I
did with his men, about the danger of the voyage,
the interests of the merchants and owners, and the
safety of the (hip, vet mv nephew, like the reft, de-
clared, that he would rather lose the (hip, his voyage,
his life, and all, than his men should be loft for want
3 of
 
of help: and so away he went. For my part, seeing
him resolved to go, I had not power to stay behind,
He ordered the pinnace back again for twelve men
more, and then we marched directly as the Same
guided us. But surely never was such a scene of hor-
ror beheld, or more dismal cries heard, except when
Oliver Cromwell took Dtogheda in Ireland, where
he neither spared man, woman, or child.
The first object, I think, we met with, was the
ruins of one of their habitations, before which Jay
four men and three women killed, and two more
burnt to death among the fire, which was now de-
caying. Nothing could appear more barbarous than
this revenge ; none more cruel than the authors 01
it. As we went on, the sire increased, and the cry
proceeded in proportion. We had not gone much
farther, when we beheld three naked women, follow-
ed by sixteen or sevnteeh men, flying with the
greatest swiftness from our men, who soot one ot
them in our sight. When they perceived, us whom
they supposed also their murderers, they set up a most
dreadful stiriek, and both of them swooned away in
the fright. * This was a sight which might have soft-
ened the hardest heart; and in pity we took sontt
ways to let them know we would not hurt them,
while the poor creatures with bended knees, and lift-
up hands, made piteous lamentations to us to save
their lives. 1 ordered our men not to hurt any of
the poor creatures whatsoever; but being willing to
understand the occasion os all this, 1 went among
these unhappy wretches, who neither understood
me, nor the good I meamrthem. However, being
resolved to put an end to this barbarity, I ordered
the men to follow me. We had not gone fifty yards
before we came up with the* boatswain, with four
of our men at his heels, all of them covered with
blood and dust, and in search of more people to ia-
tiate their vengeance. As soon as we saw them we
called out3 and made them understand who we were;
upon
upon which they came up to us, setting up a
halloo of triumph,, in token, that more help was
come. Noble captain, said he to my Nephew, I'm
glad you're come: we have not hair done with these
villanous hell hound dogs, we'll root out the very
nation of them from the eaith, and bil more than
poor Tom has hairs upon his head ; and this he went
on till i interrupted him. Blood thiiity dog! said I§
will your cruelty never end ? 1 charge you touch not
one creature more; (lop your hands, and stand
still, or you're a dead man this moment. Why,
h'Tf said he, you neither know whom you are pro-
tecting, nor what they have done; but pray come
hither, and behold an instance of compassion, if such
can merit your clemency ; and with that he ihewed
me the poor fellow with his throat cut, hanging
upon the tree.
Indeed here was enough to fill their breasts with
rage, which however I thought had gone too far,
agreeable to these words of Jacob to his sons Simeon
and Levi: Cursed he their anger for it was fierce ; and
their wrath jar it was cruel. But this light made
my nephew and the rest as bad as they / nay, my
nephew declared, his concern was only for his men;
as for the people, not a foul of them ought to live*
Upon this the boatswain and eight more directly
turned about, and went to finish the intended tra-
gedy; which being out of my power to prevent, I
returned back both from the dismal sight, and the
piteous cries of those unfortunate creatures, who
were made victims to ?their fury. Indeed it was an
egregious piece of lolly in me to return to the boat
with but one attendant; and I had very near paid
for it, having narrowly escaped forty armed Indians,
who had been alarmed by the conflagration; but
having passed the place where they stood, I got to
the boat accompanied with the supercargo, and so
went on board, sending the pinnace back atr! n, to
assist the men in what might happen. When I
had
hud got to the boat, the fire was almost extinguish-
ed, and the noik was abated; hut I had scarce been
half an hoir un board Lhe fh p, when I heard another
volley given i»y our sailors, aud a great smoke, which,
as i after waids found, was cur men falling upon
those houses and periuns that itood between them
and the sea: out here they spared the wives and
children, and killed only the men, to the number of
about sixteen or seventeen. By the time they got to
theihore, the pinnace and the (hip's boat were rea-
dy to receive them, and they all got safe on board,
not a man ot them having received the least hurt, ex-
cept two, one os whom liraincd his foot, and the o*
ther burnt his hand a little; for they met with no
resistance, the poor Indians being unprepared, %
mazed, and confounded.
I was extremely angry with every one of them,
but particularly with the captain, who, instead of
cooling the rage of the men, had prompted them on
to farther miiehief, nor could he make me any
other excuse, hut that as he was a man he could not
master his passions, at the sight of one of his men
so cruelly murdered. As for the rest, knowing they
were not under my command, the y took no notice
of my anger v but rather boasted of their revenge.
According to all their accounts* they killed or de-
stroyed about one bundled and fifty men, women,
and children, besides burning the town to ashes.
They took their companion Tom J^ssery from the
tree, covered him with some of the rums, and ib left
him. But however this act'on of our men might
seem to them justifiable, ver J always openly con-
demned it with the appellation of the Massacre of
Madagascar\ For tbcu-.gh they had slain this J:'ss rv*
yet certainly he was the in ft aggressor, by attempt-
ing to violate'the chastity of a vour>g innocent wo-
man, who ventured down to them on the fiu.h <Jf
the public capitulation, which was so treacherously
broken.
While
o f .•» of#if %%n c e u Sio;i- %6t
While, we were under fail, the boatswain would
often 'defend this., bloody action, by fayirtg, that (he
Indians had broke tin truce ike night before% byjkoot-
ing one ,of'our .men without provocation; and I ho" the
ppurfelhw had taken a little liberty vj'ith the %uaich$
he ought not to have been murdered info villa mous it
manner : at-idihat they Ihidaffednothing hut what tf)S
divine laws., coinmiJJiGned to he done to such homicides,
However, 1 was in the lame mind as before, telling
them that they were murclerersrmd bid them depend
upon it, that God would blast their voyage for such.
at| unparalklled piece of barbarity.
^ 'When we came into the gulf os Persia, five of our
Oien, who ventured on shore, were either killed or
made staves by the Arabians, the rest, ot' them having
lc-tsce time to escape to their bo.it. This made me
upbraid them afreib with the just retribution of Hea-
ven tor such actions; upon which the boatswain ve-
ry warmly asked me, whether those men on whom
the tower of" Siloam fell were greater sinners than-
tjie rest of the Galileans; and besides, Sir, said he,
none of these five poor men that are lost were with
us at, the massacre os Madagascar, as you call-it,
and therefore your reprehension is very unjust, and
your application improper. Besides, added he, you
are continually using the met) very ill, upon this^ac-
count, and being but a passenger you;'self, we are
Dot obliged to bear it; nor can we tell what ill de-
iigns you may have to bring us to judgement for it la
England ; and therefore if you do wot leave this dis-
course, as also not concern yourself with any of our
affairs, I will leave the ship* and not fail among such
dangerous company.
All this I heard very patiently ; but it being often
repeated, I at length told him, the concern 1 had on
board was none of his business f that 1 was a confix
derable owner in the {hip, and therefore had a right
to speak in common, and that i was no way ac-
countable to him, nor to any body else. As no
Z more
 
more pasted for some time after, I thought all hid been
over. At this time we were in the road of Bengal,
where, going on shore with the supercargo, one day,
in the evening,as I was preparing to go on board, one
of the men came to me, and told me, 1 need not
trouble myself to come to the boat, for that the
cockswain and others had ordered him not to carry
me on board any more. This insolent mefiage
much surprised me; yet I gave him no answer to it,
but went directly and acquainted the supercargo, en-
treating him to go on board, and by acquainting the
captain with it, prevent the mutiny which 1 percei-
ved would happen. But before 1 had spoken this,
the matter was effected on board: for no sooner
was he gone off in the boat, but the boatswain,
gunner, carpenter, and all the inferior officers, came
to the quarterdeck, desiring to speak with the cap-
tain j ami there the boatswain made a long harangue,,
exclaiming against me, as before mentioned; that
if I had not gone ashore peaceably for my own di-
version, they by violence would have compelled me
for their satisfaction -y that as they had (hipped with
the captain, so they would faithfully serve him;
but if I did not quit the ship, or the captain oblige
me to it, they would leave the ihip immediately;
hereupon, turning his face about by way of signal,
they all cried out, ONE and ALL, ONE aud
ALL.
You may be sure, that though my nephew was a
man of great courage, yet he could not hut be sur-
prised at their sudden ?a}d unexpected behaviour:
and though he talked stoutly to them, and after-
wards expostulated with them, that in common
justice to me, who was a considerable owner in the
ship, they could not turn me, as it were, out of my
own house, which might-bring their lives in danger,
should they ever be taken in England: nay, though
he invited the boatswain on shore to accommodate
matters with me, yet all this,Ifay, signified nothing:
they
 
they would have nothing to do with me, and
they were resolved to go on shore, if I came 011
hoard. Well, said my nephew, is you are so re-
solved, permit rne to talk wlili him, and then I have
done : and so he came to me, giving me an account
os their resolution, how one and all designed to for-
sake the si dp when I came on heard, for winch he
was mightily concerned. I am glad to fee you, ne-
phew, slid I, and rejoice it ib no work1, fmee they
have not rebelled against you : I only desire you to
send my needury thing.? on fboie, with a seilleieut
sum of money, and I will find my way to England
•as well as 1 cam Though this grieved my 'nephew
to the heart, yet rheie was no u.medy hut compli-
ance t in iho:t, a'l my nec.-sT.ir.es wee sent me, and
so this o;ata.r was over in a lew Lours.
I think 1 was now near a tho-jsmd leagues farther
off England by lea th~n at my little kingdom, ex-
cept this diijci'Lnce, xhz'c I might travel by land over
the Great Mogul's 1 cuntry to Surat, from thence up
to Da's-{':», h\ ka up the .!'«.; sum gulf, then take the
way of the caravans Ow,r the Arabian desert to Alep-
po aud Seaiuh r^o::, ibere take i'Jnj ping 10 Italy, aud
io travel by land into Fiance, and hom thence croU
the sea to England.
My nephew kit me two persons to attend me;
one us them was his servant, and the other clerk
to the puikr, who engaged to he mine. 1 tot. k lod-
gings; in an En-bio woman's house, whae scvet.d
French, one English, and two Italian merchants ie-
itded. The handsome entertainment 1 rn^t with
here, occasioned me to (lay nine months,considering
what course I should take. Some English goods!
had with m* os great value, hclides a thousand pieces
of eight, and a letter of credence for more, if there
was any such necessity. The goods I soon disposed oC
to advantage, and bought here several good dia-
monds, which I could easily carry about with me.
One morning the English merchant came to me, as
Z 2 being
being very intimate together, Countryman, fold he,/
have a pr'jjttl to communicate to you, which, I hope,
iv i! I slit to both our advantage, so be short, Sir, we
are both in a remote part os the world from our country,
but yet hi a place where men of business may get a
great dca' of money. Now, if you will put a thousand
pounds to my thousand pounds, we will hire a ship to
oursaiisjaClion; you shall be captain, I will be mer-
er ant, aud we'll gon trading voyage to China; for
*.e hy should we lie si HI like drons, vjhile the whole world
is in a continual motion.
This proposal loot; get my ^)nscnt, being very a-
fii/eea'ae to ray rambling genius; and the more so,
because I looked upon my countryman to be a very
sincere person ; it required some time before we could
l^t a veiled to our mind, and sailors to man it ac-
cordingly ; at length we bought a (hip, and got an
Eu^liih i.iiite, boatswain, and gunner, a Dutch car-
penter, and three Portuguese foremast-m^n -, and, for
want es others, made shift with Indian seamen. We
Ji;0 faiiee! to Aehin, in the island of Sumatra, and then
to fv.am, where we bartend our w-.reS (or iome ar-
r-<:k and cream, the last of which bore a great price
among the Chinese; in a word) we went up to
Sufian, making a very gre?t voyage; and, after
eight months time, I returned to IV, ngal, very well
satisfied with this adventure, having not only got a
Llhcient qu-.ntity of money,but an insight of gutting
a great deal more.
*Thc nexr. vovage my friend proposed so me, was
to £0 amon^ the Spice iflands, and bring bomea load
of cloves from the Manillas, or thereabouts, islands
helongi \q: p-.rtly to Spain, but where the Dutch trade
Tcry eoimderao'v. We wete not long preparing for
this voyage, which we mad'Mio less successful than
the last, touching at Bomca, and several other places
which I do not perfectly remember, and returning
borne in about five months time. We soon sold our
ipica*, which were chiefly cloves, and some nutmegs,
to
to the Persia?i merchants, who carried them away for
the gulf; and, in short, making five to one advan-
tage, we were loaded with money.
Not long after my friend and I had made up our
accounts, to our entire satisfaction, there came in a
Dutch coaster i\om Batavia, of about two hundred
tons. The crew of this veiled pretended themselves
so iicklv) that there were not hands luiliejeat to
undertake a voyage, and the captain having given
our that he intended to go to Europr, public notice
wis given that the snip was to he fold. No sooner
did this come to our ears, hut we bought the uiip,
paid the mailer, and took posseision. We would also
have very willingly entertained some of the men:
but they having received their (hare of booty, were
not to be found, being all together Iled'to Agra, the
great city of the Mogul's residence; and from thence
were to travel to Sneat, and so by sea to the Persian
gulf. And indeed they had r^dfion to fly in this
manner: for the truth of it was, the pretended cap-
tain was the gunner only, and not the comnuud r:
that having been on a trading voyage, they were at*
tacked on shore by the Malayans, who killed three
men, aud the captain: after whose death the other
tlcven men run away with the ship to the bay of
Bengal, and left the mate and other five men more on
more; but of this affair we shall have occasion to
speak at more length hereafter.
However they came by the (hip, we thought we
bought it honestly; neither did we suspect any thing
of the matter; whm the man shewed us a bill of
sale for the ship (undoubtedly forged to one Emanuel
Clostershoven, which name he went by. And so
without any more to do, we picked up tome Dutch
and En-lidi seamen, resolving for another voyage for
cloves among the Philippian and Malacca islands; in
short, we continued th«s five or six years, trading
from port to port with extraordinary success; ia
the seventh year we undertook a voyage to China,
Z 3 designing
dt signing to touch at Siam, and buy some rice by
the way. In this voyage, contrary winds beat us up
and down for a considerable'time among the islands
in the ltra.'ts or" Malacca. No sooner weie we clear
of those rugged scats but we perceived our ship had
sprung d leak, which obliged us to put into the
fiver Cambodia, which lies northward of the gulf,
and g* es up to Shim.
One day as I was on shore refreshing myself, there
comes to me an Englishman, who was a gunner's
mate on i.oaid an Ecg^fb"Eail India ship, riding up
the river, near the city of Cambodia, Sir said he, you
may wonder at my business shaving never seen me in
your life; but though I am a jlrange r, I have something
to tell yen that very nearly concerns you; and indeed it
is the imminent danger you are in has moved me to give
to you this timely notice. Danger ! laid I, what danger?
I know of none, except my Ihip being leaky, for which
I design to have run her aground to-morrow morning.
*S/r,said he, I hope yen will be better emplo\>ed,wben you
shall hear ivhai i have to jay to you. You know the town
of'C'jmbodh is about \% leagues up this river : about
three leagues on this fide of it, there lies two Dutch
and three Engli fh ships. And would you venture here,
ivithcut conjideritig what strength you have to engage
them ? I knew not what he meant by this discourse, and
turning short upon him, Sir, said I, I know no reason I
have to be afraid either of any English or Dutch ships, I
am no interloper, and what business have they then
with me? Well Sir, said theman,z^y0w do think yourself
secure,all as I can fay, you must take sour chance -, how-
ever, I am very sorry you are so deaf to god advice, but
J assure you,if you do not put to sea immediately,you will
be attacked by five long h? at $ fall of men, hanged your-
sf/ for a pirate, if you are tak+n, and the particulars
examined afterwards. I thought Sir, added he, /
might have met with better recej iion for such asn»
gular piece of service. Sir, jan! U 1 never was un-
grateful to any man ; but pray explain yourself and I'll
go
go on board this minute, whether the leak be (lopped
or no. Why, Sir, sud he, to be Ibort, because rime is
precious, the matter is tins: sou know we It enough that
you was with ihejbip at Sumatra, whs-re your captain
'was murderedhy the^VdilAyAm, with three of his suitors",
and that cither you, or some who were on hoard you, ran
away with the ship, and are juice turned piraies at sea.
AW, Sir, thi<\ is the sum os wh it I had to jay; and
1 can (. osttively assure you, that is you he taken,you will
he executed without much ceremony; for undoubtedly
you cannot but be se rsib le what little law merchant
ships shew to pirates, whenever they fail into their
vnmereifuI ha nds.
Sir, said I, I thank you for your kind informa-
tion: and though I am sure no man could come
more honestly by the (hip than I have done \ yet
knowing their enterprise, and being satisfied of your
honest intention, I'll be upon my defence, Prithes
&>,iaid the man, don't talk of being upon your defence f
the best you can make is to be out of danger; and
therefore, if you have any regard to your life, and the
lives of your men, take the advantage, without fail, of
putting out to sea at high water 1 by which means, as
you have a whole tide before you, you will be gone to*
far out of their reach before they can come down*
I am mjghty well satisfied, said I, in this particu-
lar, and of your kindness, which merits my greatest
esteem I pray, Sir, what amends (hall I make you 2
He replied, I know not what amends you are willing
to make, because you may have some doubts of its cer-
tainty; bus to convince you of the truth of what Ifay9
I have one offer to make to you. On board one of the
English ships, I have nineteen months pay due tome,and
this Dutch man thai is with me has seven months pay
due to him, which if you will make good to us, we will
gQ alor.g with you. If you flail find, that there is no*
thing in what we have said, then we shall desire no»
thing } but when youjir-e convinced that we have saved
the
Jfcip* your-life9 and the lives of the men> we ivill leave
the whole to your generosity*
So reason-Die did this every way appear, that I
immediately consented, and we went directly on
board. As soon as we came on board, my partner
calls joyfully out, That they had (topped the leak!
Well, thank God, said I, but pray let us weigh
anchor forthwith. Weigh! said he, what is the
meaning of this hurry \ Fray ask no questions, said
I, but all hands to wotk, without losing a moment's
time: upon which, in great surprise, the captain
was called, who i immediately ordered the anchor to
be got up; and though the tide was not quite down,
yet being assisted with a little land breeze, we stood
out to sea. I then called my partner into the cabin,
and related the story at large, which was confirmed,
and more amplified by the two men I had brought
on board. Scarce had we finiihed our discourse, up-
on this head, but a sailor came to the cabin door,
with a m» ssige from the captain, that we were
chased by live sloops full of armed men. Very well,
said I, it is plain now there is something in it. And
so going upon deck, I told all the men there was a
design for seizing the (hip, and of executing us for
pirates; and asked them, whether they would faith-
fully stand by us, and by one another \ To which
they unanimously replied, that they would fight to
their last drop os blood. I then asked the captain,
which way he thought best for us to manage the
battle ? Sir, Did he, the only method is to heap them off
with our great shot as long as we are able* and then
have recourse to our small &rms; and when both these
fail US) then retire to close quarters, when perhaps the
enemy, wanting materials> can neither break open our
bulk heads, nor get in upon us. Mean time the gunner
was ordered to bring two guns to bear fore and aft out
©f the steerage, and so load them with musket bullets,
acid small pieces of old iron; and the deck being
ckafedj we prepared for the engagement, still how-
cver?
ever, keeping our at sea. The boats followed us
with all tin fail they could make, and we could per-*
ceive the: two foremost were English, which outsailed
the rest by two leagues, and which we found would
come up with us • hereupon we fired a gun without
ball, intimating thai they should bring to, and we
put out a flan of truce, as a signal lor parley; but
finding them crouding after us, till they came wmi-
in ihot, we took in our white, arid hanging out the
red ihgn imrr.ediatelY fired at them with balls we
then oiled to them with a speaking trumpet, bidding
them at their peril keep off.
But all this signified nothing; for depending up-
on the strength that followed them, they were refo-
lutt-lv btr.rior mischief: hereupon 1 ordered them to
hrin^ the ship to, by which means, they laying upon
our broadside, we "let liy at them atones, one of
whom carried away the (tern of the hindtrmost boat,
and obliged them Wt only to take down their fail,
but made them all run to' the head of the boat, to
keep them from sinking; and lo (he by by, having
enough of it. In the" mean time we prepared to
welcome the foremost boat in the lame manner.
While we were doing this, one of the three hinder-
most boats came up to the reliet of that which was
disabled, and took th- men out of her, We again
called to parley with them •, but instead of an answer,
one of the tea*8 came close under our stern; where-
upon our gunner let fly his two chace guns, but
missing, the men in the boat shouted, and waving
their caps, came on with greater fuiy. To repair
this sceminfir disgrace, the gunner soon got ready,
and siring the second time, did a great deal os mil-
chief among the enemy. "We waved 3g;im, and
bringing our quarter to bear upon them* find three
guniTmorei when we found the boat a-sinking, and
several men already in the sea; hereupon, manning
our pinnate, I gave orders to save as many as they
could, and instantly to come on board, because the
rest of their boats were approaching: accordingly
they did so, and took up three ot them, one of
whom was almost past recovery; and then crouding
all the fail we could, after our men came on board,
we stood out farther to sea, so that the other three
boats gave over their chace, when they came up to
the first two. Thus delivered from imminent dan-
ger, we changed our course to the eastward, quite
out of the course of all European ships.
Being now at sea, and inquiring more particularly
of the two seamen, the meaning of all this, the
Dutchman, at once, let us into the secret. He told
us, that the fellow who sold us the strip, was an ar-
rant thief, who had run away with her; thai the
captain was treacherously murdered on the coast ot
Malacca by the natives there, with three of his men;
that he, the Dutchman, and four more, being obli-
ged to have recourse to the woods for their safety,
at length escaped by means of a Dutch ship, in its
way to China, which had sent their boat on shore
for fresh water: That, after this he went to B-.tavia,
where two of the seamen belonging to the Ihip (who
had deserted the rest in their travels) arrived, and
there gave an account that the fellow who ran away
with the fliip had fold her at Bengal to a set of pi-
rates, who went a cruising, and had already taken one
English and two Dutch ships richly laden.
Now, though this was absolutely false, yet con-
cerning us directly, my partner truly said, that our
deliverance was to he esteemed so much the more
by reason, had we fallen into their hands, we could
have expected nothing from them but immediate
death, considering our accusers would have been our
judges: and therefore his opinion was, to return di-
rectly to Bengal, where being known, we could
prove how honestly we came by the (hip, of whom
we bought her, arid, the like, and where we were
sure of some justice; at least would not be hanged
first, and judged afterwards. I was at first of my
partner's
partner's opinion; but when I had more seriously
considered ot the matter, I told him we ran a great
hazard in attempting to return, being on the wrong
fide of the (traits ot Malacca, and that if, upon a-
jarm given,we should he taken by the Dutch off Ba*
t^viaor English elsewhere, our running away would
be a sufficient evidence to condemn us, i his danger
indeed startled not only my partner, but likewise all
the strip's company; so we changed out ionner re-
solution> and resolved to go to the coast of Tonquin,
znd so to that of China, where pursuing our full de-
sign as to trade, we might likewise have an oppor-
tunity to dispole of the iliip some way or other, and
to return to Bengal in any country vessel we could
procure. This being agreed to, we Iteered away
N. N. E. about 50 leagues off the usual coune to the
east, which put us to some inconveniencies. As the
wind blew steadily against us, our voyage became
very tedious, and we began to be afraid of want of
provision ; and what was ii.il! worse, we apprehended,
that as those ships, from whose boats we had escaped,
-were bound to China, they might get before us and
have given fresh information, which might create
another vigorous pursuit. Indeed I could not help be-
ing grieved, when i considered that I, who had never
wronged or defrauded any person in my life, was
now pursued like a common thief-, and, if taker,
to run the greatest danger of b ing executed as
such; and, though innocent, I sound myself under
the necessity of flying for my safety: and thereby e-
scape being brought to (name, of which 1 was even
more afraid than of death itself. It was easy to read
my dejection in my countenance. My mind was op-
pressed, like those unhappy innocent persons, who,
being overpowered by blasphemous and prejured evi-
dences, wickedly resolved to take away their lives,
or ruin their reputation, have r?o other recourse in
this world to ease their sorrow, but sighs, prayers,
and teats. My partner seeing me ib concerned, en-
couraged
eouraged me as well as he could; and, after descri-
bing to me the several ports ot that coast, he told me,
he would either put in on the coast of Cochinchina,
or else in the bay os Tonquin, from whence we might
go to Macao, a town once possessed by the Poitu-
guete,and where still man) Eutopean families resided.
To this place we (leered, and early next morning
came in sight of the coast \ but thought it adviieahle
to put into a small river where we could, cither
over land, or by the ship's pinnace, know what ves-
sels were in any ports thereabouts. This happy step
proved out deliverance ; for next morning there came
to the bay of Ponquui two Dutch i'hips, and a
third without any colours ; and, in the evening, two
English ships steered the fame course. The river
wheie we w re, was hut small, and run but a few
leagues up the country northward: the country was
wild and * arUrous, and the people thieves, having
fro correspondence with any other nation, dealing
only in fish, oil, and inch gross commodities; and
one hash;itons custom they still retained, that when
any vessel was w. happily shipwrecked upon their
coast, they make the in n prisoners 01 staves; so that
now we nvght fairly fay We were surrounded by c-
nenrnVs both hv sea and land.
As the snip h d been leaky, we took the opportu-
nity,'in this place, to search her, and to stop up the
places which let in the water. We accordingly
lightened her, and bringing our guns and other
moveaMe things to one side, we essayed to bring her
down, rrnr we mighi come at her bottom; but, up-
on fceond consideration, we did not think it safe to
let her lie on dry g»ound, neither ii deed w: s the
plao convenient for it. she inhabitants, not used
to such a sight as to fee a ship Vw down on one Mc3
and heel in towards the shore, not perceiving her
men, who ware at wo« k - n hei honors?, with stages
and boats on the off side, presently isr.agined the ship
had heen cast away, and Jay sail on the ground.
Agreeable
 
Agreeable to this supposition they surrounded m
with ten or twelve targe boats, with a resolution,
undoubtedly, to plunder the ship, and to carry away
those thry found alive for fhms to their king, 'Brit
when they perceived our men hard at work on the
ship's bottom and side, washing, graving, and stop-
ping her, it filled then; all with loth furpiife, that
they stood gazing as thnugh they were confounded.
Nor could we .imagine what their design was; how-
ever, for fear of danger, we handed down arms and
ammunition, to those at work, in oider to defend
themselves; and indeed this precaution was'abso-
lutely necessary *, for, in a quarter of an hour after,
the natives, concluding it was really a shipwreck*,
arid'that we were saving our lives and goods, which
the? thought belonged to them, came down upon
our men, as though it had been in a line of nattle.
We lay at present but in a very unfit post are to fi.^ht;
and before the stages could be got down, or the men
in the boat come on board as they vtie ordered, the
Cochinchinefes were upon them, and two ot their
boats boarding our longboat, they began to lay hold
of our men an prisoners. The first'they seized was
a stout English sailor, who never sited his musket,
like a fool, as I imagined, but laic! it down in the
boat; hut he knew what he was doing; for by main
force he dogged the -Pagan out of the boat into ours
by the two ears, and knocked his brains out against
the boat's gunnel: A Dutchman that was next him
snatched up the musket, and knocked down five
more with the butt-end of it; howe^c*, this was
doing very little to their number ; but a strange un-
expected accident, which rather merits laughter than
any thing rise, gave our men-'a complete victory o-
yer them.
-It seems the carpenter, who was preparing to grave
the outside of the ship, as well as to pay the seams,
where h,- caulked, to stop the leaks, had gotten two
.kettles just let down, in the boat> one filled with
'' * A a boiling
 
toiling pitch, and the other with rosin, tallow, oil,
and such stuff as the shipwrights use : the carpenter's
man had a great iron laddie with which he tiled to
supply the workmen with hot stuff, and as two of
the enemies entered the boat where the fellow stood,
lieYatuted them with a fall laddie of the hot boiling
Jiquor, which, the poor creatures being half naked,
•made them roar out, and jump into the sea. Well
•done, Jack, says the carpenter, give them the other
dole : and so stepping forward himself, takes a mop,
and dipping it into the pitch-pot, he and his man so
plentifully flung it among them, as that none c-
fc*ped being scalded; upon which they all made the
•best of their way, crying and howling in such a
frightful manner, tlr.it in all my adventures I never
heard the like. And indeed never was 1 better
pleased with anv concjucfithan I was with this, there
idng ib little bloodshed, and having an aversion to
killing such savage wretches, {more than was ne-
cflarv), as knowing they came on errands, which
their 1-iws and customs made them think were just
and equitable.. By this time all things being in or-
der, and the stiip swimming, they found their mi-
st ike, so they did not venture a second attack: I bus
ended our merry fight; and having got some rice,
bread, roots, and sixteen good hogs en -boaidwc
day before, we let fail, not daring to go mto the
bay of Tonquin, but steered N E. towards the isle of
Formosa, or as though we would go to ttic Manillas,
•or Philippic islands, for fear of meeting with any
European sliip*. When we anchored al:ihe isle For-
inok the Inhabitants, not only courteously supplied us
with provisions and fresh-water, but dealt very fairly
and honestly with us in their bargains and agree-
m-nts. From this place we steered north, keeping
'ftiJl.offthc coast of China, till we were4eyostd al
Imports where European ships usuJty come j and at
length heins come to the latitude of thirty decrees,
- weStfolved «* put into the first trading. pi>rt je
 
should ccme at; and, Handing tor the shore, a boat
came off two leagues to us uhh an old Pojtwgude
pilot 011 board, who offered his service; we very
gladly accepted him, 'and sent the boat h^ck ;*ga;h.
And now, having the old man on boaid, I i.Jkcd to
him os going to Nanquin, the molt noithward pait
of the coals os China. What will you do there?
said he, smiling, I told him we \unud sell our cargo
and purchase calicoes, raw and wrought siikb, ten,'
6c. and so return the sunc way back. O, laid he,
you had better put in at Macao, where you may buy
China wares as cheap as at Nanqnin, and fell your
opium at a greater advan.:c. Bat. said I, we arc
gentlemen as well as merchants, and design to (ee
the great city ot Pefcin, and the magnificent court of
the monarch of China, Why th;:n, said lie, you'
should go to Ninppo, wheie there "13 a navigable river
that goes through tSie heart id' that vast empire, two
hundred and seventy leagues from the lea, which'
erodes all the rivers, prides considerable hills, by the
help of the sluices and gates, and goes even up to
the city of Pekin. Yon may go to Naocjuin, if you
pi ease 1 and travel to IV kin, and there is a Dutch Ihlp
just before bound that way. At the name of a Dutch
or English ship, I was struck with confusion; they'
being as great a terror to me in this veflli, as an
Algeririe man of war is to them in the Mediterra-
nean. The old man- finding me troubled, *Sir, said
he, I hope the Dutch are ik,c now at war with your
nation: No, (aid 1, but God knows what liberty
they may take when cut of the reach of the law.
Why, fays he, what occasion is there for peaceable
merchants to fear? For believe me, they never
meddle with any but ~P I R A T E.S.
At the mentioning of the word pirates, my coun-
tenance turned to that of scarlet \ nor was it possible
for me to conceal it from,the old pilot; who taking
notice of it, S/r, said he, take what course yen p lease %
ril dti you all the service I can* Sigtwor, said I, I
A a % am
am a little concerned at your mentioning pirates; I
hope there are none such in these seas, because you
see in what a weak condition we are so defend oar-
selves. Ofir3 said be, if thefs ait, don't be concerned,
I don't remember one in these seas these fifteen years,
except about a month ago one was seen in the bay of
iSiam, huf she is gone to J he southward; neither was
she built for a privateer, but was ran away wish by
a reprobate captai?:, and some of his men, the right
cat i a in ha v ing k ee n m u rde red by the Mai a y a n s.
What! siiidl, (as though ignorant of what had
happened), did they kill the captain t M?, said he, if
is generally thought the M dayans murdered him ; but
perhaps they might procure them to do it, and there*
fore they juyily deserve hanging. The rogues were
lately discovered in the bay of iy'mm, in the river of
Cambodia, by some Dutchmen who belonged to she
jidpj and had much ado to escape the five boats thai
jvrfued them, but they have all given such an exatl
Jeserii ti-on oj the Jhip, that wherever the)find heri'they
will be sure to know her, and they have solemnly swore
io ^Ive- no quarter to the cactain or the seamen* but
hang them every one up at the sard arm, without any-
formal business of bringing^ them to- a court ofjudi*
c attire,
Being sensible, that, having the old man on
hoaul, he was incapable of doing me any-mischief,
Well, Signior, said 1, it is for this 'very reason I
would have you carry us up to Nanquin, where nei-
ther English nor Dutch ships come; and 1 must tell
you their captains are a parcel of rash, proud, info*
lent rascals, that neither know what belongs to
justice,.nor how to behave themselves as the laws of
God or nature direct. Fellows that would prove mur-
derers *to punish robbers, and take upon them to
adjudge innocent men to death, without any proof
to prove them guilty : but perhaps I may live to call
them to account (01 it, in a place where they rnay
be taught ..how justice is to be 'executed. And- fo
I tdd hiai all the story of buying the-fhip, and how
we
 
 
 
 
we were saved by th-j means of t\vo men: that the
murder of the captain by the Malayans, as alio the
running away with the ship, 1 believed io be true;
but that we, who bought it, were funied pirates,
wis a mere iLl.on, to caver their cowardice and
fooliih behaviour, when they attacked us, and the
bhod of thole mea we kill iti our own just de-
fence, lay to their door, who lent to atuck us by
su'prise.
Sir, laid the old nrAn amazed, yon have taken the
rlsni course to sear to the r.orthy aedi if I mis hi ad-
vise tzu, 1 wrald have you sell your jl/iy in Coma, and
buy or build another in (het ,Ui,Uru and I'll procure
people to bits the one and jell the other. Well, but Se-
nior, said i, is I sell the ship in this manner, I ir.ay
bring tome innocent persona into the fame danger as
1 have gone through, peihap.i worse, even death itself,
whereby i should be as guilty of their murder as vil-
lainous executioners. That need 11 >l trouble you> lays,
the old man ; III find a way to prev: nt that; for these
commanders you talk if I know them very -well^-will in-
form, them rightly of the matter as you have related^
and I am perfuadid they will not only believe me% but
act more cautiously for the future. And will you tie*
liver one message irom me to them i Tes, said he, if
you will give it under your handy thai J may prove
it is net my oven production. Hereupon 1 uiote a
large account os their attacking me in their long-
boat, the pretended reason and unjust design of ic ^
that they had done what they nnght be a-hamed or,
arid could not answer lor at any rribanal in ling-
land. But this letter was written in vauK Pi evi-
dence ordered things another way. We Aided di-
rectly for Nanquin, and in about trnrreen <u>\$ fail,
came to an anchor at t\ic south well point oft ho great
jrulsos that place, where we J earn ed that two Dutch
ships were gone the length Ktscre us, 2nd that we
should certainly fall into thur hands. We were zll
at a great loss ih this exigency, and would eery glad-
ly have been on (here almcii any where \ but our
A a 3' oki
 
old plot told me, that it I would sail to the south-
ward about two and forty leagues, there was a little
port called Qemchange, where no European (hips c-
ver came, and where we might consider what was fur-
th:rto be done, Accordingly we weighed anchor
the next day, calling only twice on shore by the. way
to get treih water. The country people very cour-
teously ioid us roots, tea, rice, fowls, and other pro-
viiions. After five days I'd] we came to the po:t,amd
landed with unspeakable joy. We resolved to chspose
of ourselves and , treats in any other way posh. ic,thail
enter on boaid * h it iil-iated" veilel wo:e; for no it ate
can be rnose mih laele than a continued scar, which
is a life oi death, a coniounder of our tmdcrllandings,
that (eta the imagination fat work to fos m a thousand
fright!ul tinn^s that may never happen. And we
scarce su.pt one night, without dreaming of halters,
yard-a^ns, or gibbets ; or' fighting, being taken, and
being killed; nay, io violent were our apprehensions,
that we would bruise our hands and heads aganft the
{ides of the cabin, as though ac.aally engaged. The
story of the Dutch cruelty at Ampona often came in-
to our thoughts when awake ; and, for my part, I
thought my condition very hard, that, -after so many
difficulties, and inch signal deliverances, I should be
hanged in my old age, though innocent of any crime
that deserved inch pmulhment; but then religion
would seem to represent to me, as though the voice
of it had said, Consider O man ! what fins you have
been formerly guilty of, which now thou art called
to an account for, to expiate with thy blood! And
ss to thy innocence, what art then more innocent
than thy blessed R«decmer Jesus Chnit, who suffered
for thy offences, ?nxi to whose providence you ought
to submit, let what will happen? Aster this natural
courage would inspire me to resist to the last drop of
blood, and sooner die than suffer mvself to be" teken
by boorish, rascally Dutchmen^ who had usts to tor-
meat beyond de*uh itseii.
But
But now, thank kind Heaven, being ashore, our
old pilot procured us a lodging and a warehoulc for
our goods y it was a little hut with a l^rge waichouse
joining to it, all built with canes, and palhsadoed
round with large ones, to keep out pilfering thkv' s,
which are wry numerous in that country. The ma-
gistrates allowed us a little guaid during the night,
and we employed acentinel with a kind or h.dbcrt ior
thrte pence a-day. 'The hnr or matt, w* ioloH, had
been over for some time \ however, there remained
in the river four Jimks and two J-ipan ihips, the mer-
chants of the lattei being oti shore. In the nrit place,
our old pilot brought us acquainted with the nnlhon-
ary Roman priests, who were converting the people
to Christianity: two of them were reierved, rigid,
ami au Here, applying themselves to the woik" they
eime about with great earnestness; but the third,
•who was a Frenchman, called father Simon, was of a
fieer conversation, not seemingly so serious and grave,
yet no worse Christian than the other two, one of
whom was a Portuguese, and the other a Gr-noefe.
Father Simon, it seems, was appointed to go to Ft kin,
the royal feat of theEmperoi of the Chinese: and he
only waited for another prieit, who was ordered from
Macao to accompany him. We never met together,
but he was prompting me to keep him company in
his journey: Sir, said he, I will shew you the glo-
rious things of this mighty Empire, and a city, theci-
ty of Pekin, far exceeding London or Paris, put them
both together. One day in particular, being at din-
ner with him, I shewed some inclination to go; which
made him press the more upon me and my partner,
to gain our perfect consent. But., father Simon, said
my partner,iuÆ/7f satisfaction can you have in our cam'
party) v)hom yru esteem as heretics, and consequently oh-
jeftsmt worthy your regard? Oh ! said he3 you may
be as good Catholics in time as those 1 hope to con-
vert to our religion. Jndso, and said I, ivefiall have
ycu preaching to us all the 'way, instead of pleasing as
•with
with a description of the country. Sir, laid he, haw-
ever our religion may he vilified by some peoj-le, it
io very ceitaifi it neither diveils us of good manners
or Christian charity;, and at. we are geotlem n, as
such we may coo ver ie together, without making one
another imeisy.
But we studl leave him a while, to consider our
ship aud the merchaiulite wmth we had to diipoie ut.
There was hut very little trade in the puce where we
"were; and I was once resolved to venture to iail to
the river Lvdam, and so to the city osNanquin : but
Providence ordered it otheiwise, by our old pilot's
bringing a japan merchant to ib, to lee what goods
we had. He immediately bought our opium, lor
which h? gave us a vay good price in gold by weight,
some'wedges of which were about ten or ek^en oun-
ces. It ciroe into my head, that perhaps he rm.^t
buy the Imp too; and I ordered his interpreter to
pro po fe i t t o h i m. Me fa i d n ot h i n g t h e n, b ut in \ u 11 *
up his shoulders; yet in a few days after he came ac-
companied ly a missionary pnest, who was his imcr-
preter, with this proposal, That as he had bought a
great quantity cf our goods, he had not money eno"^
to j us v ha fe our ship ; but if I please cL kc would hire I-er
with all my men, to go to Japan, and from thence tvtit;
another loading to the Philippian islands^ the freight
sf both which he won Id very •willingly pay to us btjore;
* and at their return to japan, would buy thejbip> Up-
on this we alked the captain and his men, ii they were
'willing to go to J-tpan; to which they unanimously
agreed. While this was in sgitation, the young ma a
my nephew left to attend me, told me, That as I &"
not care to accept this profs cap ofadvantage fs would
manage it J or me as I plea1 ed* and render me ajr:iih*
ful account ofhis success, which jbould he wholly mine*
Indeed 1 was very unwilling to part with him: but
considering it might he for the young rmn's good, I
discoursed my partner about it, who, or" his own gc-
-Derofity, gave him his share of the ytflcl, so that i
co aid
could do no otherwise tb*n give him mine *, but how-
ever, we let him have but the property of half of it,
and reierv; d a power, that when we met in England*
if he had obtained success, he should account lo us
for one hilt of the profits of the ihip's freight, and
the other should he his own. Thus having taken &
writing und ;f hU bund, away he foiled to J«pan,
where the merchant dealt very honestly by him. got
him a licence to come on ihore, lent him loaded to
ths Philippines with a Japanese supercargo, Irom
whence he came back ^gai:i lo?-ded with European
goods, cloves, and other fp;cerks. By this voyage
he cleared a considerable sum of money, which de-
termined him not to tell his snip, but to trade on his
own account : so he retained to the Manillas, where
getting acquaintance, he made his ship ka:^ was
hired by the governor privately to go to Acapulco
in America on the M-xican coast, with a licence to
travel to the great city ot M- x»co. This traffic
turned out greatly to account, and my friend find-
ing means o get to Jamaica, returned nine years af-
ter exceeding rich into England.
In parting with the ship, it comes in course to
consider of those men who had laved our lives whea
in the river of C-UTibodia : and though, by the way,
they were a couple of rogues, who thought to turn
pirates themselves, yet we paid them what they had
before demanded, and gave each of them a small
sum of money, making the Englishman a gunner,
and the Dutchman a boatswain, with which they
were very well contented.
We were now above 1000 leagues faither from
home than when at Bengal. All the comfort we could
ex;e61 was, that there being anether fair to he ki pt
in a month's time, we might not only purchase all
sortsof that country's manufactures, but very pofRbly
find some Chinese junks, or vessels from Tonquin, to
be fold, vvlvch would carry us and our goods where-
soever we pleased. Upon these hopes, we resolved
to
to continue*, and to divert ourselves, we took several
little journeys in the country, Anout ten days after
we parted with our (hip* we travelled to fee the city
of Nanquin. This city lies in latitude 30 dig north
of the line; it is regularly built, and the streets are
exactly straight, and cross one another, in direct
lines, which sets it our to the greatest advantage. At
our return, we found the pric.it was come from Ma-
cao that was to accompany father Simo 1 to PekSm
That father earnestly solicited me to accomp my birr.,
and 1 referred him to my partner. In ihort, we
both agreed, and prepared accordingly ; arid we were
so lucky as to have lihcrty to travel among the reti-
nue of one of their Mandarines, who is a principal
magistrates and much reverenced by the people.
We were five and twenty days travelling through
this miserable country, infinitely populous, but as
indifferently cultivated; and yet their pride is infi-
nitely greater than their poverty, insomuch that the
priests themselves derided them. As we pafll d by the
house of one of their country gentlemen, two leagues
oiF Nanquin, we had the honour, forsooth, to
ride with the Chines" squire about two miles. Never
Was Don Quixotte io exactly imitated, never such a
compound of pomp and poverty seen before 1
His habit, made of calico, was dirty, greasy, and
very proper for a Merry Andrew or Scaramouch, with
all its tawdry trappings, as hanging flevees, tailels,
drc. though torn and rent in almost every part; his
Vest underneath it was no less dirty, but more greasy,
resembling the most exquisite sloven, or greasy bit-
cher. His horse (worse than Rosnante, or the famous
steed of doughty Hudibras) was a poor starved, de-
crepit thing, that would not fell for thirty shillings
in England : and yet this piece of worshipful pomp
was attended with ten or twelve slaves, who guarded
their master to his country-seat. We stopped at a
little village for refreshment: and when we came by
the country-scat oi this great man, we found him sit-
ting
tins under a tree before his door, eating a mess of
boiVed rice, with a great piece of garhc in the middle,
and a bag haled with green pepper by him, and ano-
ther plant like ginger, together with a piece ot lean
mutton in it; tiiii was his Woithip's repiii: but
pray observe the (late of the fool! two women il ives
brought him his food-, which being laid -.et'ore him,
two others appeared to perform the c respective ofli-
ces •, one fed him with a spoon, while the other (crap*
ped off what sell upon hi* »eard and tatiety vefr, and
gave it to a particular favourite to eat. And thus
we left the wretch pieced with the conceit 01 our
admiring his magnificence, which rather merited our
scorn arfd detection.
At length we arrived at the gre*t city of iVkin, ac-
companied oy two servants, and the o*d Portuguese
pilor, whole charges we bore, and who served us as
an Interpreter uy'the way. We had scarce been a
w^l at Pekin, but he comes laughing to us, Ah!
Sirnhr Inglise, Hid he. me southing tell yen make
your heart zjad% hut make me sorry ; jer you bring me
htre 25 Jays journey, and now you leave me go hack
alone- and which wa} jhall 1 make my fort ajter%
without de ship, -without de horse, without pecune?
so he c/dW money in his broken Latin. He then in-
formed me, that there was a great caravan of Musco-
vite and Polish merchants in the city, who were pre-
paring to set out for Muscovy by kind within six
week?* and that he was certain we would take this
opportunity, and consequently that he must go home
by himfilf. indeed this news infinitely surprised and
pleased me. Are you certain of this P sou I. Tes>
Sir, laid he, me jure ifs true- Aud so he told me,
that having rn*>t an old acquaintance of his, an Arme-
nian, in thejtreety who was among thnn, and who
had come from Aitraean, with a design to go to I'on-
quin, hut lor certain reajons having altered his nfo-
Iutio:?y he\vas now resolved to go with the carai any
Mild to return by the river '.Volga to Aftr.xan. Weil,
Signior, said I, don't be dheontented about your re-
turning
 
turning alone; and if by this means I ca?) find a passugs
to England, it will be you?" own fault it" you retu.-n to
Macao at all. And so consulting with my paimer
what was best to oe done, he referred it to me as I
pleased, having our affairs (o well fettled at Bengal,
that if we could convcit the good voyagr we hid m 'de
in Clvna silks, wrought raw, he. would be f.tisiird to
go to England, and so return to Bengal in the compa-
ny's ships. Thus relolved, we agreed, that it our pi-
lot would go with us, we would bear hit, charges either
to Mufcow or England; and to give hon in a present
the sum of 170 pounds Stirling. Hereupon, w: cal-
led him in, and told him the tauil of his complaint
should be removed, if he would accompany us with
the caravan ; and therefore we desired to know his
mind. At this he (hook his head. Great -ong jour*
ney, said he, me no pecune, carry me to Muicow, or
keep me there. But we soon put him out ol that
concern, by rn^kiug him sensible of what we would
give him here to lay out to the best advantage; a*>d
as for his charges, we would set him safe on more,
God willing, either in Muscovy, or England, as he
pleased, at our own charge, except the carriage of his
goods. At this proposal he was like a man transpor-
ted, telling us, he would go with us all the woiid o-
ver; and we made prt paiatmns for our journey : but
it was near four months before all the merchants
were ready.
In the mean time, my partner and the pilot went
express to the port where wi first put in, to dispose of
'what goods had been left there, while 1 accompanied
a Chinese merchant, who was going to NUeqam, and
there bought 29 pieces ot damalk. with about 300
more of otht r fine filks; and bv the tivae rr* partner
returned fnPekm, I had them al! carried thither : our
Cargo in h!ks a morn ted to 45c fcl. Srcrliig, which,
together with tea, fine calicoes, nntrr"-/:*, and doves
loaded i8 camels for our flr-we, betides wh.r we k de
upon, with two or three spare" horses, -e d two more
leaden with provisions; the company now w*s very
great,
 
great maki.g about 400 horse, ami ,i!>ove 120 ment
well amud 4 id provided vV - were -n ieverai naiioas,
among whom weve live Scots merchants innabiting
in Muicow, a?id well experienced in >rade
We set out irom Pckiu the beginning ot February
our style j and in two days more, we p.Æd th-ough
the gate of the great China w.dl, which was erected
as a fortification agaiuil the Tartars, being 108 Lug-
liih miles long We then entered a country not near
so populous, chiefly ruder the power of plundering
Taita.'s, several comp-inies of - :;cna we pciceived tid-
ing 0:1 p ior lLifveii hosi-/s,conte npti-^lc as themselves*
without uider or discipline. One time our leader for
the day gave us leave to go a hunting But what do
you think we huutd, only 3 parcel oi sheep, which
indeed exceeded any in the world for wlidncfo and
'swiftness ; but while we were pursuing this game, it
w sourehane;, to meet with about io^ty Fa rears, who
no -ooner perceived us, bur one o; them blew a horn,
at tiie found oi when <meie ibon appeared a troop of
forty or fifty more, at anout a mde's difiance. Here-
upon one of the -jeors -ntrehants (who knew their
way) ordered us 10 adv m e tow .rds them, and attack
them immediately. Ab we advanced, they let fly a
volley of arrows, which h.ippily ieU a little short of us:
thh; made us halt a little, 10 reiuru the compliment
with bullets ; and then being led up by the hod oco%9
we fired our pistols in then faces, aud drew out our
swords; but there was no occasion ; for they flew like
timorous sheep, and only three os them remained,
bekoning to the icit to come tack. But our brave com*
mander gallops up to them ny binVelf, shot one dead,
knocks another off his horse, whiie the third ran
away: and thus ended our battle with the Tartars.
We travelled a month more through the ernrxror of
China's dominions ; and at Jen«th coming to one of
their town? about a dd\ and a half's journey from the
cit\ of Naum, 1 wanted to buy a camel. The person I
spoke to would have brought me one, but, like a foel,
I must go along with him, about two miles from the
£ b 'vill
a6*
village. My old pilot and I walked on soot, forsooth,
for some variety, when coming to the place where the
camels were kept as in a park guarded by Chinese sol-
diers, we there agreed and bought one, which the
Chineie man that came with me led along the road.
But we had not gone far, before we were attacked by
fjve Tartars, mounted on horseback, two of whom
seized the man, took the camel from him, and rode
away, while the other three approached us, the first
of whom suddenly seized me as i was drawing my
sword, the second knocked me down; but my old
trusty Portuguese, taking a pistol out of his pocket,
•which 1 knew nothing of, and coming up to the fel-
low that struck me, he, with one hand, pulled him off
his horse, and then shot him dead upon the spot ; then
taking his seymitar, he struck at the man that stopt us,
but miffing him, cut off one of his horse's ears, the
painof which made him throw his rider to the ground.
1 he poor Chinese, who had led the camel, seeing the
Taitar down, runs to him, and seizing upon his pole-
axe, wrenched it from bus hands, and knocked his
biains cut. But there was another Tartar to deal
with, who seeming neither inclined to sight, nor to
fly, and my old man having begun to clvirge his pistol,
the veiy fight of it struck such a tenor into the wretch,
that away he scoured, leaving my old pilot, rather my
champion and defender, an absolute victory.
By this time being awakened from my trance, I be-
gan to open my eyet, wondeiing where I was, having
quite forgot all that palled ; but my senses returning,
and seeling a great pain in my head, and seeing the
tiood was running over my cloaths, I instantly jump-
ed upon my feet, and grasped my sword in my hand,
with a resolution to take revenge-, but no enemies now
remained, except the dead Tartar, with his horse
{landing by him. The old man seeing me recovered,
whom he thought slain, ran to towards me, and embra-
ced me with the greatest tenderness, at the fame time
examining into my wound, which was far from being
mortal j whea we returned to the village, the man de-
manded
 
mamled payment for his came?, which i refusing, we
brought the 01 use before ,1 Chinese judge, who acted
with great impartiality: having heard both sides, he
asked the Chinese man that went with me, whole ser-
vant he was? i>ir, laid he, I urn nobody's, but went
with the stranger, at his requ-ft: why the,?, (Yul the
judge, you were the itrar>geiJs seivatu lor the time,
and the camel being delivered rohia servant, it is the
fame as though cLiivercd to himself, and accord-
ingly he nviil pay for it. hide d iU : cafe was so lair-
ly ii.ttcd, th it 1 had nothing to obj/cl to it: ib having
paid for that I was rob",ed of, 1 seat lor a Luther, bit
did not go myself to fetch it, as 1 had enough of that
sport before.
The city os Naurn is a frontier of the Chines: em-
pire, so fortified, a; ib-/sk; wdi teH von, tb it nrdiion.s
of Tarfais cannot butler d^nvn their walls; by winch
certainly one might thiok one of our cannons would
do more execution than ad their legions.
When we were within a d.-.y's m.neh of that city,
we had information tint the governor had sent mes-
sengers to every part of the road, to inform the tra-
vellers and caravans to halt, till a guard was sent to
protect them from the numerous bodies of L'artatsrh.it:
lately appeared about the city. This news put us in-
to gre.it coiiiieroation -, but, obeying ib^ orders, we
ftopty and two days after, there ear-u: two hundred sol-
diers from a garriibn of the Chinese, and tloee hun-
dred mere from Naum: thus guarded bmh in the
front and rear, with our men on the fa inks v»x* hoid-
ly advanced, thinking we wefe able to combat wah
ten thousand Mogul Tartars, if they appeared.
Early next morning, in our march from a little:
well situated town called Changu, after having p?(f;d
a river, and entered upon a desert of a anit 15 or i(S
miles over, we soon beheld, by a cloud of dait that
was raised, that the enemy was approaching. This
much dispirited the Chinese. My old pilot took no-
tice of it, and called out, Signior Inglese, those ser.
lows must be encouraged, or they will ruin us all:
B b 2 and
 
and I am afraid, if the Tartars attack us, they will al!
iun away. Why Sigmor, said I, what shall be done
In this case? Done, lavs he, why, Jet fifty of our men
advance, and funk them on each wing. I know the
fellows will fight well enough in company. We ac-
cordingly took his advice, and marched fifty to the
sight wing, and the fame number to the left, and
vith the rest made a line of reserve, leaving the last
two hundred nun to guard the camels, or to assist U3
as occasion required.
Thus prepared, a party of the enemy came forward,
viewing oui posture, and traversing the ground on the
J font os our line. Hereupon we ordered the two
wings to move on, and give them a salute with their
ihot , which accordingly was done. This put a stop
to their proceedings; for immediately wheeling off
to their left, they all marched away, and we saw nor
more of them. They had undoubtedly given an ac-
count to their companions of what reception they
might expect, which made them so easily give over
their enterprise.
When we came to the city of Naum, we returned
the governor hearty thanks, and dispersed a hundred
crowns among the soldiers that guarded us. We rest-
ed there one day, and then proceeded on our travels,
passing several great rivets and deserts \ and on the
13th of April, we came to the frontiers of Muscovy,
the first town of which was called Argun,
This happy occasion, as 1 thought, of Coming in-
to a Christian country, made me congratulate the
•Scots merchant upon is: he smiled at that, telling
me not to rejoice too soon; for, said he, except the
Russian soldiers in garrison, and a few inhabitants of
the cities upon the road, all the rest of this country,
for above a thousand miles, is inhabited by the moil
ignorant and barbarous Pagans.
We advanced from the river Arguna by moderate
journeys, and found convenient garrisons on the road,
filled with Christian soldiers, for the security of com-
merce, and for the convenient lodgings of travellers 5
but
 
 
But the inhabitants of the countiy were mere Pagans
worshipping the moon, fun, and liars.- We particular*
ly observed this idolatry near the river Argun.), ac a
city inhabited by far tars and llustians, called Neri-
sinkey. Being curious to fee their way of living,.
while the caravan continued to reft themselves in tina
city, I went to one^of their villages, where there \v,n
to be one of their solemn sacrifices. There i beheld,
upon the itumpof an old tree, an idol of wood, more.;
ugly than the representation ot the devil himfeif; its-
head resembled no living creature: its ears were as
big and as high as goat's horn5?, a crooked nose, lour
cornered mouth, and horrible teeth : it was clothed,
in fheeps skins, had a great Tartar- bonnet, with two
horns growing through it, and was eight foot high,
without sect, legs, or proportion. Before this idol
there lay 16 or 17 people, who brought their offerings,
and were making their prayers, while at a di(lance
stood three men, and one builock, as victims to this
ugly moniler.
Such stupendous sacrileges as this, in robbing the
true God of his honour, filled me with the greatest
astonishment and reflection; which soon turning to
rage and fury, I rode up to the image, and cut la
pieces the bonnet that was upon his head with my
sword, so that it hung down by one of the horm;,,
while one of my men that wm with me,, pulled at it
by his sheep skin ^rment. Immediately an hideous
howling and outcry ran through the vllhg^$ and two
or three hundred p.. ople coming about our ears, we
•were obligee! tolly for it.
But I had not done with the monster;, for the ca-
ravan being to rest three eights in the town, I told
the Scots merchant what I had seen, and that f wa3
resolved to take four or five men well armed with me,
in,order to destroy the idol, and shew the- peopleJiow
little reason they had to trust in a god, who could not
-€*•
Kill'
fare himself. At first he hrughed at me, repr
the danger of it, and when it was deflioyeef, what
time had we to preach to them better things whose
B b 3 ^l
•zeal and ignorance was in the highest: degree, and
both uuparallelied ? that if I should be taken by them,
1 should he served as a poor ruffian, who contemned
their worship ,* that is, to be stripped naked, and tied
to the top ot the idol, there shot at with arrows till
my body was full of th'-:m, and then burnt a sacrifice
to the monster: but, Sir, laid he, since your zeal
canics you so fir, rather than you should be alone I
will accompany you, and bring a stout fellow equal
to yourself, is you will, to assist you in this design:
and accordingly he brought one captain Richardson,
who hearing the story, readily consented; but my
partner declined it, being altogether out of his way:
and so we three, and my man-servant, resolved to exe-
cute this exploit about midnight *, but upon second
thoughts we deferred it to the next night, by reason
that the caravan being to go from thence next morn-
ing, we should be out of the governor's power. The
better to effectuate my design, I procured a Tartar's
llieep (kin robe, a bonnet, with a bow and arrows, and
every one of us got the like habits. The first night
we spent in mixing combustible matter with aqua-vi*
tæ, gun-powder, &c having a good quanitity of tar in
a little pot; next night we came up to the idol about
eleven o'clock, the mcen being up. We sound none
guarding it \ but we perceived a light in the house,
where we had seen the priests before. One of our inert
was for siring the hut, another for killing the people,
and a third for making them prisoners, while the idol
was destroyed. We agreed to the latter; so knock-
ing at the door, we seized the first that opened it, and
stopping his mouth, and tying his feet, we left him..
We saved the other two in the like manner j and then
the Scots meichant set sire to the composition, which
fiightened them so much, that we brought them all
away prisoners to their wooden ged. There we sell
to work with him, daubing him all over with tar
mixed with tallow and brimstone, stopped his eyes,
ears, and mouth hill of gun powder, with a great
piece of wiM fir in his boiuiet, and environed it with
dry
 
dry forage. All this being done, we unloosed and
ungaged the prisoners, and iet the idol on lire, which
the gun-powder blowing up, the ihape of it was de-
formed, rent, and split, which the forage utterly con-
fumed-, for we staid to see its destruction, lest the ig*
norant idolatrous people should have thrown them-
selves into the flames. And this we came away undii-
covered, the morning appearing as busy among our
fellow-travellers, as no body could have luipededany
other, but that we had been in our beds all night.
Next morning we set out, and had gone I ut a small
distance from the city, when there came a multitude
of the people os the country to the gates of the city,
demandingsatisfaction of the Russian governor for in-
suiting their priests, and burning their great Cham Chi-
Thaungu, who dwelt in the fun,and no mortal would
violateliis image, bin some Christian miscreants; and
being already no less than thirty thousand strong, they
announced war against him and all his Christians.
The governor allured them he was ignorant of the
matter, and that none of his garrison had been abroad;
that indeed there was a caiavan that went away that
morning, and that he would fend after them to en-
quire into it \ and whoever were the offenders, should
be delivered into their hands. Tins satisfied them for
the present, but the governor sent to inform us, that
If any of us had done it, we mould make ali the haste
away possible, while he kept them in play as long as
he could. Upon this we marched two days aud two
nights, stopping but very little, till at last we arrived
at a village called PJothus, and hasted to Jarawena*
another of the Czar's colonies. On the third day,
having entered the desert, and pasted the lake called
Shaks Oser, we beheld a numerous body of horse on
the ether side of it to the north, who supposed we had
passed on that side of the lake; but having cither found
their mistake, or being certainly informed of the way
we took, tiny came upon us towards the dusk of the
evening, just as we bad pitched our camp between
two little but very thick woods, with a little river
running
 
running before our front, and some felled trees with
which we covered our rear; a precaution we always
took, and which we had juit finished, when the ene-
my came np. They did not fall on us immediately,
but sent three messengers, demanding the men who
had insulted their pr sells, and burnt their god Chum
Chi ThaungU) that they might be burnt with sire, that
is this was complied with, they would peaceably de-
part; but if not, they would dt (troy one and all ol us.
Our men flared at one another on receipt of this mes-
sage, bur Nthcdy was the word, as indeed nobody
knew it, but he who did it. Upon which the leader
of the caravan returned for answer, That they weie
peaceable merchants, who meddled with none of
their priests and gods; and therefore desired them
not to disturb us, and put us to the necessit) of defend-
ing ourselves. But so far was this from satisfying them,
that the next morning, coming to our right, they kt
fly a volley of arrows among us, which happily did
not hurt any, because we sheltered ourselves behind
our baggage. We expected however to come to a
closer engagement; but were happily saved by a cun-
ning fellow, a Cossack, who obtaining Ic^vc os The
leader to go out, mounts his horse, riu'ts directly from
our rear,and taking a encuit, comes up to :he Tartars,
as though he had been sent express, and tells th? m a
formal story, thai she wretches who find burnt the Cham
Chi Thauvgii) were gone to Siheiika, with a rtsolu-
tion to burn the god Shal Ifar, belonging to (he Ton-
guescs. Upon which, believing this cunning Tartar,
'who was servant to our Muscovites, away they chove
to Siheiika, and in less than three m-nutes were out
of our sight, nor did we ever hear of them more.
When we came to the city e'i jarawena, we reded
five days, and then entered int.; a frightful desert,
which held us twenty-three days march, inselicd with
several small companies of robbers, or Mogul Tartars,
^ho never had the courage to attack us. After we
had passed over this desert, we found several ganisnns
to defend the caravans iwm the violence of the Tar-
tars,
tars. In particular the governor of Adinskoy offered
us a guard of fifty men to the next station, if we ap-
prehended any danger. The people here retained
the same paganism and barbarity, only the) were not
so dangerous, being conquered by the Muscovites.
The cloathing, both of men and women, is of the
skins of beasts, living under the ground in vaults and
caves, which have a communication with one another*
They have idols almost in every family j besides, they
adore the fun and liars, water and snow; and the
least uncommon thing that happens in the elements,
alarms them as much as thunder and lightening does
the unbelieving jews.
Nothing remarkable occured in our march through
this country. When we had got through the defertj
after two days further travel, we came to jenezo, a
Muscovite city, on the great river so called, which,
we were told, parted Europe from Asia. The inhabi-
tants here were very little better, though intermixed
with the Muscovites; but the wonder will cease,
when I inform my reader of what was observed to
me, that the Czar rather converts the Tartars witfi
soldier than clergymen, and is more proud to make
them faithful subjects, than good Christians.
From this city to the river Oby, we travelled over
a pleasant, fruitful, but very uncultivated country, for
want of good management and people, and those few
are mostly pagans. This is the place where the Mus-
covite criminals are banished to, if they are not put
to death. The next city we came to, was the capi-
tal city of Siberia, called I oboliki, when, having been
almost seven months on our journey,and winter draw-
ing on apace, my partner and I consulted about our
particular affairs, in what manner we should dispose
of ourselves. We had been told of sledges and rein-
deer to carry us over the snow in the winter season,
the snow being frozen so hard, that tin fledges can rim
upon the surface without any danger of going down.
As 1 was bound to England, I now behoved either to
go with the caravan to Jeroilaw, from thence west
to
 
 
to Narva, and the gulf of Finland, and so by 1 and or
sea to Denmark, or else I mud leave the caravan ata
little town on the D wina, and so to Archangel, where
I was certain of shipping either to England, Holland,
or Hamburgh. One night I happened to get into the
company of an illustrious but banished prince, whose
company and virtues were such as made me propose
to him a method how he might obtain his liberty,
My dear friend, said he, as I am h>re happily free
from my miserable greatness, with all its attendants
of pride.) ambition j avarice, and luxury; if I should
escape from this place\ these peraichus feeds may a-
gain revive f to my la/ling disquietude•; therefore let
me remain in a blessed confinement, J'or I am but flesh %
a mere manf with passions and al] eel ions as fitch; 0
be not my friend and tempter too / Struck dumb with
surprise 1 stood silent a while, nor was he in less dis-
order; by which perceiving he wanted to give vent
to his mind, I desired him to consider of it, and so
withdraw. But about two hours after he came to
my apartment: Dear friend, said he, though I can-
not consent to accompany yoiij I shall have this satis-
faction in parting, that you leave me an honest man%
still \ but as a testimony of my afpecHon to you, be plea-
fed t9 accept this present of fables.
In return for this compliment, I sent my servant
next morning to his Lord (hip, with a small present of
tea, two pieces of China damaik, and four little wed-
ges of gold: but he only accepted the tea, one piece
of damaik, and a piece of gold, for the curiosity of
the Japan stamp that was upon it. Not long alter,
he sent for me, and told me, That what he had re-
fused himself, he hoped upon his account I would
grant to another, whom he should name? In short,
it was his only Ion, who was about 200 miles distance
from him, on the other side of the Oby, whom he
said he would send for, if I gave my consent. This I
soon complied with : upon which he sent his servants
next day for his son, who returned in twenty days
time, bringing seven horses loaded with valuable furs.
At
 
At night the young lord was conducted incognito into
our apartment, where his father presented him to me*
We then concerted the best ways tor travelling, and
after having bought a considerable quantity of fables,
black fox-skins, sine ermirnes, ire. (which i fold at
Archangel at a good price), we kt out from this city
the beginning or June, making a small caravan, being
about thirty-two horses and camels, of which I repre-
sented the head. My young lord had with him a ve-
ry faithful Siberian servant, well acquainted wlut the
roads: we ihunned the principal towns and cities, as
Tumen, Soii-Kamofkoi, and ttveral. others, by rea-
son of their strictness in extrmmng travellers, le-it any
of the banished persons of distinction fhomd escape.
Having p.ssscd the river Kama, we came to a city on
the European fide, called Soloy Kamolkoi, where we
found the people mostly Pagans as bet ore. We then
pidicc! a dcfait of anoui two hundred miles over; but
in other places, it is near seven hundred. In passing
this wild place, we were beset by a troop of men on
horseback, and about hve and forty men armed with
bows and arrows. At first they locked earnestly on
us, and then placed themselves in our way. We were
above sixteen men, and drew up a little line before
our camels. My young lord lent out his Siberian ser-
vant to know who they were \ hut when he approach-
ed them, he neither knew a word they laid, nor would
they admit him to come near them at his peril, but
prepared to shoot him. At bib return he told us he
believed them to be Calmuck Tartars, and that he
thought there were more of them upon the defart.
This was but a small comfort to us; yet seeing 3 little
grove about a quarter oi a milr% distance, we moved
to it, by the old Portuguese pilot's advice, without
meeting with any opposition. Here we found a mar-
shy piece of ground, and a spring of water running
into a little brook on one sid«-, which joined another
like it a little farther off, -n-d these two formed the
head of the river called Wrilika. As soon as we ar-
rived.
 
rived, we went to work, cutting down gre-».t arms off
the trees, and laying them hanging (not q-iite off)
from one tree to another In this situation we waited
the motions oi the enemv, without perceiving any ad-
vancement they made towards us. About two hours
before night, being joined by some others, m all a-
bout fourscore hone, among whom we fancied were
some women, they came upon us witn g it furv. We
fired without ball, calling to them i.i -he Ruilian
tongue to know their business j but the\, either not
knowing, or seeming not to understand us, came di-
rectly to the wood-side, not confide* ing that we were
so fortified, as that they could not break in Our old
pilot the Portuguese proved both our captain and en-
gineer, and desired us not to sir , till they came with-
in piflol-{hot; and when he gave the word of com-
mand, then to take the surest aim: nut he did not bid
us give fie, till they were within two pikes length of
us, and then we killed fourteen of them, wounded
several, as also their horses, having every one us us
loaded our pieces with two or three bullets at least.
So much were they surprised at our undauntedness,
that they retired about a hundered roods from us. In
the mean while, we loaded our pieces agun, and sal-
lying out, seemed four or five of their horses, whose
riders we found were killed, and perceived them to
be 1 artars. About an hour after, they made another
attempt, to fee where they might break in; but find-
ing us ready to receive them, they retired
All that night we wrought hard, in strengthening
our situation, and barricading the entrances into the
words; but when day light came, we had a very un-
welcome dieovery ; for the enemy being encouraged
by their assistance, had set up elf ven or twelve tents
in form of a camp, about three qu rrtersof a mile from
us. I must confess, I was never more concerned in
my life, giving myself and all that \ had over for lost.
And my partner declared, that as the loss of his goods
would be his ruin, before they fhou-d be taken from
him, he would fight to the last drop of his blood.
M
 
 
as we could not; pretend to force our way, we had
recourse to a ihar*g*m; we kindled a large lire,
which burnt al] ^*gni ; and no sooner was it dark, but
we pa? iit.;d our paaiey towards the pole, or north
star, and travelling all nighr, by six o'clock 10 the
morning we came to a liufFr.-ui village, called Kerrza,
and »rom thence came to a Irfgc town mimed Ozo-
noys, where we heard that several troops of Cid muck
Tartars had bre/i noroad upon the desert, hut that we
were past all danger In live days after we came to
'Veuflirru, upo 1 the river Witzedga; from thence we
ame to Lawreufkoy, on the third of July, where,
providing ourselves with two kii^.i^e boats and a
convenient hark, we embarked the seventh, and ar-
rived at Archangel the eighteenth, after a year, live
months, and.three days journey, including the eight
months and odd days at To'-oi/fci. We came from
Archangel the twentieth of August in thesjruM year,
• and arrived at Hamburgh the thirtieth of September.
Here my partner and I made a very good laic of our
goods, both those of China and Siberia ; when, divi-
ding our effects, my ft are came to 3475/ 1 7 x. i-d*
after all the losses we had sustained, and cine/^s we
had been at. Here the young Lord took his leave of
me, in order to go to the court of Vienna, not only
to seek protection, but to correspond with hi.s father's
friends. After we had staid four months in Hani*
burgh, I went from thence over land to the H.gue,
where, embarking in the packet, I arrived in London,
•the tenth of January 1 705, after ten years and nine
months absent from England.
Robin ion Crusoe's Vision os the Angelic World*
Chap. L Os SOLITUDE.
HOwfvfr solitude is looked upon as a restraint
to the pleasures of-the world, in comany and
; €onversation9 yet it is a happy state of exemption from
C€ • a
a sea of trouble, an inundation of vanity and vexation,
of confusion and disappointment, While, we enjoy our-
selves, neither the joy nor sorrow oi other men afreet
us: we are then at I j berry, with the voice oi our ioul,
to sneak to God. i.'y this we shun such (Vequent tri-
vial discourse, as even becomes an obstruction to vir-
tue; and how often do we find, that we had reason
to wish we hid u«>t been in company, or said nothing
when we were there? for either we offend God by
the impsoty os our discourse, or lay onr solves open to
the violence of designing people by our unguarded a*
pre(lions ; and frequently (ed the coldness and treach-
ery of pretended friend-', when once involved in
trouble and ?sil'cuon ; oi" such unfaithful intim-ites (I
should soy encodes) who rather by falie innuendoes
•would accumulate miseries upon us, than homiliy ai-
fist us when suffering under the hard hand of adver-
sity. Bat in a state os solitude, when our tongues can-
not he heard, except by the threat Majesty of heaven,
how happy are we, in the bksted enjoyment of con-
versing with our Maker! It is then we make him our
friend", which sets us above!lie envy and contempt of
wicked men. When a man converses with himself,
he is sure that he does not converse with an enemy.
Our retreat should be to good company, and good
books. I mean nor by solitude, that a man should
retire into a cell, a dekri, or a monastery: which
would he altogether an useless and unprofitable re-
straint: soras'.nen are formed for society, and have
an absolute necessity and dependence upon one ano-
ther ; so there is a retirement of the foul, u ith which
it converses in heaven, even in the midst of men $
and indeed no man is more fit to speak freely, than
he who can, without any violence to himself, refrain
his tongue, or keep silence altogether. As to reli-
gion, it is by this the foul gets acquainted with the
hidden mysteries of the holy writings; here she finds
those flood of tears, in which good men wash them-
selves day aud night, and only makes a visit to God,
and his holy angels. In this "conversation the truest
peace
 
peace and most solid joy are to be found; it is a con-
tinual fealt ot contentment on earth, and the means
of attaining everlaiting happiness in heaven.
Chap. II. Of HONEST T.
Honesty is a virtue beloved by good men, and
pretended to by all persons, in this t lie re are ieveo.il
degrees : to pay every man his own, is the common
law of hondty $ but to do good to all mankind, is
the ch-mcery law of honeity : and this chancery-court
is in every man's brtait, where his conscience i> a lord
chancellor, Hence it is, that a raiser, 'though he pays
e?ery body their own, c.innot be an honest nun, when
he does not discharge the good offices that are in-
cumbent on a friendly, kind, and generous person:
for, faith the prophet Isaiah, chap, xjcxu ver. 7. 8.
The instruments of a churl arc evil : he deuifeih etch-
ed devices to destroy the poor with lying vjords, even
when the needy Jpeakeih right. But the liberal foul
devistih liberal things^ and by liberal things jhdli he
stand.  It is certainly honeity to do every thing the
law requires; hut fnould we throw every poor debt*
or in prison till he has paid the utsnoit farthing, lung
CFery malefactor without mercy, exact: the peri,iky of
every bond, and the forekiture of every indenture,
this- would be downright cruelty* and not honesty:
and it is contrary to that general rule, To do to anc*
ther thai which you would hdve done unto you* ftoms-
timrS necessity makes an hone it man a knave: ana a
rich man an honest man, because he hi-.s no occasion
to he a knave. The trial of honesty is this. l>id
you ever want bread, mid had your neighbour's k>d£
in keeping*, and would starve, rather than eat it .?
"Were you ever arreiteel, having in your custody ano-
ther-'man's calli, and would father-go "to goal, than
break it:.* if so, this.indeed may be reckoned honesty.
For King Sohmen tells us, Thai a good name is bst»
ter- than UJe> and is a precious oinimmt$ and which
C c 1 when
 
when a man has once lqst9 he has nothing left worth
keying.
Chap. IIL Of suffering J FF L IC T 10 N S.
Afflictions are common to all mankind; and
whether they proceed from Jolles, disappointments, or
the malice of men, they often bring their advantages
along with them : for this shews man the vanity and
deceitful ness of this life, and is an occasion of recti-
fying our mcafuies, and bringing us to a more mo-
dest opinion of oui selves: it tells us, how necessary
the assistance of divine grace is unto us, when life itself
Becomes a burden, and death even desirable: hut
when the greatest oppreffion comes upon us, we must
have recourse to patience> begging of God to give us
that virtue; and the more composed we are under a-
ny trouble, the more commendable is our wisdom,
mid the larger will be our recompense. Let the pro-
vocation be what it will, whether from a good natur-
ec! and conscientious, or a wicked, perverse, and vex-
atious man; all this we should take as from the over-
ruling hand of God, as a punishment for our sins.
Many times injured innocence may be abused By false
oaths, or the power of wicked, jealous, or malicious
men; but we often find it, like the palm, rife the
higher, the more it is depressed; while the justice of
God is eminently remarkable in punishing those, one
w*iy or other, who desire to endeavour to procure the
cownlal of an innocent man : nor does God fail com-
forting an afflicted person,' who with tears and prsyers
solicits the throne of Heaven for deliverance and pro-
tection , David soys, "Thai his foul tins full of trouble*
and his life drew near unto the grave* But certainly
D vid\s afflictions made him eminently remarkable,
as particularly when pursued hy King Saul, and hunt-
ed as a partridge over the mountains. But one thing
which stands hy innocence, is the love of God-; for
were we to suffer disgrace, nay, an- ignominious death
itself,
 
itself, what consolation does our innocence piocurc
at our Jateii coniiiet, our kit moment* I
Chap. IV, Of the Immorality of'conversation, and the
vulgar errors of hebavljiis.
A% conversation is a great part of human happiness*
so- it is a pleasant %bt to behold a sweet-tempered
man, who is always sit for it; to fee an air of humour
and plealantnus lit ever upon his brow, and even
something angelic in hh very contitenar.ee : whereas,
if we observe a designing man, we shall find a mirk
of involuntary sadness break 111 upon his joy, and a
certain insurrection in the soul, the natural concomi-
tant os profligate principles.
They err very much, who think religion, or a
strict morality, discomposes the mind, and renders it
unlit for conversation; for it rather inspires us to
innocent mirth, without such a counterfeit joy as
vitious men appeal* with; and indeed wit Is as consist-
ent with religion, as religion is with go:xt manners;
nor is there any thing in the limitation of virtue and
religion that should aiate the pleasures of this wotid,
but on the contrary rather serves to increase them.
On the ether hand, many men, by their own vice
and intemperance, disqualify themselves for con-
versation. Conversation is immoral, where the dis-
course is indecent, irnmodtst, scandalous, slanderous,
and abusi ve. How great is their folly, and how much
do. they expose tberns Ives, when they affront their
belt friend, even God himself, who laughs at the fool
when his fear cometh *?
/she great scandal atheistical and immoral discourse
gives.to .virtue, ought methinks, to be punished by ail
good magistrates: make a man once cease to believe
a^ God, and he has nothing left to limit his fool.
Mow incongruous is it to good government, that a
mm, sliall be punished for drunkenness, and yet have
liberty to affront, and even deny the Majesty of hea-
*ea? when if, even among men, one gives the lie m
C c 3 a
 
 
a gentleman in compiny, or perhaps speaks an affront-
ing word, a quarrel will ensu:?, ami a combat, am!
perhaps minder be the consequence: at the least, he
will prosecute him at Liv with the utmost virulence
and oppression.
'The next thing to be refrained! is obscene dis-
course, which is the language only of proficients ia
debauchery, who never vep^nt but in a goal or hospi-
tal \ and whose carcases reMh no better than their dis-
course, till the body becomes too nasty for the foul
to Hay any longer in it.
Nor Is false Miking to be less avoided ; for lying is
the meeps eloathing-hung upon the wolf's back : it is
the pharisee's prayer, the whore's buss, the hypociire's
paint, the murderer's smile, the thief s cloak, it is
Joab's embrace, and Judah's kiss , in .a word, it is
mankind's darling sin, and the devil's distinguishing
character. Some add lies to lies, till it not only comes
to be improbable, but even impossible too : others lie
for gain, to deceive, delude, and betray : and a third
lies for sport, or for fun. There are other liars, \vho
are personal and malicious; who foment differences,
and carry tales from one house to another, in order to
gratify their own envious tempers, without any re-
gard or reverence to truth.
Chap. V. Of the f resent Jiaie of religion in the iv-orld.
1 doubt, indeed, there is much more devotion than
religion in the world, more adoration than supplica-
tion, and more hypocrisy than sincerity : and it is ve-
ry melancholy to consider, what numbers of people
there are furnished with the powers of reason and gifts
of nature, and yet abandoned to the grossest ignorance
and dtpravity. But it would be uncharitable for u$
to imagine (as some Papists abounding with too much
ilbnature, the only scandal to religion, do) that they
will certainly be in the"state of damnation after this
life; for how can we think it consistent with the mer-
cy and goodness of an infinite Bting, to damn those
'eieatuie%
creature1', whin he has not furnished th<-m with the
light of his ^o'pel f or Ivnv can kali proud, conceited,
ami cruel \ i;'-^?, prc«l:i"ib^ rules tu the jultice aud
meity ci Go-!?
We ,M"t; tuicl by feme pcople5 that the git at image
which King Nu>u;hadntzzer set up to he ;uio*ed by
his perplex In.id the representation of the iun in Its
right hum, a* the principal object oi adoration. But
to ware this discourse ot heathens, how many 1V1 f-
crntraJicli?>g principles are there held among Chri-
stians? am! hew do we doom one amnher to the dc-
\il, while .111 profess to worship the iaaie D...ity, aud
to expect the same salvation
When I was as Portugal, there was held at that
time the court of justice of the incp.titition. -All the
criminals wc;e carried in proedhen to the great
church, where eight of them v,eie habited in gowns
and ceps of canvass, whereon the torments of hell
were displayed, and they wax comkn'kd 3ml burnt
for crimes against thecatboHc fiith and blessed virgin.
I am lorry to make any reflection upon Chiikians:
but indeed in Italy the Roman religion seems the most
cruel and mercenary upon earth: and a veiy judici-
ous person, who travelled through Italy from Turkey,
telis us, "That there is only the lace and outward
<c peirp of religion there ; that the church protects
"murderers and afluilins, and then delivers the civil
ic magistrates over to Satan for doing justice; inter-
u diets whole kingdoms, anc* ^uts UP the churcoes
"for want of paying a few ecclesiastical dues, and
u so puts a flop to religion for want ostheir money •,
u that the court of Inquisition burnt two men for
"speaking dishonourably of the blessed virgin: and
u the missionaries of China tolerated the worshipping
,« the devii by their new converts: that Italy was
11 the theatre, where religion was the grand opera 5
u and that the popish clergy were no other than the
"stage players"
As to religion in Poland, they deny Christ to be the
Mdfiab, or that the Mefliah has come in the ftesii.
And
And as to their ProH^tuin, they are the followers of
I/æIious Socinus, who denned our S iviour'a divinity;
and have no concern about the divine inspiration of
the; rloly Ghost.
In Muscjvy their churches are hulk of w-.vd, and
indeed they have hut wooded priests, though of the
Greek church: they pray as much to St NichoL.-.',
as Papist? do to the Viigin Miry, tor protection in
all their difficulties arid airbed ions.
As to Lucheians, they only ditier from lib. Romans
in believing confuhstantiation, instead of tranUibstan-
tiation *, but, like them, they are much pleased with
the external gallantry and pomp, more than the true
and real practice of it,
in France I found a world of priests, the streets
every where crouded with them, and the churches full
of women ; but surely never was a nation lo tail of
blind guides, so ignorant of religion, and even as
void of morals, as those people who confess their fins
to them.
Does it not seem strange, that while all men own
the Divine Being, there should be so many different
opjnions as to the manner of paying him obedience
in the Christian church? J know not what reason to
assign for this, except it be their different capacities
and faculties. *
And indeed, upon this account, we have perceived
in ail Christian countries what mortal fruds have been
shout religion: what wars and bloodshed have mo-
lested Europe, till the general pacification of the Ger-
man troubles at the treaty of Westphalia , and since
those times, what persecution in the fame country a»
mong the churches of the Lutherans: and should I
take a prospect at home, what unhappy divisions are
between Christians in this kingdom, about Episcopa-
cy and Presbytery, the church of England men and
the dissenters; opposing one another like St Paul and
St Peter, even to the face •, that is, they carry on the
dispute to the utmost extremity.
It might be a question, why there are such differen-
ces
 
 
ces in religious points, and why these breaches should
be more hot and irreconcilable f All the answer i can
give to this, is, that we inquire more concerning the
truth of religion, than any other nation in the world;
and the anxious concern we have about it, makes us
jealous of every opinion, and tenacious of our own:
and this is not because we are more furious and rash
than other people \ but the truth is, we Are more con-
cerned a'-i-out them, and being sensible that the serip-
tute is the great rule of faith, the standard for lite and
doctrine, we have recourse to it ourselves, without
submitting to any pretended infallible judge upon earth.
There is another question, pertinent to the former,
and that is, what remedy can we apply to this mala-
dy? And to this ! must negatively answer. Not to be
less religious, that we may differ the less. This ts
striking at the very root of all religious differences;
for certainly, were they to be carried on with a
peaceable spirit, willing to be informed, our variety
of opinions would not have the name of differences j
nor should we separate in communion os charity,
though we did not agree in several articles of religion.
Nor is there a less useful question to dart, namely,
where will our unhappy religious differences end?
To which, I hope, I may answer, in Heaven ; there
all unchristian aud unbrotherly differences will find a
period; there we shall embrace many a sinner, that
here we think it a dishonour to converse with; and
perceive many a heart we have broken here with cen-
sures, reproaching, and revilings, made whole again
by the halm of the tame Redeemer's blood. Here we
{hail perceive there have been other slocks than those
of our fold ; that those we have excommunicated, have
been taken into that superior communion : and, in a
word, that those contradicting notions-and principles,
which ve thought inconsistent with true religion, we
shall then find reconcileable to themselves, 10 one ano-
ther, and to the fountain of truth. If any rnan >,ik me,
why our differences cannot be ended on eanh; I an-
swer, were we all thoroughly convinced, that then
they
they would be reconciled, we would put an end to
them before \ but this is impossible to be done; for
as mens certain convictions of truth are not equal to
one another, or to the weight or iignisicaucy or inch
veracity j so neither can a general effect or this affair
be txpetted on this fide of the grave.
Before i conclude this chapter, I dull beg leave to
difcouise a little of the wonderful excellency of ne-
gative religion and negative virtue. The Jarccr sets
out, like the phariser, with, God, (think thee; it is
a piece of religious pageantry, the hypocrite's hope:
and, in a word, it is positive vice: for it is either a
mask to deceive others, or a milt to deceive ourselves.
A nvan that is clothed with negatives, thus argues: I
am not such a drunkard as my landlord, such a thief
as my tenent, such a swearer as his neighbour: nei-
ther am I a cheat, anathleft, a rakish fellow, ora high-
wayman,: no! 1 live a sober regular retired life: I
am a good man, I go to church, God I thank thee.
Now, though a man boasts of his virtue in contradic-
tion to the vices mentioned, yet a person had better
have them altogether, than the man himself*, for he
is so full of himself, io persuaded that he is good and
religious enough already, that he has no thoughts of
any thing, except it be to pull off his hat to God Al-
mighty now and then, and thank him, that he has no
occasion for him; and has the vanity to think that his
neighbours must imagine well of him too.
The negative man, though he is no drunkard, is yet
intoxicated with the pride of his own worth: a good
neighbour and peace maker in other families, but a
tyrant in his own : appears in church for a show, but
never falls upon his knees in his closet ; does ad his
alms before men, to be seen of them ; eager in the du-
ties of the second table, but regardless of the first; ap-
pears religious, to be taken notice of by men, but with*'
out intercourse or communication between God and
his own foul: Pray, what is the man f or what
comfort is there of the lire tie Jives ? he is insensible
of faith, repentance, and a Christian mortiikd life;
in
in a word, he is perlbdiy a stranger to the essential
part oi religion. _ ^ ,
Let us for a while enter into the private and retired
part of hb conversation: What notions has he oi his
misoent hours, and ot' the progrels ot ame to tne great
centre and j;uli of lite, eternity r does he know how
to put a rig;*: value on time, or eiteem the liie-alood
of his sou!,'as it really is, and ac* in ail the moments
of it, as one that mud account for them I it then you
can form an equality between what he can do, and
what he thall receive; Ids can it he founded upon
his negative virtue, or what he has so room to do, and
is neituer hisnu/a'ive nor positive piety can be equal
to the reward, and to the eternity that reward is to
last for, what then is to become of the Pharisee, when
he is to he judged ay the iincerity of his repentance,
and rewarded according to the infinite grace of God,
with a (late of bkssed.:css to an endleis eternity ? ^
When the n g-tive man converses with the invisi-
ble world, he is'ndied with as much horror and dread
as Felix, when S; Paul rearmed ro him oi temperance,
righteousness, and ot iuJrement to eome: ior fcclix,
though a great philosopher, oi" $/.ieat power and reve-
rence, was a negative man, and he was m^dc fen hole
byiheapoiiie, that as a life of virtue and temperance
was its own reward, by giving a he-akhy body, a oear
head, and a composed'life; so eternal happiness must
proceed bom anothersprmg ; namely, the infinite un-
bounded grace of a provoked God, who having erect-
ed a righteous tribunal, Jesus Christ would ieparate
fbch as' by faith and repentance, he had brought home
and united to himself by the grace of adoption, and
on-the foot of his having hid down his lite as a ran-
som for them, had appointed them to salvation, when
all the philosophy, temperance, and righteousness in
the world besides'had been ineffectual. And this,! lay,
it was that made Felix, this negative mm, tremble.
Chap. VI Of listening to the voice ofProvi lence.
The magnificent and wife King Solomon bids his cry
aftef
aster knowledge, and list up our voice for understand-
ing; by which *s truant, religious knowledge; tor it
fo.hmb: I hen shalt thou understand th fear oj'the
Lord, and find the knowledge of^od. l5y which tin-
doubtly he nit:,mt, to inquire after every thing that
he h?b pcimitud us to know, and not to ie-uch into
thole ways that are U!dc<v'chtib«c, and are ess.-.ctually
lockid up f.om our knowledge. Now, as listening to
the Dolce of providence is my present iii jeel, i intend,
in the first place, to wnte to thole who own, \ r Ph.it
there is a God, a tirit great moving cause ot alt things,
and eternal power, p. tor, and consequently iupen-.-r
to all created po*cr or being. 2. That this eternal
power, which is God, is the iovereign creator -f\m\ go-
vcinor of heaven ard uirth.
lo avoid all needless distinctions, wh't persons in
the Godhead exeicife the creating, and what-the go-
verning power, 1 oiler that g.orious text, Pu). Kxxiii.
6. wheic the whole Trinity is intitied to the wuole
creating wo<k; and therefore, in the next place, I
ihali lav down these two pmpobtions.
I. That the eternal Cod guides by his providence the
whole universe j w/dch was created by his foucr.
II. That this providence manifests a particular care
over, and concern in the govirning and direcl-
ih^ivnn^ the moll noble ii\*ture ujon earth.
It n pjatn, tlvat n tural religion pioves the inst, by
Intimating the n*c< (lity of a providence ginning and
governing the world, from the consequence of the
wildom, justice, prescience, and goudneis of the al-
mighty Creator: for othei wise it-JWiotf!~d-rje~ absurd to
think,'that God should create a world, without any
care or providence over it, in guiding the operations
of nature, so us to preserve the order of his creation.
R-.vealed religion gives us a light into the Care -Mid
concern oi-his provide nee, by thcMrlitr.atc'r. being made
habitable, the creatures su:J-:-&od and mneic nonriih-
ing, and all vegttative life made rntdicin.d; and all
this for the lake of ir.an, wko"is nv*de viccjO) to the
King of the eatth. The short description I ihall gi ve
of
 
 
 
 
of-providence is this : That it is that operation of the
power, of the wisdom, justice, and goodness of God,
by which he influences, governs, and duetts, not on-
ly the means, hut the events of all things, which con-
cern us in this sublunary world ; the sovereignly of
which we ought always to reverence, obey its mo-
 tions, observe its dictates, and listen to its voice. The
prudent man lorefeeth the evil, and hideth him:eis; that
is, a^ I take it, there is a secret providence intimates
to us, that some danger threatens, if we strive not to
shun it.
The fame day that Sir John Hotham kept out Hull
against the royal ma; tyr King Charles 1. the fame day
Bir John Hotham was put to death by the parliament
for that very action *, the fame day that the king him-
self signed the warrant for the execution of the Earl
of Stafford, the same day "os the month was he bar-
barously murdered by the blood thirsty Oliverian crew:
and the fame day that King James the Second came
to the crown against the bill of exclusion, the fame
day he was voted abdicated by the parliament, and the
throne filled with King William and Queen Mary.
The voice of signal deliverance from iudden dan-
gers, is not only a just call to repentance, but a cau-
tion against falling into the like danger \ but such who
are utterly careless of themselves alter, (hew a lethar-
gy of the worst nature, which seems to me to be a kind
of practeial atheism, or at least a living in a contempt
of Heaven, when he receives good at the hand of his
Maker, but is unconcerned from whence it comes,
or to thank the bountiful hand that gave it, neither
when he receives evil, does it alter his manner of life,
or bring him to any state of humiliation.
We have a remarkable story of two soldiers being
condemned to death in Flanders. The general being
prevailed upon to spire one of them, ordered them to
cast dice upon the drum-head for their lives; the first
^having thrown two fixes, the second fell a wringing
iiis hands, having so poor a chance to escape; how-
sever,, having thrown, he was surpised when healso
D d threw
 
threw other two fixes,
the execution, ordcre*
did (p-j and each of th
soldiers fli.it flood ion
The officer apointed to fee
them to throw again; they
m threw fives; at which the
id, shouted, aud Lid neither
of them was to die. Upon this the officer acquainted
the council of war, who ordered them to throw a third
time, when they ih'cw two lours; tlse general being
made acquainted with it, sent for the men, and par-
doned them: 1 love, fays he, in such extraordinaiy
case?, to listen to the voice of providence.
We read in the holy writings, how Gml speaks to
men, by appearance of angels, or by dreams and vi-
sions o( the night, Ab God appeared to Abraham,
Lor, and Jacob'; so angels have appeared to many in
oJicr cafcvs, as tc Manoah and his wife, Zachariah, the
virgin K'tary, and to tin* apostles; others have been
warned in a dream, as king Abimelech, the false pro-
jh-t Balaam, and many others.
it is ceitainly a very great and noble enquiry, what
v/e shall be rdier this liic : for there is scarce a doubt,
that there is a place reserved for the reception of our
ih\ih alter death : for if we are to be, we must have
a where, which the scriptures a fort by the ex imples
of Dives and Lazarus. The doctrine of spirits was
Lne b( lieved before our Saviour's time ; for when the
disci [des of the
walking on tr
hkihd JlTus peceived our Saviour
y were much furpriied, as
iej, ft
i?eh thev m>d icon a
_ ..,.._, . spirit. Nay, in those sges of
the world, it was believed that spirits intermeddled in
the affairs of mar kind ; and throughout the Old Tes-
tament 1 do not sird any thing that in the least con-
tradicts it. All the pains and labour that some learn-
ed men have taken, to confute the story os the witch
os Endor, and the appearance of an old man person-
siting Samuel, cannot make such apparitions incon-
sistent with nature or religion: and it is plain, that
it was either a good or bad spirit, that prophetically
told the unfortunate king what should happen the next
day; for said the spirit, The Lord -will deliver thee
into the hand of the Phiiijiincs; and to-morrow jhalt
* fou andity sons be -with me* Abun-
Abundance of strange notions posse fled me, when
1 was In the desolate island ; especially on anioonihinc
night, when every bash seemed a roan, and every tree
a man on horseback. When i crept into the dismal
cave, where the- old goat Jay eiptiing, whose articu-
late groans even resembled those of a man, how was I
surpiised! my blood chilled in ray veins, a cold s\/ra»
ty dew set on my sorehead} my hair itood upri^hf,
and my pints, like Beldu?.:z:u's knees, struck against:
one another. And indeed, though I asterw.in.li soand
what it was, tli* remains of this surprise did not wear
of? for a great while; end I had frequently returns c I*
those vapours o;i different occasion^ and Ibmclhnc*
without any occasion at all.
O'le nig.it, after having seen some appearance in
the air, as F h.ul jud Lin dctvn in my b **J, one o my
feet pained me ; after that r.mie a nu mb;u-L, lec/td-
ed with a tinkling in my Mood j when on a IsedJen \
thought something alive Ly noon me, 0001 my knee
to above hull my leg.- Upon this I ihtng myself t.-vz
of b/al where 1 thought the 1 re/u ute lay: lent finding
nothing, Lord deliver vie J) ora en evil spirit, i'\ d l ,
what can this he? When I lighted a cuidse, I eeuM
perceive no living creature in.the place with mr bate
the poor parrot, who hung fright*!, ersed autt licit
your tongue, and, What*s the waiter wit/:you ? which
wot da I had taught him, by Lying so to bins, when he
made inch screaming noises as I did not like, £.;/e/,
said I alctad, surely the devil ha; been here, lljldj'jur
tonguey says Poll. I was then m id at the bhd, an i
putting on my cloaths, cried, i am tenable sughtee.
What's the matter with you? iayj L\dl. Iseui tons,
fait! I, I'll knock your brains out. Field your tongue >
cried he again, and so sell a chattering, and culling
Robinson Crusoe as he did before. But after 1 had
composed myself, and went to bed again, 1 began
plainly to see it was a distemper that affected my
nerves, and so my terrors vanished at once.
How intelligences are given or received, we do not
know $ nor are we sensible how they are conveyed
Ddz* from
from spirits unembodied, to ours th.it are in life; ot
on the contrary horn us to them: the latter certain-
ly is done without the help of the organs, and the
former is conveyed by the understanding, and the re-
tired faculties of the foul.
The spirits, without the help of voices, converse,
and the more particular discoveries of the converse ot
spirits, seem to me as follow; to wit, dreams, voices,
noises, impulses, hints, apprehensions, involuntary
lV.duefs, &e.
Dreams of old were the ways by which God himself
was pleased to wain men what services to perform,
and what to shun, Joseph was directed of God in a
<!i wmi to go to Egypt *, audio were the wise men warn-
ed in a di'earn to depart into their own country ano-
ther way, to avoid the fury of Herod. I am not like
1'ioie who think dreams are the meredosings of a de-
iirh}us head, or the relics of a day's perplexities or
pleasures; bur, on the contrary, I must he{* leave to
se»y, i never met with any capital mischief in my life,
but I. h.ul son re notice os it by a dream; and had £
riot been a thou.ghtlcis unbelieving creature, I might
Lave taken many a warning, and avoided many of
the evils 1 after v/ards fell into, merely by total ne-
glect or thole dreams.
I was once present at a dispute between a layman
and a clergyman, upon the subject os dreams. The
first thought no regard should be given unto them':
that their communication from the invisible to the
visible world was a lucre chimera; without any soli J
foundation. For, i. said he, is dreams were from
the agency of any prescient being, the motives would
be more direct, and the discoveries more plain *, and
not by allegories and emblematic fancies, expressing
things imperfect and obscure. 2. Since, with the
notice of evil, there was not a power given to avoid
it, it is not likely to proceed from a spirit, but mere-
ly foitukous. 3. That the inconstancy of such no-
tices, in cases equally important, proves they did not
proceed from any such agent. 4. That as our most
distinct
distinct dreams bad nothing In them of any signifi-
cancy, it would be irrational and vain to think that
they came front heaven. And, 5. That as men were
not always thus warned or supplied with 'notice^of
good-or evil, so all men are not alike supplied with
them; and what reason cook! we give, why one in.in
or one woman should not have the fame hints as an-
other.
To all this the clergyman gave answer; 1. That as
tojhe signification of dreams, and the 6\ jeclions a-
gainfl them as being dark and doubtful, they are ex-
pressed generally by hieroglyphics! representations*
fimiiies, allusions, and figurative emblematic way, by
which means, for want of interpretation, the tiling
was not understood, and consequently the evil not
shunned. 2. That we charge God foolishly, to say,
that he has given the notice of evil without the power
to avoid it *f for if any one had not power to avoid the
evil, it was no notice to him; and it was want ok
giving due heed to that, notice, that first men neglect-
ed themselves, and then charged the judge of all the
earth with injustice. 3. That we ought not to find
fault with the inconstancy of these notices, but rather
with our weak understandings, by pretending dre.ims
were not to be regarded, and negligent when the
voice really spoke to us for our good. It is a mistake:
to fay, dreams have no import at all": we might with
more reason have said, none that we could perceive
the reason os, owing to our blindness and supine nc*
gligence, too secure at one time, and too much a-
Jarmed at another ; so that the spirit, which we might
be said to the conversing with in a dream, was con-
stantly and equally kind and careful; but our powers
are not always in the fame state of action, not equal-
ly'attentive to, or retentive to the hints that were
given. And, 5. to answer the last question, why
people are not equally supplied ? This seeded to be no
question ; for Providence itself might have some share
in the direction of it, and then that providence might
fee limited by a superior direction; That as to the
D d 3 conve;Je
converse of spirits,he could not call it a stated converse;
such a thing there was, but why there was so tBueiv
of it, and no more, was none of his business, and that
no such discovery had ever-yet been made to man-
kind, Nor were we to imagine less of waking dreams*
trances, visions, noises, hints, impulses, and all the
-waking testimonies of an invisible world, and of the
communication that these is between us and them,
-which commonly entertain us with our eyes* open.
One time my fancy soared on high, to fee what dis-
coveries I could make in those clearer regions. I found
that such immense bodies as the fun, stars, planets,
and moon, in thegrent circle of the lower heaven, are
far from being found in the study of nature on the
surface of the earth. Here I saw many things that
we can entertain little or no notion of in a state of
common life, and the emptiness of our notion, that
the planets are habitable worlds, that is, created like
ours for the subsistence and existence of man and beast,
and the preservation of the vegetative and sensitive
Jise: no, no; this is, I assure you, a world of spirits;
fcr here I saw a clear demonstration of Satan being
the prince of the power of the air> keeping his court
or camp, with innumerable angels to attend him;
but his power is not so great as we imagine, he can
tempt us to the crime, but cannot force us to com-
mit it: Hiimamtm est peccare- Neither has the devil
power to force the world into a rebellion against Hea-
ven, though his legions are employed among savage
nations to set up their master for a god, who make
the Heathens either worship him in person, or by bis
representatives, idols, and monsters, with the cruel sa-
crifices of human blood. Now, as to the limitations
of the devil's power, you must understand, that as
there are numbers of evil spirits employed in mischief *
so there are numbers of good angels sent from the
higher and blessed abodes to disconcert and oppose
their measures; and this every Christian,! hope, be-
Keves, when he prays to God, the Father of spirits, to
giv.€
give his angels charge over him while he flumbereth
and ileepeth. For if these preventing powers, the
devil was not restrained, the earth would be subjected
to dearth, droughts, and famine; the air in fe died
with noxious fumes; and in a word, mankind would
be utterly destroyed, which might oblige our maker
(if I may be allowed the expression) to the necessity
of a new Fiat, or else have no more creatures to ho-
nour and wor(hip him.
As the devil never wanted infinmtors, I shall ob-
serve, that I learned a way how to make man dreana
os what I pleased. For instance let us suppose one
to be sound a steep j let another lay bis mouth close to
his ear, and whisper any thing so softly as not to a-
wake him, the steeping man ihall dream of what has
been so whispered in his ear ; nay, I can assure you,
those insinuating devils can do this even when we
are awake, which I call impulses of the mind: for
from whence, but from these insinuators, come our
causeless passions, involuntary wickedness, or sinful
desires? Who else form ideas in the mind of man
when he is asleep, or presents terrible or beautiful fi-
gures to his fancy I Mr Milton represents the devil
tempting Eve in the shape of a toad, lying just at
her ear, when in her bower stie lay fast asleep; and
brings in Eve telling Adam what an uneasy night's
rest she had, and relating her dream to him. And
likewise I believe that good spirits have the fame in-
tercourse with us, in warning us against those things
that are evil, and prompting us to that which is good.
Were we to have the eyes of our fouls opened,
through the eyes of our bodies, we should fee this ve-
ry immediate region of air which we breath in throng-
ed with spirits now invisible, and which otherwise
would be the most terrible : we should view the secret
transactions of those messengers who are employed
when the parting foul takes its leave of the reluctant
body, and perhaps fee things nature would stirink
back from with the utmost terror and amazement.
In a word, the curtain of providence for the dispost-
tim
tion os things here, anc! the curtain of judgement for
the determination of the state of fouls hereafter would
be alike drawn hack; and what heart could support
here its suture state of life, much less that of its fu-
ture state after life, even good or bad.
A gentleman o* my acquaintance, being about se*
ven miles distant from London, a friend that came to
dine with him,solicited him to go to the city. What,
said the gentleman, is there any occasion for me ? No,
Sir, said\he other, nothing at all, except the enjoy-
ment of your good company; and ib gave over impor-
tuning him. Just then a strong impulse of mind ur-
ged the gentleman, and pursued him like a voice,
with Go to London, Go to London. Hark ye, says
he to his friend, is all well at London? Am I want-
ed there? Or did you aik me to go with you on any
particular account ? Are all my family well? Yes, in-
deed Sir, said he, I perceived them all very hearty f
and I did not aik you to go to London upon any par-
ticular account whatsoever, except it was for the lake
of your good company. Again he put off his resolu-
tion: but still the impulse suggested to him, Go to
London, and at length he did so. When he came
there, he sound a letter and messenger had been there
to seek him, and to tell him of a particular business,
which was first and last above a thousand pounds to
to him, and which might inevitably been lost, had he
net gone to London that night
The obeying of several hints, or secret impulses ar-
gues great wisdom. I know a man that was under
misfortunes, being guilty of misdemeanors against
the government; when, absconding for fear of his ru-
in, all his friends advising him not to put himself in
the hands of the law, one morning as he awaked,^ he
felt a strong impulse darting into his mind thus, If rite
a letter to them: and this was repeated several times
to his mind, and at last he answered to it, as if it had
been a voice, Whom shall I write to ? Immediately it
replied, Write to-the judge; and this impulse pursu-
ed him for several days, till at length he took pen,
and
 
and ink, and paper, and sat down to write to him;
•when immediately words flowed from his pen, like
streams from a (air fountain, that charmed even him-
self with hopes of success In short the letter was
so strenuous in argument, so pathetic in its eloquences
and so persuasively moving, that when the judge had
read it, he sent him an answer he might he easy, he
would endeavour to make that matter light to him;
and indeed never lest exorting himself, till he had
stopt the prosecution, aaid restored him to his liberty
and family.
I know a person who had so strong an impression
upon her mind, that the house (he was in would be
burnt that very night, that she could not ileep; the
impulse she had upon her mind piessed her not to go
to bed, which, however, she got over, and went to
bed j but was so terrified with the thought, which
run in her mind, that the house would be burnt, that
she could not go to sleep *, but communicating her
apprehensions to another in the family, they were both
in such a flight, that they applied themselves to search
from the top of the house to the bottom, and to see
every fire and candle safe out, so that, as they ail said,
it was impossible that any thing could happen then,
and they tent to the neighbours on both sides to da
the likes Thus far they did well: but had (he obey-
ed the hint which, pressed upon her strangely, not to
go to bed, she had done much better; for the fire
was actually kindled at that very time, though net
broken out. About an hour after the whole family
was in bee1, the house just over the way, directly op-
posite, was ail in flames, and the wind which was ve-
ry high., blowing the flame upon the house this gentle-
woman lived in, so silled it with smoak and sire, in a
few minutes, the street being narrow, that they had
not air to breathe, or time to do any thing, but jump
out of their beds, and save their lives. Had the o-
beyed the hint given, and not gone to bed, me might
have saved several things; but the few moments she
had spared to-her, were but just sufficient to leap out
04
 
 
os bed, put some cloaths on, and get down stairs, for
the house was oa sire in half a quarter of an hour,
While lam mentioning these things, methinks it
is very hard, that we should obey the whispers of evil
spirits, and not much rather receive the notices which
good ones are pleased to give. We never perceive the
misfortune of this, but when in real danger: and
then we cry, My mind misgave me when I ivr.s goings
about it; hut if so, why'do you slight the caution?
Why not listen to it as to a voice F and then there
had been no reason to make this complaint.
I remember about 14 or 15 years ago (is to time I
cannot be very positive) there was a young clergyman
in the city of Dublin in Ireland, who dreamed a ve-
ry uncommon dream, That a gentleman had^killed
his wife, a relation of his, by (tabbing her in federal
places ; the fright of this awaked him, but finding it
a dream, he composed himself again to sleep, when he
dreamed a second time the (ame dream. 1 his made
him a little uneasy; but thinking it proceeded from
the impression made on his mind by the fovme", h 2
went to sleep again and dreamed the fame dreary a
third time also. Bo troubled was he at this, that he
arose, and knocked at his mothers chamber, told his
concern, and his apprehensions that all were not right
at his relation's house. Dear son, soys the good old
gentlewoman, do not mind these foolish dreams : and
1 very much wonder, that you, being a person in ho-
ly orders, should have regard to such illusions. Up-
on this he went to bed again, fell asleep, and dreamed
a fourth time as before. And then indeed he put on
his night gown, and went to Smithfield, the place
whereVis relation dwelt. Here it was, alas he per-
ceived his dream too sadly fulfilled, by seeing his re-
lation, the young lady, big with child, who was a
Protestant, stabbed in seven places, by her barbarous
husband Mr Eustace, a violent Papist, only for some
discourses of religion that happened the day before.
After the wretch had stabbed her in turce places, he
went to make his escape out at a window; but (lie cried
out
 
out, My dear? don't leave me, conic back, and I/ball
be well again. At which he returned in a hellilh
rage, and gave her lour wounds more;when, even in
this condition, liling from her bed, the wrapped her-
felt in her night-gown, and went to the Lord Bishop
•f Ilapho's chamber-door (the biihop lodging at that
lime in the house), My Lord, said ihe, 0 My Lord
make hafte unto me; but as soon as his Lordship came
she expired in his arms, resigning her precious foul
into the hands of Almighty God. The creul
wretch her husband was ll.ot by the pursuers, too good
a death for one who deserved the gibbet ; and the la-
dy was universally lamented by all tender and religi-
ous people. And this tragical relation J have men-
tioned upon the account of that impulse or dream
that the clergyman had at the fatal time of the bloody
action.
It might be expected I should enter upon the sub-
ject of apparitions, and discourse concerning the rea-
lity of them \ and whether they can revisit the place
of their former existence, and resume those faculties
of speech and shape as they had when liwng 5 but,
as these are very doubtful matters, i shall only make
a sew observations mpon them.
I once heard of a man that would allow the reality
of apparitions, but laid it all upon the devil, thinking
that the fouls of men departed, or good men, dhl ne-
ver appear. To this very man something did appear;
he said, he saw the shape of an ancient man pass by
him in the dusk, who, holding up his hand in a
threatening posture, cried out, 0 wicked man, re-
pent, repent. Terrified with this apparition, he con-
suited several friends, who advised him to take the ad-
vice. But, after all, it was not an apparition, but a
grave and pious gentleman, who met him by mere
accident, and had been sensible of his wickedness;
and who never undeceived him, lest it should hinder
his reformation. Were we always willing to make
good use of Satan's real appearances, I know not
but it would go a great way to banisli him from the
visible
 
 
visible world ; for I am very positive, he would sel-
dom visit us, if he thought his coming would do us
any good : but so absolutely is he at the comm-md of
Heaven, that he midi go, even to do the woik he ab*
hors.
Some people make a very ill use os the general no-
tion, that there are no appa; itions nor spirits at all;
which is worse than those who fancy they ice them up-
on every occasion: for thole cany theii notions far-
ther, even to annihilate the devil, and believe no-
thing about him, neither of one kind or other : the
next step they ceme to is to conclude, 7here is no
God, and -o atheism takes its rife in the fame link,
with a carelessness about futurity Put there is no
occasion to entei upon an argument to prove the being
of the Almighty, or to illustrate Ids power by words,
who has so man) undeniable testimonies in the breasts
of every rational being, to prove his existence; and
we have sufficient p-oofs, enough to convince us of
the gt£3t superintendent-y os divine Providence in the
minutest affairs of this world ; the manitest existence
of the invi'shie world ; the reality of spirits* and in-
telligence bet w een u s ai; d th e ni. VV h at h •?. ve fai d, I
hope will not mislead any } c iion,cr be a means where-
by they may delude tin ml elves: for hav< spokfri
oftheie things with the utmost seriousness of mind,
and with a sincere and ardent desire for the general
good and benefit of the world,
FINIS,
 
if e, r:
?&v
..v^
^•; ;>'::.
wm
•^»»^tf'
V' ''"•'v'f-V
 
