FRONTISPIECE.

OF ROBINSON CRfJSOF/ .

uoBiisrsotst cbi"soe •
SttvrdeS tit 7/ieyvrrti t/f a J'lrrt 's foi'£~in t&t? #ai>3/

BOBnsrsoisr critsok .
ftwuinq his Man I'Kioay. -
£$Sfa-:-:<Jvj.-
£$Sfa-:-:<Jvj.-
£$Sfa-:-:<Jvj.-
*'^'
£$Sfa-:-:<Jvj.-
£$Sfa-:-:<Jvj.-
m
'
.'W

I
<
0
1-
THE
LIFE
AND MOST SURPRISING
ADVENTURES
* or
ROBINSON CRUSOE,
OF YORK,
MARINER.
EMBELLISHED WITH
ELEGANT ENGRAVINGS.
XetoVSTorfc:
THE
1«31.
I"-21- n*+
ms
WFE AND ADVENTURES
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
I WAS born in York, in the year 1632, of a
reputable family. My father was a native of
Bremen; who by merchandizing at Hull for
some time, gained a very plentiful fortune.
He married my mother at York, who received
her first breath in that country: and as her
maiden name was Robinson, I was called Ro-
binson Kreutznaer, which not being easily pro-
nounced in the English tongue, we are com-
monly known by the name of Crusoe.
I was the youngest of three brothers. The
eldest was a lieutenant-colonel in Lockhart's
regiment, but slain by the Spaniards; what
became of the other I could never learn.
No charge nor pains were wanting in my
education. My father designed me for the
law, yet nothing could serve me but I must go
to sea, both against the will of my father, the
tears of my mother, and the entreaties of friends.
One morning, my father expostulated very
warmly with me. What reason, says he, have
you to leave your native country, where there
must be a more certain prospect of content and
happiness, to enter into a wandering condition
of uneasiness and uncertainty? He recom-
mended to me Agar's wish, Neither to desire
poverty nor riches; that a middle state of life
was the most happy; and that the high tower-
ing thoughts of raising our condition by wan-
dering abroad, were surrounded with misery
and danger, and often ended with confusion
and disappointment. I entreat you, nay, I
command you (says he) to desist from these
intentions. If you will go, (added he,) my
prayers shall, however, be offered for your pre-
servation; but a time may come, when deso-
late, oppressed, or forsaken, you may wish
you had taken your poor despised father's
counsel.—He pronounced these words with
such a moving and paternal eloquence, while
floods of tears ran down his aged cheeks, that
it seemed to stem the torrent of my resolutions.
But this soon wore off; and a ltttle after, I in-
formed my mother that I could not settle at
any business, my resolutions were so strong to
see the world, and begged she would gain my
father's consent onlv to go nno vovage; whirl.
if it did not prove prosperous, I would never
attempt a second. But my desire was as vain
as my folly in asking. My mother passionately
expressed her dislike to this proposal, telling
me, That as she saw that I was bent on my o\ 'ii
destruction, contrary to their will and my duty,
she would say no more, but leave me to myself
to do whatever I pleased.
I was then, I think, nineteen years old, when
one time being at Hull, I met a schoolfellow
of mine going along with his father, who was
master of a ship, to London; and acquainting
him with my wandering desires, he assured me
of a free passage, and a plentiful share of what
was necessary. Thus, without imploring a
blessing, or taking farewell of my parents, I
took shipping on the 1st of September, 1651.
Upon the 6th day, we came to an anchor in
Harwich road, where we lay wind-bound with
some Newcastle ships; and there being a good
anchorage, and our cables sound, the seamen .
forgot -their late toil and danger, and spent
the time as merrily as if they had been on .
shore. But on the eighth day, there arose a
brisk gale of wind, which prevented our tiding
it up the river; and it still increasing, our ship
rode forecastle in, and shipped several large
seas.
It was not long before horror seized the
seamen themselves, and I heard the master ex-
pcess this melancholy ejaculation, Lord have
mercy upon us, we shall all be lost and undone!
For ay part, sick unto death, I kept my cabin,
a2
till the universal and terribly dreadful appre-
hensions of our speedy fate made me get upon
deck, and there I was affrighted indeed. The
sea went mountains high: I could see nothing
but distress around us: two ships had cut away
their masts, and another had foundered: two
more that had lost their anchors, were forced
out to the mercy of the ocean; and, to save
our lives, we were forced to cut our foremast
and mainmast quite away.
Who is there so ignorant as not to judge o»
my dreadful condition? I was but a fresh
water sailor, and therefore seemed more terri-
fied. Our ship was very good, but over-
loaded; which made the sailors often cry out,
She will founder: words I then was ignorant
of. All this while, the storm continuing, and
rather increasing, the master and the more
sober part of the men went to prayers, ex-
pecting death every moment. In the middle
of the night one cried out, We had sprung a
leak: another, That there was four feet water
in the hold. I was just ready to expire with
fear, when immediately all hands were called
to the pump; and the men forced me also in
that extremity to share with them in their la-
bour. While thus employed, the master espy-
ing some colliers, fired a gun as a signal of dis-
tress; and I not understanding what it meant,
and thinking that either the ship broke, or
some dreadful thing happened, fell into a
swoon. Even in that condition of woe, no-
oody minded me, excepting to thrust me aside
with their feet, thinking me dead; and it was
a great while before it recovered.
Happy it was for us, when, upon the signal
given, they ventured out their boat to save our
lives. All our pumping had been in vain, and
vain had all our attempts been, had they not
come to our ship's side, and our men cast them
a rope over the stern with a buoy to it, which
after great difficulty they got hold of, and we
hauling them to us, got into their boat, and
left our ship, which we perceived sink within
less than a quarter of an hour; and thus I
learned what was meant by foundering at sea.
And now the men incessantly laboured to re-
cover their own ship ; but the sea ran so high,
and the wind blew so hard, that they thought
it convenient to haul in shore, which with
great difficulty and danger at last we happily
effected, landing at a place called Cromer, not
far from Winterton light-house; from whence
we all walked to Yarmouth, where, as objects
of pity, many good people furnished us with
the necessaries to carry us either to Hull or
London.
Strange! that after all this, f did not, like
the prodigal son, return to my father; who,
hearing of the ship's calamity, for a long time
thought me entombed in the deep. No doubt
but I should have shared in his fatted calf, as
the Scripture expresseth it; but my wayward
disposition still pushed me on, in spite of the
powerful convictions of reason and conscience,
8
When we had been at Yarmouth three days
I met my old companion, who had given me
the invitation to go on board along with his
father. His behaviour and speech was altered,
and, in a melancholy manner he asked me how
I did? telling his father who I was, and how I
had made this voyage for a trial only to pro-
ceed farther abroad. Upon which the old gen-
tleman turning to me, said, Young man, you
ought never to go to sea any more, but to take
this for a certain sign, that you will never pros-
per in a sea-faring condition. Sir, answered I,
will you take the same resolution? It is a dif-
ferent case, said he, it is my calling, and con-
sequently my duty; but as you have made this
voyage for a trial, you see what ill luck heaven
has set before your eyes; and perhaps our mi-
series have been on your account, like Jonah
in the ship of Tarshish. But pray what are you,
and on what account did you go to sea? Upon
which, I very freely declared my whole story;
at the end of which he made this exclamation,
Ye sacred powers! what had I committed, that
such a wretch should enter into my ship, to
heap upon me such a deluge of miseries! But
soon recollecting himself, Young man, said he,
if you do not go back, depend upon it, wherever
you go, you will meet with disasters and disap-
pointments, till your father's words are fulfilled
upon you. And so we parted.
I thought at first to return home; but shame
opposed that good notion, as thinking I should
be laughed at by my neighbours and acquaint-
ances. So strange is the nature of youth! They
are not ashamed to siu, but yet ashamed to re.
pent; and so far from being sorry for those
actions for which they may be accounted fools,
they think it folly to return to their duty, which
is the principal mark of wisdom. In short, 1
travelled up to London, resolving upon a voy-
age, and a voyage I soon heard of, by my ac-
quaintance with a captain who took a fancy to
me, to go to the coast of Guinea. Having
some money, and appearing line a gentleman,
I went on board, not as a common sailor or
foremast-man; nay, the commander agreed I
should go that voyage with him without any
expense; that I should be his messmate and
companion, and that I was welcome to carry
any thing with me, and make the best merchan-
dise I could.
I blessed my happy fortune, and humbly
thanked my captain for his offer, and acquaint-
ing my friends in Yorkshire, forty pounds were
sent me, tho greatest part of which my dear
father and mother contributed, with which I
bought toys and trifles, as the captain directed
me. My captain also taught me navigation,
how to keep an account of the ship's course,
take an observation, and led me into the know-
ledge of several useful branches of the mathe-
matics. And indeed this voyage made me
both a sailor and a merchant; for I brought
home five pounds nine ounces of gold dust,
for my adventure, which produced, at my re-
10
turn to London, almost three hundred pounds;
but in this voyage I was extremely sick, be-
ing thrown into a violent fever, through exces.
sive heat, trading upon the coast from the lati-
tude of fifteen degrees north, even to the lino
itself.
But, alas! my dear friend the captain soon
departed this life after his arrival. This Was a
sensible grief to me; yet I resolved to go ano-
ther voyage with his mate, who had now got
command of the ship. This proved a very un-
successful one; for though I did not carry a
hundred pounds of my late acquired wealth, (so
that I had two hundred pounds left, which I
reposed with the captain's widow, who was
an honest gentlewoman,) yet my misfortunes
in this unhappy voyage were very great. For
our ship sailing towards the Canary Islands,
we were chased by a Salee rover; and in spite
of air the haste we could make, by crowding as
much canvass as our yards could spread, or
our masts carry, the pirate gained upon us, so
that we prepared ourselves to fight. They
had eighteen guns, and we had but twelve.
About three in the afternoon, there was a des-
perate engagement, wherein many were killed
and wounded on both sides: but finding our
selves overpowered with numbers, our ship dis-
abled, and ourselves too impotent to have the
least hopes of success, we were forced to sur-
render; and accordingly we were all carried
prisoners into the port of Salee. Our men.
were sent to the Emperor's court to be sold
li
there; but the pirate captain taking notice of
me, kept me to be his own slave.
In this condition, I thought myself the most
miserable creature on earth, and the prophecy
of my father came afresh into my thoughts.
However, my condition, was better than I
thought it to be, as will soon appear. Some
hopes, indeed, I had that my new patron would
go to sea again, where he might be taken by a
Spanish or Portuguese man of war, and then
I should be set at liberty. But in this I was
mistaken; for he never took me with him, but
left me to look after his little garden, and do
the drudgery of his house, and when he re-
turned from sea, would make me lie in the
cabin, and look after the ship. I had no one
that I could communicate my thoughts to,
which were continually meditating my escape.
No Englishman, Irishman or Scotchman here .
but myself; and for two years I could see no-
thing practicable, but only pleased myself with
the imagination.
After some length of time, my patron, as I
found) grew so poor, that he could not fit out
li
once or twice a week, if the weather was fair,
to go out a fishing, taking me and a young
Moorish boy to row the boat; and so much
pleased was he with me for my dexterity in
catching the fish, that he would often send me
with a Moor, who was one of his kinsmen, and
the youth before-mentioned, to catch a dish of
fish for him.
12
One morning, as we were at sport, there"
arose such a thick fog, that we lost sight of the
shore; and rowing, we knew not which way,
we laboured all the night, and in the morning
we found ourselves in the ocean, two leagues
from land. However, we attained there at
length, and made the greatest haste, because
our stomachs were exceedingly sharp and hun.
gry. In order to prevent such disasters for
the future, my patron ordered -a .caxpenter to
build a little state-room or cabin in the middle
of the long-boat; with a place behind it to
steer and haul home the main sheet, with other
conveniencies to keep him from the weather,
as also lockers to put in all manner of provi=
sions; with a handsome shoulder-of-mutton sail
gibing over the cabin.
In this, he frequently took us out a fishing;
and one time, inviting two or three persons of
distinction to go with him, laid in provisions ex-
traordinary; providing also three fusees, with
powder and shot, that they might have some
sport fowling along the sea-coast. The next
morning, the boat was made clean, her ancients
and pendants out, and every thing ready: but
their minds altering, my patron ordered us to
go a fishing, for that his guests would certainly
sup with him that night.
And now I began to think of my deliverance
indeed. In order to this, I persuaded the Moor
to get some provisions on board, and to procure
some powder and shot, pretending to kill sea-
curlews, which he innocently and readily agreed
13
to. In short, being provided with all things
necessay, we sailed out.
When we had passed the castle, we fell to
fishing; but though I knew there was a bite, I
concealed the matter, in order to put farther
out to sea. Accordingly we ran a league far.
ther, when, giving the boy the helm, and pre-
tending to stoop for something, I seized Muley
by surprise, and threw him overbord. As he
was an excellent swimmer, he soon arose, and
made towards the boat; upon which I took
out a fusee, and presented it at him: "Muley,"
said I, "I never yet designed to do you any
harm, and seek nothing now but my freedom.
I know you are able enough to swim to shore,
and save your life ; but if you are resolved to
follow me to the endangering of mine, the
very moment you proceed, I will shoot you
through the head." The harmless creature,
at these words, turned himself from me, and,
[ make no doubt, got safe to land. Then
turning to the boy Xury, I perceived he trem-
bled at the action; but I put him out of all
fear telling him, that if he would be true and
Faithful to me, I would do well by him and not
hurt him.
We then pursued our voyage: I kept to the
southward, to the truly Barbarian coast; but
in the dark of the evening, I changed my
course, that I might keep near the shore; and
•having a fresh gale of wind, with a very plea-
sant smooth sea, by three o'clock next day, I
was one hundred and fifty miles beyond the
B
14
Emperors of Morocco's dominions. I con-
tinued sailing for five days successively, till
such time as the wind shifting to the southward,
made me conclude, that if any vessel was in
chase of me, they would proceed no farther.
After so much fatigue and thought, I an-
chored at the mouth of a little river, I knew
not what, or where, neither did I then see any
people. What I principally wanted was fresh
water; and I was resolved about the dusk of
the evening to swim ashore: but no sooner
the gloomy clouds of night begin to succeed
the declining day than we heard such barking,
roaring, and howling of wild creatures, that
one might have thought the very strongest
monsters of nature had their residence there.
Poor Xury, who was almost dead with fear,
entreated me not to go on shore that night.
"Suppose I don't Xury," said I, "and in the
morning we should see men who are worse
than those we fear, what then?" "O den
we may give them the shoot gun," said he,
laughing, "and the gun make then all run
away." The wit, and broken English which
the boy had learned among the captives of our
nation pleased me entirely, and made me still
fonder of him than before, We could get but
little sleep all the night for the terrible howlings
they made; and indeed we were very much.
affrighted.
The next morning, I was resolved to go on .
shore to get in fresh water, and venture myself
among the beasts or savages, should either at-
15
rack me. Xury said he would take one of the
jars and bring me some. I asked him why he
would go and not I? The poor boy answered,
"If wild mans eome, they eat me, you go
away." This, indeed, increased my affection
for the child. "Well, dear Xury," said I,
"we will both go ashore, both kill wild mans,
and they shall eat neither of us." So giving
Xury a piece of bread to eat, we waded ashore,
carrying nothing with us but our arms• and two
jars for water. I did not go out of sight of the
boat, as dreading the savages coming down the
river in their canoes: but the boy seeing a low
descent or vale about a mile in the country, he
wandered to it; and then running back to me
with great precipitation, I thought he was pur-
sued by some savages or wild beasts; upon
which I approached, resolving to perish, or
protect him from danger. As he came nearer
to me, I saw something hanging over his shoul-
ders, which was a creature he had shot, like
a hare, but different in colour, and with longer
legs ; however, we were glad of it for it proved
wholesome and nourishing meat; but what ad.
ded to our joy was, my boy assured me there
was plenty of water, and that he "saw no
wild mans." And greater still was our com-
fort when we found fresh water in the creek
where we were when the tide was out, without
going so far up into the country.
In this place, I began to hope that I should
meet some of the English trading vessels, who
would relieve and take us in.
16
The place I was in, was no doubt, that wild
country inhabited only by a few, that lies be-
tween the Emperor of Morocco's dominions
and the negroes. It is filled with wild beasts,
and the Moors use it for hunting chiefly. From
this place, I thought I saw the top of the moun-
tain TenerifFe, in the Canaries, which made
me try twice to attain it, but as often was I
driven back, and so forced to pursue my for-
tune along shore.
Early one morning we came to an anchor
under a little point of land, but pretty high;
and the tide beginning to flow, we lay ready
to go further in ; but Xury, whose youthful and
penetrating eyes were sharper than mine, in a
soft tone, desired me to keep far from land,
lest we should be devoured; "For look yon-
der, mayster, and see de dreadful monster
fast asleep on de side of de hill." Accord-
ingly, looking where he pointed, I espied a
fearful monster indeed. It was a terrible great
lion that lay on shore, covered as it were by a
shade of a piece of the hill. "Xury," said I,
"you shall go on shore and kill him." But
the boy looked amazed. "Me kill him!" says
he, "he eat me at one mouth," meaning one
mouthful. Upon which I bid him lie still, and
charging my biggest gun with two slugs, and a
good charge of powder, I took the best aim I
could to shoot him through the head; but his
leg lying over his nose, the slug broke his
knee-bone. The lion awaking with the pain,
got up, but soon fell down, giving the most
17
hideous groan I ever heard; but taking my
second piece, I shot him through the head,
and then he lay struggling for life. Upon this
Xury took heart, and desired my leave to go on
shore. "Go then," said I. Upon which, tak
ing a little gun in one hand, he swam to shore
with the other, and coming close to the lion
put a period to his life, by shooting him again
through the head.
But this was spending our ammunition in
vain, the flesh not being good to eat. Xury
was Live a champion, and comes on board for
a hatchet to cut off the head of his enemy;
but wanting strength to perform it, he cut oft"
and brought me a foot. I bethought me, how-
ever, that this skin would be of use. This cost
Xury and me a whole day: when spreading it
on the top of our cabin, the hot beams of the
sun effectually dried it in two days time, and it
afterwards served me for a bed to lie on.
And now we sailed southerly, living spar-
ingly on our provisions, and went no oftener
on shore than we were obliged for fresh water,
in hopes to meet some European ship. If Pro-
vidence did not favour me, my next course was
to seek for the islands, or lose my life among
the negroes; in a word, either I must meet with
some ship, or certainly perish.
One day as we were sailing along, we saw
people stand on the shore looking at us ; we
could also perceive they were black, and stark
naked. I was inclined to go on shore; but
Xury cried, No, no; however, I approached
b2
IS
nearer, and I found they ran along the shore
by me a long way. They had no weapons in
their hands, except one, who held a long stick,
which Xury told me was a lance, with which
they could kill at a great distance. I talked to
them by signs, and made them sensible I wan-
ted something to eat; they beckoned to me to
stop my boat, while two of them ran up into the
country, and in less than half an hour came
back and brought with them two pieces of
dry flesh, and some corn, which we kindly ac-
cepted; and to prevent any fears on either
side, they brought the food to the shore, laid
it down, then went and stood a great way off",
till we fetched it on board, and then came close
to us again.
But while we were returning thanks to them,
being all we could afford, two mighty creatures
came from the mountains, one as it were pur-
suing the other with great fury, which we
were the rather inclined to believe, as they
seldom appear but in the night, and both these
swiflly passing by the negroes, jumped into
the sea, wantonly swimming about, as though
the diversion of the waters had put a stop to
their fierceness. At last one of them coming
nearer to my boat than I expected, or desired,
I shot him directly through the head, upon
which he sunk immediately, yet rising again,
he would have willingly made to the shore, but
between the wound and the struggling of the
water, he died before he could reach it.
It is impossible to express the consternation
19
the poor negroes were in at the firing of my
gun ; much less can I mention their surprise,
when they perceived the creature to be slain by
it. I made signs to them to draw near it with
a rope, and then gave it to them to haul on
shore. It was a beautiful leopard, which made
me desire its skin; and the negroes seeming
to covet the carcase, I freely gave it to them.
As for the other leapord, it made to shore,
and ran with a prodigious swiftness out of
sight. The negroes having kindly furnished
me with water, and with what roots and grains
their country afforded, I took my leave, and,
after eleven days sail came in sight of the
Cape de Verd. But the great distance I was
from it, and fearing contrary winds would pre-
vent me reaching them, I began to grow me-
lancholy and dejected, when upon a sudden
Xury cried out, "Master, master," looking as
affrighted as if it was his master's ship sent in
search of us. But I soon discovered she was
a. Portuguese ship. Upon which I strove for
life to come up to them. But in vain had it
been, if through their perspective glasses, they
had not perceived us, and shortened their sail
to let us come in. Encouraged at this, I set
up my patron's ancient, and fired a gun, both,
as signals of distress; upon which they very
kindly lay to, so that in three hours time I came
up with them. They spoke to me in Portu-
guese, Spanish, and French, but none of these
did I understand, till at length a Scots sailoi
20
caiied, and then I told him I was an English-
man, who had escaped from the Moors at Salee,
upon which they took me kindly on board,
with all my effects.
Having a pleasant voyage to the Brazils, we
arrived in the Bay de Todos los Santos, or, All
Saints Bay, in twenty-two days after. And here
I cannot forget the generous treatment of the
captain. He would take nothing for my pas-
sage, gave me twenty ducats for the leopard's
skin, and thirty for the lion's. Every thing
he caused to be delivered, and what I would
sell, he bought. In short, I made 220 pieces
of my cargo, and with this stock I entered
once more, as I may say, into the scene of life.
To be brief, I bought a settlement next door
to an honest and kind neighbour, born at Lis.
bon, of English parents, whose plantation join-
ing to mine, we improved very amicably toge-
ther. Both our stocks were low ; and for two
years we planted only for food; but the third
year we planted some tobacco, and each of us
dressed a large piece of ground the ensuing
year for planting sugar-canes.
I was in some measure settled, before the
captain who took me up departed from the Bra-
zils. One day I went to him, and told him what
stock I had in London, desiring his assistance
on getting it sent out to me ; to which the good
gentleman readily consented but would only
have me send for haw. my money, lest it should
miscarry, which, if h <!id, I mightstill have the
21
remainder to support me; and so taking letters
of procuration from me, bid me trouble myself
no further about it.
And indeed, he not only procured the money
I had drawn for upon my captain's widow, but
sent me over a servant, with a cargo propor-
tionable to my condition. He also sent me
tools of all sorts, iron work and utensils neces-
sary for my plantation.
Wealth now encreasing on me, and uncom-
mon success crowning my prosperous labours,
I might have rested happy in that middle state
of life my father so often recommended; yet
nothing would content me. Having lived four
years in Brazil, I had not only learned the
language, but contracted acquaintance with the
most eminent planters, and even with the
merchants of St. Salvadore, three of whom
came one morning to me, saying they had
a secret proposal to make. After enjoining
me to secrecy, they told me they had a mind
to fit out a ship to go to Guinea, in order to
stock the plantation with negroes, which, as
they could not be publicly sold, they would di-
vide among them; and if I would go their su-
percargo in the ship, to manage the trading
part, I should have an equal share of the ne-
goes, without providing any stock. The thing
indeed was fair enough, had I been in another
condition : however, I could not resist the pro-
posal, but accepted the offer, upon condition
of their looking after my plantation.
The ship being fitted out, and all things
22
ready, we set sail the first of September 1659.
We sailed northward upon the coast, from
whence going farther into the ocean out of the
sight of land, we steered as though we were
bound for the island Fernand de Noremba, leav-
ing the islands on the east, and then it was we
met with a terrible tempest, which continued
for twelve days successively, so that the winds
carried us wheresover they pleased. In this
perplexity one of our men died, and a man
and a boy were washed overboard. When the
weather cleared up a little, we found ourselves
upon the coast of Guinea. Upon this the cap-
tain gave reasons for returning; which I op-
posed, counselling him to stand away for Bar-
badoes, which, as I supposed, might be at-
tained in fifteen days. So altering our course,
we sailed north-west and by west in order to
reach the Leeward Islands ; but a second storm
suceeding, drove us to the westward, so that
we were justly afraid of falling into the hands
of cruel savages, or the paws of the devouring
beasts of prey.
In this great distress, one of the men, early in
the morning, cried out, Land! Land! which
he had no sooner said, than our ship struck
upon a sand bank, and, in a moment, the sea
broke over her in such a manner that we ex-
pected we should perish immediately. We
knew not where we were, or upon what land
we were driven, whether it was an island or
the main, inhabited or not inhabited, and we
could not so much as hope that the ship
23
would hold out many minutes, withont break-
ing in pieces, unless the wind by a miracle
should turn about immediately. While we
stood looking at one another, expecting death
every moment, the mate lays hold of the boat,
and with the help of the rest got her flung over
the ship's side; into this we all got, being
eleven in number, and committed ourselves to
God's mercy, and the wild sea. And now we
saw that this last effort would not be a suffi-
cient protection from death; so high did the
sea rise, that it was impossible the boat should
live. As to making a sail, we had none, nei-
ther if we had, could we make use of any. So
that when we had rowed, or rather were driven
ibout a league and a half, a raging wave, like
i lofty mountain came rolling astern of us,
md took us with such fury, that at once it
jverset the boat. Thus being swallowed up
in a moment, we had only time to call upon
the awful name of God, and to implore, in
dying ejaculations, his infinite mercy to receive
our departing souls.
Men are generally counted insensible, when
struggling in the pangs of death; but while I
was overwhelmed with water, I had the most
dreadful apprehensions imaginable, for the joys
of heaven, and the torments of hell, seemed
to present themselves before me in these dying
agonies, and even small space of time, as it
were, between life and death. I was going I
thought I knew not whither, in a dismal gulph
24
unknown, and as yet unperceived, never to
behold my friends, nor the light of this world
any more! I strove however to the last extre-
mity, while all my companions were over-
powered and entombed in the deep; and it wan
with great difficulty I kept my breath till the
wave spent itself, and, retiring back, left me
on the shore, half dead with the water I had
taken in. As soon as I got on my feet, I ran
as fast as I could, lest another wave should pur-
sue me, and carry me back again. But for all
the haste I made, I could not avoid it, for the
sea came after me like a high mountain, -or a
furious enemy; so that my business was to
hold my breath, and by raising myself on the
water, to save myself by swimming. The next'
dreadful wave buried me at once twenty or
thirty feet deep, but, at the same time, carried
me with a mighty force and swiftness towards
the shore, when raising myself, I held out as
well as possible, till, at length, the water, hav-
ing spent itself, began to return, at which I
struck forward, and feeling ground again with
my feet, I took to my heels. Thus being1
served twice more, I was at last dashed against
a piece of rock, in such a manner as left me
senseless, but recovering a little before the re-
turn of the wave, which no doubt would then
overwhelm me, I held fast by the rock till those
succeeding waves abated; and then fetching
another run, was overtaken by a small wave,
which was soon conquered. But before any
25
more could overtake me, I reached the main
land, where clambering up the cliffs of the
shore, tired and almost spent, I sat down on
the grass, free from the danger of the foaming
ocean.
No tongue can express the transports that
my soul felt at this happy deliverance. I was
wrapt up in contemplation, and often lifted up
my hands with the profoundest humility, to the
Divine Power for saving my life;. when the
rest of my companions were all drowned. And
now I began to cast my eyes around, and to
behold what place I was in, and what I had
next to do. I could see no house nor people;
I was wet, yet had no clothes to shift me;
hungry and thirsty, yet had nothing to eat or
drink, no weapon to destroy any creature for
my sustenance, nor defend myself against de-
vouring beasts; in short, I had nothing but a
knife, a tobacco pipe, and a box half filled with
tobacco. The darksome night coming upon
me, increased my fears of being devoured by
wild creatures, my mind was plunged in despair.
and having no prospect, as I thought, of life
before me, I prepared for another kind of death
than what I had lately escaped. I walked
about a furlong, to see if I could find any fresh
water, which I did, to my great joy; and taking
a quid of tobacco to prevent hunger, I got
up into a thick bushy tree, and seating myself
so that I could not fall, a deep sleep overtook
rne, and for that night, buried my sorrows in a
epiiet repose.
C
It was broad day the next morning before I
awoke, when I not only perceived the tempest
was ceased, but saw the ship driven almost as
far as the rock before-mentioned, which was
about a mile from the place where I was.—
When I came down from my apartment in the
tree, I perceived the ship's boat two miles dis-
tant on my right hand, lying on shore as the
waves had cast her. I thought to have got to
her; but there being an inlet of water abou*
half a mile's breadth between it and me, I re-
turned again towards the ship, as hoping to
find something for my more immediate subsist-
ence. About noon, when the sea was so calm
that I could come within a quarter of a mile of
her, it was to my grief I perceived, that if we
had kept on board, all our lives would have
been saved. These thoughts and my solitude
drew tears from my eyes, though all in vain.
So resolving to get to the ship, I stripped and
leaped into the water; when swimming round
her, I was afraid I could not get any thing to
lay hold of; but it was my good fortune to espy
a small piece of rope hanging down so low, that,
by the help of it though with great difficulty,
I got into the ship. Here I found that the ship
was bilged, and had a great deal of water in
her, her stern was lifted up against a bank, and
her head almost in the water. All her quar-
ter, and what was there, were free and dry.
The provisions I found in good order, and,
losing no time, ate while I was doing other
things. I also found some rum, of which I
27
took a little; and now I wanted for nothing
except a boat, which indeed was all, to carry
away what was needful for me.
Necessity occasions a quickness of thought.
We had several spare yards, a spare topmast
or two, and two or three large spars of wood.
With these I fell to work, and slung as many
of them overboard as I could manage, tying
every one of them with a rope that they might
not drive away. This done, I went down the
ship's side and tied four of them fast together
at both ends, in form of a raft, and laying two
or three short pieces of plank upon them cross-
ways, I found it would bear me, but not any
considerable weight. Upon which I went to
work again, cutting a spare topmast into three
lengths, adding them to my raft, with a great
deal of labour and pains. I then, first laying
upon it all the planks and boards I could get,
next lowered down three of the seamen's chests
after I had filled them with bread, rice, three
Dutch cheese, five pieces of dried goat's flesh,
and some European corn, what little the rats
had spared; and for liquors, I found several
cases of bottles, in which were some cordial
waters, and four or five gallons of arrack. By
this time, the tide beginning to flow, I per-
ceived my coat, waistcoat, and shirt swim
away which I had left on shore; as for my
linen breeches and stockings, I swam with them
to the ship; but I soon found clothes enough,
though I took no more than I wanted for the
present. My eyes were chiefly on tools to
28
work with, and after a long search, I found out
the carpenter's chest, which I got safe down
on my raft. I then looked for arms and ammu-
nition, and in the, great cabin, found two good
fowling pieces, two pistols, several powder
horns filled, a small bag of shot, and two rusty
swords. I likewise found three barrels of pow-
der, two of which were good, but the third
had taken water, also two or three broken oars,
two saws, an axe, and a hammer. I then put
to sea, and in getting to shore had three en-
couragements. 1 A smooth calm sea : 2 The
tide rising and setting in to the shore : 3. The
little wind there was, blowing towards land.
After I had sailed about a mile, I found the raft
driving a little distance from the place where I
first landed, and then I perceived an opening
of the land, with a strong current of the tide
running into it, upon which I kept the middle
of the stream. But great was my concern,
when on a sudden the forepart of my raft ran
aground. But after some time, the rising of
the water caused the raft to float again, and
coming up a little river, with land on both
sides, I landed in a little cave, as near the
mouth as possible, the better to discover a sail,
if any such providentially passed that way.
Not far off, I espied a hill of stupendous
height, surrounded with smaller hills about it,
and thither I was resolved to go and view the
country, that I might see what part was best
to fix my habitation in. Accordingly, arming
myself with a pistol, a fowling piece, powder.
39
and ball, I ascended the mountain. There I
perceived I was in an island, encompassed by
the sea, no distant lands to be seen, but scat-
tering rocks that lay to the west f that it seemed
to be a barren place, and, as I thought only
inhabited by wild beasts. I perceived abund-
ance of fowls, but was ignorant of what kind,
or whether good for nourishment. I shot one
of them at my return, which occasioned a con-
fused screaming among the other birds, and I
found it, by its colour and beak, to be a kind
of hawk, but its flesh was perfect carrion.
When I came to my raft, I brought my
effects on shore, which work spent that day en-
tirely ; and fearing that some cruel beasts might
devour me in the night time while I slept, I
made a kind of hut, or barricade, with the
chests and boards I had brought on shore.
That night I slept very comfortably; and the
next morning my thoughts were employed to
make a further attempt to the ship, and bring
away what necessaries I could find, before ano-
ther storm should break her in pieces. Accord-
ingly, I got on board as before, and prepared
a second raft far better than the first; upon
which, I brought away the carpenter's stores,
two or three bags full of nails, a great jack-
screw, a dozen or two of hatchets, and a grind-
stone. I also took two or three iron crows,
two barrels of musket-bullets, another fowling-
pieci,^ small quantity of powder, and a large
bag full of small shot. Besides these,"I took
all the men's clothes I could find, a spare fore-
c2 I
30
top-sail, a hammock, and some bedding; and
thus completing my second cargo, I made all
the haste on shore I could, fearing some wild
beast might destroy what I had there already.
But I only found a little wild cat sitting on one
of the chests, who not seeming to fear me, or
the gun that I- presented at her, I threw her a
piece of biscuit, $iich she instantly ate and
departed.
When I had got these effects on shore, I
went to work, in order" to make me a little tent
with the sail and some poles, which I had cut
for that purpose, and having finished it, what
things might be damaged by the weather, I
brought in, piling all the empty chests and
casks in a circle, the better to fortify it against
any sudden attempt of man or beast. After
this I blocked up the doors with some boards,
and an empty cHest turned the long way out.
I then charged my gun and pistol, and laying
my bed on the ground, slept as comfortably
till the next morning as though I had been in
a christian country.
Now, though I had enough to subsist me a
long time, yet despairing of a sudden deliver-
ance, and fearing that both ammunition and pro-
vision might be spent before such a thing hap-
pened, I saved as much as I could, and so long
as the ship remained in that condition, I daily
brought away one necessary or other; pajficu-
larly, the rigging, sails and cordage, some twine,
a barrel of wet powder, some sugar, a barrel
of meal, three casks of rum, and indeed what
31
was most welcome to me, a whole hogshead of
bread.
The next time I went, I cut the cables in
pieces, carried offa hawser whole, with a great
deal of iron work, and made another raft; but
this being so unwieldy, by the too heavy bur-
den upon it, and I not being able so dexter-
ously to guide it as the former, both my cargo
and myself were overturned. For my part, all
the damage I sustained was a wet skin; and at
low water, after much. labour in diving, I got
up most of the cables, and some pieces of iron.
Thirteen days had I now been on the island,
and eleven days on board, bringing away all
that was possible. As I was going the twelfth
time, the wind began to rise; however, I ven-
tured at low water• and rummaging the cabin,
in a locker, I found several -razors, scissors and
some dozens of knives and' forks, and in ano-
ther, thirty-six -pounds in pieces of eight, silver
and gold. I wrapt the money up in a piece of
canvas, and began to think of making another
raft; but I soon perceived the wind beginning
to rise, a fresh gale blowing from the shore,
and the sky overcast with clouds and darkness.
So thinking a raft to be in vain, I let myself
into the water with what things I had about me;
and it was with great difficulty I got ashore,
when soon after it blew a fearful storm.
That night I slept very contentedly in my
little tent, surrounded with all my effects; but
when I looked out in the morning, no DM«je ship
was to be seen This much surprise ate fo»
32
the present: yet, when I considered that I hacr
lost no time, abated no pains, and had got
every thing useful out of her, I comforted my-
self in the best manner, and entirely submitted
to divine Providence.
My next thoughts were, how I should defend
and secure myself from savages and wild
beasts, if any such were in the island.
When I considered the ground where I was,
that it was marshy, and had no fresh water
near it, my resolutions were to search for a soil
healthy and well watered, where I might not
only be sheltered from the sun's scorching heat
but be more conveniently situated, as well to
be secured from wild men, and beasts of*prey,
as more easily to discover any distant sail,
should it ever so happen.
And indeed it was not long before I had my
desire. I found a little plain near a rising hill,
the front towards which, being as steep as a
house-side, nothing could descend on me from
the top.
On the side of this rock was a little hollow
place, resembling the entrance or door of a
cave. Just before this place, on the circle of
the green, I resolved my tent should stand.
This plain did not much exceed a hundred
yards broad, and about twice as long, like a
delightful green before my door, with a pleas-
ing, though irregular descent every way to the
low grounds by the sea side, sheltered from the
excessive heat of sun. After this, I drew a
semicircle, twenty yards in diameter, driving
33
down two rows of strong stakes not six inches
from each other. Then with the pieces of cable
which I had cut on board, I regularly laid them
in a circle between the piles, up to their tops,
which were more than five feet out of the earth,
and then drove another row of piles, looking
within side against them, between two or three
feet high, which made me conclude it a lit-
tle castle impregnable by men and beasts.
And for my better security I would have no
door, but entered in and came out by the help
of a ladder, which I also made.
Here was my fence and fortress, into which
I carried all my riches, ammunition, and stores.
After which, working on the rock, what with
the dirt and stones I dug out, I not only raised
my ground two feet, but made a little cellar to
my mansion-house; and this cost me many days'
labour and pains. One day in particular, a
shower of rain falling, thunder and lightning
ensued, which put me in terror lest my powder
should take fire, and not only hinder my neces-
sary subsistence, by killing my food, but even
blow up me and my habitation. To prevent
which, I fell to making boxes and bags, in or-
der to separate it, having by me near 1501b.
weight. And thus being established as king of
the island, every day I went out with my gun
to see what I could kill that was fit to eat. I
soon perceived numbers of goats, but very shy;
yet having watched them narrowly, and seeing
J could better shoot off the rocks than when in
O
34
the low grounds, I happened to shoot a she-goat'
suckling a young kid; which, not thinking its
dam slain, stood by her unconcerned; and
when I took the dead creature up, the young
one followed me even to the enclosure. I lifted
the kid over the pales, and would willingly
have kept it alive, but finding it could not be
brought to eat, I was forced to slay it also for
my subsistence.
Thus, entered into as strange a state as ever
any man was in, I had most melancholy appre-
hensions concerning my deplorable condition;
and many times the tears would plentifully run
down my face, when I considered how I was
debarred from all communication with human
hind. Yet while these desponding cogitations
would seem to make me accuse Providence,
other good thoughts would interpose and re-
prove me after this manner : "Well, supposing
you are desolate, is it not better to be so than
totally perish? Why should you complain,
when not only your life is preserved, but the
ship driven into your reach, in order to take
what was necessaary out of her for a subsis-
tence?" But to proceed: It was, by the account
I kept, the thirtieth of September, when
I first landed on this island. About twelve
days after, fearing lest I should lose my reck-
oning of time, nay even forget the sabbath days
for want of pen, ink, and paper, I carved with
a knife upon a large post, in great letters, I
34
35
the similitude of a cross, on the sea si tore where
I landed. Every day I cut a notch with my
knife on the sides of the square post, and that
on the sabbath was as long again as the rest,
and every first day of the month, as long again
as that long one* In this manner, I kept my
calendar, weekly, monthly, or yearly reckoning
of time. But had I made a more strict search
(as I did afterwards,) I need not have set up
this mark. For among the parcels belonging
to the gunner, carpenter, and captain's mate,
I found those very things I wanted; particu-
larly pens, ink, and paper; also I found two or
three compasses, some mathematical instru-
ments, dials, perspective glasses, books of
navigation, three English Bibles, and several
other good books, which I carefully put up.
Here I cannot but call to mind our having a
dog and two cats on board, whom I made
inhabitants with me in my castle. Though
one might think I had all the necessaries that
were desirable, yet still I found several things
wanting. My ink was daily wasting: I want-
ed needles, pins, and thread to mend or keep
my clothes together: and particularly a spade,
pick-axe, or shovel, to remove the earth. It
was a year before I finished my little bul-
wark; and having some intervals of relaxation,
after my daily wandering abroad for provision*
I drew up this plan alternately, as creditor
and debtor, to remind me of the miseries and
the blessings of my life, under so many vari-
ous circumstances.
ao
EVIL.
GOOD.
I am cast upon a
desolate island, hav-
ing no prospect of a
welcome deliverance.
How miserable am I,
singled out from the
enjoyment or company
of all mankind.
Like a hermit (ra-
ther should I say a
lonely anchoret) am
I forced from human
conversation.
My clothes, after
sometime will be worn
out, and then I shall
have none to cover
me.
When my ammuni-
tion is wasted, then
•ehall I remain without
any defence against
wild men and beasts.
I have no creature,
no soul to speak to;
none to beg assistance
But yet I am pre-
served .while my com-
panions have perished
in the raging sea.
Yet set apart to
be spared from death.
And He, who has so
preserved me, can de-
liver me from this con-
dition.
However, I have
food to cat, and even
a happy prospect of
subsistence whilst life
endures.
At present I enjoy
what is absolutely
needful; and the cli-
mate i3 so hot, that
had I never so many,
I should hardly wear
them.
Yet even thus, I see
no danger of any to
hurt me, as in Africa;
and what if I had been
cast away upon that
coast?
Is there not God to
converse with, and is
not he able to deliver
3.
from. Some comfort thee? already lias he af.
would it be to resound forded thee sustenance
my woes where I am and put it in thy power
understood, and beg to provide for thyself,
assistance where I till he sends thee a de-
might hope for relief- liverance.
And now, easing my mind a little by these
reflections, I began to render my life as easy
as possible.
I must here add to the description I have
given of my habitation, that having raised a
turf wall against the outside of it, I thatched
it so close as might keep it from the inclemency
of the weather; I also improved it within, en*
larged my cave, and made a passage and a
door in the rock, which came out beyond the
pale of my fortification. I next proceeded to
make a chair and table, and so began to study
such mechanical arts as seemed to me practi-
cable. When I wanted a plank or a board, I
hewed down a tree with my hatchet, making it
as thin with my axe as possible, and then
smooth enough with an adze, to answer my de-
signs; yet though I could make no more this
way than one board out of a tree, in length of
time l got* boards enough to shelter all my
stores, every thing being regularly placed, and
my guns securly hanging against the side of
a rock. This made it a very pleasant sight to
me being the result of vast labour and great
diligence; which, leaving for a while, and me
to the enjoyment of, I shall give the reader an
38
account of some parts of my journal from the
day of my landing, till the settling of my liatvj.
tation, as heretofore shown.
JOURNAL.
SEPTEMBER 30th, 1659,1 unhappy Rom...
son Crusoe, having suffered shipwreck, was
driven on this desolate island, which I named
the Desolate island of Despair, the rest of my
companions being swallowed up in the tempes-
tuous ocean. The next day I spent in consider-
ation of my unhappy circumstances, having no
prospect but of death, either to be starved with
hunger, or devoured by wild beasts or merciless
savages.
Oct. 1. That morning, with great comfort I,
beheld the ship drove ashore. Some hopes I
had, that when the storm was abated I might
be able to get some food and necessaries out of
her; which I conceived were not damaged,
because the ship did stand upright. At this
time, I lamented the loss of ray companions, and
our misfortune in leaving the vessel. When I
perceived the ship, as it were, to lie dry, I waded
through the sands, then swam aboard, the wea-
ther being very rainy, and with scarcely any
wind.
To the 14th of this month, my time was em-
ployed in making voyages every tide, gettiag^-
what I could out of the ship. The weather very*
wet and uncertain.
39
Oct. 25. My raft, and all the goods thereon
were overset; yet I recovered most again at
low water.
Oct. 25. It blew hard, and rained night and
day, when the ship went in pieces, so that no-
thing was seen of her but the wreck at low
water. This day I secured my goods from the
inclemency of the weather.
Oct. 26. I wandered to see where I could
find a place convenient for my abode: I fixed
upon a rock in the evening, marked out a half
moon, intending to erect a wall fortified with
piles, lined within with pieces of cables, and
covered with turf.
Nov. 3. I shot two wild-fowl, resembling
ducks, which were good to eat, and in the af-
ternoon made me a table.
Nov. 4. I began to live regularly. In the
morning I allowed myself two or three hours
to walk out with my gun; I then worked till
near eleven o'clock; and afterwards refreshed
myself with what I had to eat. From twelve
to two, I would lie down to sleep. Extreme
sultry weather. In the evening go to work
again.
Nov. 5. Went out with my gun and <iog,
shot a wild cat with a soft skin, but her flesh
was good for nothing. The skins of those
killed I preserved. In my return I percieved
many wild birds, and was terrified by some
seals which made off to sea.
Nov. 6. Completed my table.
Nov. 7. Fair weather. I worked to the 12th,
40
but omitted the 11th, which according to my
calculation, I supposed to be Sunday.
Nov. 17. I began to dig in the rock, yet was
obliged to desist for want of a pick-axe, shovel
and wheel-barrow. Iron crows I used to sup.
ply the place of the first, but with all my art I
could not make a wheel-barrow.
Nov. 19. It was my fortune to find a tree
resembling what the Brazilians call an iron
tree. I had like to spoil my axe with cutting
it, it being very hard, and exceedingly heavy;
yet with much labour and industry I made a
sort of spade out of it.
Nov. 23. These tools being made, I daily
carried on my business; eighteen days I allowed
for enlarging my cave, that it might serve me,
not only for a ware-house, but kitchen, parlour
and cellar. I commonly lay in the tent, unless
the weather was so rainy that I could not lie
dry. So wet would it be at certain seasons,
that I was obliged to cover all within the pale
with long poles, in the form of rafters, leaning
against the rock, and load them with flags and
large leaves of trees resembling a thatch.
Dec. 10. No sooner did I think my habita-
tion finished, but suddenly a great deal of the
top broke in, so that it was a mercy I was not
buried in the ruins. This occasioned a great
deal of pains and trouble to me before I could
make it firm and durable.
Dec. 17. I nailed up someshelves, and drove
nails and staples in the wall and posts, to hang
every thing out of the way.
41
Dec. 20. Every thing I got into its place,
then made a sort of dresser, and another table.
Dec. 27. I chanced to light on some goats,
shot one, wounded another; I led it home in a
string, bound up its leg, and cured it in a little
time; at length, it became so tame and familiar
as to feed before the door, and follow me where
I pleased. This put me in mind to bring up
tame creatures, in order to supply me with food
after my ammunition was spent.
Dec. 28, 29,30. The weather being exces-
sively hot, with little air, obliged me for the
most part to keep within doors.
Jan. 3, to 14. My employment this time
was to finish the wall before described, and
search the island. I discovered a kind of pi-
geons, like our house-pigeons, in a nest among
41
41
ter this, I shot some, which proved excellent
food. Some time I spent vainly contriving to
make a cask, I may well say it was in vain, be-
41
the heads, so as to make it tight: so leaving
that, I took some goats tallow I had by me,
and a little oakum for the wick, and provided
myself with a lamp, which served instead of
candles.
But now a very strange event happened. For
being in the height of my search, what should
come into my hand, but a bag which was used
to hold corn (as I supposed) for the fowls; so
immediately resolving to put gunpowder into it.
»2
42
1 shook all the husks and dirt upon one side of
a rock, little expecting what the consequence
would be. The rain had fallen plentifully a
few days before; and about a month after, to
my great amazement, something began to look
out very green and flourishing; and when I
came to view it more nicely, every day as it
grew, I found about ten or twelve ears of green
barley of the very same shape and make as that
in England.
I can scarcely express the agitation of my
mind at this sight. Hitherto, I had looked
upon the actions of this life no otherwise than
only as the events of blind chance and fortune.
But now, the appearance of this barley, flour-
ishing in a barren soil, and my ignorance in
not conceiving how it should come there, made
me conclude, "that miracles were not yet ceas-
ed;" nay, I even thought that God had appoint-
ed it to grow there without any seed, purely for
my sustenance in this miserable and desolate
island. And indeed such great effect had this
upon me, that it often made me melt into tears
through a grateful sense of God's mercies; and
the greater still was my thankfulness, when I
perceived about this little field of barley, some
rice stalks, also wonderfully flourishing*.
While thus pleased in mind, I concluded
there must be some more corn in the island;
and therefore made a diligent search narrowly
among the rocks; but not being able to find
any, on a sudden it came into my mind, how I
had shaken the husks of corn out of the bag,
43
and then my admiration ceased, with my grati-
tude to the Divine Being, as thinking it was but
natural, and not to be conceived a miracle;
though even the manner of its preservation
might have made me own it as a wondeful
event of God's kind providence.
It was about the latter end of June when tho
ears of the corn ripened, which I laid up very
carefully, together with 20 or 30 stalks of rice;
expecting one day I should reap the fruit of
my labour; yet four years were expired before
I could allow myself to eat any barley bread,
and much longer time before I had any rice.
After this, with indefatigable pains and indus-
try for three or four months, at last I finished
my house on the 14th of April, having no way
to go into it, but by a ladder against the wall.
April 16,1 finished my ladder, and ascended
it; afterwards pulled it up, then let it down on
the other side, and descended into my new ha-
bitation, where I had space enough, and so for-
tified, that nothing could attack me without
scaling the walls.
But what does all human art and industry
avail, if the blessing of God does not crown
our labours? Or who can stand before the Al-
mighty, when he stretcheth forth his arm I For,
one time as I was at the entrance of my cave,
there happened such a dreadful earthquake,
that not only the roof of the cave came tumbling
about my ears, but the posts seemed to crack
terribly at the same time. This put me in a
great amazement; and running to the ladder
44
and getting over the wall, I then plainly knew
it was an earthquake, the place I stood on sus-
taining three terrible shocks in less than three
minutes. But judge of my terror when I saw
the top of a great rock roll into the sea; I then
expected the island would be swallowed up
every moment: and what made the scene still
more dreadful, was to see the sea thrown into
the most violent agitations and disorders by this
tremendous accident.
For my part, I expected every moment to be
swallowed up. At the moving of the earth, I
was, as it were, sea-sick; and very much afraid
lest the rock, under which was my fence and
habitatiou, should overwhelm me and it in a
lasting tomb.
It was not long after, when a horrible tem-
pest arose, at the same time attended with a
hurricane of wind. Three hours did this storm
continue, and in so violent a manner as to tear
the very trees up by the roots, which was sue
ceeded by abundance of rain. When the tem.
pest was over, I went to my tent; but the rain
coming on in a furious manner, I was obliged
to take shelter in the cave, where I was forced
to cut a channel through my fortification, to
let the water out. It continued raining all that
night, and some time the next day. These ac-
cidents made me resolve, as soon as the wea-
ther cleared up, to build me a little hut in some
open place, walled round, to defend me from
wild creatures and savages; not doubting, but,
at the next earthquake, the mountain would
45
fail on my habitation and me, and swallow up
all in its bowels.
April 16—20. These days I spent in con-
triving how and in what manner I should fix
my place of abode. AH this while, I was u«-
der the most dreadful apprehensions. When
I looked round my habitation, every thing I
found in its proper place. I had several de-
bates whether I should move or not; but at
length resolved to stay where I was, till I
found out a convenient place where I might
pitch my tent.
April 22. When I began to put my resolu-
tions in practice, I was stopped for want of
tools and instruments to work with. Most of
my axes and hatchets were useless, occasioned
by cutting the hard timber that grew on the
island. It took me up a full week to make my
grindstone of use to me; and at last I found
out a way to turn it about with my foot, by help
of a wheel and a string.
April 30. My bread falling short, I allow-
ed myself but one biscuit a day.
May 1. As I walked along the sea-shore,
I found a barrel of gunpowder, and several
pieces of the wreck which the sea had flung up.
Having secured these, I made to the ship, whose
stern was torn off, and washed a great distance
ashore; but the rest lay in the sands. This, I
suppose, was occasioned by the earthquake. I
how resolved to keep my old place of abode:
and also to get to the ship that day, but found
it impossible.
Hi
May 3. This day I went on board, and with
my saw sawed off one of the beams, which kept
her quarter-deck. I then cleared the sand till
flood.
May 4. I caught some fish, but they were
not wholesome. The same day, I also caught
a young dolphin.
May 5. This day also I repaired to the
wreck, and sawed another piece of timber;
and When the flood came, I made a float of
three great planks, which were driven ashore
by the tide.
May 6—9. These days, I brought off" the
iron bolts, opened the deck with the iron crow,
and carried two planks to land, having made a
way into the very middle of the wreck.
May 10—13. All this time I spent in bring-
ing off great quantities of iron and timber.
May 15. Took with me two hatchets on
purpose to cut off some lead from the roll, but
all in vain, for it lay too low under water.
May 24. To this day, I worked on the
wreck, and with great difficulty loosened some
things so much with the crow, that at the first
blowing tide, several casks floated out, and se-
veral of the seamen's chests; yet that dav no-
thing came to land but pieces of timber, and a
hogshead which had some pork in it. I con-
tinued working to the 15th of June; (except
necessary times for food and rest,) and had I
known how to build a boat, I had timber and
planks enough; I had also near 100 weight of
sheet lead.
47
June 16. As I was wandering towards the
sea-side, I found a large tortoise or turtle, be-
ing the first I had seen on the island, though,
as I afterwards found, there were many on the
other side of it.
June 17. This day I spent in cooking it,
found in her threescore eggs, and her flesh the
most savory and pleasant I ever tasted in my
life.
June 18. I staid within this day, there be-
ing a continual rain; and it was somewhat
more chilly and cold than usual.
June 19. Exceedingly ill, taken with a
trembling and shivering.
June 20. Awake all night, my head racked
with pain, and feverish.
June 21. Sick unto death, and terrified
with dismal apprehensions of my condition.
Prayed to God more frequently, but very con-
fusedly. •
June 22. Something better, but still un.
easy in my mind.
June 23. Again relapsed much as before.
June 24. Mended a second time.
June 25. A violent ague for seven hours,
cold and hot fits, succeeded with faint sweats.
June 26. Better, but very weak; yet I
scrambled out, shot a she goat, brought it
home, and broiled some of it: I would wil-
lingly have stewed it, and made some broth,
but had no pot.
June 27. All this day I was afflicted with
an ague; thirsty, yet could not help myself to
48
water: prayed to God in these words: "Lord,
in pity look upon me: Lord, have mercy upon
me, have mercy upon me!" After this I fell
asleep, which, when I awaked, I found had
much refreshed me.
I rose up, in a pensive manner, being so
thoughtful that I could not go to sleep; and
fearing the dreadful return of my distemper, it
caused me to remember, that the Brazilians
use tobacco for almost all diseases. I then
Went to my chest, in order to find some, where
heaven, no doubt, directed me to find a cure,
both for soul and body; for there I found one
of the bibles, which, till this time, I had neither
leisure nor inclination to look into; I took
both the tobacco and that out of my chest, and
laid them on the table. Several experiments did
I try with the tobacco. First, I took a piece of
leaf, and chewed it; but it being very green
and strong, almost stupified me: next, I steep-
ed it in some rum an hour or two, resolving
when I went to bed, to take a dose of it: and,
in the third place, I burnt some over a pan of
fire, holding my nose over it eo long as I could
endure it without suffocation.
In the intervals of this operation, though my
head was giddy and disturbed by the tobacco,
I took up the Bible to read. No sooner did I
open, but there appeared to me these words,
"Call on me in the day of trouble, and 1 will
deliver thee, and thou shalt glorify me."
At first, this sentence made a very deep im-
pression on my heart: but it soon wore off
49
again when I consider the word "deliver"' was
foreign to me. And as the children of Israel
said, when they were promised flesh to eat,
"Can God spread a table in the wilderness?" In
the like manner I began to say, Can God him-
self deliver me from this desolate Island? How.
ever, the words would still return to my mind,
and afterwards made a greater impression upon
me. As it now was very late, and the tobacco
had dozec* my head, I was inclined to sleep;
but before I would lie down, I fell on my
knees, and implored the promise that God had,
made to me in the holy Scriptures, that "if I
called on him in the day of trouble, he would
deliver me." With much difficulty I afterwards
drank the rum, wherein I had steeped the to-
bacco, which flying into my head, threw me into
such a profound sleep, that it was three o'clock
the next diy be/ore I awoke; or> rather, I be.
lieve, I slept two days, having certainly lost a
day in im account, and I could never tell any
other wa^. When I got up, my spirits were
lively ani cheerful; my stomach much better,
being veiy hungry; and, in short, no fit return-
ed the rext day, which was the 29th, but I
found mjself much altered for the better.
July a. The fit quite left me, but very
weak- .a this condition, I often thought of
these words, "I will deliver thee:" and while
at sometimes I would think of the impossibility
of it, otler thoughts would reprehend me, for
disregaiding the deliverances I had received
even from the most forlorn and distressed con.
» 50
d it Ion. I asked myself, what regard have I
had to God for his abundant mercies? Have I
done my part ?" He has delivered me, but I
have not glorified him;" as if I had said, I had
not owned and been thankful for these as de-
liverances, and how could I expect greater?
So much did this sensibly touch my heart, that
I gave God thanks for my recovery from sick-
ness in the most humble posture.
July 4. This morning I began seriously to
ponder on what is written in the New Testa-
•ment, resolving to read a chapter every morn-
ing and night, as long as my thoughts would
engage me. As soon as I set about this work
seriously, I found my heart deeply affected
with the impiety of my past life. After this, I
begged of God to assist me with his holy Spirit
in returning to my duty. One diy, in pe-
rusing the Scriptures, I came Jo th?se words,
"He is exalted a Prince and a Saviour, to
give repentance, and to give remissbn:" Im-
mediately I laid down the book, and with up-
lifted hands to heaven, loudly cried, cO bless-
ed Jesus, thou son of David! Jesus, thou exalt-
ed Prince and Saviour, give me repettance:"
And, now indeed, I prayed with a tne sens©
of my condition, and a more certan hope,
founded on the word of God. Now I had a
different sense of these words,." Call on me,
and I will deliver thee," that is, from tie dread-
ful load of guilt, which oppressed n.y sinful
soul, and not from a solitary life: in a word, I
came to this conclusion, that a deliverance from
61
sin was a much greater blessing than a deliver-
ance from affliction.
To the 14th of July, I walked about with my
gun, little and little at a time, having been re-
duced to the greatest extremity of weakness.
The applications and experiments I used were
perfectly new: neither could I recommend
them to any one's practice. For though it
carried off the fit, it very much weakened me;
and I had frequently convulsions in my nerves
and limbs for some time. From hence I learn-
ed, that gojrig abroad in rainy weather, espe-
cially when it was attended with storms and
hurricanes of wind was most pernicious to
health. I had now been above ten months in
the island; and as I never had seen any of the
human kind, I therefore accounted myself as
sole monarch; and as I grew better, having
secured my habitation to my mind, I resolved
to make a tour round my kingdom, in order to
make new discoveries.
The 15th of July, I began my journey. I
first went to the creek, where I had brought my
rafts on shore; and travelling farther found
the tide went no higher than two miles up,
where there was a little brook of running water,
on the bank of which were many pleasant sa-
vannahs or meadows, smooth, plain and cover-
ed with grass. On the rising parts, where I
supposed therwater did not reach, I perceived
a great deal of tobacco growing to a very strong
stalk. Several other plants I likewise found,
the virtue of which I did not understand. I
52
searched a long time for the cassava foot, which
I knew the Indians in that climate made their
bread of; but all in vain. There were several
plants of aloes, though at that time I knew not
what they were: likewise I saw several sugar-
canes, but imperfect for want of cultivation.
With these few discoveries, I came back that
night, and slept contentedly in my little castle.
The next day, being the 16th, going the
came way, but farther than the day before, I
found the country more adorned with woods
and trees. Here I perceived different fruits in
great abundance. Melons in plenty lay on the
ground, and clusters of grapes, ripe and very
rich, spread over the trees. You may imagine
I was glad of this discovery, yet ate very spar-
ingly, lest I should throw myself into a flux or
fever. The grapes I found of excellent use;
for when I dried them in the sun, which pre-
served them as dried raisins are kept, they
proved very wholesome and nourishing, and
served me' in those seasons when no grapes
were to be had.
The night drawing on apace, I ascended
up a tree, and slept very comfortably, though
it was the first time I had slept out of my ha-
bitation. And when the morning came, I pro-
ceeded with great pleasure on my way, travel-
ling about four miles, as I imagined, by the
length of the valley. At the end of this valley
I came to an opening, where the country
seemed to descend to the west; there I found
a spring of fresh water, proceeding out of the
53
side of the hill, with its crystal streams running
directly east. And indeed here my senses
were charmed with the most beautiful land-
scape nature could afford; for the country ap-
peared so flourishing, green and delightful,
that to me it seemed like a planted garden. I
then descended on the side of that delicious
vale, when I found abundance of cocoa, orange,
lemon, and citron trees, but very wild and
barren at that time. As, for the limes, they
were delightful and wholesome, the juice of
which I afterwards used to mix in water, which
made it very cool and refreshing. And now I
was resolved, to carry home and lay up a store
of grapes, limes and lemons, against the ap-
proaching wet season. So laying them up in
separate parcels, and then taking a few of each
with me, I returned to my' little castle, after
having spent three days in this journey. Be-
fore I got home, the grapes were so bruised
that they were utterly spoiled; the limes in-
deed were good, but of those, I could bring
only a few.
July 19. Having prepared two bags, I re-
turned thither again, but to my great surpise,
found all the grapes spread about, trod to
pieces, and abundance eaten, which made me
conclude there were wild beasts thereabouts.
To prevent this happening again, I gathered
a large quantity of the grapes, and hung them
iipon the out branches of the tree, both to
keep them unhurt, and that they might cure
and dry in the sun: and having well loaded
e2
inyself with limes and lemons, I returned once
more to my old place of residence.
And now, reflecting on the fruitfulness of
this valley, the pleasantness of its situation, its
security from storms, and the delightfulness of
the adjacent woods, I concluded I was setled in
the worst part of the country, and therefore
was thinking to remove my habitation.
But when I considered again, that though
it was pleasant, it was off from the sea-side,
where there was a possibility, some time or
other, a ship might either be driven or sail by;
and that to inclose myself among hills and
woods must certainly put an end to my hopes
of deliverance; I resolved to let my castle re-
main where Providence had first placed it.
Yet, so delighted was I with this place, that I
made me a little kind of bower, surrounding it
with a double hedge, as high as I could reach,
well staked and filled with bulrushes: and
having spent a great part of the month of July,
I think it was the first of August before I be-
gan to enjoy my labour.
August 3. Perceiving my grapes to be dry,
I took them from the trees, and they proved
excellent good raisins of the sun: the most of
which I carried to my cave; and happy for me
I did so, by which I saved the best part of my
winter food.
August 14. This day it began to rain; and
though I had made me a tent like the other,
yet having no shelter of a hill to keep me from
storms, nor a cave behind me to retreat to, I
55
was obliged to return to my old castle, the
rain continued more or less every day, till the"
middle of October; and sometimes so violently,
that I could not stir out of my cave for several
days. This season I found my family to in-
crease; for one of my cats that had run away
from me, and which I thought had been dead,
returned about August, with three kittens at
her heels, like herself; from these cats pro-
ceeded such numbers, that I was forced to kill
and destroy them as I would do wild beasts or
vermin.
To the 26th of this month, I could not stir
out, it raining incessantly; when beginning to
want food, I was compelled to venture twice,
the first of which times I shot a goat, and
afterwards found a very large tortoise. The
manner of regulating my food was thus: a
bunch of raisins served me for my breakfast; a
piece of goat's flesh or turtle boiled for my
dinner, and two or three turtle eggs for my
supper. While the rain lasted, I daily worked
two or three hours at enlarging my cave, and,
by degrees worked it on towards one side of
the hill, and made a door or way out, which
came beyond my fence or wall, and so I came
in and. out this way. But after I had done this,
I was troubled to see myself thus exposed;
though I could not perceive any thing to fear,
a goat being the biggest creature I had seen
upon this island.
September 30. Casting up the notches on my
post, they amounted to 365,1 concluded thi*
5a
to be the anniversary of my landing; and there'
fore, humbly prostrating myself on the ground,
confessing my sins, acknowledging God's righ-
teous judgments upon me, and praying to Jesus
Christ to have mercy upon me, I fasted for
twelve hours till the going down of the sun;
and then eating a biscuit and a bunch of grapes,
laid me on a bed, and with great comfort took
my night's repose. Till this time, I seldom had
distinguished the Sabbath-day; but now I
made a longer notch than ordinary for the days
of rest, and divided the weeks as well as I
could, though I found I had lost a day or two
in my account. My ink failing soon after, I
omitted in my daily memorandum, things of an
indifferent nature, and contented myself to
write down only the most remarkable events of
my life. The rainy and dry seasons appeared
5a
how to provide for them; yet in one thing I
am going to relate, my experience very much
failed me. You may call to mind, what I
have mentioned of some barley and rice which
I had saved; about thirty stalks of the former,
and twenty of the latter; and, at that time, the
sun's being in its southern position, going from
me, together with the rains, made me con-
clude it a very proper season to sow it. Ac-
cordingly I dug up a piece of ground, with my
wooden spade, and dividing it in two parts,
sowed about two-thirds of my seed, preserving
by me a handful of each. And happy it was
I did so; for no rains falling, it was choked
57
up, and never appeared above tue earth till the
wet season came again, and then part of it
grew, as if it had been newly sown.
I was resolved still to make another trial;
and seeking for a moister piece of ground near
nvy bower, I there sowed the rest of my seed
in February, which, by having the rainy months
of March and April to water it, yielded a no-
ble crop, and sprung up very pleasantly. I
had still saved part of the seed, not daring to
venture all; and by the time I found out the
proper seasons to sow it' in, and that I might
expect every year two seed-times and two har-
vests, my stock amounted to above half a peck
of each sort of grain.
No sooner were'the rains over, but the stakes
which I had cut from the trees, shot out like
willows, the first year after lopping their heads.
I was ignorant of the tree I cut them from; but
they grew so regularly beautiful, that they made
a most lively appearance, and so flourished in
three years time, that I resolved to cut more
of them; and these soon growing made a
glorious fence, as afterwards I shall observe.
And now I perceived that the seasons of the
year might generally be divided, not into sum-
mer and winter, as in Europe, but into wet,
and dry seasons, as in this manner.
From { February 15, ) Rainy, sun coming near
To (April 15, \ the Equinox,2 months.
From < April 15, ) Dry, sun getting north
To I August 15, $ from the line, 4 months.
58
58
To I October 15, $ come back, 2 months.
From i October 15, 4 Dry, sun running south
To $ February 15, $ of the line 4l months.
The wet seasons would continue longer or
shorter, as the wind continued or ceased to
blow. But having found the ill consequences
of being abroad in the rain, I took care before
hand to furnish myself with provisions: and,
during the wet months, s'at within doors as
much as possible. At this time I contrived to
make many handy things that I wanted, though
it cost me much labour and pains, before I could
accomplish them. The first I tried was to
make a basket; but all the twigs I could get,
proved so brittle, that I could not then per-
form it. It now proved of great use to me,
that when a boy, I took great delight in stand-
ing at a basket maker's, in the same town
where my father lived, to view his men at work:
like other boys, being curious to see the manner
of their working these things, and very officious
to assist, I perfectly learned the method of it,
and wanted nothing but the tools. And it
coming into my mind, that the twigs of that
tree of which I made my stakes, might be as
tough as a sallow willow, or osiers growing in
England, I resolved to make an experiment,
and went the next day to my country seat,
and found some fit for my turn; and after cut-
ting down a quantity with my hatchet, I dried
them in my pale, and, when fit to work with,
59
earned them to my cave, where I employed
myself in making several sorts of baskets, in-
somuch that I could put in whatsoever I pleased.
It is true, they were not cleverly made, yet
they served my turn upon all occasions.
But still I wanted two necessary things. I
had no cask to hold my liquor, except two
almost full of rum, a few bottles of an ordinary
size, and some square case bottles; neither had
I a pot to boil any thing in, only a large kettle,
unfit to make broth, or stew a bit of meat: 1
wanted likewise at the beginning of this dry
season a tobacco-pipe; but for this I afterwards
found an expedient.
I kept myself employed in planting my
second row of stakes. But remembering that
when I travelled up to the brook I had a mind
to see the -whole island, I now resumed my in.
tention, and taking my dog, gun, hatchet, two
biscuit cakes, a great bunch of raisins, with a
larger quantity of powder and shot than usualj
I began my journey. Having passed the vale
where my bower stood, I came within view of
the sea lying to the west; when, it being a
clear day, I fairly descried land, extending
from the west to the south-west about 10 or 15
leagues, as I concluded; but could not say
whether it was an island or a continent. Neither
could I tell what this place might be; only
thought it was part of America, and where I
might have been in a miserable condition had
I landed. Again I considered, that if this was
60
the Spanish coast, certainly, one time or the
other, I should see some ships pass by; and if
it was not, then it must be the savage coast,
between the Spanish country and Brazil, which
abounds withcannibalsor man-eaters.
As I proceeded forward, I found this side of
the island much more pleasant than mine ; the
fields fragrant, adorned with sweet flowers and
verdant grass, together with several very fine
woods. There were parrots in plenty which
made me long for one to be my companion;
but it was with great difficulty I could knock
one down with my stick; and I kept him at
home some years, before I could get him to call
me by name. *
In the low grounds I found various sorts of
hares and foxes as I took them to be, but much
different from those in England. Several of
these I killed, but never ate them; neither in-
deed had I any occasion; for abounding with
goats, pigeons, turtle, and grapes I could defy
any market to furnish me a better table. In
this journey I did not travel above two miles a
day, because I took several turns and wind*
ings, to see what discoveries I could make, re-i
turning weary enough to the place where I de*
signed to rest all night, which was either in a
tree, or to a place which I surrounded with
stakes, that no wild creature might suddenly
surprise me. When I came to the sea-shore,
I was amazed to see the splendour of it. Its
8trand was covered with shells of the most
61
beautiful fish, and constantly abounding with
innumerable turtles, and fowls of many kinds,
which I was ignorant of, except those called
penguins. I might have shot as many as I
pleased, but was sparing of my ammunition,
rather choosing to kill a she-goat, which I did
with much difficulty, on account of the flatness
of the country.
Now, though this journey produced the most
pleasing satisfaction, yet my habitation was so
much to my liking, that I did not repine at my
61
I continued my journey, travelling about twelve
miles further towards the east, where I set a
great pile on the shore for a mark, concluding
that my next journey should bring me to the
other side of the island, east from my castle,
and so round till I came to my post again.
As I had a constant view of the country, I
thought I could not miss my way: but scarce
had I travelled three miles, when I descended
into a very large valley, so surrounded with
hills covered with wood, that having no guide
but the sun, and to add to my misfortune, the
weather proving very hazy, I was obliged to
return to my post by the sea-side, and so back-
wards the same way I came. In this journey
my dog surprised a kid, and would have killed
it, had I not prevented him. As I had often
been thinking of getting a kid or two, and so
raising a breed of tame goats to supply me
after my ammunition was spent, I took this
opportunity of beginning: and, having made
62
a collar for this little creature, with a string
made of rope-yarn, I brought it to my bower,
and there inclosed and left him; and having
spent a month in this journey, at length I
returned to my old habitation.
Nobody can doubt of my satisfaction, when
f returned to my little castle, and reposed my
self in my hammock. After my journey 1
rested myself a week, which time I employed
in making a cage for my pretty poll. I now
began to recollect the poor kid I had left in
the bower, and immediately went to fetch it
home. When I came there, I found the young
creature almost starved; I gave it some food,
and tied it as before; but there was no occa-
sion, for it followed me like a dog; and as I
constantly fed it, it became so loving, gentle,
and fond, that it commenced one of my do-
mestics, and would never leave me.
The rainy season of the autumnal equinox
being now come, I kept the 30th of September
in the most solemn manner, as usual, it being
the third year of my abode in the island. I spent
the whole day in acknowledging God's mercies,
in giving thanks for making this solitary life as
agreeable, and less sinful, than that of human
society; and for the communication of his
grace to my soul, in supporting, comforting,
and encouraging me to depend upon his Provi-
dence, and hope for his eternal presence in the
world to come.
Indeed, I often did consider how much more
happy I was, in this state of life, than in that'
63
accursed manner of living I formerly used;
sometimes. however, when hunting, or viewing
the country, the anguish of my soul would
break out upon me, and my very heart would
sink within me, to think of the woods, the
mountains, the deserts I was in; and how |
was a prisoner locked up within the eternal
bars and bolts of the ocean, in an uninhabited
wilderness, without hopes, and without redemp-
tion. In this condition, I would often wring
my hands, and weep like a child: and even
sometimes in the middle of my work, this fit
would often take me; and then I would sit
down and sigh, looking on the ground for an
hour or two together, till such time as my grief
got vent in a flood of tears.
One morning, as I was fully employed in this
manner I opened my bible, wheh immediately
I fixed my eyes upon these words "I will
never leave thee, nor forsake thee!" Surely,
if God does not forsake me, what matters it,
since he can make me more happy in this state
of life, that if I enjoyed the greatest splendour
in the world? And whenever I opened or shut
the Bible, I blessed kind Providence, that
directed my good friend in England to send it
among my goods without my order, and for as-
sisting me to save it from the power of the
raging ocean.
And now beginning my third year• my se.
veral daily employments were these: First.
My duty to Heaven, and diligently reading the
Holy Scriptures which I did twice or thrice
64
ever}' day; Secondly, Seeking provisions with
my gun, which commonly took me up, when
it did not rain, three hours every morning;
Thirdly, The ordering, curing, preserving, and
cooking what I had killed, or catched for my
supply, which took me up a great part of the
day; for in the middle of the day, the sun
being in it is height, it was so hot, that I could
not stir out; so that I had but four hours in the
evening to work in: and then the want of tools,
of assistance, and skill, wasted a great deal of
time to little purpose, I was no less than two
and forty days, making a board fit for a long
shelf, which two sawyers, with their tools and
saw.pit, would have cut out of the same tree in
half a day. It was of a large tree, as my
board was to be broad. I was three days in
cutting it down, and two more in lopping off
the boughs, and reducing it to a piece of tim-
ber. Thus I hacked and hued off each side,
till "it became light to move; then I turned it,
made one side of it smooth and flat as a board
from end to end, then turned it downward, cut-
ting the other side, till I brought the plank to
be about three inches thick, and smooth on both
sides. Any body may judge my great labour
and fatigue in such a piece of work; but this I
went through with patience, as also many other
things, that my circumstances made necessary
for me to do.
The harvest months, November and Decem-
ber, were now at hand, in which I had the
pleasing prospect of a very good crop. Put
65
liere I met with a new misfortune, for the goaM
and hares, having tasted of the sweetness of
the blade, kept it so short that it had no
strength to shoot up into a stalk. To prevent
this, I enclosed it with a hedge, and by day
shot some of its devourers; and my dog, which
I had tied to the field-gate, keeping barking all
night, so frightened these creatures that I got
entirely rid of them.
But, no sooner did I get rid of these, than
other enemies appeared; to wit, whole flocks
of several sorts of birds, who only waited till
tny back was turned, to ruin me. So much did
this provoke me, that I let fly, and killed three
of the malefactors; and afterward served them
as they do notorious thieves in England, hung
them up in chains as a terror to others. And,
indeed, so good an effect had this, that they
not only forsook the corn, but all that part of
the island, so long as these criminals hung
there.
My corn having ripened apace, the latter end
of December, which was my second harvest, I
reaped it with a scythe, made of one of my
broad swords. I had no fatigue in cutting
down my first crop, it was so slender. The ears
I carried home in a basket, rubbing the grain
out with my hands, instead of threshing it;
and, when my harvest was over, found my half-
peck of seed had produced nearly two bushels
of rice, and two bushels and a half of barley.
And now I plainly foresaw, that, by God's
goodness, I should be furnished with bread;
f2
6G
but yet I was concerned, because I knew not
how to grind or make meal of my corn, neither
knew I how to bake it into bread. I would
not, however, taste any of the crop, but resolv-
ed to preserve it against next season, and, in
the mean while, use my best endeavours to
provide myself with other food.
But where were my labours to end 1 the want
of a plough to turn up the earth, or shovel to
dig it, I conquered by making me a wooden
spade. The want of a harrow I supplied, by
dragging over the corn a great bough of a tree.
When it was growing, I was forced to fence
it; when ripe, to mow it, carry it home, thresh
it, part it from the chaff, and save it. And,
after all, I wanted a mill to grind it, a sieve
to dress it, yeast and salt to make it into
bread, and an oven to bake it. This set my
brains to work, to find some expedient for
every one of these necessaries, against the next
harvest.
And now having more seed, my first care was
to prepare me more land. I pitched upon two
large flat pieces of ground, near my castle, for
that purpose, in which I sowed my seed, and
fenced it with a good hedge. This took me up
three months: by which time, the wet season
coming on, and the rain keeping me within
doors. I found several occasions to employ
myself; and, while at work, used to divert my.
self with talking to my parrot, teaching him to
know and speak his own name Poll, the first
welcome word I ever heard spoken in the island.
67
I had been a long time contriving, how to make
earthen vessels, which I wanted extremely;
and when I considered the heat of the climate,
I did not doubt but, if I could find any such
clay, I might botch up a pot, strong enough,
when dried in the sun, to bear handling, and to
hold any thing that was "dry,'i-s; corn, meal,
67
To be short, the clay I found; but it would
occasion the most serious person to smile, to
see what awkward ways I took, and what ugly
misshapen things I made; how many either fell
out or cracked by the violent heat of the sun,
and fell in pieces when they were removed, so
that I think it was two months before I could •
perfect any thing; and even then but two
clumsy things in imitation of earthen jars.
These, however, I very gently placed in wicker
baskets, made on purpose for them, and be-
tween the pot and the baskets, stuffed it full of
rice and barley straw; and these I presumed
would hold my dried corn, and perhaps the
meal, when the corn was bruised. As for the
smaller things, I made them with better suc-
cess; such as little round pots, flat dishes,
pitchers, and pipkins, the sun baking them very
hard.
Yet still I wanted one thing absolutely neces-
sary, and that was an earthen pot, not only to
hold my liquid, but also to bear the fire, which
none of these could do. It once happened that
as I was putting out my fire, I found therein a
broken piece of one of my vessels, burnt hard
68
as a rock, and red as a tile. This made me
think of burning some pots; and having no
notion of a kiln, or of glazing them with lead,
I fixed three large pipkins, and two or three
pots in a pile one upon another. The fire I
piled round the outside, and dry wood on the
top, till I saw the pots in the inside redhot, and
found that they did not crack at all: and when
I perceived them perfectly red, I let them stand
in the fire about five or six hours, till the clay
melted by the extremity of the heat, and would
have run to glass had I suffered it; upon which,
I slacked my fire by degrees, till the redness
abated; and watching them till the morning, I
found I had three very good pipkins, and two
earthen pots, as well burnt and fit for my turn
as I could desire.
The first use to which I turned my pipkins,
Mas to make some salt, which I had long want-
ed. For this purpose, I filled them with sea-
water, and kept it slowly boiling over the
fire, till the whole of the water had boiled
away in steam, leaving, at the bottom of the
vessel, a thin crust of salt, which I found very
good for giving a relish to my food.
The next concern I had, was to get me a
stone-mortar to beat some corn in, instead of a
mill to grind it. Here, indeed, I was at a great
loss, as not being fit for a stone-cutter; and
many days I spent to find out a great stone big
enough to cut hollow and make fit for a mortar.
s»nd strong enough to bear the weight of a
postli', that woujid break the corn without filling
69
it with sand. But all the stones of the island
being of a mouldering nature, rendered my
search fruitless; and then I resolved to look
out a great block of hard wood; which having
found, I formed it by my axe and hammer, and
then, with infinite labour, made a hollow in it,
just as the Indians of Brazil make their canoes.
When I had finished this, I made a great pestle
of iron-wood, and then laid them up against my
succeeding harvest.
, My next business was to make me a sieve,
to sift my meal and part it from the bran and
husk. Having no fine thin canvas to search
the meal through, I could not tell what to do.
What linen I had was reduced to rags; I had
goat's hair enough, but neither tools to work it,
nor did I know how to spin it. At lengths I
remembered I had some neck-cloths of c^e^o
or muslin of the sailors, which I had brought
out of the ship, and with these, I made thrqp s
small sieves proper enough for the work.
I come now to consider the baking part.
The want of an oven I supplied, by making
some earthen pans very broad, but not deep.
When I had a mind to bake, I made a great
tire upon my hearth, the tiles of which I had
made myself, and when the wood was burnt
into live coals, I spread them over it, till it be-
came very hot; then sweeping them away, I
set down my loaves, and whelming down the
.earthen pots upon them, drew the ashes and
coals all around the outsides of the pots to con-
nue the heat; and in this manner I bakedmv
76
barley loaves, as well as if I had been a com-
plete pastry cook, and also made of the rice,
several cakes and puddings.
It is no wonder that all these things took me
up the best part of a year, since what inter-
mediate time I had, was bestowed in managing
my new harvest and husbandry; for in the
proper season, I reaped my corn, carried it
home, and laid it up in the ear, in my large
baskets, till I had time to rub, instead of
threshing it. And now indeed, my corn in-^
creased so much, that it produced me twenty
bushels of barley, and as much of rice, that I
not only began to use it freely, but was think-
ing how to enlarge my barns, and resolved to
sow as much at a time as would be sufficient
for^a whole year.
-;rti this while, the prospect of land, which I
ha<v-seen from the other side of the island, ran
ia my mind. I still meditated a deliverance
from this place, though the fear of greater mis-
fortunes might have deterred me from it. For,
allowing that I had attained that place, I ran
the hazard of being killed and eaten by the
devouring cannibals; and if they were not so,
yet I might be slain, as other Europeans had
been, who fell into their hands. Notwith-
standing all this, my thoughts ran continually
jjpon that shore.- I now wished for the long
boat with the shoulder of mutton sail. I went
to the ship's boat, that had been cast a great
way on the shore in the late storm. She wa^f
removed but a little; and her bottom beingf
71
•
turned up by the impetuosity and surge of the
waves and wind, I fell to work with all the
strength I had, and with levers and rollers I
had cut from the wood, to turn her, and repair
the damages she had sustained. This work
took me up three or four weeks, when finding
my little strength all in vain, I fell to under-
mining it by digging away the sand, and so to
make it fall down, setting pieces of wood to
thrust and guide it in the fall. But after this
was done, I was still unable to stir it up, or to
get under it, much less to move it forwards
towards the water, and so I was forced to give
it over.
This disappointment, however, did not fright-
en me. I began to think, whether it was not
possible for me to make a canoe or Perigua,
such as the Indians make of the trunk of a tree.
But here I lay under particular inconveniences;
want of tools to make it, and want of hands to
move it into the water when it was made. How.
«ver, to work I went upon it, stopping all the
enquiries I could make with this very simple
answer I made to myself, let's first make it,
I'll wararnt I'll find some way or other to get
it along when-it is done.
I first cut down a cedar tree, which was five
feet ten inches diameter at the lower part next
the stump, and four feet eleven inches diameter
at the end of twenty-two feet, after which it
lessened for a space, and then parted into
branches. Twenty days was I hacking and
hewing it at the bottom, fourteen more in
72
cutting oft" the branches and limbs, and a.
whole month in shaping it like the bottom of
a boat. As for the inside, I was three weeks
with a mallet and chisscl, clearing it in such a
manner, as that it was big enough to carry 26
men, much bigger than any canoe I ever saw
in my life, and consequently sufficient to trans-
port me and all my effects to that wished for
shore I so ardently desired.
Nothing remained now, but, indeed, the
greatest difficulty, to get it into the water, it
lying about 100 yards from it. To remedy the
first inconvenience, which was a rising hill be-
tween the boat and the creek, with wonderful
pains and labour I dug into the surface of the
earth, and made a declivity. But when this
was done, all the strength I had was as in-
sufficient to move it, as it was when I first
made the attempt. I then proceeded to mea-
sure the distance of ground, resolving to make
a canal, in order to bring the water to the ca-
noe, since I could not bring the canoe to the
water. But as this seemed to be impracticable
to myself alone under the space of eleven or
twelve years, it brought me into some sort of
consideration; so that I concluded this also to
be impossible, and the attempt vain. I now
saw, and not before, what stupidity it is. to
begin work before we reckon its costs, or
judge rightly our own abilities to go through
with its performance.
In the height of this work my fourth year ex-
pired from the time I was cast on this island.-
73
At this time I did not forget my anniversary;
but kept it with rather greater devotion than
before. For now my hopes being frustrated, I
looked upon this world as a thing I had nothing
to do with; and very well might I say, as fa-
ther Abraham said unto Dives, " Between me,
and thee there is a gulph fixed." And indeed
I was separated from its wickedness too, hav-
ing neither the lust of the flesh, the lust of the
eye, nor the pride of life; I had nothing to
covet, being lord, king and emperor over the
whole country I had in possession, without
dispute and without controul: I had loadings
of corn, plenty of turtles, timber in abundance,
and grapes above measure. What was all the
rest to me? the money I had, lay by me as
despicable dross, which I would freely have
given for a gross of tobacco pipes or a hand-
mill to grind my corn: in a word, the nature
and experience of these things dictated to me
this just reflection. That the good things of
this world are no further good to us, than as
they are for our use; and that whatever we
may heap up, we can but enjoy as much as we
use, and no more.
These thoughts rendered my mind more easy
than usual. Every time I sat down to meat, £
did eat with thankfulnessf admiring the provi-
dential hand of God, who,.in this wilderness
had spread a table to me. And now I con-
sidered what I enjoyed, rather than what I
wanted, compared my present condition with
what I at first expected it should be; how I
• 74
should have done, if I had got nothing out of
the ship; that I must have perished before I
had caught fish or turtles; or lived, had I
found them, like a mere savage, by eating them
raw, and pulling them to pieces with my claws,
like a beast. I next compared my station to
that which I deserved; how undutiful I had
been to my parents; how destitute of the fear
of God; how void of every thing that was
good; and how ungrateful for those abundant
mercies I had received from heaven, being fed,
as it were- by a miracle, even as-. great as
Elijah's being fed by ravens; and cast on a
place where there are no venomous creatures
to poison or devour me; in short, making God's
tender mercies matter of great consolation, I
relinquished all sadness, and gave way to con-
tentment.
As long as my ink continued, which with wa-
ter I made last as long as I could, I used to
minute down the days of the month on which
any remarkable thing happened.
The next thing that wasted after my ink, was
the biscuit, which I had brought out of the ship;
and though I allowed myself but one cake a
day for about a twelvemonth, yet I was quite
out of bread for nearly a year, before I got any
corn of my own. •
In the next place, my clothes began to de-
cay, and my linen had been gone long before.
However, I had preserved about three dozen
of the sailor's chequered shirts which proved a
great refreshment to me. when the violent
beams of the sun would not suffer me to Dear
any of the seamen's heavy watch coats; which
made mo turn tailor, and, after a miserable
botching manner, convert them to jackets. To
preserve my head, I made a cap of goatskins,
with the hair outwards to keep out the rain;
which indeed served me so well, that after-
ward I made a waistcoat and open-kneed
breeches of the same: and then I contrived
a sort of umbrella, covering it with skins,
which not only kept out the heat of the sun, but
the rain also. Thus being easy and settled in
my mind, my chief happiness was to converse
with God, in most heavenly and comfortable
ejaculations.
For five years after this, I cannot say any
extraordinary thing occurred to me. My chief
employment was to cure my raisins, and plant
my barley and rice, of both which I had a
year's provision before-hand. But though I
was disappointed in my first canoe, I made it,
at intermediate times, my business to make a
second of much inferior size: and it was two
years before I had finished it. But as I per-
ceived it would in no wise answer my design
of sailing to the other shore, my thoughts were
confined to take a tour round the island, to see
what further discoveries I could make. To
this intent, after having moved her to the wa-
ter, and tried how she would sail, I fitted up a
little mast to my boat, and made a sail of the
ship's sails that lay by me. I then made lock-
ers or boxes at the end of it to nut in neces-
76
saries, provision and ammunition, which would
preserve them dry cither from the rain, or the
spray of the sea; and, in the inside of the
boat, I cut me a long hollow place to lay my
gun, and to keep it dry, made a cover for
it. My umbrella, I fixed in a step in the
stern, like a mast, to keep the heat of the sun
off me. And now resolving to see the circum-
ference of my little kingdom, I victualled my
ship for the voyage, putting in two dozen of
my barley bread loaves, an earthen pot full of
parched rice, a little bottle of rum, half a
goat, powder and shot, and two watch-coats.
It was the sixth of November, in the sixth
year of my reign, or captivity, that I set out in
this voyage; which was much longer than I
expected, being obliged to put farther out, by
reason of the rocks that lay a great way in the
sea.
And indeed, so much did these rocks sur-
prise me, that I was for putting back, fearing
that if I ventured farther, it would be out of my
power to return: in this uncertainty I came to
anchor just off the shore, to which I waded
with my gun on my shoulder, and then climb-
ing up a hill, which over-looked that point, I
saw the full extent of it, and so resolved tc run
all hazards.
In this prospect from the hill, I perceived a
violent current running to the east, coming
very close to the point; which I the more
carefully observed, thinking it dangerous, and,
that when I came to it, I might be driven into/
the sea by its torce, and not able to return to the
island: and certainly it must have been so,
had I not made this observation; for on the
.other side was like the current, with this dif-
ference, that it set off at a greater distance;
and I perceived there was a strong eddy under
the land; so that my chief business was to
work out of the first current, and conveniently
get into the eddy. Two days I staid here,
the wind blowing very briskly east south east,
which being contrary to the current, leaves a
great breach of the sea upon the point; so it
was neither fit for me to keep too near the
shore, on account of the breach; nor stand at
too great distance for fear of the streams.
That night the wind abating, it grew so calm,
that I ventured out: and here I may be a
monument to all rash and ignorant pilots; for
I was no sooner come to the point, and not,
above the boat's length from shore, but I was
got into a deep water, with a current like a
mill-race, which drove my boat along so vio-
lently, that it was impossible for me to keep
near the edge of it, for it forced me more and
more out from the eddy to the left of me; and
all I could do with my paddles was useless,
there being no wind to help me.
Now I began to look upon myself as quite
lost, since, a3 the current ran on both sides of
the island, I was very certain they must join
again, and then I had no hopes but of perish-
ing for want, in the sea, after what provision
78
I had was spent, or before, if a storm should
happen to arise. *
Who can conceive the present anguish of
my mind at this calamity? with longing eyes
did I look upon my little kingdom- atid thought
the island the pleasantest place in the uni-
verse. Happy, thrice happy desert, said I,
shall I never see thee more? Wretched crea-
ture! wither am I going? Why did I mur-
mur at my lonesome condition, when now I
would give the whole world to be thither
again? While I was thus complaining, 1
found myself to be driven about two leagues
into the sea: however, I laboured till my
strength was far spent, to keep my boat as far
north as possibly I could, to that side of the
current where the eddy lay. About noon
I perceived a little breeze of wind, spring up
from the south south east, which overjoyed my
heart: and I was still more elated, when, in
about half an hour, it blew a gentle fine gale.
Had any thick weather sprung up, I had been
lost another way: for having no compass on
board, I should never have found the way to
steer towards the island, if once it had disap-
peared; but it. proving the contrary, I set up
my mast again, spread my sail, and stood away
northward, as much as I could, to get rid of
the current. And no sooner did the boat be.
gin to stretch away, but I perceived, by the
clearness of the water, a change of the current
was near; for, where it was strong, the water
79
was foul; and where it was- elear, the current
abated.
Those who have been in the like calamities
with my own, may guess my present excess of
joy, how heartily I ran my boat in the stream
of this eddy, and how joyfully I spread my sail
to the refreshing wind, standing cheerfully be
fore it, with a smart tide under foot. By the
assistance of this eddy, I was carried above a
league home again, when, being in the wake
of the island, betwixt the two currents, I
found the water to be in a sort of a stand.
About four o'clock in the afternoon, I reached
within a league of the island, and perceived
the points of the rock, which caused this dis.
aster, stretching out, as I observed before, to
the southward, which throwing off the cur-
rent more southerly, had occasioned another
eddy to the north. But having a fair brisk
gale, I stretched across this eddy, and in an
hour,' came within a mile of the shere, where I
soon landed to my unspeakable comfort; and
after an humble prostration, thanking^Sod for
my deliverance, with a resolution to lay all
thoughts of escaping aside, I brought my boat
safe to a little cove, and laid me down to take
a welcome.repose. When I awoke, I was con-
sidering how'I might get my boat home; and
coasting along the shore I came to a good bay,
which ran up to a rivulet or brook, where,
finding a harbour, I. stowed her as safe as
if she had been in a dry dock, made on pur-
pose for her.
80
I now perceived myself not far from the
place, where before I had travelled on foot; so
taking nothing with me, except my gun and
umbrella, I began my journey, and in the
evening came to my bower, where I again laid
ine down to rest. I had not slept long before
1 awakened in great surprise, by a strange
voice that called me several times, "Robin,
.Robin, Robinson Crusoe, poor Robin! Where
are you, Robinson Cruso? Where are you?
Where have you been V
So fast was I asleep, that at first I did not
awake thoroughly; but half asleep, and half
awake, I thought I dreamed that somebody
spoke to me. But as the voice repeated,
"Robinson Crusoe," several times, being tor-
ribly frightened, I started up in the utmost con-
fusion; and, no sooner were my eyes fully
open, but I beheld my pretty poll sitting on the
op of the hedge, and soon knew that it
was he that called me; for just in such be-
wailingplanguage, I used to talk and teach
him; which he so exactly learned, that he
would sij upon my finger, and lay his bill
close to my face, and cry, "poor Robinson
Crusoe, where are you? where have you been?
how came you here?" and such..like prattle I
had constantly taught him. But even though
I knew it to be the parrot, it was a great time
before I could adjust myself: being amazed
80
should fix about that place, and no where else.
80
81
than my honest "Poll," my wonder ceased,
and reaching out my hand, and calling "Poll,"
the creature came to me familiarly, and perch-
ed upon my thumb, as he was wont, constantly
prating to me with "poor Robinson Crusoe,
and how did I come here, and where had I
been V as if the bird was overjoyed to see me,
and so I took him home along with me. I was
now pretty well cured of rambling to sea; yet
I could wish rny boat, which had cost me so
much trouble and pains, on this side the island
once more, but this, indeed, was impracticable.
I therefore began to lead a very retired life,
living nearly a twelvemonth in a very content-
ed mariner, wanting for nothing but conversa-
tion. As to mechanic labours, which my ne-
cessities obliged me to, I fancied I could, upon
occasion, make a tolerable carpenter, were the
poor tools I had to work withal, but good.
Besides, as I improved in my earthen ware, I
contrived to make them with a wheel, which I
found much easier and better, making my work
shapely, which before was rude and ugly. But, I
think I w^s never so elevated with my own per-
formance or project as when able to make a to-
bacco-pipe, wihch, though it proved an awkward
clumsy thing, yet it was very sound, and carried
the smoke perfectly well, to my great satisfaction.
I also improved my wicker ware, made me
abundance of necessary baskets, which, though
not very handsome, were very handy and con-
venient to fetch things home in, as also for hold-
ing my stores, barley, rice, and other provisions.
82
My powder beginning to fail, made ras ex-
amine after what manner I should kill the
goats or birds, to live on, after it was all gone.
Upon which, I contrived many ways to ensnare
the goats, and see if I could catch them alive,
particularly a she-goat with young.
At last I had my desire; for, making pit-
falls and traps, baited with barley and rice, I
found, one morning, in one of them, an old he-
goat, and in the other, three kids, one male,
and two females.
So boisterous was the old one, that I could
not bring him away. But I forgot the old pro-
verb, "That hunger will tame a lion:" for,
had I kept him three or four days without
provisions, and then given him some water,
with a little corn, he would have been as tame
as a young kid. The other creatures I bound
with strings together; but I had great diffi-
culty before I could bring them to my habi-
tation. It was some time before they would
feed; but, throwing them sweet corn, it so
much tempted them, that they began to be
tamer. From hence I concluded, that if I
designed to- furnish myself with goat's flesh,
when my ammunition was spent, the tamely
breeding them up, like a flock of sheep, about
my settlement, was the only method I could
take. I concluded also I must separate the
wild from the tame, or else they would always
run wild as they grew up; and the best way
for this, was to have some inclosed piece of
ground, well fenced, either with a hedge or
83
Jpale, to keep them so effectually, that those with-
in might not break out, nor those without break
in. Such an undertaking was very great for
one pair of hands; but as there was an absolute
necessity for doing it, my first care was to find
a convenient piece of ground, where there was
likely to be herbage for them to eat, water to
drink, and cover to keep them from the sun.
Here again, I gave another instance of my
ignorance and inexperience, pitching upon a
piece of meadow land so large, that had I
enclosed it, the hedge or pale must have been
at least two miles about. This thought came
into my head, after I had carried it on, I be-
lieve, about fifty yards: I therefore altered
my scheme, and resolved to enclose a piece of
ground about 150 yards in length, and 100 in
breadth, large enough for as many as would
maintain me, till such time as my flock in-
creased, and then I could add more ground.
I now vigorously prosecuted my work, and it
took me ahout three months in hedging the
first piece; in which time I tethered the three
kids in the best part of it; feeding them as
near me as possible, to make them familiar:
and, indeed, I very often would carry some
ears of barley, or a handful of rice, and feed
them out of my hand; by which they grew so
tame, that when my enclosure was finished,
and I had let them loose, they would run after
me for a handful of corn. This indeed an-
swered my end: and in a year and a half's
time, I had a flock of about twelve goats, kids
84
and all; and in two years after, they amounted
to forty.three, besides what I had taken and
killed for my sustenance.
After which, I inclosed five several pieces of
ground to feed them in, with pens to drive them
into, that I might take them as I had occasion.
In this project I likewise found additional
blessings; for I not only had plenty of goat's
flesh, but milk too, which in the beginning, I
did not so much as think of. And, indeed,
though I had never milked a cow, much less a
goat, or seen butter or cheese made, yet, after
some essays and miscarriages, I made me both,
and never afterward wanted.
How mercifully can the Almighty comfort
his creatures, even in the midst of their greatest
calamities? How can he sweeten the bitterest
evils, and give us reason to magnify him in
dungeons and prisons; what a bounteous table
was here spread in a wilderness for me, where I
expected nothing at first, but to perish for hun ger.
Certainly any one would have smiled to see
me at dinner. There sat my royal majesty, an
absolute prince and ruler of my kingdom, at-
tended by my dutiful subjects, whom if I pleas-
ed, I could either hang, draw, quarter, give
them liberty, or take it away. When I dined,
I seemed a king, eating alone, none daring to
presume to do-so till I had done. Poll, as if
he had been my principal court favourite, was
the only person permitted to talk with me. My
old but faithful dog, now grown exceedingly
crazy, continually sat on my right hand; while
85
my two cats sat on each side of the table, ex-
pecting a bit from my hand, as a principal mark
of my royal favour. These were not the cats
I had brought from the ship; they had been
dead long before, and interred near my habita-
tion by mine own hand. But a couple of their
young I had made tame; the rest ran wild into
the woods, and in time grew so impudent, as to
return and plunder me of my stores, till such
time as I shot a great many, and the rest left
me without troubling me any more. In this
plentiful manner did I live, wanting for nothing
but conversation. One thing indeed concern-
ed me, the want of my boat; I knew not which
way to get her round the island. One time I
.resolved to go along the shore by land to her;
but had any one at home met such a figure, it
would either have affrighted him, or made him
burst into laughter; nay, I could not but smile
myself at my habit, which I think in this place
will be very proper to describe.
The cap I wore upon my head, was great,
high, and shapeless, made of a goat's skin, with
a flap or pent-house hanging down behind, not
only to keep the sun from me, but to shoot the
rain off from running into my neck, nothing be-
ing more pernicious than the rain falling upon
the flesh in these climates. I had a short jacket
85
length on each side, that it reached down to
the calves of my legs. As for shoes and stock-
ings, I had none, but made a resemblance of
(something, I knew not what to call them; they
«
86
were made like buskins, and laced on the sides
like spatterdashes, barbarously shaped, like the
rest of my habit. I had a broad belt of goat's
skin dried, girt round me with a couple of
thongs, instead of buckles; on each of which,
to supply the deficiency of sword and daggar,
hung my hatchet and saw. I had another belt,
not so broad, yet fastened in the same manner,
which hung over my shoulder, and at the end
of it, under my left arm, hung two pouches,
made of goat's skin, to hold my powder and
shot. My basket I carried on my- back, and
my gun on my shoulder; and over my head a
great clumsy ugly goat's skin umbrella, which,
however, next to my gun, was the most neces-
sary thing about me. As for my face, the
colour was not 90 swarthy as the Mulattoes, or
as might have been expected from one who took
so little care of it, in a climate within nine or
ten degrees of the line. At one time, my beard
grew so long that it hung down above a quar-
ter of a yard; but as I had both razors and
scissors in store, I cut it all off, and suffered
none to grow, except a large pair of Mahometan
whiskers, the like of which I had seen worn by
some Turks at Salee, not long enough indeed
to hang a hat upon, but of such a monstrous
size, as would have amazed any in England to
have seen.
But all this was of no consequence here,
there being none to observe my behaviour or
habit. And so, without fear and without con-
trol, I proceeded on my journey, the wjsecu-
87
lion of which took me up five or six days. I
travelled along the sea shore, directly to th«
place where I first brought my boat to an an.
chor, to get upon the rocks; but now having
no boat to take care of, I went, over-land, a
nearer way to the same height that I was be-
fore upon; when looking forward to the point
of the rock, which lay out, and which I was
forced to double with my boat, I was amazed to
see the sea so smooth and quiet, there being no
rippling motion, nor current, any more than in
other places. And now I was convinced that
by observing the ebb and flow ofcthe tide, 1
might easily bring my boat round the island
again. But when I began to think of putting
it in practice, the remembrance of the late
danger struck me with such horror, that I took
another resolution, though more laborious; and
this was to make a second canoe, and so have
one for one side of the island, and one for the
other.
I had now two plantations in the island; the
first my little fortification, fort, or castle with.
many large and spacious improvements. for
by this time, I had enlarged the cave behind m»
87
hold my baskets, corn, and straw. The piles
with which I made my wall were grown so
.lofty and great as obscured my habitation
"And near this commodious and pleasant settle
ment, lay my well cultivated and improved com
fields, which kindly yielded me thoir fruit in the.
proper season. Mv second plantation was thai
88
near my country seat, or little bower, where
my grapes flourished, and where, having plant-
ed my stakes, I made inclosures for my goats,
so strongly fortified by labour and time, that it
was much stronger than a wall, and,'conse-
quently, impossible for them to break through.
As for my hower itself, I kept it constantly in
repair, and cut the trees in such a manner, as
made them grow wild, and form a most delight-
ful shade. In the centre of this, stood my tent,
thus erected. I had driven four piles in the
ground, spreading over it a piece of the ship's
sail, beneath which, I made me a sort of couch
with the skins of the creatures I had slain, and
other things; and having laid thereon one of the
sailor's blankets, which I had saved from the
wreck of the ship, and covering myself with a
great watch coat, J took up this place for my
country retreat. .
Very frequently, from this settlement did I
use to visit my boat, and keep her in very good
order. And sometimes would I venture in her
a cast or two from shore, but no farther. But
now, I entreat your attention, whilst I proceed
to inform you of a new, but most surprising
scene of life which here befel me.
You may easily suppose, that, after having
been here so long, nothing could be more
amazing than to see a human creature. One
day it happened, that going to my boat, I saw
the print of a man's naked foot on the shore,
very evident on the sand, as the toes, heels,
and every part of it. Had I seen a monster of
89 «
the most frightful shape, I could not have been
more confounded. My willing ears gave the
strictest attention. I cast. my eyes around, but
could satisfy neither the one nor the other, I
proceeded alternately to every part of the shore,
but with equal effect; neither could I see any
Other mark though the sand about it was as
susceptible to take impression, as that which
was so plainly stamped. Thus struck with
confusion and horror, I returned to my habita-
tion, frightened at every bush and tree, taking
every thing for men; and possessed with the
wildest ideas! That night my eyes never
closed. I formed nothing but the most dismal
imaginations. In a word, all my religious
hopes vanished, as though I thought God would
not now protect me by his power, who had
wonderfully preserved me so long.
What various chains of events are there in
the life of man? How changeable are our affec-
tions, according to different circumstances?
We love to-day, what we hate to-morrow: we
shun one hour', what we seek the next. This
was evident in me in the most conspicuous
manner: for I, who before had so much la-
mented my condition, in being banished from
all hurnan-kind, was now ready to expire,
when I considered that a man had set his foot
on this desolate island. But when I consider-
ed my station of life, decreed by the infinitely
wise and good providence of God, that I ought
not to dispute my Creator's sovereignty, who
. had an undoubted right to govern and dispose
ii 2
90
of his creatures as he thinks convenient; and
that his justice and mercy could cither punish
or deliver me, I say, when I considered all
this, I comfortably found it my duty to trust
sincerely in him, pray ardently to him, and
humbly resign myself to his divine will.
One morning, lying on my bed, these words
of the sacred writings came into my mind,
"Call upon me in the day of trouble, and I will
deliver thee, and thou shalt glorify me." Upon
this sentence, rising more cheerfully from my
bed, I offered up my prayers in the most
devout manner: and when I had done, taking
up my Bible to read, these words appeared
first in my sight, "Wait on the Lord, and be
of good cheer, and he shall strengthen thy heart:
Wait, 1 say, on the Lord.' Such divine com-
fort did this give me, as to remove all cause of
sadness upon that occasion.
Thus, after a world of apprehensions and
fears• for three days and nights, I at last ven-
tured out of my castle, and milked my goats, one
of which was almost spoiled for want of it. I
next, (though in great fear,) visited my bower,
and milked my flocks there also; when,growing
bolder, I went down to the shore again, and
measuring the print of the foot to mine, to see
perhaps whether I myself had not occasioned
that mark, I found it much superior in largeness;
and so returned home, absolutely convinced,
that either some men had been ashore, or that
the island must be inhabited; and therefore that
I might be surprised before I was aware.
91
I now began to think of providing for my se.
curity, and resolved in my mind many different
schemes for that purpose. I first proposed to
cut down my inclosures, and turn my tame
cattle wild into the woods, that the enemy
might not find them, and frequent the island in
hopes of killing the same. Secondly, I was for
digging up my corn-fields for the very same
reason. And, lastly, I concluded to demolish
my bower, lest, seeing a place of human con-
trivance, they might come farther, and find out
and attack me in my castle.
Sleep was an utter stranger to my eyes that
night; yet nature, spent and tired, submitted
to a silent repose the next morning, and then
joining reason with fear, I considered, that
this delightful and pleasant island might not be
so entirely forsaken as I might think; but that
the inhabitants from the other shore might saii,
either with design, or from necessity, by cross
winds; and, if the latter circumstance, I had
reason to believe, they would depart the first
opportunity. However, my fear made me
think of a place of retreat upon an attack.
I now repented that I had made my door to
come out beyond my fortification; to remedy
which, I resolved to make me a second one: I
fell to work, therefore, and drove betwixt that
double row of tre'es, which I planted above
twelve years before, several strong piles, thick-
ening it with pieces of timber and old cables,
and strengthening the foot of it with earth
which 1 dug out of rav cave; I also made me
92
seven holes, wherein I planted my muskets
92
carriages. This being finished with indefati-
gable industry, for a great way every where, I
planted sticks of osiers like a wood, about
twenty thousand of them, leaving a large space
between them and my wall, that I might have
room to see an enemy, and that they might not
be sheltered among the young trees, if they
offered to approach the outer wall. And in-
deed, scarce two years had passed over my
head, when there appeared a lovely shady
grove, and in six years it became a thick wood,
perfectly impassible. For my safety, I left no
uvenue to go in or out; instead of which, I set
two ladders, one to a part of the rock which
was low, and then broke in, leaving room to
place another ladder upon that; so that when
I took those down, it was impossible fcr any
man to descend without hurting himself; aod
if they had, they would still be at the outside
of rr.y outer wall. But while I took ail these
measures of human prudence for my own pre-
servation, I was not altogether unmindful of
other affairs. To preserve my stock of tatne
goats, that the enemy should not take all at
once, I looked out for the most retired'part of
the island, which was the place where I had
lost myself before mentioned, and there finding
a clear piece of land, containing three acres,
surrounded with thick woods, 1 wrought so
hard, tlmt in less than a month's time, I fenced
it so well round, that my flocks were very well
93
secured in it, and I put therein two he-goats.
and ten she ones.
All this labour was occasioned purely by
fearful apprehensions, on account of seeing the
print of a man's foot. And not contented yet
with what I had done, I searched for another
place towards the west part of the island, where;
I might also retain another flock. Then wan-
dering on this errand more to the west of the
island than ever I had yet done, and casting my
eyes towards the sea, methought I perceived ;i
boat at a great distance; but could not possibly
tell what it was for want of my spy-glass. I
considered then, it was no strange thing to see-
the print of a man's foot; and concluding them
cannibals, blessed God for being cast on the
other side of the island, where none of the
savages, as I thought, ever came. But when
I came down the hill to the shore, which was the
south-west point of the island, I was soon con-
firmed in my opinion ; nor can any one describe
my horror and amazement, when I saw the
ground spread with sculls, hands, feet, and
bones of human bodies';' and particularly, I
perceived a space like a cirele, in the midst of
which had been a fire, about which I conjec-
tured those wretches sat, and unnaturally sacri-
ficed and devoured their fellow creatures.
The horror and loathsomeness of this dread-
ful spectacle, both confounded my senses, and
made me discharge from my stomach in an ex-
cessive manner. I then returned towards my
94
habitation; and in my way thither shedding
floods of tears, and falling down on my bended:
knees, gave God thanks for making my nature
contrary to those wretches, and deliv«ring me
so long out of their hands.
Though reason and my long residence here
had assured me, that the savages never came
up to the thick woody part of the country,
and that I had no reason to be apprehensive of
a discovery, yet such an abhorrence did I still
retain, that for two years after, I confined
myself only to my three plantations; I mean
my castle, country seat, and inclosure in the
woods, though in process of time, my dreadful
apprehensions began to wear away.
Thus my circumstances for some time re-
mained very calm and undisturbed: though in-
deed, the terror which the savages had put me
in, spoiled some inventions for my own conve.
niences. One of my projects was to brew me
some beer; a very whimsical one indeed, when
it is considered, that I had neither casks suf-
ficient, nor could I make any to preserve it in;
neither had I hops to make it keep, yeast to
make it work, nor a copper or kettle to make
it boil. Perhaps, indeed, after some years, I
might bring this to bear, as I had done other
things. But now my inventions were placed
another way: and day and night I could think
of nothing but how I might destroy some of
these cannibals, when, proceeding to their
bloody entertainments; and so saving a victim
95
from being sacrificed, that he might after be.
come my servant. Many were my contri-
vances for this purpose, and many more Objec-
tions occurred, after I hafl hatched them. I
once contrived to dig a hole under the place
where they made their fire and put therein five
or six pounds of gunpowder, which would con-
sequently blow up all those that were near it;
but then I was loth to spend so much upon
them, lest it should not do that certain execu-
tion I desired, and only affright and not kill
them. Having laid this design aside, I again
proposed to myself to lie priv&tely in ambush
in some convenient place, with my three guns
double loaded, and let fly at them in the midst
of their dreadful ceremony; and having killed
two or three of them at every shot, fall upon
the rest suddenly with my three pistols, and let
not one mother's son escape. This imagina-
tion pleased my fancy so much that I used to
dream of it in the night time. To put my de-
sign in execution I was not long seeking for a
place convenient for my purpose, where unseen
I might behold every action of the savages.
Here I placed my two muskets, each of which
was loaded with a brace of slugs, and four or
five smaller bullets about the size of pistol bul-
lets; the fowling piece was charged with near-
ly a handful of the largest swan shot, and in
every pistol about four bullets. And thus all
things being prepared, no sooner did the wel-
come light spread over the element, but I would
issue forth from my castle, and from a lofty
96
hill; three miles distant, try if I could see any
invaders approach unlawfully to my kingdom.
But having waited yi vain two or three months,
it grew very tiresome to me.
I now argued with myself, it was better for
me never to attack, but to remain undiscovered
as long as I possibly could; that an opposite
conduct would certainly prove destructive;
for as it was scarcely to be supposed I could
kill them all, I might be either overpowered by
the remainder, or that some escaping might
bring thousands to my certain destruction.
And, indeed, religion took their part so' much as
to convince me how contrary it was to my duty,
to be guilty of shedding human blood, innocent
blood, innocent as to me in particular, whatever
they are to one another; that I had nothing to
do with it, but leave it to the God of all power
and dominion, as I said before, to do therein
what seemed convenient to his heavenly wis-
dom. And, therefore, on my knees I thanked
the Almighty for delivering me from bloody
guiltiness, and begged his protection that I
might never fall into their hands.
Thus giving over an attempt which I had
rashly begun, I never ascended the hill on that
occasion afterward; I only removed my boat,
which lay on the other side of the island, and
every thing that belonged to her, towards the
east, into a little cove, that there might not
be the least shadow of any boat near, or habi.
tation upon the island. My castle then be-
tame my cell, keeping always retired. in it, ex-
97
cept when I went out to milk my she-goats, or
my little flock in the wood, which was quite out
of danger: for sure I was*, that these savages
never came here with expectation to find any
thing, and consequently never wandered from
the coast; however, as they might have seve-
ral times been on shore, as well before as
after my dreadful apprehensions, I looked
back with horror to think in what state I might
have been, had I suddenly met them, slenderly
armed, with one gun only loaded with small
shot; and how great would have been my
amazement, if, instead of seeing the print of
one man's foot, I had perceived fifteen or
twenty savages, wht>, having once set their
eyes upon me, by the swiftness of their feet,
would have left me no possibility of escaping?
These thoughts would sink my very soul, so
that I would fall into a deep melancholy, till
such time as the «onsideretion of my gratitude
to the divine Being moved' it from my heart.
I then fell into a contemplation of the secret
springs of Providence; and how wonderfully
we are delivered, when insensible of it; and
when in uncertain mazes or labyrinths of doubt
or hesitation, what secret hint directs us, in the
right way when we intended to go out of it;
nay perhaps contrary to our business, sense, or
inclination.
Anxieties of mind, and the care of my pre-
servation, put a period to all future inventions
and contrivances, either for accommodation, or
convenience, I now cared not to drive a nail,
i
9b
chop a stick, fire a gun, or make a fire, lest
either the noise should be heard, or the smoke
discover me. And on this account I used to
burn my earthen ware privately in a cave,
which I found in the wood, and which I made
convenient for that purpose; the principal
cause that brought me here was to make char-
coal, so that I might bake and dress my bread
and meat without any danger.
At that time a curious accident happened to
me, which I shall now relate.
While I was cutting down some wood for
making my charcoal, I perceived a cavity be-
hind a very thick branch of underwood. Cu-
rious to look into it, I attained its mouth, and
perceived it sufficient for me to stand up-
right in.
But when I had entered, having crept upon
my hands and feet through this strait, I found
the roof higher up, I think .about twenty feet.
But surely never mortal saw such a glorious
sight before! the roof and walls of this cave
reflected a hundred thousand lights to me from
my two candles, as though they were indented
with shining gold, precious stones, or sparkling
diamonds. And indeed it was the most delight-
ful cavity or grotto of its kind that could be
desired, though entirely dark. The floor was
dry and level, and had a kind of gravel upon
it; no nauseous venomous creatures to be seen
here, neither any damp or wet about it. *
could find no fault but in the entrance, and I
began to think, that even this might be very
99
necessary for my defence, and therefore re-
solved to make it my principal magazine. 1
brought hither two fowling pieces and three
muskets, leaving only five pieces at my castle,
planted in the nature of cannon. In a barrel
of gun-powder, which I took out of the sea, I
brought away about sixty pounds of good pow-
der, which was not damaged; and this, with a
great quantity of lead for bullets, I removed
from my castle to this retreat, now fortified
both by. art and nature.
I fancied myself now like one of the giants
of old, who were said to live in caves and holes
among the rocks, inaccessible to any but them-
selves, or, at least, most dangerous to attempt.
And now I defied both the cunning and
strength of the savages, either to find me out
or to hurt me.
I think I Was now in the twenty third year
of my reign, and my thoughts much easier
than formerly, having contrived several pretty
amusements, and diversions to pass away the
time in a pleasant manner. By this time my
pretty Poll had learned to speak English, and
pronounce his words very articulately and
plain; so that for many hours we used to chat
together after a very familiar manner, and he
lived no less than twenty-six years. My dog
which was nineteen years old, sixteen of which
he lived with me, died some time ago, of mere
old age. As fi>r my cats, they multiplied so
fast, that I was forced to kill or drive them into
the woods, except two or three which became
100
my particular favourites. Besides these, I
continually kept two or three household kids
about me, which I taught to feed out of my
hand, and two more parrots which could talk
indifferently, a'nd call Robinson Crusoe, but
not so excellently as the first, by my not taking
so much pains with them. I had also several
sea-fowls which I had wounded and cut their
wings; and growing tame they used to
breed among the low trees about my castle-
walls, all of which made my abode very agree-
able. •
But what unforeseen events suddenly destroy
the enjoyments of this uncertain state of life,
when we least expect them! It was now the
month of December, and the particular time in
my harvest, which required my attendance in
the fields; when going out pretty early in the
morning, before it was day-light, there appear-
ed to me from the sea-shore, a flaming light,
about two miles from me at the east end of the
island, where I had observed some savages
had been before, not on the other side, but to
my great affliction it was on my side of the
island.
Struck with a terrible surprise, and my usual
apprehensions, that the savages would perceive
my improvements, I returned directly to my
castle, pulled the ladder after me, making all
things look as wild and natural as I possibly
could. In the next place, I put myself in a
posture of defence, loaded my muskets and
pistols, and committing myself to God's pro-
101
tection, I resolved to defend myself till my
last breath. Two hours* after, impatient for
intelligence, I set my ladder up to the side of
the hill, where there was a flat place, and then
pulling the ladder after me, ascending to the
top, where laying myself on my belly, with my
perspective glass I perceived no less than nine
naked savages, sitting round a small fire, eat-
ing as I supposed, human-flesh, with their two
canoes hauled on shore, waiting for the flood
to carry them off again. 'The consternation I
was in at this sight, especially seeing them
near me, was very great; but when I perceived
their coming must be always with the current
of the ebb, I became more easy in my thoughts,
being fully convinced, that I might go abroad
with security all the time of flood, if they were
not before landed. And, indeed, this proved
just as I imagined; for no sooner did they ail
take boat and paddle away, but the tide made
north-west. When I saw them gone, I took
nvo guns upon my shoulders, and placing a
couple of pistols in my belt, with my great
sword hanging by my side, 1 went to the hill,
where at first I made a discovery of these can-
nibals, and then saw there had been three ca-
noes more of the savages on shore at that place,
which with the rest, were making over to the
'main land.
But nothing could be more horrid to me,
when going to the place of sacrifice, the blood,
the bones, and other mangled parts of human
bodies appeared in my sight; and so fired was
i 2
102
I with indignation, that I was fully resolved to
be revenged on the ftr»t that came there, though
I lost my life in the execution. It then appear-
ed to me, that the visits which they make to
this island are not very frequent, it being fifteen
months before they came again: but still I was
very uneasy, by reason of the dismal appre-
hensions of their surprising me unawares; nor
dared I offer to fire a gun on that side of the
island where they used to appear, lest, taking
the alarm, they might return with many hun-
dred canoes, and then God only knows in what
manner I should have made my end. Thus was
I a year or more before I saw any of these de-
vouring cannibals again.
But to wave this, the following accident,
which demands attention, for a while, eluded
the force of my thoughts in revenging myself
on those heathens.
On the 16th of May (according to my
wooden calender) the wind blew exceedingly
hard, accompanied with abundance of thunder
and lightning all day, and succeeded by a very
stormy night. The seeming anger of the
heavens made me have recourse to my Bible.
Whilst I was seriously pondering upon it, I
was suddenly alarmed with the noise of a gun,
which I conjectured was fired upon the ocean.
Such an unusual surprise made me start up in
a minute; when, with my ladder, ascending the
mountain as before, that very moment a flash
of fire presaged the report of another gun,
which I presently heard, and found it was from
103
the part of the sea where the current drove me
away, I could not but then think, that this must
be a ship in distress, and that these were the
melancholy signals for a speedy deliverance.
Great, indeed, was my sorrow upon this occa-
sion; but my labours to assist them must have
proved altogether vain and fruitless. How.
ever, I brought together all the dry wood that
was at hand, and making a pretty large pile-
set it on fire on the hill. I was certain they
plainly perceived it, by their firing another
gun as soon as it began to blaze, and after that
several more from the same quarter. AH night
long I kept up my fire; and when the air
cleared up, I perceived something a great way
at sea, directly east, bij could not distinguish
what it was, even with ir.y glass, the weather
being so very foggy out at sea. However,
keeping my eyes directly fixed upon it, and
perceiving it did not stir, I presently concluded
it must be a ship at anchor, and so very hasty
was I to be satisfied, that, taking my gun, I
went to the south-west part of the island, to the
same rocks where I had been formerly driven
away by the current; in which time, the wea-
ther being perfectly cleared up, to my great
sorrow, I perceived the wreck of a ship cast
away upon those hidden rocks I had found
when I was out with my boat; and which, by
making a kind of an eddy, were the occasion of
my preservation.
When I considered seriously every thing
concerning this wreck, and could perceive no
104
room to suppose any of them saved, I cannot
explain, by any possible force of words, what
longings my soul felt on this occasion, often
breaking out in this manner. Oh! that there
had been but two or three, nay, even one per-
son saved, that we might have lived together,
conversed with, and comforted one another!
and so much were my desires moved, that
when I repeated these words, " oh! that there
had been but one !" my hands would so clench
together, and my fingers press the palms of my
hands so close, that, had any soft thing been
between, they would ha^e crushed it, while my
teeth would strike together, and set again*'.
nach other so strong, that it required some
104
Till the last year of my being on this island,
I never knew whether or not any had been
saved out of this ship. I had the affliction•
seme time after, to see the corpse of a drowned
bey come on shore, at the end of the island
which was next the shipwreck; there was no-
thing on him but a seaman's waistcoat, a pair
of open-kneed linen drawers, and a blue linen
shirt, but no particular mark to guess whai
nation he was of. In his pocket were two
pieces of eight, and a tobacco pipe, the la.«t
of which T preferred much more than I did the
first. And now the calmness of the sea tempt-
ed me to venture out in my boat to this wreck•
not only to get something necessary out of tht>
ship, but perhaps, some living creature might
be on board, whose life 1 might preserve. This
105
had such an influence upon my mind, that im-
mediately I went home, and prepared every
thing necessary for. the voyage, carrying on
board my boat, provisions of all sorts, with a
good quantity of rum, fresh water, and a com-
pass: so putting off, I paddled the canoe along
the shore, till I came to the north-east part of
the island, from whence I was to launch into
the ocean; but here the current ran so violently,
and appeared so terrible, that my heart began
to fail me; foreseeing, that if I was driven into
any of these currents, I might be carried not
only out of the reach or sight of the island, but
even inevitably lost in the boiling surges of the
ocean.
So oppressed was I at these troubles, that I
gave over my enterprize, sailing to a little
creek on the 6hore, where, stepping out, I sat
me down on a rising hill, very pensive and
thoughtful. I then perceived that the tide was
turned, and the flood come on, which made it
impracticable for me to go out for so many
hours.
That night, I reposed myself in my canoe,
covered with my watch-coat instead of a blan-
ket, the heavens being my tester. I set out with
the first of the tide full north, till I felt the
benefit of the current, which carried me at a
great rate eastward, yet not with such impe-
tuosity as before, as to take from me all
government of my canoe; so that in two hours
I came up to the wreck, which appeared to me
a most melancholy sight. It seemed to be a
lofi v
Spanish vessel by its building, stuck fast be-
tween two rocks; her stern iind quarters beaten
to pieces by the sea; her main-mast and fore-
mast were brought off by the board; that is,
broken short off. As I approached nearer, I
perceived a dog on board, who, seeing me
coming, yelped and cried: and no sooner did
1 call.him, but the poor creature jumped into
the sea, out. of which I took him up almost
famished with hunger and thirst: so that when.
I gave him a caKe of bread, no ravenous wolf
could devour it more greedily; and he drank
to that degree of fresh water, that he would
have burst himself had I suffered him.
The first sight I met with in the ship, were
two men drowned in the cock-room, or fore-
castle, inclosed in one another's arms: hence
I very probably supposed, that when the vessel
struck in the storm, so high and incessantly did
the waters break in and ovsr her, that the men
not being able to bear it, were strangled by the
constant rushing of the waves. There wer"e
several casks of liquor, whether wine or branny
I could not be positive, which lay in the lower
hold, as wore plainly perceptible by the ebbing
out of the water, yet were too large for me to
pretend to meddle with: "likewise I perceived
several chests, which I supposed belonged to
the seaman, two of which I got into my boat,
without examining what was in them. What
became of the rest of the sailors I could not
certainly tell; and all her riches signified no-
thing at that time to any body.
107
Searching farther, I found a cask, containing
about twenty gallons full of liquor, which with
some labour I got into my boat; in the cabin
were several muskets, which I let remain there;
but took away with me a great powder horn,
with about four pounds of powder in it. I
took also a fire-shovel and tongs, with two
brass kettles, a copper pot to make chocolate,
and a- grid-iron; all which were extremely ne-
cessary to me, especially the fire-shove! and
tongs. And so with this cargo, accompanied
by my dog, I came away, the tide serving for
that purpose; and the same evening, about an
hour within night, I attained the island, after
the greatest toil and fatigue imaginable.
That night I reposed my weary limbs in the
boat, resolving the next morning to harbour
what I had gotten, in my new found under-
ground grotto; and not carry my cargo home
to my ancient castle. Having refreshed my-
self, and got all my effects on shore, I next pro-
ceeded to examine the particulars; and so
tapping the cask, I found the liquor to be a
kind of rurri? but not like what we had at the
Brazils, nor indeed near so good. At the
opening of the chest, several things appeared
very useful to me; for instance, I found in one•
a very fine case of bottles, containing the finest
and best sort of cordial waters; each bottle
held about three pints, curiously tipt with silver.
I found also two pots full of the choicest sweet-
meats, and two more which the water had utter-
ly spoiled. There were likewise several good
108
shirts, exceedingly welcome to me, and about
one dozen and a half of white linen handker-
chiefs, and coloured neckcloths, the former of
which were absolutely necessary for wiping my
face in a hot day; and in the till, I found three
bags of money, in one of which, decently wrapt
up in a piece of paper, were six doubloons of
gold, and some small bars and wedges of the
same metal, which I believe might weigh near
a pound. In the other chest, I only found some
clothes of very little value, and about two
pounds of fine glazed powder, in three flasks,
kept as I believe, for charging their fowling
pieces on any occasion, so that, on the whole I
made very little of this voyage. The money
was indeed as mere dirt to me, useless and un-
profitable. all which I would have freely parted
with. for two or three pair of English shoes and
stockings, things that for many years I h3d not
worn, except those which I had lately taken off
the feet of the unfortunate men I found drown-
ed in the wreck, yet not so good as English
shoes either for ease or service., I found no
gold in the second chest; so concluded that
what I took from the first belonged to an officer,
the latter appearing to have a much inferior
person for its owner. However, as despicable
as the money seemed, I likewise lugged it to
my cave, laying it up securely, as I did the rest
of my cargo, and intending to seek out, and re-
turn it to the family of the unfortunate owner,
if ever I should return to Europe: and, after I
had done all this, I returned back to my boa*
109
rowing or paddling her along till I came to my
old harbour, where I carefully laid her up, and
so made the best of my way to my castle.
When 1 arrived there, every thing seemed safe
and quiet; so that now, my only business was
to repose myself after my wonted manner, and
take care of my domestic affairs. But though
I might have lived very easy, as wanting for
nothing absolutely needful; yet still I was
more vigilant than usual, upon account of the
savages, never going much abroad; or, if I did,
it was to the east part of the island, where I was
well assured that the savages never came, and
where I might not be troubled to carry such a
heavy load of weapons for my defence, as I was
obliged to do if I went the other way*
Two years did I live in this anxious condi-
tion, in all which time, contrary to my former
resolutions, my head was filled with nothing but
projects and designs how I might escape from
this island; and so much were my wandering
thoughts bent upon a rambling disposition, that
had I had the same boat that I went from Salee
in, I should.have ventured once more to the
uncertainty of the raging ocean.
Having retired to my castle, after my late
voyage to the ship, my frigate laid up and
secured, as usual, and my condition the same
as before, except being richer, though I had as
little occasion for riches as the Indians of Peru
had for gold, before the cruel Spaniards came
among them: one night in March, being the
rainy season, in the four and twentieth year of
K
110
my solitude, I lay down to sleep, very well in
health, without distemper, pain, or uncommon
uneasiness either of body or mind; yet not,
withstanding, I could not compose myself to
sleep all the night long. All this tedious while,
it is impossible to express what innumerable
thoughts came into my head. I traced quite
over, the whole history of my life in miniature,
from my utmost remembrance of things till I
came to this island; and then proceeded to ex-
amine every action and passage that had occur-
red since I had taken possession of my kingdom.
In my reflections upon the latter, I was com-
paring the happy posture of my affairs in the
beginning of my reign, to this life of anxiety,
fear, and concern, since I had discovered the
print of a foot in the sand; that while I continu-
ed without apprehension, I was incapable of
feeling the dread and terror I now suffered.
How thankful rather ought I to have been for
the knowledge of my danger, since the greatest
happiness a man can be possessed of is to have
sufficient time to provide against it? How stu-
pendous is the goodness of Providence, which
sets such narrow bounds to the sight and know-
ledge of human nature, that while men walk in
the midst of so many dangers, they are kept
serene and calm• by having the events of things
hid from their eyes, and knowing nothing of
those many dangers that surround them, till
perhaps they are dissipated and vanished away.
About a year and half aftar, one morning
early, I was very much surprised by seeing no
Ill
less than five canoes all on shore together, on
my side of the island, and the savages that be-
longed to them all landed, and out of my sight.
Upon which, much dispirited and perplexed, I
*»y still in my castle; which, however, I put
<n a proper posture for an attack; and, having
formerly provided all that was necessary, waa
soon ready to enter upon an engagement, should
they attempt it. Having waited for some time,
my impatient temper would let me bear it no
longer; I set my guns at the foot of my ladder,
and, as usual, ascended up, to the top of the
hill at two stages, standing, however, in such a
manner, that my head did not appear above the
hill, so that they could not easily perceive me:
and here, by the assistance of my perspective
glass, I observed no less than thirty in number
around a fire, feasting upon what meat they had
dressed: how they cooked it, or what it was, I
could not then perfectly tell; but they were all
dancing and capering about the flames, using
many frightful and barbarous gestures.
But while, wijjh a curious eye, I was behold-
ing these wretches, my spirits sunk within me,
when I perceived them drag two miserable crea-
tures from the boats, to act afresh the dread-
ful tragedy, as I supposed they had done be-
fore. It was not long before one of them fell
upon the ground, knocked down as I suppose,
with a club or wooden sword, for that was their
manner; while two or three others went imme-
diately to work, cutting him open for their
cookery, and then fell to devour him as they

112
had done the former: while the last unhappy
captive was left by himself, till such time as
they were ready for him. The poor creature
looked round hiin with a sorrowful eye, trem-
bling at the thoughts of death; yet, seeing
himself a little at liberty, nature, that very mo-
ment, as it were, inspired him with hopes of
life: He started away from them, and ran,
with incredible swiftness, along the sands, di-
rectly to that part of the coast where my an-
cient and venerable castle stood.
You may well imagine, I was dreadfully af-
frighted upon this occasion, when as I thought,
they pursued him in a whole body, all running
towards my palace. And now, indeed, I ex-
pected, that he would certainly fly to my grove
for protection. However, my spirits beginning
to recover, I still kept upon my guard; and I
now plainly perceived, there were but three
men out of the number that pursued him. I
was infinitely pleased at the swiftness with
which the poor creature ran from his pursuers,
gaining so much ground upon them, that I
plainly perceived, could he thus hold it out for
half an hour, there was not the least doubt but
he would save his life from the power of his
enemies.
Between them and my castle, there was a
creek, the very same which I sailed into with
all my effects from the wreck of the ship, on
the steep banks of which, I very much feared
the poor victim would be taken, if he could
not swim for his escape: but seon was I out of
113
pain for him, when I perceived he made no-
thing of it, though at full tide, but, with an
intrepid courage, spurred on by the sense of
danger, he plunged into the flood, swimming
over in about thirty strokes, and then landing,
ran with the same incredible strength and
swiftness as before. When the three pursuers
came to the creek, two of them, who I per-
ceived could not swim, happily for themselves,
returned to their company, while the other,
with an equal courage but much less swiftness,
attained the other side, as though he was re-
solved never to give over the pursuit. And
now or never, I thought, was the time for me to
procure me a servant, companion, or assistant
and that I was decreed by Providence to be th9
instrument to save this poor creature's life.
immediately descended my two ladders with
the greatest expedition; I took up my two
guns, which, I said before, were at the bottom
of them: and, getting up again with the same
haste towards the hill, I made nearer the sea.
In a word, taking a short cut down the hill, I
interposed between the pursuer and pursued,
hallooing aloud to the latter, who, venturing
to look back, was, no doubt, as much terrified
at me as at the enemy from whom he fled. I
beckoned to him, with my hand, to return back,
and, in the mean time, advanced towards the
pursuer. I was very unwilling to fire lest the
rest should hear, though, at that distance, I
questioned whether they could or no; and being
out of sight of the smoke, they could not easily
k2
114
have known what to make of it. The savage
stopped as if he had been amazed; when, ad-
vancing towards him, I could perceive him take
his bow from his back, and, after fixing an ar-
row to it, preparing to shoot at me, and, with-
out dispute, he might have lodged it in my
breast; but in this absolutely necessary case of
self-preservation, I immediately fired, and shot
him dead, just as his hand was going to draw
the fatal string. All this while, the savage,who
had fled before, stood still, and had the satis-
faction to see his enemy killed, as he thought,
who designed to take away his life; so affright-
ed was he with the fire and noise of my piece,
that he stood as it were like Lot's wife, fixed
and immoveable without either sense or motion.
This obliged me to halloo to him again, making
the plainest signs I could to him to draw near-
er. I perceived he understood these tokens, by
his approaching to me a little way, when, as if
afraid I should kill him too, he stopped again.
Several times did he advance, and as often stop
in this manner, till, coming more to my view,
I perceived him trembling, as if he was to un-
dergo the same fate. Upon which, I looked
upon him with a smiling countenance, and still
beckoning to him; at length he came close to
me, and kneeled down, kissed the ground, laid
his head upon it, and taking me by the foot, set
it upon his head; which, as I understood after-
wards, was a token of swearing to be my slave
for ever. I took him up, and making much of
him, encouraged him in the best manner I could.
115
The greatest astonishment tnat my new ser-
vant conceived, was at the manner of killing
the savage at such a distance, without a bow
and arrow : and such was his longing desire to
know it, that he first pointed to the dead car-
case, and then made signs to me to grant him
leave to go to it. Upon which I bid him go,
and, as well as I could, made him sensible I
granted his request. But when he came there,
liow wonderfully was he struck with amaze-
ment! First, he turned it on one side, then on
another, wondering he could perceive no quan-
tity of blood, he bleeding inwardly: and after
sufficiently admiring the wound the bullet had
made in the breast, he took up his bow and
arrow's, and came back again; upon which, I
turned to go away, making signs to him to fol-
low, lest the rest missing their companion,
might come in pursuit of him, and this I found
he understood very well, by making me to un-
derstand that his design was to bury it, that
it might not be seen; and which by signs again
I made him sensible I very much approved of.
Immediately he fell to work, and never was
grave-digger more dexterous in the world than
he was; for in an instant, as I might say, he
scraped a large hole in the sands with his
hands, sufficient to bury it in; there he drag-
ged it, and, without any ceremony, covered it
over. I then called him away, and instead of
carrying him directly to my castle at first, I
conveyed him to my cave on the farther part
of the island.
116
Weary and faint, hungry and thirsty, un-
doubtedly must this poor creature be, support-
ed chiefly by the vivacity of spirit, and un-
common transports of joy that his deliverance
occasioned. Here I gave him bread and a
bunch of raisins to eat, and water to drink, on
which he fed very cheerfully, to his exceeding
refreshment. I then made him a convenient
bed, with a parcel of rice straw, and a blanket
upon it, (a bed which I used myself sometimes)
and then pointing to it, made signs for him to
lie down to sleep, upon which the poor crea-
ture went to take a welcome repose.
Indeed he was a very comely, handsome,
young fellow, extremely well made, with
straight long limbs, not too large, but tall and
well shaped, and, as near as I could reckon,
about twenty-six years of age. His counte-
nance had nothing in it fierce or surly, but
rather a sort of majesty in his face; and espe-
cially when he smiled, he had all the sweet-
ness of a European. His hair was not curled
like wool, as many of the blacks are, but long
and black, with the most beautiful, yet care-
less, tresses spreading over his shoulders.—
He had a very high and large forehead, with a
great vivacity and sparkling sharpness in his
eyes. His skin was not so tawny as that of
the Americans; but rather of a light dun olive
colour, that had something agreeable in it,
though not very easy to give a description of.
His face was round and plump, with a small
nose, very different from the flatness of the
117
negrcies, a pretty small mouth, thin lips, fine
teeth, very well set, and white as the driven
snow. In a word, such handsome features,'
and exact symmetry in every part, made me
consider, that I had saved the life of an Indian
prince, no le3s graceful and accomplished
than the great Oroonoke, whose memorable
behaviour and unhappy contingencies of life,
have charmed the world, both to admira-
tion of his person, and compassion for his suf-
ferings.
He had not, I think, slept above an hour,
when he awakened again, and while I was
milking my goats hard by, out he runs from
the cave towards me in my inclosure, and lay-
ing himself down on the ground in the lowest
prostration, made all the antic gestures ima-
ginable, to express his thankfulness to me for
being his deliverer. He laid down his head
again upon the ground, close to my foot, and
set my other foot upon his .head, as he had
done before, making all the signs of subjec-
tion, servitude, and submission imaginable, to
let me understand he would serve me as long
as his life endured. As I understood him in
many things, I made him sensible I was very
well pleased with him; and, in a little time, I
began to speak to him, and teach him how to
talk to me again.
In the first place, I made him understana
his name was to be Friday, because it "was upon
that dav I saved his life; I then taught him to
118
say Master, which I made him sensible was to
be my name; I likewise taught him to say yes
and no, and to know what they meant. I gave
him some milk in an earthen pot, making him
view me while I drank it before him, and soak-
ed my bread in it; I gave him a cake of bread,
and caused him to soak it likewise, to which
he readily consented, making signs of the
greatest satisfaction imaginable.
All that night did I keep him there; but no
sooner did the morning light appear, than I
ordered him to arise and come along with me,
with certain tokens that I would give him some
clothes like mine, at which he seemed very
glad, being stark naked, without the least co-
vering whatever. As we passed by the place
where the man had been interred, my man
pointed directly to his grave, showing me the
marks that he had made to find it again, giving
me to understand, by signs, that we should
dig him up, and devour him. At this I ap-
peared extremely displeased, expressed my ut-
most abhorrence, as if I would vomit at the
apprehensions of it, beckoning with my hand
to come away, which he did with the greatest
reverence and submission. After this, I con-
ducted him to the top of the hill, to view if the
rest of the savages were yet remaining there;
but when I looked through my perspective
glass, I could see no appearance of them, nor
of their canoes; so that it was very evident
they never minded their deceased companion
119
whom we had slain; which if they iiad, they
would surely have searched for or left one boat
behind for him to follow, after he returned
from his pursuit.
Curiosity, and a desire of satisfaction, ani-
mating me with courage, to see this scene of
barbarity, I took my man Friday with me to the
place of their bloody entertainment. But when
I came there, I was struck with the utmost
horror at so dreadful a spectacle, whilst Friday
was no way concerned about it, being no doubt
in his turn, one of these devourers. Here lay
several human bones, there several pieces of
mangled flesh, half eaten, mangled and scorch-
ed, whilst streams of blood ran promiscuously
as water from a fountain. As I was musing
on this dreadful sight, Friday took all the pains
he could by particular signs, to make me un-
derstand that they had brought over four pri-
soners to feast upon, three of whom they had
eaten up, and that he was the fourth, pointing
to himself: that there having been a bloody
battle between them and his great king, in the
just defence of whom he was taken prisoner,
with many others; all of these were carried off
to different places to be devoured by their con-
querors; and that it was his fortune to be
brought hither by these wretches for the very
same purpose.
After I was made sensible of these things, I
caused Friday to gather those horrid remains,
and lay them together^ upon a heap, which I
120
ordered to be set on fire, and burnt them to
ashes; my man, however, still retained the na.
ture of a cannibal, having a hankering stomach
after some of the flesh: but such an extreme
abhorrence did I express at the least appear-
ance of it, that he durst not but conceal it; for
I made him very sensible, that if he attempted
any such thing, I would certainly shoot him.
This being done, I carried my man with me
to my castle, and gave him a pair of linen
drawers, which I had taken out of the poor
gunner's chest before mentioned; and which,
with a little alteration, fitted him very well; in
the next place, I made him a jerkin of goat
skin, such as my skill was able to manage, and
indeed I thought myself then a tolerably good
tailor. I gave him also a cap, which J made
of a hare's skin, very convenient arid fashion-
able. Thus being clothed tolerably well, my
man was no less proud of his habit than I was
at seeing him in it. Indeed he went very awk-
wardly at first, but by use, at length he took to
them very well.
My next concern was, where I should lodge
him; and that I might do well by him, and yet
be perfectly easy myself, I erected a tent for
him in the vacant place between my two forti-
cations, in the inside of the last, and the out-
side of the first; and as there was an entrance
or door into my cave, I made a formal framed
door-case, and a door to open on the inside; I
barred it up in the night-time, taking in roy
121
ladders too, so that, was my man to prove
treacherous, there could be no way to come at
rne in the inside of my innermost wall, without
making so much noise in getting over, that it
must needs waken me; for my first wall had
now a complete roof over it of long poles,
spreading over my tent, and leaning up to the
side of the mountain, which was- again laid
across with smaller sticks instead of laths, and
thatched over to a great thickness with the rice
straw, which was as strong as reeds; and at the
hole of the place, left on purpose to go in or
out by the ladder, I had placed a kind of a
trap-door, which, if it had been attempted on
the outside, would not have opened at all, but
have fallen down, and made a great noise; and
as to my weapons, every night I took them all
to my bed-side.
But there was no occasion for this precau-
tion; for surely never Master had a more sin.
cere, faithful and loving servant than Friday
proved to me. Without passion, sullenness,
or design, perfectly obliging and engaging, his
affections were as much tied to mc as those of
a child to his parents; and I might venture to'
say, he would have sacrificed his life for the
saving of mine, upon any occasion whatsoever.
And, indeed, the many testimonies he gave me
of this, sufficiently convinced me that I had no
occasion to use all these precautions.
I had not been above two or three days re-
turned to my castle, but my chief design was,
L
1-22
how I should bring Friday oft' from his horrid
way of feeding; and, to take from him that in-
human relish he by habit had been accustomed
to, I thought it my duty to let him taste other
flesh, which might the rather tempt him to the
same abhorrence I so often expressed against
their accursed way of living. Upon which,
one morning, J took him out with me, with an
intention to kill a kid out of the flock, and
bring it home, and dress it. As I was going,
I perceived a she goat lying down in the shade,
and two young kids sitting by her. Imme-
diately I catched hold of my man Friday, and
bidding him stand still, and not stir, I pre-
sented my piece, and shot one of the kids.
My poor servant, who had at a distance per-
ceived me kill his adversary, and yet did not
know by what means, or how it was done,
stood trembling and surprised, and looked so
amazed, that I thought he would have sunk
into the earth. He did not see the kid I
aimed at, or behold I had killed it, but ripped
up his waistcoat to see if he was not wounded,
thinking my resolution was to kill him; for
coming to me, he fell on his knees, earnestly
pronouncing many things which I did not
understand the meaning of; which at length I
perceived was,th.at I would not take away his life.
Indeed, so much compassion had I for this
creature, that it was with difficulty I refrained
from tears. But, however, as another sort of
countenance was necessary, and to convince
123
him that I would do him no harm, I took him,
smiling, by the hand, then laughed at him, and
pointing to the kid which I had slain, made
signs to him to fetch it, which accordingly he
did. No less curious was he in viewing how
the creature was killed, than he was before in
beholding the Indian; which, while he was ad-
miring, 1 charged my gun again, and presently
perceived a great fowl like a hawk, perching
upon a tree within shot; and, therefore, to let
Friday understand what I was going to do, I
called him to me again, pointing at the fowl,
which I found to be a parrot. I made him un-
derstand that I would shoot and kill that bird;
accordingly I fired, and bade him look, when
immediately he saw the parrot fall down.
Again he stood like one amazed, notwithstand-
ing all I had said to him: and the more con-
founded he was, because he did not perceive
me put any thing in my gun. As for it in
particular, he would not so much as touch it
for several days after; but would come and
communicate his thoughts to it, and talk to
it, as if the senseless piece had understood
and answered him; all this I could perceive
him to do, when he thought my back was
turned, the chief intent of which was, to desire
it not to kill him, as I afterward came to un-
derstand.
I never strove to prevent his admiration,
nor hinder him from these comical gestures he
used on such occasions; but when his asto-
nishment was a little over, I made tokens to
124
him to run and fetcn the parrot that I had
shot; which accordingly he did, staying some
time longer than usual, by reason that the bird
not being quite dead, had fluttered some way-
farther from the place where she fell. In the
mean time, as he was looking for her, I took
the advantage of charging my gun again, that
so I might be ready for any other mark that
offered; but nothing more occurred at the
time. So I brought home the kid, and the
same evening took off the skin, and divided
the carcase as well as I could. Part of the
flesh I stewed and boiled in a pot I had for
this purpose. And then, spreading my table,
I sat down, giving my man some of it to eat,
who was wonderfully pleased, and seemed to
like it very well: but what was the most sur-
prising to him was to see me eat salt with it:
upon which he made me understand, that the
salt was very bad for me; when putting a little
into his mouth, he seemed to nauseate it in
such a manner, as to spit and sputter at it,
and then washed his mouth with fresh water:
but to show him how contrary his opinion was
to mine, I put some meat into my mouth with-
out salt, and feigned to spit and sputter as
much for want of it, as he had done at it;
yet all this proved of no signification to Fri-
day; and it was a long while before he could
endure any salt in his meat or broth, and even
then but a small quantity.
Thus, having fed him sufficiently with boiled
meat ami broth at that time, the next dav I
125
was resolved to feast him with a roasted piece
of the kid. And having no spit to fasten it,
nor jack to turn it, I made use of that common
artifice which many of the people of England
have, that is, to set two poles upon each side
of the fire, and one across on the top, hang-
ing .the meat thereon with a string, and so
turning it round continually, till it was suffi-
ciently roasted. This practice caused great
admiration in my man Friday, being quite
another way than that to which the savages
were accustomed. But when he came to taste.
the sweetness and tenderness of the flesh, h&
expressed his entire satisfaction above a thou-
sand different ways. As I could not but un-
derstand his meaning, you may be sure I was
as wonderfully pleased, especially when he
made it also very plain to me, that he would
never, while he lived, eat man's flesh more.
It was now high time I should set my new
servant to work; so next day, I put him to
beat out some corn, and sift it in the same
manner as I had done before. And really the
fellow was very quick and handy in the exe-
cution of any thing I ordered him to go about.
I made him understand that it was to make
bread for us to eat, and afterwards let him
see me bake it. In short, he did every thing
as I ordered him in a little time as well as I
could perform it myself.
But now, considering that I had two mouths
to feed instead of one, it was necessary that I
1-2
126
snould provide more ground for my harvest,
and plant a larger quantity of corn than I
commonly used to do; upon'which, I marked
out a larger piece of land, fencing it in the
same manner as I had done before; in the
execution of which, I must give Friday this
good word, that no man could work more
hardy, or with better will than he did; and
when I made him sensible that it was for bread
to serve him as well as me, he then very pas-
sionately made me understand, that he thought
I had much more labour on his account than I
had for myself; and that no pains or diligence
should be wanting in him, if I would but direct
him in those works wherein he might pro-
ceed.
I must certainly own, that this was the most
pleasant year I ever had in the island; for
after some time, Friday began to talk pretty
well, and understood the names of those things
which I was wont to call for, and the places
where I used to send him. So that my long
silent tongue, which had been so many years
126
versing with my poll, now began to be occu-
pied in teaching, and talking to my man Fri-
day; for indeed I had such a singular satisfac-
tion in the fellow himself, so innocent did his
simple and unfeigned honesty appear more and
more every day, that I really began entirely
to love him; and, for his part, I believe there
was no love lost, and that his nature had been
127
*
more charmed by my exceeding kindness, and
his affection more placed upon me, than upon
any other object whatsoever among his own
countrymen.
I once had a great desire to try if he had
any hankering inclination to his own country
again: and by this time having taught him
English so well, that he could give me tolerable
answers to any question which I demanded, I
asked him whether that nation to which he be
longed ever conquered in battle? This ques-
tion made Friday smile, and to which he
answered, " Yes, yes, we always fight the bet-
ter;" as much to say, they always got the bet-
ter in fight. You say, said I, that you always
fight the better; why then, Friday, how came
you to be taken prisoner?
Friday. But for all that, my nation beat
much.
Master. How, say you, beat! if your na-
tion beat then, how came you to be taken?
Friday. The more many mans than my na-
tion, in the place where me was, they take one,
two, three, and me; my nation much overheat
them in the yonder place where me no was,
there my nation mans beat one, two, three great
thousands.
Master. Then why did not your men re-
cover you from the hands of your enemies? .
Friday. They run one, two, or three, and
me; they make all go into the cnnoe: my na-
tion have no canoe that time.
128
Master. 'Tis very well, Friday; but what *
does your nation do with the prisoners they
take? Do they carry them away and eat them
as they have done?
Friday. Yes, yes, my nation eat mans too.
eat up all.
Master. To what place do they carry them
to be devoured?
Friday. Go to other nations where they
think.
Master. Do they bring them hither?
Friday. Yes, come over hither, come over
other place.
Master. And have you been with them here,
Friday 1
Friday. Yes, me been here, (pointing to the
north-west of the island, being the side where
they used to land.)
Thus having gotten what account I could
from my man, I plainly understood, that he
had been as bad as any of the rest of the can-
nibals, having been formerly among the sa-
vages who used to come on shore on the
farthest part of the island, upon the same
bloody occasions as he was brought hither for:
and some time after, I carried him to that place
where he pointed; and no sooner did he come
there, but he presently knew the ground, sig-
nifying to me that he was once there when
they ate up twenty men, two women and a
young child; but as he could not explain the
number in English, he did it by so many
129
stones in a row, making a sign to me to count
them.
My next question was, how far it was from
the island to the shore, and whether canoes
were not often lost in the ocean? to which he
answered, there was no danger; that no canoes
were ever lost; but that after a little way out
to the sea, there was a strong current, and a
wind always one way, in the afternoon. This
I thought at first to be no more than the sets
of tide, of going out or coming in; but I after-
wards understood it was occasioned by the
great draught and reflux, of the mighty river
Oroonoko, in the mouth or gulph of which, I
imagined my kingdom lay; and that the land
which I perceived to the west, and north-west
must be the great island Trinidad, on the north
of the river.
Well, you may be sure, this knowledge,
which the imperfect imformation of my man
had led me to, was very comfortable to me, and
made me so curious as to ask him, how I might
depart from this island, and get amongst those
white men? He told me, "Yes, yes, I might
go in two canoes." In two canoes, thought I,
what does my man mean. And, indeed it was
a long time before I understood his meaning,
which was, that it must be a large boat, as big
as two canoes, able to bear with the waves,
and not so liable to be overwhelmed as one
must be.
I believe there is no state of life but what
may be happv, if peopln would but endeavour
130
for their part to make it so. He is not the
happiest man that has the most riches, but he
that is content with what he hath. Before I had
my servant, I thought myself miserable till I had
him; and now that I had enjoyed the happy
benefits of him, I still complained, and begged
a deliverance from a place of retirement, ease
and plenty, where Providence had sufficiently
blessed me. In a word, from this time, I enter-
tained some hopes, that one time or other, I
might find an opportunity to make my escape
from this island, and that this poor savage might
be a great furtherance thereto.
I now began to instruct my servant, in the
saving knowledge of the true Deity, in which
the directions of God's holy Spirit assisted me.
Friday, said I, you must know, that before
this world was made, there was an Almighty
Being existing, by whose power all things
were made, and whose majesty shall have no
end. To be glorified and adored by beings of
a heavanly nature, he created angels and arch-
angels, that is, glorified spirits resembling him-
self to encompass his throne, eternally singing
forth his praise, in the most heavenly sounds
and divine harmony.
I found it easy enough to imprint the right
notions in his mind of God: for nature assist-
ed me in all my arguments, to show him plain-
ly the necessity of a great and overruling, go-
verning power, of a secret directing providence,
and of the equity and reasonableness of paying
adoration to our Creator.
131
I then entered into a long discourse with
him, upon the subject of the world's redemp-
tion by the Saviour of it, and the doctrine of
repentance preached from heaven, together
with an holy faith in our blessed Redeemer
Jesus Christ.
By the constant application I made of the
Scriptures, as I read them to my man Friday. I
earnestly endeavoured to make him understand
every part of them as much as lay in my power.
He also, on the other hand, by his very serious
questions and enquiries, made me a much bet-
ter proficient in Scripture knowledge, than I
should have been by my own private reading
and study.
You may well suppose, that, by the frequent
discource we had together, my man and I be-
came most intimately acquainted, and that
there was very little that I could say, but
what Friday understood: and indeed, he spoke
very fluently, though it was but broken Eng-
lish. I now took a particular pleasure in re-
lating all my adventures, especially those that
occurred since my being cast on this island.
I made him understand that wonderful mys-
tery, as he conceived, of gunpowder and bul-
let, and taught him how to shoot. I also pre-
sented to him a knife, which pleased him ex-
ceedingly, making him a belt, with a frog
hanging thereto, like those in which we wear
hangers in England; and, instead of a hanger
to put in the frog, I gave him a hatchet, which
was not only as good, but even a better weapon
132
upon many occasions. In a word, my man
thus accoutred, looked upon himself as great
as Don Quixote, when that celebrated champion
went to combat the windmill.
I next gave him a very particular description
of my misfortune in being shipwrecked; show-
ing him, as near as I could, the place where
the ship lay, which had been gone long before;
but I brought him to the ruins of my boat, which,
before, my whole strength could not move, but
now was almost rotten and fallen to pieces.
I observed my man Friday to view this boat
with an uncommon curiosity; which when he
had done, he stood pondering a great while,
and said nothing. At last, said I, Friday,
what makes you ponder so much? He replied,
"O master, me see like boat come to place at
my nation."
It was some time, indeed, before I under-
stood what my man meant; but examining
strictly into it, I plainly found, that such
another boat, resembling mine, had come
upon the country where he dwelt; that is
to say, by his farther explanation, that the
boat was driven there through stress of wea-
ther.
Indeed Friday answered my demands very
well, making every thing plain to my under-
standing; but beyond measure was I satisfied
when he told me with great warmth and ardour,
"O master, we save white mans from drown;"
upon which I immediately asked him, if there
132
133 i
boat; "Yes, yes," said he, "the boat full, very-
full of white mans." How maHy, Friday, said I.
Hereupon he numbered his fingers, and count-
ed seventeen. And when I asked him what
became of them all, and whether they lived or
not? he replied. "Yes, master, they all live,
they be live among my nation." This informa-
tion put fresh thoughts into my head, that these
must be the very men who before I concluded
had been swallowed up in the ocean, after they
had left their ship that had struck upon the
rocks of my kingdom, and after escaping the
fury of the deep, landed upon the wild shore,
and committed themselves to the fury of the
devouring Indians.
The manner of their cruelties to one another,
which consequently, as I thought, must be act-
ed with greater barbarity to strangers, created
in me a great anxiety, and made me still more
curious to ask Friday concerning them. He
told me, he was sure they still lived there, hav-
ing resided among them above four years, and
that the savages gave them victuals to live upon.
But pray, Friday, said I, whence proceeded all
this good nature and generosity? How came it
to pass that they did not kill and eat thern, to
please their devouring appetites; and occasion
so splendid an entertainment among them?
"No, no," said Friday, "they not kill 'em,
they make brother with 'em;" by which I un-
derstood there was a truce between them.
And then I had a more favourable opinion of
the Indians, upon Friday's uttering the words:
133 i
"My nation t'other nation no eat man's but
when mans make war fight:" as though he
had said, that neither those of his kingdom, nor
any other nations that he knew of, ever ate
their fellow-creatures, but such as their law
of arms allowed to be devoured: that is, those
miserable captives, whose misfortune it should
be to be made prisoners of war.
Some considerable time after, upon a very
pleasant day, in most serene weather, my man
and I stood upon the top of a hill, on the
island, whence I had once before beheld the
continent of America. I could not tell imme-
diately what was the matter: for suddenly
'Friday, fell a jumping and dancing as if he
had been mad; and upon my demanding the
reason of his behaviour, "O joy," said he, "O
glad! there see my country, there my nation,
there white mans gether." And indeed such
a rapturous sense of pleasure, appeared in his
countenance, that his eyes had an uncommon
sparkling and brightness, and such a strange
eagerness, as if he had a longing^ desire to be
in his own country again. This made me not
so well satisfied with my man Friday as be-
fore; for by this appearance, I made no dis-
pute, but that if he could get back thither
again, he would not only be unmindful of
what religion I had taught him, but likewise
of the great obligation he owed me for his
wonderful deliverance: nay, that he would
not only inform his countrymen of me, but
accompany hundreds of them to mv kingdom,
.and make mo a miserable sacrifice, like those
unhappy wretches taken in battle.
Indeed I was very much to blame to have
these cruel, and unjust suspicions, and must
freely own I wronged the poor creature very
much, who was of a quite contrary temper.
And had he had that discerning acuteness
which many Europeans have, he would cer-
tainly have perceived my«oldness and indif-
ference, and also have been very much con-
cerned upon that account.
J As we were walking up the same hill another
day, when the weather was so hazy at sea,
that I could not perceive the continent, Friday,
said I, don't you wish yourself to be in your
own country, your own nation, among your
old friends and acquaintances ?" Yes," said
lie, "me much O glad to be at my own na-
tion." And what would you do there, Fri-
day? Would you turn wild again, eat man's
flesh, and be a savage as you were formerly 1
"No, no," (answered he, full of concern, and
shaking his head) "Friday now tell them to
live good, tell them pray God, tell them to eat
corn, bread, cattle, flesh, milk, no eat man
again." But surely, replied I, if you should
offer to do all this, they will kill you; and to
manifest their contempt of such instruction, eat
you up when they have done. He then put on
a grave, yet innocent and smooth countenance,
saying, "No, they no kill me, they willing love
learn:" that is, that they would be very willing
to learn; adding withal, "that they had learned
very much of the bearded mans that came in
the boat." Will you, said I, go back again,
Friday? He smiled at that, and told me, that
he could not swim so far. But said I, I will
make a canoe for you: "Yes, master," said he,
"me go if you go, me no go if you stay." I
go, Friday! why would you have them eat me
up, and devour your kind master?" No,
no," said he, "me make them no eat master,
and me make them much love you;" that is,
he would tell them how I had slain his enemies,
and thereby saved his life, for which reason he
would make them love me: and then he re-
lated to me, as well as he was able,. how ex-
ceeding kind those of his nation were to the
white, or bearded men, 'as he called them, who
in their great calamity, were driven into their
country.
It was from this time, indeed, I had strong
inclinations to venture over, and use my ut-
most efforts, if possible, to join with these
white bearded men, who undoubtedly were
Spaniards or Portuguese; for, thought I, it
must be certainly a better and safer way, to
escape when there is a good company, than
for me alone, from an island forty miles oft"
the shore, and without any assistance. Some
days after, Friday and I being at work, as
usual, at the same time diverting ourselves
with various discourses, I told him I had a
136
ever he pleased to return to his own nation:
and to convince hirn of the truth of what I
said, I took him with me to the other side of
the island, where my frigate lay, and then
taking it from under water (for I always kept
it sunk for fear of a discovery) we both went
into it to see how it would manage such an ex-
pedition.
And really never could any be more dex-
terous in rowing than my faithful servant, mak-
ing the boat go as fast again as I could. Well,
now, Friday, said I, shall we now go to your
much desired nation? But, instead of meet-
ing with that cheerfulness I expected, he
looked very dull and melancholy at my saying
so; which indeed at first surprised me, till he
made me sensible, that his concern was about
the boat's being too small to go so far a voy-
age. Upon which, I let him understand I had
a much bigger; and, accordingly, the next
day went to the place, where the first boat
lay, which I had made, when all the strength
I had, or art I could use, failed me in my
attempt to get it into the water: but now it
having lain in the sun two and twenty years,
and no care being taken of it all that while,
it became in a manner rotten. My man
told me, that such a boat would do very
well for the purpose, sufficient to carry
"enough vittle, dring, bread," for that was his
manner of talking. In short, my mind being
strongly fixed, upon my design of going over
with him to the continent, I very plainly
told him, that we would both go and make a
boat full as big, and more proportionable than
m2
that, wherein he might safely return to his own
nation.
Go your way, since you desire it, and leave
me alone by myself, as I was before I saved
your life.
Never was any creature more thunderstruck
than Friday was at these words, "Go me away,
leave master away," said he, after a long
silence, " No, no, Friday die, Friday live not
master gone ;" as though he had said, I neither
can nor will live, if my master sends me from
him. Friday felt towards me the greatest
gratitude, and the most sincere love ^ he found
me not only his deliverer, but his preserver
and comforter; not a severe and cruel tyrant,
but a kind, loving, and affable friend. He
wanted for no manner of sustenance; and
when he was ill, or out of order, I was his
physician, not only for his body, but his soul;
and therefore no wonder was it, that such an
innocent creature, long since divested of his
former natural cruelty, should have an uncom-
mon concern at so cruel a separation from me,
which pierced him to the very soul, and made
him desire even to die, rather than live without
me.
After I had told Friday, in a very careless
manner, that he should be at his liberty as soon
as the boat was made, the language of his eyes
expressed all imaginable confusion; when,
immediately running to one of his hatchets,
which he used to wear as a defensive weapon,
he gives it into my hand, with a heart so full,
i3y
that he could scarcely speak. Friday, said I,
what is it you mean? What must I do with this?
"Only kill Friday," said he, "Friday care not
live long." But what must I kill you for? re-
plied I again. "Ah, dear master, what made
you Friday save from eat a me up, so keep long
Friday, make Friday love God, and now Friday
send away, never see Friday more." And
while he spoke thus, the tears ran down his
cheeks in such a plentiful manner, that I had
much ado to refrain from weeping also when I
beheld the poor creature's affection: so that I
was forced to comfort him in the best manner I
could, which I did, by telling him, if he was
content to abide with me, I should be ever will-
ing to keep him.
After Friday's grief was somewhat abated,
more fully to convince me of his affection, he
said, " O master, me not care to be in my na-
tion, leave you here, me desire nation learn
good, that's all;" meaning, that his desire was
for the conversion of that barbarous people;
and that we wished me to go with him. And
indeed, I began to desire to go also, from my
late discourse with Friday, about these seven-
teen white bearded men, that had been driven
upon the barbarian coast; whom I designed to
join, as the only means to further our escape.
To which intent, my man and I went to search
for a proper tree to fell, whereof we might
make a perigua or canoe, to undertake the
voyage; and, indeed, we were not long in find-
ing one fit for our purpose, there being enough
MO
of wood in the island to have built a fleet of
large vessels, hut the thing we principally
wanted. was, to get one so near the water, that
we might launch it after it was finished, and
not commit so horrid a mistake as I had done
once before.
Well, after a great search for what was best
and most convenient, Friday, at last, whose
judgment in such affairs was much superior to
mine, pitches upon a kind of wood the most
fitting for it. But though my man exceeded
me in the knowledge of the most proper tree,
yet I showed him a much better and cleaner
way to make a canoe than ever he knew before;
for he was for burning the hollow or cavity of
the tree, in order to make this boat; but I then
told him how we might do it with tools, teach-
ing him" at the same time how to use them,
which indeed he did very dexterously; so that
in a month's time we finished it, making it
very handsome, by cutting the outside in the
true shape of a boat. After this, it took us a
full fortnight before we could get her into the
water, which we did, as it were, inch by inch,
upon great rollers: but when she was in, she
would have carried twenty meu, with all the
ease imaginable.
As I was very well pleased, you may be
sure, at the launching of this man of war of mine,
I was no less amazed to behold with what dex-
terity my man could manage her, turn her, and
paddle her along. Well, Friday, said I, what
do you think of it now? Do vou think this will
carry us over? "Yes, master," said he, "we
venture over well, though great blow wind."
But my design was yet farther, which he was
insensible of; and that to make a mast and a
sail, and provide her with an anchor and cable.•
As to a mast that was no difficult thing at all
to procure: so fixing upon a straight young
cedar tree, which I found near the place, (great
plenty of it abounding in the island) and setting
Friday to cut it down, I gave him particular
directions how to shape and order it; but as to
the sail, that, I managed myself. I very well
knew I had some old ones, or pieces of sails
enough, which had lain six and twenty years by
me; but not being careful to preserve them, as
thinking I should have no occasion to use them
any more, when I came to look over them, I
found them almost all rotten, except two; and
with these I went to work, and after a great
deal of pains and awkward tedious stichmg for
want of needles, at length I finished a three-
cornered ugly thing like that we call in Eng-
land, a shoulder of mutton sail, to go with a
boom at the bottom, and a, small sprit at the
top, like those which#our long-boats use, and
which I very well knew how to manage,
especially since it was like that which I had in
my patron's fishing-boat, when with my boy
Xury, I made my escape from the barbarian
shore.
It was nearly two months, I think, before I
completed this work, that is, the rigging, and
fitting up my mast and sails; and indeed they
were nicely done, having mnde a small stay,
and a sail, or foresail to it, to assist, if we
should turn to the windward; and, which was
still more, I fixed a rudder to the stern of her,
*to steer with; and though I was but a very
indifferent ship-right, yet, as I was sensible
of the great usefulness and absolute necessity
of a thing like this, I applied myself to it with
such a constant application, that at last I ac-
complished my design; but what with the many
dull contrivances I had about it, and the failure
of many things, it cost me as much pains in
ordering as in making the boat. Besides,
when all this was done, I had my man to
teach what belonged to its navigation; for
though he very well understood how to pad-
die a canoe alone, he was an utter stranger to
a sail and a rudder, and was amazed when he
saw me work the boat to and again-in the sea,
by them, and how the sail jibbed and filled
this way or that way, as the course we sailed
changed. After some time. and a little use,
I made all these things very familiar to him,
so that he became jan expert sailor, except in
relation to the compass, %nd that I could make
him understand but little of. But as it hap-
pened, there was seldom occasion for it, there
being but little cloudy weather, and scarcely
any fog in those parts; the stars were always
visible in the night, and the shore by day, ex-
cept in the rainy season, which conrined every
one to his habitation. Thus entered in to the
seven-and-twentieth vear of mv reign or can-
.ivity, which you please, (the last three of
•vhich, blessed with the company of m^ man
Friday, ought not to be reckoned) I kept the
anniversary of my landing here with the same
thankfulness to God for his tender mercies, as
I did before; and certainly as I had great
cause for thankful acknowledgment for my de-
liverance at first, I had much greater now for
such singular and additional testimonies of the
care of Providence over me, in all my dis-
ti-esses of both body and mind, and the great
hopes I had of being effectually and speedily
delivered: for I had a strong impression upon
my mind, that I should not be another year in ,
this island. But, however, J still continued on
with my husbandry, digging, planting, and
fencing as usual: gathering and curing my
grapes, and doing all other things that'-were
143
And now the rainy season beginning to
come on, obliged me -to keep the longer
within doors: but before this, I brought my
new vessel into the creek, where I had
landed my rafts, from the ship; so we waiti
ed for the months of November and Decem-
ber, in which I designed to venture over the
ocean.
No sooner did the seasonable weather begin
to draw near, but so much was I elevated with
this new designed adventure, that I daily pre-
pared for the voyage. The first thing that I
thought on was, to lay by a certain quantity of
provisions, as a sufficient store for such an-
expedition, intending in a week or a fort-
night'sHime to open the dock, and launch out
the boat for that purpose. But one morning,
as I was very busy upon something necessary
for this occasion, I called Friday to me, and
bid him to go to the sea-shore, and see if he
could find a turtle or tortoise, a thing which
we commonly had once a week, as much upon
account of the eggs, as for the sake of the
flesh. He had not been long Jbne, but he
came running back, as though he was pur-
sued for life, and as it were flew over my
outer wall, or fence, like one that felt not the
ground, or steps he set his feet on: before I
had time to enquire the reason of his precipi-
tation, he cries out, "O dear master, O sorrow!
sorrow! Bad! O bad!" Why, what's the
matter, Friday? said I. "O yonder, yonder,"
said he, "there be one, two, three canoes! two,
three."
Surely (thought I) there must be six, by
my man's way of reckoning; but on a strict-
er enquiry, I found there were but three.
Well, Friday, said I, don't be terrified. I
warrant you we will defend ourselves against
them.—But though I comforted him in the
best manner I could, the poor creature
trembled so, that I scarcely knew what to do
with him: "O, master," said he, "they come
look Friday, cut pieces Friday, cut a me
up."
Why, Friday, said I, they will eat me up as
well as you, and my danger is as great as
four's. But since it is so, we must resolve to
fight for our lives. What say you? Can you
fight Friday ?" Yes," said he very faintly,
"me shoot, me kill what I can, but there come
great many number." That's no matter, said
I again, our guns will terrify those that we do
not kill; I am very willing to stand by you to
the last drop of my blood.
Now, tell m*, if you will do the like by
me, and obey my orders in whatsoever I com.
maud? Friday then answered, "O master,
me lose life for you, me die when you bid
die." Thus concluding all questions concern-
ing his fidelity, I ordered him to take the two
fowling pieces, which we always carried,
and load them with large swan-shot, as big as
small pistol bullets; then I took four muskets
and loaded them with two slugs, and five
small bullets each; charging my two pistols
each with a brace, I hung my great sword,'as
customary, naked to my side, and gave Friday
his hatchet, as a most excellent weapon for
defence.
Thus prepared, I took my perspective glass,
and went up to the side of the hill, to see what
I could discover; and. I perceived very soon,
by my glass, that there were one and twenty
savages, three prisoners, and three canoes, and
their chief concern seemed to be the tri-
umphant banquet upon three poor human
bodies, a thing which by this time I had ob-
served was very common with them. Upon
which I called to Friday; and shoving bim a
great tree, that was just at the corner of the
wood, near which they were, I ordered him to
repair thither, and bring me word, if he could
plainly perceive their actions; accordingly he
did as I commanded him, and came back with
this melancholy story, that they were all about
their fire, eating the flesh of one of their pri-
soners; and that another lay bound upon the
sand, a little distance from them, whom they
designed for their next sacrifice; and this he
told me, was not one of their nation, but one
of those very bearded men, who was driven by
a storm into their country, and whom he had
so often spoken to me about. You may be
sure, that, upon hearing this, my soul was
ready to sink within me: when ascending up
into a tree, I saw plainly, by my glass, a white
man, who lay upon the beach of the sea, with
his hands tied with flags or things resembling
rushes, being covered with clothes, and seem-
ing to be an European. From the tree where
I took this prospect, I perceived another tree,
and a thicket beyond it, about fifty yards
nearer to them than where I was, which by
taking a small circle round, I might come at
undiscovered, and then I should be within half
a shot of these devourers. I therefore got
behind some bushes, which held all the way
till I came to the other tree ; and then I as.
cended to a little rising ground, not above
eighteen yards distance, and there I had a full
view of these creatures, and could perceive all
their actions.
Such a sight did then appear, as obliged
me not to lose a moment's time. No less than
nineteen of these dreadful wretches sat upon
the ground, close huddled together, express-
ing all the delight imaginable at so barbarous
an entertainment; and they had just sent the
other two to murder this poor unhappy Chris-
tian, and bring him limb by limb to their fire;
for they were then just going to untie the
bands from his feet. Hereupon, immediately
turning' to my man, Now, Friday, said I,
mind what I say, fail in nothing, but do ex-
actly as you see me do. All which he pro-
mising to perform, I set down one of my mus-
kets, and the fowling-piece upon the ground,
and Friday did the same by his; and with
the other musket I took my aim at the savages,
bidding him to do the like: Are you ready,
said I; "Yes, master," said he, why then fire
at them said I; and at that very moment I gave
fire likewise.
I only killed one and wounded two; but my
man Friday, taking his aim much better than
I, killed two, and wounded three. You may
be sure they were in a dreadful consternation,
at such an unexpected disaster; and those
who had yet escaped our penetrating shot,
immediately jumped upon their feet, but were
in such a confusion, that they knew not which
way to run or look; not knowing from whence
I heir destruction came. We threw down our
pieces, and took up others, giving a second
dreadful volley; but as they were only loaded
with swan-shot, or small pistol bullets, we
perceived only two of them fall, though many
were wounded who ran yelling and screaming
about like mad creatures. Now, Friday, said
I, lay down your piece, and take up the mus-
ket, and follow me. He did so with great
courage, when showing ourselves to the sa-
vages, we gave a great shout, and made direct-
ly to the poor victim, who would have been sa.
crificed, had not our first fire obliged the
butchers, with three others, to jump into a
canoe. By my order, Friday fired at them,
at which shot I thought he had killed them all,
by reason of their falling to the bottom of the
boat; however he killed two, and mortally
wounded a third. In the mean time I cut the
flags that tide the hands and feet of the poor
creature, and lifting him up, asked him in the
Portuguese tongue What he was? he answered
me in Latin, "Christianus:" but so very weak
and faint that he could scarcely stand or speak.
And I next asked him, what countryman he
was? He said "Espaniola," and then uttered
all the thankfulness imaginable for his deliver-
ance. Signior, (said I with as much Spanish
as I was master of) let us.,.talk afterwards but
fight now; here, take this sword and pistol, and
do what you can. And indeed, he did so with
such courage and intrepidity, that he cut two
of them to pieces in an instant. I ordered Fri-
day to run for the guns we had left at the tree,
which he brought to me with great swiftness,
and then I gave him my musket, while I loaded
the rest. But now there happened a fierce en-
counter between the Spaniard and one of the
savages, who made at him with one of (heir
wooden swords ; and though the former was as
brave as could be expected, having twice
wounded his enemy in the head; vet being
weak and faint, the Indian had thrown him
upon the ground, and was wresting mj sword
out of his hand, which the Spaniard very wise-
ly quitting, drew out his pistol, and shot hi«n
through the body before I could come near
him, though I was running to his assistance
As to Friday, he pursued the flying wretches
with his hatchet, dispatching three, but the
rest were too nimble for him* The Spaniard
taking one of the fowling pieces, wounded
two, who running into the wood, Friday pur-
sued and killed; but the other, notwithstanding
his wounds, plunged himself into the sea, and
swam to those who were left in the canoe, which
with one wounded, were all that escaped out
of one and twenty.
The savages in the canoe worked very hard
to get out of our reach, and Friday was as
eager in pursuing them: and, indeed, I was no
Jess anxious about their escape, lest after the
news had been carried to their people, they
should return in multitudes, and destroy us.
So being resolved to pursue them, I jumped
into one of their canoes, and bid Friday follow
2n
me; but no sooner was I in, than, to my surprise,
I found another poor creature, bound hand and
foot for the slaughter, just as the Spaniard had
been, with very little life in him. Immediately
I unbound him, and would have helped him
up; but he could neither stand nor speak but
groaned so piteously, as thinking he was un-
bound in order to be slain. Hereupon I bid
Friday speak to him, and tell him of his deliver-
ance; when pulling out my bottle, I made the
poor wretch drink a little, which, with the joy-
ful news he had received, so revived his heart,
that he sat up in the boat. As soon as Friday
began to hear him speak, and look more fully
in his face, it would have moved any one to
tears to perceive his uncommon transports
of joy; for he kissed, embraced him, hugged
him, cried, laughed, hallooed, jumped about,
danced, sung, then cried again, wrung his
hands, beat his face and head, then sung and
jumped about again, like a distracted creature:
so that it was a great while before I could
make him speak to me, or tell me what was
the matter with him; but when he came to the
liberty of his speech, at last he told me it was
150
Here, indeed, I was infinitely moved to see
that dutiful and tender affection this poor sa-
vage had to his aged parent. He would sit
down by him in the boat, open his breast, and
hold his father's head close to his bosom, half
»n hour together, to cherish him: then he took
his arms and ankles, which were stiff an
numbed, with binding, and chafed and rubbe
them with his hands; by which means, pei
ceiving what the case was, I gave him som
rum, which proved of great benefit to him.
While we were busy in this action, the sa
vages had gotten almost out of sight; an,
happy it was we did not pursue them: fc-
there arose from the north-west, such a violen
storm, which continued all night long, that 1
could not suppose otherwise but that they were
all drowned. After this, I called Friday to me,
and asked him, if he had given his father any
bread? He shook hia head, and said, "None,
not, one bit, me eat a up all ;" so I gave him
a cake of bread out of a little pouch I carried
for this end.. I likewise gave him two or three
bunches of raisins for his father.
. Away he then runs out of the boat as if he
was bewitched, with such an extraordinary
swiftness, that he was out of sight as it were in
an instant; but, at his return, I perceived him
slacken his pace, because he had something in
his hand. And this I found to be, as he ap-
proached nearer, an earthen jug with some
water for his father, with two more cakes of
bread, which he delivered into my hands. Be-
ing very thirsty myself, I drank some of the
water, of which when his father had drank suf-
ficiently, it more revived his spirits than all the
rum I had given him.
I then called Friday to me, and ordered him
to carry one of the cakes, and some water to
the Spaniard, who was reposing himself upon
a green place under the shade of-a tree, but so
weak, that though he exerted himself, he could
not stand upon his feet. Upon which, I ordered
Friday to rub and bathe his ankles with rum,
as he did his father's. But every minute he
was employed in this, he would cast his eyes
towards the boat, where he left his father
sitting; who suddenly disappearing, he flew
like lightning to him, and finding he only laid
himself down to ease his limbs, he returned
back to me presently, and then I spoke to the
Spaniard to let Friday help him, and lead him
to the boat in order to be conveyed to my
dwelling, where I would take care of him.
Upon which, Friday took him upon his back,
and so carried him to the canoe, setting him
close by his father; and presently stepping out
again, launched the boat off", and paddled it
along the shore faster than I could walk, though
the wind blew very hard too; and having
brought them safe to the creek, away he runs
to fetch the other canoe, which he brought to
the creek almost as soon as I got to it by land;
then wafting me over, he took our new guests
out of the boat; but so weak were they, that
I was forced to make a kind of a hand-barrow;
and when I came to my castle, not being wil-
ling to make an entrance into my wail, we
made them a handsome tent, covered with old
sails, and boughs of trees, making two good
beds of rice straw, with blankets to lie upon
and cover them. Thus, like an absolute king,
over subjects who owed their lives to me, I
thought myself very considerable.
To get provisions for my poor weak subjects,
I ordered Friday to kill me a yearling goat;
which when he had done, I cut off the hinder
quarters, and chopping it into small pieces•
boiled and stewed it, putting barley and rico
into the broth. This I carried into their tent, set
a table, dined with them, and encouraged them.
Friday was my interpreter to his father, and
indeed to tho Spaniard too, who spoke the lan-
guage of the savages pretty well. After dinner,
I ordered Friday to fetch home all our arms
from the field of battle, and the next day to
bury the dead bodies, which he did accordingly.
And now I made Friday enquire of his fa-
ther, whether he thought those savages had
escaped the late storm in their canoe; and if
so, whether they would not return with a force
too great for us to resist? He answered, that
he thought it impossible they could outlive the
storm: or if they were driven southwardly,
they would come to a land where they would
as certainly be devoured, as if they were
drowned in the sea And suppose they had
attained their own country, the strangeness of
their fatal and bloody attack would make them
tell their people that the rest of them were
killed by thunder and lightning, not by the
hnnd of man, but by two heavenly spirits
(meaning Friday and me) who were sent from
above to destroy them. And this, he said, he
knew, because he heard them say the same to
one another. And indeed he was in the right
on't; for 1 have heard since, that these four
men gave out, that whoever went to that en-
chanted island, would be destroyed by fire from
the gods.
No canoes appearing some time after, as I
expected, my apprehensions ceased; instead
of which my former thoughts of a voyage took
place, especially when Friday's father assured
me I should have good usage in his nation. As
to the Spaniard, he told me that sixteen more
of his countrymen, and Portuguese, who had
been shipwrecked, made their escape thither 5
that though they were in union with the sa.
vages, yet they were very miserable for want
of provisions and other necessaries. When I
asked him about the particulars. of his voyage,
he answered, that their ship was bound from
Rio de la Plata to the Havana; that when
the ship was lost. only five men perished in the
ocean ; the rest having saved themselves in the
boat, were now landed on the main continent.
And what do they intend to do there? said I.
He replied, they had concerted measures to
escape by building a vessel, but that they had
neither tools nor provisions, so that all their
designs came to nothing. Supposing (said I)
I should make a proposal, and invite them here,
would they not carry me prisoner to New
Spain? He answered no; for he knew them to
be such honest men, as would scorn to act with
such inhuman baseness to their deliverer: that
if I pleased, he and the old savage would go
over to them, talk with them about it, and bring
me an answer: that they should all swear fide-
lity to me as their leader, upon the holy sacra-
ment; and, for his part, he would not only do
the same, but stand by me to the last drop of
his blood, should there be occasion.
These solemn assurances made me resolve to
grant them relief, and to send these two over
for that purpose; but when every thing was
ready, the Spaniard raised an objection, which
carried a great deal of weight in it: "You
know, Sir, said he, that having been some time
with you, I cannot but be sensible that your
stock of rice and corn may be sufficient, per-
haps, for us at present, but not for them, should
they come over presently, much less to victual
a vessel for an intended voyage. And there-
fore, my advice is, to wait another harvest, and
in the mean time, cultivate and improve some
more land, whereby we may have plenty of
provisions, in order to execute our design."
This advice of the Spaniard I approved ex-
tremely; and so satisfied was I of his fidelity,
that I esteemed him ever after. And thus we
all four went to work upon some more land, and
against seed-time, we had gotten so much cured
and trimmed up, as was sufficient to sow 22
bushels of barley on, and 16 jars of rice.which
was in short all the seed we had to spare. As
we were four in number, and by this time all
in good health, we feared not an hundred of
Indians, should they venture to attack us; and
while the corn was growing, I pitched upon
some trees, fit to build us a large vessel, in
case the Spaniards came over; which being
marked, I ordered Friday and his father to cut
them down, appointing the Spaniard, who was
now my privy counsellor, to oversee and direct
the work. I likewise increased my flocks of
goats, by shooting the wild dams, and bringing
home their kids to my enclosure; nor did I
neglect the grape season, but cured them as
usual, though I had such a quantity now, as
would have filled 80 barrels with raisins.
And thus all of us being employed, they in
working, and I in providing for them, till har-
vest came, God Almighty blessed the increase
of it so much, that from twenty-two bushels
of barley, we threshed out two hundred and
twenty, and the like quantity of rice, sufficient
to victual a ship fit to carry me and all the
Spaniards to any part of America.
Thus the principal objection being answer-
ed, by a sufficient stock of provisions, I sent
my two ambassadors over to the main land,
with a regal authority to administer the oaths
of allegiance and fidelity, and have an instru-
ment signed under their hands, though I never
asked whether they had pen, ink, or paper:
156
charges of powder and ball, and provisions
enough for eight days, they sailed away with a
fair gale, on a day when the moon was at full.
Scarcely a fortnight had passed over my
head; but, impatient for their return, I laid me
down to sleep one morning, when a strange
accident happened, which was ushered in by
my man's coming running to me, and cading
aloud, "Master, master, they are come, they
are come. Upon which, not dreaming of any
danger, out I jumped from my bed, put on my
clothes, and hurried through my little grove;
when looking towards the sea, I perceived a
boat, about a league and a half distant, standing
in for the shore, with a fair wind. I beheld
they did not come from the side where the land
lay on, but from the southmost end of the island.
So these being none of the people we wanted,
I ordered Friday to lie still, till such time as I
came down from the mountain, which, with my
ladder, I now ascended, in order to discover
more fully what they were; and now, with the
help of my perspective glass, I plainly perceiv-
ed an English ship, which I concluded it to be,
by the fashion of its long boat; and which fill-
ed me with such uncommon transports of joy,
that I cannot teH how to describe; and yet
some secret doubts hung about me, proceeding
from I know not what cause, as though I had
reason to be on my guard.
Not long it was, before I perceived the boat
to approach the shore, as though they looked
for a place where they might conveniently land;
and at last they ran their boat on the shore upon
the beach, about half a mile distance; which
proved so much the happier for me, since, had
they come into the creek, they had landed just
at my door, and might not only have forced me
out of my castle, but plundered me of all I
had in the world. Now I was fully convinced
they were all Englishmen, three of whom were
unarmed and bound; when immediately, the
first four or five leaped on shore, and took
those three out of the boat as prisoners, one
of whom I could perceive used the most pas.
sionate gestures of entreaty, affliction and de-
spair, while the others in a less degree showed
abundance of concern.
Not knowing the meaning of this, I beckoned
to Friday, who was below, to ascend the moun-
tain, and likewise view this sight. "O mas-
ter," said he to me, "you see English mans eat
prisoners as well as savage mans." And do
you think they will eat them, Friday? said I.
"Yes," said Friday, "they eat a all up." No,
no, said I, Friday, I am much more concerned
lest they murder them; but as for eating them
up, that I am sure the}- will never do.
And now I not only lamented my misfortune
in not having the Spaniard and Savage with
me, but also that I could not conic within shot
of them unperceived, (they having no fire-arms
among them) and save these three men, whom
I thought they were going to kill with their
swords. But some comfort it was to me, that
I perceived they were set at liberty to go where
they pleased, the rascally seamen scattering
about as though they had a mind to see the
place; and so long did they negligently ram-
ble, that the tide had ebbed so low, as to leave
the boat aground. Nor were the two men
that were in her more circumspect; for having
drunk a little too much liquor, they fed fast
asleep; but one of them waking before the
other, and perceiving the boat too fast aground
for his strength to move it, he hallooed out to
the rest, who made all possible expedition to
come to him; but, as Providence ordered it,
all their force was ineffectual to launch her,
when I could hear them speak to one another,
"Why let her alone, Jack- can't ye, she'll float
next tide:" by which words I was fully con-
vinced they were my own countrymen. I this
while lay very quiet, as being fully sensible
it could be no less than ten hours before the
boat would be afloat, and then it would be so
dark, that they could not easily perceive me,
by which means I should be at more liberty to
hear their talk, and observe all their motions;
not but that I prepared for my defence: yet
as I had another sort of enemy to combat with,
I acted with more caution. I took two fusees
on my shoulder, and gave Friday three mus-
kets; besides my formidable goat-skin, and
monstrous cap, made me look as fierce and ter-
rible as Hercules of old, especially when two
pistols were stuck in my belt, and my naked
sword was hanging by my side.
The three poor distressed creatures, too
anxious to get any repose, were however,
seated under the shade of a great tree, about a
quarter of a mile from me.
Upon which, without any more ado, I ap.
proached towards them, with my man following
behind me, and, before I was perceived, I
called aloud to them in Spanish, what are ye
gentlemen 1
At these words they started up in great con-
fusion, when they beheld the strange figure I
made; they returned no answer, but seemed as
if they would fly from me: Gentlemen• (said I
in English) don't be afraid, perhaps you have a
friend nearer than you expect. "He must be
from heaven," said one of them, gravely pulling
off his hat, "for we are past all help in this
world." All help is from heaven, said I, but
Sir as I have perceived every action between
you and these brutes since your landing only
inform me how to assist you, and I will do it to
the utmost of my power.
Am I talking with God or man? said he, in
melting tears. Are you of human kind, or an
angel? Sir, said I, " my poor habit will tell you
I am a man, and an Englishman, willing to
assist you, having but this servant only, here
are arms and ammunition: tell freely your
condition, can we save you 1" The story, said
he, is too long to relate, since our butchers
<tre so near: but, Sir, I was master of that ship,
my men have mutined, and it is as a favour
they have put my mate, this passenger, and me,
on shore without murdering us, though we ex-
pect nothing but perishing here.' "Are your
enemies gone?" said I. No, replied he
(pointing to a thicket,) there they lie,-while
my heart trembles, lest, having seen and heard
us, they should murder us all. "Have they
firearms?" said I. They have but two pieces,
said he, one of which is left in the boat. He
also told me, there were two enormous villians
amongst them, that were the authors of this
mutiny, who, if they were killed or seized,
the rest might be induced to return to their
obedience.
When he had given me all the satisfaction I
could desire, I gave him and his two compa-
nions each of them a gun, with powder and
ball sufficient, and firing myself, killed one of
the Captain's enemies, and wounded the other
who eagerly called for assistance; but the
Captain (who had reserved his piece) coming
up to him, " Sirrah," said he, "'tis too late to
call for assistance, you should rather cry to God
to pardon your villainy:" and so knocked him
down with the stock of his gun: three others
were also slightly wounded, who, at my ap-
proach, cried out for mercy. This the Captain
granted, upon condition that they would swear
to be true to him in recovering the ship, which
they solemnly did: however I obliged the
o2
Captain to keep them bound. After which
I sent Friday and the Captain's mate to secure
the boat, and bring away the oars and sail;
when the men, seeing their late distressed
Captain, now their conqueror, submitted to be
bound also. And then it was, that having
more liberty, I related the adventures of my
whole life, which he heard with a serious at-
tention. After this, I carried him and his two
companions into my little fortified castle, show-
ed them all my conveniences, and, when this
was over, we began to consider about regain-
ing the ship: he said that there were twenty-
six hands on board, who knowing their lives
were forfeited by the law, for conspiracy and
mutiny, were so very hardened, that it would
be dangerous for our small company to attack
them. This was a reasonable inference, in-
deed; but something we must resolve on, and
immediately put in execution: we therefore
heaved the boat upon the beach so high that
she could not shoot off at high water mark, and
broke a hole in her not easy to be stopped; so
that a'l the signals they gave for the boat to
come on board were in vain. This obliged
them to send another boat ashore, with ten
men armed, whose faces the Captain plainly
descried, the boatswain being the chief offi-
cer; but he said there were three honest lads
among them, who were forced into the conspi-
racy. Hereupon, I gave him fresh courage,
(fir I had perceived he was in concern) in the
mean while securing our prisoners, except two,
whom we took to our assistance, we thought
ourselves able enough to endure a battle.
When the sailors landed, and beheld their
boat in that condition, they not only hallooed,
but fired, for their companions to hear, yet
they received no answer. This struck them
with horror and amazement, thinking their
companions were murdered, they made as if
they would return to the ship. I could per-
ceive the Captain's countenance change at this,
till, of a sudden, three men were ordered to
look after the boat, while the other seven leapt
on shore, in order to search for their compa-
nions: and, indeed, they came to the brow of
the hill, near my ancient castle, from whence
they could see to a great distance in the woods,
and there shouting and hallooing till tired and
weary, they at length seated themselves under
a spreading tree. My opinion was, that no-
thing could be done till night, when I might
use some artifice to get them all out of the
boat; but of a sudden they started up, and
made towards the sea-side; hereupon I or-
dered Friday and the Captain's mate to go
over the creek, and halloo as loud as they
could, and so decoying them into the woodsf
come round to me again. And, this, indeed,
had good effect; for they followed the noise,
till coming westward to the creek, they called
for their boat to carry them over, and taking
one of the men out of her, left two to' c
after her, having fastened her i"''
a little tree on the shore. Hereupon imme-
diately the captain and our party passing the
creek, out of their sight, we surprised them
both, by the Captain's knocking down one and
ordering the other to surrender upon pain of
death, and who, being the honestest of them
all, sincerely joined with us. By this time it
was pretty late; when the rest returning to
their boat, which they found aground in the
creek, the tide out, and the men gone, they ran
about wringing their hands, crying it was an
enchanted island, and that they should be all
murdered by spirits or devils. My men would
willingly have fallen upon them, but I would
not agree to hazard any of our party. But to
be more certain, Friday and the Captain crawl-
ed upon their hands and feet, as near as pos-
sible; and when the boatswain approached in
sight, so eager was the Captain, that he fired,
and killed him on the spot: Friday wounded
the next man, and a third ran away. Hereupon
I advanced with my whole army; and it being
dark, I ordered the man we had surprised in the
boat, to call them by their names, and to parley
with them. Accordingly he called out aloud,
"Tom Smith, Tom Smith!" He answered,
"Who's that;" "Robinson!" answered the
other, " For God's sake, Tom, surrender im-
mediately, or you're all dead men." "Who
must we surrender to?" says Smith. "To our
Captain and a large force here, who have taken
me prisoner, wounded Will Fyre, and killed the
boatswain." "Shall we have quarter then V
said he. Hereupon the Captain calls out,
"You Smith, you know my voice, surrender
immediately, and you shall have your lives
granted, except Will Atkins." Hereupon At-
kins cries out, "What have I done, Captain,
more than the rest, who have been as bad as
me;" but that was a lie, for he was the person
that laid hold of him, and bound uim. However,
he was ordered to submit to the governor's
mercy, for such was I called. And so laying
down their arms! we bound them all, and
seized on their boat.
After this, the Captain expostulated with
them, telling them that the governor was an
Englishman, who might execute them there;
but he thought they would be sent to England.
Hereupon they implored the Captain to inter-
cede for their lives, and begged they might not
be sent to England. This answered our pro-
ject for seizing the ship. For, after sending
them, fast bound, to the cave, I sent the Cap.
tain to treat with them in the governor's name,
offering them pardon if they would assist in re-
covering the ship. Upon which, they all pro-
mised to stand by him till the last drop of their
blood; and whoever acted treacherously should
be hanged in chains upon the beach. They
were all released on these assurances: and then
the Captain repaired to the other boat, making
his passenger Captain of her, and gave him
four men well armed; while himself, his mate,
and five more, went in the other boat. By
midnight they came within call of the ship,
when the Captain ordered Robinson to hai] her.
and tell them that with great difficulty they had
found the men at last. But while they were
discoursing, the Captain, his mate, and the rest
entered, and knocked down the second mate,
and carpenter, secured those that were upon
the deck, by putting them under hatches• while
the other boat's crew entered and secured the
forecastle; they then broke into the round-
house, where the mate, after some resistance,
shot the pirate Captain through the head, upon
which all the rest yielded themselves prisoners.
And thus the ship being recovered, the joyful
signal was fired, which I heard with the great-
est joy imaginable: nor was it long before he
brought the ship to an anchor at the creek's
mouth, where coming to me unawares, "There,"
says he, "my dearest friend and deliverer, there
is your ship, and we are your servants:" a
comfort so unspeakable, as made me swoon in
his arms, while, with gratitude to heaven, we
were tenderly embracing each other.
Nothing now remained, but to consult what
we should do with the prisoners, whom he
thought it was not safe to take on board.
Hereupon, concerting with the Captain, I dress.
ed myself in one of his suits, and sending for
them, told them, that as I was going to leave
the island with all my people, if they would
tarry there, their lives should be spared; if not,
they should be hanged at the first port they
came to. They agreed to stay. Hereupon I
told them my whole story, charging them to be
kind to the Spaniards that were expected, gave
them all my arms, and informing them of every
thing necessary for their subsistence, I and my
man Friday went on board. But the next
morning two of the men came swimming to the
ship's side, desiring ike Captain to take them
on board, though he-Banged them afterwards,
complaing mightily how barbarously the others
used them. Upon which I prevailed with the
Captain to tike them in; and having received
some punishment, they proved more honest for
the future. And so I bid farewell to this
island, carrying along with me my money, my
parrot, umbrella, and goat-skin cap; setting
sail December 12, 1687, after twenty-eight
years, two months, and nineteen days' resi-
dence, and landing in England, June 11, 1688,
after five and thirty years' absence from my
own country, which rendered me altogether a
stranger there.
FINIS.
VERSES,
SUPPOSED TO BE WBITTEN BY ALEX. SELKIRK,
DURING HIS SOLITARY ABODE IN THE ISLAND
OF JUAN FERNANDEZ; IN WHICH HE HAD
LIVED QUITE ALONE DURING UPWARDS OF
FOUR YEARS.
I AM monarch of all I survey,
My right there is none to dispute;
From the centre all round to the sea,
I am lord of the fowl and the brute.
Oh, Solitude ! where are the charms
That sages have seen in thy face?
Better dwell in the midst of alarms,
Than reign in this horrible place.
n.
I am out of humanity's reach,
I must finish my journey alone,
Never hear the sweet music of speech;
I start at the sound of my own.
The beasts, that roam over the plain,
My form with indifference see;
They are so unacquainted with man,
Their tameness is shocking to me.
III.
Society, friendship, and love,
Divinely bestow'd upon man,
Oh, had I the wings of a dove,
How soon would I taste you again!
My sorrows I then might assuage
In the ways of religion and truth,
Might learn from the wisdom of age,
And be cheer'd by the sallies of youth
IV.
Religion! what treasure untold
Resides in that heavenly world!
More precious than silver and gold,
Or all that this earth can afford.
But the toll of the summoning bell
These vallies and rocks never heard,
Ne'er sigh'd at the sound of a knell,
Or smil'd when a Sabbath appear'd.
Ye winds, that have made me your sport,
Convey to this desolate shore
Some cordial endearing report
Of a land I shall visit no more.
My friends, do they now and then send
A wish or a thought after me?
O tell me I yet have a friend,
Though a friend I am never to see.
p
VI.
How fleet is a glance ot the mind!
Compar'd with the speed of its flight,
The tempest itself lags behind,
And the swift wing'd arrow of light.
When I think of my own native land,
In a moment I seem to be there;
But, alas! recollection at hand
Soon hurrys me back to despair.
VII.
But the sea-fowl is gone to her uem.,
The beast is laid down in his lair,
Ev'n here is a season of rest,
And I to my cabin repair.
There's mercy in every place:
And mercy, encouraging thought!
Gives even affliction a grace,
And reconciles man to his lot.
F4MILY MAXIMS.
Tkxje Love
True love will never allow a parent or a
master to indulge any under his care in bad
dispositions or wrong conduct. A good parent
cannot allow his child to feed on poison ;—bad
temper is poison—wrong conduct is poison.
Bad Habits.
Beware of the beginnings of bad habits:
the worst habits are acquired, not at once, but
by degrees.
Home.
Use every endeavour to make home a scene
of happiness and satisfaction, that all may re-
turn to it with willingness and pleasure.
Good-will in Families.
Better is the lowliest fare where love and
good-will prevail, than the greatest dainties
with discord and contention.
Angry Passions.
Angry passions blind the judgment: they
often provoke bad feelings in return, and lead
to many eviis.
FoBBEARANCE.
"Bear and forbear;" endeavour to "over-
come evil with good," and to live peaceably
with all." "Better is he that ruleth his spirit
than he that taketh a city."
Industry.
Retire early to rest, and be "early to
rise." Industry promotes health, order, and
happiness.
Diligence.
Diligence leads to plenty, but "idleness
will clothe a man with rags."
Sloth.
The slothful man is a burthen to himself;
his hours hang heavy on his head; he loiteretb
about, and knoweth not what he would do.
His house is in disorder, and he runneth on
towards ruin—he seeth it with his eyes, he
shaketh his head and wisheth, but hath no
resolution; till ruin cometh upon him like a
whirlwind, and shame and repentance descend
with him to the grave.
Neglect.
"Wholesome food, decent clothing, and a
decent dwelling are all to be desired if we value
health and comfort: but these may all be
spoiled and lost by idleness and neglect.
Order op Place and Time.
"Keep every thing in its proper place,"
do "every thing in its proper time," and
"delay not till to-morrow what should be done
to-day."
i
Cleanliness.
Thorough cleanliness is valuable to all
ranks of people; it tends to brace and strengthen
both the body and the mind.
Temperance.
Temperence tends to keep the mind clear,
and the constitution healthful: Intemperance
tends dreadfully to the destruction of both.
Independence.
Keep out of debt, and live within your
income, if you would be master of yourselves,
or desire to have the power of doing kindness
to others.
God the source of evert good.
Remember that "every good and perfect
gift proceeds from God," in whom we "live
and move and have our being."
p2
AlX ABE ACCOUNTABLE TO GoD.
On Him we depend for every breath that
we draw; to him we are accountable every
day that we live.
The Divine Presence evebt whebe.
Wherever we are, our thoughts are known
to Him; His eye is over all, His power sur-
rounding all.
TBS EST-

OF ROBINSON CRfJSOF/ .
uoBiisrsotst cbi"soe •
SttvrdeS tit 7/ieyvrrti t/f a J'lrrt 's foi'£~in t&t? #ai>3/
BOBnsrsoisr critsok .
ftwuinq his Man I'Kioay. -
£$Sfa-:-:<Jvj.-
£$Sfa-:-:<Jvj.-
*'^'
£$Sfa-:-:<Jvj.-
£$Sfa-:-:<Jvj.-
m
'
.'W
I
<
0
1-
LIFE
AND MOST SURPRISING
ADVENTURES
* or
ROBINSON CRUSOE,
OF YORK,
MARINER.
EMBELLISHED WITH
ELEGANT ENGRAVINGS.
XetoVSTorfc:
THE
1«31.
ms
WFE AND ADVENTURES
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
I WAS born in York, in the year 1632, of a
reputable family. My father was a native of
Bremen; who by merchandizing at Hull for
some time, gained a very plentiful fortune.
He married my mother at York, who received
her first breath in that country: and as her
maiden name was Robinson, I was called Ro-
binson Kreutznaer, which not being easily pro-
nounced in the English tongue, we are com-
monly known by the name of Crusoe.
I was the youngest of three brothers. The
eldest was a lieutenant-colonel in Lockhart's
regiment, but slain by the Spaniards; what
became of the other I could never learn.
education. My father designed me for the
law, yet nothing could serve me but I must go
to sea, both against the will of my father, the
tears of my mother, and the entreaties of friends.
One morning, my father expostulated very
warmly with me. What reason, says he, have
you to leave your native country, where there
must be a more certain prospect of content and
happiness, to enter into a wandering condition
of uneasiness and uncertainty? He recom-
mended to me Agar's wish, Neither to desire
poverty nor riches; that a middle state of life
was the most happy; and that the high tower-
ing thoughts of raising our condition by wan-
dering abroad, were surrounded with misery
and danger, and often ended with confusion
and disappointment. I entreat you, nay, I
command you (says he) to desist from these
intentions. If you will go, (added he,) my
prayers shall, however, be offered for your pre-
servation; but a time may come, when deso-
late, oppressed, or forsaken, you may wish
you had taken your poor despised father's
counsel.—He pronounced these words with
such a moving and paternal eloquence, while
floods of tears ran down his aged cheeks, that
it seemed to stem the torrent of my resolutions.
But this soon wore off; and a ltttle after, I in-
formed my mother that I could not settle at
any business, my resolutions were so strong to
see the world, and begged she would gain my
father's consent onlv to go nno vovage; whirl.
attempt a second. But my desire was as vain
as my folly in asking. My mother passionately
expressed her dislike to this proposal, telling
me, That as she saw that I was bent on my o\ 'ii
destruction, contrary to their will and my duty,
she would say no more, but leave me to myself
to do whatever I pleased.
I was then, I think, nineteen years old, when
one time being at Hull, I met a schoolfellow
of mine going along with his father, who was
master of a ship, to London; and acquainting
him with my wandering desires, he assured me
of a free passage, and a plentiful share of what
was necessary. Thus, without imploring a
blessing, or taking farewell of my parents, I
took shipping on the 1st of September, 1651.
Upon the 6th day, we came to an anchor in
Harwich road, where we lay wind-bound with
some Newcastle ships; and there being a good
anchorage, and our cables sound, the seamen .
forgot -their late toil and danger, and spent
the time as merrily as if they had been on .
shore. But on the eighth day, there arose a
brisk gale of wind, which prevented our tiding
it up the river; and it still increasing, our ship
rode forecastle in, and shipped several large
seas.
It was not long before horror seized the
seamen themselves, and I heard the master ex-
pcess this melancholy ejaculation, Lord have
mercy upon us, we shall all be lost and undone!
For ay part, sick unto death, I kept my cabin,
a2
hensions of our speedy fate made me get upon
deck, and there I was affrighted indeed. The
sea went mountains high: I could see nothing
but distress around us: two ships had cut away
their masts, and another had foundered: two
more that had lost their anchors, were forced
out to the mercy of the ocean; and, to save
our lives, we were forced to cut our foremast
and mainmast quite away.
Who is there so ignorant as not to judge o»
my dreadful condition? I was but a fresh
water sailor, and therefore seemed more terri-
fied. Our ship was very good, but over-
loaded; which made the sailors often cry out,
She will founder: words I then was ignorant
of. All this while, the storm continuing, and
rather increasing, the master and the more
sober part of the men went to prayers, ex-
pecting death every moment. In the middle
of the night one cried out, We had sprung a
leak: another, That there was four feet water
in the hold. I was just ready to expire with
fear, when immediately all hands were called
to the pump; and the men forced me also in
that extremity to share with them in their la-
bour. While thus employed, the master espy-
ing some colliers, fired a gun as a signal of dis-
tress; and I not understanding what it meant,
and thinking that either the ship broke, or
some dreadful thing happened, fell into a
swoon. Even in that condition of woe, no-
oody minded me, excepting to thrust me aside
a great while before it recovered.
Happy it was for us, when, upon the signal
given, they ventured out their boat to save our
lives. All our pumping had been in vain, and
vain had all our attempts been, had they not
come to our ship's side, and our men cast them
a rope over the stern with a buoy to it, which
after great difficulty they got hold of, and we
hauling them to us, got into their boat, and
left our ship, which we perceived sink within
less than a quarter of an hour; and thus I
learned what was meant by foundering at sea.
And now the men incessantly laboured to re-
cover their own ship ; but the sea ran so high,
and the wind blew so hard, that they thought
it convenient to haul in shore, which with
great difficulty and danger at last we happily
effected, landing at a place called Cromer, not
far from Winterton light-house; from whence
we all walked to Yarmouth, where, as objects
of pity, many good people furnished us with
the necessaries to carry us either to Hull or
London.
Strange! that after all this, f did not, like
the prodigal son, return to my father; who,
hearing of the ship's calamity, for a long time
thought me entombed in the deep. No doubt
but I should have shared in his fatted calf, as
the Scripture expresseth it; but my wayward
disposition still pushed me on, in spite of the
powerful convictions of reason and conscience,
When we had been at Yarmouth three days
I met my old companion, who had given me
the invitation to go on board along with his
father. His behaviour and speech was altered,
and, in a melancholy manner he asked me how
I did? telling his father who I was, and how I
had made this voyage for a trial only to pro-
ceed farther abroad. Upon which the old gen-
tleman turning to me, said, Young man, you
ought never to go to sea any more, but to take
this for a certain sign, that you will never pros-
per in a sea-faring condition. Sir, answered I,
will you take the same resolution? It is a dif-
ferent case, said he, it is my calling, and con-
sequently my duty; but as you have made this
voyage for a trial, you see what ill luck heaven
has set before your eyes; and perhaps our mi-
series have been on your account, like Jonah
in the ship of Tarshish. But pray what are you,
and on what account did you go to sea? Upon
which, I very freely declared my whole story;
at the end of which he made this exclamation,
Ye sacred powers! what had I committed, that
such a wretch should enter into my ship, to
heap upon me such a deluge of miseries! But
soon recollecting himself, Young man, said he,
if you do not go back, depend upon it, wherever
you go, you will meet with disasters and disap-
pointments, till your father's words are fulfilled
upon you. And so we parted.
I thought at first to return home; but shame
opposed that good notion, as thinking I should
ances. So strange is the nature of youth! They
are not ashamed to siu, but yet ashamed to re.
pent; and so far from being sorry for those
actions for which they may be accounted fools,
they think it folly to return to their duty, which
is the principal mark of wisdom. In short, 1
travelled up to London, resolving upon a voy-
age, and a voyage I soon heard of, by my ac-
quaintance with a captain who took a fancy to
me, to go to the coast of Guinea. Having
some money, and appearing line a gentleman,
I went on board, not as a common sailor or
foremast-man; nay, the commander agreed I
should go that voyage with him without any
expense; that I should be his messmate and
companion, and that I was welcome to carry
any thing with me, and make the best merchan-
dise I could.
I blessed my happy fortune, and humbly
thanked my captain for his offer, and acquaint-
ing my friends in Yorkshire, forty pounds were
sent me, tho greatest part of which my dear
father and mother contributed, with which I
bought toys and trifles, as the captain directed
me. My captain also taught me navigation,
how to keep an account of the ship's course,
take an observation, and led me into the know-
ledge of several useful branches of the mathe-
matics. And indeed this voyage made me
both a sailor and a merchant; for I brought
home five pounds nine ounces of gold dust,
for my adventure, which produced, at my re-
turn to London, almost three hundred pounds;
but in this voyage I was extremely sick, be-
ing thrown into a violent fever, through exces.
sive heat, trading upon the coast from the lati-
tude of fifteen degrees north, even to the lino
itself.
But, alas! my dear friend the captain soon
departed this life after his arrival. This Was a
sensible grief to me; yet I resolved to go ano-
ther voyage with his mate, who had now got
command of the ship. This proved a very un-
successful one; for though I did not carry a
hundred pounds of my late acquired wealth, (so
that I had two hundred pounds left, which I
reposed with the captain's widow, who was
an honest gentlewoman,) yet my misfortunes
in this unhappy voyage were very great. For
our ship sailing towards the Canary Islands,
we were chased by a Salee rover; and in spite
of air the haste we could make, by crowding as
much canvass as our yards could spread, or
our masts carry, the pirate gained upon us, so
that we prepared ourselves to fight. They
had eighteen guns, and we had but twelve.
About three in the afternoon, there was a des-
perate engagement, wherein many were killed
and wounded on both sides: but finding our
selves overpowered with numbers, our ship dis-
abled, and ourselves too impotent to have the
least hopes of success, we were forced to sur-
render; and accordingly we were all carried
prisoners into the port of Salee. Our men.
were sent to the Emperor's court to be sold
there; but the pirate captain taking notice of
me, kept me to be his own slave.
In this condition, I thought myself the most
miserable creature on earth, and the prophecy
of my father came afresh into my thoughts.
However, my condition, was better than I
thought it to be, as will soon appear. Some
hopes, indeed, I had that my new patron would
go to sea again, where he might be taken by a
Spanish or Portuguese man of war, and then
I should be set at liberty. But in this I was
mistaken; for he never took me with him, but
left me to look after his little garden, and do
the drudgery of his house, and when he re-
turned from sea, would make me lie in the
cabin, and look after the ship. I had no one
that I could communicate my thoughts to,
which were continually meditating my escape.
No Englishman, Irishman or Scotchman here .
but myself; and for two years I could see no-
thing practicable, but only pleased myself with
the imagination.
After some length of time, my patron, as I
found) grew so poor, that he could not fit out
li
once or twice a week, if the weather was fair,
to go out a fishing, taking me and a young
Moorish boy to row the boat; and so much
pleased was he with me for my dexterity in
catching the fish, that he would often send me
with a Moor, who was one of his kinsmen, and
the youth before-mentioned, to catch a dish of
fish for him.
One morning, as we were at sport, there"
arose such a thick fog, that we lost sight of the
shore; and rowing, we knew not which way,
we laboured all the night, and in the morning
we found ourselves in the ocean, two leagues
from land. However, we attained there at
length, and made the greatest haste, because
our stomachs were exceedingly sharp and hun.
gry. In order to prevent such disasters for
the future, my patron ordered -a .caxpenter to
build a little state-room or cabin in the middle
of the long-boat; with a place behind it to
steer and haul home the main sheet, with other
conveniencies to keep him from the weather,
as also lockers to put in all manner of provi=
sions; with a handsome shoulder-of-mutton sail
gibing over the cabin.
In this, he frequently took us out a fishing;
and one time, inviting two or three persons of
distinction to go with him, laid in provisions ex-
traordinary; providing also three fusees, with
powder and shot, that they might have some
sport fowling along the sea-coast. The next
morning, the boat was made clean, her ancients
and pendants out, and every thing ready: but
their minds altering, my patron ordered us to
go a fishing, for that his guests would certainly
sup with him that night.
And now I began to think of my deliverance
indeed. In order to this, I persuaded the Moor
to get some provisions on board, and to procure
some powder and shot, pretending to kill sea-
curlews, which he innocently and readily agreed
to. In short, being provided with all things
necessay, we sailed out.
When we had passed the castle, we fell to
fishing; but though I knew there was a bite, I
concealed the matter, in order to put farther
out to sea. Accordingly we ran a league far.
ther, when, giving the boy the helm, and pre-
tending to stoop for something, I seized Muley
by surprise, and threw him overbord. As he
was an excellent swimmer, he soon arose, and
made towards the boat; upon which I took
out a fusee, and presented it at him: "Muley,"
said I, "I never yet designed to do you any
harm, and seek nothing now but my freedom.
I know you are able enough to swim to shore,
and save your life ; but if you are resolved to
follow me to the endangering of mine, the
very moment you proceed, I will shoot you
through the head." The harmless creature,
at these words, turned himself from me, and,
[ make no doubt, got safe to land. Then
turning to the boy Xury, I perceived he trem-
bled at the action; but I put him out of all
fear telling him, that if he would be true and
Faithful to me, I would do well by him and not
hurt him.
We then pursued our voyage: I kept to the
southward, to the truly Barbarian coast; but
in the dark of the evening, I changed my
course, that I might keep near the shore; and
•having a fresh gale of wind, with a very plea-
sant smooth sea, by three o'clock next day, I
was one hundred and fifty miles beyond the
B
Emperors of Morocco's dominions. I con-
tinued sailing for five days successively, till
such time as the wind shifting to the southward,
made me conclude, that if any vessel was in
chase of me, they would proceed no farther.
After so much fatigue and thought, I an-
chored at the mouth of a little river, I knew
not what, or where, neither did I then see any
people. What I principally wanted was fresh
water; and I was resolved about the dusk of
the evening to swim ashore: but no sooner
the gloomy clouds of night begin to succeed
the declining day than we heard such barking,
roaring, and howling of wild creatures, that
one might have thought the very strongest
monsters of nature had their residence there.
Poor Xury, who was almost dead with fear,
entreated me not to go on shore that night.
"Suppose I don't Xury," said I, "and in the
morning we should see men who are worse
than those we fear, what then?" "O den
we may give them the shoot gun," said he,
laughing, "and the gun make then all run
away." The wit, and broken English which
the boy had learned among the captives of our
nation pleased me entirely, and made me still
fonder of him than before, We could get but
little sleep all the night for the terrible howlings
they made; and indeed we were very much.
affrighted.
The next morning, I was resolved to go on .
shore to get in fresh water, and venture myself
among the beasts or savages, should either at-
rack me. Xury said he would take one of the
jars and bring me some. I asked him why he
would go and not I? The poor boy answered,
"If wild mans eome, they eat me, you go
away." This, indeed, increased my affection
for the child. "Well, dear Xury," said I,
"we will both go ashore, both kill wild mans,
and they shall eat neither of us." So giving
Xury a piece of bread to eat, we waded ashore,
carrying nothing with us but our arms• and two
jars for water. I did not go out of sight of the
boat, as dreading the savages coming down the
river in their canoes: but the boy seeing a low
descent or vale about a mile in the country, he
wandered to it; and then running back to me
with great precipitation, I thought he was pur-
sued by some savages or wild beasts; upon
which I approached, resolving to perish, or
protect him from danger. As he came nearer
to me, I saw something hanging over his shoul-
ders, which was a creature he had shot, like
a hare, but different in colour, and with longer
legs ; however, we were glad of it for it proved
wholesome and nourishing meat; but what ad.
ded to our joy was, my boy assured me there
was plenty of water, and that he "saw no
wild mans." And greater still was our com-
fort when we found fresh water in the creek
where we were when the tide was out, without
going so far up into the country.
In this place, I began to hope that I should
meet some of the English trading vessels, who
would relieve and take us in.
The place I was in, was no doubt, that wild
country inhabited only by a few, that lies be-
tween the Emperor of Morocco's dominions
and the negroes. It is filled with wild beasts,
and the Moors use it for hunting chiefly. From
this place, I thought I saw the top of the moun-
tain TenerifFe, in the Canaries, which made
me try twice to attain it, but as often was I
driven back, and so forced to pursue my for-
tune along shore.
Early one morning we came to an anchor
under a little point of land, but pretty high;
and the tide beginning to flow, we lay ready
to go further in ; but Xury, whose youthful and
penetrating eyes were sharper than mine, in a
soft tone, desired me to keep far from land,
lest we should be devoured; "For look yon-
der, mayster, and see de dreadful monster
fast asleep on de side of de hill." Accord-
ingly, looking where he pointed, I espied a
fearful monster indeed. It was a terrible great
lion that lay on shore, covered as it were by a
shade of a piece of the hill. "Xury," said I,
"you shall go on shore and kill him." But
the boy looked amazed. "Me kill him!" says
he, "he eat me at one mouth," meaning one
mouthful. Upon which I bid him lie still, and
charging my biggest gun with two slugs, and a
good charge of powder, I took the best aim I
could to shoot him through the head; but his
leg lying over his nose, the slug broke his
knee-bone. The lion awaking with the pain,
got up, but soon fell down, giving the most
hideous groan I ever heard; but taking my
second piece, I shot him through the head,
and then he lay struggling for life. Upon this
Xury took heart, and desired my leave to go on
shore. "Go then," said I. Upon which, tak
ing a little gun in one hand, he swam to shore
with the other, and coming close to the lion
put a period to his life, by shooting him again
through the head.
But this was spending our ammunition in
vain, the flesh not being good to eat. Xury
was Live a champion, and comes on board for
a hatchet to cut off the head of his enemy;
but wanting strength to perform it, he cut oft"
and brought me a foot. I bethought me, how-
ever, that this skin would be of use. This cost
Xury and me a whole day: when spreading it
on the top of our cabin, the hot beams of the
sun effectually dried it in two days time, and it
afterwards served me for a bed to lie on.
And now we sailed southerly, living spar-
ingly on our provisions, and went no oftener
on shore than we were obliged for fresh water,
in hopes to meet some European ship. If Pro-
vidence did not favour me, my next course was
to seek for the islands, or lose my life among
the negroes; in a word, either I must meet with
some ship, or certainly perish.
One day as we were sailing along, we saw
people stand on the shore looking at us ; we
could also perceive they were black, and stark
naked. I was inclined to go on shore; but
Xury cried, No, no; however, I approached
b2
nearer, and I found they ran along the shore
by me a long way. They had no weapons in
their hands, except one, who held a long stick,
which Xury told me was a lance, with which
they could kill at a great distance. I talked to
them by signs, and made them sensible I wan-
ted something to eat; they beckoned to me to
stop my boat, while two of them ran up into the
country, and in less than half an hour came
back and brought with them two pieces of
dry flesh, and some corn, which we kindly ac-
cepted; and to prevent any fears on either
side, they brought the food to the shore, laid
it down, then went and stood a great way off",
till we fetched it on board, and then came close
to us again.
But while we were returning thanks to them,
being all we could afford, two mighty creatures
came from the mountains, one as it were pur-
suing the other with great fury, which we
were the rather inclined to believe, as they
seldom appear but in the night, and both these
swiflly passing by the negroes, jumped into
the sea, wantonly swimming about, as though
the diversion of the waters had put a stop to
their fierceness. At last one of them coming
nearer to my boat than I expected, or desired,
I shot him directly through the head, upon
which he sunk immediately, yet rising again,
he would have willingly made to the shore, but
between the wound and the struggling of the
water, he died before he could reach it.
It is impossible to express the consternation
the poor negroes were in at the firing of my
gun ; much less can I mention their surprise,
when they perceived the creature to be slain by
it. I made signs to them to draw near it with
a rope, and then gave it to them to haul on
shore. It was a beautiful leopard, which made
me desire its skin; and the negroes seeming
to covet the carcase, I freely gave it to them.
As for the other leapord, it made to shore,
and ran with a prodigious swiftness out of
sight. The negroes having kindly furnished
me with water, and with what roots and grains
their country afforded, I took my leave, and,
after eleven days sail came in sight of the
Cape de Verd. But the great distance I was
from it, and fearing contrary winds would pre-
vent me reaching them, I began to grow me-
lancholy and dejected, when upon a sudden
Xury cried out, "Master, master," looking as
affrighted as if it was his master's ship sent in
search of us. But I soon discovered she was
a. Portuguese ship. Upon which I strove for
life to come up to them. But in vain had it
been, if through their perspective glasses, they
had not perceived us, and shortened their sail
to let us come in. Encouraged at this, I set
up my patron's ancient, and fired a gun, both,
as signals of distress; upon which they very
kindly lay to, so that in three hours time I came
up with them. They spoke to me in Portu-
guese, Spanish, and French, but none of these
did I understand, till at length a Scots sailoi
caiied, and then I told him I was an English-
man, who had escaped from the Moors at Salee,
upon which they took me kindly on board,
with all my effects.
Having a pleasant voyage to the Brazils, we
arrived in the Bay de Todos los Santos, or, All
Saints Bay, in twenty-two days after. And here
I cannot forget the generous treatment of the
captain. He would take nothing for my pas-
sage, gave me twenty ducats for the leopard's
skin, and thirty for the lion's. Every thing
he caused to be delivered, and what I would
sell, he bought. In short, I made 220 pieces
of my cargo, and with this stock I entered
once more, as I may say, into the scene of life.
To be brief, I bought a settlement next door
to an honest and kind neighbour, born at Lis.
bon, of English parents, whose plantation join-
ing to mine, we improved very amicably toge-
ther. Both our stocks were low ; and for two
years we planted only for food; but the third
year we planted some tobacco, and each of us
dressed a large piece of ground the ensuing
year for planting sugar-canes.
I was in some measure settled, before the
captain who took me up departed from the Bra-
zils. One day I went to him, and told him what
stock I had in London, desiring his assistance
on getting it sent out to me ; to which the good
gentleman readily consented but would only
have me send for haw. my money, lest it should
miscarry, which, if h <!id, I mightstill have the
remainder to support me; and so taking letters
of procuration from me, bid me trouble myself
no further about it.
And indeed, he not only procured the money
I had drawn for upon my captain's widow, but
sent me over a servant, with a cargo propor-
tionable to my condition. He also sent me
tools of all sorts, iron work and utensils neces-
sary for my plantation.
Wealth now encreasing on me, and uncom-
mon success crowning my prosperous labours,
I might have rested happy in that middle state
of life my father so often recommended; yet
nothing would content me. Having lived four
years in Brazil, I had not only learned the
language, but contracted acquaintance with the
most eminent planters, and even with the
merchants of St. Salvadore, three of whom
came one morning to me, saying they had
a secret proposal to make. After enjoining
me to secrecy, they told me they had a mind
to fit out a ship to go to Guinea, in order to
stock the plantation with negroes, which, as
they could not be publicly sold, they would di-
vide among them; and if I would go their su-
percargo in the ship, to manage the trading
part, I should have an equal share of the ne-
goes, without providing any stock. The thing
indeed was fair enough, had I been in another
condition : however, I could not resist the pro-
posal, but accepted the offer, upon condition
of their looking after my plantation.
The ship being fitted out, and all things
ready, we set sail the first of September 1659.
We sailed northward upon the coast, from
whence going farther into the ocean out of the
sight of land, we steered as though we were
bound for the island Fernand de Noremba, leav-
ing the islands on the east, and then it was we
met with a terrible tempest, which continued
for twelve days successively, so that the winds
carried us wheresover they pleased. In this
perplexity one of our men died, and a man
and a boy were washed overboard. When the
weather cleared up a little, we found ourselves
upon the coast of Guinea. Upon this the cap-
tain gave reasons for returning; which I op-
posed, counselling him to stand away for Bar-
badoes, which, as I supposed, might be at-
tained in fifteen days. So altering our course,
we sailed north-west and by west in order to
reach the Leeward Islands ; but a second storm
suceeding, drove us to the westward, so that
we were justly afraid of falling into the hands
of cruel savages, or the paws of the devouring
beasts of prey.
In this great distress, one of the men, early in
the morning, cried out, Land! Land! which
he had no sooner said, than our ship struck
upon a sand bank, and, in a moment, the sea
broke over her in such a manner that we ex-
pected we should perish immediately. We
knew not where we were, or upon what land
we were driven, whether it was an island or
the main, inhabited or not inhabited, and we
could not so much as hope that the ship
would hold out many minutes, withont break-
ing in pieces, unless the wind by a miracle
should turn about immediately. While we
stood looking at one another, expecting death
every moment, the mate lays hold of the boat,
and with the help of the rest got her flung over
the ship's side; into this we all got, being
eleven in number, and committed ourselves to
God's mercy, and the wild sea. And now we
saw that this last effort would not be a suffi-
cient protection from death; so high did the
sea rise, that it was impossible the boat should
live. As to making a sail, we had none, nei-
ther if we had, could we make use of any. So
that when we had rowed, or rather were driven
ibout a league and a half, a raging wave, like
i lofty mountain came rolling astern of us,
md took us with such fury, that at once it
jverset the boat. Thus being swallowed up
in a moment, we had only time to call upon
the awful name of God, and to implore, in
dying ejaculations, his infinite mercy to receive
our departing souls.
Men are generally counted insensible, when
struggling in the pangs of death; but while I
was overwhelmed with water, I had the most
dreadful apprehensions imaginable, for the joys
of heaven, and the torments of hell, seemed
to present themselves before me in these dying
agonies, and even small space of time, as it
were, between life and death. I was going I
thought I knew not whither, in a dismal gulph
unknown, and as yet unperceived, never to
behold my friends, nor the light of this world
any more! I strove however to the last extre-
mity, while all my companions were over-
powered and entombed in the deep; and it wan
with great difficulty I kept my breath till the
wave spent itself, and, retiring back, left me
on the shore, half dead with the water I had
taken in. As soon as I got on my feet, I ran
as fast as I could, lest another wave should pur-
sue me, and carry me back again. But for all
the haste I made, I could not avoid it, for the
sea came after me like a high mountain, -or a
furious enemy; so that my business was to
hold my breath, and by raising myself on the
water, to save myself by swimming. The next'
dreadful wave buried me at once twenty or
thirty feet deep, but, at the same time, carried
me with a mighty force and swiftness towards
the shore, when raising myself, I held out as
well as possible, till, at length, the water, hav-
ing spent itself, began to return, at which I
struck forward, and feeling ground again with
my feet, I took to my heels. Thus being1
served twice more, I was at last dashed against
a piece of rock, in such a manner as left me
senseless, but recovering a little before the re-
turn of the wave, which no doubt would then
overwhelm me, I held fast by the rock till those
succeeding waves abated; and then fetching
another run, was overtaken by a small wave,
which was soon conquered. But before any
more could overtake me, I reached the main
land, where clambering up the cliffs of the
shore, tired and almost spent, I sat down on
the grass, free from the danger of the foaming
ocean.
No tongue can express the transports that
my soul felt at this happy deliverance. I was
wrapt up in contemplation, and often lifted up
my hands with the profoundest humility, to the
Divine Power for saving my life;. when the
rest of my companions were all drowned. And
now I began to cast my eyes around, and to
behold what place I was in, and what I had
next to do. I could see no house nor people;
I was wet, yet had no clothes to shift me;
hungry and thirsty, yet had nothing to eat or
drink, no weapon to destroy any creature for
my sustenance, nor defend myself against de-
vouring beasts; in short, I had nothing but a
knife, a tobacco pipe, and a box half filled with
tobacco. The darksome night coming upon
me, increased my fears of being devoured by
wild creatures, my mind was plunged in despair.
and having no prospect, as I thought, of life
before me, I prepared for another kind of death
than what I had lately escaped. I walked
about a furlong, to see if I could find any fresh
water, which I did, to my great joy; and taking
a quid of tobacco to prevent hunger, I got
up into a thick bushy tree, and seating myself
so that I could not fall, a deep sleep overtook
rne, and for that night, buried my sorrows in a
epiiet repose.
C
awoke, when I not only perceived the tempest
was ceased, but saw the ship driven almost as
far as the rock before-mentioned, which was
about a mile from the place where I was.—
When I came down from my apartment in the
tree, I perceived the ship's boat two miles dis-
tant on my right hand, lying on shore as the
waves had cast her. I thought to have got to
her; but there being an inlet of water abou*
half a mile's breadth between it and me, I re-
turned again towards the ship, as hoping to
find something for my more immediate subsist-
ence. About noon, when the sea was so calm
that I could come within a quarter of a mile of
her, it was to my grief I perceived, that if we
had kept on board, all our lives would have
been saved. These thoughts and my solitude
drew tears from my eyes, though all in vain.
So resolving to get to the ship, I stripped and
leaped into the water; when swimming round
her, I was afraid I could not get any thing to
lay hold of; but it was my good fortune to espy
a small piece of rope hanging down so low, that,
by the help of it though with great difficulty,
I got into the ship. Here I found that the ship
was bilged, and had a great deal of water in
her, her stern was lifted up against a bank, and
her head almost in the water. All her quar-
ter, and what was there, were free and dry.
The provisions I found in good order, and,
losing no time, ate while I was doing other
things. I also found some rum, of which I
took a little; and now I wanted for nothing
except a boat, which indeed was all, to carry
away what was needful for me.
Necessity occasions a quickness of thought.
We had several spare yards, a spare topmast
or two, and two or three large spars of wood.
With these I fell to work, and slung as many
of them overboard as I could manage, tying
every one of them with a rope that they might
not drive away. This done, I went down the
ship's side and tied four of them fast together
at both ends, in form of a raft, and laying two
or three short pieces of plank upon them cross-
ways, I found it would bear me, but not any
considerable weight. Upon which I went to
work again, cutting a spare topmast into three
lengths, adding them to my raft, with a great
deal of labour and pains. I then, first laying
upon it all the planks and boards I could get,
next lowered down three of the seamen's chests
after I had filled them with bread, rice, three
Dutch cheese, five pieces of dried goat's flesh,
and some European corn, what little the rats
had spared; and for liquors, I found several
cases of bottles, in which were some cordial
waters, and four or five gallons of arrack. By
this time, the tide beginning to flow, I per-
ceived my coat, waistcoat, and shirt swim
away which I had left on shore; as for my
linen breeches and stockings, I swam with them
to the ship; but I soon found clothes enough,
though I took no more than I wanted for the
present. My eyes were chiefly on tools to
work with, and after a long search, I found out
the carpenter's chest, which I got safe down
on my raft. I then looked for arms and ammu-
nition, and in the, great cabin, found two good
fowling pieces, two pistols, several powder
horns filled, a small bag of shot, and two rusty
swords. I likewise found three barrels of pow-
der, two of which were good, but the third
had taken water, also two or three broken oars,
two saws, an axe, and a hammer. I then put
to sea, and in getting to shore had three en-
couragements. 1 A smooth calm sea : 2 The
tide rising and setting in to the shore : 3. The
little wind there was, blowing towards land.
After I had sailed about a mile, I found the raft
driving a little distance from the place where I
first landed, and then I perceived an opening
of the land, with a strong current of the tide
running into it, upon which I kept the middle
of the stream. But great was my concern,
when on a sudden the forepart of my raft ran
aground. But after some time, the rising of
the water caused the raft to float again, and
coming up a little river, with land on both
sides, I landed in a little cave, as near the
mouth as possible, the better to discover a sail,
if any such providentially passed that way.
Not far off, I espied a hill of stupendous
height, surrounded with smaller hills about it,
and thither I was resolved to go and view the
country, that I might see what part was best
to fix my habitation in. Accordingly, arming
myself with a pistol, a fowling piece, powder.
and ball, I ascended the mountain. There I
perceived I was in an island, encompassed by
the sea, no distant lands to be seen, but scat-
tering rocks that lay to the west f that it seemed
to be a barren place, and, as I thought only
inhabited by wild beasts. I perceived abund-
ance of fowls, but was ignorant of what kind,
or whether good for nourishment. I shot one
of them at my return, which occasioned a con-
fused screaming among the other birds, and I
found it, by its colour and beak, to be a kind
of hawk, but its flesh was perfect carrion.
When I came to my raft, I brought my
effects on shore, which work spent that day en-
tirely ; and fearing that some cruel beasts might
devour me in the night time while I slept, I
made a kind of hut, or barricade, with the
chests and boards I had brought on shore.
That night I slept very comfortably; and the
next morning my thoughts were employed to
make a further attempt to the ship, and bring
away what necessaries I could find, before ano-
ther storm should break her in pieces. Accord-
ingly, I got on board as before, and prepared
a second raft far better than the first; upon
which, I brought away the carpenter's stores,
two or three bags full of nails, a great jack-
screw, a dozen or two of hatchets, and a grind-
stone. I also took two or three iron crows,
two barrels of musket-bullets, another fowling-
pieci,^ small quantity of powder, and a large
bag full of small shot. Besides these,"I took
all the men's clothes I could find, a spare fore-
c2 I
top-sail, a hammock, and some bedding; and
thus completing my second cargo, I made all
the haste on shore I could, fearing some wild
beast might destroy what I had there already.
But I only found a little wild cat sitting on one
of the chests, who not seeming to fear me, or
the gun that I- presented at her, I threw her a
piece of biscuit, $iich she instantly ate and
departed.
When I had got these effects on shore, I
went to work, in order" to make me a little tent
with the sail and some poles, which I had cut
for that purpose, and having finished it, what
things might be damaged by the weather, I
brought in, piling all the empty chests and
casks in a circle, the better to fortify it against
any sudden attempt of man or beast. After
this I blocked up the doors with some boards,
and an empty cHest turned the long way out.
I then charged my gun and pistol, and laying
my bed on the ground, slept as comfortably
till the next morning as though I had been in
a christian country.
Now, though I had enough to subsist me a
long time, yet despairing of a sudden deliver-
ance, and fearing that both ammunition and pro-
vision might be spent before such a thing hap-
pened, I saved as much as I could, and so long
as the ship remained in that condition, I daily
brought away one necessary or other; pajficu-
larly, the rigging, sails and cordage, some twine,
a barrel of wet powder, some sugar, a barrel
of meal, three casks of rum, and indeed what
was most welcome to me, a whole hogshead of
bread.
The next time I went, I cut the cables in
pieces, carried offa hawser whole, with a great
deal of iron work, and made another raft; but
this being so unwieldy, by the too heavy bur-
den upon it, and I not being able so dexter-
ously to guide it as the former, both my cargo
and myself were overturned. For my part, all
the damage I sustained was a wet skin; and at
low water, after much. labour in diving, I got
up most of the cables, and some pieces of iron.
Thirteen days had I now been on the island,
and eleven days on board, bringing away all
that was possible. As I was going the twelfth
time, the wind began to rise; however, I ven-
tured at low water• and rummaging the cabin,
in a locker, I found several -razors, scissors and
some dozens of knives and' forks, and in ano-
ther, thirty-six -pounds in pieces of eight, silver
and gold. I wrapt the money up in a piece of
canvas, and began to think of making another
raft; but I soon perceived the wind beginning
to rise, a fresh gale blowing from the shore,
and the sky overcast with clouds and darkness.
So thinking a raft to be in vain, I let myself
into the water with what things I had about me;
and it was with great difficulty I got ashore,
when soon after it blew a fearful storm.
That night I slept very contentedly in my
little tent, surrounded with all my effects; but
when I looked out in the morning, no DM«je ship
was to be seen This much surprise ate fo»
the present: yet, when I considered that I hacr
lost no time, abated no pains, and had got
every thing useful out of her, I comforted my-
self in the best manner, and entirely submitted
to divine Providence.
My next thoughts were, how I should defend
and secure myself from savages and wild
beasts, if any such were in the island.
When I considered the ground where I was,
that it was marshy, and had no fresh water
near it, my resolutions were to search for a soil
healthy and well watered, where I might not
only be sheltered from the sun's scorching heat
but be more conveniently situated, as well to
be secured from wild men, and beasts of*prey,
as more easily to discover any distant sail,
should it ever so happen.
And indeed it was not long before I had my
desire. I found a little plain near a rising hill,
the front towards which, being as steep as a
house-side, nothing could descend on me from
the top.
On the side of this rock was a little hollow
place, resembling the entrance or door of a
cave. Just before this place, on the circle of
the green, I resolved my tent should stand.
This plain did not much exceed a hundred
yards broad, and about twice as long, like a
delightful green before my door, with a pleas-
ing, though irregular descent every way to the
low grounds by the sea side, sheltered from the
excessive heat of sun. After this, I drew a
semicircle, twenty yards in diameter, driving
down two rows of strong stakes not six inches
from each other. Then with the pieces of cable
which I had cut on board, I regularly laid them
in a circle between the piles, up to their tops,
which were more than five feet out of the earth,
and then drove another row of piles, looking
within side against them, between two or three
feet high, which made me conclude it a lit-
tle castle impregnable by men and beasts.
And for my better security I would have no
door, but entered in and came out by the help
of a ladder, which I also made.
Here was my fence and fortress, into which
I carried all my riches, ammunition, and stores.
After which, working on the rock, what with
the dirt and stones I dug out, I not only raised
my ground two feet, but made a little cellar to
my mansion-house; and this cost me many days'
labour and pains. One day in particular, a
shower of rain falling, thunder and lightning
ensued, which put me in terror lest my powder
should take fire, and not only hinder my neces-
sary subsistence, by killing my food, but even
blow up me and my habitation. To prevent
which, I fell to making boxes and bags, in or-
der to separate it, having by me near 1501b.
weight. And thus being established as king of
the island, every day I went out with my gun
to see what I could kill that was fit to eat. I
soon perceived numbers of goats, but very shy;
yet having watched them narrowly, and seeing
J could better shoot off the rocks than when in
O
the low grounds, I happened to shoot a she-goat'
suckling a young kid; which, not thinking its
dam slain, stood by her unconcerned; and
when I took the dead creature up, the young
one followed me even to the enclosure. I lifted
the kid over the pales, and would willingly
have kept it alive, but finding it could not be
brought to eat, I was forced to slay it also for
my subsistence.
Thus, entered into as strange a state as ever
any man was in, I had most melancholy appre-
hensions concerning my deplorable condition;
and many times the tears would plentifully run
down my face, when I considered how I was
debarred from all communication with human
hind. Yet while these desponding cogitations
would seem to make me accuse Providence,
other good thoughts would interpose and re-
prove me after this manner : "Well, supposing
you are desolate, is it not better to be so than
totally perish? Why should you complain,
when not only your life is preserved, but the
ship driven into your reach, in order to take
what was necessaary out of her for a subsis-
tence?" But to proceed: It was, by the account
I kept, the thirtieth of September, when
I first landed on this island. About twelve
days after, fearing lest I should lose my reck-
oning of time, nay even forget the sabbath days
for want of pen, ink, and paper, I carved with
a knife upon a large post, in great letters, I
34
the similitude of a cross, on the sea si tore where
I landed. Every day I cut a notch with my
knife on the sides of the square post, and that
on the sabbath was as long again as the rest,
and every first day of the month, as long again
as that long one* In this manner, I kept my
calendar, weekly, monthly, or yearly reckoning
of time. But had I made a more strict search
(as I did afterwards,) I need not have set up
this mark. For among the parcels belonging
to the gunner, carpenter, and captain's mate,
I found those very things I wanted; particu-
larly pens, ink, and paper; also I found two or
three compasses, some mathematical instru-
ments, dials, perspective glasses, books of
navigation, three English Bibles, and several
other good books, which I carefully put up.
Here I cannot but call to mind our having a
dog and two cats on board, whom I made
inhabitants with me in my castle. Though
one might think I had all the necessaries that
were desirable, yet still I found several things
wanting. My ink was daily wasting: I want-
ed needles, pins, and thread to mend or keep
my clothes together: and particularly a spade,
pick-axe, or shovel, to remove the earth. It
was a year before I finished my little bul-
wark; and having some intervals of relaxation,
after my daily wandering abroad for provision*
I drew up this plan alternately, as creditor
and debtor, to remind me of the miseries and
the blessings of my life, under so many vari-
ous circumstances.
EVIL.
GOOD.
I am cast upon a
desolate island, hav-
ing no prospect of a
welcome deliverance.
How miserable am I,
singled out from the
enjoyment or company
of all mankind.
Like a hermit (ra-
ther should I say a
lonely anchoret) am
I forced from human
conversation.
My clothes, after
sometime will be worn
out, and then I shall
have none to cover
me.
When my ammuni-
tion is wasted, then
•ehall I remain without
any defence against
wild men and beasts.
I have no creature,
no soul to speak to;
none to beg assistance
But yet I am pre-
served .while my com-
panions have perished
in the raging sea.
Yet set apart to
be spared from death.
And He, who has so
preserved me, can de-
liver me from this con-
dition.
However, I have
food to cat, and even
a happy prospect of
subsistence whilst life
endures.
At present I enjoy
what is absolutely
needful; and the cli-
mate i3 so hot, that
had I never so many,
I should hardly wear
them.
Yet even thus, I see
no danger of any to
hurt me, as in Africa;
and what if I had been
cast away upon that
coast?
Is there not God to
converse with, and is
not he able to deliver
from. Some comfort thee? already lias he af.
would it be to resound forded thee sustenance
my woes where I am and put it in thy power
understood, and beg to provide for thyself,
assistance where I till he sends thee a de-
might hope for relief- liverance.
And now, easing my mind a little by these
reflections, I began to render my life as easy
as possible.
I must here add to the description I have
given of my habitation, that having raised a
turf wall against the outside of it, I thatched
it so close as might keep it from the inclemency
of the weather; I also improved it within, en*
larged my cave, and made a passage and a
door in the rock, which came out beyond the
pale of my fortification. I next proceeded to
make a chair and table, and so began to study
such mechanical arts as seemed to me practi-
cable. When I wanted a plank or a board, I
hewed down a tree with my hatchet, making it
as thin with my axe as possible, and then
smooth enough with an adze, to answer my de-
signs; yet though I could make no more this
way than one board out of a tree, in length of
time l got* boards enough to shelter all my
stores, every thing being regularly placed, and
my guns securly hanging against the side of
a rock. This made it a very pleasant sight to
me being the result of vast labour and great
diligence; which, leaving for a while, and me
to the enjoyment of, I shall give the reader an
account of some parts of my journal from the
day of my landing, till the settling of my liatvj.
tation, as heretofore shown.
JOURNAL.
SEPTEMBER 30th, 1659,1 unhappy Rom...
son Crusoe, having suffered shipwreck, was
driven on this desolate island, which I named
the Desolate island of Despair, the rest of my
companions being swallowed up in the tempes-
tuous ocean. The next day I spent in consider-
ation of my unhappy circumstances, having no
prospect but of death, either to be starved with
hunger, or devoured by wild beasts or merciless
savages.
Oct. 1. That morning, with great comfort I,
beheld the ship drove ashore. Some hopes I
had, that when the storm was abated I might
be able to get some food and necessaries out of
her; which I conceived were not damaged,
because the ship did stand upright. At this
time, I lamented the loss of ray companions, and
our misfortune in leaving the vessel. When I
perceived the ship, as it were, to lie dry, I waded
through the sands, then swam aboard, the wea-
ther being very rainy, and with scarcely any
wind.
To the 14th of this month, my time was em-
ployed in making voyages every tide, gettiag^-
what I could out of the ship. The weather very*
wet and uncertain.
Oct. 25. My raft, and all the goods thereon
were overset; yet I recovered most again at
low water.
Oct. 25. It blew hard, and rained night and
day, when the ship went in pieces, so that no-
thing was seen of her but the wreck at low
water. This day I secured my goods from the
inclemency of the weather.
Oct. 26. I wandered to see where I could
find a place convenient for my abode: I fixed
upon a rock in the evening, marked out a half
moon, intending to erect a wall fortified with
piles, lined within with pieces of cables, and
covered with turf.
Nov. 3. I shot two wild-fowl, resembling
ducks, which were good to eat, and in the af-
ternoon made me a table.
Nov. 4. I began to live regularly. In the
morning I allowed myself two or three hours
to walk out with my gun; I then worked till
near eleven o'clock; and afterwards refreshed
myself with what I had to eat. From twelve
to two, I would lie down to sleep. Extreme
sultry weather. In the evening go to work
again.
Nov. 5. Went out with my gun and <iog,
shot a wild cat with a soft skin, but her flesh
was good for nothing. The skins of those
killed I preserved. In my return I percieved
many wild birds, and was terrified by some
seals which made off to sea.
Nov. 6. Completed my table.
Nov. 7. Fair weather. I worked to the 12th,
but omitted the 11th, which according to my
calculation, I supposed to be Sunday.
Nov. 17. I began to dig in the rock, yet was
obliged to desist for want of a pick-axe, shovel
and wheel-barrow. Iron crows I used to sup.
ply the place of the first, but with all my art I
could not make a wheel-barrow.
Nov. 19. It was my fortune to find a tree
resembling what the Brazilians call an iron
tree. I had like to spoil my axe with cutting
it, it being very hard, and exceedingly heavy;
yet with much labour and industry I made a
sort of spade out of it.
Nov. 23. These tools being made, I daily
carried on my business; eighteen days I allowed
for enlarging my cave, that it might serve me,
not only for a ware-house, but kitchen, parlour
and cellar. I commonly lay in the tent, unless
the weather was so rainy that I could not lie
dry. So wet would it be at certain seasons,
that I was obliged to cover all within the pale
with long poles, in the form of rafters, leaning
against the rock, and load them with flags and
large leaves of trees resembling a thatch.
Dec. 10. No sooner did I think my habita-
tion finished, but suddenly a great deal of the
top broke in, so that it was a mercy I was not
buried in the ruins. This occasioned a great
deal of pains and trouble to me before I could
make it firm and durable.
Dec. 17. I nailed up someshelves, and drove
nails and staples in the wall and posts, to hang
every thing out of the way.
Dec. 20. Every thing I got into its place,
then made a sort of dresser, and another table.
Dec. 27. I chanced to light on some goats,
shot one, wounded another; I led it home in a
string, bound up its leg, and cured it in a little
time; at length, it became so tame and familiar
as to feed before the door, and follow me where
I pleased. This put me in mind to bring up
tame creatures, in order to supply me with food
after my ammunition was spent.
Dec. 28, 29,30. The weather being exces-
sively hot, with little air, obliged me for the
most part to keep within doors.
Jan. 3, to 14. My employment this time
was to finish the wall before described, and
search the island. I discovered a kind of pi-
geons, like our house-pigeons, in a nest among
41
41
ter this, I shot some, which proved excellent
food. Some time I spent vainly contriving to
make a cask, I may well say it was in vain, be-
41
the heads, so as to make it tight: so leaving
that, I took some goats tallow I had by me,
and a little oakum for the wick, and provided
myself with a lamp, which served instead of
candles.
But now a very strange event happened. For
being in the height of my search, what should
come into my hand, but a bag which was used
to hold corn (as I supposed) for the fowls; so
immediately resolving to put gunpowder into it.
»2
1 shook all the husks and dirt upon one side of
a rock, little expecting what the consequence
would be. The rain had fallen plentifully a
few days before; and about a month after, to
my great amazement, something began to look
out very green and flourishing; and when I
came to view it more nicely, every day as it
grew, I found about ten or twelve ears of green
barley of the very same shape and make as that
in England.
I can scarcely express the agitation of my
mind at this sight. Hitherto, I had looked
upon the actions of this life no otherwise than
only as the events of blind chance and fortune.
But now, the appearance of this barley, flour-
ishing in a barren soil, and my ignorance in
not conceiving how it should come there, made
me conclude, "that miracles were not yet ceas-
ed;" nay, I even thought that God had appoint-
ed it to grow there without any seed, purely for
my sustenance in this miserable and desolate
island. And indeed such great effect had this
upon me, that it often made me melt into tears
through a grateful sense of God's mercies; and
the greater still was my thankfulness, when I
perceived about this little field of barley, some
rice stalks, also wonderfully flourishing*.
While thus pleased in mind, I concluded
there must be some more corn in the island;
and therefore made a diligent search narrowly
among the rocks; but not being able to find
any, on a sudden it came into my mind, how I
had shaken the husks of corn out of the bag,
and then my admiration ceased, with my grati-
tude to the Divine Being, as thinking it was but
natural, and not to be conceived a miracle;
though even the manner of its preservation
might have made me own it as a wondeful
event of God's kind providence.
It was about the latter end of June when tho
ears of the corn ripened, which I laid up very
carefully, together with 20 or 30 stalks of rice;
expecting one day I should reap the fruit of
my labour; yet four years were expired before
I could allow myself to eat any barley bread,
and much longer time before I had any rice.
After this, with indefatigable pains and indus-
try for three or four months, at last I finished
my house on the 14th of April, having no way
to go into it, but by a ladder against the wall.
April 16,1 finished my ladder, and ascended
it; afterwards pulled it up, then let it down on
the other side, and descended into my new ha-
bitation, where I had space enough, and so for-
tified, that nothing could attack me without
scaling the walls.
But what does all human art and industry
avail, if the blessing of God does not crown
our labours? Or who can stand before the Al-
mighty, when he stretcheth forth his arm I For,
one time as I was at the entrance of my cave,
there happened such a dreadful earthquake,
that not only the roof of the cave came tumbling
about my ears, but the posts seemed to crack
terribly at the same time. This put me in a
great amazement; and running to the ladder
and getting over the wall, I then plainly knew
it was an earthquake, the place I stood on sus-
taining three terrible shocks in less than three
minutes. But judge of my terror when I saw
the top of a great rock roll into the sea; I then
expected the island would be swallowed up
every moment: and what made the scene still
more dreadful, was to see the sea thrown into
the most violent agitations and disorders by this
tremendous accident.
For my part, I expected every moment to be
swallowed up. At the moving of the earth, I
was, as it were, sea-sick; and very much afraid
lest the rock, under which was my fence and
habitatiou, should overwhelm me and it in a
lasting tomb.
It was not long after, when a horrible tem-
pest arose, at the same time attended with a
hurricane of wind. Three hours did this storm
continue, and in so violent a manner as to tear
the very trees up by the roots, which was sue
ceeded by abundance of rain. When the tem.
pest was over, I went to my tent; but the rain
coming on in a furious manner, I was obliged
to take shelter in the cave, where I was forced
to cut a channel through my fortification, to
let the water out. It continued raining all that
night, and some time the next day. These ac-
cidents made me resolve, as soon as the wea-
ther cleared up, to build me a little hut in some
open place, walled round, to defend me from
wild creatures and savages; not doubting, but,
at the next earthquake, the mountain would
fail on my habitation and me, and swallow up
all in its bowels.
April 16—20. These days I spent in con-
triving how and in what manner I should fix
my place of abode. AH this while, I was u«-
der the most dreadful apprehensions. When
I looked round my habitation, every thing I
found in its proper place. I had several de-
bates whether I should move or not; but at
length resolved to stay where I was, till I
found out a convenient place where I might
pitch my tent.
April 22. When I began to put my resolu-
tions in practice, I was stopped for want of
tools and instruments to work with. Most of
my axes and hatchets were useless, occasioned
by cutting the hard timber that grew on the
island. It took me up a full week to make my
grindstone of use to me; and at last I found
out a way to turn it about with my foot, by help
of a wheel and a string.
April 30. My bread falling short, I allow-
ed myself but one biscuit a day.
May 1. As I walked along the sea-shore,
I found a barrel of gunpowder, and several
pieces of the wreck which the sea had flung up.
Having secured these, I made to the ship, whose
stern was torn off, and washed a great distance
ashore; but the rest lay in the sands. This, I
suppose, was occasioned by the earthquake. I
how resolved to keep my old place of abode:
and also to get to the ship that day, but found
it impossible.
May 3. This day I went on board, and with
my saw sawed off one of the beams, which kept
her quarter-deck. I then cleared the sand till
flood.
May 4. I caught some fish, but they were
not wholesome. The same day, I also caught
a young dolphin.
May 5. This day also I repaired to the
wreck, and sawed another piece of timber;
and When the flood came, I made a float of
three great planks, which were driven ashore
by the tide.
May 6—9. These days, I brought off" the
iron bolts, opened the deck with the iron crow,
and carried two planks to land, having made a
way into the very middle of the wreck.
May 10—13. All this time I spent in bring-
ing off great quantities of iron and timber.
May 15. Took with me two hatchets on
purpose to cut off some lead from the roll, but
all in vain, for it lay too low under water.
May 24. To this day, I worked on the
wreck, and with great difficulty loosened some
things so much with the crow, that at the first
blowing tide, several casks floated out, and se-
veral of the seamen's chests; yet that dav no-
thing came to land but pieces of timber, and a
hogshead which had some pork in it. I con-
tinued working to the 15th of June; (except
necessary times for food and rest,) and had I
known how to build a boat, I had timber and
planks enough; I had also near 100 weight of
sheet lead.
June 16. As I was wandering towards the
sea-side, I found a large tortoise or turtle, be-
ing the first I had seen on the island, though,
as I afterwards found, there were many on the
other side of it.
June 17. This day I spent in cooking it,
found in her threescore eggs, and her flesh the
most savory and pleasant I ever tasted in my
life.
June 18. I staid within this day, there be-
ing a continual rain; and it was somewhat
more chilly and cold than usual.
June 19. Exceedingly ill, taken with a
trembling and shivering.
June 20. Awake all night, my head racked
with pain, and feverish.
June 21. Sick unto death, and terrified
with dismal apprehensions of my condition.
Prayed to God more frequently, but very con-
fusedly. •
June 22. Something better, but still un.
easy in my mind.
June 23. Again relapsed much as before.
June 24. Mended a second time.
June 25. A violent ague for seven hours,
cold and hot fits, succeeded with faint sweats.
June 26. Better, but very weak; yet I
scrambled out, shot a she goat, brought it
home, and broiled some of it: I would wil-
lingly have stewed it, and made some broth,
but had no pot.
June 27. All this day I was afflicted with
an ague; thirsty, yet could not help myself to
water: prayed to God in these words: "Lord,
in pity look upon me: Lord, have mercy upon
me, have mercy upon me!" After this I fell
asleep, which, when I awaked, I found had
much refreshed me.
I rose up, in a pensive manner, being so
thoughtful that I could not go to sleep; and
fearing the dreadful return of my distemper, it
caused me to remember, that the Brazilians
use tobacco for almost all diseases. I then
Went to my chest, in order to find some, where
heaven, no doubt, directed me to find a cure,
both for soul and body; for there I found one
of the bibles, which, till this time, I had neither
leisure nor inclination to look into; I took
both the tobacco and that out of my chest, and
laid them on the table. Several experiments did
I try with the tobacco. First, I took a piece of
leaf, and chewed it; but it being very green
and strong, almost stupified me: next, I steep-
ed it in some rum an hour or two, resolving
when I went to bed, to take a dose of it: and,
in the third place, I burnt some over a pan of
fire, holding my nose over it eo long as I could
endure it without suffocation.
In the intervals of this operation, though my
head was giddy and disturbed by the tobacco,
I took up the Bible to read. No sooner did I
open, but there appeared to me these words,
"Call on me in the day of trouble, and 1 will
deliver thee, and thou shalt glorify me."
At first, this sentence made a very deep im-
pression on my heart: but it soon wore off
again when I consider the word "deliver"' was
foreign to me. And as the children of Israel
said, when they were promised flesh to eat,
"Can God spread a table in the wilderness?" In
the like manner I began to say, Can God him-
self deliver me from this desolate Island? How.
ever, the words would still return to my mind,
and afterwards made a greater impression upon
me. As it now was very late, and the tobacco
had dozec* my head, I was inclined to sleep;
but before I would lie down, I fell on my
knees, and implored the promise that God had,
made to me in the holy Scriptures, that "if I
called on him in the day of trouble, he would
deliver me." With much difficulty I afterwards
drank the rum, wherein I had steeped the to-
bacco, which flying into my head, threw me into
such a profound sleep, that it was three o'clock
the next diy be/ore I awoke; or> rather, I be.
lieve, I slept two days, having certainly lost a
day in im account, and I could never tell any
other wa^. When I got up, my spirits were
lively ani cheerful; my stomach much better,
being veiy hungry; and, in short, no fit return-
ed the rext day, which was the 29th, but I
found mjself much altered for the better.
July a. The fit quite left me, but very
weak- .a this condition, I often thought of
these words, "I will deliver thee:" and while
at sometimes I would think of the impossibility
of it, otler thoughts would reprehend me, for
disregaiding the deliverances I had received
even from the most forlorn and distressed con.
d it Ion. I asked myself, what regard have I
had to God for his abundant mercies? Have I
done my part ?" He has delivered me, but I
have not glorified him;" as if I had said, I had
not owned and been thankful for these as de-
liverances, and how could I expect greater?
So much did this sensibly touch my heart, that
I gave God thanks for my recovery from sick-
ness in the most humble posture.
July 4. This morning I began seriously to
ponder on what is written in the New Testa-
•ment, resolving to read a chapter every morn-
ing and night, as long as my thoughts would
engage me. As soon as I set about this work
seriously, I found my heart deeply affected
with the impiety of my past life. After this, I
begged of God to assist me with his holy Spirit
in returning to my duty. One diy, in pe-
rusing the Scriptures, I came Jo th?se words,
"He is exalted a Prince and a Saviour, to
give repentance, and to give remissbn:" Im-
mediately I laid down the book, and with up-
lifted hands to heaven, loudly cried, cO bless-
ed Jesus, thou son of David! Jesus, thou exalt-
ed Prince and Saviour, give me repettance:"
And, now indeed, I prayed with a tne sens©
of my condition, and a more certan hope,
founded on the word of God. Now I had a
different sense of these words,." Call on me,
and I will deliver thee," that is, from tie dread-
ful load of guilt, which oppressed n.y sinful
soul, and not from a solitary life: in a word, I
came to this conclusion, that a deliverance from
sin was a much greater blessing than a deliver-
ance from affliction.
To the 14th of July, I walked about with my
gun, little and little at a time, having been re-
duced to the greatest extremity of weakness.
The applications and experiments I used were
perfectly new: neither could I recommend
them to any one's practice. For though it
carried off the fit, it very much weakened me;
and I had frequently convulsions in my nerves
and limbs for some time. From hence I learn-
ed, that gojrig abroad in rainy weather, espe-
cially when it was attended with storms and
hurricanes of wind was most pernicious to
health. I had now been above ten months in
the island; and as I never had seen any of the
human kind, I therefore accounted myself as
sole monarch; and as I grew better, having
secured my habitation to my mind, I resolved
to make a tour round my kingdom, in order to
make new discoveries.
The 15th of July, I began my journey. I
first went to the creek, where I had brought my
rafts on shore; and travelling farther found
the tide went no higher than two miles up,
where there was a little brook of running water,
on the bank of which were many pleasant sa-
vannahs or meadows, smooth, plain and cover-
ed with grass. On the rising parts, where I
supposed therwater did not reach, I perceived
a great deal of tobacco growing to a very strong
stalk. Several other plants I likewise found,
the virtue of which I did not understand. I
searched a long time for the cassava foot, which
I knew the Indians in that climate made their
bread of; but all in vain. There were several
plants of aloes, though at that time I knew not
what they were: likewise I saw several sugar-
canes, but imperfect for want of cultivation.
With these few discoveries, I came back that
night, and slept contentedly in my little castle.
The next day, being the 16th, going the
came way, but farther than the day before, I
found the country more adorned with woods
and trees. Here I perceived different fruits in
great abundance. Melons in plenty lay on the
ground, and clusters of grapes, ripe and very
rich, spread over the trees. You may imagine
I was glad of this discovery, yet ate very spar-
ingly, lest I should throw myself into a flux or
fever. The grapes I found of excellent use;
for when I dried them in the sun, which pre-
served them as dried raisins are kept, they
proved very wholesome and nourishing, and
served me' in those seasons when no grapes
were to be had.
The night drawing on apace, I ascended
up a tree, and slept very comfortably, though
it was the first time I had slept out of my ha-
bitation. And when the morning came, I pro-
ceeded with great pleasure on my way, travel-
ling about four miles, as I imagined, by the
length of the valley. At the end of this valley
I came to an opening, where the country
seemed to descend to the west; there I found
a spring of fresh water, proceeding out of the
side of the hill, with its crystal streams running
directly east. And indeed here my senses
were charmed with the most beautiful land-
scape nature could afford; for the country ap-
peared so flourishing, green and delightful,
that to me it seemed like a planted garden. I
then descended on the side of that delicious
vale, when I found abundance of cocoa, orange,
lemon, and citron trees, but very wild and
barren at that time. As, for the limes, they
were delightful and wholesome, the juice of
which I afterwards used to mix in water, which
made it very cool and refreshing. And now I
was resolved, to carry home and lay up a store
of grapes, limes and lemons, against the ap-
proaching wet season. So laying them up in
separate parcels, and then taking a few of each
with me, I returned to my' little castle, after
having spent three days in this journey. Be-
fore I got home, the grapes were so bruised
that they were utterly spoiled; the limes in-
deed were good, but of those, I could bring
only a few.
July 19. Having prepared two bags, I re-
turned thither again, but to my great surpise,
found all the grapes spread about, trod to
pieces, and abundance eaten, which made me
conclude there were wild beasts thereabouts.
To prevent this happening again, I gathered
a large quantity of the grapes, and hung them
iipon the out branches of the tree, both to
keep them unhurt, and that they might cure
and dry in the sun: and having well loaded
e2
more to my old place of residence.
And now, reflecting on the fruitfulness of
this valley, the pleasantness of its situation, its
security from storms, and the delightfulness of
the adjacent woods, I concluded I was setled in
the worst part of the country, and therefore
was thinking to remove my habitation.
But when I considered again, that though
it was pleasant, it was off from the sea-side,
where there was a possibility, some time or
other, a ship might either be driven or sail by;
and that to inclose myself among hills and
woods must certainly put an end to my hopes
of deliverance; I resolved to let my castle re-
main where Providence had first placed it.
Yet, so delighted was I with this place, that I
made me a little kind of bower, surrounding it
with a double hedge, as high as I could reach,
well staked and filled with bulrushes: and
having spent a great part of the month of July,
I think it was the first of August before I be-
gan to enjoy my labour.
August 3. Perceiving my grapes to be dry,
I took them from the trees, and they proved
excellent good raisins of the sun: the most of
which I carried to my cave; and happy for me
I did so, by which I saved the best part of my
winter food.
August 14. This day it began to rain; and
though I had made me a tent like the other,
yet having no shelter of a hill to keep me from
storms, nor a cave behind me to retreat to, I
was obliged to return to my old castle, the
rain continued more or less every day, till the"
middle of October; and sometimes so violently,
that I could not stir out of my cave for several
days. This season I found my family to in-
crease; for one of my cats that had run away
from me, and which I thought had been dead,
returned about August, with three kittens at
her heels, like herself; from these cats pro-
ceeded such numbers, that I was forced to kill
and destroy them as I would do wild beasts or
vermin.
To the 26th of this month, I could not stir
out, it raining incessantly; when beginning to
want food, I was compelled to venture twice,
the first of which times I shot a goat, and
afterwards found a very large tortoise. The
manner of regulating my food was thus: a
bunch of raisins served me for my breakfast; a
piece of goat's flesh or turtle boiled for my
dinner, and two or three turtle eggs for my
supper. While the rain lasted, I daily worked
two or three hours at enlarging my cave, and,
by degrees worked it on towards one side of
the hill, and made a door or way out, which
came beyond my fence or wall, and so I came
in and. out this way. But after I had done this,
I was troubled to see myself thus exposed;
though I could not perceive any thing to fear,
a goat being the biggest creature I had seen
upon this island.
September 30. Casting up the notches on my
post, they amounted to 365,1 concluded thi*
to be the anniversary of my landing; and there'
fore, humbly prostrating myself on the ground,
confessing my sins, acknowledging God's righ-
teous judgments upon me, and praying to Jesus
Christ to have mercy upon me, I fasted for
twelve hours till the going down of the sun;
and then eating a biscuit and a bunch of grapes,
laid me on a bed, and with great comfort took
my night's repose. Till this time, I seldom had
distinguished the Sabbath-day; but now I
made a longer notch than ordinary for the days
of rest, and divided the weeks as well as I
could, though I found I had lost a day or two
in my account. My ink failing soon after, I
omitted in my daily memorandum, things of an
indifferent nature, and contented myself to
write down only the most remarkable events of
my life. The rainy and dry seasons appeared
5a
how to provide for them; yet in one thing I
am going to relate, my experience very much
failed me. You may call to mind, what I
have mentioned of some barley and rice which
I had saved; about thirty stalks of the former,
and twenty of the latter; and, at that time, the
sun's being in its southern position, going from
me, together with the rains, made me con-
clude it a very proper season to sow it. Ac-
cordingly I dug up a piece of ground, with my
wooden spade, and dividing it in two parts,
sowed about two-thirds of my seed, preserving
by me a handful of each. And happy it was
I did so; for no rains falling, it was choked
up, and never appeared above tue earth till the
wet season came again, and then part of it
grew, as if it had been newly sown.
I was resolved still to make another trial;
and seeking for a moister piece of ground near
nvy bower, I there sowed the rest of my seed
in February, which, by having the rainy months
of March and April to water it, yielded a no-
ble crop, and sprung up very pleasantly. I
had still saved part of the seed, not daring to
venture all; and by the time I found out the
proper seasons to sow it' in, and that I might
expect every year two seed-times and two har-
vests, my stock amounted to above half a peck
of each sort of grain.
No sooner were'the rains over, but the stakes
which I had cut from the trees, shot out like
willows, the first year after lopping their heads.
I was ignorant of the tree I cut them from; but
they grew so regularly beautiful, that they made
a most lively appearance, and so flourished in
three years time, that I resolved to cut more
of them; and these soon growing made a
glorious fence, as afterwards I shall observe.
And now I perceived that the seasons of the
year might generally be divided, not into sum-
mer and winter, as in Europe, but into wet,
and dry seasons, as in this manner.
From { February 15, ) Rainy, sun coming near
To (April 15, \ the Equinox,2 months.
From < April 15, ) Dry, sun getting north
To I August 15, $ from the line, 4 months.
58
To I October 15, $ come back, 2 months.
From i October 15, 4 Dry, sun running south
To $ February 15, $ of the line 4l months.
The wet seasons would continue longer or
shorter, as the wind continued or ceased to
blow. But having found the ill consequences
of being abroad in the rain, I took care before
hand to furnish myself with provisions: and,
during the wet months, s'at within doors as
much as possible. At this time I contrived to
make many handy things that I wanted, though
it cost me much labour and pains, before I could
accomplish them. The first I tried was to
make a basket; but all the twigs I could get,
proved so brittle, that I could not then per-
form it. It now proved of great use to me,
that when a boy, I took great delight in stand-
ing at a basket maker's, in the same town
where my father lived, to view his men at work:
like other boys, being curious to see the manner
of their working these things, and very officious
to assist, I perfectly learned the method of it,
and wanted nothing but the tools. And it
coming into my mind, that the twigs of that
tree of which I made my stakes, might be as
tough as a sallow willow, or osiers growing in
England, I resolved to make an experiment,
and went the next day to my country seat,
and found some fit for my turn; and after cut-
ting down a quantity with my hatchet, I dried
them in my pale, and, when fit to work with,
earned them to my cave, where I employed
myself in making several sorts of baskets, in-
somuch that I could put in whatsoever I pleased.
It is true, they were not cleverly made, yet
they served my turn upon all occasions.
But still I wanted two necessary things. I
had no cask to hold my liquor, except two
almost full of rum, a few bottles of an ordinary
size, and some square case bottles; neither had
I a pot to boil any thing in, only a large kettle,
unfit to make broth, or stew a bit of meat: 1
wanted likewise at the beginning of this dry
season a tobacco-pipe; but for this I afterwards
found an expedient.
I kept myself employed in planting my
second row of stakes. But remembering that
when I travelled up to the brook I had a mind
to see the -whole island, I now resumed my in.
tention, and taking my dog, gun, hatchet, two
biscuit cakes, a great bunch of raisins, with a
larger quantity of powder and shot than usualj
I began my journey. Having passed the vale
where my bower stood, I came within view of
the sea lying to the west; when, it being a
clear day, I fairly descried land, extending
from the west to the south-west about 10 or 15
leagues, as I concluded; but could not say
whether it was an island or a continent. Neither
could I tell what this place might be; only
thought it was part of America, and where I
might have been in a miserable condition had
I landed. Again I considered, that if this was
the Spanish coast, certainly, one time or the
other, I should see some ships pass by; and if
it was not, then it must be the savage coast,
between the Spanish country and Brazil, which
abounds withcannibalsor man-eaters.
As I proceeded forward, I found this side of
the island much more pleasant than mine ; the
fields fragrant, adorned with sweet flowers and
verdant grass, together with several very fine
woods. There were parrots in plenty which
made me long for one to be my companion;
but it was with great difficulty I could knock
one down with my stick; and I kept him at
home some years, before I could get him to call
me by name. *
In the low grounds I found various sorts of
hares and foxes as I took them to be, but much
different from those in England. Several of
these I killed, but never ate them; neither in-
deed had I any occasion; for abounding with
goats, pigeons, turtle, and grapes I could defy
any market to furnish me a better table. In
this journey I did not travel above two miles a
day, because I took several turns and wind*
ings, to see what discoveries I could make, re-i
turning weary enough to the place where I de*
signed to rest all night, which was either in a
tree, or to a place which I surrounded with
stakes, that no wild creature might suddenly
surprise me. When I came to the sea-shore,
I was amazed to see the splendour of it. Its
8trand was covered with shells of the most
beautiful fish, and constantly abounding with
innumerable turtles, and fowls of many kinds,
which I was ignorant of, except those called
penguins. I might have shot as many as I
pleased, but was sparing of my ammunition,
rather choosing to kill a she-goat, which I did
with much difficulty, on account of the flatness
of the country.
Now, though this journey produced the most
pleasing satisfaction, yet my habitation was so
much to my liking, that I did not repine at my
61
I continued my journey, travelling about twelve
miles further towards the east, where I set a
great pile on the shore for a mark, concluding
that my next journey should bring me to the
other side of the island, east from my castle,
and so round till I came to my post again.
As I had a constant view of the country, I
thought I could not miss my way: but scarce
had I travelled three miles, when I descended
into a very large valley, so surrounded with
hills covered with wood, that having no guide
but the sun, and to add to my misfortune, the
weather proving very hazy, I was obliged to
return to my post by the sea-side, and so back-
wards the same way I came. In this journey
my dog surprised a kid, and would have killed
it, had I not prevented him. As I had often
been thinking of getting a kid or two, and so
raising a breed of tame goats to supply me
after my ammunition was spent, I took this
opportunity of beginning: and, having made
a collar for this little creature, with a string
made of rope-yarn, I brought it to my bower,
and there inclosed and left him; and having
spent a month in this journey, at length I
returned to my old habitation.
Nobody can doubt of my satisfaction, when
f returned to my little castle, and reposed my
self in my hammock. After my journey 1
rested myself a week, which time I employed
in making a cage for my pretty poll. I now
began to recollect the poor kid I had left in
the bower, and immediately went to fetch it
home. When I came there, I found the young
creature almost starved; I gave it some food,
and tied it as before; but there was no occa-
sion, for it followed me like a dog; and as I
constantly fed it, it became so loving, gentle,
and fond, that it commenced one of my do-
mestics, and would never leave me.
The rainy season of the autumnal equinox
being now come, I kept the 30th of September
in the most solemn manner, as usual, it being
the third year of my abode in the island. I spent
the whole day in acknowledging God's mercies,
in giving thanks for making this solitary life as
agreeable, and less sinful, than that of human
society; and for the communication of his
grace to my soul, in supporting, comforting,
and encouraging me to depend upon his Provi-
dence, and hope for his eternal presence in the
world to come.
Indeed, I often did consider how much more
happy I was, in this state of life, than in that'
accursed manner of living I formerly used;
sometimes. however, when hunting, or viewing
the country, the anguish of my soul would
break out upon me, and my very heart would
sink within me, to think of the woods, the
mountains, the deserts I was in; and how |
was a prisoner locked up within the eternal
bars and bolts of the ocean, in an uninhabited
wilderness, without hopes, and without redemp-
tion. In this condition, I would often wring
my hands, and weep like a child: and even
sometimes in the middle of my work, this fit
would often take me; and then I would sit
down and sigh, looking on the ground for an
hour or two together, till such time as my grief
got vent in a flood of tears.
One morning, as I was fully employed in this
manner I opened my bible, wheh immediately
I fixed my eyes upon these words "I will
never leave thee, nor forsake thee!" Surely,
if God does not forsake me, what matters it,
since he can make me more happy in this state
of life, that if I enjoyed the greatest splendour
in the world? And whenever I opened or shut
the Bible, I blessed kind Providence, that
directed my good friend in England to send it
among my goods without my order, and for as-
sisting me to save it from the power of the
raging ocean.
And now beginning my third year• my se.
veral daily employments were these: First.
My duty to Heaven, and diligently reading the
Holy Scriptures which I did twice or thrice
ever}' day; Secondly, Seeking provisions with
my gun, which commonly took me up, when
it did not rain, three hours every morning;
Thirdly, The ordering, curing, preserving, and
cooking what I had killed, or catched for my
supply, which took me up a great part of the
day; for in the middle of the day, the sun
being in it is height, it was so hot, that I could
not stir out; so that I had but four hours in the
evening to work in: and then the want of tools,
of assistance, and skill, wasted a great deal of
time to little purpose, I was no less than two
and forty days, making a board fit for a long
shelf, which two sawyers, with their tools and
saw.pit, would have cut out of the same tree in
half a day. It was of a large tree, as my
board was to be broad. I was three days in
cutting it down, and two more in lopping off
the boughs, and reducing it to a piece of tim-
ber. Thus I hacked and hued off each side,
till "it became light to move; then I turned it,
made one side of it smooth and flat as a board
from end to end, then turned it downward, cut-
ting the other side, till I brought the plank to
be about three inches thick, and smooth on both
sides. Any body may judge my great labour
and fatigue in such a piece of work; but this I
went through with patience, as also many other
things, that my circumstances made necessary
for me to do.
The harvest months, November and Decem-
ber, were now at hand, in which I had the
pleasing prospect of a very good crop. Put
liere I met with a new misfortune, for the goaM
and hares, having tasted of the sweetness of
the blade, kept it so short that it had no
strength to shoot up into a stalk. To prevent
this, I enclosed it with a hedge, and by day
shot some of its devourers; and my dog, which
I had tied to the field-gate, keeping barking all
night, so frightened these creatures that I got
entirely rid of them.
But, no sooner did I get rid of these, than
other enemies appeared; to wit, whole flocks
of several sorts of birds, who only waited till
tny back was turned, to ruin me. So much did
this provoke me, that I let fly, and killed three
of the malefactors; and afterward served them
as they do notorious thieves in England, hung
them up in chains as a terror to others. And,
indeed, so good an effect had this, that they
not only forsook the corn, but all that part of
the island, so long as these criminals hung
there.
My corn having ripened apace, the latter end
of December, which was my second harvest, I
reaped it with a scythe, made of one of my
broad swords. I had no fatigue in cutting
down my first crop, it was so slender. The ears
I carried home in a basket, rubbing the grain
out with my hands, instead of threshing it;
and, when my harvest was over, found my half-
peck of seed had produced nearly two bushels
of rice, and two bushels and a half of barley.
And now I plainly foresaw, that, by God's
goodness, I should be furnished with bread;
f2
but yet I was concerned, because I knew not
how to grind or make meal of my corn, neither
knew I how to bake it into bread. I would
not, however, taste any of the crop, but resolv-
ed to preserve it against next season, and, in
the mean while, use my best endeavours to
provide myself with other food.
But where were my labours to end 1 the want
of a plough to turn up the earth, or shovel to
dig it, I conquered by making me a wooden
spade. The want of a harrow I supplied, by
dragging over the corn a great bough of a tree.
When it was growing, I was forced to fence
it; when ripe, to mow it, carry it home, thresh
it, part it from the chaff, and save it. And,
after all, I wanted a mill to grind it, a sieve
to dress it, yeast and salt to make it into
bread, and an oven to bake it. This set my
brains to work, to find some expedient for
every one of these necessaries, against the next
harvest.
And now having more seed, my first care was
to prepare me more land. I pitched upon two
large flat pieces of ground, near my castle, for
that purpose, in which I sowed my seed, and
fenced it with a good hedge. This took me up
three months: by which time, the wet season
coming on, and the rain keeping me within
doors. I found several occasions to employ
myself; and, while at work, used to divert my.
self with talking to my parrot, teaching him to
know and speak his own name Poll, the first
welcome word I ever heard spoken in the island.
I had been a long time contriving, how to make
earthen vessels, which I wanted extremely;
and when I considered the heat of the climate,
I did not doubt but, if I could find any such
clay, I might botch up a pot, strong enough,
when dried in the sun, to bear handling, and to
hold any thing that was "dry,'i-s; corn, meal,
67
To be short, the clay I found; but it would
occasion the most serious person to smile, to
see what awkward ways I took, and what ugly
misshapen things I made; how many either fell
out or cracked by the violent heat of the sun,
and fell in pieces when they were removed, so
that I think it was two months before I could •
perfect any thing; and even then but two
clumsy things in imitation of earthen jars.
These, however, I very gently placed in wicker
baskets, made on purpose for them, and be-
tween the pot and the baskets, stuffed it full of
rice and barley straw; and these I presumed
would hold my dried corn, and perhaps the
meal, when the corn was bruised. As for the
smaller things, I made them with better suc-
cess; such as little round pots, flat dishes,
pitchers, and pipkins, the sun baking them very
hard.
Yet still I wanted one thing absolutely neces-
sary, and that was an earthen pot, not only to
hold my liquid, but also to bear the fire, which
none of these could do. It once happened that
as I was putting out my fire, I found therein a
broken piece of one of my vessels, burnt hard
as a rock, and red as a tile. This made me
think of burning some pots; and having no
notion of a kiln, or of glazing them with lead,
I fixed three large pipkins, and two or three
pots in a pile one upon another. The fire I
piled round the outside, and dry wood on the
top, till I saw the pots in the inside redhot, and
found that they did not crack at all: and when
I perceived them perfectly red, I let them stand
in the fire about five or six hours, till the clay
melted by the extremity of the heat, and would
have run to glass had I suffered it; upon which,
I slacked my fire by degrees, till the redness
abated; and watching them till the morning, I
found I had three very good pipkins, and two
earthen pots, as well burnt and fit for my turn
as I could desire.
The first use to which I turned my pipkins,
Mas to make some salt, which I had long want-
ed. For this purpose, I filled them with sea-
water, and kept it slowly boiling over the
fire, till the whole of the water had boiled
away in steam, leaving, at the bottom of the
vessel, a thin crust of salt, which I found very
good for giving a relish to my food.
The next concern I had, was to get me a
stone-mortar to beat some corn in, instead of a
mill to grind it. Here, indeed, I was at a great
loss, as not being fit for a stone-cutter; and
many days I spent to find out a great stone big
enough to cut hollow and make fit for a mortar.
s»nd strong enough to bear the weight of a
postli', that woujid break the corn without filling
it with sand. But all the stones of the island
being of a mouldering nature, rendered my
search fruitless; and then I resolved to look
out a great block of hard wood; which having
found, I formed it by my axe and hammer, and
then, with infinite labour, made a hollow in it,
just as the Indians of Brazil make their canoes.
When I had finished this, I made a great pestle
of iron-wood, and then laid them up against my
succeeding harvest.
, My next business was to make me a sieve,
to sift my meal and part it from the bran and
husk. Having no fine thin canvas to search
the meal through, I could not tell what to do.
What linen I had was reduced to rags; I had
goat's hair enough, but neither tools to work it,
nor did I know how to spin it. At lengths I
remembered I had some neck-cloths of c^e^o
or muslin of the sailors, which I had brought
out of the ship, and with these, I made thrqp s
small sieves proper enough for the work.
I come now to consider the baking part.
The want of an oven I supplied, by making
some earthen pans very broad, but not deep.
When I had a mind to bake, I made a great
tire upon my hearth, the tiles of which I had
made myself, and when the wood was burnt
into live coals, I spread them over it, till it be-
came very hot; then sweeping them away, I
set down my loaves, and whelming down the
.earthen pots upon them, drew the ashes and
coals all around the outsides of the pots to con-
nue the heat; and in this manner I bakedmv
barley loaves, as well as if I had been a com-
plete pastry cook, and also made of the rice,
several cakes and puddings.
It is no wonder that all these things took me
up the best part of a year, since what inter-
mediate time I had, was bestowed in managing
my new harvest and husbandry; for in the
proper season, I reaped my corn, carried it
home, and laid it up in the ear, in my large
baskets, till I had time to rub, instead of
threshing it. And now indeed, my corn in-^
creased so much, that it produced me twenty
bushels of barley, and as much of rice, that I
not only began to use it freely, but was think-
ing how to enlarge my barns, and resolved to
sow as much at a time as would be sufficient
for^a whole year.
-;rti this while, the prospect of land, which I
ha<v-seen from the other side of the island, ran
ia my mind. I still meditated a deliverance
from this place, though the fear of greater mis-
fortunes might have deterred me from it. For,
allowing that I had attained that place, I ran
the hazard of being killed and eaten by the
devouring cannibals; and if they were not so,
yet I might be slain, as other Europeans had
been, who fell into their hands. Notwith-
standing all this, my thoughts ran continually
jjpon that shore.- I now wished for the long
boat with the shoulder of mutton sail. I went
to the ship's boat, that had been cast a great
way on the shore in the late storm. She wa^f
removed but a little; and her bottom beingf
•
turned up by the impetuosity and surge of the
waves and wind, I fell to work with all the
strength I had, and with levers and rollers I
had cut from the wood, to turn her, and repair
the damages she had sustained. This work
took me up three or four weeks, when finding
my little strength all in vain, I fell to under-
mining it by digging away the sand, and so to
make it fall down, setting pieces of wood to
thrust and guide it in the fall. But after this
was done, I was still unable to stir it up, or to
get under it, much less to move it forwards
towards the water, and so I was forced to give
it over.
This disappointment, however, did not fright-
en me. I began to think, whether it was not
possible for me to make a canoe or Perigua,
such as the Indians make of the trunk of a tree.
But here I lay under particular inconveniences;
want of tools to make it, and want of hands to
move it into the water when it was made. How.
«ver, to work I went upon it, stopping all the
enquiries I could make with this very simple
answer I made to myself, let's first make it,
I'll wararnt I'll find some way or other to get
it along when-it is done.
I first cut down a cedar tree, which was five
feet ten inches diameter at the lower part next
the stump, and four feet eleven inches diameter
at the end of twenty-two feet, after which it
lessened for a space, and then parted into
branches. Twenty days was I hacking and
hewing it at the bottom, fourteen more in
cutting oft" the branches and limbs, and a.
whole month in shaping it like the bottom of
a boat. As for the inside, I was three weeks
with a mallet and chisscl, clearing it in such a
manner, as that it was big enough to carry 26
men, much bigger than any canoe I ever saw
in my life, and consequently sufficient to trans-
port me and all my effects to that wished for
shore I so ardently desired.
Nothing remained now, but, indeed, the
greatest difficulty, to get it into the water, it
lying about 100 yards from it. To remedy the
first inconvenience, which was a rising hill be-
tween the boat and the creek, with wonderful
pains and labour I dug into the surface of the
earth, and made a declivity. But when this
was done, all the strength I had was as in-
sufficient to move it, as it was when I first
made the attempt. I then proceeded to mea-
sure the distance of ground, resolving to make
a canal, in order to bring the water to the ca-
noe, since I could not bring the canoe to the
water. But as this seemed to be impracticable
to myself alone under the space of eleven or
twelve years, it brought me into some sort of
consideration; so that I concluded this also to
be impossible, and the attempt vain. I now
saw, and not before, what stupidity it is. to
begin work before we reckon its costs, or
judge rightly our own abilities to go through
with its performance.
In the height of this work my fourth year ex-
pired from the time I was cast on this island.-
At this time I did not forget my anniversary;
but kept it with rather greater devotion than
before. For now my hopes being frustrated, I
looked upon this world as a thing I had nothing
to do with; and very well might I say, as fa-
ther Abraham said unto Dives, " Between me,
and thee there is a gulph fixed." And indeed
I was separated from its wickedness too, hav-
ing neither the lust of the flesh, the lust of the
eye, nor the pride of life; I had nothing to
covet, being lord, king and emperor over the
whole country I had in possession, without
dispute and without controul: I had loadings
of corn, plenty of turtles, timber in abundance,
and grapes above measure. What was all the
rest to me? the money I had, lay by me as
despicable dross, which I would freely have
given for a gross of tobacco pipes or a hand-
mill to grind my corn: in a word, the nature
and experience of these things dictated to me
this just reflection. That the good things of
this world are no further good to us, than as
they are for our use; and that whatever we
may heap up, we can but enjoy as much as we
use, and no more.
These thoughts rendered my mind more easy
than usual. Every time I sat down to meat, £
did eat with thankfulnessf admiring the provi-
dential hand of God, who,.in this wilderness
had spread a table to me. And now I con-
sidered what I enjoyed, rather than what I
wanted, compared my present condition with
what I at first expected it should be; how I
should have done, if I had got nothing out of
the ship; that I must have perished before I
had caught fish or turtles; or lived, had I
found them, like a mere savage, by eating them
raw, and pulling them to pieces with my claws,
like a beast. I next compared my station to
that which I deserved; how undutiful I had
been to my parents; how destitute of the fear
of God; how void of every thing that was
good; and how ungrateful for those abundant
mercies I had received from heaven, being fed,
as it were- by a miracle, even as-. great as
Elijah's being fed by ravens; and cast on a
place where there are no venomous creatures
to poison or devour me; in short, making God's
tender mercies matter of great consolation, I
relinquished all sadness, and gave way to con-
tentment.
As long as my ink continued, which with wa-
ter I made last as long as I could, I used to
minute down the days of the month on which
any remarkable thing happened.
The next thing that wasted after my ink, was
the biscuit, which I had brought out of the ship;
and though I allowed myself but one cake a
day for about a twelvemonth, yet I was quite
out of bread for nearly a year, before I got any
corn of my own. •
In the next place, my clothes began to de-
cay, and my linen had been gone long before.
However, I had preserved about three dozen
of the sailor's chequered shirts which proved a
great refreshment to me. when the violent
any of the seamen's heavy watch coats; which
made mo turn tailor, and, after a miserable
botching manner, convert them to jackets. To
preserve my head, I made a cap of goatskins,
with the hair outwards to keep out the rain;
which indeed served me so well, that after-
ward I made a waistcoat and open-kneed
breeches of the same: and then I contrived
a sort of umbrella, covering it with skins,
which not only kept out the heat of the sun, but
the rain also. Thus being easy and settled in
my mind, my chief happiness was to converse
with God, in most heavenly and comfortable
ejaculations.
For five years after this, I cannot say any
extraordinary thing occurred to me. My chief
employment was to cure my raisins, and plant
my barley and rice, of both which I had a
year's provision before-hand. But though I
was disappointed in my first canoe, I made it,
at intermediate times, my business to make a
second of much inferior size: and it was two
years before I had finished it. But as I per-
ceived it would in no wise answer my design
of sailing to the other shore, my thoughts were
confined to take a tour round the island, to see
what further discoveries I could make. To
this intent, after having moved her to the wa-
ter, and tried how she would sail, I fitted up a
little mast to my boat, and made a sail of the
ship's sails that lay by me. I then made lock-
ers or boxes at the end of it to nut in neces-
saries, provision and ammunition, which would
preserve them dry cither from the rain, or the
spray of the sea; and, in the inside of the
boat, I cut me a long hollow place to lay my
gun, and to keep it dry, made a cover for
it. My umbrella, I fixed in a step in the
stern, like a mast, to keep the heat of the sun
off me. And now resolving to see the circum-
ference of my little kingdom, I victualled my
ship for the voyage, putting in two dozen of
my barley bread loaves, an earthen pot full of
parched rice, a little bottle of rum, half a
goat, powder and shot, and two watch-coats.
It was the sixth of November, in the sixth
year of my reign, or captivity, that I set out in
this voyage; which was much longer than I
expected, being obliged to put farther out, by
reason of the rocks that lay a great way in the
sea.
And indeed, so much did these rocks sur-
prise me, that I was for putting back, fearing
that if I ventured farther, it would be out of my
power to return: in this uncertainty I came to
anchor just off the shore, to which I waded
with my gun on my shoulder, and then climb-
ing up a hill, which over-looked that point, I
saw the full extent of it, and so resolved tc run
all hazards.
In this prospect from the hill, I perceived a
violent current running to the east, coming
very close to the point; which I the more
carefully observed, thinking it dangerous, and,
that when I came to it, I might be driven into/
island: and certainly it must have been so,
had I not made this observation; for on the
.other side was like the current, with this dif-
ference, that it set off at a greater distance;
and I perceived there was a strong eddy under
the land; so that my chief business was to
work out of the first current, and conveniently
get into the eddy. Two days I staid here,
the wind blowing very briskly east south east,
which being contrary to the current, leaves a
great breach of the sea upon the point; so it
was neither fit for me to keep too near the
shore, on account of the breach; nor stand at
too great distance for fear of the streams.
That night the wind abating, it grew so calm,
that I ventured out: and here I may be a
monument to all rash and ignorant pilots; for
I was no sooner come to the point, and not,
above the boat's length from shore, but I was
got into a deep water, with a current like a
mill-race, which drove my boat along so vio-
lently, that it was impossible for me to keep
near the edge of it, for it forced me more and
more out from the eddy to the left of me; and
all I could do with my paddles was useless,
there being no wind to help me.
Now I began to look upon myself as quite
lost, since, a3 the current ran on both sides of
the island, I was very certain they must join
again, and then I had no hopes but of perish-
ing for want, in the sea, after what provision
I had was spent, or before, if a storm should
happen to arise. *
Who can conceive the present anguish of
my mind at this calamity? with longing eyes
did I look upon my little kingdom- atid thought
the island the pleasantest place in the uni-
verse. Happy, thrice happy desert, said I,
shall I never see thee more? Wretched crea-
ture! wither am I going? Why did I mur-
mur at my lonesome condition, when now I
would give the whole world to be thither
again? While I was thus complaining, 1
found myself to be driven about two leagues
into the sea: however, I laboured till my
strength was far spent, to keep my boat as far
north as possibly I could, to that side of the
current where the eddy lay. About noon
I perceived a little breeze of wind, spring up
from the south south east, which overjoyed my
heart: and I was still more elated, when, in
about half an hour, it blew a gentle fine gale.
Had any thick weather sprung up, I had been
lost another way: for having no compass on
board, I should never have found the way to
steer towards the island, if once it had disap-
peared; but it. proving the contrary, I set up
my mast again, spread my sail, and stood away
northward, as much as I could, to get rid of
the current. And no sooner did the boat be.
gin to stretch away, but I perceived, by the
clearness of the water, a change of the current
was near; for, where it was strong, the water
was foul; and where it was- elear, the current
abated.
Those who have been in the like calamities
with my own, may guess my present excess of
joy, how heartily I ran my boat in the stream
of this eddy, and how joyfully I spread my sail
to the refreshing wind, standing cheerfully be
fore it, with a smart tide under foot. By the
assistance of this eddy, I was carried above a
league home again, when, being in the wake
of the island, betwixt the two currents, I
found the water to be in a sort of a stand.
About four o'clock in the afternoon, I reached
within a league of the island, and perceived
the points of the rock, which caused this dis.
aster, stretching out, as I observed before, to
the southward, which throwing off the cur-
rent more southerly, had occasioned another
eddy to the north. But having a fair brisk
gale, I stretched across this eddy, and in an
hour,' came within a mile of the shere, where I
soon landed to my unspeakable comfort; and
after an humble prostration, thanking^Sod for
my deliverance, with a resolution to lay all
thoughts of escaping aside, I brought my boat
safe to a little cove, and laid me down to take
a welcome.repose. When I awoke, I was con-
sidering how'I might get my boat home; and
coasting along the shore I came to a good bay,
which ran up to a rivulet or brook, where,
finding a harbour, I. stowed her as safe as
if she had been in a dry dock, made on pur-
pose for her.
I now perceived myself not far from the
place, where before I had travelled on foot; so
taking nothing with me, except my gun and
umbrella, I began my journey, and in the
evening came to my bower, where I again laid
ine down to rest. I had not slept long before
1 awakened in great surprise, by a strange
voice that called me several times, "Robin,
.Robin, Robinson Crusoe, poor Robin! Where
are you, Robinson Cruso? Where are you?
Where have you been V
So fast was I asleep, that at first I did not
awake thoroughly; but half asleep, and half
awake, I thought I dreamed that somebody
spoke to me. But as the voice repeated,
"Robinson Crusoe," several times, being tor-
ribly frightened, I started up in the utmost con-
fusion; and, no sooner were my eyes fully
open, but I beheld my pretty poll sitting on the
op of the hedge, and soon knew that it
was he that called me; for just in such be-
wailingplanguage, I used to talk and teach
him; which he so exactly learned, that he
would sij upon my finger, and lay his bill
close to my face, and cry, "poor Robinson
Crusoe, where are you? where have you been?
how came you here?" and such..like prattle I
had constantly taught him. But even though
I knew it to be the parrot, it was a great time
before I could adjust myself: being amazed
80
should fix about that place, and no where else.
80
than my honest "Poll," my wonder ceased,
and reaching out my hand, and calling "Poll,"
the creature came to me familiarly, and perch-
ed upon my thumb, as he was wont, constantly
prating to me with "poor Robinson Crusoe,
and how did I come here, and where had I
been V as if the bird was overjoyed to see me,
and so I took him home along with me. I was
now pretty well cured of rambling to sea; yet
I could wish rny boat, which had cost me so
much trouble and pains, on this side the island
once more, but this, indeed, was impracticable.
I therefore began to lead a very retired life,
living nearly a twelvemonth in a very content-
ed mariner, wanting for nothing but conversa-
tion. As to mechanic labours, which my ne-
cessities obliged me to, I fancied I could, upon
occasion, make a tolerable carpenter, were the
poor tools I had to work withal, but good.
Besides, as I improved in my earthen ware, I
contrived to make them with a wheel, which I
found much easier and better, making my work
shapely, which before was rude and ugly. But, I
think I w^s never so elevated with my own per-
formance or project as when able to make a to-
bacco-pipe, wihch, though it proved an awkward
clumsy thing, yet it was very sound, and carried
the smoke perfectly well, to my great satisfaction.
I also improved my wicker ware, made me
abundance of necessary baskets, which, though
not very handsome, were very handy and con-
venient to fetch things home in, as also for hold-
ing my stores, barley, rice, and other provisions.
My powder beginning to fail, made ras ex-
amine after what manner I should kill the
goats or birds, to live on, after it was all gone.
Upon which, I contrived many ways to ensnare
the goats, and see if I could catch them alive,
particularly a she-goat with young.
At last I had my desire; for, making pit-
falls and traps, baited with barley and rice, I
found, one morning, in one of them, an old he-
goat, and in the other, three kids, one male,
and two females.
So boisterous was the old one, that I could
not bring him away. But I forgot the old pro-
verb, "That hunger will tame a lion:" for,
had I kept him three or four days without
provisions, and then given him some water,
with a little corn, he would have been as tame
as a young kid. The other creatures I bound
with strings together; but I had great diffi-
culty before I could bring them to my habi-
tation. It was some time before they would
feed; but, throwing them sweet corn, it so
much tempted them, that they began to be
tamer. From hence I concluded, that if I
designed to- furnish myself with goat's flesh,
when my ammunition was spent, the tamely
breeding them up, like a flock of sheep, about
my settlement, was the only method I could
take. I concluded also I must separate the
wild from the tame, or else they would always
run wild as they grew up; and the best way
for this, was to have some inclosed piece of
ground, well fenced, either with a hedge or
Jpale, to keep them so effectually, that those with-
in might not break out, nor those without break
in. Such an undertaking was very great for
one pair of hands; but as there was an absolute
necessity for doing it, my first care was to find
a convenient piece of ground, where there was
likely to be herbage for them to eat, water to
drink, and cover to keep them from the sun.
Here again, I gave another instance of my
ignorance and inexperience, pitching upon a
piece of meadow land so large, that had I
enclosed it, the hedge or pale must have been
at least two miles about. This thought came
into my head, after I had carried it on, I be-
lieve, about fifty yards: I therefore altered
my scheme, and resolved to enclose a piece of
ground about 150 yards in length, and 100 in
breadth, large enough for as many as would
maintain me, till such time as my flock in-
creased, and then I could add more ground.
I now vigorously prosecuted my work, and it
took me ahout three months in hedging the
first piece; in which time I tethered the three
kids in the best part of it; feeding them as
near me as possible, to make them familiar:
and, indeed, I very often would carry some
ears of barley, or a handful of rice, and feed
them out of my hand; by which they grew so
tame, that when my enclosure was finished,
and I had let them loose, they would run after
me for a handful of corn. This indeed an-
swered my end: and in a year and a half's
time, I had a flock of about twelve goats, kids
and all; and in two years after, they amounted
to forty.three, besides what I had taken and
killed for my sustenance.
After which, I inclosed five several pieces of
ground to feed them in, with pens to drive them
into, that I might take them as I had occasion.
In this project I likewise found additional
blessings; for I not only had plenty of goat's
flesh, but milk too, which in the beginning, I
did not so much as think of. And, indeed,
though I had never milked a cow, much less a
goat, or seen butter or cheese made, yet, after
some essays and miscarriages, I made me both,
and never afterward wanted.
How mercifully can the Almighty comfort
his creatures, even in the midst of their greatest
calamities? How can he sweeten the bitterest
evils, and give us reason to magnify him in
dungeons and prisons; what a bounteous table
was here spread in a wilderness for me, where I
expected nothing at first, but to perish for hun ger.
Certainly any one would have smiled to see
me at dinner. There sat my royal majesty, an
absolute prince and ruler of my kingdom, at-
tended by my dutiful subjects, whom if I pleas-
ed, I could either hang, draw, quarter, give
them liberty, or take it away. When I dined,
I seemed a king, eating alone, none daring to
presume to do-so till I had done. Poll, as if
he had been my principal court favourite, was
the only person permitted to talk with me. My
old but faithful dog, now grown exceedingly
crazy, continually sat on my right hand; while
my two cats sat on each side of the table, ex-
pecting a bit from my hand, as a principal mark
of my royal favour. These were not the cats
I had brought from the ship; they had been
dead long before, and interred near my habita-
tion by mine own hand. But a couple of their
young I had made tame; the rest ran wild into
the woods, and in time grew so impudent, as to
return and plunder me of my stores, till such
time as I shot a great many, and the rest left
me without troubling me any more. In this
plentiful manner did I live, wanting for nothing
but conversation. One thing indeed concern-
ed me, the want of my boat; I knew not which
way to get her round the island. One time I
.resolved to go along the shore by land to her;
but had any one at home met such a figure, it
would either have affrighted him, or made him
burst into laughter; nay, I could not but smile
myself at my habit, which I think in this place
will be very proper to describe.
The cap I wore upon my head, was great,
high, and shapeless, made of a goat's skin, with
a flap or pent-house hanging down behind, not
only to keep the sun from me, but to shoot the
rain off from running into my neck, nothing be-
ing more pernicious than the rain falling upon
the flesh in these climates. I had a short jacket
85
length on each side, that it reached down to
the calves of my legs. As for shoes and stock-
ings, I had none, but made a resemblance of
(something, I knew not what to call them; they
«
were made like buskins, and laced on the sides
like spatterdashes, barbarously shaped, like the
rest of my habit. I had a broad belt of goat's
skin dried, girt round me with a couple of
thongs, instead of buckles; on each of which,
to supply the deficiency of sword and daggar,
hung my hatchet and saw. I had another belt,
not so broad, yet fastened in the same manner,
which hung over my shoulder, and at the end
of it, under my left arm, hung two pouches,
made of goat's skin, to hold my powder and
shot. My basket I carried on my- back, and
my gun on my shoulder; and over my head a
great clumsy ugly goat's skin umbrella, which,
however, next to my gun, was the most neces-
sary thing about me. As for my face, the
colour was not 90 swarthy as the Mulattoes, or
as might have been expected from one who took
so little care of it, in a climate within nine or
ten degrees of the line. At one time, my beard
grew so long that it hung down above a quar-
ter of a yard; but as I had both razors and
scissors in store, I cut it all off, and suffered
none to grow, except a large pair of Mahometan
whiskers, the like of which I had seen worn by
some Turks at Salee, not long enough indeed
to hang a hat upon, but of such a monstrous
size, as would have amazed any in England to
have seen.
But all this was of no consequence here,
there being none to observe my behaviour or
habit. And so, without fear and without con-
trol, I proceeded on my journey, the wjsecu-
lion of which took me up five or six days. I
travelled along the sea shore, directly to th«
place where I first brought my boat to an an.
chor, to get upon the rocks; but now having
no boat to take care of, I went, over-land, a
nearer way to the same height that I was be-
fore upon; when looking forward to the point
of the rock, which lay out, and which I was
forced to double with my boat, I was amazed to
see the sea so smooth and quiet, there being no
rippling motion, nor current, any more than in
other places. And now I was convinced that
by observing the ebb and flow ofcthe tide, 1
might easily bring my boat round the island
again. But when I began to think of putting
it in practice, the remembrance of the late
danger struck me with such horror, that I took
another resolution, though more laborious; and
this was to make a second canoe, and so have
one for one side of the island, and one for the
other.
I had now two plantations in the island; the
first my little fortification, fort, or castle with.
many large and spacious improvements. for
by this time, I had enlarged the cave behind m»
87
hold my baskets, corn, and straw. The piles
with which I made my wall were grown so
.lofty and great as obscured my habitation
"And near this commodious and pleasant settle
ment, lay my well cultivated and improved com
fields, which kindly yielded me thoir fruit in the.
proper season. Mv second plantation was thai
near my country seat, or little bower, where
my grapes flourished, and where, having plant-
ed my stakes, I made inclosures for my goats,
so strongly fortified by labour and time, that it
was much stronger than a wall, and,'conse-
quently, impossible for them to break through.
As for my hower itself, I kept it constantly in
repair, and cut the trees in such a manner, as
made them grow wild, and form a most delight-
ful shade. In the centre of this, stood my tent,
thus erected. I had driven four piles in the
ground, spreading over it a piece of the ship's
sail, beneath which, I made me a sort of couch
with the skins of the creatures I had slain, and
other things; and having laid thereon one of the
sailor's blankets, which I had saved from the
wreck of the ship, and covering myself with a
great watch coat, J took up this place for my
country retreat. .
Very frequently, from this settlement did I
use to visit my boat, and keep her in very good
order. And sometimes would I venture in her
a cast or two from shore, but no farther. But
now, I entreat your attention, whilst I proceed
to inform you of a new, but most surprising
scene of life which here befel me.
You may easily suppose, that, after having
been here so long, nothing could be more
amazing than to see a human creature. One
day it happened, that going to my boat, I saw
the print of a man's naked foot on the shore,
very evident on the sand, as the toes, heels,
and every part of it. Had I seen a monster of
the most frightful shape, I could not have been
more confounded. My willing ears gave the
strictest attention. I cast. my eyes around, but
could satisfy neither the one nor the other, I
proceeded alternately to every part of the shore,
but with equal effect; neither could I see any
Other mark though the sand about it was as
susceptible to take impression, as that which
was so plainly stamped. Thus struck with
confusion and horror, I returned to my habita-
tion, frightened at every bush and tree, taking
every thing for men; and possessed with the
wildest ideas! That night my eyes never
closed. I formed nothing but the most dismal
imaginations. In a word, all my religious
hopes vanished, as though I thought God would
not now protect me by his power, who had
wonderfully preserved me so long.
What various chains of events are there in
the life of man? How changeable are our affec-
tions, according to different circumstances?
We love to-day, what we hate to-morrow: we
shun one hour', what we seek the next. This
was evident in me in the most conspicuous
manner: for I, who before had so much la-
mented my condition, in being banished from
all hurnan-kind, was now ready to expire,
when I considered that a man had set his foot
on this desolate island. But when I consider-
ed my station of life, decreed by the infinitely
wise and good providence of God, that I ought
not to dispute my Creator's sovereignty, who
. had an undoubted right to govern and dispose
ii 2
of his creatures as he thinks convenient; and
that his justice and mercy could cither punish
or deliver me, I say, when I considered all
this, I comfortably found it my duty to trust
sincerely in him, pray ardently to him, and
humbly resign myself to his divine will.
One morning, lying on my bed, these words
of the sacred writings came into my mind,
"Call upon me in the day of trouble, and I will
deliver thee, and thou shalt glorify me." Upon
this sentence, rising more cheerfully from my
bed, I offered up my prayers in the most
devout manner: and when I had done, taking
up my Bible to read, these words appeared
first in my sight, "Wait on the Lord, and be
of good cheer, and he shall strengthen thy heart:
Wait, 1 say, on the Lord.' Such divine com-
fort did this give me, as to remove all cause of
sadness upon that occasion.
Thus, after a world of apprehensions and
fears• for three days and nights, I at last ven-
tured out of my castle, and milked my goats, one
of which was almost spoiled for want of it. I
next, (though in great fear,) visited my bower,
and milked my flocks there also; when,growing
bolder, I went down to the shore again, and
measuring the print of the foot to mine, to see
perhaps whether I myself had not occasioned
that mark, I found it much superior in largeness;
and so returned home, absolutely convinced,
that either some men had been ashore, or that
the island must be inhabited; and therefore that
I might be surprised before I was aware.
I now began to think of providing for my se.
curity, and resolved in my mind many different
schemes for that purpose. I first proposed to
cut down my inclosures, and turn my tame
cattle wild into the woods, that the enemy
might not find them, and frequent the island in
hopes of killing the same. Secondly, I was for
digging up my corn-fields for the very same
reason. And, lastly, I concluded to demolish
my bower, lest, seeing a place of human con-
trivance, they might come farther, and find out
and attack me in my castle.
Sleep was an utter stranger to my eyes that
night; yet nature, spent and tired, submitted
to a silent repose the next morning, and then
joining reason with fear, I considered, that
this delightful and pleasant island might not be
so entirely forsaken as I might think; but that
the inhabitants from the other shore might saii,
either with design, or from necessity, by cross
winds; and, if the latter circumstance, I had
reason to believe, they would depart the first
opportunity. However, my fear made me
think of a place of retreat upon an attack.
I now repented that I had made my door to
come out beyond my fortification; to remedy
which, I resolved to make me a second one: I
fell to work, therefore, and drove betwixt that
double row of tre'es, which I planted above
twelve years before, several strong piles, thick-
ening it with pieces of timber and old cables,
and strengthening the foot of it with earth
which 1 dug out of rav cave; I also made me
seven holes, wherein I planted my muskets
92
carriages. This being finished with indefati-
gable industry, for a great way every where, I
planted sticks of osiers like a wood, about
twenty thousand of them, leaving a large space
between them and my wall, that I might have
room to see an enemy, and that they might not
be sheltered among the young trees, if they
offered to approach the outer wall. And in-
deed, scarce two years had passed over my
head, when there appeared a lovely shady
grove, and in six years it became a thick wood,
perfectly impassible. For my safety, I left no
uvenue to go in or out; instead of which, I set
two ladders, one to a part of the rock which
was low, and then broke in, leaving room to
place another ladder upon that; so that when
I took those down, it was impossible fcr any
man to descend without hurting himself; aod
if they had, they would still be at the outside
of rr.y outer wall. But while I took ail these
measures of human prudence for my own pre-
servation, I was not altogether unmindful of
other affairs. To preserve my stock of tatne
goats, that the enemy should not take all at
once, I looked out for the most retired'part of
the island, which was the place where I had
lost myself before mentioned, and there finding
a clear piece of land, containing three acres,
surrounded with thick woods, 1 wrought so
hard, tlmt in less than a month's time, I fenced
it so well round, that my flocks were very well
secured in it, and I put therein two he-goats.
and ten she ones.
All this labour was occasioned purely by
fearful apprehensions, on account of seeing the
print of a man's foot. And not contented yet
with what I had done, I searched for another
place towards the west part of the island, where;
I might also retain another flock. Then wan-
dering on this errand more to the west of the
island than ever I had yet done, and casting my
eyes towards the sea, methought I perceived ;i
boat at a great distance; but could not possibly
tell what it was for want of my spy-glass. I
considered then, it was no strange thing to see-
the print of a man's foot; and concluding them
cannibals, blessed God for being cast on the
other side of the island, where none of the
savages, as I thought, ever came. But when
I came down the hill to the shore, which was the
south-west point of the island, I was soon con-
firmed in my opinion ; nor can any one describe
my horror and amazement, when I saw the
ground spread with sculls, hands, feet, and
bones of human bodies';' and particularly, I
perceived a space like a cirele, in the midst of
which had been a fire, about which I conjec-
tured those wretches sat, and unnaturally sacri-
ficed and devoured their fellow creatures.
The horror and loathsomeness of this dread-
ful spectacle, both confounded my senses, and
made me discharge from my stomach in an ex-
cessive manner. I then returned towards my
habitation; and in my way thither shedding
floods of tears, and falling down on my bended:
knees, gave God thanks for making my nature
contrary to those wretches, and deliv«ring me
so long out of their hands.
Though reason and my long residence here
had assured me, that the savages never came
up to the thick woody part of the country,
and that I had no reason to be apprehensive of
a discovery, yet such an abhorrence did I still
retain, that for two years after, I confined
myself only to my three plantations; I mean
my castle, country seat, and inclosure in the
woods, though in process of time, my dreadful
apprehensions began to wear away.
Thus my circumstances for some time re-
mained very calm and undisturbed: though in-
deed, the terror which the savages had put me
in, spoiled some inventions for my own conve.
niences. One of my projects was to brew me
some beer; a very whimsical one indeed, when
it is considered, that I had neither casks suf-
ficient, nor could I make any to preserve it in;
neither had I hops to make it keep, yeast to
make it work, nor a copper or kettle to make
it boil. Perhaps, indeed, after some years, I
might bring this to bear, as I had done other
things. But now my inventions were placed
another way: and day and night I could think
of nothing but how I might destroy some of
these cannibals, when, proceeding to their
bloody entertainments; and so saving a victim
from being sacrificed, that he might after be.
come my servant. Many were my contri-
vances for this purpose, and many more Objec-
tions occurred, after I hafl hatched them. I
once contrived to dig a hole under the place
where they made their fire and put therein five
or six pounds of gunpowder, which would con-
sequently blow up all those that were near it;
but then I was loth to spend so much upon
them, lest it should not do that certain execu-
tion I desired, and only affright and not kill
them. Having laid this design aside, I again
proposed to myself to lie priv&tely in ambush
in some convenient place, with my three guns
double loaded, and let fly at them in the midst
of their dreadful ceremony; and having killed
two or three of them at every shot, fall upon
the rest suddenly with my three pistols, and let
not one mother's son escape. This imagina-
tion pleased my fancy so much that I used to
dream of it in the night time. To put my de-
sign in execution I was not long seeking for a
place convenient for my purpose, where unseen
I might behold every action of the savages.
Here I placed my two muskets, each of which
was loaded with a brace of slugs, and four or
five smaller bullets about the size of pistol bul-
lets; the fowling piece was charged with near-
ly a handful of the largest swan shot, and in
every pistol about four bullets. And thus all
things being prepared, no sooner did the wel-
come light spread over the element, but I would
issue forth from my castle, and from a lofty
hill; three miles distant, try if I could see any
invaders approach unlawfully to my kingdom.
But having waited yi vain two or three months,
it grew very tiresome to me.
I now argued with myself, it was better for
me never to attack, but to remain undiscovered
as long as I possibly could; that an opposite
conduct would certainly prove destructive;
for as it was scarcely to be supposed I could
kill them all, I might be either overpowered by
the remainder, or that some escaping might
bring thousands to my certain destruction.
And, indeed, religion took their part so' much as
to convince me how contrary it was to my duty,
to be guilty of shedding human blood, innocent
blood, innocent as to me in particular, whatever
they are to one another; that I had nothing to
do with it, but leave it to the God of all power
and dominion, as I said before, to do therein
what seemed convenient to his heavenly wis-
dom. And, therefore, on my knees I thanked
the Almighty for delivering me from bloody
guiltiness, and begged his protection that I
might never fall into their hands.
Thus giving over an attempt which I had
rashly begun, I never ascended the hill on that
occasion afterward; I only removed my boat,
which lay on the other side of the island, and
every thing that belonged to her, towards the
east, into a little cove, that there might not
be the least shadow of any boat near, or habi.
tation upon the island. My castle then be-
tame my cell, keeping always retired. in it, ex-
cept when I went out to milk my she-goats, or
my little flock in the wood, which was quite out
of danger: for sure I was*, that these savages
never came here with expectation to find any
thing, and consequently never wandered from
the coast; however, as they might have seve-
ral times been on shore, as well before as
after my dreadful apprehensions, I looked
back with horror to think in what state I might
have been, had I suddenly met them, slenderly
armed, with one gun only loaded with small
shot; and how great would have been my
amazement, if, instead of seeing the print of
one man's foot, I had perceived fifteen or
twenty savages, wht>, having once set their
eyes upon me, by the swiftness of their feet,
would have left me no possibility of escaping?
These thoughts would sink my very soul, so
that I would fall into a deep melancholy, till
such time as the «onsideretion of my gratitude
to the divine Being moved' it from my heart.
I then fell into a contemplation of the secret
springs of Providence; and how wonderfully
we are delivered, when insensible of it; and
when in uncertain mazes or labyrinths of doubt
or hesitation, what secret hint directs us, in the
right way when we intended to go out of it;
nay perhaps contrary to our business, sense, or
inclination.
Anxieties of mind, and the care of my pre-
servation, put a period to all future inventions
and contrivances, either for accommodation, or
convenience, I now cared not to drive a nail,
i
chop a stick, fire a gun, or make a fire, lest
either the noise should be heard, or the smoke
discover me. And on this account I used to
burn my earthen ware privately in a cave,
which I found in the wood, and which I made
convenient for that purpose; the principal
cause that brought me here was to make char-
coal, so that I might bake and dress my bread
and meat without any danger.
At that time a curious accident happened to
me, which I shall now relate.
While I was cutting down some wood for
making my charcoal, I perceived a cavity be-
hind a very thick branch of underwood. Cu-
rious to look into it, I attained its mouth, and
perceived it sufficient for me to stand up-
right in.
But when I had entered, having crept upon
my hands and feet through this strait, I found
the roof higher up, I think .about twenty feet.
But surely never mortal saw such a glorious
sight before! the roof and walls of this cave
reflected a hundred thousand lights to me from
my two candles, as though they were indented
with shining gold, precious stones, or sparkling
diamonds. And indeed it was the most delight-
ful cavity or grotto of its kind that could be
desired, though entirely dark. The floor was
dry and level, and had a kind of gravel upon
it; no nauseous venomous creatures to be seen
here, neither any damp or wet about it. *
could find no fault but in the entrance, and I
began to think, that even this might be very
necessary for my defence, and therefore re-
solved to make it my principal magazine. 1
brought hither two fowling pieces and three
muskets, leaving only five pieces at my castle,
planted in the nature of cannon. In a barrel
of gun-powder, which I took out of the sea, I
brought away about sixty pounds of good pow-
der, which was not damaged; and this, with a
great quantity of lead for bullets, I removed
from my castle to this retreat, now fortified
both by. art and nature.
I fancied myself now like one of the giants
of old, who were said to live in caves and holes
among the rocks, inaccessible to any but them-
selves, or, at least, most dangerous to attempt.
And now I defied both the cunning and
strength of the savages, either to find me out
or to hurt me.
I think I Was now in the twenty third year
of my reign, and my thoughts much easier
than formerly, having contrived several pretty
amusements, and diversions to pass away the
time in a pleasant manner. By this time my
pretty Poll had learned to speak English, and
pronounce his words very articulately and
plain; so that for many hours we used to chat
together after a very familiar manner, and he
lived no less than twenty-six years. My dog
which was nineteen years old, sixteen of which
he lived with me, died some time ago, of mere
old age. As fi>r my cats, they multiplied so
fast, that I was forced to kill or drive them into
the woods, except two or three which became
my particular favourites. Besides these, I
continually kept two or three household kids
about me, which I taught to feed out of my
hand, and two more parrots which could talk
indifferently, a'nd call Robinson Crusoe, but
not so excellently as the first, by my not taking
so much pains with them. I had also several
sea-fowls which I had wounded and cut their
wings; and growing tame they used to
breed among the low trees about my castle-
walls, all of which made my abode very agree-
able. •
But what unforeseen events suddenly destroy
the enjoyments of this uncertain state of life,
when we least expect them! It was now the
month of December, and the particular time in
my harvest, which required my attendance in
the fields; when going out pretty early in the
morning, before it was day-light, there appear-
ed to me from the sea-shore, a flaming light,
about two miles from me at the east end of the
island, where I had observed some savages
had been before, not on the other side, but to
my great affliction it was on my side of the
island.
Struck with a terrible surprise, and my usual
apprehensions, that the savages would perceive
my improvements, I returned directly to my
castle, pulled the ladder after me, making all
things look as wild and natural as I possibly
could. In the next place, I put myself in a
posture of defence, loaded my muskets and
pistols, and committing myself to God's pro-
tection, I resolved to defend myself till my
last breath. Two hours* after, impatient for
intelligence, I set my ladder up to the side of
the hill, where there was a flat place, and then
pulling the ladder after me, ascending to the
top, where laying myself on my belly, with my
perspective glass I perceived no less than nine
naked savages, sitting round a small fire, eat-
ing as I supposed, human-flesh, with their two
canoes hauled on shore, waiting for the flood
to carry them off again. 'The consternation I
was in at this sight, especially seeing them
near me, was very great; but when I perceived
their coming must be always with the current
of the ebb, I became more easy in my thoughts,
being fully convinced, that I might go abroad
with security all the time of flood, if they were
not before landed. And, indeed, this proved
just as I imagined; for no sooner did they ail
take boat and paddle away, but the tide made
north-west. When I saw them gone, I took
nvo guns upon my shoulders, and placing a
couple of pistols in my belt, with my great
sword hanging by my side, 1 went to the hill,
where at first I made a discovery of these can-
nibals, and then saw there had been three ca-
noes more of the savages on shore at that place,
which with the rest, were making over to the
'main land.
But nothing could be more horrid to me,
when going to the place of sacrifice, the blood,
the bones, and other mangled parts of human
bodies appeared in my sight; and so fired was
i 2
I with indignation, that I was fully resolved to
be revenged on the ftr»t that came there, though
I lost my life in the execution. It then appear-
ed to me, that the visits which they make to
this island are not very frequent, it being fifteen
months before they came again: but still I was
very uneasy, by reason of the dismal appre-
hensions of their surprising me unawares; nor
dared I offer to fire a gun on that side of the
island where they used to appear, lest, taking
the alarm, they might return with many hun-
dred canoes, and then God only knows in what
manner I should have made my end. Thus was
I a year or more before I saw any of these de-
vouring cannibals again.
But to wave this, the following accident,
which demands attention, for a while, eluded
the force of my thoughts in revenging myself
on those heathens.
On the 16th of May (according to my
wooden calender) the wind blew exceedingly
hard, accompanied with abundance of thunder
and lightning all day, and succeeded by a very
stormy night. The seeming anger of the
heavens made me have recourse to my Bible.
Whilst I was seriously pondering upon it, I
was suddenly alarmed with the noise of a gun,
which I conjectured was fired upon the ocean.
Such an unusual surprise made me start up in
a minute; when, with my ladder, ascending the
mountain as before, that very moment a flash
of fire presaged the report of another gun,
which I presently heard, and found it was from
the part of the sea where the current drove me
away, I could not but then think, that this must
be a ship in distress, and that these were the
melancholy signals for a speedy deliverance.
Great, indeed, was my sorrow upon this occa-
sion; but my labours to assist them must have
proved altogether vain and fruitless. How.
ever, I brought together all the dry wood that
was at hand, and making a pretty large pile-
set it on fire on the hill. I was certain they
plainly perceived it, by their firing another
gun as soon as it began to blaze, and after that
several more from the same quarter. AH night
long I kept up my fire; and when the air
cleared up, I perceived something a great way
at sea, directly east, bij could not distinguish
what it was, even with ir.y glass, the weather
being so very foggy out at sea. However,
keeping my eyes directly fixed upon it, and
perceiving it did not stir, I presently concluded
it must be a ship at anchor, and so very hasty
was I to be satisfied, that, taking my gun, I
went to the south-west part of the island, to the
same rocks where I had been formerly driven
away by the current; in which time, the wea-
ther being perfectly cleared up, to my great
sorrow, I perceived the wreck of a ship cast
away upon those hidden rocks I had found
when I was out with my boat; and which, by
making a kind of an eddy, were the occasion of
my preservation.
When I considered seriously every thing
concerning this wreck, and could perceive no
room to suppose any of them saved, I cannot
explain, by any possible force of words, what
longings my soul felt on this occasion, often
breaking out in this manner. Oh! that there
had been but two or three, nay, even one per-
son saved, that we might have lived together,
conversed with, and comforted one another!
and so much were my desires moved, that
when I repeated these words, " oh! that there
had been but one !" my hands would so clench
together, and my fingers press the palms of my
hands so close, that, had any soft thing been
between, they would ha^e crushed it, while my
teeth would strike together, and set again*'.
nach other so strong, that it required some
104
Till the last year of my being on this island,
I never knew whether or not any had been
saved out of this ship. I had the affliction•
seme time after, to see the corpse of a drowned
bey come on shore, at the end of the island
which was next the shipwreck; there was no-
thing on him but a seaman's waistcoat, a pair
of open-kneed linen drawers, and a blue linen
shirt, but no particular mark to guess whai
nation he was of. In his pocket were two
pieces of eight, and a tobacco pipe, the la.«t
of which T preferred much more than I did the
first. And now the calmness of the sea tempt-
ed me to venture out in my boat to this wreck•
not only to get something necessary out of tht>
ship, but perhaps, some living creature might
be on board, whose life 1 might preserve. This
had such an influence upon my mind, that im-
mediately I went home, and prepared every
thing necessary for. the voyage, carrying on
board my boat, provisions of all sorts, with a
good quantity of rum, fresh water, and a com-
pass: so putting off, I paddled the canoe along
the shore, till I came to the north-east part of
the island, from whence I was to launch into
the ocean; but here the current ran so violently,
and appeared so terrible, that my heart began
to fail me; foreseeing, that if I was driven into
any of these currents, I might be carried not
only out of the reach or sight of the island, but
even inevitably lost in the boiling surges of the
ocean.
So oppressed was I at these troubles, that I
gave over my enterprize, sailing to a little
creek on the 6hore, where, stepping out, I sat
me down on a rising hill, very pensive and
thoughtful. I then perceived that the tide was
turned, and the flood come on, which made it
impracticable for me to go out for so many
hours.
That night, I reposed myself in my canoe,
covered with my watch-coat instead of a blan-
ket, the heavens being my tester. I set out with
the first of the tide full north, till I felt the
benefit of the current, which carried me at a
great rate eastward, yet not with such impe-
tuosity as before, as to take from me all
government of my canoe; so that in two hours
I came up to the wreck, which appeared to me
a most melancholy sight. It seemed to be a
Spanish vessel by its building, stuck fast be-
tween two rocks; her stern iind quarters beaten
to pieces by the sea; her main-mast and fore-
mast were brought off by the board; that is,
broken short off. As I approached nearer, I
perceived a dog on board, who, seeing me
coming, yelped and cried: and no sooner did
1 call.him, but the poor creature jumped into
the sea, out. of which I took him up almost
famished with hunger and thirst: so that when.
I gave him a caKe of bread, no ravenous wolf
could devour it more greedily; and he drank
to that degree of fresh water, that he would
have burst himself had I suffered him.
The first sight I met with in the ship, were
two men drowned in the cock-room, or fore-
castle, inclosed in one another's arms: hence
I very probably supposed, that when the vessel
struck in the storm, so high and incessantly did
the waters break in and ovsr her, that the men
not being able to bear it, were strangled by the
constant rushing of the waves. There wer"e
several casks of liquor, whether wine or branny
I could not be positive, which lay in the lower
hold, as wore plainly perceptible by the ebbing
out of the water, yet were too large for me to
pretend to meddle with: "likewise I perceived
several chests, which I supposed belonged to
the seaman, two of which I got into my boat,
without examining what was in them. What
became of the rest of the sailors I could not
certainly tell; and all her riches signified no-
thing at that time to any body.
Searching farther, I found a cask, containing
about twenty gallons full of liquor, which with
some labour I got into my boat; in the cabin
were several muskets, which I let remain there;
but took away with me a great powder horn,
with about four pounds of powder in it. I
took also a fire-shovel and tongs, with two
brass kettles, a copper pot to make chocolate,
and a- grid-iron; all which were extremely ne-
cessary to me, especially the fire-shove! and
tongs. And so with this cargo, accompanied
by my dog, I came away, the tide serving for
that purpose; and the same evening, about an
hour within night, I attained the island, after
the greatest toil and fatigue imaginable.
That night I reposed my weary limbs in the
boat, resolving the next morning to harbour
what I had gotten, in my new found under-
ground grotto; and not carry my cargo home
to my ancient castle. Having refreshed my-
self, and got all my effects on shore, I next pro-
ceeded to examine the particulars; and so
tapping the cask, I found the liquor to be a
kind of rurri? but not like what we had at the
Brazils, nor indeed near so good. At the
opening of the chest, several things appeared
very useful to me; for instance, I found in one•
a very fine case of bottles, containing the finest
and best sort of cordial waters; each bottle
held about three pints, curiously tipt with silver.
I found also two pots full of the choicest sweet-
meats, and two more which the water had utter-
ly spoiled. There were likewise several good
shirts, exceedingly welcome to me, and about
one dozen and a half of white linen handker-
chiefs, and coloured neckcloths, the former of
which were absolutely necessary for wiping my
face in a hot day; and in the till, I found three
bags of money, in one of which, decently wrapt
up in a piece of paper, were six doubloons of
gold, and some small bars and wedges of the
same metal, which I believe might weigh near
a pound. In the other chest, I only found some
clothes of very little value, and about two
pounds of fine glazed powder, in three flasks,
kept as I believe, for charging their fowling
pieces on any occasion, so that, on the whole I
made very little of this voyage. The money
was indeed as mere dirt to me, useless and un-
profitable. all which I would have freely parted
with. for two or three pair of English shoes and
stockings, things that for many years I h3d not
worn, except those which I had lately taken off
the feet of the unfortunate men I found drown-
ed in the wreck, yet not so good as English
shoes either for ease or service., I found no
gold in the second chest; so concluded that
what I took from the first belonged to an officer,
the latter appearing to have a much inferior
person for its owner. However, as despicable
as the money seemed, I likewise lugged it to
my cave, laying it up securely, as I did the rest
of my cargo, and intending to seek out, and re-
turn it to the family of the unfortunate owner,
if ever I should return to Europe: and, after I
had done all this, I returned back to my boa*
rowing or paddling her along till I came to my
old harbour, where I carefully laid her up, and
so made the best of my way to my castle.
When 1 arrived there, every thing seemed safe
and quiet; so that now, my only business was
to repose myself after my wonted manner, and
take care of my domestic affairs. But though
I might have lived very easy, as wanting for
nothing absolutely needful; yet still I was
more vigilant than usual, upon account of the
savages, never going much abroad; or, if I did,
it was to the east part of the island, where I was
well assured that the savages never came, and
where I might not be troubled to carry such a
heavy load of weapons for my defence, as I was
obliged to do if I went the other way*
Two years did I live in this anxious condi-
tion, in all which time, contrary to my former
resolutions, my head was filled with nothing but
projects and designs how I might escape from
this island; and so much were my wandering
thoughts bent upon a rambling disposition, that
had I had the same boat that I went from Salee
in, I should.have ventured once more to the
uncertainty of the raging ocean.
Having retired to my castle, after my late
voyage to the ship, my frigate laid up and
secured, as usual, and my condition the same
as before, except being richer, though I had as
little occasion for riches as the Indians of Peru
had for gold, before the cruel Spaniards came
among them: one night in March, being the
rainy season, in the four and twentieth year of
K
my solitude, I lay down to sleep, very well in
health, without distemper, pain, or uncommon
uneasiness either of body or mind; yet not,
withstanding, I could not compose myself to
sleep all the night long. All this tedious while,
it is impossible to express what innumerable
thoughts came into my head. I traced quite
over, the whole history of my life in miniature,
from my utmost remembrance of things till I
came to this island; and then proceeded to ex-
amine every action and passage that had occur-
red since I had taken possession of my kingdom.
In my reflections upon the latter, I was com-
paring the happy posture of my affairs in the
beginning of my reign, to this life of anxiety,
fear, and concern, since I had discovered the
print of a foot in the sand; that while I continu-
ed without apprehension, I was incapable of
feeling the dread and terror I now suffered.
How thankful rather ought I to have been for
the knowledge of my danger, since the greatest
happiness a man can be possessed of is to have
sufficient time to provide against it? How stu-
pendous is the goodness of Providence, which
sets such narrow bounds to the sight and know-
ledge of human nature, that while men walk in
the midst of so many dangers, they are kept
serene and calm• by having the events of things
hid from their eyes, and knowing nothing of
those many dangers that surround them, till
perhaps they are dissipated and vanished away.
About a year and half aftar, one morning
early, I was very much surprised by seeing no
less than five canoes all on shore together, on
my side of the island, and the savages that be-
longed to them all landed, and out of my sight.
Upon which, much dispirited and perplexed, I
*»y still in my castle; which, however, I put
<n a proper posture for an attack; and, having
formerly provided all that was necessary, waa
soon ready to enter upon an engagement, should
they attempt it. Having waited for some time,
my impatient temper would let me bear it no
longer; I set my guns at the foot of my ladder,
and, as usual, ascended up, to the top of the
hill at two stages, standing, however, in such a
manner, that my head did not appear above the
hill, so that they could not easily perceive me:
and here, by the assistance of my perspective
glass, I observed no less than thirty in number
around a fire, feasting upon what meat they had
dressed: how they cooked it, or what it was, I
could not then perfectly tell; but they were all
dancing and capering about the flames, using
many frightful and barbarous gestures.
But while, wijjh a curious eye, I was behold-
ing these wretches, my spirits sunk within me,
when I perceived them drag two miserable crea-
tures from the boats, to act afresh the dread-
ful tragedy, as I supposed they had done be-
fore. It was not long before one of them fell
upon the ground, knocked down as I suppose,
with a club or wooden sword, for that was their
manner; while two or three others went imme-
diately to work, cutting him open for their
cookery, and then fell to devour him as they

had done the former: while the last unhappy
captive was left by himself, till such time as
they were ready for him. The poor creature
looked round hiin with a sorrowful eye, trem-
bling at the thoughts of death; yet, seeing
himself a little at liberty, nature, that very mo-
ment, as it were, inspired him with hopes of
life: He started away from them, and ran,
with incredible swiftness, along the sands, di-
rectly to that part of the coast where my an-
cient and venerable castle stood.
You may well imagine, I was dreadfully af-
frighted upon this occasion, when as I thought,
they pursued him in a whole body, all running
towards my palace. And now, indeed, I ex-
pected, that he would certainly fly to my grove
for protection. However, my spirits beginning
to recover, I still kept upon my guard; and I
now plainly perceived, there were but three
men out of the number that pursued him. I
was infinitely pleased at the swiftness with
which the poor creature ran from his pursuers,
gaining so much ground upon them, that I
plainly perceived, could he thus hold it out for
half an hour, there was not the least doubt but
he would save his life from the power of his
enemies.
Between them and my castle, there was a
creek, the very same which I sailed into with
all my effects from the wreck of the ship, on
the steep banks of which, I very much feared
the poor victim would be taken, if he could
not swim for his escape: but seon was I out of
pain for him, when I perceived he made no-
thing of it, though at full tide, but, with an
intrepid courage, spurred on by the sense of
danger, he plunged into the flood, swimming
over in about thirty strokes, and then landing,
ran with the same incredible strength and
swiftness as before. When the three pursuers
came to the creek, two of them, who I per-
ceived could not swim, happily for themselves,
returned to their company, while the other,
with an equal courage but much less swiftness,
attained the other side, as though he was re-
solved never to give over the pursuit. And
now or never, I thought, was the time for me to
procure me a servant, companion, or assistant
and that I was decreed by Providence to be th9
instrument to save this poor creature's life.
immediately descended my two ladders with
the greatest expedition; I took up my two
guns, which, I said before, were at the bottom
of them: and, getting up again with the same
haste towards the hill, I made nearer the sea.
In a word, taking a short cut down the hill, I
interposed between the pursuer and pursued,
hallooing aloud to the latter, who, venturing
to look back, was, no doubt, as much terrified
at me as at the enemy from whom he fled. I
beckoned to him, with my hand, to return back,
and, in the mean time, advanced towards the
pursuer. I was very unwilling to fire lest the
rest should hear, though, at that distance, I
questioned whether they could or no; and being
out of sight of the smoke, they could not easily
k2
have known what to make of it. The savage
stopped as if he had been amazed; when, ad-
vancing towards him, I could perceive him take
his bow from his back, and, after fixing an ar-
row to it, preparing to shoot at me, and, with-
out dispute, he might have lodged it in my
breast; but in this absolutely necessary case of
self-preservation, I immediately fired, and shot
him dead, just as his hand was going to draw
the fatal string. All this while, the savage,who
had fled before, stood still, and had the satis-
faction to see his enemy killed, as he thought,
who designed to take away his life; so affright-
ed was he with the fire and noise of my piece,
that he stood as it were like Lot's wife, fixed
and immoveable without either sense or motion.
This obliged me to halloo to him again, making
the plainest signs I could to him to draw near-
er. I perceived he understood these tokens, by
his approaching to me a little way, when, as if
afraid I should kill him too, he stopped again.
Several times did he advance, and as often stop
in this manner, till, coming more to my view,
I perceived him trembling, as if he was to un-
dergo the same fate. Upon which, I looked
upon him with a smiling countenance, and still
beckoning to him; at length he came close to
me, and kneeled down, kissed the ground, laid
his head upon it, and taking me by the foot, set
it upon his head; which, as I understood after-
wards, was a token of swearing to be my slave
for ever. I took him up, and making much of
him, encouraged him in the best manner I could.
The greatest astonishment tnat my new ser-
vant conceived, was at the manner of killing
the savage at such a distance, without a bow
and arrow : and such was his longing desire to
know it, that he first pointed to the dead car-
case, and then made signs to me to grant him
leave to go to it. Upon which I bid him go,
and, as well as I could, made him sensible I
granted his request. But when he came there,
liow wonderfully was he struck with amaze-
ment! First, he turned it on one side, then on
another, wondering he could perceive no quan-
tity of blood, he bleeding inwardly: and after
sufficiently admiring the wound the bullet had
made in the breast, he took up his bow and
arrow's, and came back again; upon which, I
turned to go away, making signs to him to fol-
low, lest the rest missing their companion,
might come in pursuit of him, and this I found
he understood very well, by making me to un-
derstand that his design was to bury it, that
it might not be seen; and which by signs again
I made him sensible I very much approved of.
Immediately he fell to work, and never was
grave-digger more dexterous in the world than
he was; for in an instant, as I might say, he
scraped a large hole in the sands with his
hands, sufficient to bury it in; there he drag-
ged it, and, without any ceremony, covered it
over. I then called him away, and instead of
carrying him directly to my castle at first, I
conveyed him to my cave on the farther part
of the island.
Weary and faint, hungry and thirsty, un-
doubtedly must this poor creature be, support-
ed chiefly by the vivacity of spirit, and un-
common transports of joy that his deliverance
occasioned. Here I gave him bread and a
bunch of raisins to eat, and water to drink, on
which he fed very cheerfully, to his exceeding
refreshment. I then made him a convenient
bed, with a parcel of rice straw, and a blanket
upon it, (a bed which I used myself sometimes)
and then pointing to it, made signs for him to
lie down to sleep, upon which the poor crea-
ture went to take a welcome repose.
Indeed he was a very comely, handsome,
young fellow, extremely well made, with
straight long limbs, not too large, but tall and
well shaped, and, as near as I could reckon,
about twenty-six years of age. His counte-
nance had nothing in it fierce or surly, but
rather a sort of majesty in his face; and espe-
cially when he smiled, he had all the sweet-
ness of a European. His hair was not curled
like wool, as many of the blacks are, but long
and black, with the most beautiful, yet care-
less, tresses spreading over his shoulders.—
He had a very high and large forehead, with a
great vivacity and sparkling sharpness in his
eyes. His skin was not so tawny as that of
the Americans; but rather of a light dun olive
colour, that had something agreeable in it,
though not very easy to give a description of.
His face was round and plump, with a small
nose, very different from the flatness of the
negrcies, a pretty small mouth, thin lips, fine
teeth, very well set, and white as the driven
snow. In a word, such handsome features,'
and exact symmetry in every part, made me
consider, that I had saved the life of an Indian
prince, no le3s graceful and accomplished
than the great Oroonoke, whose memorable
behaviour and unhappy contingencies of life,
have charmed the world, both to admira-
tion of his person, and compassion for his suf-
ferings.
He had not, I think, slept above an hour,
when he awakened again, and while I was
milking my goats hard by, out he runs from
the cave towards me in my inclosure, and lay-
ing himself down on the ground in the lowest
prostration, made all the antic gestures ima-
ginable, to express his thankfulness to me for
being his deliverer. He laid down his head
again upon the ground, close to my foot, and
set my other foot upon his .head, as he had
done before, making all the signs of subjec-
tion, servitude, and submission imaginable, to
let me understand he would serve me as long
as his life endured. As I understood him in
many things, I made him sensible I was very
well pleased with him; and, in a little time, I
began to speak to him, and teach him how to
talk to me again.
In the first place, I made him understana
his name was to be Friday, because it "was upon
that dav I saved his life; I then taught him to
say Master, which I made him sensible was to
be my name; I likewise taught him to say yes
and no, and to know what they meant. I gave
him some milk in an earthen pot, making him
view me while I drank it before him, and soak-
ed my bread in it; I gave him a cake of bread,
and caused him to soak it likewise, to which
he readily consented, making signs of the
greatest satisfaction imaginable.
All that night did I keep him there; but no
sooner did the morning light appear, than I
ordered him to arise and come along with me,
with certain tokens that I would give him some
clothes like mine, at which he seemed very
glad, being stark naked, without the least co-
vering whatever. As we passed by the place
where the man had been interred, my man
pointed directly to his grave, showing me the
marks that he had made to find it again, giving
me to understand, by signs, that we should
dig him up, and devour him. At this I ap-
peared extremely displeased, expressed my ut-
most abhorrence, as if I would vomit at the
apprehensions of it, beckoning with my hand
to come away, which he did with the greatest
reverence and submission. After this, I con-
ducted him to the top of the hill, to view if the
rest of the savages were yet remaining there;
but when I looked through my perspective
glass, I could see no appearance of them, nor
of their canoes; so that it was very evident
they never minded their deceased companion
whom we had slain; which if they iiad, they
would surely have searched for or left one boat
behind for him to follow, after he returned
from his pursuit.
Curiosity, and a desire of satisfaction, ani-
mating me with courage, to see this scene of
barbarity, I took my man Friday with me to the
place of their bloody entertainment. But when
I came there, I was struck with the utmost
horror at so dreadful a spectacle, whilst Friday
was no way concerned about it, being no doubt
in his turn, one of these devourers. Here lay
several human bones, there several pieces of
mangled flesh, half eaten, mangled and scorch-
ed, whilst streams of blood ran promiscuously
as water from a fountain. As I was musing
on this dreadful sight, Friday took all the pains
he could by particular signs, to make me un-
derstand that they had brought over four pri-
soners to feast upon, three of whom they had
eaten up, and that he was the fourth, pointing
to himself: that there having been a bloody
battle between them and his great king, in the
just defence of whom he was taken prisoner,
with many others; all of these were carried off
to different places to be devoured by their con-
querors; and that it was his fortune to be
brought hither by these wretches for the very
same purpose.
After I was made sensible of these things, I
caused Friday to gather those horrid remains,
and lay them together^ upon a heap, which I
ordered to be set on fire, and burnt them to
ashes; my man, however, still retained the na.
ture of a cannibal, having a hankering stomach
after some of the flesh: but such an extreme
abhorrence did I express at the least appear-
ance of it, that he durst not but conceal it; for
I made him very sensible, that if he attempted
any such thing, I would certainly shoot him.
This being done, I carried my man with me
to my castle, and gave him a pair of linen
drawers, which I had taken out of the poor
gunner's chest before mentioned; and which,
with a little alteration, fitted him very well; in
the next place, I made him a jerkin of goat
skin, such as my skill was able to manage, and
indeed I thought myself then a tolerably good
tailor. I gave him also a cap, which J made
of a hare's skin, very convenient arid fashion-
able. Thus being clothed tolerably well, my
man was no less proud of his habit than I was
at seeing him in it. Indeed he went very awk-
wardly at first, but by use, at length he took to
them very well.
My next concern was, where I should lodge
him; and that I might do well by him, and yet
be perfectly easy myself, I erected a tent for
him in the vacant place between my two forti-
cations, in the inside of the last, and the out-
side of the first; and as there was an entrance
or door into my cave, I made a formal framed
door-case, and a door to open on the inside; I
barred it up in the night-time, taking in roy
ladders too, so that, was my man to prove
treacherous, there could be no way to come at
rne in the inside of my innermost wall, without
making so much noise in getting over, that it
must needs waken me; for my first wall had
now a complete roof over it of long poles,
spreading over my tent, and leaning up to the
side of the mountain, which was- again laid
across with smaller sticks instead of laths, and
thatched over to a great thickness with the rice
straw, which was as strong as reeds; and at the
hole of the place, left on purpose to go in or
out by the ladder, I had placed a kind of a
trap-door, which, if it had been attempted on
the outside, would not have opened at all, but
have fallen down, and made a great noise; and
as to my weapons, every night I took them all
to my bed-side.
But there was no occasion for this precau-
tion; for surely never Master had a more sin.
cere, faithful and loving servant than Friday
proved to me. Without passion, sullenness,
or design, perfectly obliging and engaging, his
affections were as much tied to mc as those of
a child to his parents; and I might venture to'
say, he would have sacrificed his life for the
saving of mine, upon any occasion whatsoever.
And, indeed, the many testimonies he gave me
of this, sufficiently convinced me that I had no
occasion to use all these precautions.
I had not been above two or three days re-
turned to my castle, but my chief design was,
L
how I should bring Friday oft' from his horrid
way of feeding; and, to take from him that in-
human relish he by habit had been accustomed
to, I thought it my duty to let him taste other
flesh, which might the rather tempt him to the
same abhorrence I so often expressed against
their accursed way of living. Upon which,
one morning, J took him out with me, with an
intention to kill a kid out of the flock, and
bring it home, and dress it. As I was going,
I perceived a she goat lying down in the shade,
and two young kids sitting by her. Imme-
diately I catched hold of my man Friday, and
bidding him stand still, and not stir, I pre-
sented my piece, and shot one of the kids.
My poor servant, who had at a distance per-
ceived me kill his adversary, and yet did not
know by what means, or how it was done,
stood trembling and surprised, and looked so
amazed, that I thought he would have sunk
into the earth. He did not see the kid I
aimed at, or behold I had killed it, but ripped
up his waistcoat to see if he was not wounded,
thinking my resolution was to kill him; for
coming to me, he fell on his knees, earnestly
pronouncing many things which I did not
understand the meaning of; which at length I
perceived was,th.at I would not take away his life.
Indeed, so much compassion had I for this
creature, that it was with difficulty I refrained
from tears. But, however, as another sort of
countenance was necessary, and to convince
him that I would do him no harm, I took him,
smiling, by the hand, then laughed at him, and
pointing to the kid which I had slain, made
signs to him to fetch it, which accordingly he
did. No less curious was he in viewing how
the creature was killed, than he was before in
beholding the Indian; which, while he was ad-
miring, 1 charged my gun again, and presently
perceived a great fowl like a hawk, perching
upon a tree within shot; and, therefore, to let
Friday understand what I was going to do, I
called him to me again, pointing at the fowl,
which I found to be a parrot. I made him un-
derstand that I would shoot and kill that bird;
accordingly I fired, and bade him look, when
immediately he saw the parrot fall down.
Again he stood like one amazed, notwithstand-
ing all I had said to him: and the more con-
founded he was, because he did not perceive
me put any thing in my gun. As for it in
particular, he would not so much as touch it
for several days after; but would come and
communicate his thoughts to it, and talk to
it, as if the senseless piece had understood
and answered him; all this I could perceive
him to do, when he thought my back was
turned, the chief intent of which was, to desire
it not to kill him, as I afterward came to un-
derstand.
I never strove to prevent his admiration,
nor hinder him from these comical gestures he
used on such occasions; but when his asto-
nishment was a little over, I made tokens to
him to run and fetcn the parrot that I had
shot; which accordingly he did, staying some
time longer than usual, by reason that the bird
not being quite dead, had fluttered some way-
farther from the place where she fell. In the
mean time, as he was looking for her, I took
the advantage of charging my gun again, that
so I might be ready for any other mark that
offered; but nothing more occurred at the
time. So I brought home the kid, and the
same evening took off the skin, and divided
the carcase as well as I could. Part of the
flesh I stewed and boiled in a pot I had for
this purpose. And then, spreading my table,
I sat down, giving my man some of it to eat,
who was wonderfully pleased, and seemed to
like it very well: but what was the most sur-
prising to him was to see me eat salt with it:
upon which he made me understand, that the
salt was very bad for me; when putting a little
into his mouth, he seemed to nauseate it in
such a manner, as to spit and sputter at it,
and then washed his mouth with fresh water:
but to show him how contrary his opinion was
to mine, I put some meat into my mouth with-
out salt, and feigned to spit and sputter as
much for want of it, as he had done at it;
yet all this proved of no signification to Fri-
day; and it was a long while before he could
endure any salt in his meat or broth, and even
then but a small quantity.
Thus, having fed him sufficiently with boiled
meat ami broth at that time, the next dav I
was resolved to feast him with a roasted piece
of the kid. And having no spit to fasten it,
nor jack to turn it, I made use of that common
artifice which many of the people of England
have, that is, to set two poles upon each side
of the fire, and one across on the top, hang-
ing .the meat thereon with a string, and so
turning it round continually, till it was suffi-
ciently roasted. This practice caused great
admiration in my man Friday, being quite
another way than that to which the savages
were accustomed. But when he came to taste.
the sweetness and tenderness of the flesh, h&
expressed his entire satisfaction above a thou-
sand different ways. As I could not but un-
derstand his meaning, you may be sure I was
as wonderfully pleased, especially when he
made it also very plain to me, that he would
never, while he lived, eat man's flesh more.
It was now high time I should set my new
servant to work; so next day, I put him to
beat out some corn, and sift it in the same
manner as I had done before. And really the
fellow was very quick and handy in the exe-
cution of any thing I ordered him to go about.
I made him understand that it was to make
bread for us to eat, and afterwards let him
see me bake it. In short, he did every thing
as I ordered him in a little time as well as I
could perform it myself.
But now, considering that I had two mouths
to feed instead of one, it was necessary that I
1-2
snould provide more ground for my harvest,
and plant a larger quantity of corn than I
commonly used to do; upon'which, I marked
out a larger piece of land, fencing it in the
same manner as I had done before; in the
execution of which, I must give Friday this
good word, that no man could work more
hardy, or with better will than he did; and
when I made him sensible that it was for bread
to serve him as well as me, he then very pas-
sionately made me understand, that he thought
I had much more labour on his account than I
had for myself; and that no pains or diligence
should be wanting in him, if I would but direct
him in those works wherein he might pro-
ceed.
I must certainly own, that this was the most
pleasant year I ever had in the island; for
after some time, Friday began to talk pretty
well, and understood the names of those things
which I was wont to call for, and the places
where I used to send him. So that my long
silent tongue, which had been so many years
126
versing with my poll, now began to be occu-
pied in teaching, and talking to my man Fri-
day; for indeed I had such a singular satisfac-
tion in the fellow himself, so innocent did his
simple and unfeigned honesty appear more and
more every day, that I really began entirely
to love him; and, for his part, I believe there
was no love lost, and that his nature had been
*
more charmed by my exceeding kindness, and
his affection more placed upon me, than upon
any other object whatsoever among his own
countrymen.
I once had a great desire to try if he had
any hankering inclination to his own country
again: and by this time having taught him
English so well, that he could give me tolerable
answers to any question which I demanded, I
asked him whether that nation to which he be
longed ever conquered in battle? This ques-
tion made Friday smile, and to which he
answered, " Yes, yes, we always fight the bet-
ter;" as much to say, they always got the bet-
ter in fight. You say, said I, that you always
fight the better; why then, Friday, how came
you to be taken prisoner?
Friday. But for all that, my nation beat
much.
Master. How, say you, beat! if your na-
tion beat then, how came you to be taken?
Friday. The more many mans than my na-
tion, in the place where me was, they take one,
two, three, and me; my nation much overheat
them in the yonder place where me no was,
there my nation mans beat one, two, three great
thousands.
Master. Then why did not your men re-
cover you from the hands of your enemies? .
Friday. They run one, two, or three, and
me; they make all go into the cnnoe: my na-
tion have no canoe that time.
Master. 'Tis very well, Friday; but what *
does your nation do with the prisoners they
take? Do they carry them away and eat them
as they have done?
Friday. Yes, yes, my nation eat mans too.
eat up all.
Master. To what place do they carry them
to be devoured?
Friday. Go to other nations where they
think.
Master. Do they bring them hither?
Friday. Yes, come over hither, come over
other place.
Master. And have you been with them here,
Friday 1
Friday. Yes, me been here, (pointing to the
north-west of the island, being the side where
they used to land.)
Thus having gotten what account I could
from my man, I plainly understood, that he
had been as bad as any of the rest of the can-
nibals, having been formerly among the sa-
vages who used to come on shore on the
farthest part of the island, upon the same
bloody occasions as he was brought hither for:
and some time after, I carried him to that place
where he pointed; and no sooner did he come
there, but he presently knew the ground, sig-
nifying to me that he was once there when
they ate up twenty men, two women and a
young child; but as he could not explain the
number in English, he did it by so many
stones in a row, making a sign to me to count
them.
My next question was, how far it was from
the island to the shore, and whether canoes
were not often lost in the ocean? to which he
answered, there was no danger; that no canoes
were ever lost; but that after a little way out
to the sea, there was a strong current, and a
wind always one way, in the afternoon. This
I thought at first to be no more than the sets
of tide, of going out or coming in; but I after-
wards understood it was occasioned by the
great draught and reflux, of the mighty river
Oroonoko, in the mouth or gulph of which, I
imagined my kingdom lay; and that the land
which I perceived to the west, and north-west
must be the great island Trinidad, on the north
of the river.
Well, you may be sure, this knowledge,
which the imperfect imformation of my man
had led me to, was very comfortable to me, and
made me so curious as to ask him, how I might
depart from this island, and get amongst those
white men? He told me, "Yes, yes, I might
go in two canoes." In two canoes, thought I,
what does my man mean. And, indeed it was
a long time before I understood his meaning,
which was, that it must be a large boat, as big
as two canoes, able to bear with the waves,
and not so liable to be overwhelmed as one
must be.
I believe there is no state of life but what
may be happv, if peopln would but endeavour
for their part to make it so. He is not the
happiest man that has the most riches, but he
that is content with what he hath. Before I had
my servant, I thought myself miserable till I had
him; and now that I had enjoyed the happy
benefits of him, I still complained, and begged
a deliverance from a place of retirement, ease
and plenty, where Providence had sufficiently
blessed me. In a word, from this time, I enter-
tained some hopes, that one time or other, I
might find an opportunity to make my escape
from this island, and that this poor savage might
be a great furtherance thereto.
I now began to instruct my servant, in the
saving knowledge of the true Deity, in which
the directions of God's holy Spirit assisted me.
Friday, said I, you must know, that before
this world was made, there was an Almighty
Being existing, by whose power all things
were made, and whose majesty shall have no
end. To be glorified and adored by beings of
a heavanly nature, he created angels and arch-
angels, that is, glorified spirits resembling him-
self to encompass his throne, eternally singing
forth his praise, in the most heavenly sounds
and divine harmony.
I found it easy enough to imprint the right
notions in his mind of God: for nature assist-
ed me in all my arguments, to show him plain-
ly the necessity of a great and overruling, go-
verning power, of a secret directing providence,
and of the equity and reasonableness of paying
adoration to our Creator.
I then entered into a long discourse with
him, upon the subject of the world's redemp-
tion by the Saviour of it, and the doctrine of
repentance preached from heaven, together
with an holy faith in our blessed Redeemer
Jesus Christ.
By the constant application I made of the
Scriptures, as I read them to my man Friday. I
earnestly endeavoured to make him understand
every part of them as much as lay in my power.
He also, on the other hand, by his very serious
questions and enquiries, made me a much bet-
ter proficient in Scripture knowledge, than I
should have been by my own private reading
and study.
You may well suppose, that, by the frequent
discource we had together, my man and I be-
came most intimately acquainted, and that
there was very little that I could say, but
what Friday understood: and indeed, he spoke
very fluently, though it was but broken Eng-
lish. I now took a particular pleasure in re-
lating all my adventures, especially those that
occurred since my being cast on this island.
I made him understand that wonderful mys-
tery, as he conceived, of gunpowder and bul-
let, and taught him how to shoot. I also pre-
sented to him a knife, which pleased him ex-
ceedingly, making him a belt, with a frog
hanging thereto, like those in which we wear
hangers in England; and, instead of a hanger
to put in the frog, I gave him a hatchet, which
was not only as good, but even a better weapon
upon many occasions. In a word, my man
thus accoutred, looked upon himself as great
as Don Quixote, when that celebrated champion
went to combat the windmill.
I next gave him a very particular description
of my misfortune in being shipwrecked; show-
ing him, as near as I could, the place where
the ship lay, which had been gone long before;
but I brought him to the ruins of my boat, which,
before, my whole strength could not move, but
now was almost rotten and fallen to pieces.
I observed my man Friday to view this boat
with an uncommon curiosity; which when he
had done, he stood pondering a great while,
and said nothing. At last, said I, Friday,
what makes you ponder so much? He replied,
"O master, me see like boat come to place at
my nation."
It was some time, indeed, before I under-
stood what my man meant; but examining
strictly into it, I plainly found, that such
another boat, resembling mine, had come
upon the country where he dwelt; that is
to say, by his farther explanation, that the
boat was driven there through stress of wea-
ther.
Indeed Friday answered my demands very
well, making every thing plain to my under-
standing; but beyond measure was I satisfied
when he told me with great warmth and ardour,
"O master, we save white mans from drown;"
upon which I immediately asked him, if there
132
boat; "Yes, yes," said he, "the boat full, very-
full of white mans." How maHy, Friday, said I.
Hereupon he numbered his fingers, and count-
ed seventeen. And when I asked him what
became of them all, and whether they lived or
not? he replied. "Yes, master, they all live,
they be live among my nation." This informa-
tion put fresh thoughts into my head, that these
must be the very men who before I concluded
had been swallowed up in the ocean, after they
had left their ship that had struck upon the
rocks of my kingdom, and after escaping the
fury of the deep, landed upon the wild shore,
and committed themselves to the fury of the
devouring Indians.
The manner of their cruelties to one another,
which consequently, as I thought, must be act-
ed with greater barbarity to strangers, created
in me a great anxiety, and made me still more
curious to ask Friday concerning them. He
told me, he was sure they still lived there, hav-
ing resided among them above four years, and
that the savages gave them victuals to live upon.
But pray, Friday, said I, whence proceeded all
this good nature and generosity? How came it
to pass that they did not kill and eat thern, to
please their devouring appetites; and occasion
so splendid an entertainment among them?
"No, no," said Friday, "they not kill 'em,
they make brother with 'em;" by which I un-
derstood there was a truce between them.
And then I had a more favourable opinion of
the Indians, upon Friday's uttering the words:
133 i
"My nation t'other nation no eat man's but
when mans make war fight:" as though he
had said, that neither those of his kingdom, nor
any other nations that he knew of, ever ate
their fellow-creatures, but such as their law
of arms allowed to be devoured: that is, those
miserable captives, whose misfortune it should
be to be made prisoners of war.
Some considerable time after, upon a very
pleasant day, in most serene weather, my man
and I stood upon the top of a hill, on the
island, whence I had once before beheld the
continent of America. I could not tell imme-
diately what was the matter: for suddenly
'Friday, fell a jumping and dancing as if he
had been mad; and upon my demanding the
reason of his behaviour, "O joy," said he, "O
glad! there see my country, there my nation,
there white mans gether." And indeed such
a rapturous sense of pleasure, appeared in his
countenance, that his eyes had an uncommon
sparkling and brightness, and such a strange
eagerness, as if he had a longing^ desire to be
in his own country again. This made me not
so well satisfied with my man Friday as be-
fore; for by this appearance, I made no dis-
pute, but that if he could get back thither
again, he would not only be unmindful of
what religion I had taught him, but likewise
of the great obligation he owed me for his
wonderful deliverance: nay, that he would
not only inform his countrymen of me, but
accompany hundreds of them to mv kingdom,
.and make mo a miserable sacrifice, like those
unhappy wretches taken in battle.
Indeed I was very much to blame to have
these cruel, and unjust suspicions, and must
freely own I wronged the poor creature very
much, who was of a quite contrary temper.
And had he had that discerning acuteness
which many Europeans have, he would cer-
tainly have perceived my«oldness and indif-
ference, and also have been very much con-
cerned upon that account.
J As we were walking up the same hill another
day, when the weather was so hazy at sea,
that I could not perceive the continent, Friday,
said I, don't you wish yourself to be in your
own country, your own nation, among your
old friends and acquaintances ?" Yes," said
lie, "me much O glad to be at my own na-
tion." And what would you do there, Fri-
day? Would you turn wild again, eat man's
flesh, and be a savage as you were formerly 1
"No, no," (answered he, full of concern, and
shaking his head) "Friday now tell them to
live good, tell them pray God, tell them to eat
corn, bread, cattle, flesh, milk, no eat man
again." But surely, replied I, if you should
offer to do all this, they will kill you; and to
manifest their contempt of such instruction, eat
you up when they have done. He then put on
a grave, yet innocent and smooth countenance,
saying, "No, they no kill me, they willing love
learn:" that is, that they would be very willing
to learn; adding withal, "that they had learned
very much of the bearded mans that came in
the boat." Will you, said I, go back again,
Friday? He smiled at that, and told me, that
he could not swim so far. But said I, I will
make a canoe for you: "Yes, master," said he,
"me go if you go, me no go if you stay." I
go, Friday! why would you have them eat me
up, and devour your kind master?" No,
no," said he, "me make them no eat master,
and me make them much love you;" that is,
he would tell them how I had slain his enemies,
and thereby saved his life, for which reason he
would make them love me: and then he re-
lated to me, as well as he was able,. how ex-
ceeding kind those of his nation were to the
white, or bearded men, 'as he called them, who
in their great calamity, were driven into their
country.
It was from this time, indeed, I had strong
inclinations to venture over, and use my ut-
most efforts, if possible, to join with these
white bearded men, who undoubtedly were
Spaniards or Portuguese; for, thought I, it
must be certainly a better and safer way, to
escape when there is a good company, than
for me alone, from an island forty miles oft"
the shore, and without any assistance. Some
days after, Friday and I being at work, as
usual, at the same time diverting ourselves
with various discourses, I told him I had a
136
ever he pleased to return to his own nation:
and to convince hirn of the truth of what I
said, I took him with me to the other side of
the island, where my frigate lay, and then
taking it from under water (for I always kept
it sunk for fear of a discovery) we both went
into it to see how it would manage such an ex-
pedition.
And really never could any be more dex-
terous in rowing than my faithful servant, mak-
ing the boat go as fast again as I could. Well,
now, Friday, said I, shall we now go to your
much desired nation? But, instead of meet-
ing with that cheerfulness I expected, he
looked very dull and melancholy at my saying
so; which indeed at first surprised me, till he
made me sensible, that his concern was about
the boat's being too small to go so far a voy-
age. Upon which, I let him understand I had
a much bigger; and, accordingly, the next
day went to the place, where the first boat
lay, which I had made, when all the strength
I had, or art I could use, failed me in my
attempt to get it into the water: but now it
having lain in the sun two and twenty years,
and no care being taken of it all that while,
it became in a manner rotten. My man
told me, that such a boat would do very
well for the purpose, sufficient to carry
"enough vittle, dring, bread," for that was his
manner of talking. In short, my mind being
strongly fixed, upon my design of going over
with him to the continent, I very plainly
told him, that we would both go and make a
boat full as big, and more proportionable than
m2
that, wherein he might safely return to his own
nation.
Go your way, since you desire it, and leave
me alone by myself, as I was before I saved
your life.
Never was any creature more thunderstruck
than Friday was at these words, "Go me away,
leave master away," said he, after a long
silence, " No, no, Friday die, Friday live not
master gone ;" as though he had said, I neither
can nor will live, if my master sends me from
him. Friday felt towards me the greatest
gratitude, and the most sincere love ^ he found
me not only his deliverer, but his preserver
and comforter; not a severe and cruel tyrant,
but a kind, loving, and affable friend. He
wanted for no manner of sustenance; and
when he was ill, or out of order, I was his
physician, not only for his body, but his soul;
and therefore no wonder was it, that such an
innocent creature, long since divested of his
former natural cruelty, should have an uncom-
mon concern at so cruel a separation from me,
which pierced him to the very soul, and made
him desire even to die, rather than live without
me.
After I had told Friday, in a very careless
manner, that he should be at his liberty as soon
as the boat was made, the language of his eyes
expressed all imaginable confusion; when,
immediately running to one of his hatchets,
which he used to wear as a defensive weapon,
he gives it into my hand, with a heart so full,
that he could scarcely speak. Friday, said I,
what is it you mean? What must I do with this?
"Only kill Friday," said he, "Friday care not
live long." But what must I kill you for? re-
plied I again. "Ah, dear master, what made
you Friday save from eat a me up, so keep long
Friday, make Friday love God, and now Friday
send away, never see Friday more." And
while he spoke thus, the tears ran down his
cheeks in such a plentiful manner, that I had
much ado to refrain from weeping also when I
beheld the poor creature's affection: so that I
was forced to comfort him in the best manner I
could, which I did, by telling him, if he was
content to abide with me, I should be ever will-
ing to keep him.
After Friday's grief was somewhat abated,
more fully to convince me of his affection, he
said, " O master, me not care to be in my na-
tion, leave you here, me desire nation learn
good, that's all;" meaning, that his desire was
for the conversion of that barbarous people;
and that we wished me to go with him. And
indeed, I began to desire to go also, from my
late discourse with Friday, about these seven-
teen white bearded men, that had been driven
upon the barbarian coast; whom I designed to
join, as the only means to further our escape.
To which intent, my man and I went to search
for a proper tree to fell, whereof we might
make a perigua or canoe, to undertake the
voyage; and, indeed, we were not long in find-
ing one fit for our purpose, there being enough
of wood in the island to have built a fleet of
large vessels, hut the thing we principally
wanted. was, to get one so near the water, that
we might launch it after it was finished, and
not commit so horrid a mistake as I had done
once before.
Well, after a great search for what was best
and most convenient, Friday, at last, whose
judgment in such affairs was much superior to
mine, pitches upon a kind of wood the most
fitting for it. But though my man exceeded
me in the knowledge of the most proper tree,
yet I showed him a much better and cleaner
way to make a canoe than ever he knew before;
for he was for burning the hollow or cavity of
the tree, in order to make this boat; but I then
told him how we might do it with tools, teach-
ing him" at the same time how to use them,
which indeed he did very dexterously; so that
in a month's time we finished it, making it
very handsome, by cutting the outside in the
true shape of a boat. After this, it took us a
full fortnight before we could get her into the
water, which we did, as it were, inch by inch,
upon great rollers: but when she was in, she
would have carried twenty meu, with all the
ease imaginable.
As I was very well pleased, you may be
sure, at the launching of this man of war of mine,
I was no less amazed to behold with what dex-
terity my man could manage her, turn her, and
paddle her along. Well, Friday, said I, what
do you think of it now? Do vou think this will
carry us over? "Yes, master," said he, "we
venture over well, though great blow wind."
But my design was yet farther, which he was
insensible of; and that to make a mast and a
sail, and provide her with an anchor and cable.•
As to a mast that was no difficult thing at all
to procure: so fixing upon a straight young
cedar tree, which I found near the place, (great
plenty of it abounding in the island) and setting
Friday to cut it down, I gave him particular
directions how to shape and order it; but as to
the sail, that, I managed myself. I very well
knew I had some old ones, or pieces of sails
enough, which had lain six and twenty years by
me; but not being careful to preserve them, as
thinking I should have no occasion to use them
any more, when I came to look over them, I
found them almost all rotten, except two; and
with these I went to work, and after a great
deal of pains and awkward tedious stichmg for
want of needles, at length I finished a three-
cornered ugly thing like that we call in Eng-
land, a shoulder of mutton sail, to go with a
boom at the bottom, and a, small sprit at the
top, like those which#our long-boats use, and
which I very well knew how to manage,
especially since it was like that which I had in
my patron's fishing-boat, when with my boy
Xury, I made my escape from the barbarian
shore.
It was nearly two months, I think, before I
completed this work, that is, the rigging, and
fitting up my mast and sails; and indeed they
were nicely done, having mnde a small stay,
and a sail, or foresail to it, to assist, if we
should turn to the windward; and, which was
still more, I fixed a rudder to the stern of her,
*to steer with; and though I was but a very
indifferent ship-right, yet, as I was sensible
of the great usefulness and absolute necessity
of a thing like this, I applied myself to it with
such a constant application, that at last I ac-
complished my design; but what with the many
dull contrivances I had about it, and the failure
of many things, it cost me as much pains in
ordering as in making the boat. Besides,
when all this was done, I had my man to
teach what belonged to its navigation; for
though he very well understood how to pad-
die a canoe alone, he was an utter stranger to
a sail and a rudder, and was amazed when he
saw me work the boat to and again-in the sea,
by them, and how the sail jibbed and filled
this way or that way, as the course we sailed
changed. After some time. and a little use,
I made all these things very familiar to him,
so that he became jan expert sailor, except in
relation to the compass, %nd that I could make
him understand but little of. But as it hap-
pened, there was seldom occasion for it, there
being but little cloudy weather, and scarcely
any fog in those parts; the stars were always
visible in the night, and the shore by day, ex-
cept in the rainy season, which conrined every
one to his habitation. Thus entered in to the
seven-and-twentieth vear of mv reign or can-
.ivity, which you please, (the last three of
•vhich, blessed with the company of m^ man
Friday, ought not to be reckoned) I kept the
anniversary of my landing here with the same
thankfulness to God for his tender mercies, as
I did before; and certainly as I had great
cause for thankful acknowledgment for my de-
liverance at first, I had much greater now for
such singular and additional testimonies of the
care of Providence over me, in all my dis-
ti-esses of both body and mind, and the great
hopes I had of being effectually and speedily
delivered: for I had a strong impression upon
my mind, that I should not be another year in ,
this island. But, however, J still continued on
with my husbandry, digging, planting, and
fencing as usual: gathering and curing my
grapes, and doing all other things that'-were
143
And now the rainy season beginning to
come on, obliged me -to keep the longer
within doors: but before this, I brought my
new vessel into the creek, where I had
landed my rafts, from the ship; so we waiti
ed for the months of November and Decem-
ber, in which I designed to venture over the
ocean.
No sooner did the seasonable weather begin
to draw near, but so much was I elevated with
this new designed adventure, that I daily pre-
pared for the voyage. The first thing that I
thought on was, to lay by a certain quantity of
provisions, as a sufficient store for such an-
expedition, intending in a week or a fort-
night'sHime to open the dock, and launch out
the boat for that purpose. But one morning,
as I was very busy upon something necessary
for this occasion, I called Friday to me, and
bid him to go to the sea-shore, and see if he
could find a turtle or tortoise, a thing which
we commonly had once a week, as much upon
account of the eggs, as for the sake of the
flesh. He had not been long Jbne, but he
came running back, as though he was pur-
sued for life, and as it were flew over my
outer wall, or fence, like one that felt not the
ground, or steps he set his feet on: before I
had time to enquire the reason of his precipi-
tation, he cries out, "O dear master, O sorrow!
sorrow! Bad! O bad!" Why, what's the
matter, Friday? said I. "O yonder, yonder,"
said he, "there be one, two, three canoes! two,
three."
Surely (thought I) there must be six, by
my man's way of reckoning; but on a strict-
er enquiry, I found there were but three.
Well, Friday, said I, don't be terrified. I
warrant you we will defend ourselves against
them.—But though I comforted him in the
best manner I could, the poor creature
trembled so, that I scarcely knew what to do
with him: "O, master," said he, "they come
look Friday, cut pieces Friday, cut a me
up."
Why, Friday, said I, they will eat me up as
well as you, and my danger is as great as
four's. But since it is so, we must resolve to
fight for our lives. What say you? Can you
fight Friday ?" Yes," said he very faintly,
"me shoot, me kill what I can, but there come
great many number." That's no matter, said
I again, our guns will terrify those that we do
not kill; I am very willing to stand by you to
the last drop of my blood.
Now, tell m*, if you will do the like by
me, and obey my orders in whatsoever I com.
maud? Friday then answered, "O master,
me lose life for you, me die when you bid
die." Thus concluding all questions concern-
ing his fidelity, I ordered him to take the two
fowling pieces, which we always carried,
and load them with large swan-shot, as big as
small pistol bullets; then I took four muskets
and loaded them with two slugs, and five
small bullets each; charging my two pistols
each with a brace, I hung my great sword,'as
customary, naked to my side, and gave Friday
his hatchet, as a most excellent weapon for
defence.
Thus prepared, I took my perspective glass,
and went up to the side of the hill, to see what
I could discover; and. I perceived very soon,
by my glass, that there were one and twenty
savages, three prisoners, and three canoes, and
their chief concern seemed to be the tri-
umphant banquet upon three poor human
bodies, a thing which by this time I had ob-
served was very common with them. Upon
which I called to Friday; and shoving bim a
great tree, that was just at the corner of the
wood, near which they were, I ordered him to
repair thither, and bring me word, if he could
plainly perceive their actions; accordingly he
did as I commanded him, and came back with
this melancholy story, that they were all about
their fire, eating the flesh of one of their pri-
soners; and that another lay bound upon the
sand, a little distance from them, whom they
designed for their next sacrifice; and this he
told me, was not one of their nation, but one
of those very bearded men, who was driven by
a storm into their country, and whom he had
so often spoken to me about. You may be
sure, that, upon hearing this, my soul was
ready to sink within me: when ascending up
into a tree, I saw plainly, by my glass, a white
man, who lay upon the beach of the sea, with
his hands tied with flags or things resembling
rushes, being covered with clothes, and seem-
ing to be an European. From the tree where
I took this prospect, I perceived another tree,
and a thicket beyond it, about fifty yards
nearer to them than where I was, which by
taking a small circle round, I might come at
undiscovered, and then I should be within half
a shot of these devourers. I therefore got
behind some bushes, which held all the way
till I came to the other tree ; and then I as.
cended to a little rising ground, not above
eighteen yards distance, and there I had a full
view of these creatures, and could perceive all
their actions.
Such a sight did then appear, as obliged
me not to lose a moment's time. No less than
nineteen of these dreadful wretches sat upon
the ground, close huddled together, express-
ing all the delight imaginable at so barbarous
an entertainment; and they had just sent the
other two to murder this poor unhappy Chris-
tian, and bring him limb by limb to their fire;
for they were then just going to untie the
bands from his feet. Hereupon, immediately
turning' to my man, Now, Friday, said I,
mind what I say, fail in nothing, but do ex-
actly as you see me do. All which he pro-
mising to perform, I set down one of my mus-
kets, and the fowling-piece upon the ground,
and Friday did the same by his; and with
the other musket I took my aim at the savages,
bidding him to do the like: Are you ready,
said I; "Yes, master," said he, why then fire
at them said I; and at that very moment I gave
fire likewise.
I only killed one and wounded two; but my
man Friday, taking his aim much better than
I, killed two, and wounded three. You may
be sure they were in a dreadful consternation,
at such an unexpected disaster; and those
who had yet escaped our penetrating shot,
immediately jumped upon their feet, but were
in such a confusion, that they knew not which
way to run or look; not knowing from whence
I heir destruction came. We threw down our
pieces, and took up others, giving a second
dreadful volley; but as they were only loaded
with swan-shot, or small pistol bullets, we
perceived only two of them fall, though many
were wounded who ran yelling and screaming
about like mad creatures. Now, Friday, said
I, lay down your piece, and take up the mus-
ket, and follow me. He did so with great
courage, when showing ourselves to the sa-
vages, we gave a great shout, and made direct-
ly to the poor victim, who would have been sa.
crificed, had not our first fire obliged the
butchers, with three others, to jump into a
canoe. By my order, Friday fired at them,
at which shot I thought he had killed them all,
by reason of their falling to the bottom of the
boat; however he killed two, and mortally
wounded a third. In the mean time I cut the
flags that tide the hands and feet of the poor
creature, and lifting him up, asked him in the
Portuguese tongue What he was? he answered
me in Latin, "Christianus:" but so very weak
and faint that he could scarcely stand or speak.
And I next asked him, what countryman he
was? He said "Espaniola," and then uttered
all the thankfulness imaginable for his deliver-
ance. Signior, (said I with as much Spanish
as I was master of) let us.,.talk afterwards but
fight now; here, take this sword and pistol, and
do what you can. And indeed, he did so with
such courage and intrepidity, that he cut two
of them to pieces in an instant. I ordered Fri-
day to run for the guns we had left at the tree,
which he brought to me with great swiftness,
and then I gave him my musket, while I loaded
the rest. But now there happened a fierce en-
counter between the Spaniard and one of the
savages, who made at him with one of (heir
wooden swords ; and though the former was as
brave as could be expected, having twice
wounded his enemy in the head; vet being
weak and faint, the Indian had thrown him
upon the ground, and was wresting mj sword
out of his hand, which the Spaniard very wise-
ly quitting, drew out his pistol, and shot hi«n
through the body before I could come near
him, though I was running to his assistance
As to Friday, he pursued the flying wretches
with his hatchet, dispatching three, but the
rest were too nimble for him* The Spaniard
taking one of the fowling pieces, wounded
two, who running into the wood, Friday pur-
sued and killed; but the other, notwithstanding
his wounds, plunged himself into the sea, and
swam to those who were left in the canoe, which
with one wounded, were all that escaped out
of one and twenty.
The savages in the canoe worked very hard
to get out of our reach, and Friday was as
eager in pursuing them: and, indeed, I was no
Jess anxious about their escape, lest after the
news had been carried to their people, they
should return in multitudes, and destroy us.
So being resolved to pursue them, I jumped
into one of their canoes, and bid Friday follow
2n
me; but no sooner was I in, than, to my surprise,
I found another poor creature, bound hand and
foot for the slaughter, just as the Spaniard had
been, with very little life in him. Immediately
I unbound him, and would have helped him
up; but he could neither stand nor speak but
groaned so piteously, as thinking he was un-
bound in order to be slain. Hereupon I bid
Friday speak to him, and tell him of his deliver-
ance; when pulling out my bottle, I made the
poor wretch drink a little, which, with the joy-
ful news he had received, so revived his heart,
that he sat up in the boat. As soon as Friday
began to hear him speak, and look more fully
in his face, it would have moved any one to
tears to perceive his uncommon transports
of joy; for he kissed, embraced him, hugged
him, cried, laughed, hallooed, jumped about,
danced, sung, then cried again, wrung his
hands, beat his face and head, then sung and
jumped about again, like a distracted creature:
so that it was a great while before I could
make him speak to me, or tell me what was
the matter with him; but when he came to the
liberty of his speech, at last he told me it was
150
Here, indeed, I was infinitely moved to see
that dutiful and tender affection this poor sa-
vage had to his aged parent. He would sit
down by him in the boat, open his breast, and
hold his father's head close to his bosom, half
»n hour together, to cherish him: then he took
his arms and ankles, which were stiff an
numbed, with binding, and chafed and rubbe
them with his hands; by which means, pei
ceiving what the case was, I gave him som
rum, which proved of great benefit to him.
While we were busy in this action, the sa
vages had gotten almost out of sight; an,
happy it was we did not pursue them: fc-
there arose from the north-west, such a violen
storm, which continued all night long, that 1
could not suppose otherwise but that they were
all drowned. After this, I called Friday to me,
and asked him, if he had given his father any
bread? He shook hia head, and said, "None,
not, one bit, me eat a up all ;" so I gave him
a cake of bread out of a little pouch I carried
for this end.. I likewise gave him two or three
bunches of raisins for his father.
. Away he then runs out of the boat as if he
was bewitched, with such an extraordinary
swiftness, that he was out of sight as it were in
an instant; but, at his return, I perceived him
slacken his pace, because he had something in
his hand. And this I found to be, as he ap-
proached nearer, an earthen jug with some
water for his father, with two more cakes of
bread, which he delivered into my hands. Be-
ing very thirsty myself, I drank some of the
water, of which when his father had drank suf-
ficiently, it more revived his spirits than all the
rum I had given him.
I then called Friday to me, and ordered him
to carry one of the cakes, and some water to
the Spaniard, who was reposing himself upon
a green place under the shade of-a tree, but so
weak, that though he exerted himself, he could
not stand upon his feet. Upon which, I ordered
Friday to rub and bathe his ankles with rum,
as he did his father's. But every minute he
was employed in this, he would cast his eyes
towards the boat, where he left his father
sitting; who suddenly disappearing, he flew
like lightning to him, and finding he only laid
himself down to ease his limbs, he returned
back to me presently, and then I spoke to the
Spaniard to let Friday help him, and lead him
to the boat in order to be conveyed to my
dwelling, where I would take care of him.
Upon which, Friday took him upon his back,
and so carried him to the canoe, setting him
close by his father; and presently stepping out
again, launched the boat off", and paddled it
along the shore faster than I could walk, though
the wind blew very hard too; and having
brought them safe to the creek, away he runs
to fetch the other canoe, which he brought to
the creek almost as soon as I got to it by land;
then wafting me over, he took our new guests
out of the boat; but so weak were they, that
I was forced to make a kind of a hand-barrow;
and when I came to my castle, not being wil-
ling to make an entrance into my wail, we
made them a handsome tent, covered with old
sails, and boughs of trees, making two good
beds of rice straw, with blankets to lie upon
and cover them. Thus, like an absolute king,
over subjects who owed their lives to me, I
thought myself very considerable.
To get provisions for my poor weak subjects,
I ordered Friday to kill me a yearling goat;
which when he had done, I cut off the hinder
quarters, and chopping it into small pieces•
boiled and stewed it, putting barley and rico
into the broth. This I carried into their tent, set
a table, dined with them, and encouraged them.
Friday was my interpreter to his father, and
indeed to tho Spaniard too, who spoke the lan-
guage of the savages pretty well. After dinner,
I ordered Friday to fetch home all our arms
from the field of battle, and the next day to
bury the dead bodies, which he did accordingly.
And now I made Friday enquire of his fa-
ther, whether he thought those savages had
escaped the late storm in their canoe; and if
so, whether they would not return with a force
too great for us to resist? He answered, that
he thought it impossible they could outlive the
storm: or if they were driven southwardly,
they would come to a land where they would
as certainly be devoured, as if they were
drowned in the sea And suppose they had
attained their own country, the strangeness of
their fatal and bloody attack would make them
tell their people that the rest of them were
killed by thunder and lightning, not by the
hnnd of man, but by two heavenly spirits
(meaning Friday and me) who were sent from
above to destroy them. And this, he said, he
knew, because he heard them say the same to
one another. And indeed he was in the right
on't; for 1 have heard since, that these four
men gave out, that whoever went to that en-
chanted island, would be destroyed by fire from
the gods.
No canoes appearing some time after, as I
expected, my apprehensions ceased; instead
of which my former thoughts of a voyage took
place, especially when Friday's father assured
me I should have good usage in his nation. As
to the Spaniard, he told me that sixteen more
of his countrymen, and Portuguese, who had
been shipwrecked, made their escape thither 5
that though they were in union with the sa.
vages, yet they were very miserable for want
of provisions and other necessaries. When I
asked him about the particulars. of his voyage,
he answered, that their ship was bound from
Rio de la Plata to the Havana; that when
the ship was lost. only five men perished in the
ocean ; the rest having saved themselves in the
boat, were now landed on the main continent.
And what do they intend to do there? said I.
He replied, they had concerted measures to
escape by building a vessel, but that they had
neither tools nor provisions, so that all their
designs came to nothing. Supposing (said I)
I should make a proposal, and invite them here,
would they not carry me prisoner to New
Spain? He answered no; for he knew them to
be such honest men, as would scorn to act with
such inhuman baseness to their deliverer: that
if I pleased, he and the old savage would go
over to them, talk with them about it, and bring
me an answer: that they should all swear fide-
lity to me as their leader, upon the holy sacra-
ment; and, for his part, he would not only do
the same, but stand by me to the last drop of
his blood, should there be occasion.
These solemn assurances made me resolve to
grant them relief, and to send these two over
for that purpose; but when every thing was
ready, the Spaniard raised an objection, which
carried a great deal of weight in it: "You
know, Sir, said he, that having been some time
with you, I cannot but be sensible that your
stock of rice and corn may be sufficient, per-
haps, for us at present, but not for them, should
they come over presently, much less to victual
a vessel for an intended voyage. And there-
fore, my advice is, to wait another harvest, and
in the mean time, cultivate and improve some
more land, whereby we may have plenty of
provisions, in order to execute our design."
This advice of the Spaniard I approved ex-
tremely; and so satisfied was I of his fidelity,
that I esteemed him ever after. And thus we
all four went to work upon some more land, and
against seed-time, we had gotten so much cured
and trimmed up, as was sufficient to sow 22
bushels of barley on, and 16 jars of rice.which
was in short all the seed we had to spare. As
we were four in number, and by this time all
in good health, we feared not an hundred of
Indians, should they venture to attack us; and
while the corn was growing, I pitched upon
some trees, fit to build us a large vessel, in
case the Spaniards came over; which being
marked, I ordered Friday and his father to cut
them down, appointing the Spaniard, who was
now my privy counsellor, to oversee and direct
the work. I likewise increased my flocks of
goats, by shooting the wild dams, and bringing
home their kids to my enclosure; nor did I
neglect the grape season, but cured them as
usual, though I had such a quantity now, as
would have filled 80 barrels with raisins.
And thus all of us being employed, they in
working, and I in providing for them, till har-
vest came, God Almighty blessed the increase
of it so much, that from twenty-two bushels
of barley, we threshed out two hundred and
twenty, and the like quantity of rice, sufficient
to victual a ship fit to carry me and all the
Spaniards to any part of America.
Thus the principal objection being answer-
ed, by a sufficient stock of provisions, I sent
my two ambassadors over to the main land,
with a regal authority to administer the oaths
of allegiance and fidelity, and have an instru-
ment signed under their hands, though I never
asked whether they had pen, ink, or paper:
156
charges of powder and ball, and provisions
enough for eight days, they sailed away with a
fair gale, on a day when the moon was at full.
Scarcely a fortnight had passed over my
head; but, impatient for their return, I laid me
down to sleep one morning, when a strange
accident happened, which was ushered in by
my man's coming running to me, and cading
aloud, "Master, master, they are come, they
are come. Upon which, not dreaming of any
danger, out I jumped from my bed, put on my
clothes, and hurried through my little grove;
when looking towards the sea, I perceived a
boat, about a league and a half distant, standing
in for the shore, with a fair wind. I beheld
they did not come from the side where the land
lay on, but from the southmost end of the island.
So these being none of the people we wanted,
I ordered Friday to lie still, till such time as I
came down from the mountain, which, with my
ladder, I now ascended, in order to discover
more fully what they were; and now, with the
help of my perspective glass, I plainly perceiv-
ed an English ship, which I concluded it to be,
by the fashion of its long boat; and which fill-
ed me with such uncommon transports of joy,
that I cannot teH how to describe; and yet
some secret doubts hung about me, proceeding
from I know not what cause, as though I had
reason to be on my guard.
Not long it was, before I perceived the boat
to approach the shore, as though they looked
for a place where they might conveniently land;
and at last they ran their boat on the shore upon
the beach, about half a mile distance; which
proved so much the happier for me, since, had
they come into the creek, they had landed just
at my door, and might not only have forced me
out of my castle, but plundered me of all I
had in the world. Now I was fully convinced
they were all Englishmen, three of whom were
unarmed and bound; when immediately, the
first four or five leaped on shore, and took
those three out of the boat as prisoners, one
of whom I could perceive used the most pas.
sionate gestures of entreaty, affliction and de-
spair, while the others in a less degree showed
abundance of concern.
Not knowing the meaning of this, I beckoned
to Friday, who was below, to ascend the moun-
tain, and likewise view this sight. "O mas-
ter," said he to me, "you see English mans eat
prisoners as well as savage mans." And do
you think they will eat them, Friday? said I.
"Yes," said Friday, "they eat a all up." No,
no, said I, Friday, I am much more concerned
lest they murder them; but as for eating them
up, that I am sure the}- will never do.
And now I not only lamented my misfortune
in not having the Spaniard and Savage with
me, but also that I could not conic within shot
of them unperceived, (they having no fire-arms
among them) and save these three men, whom
I thought they were going to kill with their
swords. But some comfort it was to me, that
I perceived they were set at liberty to go where
they pleased, the rascally seamen scattering
about as though they had a mind to see the
place; and so long did they negligently ram-
ble, that the tide had ebbed so low, as to leave
the boat aground. Nor were the two men
that were in her more circumspect; for having
drunk a little too much liquor, they fed fast
asleep; but one of them waking before the
other, and perceiving the boat too fast aground
for his strength to move it, he hallooed out to
the rest, who made all possible expedition to
come to him; but, as Providence ordered it,
all their force was ineffectual to launch her,
when I could hear them speak to one another,
"Why let her alone, Jack- can't ye, she'll float
next tide:" by which words I was fully con-
vinced they were my own countrymen. I this
while lay very quiet, as being fully sensible
it could be no less than ten hours before the
boat would be afloat, and then it would be so
dark, that they could not easily perceive me,
by which means I should be at more liberty to
hear their talk, and observe all their motions;
not but that I prepared for my defence: yet
as I had another sort of enemy to combat with,
I acted with more caution. I took two fusees
on my shoulder, and gave Friday three mus-
kets; besides my formidable goat-skin, and
monstrous cap, made me look as fierce and ter-
rible as Hercules of old, especially when two
pistols were stuck in my belt, and my naked
sword was hanging by my side.
The three poor distressed creatures, too
anxious to get any repose, were however,
seated under the shade of a great tree, about a
quarter of a mile from me.
Upon which, without any more ado, I ap.
proached towards them, with my man following
behind me, and, before I was perceived, I
called aloud to them in Spanish, what are ye
gentlemen 1
At these words they started up in great con-
fusion, when they beheld the strange figure I
made; they returned no answer, but seemed as
if they would fly from me: Gentlemen• (said I
in English) don't be afraid, perhaps you have a
friend nearer than you expect. "He must be
from heaven," said one of them, gravely pulling
off his hat, "for we are past all help in this
world." All help is from heaven, said I, but
Sir as I have perceived every action between
you and these brutes since your landing only
inform me how to assist you, and I will do it to
the utmost of my power.
Am I talking with God or man? said he, in
melting tears. Are you of human kind, or an
angel? Sir, said I, " my poor habit will tell you
I am a man, and an Englishman, willing to
assist you, having but this servant only, here
are arms and ammunition: tell freely your
condition, can we save you 1" The story, said
he, is too long to relate, since our butchers
<tre so near: but, Sir, I was master of that ship,
my men have mutined, and it is as a favour
they have put my mate, this passenger, and me,
on shore without murdering us, though we ex-
pect nothing but perishing here.' "Are your
enemies gone?" said I. No, replied he
(pointing to a thicket,) there they lie,-while
my heart trembles, lest, having seen and heard
us, they should murder us all. "Have they
firearms?" said I. They have but two pieces,
said he, one of which is left in the boat. He
also told me, there were two enormous villians
amongst them, that were the authors of this
mutiny, who, if they were killed or seized,
the rest might be induced to return to their
obedience.
When he had given me all the satisfaction I
could desire, I gave him and his two compa-
nions each of them a gun, with powder and
ball sufficient, and firing myself, killed one of
the Captain's enemies, and wounded the other
who eagerly called for assistance; but the
Captain (who had reserved his piece) coming
up to him, " Sirrah," said he, "'tis too late to
call for assistance, you should rather cry to God
to pardon your villainy:" and so knocked him
down with the stock of his gun: three others
were also slightly wounded, who, at my ap-
proach, cried out for mercy. This the Captain
granted, upon condition that they would swear
to be true to him in recovering the ship, which
they solemnly did: however I obliged the
o2
Captain to keep them bound. After which
I sent Friday and the Captain's mate to secure
the boat, and bring away the oars and sail;
when the men, seeing their late distressed
Captain, now their conqueror, submitted to be
bound also. And then it was, that having
more liberty, I related the adventures of my
whole life, which he heard with a serious at-
tention. After this, I carried him and his two
companions into my little fortified castle, show-
ed them all my conveniences, and, when this
was over, we began to consider about regain-
ing the ship: he said that there were twenty-
six hands on board, who knowing their lives
were forfeited by the law, for conspiracy and
mutiny, were so very hardened, that it would
be dangerous for our small company to attack
them. This was a reasonable inference, in-
deed; but something we must resolve on, and
immediately put in execution: we therefore
heaved the boat upon the beach so high that
she could not shoot off at high water mark, and
broke a hole in her not easy to be stopped; so
that a'l the signals they gave for the boat to
come on board were in vain. This obliged
them to send another boat ashore, with ten
men armed, whose faces the Captain plainly
descried, the boatswain being the chief offi-
cer; but he said there were three honest lads
among them, who were forced into the conspi-
racy. Hereupon, I gave him fresh courage,
(fir I had perceived he was in concern) in the
mean while securing our prisoners, except two,
whom we took to our assistance, we thought
ourselves able enough to endure a battle.
When the sailors landed, and beheld their
boat in that condition, they not only hallooed,
but fired, for their companions to hear, yet
they received no answer. This struck them
with horror and amazement, thinking their
companions were murdered, they made as if
they would return to the ship. I could per-
ceive the Captain's countenance change at this,
till, of a sudden, three men were ordered to
look after the boat, while the other seven leapt
on shore, in order to search for their compa-
nions: and, indeed, they came to the brow of
the hill, near my ancient castle, from whence
they could see to a great distance in the woods,
and there shouting and hallooing till tired and
weary, they at length seated themselves under
a spreading tree. My opinion was, that no-
thing could be done till night, when I might
use some artifice to get them all out of the
boat; but of a sudden they started up, and
made towards the sea-side; hereupon I or-
dered Friday and the Captain's mate to go
over the creek, and halloo as loud as they
could, and so decoying them into the woodsf
come round to me again. And, this, indeed,
had good effect; for they followed the noise,
till coming westward to the creek, they called
for their boat to carry them over, and taking
one of the men out of her, left two to' c
after her, having fastened her i"''
a little tree on the shore. Hereupon imme-
diately the captain and our party passing the
creek, out of their sight, we surprised them
both, by the Captain's knocking down one and
ordering the other to surrender upon pain of
death, and who, being the honestest of them
all, sincerely joined with us. By this time it
was pretty late; when the rest returning to
their boat, which they found aground in the
creek, the tide out, and the men gone, they ran
about wringing their hands, crying it was an
enchanted island, and that they should be all
murdered by spirits or devils. My men would
willingly have fallen upon them, but I would
not agree to hazard any of our party. But to
be more certain, Friday and the Captain crawl-
ed upon their hands and feet, as near as pos-
sible; and when the boatswain approached in
sight, so eager was the Captain, that he fired,
and killed him on the spot: Friday wounded
the next man, and a third ran away. Hereupon
I advanced with my whole army; and it being
dark, I ordered the man we had surprised in the
boat, to call them by their names, and to parley
with them. Accordingly he called out aloud,
"Tom Smith, Tom Smith!" He answered,
"Who's that;" "Robinson!" answered the
other, " For God's sake, Tom, surrender im-
mediately, or you're all dead men." "Who
must we surrender to?" says Smith. "To our
Captain and a large force here, who have taken
me prisoner, wounded Will Fyre, and killed the
boatswain." "Shall we have quarter then V
said he. Hereupon the Captain calls out,
"You Smith, you know my voice, surrender
immediately, and you shall have your lives
granted, except Will Atkins." Hereupon At-
kins cries out, "What have I done, Captain,
more than the rest, who have been as bad as
me;" but that was a lie, for he was the person
that laid hold of him, and bound uim. However,
he was ordered to submit to the governor's
mercy, for such was I called. And so laying
down their arms! we bound them all, and
seized on their boat.
After this, the Captain expostulated with
them, telling them that the governor was an
Englishman, who might execute them there;
but he thought they would be sent to England.
Hereupon they implored the Captain to inter-
cede for their lives, and begged they might not
be sent to England. This answered our pro-
ject for seizing the ship. For, after sending
them, fast bound, to the cave, I sent the Cap.
tain to treat with them in the governor's name,
offering them pardon if they would assist in re-
covering the ship. Upon which, they all pro-
mised to stand by him till the last drop of their
blood; and whoever acted treacherously should
be hanged in chains upon the beach. They
were all released on these assurances: and then
the Captain repaired to the other boat, making
his passenger Captain of her, and gave him
four men well armed; while himself, his mate,
and five more, went in the other boat. By
midnight they came within call of the ship,
when the Captain ordered Robinson to hai] her.
and tell them that with great difficulty they had
found the men at last. But while they were
discoursing, the Captain, his mate, and the rest
entered, and knocked down the second mate,
and carpenter, secured those that were upon
the deck, by putting them under hatches• while
the other boat's crew entered and secured the
forecastle; they then broke into the round-
house, where the mate, after some resistance,
shot the pirate Captain through the head, upon
which all the rest yielded themselves prisoners.
And thus the ship being recovered, the joyful
signal was fired, which I heard with the great-
est joy imaginable: nor was it long before he
brought the ship to an anchor at the creek's
mouth, where coming to me unawares, "There,"
says he, "my dearest friend and deliverer, there
is your ship, and we are your servants:" a
comfort so unspeakable, as made me swoon in
his arms, while, with gratitude to heaven, we
were tenderly embracing each other.
Nothing now remained, but to consult what
we should do with the prisoners, whom he
thought it was not safe to take on board.
Hereupon, concerting with the Captain, I dress.
ed myself in one of his suits, and sending for
them, told them, that as I was going to leave
the island with all my people, if they would
tarry there, their lives should be spared; if not,
they should be hanged at the first port they
came to. They agreed to stay. Hereupon I
told them my whole story, charging them to be
kind to the Spaniards that were expected, gave
them all my arms, and informing them of every
thing necessary for their subsistence, I and my
man Friday went on board. But the next
morning two of the men came swimming to the
ship's side, desiring ike Captain to take them
on board, though he-Banged them afterwards,
complaing mightily how barbarously the others
used them. Upon which I prevailed with the
Captain to tike them in; and having received
some punishment, they proved more honest for
the future. And so I bid farewell to this
island, carrying along with me my money, my
parrot, umbrella, and goat-skin cap; setting
sail December 12, 1687, after twenty-eight
years, two months, and nineteen days' resi-
dence, and landing in England, June 11, 1688,
after five and thirty years' absence from my
own country, which rendered me altogether a
stranger there.
FINIS.
VERSES,
SUPPOSED TO BE WBITTEN BY ALEX. SELKIRK,
DURING HIS SOLITARY ABODE IN THE ISLAND
OF JUAN FERNANDEZ; IN WHICH HE HAD
LIVED QUITE ALONE DURING UPWARDS OF
FOUR YEARS.
I AM monarch of all I survey,
My right there is none to dispute;
From the centre all round to the sea,
I am lord of the fowl and the brute.
Oh, Solitude ! where are the charms
That sages have seen in thy face?
Better dwell in the midst of alarms,
Than reign in this horrible place.
n.
I am out of humanity's reach,
I must finish my journey alone,
Never hear the sweet music of speech;
I start at the sound of my own.
The beasts, that roam over the plain,
My form with indifference see;
They are so unacquainted with man,
Their tameness is shocking to me.
III.
Society, friendship, and love,
Divinely bestow'd upon man,
Oh, had I the wings of a dove,
How soon would I taste you again!
My sorrows I then might assuage
In the ways of religion and truth,
Might learn from the wisdom of age,
And be cheer'd by the sallies of youth
IV.
Religion! what treasure untold
Resides in that heavenly world!
More precious than silver and gold,
Or all that this earth can afford.
But the toll of the summoning bell
These vallies and rocks never heard,
Ne'er sigh'd at the sound of a knell,
Or smil'd when a Sabbath appear'd.
Ye winds, that have made me your sport,
Convey to this desolate shore
Some cordial endearing report
Of a land I shall visit no more.
My friends, do they now and then send
A wish or a thought after me?
O tell me I yet have a friend,
Though a friend I am never to see.
p
VI.
How fleet is a glance ot the mind!
Compar'd with the speed of its flight,
The tempest itself lags behind,
And the swift wing'd arrow of light.
When I think of my own native land,
In a moment I seem to be there;
But, alas! recollection at hand
Soon hurrys me back to despair.
VII.
But the sea-fowl is gone to her uem.,
The beast is laid down in his lair,
Ev'n here is a season of rest,
And I to my cabin repair.
There's mercy in every place:
And mercy, encouraging thought!
Gives even affliction a grace,
And reconciles man to his lot.
F4MILY MAXIMS.
Tkxje Love
True love will never allow a parent or a
master to indulge any under his care in bad
dispositions or wrong conduct. A good parent
cannot allow his child to feed on poison ;—bad
temper is poison—wrong conduct is poison.
Bad Habits.
Beware of the beginnings of bad habits:
the worst habits are acquired, not at once, but
by degrees.
Home.
Use every endeavour to make home a scene
of happiness and satisfaction, that all may re-
turn to it with willingness and pleasure.
Good-will in Families.
Better is the lowliest fare where love and
good-will prevail, than the greatest dainties
with discord and contention.
Angry Passions.
Angry passions blind the judgment: they
often provoke bad feelings in return, and lead
to many eviis.
FoBBEARANCE.
"Bear and forbear;" endeavour to "over-
come evil with good," and to live peaceably
with all." "Better is he that ruleth his spirit
than he that taketh a city."
Industry.
Retire early to rest, and be "early to
rise." Industry promotes health, order, and
happiness.
Diligence.
Diligence leads to plenty, but "idleness
will clothe a man with rags."
Sloth.
The slothful man is a burthen to himself;
his hours hang heavy on his head; he loiteretb
about, and knoweth not what he would do.
His house is in disorder, and he runneth on
towards ruin—he seeth it with his eyes, he
shaketh his head and wisheth, but hath no
resolution; till ruin cometh upon him like a
whirlwind, and shame and repentance descend
with him to the grave.
Neglect.
"Wholesome food, decent clothing, and a
decent dwelling are all to be desired if we value
health and comfort: but these may all be
spoiled and lost by idleness and neglect.
Order op Place and Time.
"Keep every thing in its proper place,"
do "every thing in its proper time," and
"delay not till to-morrow what should be done
to-day."
i
Cleanliness.
Thorough cleanliness is valuable to all
ranks of people; it tends to brace and strengthen
both the body and the mind.
Temperance.
Temperence tends to keep the mind clear,
and the constitution healthful: Intemperance
tends dreadfully to the destruction of both.
Independence.
Keep out of debt, and live within your
income, if you would be master of yourselves,
or desire to have the power of doing kindness
to others.
God the source of evert good.
Remember that "every good and perfect
gift proceeds from God," in whom we "live
and move and have our being."
p2
AlX ABE ACCOUNTABLE TO GoD.
On Him we depend for every breath that
we draw; to him we are accountable every
day that we live.
The Divine Presence evebt whebe.
Wherever we are, our thoughts are known
to Him; His eye is over all, His power sur-
rounding all.
TBS EST-
