 
 
THE
WONDERFUL LIFE,
AND
SURPRISING ADVENTURES,
OF THAT RENOWNED HERO)
ROBINSON CRUSOE;
V.'HO LlVtp TWINTY-EICHT YEARS
O N
An UNINHABITED ISLAND,
Which he afterwards colonised.
LONDON:
Printed by Assignment of F. Power and Co.
(G randson of the late Jo h k N e vvb iry)
And soU by Da at on and Harviy, No. 55, Grace*
church-S:reet.
Price Sixrzscz bound.
JlI.DCC.XClV.
'</ LIFE a>?d ADVENTURES
O F
ROBINSQN CRUSOE.
IWAS born of a good family in the city
of York, where my father, who was a
native of Bremen, had fettled, after his
having got a handsome estate by merchan-
di2e. My heart began to be very early filled
with rambling thoughts; my father often per-
suaded me to fettle to some business, and ray
mother used the tenderest entreaties, yet no-
thing could prevail upon me to lay aside my
desire of going-to sea; and notwithstanding
the extreme uneasiness my father and mother
always shewed at the thougnts of my leav-
ing them. As if bent pn my own destruc-
tion, I hardened myself against the prudent
and kind advicejof the most indulgent parents,
ajid being one day at Hull, where I met
with one of my companions, who was going
to sea in his father's ihip, he easily persuaded
me to go with him.
On the first of September, i6ji, I went
on board this ship, which was bound for Lori-
A 3
£ Th* Life and Adventviis
don, and without letting my father know the
raih and disobedient step I had taken, set
fail; but no sodner was the ship out of the
H umber, than the wind began to blow, and
the sea to rise in a most terrible manner*
Having never been at sea before, I was
very sick, and my mind was filled with ter-
ror. 1 then began to grow sensible of my
wickedness in disobeying the best of parents,
and their good counsel, tears and entreaties
came afresh into my mind, and filled me
with fear and remorse. I expected every
wav^e would swallow us up, and in the agony
of my mind, made vows and ^resolutions,
that if it should please God to spare my life
in this one voyage, I would go directly home
to my father, and never set foot into a ship
again.
The next day the wind abated, and the
sea grew calm, I was no longer sea-sick, and
my companion laughed at my fears: he ri-
diculed my gravity, and with a bowl of punch
made me half drunk, nnd thus drowned my
repentance and all my sober reflections. The
weather continued calm for several days, and
we at length came into Yarmouth Road,
where we cast anchor to wait for a wind.
After riding here four or five days, the wind
blew very hard; the road however being reck-
oned almost as good as an harbour, we spent
the time in rest and mirth, till the eighth day
in the morning, when the wind increased,
and we had all hands at work to strike our
top-masts, and cast our sheet anchor.
It now blew a terrible storm; I began to
fee terror and amazement in the faces even of
the seamen themselves; and as the master
passed by me, I could hear him fay softly to
himself, Lord be merciful to tis, <we Jfcall all
bt lost. I could now ill resume die peni-
tence I had so apparently trampled upon:
I even hardened myself against it, and
thought that this storm would pass over like
the first. But when the master came by me,
and said we should all be lost, I was terribly
frightened: and looked about; but such a dis-
mal sight I never before saw; the sea ran
mountains high, and broke upon us every
three or four minutes: a ship foundered at a
distance; two ships that were near us had cut
their masts by the board; and the mate and
boatswain begged of the master to let them
cut away our foremast.
I cannot express the horror of mind with
which I was then seized; I was in ten times
more terror on account ©f having slighted
my former convictions, than even at death
itself. The storm still increased, and I saw
(what is but too seldom seen) the master, the
boatswain, and several at hers at prayers, ex-
pecting that every moment the ship would
go to the bottom." In the middle of the
night, one of the men, who had been down
on purpose, cried out we had sprung a leak,
and had sour feet water in the hold, upon
which all hands were called to the pump. I
worked with the rest, but the water gained
upon us, and it was apparent that the lhip
would founder; the (lorm however beginning
to abate, the master fired guns for help, and
a light ihip which had rid it out, just a-head
of us, ventured a boat out to help us. It
.was with the utmost hazard that it came near
us; but the men ventured their lives to save
ours; and our men casting a rope over the
•stern with a buoy., they after much labour
and hazard got hold of it, and we hauling
them close .under our stern, got all into the
boat. But we had hardly left the sliip a quar-
ter of an hour when we saw her founder: my
heart was in a manner dead within me, with
fright, horror of mind, and the thoughts of
what was yet before me.
As it was impossible for the boat to get up
so the ship to which she belonged, we endea-
voured to reach the shore, and partly by
rowing, and partly by being driven by the
waves, we at last with great difficulty gof;
to land, and walked to Yarmouth, where we
were received with great humanity, as wel}
by the magistrates of the town, who assigned
us good quarters, as by the particular mer-
chants and owners of ships; and had money
given us sufficient to carry us either to Lon-
don or back to Hull.
Had I now had the fense to return home,
my father would have received me with
tenderness; but a weak and foolish shame
opposed all thoughts of it; I was afraid of
being laughed at among the neighbours,
and should be ashamed not only to lee my
father, but every body else. I had, without
blushing, committed an action which bore
*H the marks of folly; but was ashamed of
returning, though that was the wisest step t
could have taken, I remained some time in,
doubt what course to take; but having
money in my pocket, I travelled to London
by land.
On my arrival in that city, X happily fell
into no bad company : but being well dressed?
J contracted an acquaintance with the mastef
of a ship who had been on the coast of Gui-
nea, and having had good success there,
was resolved to go again; and he taking a
fancy to me, told me, that if I would go the
voyage with him* 1 should be at no expence;
and if I would carry any tiling with me, I
should have the ad\antage of trading for
myself. Encouraged by this offer, by the
assistance of some of my relations, with
whom I still corresponded, I raised forty
pounds, which I laid out in such toys and
trifles j as my friend the captain directed me
to bay.. But though in this voyage 1 w,as
continually sick, being thrown into a vio-
lent calenture by .the excessive heat of the cli-
mate; yet under my worthy friend, I got a,
competent knowledge of the mathematics,
and the rules of navigation; learned how to
keep an account of the ship's course, and to
take an observation: in a word this voyage
made me both a sailor and a merchant; for I
brought home five pounds nine ounces of
gold dust for my adventure, which yielded
me in London, at my return, almost 300I.
I was now set up for a Guinea trader; and
my friend, to my great misfortune, dying
soon after his arrival, I resolved to go the
sa^ne voyage again,, and having left zool. in
the band of my friend's widow, I embarked
in the fame vessel with one who was his mate
in the former voyage, and had now the
command of the ship. This was one of the
most unhappy voyages that ever man made:
for as we were steering between the Canary
islands and the African shore, we were fur-
prised, in the grey of the morning, by a
Moorish rover of Sallcc, who gave chace
to us with all the fail £he could make. We
also crowded all the canvass our yards could
spread; bu-t finding that the pirate gained
upon us, and vvould certainly come up with
us in a few hours, we prepared to tight; our
ship having twelve guns, and the pirate
eighteen. About three in the afternoon Ire
came up with u% and a very smart engage-
ment ensued; but after ?":aving twice clear-
ed the deck of the Moors, and lost three of
our men, and had eight wounded, we were
obliged to submit, and were all carried pri-
soners into Saliee, a port belonging to the
Moors.
The ufa^e I found was not so dreadful as
I at first apprehend, d; nor was I carried as
the rest of our men were, to the emperor's
court, but was kept by the captain of the
rover as his owa prize, and made his slave.
As my master took me home to his house, t
was in hopes that he would carry me with
him to sea, and that he would some time or
be taken by a man os war belonging to some
Christian power* which would give me liber-
ty. But this hope was soon taken away; for
when he went to sea, he left me on more to
look after his little garden, and do the com-
mon drudgery of a stave about his house.
My master having the long-boat os our
Englim ship, had a little state-room or ca-
bin built in the middle of it, like a barge *
with a place behind it to steer, and haul
home the main meet, and another before, for
a hand or two to stand and work the sails.
In the cabin was room for him to lie with a
stave or two, and a table to eat on, with
some small lockers to put in some bottles of
such provisions and liquors as he thought sic
to eat and drink, particularly his bread, rice
and coffee.
In this pleasure-boat he frequently went
out a fistiing, and as I was most dextrous at
catching fish for him, he never went without
me. One day he had appointed to go out
in this boat with two or three Moors of some
distinction, and had therefore sent over night
a larger store os provisions than usual; and
ordered me to get ready two or three fusils
of powder and shot, which were on-board
his (hip; for that they designed to have
sport at fowling, as well as fishing. But in
the morning he came on board, telling me
that his guests had declined going, and or-
dered me with the man and boy, to fail out
with the boat and catch some fish, for his
friends were to sup with him.
At this moment the hopes of my deliver-
ance darted into my thoughts, and I reiolv*
ed to furnish myself for a voyage. I told
the Moor, that we must not presume to eat
our master's bread; he said that was true,
-and brought a large basket of rusks, and
three jars of fresh water into the boat. I
knew where my master's cafe of bottles
stood, which appeared by their make to have
been taken out of some English prize, and
I conveyed them into the boat, while the
Moor, whom we called Muly, was on shore;
and also a great lump of beea-wax, with a
parcel of twines, of which I afterwards
made candles, an hatchet, a saw, and an
hammer.
Every thing being prepared, we sailed out
cf the port to fish; but purposely catching
none, I told Muky, that this would not do,
B
and that we mull stand farther off, which he
agreeing to, set the sails, and I having the
helm, ran the boat out near a league farther,
and then brought her to, as if 1 woirki Mt,
when giving the boy the helm, I slept for-
wards, and stooping behind the Moor, took.
him by surprise, and tossed him overboard
into the sea: he rose immediately, for lie
swam like a cork, and called to me to take
him in; but fetching one of the fowling-
pieces, I presented it at him, and told him,
that if he came near the boat, I would ihoot
him through the head; but as the sea was
calr$, he might easily reach the shore. So
he turned about, and swam towards the laad,
and as he was an excellent swimmer, I make
no doubt that he reached it with ease.
When he was gone, I turned to the boy,
whom vhey called Xiiry, and said to him,
Xuiy, if you will be faithful to me, I will
make you a great man; but if you will not
stroke your face to be true to me, (that is,
swear by Mahomet and his father's beard)
I must throw you into the sea too. The boy
smiled in my face, and spoke so innocently,
that I could not mistrust him; he swore to be
faithful to me, and to go over all the worlct
with me*
VThile I was in view of Muly, I stood out
to sea, that he might think me gone to the
& freights, as any body in his wits would
have done; but it no sooner grew dark, than
I foolishly changed my course, and steered
to the south, and having a fresh gale of
wind, I made such sail, that before the end
f>s the next day, 1 believe I was be}ond the
Emperor of Morocco's dominions. Yet so
oreadsul were my apprehensions of falling
again into my master's hands, that I would
viot stop to go on shore, till I had failed
in that manner five days; and then the wind
shifting to the southward, I ventured to
come to an anchor at the mouth of a little
river.
The principal thing I wanted was fresh
water. We entered the creek in the even-
ing, resolving to swim on more as soon as it
w^ts dark; but we then heard such a dread-
ful roaring ^and howling cf the wild beasts,
that the poor boy was ready to cite with, fear,
and bejrged of me not to go on shore till
day. Well Xury, (aid T, then I will not,
but we may then fee men who will be as bad
to us as those liens; then <we may give them
th? jhoot gu?iy fays Xury, laughing, mate
(hem run away; such English Xury sookc,
by conversing among us staves. About
jt\?o or three hours after we saw monstrous
great creatures come down to the sea shore,
and run into the water, in order to wash and
cool themselves, making the most hideous
bowlings and yellings. Xury was dread-
fully frightened • but our terror was greatly
increased when we savy one of them swim-
ming towards our boat. Xury said it was a
lion, and called out to me to weigh the an-
chor, and put out to sea, and instantly 1 s^nr
the wild beast within two oars length of us;
but though I was much surprised, I stept
to the cabin door, and snatching up a gun,
sired at him; upon which he immediately
turned about and swam towards the shore*
But it is impossible to describe the hor able
noises, the hideous cries and howlings, that
were raised, as well upon the edge of the
Jhore, as higher within the country, upon
the report of the gun; and this convinc-
ed me, that there »vas no going on land at
night.
But though I was no less afraid of the sa-
vages than of the wild beasts, our necessities
obliged us to land, for we had not a pint
of water left. The nexf morning Xury
asked for one of the jars, and kid he would
go and seek for water. I asked him why he
would go? The boy answered with so much
affection, that I could not help loving him,
If ivi/J mem come, they cat me, you go away.
Well, Xury, said 1, we will both gc, and
if the wild men come we will kill them;
th^y shall eat neither of us. I then gave
Xury a dram out of the cafe of bottles, and
having hauled the boat as near the shore as
we thought proper, waded to land, carry-
ing nothing but our arms, and two jars for
water.
1 did not care to go out of si^ht os the
boat, least any savages should come in ca-
noes down the river; but tlie boy seeing a
low place about a mile up the country, ram-
bled thither; and by and by I saw him corne
running towards me, when thinking he might
be pursued by some savages, I ran to meet
him; but when I came nearer, I saw some-
thing hanging over his shoulder, which was
a creature.he had (hot, like a hare, different
in colour, and longer legs, and we found it
very good meat; but the great joy that poor
Xury came with, was to tell me he had found
good water, and seea no wild mans. We
therefore filled our jars, fpsted on our hare,
«ujd then set fail.
Several times after we were obliged to go
t>n sh:>re for fresh water, and once in parti-
cular, early in the morning, Xury called
softly to me, and told rrc, that we had best
go farther off the shore; for, fays he, look
yonder lies a dreadful monster fast asleep.
I looked where he pointed, and saw a great
lion that lay on the fide of the shore, under
the {hade of a piece of the hill that hung over
him; upon which, charging my three guns,
I took aim at his head, but lying with his
foot raised a littU above his nose, the slug
broke his leg. He started up growling, bur,
fell down again; then rose upon three legs,
and gave the most hideous roar that ever I
heard, but as he was going to make off I
fired again, and shooting him in the head,
had the pleasure to fee him drop, and lie
struggling for life. At this, Xury asking
leave to go on shore, I consented j so jump-
ing into the water with the little gun in one
hand, he swam with the other; and coming
cl^se to the lion, put the muzzle of the
piece to his ear, and mot him in the head
again, which dispatched him quite. I now
resolved to take off the skin, and going
a-stiore, the boy and 1 accomplished it, but
not without great i&bourv Thea spreading
 
it on the top of our cabin, the sun dried it in
two days time, and it afterwards served me
to lie upon.
After this stop, we still proceeded to the
southward for ten or twelve days together,
in hopes of making the river Gambia or
Senegal, or of meeting with some European
ship, living all the while very sparingly on
our provisions, which began to grow snort.
We now saw that the land was inhabited, and
that the people were black and stark naked.
Drawing nearer to land, they run along the
lhore a good way, with no weapons in their
liands except one of them, who had a lance.
I made signs to them for something to eat,
and they making signs to me to stay, 1 low-
ered my fail, and lay by; while two of them
ran op into the country, and in less than half
an hour returned with two pieces of dried
fleih, and some com; but though I was
wiMing to accept it, I was loth to venture
on sliore to them, and they were as much
afraid of us; but they took a safe way for us
all; for they brought it to the lhore, and
laying it down, went way, and stood at a
distance till we fetched it on board, and then
returned. We wade signs to thank them.
for we had nothing that we could give them
in return.
At this instant an opportunity offered of
obliging them, for two furious wild beasts,
one pursuing the other, came running with
great switness from the mountains. These
naked people were terribly frighted, especi-
ally the women; and al| fled except the man
who had the lance* But without attempting
to fall upon the negroes, they plunged into
the sea, and at last one of them came nearer
our boat than I at first expected. However
I was prepared for him, and as soon as he
came within my reach, I fired, and shot him
through the head, when, struggling for life,
he made towards the shore; but died before
he could reach it.
It is impossible to expreis the astonishment
of these poor creatures at the noise and lire
of the gun; some were ready to die for fear,
and fell down as if dead with terror. But
when they saw the creature dead, and that I
made signs to them to come to the shore,
they took courage, returned, and began to
search for the creature who had sunk. I
found him by his blood staining the water,
and by the help of a rope which I flung round
him, gave the negroes to haul; they drag-
ged him to land, and found that he was *
fine leopard, most beautifully spotted. The
other creature, frighted at the gun, swam
back to fliorcy>and ran directly to the moun-
tains,
I soon found that the negroes were for
eating the flesh of the leopard, and I made
signs to them that ,-they might take it, at
which they seemed extremely pleased. They
immediately fell to work, and with a sharp-
ened piece of hard wood, took off the skin
more readily than I could have done with a
knife. They offered me some of the fl . fh,
which I declined accepting, but made signs
for the ikrn, which they freely gave me, and
brought me a great deal more of their prov.i*
lions, which I accepted. Then I took
one x?f my jars, and holding it bottom up-
wards, let them fee that it was empty, and
that I wanted to have jt filled. i his they
understood, and two of them running away,
returned with a large vessel made of earth,
which seemed as if burnt in the fun; this
they set down as before, and I sent Xury on
(hore with my jars, where he filled them.
About ten days after, as I was steering out
to sea, in order to double a cape, I had the
yfoif of some islands, which I supposed to bt
those of Cape Verd. I was afraid of ven-
turing so far from the shore, for if I should
be taken with a fresh gale of wind, I might
iiever be able to reach again either the one or
the other. In this dilemma I fat down in
the cabin; when on a sudden Xury cried out
in a fright, master, master, a stiip! Fool*
iihly imagining that it was his matter's ship,
come so far in pursuit of us. 1 jumped out
of the cabin, and saw that it was a Portuguese
vessel. I instantly stretched out to sea with
all the sail I could make: but when I began
to despair of my ever coming near enough to
make any signal to those on board, they per-
ceived me by the help of their glasses, and
supposing me some European boat belonging
to a ship that was lost, sliortened fail, to let
me come up.
On my coming near, they asked me what
I was, in Portuguese, jn Spanisti, and in
French; but I understood none of them; at
last a Scots sailor on board called to me, and
I answered I was an En^listnnan, that had
made my escape out of slavery from the
Moors at vSallee. They then bid me come on
board, and very kindly took me in and all
iny goods.
My joy at this deliverance was inexpref.
sible. I immediately offered all I had to the
captain of the ship; but he. generously told
me, he would take nothing from me ; he said
all I had mould be delivered safe to me, when
I came to the Bralils; and that he would save
my life on no other terms, than on such as he
would be glad to be saved himself, if ever he
happened to be in my condition. He offered
me eighty pieces of eight for my boat, forty
ducats for the lion's Ikin, and twenty for the
leopard's, and for my boy Xury, he offered
me sixty pieces of eight, which I was loth to
take -9 for 1 was unwilling to fell the boy's
liberty, who had assisted, me so faithfully in
procuring my own; but he offered to give the,,
hoy an obligation to set him free in ten year*,
and Xury readily consenting, I let the cap-
tain have him.
We had a very good voyage to the Bra-
sils, and arrived at All Saints Bay in about
twenty-two days. The generous captain re-
commended me to an honest man whp had 3.
plantation, wkh whom I lived till I had learnt
the manner of planting and making sugar,
after which I purchased a piece of Luid, and
became a planter.
I at first laboured under some difficulties,
and was1 obliged to undergo much fatigue.
For two years I rather planted for food than
for any thing else; but having at length
cleared a sufficient quantity of land, I planted
some tobacco and a few sugar canes, and be-
gan to thrive. * Meanwhile the good captain
who had taken me up at sea, and whom I had
intrusted with getting for me, on his return
to Europe, half the money I had kfc in Lon-
don, received 100L out of the zool. I had
left there, and laying it out to the best ad-
vantage, in tools and English cloth, stuffs,
kc. he arrived in Brasil with his treasures
which turned to great account, and enabled
me to advance my plantation, and to pur-
chase two negroe staves, and aa European*
servant*
Had I continued in the station I was now
in, I might have been happy, but growisg
rich apace, my head began to be full of pro-
jects and undertakings beyond my reach*
I had lived here about four years, and had
not only learned the language, but contracted
an acquaintance and friendship among my
fellow planters, and several merchants. I
had frequently talked to them of the method
of purchasing negroes, on the coast of Gui-
nea, and they being pleased with the project,
Cosily prevailed oa me to make a voyage iox.
that purpose. We fitted out a ship of about
120 tons burden* which carried 6 guns,
and 14 men, besides the master, his boy and
myself; and had no other cargo, but such
toys as were fit for trading with the ne-
groes.
In this vessel I set fail, with the hopes of
purchasing staves, to assist us in our planta-
tions; and stood to the northward in order
to stretch over to the African coast. We
had very good weather for about twelve
days; but soon aster we had crossed the line,
a violent hurricane drove us quite out of our
knowledge, and for many days together not
any in the (hip expected to save their lives.
In this distress one of our men died of a ca-
lenture, and a man and a boy were warned
overboard; but about the twelfth day, the
storm abating, we found we were in 11 deg.
north lat. upon the coast of Guinea, upou
which it was resolved to stand away for Bar-
badoes, in order to refit.
With this design we changed our course;
but soon alter a second storm arose, which
carried us with the fame impetuosity west-
ward, and drove us out of the way of all
human commerce. In this distress one of
oar men early one morning tried out, land!
and we had no sooner run out of the cabin,
in hopes of feeing where we were, but the
ship struck upon a sand, and in a moment
her motion being stopped, the sea broke over
her in such a manner, that we expected we
should all have perished, It 1*5 not easy to
conceive our consternation, for as the rage
of the sea was still great, we supposed that:
the ship would in a sew minutes break to
pieces. Before the storm we had a boat at
the stern, but me was staved by dashing
against the ship's rudder. We had another
boat on board, which the mate laid hold of?
and with the help of t£ie rest of the men,
flung her over the ship's side, and getting all
into her, heing eleven in number, commits
ted ourselves to God's mercy; the wind driv-
ing us towards the more, we loon plainly
saw, that the sea went so high, that the boat
could not escape, and that we mould be in-
evitably drowned. However, we steered to-
wards land; but after we had rowed, or ra*
ther been driven about a league and a half,
a wave mountain hi^h, came rolling a-stem
of us, and took us with such fury that it over-
set the boat at once, and separated us from
one another. This wave carried me a vaft
y*y towards the Ihore, and having fpern;
itself, went back and lest me upon the land
almost dry, but half dead with the water I
took in; I had however so much presence of
mind, as well as breath left, that seeing my-
self nearer the main land than I expected,
I got upon my feet, and endeavoured to mak«
towards it, as fast as I could, before anothef
wave should return; but I saw the sea come
after me as high as a great hill, and as fu-
rious as an enemy, which I had no means or
strength to contend with; my business was to
liold my breath, and raise myself upon the
water, if I could; at the same time taking
care that it did not carry me back with it,
when it retired towards the sea.
The wave that came upon me again bu-
ried me twenty or thirty feet deep in its own
body, and I could feel myself carried with
prodigious swiftness a very great way to-
wards the shore, but I held my breath, and
endeavoured to swim forward with all my
might. I was ready to burst with holding
my breath, when I found my head and hands
shoot out above the surface of the water; and
though I could scarcely keep myself in this
situation above two seconds; yet it gave me
breath and fresli courage. I was covered
again with water a good while; however, I
held out, and finding the water had spent it-
self, 1 struck forwards, and soon felt the
ground again with my feet. I stood still 3
few moments to recover breath, till the wa-
ters went from me, and tht n took to my heels,
and ran with all tiie strength I had left to-
wards the more, 8ut neither would this de-
liver me from the fury of the sea, which over-
taking me, and hurrying me along as before,
darned me against a piece of rock, and left
me senseless j but recovering before the re-
turn of the waves, I held fast by th« rock
till the wave abated; and then ran again,
In short, after another wave or two L got
to the main lane}; clambered up the clifts
of che sl}ore? ani fat me down upon th§
grafs.
I now began to thank God that my life
was saved, and rising up, I walked about
on the shore, filled with ecstasy, and wrapt
up in the contemplation of my own happy
deliverance.
But 1 soon found my comforts abate; for
I was wet, and had no cloaths to (hist me;
and looking round I saw no prospect but that
of perishing with hunger; or of being de-
voured by wild beasts; for I had no weapon
either to kill any creature for my sustenancej
or to defend me from any that might desire
to kill me for theirs; in a word, I had no-
thing about me, but a knife, a tobacco-pipe,
and a little tobacco in a box; this was all
any provisions; and night coming on, I
walked about a furlong from the shore to fee
if I could find any fresh water to drink,
•which I did to my great joy; and having;
.drank, and put a little tobacco in my mouth
to prevent hunger, I climbed into a tree, I
then cut a short thick flick for my defence;
endeavoured to place myself so xts that if I
ihould steep, I might not fall; and being
much fatigued, slept very comfortably till
imorning.
When I waked it was broad day, the wea-
ther clear, and the llorm abated; but what
surprised me most was, that in the night the
ship had been lifted up from the sand by the
swelling of the tide, and driven almost as far
as the rock, against which I had been dash-
£d, and she standing upright, I wished my-
self on beard.
Avlittle after noon, I found the sea very
ealm, and the tide ebbed so far out, that I
could come within a quarter of a mile of the
ship; when I saw that if we had stayed on
board we had all been safe^ aud I had not
been so miserable as to be left destitute of
company and comfort; and this forced tears
into my eyes. The gather being extreme-
ly hot, I pulled off my cloaths, and took to
die water; but when I came to tfce ship, I
sound no means of getting on board, she ly-
ing so high, that I could find nothing with-
in my reach; I swam round her twice, and
the second time, observing a small piece of
cope hanging down, I got hold of it and got
into the forecastle. Here I found that the
Hiip was bulged, and had a great deal of
water in her hold; but to my great joy saw
all the ship's provisions were dry; and being
well disposed to eat, I went to the bread-
room, and flipping a waistcoat, rilled my poc-
kets with biscuit, and eat as I went about
other things. I also found some rum in the
great cabin., of which I took a large dram
to enable me to accomplish my design.
As I found several spare yards and some
large spars of wood, I let them down with
ropes by the ship's fide, and going down to
them, tied them together and made a raft,
placing several pieces of plank upon then
.cross ways; after which, I laid upon it all
the pieces of board that came to hand, J
next broke open and emptied three of the
seamen's chests; then lowered them down upon
the raft, and filled them with bread, some
<lried goat's flesh, and three Dutch cheeses,
I found several cases of bottles, in which
were some cordial waters, and about five or
i3x gallons of arrack; these I stowed by them-
selves, there being no room for them in the
chests. I also let down the carpenter's chest,
which was worth more to me than a ship load
of gold. I next found two good fowling
pieces, and two pistols, with some powder
horns, two barrels of powder, and two old
rusty swords, all of which I placed on the
raft, and with this invaluable cargo resolved
to put to sea, without either fails, oars, or
rudder; but the tide w?s now rising, and set
in for the shore, and the little wind there was
blew towards land; besides I found two or
three broken oars that belonged to the boat,
which served me to pufa the raft along.
For about a mile my raft went very well,
and with it I entered a creek; but after hav-
ing several times narrowly escaped over-set-
ting it, I thrust it on a flat piece of ground,
over which the tide flowed, and there fastened
it by sticking my broken oars into the ground,
Thus I stayed till the water ebbed, when I
placed my cargo safe on land.
At night I barrieadoed myself round with
the chests and boards I had brought on ibore,
t>f which I had made a kind of hut.
The next day, considering that I might
yet get many useful things out of the ship,
particularly the rigging and sails, I resolved
to make a second voyage. My raft being
too unwieldy, J swam to the stiip and made
another, on which I placed two or three bags
of nails and spikes, some hatchets, a grind-
stone, two or three iron crows, seven mulkets,
and another fowling piece, two barrels of
musket bullets, a large bag of small shot, all
•the men's cloaths I could find, a square sostf-
top-sail, a hammock, and some bedding; arfd
.all these, to my very great comfort, I brought
safe to land.
I now went to work to make a little hut,
with the sail and some poles, which I cut for
that purpose; and into it I brought every
thing I knew would spoil either with the sun
or rain; I piled all the empty chests and
calks in a circle round the hut, to fortify it
from any sudden attempt from man or beast;
I blocked up the door with boards, and spread-
ing one of the beds upon the ground, laying
my two pistols just at my head, and my gu*
by me, 1 went to bed, and slept very quietly
all night.
I was not satisfied yet; but every day at
low water, I went on board and broaght
away something; what gave me the greatest
pleasure was, that after I had made five or fix
of these voyages, and though I had nothing
more to expect from the ship worth taking, I
found a great hogshead of bread, three large
rumlers of rum, a box of sine sugar, and a
barrel of sine flour.
I had been thirteen days on shore, and had
been eleven times on board the ship, but in
one of these excursions had the misfojtune
to over-set my raft; but it being (hoal wa-
ter, and the things being chiefly heavy,
I recovered many of them when the tide was
out. Indeed had the calm weather confix
flued, I believe 1 should have brought away
the whole ship, piece by piece; but prepar-
ing the twelfth time to go on board, 1 found
the wind began to rife; however, at low
water I went, then rummaging the cabin, I
discovered a locker with drawers in it, in
one of which I found two or three razors,
and a pair of large feissars, with ten or a do-
zen knives and forks, and in another abou{
$6U value in gold and silver coin. At th$
fight of this money I smiled to myself, and
laid aloud, O drug! what art thou good for?
one of these knives is worth all this heap: I
haver no manner of use for thee; even remain
where thou art, and go to the bottom. How-
ever, upon second thought, 1 took it away,
and wrapping all in a piece of canvass, began
to think of making another raft; but while I
was preparing it, the wind began to rife, and
to blow off more; I then found that it was
my business to be gone, btfore the tide of
flood began, lest I should not be able to reach
the shore; accordingly I let myself down into
the water, and swam to land, which I per-
formed with great difficulty, from the weight
of the things I had about me, and the rough-
ness, of the water.
It blew very hard all night, and in thtf
morning when I looked out no more ship was
to be seen. I was a little surprised; how-
ever, I comforted myself with the reflection,
that I made the best use oF my time, 1 novy
vent in search of a place where I might fix
my dwelling; endeavouring to chuse one
where I might have the advantage of a
healthv situation, freti water, aud security
from being surprised by any man or raven-
ous beast. .1 found a little plain on the Mt
of a rising hill, which was there as steep as
the fide of a house, so that nothing could come
down to m.e from the top: on the side of
this *rock was a hollow place, like the en-
trance of a cave, before which I resolved to
fix my tent. This plain was not above 100
yards broad, and twice as long, defeending to
the sea.
Before I set up my tent, I drew an half
circle before the hollow place, which extend-
ed to yards, and in this half circle pitched
two rows of strong stakes, driving them inter
the ground like piles j they stood about five
feet and an half out of the ground sharpened
on the top. Then I took the pieces ot cablfr
I had cut in the stiip, and laid them in rows-
one upon another up to the top; and this
fence was so strong, that neither man nor
beast could enter it. This cost me much
time and labour, especially in cutting the
piles in the wood, bringing them to the place,
and driving them into the eartru The en*-
trance I made by a short ladder to go over
the top, which when I was in, I lifted over
after me. Into this fence I by degrees car-
ried all my riches, all my provisions, am-
munition aad stores, and made me a large
tent to secure myself and them from th$ wea-
ther. When I had done this, I began to
work my way into the rock, which was
pretty soft, laying all the earth and stones I
dug out within ray fence, in the manner
of a terrace, and thus I had a cave just be-
hind my tent*
But before the above works were cOmpleaf-
ed, a sudden storm of thunder and lightning
silled me with the greatest terror, for my pow-
der suddenly darted into my mind, and my
heart sunk within me at the thought, that
at one blast it might all be destroyed; on
which not only my defence, but the provid-
ing of my food entirely depended. No soon-
er was the storm over, when I laid aside every
other work, to make boxes and bags, in order
to separate my powder; os these I made about
^'hundred, and put about a pound and an half
of powder in each, which took up my whole
stock: I put them into holes up and down
'the rocks in such a manner, that one parcel
could not fire another.
While all this was doing, I walked out at
least once a day with my gun, as well to di-
vert myself, as to fee if I could kidl any thing
sit for food, and as near a^s I could to ac-*
quaint myself with what the island produced^
The siris time I went out I had the pleasure
D
to find, that there were goats in the island;
but they were so shy, so subtle, and so swift
os soot, that it was very difficult to come up
with them; But observing that they did not
easily see objects above them, I killed them
by climbing the rocks, and mooting at those
in the valleys. During these rounds I found
a kin& of pigeon, which built in holes of the
jocks; and taking some young ones, I en-
deavoured to breed them up tame, but when
they grew old, they flew away; however, I
frequently found their nests., and got their
young ones, which were very good meat.
After I had been about ten or twelve days
.on more, it came into my thoughts that I
should loose my reckoning os time, and should
not be able ro distinguish the Sundays from
working days. To prevent this, 1 set-up a
large square post on the shore where I first
landed, and cut upon it with a knitV, / came
on Jhore here's he loth of Sept. 1659. Upon
the sides I cut every day a notch, and every
seventh notch was as long again as the rest,
and every first day of the month as long again
as that long one; and thus I kept my week-
ly, monthly, and yearly reckoning.
I had got from my ship, some pens, ink,
and paper; some mathematical instruments,
and three good bibles, with several other
books, which I carefully secured. I al£>
brought to shore with me, two cats, and a
dog swam on more, who was a trusty servant
to me- many years, nay he was fb good a
companion, that I was at a loss for nothing
he could fetch me; and he only wanted the
power of speech to become a most agreeable
friend. Though I had amassed so much,
there were many things I wanted, such as a
spade, pick-axe, and shovel, needles, pins,
and thread; as for linen, I soon learnt well
enough to do without it; bm the want of
tools made even' thing go on slowly: for if I
wanted only a board, I had no way, after I
had uled those I brought from the ship, but
to cut down the trees, lay the trunk before
me, hew it flat on both fides with my axe, till
I had reduced it to a plank, and then dug it
sniooth with my adze. Tedious work! but my
time was little worth, and was as well em-
ployed this way as any other.
I had no little difficulty to make a table
and chair, which were great conveniences
When my cave was set to rights it looked
like a general magazine of all necessary
things; and it gave me great pleasure to fee
Kiy goods in such order.
But I had scarce finished my habitation
when I had like to have been buried in its
ruins. I was at work just in the entrance of
my cave, when all of a sudden the earth came
tumbling down from the roof of the cave,
and the edge of the hill, over my head. I
was heartily scared, and thought the top of
my cave was fallen in; and for fear of being
buried in the rubbish, I ran forwards to my
ladder, and not thinking myself safe even
there, got over the wall, lest some pieces of
the hill should roll down upon me. I was no
sooner on the ground but it shook violently
imder me. There were three shocks at about
eight minutes distance, such as I believe
would have overturned the strongest building;
and about half a mile from me a great piece
of a rock fell down, with the most terrible
noise I ever heard. The earthquake made my
stomach sick, and I was as one stupid; but
this horrible noise roused me at once. I ex-
pected that the hill would fall upon my tent,
and bury all my store: but when the third shock
was over, I felt no more, [ began to take
courage, yet durst not return over the wall
for fear of being buried alive. In a few
hours it rained very hard, and this forced
me into my cave, as also to begin a
work, which was to cut a hole through my*
fortification, to let out the water that I might
not be drowned. This, and clearing my
cave of the rubbish, took me up some time.
And L now propped up the top to prevent its
'falling again.
The fear of being swallowed up alive pre-
vented my steeping in quiet, and I thought
of making myself a tent at some distance
from the rock; yet the apprehension of ly-
ing abroad without a fence was equally'ter-
rible, and when I saw myself concealed and
safe from every other danger, I was loth to
remove.
In some little tune I recovered from my
fright, and after that frequently killed goats
for my subsistence, whose fat supplied my
iam-p, which was a dish made of clay baked
in the sun, and for a wick I made use of
oakum. In the midst of all my labour,
when I was rummaging among my things, 1
found a little bag with a few hufld of com
in it, and wanting it, I (hook it out by the
fiJe^pf my fortification. This was just be-
fore some heavy rain,* and about a month
.afterwards, I saw some green stalks (hoot-
ing out of the ground; but how great w&f
.my astonishment when, some time after, i
saw about ten or twelve ears of barley! It
was some time before I recollected the bag
with the husks, and I thought they could
have been produced by nothing less than a
miracle. With this barley there also came
up a few stalks of rice, and these were worth
more to me than fifty times their weight in
gold, and I carefully preserved them for
seed.
When I had been about a year in the
island I was taken extremely ill, which fright-
ed me terribly, imagining I mould die for
want of proper help. This fit of illness prow
ed a violent ague, which made me so weak I
could hardly carry my gun, and when the fit
was on me, I was almoit perished*with thirst,
One night as I was ruminating on my fad
condition, expecting the return of my fit, it
occurred to my thoughts, that the Brazilians
took no physic but tobacco, and I went, di-
rected by Heaven, no doubt, to search for
some in a chest, and there found a bible; I
brought both that and the tobacco to my table;
I steeped some of the last in rum, some I burnt
in a pan of coals, holding my head over the
fume, and some I chewed; during the interval
of this operation, I opened my book, and the
first words on which I cast my eyes were, Call
Up on me in the day of trouble, and I <will jfeli-
vcr thee. The word struck me; but I could
read no more; for the tobacco made me
excessive sleep). I therefore went to bed,
and falling into a found sleep, I believe, I
slept two days; for I lost a day in my reckon-
ing, which I could no other way account
for; another dose of this remedy quite cur-
cd me.
Soon after my recovery, I took a survey
of the island, and at about two miles distance
from my habitation, I found a variety of fruit,
melons upon the ground, and vines spread
over the trees, covered with clusters of ripe
grapes, I proceeded with my discoveries,
and travelled four miles farther, when I
came to an opening that seemed to descend
to the west, where every thing was in such
con slant verdure, that it looked like a beau-
tiful garden. I went into this delicious val-
ley, and found cocoa, orange, lemon, and
citron trees. I now had business enough,
for I resolved to lay up a store. I carried
some grapes and a few limes, back with me;
but the grapes were spoiled before I got
home, I went the next day with bags/ think-
ing to bring home my harvest: but I found a
Urge parcel of grapes which I had laid on a
heap, spread abroad and trod to pieces. I
therefore found, that there was no laying
them up in heaps, nor carrying them away in
sacks, since they would be crushed by their
own weight; so I gathered a large quantity
of them, and hung them upon the out
branches of the trees, that they might cure
and dry in the fun; but as for the limes and
lemons, J carried as many back as I could
well stand under.
I was so enamoured with this place, that
I built myself a bower, fenced with a double
hedge; and this country-house, as I callecl
it, cost me two months labour; but I hardly
began to enjoy my habitation, when the
rains came on, and I was obliged to retreat
to my old one, taking with me my grapes,
which were now become fine railins of the
fun.
I had been concerned for the loss of one of
my cats, but about this time she came home,
and increased my family with three young
kittens; (lie having bred, as I suppose, by a
wild cat, of which there were some in the
woods, and they soon multiplied so fast, that
I was obliged to drive them from me.
The rainy and dry seasons now appeared
^regular to me; but I bought my expc-
pence before I had it. I dug a piece os
ground as well as I could, with a wooden
spade of my own making, and began to sow
my grain; but as I was doing it, it occurred
to my thoughts, that I would not sow all, for
fear it mould not grow, so I reserved about
a handful of each sort; and well it was I did
so; for it did not come up for many months
afterwards. When 1 saw it did not grow,
I sought for moister ground, and dug up a
piece near my new bower, which answered
my wishes, and my crop amounted to about
half a peck of each kind; by this means I
was made a master of my business; knew
when to sow, and that I might expect two
seed times, and two harvests every year; for
the corn I set first came up aster the next wet
season.
When the rains were over, I made a visit
to my bower, where I found the stakes I set
for my defence were shot up into trees, which
I pruned and made as much alike as pos-
iible; and in three years they became a com-
plete shade. This was my work in the dry
season: and to employ myself when I could
not stir abroad, 1 made baskets of the twigs
pf these trees, having, when a child, taken
much delight in seeing a baIket>maker, who
lived in the town where I was born, make
his wicker ware. I had soon many useful
utensils of this fort, and as they decayed I
made more.
In one of the dry seasons I took another
ramble, armed with my gun, and an hatchet,
 and guarded by my faithful dog. When I
passed the valley in which Hood my bower,
I came within view of the sea, and it being
a clear day, I plainly discovered land; but
whether island or continent I could not tell;
I guessed that it could not be less than 20
leagues off. In this journey I caught a
young parrot, having knocked it down with
a stick; brought it home with me, and taught
it to speak. I travelled about twelve miles
eastward along the shore, and then setting
up a great post for a mark, returned home-
wards, designing that my next tour should
be the contrary way, till I came to this
post.
I took a different way home from that I
went; but unfortunately lost myself, and wan-
dered about very uncomfortably, till at last I
was obliged to find out the sea fide to seek
for my post, tired to death with the heat of
the weather and the weight of my arms. In
this journey, my dog seized a young kid, and
I saved it alive, highly pleased with the hopes
of having a breed of tame goats; but as I
could not bring it along without difficulty,
and longed to be at home, I left it within the
inclosure of my bower.
I cannot express what satisfaction it was
now to come into my own hut, and to lie
down in my hammock-bed, which I con-
stancy used there. I relied myself a week,
employed in the weighty affair of making a
cage for my parret, which soon became one
of my favourites. I now bethought me of
my kid, and halted to my bower to bring it
home, or to give it food ; and the poor crea-
ture was so tame by hunger, that it followed
mo home like a dog. From this time it be-
came one of my domestics also* and would
never leave me.
I was now thoroughly resigned to my situ-
ation, and pretty regularly divided my time
between reft and labour. Going out with
my gun in a morning for food about three
hours, and working about four hours in the
evening to make various necessaries, the wea-
ther being too hot for me to work in the
middle of the day.
My com was now coming op, and the
goats and hares having cafted the sweetness
of the blade, lay at it night and day, as soon
as it sprang out of the ground, so that it
could get no time to (hoot into a stalk. To
defend it, I surrounded it with a hedge, and,
in the mean while shooting some of the crea-
tures by day, I set my dog to watch it by
night, which he did so faithfully that the ene-
mies forsook the place, and the corn grew,
and began to ripen apace* But as the beasts
were nigh ruining me while the corn was in
the blade, so the birds were my enemies when
it was in the ear ; for going along to fee how
my harvest throve, I saw my little crop fur-
rounded with fowls of I knew not how many
forts. I let fly among them, when there
arose a little cloud of fowls from the corn it-
self. This touched me sensibly, for a single
grain might be said, in its consequence, to be
a peck loaf to me. While I was loading my
gun again, I could fee the thieves upon all
the trees round me waiting for my absence,
and having gone a little way, I turned my
head, and saw them dropping one by one into
my corn. I had not patience to stay till more
came, but again let off my piece, and having
killed three,! used them as we do murderers
in England, hanged them in chains to serve
gas a terror to the rest. Not a fowl afterwards
came near my com, or indeed near the place,
as long ss the scarecrows hung there.
When my corn was ripe, I made me a
scythe with a sword, and cut off none but the
cars., which I rubbed out with my hands. At
the end of my harvest, 1 guessed that I had
a bushel of rice, and two bushels and a half of
barley. I kept ?11 this for feed, and bore the
want of bread with patience, as I had now
a tolerable prospect of having as much as I
wanted.
This article of bread was a great difficulty:
I had neither plough, nor harrow; for the
first I made my (hovel do, and to supply the
place os a harrow, I went over it myself drag-
ging after me the heavy bough of a tree. And
when I came to make bread I had innumer-
able wants. I.wanted a mill to grind it,
sieves to dress it, yeast and fait to make it
Into bread, and an oven to bake it. How-
ever, I had fix months to contrive all these
things in. In the mean time I enlarged the
inclosure of my arable land, working abroad
in the dry season. I made me some mis-
shapen pots of clay, that all breke in the fun
except two, which I cased in wicker wo*k;
but I succeeded better in little pans, flat
E
dishes, and pitchers, which the fun baked sur-
prisingly hard; bat they would not bear the
fire so as to hold any liquid, and I wanted
one to boil my meat.
One day, after I had dressed my dinner,
I went to put out my sire, and found a piece
of one of my earthen vessels burnt as hard as
a stone, and as red as a tile; this taught me
to burn my pipkins, and I soon wanted for no
sort of earthen vessels; they were ugly enough
indeed, being made as children make dirt
pies; but when I found that I had made a
pot which would bear the fire, I had hardly
patience to stay till it was cold, before I set
it on with a piece of kid, in order to make
me some broth, which answered tolerably
well.
I made me a wooden mortar and pestle;
and also a sieve out of some of the seamen's
neckcloths, and at length made a fort of oven
of a broad shallow earthen vessel, and a tiled
hearth. ~ When I baked, I drew the live em-
bers forwards upon the hearth, till it was
very hot; then sweeping them away, I set
down my loaves, whelming the earthen pot
over them, which baked my barley bread a$
well as the best oven in the world. I now
became a complete pastry cook, and made
puddings and cakes; for I Iiad no longer
Reed to be sparing^ of my corn; for my next
harvest produced twenty bushels of barley,
and nearly the fame quantity of rice, which
vas as much as I could consume in a
year.
While all these things were doing my
thoughts ran many times upon the land I had
seen, and I like a fool, went to look for the.
ship's boat, which had been cast high upon
the shore by the storm. If i had hands to
have resitted her, (he might have done well
enough: but I could no more turn her, than
i could move the istand. I spent three or
four weeks in cutting leavers and rollers in
vain; and then set myself to dig the sand
away from her, with the some success. This
difappoiatmqnt increased my desire of going
over to the main, and I began to make my-
self a canoe; the most preposterous enierprize,
that ever man in his fenses undertook. I
felled a great cedar about five feet diameter
jiext the root, but when the impossibility of
launching this heavy thing came into my
mind, I gave myself this foolish answer;
Let me hut Once ynake it, atui Vll warrant I'll
get it along uuhen it is done, I made it big;
enough to carry twenty-fix menj but all my
devices to get it into the water sailed me,
for I could no more stir it than I could the
boat. I then determined, since I could not
bring my canoe to the water, that I would
bring the water to my canoe, and began to
dig; but when I calculated the time this ca-
nal would take in making, I found that I
could not accomplish it in less than twelve
years, and therefore gave it over, determin-
ing to enjoy what I had, without repining for
what I could not get.
My cloaths now began to decay; linen I
had been withouta good while, but the weather
was warm, and I had no great need of
cloaths, yet I was unwilling to be quite nak-
ed; besides, the fun blistered my &in, and
my head ached if I went without a hat or
cap; so I made myself two waistcoats out of
some watch coats, which lasted me a great
while. I made a cap out of goat's (krn, v.ith
the hair side outwards, to throw off" the rain,
and also another waistcoat of the same skins;
but I must acknowledge that they weie
wretchedly done; for if I was a bad carpen-
ter, I was a worse taylor. I made me too an
umbrella, which I could stiut up and take
abroad with me, and this secured me both
from the heat and the rain.
Three or four years after, I made a little
boat, my umbrella serving both for a mast
and an awning. This I launched for a sea-
voyage; but let this be a warning'to all rasti
and inconsiderate pilots: I put off, and
found a great ledge of recks lying about
two leagues in the sea, some' above water,
and some under it, and a great shoal of sand
lying dry for half a league beyond them, so
that I should be obliged to go a great way out
to sea to -double the point. Seeing this, I
thought of giving over the enterprize, and cast-
ing anchor, went on shore, when climbing a
steep hill that overlooked the point, I saw the
full extent of it, and that a furious current ran
to the east, with a strong eddy nearer the shore,
so that I had nothing to do but to get out
of the current, and I should presently be
in the eddy. I therefore resolved to ven-
ture.
The wind, however, blowing pretty hard,
I lay here two days, and the third day in the
morning, the wind having abated in the
night, 1 feund the sea calm, and set sail; but
I no sooner got within the current, than I
found myself in a great depth of water, and
was carried along with such violence, that
all I could do, could not keep the boat on
the edge of it; but I found that it hurried
E 3
me farther and farther out from the eddy,
which was on the left hand. There was no
wind stirring to help me, and all that I could
do with my paddle signified nothing; s now
began to give myself over for lost; 1 had no
prospect before me, but that of p Timing;
not by the sea, for that was calm enough:
but of starving with hunger. I had indeed
on board a stock of provisions, and having
found a turtle on the shore, as big almost as
I could lift, had tossed it into the beat; and
had a great jar of fresh water; but what was
this to be driven with into the vast ocean?
Now 1 looked back upon my desolate folir
tary iiiand, as the most pleasant place in the
world, and stretched out my hands to it with
eager wishes: O happy defart ,J said I, I mall
never fee thee more: O miserable creature
that I am, whither am 1 going! Then I re-
proached myself with my unthankful tem-
per, and how I had repined at my solitary
condition, aad now what would J give to
-be on {Lore there again. I worked hard till
my strength was almost exhausted; and kept
my boat as near as possible to that fide of
the current on which the edJy lay; when
about nooa, [ thought I felt a lirth breeze
of wind ia my face,, blowing towards the
Ihore. This revived my spirits, efpecia% *
when in about half an hoar more it blew
small gentle gale. By this time I was gotten
at a frightful distance fiom the island; and
had the least cloud or hazy weather inter-
vened, I should have been undone another
way, for I had no compass on board, and
should never have known how to have steer-
ed towards the istand, if I had but once loft
fight of it: but the weather continuing clear,
I spread my fail, standing away to the north,
and got out of the current. They who know
what it is to have a reprieve brought them
when at the gallows, or to be rescued from
thieves just going to murder them, may
guess what was my present joy; how gladly
I put my boat into the stream of this eddy,
and spread my fail to the wind, running
cheerfully before it, assisted by a strong eddy,
which carried me about a league back again,
directly towards the istand, and the breeze
still continuing, I reached it before night.
When 1 was on shore, I fell on my knees,
and gave God thanks for my deliverance, re-
solving to lay aside all thoughts of escaping
from the istand in my boat; and refrestung
myself wkh such things as I had, I brought
my boat close to the more in a little cove that
I found under some trees, and being quite
% spent with' the fatigue of the voyage, laid me
down to sleep. The next morning I made
! my way westward along the shore, to see if
there was no creek where I might lay up
my boat in safety; when having coasted the
shore about three miles, I came to a very-
good bay about a mile over, which narrow-
ed till it came to a small rivulet, where I
found a convenient harbour, and where she
lay as if she had been in a little dock made
on purpose for her: here I put in, and hav-
ing stowed my boat very safe, went on shore
to see where I was..
I soon sound I had but a little passed the
place where I had been before, when I tra-
velled on foot to that more; so taking out
of the boat my gun and my umbrella, I
began my march, and reached my bower in
the evening, where I found every thing as I
left it.
I got over the fence, and laid me down
to sleep in the shade; but judge my surprize,
when I was awaked by a voice calling me
by my name several times, Robin, Robin
Crusoei Poor Robin Cmfoe, <where are you?
Where have jou been? 1 was so dead asleep
at first, that I thought I dreamt somebody
spoke to me; but as the voice continued to
repeat Robin Crusoe, I awaked dreadfully-
frighted; but no sooner were my eyes open,
than I saw my Pol fitting on the hedge, and
immediately knew that it was (he that spoke
to me. I immediately called her, and the
poor sociable creature came as she used to do,
and fat on my thumb, crying, Poor Robin
Crusoe, as if she had been overjoyed to fee
me again, and the next day I carried her
along with me to my castle.
This dangerous ramble reconciled me to
my desolate island, and resigned me to she
dispositions of Providence. I began now to
perceive my powder considerably abated,
and this was a want which it was impossible
for me to supply; dreading what would be-
come of me when [ could kill no more joats;
for my kid did not breed; I set snares to catch
some alive, and particularly wanted a siie-
goat with kid; but my snares were broken,
and my bait devoured. At length I re-
solved to try pitfalls, in one of which I found
a large old he-goat, and in an other three
kids, a male and two females. The old one
was so fierce that I d jst not meddle with
him; but the three kids I brought home;
but, however, they grew tame, and I had the
pleasure to find that I might supply myself
with goats flesh, when I had no powder or
mot left. I inclosed a piece of ground to
keep my goats, proposing, as my flock in-
creased, to add more ground to my enclo-
sure; and I had soon not only goats flesh to
feed on, but milk too; for I now set up a
dairy, .and made myself butter and.cheese*
It would have made a stoic smile so see me
and my family sit down to dinner; there
was my majesty, all alone like a king, at-
tended with my servants. Pol, my favour-
ite, was the only person permitted to talk
to me. My dog, who was grown very old,
fat always at my right hand, and my two
cats, one on the one fide of the table, and
the other on the other, expecting now and
then a bit from my hand, as a mark of spe-
cial favour.
I had at length a great mind to go to the
point of the istand to fee how the shore lay,
ar.d resolved to travel thither by land. And
now, reader, I will give thee a (hort sketch
of the figure I made. I had a great high,
shapeless cap made of goat's skin, a jacket
with the skirts coming down to the middle
of my thighs, and a pair of open-kneed
breeches of the fame, with the goat's hair
hanging to the middle of my leg. Stock-
ings and shoes I had none; but I had made a
pair of somethings, J scarce knew what to
call them, to flap over my legs like spatter-
dashes; but of a most barbarous shape, and
so indeed were all the rest of my cloaths: I
had a broad belt of goat's skin dried, and in
a frog hung on one fide a saw, and on the
other a hatchet. I had another belt not so
broad fastened over my shoulder. Under
my arm hung two pouches for shot and pow-
der; on my back I carried a basket, on my
shoulder a gun, and" over my head a great
clumsy, ugly goat's skin umbrella. My
beard was cut short, except what grew on
my upper lip, which I had trimmed into a
large pair of Mahometan whiskers; but
as for my figure, I had so few to observe
me, that it was of no manner of conse-
quence.
In this jigure, I went my new journey,
and was out five or fix days* When I came
to the hill, [ was surprised to rind the sea all
smooth and quiet, no rippling, no motion,
no current, any more than in other places;
but in the evening, I found a current as be-
fore. I used frequently to visit my boat,
and one day about noon, when I was going
to it, I was exceedingly surprised with t7ie
print of a man's naked foot on the shore,
which was plainly to be seen on the sand.
I stood like one thunderstruck; I listened, I
looked around nic, I could hear nothing, nor
see any thing. I went upon a rising ground
to look farther; I walked backwards and
forwards on the shore, but I could fee only
that one impresiion; I went to look at it
again, there was plainly a foot, toes, heel,
and every part very distinct: how it "came
there I knew not; but I hurried home to my
fortifications, looked behind me every two
or three steps, and fancied every tree,
bushy and stump to be a man. I had
no steep that night: but my terror gradual-
ly wore oit, and I ventured down to. take
measure of the soot by my own, but 1 found
it much larger. This filled me again with
ridiculous whimsies, and when I went home
I began to double my sortirxations, planted
my seven muskets on carriages, in the man-
ner of cannon, and was at the expen.ee of
an infinite deal of labour, purely from my
Apprehensions of this print of a foot. And
in particular I planted a vast number of
stakes on the outside of my wall, which
growing, became a thick grove, and entire-
ly concealed the place of my retreat, and
greatly added to my security.
Now I rambled more to the western point
of the istand than I had ever done before,
I was presently convinced that the seeing
the print of a man's foot was not such a.
strange thing in the istand, as I had imagin-
ed; for on my approaching the shore, I was
perfectly confounded and amazed, nor is it
possible to express the horror I felt at seeing
the shore spread with (kuils,. hands, feet, and
other bones of human bodies; and particu-
larly a place, where, as I supposed, there
had been a fire made, and a circle dug in
in the earth for the savage wretches to sic
down to their inhuman feasts, on the bodies
of their fellow creatures, I turned away
my face from the horrid spectacle; my
stomach grew sick;, 1 was just at the point
of fainting, and left the place as soon as pos-
sible.
When I got a little out of that part of the
istand, I looked up with the utmost affection
of soul, and with tears in my eyes, gave God
thanks for placing me in a part of the world
where I was distinguimed from such wretch-
ed, creatures as these. In this frame of
thankfulness I went home to my castle, and
F
began to be much easier as to my safety/
than 1 had been for some time before; for I
observed that these wretches never came to
the island in search of what they could get;
I had been in the island almost eighteen
years, and never saw any sufficient proofs of
their having been there before; and might
be eighteen more* concealed as I was, if I
did riot discover myself to them. But con-
sidering that they might be driven to my side
of the island, I became cautious of making
a lire at my castle, as I called it, and
therefore went into the midst of the wood,
where I made charcoal, to serve me for my
necessary occasions at home.
One day when I was cutting some brush
wood, I found behind the bum 1 was cutting,
a hollow place* which t was curious of look-
ing into, and getting with difficulty into its
mouth, I found it was sufficient for me to
stand upright in it: but looking farther into
the place, which was perfectly dark, I saw
two broad mining eyes, which twinkled like
two stars, from a dim light reflected from the
mouth of1 the cave. At this I went out ,
faster than I got in; but plucking up my cou-
rage; I took a great firebrand, and ruihed in
again with it flaming in my hand, when I
was almost as much frighted as before; for I
heard a loud sigh, followed by a broken noise,
and then a sigh again. 1 stepped back,,
struck with such surprise, that it put me in
a cold sweat. However I recovered resolu-
tion enough to step forward again, and lifting
up my light, I saw lying on the ground a
most monstrous he-goat gasping for life. I
now recovered from my fright, and began
to look round me. This cave was but
twelve sect over, and I observed that on the
farther side was an opening, into which I
crept on my hands and knees; but as I had
no light, I deferred going farther than the en-
trance till the next day, when 1 brought can-
dles of my own makings and crept about ten
yards, after which the roof rose to about
twenty feet high, and the wall reflected an
hundred thousand lights from my two can-
dles. It was a delightful grotto, the floor
dry and level, no damp to be felt, nor any
noxious creature to be seen. To this place I
brought my powder* and all ray spare arms,
and now kept at my castle only five guns,
which stood ready mounted.
I had now been twenty-two years in the
jf}and, and was so naturalized to the place*
that had I been secure as to the savages, I
then fancied I could have been contented to
have staid in it, till, like the goat I had died
of mere old age; but in my twenty-third
year, going out at break of day, I was sur-
prised with the light of a fire upon the shore,
towards the end of the island; which, to my
great affliction, was on my side. In this ex-
tremity I went bick directly to my castle;
pulled up the ladder after me, and put my-
self in thi best posture of defence. I staid
within two hours, when I began to be impa-
tient for intelligence; but I had no spies to_
fend out. Soon after 1 set my ladder to the
side of the hill, and then mounted to the top;
and lying down on my bel!y on the ground*
I discovered nine naked savages sitting round
a sire. They had two canoes withthem, and
at the return of the tide they went away. As
iboa as I saw them gone, I cook two guns
upon my shoulders, two pistols at my girdle,,
and a great sword without a scabbard, and
hastened to the phee, w -en J found that there
had been no less than sive canoes of them on
the more, which I saw altogether making
over the main. The sight of the horrid car-
jiage they had left behind them so silled me
with horror and indignation, that I medi-
tated the destruction of the next that came
asliore.
Some time after, in the midst of a very
stormy night, I was startled at the firing of
a gun-: I hastened up to the top of my hill,
and heard another. I imagined that these
were signals of a ship in distress, and such it
proved, as I discovered the next day. I
cannot explain by any possible energy of
words, the motion I felt at the sighs of this
wreck. O that there had been but one sav-
ed! I cried, that J might but have.had one
companion! one fellow creature, to have
spoken to, and have comforted in his af-
fliction.
Under ths power of this impression, no-
thing would serve me, but I must go in my
boat to this wreck, which lay at a little dis-
tance. I fur rallied myself with a stock of
provisions for fear of being driven out to sea,
and having begun my voyage, I in two hours
time reached the ship, which was Spanish
built. She stuck, fast jammed in between
two rocks, and all the stern and quarter were
beaten to pieces by the sea. On my coming
near it, a dog yelped and cried; but there
was no other living creature on board; but
J saw two men drowned in the cock room^
with their arms fast about one another, and
ail the goods were spoiled by the water. I
however took two of the seamen's chests
into my boat, without knowing what was in
them.
When I had got my treasure home, and
•b-jgan to unload, I found several bottles fill-
ed with cordial waters, and some neckcloths
and shirts, which w~re very useful to me;
i 100 pieces of e'ght, and about a pound
weight of soiid gold; but of what use was this
to me? I would have <*iven it all for three or
four pair of shoes and stockings.
After this acquisition I lived in my old
manner; though terrified with fears of the
savages. One morning very early I saw rive
canoes of them on shore. I clambered up
my hill, and by the help of my perspective
discovered no less than thirty dancing rourrd
a^fire. i soon after saw two miserable wretches
dragged out of the boat?, one of whom *as
immediately knocked down, but die other
starting from them, ran with incredible swift-
ness along the finds towards me. I confess,
I was horridly frightened when I saw him
come my way, imagining he would be pur-
sued by the whole body; however, I kept
my station,, and quite lost my apprehension.
when I sound but three following him. He
greatly out-ran them, and was in a fair way
cf escaping them all, when coming to the
creek, he plunged into it, landed, and ran on
as swift as before. Of the three that fol-
lowed, but two entered the water, the other
returning back. I hastily fetched my gun?
from the foot of the ladder, and having a
Ihort cut down hill, I clapped myself in the
way between the pursuers and the pursued,
hallowing aloud to him that fled, and bec-
koning with my hand for him to come back;
then rustling at once upon the - foremost,
knocked him down with the stock of my
piece: the other stopped as if frightened;
but when I advanced towards him, I per-
ceived he was fitting his bovv' to shoot me,
upon which I mot him dead directly. The
poor savage who had fled was so terrified ?t
the noise of my piece, though he saw his
enemies fallen, that he stood stock still, but
seemed rather fnclined to fly than to come
towards me. However, when I gave him
signs of encouragement, he came nearer,
kneeling down every ten or twelve steps; on
his coming close to me he kneeled-down
32pun, and laid his head upon'the ground,
jiuid placed my foot upon it. But there was,
more work to do, the man I had knocked
down came to himself, and my savage began
to be afraid. I then presented my piece at
the man, when the poor fellow, whose life I
had saved, made a motion for my sword,
which I gave him, and he ibuck off his ene-
my's head at one blow, and in a quarter of
an hour buried both the bodies rn the sand.
I then took him away to my cave at the far-
ther part os the island. Here I gave him
bread, and a bunch of raisins to eat, and a
draught of water, which he wanted much4
and having refreshed him, I made signs for
him to lie down on some rice straw, which
the poor creature did soon, and went to
steep.
He was a well made handsome fellow, of
about twenty-six years of age, of an olive-
coloured complexion, with long black hair.
He had a small nose that was not Hat, and
sine teeth as white as ivory. After he had
slept about half an hour he waked again, and
came running to me in the inclosure, juit by
where I had been milking ray goats. Then
falling down again, he laid his ruad flat upon
the ground, and set my other foot upon it,
as before, and after this made all possible
%as of diankfuinefs, subjection, and submis-
sion. I began to speak to him, and to teach,
him to speak to me; and first, I made him
to know that his name should be Friday,
which was the day wherein I saved his life.
I taught him to fay Master, and let him
know that was to be my name. The next
day I gave him cloaths, at which he seemed
pleased. As we went by the place where
he had buried the two men, he pointed ex-
actly to the spot, making signs that he would
dig them up again and eat them; at this I
appeared very angry, and beckoned with my
hand to him to come away, which he did
immediately.
Having now more courage, and conse-
quently more curiosity, I took my man Fri-
day with me, giving him the sword in his
hand, with the bow and arrows at his back,
which I found he could use very dexterously.
I also gave him to carry one gun, and taking
two for myself, away we marched to the
place where his enemies had been; when I
came there my blood ran cold in my veins;
the place was covered with human bones,
and the ground dyed with blood; great pieces
of stem were left here and there, half eaten,
mangled, and scorched. I saw three skulls,
five hands, and the bones of three or four
legs and feet; and Friday by his signs, made
me understand, that they: brought over four
prisoners to feast upon, that three of them
were eaten Up, that he, pointing to himself,
was the fourth, and that they had been con-
quered, and taken prisoners in war.
I caused Friday to collect the remains of
this horrid carnage, then to light a fire, and
burn them to aibes. When this was dons
we returned to our callle, The next day I
made a little tent on the outside of my for-
tification, and at night took in my ladder,
that he might not be able to get at me while
1 slept. But there was no need of this pre-
caution; for never man had a more faithful
sefvant; he had the same affection for me as
a child has for a father, and I dare fay, he
would have sacrificed his life tov save mine.
1 was greatly delighted with him, and made
it my business to teach him every thing pro-
per to render him useful; especially to speak,
and understand me when 1 spoke; and he
was the aptest scholar that ever was; then
he was so mefry, io diligent, and so pleased
when he could understand me, or make me
understand him, that he was a very agreeable
companion. <
After I had besn two or three days return,-
ed to the callle, I thought, that in order to
bring him off from the relish of human flesh,
I ought to let him taste other flesh; so I took
him out with me one morning to the woods,
in order to take a kid from my herd; but as
I was going I saw a fhe-goat lying down in
the made, and two young kids fitting by her;
when making signs to Friday not to stir, I
shot one of the birds. Poor Friday, who had
at a distance seen me kill the savage his ene-
my, but did not fee how it was done, trem-
bled and looked so amazed, that I thought he
would have funk down; he did not fee the
kid I had shot, but ripped up his waistcoat to
feel if he was not wounded; and, as I found
presently^ thought that I was resolved to kill
him; for he came and kneeled down to me,
and embracing my knees, seemed to entreat
me not to kill him. But taking him by the
hand, I laughed at him, and pointing to the
kid I had killed, beckoned to him to run and
fetch it, which he did; and while he was
wondering and looking to fee how it was
killed, I loaded my gun, and soon after fee-
ing a parrot fit upon a tree, 1 shewed it to
him; and made him understand that I would
kill it; accordingly I fired, and immediately
he saw it fall; he looked frightened again,
and I believe if I would have let him, would
would have worshipped both me and my gun;
as for the gun itself, he would not so much as
touch it for several days after; but would
. talk to it, when he was by himself, which I
afterwards understood, was to desire it not
to kill him.
Having brought home the kid, I cut it out
and boiled svme of the flesh, made very good
broth; after I had eat some, I gave it to
Friday, who seemed glad of it, and liked it
very well. Having thus fed him with boiled
meat and broth, 1 feasted him the next day
with roasted kid, hanging it before the fire
with a string. This Friday admired very-
much, and made me at last understand that
he would never eat man's flesh any more,
which 1 was very glad to hear.
The next day I set him to beat out some
corn, and sift it, and soon after I let him see
me-make my bread, and bake, and in a little
time Friday was able to do all the work for
me, as well as I could do it myself. I now
found it necessary to sow a larger quantity of
corn than I used to do, and therefore with
Friday's assistance enlarged my fence. In
short, this wa? the yjhasantest year I had led
in the istand; for as my man began to talk
pietty well, I had some use for my tongue
again, and besides the pleasure of talking
to him, I had a singular satisfaction in hit
honesty and affection, which appeared more
every day, so that I began really to love him.
I soon learnt from Friday $ discourse that
he had formerly been among the sat ages,
who used to come on shore on the farther
part of the island, on the same man-eating
occasions, which he was now brought for;
and some time after, I took him to that side
which was the fame I formerly mentioned;
he knew the place, and told me he was there
once, when they eat up twenty men, two
women and a child; but not knowing how to
tell twenty, he numbered them by laying so
many stones in a row, and pointing to me to
tell them over,
I did not fail to instruct this poor creature
as well as I was able,, in the principles of
religion, and he listened to me w^ith great
attention. One day when 1 had been talking
to him on this subject, he told me, that if
our God could hear us beyond the fun, he
was a greater God than their Benamnukee,
who lived bur a little way off, and yet could
not hear till the Oowokakee, or priests went
up to the great mountains, where he dwelt
to speak to him. In short, by instructing
him, I informed myself, for by seriously con*
stdering what I bad never thought os be-
fore, I more strongly impressed a sense of my
duty upon my own mind, and at length,
made him a better christian than I had been
myself. I then told him my story, aud kt
him into me mystery of gun-powder and bul«
lets, and taught him how to shoot; I gave
him a knife, which he was wonderfully de-
lighted with; also made him a belt with a
frog hanging to it, and instead of a hanger,
I gave him a hatchet.
i described to him the countries of Eurom f
and particularly England; how we Hve<*;
how we worshipped God; and how we trad*
ed in (hips to all parts of the world: I gave
him an account of the wreck I had been on
board of, and shewed him the rains of oar
boat, which we lost when we escaped, and
which I could not stir with all my strength
then, but was now almost fallen to pieces.
Upon seeing this boat, Friday stood musing
a great while, and said nothing; when ask-
ing what he was thinking of, he at last said,
Mte such boat like came to place at my nation.
We Jaw ike white mams from drvwn. I then
alked him, if there were any white mans, as
he called them, in the boat! Yes, he said,./**
boat full of twhrte mans\ I asked him. hew
many? He told me upon his fingers, seven-
teen. I then asked him what became os
them? And he replied, They Ihvc, they
dwell I at my natkn, I presently imagined,
that these might be the men belonging to the
ship that was cast away in the fight of my
island, who after the ship had struck on a
rock, had perhaps saved themselves in their
boat. I then enquired what was become of
them, and he assured me that his countrymen
gave them victuals. I asked him why they
did not kill them, and eat them? He fad,
Nos they make brother <zvrth them. They no eat
man3 but <uifjen make <war fght: that is,
they never eat any man but such as are taken
in battle.
A considerable time after this, being at
the top of a hill on the east fide of the island,
from whence 1 had discovered land, Friday
looked ver,y earnestly towards it, and in a
kind of surprize fell a jumping and dancing,
crying, O joy! O glad! there be my country,
there my nation! 1 'observed that his eyes
sparkled, and his countenance discovered £fi
extraordinary sense of pleasure. This obser-
vation gave me some uneasiness, and I coujd
not help appre hending that if he should get
ack to his own nation, he would not only,
forget all his religion, but his obligations to
me, and would perhaps come back with an
hundred or two of his countrymen, and make
a feast upon me, at which he might be as
merry as he used to be with those of his ene-
mies when they were taken in war. But I
wronged the poor honest creature very much.
However, while my jealousy lasted, I every
day endeavoured to penetrate into his
thoughts.
One day, walking up the fame hill, I
called to him, and said, Friday* do you not
wish yourself in your own country? yes, said
he, / be much a glad to be *t my o<wn nation.
What would you do there? said I: would
you eat man's flesh again, and be a savage as
you were before? He looked full of concern,
and, (baking his head, said, No, no, Friday
tell them to live good', tell them to pray God',
tell them to eat corn bread, cattU flejb, milky
and no tat man's jlejh again* Why then, said
I to him, they will kill you: he looked grave
and said, No, they no kill me, they willing lo<ve
learn. He meant they would be willing to
learn. I then told him, that I would make
a canoe for him; and he replied, that he
would go, if I would go with him. I go!
feid I, why they will eat me if I go there.
7&: Th* Litt a*£. Abv«NttJRfcs
JVtf fto, fays he, me snake them no eat you, me
faetke them much Iwe you He then told me
how kind they were to the seventeen white,
or b arded men, as he called them, who
tame on shore in distress.
From this time I had a mind to venture
Over, a^d fee if I could possibly join these
bearded men, not doubting but that we
might find some means of escaping from,
thence. I therefore went with Friday to the
other fide os the island, and mewed him my
boat, when he getting into it, managed it
\yith the greatest dexterity; but he thinking
it too little, I afterwards shewed him the first
boat I had made; but w'lich 1 could riot get
into the water; he said that was big enough;
but'ask had lain two or three and twenty
years, the fun had split it. 1 therefore told
him, we would go and make one as big as
that, and he should go in it. At this he
Jooked uneasy, and 1 asked what was the
matter wii'h him. To which he returned,
Why you rrngyy, mad *wiih Fridays what ine
dwe I' I told nim I was not angry with him.
No angr) J no wtgry f fays he, w/y then fetid
Friday home to my fiatnn! Why said I, Ffi-
day,, did you not say you -wished- you were
there r* Th, yes, says he, ubijh he both there,
no woljh Friday there, tio master there. I
go these Friday! said I: what should I do
there? You do great deal much good, says
he, hastily, ytu teach wild wans be good,
sober, tame mans; ym tell thttn know God%
fray God, and li<ve new I fe. Alas! Fri-
day, said I, thou knowest not what thou say*
est; I am but an ignorant man myself.
Yes, yes, siys he, you teach me good, you
teach them good. No, no, Friday said I
you shall go without me, and leave me here
to live by myself as I did before. He
looked confused, and iunning to a hatchet
took it up haflily, ard gave it me. What
must I do with this? said I. You take kill
Friday, says he. What must I kill you
for? laid 1 again. He returns very quick,
What fend Friday away for? Take kill Fri-
day, 710 fevd Friday away. This he spoke
with such earnestness, that I sow the tears
stand in his eyes.
Upon the whole, as I foutid by all his dis-
course a sett'ed affection to me, and that no-
thing should part him from me: so I found
that his dtnre to return to his country, was
Founded on his affection to the people, and
his hopes of my doing them good. How-
ever, as I had a, strong inclination to make
roy escape, we made a large canoe, and
having compieated it, set up a mast and
sail.
I was now entered into the 27th year of
my captivity, and intended soon to set.fail,
when one morning I bid Friday go to the sea
ftiore to see if he could find a turtle; but he
had not been long gone, when he came run-
ning back like one that felt not the ground
on which he trod, and before I had time to
speak, cried, O ?nafter! O master! O for-
row! O bad! What's the matter, Friday}
said T. O yonder there, said he, one, tivo,
three canoe! one, two, three! Well, Friday,
said I do not be frighted: he was, however
terribly scared, imagining that they were
come to look for him, and would cut
him in pieces and ear. him. I aflced him,
whether if I resolved to defend him, he
would stand by me, and do as I bid him.
He said, Me die, <when you bid die9 majler. I
fetched him,a good dram of rum, and made
him take t\VO fowling-pieces, and load them
with large swan shot. I then loaded sour
muskets with five small bullets each, and each
of two pistols with a brace of bullets, I
hung my great sword naked by my side, and-
gave Friday his hatchet.
I then-took my perspective glass, and went
up to the side of the hill, when i saw twenty-
one savages, three prisoners, and three ca-
noes. They were landed at a small distance,
where the shore was low, and where a thick
wood came almost close down to the sea: and
I was fo filled with indignation, that I was
resolved to kill them all. 1 gave Friday
one pistol to stick in his girdle, and three
guns upon his shoulder; and took one pistol
and the other three guns myself; and having
put a small* bottle of rum in my pocket, I
marched out, ordering Friday tb keep close
behind me, to be silent, and do aS I bid him,
I then fetched a compass of near a mile to
come near them, and in this march I recol-
lected, that though they were going to of- -
fend the Almighty by their bloody feast, I
had no right to make myself the instrument
of his vengeance. This thought allayed my
heat, and 1 refolded to be no more than a
spectator of their inhuman banquet.
With this resolution I entered the wood,
ahd with the lit most precaution marched with
Friday dole at my heels, till we came near
them, when showing Friday a great tree, I
hid him softly bring me word what they were
doing; he did so, and coming back immedU
ately, tcld me, that they were all about the
fire eating the flesh os one of their prisoners,
and that a bearded man lay bound upon the
sand, whom he said they would kill next.
This news fired my foul, and silled me with
horror, and going to a tree, I plainly saw a
white man cloathed, lying on the beach with
his hands and feet tied with flags. I observ-
ed another tree, and a little thicket, beyond
it, much nearer to them, to which I might
go undiscovered, I therefore took a circuit to
it, and came to a little rising ground where I
had a fu'l view of them, at the distance os
about eighty yards.
I had not a moment to lose, for nineteen
ps the horrid wretches fat huddled together
on the ground, and the other two were stoop-
ed down to untie the christian, in order to
murder him. Now, said I, Friday, do as
you fee me do. I laid the musquets down,
and took up one, and then we both fired.
Three were killed and five wounded. The
savages were in a dreadful costcrnation, and
all who were unhurt jumped up immediately
on their feet; but knew not which way tQ
run. Friday kept his eyes close upon me.
I threw down my piece and took up another,
and we instantly let fly among them again;
when being loaded with swan shot, we found
only two drop $ but so many were wounded,
that they ran about screaming and bleeding.
We then rushed out of the thicket, with each
a musket in our hands. I cut the flags "that
bound the poor victim, and gave him a sword
and pistol, which he had no sooner got than
he flew upon his murderers. Mean whifc
Friday firing had killed two', and wounded a
third, and afterwards fell upon them with
his hatchet. In short, seventeen os them
were killed, and four of them getting into *
canoe, got out to sea.
I resolved to pursue them, least they should
return with greater force to dcRroy us, and
ran to a canoe, calling to Friday to follow
me; but I was no sooner in the canoe, than
I found another poor creamre there alive,
bound hand and foot. I immediately cut
the twisted flags, and seeing that he had been
bound so tight that he was almost dead, I
gave him a dram, and ordered Friday to tell
him of his deliverance; but when the poor
fellow looked in his face, and heard him
speak, it would have moved any one to tears,
to have seen how he kissed, embraced, hug*
ged him, cried, danced, sung, and thea cri-
ed again. It was some time before I couM
?4 72' Life end A&yesturss
make him tell me what was the matter; bat
when he came a little to himself, he said
it was his own dear father. He then fat
down by him, held the old man's head close
to his bosom, and chafed his arms and ancles,
which were stiff with binding.
After some time I called him, and he came
jumping, laughing, and pleased to the highest
extreme; I gave him a cake os bread for
his father, with a handful of raisins, and a
dram for himself; but he carried all to his
father, and presently ran away so svviftiy,
that he was in an infant out of fight, and
though I called after him he never looked
back; but in a quarter of an hour I saw him
return with a jug of fresh wacer, which he
gave the old man, who was ready to die with
thirst. This water was a refreshment to us
all, especially to the Spaniard, who notwith-
standing his having exerted himself in the
sight, was now unable to stand, his legs were
so swelled. At my desire, Friday carried
Irim into the canoe, and placed him by his
father; then launching off, paddled along the
{bore, till he brought jheui near my castle,
while I walked thither.
As soon as 1 had secured my two weak
rescued prisoners, and gave them shelter in
a kind of hut I set up for them, I ordered
Friday to take a yearling goat out of my
flock, and having killed it, I boiled part of
it, and made some broth; and in a few days
after they were perfectly recovered. My
island was now peopled, and I thought my-
self a king rich in subjects; but what was
extraordinary, they all owed their \ives to
roe, and were ready to lay them down in my
service. The Spaniard, who had expressed
the utmost gratitude for his deliverance, gave
me an account of the ihipvvreck, ajad the situ-
ation of his companions; and it was resolved
that Friday $ father and the Spaniard should
go in the boat to fetch them over; but the
necessity of increasing our stock of corn, be-
fore this was done, made us delay it for six
months, we all joined in planting and fenc-
ing, and our next harvest being got in, they
set out in one of the canoes.
About eight days after they were gone,
Friday waked me one morning, by crying
out Mafter they are eo-mc. I dressed and
hasted up to the top of the hill, and plainly
discovered an English (hip lying at anchor.
At first I felt in my mind a tumult of joy,
which was soon turned into fear; for though
I knew them to be my countrymen, 1 had
reason to dread them as enemies. Instead
of going towards them as 1 should have
done, had it, not been for these alarming
doubts, I stayed where I was, and was soon
convinced, that to my suspicions I owed my
safety.
They ran the boat a shore on the beach,
and eleven men landed, three of them uu-
armed, who by their gestures 1 thought to
be prisoners; and one of them I could per-
ceive using the most pastionate gestures of
entreaty, affliction, and despair, while the
two others tnough their grief seemed less
extravagant, appeared pleading for mercy.
At this fight I was stiffened with horror,
and Friday called out to me in his broken
English, O master! you see^EnghJbman: tat
prisoners as swell as savage mam. No, no,
said I, Friday, I am afraid they will murder
them; but you may be sure they wont eat
them. At this instant I saw a villain lift up
his arm to kill one of the prisoners; but he
did not strike him. I wished now for the
Spaniard and Friday s father, v/ho wa? gone
with him. While they had been parleying
with their prisoners, the water had ebbed
away from their boat, leaving her a-ground;
and 1 lizard one of them fay to another who
was going to it, Why let her alone Jack, k
will be afloat n .xt tid-; this consumed to
me that they ere my countrymen. I knew
now to my great uneasiness, that they would
have ten hours to ramble about this island:
I therefore deigned to attack tnem as soon
as it was da k; but a few hours after, as I
saw none of them ran bling about, 1 imagin-
ed tl;ey were asleep: all but the three dis-
tressed men, who i„t u der the shelter of a
tree, but a li tie way, from me. To them
I went with" my ram Friday, ?nd said in
Spanish, what a e you, g n i-n\en? They
started at the noise; bin \\h:n they sew my
uncoufh figure, they prepared to My. I then
said in English, gen 1:-men, perhaps you may
have a friend near voi>, waorn you little
expect. He mult be sent di r^ftly from hea-
ven, said one of them bowing; for our con-
dition is pH-st the help of man. Al help is
£om heaven, Sir, I replied; I fee you are
in digress, and &m wrliig to serve you.
The poor man, with a gulli os tears, an-
swered, am I talking to a man or an angel?
A man, an Englishman, I returned; ready-
to affill and save you: tell me your case.
I was commander of that ship, he replied;
my men have mutinied against: me, and if
they do not murder me, they intend to leave
me and these two gentlemen, ashore in this
desolate place. They are but in thac thick-
et, and I tremble for fear they have seen
you, and heard us (peak: if they have, they
will murder us all. I asked what arms they
had got, and finding they had but one piece
of fire arms among them, 1 told him, it was
easy to kill them all while they were asleep,
or take them prisoners. He replied, that
there were two incorrigible villains among
them, to whom it would not be safe to {hew
mercy. I then gave each of them a musket,
and advised them to fire among them at
once; but he was cautious of shedding
blood. Jn the midst of our discourse some
of them waked, and two walked from the
reft. The captain said, he would gladly
spare them. Now, said I, if the reft escape
you, it is your fault. Animated with this
they went to the sailors, and the captain re-
serving his own piece, the two men shot one
of the villains dead, and wounded the other.
He who was wounded cried out for help,
H 3-
when the captain knocked him down with
the stock of his mufquet. There were three
more in company, ore of whom was wound-
ed. They bagged for merer, and 1 coming
Up, gave orders for sparing their lives, on
condition of their being bound hand and
foot, while they stayed w the Island.
While we were binding them, Friday and
the captain's mate secured the boat, and
brought away the oars and fail. Tne noise
of our guns brought three more straggling
men to us, and they submitting to be bound,
our victory was complete. We then con-
sulted together how to recover the ship, there
being still twenty-six men on board. We
knocked a great hole in the bottom of the
boat, that they might not carry her away;
and while we were doing it, we heard the
ship fire a gun, as a signal for the boat to
come on b- ard. A'little after another boat
with ten men and fire arms, approached the
shore. We had a full view of them as they
came; the captam told me three of them
vyere peaceable fellows; but the r.st were
desperate wretches, The most suspicious of
our prisoners, we sent bound into the cave,
two we kept with us still pinioned, an-' the
mate and a sailor we ventured to take into
«ayr.service* We were now seven men well
armed, and thought ourselves a match for
fihofe who were coming.
As soon as they got to the place where the
other boat lay, they ran their boat on the
lka.ch,, and came ail on shore. They haj-
Sooed aloud for ilieir companions; seemed
m the utmost astonishment at the destruction
or the boat, and immediately returned and
irowcd from, the ihore; but q-uickly coming,
stack again, seven of them landed, leaving
three in, the boat, who kept at a distance
"§tom the shore. We now lost all hopes of
recovering the lhip; for we imagining that
as we seized the seven men, the rest would
jTptum to the ship, and she would set sail;.
However we had no remedy but patience.
Those who came on shore kept close tcge-
ttPrer,, marching up the little hill, under
which my habitation lay.^ When at the top
fey shouted and hallooed; but did not care
to> venture for from the shore, and quickly
returned back again. I then ordered Fjsiday 
md the mate to go to a ri&ng ground, arr4
as loud as they jcoo-kL They heard
the noise, and ran towards it, till they came
to- the creek; they then called to the-boat
t&?fet them over. This, was \7hs.t I expect-
cd. They having; crossed the creek left
two men in the boat, taking the other with
them. We lest Friday and the mate to pur-
sue their business in decoying the fellows up
into the woods, by shouting and haUooing,
while we surpri ed the two men they had left,
one lying in the boat, and the other asleep
on the shore. The last starting up at our
approach, the captain knocked him down,
and called to him in the boat to yield, or
he was a dead man. This he did, and hear-
tily joined us: be being one of those who
had been forced through fear to join the
mutiny.
Several hrurs after Friday came back, and
told me he had heartily tired the men, by
hallooing to them from different places; for
he heard them complain, they were so tired
they could not walk. At length we saw
them all go to the boat, which was aground
in the creek, the tide having ebbed out.
When they saw the two men gone, th^y call-
ed to another in the most lamentable manner,
saying they were got into an inchanted
istand, that it was cither inhabited, and
they should be murdered, or that there
were devils in it, and they should be de-
voured. They hallooed and called their
comrades by their names, and then ran
about wringing their bands like men in de-
spair;: it grew dark r I drew my- ambus-
cade nearer, and ordered Friday and the cap-
tain to creep upon their hands and feet,
that they might not be seen, and to get
^ery near them before they fired; but one of
fihe- principal ringleaders of the mutiny, with
two of the ersw came towards us, and the
captain was so eager at having him in his.
power,' that he let fly, and killed him and
atiothi'r man on the spot, the third ran for itv
I immediately advanced with my whole army,
when the? men we took our of the boat, by
my order, called to one of them by his
aara*% Tom Smith. The fellow answered,
wh& is. that, Robinson; The other replied,
sry* ay, for God's fake,. Tom, throw down
jour arms and yield, or you are ail dead
mea this moment. Yield! who must we
j'icld to? fays Smith. Where are they?
Here they are, fays he, here's our captain
with fifty men with him; the boatswain and
WilL try are killed, and I am a prisoner.
Will they giv*$ us quarter £ fays Smith.
The captain then called out. You know
mv voice,, if you lay down your arms and
fiifem.it,. you shall all have, your lives but
Will Atkins. Upon which Will Atkins call-
ed out for God s fake, captain, spare my
life, the rest are as bad as I; which was not
true, for he had used the captain very ill*
at the beginning of the mutiny. The cap-
tain told him he must lay down his arms at
discretion, and trust to the governor's mercy.
Upon which they all submitted, and the cap*
tain expostulated with them, on their villain-
ous treatment of him, He told them, th3t
the governor was an Englishman, who in-
tended sending them all to England, except
Atkins, who was to be hanged the n«xt
morning, and he bid him prepare for death*
It was now determined to sieze the (hip, and
the captain chose five of those he liked best
to assist him, while I kept the rest as hos-
tages for their fidelity. We then stopped the
breach in the broken boat, and having man-
ned them both, the captain went t»> the (hip
about midnight, got on board, and being
faithfully seconded, they knocked down the
second mate and carpenter, with the bust-
end of their musquets, and soon overcame all
the rest. Killed the rebel captain, and fared
ieveral guns to give me a signal of their suc-
cess, which filled me with joy; soon after
the captain called to me from the top of the
 
hill, and I going to him he embraced me hi
an ecstasy, telling me the ship and cargo w.^
all mine.
When I saw my deliverance thus put in
my hands, I was ready to sink with surprize;;
1 was not able to answer one word* but a
Hood of tears brought me to myself, and a
little while after I recovered my speech. I
then in my turn embraced him as my deli-
verer, and we rejoiced together. When we
had talked a while, he called aloud to the
boat, and bid them bring the governor's pre-
sent ashore; and indeed it was a present sit
for a governor. Among other things there
was a good suit of cloaths, with Hurts and
neckcloths. I dressed myself in them., and
then appeared as governor before the pri-
soners. I asked them what they had to lav
in their own defence, teJJing, them I had
power to execute them there. They pleaded
the captain's promise of mercy; and I told
them, that I intended to go passenger in the
ship, with all my men; but that they, if
they went, could only go as prisoners:; ob-
serving, however, that they might, if they
chose it, stay in the island. This they glad-
ly accepted, and I prepared to go on board
.the next day, the captain returning to tike
{hip to get every thing ready for my re-
ception.
When he was gone, I talked to the men,
told them my story, and how I managed all
my houstiold business; left a letter for the fif-
teen Spaniards, and made them promise to
treat them in common with themselves. The
next day I went on board the (hip, taking
Friday with me; but did not weigh that
night; and before we put off, two of the men
swam to us from the shore,, desiring to be
taken in, or they mould be murdered;- to
which we agreed, and they afterwards be-
came honest fellows. On the other hand,
two men in the ship, fearing to be called to
a.1 account in England, took the pinnace, and
joined the!r old comrades on sliore. Thus
I ITt the island, after being on it twenty-
eight years.
On my arrival in England, I was as per-
fect a stranger as if I had never been known
there; my faithful steward the widow was
become poor; my father and mother were
dead; but I had two sisters, and two of the
children of one of my brothers wer^ living.
The merchant concerned in the ship I had
saved, having heard the captain's story, in-
vited me to an entertainment, and made me
I
a present of near zool. I then went to Lis-
bon, to see aster my effects in the Brazils,
and found the generous captain, who had
been so much my friend, still alive, and he
put me in a way of recovering the produce
of my plantation. And in few months af-
ter there arrived ships in the Tagus, with ef-
fects for my use, to the amount of 50,0001.
besides 1000I; a year, which [ expected to re-
ceive annually from my plantation.
Having converted my money into bills of
exchange, I resolved to travel to England by
land, over the Pyrenean mountains. Poor
Friday was terribly frightened when he saw
mountains* covered with snow, and felt cold
weather. As we were travelling, our guide
was asiaulted by two wolves: when instead of
drawing his pistol, he called out to us, and
I bid Friday hasten to fee what was the mat-
ter; when like a bold fellow he rode up and
shot the wolf who had fastened on the man,
and the other which had seized on the horse,
fled. At the report of his pistol, we hastened
«ip, and saw in what manner he had delivered
our guide; when on a sudden a monstrous
bear rumed out of a wood, which surprised
US all, except Friday, who with joy and cou-
rage in his countenance, cried, Of Of Of
majlcr you gvve ?ne kavf, mt Jhakec U hand
<wifh him, me makee you good laugh; you
fool, said I. he'll cat you up. Eatee me up;
me make you good laugh. The bear walked
softly on, till Friday coming pretty near, calls
as if the bear could understand him, Harkye,
harkye, me sfrakee <wit you, and then flung
a great stone at his head. As soon as he felt
the stone, he came after him with monstrous
long strides. Away ran Friday towards us
as if he wanted help. Is this your making
us laugh, you dog? said 1 in a passion, mount
your horse, that we may moot the creature.
No Jhoot, no Jboot, said he, you get much
laugh, and laying down his gun, he climbed
up a tree. The bear stopped to smell at the
gun, and climbed the tree after him, when
Friday getting to the small end of a large
branch, and the bear about the middle of it,
he fell a shaking the bough, crying, Now
you see me teachee the hear dance. The crea-
ture turned to fee which way he should go
back, and Friday says, What you come no far*
ther, pray you come farther > you no come farther,
me go. Ton no come to me, me come to you. Then
bending the bough down he flipped ofT it, and
taking up his gun stood still. The bear finding
his enemy gone, came with the hinder end
foremost down the tree; wfccn Friday clapping
I 2
the muzzel of his gun to his ear, shot him
dead. Then- turning -to us cried, So woe
hit hear in my country. So you kill ttiem,
said I, you rogue; why you have no guns.
No, fays he, no gun, but Jhootee great much
Img arrows. During the rest of this journey
we were terribly pestered by the wolves, of
which we killed seventy. I however, ar-
rived safe at Dover, with all my wealth
about me, when 1 placed the good widow,
who had been my steward, in easy circum-
stances
Sometime after I married, and not know-
ing how to live without employment, retired
into the country to a little farm; but in the
middle of this fTicity my wife died, leaving
me three children. - By the loss of my sage
counsellor, I became like a (hip without a
pilot, that could only sail before the wind*
One of my brother's children-1 had brought
up to the sea, and had given him a ship,
lie was going a voyage to China, and came
one morning to ask if I would go with him
to fee my beloved island. I had sueh a ro-
mantic scheme for sometime in rriy thoughts,
and therefore readily closed with his propo-
sal. Having made my will, and settled my
estate on my children, we let sail, taking'with
me some servants, two carpenters, a smith,
and an ingenious fellow, whom I called my
Jack-of«all-trades, with a considerable quan-
tity of all kinds of necessaries, for the use of
my subjects on the island.
In this voyage we took on board the pas-
sengers and crew of a stiip, consumed b) fire,
and set them on shore at Newfoundland, and
soon after relieved auother ship, where all
on board were peri filing for want of provi-
sions. On board this last were three passen-
gers, an old lady, her son, and a maid ser-
vant, who were so neglected by the hungry
sailors, that they were barely alive when we
met with them, and the old lady died that
night. The youth and the maid went with
us to my island, as did a young priest whom
we took out of the other (hip.
As soon as we came in fight of it, I called
to Friday, and asked him if he knew where
he was, when clapping his hands, he cried,
O yes, O there, and danced and capered like
a mad fellow. Now Friday, fays I, we (hall
fee your father; at which he looked very
dejected, an'd with the tears running down his
face, said, Ne, no fee him more, no ever more
fee again. He long ago die. He mitch oldman*
When we went on shore, at the tide of
I 3
 
the flood, the first man I saw was the Spani-
ard, whose life I had saved. I had order*
ed that no man stiould land but myself;
however, there was no keeping Friday on
^ board, for he saw his father, and he flew
like an arrow out of a bow. If there was
the fame affection in oar part of the world,
we should have no need of the fifth com-
mandment.
The Spaniard I mentioned came towards
the boat, carrying a flag of truce, and he
did not know me till I spoke to him in Por-
tuguese, When giving the mustæt' to the
man who was with him, he threw his arms
abroad to embrace me, saying he was inex-
cusable in not, knowing his good angel and
deliverer. I went with him to my old habit-
ation, which was made far stronger, than
when I test it. When I enquired the reason
of this, he told me the three barbarians, not
contented with being moderately their mas-
ters, wanted to be their murderers, and they
had been obliged to disarm them. That the
only just thing the rogues did, was to give
them the letter, and paper of directions I
left them. The Spaniards who were brought
over by Friday's father, worked for them,
while they rambled about the island catch-
ing tortoises, and shooting parrots. With
this they were contented, and they went on
pretty well: but the three brutes would not
let their two countrymen, who afterwards
came on shore, live with them; but they
being industrious fellows, built themselves
two little huts at a distance, cultivated some
land, and bad a little thriving farm, when
the unnatural rascals told them that the
island was theirs, by the gift of the governor,
and that they mould not build upon their
land, without paying them rent. The two
honest men, as I call them for distinc-
tion, believing they jested, told them they
should get a scrivener to draw writings; but
the villains answered, that they should see
they were not in jest, and immediately set
fire to one of their huts; blows ensued, in
which the two got the better pf the three;
however, the rascals, who still loved mis-
chief, destroyed their corn upon the ground,
and tore up their plantations. The Spani-
ards reproved them for their cruelty to their;
countrymen; but the rogues said, the island
was theirs, and the others should be their
servants. They then treated them also with
the utmost insolence, so that the Spainards
were obliged \o disarm them; but on pro*
mise of better behaviour, they let them have
their arms again, which they had not pos-
sessed a week, when they began to threaten-
and bully the two Englishmen, as before.
About this time a great number of sa?age£
of different nations landed, and fought a
battle, in which thirty -two men were killed
on the spot. Three os the routed party ran
up into the woods, who being taken prison-
ers, they made them their slaves. rl heir ter-
ror of the savage armies made them all
friends for some time; but about two years
after, they were obliged again to disarm th£
turbulent Englishmen, who had almost killed
one of the staves, and struck at a Spaniard
with a hatchet.
They obliged them now to live in a dif-
ferent part of the istand, and cultivate thtf
earth for themselves; when the mad rogues,
weary of working, took the canoe, and went
among the savages to get them servants.
The people treated them very civilly^ arm
in exchange for a knife, a hatchet* and six
or s. ven bullets, gave them eleven men, and
five women,,who they had taken prisoners td
eat; and they were obliged to hurry away, ot
they would have compelled them to begin
their inhuman feast.
Befope they came to the island, they set
eight of the prisoners at liberty. The Spa-
niards would not marry any of the women,
but each of the Englishmen chose one of
them for his wife, and afterwards became
more civilized.
They had now another visit from the sa-
vages ; they kept close while they were in the
island; but when they saw them embark,
had the curiosity to go to the place where
they had been; when, to their great surprize,
they found three savages left fast asleep* upon
the shore. They could not think of killing
these naked wretches, and did not want ser-
vants, however they took them prisoners;
but unfortunately one of them made his es-
cape, and soon after returned with a large
body of his countrymen. This fellow had
been kept at one of the huts of the honest
Englishmen, and these two poor men had but
just time to remove their wives and children,
before they saw their houses in flames. On
this they retreated, and sent a slave to the
Spaniards for help. They however halted at
the entrance of a thick wood, when two of the
savages running directly towards them, they
climbed into a high tree. They now saw
three following the two, and five more fol-
lowing at a little distance. They let the two
first pass, and then fired at the three; the
first they killed, and wounded the second,
who was the fugitive prisoner that had
brought all this miscnief upon them. The
n>e behind, terrified at the report of the
guns, stood still; bur the yells and screams
of their wounded companion brought them
ail in a huddle about him. But the English-
men now let fly together, and as the five fell
down, they thought they had killed them
all; and therefore, without, charging their
pieces, they descended from the tree, and
went boldly to the place, where they sound
four alive, two of them but very little hurt,
and one os them not at all; but they soon
pat the wounded men out of their pain with
the stocks of their muskets; and then bound
the unhurt mart hand and foot, and left
him.
They then went to the retreat where they
had left their wives, and found that the two
first men had been near the place in search of
them. Here seven of the Spaniards came to
their assistance, bringing with them the sa-
vage whom they had kft bound. Jmbolden*
ed by this a distance, they resolved to go
in quest of the other savages, . They disco-
vered diat they had attempted to carry oiF
their dead, and soon aster they saw them all
embark-
About fix months after this they were
invaded by a most formidable fleet, twenty-
eight canoes fall of savages, armed with
bows and arrows, great clubs, and wooden
swords. To oppose this force there were
seventeen Spaniards, five Englishmen, old
Friday, and fix slaves. To arm these they
had sixteen mnikets, five pistols, three fowl-
ing pieces, Xwo swords, and three old hai-
berts. To the slaves they gave each a bal-
bert, or a long staff pointed with iron, and a
hatchet* '1 wo of the women wculd needs
fight, and had bow and arrows, and each a
hatchet. The old Spaniard, whose ii% I
had saved, commanded, and Will Atkt; s>
one of the three daring Englishmen, com-
manded under him.
The savages came forward like lion*, and
Atkins, with" fix men, being placed behind
& thicket, with orders to let the Erst pass, he
suffered about fifty to go, and then ordered
three of his men to fire their muskets, which
were loaded widvfix or seven bullet* a-piece,
among the thickest of them. How many
they killed they knew not; bat the poor
wretches seemed frighted to the last degree.
Then the other three fired, and after them
the first three in less than a minute. Had
they novv retired, as they were ordered, it
would have been well; but staying to charge
again, tome savages at a distance saw them,
and surrounded jhem behind, wounded At-
kins himself, and killed an Englilhman, a
Spaniard, and a gallant Indian slave, who
with no other weapon but an armed flarl,
and a hatchet, killed five men.-
Ack-ns was then obliged to retire, as were
also the Spaniards, who had behaved wkh
grear gallantry, killing about fifty of their
enemies. Atkins, though wounded, would
have had the governor march and charge
them in a body; but the Spaniard replied,
beignior Atkins, let them alone till morning, -
when they will be stirs with their wounds,
and faint with loss of blood. That's true,
Seigntor, replied Atkins; buc so shall I too*
and that's the reason why I would go while
I am warm. Seignior Atkins, returned the
Spaniard, you have behaved gallantly, and
done your part, and therefore we will fight
for you. But it being a clear moon-light
night, they resolved to fall on them then;
eight of them let fly amongst the savages,
and then eight more; loading and firing as
fast: as they could. Then they ran in three
parties among them and did great execution.
Killing in the two fights one hundred and
eighty. The rest with nimble feet got to the
sea-fide, where their canoes lay: but they
could not embark, for it w blew a terrible
storm, and the next morning the canoes
were driven by the surge of the sea, so far
upon the more, that it required infinite la-
bour to get them off.
Will Atkins now advised the commander
to destroy their canoes, and they soon made
them unfit for swimming at sea. This made
the poor wretches quite desperate; they ran
about the island, pulled my plantation at the
bower to pieces; trod the corn under foot,
and did our men inestimable damage, who
were forced to hunt them like wild beasts.
However, when they were reduced by hun-
ger and slau-ghter to thirty-seven in number,
they submitted, and the Spaniards gave them
food* with all kinds of necessaries, and per-
mitted them to have a plautation. These
people soon became civilized, for the Spa-
nurds and English went among them; though
the Indians were forbid on pain of death, to
go to their settlements.
This was the situation of the island at roy
arrival with the addition of twenty little
children, for the women had all been fruit-
ful. My coming was a particular relief,
because I furnished them with knives, sho-
vels, pick-axes, and every thing they could
want.
When we were all innocently merry at an
entertainment, provided on purpose, I pro-,
duced the rest of my cargo.—I took on shore
with me the young man, whose mother was
starved to death, and the maid, with the
French ecclesiastic we had saved out of the
burning ship. This priest, who was a very
worthy man, talking to rrie one day about my.
island, said, with great good manners, that
1 ought to attempt the conversion of my sa-
vage subjects, and to have the women lawful-
ly married to the men they lived with. I
told him I could not stay for the first, and
as to the laft I would speak to the men about
it. He then said, in a kind of extacy, if I
would give him leave, he would stay him-
self in the island to be their instructor, adding,
he should be thankful if he could be the Jiap-
py instrument of converting these thirty-
seven savages, though he never set his foot
off the island while he Jived.
Sometime after this I conversed with my
Englishmen about their wives; and Will
Atkins as spokesman for the reft, said, that
is any man would carry him to England, and
make him captain of the best ship in the navy,
he would not go without he might carry his
wife and children with him, and that he
would be married the next day, if there was
a clergyman upon the ifland. I then told-
them that the French gentleman was a mini-
ster, and that they should be married the
next morning; but before this pious priest
would perform the ceremony, he wanted to
persuade the men to convert their wives; but
as they did not understand French, nor he
Englilh, I was their interpreter on both fides.
He told them, that he was afraid they were
but indifferent Christians, and unless they
would promise to teach their wives as well as
they could, he would not marry them. Lord
Sir, said Will Atkins, how should we teach
them religion? we know nothing of it our-
selves*' If I was to tell my wife of God and
Christ, and heaven and hell, and that wicked
people went to the devili she would a Ik me
where I intended to go.? The priest said, let
him but repent himself, and he will soon be-
come an excellent preacher to his wise. The
poor fellow seemed much affected, and said
he would have some talk with her.
While he was gone, the priest: married
the other three couple. Will Atkins then
came in, and I began to talk with him, and
asked him who was his father? He answer-
ed a better man than I mall ever be, he was a
clergyman; he would have given me good
education; but like a beast, I despised all
instruction. I murdered my poor father;
for my bad behaviour broke his heart. But
how comes this to touch you just now, Will,
I replied? Why, saici he, you set me to
teach my wife, and the has been preaching
such a sermon to me, as I mall never forget.
I told her God had appointed marriage;
when me told me, I had no God in. my
country: and when I laughed at her for fay-
ing so, she said, <( No laugh; why laugh me!
"This norhing to laugh. If God makee
"me, why you no tell me long ago. Hav&
<c you de great God in your country, you
<* no know him! No fay O to him! No
** do good ting for him! that no impossible."
I replied it was. vefy true for all that.
*' Why" said Ihe, "he no makee you good
'* live? You say me he is great, can make-
*4 kill when he will. Why,,,he no makee
** kill when you serve him. He, no know."
Yes, M answered, he knows and fees all
things, and hears us speak. "What!" re-
turned she, " he no hear you swear, curse,
"speak the great damn!" Yes, yes, he
hears it all, i cried. "Where be then the
<c muchee great power strong! He never
i( makee kill, never angry when we do
*' wicked, then be no good himself, or no'
** great able/* Yes, my dear, fays I, he
does sometimes punish in this world, and
many are cut off in their fins, and then go to
hell, where they are miserable for ever.
se He no makee you dead," she returned,
*f and you no tell him tank you for all thatf
I am an ungrateful dog that's true, I return-
ed. <e I wisti you makee me know God/*
slie replied, "I no makee him angry; I no
Si do bad wicked ting." I will pray to God
to teach you, he replied; when she returned,
tr He give all ting, then he makee me good,
"if I wish to be good: he spare me, no
"makee kill me when I no be good. Me
<f take, think, believe him to be great God,
« me will tank him with you, my dear."
Atkins said, that he could here forbear no
longer, but prayed with his wife. In a word,
the poor woman, after some conversation
with the priest, in which I was interpre.er,
desired of herself to be baptised, which
w*s done, and she was afterwards married,
and my Jaek-of-all-trades was afterwards
married to the woman whom I had saved
from starving.
Soon after this, having, by my sovereign
authority, divided^ the l^nds amongst them
to prevent quarrelling, 1 left the island; but
I had not been from it three days, when
we discovered a great number of canoes,
which came very near us, on which we made
signs for them to put back, which they did;
but discharged about five hundred arrows
at us, and wounded one of our men. , Being
unwilling to fire upon them, 1 ordered Fri-
day to speak to them, when instantly they
discharged another flight of arrows, that
killed poor Friday, no' other man being in
their light. Enraged at the loss of my old
servant, I gave them a broad-side, which
/ overset many of their canoes, and the rest
fled so fast, that in a little time there was not
oik to be seen.
We now steered to the East-Indies, stayed
a few days at the Cape of Good Hope,
where we took in fresh water, and sailed to
Madagascar, where the people behaved with
civility, and traded with our meji; but one
night, many of the crew being on shore,
and I in the beat, which was at anchor
very near it, we heard them fire their gun,
and call aloud for the assignee of the boat.
We soon rowed to shore; but our men were
in too much haste, and jumped into the wa-
ter; for they were pursued by three or four
hundred of the natives. Seven of them we
took up, one was killed in the beginning of
the fray, and one was left behind. I found
that this outrage proceeded from the fellow
that was missing, who endeavoured to be
rude to a girl, that came to fell them milk.
I was unwilling to go and leave the fellow
in-the hands of these barbarians, and there-
fore the next night we went on (hore. We
landed without any noise, but could not find
him we wanted, I was then for going
aboard, but they resolved to seek for their
companion in the Indian town, which was at
a little distance; nor could I dissuade them
from this mad exploit. Their first design
was only plunder! but finding their com-
rade mangled, and hung on a tree,, they
were so enraged, that they set sire to the
town in three places. My nephew who was
in the ship at a distance, seeing the flames,!
came with thirteen men to the boat-where I
was. He was surprised to see me and. the
supercargo in the boat, with no more thaa
two sailors; but however he resolved to go
after his men, and I went with him, When
we came near die town, we saw three women
stark naked, and aster them sixteen or seven-
teen men flying in the greatest consternation,
pursued by three of our English butchers.
My very foul shrunk within me, and J verily
believe, had our three Engliih sailors" conti-
nued their pursuit, I should have ordered our
men to fire upon them. Some of the poor
flying wretches were miserably burnt. We
soon saw our boatswain, who was one of the
forwardest in these acts of cruelty. He set
up a shout of triumph at seeing me: cap-
tain, noble captain, I am glad you are come,
cried he, villains, hell hounds, dogs, we
have sworn to spare none of them; I will kill
as many of them as poor Tom had hairs.
Barbarous wretch, cried I, what are you
doing? stand still or you are a dead man this
minute* Why, Sir, said he, if you want a,
reason for what we have done, look-here:
he then shewed me the poor fellow hanging
by one arm, with his throat cut. At this
fight, my nephew, and those we brought
with us, were as enraged as those who had
been in the massacre, and went altogether to
finish their bloody work, leaving with me
only the supercargo, and two other men with
whom I walked back to the boats, and re-
turned on board, fending the pinnace back
to fetch the men, who got on board in the
morning, unhurt, except one of them being
a littk scorched, andaanother having sprained
his ancle
I was extremely angry with my nephew,
and all his men, about this affair; and at
last, on my frecuen tly (hewing my abhor-
rence of this mailacre, as I always called it,
they mutinied. 1 was then on snore ac Ben-
gal, and one and all said, they would leave
the (hip, if I ever set foot in it. My ne-
phew, the captain, was obliged to comply,
but sjnt me monry and necessaries.
I took lodging in the house of an English
woman, where 1 got acquainted with a mer-
chant; we bought a (hip, and went a voy-
age to China, which proved very successful,
and made another to the spice islands, with
the like good fortune. We then bought a
large vehel; but this purchase had like to
hare cost us our lives; for the people of
whom we had bought her, having their cap-
tain killed on shore, had ran away with the
{hip, and turned pirates; this we heard in
the river Cambodia, which obliged us to fly,
and we were pursued by five of the East-
India comoany's boats, which we kept off
with our guns, and made the be/I of our way
to Tonquin, under the utmost: terror of
being seized, and hanged as pirates. Our
(hip having sprung a kak, we here laid her
down to stop it. While she was in this con-
dition, the natives not seeing our men, came
round us in twelve large boats, supposing it
to be a wreck; we were in an ill posture for
fighting, all hands being at work repairing
the ship's bottom: we immediately set about
righting the ship; but before we could do
it, they had boarded one long boat to make
prisoners of some of our men. The first they
seized was an Englishman, who, instead of
firing the musket he had in his hand, laid
it down in the boat,- and seizing the fellow
by the ears, he by main force daihed his
brains out against the gunnel; while a Dutch-
man, with the butt end of his musket, knock-
ed down five of them. In the rn^an time a
fellow who attened the carpenter with a ket-
120 7/V"Life md Adv-e-mtuxes, £5fc.
tie of boiling pitch, saluted the pagans with
a Ladle of the hot stuff, which the carpenter
feeing, cried, well done, Jack, dipping a mop
into the boiling pitch, sprinkled it profusely
over them, which made them howl moft
dreadfully; and another kettle of the same
materials gave us a complete victory,, without
firing a gun.
We left this bay the next morning, >nd
sailed to Nanquin, when to our great ]oy
we sold our vesiel to a merchant os Japan,
and afterwards travelled with a large cara-
van, through China, Siberia, and Muscovy,
and arrived at London on the 10th os Janu-
ary, 170;, having been absent from Eng-
land, this last time, ten years, and nine
months, and now resolving to harrass myself
no more, I am preparing for a longer jour-
ney than all those; for I have lived seventy-
two years, chequered with infinite variety,
and have been taught sufficiently the value
of retirement, and the blessing os ending my
days in peace, and in ibe true worship ot my
Almighty Deliverer.
FINIS.
