*r:
\.
 V "  * #
 
•,vt'-p:'
.. ***
 
•'-.*»? .'i A*; '"*
*.^'f*^'« _?» -
 
 
 
Æ
 
HubbMd
Imag-Voy.
34-03
r]20
V
< •
 
t'/\tr£ :y
THE
LIFE,
And Strange Surprizing
ADVENTURES
ROBINSON CRUSOE,
Of TOR/C, Mariner:
Who lived eight and twenty Years all alone in
an un-inhabited Island on the Coast of America,
near the Mouth of the Great River Oroonoque;
having been cast on Shore by Shipwreck, where-
in all the Men perished but himself.
With an ACCOUNT how he was at last as
strangely deliver'd by Pyrates.
Written by Himself.
Œ&e jfifflj (Coition.
To which is added a Map of the World, in which is
Delineated the Voyages of ROBINSON CRUSOE.
 
LO NDON: Printed for W. Taylor at the
j Ship in Pater-Hister-Row. Mdccxx. j
 
T H E
PREFACE.
IF ever the Story of any private
Man's Adventures in the
World were worth making
Public k, and were acceptable
when Publish'd^ the Editor of this
Account thinks this will be so.
The Wonders of this Man's
Life exceed all that (he thinks)
is to be found extant; the Life of
one Man being scarce capable of
a greater Variety.
The Story is told with Modesty,
with Seriousness, and with a reli-
gious Application of Events to the
Uses to which wife Men always
apply them (viz) to the Instruction
The Preface.
of others by this Example, and to
juflify and honour the IVifdom of
Providence in all the Variety of
our Circumstances\ let them hap-
pen how they will.
The Editor believes the thing,
to be a juft History rfFacJ; nei-
ther is there any Appear ante of
Ficlion in it; And however
thinks r because all such Things are
disputed, that the Improvement of
it, as well to the Diverfim,, as
to the Inftmclim ff the Reader,
will be the fame ;wid as such, he
thinks, without farther Compli-
ment to the W&rld, he does them
a great Servke'in the Publica-
tion,
THE
A M A P Ot'tlie W O R LD Oil wh is Delineated the VoAa-cs
oV/i OBINS0N (RITS0
/ LÆ,
 
 
 
THE
LIFE
AND
ADVENTURES
OF
Robinson Crusoer dec.
Was born in the Year 1632, m
the City of York, of a good Fa-
mily, tho' not of that Country,
my Father being a Foreigner of
Bremen, who fettled first at Hull;
He got a good Estate by Mer-
chandize, and leaving off his
Trade, lived afterward at Tork;
from whence he had married my Mother, whose
Relations were named Robinson, a very good Fa-
mily in that Country, and from whom I was called
Robinson Kreutz>naer; but by the usual Corruption
of Words in England, we are now olTd, nay we
call our selves, and write our Name Crusoe, and ?q
my Companions always call*d me.
Parti. B I had
 
CO
I had two elder Brothers, one of which was
Lieutenant Colonel to an English Regiment of Foot
in Flandersy formerly commanded by the famous Col.
Lockhavt, and was killed at the Battle near Dunkirk
against the Spaniards: What became of my Second
Brother I never knew, any more than my Father or
Mother did know what was become of me.
Being the third Son of the Family, and not bred
to any Trade, my Head began to be filled very ear-
ly with rambling Thoughts: My Father, who was
very aficient, had given me a competent Share
of Learning, as far as House-Education, and a
Country Free-School generally goes, and designed
me for the Law; but I would be iatisfied with no-
thing but going to Sea; and my Inclination to this
led me so strongly against the Will, nay the Com-
mands of my Father, and against all the Entreaties
and Perfwasions of my Mother and other Friends,
that there seem'd to be something fatalin that Pro-
pension of Nature tending directly to the Life of
Misery which was to befal me.
My Father, {a wife and grave Man, gave me
serious and excellent Counsel against what he fore-
saw was my design. He called me one Morning in-
to his Chamber, where he was confined by the
Gout, and expostulated very warmly with me upon
this Subject: He ask'd me what Reasons mofe than
a meer wandring Inclination I had for leaving my
father's House and my native Country, where I
might be well introduced, and had a Prospect of
raising my Fortune by Application and Industry,
with a Life of Ease and Pleasure. He told me
it was for Men of desperate Fortunes on one
Hand, or of aspiring, superior Fortunes on the other,
who went abroad upon Adventures, to rife by
Enterprize, and make themselves famous in Un-
dertakings of a Nature out of the common Road;
* that
C 5 ]
that these things were all either too far above me,
or too far below me; that mine was the middle
|5tate, or what might be called the upper Station
of Low Life, which he had found by long Experience
was the best State in the World, the most suited to
human Happiness, not exposed to the Miseries and
Hardships, the Labour and Sufferings of the me-
chanics* Part of Mankind, and not embarafVd with
the Pride, Luxury, Ambition and Envy of the up-
per Part of Mankind. He told me, I might judge
of the Happiness of this State, by this one thing,
viz,. That this was the State of Life which all
other People envied; that Kings have frequently
lamented the miserable Consequences of being born
to great Things, and wisli'd they had been placed
in the middle of the two Extremes, between the
Mean and the Great; that the wife Man gave his
Testimony to this as the just Standard of true Feli-
city, when he prayed to have neither Poverty or
Riches.
He bid me observe it, and I should always find,
that the Calamities of Life were fhar'd among the
upper and lower Part of Mankind; but that the
middle Station had the fewest Disasters, and was
not expos'd to so many Vicissitudes as the higher of
lower Part of Mankind; nay, they were not subje-
cted to so many Distempers and Uneasinesses either
pf Body or Mind, as those were, who by vicious
Living, Luxury and Extravagances on one Hand,
or by hard Labour, want of Necessaries, and mean
or insufficient Diet on the other Hand, bring Di-
stempers upon themselves by the natural Consequen-
ces of their Way of Living ; That the middle Sta-
tion of Life was calculated for all Kind of Virtues,
and all Kind of Enjoyments; that Peace and Plen-
ty were the Handmaids of a middle Fotturie;
that Temperance, Moderation, Quietness, Health,
B 2 Society,
: 4 3
Society, all agreeable Diversions, and all desirable
Pleasures, were the Blessings attending the middle
Station of Life; that this way Men went silently
and smoothly thro' the World, and comfortably out
of it, not embarass'd with the Labours of the Hands
or of the Head, not sold to the Life of Slavery for
daily Bread, or harrass'd with perplexed Circum-
stances, which rob the Soul ot Peace, and the Bo-
dy of Rest; not enraged with the Passion of Envy,
or secret burning Lust of Ambition for great things;
but in easy Circumstances sliding gently thro' the
World, and sensibly tasting the Sweets of Living,
without the Bitter, feeling that they are happy,
and learning by every day's Experience to know it
more sensibly.
After this, he press'd me earnestly, and in the
most affectionate manner, not to play the young
Man, nor to precipitate my self into Miseries which
Nature and the Station of Life I was born in,
seemM to have provided against ; that I was under
no Necessity of seeking my Bread; that he would
do well for me, and endeavour to enter me fairly
into the Station of Life which he had been just re-
commending to me; and that if I was not very
easy and happy in the World, it must be my meer
Fate or Fault that must hinder it, and that he
fliould have nothing to answer for, having thus dis-
charging his Duty in warning me against Measures
which he knew would be to my hurt: In a word,
that as he would do very kind things for me if
I would stay and settle at Home, as he directed,
so he would not have so much hand in my Misfor-
tunes, as to give me any Encouragement to go
away: And to close all, he told me, I had my
elder Brother for an Example, to whom he had used
the same earnest Perswasions to keep him from go-
ing into the Low Country Wars, bat could not pre-
vail
vaif, his young Desires prompting him to run into
the Army, where he was killed ,• and tho* he said
he would not cease to pray for me, yet he would
venture to say to me, that i( 1 did take this foolish
Step, GcKi would not bless me, and I would have
Leisure hereafter to reflect upon having neglected
his Counsel, when there might be none to assist in
my Recovery.
I observed in this last part of his Discourse,
which was truly Prophetick, tho* I suppose my
Father did not know it to be so himself; I say, I
observed the Tears run down his Face very plen-
tifully, especially when he spoke of my Brother
who was killed; and that when he spoke of my
having Leisure to repent, and none to assist me, he
was so mov\l, that he broke off the Discourse, and
told me, his Heart was so full, he could lay no
more to me.
I was sincerely affected with this Discourse, as
indeed who could be otherwise? and I resolv'd not
to think of going Abroad any more, but to* settle
at Home according to my Father's Desire. But
alas! a few Days wore it all off; and in stiort, to
prevent any of my Father's farther Importunities,
in a few Weeks after, I resolv'd to run quite away
from him. However, I did not act so hastily neither
as my "fi&st heat of Resolution prompted, but I took
my Mother at a rime when I thought her a little
pleasanter than ordinary, and told her, that my
Thoughts were so entirely bent upon seeing the
World, ,;hat I should never settle to any thing with
Resolution enough to go through with it, and my
Father had better give me his Consent, than force
me to go without it; that I was now eighteen
Years old,which was too late to go Apprentice to
a Trade, or Clerk to an Attorneys that I was sure,
if I didf I should never serve out my Time, and I
B % should
should certainly run away from My Master before
my Time was out, and go to Sea; and if she would
speak to my Father to let me go one Voyage a-
broad, if I came home again and did not like it, I
would go no more, and I would promise by a dou-
ble Diligence to recover that Time I had lost.
This put my Mother into a great Passion: She
told me, she knew it would be to no purpose to
speak to my Father upon any such Subject; that he
knew too well what was my Interest,to give his Con-
sent to any such thing so much for my Hurt, and that
Jhe wondered how I could think of any such thing,
after such a discourse as I had had with my Father,
and such kind and tender expressions as (he knew my
Father had used to me; and that in short, if I would
ruin my self, there was no help for me; but I might
depend I should never have their Consent to it: That
for her part she would not have so much hand in my
Destruction; and I should never have it to say, that
my Mother was willing when my Father was not.
The' my Mother refused to move it to my Fa-
ther, yet,.as I have heard afterwards, fee reported
all the Discourse to him, and that my Father, after
shewing a great Concern at it, said to her with a
Sigh, That Boy might be happy if he would stay
at Home, but if he goes Abroad, he will be the
most miferablest Wretch that ever was born; f can
give no Consent to it.
It was not tUI almost a Year after this that I broke
loose, tho* in the mean time I continued obstinate-
ly deaf to all Proposals of settling to Business, and
frequently expostulating with my Father and Mo-
ther, about their being so positively determined
against what they knew my Inclinations prompted
me to. But being one day at Hull, where I wfcnt
casually, and without any purpose of malcfng an
Elopement that time ,• but I say, being there, and
one
C 7 3
one os my Companions being going by Sea to Lon-
don in his Father's Ship, and prompting me to go
with them, with the common Allurement of Seafa-
ring Men, viz.. That it lhould toft me nothing for
my Paslsage, I consulted neither Father or Mother
any more, nor so much as sent them word of it ; but
leaving them to hear of it as they might, without
asking God's Blessing, or my Father's, without any
Consideration of Circumstances or Consequences,
and in an ill Hour, God knows, on the first of&p-
tember 16$ 1, 1 went on board a Ship bound for Lon-
don: Never any young Adventurer's Misfortunes, I
believe, began sooner, or continued longer than
mine. The Ship was no sooner gotten out of the
Humber, but the Wind began to blow, and the
Winds to rife in a most frightful manner ; and as I
had never been at Sea before, I was most inexpressi-
ble sick in Body, and terrify'd in Mind : I began
now seriously to reflect upon what I had done,
and how justly I was overtaken by the Judgment of
Heaven for my wicked leaving my Father's House,
and abandoning my Duty ,- all the good Counsel of
my Parents, my Father's Tears, and my Mother's
Entreaties came now fresti into my Mind, and my
Conscience, which was not yet come to the Pitch
of Hardness to which it has been since, reproach'd
me with the Contempt of Advice, and the Breach
of my Duty to God and my Father*
All this while the Storm encreas'd, and the Sea,
which I had never been upon before, went very high,
though nothing like what I have seen many times
since; no, nor like what I saw a sew Days after:
But it was enough to affect me then, who was but
a young Sailor, and had never known any thing of
the matter. I expected every Wave would have
swallowed us up, and that every time the Ship fell
down, as I thought, in the Trough or Hollow
B 4 ^
of the Sea, we should never rise more; and in this
Agony of Mind, I made many Vows and Resolu-
tions, that it it would please God here to spare
my Life in this one Voyage, if ever I got once my
Foot upon dry Land again, I would go directly
home to my Father, and never set it into a Ship a-
gain while I lived ; that I would take his Advice,
and never run my self into such Miseries as these
any more. Now I saw plainly the Goodness of
his Observations about the middle Station of Life,
how easy, how comfortably he had lived all his
Days, and never had been exposed to Tempests
at Sea, or Troubles on Shore; and I resolved that
I would, like a true repenting Prodigal, go home
to my Father.
These wise and sober Thoughts continued all the
while the Storm continued, and indeed some time
after; but the next Day the Wind was abated and
the Sea calmer, and I began to .be a little inwrd
to it: However, I was very grave for all*that Day^
being also a little Sea-sick still; but towards Night
the Weather clear'd up, the Wind was quite pver#
and a charming fine Eveningioliow'd; the Sun
went down perfectly clear* and rose (o the next
Morning r an*i having -.little or no Wind, and a
smooth Sea, the Sun shirring upon it, the Sight was*
as Irthotight>>the most delightful that ever I saw*
I had slept well in the Night, and was now no
more SeaHsiicfc, but very chearful, looking witk
Wonder upon the Sea that was so rough and terri-
ble the Day before, and could be so calm and {d
pleasant in so little time after. And now lest my
good Resolutions fliould continue* my Companion,
who had indeed enticed me away, comes to me,
WiU Bob, soys he, clapping me upon the Shoulder,
Hov) do you do after it? I warranty you vwre Jfigfaed,
-want you* last Nights when it bkwbut a Cap full of
a Wmdt
C?]
Wini? A Cap full Syou call it? said I, 'was a terri-
ble Storm: A Storm, you Fool you, replies he, do you
call that a Storm ; why it was nothing at all; give us
tut a good Ship, and Sea-room, and we think nothing of
such a Squaul of Wind as that; but you fe but afresh
Water Sailor, Bob; come, let us make a Bowl of Punchy
and we'll forget all that $ d'ye fee what charming Wea~
ther ytis now? To make short this fad Part of my
Story, we went the way of all Sailors, the Punch
was made, and I was made drank with it, and in
that one Night's Wickedness 1 drowned all my Re-
pentance, all my Reflections upon my past Con-
duct, and all my Resolutions for the suture. In a
word, as the Sea was return'd to its smoothness of
Surface and settled Calmness by the abatement of
that Storm, so the Hurry of my Thoughts being
over, my Fears and Apprehensions of being swal-
low *d up by Sea being forgotten, and the Current
of my former Desires returned, I entirely forgot the
Vows and Promises that I made in my Distress, I
found indeed some Intervals of Reflection, and the
serious Thoughts did, as it were, endeavour to re-
turn again some time, but I sliook them off, and
rotaz'd my self from them as it were from a Di-
stemper, and applying my self to Drinking and
Company, soon mastered the Return of those Fits,
(for so I call'd them) and I had in five or six Days
got as compleat a Victory over Conscience as any
young Fellow that resolv'd not to be troubled with
it, could desire: But I was to have another Trial
for it still ,• and Providence, as in such Cases gene-
rally it does, resolv'd to leave me entirely without
^xettse. For if I would not take this for a Delive-
rance, the next was to be such a one as the worst
and most hardened Wretch among us would confess
both the Danger and the Mercy.
The
L ip ]
The sixtfc Day of our being at Sea we came in-
to Yarmouth Roads; the Wind having been contra-
ry, and the Weather calm, we had made but little
Way since the Storm. Here we were oblig'd to
come to Anchor, and here we lay, the Wind con-
tinuing contrary, viz,, at South-West, for seven or
eight Days, during which time a great many Ships
from Newcastle came into the fame Roads, as the
common Harbour where the Ships might wait for
a Wind for the River.
We had not however rid here so long, but should
have Tided it up the River, but that the Wind
blew too fresh; and after we had lain four or five
Days, blew very hard. However, th$ Roads be-
ing reckoned as good as a Harbour, the Anchorage
good, and our Ground-Tackle very strong, our
Men were unconcerned, and not in the least appre-
hensive of Danger, but spent the Time in Rest and
Mirth, after the manner of the Sea; but the eighth
Day in the Morning, the Wind increased, and we
had all Hands at work to strike our Top-Masts,
and make every thing snug and close, that theShip
might ride as easy as possible. By Noon the Sea
went very high indeed, and our Ship rid Forecastle
in, fhipp'd several Seas, and we thought once or
twice our Anchor had come Home • upon which
our Master order'd out the Sheet-Anchor 5 so that
we rode with two Anchors ahead, and the Cables
vered out to the better End.
By this Time it blew a terrible Storm indeed,
and now I began to fee Terror and Amazement in
the Faces even of the Seamen themselves. The Ma-
ster, tho' vigilant in the Business of preserving the
Ship yet as he went in and out of his Cabin by
me, 1 could hear him softly to himself say several
times Lord be merciful to m, we stall he all kfi, vx
fiaS he aU undone; and the like. During these first
Hurries,
Hurries, I was stupid, lying still in my Cabin, which
was in the Steerage, and cannot describe my
Temper: I could ill resume the first Penitence
which I had so apparently trampled upon, and har-
dened my self against: I thought the Bitterness o£
Death had been past, and that this would be no-
thing too, like the first. But when the Master him-
self came by me, as I said just now, and said we
should be all lost, I was dreadfully frighted i I got
up out of my Cabin, and look'd out; but such a
dismal Sight I never saw: The Sea went Mountains
high, and broke upon us every three or four Mi-
nutes: When I could look about, I could fee no-
thing but Distress round us: Two Ships that rid
near us, we found, had cut their Masts by the
Board, being deep loaden ; and our Men cry ci out,
that a Ship which rid about a Mile a-head of us
Was foundered. Two more Ships being driven
from their Anchors, were run out of the Roads to
Sea, at all Adventures, and that not with a Mast
standing. The light Ships fared the best, as not
so much labouring in the Sea; but two or three of
them drove, and came close by us, running away
with only their Sprit-fail out before the Wind.
Towards Evening the Mate and Boatswain
begg'd the Master of our Ship to let them cut a-
way the Fore-mast, which he was very'unwilling
to: But the Boatswain protesting to him, that if he
did not, the Ship would founder, he consented;
and when they had cut away the Fore-mast, the
MaiA-mast stood so loose, and (hook the Ship so
much, they were obliged to cut her away also,
and make a clear Deck.
Any one may judge what a Condition I must be
in at all this, who was but a young Sailor, and
who had been in such a Fright before at but a lit-
tle. .But if I can express at this distance the
Thoughts
Thoughts I had about me at that time, I was in
tewtold more Horror of Mind upon account of my
former Convictions, and the having returned from
them to the Resolutions I had wickedly taken at first,
riuu I was at Death itself ; and these, added to the
Terror of the Scorm, put me in such a Condition,
that 1 can by no Words describe it. But the worst
was not come yet; the Storm continued with such
Fury, that the Seamen themselves acknowledged
they had never known a worse. We had a good Ship,
but (he was deep loaden, and wallowed in the Sea,
that the Seamen every now and then cried out, {he
would founder. It was ray advantage in one respect,
that I did not know what they meant by founder,
till I enquirM. However, the Storm was so vio-
lent, that I saw what is not often seen, the Master,
the Boatswain, and some others more sensible than
the rest, at their Prayers, and expecting every mo-
ment when the Ship would go to the Bottom. In
the middle of the Night, and under all the rest of
our Distresses, one of the Men that had been down
on purpose to see, cried out we had sprung a Leak;
another said, there was four Foot Water in the
Hold. Then all Hands were called to the Pump.
At that very Word my Heart, as I thought, died
within me, and I fell backwards upon the side of
my Bed where I fat, into the Cabin. However,
the Men rouzed me, and told me, that I that was
able to do, nothing before, was as well able to
pump as another; at which I stirr'dup, and went
to the Pump, and work'd very heartily. While this
was doing, the Master feeing some light Colliers,
who, not able to ride out the Storm, were obligM
to slip md run away to Sea, and would come near
us, order'd to fire a Gun as a Signal of Distress. I
who knew nothing what that meant, was so surpri-
sed, .that I thought the Ship had broke, or some
dread-
dreadful thing happened. In a word, I was so fur-
prized, that 1 sell down m a Swoon. As this was
a time when every body had his own Life to think
of, no body minded me, or what was become ot
me; but another Man stept up to the Pump, and
thrusting me aside with his Foot, let me lie, think-
ing I had been dead ; and it was a great while
before I came to my self.
We work'd on, but the Water encreasing in the
Hold, it was apparent that the Ship would soun-
der, and tho' the Storm began to abate a little,
yet as it was not possible she could swim till we might
run into a Port, so the Master continued firing Guns
for Help; and a light Ship who had rid it out just
a-head of us, ventured a Boat out to help us. It
was with the utmost Hazard the Boat came near
us, but it was impossible for us to get on Board,
or for the Boat to lie near the Ship side, till at last
the Men rowing very heartily, and venturing their
Lives to save ours, our Men cast them a Rope over
the Stern with a Buoy to it, and then vered it out
a great Length, which they after great Labour and
Hazard took hold of, and we haul'd them close
under our Stern, and got all into their Boat. It was
to no purpose for them or us, after we were in the
Boat, to think of reaching to their own Ship, so all
agreed to let her drive, and only to pull her in to-
wards Shore as much as we could, and our Master
promised them, That if the Boat was stavM upon
Shore, he would make it good to their Master; so
partly rowing and partly driving, our Boat went
away to the Northward, floaping towards the
Shore almost as far as Winterton-Ness.
We were not much more than a Quarter of an
Hour out of our Ship, but we saw her sink, and
then I unsterstood for the first time what was meant
by a Ship fpuq^eting in the Sea j I must acfcnpw-
[ 14]
ledge I had hardly Eyes to look up when the Sea-
men told me {he was sinking; for from that Mo-
ment they rather put me into the Boat than that I
might be said to go in, my Heart was as it were
dead within me, partly with Fright, partly with
Horror of Mind and the Thoughts of what was yet
before me.
While we were in this Condition, the Men yet
labouring at the Oar to bring the Boat near the
Shore, we could fee, (when our Boat mounting the
Waves, we were able to fee the Shore,) a great
many People running along the Strand to assist us
when we fhoffld come near; but we made but flow
Way towards the Shore, nor were we able to reach
the Shore, till being past the Light-house at Win-
tenon, the Shore falls off to the Westward towards
Cromer, and so the Land broke off a little the Vio-
lence of the Wind: Here we got in, and tho' not
without much Difficulty, got all safe on Shore, and
walked afterwards on Foot to Yarmouth, where, as
unfortunate Men, we were used with great Hu-
manity, as well by the Magistrates of the Town,
who assigned us good Quarters, as by particular
Merchants and Owners of Ships, and had Money
given us sufficient to carry us either to London or
back to Hull, as we thought fit.
Had I now had the Sense to have gone back to
Hull, and have gone Home, I had been happy, and
my Father, an Emblem of our blessed Saviours Pa-
rable, had even killM the fatted Calf for me; for
hearing the Ship I went away in, was cast away in
Yarmouth Road, it was a great while before he had
any Assurance that I was not drownM.
But my ill Fate pufhM me on now with an Ob-
stinacy that nothing could resist; and tho* I had se-
veral times loud Calls from my Reason and my
more composed Judgment to go home, yet I had
no
[ '5 1
no Power to do it. I know not what to call this, nor
will I urge, that it is a secret over-ruling Decree
that hurries us on to be the Instruments of our own
Destruction, even tho' it be before us, and that we
pusli upon it with our Eyes open. Certainly, no-
thing but some such decreed unavoidable Misery
attending, and which it was impossible for me to
escape, could have pulhM me forward against the
calm Reasonings and Perswasions of my most re-
tired Thoughts, and against two such visible In-
structions as I had met with in my first Attempt.
My Comrade, who had help'd to harden me be-
fore, and who was the Master's Son, was now less
forward than I ;the first time he spoke to me after
we were at Yarmouth, which was not till two or
three Days, for we were separated in the Town to
several Quarters; I fay, the first time he saw me,
it appear*d his Tone was alter'd, and looking very
melancholy, and shaking his Head, ask'd me how
I did, and telling his Father who I was, and how
I had come this Voyage only for aTryal, in order
to go farther abroad; his Father turning to me
with a very grave and concerned Tone; ToungMant
fays he, you ought never to go to Sea any more, you ought
to take this for a plain and visible Token, that you are
mt to be a Seafaring Man. Why, Sir, said I, will you
go to Sea no more? That is another Cafe, said he,
it is my Calling, and therefore my Duty; but as you made
this Voyage for aTryal, you fee what a Taste Heaven has
given you of what you are to expetl if you persist ;perhaps
this is all befallen us on your Account, like Jonah in the
Ship o/Tarfhifh. Pray, continues he, what are you?
and on what Account did you go to Sea? Upon that I
told him some of my Story; at the End of which he
burst out with a strange kind of Passion, What had I
done, fays he, that such an unhappy Wretch should
come into my Ship ! I would not set my Foot in
the
[ iO
the same Ship with thee again for a Thousand
Pounds. This indeed was, as I said, an Excursion
of his Spirits, which were yet agitated by the fense
of his Loss, and was farther than he could have
Authority to go. However, he afterwards talkd
very gravely to me, exhorted me to go back to my
Father, and not tempt Providence to my Ruin;
told me I might fee a visible Hand of Heaven a-
gainst me ; And young Man, said he, depend upon it,
if you do not go back, where ever you go, you will meet
with nothing but Disasters and Disappointments, tiUyour
Father9 s Words are fulfilled upon you.
We parted soon after; for I made him little An-
swer, and I saw him no more; which way he went.
I know not. As for me, having some Money in
my Pocket, I travelled to London by Land; and
there, as well as on the Road, had many Struggles
with my self, what Course of Life I should take,
and whether I should go Home, or go to Sea.
As to going Home, Shame opposed the best
Motions that offered to my Thoughts ; and it im-
mediately occur'd to me how I should be laugh'd
at among the Neighbours, and should be afham'd
to fee, not my Father and Mother only, but evet}
every Body else: From whence I have since ofi^n
observed how incongruous and irrational the com-
mon Temper of Mankind is, especially of Youth,
to that Reason which ought to guide them,in such
Cases, viz,. That they are not ashamed to sin, an4
yet are afham'd to repent ,• nor afhamM of the Acti-
on for which they ought justly to be esteemM Fools,
but are ashamed of the returning, which only can
make them be esteem'd wife Men,
In this State of Life however I remained some
time, uncertain what Measures to take, an4 what
Course of Life to lead. An irresistible Reactance
continued to going Home ,• and as I st$y*d a while,
the
[ >7 ]
the Remembrance ot the Distress I had been in
wore off; and as that abated, the little Motion 1
had in my Desires to a Return, wore off with it,
till at last I quite hid aside the Thoughts of it, and
looked out for a Voyage.
That evil Influence which carried me first away
from my Father's House, that hurried me into the
wild and indigested Notion os raising my Fortune,
and that impresi/d those Conceits so forcibly upon
me, as to make me deaf to all good Advice, and
to the Entreaties, and even the Command of my
Father; I soy, the fame Influence, whatever it WuS,
presented the most unfortunate of all Entcrprizes
to my View; and I went on board a Veilcl bound
to the Coast of Africa, or, as our Sailors vulgarly
call it, a Voyage to Guiney.
It waS my great Misfortune, that in all these
Adventures I did not (hip my self as a Sailor;
whereby, tho* I might indeed have work'd a little
harder than ordinary, yet at the fame time I had
learn'd the Duty and Office of a Foremast Man;
and in time might hare qualified rriy self for a
Mate 6r Lieutenant, if not for a Master*. But as
it was always my Fate to chuse for the worse, so
I did here; for having Money in my Pocket, and
gdbd Cldaths upon my Back, I would always go
on boaird in the Habit of a Gentleman; and so I
neither had ahy Business in the Ship, or ielrn'd to
do arty.
It was my Lot first of all to fall into pretty good
Compkny in London, which does not always hap-
pen to such loose and unguided young Fellows as I
then was; the Devil generally not omitting to lay
sotfte Snare for them very early: But it was not so
wiflVme; I first fell acquainted with the Master of
a Shis) who had been on the Coast of Guiney ; and
who slaving had very good Success there, was re-
Part I. C solved
solved to go again; and who taking a Fancy to my
Conversation, which was not at all disagreeable at
that time, heating me say I had a mind to see the
World, told me, if I would go the Voyage with
him, I should be at no Expence; I should be his
Mess-Mate and his Companion, and if I could car-
ry any thing with me, I should have all the Ad-
vantage of it that the Trade would admit; and per-
haps I might meet with some Encouragement.
I embraced the Offer, and entring into a strict
Friendship with this Captain, who was an honest
and plain-dealing Man, I went the Voyage with
him, and carried a small Adventure with me, which
by the disinterested Honesty of my Friend the Cap-
tain, I encreased very considerably; for I carried
about 40 /. in such Toys and Trifles as the Cap-
tain directed me to buy. This 40 /. I had mustered
together by the Assistance of some of my Relations
whom I corresponded with, and who, I believe,
got my Father, or at least my Mother, to contri-
bute so much as that to my first Adventure.
This was the only Voyage which I may fay was
successful in all my Adventures, and which I owe
to the Integrity and Honesty of my Friend the
Captain, under whom also I got a competent
Knowledge of the Mathematicks and the Rules of
Navigation, learn'd how to keep an account of the
Ship's Course, take an Observation, and, in short,
to understand some things that were needful to be
understood by a Sailor: For, as he took delight to'
introduce me, I took delight to learn • and, in a
Word, this Voyage made me both a Sailor and a
Merchant: For I brought home 5 Pound 9 Ounces
of Gold-Dust for my Adventure, which yielded me
in London at my Return, almost 300 /. and this filled
me with those aspiring Thoughts which have since
so compleated my Ruin.
a set
Yet even in this Voyage 1 had my Misfortunes
too; particularly that I was continually sick, be-
ing thrown into a violent Calenture by the excessive
Heat of the Climate j our principal Trading being
upon the Coast, from the Latitude of 15 Degrees
North, even to the Line itself.
I was now set up lor a Guimy Trader; and my
Friend, to my great Misfortune, dying soon after
his Arrival, I resolved to go the same Voyage
again, and 1 embarked in the same Vessel with one
who was his Mate in the former Voyage, and had
now got the Command of the Ship. This was the
unhappiest Voyage that ever Man made; for tho*
1 did not carry quite 100 / of my new gain'd
Wealth, so that 1 had 200 /. left, and which I
lodged with my Friend's Widow, who was very
just to me, yet I fell into terrible Misfortunes in
this Voyage; and the first was this, viz,. Our Ship
making her Course towards the Canary Islands, or
rather between those Islands and the African Shore,
was surprized in the Gray of tfhe Morning by a
Turkish Rover of Sallee, who gave chlfce to us with
al) the Sail (he could make. We crowded also as
much Canvass as our Yards would spread, or our
Masts carry, to have got clear; but finding the Pi-
rate gain'd upon us, and would certainly come up
with us in a few Hours, we prepared to fight; our
Ship having 12 Guns, and the Rogue 18. About
three in the Afternoon he came up with m3 and
bringing to, by mistake, just athwart our Quarter,
instead of athwart our Stern, as he intended, we
brought 8 of our Guns to bear on that side, and
pour'd in a Broadside upon him, which made him
iheer off again, after returning our Fire, and pour-
ing in also hi$ small Shot from near 200 Men which
he had on Board. However, we had not a Man
touchM* all our Men keeping close- He prepared
C 2 to
to attack us again, and we to defend our selves;
but laying us on Board the next time upon our
other Quarter, he entered do Men upon our Decks,
who immediately fell to cutting and hacking the
Decks and Rigging. We ply'd them with Small-
Ciot, Half-Pikes, Powder-Chests, and such like,
and clear?d our Deck of them twice. However,
to cut short this melancholy part of our Srory, our
Ship being disabled, and three of our Men kill'd,
and eight wounded, we were obliged to yield, and'
were carry *d all Prisoners into SaUee> a Port be-
longing to the Moors,
The Usage I had there was not so dreadful as at
first I apprehended, nor was I carried up the Coun-
try to the Emperor's Court, as the rest of our Men
were, but was kept by the Captain of the Rover,
as his proper Prize, and made his Slave, being
young and nimble, and fit for his Business. At this
surprizing Change of my Circumstances, from a
Merchant to a miserable Slave, I was perfectly o-
verwhelmed; and now I looked back upon my
Father's projghetkk Discourse to me, that I should
be miserable, and have none to relieve me, which
I thought was now so effectually brought to pass,
that I could not be worse; that now the Hand of
Heaven had overtaken me, and I was undone
without Redemption. But alas! this was but a
Taste of the Misery I was to go thro', as will ap-
pear in the Sequel of this Story.
As my new Patron,or Mastered taken me home
to his House, so I was in hopes that he would take
me with him when he went to Sea again, believing
that it would some time or other be his Fate to
be taken by a Spanish or Portugal Man of War;
and that then I should be set at Liberty. But this
Hope of mine was soon taken away; for when he
went to Sea, he left me on Shore to look after his
little
little Garden, and do the common Drudgery of
Slaves about his House; and when he came home
again from his Cruise, he ordered me to lie in the
Cabin, to look after the Ship.
Here I meditated nothing but my Escape, and
what Method I might take to effect it; but found
no way that had the least Probability in it: No-
thing presented to make the Supposition of it ratio-
nal; for I had no body to communicate it to, that
would embark with me, no Fellow Slave, no Eng-
listman, Irishman, or Scotsman there but my self;
so that for two Years, tho* I often pleased my self
with the Imagination, yet I never had the least en-
couraging Prospect of putting it in Practice.
After about two Years, an odd Circumstance pre-
sented it self, which put the old Thought of making
some attempt for my Liberty again in my Head:
My Patron lying at home longer than usual, with-
out fitting out his Ship, which, as I heard, was for
want of Money, he used constantly once or twice
a Week, sometimes oftner, if the Weather was fair,
to take the Ship's Pinnace, and go out into the
Road a fishing; and as he always took me and a
young Maresco with him to row the Boat, we made
him very merry, and I prov'd very dexterous in
caching Fish; insomuch, that sometimes he would
fend me with a Moor, one of his Kinsmen, and the
Youth the Maresco, as they called him, to catch a
Dish of Fifli for him.
It happened one time, that going a fishing in a
stark calm Morning, a Fog arose so thick, that tho*
we were not half a League from the Shore, we lost
light of it; and rowing we knew not whither or
which way, we labours all Day, and all the next
Night; and when the Morning came, we found we
had pull'd off to Sea, instead of pulling in for the
Shore ,• and that we v^ere at least two Leagues from
C 3 the
the Shore: However, we got well in again, tho'
with a great deal of Labour, and some Danger j
for the Wind began to blow pretty fresh in the
Morning j but particularly we were all very hungry.
But our Patron, warned by this Disaster, resolved
to take more Care of himself for the future; and
having lying by him the Long-Boat of our English
Ship we had taken, he resolved he would not go a
fishing any more without a Compass and some
Provision; so he ordered the Carpenter of his Ship,
who also was an English Slave, to build a little
State-room or Cabin in the middle of the Long-
Boat, like that of a Barge, with a Place to stand
behind it to steer and haul home the Main-sheet;
and room before for a hand or two to stand and
work the Sails. She failed with that we call a
Shoulder of Mutton Sail; and the Boom gibb'd
over the top of the Cabin, which lay very snug
and low, and had in it, room for him to lie, with
a Slave or two, and a Table to eat on, with some
small Lockers to put in some Bottles of such Liquor
as he thought fit to drink; particularly his Bread,
. Rice and Coffee.
We were frequently out with this Boat a fishing;
and as I was most dextrous to catch Fish for him,
he never went without me. It happened that He
had appointed to go out in this Boat, either for
Pleasure or for Fish, with two or three Moors of
some Distinction in that Place, and for whom he
had provided extraordinary; and had therefore
sent on Board the Boat over Night, a larger store
of Provisions than ordinary; and had ordered me
to get ready three Fuzees with Powder and Shot,
which were on Board his Ship; for that they de-
fign'd some sport of Fowling as well as Fitting.
I got all things ready as he had directed, and
waited the next Morning with the Boat walked
clean,
c 2? :j
dean, her Antient and Pendants out, and every
thing to accommodate his Guests; when by and by
my Patron came on board alone, and told me his
Guests had put off going, upon some Business that
fell out, and order'd me with the Man and Boy,
as usual, to go out with the Boat and catch them
some Fisli, for that his Friends were to sup at his
House; and commanded, that as soon as I got
some Fisli, I should bring it home to his House?
all which I prepared to do.
This Moment my former Notions of Delive-
rance darted into my Thoughts; for now I found
I was like to have a little Ship at my Command;
and my Master being gone, I prepaid to furnish
my self, not for Fishing business, but for a Voyage;
tho' I knew not, neither did J so much as consider
whither I should steer; for any where to get out
of that place was my way.
My first Contrivance was to make a Pretence to
speak to this Moor, to get something for our Sub-
sistence on board; for I told him we must not pre-
sume to eat of our Patron's Bread i he said, that
was true; so he brought a large Basket of Rusk,
or Bisket, of their kind, and three Jarrs with fresti
Water into the Boat; I knew where my Patron's
Cafe of Bottles stood, which it was evident by the
Make, were taken out of some English Prize ; and
I conveyed them into the Boat while the Moor was
on Shore, as if they had been there before, for out
Master: I conveyed also a great Lump of Bees-
Wax into the Boat, which weighM above half a
Hundred Weight, with a parcel of Twine ot
Thread, a Hatchet, a Saw, and a Hammer, all
which were of great use to us afterwards ,• espe-
cially the Wax to make Candles. Another Trick
I try'd upon him, which he innocently came into
also; His Naige was Ismaely whom they call Mufy9
C 4 of
or Moley; so I calfd to him, Moky> said I, our Pa-*
tron^s Guns are on Board the Boat, can you not
get a little Powder and Shot, it may be we may
kill some Akamies (a Fowl like our Culieus) for our
selves, for 1 know he keeps the Gunner's Stores ix\
the Ship? Yes, fays he. Til bring some, and accor-
dingly he brought a great Leather Pouch, which
held about a Pound and a half of Powder, or ra-
ther more; and another with Shot, that had five
or six Pound, with some Bullets, and put all into
the Boat: At the fame time I had found some
Powder of my Master's in the great Cabin, with
which I fiird one of the large Bottles in the Case,
which was almost empty; pouring what was in it
into another: And thus furnished with every thing
needful, we failed out of the Port to fish. 'The Ca-
stle which is at the Entrance of the Port, knew who
we were, and took no Notice of us; and we were
not above a Mile out of the Port, before we haul'd
in our Sail, and set us down to fish. The Wind
blew from the N. N. E. which was contrary to my*
Desire; for had it blown Southerly, I had been sure
to have made the Coast of Spain, and at least reached
to the Bay of Cadiz,; bt^t my Resolutions were, blow
which way it would, I would be gone from that hor-
rid Place where I was, and leave the rest to Fate.
After we had fifh'd some time, and catch'd no-
thing, for when I had Fish on my Hook I would
not pull them up, that he might not fee them ; I
said to the Moor, this will not do, our Master will
not be thus scrv'd, we must stand farther off: He
thinking no harm, agreed • and being in the Head
of the Boat, set the Sails; and as I had the Helm,
I run the Boat out near a League farther, and then
brought her to, as if I would fish; when giving
the Boy the Helm, I slept forward to where the
Moor was, and making as if I stoop'd for somer
thing
thing behind him, I took him by Surprize with my
Arm under his Twist, and toss'd him clear over-
board into the Sea; he rose immediately, for he
swam like a Cork, and cali'd to me, begg'd to be
taken in, told me he would go all over the World
with me: he swam so strong after the Boat, that
he would have reacted me very quickly, there be-
ing but little Wind; upon which I step'd into the
Cabin, and fetching one of the Fowling-Pieces, I
presented it at him, and told him, I had done him
no Hurt, and if he would be cjuiet, I would do him
none: But said I, you swim well enough to reach
the Shore, and the Sea is calm, make the best#f
your Way to Shore, and I will do you no Harm;
but if you come near the Boat, Til shoot you thro*
the Head; for I am resolvM to have my Liberty:
So he turn'd himself about and swam for the Shore,
and I make no doubt but he reached it with Ease,
for he was an excellent Swimmer.
I could have been content to have taken this Moor
with me, and have drown*d the Boy, but there was
no venturing to trust him: When he was gone, I
turn'd to the Boy, who they call'd Xuryy and said
to him, Xurjy if you will be faithful to me, I'll
make you a great Man; but if you will not stroke
your Face to be true to me, that *V, swear by Ma-
homet and his father s Beards I must throw you in-
to the Sea too; the Boy smil'd in my Face, and
spoke so innocently, that I could not mistrust him;
and swore to be faithful to me, and go all over the
World with me.
While I was in View of the Moor that was swim-
jpg, I stood out direaiy to Sea, with the Boat,
Bather stretching to Windward, that they might
think me gone towards the Straits-mouth (as indeed
any one that had been in theirWits must ha' been sup-
pos d tq do;) sot who wo.uld ha* suppos'd we were
seil'd
[ z6J
seii'dott to the Southward to the truly Barbarian
Coast, where whole Nations of Negroes were sure
so surround us with their Canoes, and destroy us;
where we could ne'er once go on Shore, but we
stiould be devour'd by savage Beasts, or more mer-
ciless Savages of Human Kind.
But as loon as-it grew dusk in the Evening, I
chang'd my Course, [and steer'd directly South and
§y East, bending my Course a little toward the
East, that I might keep in with the Shore; and ha-
ving a fair stesli Gale of Wind, and a smooth quiet
Sea, I made such Sail, that I believe by the next
!%y at three a-Ciock in the Afternoon, when I
first made the Land, I could not be less than 150
miles South of SaUee $ quite beyond the Emperor
of Mmrw&'s Dominions, or indeed of any other
King thereabouts, for we saw no People.
Yet such was the Fright I had taken at the Moors,
and the dreadful Apprehensions I had of falling in-
to their Hands, that I would not stop, or go on
Shore, or come to an Anchor; the Wind continu-
ing fair, till I had sailM in that manner five Days:
And then the Wind foisting to the Southward, I
concluded also that if any of our Vefleis were in
Chase of me, they also would now give ovet; so
I ventured to make to the Coast, and came to m
Anchor in the Mouth of a little River, I knew not
what, or where ; neither what Latitude, what
Country, what Nation, or what River: I neither
saw, or desir'd to see any People, the principal thing
I wanted was frefli Water. We came into this
Creek in the Evening, resolving to swim on Shore
as soon as it was dark, and discover the Country,-
but as soon as ii was quite dark, we heard such
dreadful .Noise* of the Barking, Roaring, and
Howling of wild Creatures, of we knew not what
Kinds, that the poor Boy was ready to die with
Fear,
[ *?:
Fear, and begg'd of me to go on Shore tijl Day,
Well, Xury, said I, then I won't, but it may be
we may see Men by Day, who will be as bad to
us as those Lions; then we may give them the Jboot Gun,
fays Xury, laughing, make them run ivey j such EngHjb
Xury spoke by conversing among us Slaves. How-
ever, 1 was glad to fee the Boy so cheerful, and I
gave him a Dram (out of our Patron's Cafe of Bot*
ties) to chear him up: After all, Xary's Advice
was good* and I took it, we dropped our little An-
chor, and lay still all Night; I fay still, for we slept
none; for in two or three Hours we saw vast great
Creatures (we knew not what to call them) of ma-
ny sorts, came down to the Sea*£hore, and run in-
to the Water, wallowing and washing themselves
for the Pleasure of cooling themselves; and they
made such hideous Howlings and Idlings, that I
never indeed heard the like.
Xury was dreadfully frighted, and indeed so was
I too: but we were both more frighted when we
heard one of the mighty Creatures come swim*
ming towards our Boat: We could not scehim, but
we might hear him by his blowing, to Ik a mon-
strous hugfr and furious Beast; Xury said it was a
Lion, and it might be so for ought I know ; but
poor Xury cried to me to weigh the Anchor and
row away ,• no fays I, Xury, we can slip our Cable
with a Buoy to it, and go to Sea, they cannot
follow us far,* I had no sooner said so, but I per-
ceiv*d the Creature (whatever it was) within two
Oars length, which something surprized me; how-
ever, I immediately stept to the Cabin-door, and
taking up my Gun, firM at him, upon which he
immediately turn'd about, and swam towards the
Shore again.
But it was impossible to describe the horrible
poises, and hideous Cries and Bowlings, that were
raised
raised as well upon the edge of the Shore, as high-
er within the Country, upon the Noise or Re-
port of a Gun, a thing I have some reason to
believe those Creatures had never heard before.
This convinced me that there was no going on
Shore for us in the Night upon that Coast, and
how to venture on Shore in the Day, was another
Question too; for to have fallen into the hands
of any of the Savages, had been as bad as to have
fallen into the hands of Lions and Tygers; at
least we were equally apprehensive of the Danger
of it.
Be that as it would, we were obliged to go on
Shore somewhere or other for Water, for we had
not a Pint left in the Boat; when or where to get
to it was the Point i Xury said, if I would let him
go on Shore with one of the Jarrs, he would find if
there was any Water, and bring some to me. I
ask'd him why he would go? why I should not go,
and he stay in the Boat? The Boy answerM with
so much Affection, that made me love him ever
after. Says he, If wild Mans come, they eat me, you
go wey. Vse\\9Xury, said I, we will both go, and
if the wild Mans come, we will kill them, they
shall eat neither of us; so I gave Xury a Piece of
Rusk-bread to eat, and a Dram out of our Pa-
tron's Case of Bottles, which I mentioned before,
and we haul'd the Boat in as near the Shore as we
thought was proper, and waded on Shore; car-
tying nothing but our Arms, and two Jarrs for
Water.
I did not care to go out of sight of the Boat,
fearing the coming of Canoes with Savages
down the River: But the Boy seeing a low Place,
about a Mile up the Country, rambled to it, and:
by and Ify I saw him come running towards me;
J thought he was pursued by some Savage, o#
z frighted
C 19 1
frighted with some Wild Beast, and I run forward
towards him, to help him; but when I came nearer
to him, I saw something hanging over his Shoul-
ders, which was a Creature that he had fliot, like
a Hare, but different in Colour, and longer Legs;
however, we were very glad of it, and it was very
good Meat; but the great Joy that poor Xurj
came with, was to tell me he had found good
Water, and seen no wild Mans.
But we found afterwards that we need not take
such Pains for Water, for a little higher up the
Creek where we were, we found the Water fresh
when the Tide was out, which flows but a little
way up; so we filled our Jarrs and feasted on the
Hare we had killed, and prepared to go on our
Way, having seen no Foot-steps of any human
Creature in that part of the Country.
As I had been one Voyage to this Coast before,^
I knew very well that the Islands of the Canaries
and the Cape de Verd Islands also, lay not far off
from the Coast. But as I had no Instruments to
take an Observation to know what Latitude we
were in, and not exactly know, or at least to re-
member, what Latitude they were in, I knew not
where to look for them, or when to stand off to
Sea towards them, otherwise I might now easily
have found some of these Islands. But my Hope
was, that if I stood along this Coast till I came to
that part where the Englijh traded, I should find
some of their Vessels upon their usual Design of
Trade, that would relieve and take us in.
By the best of my Calculation, that Place where
I now was, must be that Country, which lying be*
tween the Emperor of Morocco's Dominions and the
Negroes, lies waste and uninhabited, except by Wild
Beasts; the Negroes having abandons it, and gone
farther South, for ku of the Moors; and the Moon
no
[3o]
mt thinking it worth inhabiting, by season of its
Barrenness; and indeed both forsaking it because
of the prodigious Numbers of Tygers, Lyons,
Leopards, and other furious Creatures which har-
bour there ,• so that the Moors use it for their Hun-
ting only, where they go like an Army, two or
three thousand Men at a time; and indeed for near
an hundred miles together upon this Coast, we saw
nothing but a waste uninhabited Country by Day,
and heard nothing but Howlings and Roaring of
Wild Beasts by Night.
Once or twice in the Day-time, I thought I saw
the Pico of Tenerjffe, being the high Top of the
Mountain "Tmeriffe in the Canaries; and had a great
mind to venture out in hopes of reaching thither;
but having tried twice, I was forced in again by
contrary Winds, the Sea also goifig too high for
toy little Vessel; so I resolv'd to pursue my first
Design, and keep along the Shore.
Several times I was obliged to land for frefli Wa-
ter, after we had left this Place ,• and once in par-
ticular, being eatly in the Morning, we came to
an Anchor under a little Point 6f Land which Was
pretty high, and the Tide beginning to flow, we
lay still to go farther in; Xury> whose Eyes were
more about him than it seems mine were, calls soft-
ly to me, and tells me that we had best go farther
off the Shore; for, fays he, look yonder lies a
dreadful Monster on the Side of that Hillock, fast
asleep: I lofck'd where he pointed, and saw a
dreadful Monster ifideed \ for it was a terrible great
Lion that lay on the side of the Shore, under the
Shade of a piece of the Hill that hung as it Were a
little over him. Xmy, fays I, you shall go on Shore
and kill him; Xury look'd frighted, and said,
Me hiU! he em me at one Mouth; one Mouthful he
meant; however, I said no mote to the Boy, "bat
bad
Lv 1
bad him be still, and I tookour biggest Gun, which
was almost Musket-bore, and loaded it with a
good Charge of Powder, and with two Slags, and
laid it down; then I loaded another Gun with
two Bullets, and the third (for we had three Pieces)
1 loaded with five smaller Bullets. I took the best
Aim I could with the first Piece to have shot him
into the Head; but he lay so with his Leg raiYd
a little above his Nose, that the Slugs hit his Leg
about the Knee, and broke the Bone. He started
up growling at first, but, finding his Leg broke, felt
down gain, and then got up upon three Legs,
and gave the most hideous Roar that etfer I heard.
I was a little surprized that I had not hit him oil
the Head ; however, I took up the second Piece im-
mediately, and tho* he began to move off, fir'd a*%
gain, and fliot him into the Head, and had the
Pleasure to see him drop, and make but little Noise,
but lay struggling for Life. Then Xury took Heart,
and would have me let him go on Shore: Well, go,
said I. So the Boy jump'd into the Water, and ta-
king a little Gun in one Hand, swam to Shore with
the other Hand, and coming close to the Creature,
put the Muzzle of the Piece to his Ear, and foot
him into the Head again, which dispatched him
quite.
This was Game indeed to us, but this was no
Food; and I was very sorry to lose three Charges
ot Powder and Shot upon a Creature that was good
for nothing to us. However, Xury said, he would
have sojpe of him; so he comes on board, and
ask d me to give him the Hatchet ,• for what, Xury,
said I ? Me cut of his Head, said he. However, Xury
could not cut off his Head, but he cut off a Foot,
and brought it wish him, and it w*s a monstrous
great cne,
I be-
C3* 1
I bethought my self, however, that perhaps the
Skin df him might one way dr other be of some
value to us; and I resolv'd to take off his Skin if
I could. So Xury and I went to work with him;
but Xury was much the better Workman at it, for
I knew very ill how to do it. Indeed it took us
up both the whole Day, but at last we got off
the Hide of him, and spreading it oh the top of
our Cabin, the Sun effectually dried it in two
Days time, and it afterwards scrvM me to lie upon.
After this Stop, we made on to the Southward
continually fQr ten or twelve Days, living very
sparing on our Provisions, which began to abate
very much, and going no oftner in t6 the Shore than
we Vere obliged to for fresh Water. My design in
this was to make the River Gambia or Senegal/, that
is to fay, any where about the Cafe de Verd, where
I was in hopes to meet with some European Ship,
and ii I did not, I knew not what Course I had to
take, but to seek for the Islands, dr perisli there a-
mong the Negroes. I knew that all the ShipSirorri
Europey which sailM either to the Coast of Guiney,
or to Brasily or to the East Indies, made this Cape,
or those I/lands; and jn a toord, I put the whole
of my Fortune upon this single Point, either that
I must meet with some Ship, or must perisli.
. When I had pursued this Resolution about ten
Days longer, as I have said, I began to see that the
Land was inhabited, and in two or three Places
as we sailed by, we saw People stand upQn the
Shore to look at us; we could also perceive they
were quite black and stark naked. I was once
inclined to have gone on Shore to them; but Jsury
was my better Counsellor, and said to me, No go>
no go; however, I haul'd in nearer the Shore, that 1
might talk to them, and I found they run along
the Shore by me.a good way. I observed they hid
no
I 33. 1
no Weapons in their Hands, except one, who had
a long slender Stick, which Xury said wa$ a Lance,
and thai they would throw them a great way wkh
good Aim; so I kept at a distance, but talk'd with
them by Signs as well as I could, and particularly
made Signs for something to eat; they beckon'd to
me to stop my Boat, and they would fetch mt
some Meat; upon this I lowered the Top of ray
Sail, and lay by, and two of them run up into the
Country, and in less than half an Hour came back
and brought with them two Pieces of dry Flesh,
and some Corn, such as is the Produce of their
Country j but we neither knew what the one or the
other was; however, we were witling to accept it.
But how to come at it was our next Dispute; for
I was not for venturing on Shore to them, and they
were as much afraid of us; but they took a safe
Way for us all, for they brought it to the Shore
and laid it down, and went*and stood a great way
off, till we fetched it on Board, and then came
close to us again.
We made Signs of Thanks to them, for we bad
nothing to make them amends; but an Opportu-
nity offer'd that very Instant, to oblige them won-
derfully; for while we were lying by the Shore,
came two mighty Creatures j one pursuing the other
(as we took it) with great Fury,from the Mountains
towards the Sea; whether it was the Mate pursuing
the Female, or whether they wefe in Sport or in
R*g*» we could not tell, any more than we could
tell whether it was usuai Or strange, but I believe it
was the latter; because m the first place those ra-
venous Creaitires seldom appear but in the Night *
and in the second place, we found the People terri-
bly frkhted, especially the Women. The Man that
Had the tastce or Dart did a^t fly from them,
but the fest did; however, as the two Creætuife*
P*rt I D raa
ran dkf&ly into the Water,, they did not seem to
offer to foil upon any of the Negroes, but.plung'd
themielves into the Sea, and swam about as if they
had come for their Diversion; at last one Qf^heja
began to come nearer our Boat than at first | ex-
pected, but I lay ready for him, for 1 had loaded
my Gun with all possible Expedition, and bid
Xury load both the other; as soon as he came fair-
ly within my Reach I fir'd, and (hot him directly
into the Head; immediately he funk down into
the Water, but rose instantly, and plunged up and
down as if he was struggling for Life, and so in-
deed he was; he immediately made to the Shore,
but between, the Wound, which was his mortal
Hurt, and the strangling of the Water, he died just
before he rcach'd the Shore.
It is impossible to express the Astonishment of
these poor Creatures at the Noise and the Fire of
my Gun ,• some of them were ready even to die for
Fear, and fell down as dead with the very Terror.
But when they saw the Creature dead, and sunk in
the Water, and that I made Signs to them to come
to the Shore, they took Heart, and came to the
Shore, and began to search for the Creature. I
found him by his Blood staining the Water, and
by the help of a Rope, which I flung round him,
and gave the Negroes to haul, they dragg'd him on
Shore^ .and found that it was a most curious Leo-
pard, spotted and fine to an admirable degree;
and the Negroes held up their Hands wjjth Admira-
tion, to think what it was I had killM him with,
The other Creature, frighted with the Flash of
Fire and the Noise of the Gun, swam on Shore,
and ran up directly to the Mountains, from whence
they come, nor could I at that distance know
what it w;as. I found quickly the Negrm were
for eating theFlefJi of this Creature, sal was wil-
ling
ling to have them take it as a Favour from me,
which when I made Signs to them that they might
take him, they were very thankful tor. Immediate-
ly they fell to work with him; and tho' they had
no knife, yet with a sharpened piece of Wood,they
took ort* his Skin as readily, and much more readily
than we could have done with a Knife; they ofrer'd
me some of the Flesh, which I declin'd, making as
if I would give it them, but made Signs for the
Skin, which they gave me very freely, and brought
me a great deal more of their Provision, which tho'
I did not understand, yet I accepted; their I made
Signs to them for some Water, and held out one of
my Jars to them, turning it Bottom upward, to
shew that it was empty, and that I wanted to have
it filled; they called immediately to some of their
Friends, and there came two Women and brought
a great Vessel made of Earth, and burnt, as 1 sup-
pose, in the Sun; this they set down for me, as
before, and I sent Xury on Shore with my Jars,
and filled them all three. The Women were as
stark naked as the Men.
I was now furnish'd with Roots and Corn, such
as it was, and Water, and leaving my friendlyAse-
groes, I made forward for about eleven Days more,
without offering to go near the Shore, till I saw
the Land run out a great length into the Sea, at
about the distance of four or five Leagues before
.me, and the Sea being very calm, I kept a large
Offing to make this Point; at length, doubling the
Point at about two Leagues from the Land, I
saw plainly Land *m the other side to Seaward;
then I concluded, as it was most certain indeed,
that this was the Cape de Verd, and those the
Islands, called from thence Cape de Verd Islands.
However, they were at a great Distance, and I
could not well tell what I had best to do; for if I
D 2 should
C3«]
should be taken with a Frelh of Wind, I might;
neither reach one or other.
In this Dilemma, as I was very pensive, I steps
into the Cabin, and fat me down, Xury having
the Helm* when on a sudden the Boy cry'd out,
Master, Master, a Ship with a Sail! and the foolish
Boy was frighted out of his Wits, thinking it must
needs be some of his Master's Ships sent to pur-
sue us, when I knew we were gotten far enough
out of their Reach. I jump'd out of the Cabin,*
and immediately saw not only the Ship, and what
slie was, (vi%.) that it was a Portuguese Ship, and,
as 1 thought, was bound to the Coast of Guiney for
Negroes: But when I observed the Course fce steer'd,
I was soon convinced they were bound some other
way, and did not design to come any nearer to
the Shore; upon which I stretched out to Sea as
much as I could, resolving to speak with them if
possible.
With all the Sail t could make, I found I should
not be able to come in their Way, but that .they
would be gone by, before I could make any Signal
to them; but after 1 had crowded to the utmost,
and began to despair, they it seems saw me by the
help or their Perspective-Glasses, and that it was
some European Boat, which they supposed must be-
long to some Ship that was lost; so they fhortned
Sail to let me come up. I was encouraged with
this, and as I had my Patron's Antient on board, I
made a Waft of it to them for a Signal of Distress,
and fir'd a Gun, both which they saw, for they
told me they saw the Smoke, •tho3 they did ndt
hear the Gun; upon these Signals they very kindly
brought to, and lay by for me, and in about three
Hours time I came up with them.
They ask5d me what I was, in Portuguese, and in
SpaniJJj) and in Fnmb, but I understood none of
them}
them; but at last a Scots Sailor who was on board,
call'd to me, and I answer'd him, and told him I
was an Englijlman, that I had made my Escape
but of Slavery from the Moors at Sallee; then they
bad me come on board, and very kindly took me
in, and all my Goods.
It was an inexpressible Joy to me, that any one
will believe, that I was thus delivered, as I esteem'd
te, from such a miserable and almost hopeless Con-
dition as I was in, and I immediately offered all I
had to the Captain of the Ship, as a Return for
my Deliverance; but he generously told me, he
would take nothing from me, but that all I had
should be delivered safe to me when I came to the
Brafils; for, says he, I have favd your Life on no
other Terms than I would be glad to be saved myself, and
it may one time or other be my lot to be taken tip in the
same Condition; besides, said he, when I carry you to
the Brafils, so great a way from your own Country, if I
Jhould take from you what you have, you will be starved
there, and then I only take away that Life I have given.
No, no, Seignior Inglck, fays he, [Afr. Englishman,]
/ wiS carry you thither in Charity, and those Things will
help you to buy your Subsistence there, and your Passage
home again.
As he was charitable in this Proposal, so he was
Just in the Performance to a Tittle, for he order'd
the Seamen, that none should offer to touch any
thing I had; then he took every thing into his
own Possession, and gave me back an exact Inven-
tory of them, that I might have them, even fa
much as my three Earthen Jars.
As to my Boat, it was a very good one, and
that he saw, and told me he would buy it of me
for the Ship's use, and asked me what I would have
for it? I told him he had been so generous to me
m every thing, that I could ndt offer to make
D 3 any
ny Price of the Boat, but left it entirely to him;
upon which he told me he would give me a Note
of his Hand to pay me 80 Pieces of Eight for it at
Btnfilj and when it came there, if any one offered
to give more, he would make it up • he offered me
also 60 Pieces of Eight more for my Boy Xury,
which I was loth to taWe, not that I was not wil-
ling to let the Captain have him, but I was very
loth to fell the poor Boy's Liberty, who had assi-
sted me so faithfully in procuring my own. How*
ever, when I let him know my Reason, he own'd
It to be just, and ofser'd me this Medium, that he
would give the Boy an Obligation to set him free
in 10 Years, if he turned Christian : Upon this, and
Xmj faying he was willing to go to him, I let the
Captain have him.
We had a very good Voyage to the Bra/ils, and
arriv'd in the Bay de Todos los Santos, or All-Saints
Bay, in about 22 Days after. And how I was
once more delivered from the^lnost miserable of all
Conditions of Life, and what to do next with my
self, I was now to consider.
The generous Treatment the Captain gave m^
I can never enough remember ,* he would take no-
thing of me for my Passage, gave me 20 Ducats for
the Leopard's Skin, and 40 for the Lion's Skin
which I had in the Boat, and caused every Thing
I had in the Ship to be punctually delivered me,
and what I was willing to fell, he bought ; such is
the Cafe of Bottles, two of my Guns, and a Pfece
of the Lump of Bees-wax, for I had made Garidles
of the rest; in a word, I made about 220"Pieces of
Eight of all my Cargo, and with this Stock T we'fct
on Shore in the Brajtlio. '< ''**«-
I had not been long here, but being recommen-
ded to the House of a good honest Man like him-
self, who had an Ingenio} as they call it; that is, a
Plan-
Plantation and a Sugar- Houie, I liv'd with him
some time, and acquainted my felt by that Means
with the Manner ot their Planting and making ot
Sugar; and feeing how well the Planters liv'd, and
how they grew rich suddenly, I resolv'd, it I could
get Licence to settle there, 1 would turn Planter a-
mong them, resolving in the mean time to find out
some Way to get my Money which 1 had left in Lon-
don, remitted to me. To this Purpose, getting a kind
of a Letter t)j Naturalisation, I purchased as much
Land that was Uncur\l,asmy Money would reach,
and formed a Plan for my Plantation and Settlement,
and such a one as might be suitable to the Stock
which I proposed to my self to receive from England.
I had a Neighbour, a Portuguese of Liskn, but
born of English Parents, whole Name was Wells,
and in much such Circumstances as I was: I call
him Neighbour, because his Plantation lay. next to
mine, and we went on very sociably together. My
Stock .was but low as well as his; and we rather
planted for Food, than any thing else, for .about
two Years. However, we began to increase, and
our Land began to come into Order j so that^the
third Year we planted some Tobacco, and made
each of us a large Piece of Ground ready for plant-
ing Canes in the Year to come; but we both want-
ed Help j and now I found more than before, I had
done wrong in parting with my Boy Xury.
But alas! for me to do wrong that never did right,
was no great Wonder; I had no Remedy but to go
on: I was gotten into an Employment quite remote
to my Genius, and directly contrary to the Life I
delighted in, and for which I forsook my Father's
House, and broke thro' all his good Advice; nay,
I was coming into the very middle Station, or up-
per Degree of low Life, which my Father advised
me to before, and which, if I resolved to go on
D 4 with
with, I might as well have staid ac home, and
never have fatigued my self in the World as I have
done; and I used often to say to my self, I could
have done this as well in England among my Friends,
as have gone 5000 Miles off to do it amongStran-
gers and Savages in a Wilderness, and at such a
Distance, as never to hear from any Part of the
World that had the least Knowledge of me.
In this manner I used to look upon my Condi-
tion with the utmost Regret. 1 had no body to
converse with, but now and then this Neighbour 1
no Work to be done, but by the Labour of my
Hands ; and I used to say, I Uv'd ju& like a Maa
cast away upon some desolate Island, that had no
body there but himself. But how just ha's it been,
and how should all Men reflect;, that, when they
compare their present Conditions with others that
are worse, Heaven may oblige them to make the Ex-
change,and be convine'd of their former Felicity, by
their Experience: I say, how just has it be^n, that
the truly solitary Life I reflected on in an Island of
mccr Desolatiou should be my Lot, who fcmd so
often unjustly compared it with the Life which I
then led, in which had I continued, I had m all
probability been exceeding prosperous and ric|i.
I was in some degree settled in my Measupes.sor
carrying on the Plantation, before roy kind Friend
the Captain os the Ship, that took me up at Sea,
went back; for the Ship remained there in provi-
ding his Loading, and preparing for his Voyage^
near three Months, when telling him what little
Stock I had left behind me in London, he gave me
this friendly and sincere Advice: Seignior Ingles fays
he, for so he always called me, if you will'give
me Letters, and a Procuration here in form to me,
with Orders to the Person who has your Money in
J widen, to fend your Effects to Lisbon, to such Per-
sons
[ 4i J
sons as I shall direct, and in such Goods as are pro-
per for this Country, I will bring you the Produce
of them, God willing, at my Return j bfat since
human Affairs are all subject to Changes ahd Dis-
asters, 1 would have you giveOrders but for tool.
Sterl. which you fay is half your Stock, and let the
hazard be run for the first; so that if ic come safe,
you may order the rest the same way; and if it
miscarry, you may have tiie other half to have re-
course to for your Supply.
This was so wholiome Advice, and look'd so
friendly, that I could not but be convinced it was
the best Course I could take; so I accordingly pre-
pared Letters to the Gentlewoman with whom I
had left my Money, and a Procuration to the Por-
tuguese Captain, as he desired.
I wrote the Engltjh Captain's Widow a full Ac-
count of all my Adventures, my Slavery, Escape,
and how I had met with the Portugal Captain ac
Sea, the Humanity of his Behaviour, and in what
Condition I \vas now in, with all other necessary
Directions for my Supply ,- and wheti this honest
Captain came to Lisbon, he found means by some of
the English Merchants there, to fend over not the
Order only, but a full Account of my Stor£ to a
Merchant at London, who represented it effectually
to her; whereupon she not only delivered the Mo*-
ney, but out of her own Pocket sent the Portugal
Captain a very handsome Present for his Humanity
and Charity to me.
The Merchant in London vested this ioo /. in
English Goods, such as the Captain had writ for;
sent them directly to him at Lisbon, and he brought
them all safe to me to the Brafth; among which,
without my Direction (for I was too young in my
Business to think of them) he had taken care to
have all sorts of Tools, Iron-work, and Uten-
sils
L 4* .1
iils necessary for my Plantation! ami which were
ot great U<c to me. .
tyheiv this Cargo arriv'd, I thought my For-
tune made, for i was furpriz'd with Joy of it; and
my good Steward the Captain had kid out the 51
which my Friend had sent him tor a Present for
himself, m purchase, and bring me over a Servant
under Bond for lix Years Serf ice, and would not
accept of any Consideration, except a little To-
bacco, which 1 would hare him accept, being of
my own Produce,
Neither was this all; but my Goods being all
Biiglijh Manufactures, such as Cloth, Stuff, Bays,
and Things particularly valuable and desirable in
the Country,, 1 found means to sell them to a very
great Advantage; so that i may fay, 1 had more
than sour times the Value of my first Cargo,; and
was now infinitely beyond my poor Neighbour, 1
mean in the Advancement of my Plantation; for
.the first Thing 1 did, 1 bought me a Negroe Slave,
and an Ettrofean Servant also; 1 mean another be-
sides that which the Captaia brought me from
Lisbm-
But as abused Prosperity is oftentimes made the
very Means of our greatest Adversity, so was it
with me* 1 went on the next fear with great Suc-
cess in my Plantation: 1 raised 50 great Rois of
Tob 1  ;o on my own Ground more than 1 had
disposed of for Necessaries among my Neighbours;
aiukt'hdc 50 Rolls being each of above a 100 Ib. lift*
vstfrc/Avcll cur*d and laid by against the Return of
the/F^pt from Lisbon. And now increasing in En*-
%%{%#d 111 Wealth, my Head began to be full of
Pri>jVc^f|tfd Undertakings beyond my Reach ; such
&&<c*ix\(fc$& often the Ruin of the best Heads ia
Biilitacis, <VUr "%
. '" "Hid
 
.[45 3
Had 1 continued in the Station 1 was now ip, 1
had room for all the happy Things to hive yet'be*
fatten me, for which my father so earnestly recom-*
mended a quiet retired Life, and of which he had
so sensibly-described the middle Station of' Life to
be'hill of; but other Things attended me, and 1
was still to be the wilful Agent of all my own Mi-
scries; and particularly to etictease by "Fault, and
double the Reflections upon my self, which in my
future Sorrows 1 should have Leisure to make, all
these Miscarriages were procured by my" apparent
obstinate adhering to my foolish I&clination of wan-
dring abroad, and pursuing that'Inclination, in
Contradiction to the clearest Views of doing roy
self good in a fair and plain Pursuit of those Pro-
spects and those Measures of Life, which Nature
and Providence concurred to present me with, and
to make my Duty. ^ : *
As I"had once done thus in breaking away from
my Patents, so 1 could not be'-cont(J»t*how,^i>ut-I
must go and leave thc-happy-Vie^;l*'ftad of being
i rich and a thrivingMtm4n-!hy'f)4M^ Plantation,
only to pursue a rafli and immoderate Dcsiro-of
rising Mcr than the' MilW,:df • thfe-Ttim^adiSit-
tedj ;and thus 1 *<!afl itf^self down'agaitfl&o-the
deepest ^Giifph "of biftnirt Mftbty that' efer -Mitffelt
into, or perhaps cotilld' be corfstftferit! %itt{llfse: and
a State of Health in the World;'> "frf ^"
To come then by jtist f Degrees to the Partial*
lars of this Part of my Story; Yon may suppose*
that having now li?ed almost sour Years in the
Brafilio, and beginning to thrive and prosper very
well upon my Plantation, I had not only tearn'd
the Language, but had contracted Acquaintance
and Friertd/hip among my Fellow-Phmtcrt* as well
as among the Merchants at St. Sahadmt* wMich
was our Port; and that in my Diseoisse among
2 them,
them, 1 had frequently given them an account of
my two Voyages to the Coast of Guiney, the man-
ner of trading with the Negroes therc^ and how
easy it was to purchase upon the Coast, for Tri-
fles (such as Beads, Toys, Knives, Scissars, Hat-
chets, Bits of Glass, and the like) not only Gold-
Bust, Gfa/wy-Grains, Elephants Teeth, CTc but
Negroes for the Service of the Brafils, in great
Numbers.
They listened always very attentively to my
Discourses on these Heads, but especially to that
part which related to the buying Negroes, which
was a Trade at that time not only not far entered
into, but as far as it was, had been carried on by
the Assicnto's, or Permission, of the Kings of Spain
and Portugal, tod engrofs'd in the Publick; so that
few Negroes were bought, and those excessive
dear.
It happened, being in Company with some Mer-
chants and Planters' of my Aquaintance, and
talking of those things very earnestly, three of
them came t<y me the next Morning, and told me
they had been milling very much upon what 1 had
discoursed 'with them of the last Night, and they
czmt m make a secret Proposal to me ; and after
enjoining me Secrecy, they told me that they had
a mind to 'fit -out a Ship to go to Guiney; that
they had all Plantations m well as I, and were
ftfaiciied tor nothing so much as Servants; that as
it1" was a Trade that could not be carried onf be-
cause they could not publickly fell the Negroes
when -*hcy came home, so they desired to make
bur-onfe Voyage, to bring the Negroes on Shore
privately,; and divide them among their own
Plantations; and in a Word, the Question was,
whtther T, would go their Super-Cargo in the
Ship, to itemage the Trading Part upon the Coast
V
or Guiney? And they oster'd me that 1 should have
niy equal Share of the N<groes> without providing
any Fart of the Stack,
This was a soir Ptopofal, it must be confess?d»
had it been made to any one that bad not had a
Settlement and Plantation of his own to look after,
which was in a fair way of coming to be very con-
siderable, and with a good Stock upon it. But for
me that was thus entered and establish'd, and had
nothing to do but go on as 1 had begun for three
or four fears more, and to have sent for the other
iqoL from England, and, who in that Time, and
with that little Addition, could scarce have fail'd
of being worth 3 or 4000 I Sterling, and that en-
creasing too; for me to think of such a Voyage,
was the molt preposterous thing that ever Man in
such Circumstances could be guilty of.
But 1 thai was born to be my own Destroyer^
could no more resist the Oiler than I could restrain
my first rambling Designs, when ray-Father's good
Counsel was lost upon me In a Word, 1 told
diem 1 would go with all my Heart/ if they
would undertake to look after my Plantation in
my Absence, and would dispose of it to such as 1
should direct:, if 1 miscarried This- they all en-
gaged to do, and entered into Writings, or Cove-
nants, to do so j and 1 made a formal Will, dispo-
sing of my Plantation and Effects, in cafe of my
Death, making the Captain of the Ship that had
lav'd my Life, as before, my universal Heir, but
obliging him to dispose of my Effects as 1 had di-
rected in my Will, one half of the Produce be*
ing to himself, and the other to be sliipp'd to Eng+
land*
In ftort, 1 took all possible Caution to preserve
my Effects, and to keep up my Plantation ; had 1
used half as much Prudence to have loofcM into my
own
own Interest, and have made a Judgment of what
i ought, to have done, and not to have done, 1 hid
certainly never gone away from so prosperous an
Undertaking, leafing all the probable Views of a
thriving Circumstance, and gone upon a Voyage to
Sea, attended with all its common Hazards; to
soy nothing of the Reasons 1 had to expert parti-
cular Misfortunes to my self.
But 1 was hurry *d on, and obey'd blindly the
Dictates of my Fancy rather than my Reason: And
accordingly the Ship being fitted out, and the Car-
go furnish'd, and all things done as by Agreement,
by my Partners in the Voyage, 1 went on board
in an evil Hour again, the ill of Sept. i6f^3 being
the fame Day eight Years that 1 went from my
Father and Mother at Hully in order to act the
Rebel to their Authority, and the Fool to my own
Interest.
Our Ship was about no Tun Burthen, carried
6 Guns and 14 Men, besides the Master, his Boy,
and my self; we had on board no large Cargo of
Goods, except of such Toys as were fit for our
Trade with the Negroes* such as Beads, Bit's of
Glass, Shells, ^ and odd Trifles, especially little
Looking-Glafles, Knives, Sciflars, Hatchets/'and
|he like*
The fame Day 1 went on board, we set Sail,
standing away to the Northward upon our own
Coast, with design to stretch over for the Africa*-
Coast. When they came about 10 or 12 Degrees of
Northern Latitude, which it seems was the man-
ner of their Course in those Days, %ve had very
good Weather, only excessive hot, all the Way upon
our own Coast, till we came to the Height of
Cape St. Augnstinoy from whence keeping farther off
at Sea, we lost light of Land, and steer'd as if we
were bound for the Isle Pmmml de Notwha, holding
our
c
47 1
our Course R E. by N. and leafing those Isles
on the East. In this Course we past the Line m
about %% Days time, and were by our last Obser-
vation in 7 Degrees it Min. Northern Latitude,
when a violent 'Iournado, or Hurricane,took us quite
mit of our Knowledge; it began from the South-
East, came about to the North-West, and then
fettled into the North-East, from whence it blew
in such a terrible manner, that for 12 Days toge-
ther we could do nothing but drive ; and scudding
away before it, let it carry us whither ever Fate
arid the Fury of the Winds direaed; and during
these 12 Days, 1 need not fay, that 1 expected
every Day to be swallowed up, nor indeed did any
in the Ship expect to save their Lives.
In this Distress we had, besides the Terror of
the Storm, one of our Men died of the Calenture,
and one Man and the Boy walh'J over-board. A-
bout the izth Day the Weather abating a little,
the Mailer made an Observation as well as he
could, and found that he was in about 11 Degrees
North Latitude, but that he was 22 Degrees ot"
Longitude Diligence West from Cape St. Auguflino,
so thai he found he was gotten upon the Coast of
Guitna, or the North Fart of Brafily beyond the
River Amaxmws, toward that of the River Orm-
noqvfj commonly called the Great Riljer, and began
to'consult with roe what Course he should take,
for the Ship was leaky, and very much disabled,
aid he was going directlv back to the Coast of
Brafil.
J was positively against that, and looking over
the Charts of the Sea-Coast of America with him,
we concluded there was no inhabited Country sot
us to have recourse to, till we came within the
Circle of the Caribbee Islands, and therefore resolved
to stand away for Barbadoes, which by keeping off
ac
at Sea, to avoid the Indraught of the Bay or Gulph
ot Mexico, we might easily perform, as we hoped,
in about fifteen Days Sail $ whereas we could nor
possibly nuke our Voyage to the Coast o( Africa,
without some Assistance both to out Ship and to
our selves.
With this Design we chang'd our Course, and
steer\] away N. W. by W. in order to reach some
of our Englijh Islands, where 1 hoped for Relict:
but our Voyage was otherwise determined* for be-
ing in the Latitude of 12 Dcg. 18 Min. a second
Storm came upon us, which carry'd us away with
the seine Impetuosity Westward* and drove us , so
out of the very way of all human Commerce,
that had ail our Lives been saved, as to the Sea,
we were rather in danger of being devoured
by Savages, than ever returning to our own
Country.
In this Distress, the Wind still blowing, very
hard, one of our Men, early in the Morning, cry'd
out, Land; and we had no sooner run out of the
Cabin to look out, in hopes of feeing whereabouts
in the World we were, but the Ship struck,upon a
Sand, and in a Moment, tier Motion being so
stoppM, the Sea broke over her in such a manner,
that we expected we should all have perish'd im-
mediately; and we were immediately driven im^
our close Quarters, to shelter us from, the ;very
Foam and Sprye of the Sea.
It is not easy for any one, who has not bejen
in the like Condition, to describe or conceive the
Consternation of Men in such Circumstances; we
knew nothing where we were, or upon what Land
it was we were-driven, whether an Island or the
Main, whether inhabited or not inhabited; and 
as the Rage of the Wind was still greatf tho' ra-
ther less than at first, we could not so much as
hope
1-
hope to have theShip. hold .maoy.Minurestvvyit!
out breaking in Pieces, tifiltffs the'Winds by, a kind
of Miracle (hould *uruiiqm$diatidy,aboutwin *
Word, we fat/ looking one-upon apothef^atid ex-
pecting Death every Moment, and every Mao sit-
ing accordingly^ as preparing for another World,
tojr> there was httl?. or nothing more for us to do in
thisi that which;was'our present Comfort, and
aUthe Comfort we,had, was, that contrary to. pm
Expectation |bc Ship did not, .break yet, and that
the Master hid the Wind began to abate* —,
'Now tho* we thought that the Wind did a little
abate, yet the. Ship, having thus struck upon the
Sand, and licking too fast for us to expert her get-
ring of, we were in a dreadful Condition indeed,
and had nothing to do but to think of saving oar
Lives as well as we could; we had a Boat at our
Stem, just before the Storm,, but she, was first stav'd
by dashing against the Ship's.Rudder, and in the
next Place she broke away, and either funk' or
was driven off to Sea,, so there was: no slope frojn
her i we had another Boat on board, but how to
get her off into the Sea, was a doubtful tjdng;
however, there-wa? no room. to debate, for we
fancy'd the Ship would break in pieces every Mi-
nute ,• and sptae told us, ihc was actually broken
already.'
In this Distress the Mate of our Vessel lays hold
of die Boat, aud with the help of the rest of the
Men, they got her flung over the Ship's side,' and
getting all into her, let go, and committed out
selves, being Eleven in number, to God's Mcrcv,
and the wild Sea; for tho' the Storm was abated
considerably, yet the Sea went dreadful high upon
the Shore, and might well be Call"d Dm wild Zee>
as the Duuh call the Sea in a Stcrm.
Part I, E And
Adi «d#w our.Case was  fcry dismal indeed r • for
we ail saw plainly,- that'tie Sea- went so high^that
the jEJoat could not lkcf and that we should- bp'ine-
vitably drowned. As to making Sail, we 'bad none,
nor* if we had, could we have done any Thing with
it; so we work'd at the Oar towards the-Land,
tho* with heavy Hearts, like Men going to Executi-
on; for we all knew, that when the Boat game near-
er the Shore, lhe would be dafh'd in a thousand
Pieces by the Breach of the Sea;  However, we
committed our Souls to God in the  most earnest
spanner, and the Wind driving us towards' the
Shore, we hastened our Destruction with our- own
Hands, pulling as well as we could towards Ltnd^
What the Shore was, whether Rock or Band,
whether Steep or Shoal, we knew not;" the oply
Hope that could rationally give us the least fliadow
of Expectation, was, if we might happen into some
Bay or Gulpfa, or the month of some Rivet, -mMtt
by great Chance we might-have run our Boat in^or
got under the Lee of the Land, and perh&psMide
smooth Water. But there was nothing'of thkap-
.f>ear«4 ;'but as we made nearer - and hedriet the
Shore* the Land looked more frightful, than this Sea.
After we had row^d, !or rather driven about *k
;Leagtie atid a half, as we' reckoned' it, a- 'raging
Wave, Mountain-like, came rowling a-ftern rfiw,
and plainly bid us expect the Coup deGmm^Jn
a word, it took us with such a Fury, 'that itmiir
set the Boat at once, and separating us as,well
from the Boat, and from one another, gave hsmbt
time hardly to fay, O Godi for we were ail swal-
lowed up in a Moment, ,:• . . ., •.
Nothing can describe the cbnfusibn of Thought
which 1 kit when I sunk into the-Water? .for ihof 1
swam very well, yet f could not delivermy self fiom
the Waves,,, so as to draw Breath, till that .Wave
hating
having driven me, or rather carried me a vast Way
m towards the Share, andtliaving spent it self, went
back, and lest me upon the Land almost dry^ -but
half dead with the Water 1 took it): f-Md- so ranch
Presence of Mind, as well-as-Breath leftythat seeing
my sets nearer the main Land than! expected, 1 got
upon- my Feet, and endeavoured to make on to-
wards the Land as fast as 1 could, be-fore another
Wave should return, and take me up again. But 1
soon found it was impossible to avoid it; ibr I saw
the Sea come after me as high as agrear Hill, 'and
a& furious as an Enemy, which I had-ho Means-or
Strength to contend'with; my Business was to hold
roy Breath, and raise my self upon the Water* if 1
could, and so by swimming to preserve my Breath"
ing,'and Pilot my self towards the Shore, if-possi-
ble* my greatest Concern now being, that the Sea,
as it would carry me a great Way- towards-'* the
Shore when it came on, might not -carry me- back
agaiirwifh it when it ga?e back towards the Sea."
The Wa?e that came upon me again j buried me
at once m or 30 Foot-.deep in its own Body; and-1
could feel my self carried with a mighty Force and
Swtfntese, towards the Shore a very great way; -bat
1 held my Breath, and assisted my self to swim still
torward with'all my Might. 1 was ready to burst
with holding,my Breath,-when, a* I-sett myself
rising up, so, to my immediate Relief, Mound my
Head and Hands {how out above the Surface of-the
Water;: and tho* it was not two Seconds of Time
that I could keep my self sof yet it relieved me
greatly, gave me Breath and new Courage. 1 was
covered again with Water a good while, but not
!f jrg • C l hcld k mt^ and sindinf? the Water
had spent it self, and began to return, I struck for-
ward-against the Return of the Waves, and felt
Orated again .withtoy-Feet. 1 stood-' still" a sew
E 2 Moments
Moments1 to' recover Breath, and till the Water
went from' me, and then took to' my Heels, 'and
iTiii with what £>trength 1 had farther- towards the
Shore. But neither would'thi$''deljVet' me from
the Fury of the Sea, which came poking in after
me again, and twice most 1 was lifted «plby the
Waves, and'carried forwards as before, the Shore
being" very 'flat.' '* ' '
The last' time of these two had well-Mar been
fatal to me; for the-Sea having hurried- me 'along
as before, landed me, or rather dasli'd me against a
piece of a- Rock, and that with such Force, as it
left me senflefs, and indeed helpless, as to my own
Deliverance'; for the Blow taking my'Side and
Breast, beat the Breath as it were quite out of my
Body; and had it returned again immediately, I
must hare ' been strangled in the Water • but 1 re-
covers a little before the Return of "the Waves,
and*seeing I should be corer'd again #ith'the
Water, 1 rcsolv'd to hold fast by a piece of; the
Rock, and so to hold my Breath, if possible, fill
the Ware went back; now as the Waves were'*not
so high as at first, being near Land, 1 held'' my
Hold till the Wave abated, and then fetcli'd ano-
ther Ruiy'tvhich brought me 'so near the'Shore,
that the next Wave, tho* it went over me, yes did
no: so swallow* me tip, as to carry me away, and
:he next Rim f took, 1 got'to the main'Land,
where, to my great Comfort, 1 clambe^d up the
Cliuj of the Shore, and far me down upon "the
Grafs, free from Danger, and quite oiirof the'
Reach of the Water. '
1 was now landed, and safe on Shore, and began
to look op and thank God that my Life was fav^f'lii
a Cafe wherein there was some Mitintes 'before scarce
any room to hope, I believe it is impossible to ex-
press to the Life what the Extasies and Transports of
the
 
the Soul ace, when it k (asav'd, as 1 may fay, out
of the very Grave;, and 1 do not wonder now ac
that Custom, viz. That when a Malefactor, who
has the,,, Halter about his Neck, is tied up, and just
going, co be turn'd off, and has a Reprieve brought
to him; I fay, I do not wonder that they bring a
Surgeon with ic» to let him. Blood that very Mo-
ment they tell him of it, that the Surprize may doc
drive the Animal Spirits from, the Heart, and over-
whelm him: .   ; ..
fm*smMtn j%j, Me Griefs, confound aijiifl*
1 walk'd about on the Shore, lifting tip roy Hands,
and my whole Being, as 1 may fay, wrapt up in the
Contemplation of my deliverance, making d'thou-
sand Gestures and Motions which 1 cannot describe,
reflecting upon all my Comrades that were drown'd,
and that there should not be one Sonl favfd but my
self; for as for them, 1 never saw them afterwards,
or any sight of .them, .except three of their Hats,
one Cap, and two Shoes that were not Fellows.'
1 cast my Eyes to the stranded Vessel, when'the
Breach and Froth of the Sea being so big, ,1 could
hardly fee it, it lay so far off, and considered, Lord S
how' was it possible 1 could get on Shore I
.After 1 had solac'd my Mind with the comforta-
ble part .of my Condition, 1 began to, look round
me, to see what kind of Place! was inf and what
was next to be done, and I soon found my Comforts
abate, and that, in a Word, I had a dreadful Delive-
rance; for I was wet, had no Cloaths to shift me,
nor any thing either to eat or drink to comfort me,
neither did I fee any Prospect before me, but that
of perishing with Hunger, or being.devomr*d by wild
Beasts; And that which was particularly afflicting
to me, was, that I had no Weapon either to hunt
E 3 mi
and kilt any, Creature for,,my: Sustenance, or to de-
fend inyTett-fegainst my other .Qrcatorc that might.
desire *o iittmefor theirs :i la a Word, 1 had-no*
thing#lpoiyi.jtte. but a;Khtfle, a Tobacco-pipe,; and
a little X obaceo'itt a Bqx*; this was all my Promk-
sion, and this threw me into terrible Agonies of"
Mind, that lor a whiles run about like a Mad*itiah.
Night coming ' upon me,  i began with a heavy
Heart: to < consider what would be my Lot, if there
were any ravenous Beasts in that Country, seeing', at
Night they always come abroad for their Prey.
. AH the Remedy that offer'd to my Thoughts at
that time, was, to get up-into a thick busliyTree
like a Fir, but thorny, which grew near me, and
where I resolv'4 to sit all Night, and consider the
next Day what Death I should dye, for -as "yet I:
saw no Prospect of Life, i walk'd about a Furlong
from the Shore, to see if 1 could find anyfrdh
Water to dunk,- which 1 did, to my great Joy*;.
and having drank, and put a little Tobacco in my-
Mouth to prevent Hunger, 1 went tO'ithe.Tice,
and Retting -up, into it," endeavoured' to plpce my -
Ids so, as that-if L should sleep, 1.might "tiot fall^:
and having cumm a Aort-Stick, ike a Trunchetov-.
for my Defence, 1 took .up • my Lodging, and-&9*;
viog; been excessively fatigu'd, 1 fell fast asleep, and. -.
fl$pr m comfortably as, 1 believe, few coukMiav$;
ddnc.hv my Condition, and'found my self dhfe mfcist;
refeOied with. kf that 1 think 1 ever was on sueh/ifc-
Occasion* ,  . . .  , /(|V,(|lv
,-Whco.I wak'd it was broad'Day, the Weather'
clear, *and the Storm abated, so that the Sea did
not rage and swell as before: But that which-suc.
pna d me most, was, that the Ship was lifted *tf
m 'the Night from the Sand where (he -lay, 'by*
the Swelling of the Tide,'and %vas driven «p'<al«
most as far as the Rock which I first mentios'd,'
where
wfa#re I - bad  'been- fe«far ui$*d >by the  dasliirfg me f-
gainjst ic) this being, within about * Mile from the
Shore where 1 wi% aid the-Ship seeming to stand
upright ..still, i wHk'd my self. on<boatd^ 'that* at
least, 1 might km some necdssiry xThii'gs;,for; my
Use. . .-   = -. - .. s- , '
When I came down from my Apartment in-the
Tree, 1 look'd about me again, and the first thing
1 found was the Boat, which las as the Wind md
the Sea had toss'd her up<up©i the Landy about
two stiles on my Right Hand; f walk'd as-fat ta 1
could upon the Shore to ha?c got "to her* but found
a Neck'or Inlet of Water between--'me and the
Boat, which was about half a mile broads so;l
came back for the present, being more*intent upoiv
getting at the Ship, where 1 hop'd to ibid--some* *
thing lor my present Subsistence. • '* *"•'   ' ••""
A little after Moon 1 found the Sea'>very calm,''*
aortic Tide ebbfd sir far our* thac-lftuid come
within a Quarter of a'Mile of chcShip-t Atid--i*<2re
L sound a ftesli renewing of my<?rief'j for lfa#;'
cipdcntly, that if we had' kept on Boards Wirhad
been -aU Me, that is to fay, we had'all gob'&fc'
on Shore* .and4 had nbrbeeivsoimTerabtea&-tfo be
left Entirely .destitute of; ail- Comfort <atid" Com-' 
pany, a9l'now-..was';This sotcediTeati stow my
Eyesra^auu but; a? there-was- little'sidles in -that,
Irtsolv'd, if possiblert0-g€fto.>the,Shipi -sol
puli'd'off myCloaths, ior the Weathers was <btf to
Extremity,, and took the Water; but when'lcame
tavdhc-Ship*. my-Difficulty was still greater to
know haw.to get on board* for as site lay-*giound, *
and.high . ait  %(the Water, there was '•nothing
widiin*;my Reach.-co lay hold of; I swam round
bar twice, and1'the second time I espy?d a smalt
piece #f Ropc,>whicb 1 wondee'd I did not see
at^first, hang down by the For*Chain$ so low*
E 4 a$
as-that wth ^gttat Difficulty 1 got'hold of it/and
bytheJHfelpi of -that Rope,. got?-tip itttothefbre-
cailc-of the Ship.-'Here 4-found that the Ship was
buigii, and'toti^gteatdeai-of Wi&tv in-her Hold,
but'that -£bc ky<Jfo 611 the Side-of a Bank of hard
Sand, or rather Earths and her Stern lay lifted up
upon the Barfk'j and ;het Head low almost to the
Watct; by-'-thi* means all her Quarter was free,
and all  that wa$y in that Part was dry; for you
may be sure' »y :first Work was'to search
iand' to fee what was- spoilt!,- and what was
free; and first I found, that all- the Ship's Pro-
visions were1* dry, and untouch'd- by the Water,
and being  very well disposed to "eat, 1 went" to
the Bread-room and filfd my Pockets with Bis-
ket, and' eat it as 1 went about other-things,-'sot
1 had no Time to lose. 1 also" found1 fome-rRum
in the great Cabin, of which 1 took a large Dram,
and which 1 had indeed need Plough* of to spirit
me '(ot what'was before me. - Now: I' wanted
nothing but a Boat to furnish my self" with-'?mktty
thitfgi which I'foresaw would be very -necessary
to-mt1/ - ; '  ••• -v,i:! • -'  : :;'"'"
1 ft wdS-iti vain* to- sit still and-wish for what was
not '!?o~'%e had,  and'this Extremity- roozM tny
rApp\kitio*<r  We had-" several spare ¥ards,-vand
-•two ot* Ihrfe large• Sparrs'of* Wood, and 'i :spare
^TPop^maft or two in-the1 Ship ; I-resolved zo:UWto
'Mrsirie -with these, and-flung as'•• many -of4 them
over-board as 1 conki manage -of their W-eipt,
* fyihp* every" one with -a Rope that. they -iniighr
not1' drive away j  when1 this  Was done/1- went
down the Ship's Side, and pulling them to me, 1
ty'd four ot* them soft together "at bos frEnds as
well a? I could,;-in the-Form of a Rtfsej-atidlaying
two or three short pieces of Plank'--iipon them
cross-ways^ Jrfaigndf I  could walk -. upon *if.^very
well.
I C 57 1
 
well* but that  it "was out able to bear'any gttit
Weight, the ficecs being to6 light s-(o 1 went to
work, and with the'Carpenter'? Saw I cut a-spate
Top-mast into three Lengths, and added them m
my Rafr, with a great deal of'Labour and Paths;
but the Hope of furnishing myself with Necessaries,
encouraged me to go beyond what I "should have
been able to hate done upon another Occasion.'
My Raft was now-strong enough to bear any
reasonable'Weight; my next Care was what to
load it with, and how m preserve what I laid upon
'it from 'the Surf of the Sea ; but 1 Was not long
'considering this; 1 first laid all the Pianks or Boards
'upon ir that I could get, and having considered well
what 1 most wanted; 1 first got three of the Sea-
mens Chests, which 1 had broken open and crop-
; tf4f *and lowered theift down upon my Raft • the
4 first -of these 1 filfd with Provisions, vtz*' Breads
1 Ricc-j three Dmch Cheeses, live Pieces? of "dry'd
^.Goars-Flefli, which we Ii?#d much iipon/*dnd'X 1st-
^tlc Remainder of European Com/ Which* had "been
"laid by-for (mint Fowls which we brought''torScat
•with m, but the Fowls were kill'd; there had been
some Barky and Wheat together, but,' to my great
'Disappointment, "1 found 'afterwards that the Rats
had' eaten or spoil\J it all As for Liquors, I fotmd
'several Case* of Botfler-belonging1 to out Skipper,
'in which-were"-some Cordial Waters, and in alt
about five ot six Gallons of Rack • "these ! flowM
by cbentfetac*, there being no':nttd to put them
into the Chest, nor no room for them. While 1 was
doing this; 1" fonnd the Tide began to flow, tho'
very calm, and I had 'the Mortification to see my
Coat, Shirt, and Wastecoar, which 1 had left on
Shore 'dppn the Sand, swim away; as for my
Breeches," which were only Linncn-and open-kneed,
1 swam" on boird  m them and «y Stockings: How-
 
 
ever*
ever this pntiQC. upon rummaging for Cloatfos^.of
which J found enough, but took no more? than, I
wanjted.fot, present tjse^vfor I had other <$hing$-
which my Eye was more upon; as first, Tooteto-
work with; on Shore,, and jt- warafter long, search-
ing that.1 fouod out the Carpenter sChestr-which
was indeed a very useful,Prize to me,.and,.much
more valuable' than, a  Ship-loading of Gold mjmli
have.been at that time; 1 got, k down tO;«y Raftf
even ,w-fio]casit was, without losing-Tims to look
into it, for I knew in general what it contained..
My next Care was for some Ammunition, and
Arms; there were twa very good' Fowling^lPfeges
iti the great. Cabin, and two Pistols s thefe-JIe-
cur'd first, with some Powder-Horns, and $ /small
Bag of,Shot, and,two old' rusty Swords,* khmw
there were .three Barrels of Powder' in the Ship,
but knew .not; where ourGunner had stow'd them,
but .with much search 1 found them, two gfjthejn-
dry and good*, the third had taken Water/; otiose
two 1 got to my Raft, with the Arms: Animwl
thoyght*. my ..self pretty well freighted, mi h%gm
m think bow 1 should get to Shore with them,'
having neither Sail, Oar, or Rudder,; and the jeast
Cap so|l of Wind would have overset all ;my,Navi- 
gation* t *:
1 bad-rthnee .Encouragements. . i,;A„ smooth
calm Sea. *, The Tide,rising and setting.Into
the, Shore.,, j. What little Wind there wa%,blew
me towards die Land ; and thus, having found, two
or three broken Oars belonging to the Boat, 'and
besides the Tools which were in the Chest, I found
two Saws, an Axe, and a Hammer, aid with this
Cargo 1 put to Sea • For a Mile or thereabout** my
Rase went very well, only that 1 found it drive a
little distant,from the Place where I had landed be-
fore, by which-Ipcrcciv'd that there was,some In-
draught
 
L 59 3
draught of the Water; and consequently 1 hop d to
find some Creek or Riser there, which-I-might-
vmafttt'ttse of as a Port to get to Land with rtt|
:;: *A?I imaginM,- so if wa$; there *pf*a&before
'me a-little opening of the Land, and % found a
-stfong'<Cuftent of the Tide set into it; so tgttded
my Rise -as well as 1 could' m keep tft the Mid-
dle of the Stream: But here I-had like to hate
'fiiffcr'd a second-Shipwreck, which, if I-had, 1
think verify would have broke my HeaR; for
!ftowiitg! 'toothing of the Coast, my Raft ruts-a-
ground it one End of it upon a Shoal; itid not be-
ing a^grottnd at the other End, it wanted but a
little mat all my Cargo had slipp'd off towards that.
End that was a-sloat,- and so fallen into the Water:
f.did nPf utmost by setting my'Back agMnst the
Chcisi :to  keep  them in their Places, but tould
not-thrust off the Rase with' all my Strength, nei-
ther durst 1 stir from the Posture 1 was in/out hold-
ii% up the Chests with all my Might, stood in that
manner near half an Hour, 'in which time the rising
of the Water brought me a little more"upon a Le*
tel* and a little after, the Water still rising,';my
Raft floated' again, -and 1 thrust her off with'*the
0ar 1 had, into the Channel, and then driving1 tip
ligher^ i at length fourid-myself in the Mouth of
a little "River, with'Land- on both Sides, 'and'a
strong Current orTide running up • I looked on both
Sides (bra proper Place to get to Shore, for I was
: not willing to be driven too high up" the River,
hoping in time to fee some Ship at Sea, and there-
fore refoif *d to place roy self as near the Coast as
1 could,
; Ac length I spy'd a little Cove on the right
'" shore of the Creel, to which with great Pain and
.Difficulty ! guided my Raft, and at last got so near,
as
 
as that,, reaching Gtoiiod with- my Oar, I .could
thrust, her direitly in; but here 1 had-like to have
dipt all my Cargo in the Sea again;_ sor that Shore
lying pretty steep,, that is to fay,' sloping,. there
was, no,Place to land,, has where one End of the
Float, jLT ;t ru& on Shores would lie so high, and
the othftjsitifc sower as befpre, that it would en-
danger my Cargo, again ^AILthat 1 could do, Was
to wait till the: Tide was at the highest,,_ keeping
the Rait with .my Oar> lik« m Anchor to hold the
Side of it fast to the Shore, near, a flat Piece of
Ground, which I expected the Water would flow
ofer |, apes so it. did: As soon, as I sound Water
enough, (for" my .Raft drew about * Foot -of Water)
! thrust her, iipop., that flat Piece of Groynd^ and
there.faftenV, or moor'd,, her,, by sticking wy two
broken Qars igto the Ground j one on one -Side
near one End, and one on the other Side near .the
other End; and thus I lay till the Water ebt/d a-
way, and left my Raft and all my Cas go safe on
Shore. , t, ^ . '" _' ' .„,
My next. Work was to vie^r the Country,  and
feck a proper Place for my Habitation, and 'where
to^stow my Goods, to secure, them from whatever
might happen. Where 1 was, I yet knew not• Whe-
ther on the Continent, or on an Island ,• whether in-
habited, or not inhabited,,; whether in Danger of
Wild Beasts,.or not: There wm a Hill not above
a Mile from' me, which rose up very steep »nd"high,
and which seem'd to over-top some o$her itills
which lay as in a Ridge from,it Northward;'l took
out one of the Fowling-Pieces, and one of the Pi-
stols, and an Horn of Powder, and thus arm'd 1
travelled for Discovery up to the Top o£ that Hill,
where after I had with great Labour and Dlfficul-
lIm^np)° thx(?T9P'* kw my FgtQ m m'y sreat
Afllictioip. Cv/&.;that 1 was in m Island environ*J
every
C*3.
every' wiV'with'th£Sea, ltd I^ndib'bfc seeh, ex-
cept sooic Rocks' tfhifch Iky  a great wW'o$. and
twb'; {Mali Island's" left "than'this, ( whichl^^c
three Leagues to the*V/cst. :' ;" ;/{^ ,!S ,'". ,
 " 1 found aiso that the Wand 1'was in tyl^arftn,
and,:'*s 1 sow good^cason to bfelieVc;;wftin1ia'5it^d#
except by wild Beastsi1 of 'Wh'oiri?ho^cVct I saw*
none; yet I saw abundance of Fo#l$, tut knew
not their Kinds, neither'when riilfli'tli^m'cotikt
Itell whit was fie for food,'and whitiiotfAt my
coming, back, Lftot at'a great BW>tocH;rsoi«r
sirting'iipbn a Tree on the Side ot a £tfcir W&od £ I
believe" It was the first'Gun that had^eert;;fifa
there Mit the Creation rbf the World f;'l/;|si; no"
sooner' tfrM, but frbm/.atl the fasts -of;thc Wood
there5 'Arose' ah' inniim'e&bii?'Number' of' P6wls of
m'ahy "sorts, snaking a cbnfus'd Steaming, and
ctying'eve'ry one according'to hi* itstial Note ^ but
not one of them ot any Kind that I knew':''As for'
that Creature Tkilfd/ltook it tobe'akindbf a
Hawk, its Colour and Beak resembling it, but had
no'T^lbhs'br Claws more than common, its Flesh
was Carrion, and, fit for nothing." , 
Cbntcntedwith' this'Discovery, I'cameback to
my Raft, and fell to work to bring my Cargo' on
Shore,'/which'took me up the''rest_ os'*Aat'Pay^
\vha(f ttf"dp. with 'myself as Night I knew'not,
no'r'mdfeed'where to restVfor I was afraid to He
down ^ oft "the Ground, not knowing 'but' some
wild Beaft might devour me, though, 'is'.l after-'
wards fohcid,: there 'was. really no need' 'for those
Fearl
Hto&cvfef, as,well as 1 could, 1 baHrilaido'd my
self tbuhd with ' the Chests and Boards that 1 had
brought oh "shore, and "made a kind of a Hutt for'-
that-Niplit's Lodging; as for Food, I'yet saw not
which" Way to "supply my self, except that 1 had
seen
seen two or three Creatures like Hares-run out of
the Wood where i shot the Fowl ..  . .
1 now began to consider that 1 might yet get a
great many things out of the Ship, which wouid be
useful to-me, and particularly some of the Rigging
and Sails^ and such other things as might come m
Land, and 1 resolved m make another Voyage on
Board the Vessel, if poflible; and as I knew that
the first Storm that blew must necessarily break her
all in Pieces, i rcsolv'd to set ail other things apart,
till I got every thing out of the Ship that.I could
get; then 1 calfd a Council, that is to :say^ in my
Thoughts whether I should take back the -Raft,
but this append impracticable; To I refclv'd to
go a$' before, when the Tide was down, and 1
did so, only that 1 stripp*d before 1 wencTtom my
Hutt, having nothing- on but a checquer'd- Shirt,
and a fair of Lumen Drawers, and a pair of Pumps
on my Beet..
1 got on Board the Ship as before, and--prepar'd
a second Raff, and having had Experience >of tk
first, i neither made this so wnweildy,; tiorldAded
it so hard, but yet ! brought away-several things
very useful to me $ as firsts in the Carpenter's Stores
1 sound two or, three Bags full of Nails and Spikes,
a great., Skrcw-Jack, a dozen or two of Hatchets^
and above all, that most useful thing calf4*a'Grind-
stone; all these I sceur'd together, with several
things belonging to the Gunner, particularly--two
or three Iron Crows, and two Barrels'of MuCquet-
Bullets, seven Musquets, and. .another 'Rowling-
Piece, with some small Quantity of Powder nlore;
a large Bag full of small Shot, and a great Roll of
Sheet Lead; but this last was so heavy, ;I'could
not hoist it up-to get it over the Ship's side. -
Besidcsthefc things, I took all the Men*s Cloaths
that I could sind, and a spare Forc-top-seil, Mam-
mock,
 
mock .amisome Bidding;; and with this 1 loaded
mf second Raft, ami brotfght them all safe tin Shore
ro'tny *very great Ctfm fort* • . •   
. . i.waar under-some Appreherisions diirintf rtyj Ab-
sence from the Land, char at least my Provisions
might be devoured on Shore; but when J came back
1 found" no sign of any Visitor, only there- Tat a
Creature like a wild Cat upon one of the Chests,
which when f came towards it, ran  away a little
Distance, -and then stood still; she set'very com-
fos'd, and unconcern'd, and look'd full in my face,
as if she '-had a mind to be acquainted with me:
I. presented my Gun at her, but as she did ftorim-
..deriUtul it, slie was perfectly uncoh'eerneidlat k$
-nor did'&e bier to stir away ;"upon Which* t iofi-d
Jier a bitmi Bi$ket% tho* by the way! 'was? not ¥try
seee.o£'it*< for my Store was not great;'  Hotf ev&r,
JTpifdhef a bit, 1 fay, -and ffie weritt6;it;:ftieird
of it, and eat it, and looked (as pIeasM)-ftr rtiorc;
InelrtWmk'dhsr, and'could spatt" ho-inot*/ so
sec march'd oft :  . * -v '••-> . .
:. - Having got -my- second Car^o on Shore, (tho* I
wasTaiti to'open the Barrels of Powder, < arid bring
them* by Parcels, -for they were too'h'ciivy,' being
large Casks,) J went to work so make fee**'little
.Tent wftkche Sail and some Poles wfiich I'eiif sot
tha* Purpose-; and into this Tent I brt>ag!it-every
Thing that 1 knew would spoil, either with Rain,
-wSt!rij'-4ndÆ piled'al! the empty Chests and Casks
up ihf * Circle round the Tent, m fortify it from
any sodden' Attempt,  either front' Man or Beast:'
: 'wjwl had done this, 1 blocked'up the'Door of
the Tent with some Boards within, and 'an emptv
Ghest'set up-an End without, and spreadinf one
ot the Beds upon the Ground, laying my two Pi-
stols just 'army Hwid, and my Gon at Length by
*e, I went-to- bed for the* first time, itod;; Heps
 
 
 
 
 
vrrv
very quietly ail Night, for 1 was very weary and
heavy, for the Night before 1 had Ilcpt little, and
had labours very hard all Day, as well to fetch
all those Things from the Ship, as to get them on
Shore.
1 had the biggest Magazine of all Kinds now
that ever were laid up, I believe, for one Man;
but 1 was not satisfied still; for while the Ship fat
upright in that Posture, 1 thought 1 ought to get
every thing out of her that 1 could; so every day
at low Water 1 went on board, and brought away
something or other: But particularly the third
Time 1 went, 1 brought away as much of the Rig-
ging as !could, as also all the small Ropes and
Rope-twine I could get, with a piece of spare Can-
vas, which was to mend the Sails upon occasion,
and the Barrel of wet Gun-powjder: In a Word, I
brought away all the Sails sirst and last* only that
1 was fain to cut them in Pieces, and bring as
much at a Time as 1 could ; for they were no more
useful to be Sails, but as meet* Canvas only*
But that which comforted me more still, was,
that at last of all, after I had made five or six such
Voyages as these, and thought 1 had nothing more
to expect from the Ship that was worth my med-
dling with; 1 fay, after all this, I found a great Hog-
shead of Bread^aod three large Runlets of Rum or
Spirits, "and a Box of Sugar, and a Barrel of line
Flower; this was surprizing to me, because 1 had
given over expecting any more Provisions, except
what was spoil'd by the Water: i soon empty'd
the Hogshead of that Bread, and wrapt it up.
Parcel by Parcel, in Pieces of the Sails, which I
cut out; and in a Word, 1 got all this safe ost
Shore also.
The next Bay 1 made another Voyage; and
now having plunder'd the Ship of what was porta-
ble
 
[ <5 3
"bk, md fit to band out, 1 began with the Cables;
mud cutting the great Cable into, Pieces, such, as i
could move, 1 got two Cables and a Haalscr on
Shore, with all the Irorvwork i could get; and
having cut down the Spritsail-yard, and the Mi-
(en-yard> and every thing 1 could to make a large
Raft, i loaded it with all'those heavy Goods, and
came away: But my good Luck began now to
leave me; for this Rait was so unweildy,- and so
overladen, that after i was enters the little Cave,
where 1 had landed the rest of my Gdods; not
being able to guide it so handily as I did the other,
it overset, and threw me and all my Cargo into
the Water i As for- my self, it was no great "Harm,
for i was near the Shore; bit m to my Catgoe^ it
was great'part of it lost, especially the Iron, which
i expected would .have been of great. Use to mt:
However, whe» the Tide was out, I got" most of
the Pieces of Cable ashore, and some of the Iron,
tho with infinite Labour, for 1 was fain to dip for
it into the Water, a Work which far %ctJd me very
much; after this, 1 westt every Day on Board,
and brought away what i could get. %
1 had been now 13 Buss on Shore, and had been
i-1. times on Board the Ship . in which time 1 had 
brought away all that one pair of Hands could
well be, soppos i capable to bring, tho* I believe
verily, had the calm Weather, held, 1 should have
brought away the  whole Ship, Piece by Piece;
But preparing the 1 nhtime m go on Board, 1 found
the Wind .began to rife ;. however, at low Water 1
went on Board, and thoJ 1 thought i had ram-
Mtged the Cabin so effectually, as that nothing
aiore could be found, yet 1 discovered a Locker
with Drawers in it, in om of which I found two
or three Razors* md one pair, of large Soffits,
with some ten or a dozen of good Kotve$ and
fartL' f Foils;
[ as: .
Forks; in another I found about thirty six pounds
Value in Money* some European Coin, some Brq/il3
some Pieces of Eight, some Gold, some Silver.
1 smil'd ro my self at the sight of this Money.
O Drug I said I aloud, what art thou good for?
Thou art not worth to me, no not the taking off
of the Ground; one of those Knives is worth all
this Heap; I have no manner of use for thee, e'en
remain where thou art, and go to the Bottom as
a Creature whose Life is not worth saving. How-
ever, upon second Thoughts, I took it away, and
wrapping all this in a Piece of Canvas, I began
to think of masting another Raft • but while I was
preparing this, I found the Sky over-cast, and the
Wmd began to rife , and in a quarter of an Hour,
it blew a fresli Gale frond the Shore ; it presently
occurM to me, that it was in vain to pretend to
make a Raft with the Wind off Shore, and that it
was my Business to be gone before the Tide of
Flood began, otherwise I might not be able to
reach the Shore at all: AccordinglyI let my self
down into the Water, and swam cross the Channel,
which lay between the Ship and the Sands, and
even thlt with Difficulty enough, partly with the
weight of the things 1 had about me, and partly
the roughness of the Water, for the Wind rose very
hastily, and before it was quite high Water, it blew
a Storm.
But I was gotten home to my little Tent, where
1 lay with all my Wealth abput me very secure. It
blew very hard all that Night, and in the Morning
when I look d out, behold no more Ship was to be
ffr' A'?* ?li(?c surPri^d> but recovered my
f If with this satisfactory Reflection, viz,. That I
had lost no Time nor abated no Diligence to get
every thing out of her that could be useful to me,
and that indeed there was little left in her that I
was
11*7 3
was able to bring away, it I had had more Time.
1 now gave over any morfe Thoughts of* the
Ship, or of any thing out of her, except what
might drive on Shore from her Wreck, as indeed
divers Pieces of her afterwards did; but thole
things were of small use to me.
My Thoughts were now wholly employ'dabout
securing aiyself against either Savages, if any
should appear, or wild Beasts, if any were in the
Ifland; and 1 had many Thoughts of the Method
how to do this, and what kind of Dwelling to
make; whether 1 should make me a Cave m the
Earth, or a Tent upon the Earth: And, m short,
1 resolv'd upon both; the Manner and Description
of which it may not be improper to give an Ac-
count of.
I soon found the Place I was in was not for my
Settlement, particularly because it was upon a low
moorish Ground near the Sea, and 1 believ'd would
not be whoisome, and mori: particularly because
there was no fresli Water near it; so A resolv'd to
find a more healthy and more convenient Spot of
Ground. »
I consulted several things in my Situation,whieh
I found would be proper for me; first, Health, and
fresli Water i just now mentioned; secondly, Shel-
ter from the Heat of the Sun; thirdly, Security
from ravenous Creatures, whether Man or Beast-
fourthly, A View to the Sea, that if God sent any
baip m sight, I might not lose any Advantage for
my Deliverance, for whichT was not willing to
banish all my Expedation yet.
In search of a Place proper for this, I found a
little Plain on the side of a rising Hill, whose
tront towards this little Plain was steep as a
House-side, so that nothing could come down up-
on me from the Top . on the side of this Rock
2 F % there
there was a hollow Place worn a little way in, like
the Entrance or Door of a Cave, but there was
not really any Cave or Way into the Rock at all.'
On the Flat of the Green, just before this hollow
Place, I resolv'd to pitch my Tent. This Plain was
not above an hundred Yards broad, and about
twice as long, and lay like a Green before my
Door, and at the End of it descended irregularly
every way down into the low Grounds by the Sea-
side. It was on the N. N. W. side of the Hill, so
that it was sheltered from the Heat every Day, till
it came to a W. and by S. Sun, or thereabouts,
which in those Countries is near the setting.
Before I set up my Tent, I drew a half Circle
before the hollow Place, which took in about ten
Yards in its Semi-diameter from the Rock, and
twenty Yards in its Diameter, from its Beginning
and Ending. ° &
In this half Circle I pitch'd two Rows of strong
Stakes, driving them into the Ground till they stood
very firm like Piles, the biggest End being out of
the Ground about five Foot and a half, and Ihar-
pen'd on the Top; the two Rows did not stand
above six Inches from one another.
Then I took the Pieces of Cable which I had
cot in the Ship, and laid them in Ro&vs upon one
another, within the Circle between these two Rows
of Stakes, up to the Top, placing other Stakes in
the Inside leaning against them, about two Foot
and a half high, like* Spur to a Post, and this
Fence was so strong, «that neither Man or Beast
could get into it or over it. This cost me a great
Piles in the Woods, bring them to the Place, and
drive them into the Earth.
(wT* EntrfCC j°to this H** l made » be» not
by a Door, but by a Ihort Ladder, to go over
the
the Top, which Ladder, when I was in, I lifted
over after me, and so I was compleatly fenced in,
and fortify *d, as 1 thought, from all the World,
and consequently slept secure in the Night, which
otherwise I could not have done,tho*, asitappear'd
afterward, there was no need of all this Caution
from the Enemies I apprehended Danger from.
Into this Fence3or Fortress,with infinite Labour,
I carry'd all my Riches, all my Provisions, Am-
munition and Stores, of which you have the Ac-
count above, and J made me a large Tent, which
to preserve me from the Rains, that in one Part of
the Year are very violent there, I made double,^,
one smaller Tent within, and one larger Tent above
it, and cover'd the uppermost with a large Tar-
paulin which I had sav'd among the Sails.
And now I lay no more for a while in the Bed
which I had brought on Shore, but in a Hammock,
which was indeed a very gpod one, and belong'd
to the Mate of the Ship. •
Into this Tent I brought all my Provisions, and
every Thing that would spoil by the Wet ,• and ha-
ving thus enclosed all my Good, I made up the
Entrance, which till now I had left open, and so
passed and repase'd, as I said, by a short Ladder.
When I had done this, I began to work my Way
into the Rock, and bringing all the Earth and
Stones that I dug down, out thro* my Tent, I
laid them up within my Fence in the Nature of a
Terrace, so that it rais'd the Ground within about
a Foot and a Half; and thus I made a Cave just
behind my Tent, which servM me like a Cellar tq
my House.
It cost me much Labour, and many Days, before
all these Things were brought to Perfeaipn, and
therefore I must go back to some otherThings which
took up some of my Thoughts. At the sameTime it
F 3 happens
happened afteTr I had laid my Scheme for the set-
ting up my Tent, and making the Cave, that a
Storm of Rain falling from a thick dark Cloud, a
sudden Flash of Lightning happened, and after that,
a great Clap of Thunder, as is naturally the Efett
of it: I was not so much surpriz'd with the Light-
ning, as I was^with a Thought which darted into
my Mind as swift as the Lightning it self: O my
Powder 1 my very Heart sunk within me, when I
thought, that at one Blast all my Powder might
be destroyed; on which, not my Defence only, but
the providing me Food, as I thought, entirely de-
pended; I was nothing near so anxious about my
own Danger, tho* had the Powder took Fire, I had
never known who had hurt me.
Such Impression did this make upon me, that
after the Storm was over, I laid aside all my Works,
my Buildmg and Fortifying, and apply'd my self
to make Bags and Boxes to separate the Powder,
and H keep it a little and a little in a Parcel, in
hope, that whatever might come, it might not
all take Fire at once, and to keep it so apart, that
it should not be possible to make one part fire
another. jL$nMh'a this Work in about a fortnight,
and I think my Powder, which in all was about
140 lb*Wu was divided in not less than a hun-
dred Parcels. As to the Barrel that had been wet,
I did not apprehend any Danger from j:hat,|o I
placM it in my new Cave, which in my Fancy I
call'd my Kitchin; and the rest I hid up and
down in Holes among the Rocks, so that no Wet
might come to it, marking very carefully where I
laid it. ^
In the interval of Time while this was doing, I
went out at least once every day with my Gun, as
well to divert my self, as to fee if I could kill any
thing fit for Food, and as near as I could, to ac-
quaint
[>« 1
quaint myself with what the Island producU The
first Time I went out, 1 presently discovers that
there were Goats in the Island, which was a great
Satisfaction to me ,• but then it was attended with
this Misfortune to me, wi. That they were so
ihy, so subtle, and so swift of Foot, that it was the
difficultcst Thing in the World to come at them:
But I was not discouraged at this, not doubting
but I might now and then shoot one, as it soon hap-
pened; tor after 1 had found their Haunts a little,
1 laid wait in this Manner for them : 1 observed, if
they saw me in the Valleys, tho' they were upon*
the Rocks, thpy would run away as in a terrible
Fright; but if they were feeding in the Valleys,
and I was upon the Rocks, they took no Notice
of me; from whence I concluded, that by the
Position of their Opticks, their Sight was so di-
rected downward, that they did not readily fee
Objects that were above them: so afterwards I
took this Method, I always climb'd the Rocks first,
to get above them, and then had frequently a fair
Mark. The first Shot I made among these Crea-
tures, I kili'd a She-Goat which had a little Kid
by her which she gave Suck to, which grieved me
heartily; but "when the Old one fell, the Kid
stood Stock still by her tilt I came and took her up;
and not only so, but when I carried the Old one
with me upon my Shoulders, the Kid fotlowM me
quite to my Enclosure; upon which, I laid down
the Dam, and took the Kid in my Arms, and car-
ried it over my Pale, in Hopes to have bred it up
tame, but it would not eat, so I was fore'd to
kill it and eat it my self; these two supply'd me
with Flesli a great while, for I eat sparingly; and
sav'd my Provisions (my Bread especially) as much
as possibly I could.
F 4 Having
Having-now fixM my Habitation, I found it
absolutely necessary to provide a Place to make a
Fire in, and Fuel to burn; and what I did for
that, as also how I enlarged my Cave, and what
Conveniences I made, I (hall give a full Account
of it in its Place : But I must first give some little
Account of my self, and of my Thoughts-about
Living, which it may well be supposed were not
a few.
1 had a dismal Prospect of my Condition ; for as
I was not cast away upon that Ifland without being
tiriven, as is said, by a violent Storm quite out of
the Course of our intended Voyage, and a* great
Way, viz,, some Hundreds of Leagues out of the
ordinary Course os the Trade of Mankind, I had
great Reason to consider it as a Determination of
Heaven, that ia this desolate Place, md in this
desolate Manner I should cod my Life; the Tears
would run plentifully down my Face when I made
these Reflections, and sometimes I would expostu-
late with my self, Why Providence fkould thus
compleatly ruin its Creatures, and render thorn so
absolutely- miserable, so wkhout Help abandoned,
so entirely, dcpreftM, that it could hardly be fa-
tiooal to bethankfol for such a JUfc, :,
But something always returns swift upon me to
check these Thoughts, and to reprove &ie,| and
particularly one Day walking with my Gun in my
Hand by the Sea-side, I was very pensive upon the
Subject o£ my>present Condition, when Reason, as
it were expostulating with me to rher Way, thus t
Weil, you are in a desolate Condition \is true, but
pray remember, where are the rest of you? Did
not you come Eleven of you into the Boat, where
are the Ten? Why were aot they sov'd, and you
lost? Why were you singled out? Is it better to be
hm or there? and then I pointed to the Sea. All
Evils
Edls arc to be considered with the Good that is in
them, and with what worse attended them.
Then it occur'd tcMne again, how well I was
furnish'd for my Subsistence, and what would have
been my Cafe i( it had not happens Winch was
an Hundred Thousand to One> that the Ship floated
from the Place were (he first struck, and was dri-
ven so near to the Shore that I had time to get
all these things out of her: What would have
been my Cafe, if I had been to have liv'd in the
Condition in which I at first came on Shore, with-
out Necessaries of Life, or Necessaries to supply
and procure them? Particularly said I aloud, (tho*
to my self) what should I ha' done without a
Gun, without Ammunition, without any Tools
to make any thing, or to work with, without
Cloaths, Bedding, a Tent, or any manner of
Coverings; and that now I had all these to a suffi-
cient Quantity, and was in a fair way to provide
my selr in such a manner, as to live without my
Gun when my Ammunition was spent? So that
I had a tolerable View of subsisting without any
Want as long as I liv'd ; for I considered from the
Beginning how I would provide for the Accidents
that might happen, and tor the Time that was to
come, even not only after my Ammunition (hould
be spent, but even after my Health or Strength
should *iecay.
I donfese I had not entertaln'd anv Notion of my
Ammunitions befog destroyed at one* Blast, I mean
my Powder being blown up by Lightning, and this
made the Thoughts of it so surprizing to me when
it lightens and thunder'd, as I observed just now.
And now being to enter into a melancholy
Relation of a Scene of silent Life, such perhaps as
was never heard of in the World before, I shall
take it from its Beginning, and continue it in its
Order
Order. It was, by my Account, the 30th of Sep-
t ember ^ when, in the manner 3$ aboveiaiu, X first let
Foot upon this horrid Island, when ta. :sm being,
to us, in its Autumnal Equinox, was> -im^kjast
over my Head, for I reckoned my felt, ly Ooict-
vation, to be in the Latitude of g Degree > Mi-
nutes North of the Line.
After I had been there about Ten o»: .*-:Ys
Pays it came into my Thoughts, that i v,- -o oie
my Reckoning of Time for want of-A-o^-. and
Pen and Ink, and should even forget tin; oabhath
Pays from the working Pays: But to prev61: this,
I cut it with my Knife upon a large JPok, in Ca-
}>ital Letters, and making it into a great-Cross I
et it up on the Shore where I first landed, i//». /
came on Shore here the $oth of Sept, 16$9 Upon
the Sides of this square Post, I cut every Day a
Notch with my Knife, and every seventh Notch
was as long again as ths rest, and every first Pay
q( the Month as lohg again as th^t Ipng.pne; and
thus I kept my Kalendar, or weekly, monthly* and
yearly Reckoning of Time.
In the next place we are to observe, th£t among
the maqy things which I brought o|f the Ship in
the several Voyages, which, as abovemention'd,
I made to irt I got several things of less value,
butnot at all less useful to me, which, I omitted set-
ting down before; as in particular, Pens, Ink* and
Paper, several Parcels in the Captain's Mate?s,
Gunner's, and Carpenter's keeping, three or. font
Compasses, some Mathematical Instruments J)^is,
Perspefitives, Charts, and Books of Navigation,
all which I huddled together, whether 1 might
want them, or no; also J found three, very good
Bibles, which came to .me in my Cargo from Eng-
land, and which I had pack'd up among my things;
some Portugmzt Books also, and among them two
or
or three Popish Prayer-Books, and several other
Book, all which I caiesully secured. And I must
not forget that we had in the Ship a Dog and two
Cats, of whose eminent History I may have occa-
sion to say something in its Place; for I carry'd
both the Cats with me • and as for the Dog, he
jump'd out of. the Ship of himself, and swam on
Shore to me the Day after I went on Shore with
my first Cargo, and was a trusty Servant to me
many Years : I wanted nothing that he could fetch
me, nor any Company that he could make up to
me; I only wanted to have him talk to me, but
that would not do. As I observed before, I found
Pen, Ink and Paper, and I husbanded them to the
utmost; and 1 shall (hew, that while my Ink lasted,
I kept things very exact; but after that was gone,
I could not; for I could not make any Ink, by any
Means that I could devise.
And this put me in mind that I wanted many
things, notwithstanding all that 1 had amafs'd to-
gether; and of these, this of Ink was one, as also
Spade, Pick-Axe and Shovel, to dig or remove
the Earth; Needles, Pins and Thread • as sot
Linnen I soon learn'd to want that without much
Difficulty.
This Want of Tools made every Work I did go
on heavily, and it was near a wholeYeat before I
had entirely finished my little Pale, or surrounded
Habitation: The Piles, or Stakes, which were as
heavy as I could well lift, were a long time in cut-
ting and preparing in the Woods, and more by far
in bringing home; so that I spent sometimes two
Davs in cutting and bringing home one of those
Posts, and a third Day in driving it into the Ground:
for which purpose I got a heavy Piece of Wood
at first, but at last bethought my self of one of the
Iron Crows, which however, tho* I found it, yet
it
It made driving those Posts or Piles very laborious
and tedious Work.
But what need I ha* been concerned at the Te~
diousiiess of any thing I had to do, seeing I had
time enough to do it in, nor had I any other Em-
ployment if that had been over, at least, that I
could foresee, except the ranging the Island to seek
for Food, which 1 did more or less every Day.
I now began to consider seriously my Condition,
and the Circumstance I was reduc'd to; and I drew
up the State of ray Affairs in Writing, not so much
to leave them to any that were to come after me3
for I was like to have but few Heirs, as to de-
liver my Thoughts from daily poring upon them,
and afflicting my Mind ,• and as my Reason began
now to master my Despondency, I began to com-
fort my self as well as 1 could, and to set the Good
against the Evil, that I might have something to
distinguish my Case from worse; and I stated it
very impartially, like Debtor and Creditor, the
Comforts I enjoy'd, against the Miseries I suffered,
thus:
Evil, Good,
/ am cast upon a horri- But 1 am alive, and
Me desolate Island, void of not drown d^as aUmyShijss
all Hose of Recovery. Company vim*
1 am singled out and fe- But I am singled put too
farmed, at it ive> ey from from all the Ship's Crew to
al/ the World to be miser a- be spared from Death; and
M0m he that miraculously saved
me from Death, can deliver
me from this Condition.
lam divided from Man- But lam notflarvd and
hnd a Solitaire, one ha- perishing on a barren Place,
ntjb d from human Society, affording no Sustenance.
I have
cover me,
have no Cloaths to But I am in a hot C/i-
mate, where if I hadCloaths,
I could hardly wear them.
I am without any De-
feme or Means to resist any
Violence of Man or Beast.
I htm m Soul to speak
to* or relieve me.
But I am cast on an I-
stand, where I fee no wild
Beasts to hurt me, as I saw
on the Coast of Africa:
And what if I had been
Shipwreck'd time i
But God wonderfully
sent the Ship in near enough
to the Shore, that I have
gotten out so many necessary
Things m will either sup*
ply my Warns, or enable me
to supply myself, even as
kng as I live.
Upon the whole* here was an undoubted Testi-
mony, that there was scarce any Condition in the
World so miserable, but there was something ne-
gativeor something positive to be thankftal for in it;
and let this stand as a Direction from the Expe-
rience of the most miserable of all Conditions its
this World, that we may always find in it some-
thing to comfort ourselves from, and to set in the
Description of Good and Evil, on the Credit side
of the Account.
Having now brought my Mind a little to relish
my Condition, and given over looking out to Sea,
to see if I could spy a Ship; I say, giving over
these things, I began to apply myself to accom-
modate my way of Living, and to make things as
«asy to me as I could* 5
I have
I have already described my Habitation, which
was a Tent under the side of a Rock, surrounded
with a strong Pale os Polls and cables, but 1 might
now rather call it a Wall ,• for I raised a kind of
Wall up against it of Turfs, about two Foot thick
on the Outside; and after some time, (i think it
was a Year and half) 1 raised Rafters from it, lean-
ing to the Rock, and thatch'd or cover'd it with
Boughs of Trees, and such things as I could get,
to keep out the Rain, which I found at some times
of the Year very violent.
I have already obscrv'd how I brought all my
Goods into this Pale, and into the Cave which t
had made behind me: But I must observe too,
that at first this was a confused Heap of Goods,
which as they lay in no Order, so they took up
all my Place, 1 had no room to turn myself; so
I set myself to enlarge my Cave and Works far-
ther into the Earth; for it was a loose sandy
Rock, which yielded easily to the Labour I be-
stowed on it: And so when I sound I was pretty
safe as to Beasts of Prey, I work'd sideways to the
Right Hand into the Rock; and then turning to
the Right again, work'd quite out, and made me
aDoortoÆome out on the Outside of my pale
or Fortification.
This gave me not only Egress and Regress, as it
were a Back Way to my Tent, and to my Score-
house, but gave me room to stow my Goods.
And now I began to apply myself to make such
necessary things as I found I most wanted, particu-
larly a Chair and a Table; for without these I was
not able to enjoy the few Comforts I had 111 the
World; I could aot write or eat, or several things*
with so much Pleasure without a Table.
So I went to work: and here t must needs db-
serve, that as Reason is the Substance anct Origi-
nal
nal of the Mathematicks, so by stating and squa-
ring every thing by Reason, and by making the
moil rational Judgment of things, every Man may
be in time Master of every Mechanick Art. I had
never handled a Tool in my Life, and yet in time
by Labour, Application and Contrivance, I found
at last that I wanted nothing but I could have made
it, especially if I had had Tools; however, I made
abundance of things even without Tools, and
some with no more Tools than an Adise and
a Hatchet, which perhaps were never made that
way before, and that with infinite Labour. Foe
Example, If I wanted a Board, I had no other
way but to cut down a Tree, set it on an edge
before me, and hew it flat on either Side with my
Axe, till I had brought it to be as thin as a Plank,
and then dubb it smooth with my Adise, It is
true, by this Method I could make but one Board
our of a whole Tree, but this I had no Remedy
for but ranence, any more than I had for the pro-
digious ti;,a; of Time and Labour which it took
me up to nuke a Piank or Board: But my Time
or Labour w s Uttlc worth, and so it was as well
employed oik- way as another.
However, ) m^ue me a Table and a Chair, as
I observed above, h the first Place, and this I did
out of the short Pieces of Boards that I brought on
my Raft fiom the Ship : But when I had wrought
out some Boards, zs above, I made large Shelves
of th$ breadth of a Foot and a half, one over an-
other, all along one side of my Cave, to lay all my
Tools, Nails and Ivou-work, and in a Word, to se-
parate every thing ar large in their Places, that I
mi^ht easily come at them; I knocked Pieces into
the Wall of the Rock to hang my Guns, and all
tilings that jwould haiig up*
So that had my Cave been to be seen, it look'd
Hke a general Magazine of all necessary things; and
I had every thing so ready at my Hand, that it
was a great Pleasure to me to see all my Goods in
such Order, and especially to find my Stock of all
Necessaries so great.
And now it was when I began to keep a Jour-
nal of every Day's Employment, for indeed at first
I was in too much a Hurry, and not only Hurry
as to Labour, but in too much Discomposure of
Mind, and my Journal would ha3 been full of many
dull things. For Example* I must have said thus:
Sept. the joth. After I got to Shore, and had escaped
drowning, instead of being thankful to God for my
Deliverance, having first vomited with thfe great
Quantity of salt Water which was gotten into my
Stomach, and recovering my self a little, I ran
about the Shore, wringing my Hands and beating
my Head and Face, exclaiming at my Misery,
land crying out, I was undone, undone, till tir d
and faint, I was fore'd to lye down on the Ground
to Repose, but durst not sleep for fear Of being de-
voured.
Some Days after this, and after I had been on
board the Ship, I got all that I could out of
her, yet I could not forbear getting up to the Top
of a little Mountain, and looking out to Sea, in
hopes of seeing a Ship, then fancy at a vast Di-
itance I spyM a Sail, please my self with the Hopes
of it, and then after looking steadily till I was al-
most blind, lose it quite, and sit down and weep
like a Child, and thus etttftease my Misery by my
Folly.
But having gotten over these things in some mea-
sure, and having settlest my Houftold-Stuff and Ha-
bitation , made me a Table and a Ghair, and all
as handsome about me as I could, I began to keep
my
my Journal, os which I shall here give you the Co-
py, (tho' in it will be told all these Particulars over
again) as long as it lasted ,• for having no more Ink,
I was forced to leave it off.
The Journal-
SEptember 30, 1659. I, poor miserable Robinson
Crusoe, being shipwrecks, during a dreadful
Storm in the Offivg, came on score on this dismal
unfortunate Island* which 1 called the lfland es De-
spair, all the rest of the Ship's Company being
drowns aud myself almost dead.
Alt the rest ot' the Day 1 spent in afflicting my
self at the dismal Circumstances I was brought to,
viz,. I had neither Food, House, Cloaths, Wea-
pon, or Place to fly to, and in Despair of any Re-
lief, saw nothing but Death before me, either that
I should be devoured 4>y wild Beasts, murderM by
Savages, or starved to Death for want of Food.
At the Approach of Night, I slept in a Tree for
fear of wild Creatures, but slept soundly, tho' it
ram'd all Night. *
October 1. In the Morning I saw, to my great
Surprize, the Ship had floated with the high Tide,
and was driven on snore again much nearer the
Island, which, as it was some Comfort on one hand,
(for seeing her sit upright, and not broken to pieces,
I hoped, if the Wind abated, I might get on board,
and getYome Food and Necessaries out of her for
my Relief) so on the other hand, it renew'd my
Grief at the Loss of my Comrades, who, I ima-
gined, if we had all staid on board, might have
saved the Ship, or at least that they would not have
been all drown'd as they were; and that had the
Men been saved, we might perhaps have built us
a Boat out of the Ruins of the Ship, to have car-
Part I, p ried
tied us to some other Part qi the World. I spent
great Part of this Day in perplexing myself on
these things; but at length feeing the Ship almost
dry, I went upon the Sand as near as I cpuld, and
then swam on board: This Day also continued
raining, tho' with no Wind at all.
From the id of October to the 24th. All these
Day$entirely spent in many several Voyages to
get $111 could out of the Ship, which I brought
op £&ore every Tide of Flood upon Rafts. Much
Rain also in these Days, tho' with some Intervals
of fair Weather: But, it seems, this was the rainy
•Season.,.
0ft.>Q. I overset my Raft, and all the Goods
I had got upon k; but being in shoal Water, and
the things being chiefly heavy, I recovers many
of them when the Tide was out.
Oct. 25. It rain'd all Night and all Day, with
some Gusts of Wind, during which Time the Ship
broke in Pieces, the Wind blowing a little harder
than before, and was no more to be seen, except
the Wreck of her, and that only at low Water, I
spent this Day in covering and securing thje Goods
which I had sav^d, that the Rain miglpt not spoil
them. ,- „ , M
OB.26. I walk'd about the Shore ajmost all Day
to find out a Place to fix my Habitation, greatly
concerned to secure myself from any Attacks the
flight, either from wild Beasts or Men. Towards
Night I six*d upon a proper Place under a Rock,
and mark'd out a Serni Circle for my Encampment,
which I resolved to strengthen with a WprK, Wall,
or Fortification, made of double Piles, lift$4 with-
in with Cable, and without with Turf, \
From tlje 26th to the 30th, I worked very hard
in carrying all my Goods to my new H^ftation,
; /tho'
the/ some Part of the Time it rain'd exceeding
hard.
The jrst in the Morning I went out into the
Island with my Gun to see for some Food, add.dis-
cover rhe Country, when 1 kill'd a She-Goat, and
her Kid followed me Home, which I afterwards
kiil'd also, because it would not feed.
November i. I setup my Tent under a Rock, and
lay there for the first Night, making it as large as
I could with Stakes driving in to swing my Ham-
mock upon.
Nov. 2. I set up all* my Chests and Boards, and
the Pieces of Timber,which made my Rafts, and
with them form'd a Fence round me, a little with-
in the Place I had markM out for my Fortifica-
tion.
Nov. 3. I went out with my Gun, and kiil'd two
Fowls like Ducks, which were very good Food.
In the Afternoon went to work to make me a
Table.
Nov. 4. This Morning I began to order my
Times of Work, of going out with my Gun/time
of Sleep, and Time of Diversion, viz,. Every
Mdrning I wstlk'd out with my Gun for two Qfc
three Hojurs, if it did not rain, then emplov'd my
self to work till about eleven a Clock, then eat what
I had to live on, and from twelve to tvvo I lay
down to sleep, the Weather being excessive hot,
and theh in the Eyehing to work again: The
working Part of this Day and the next were whol-
ly ctapioyM in making my Table, for I was yet
but a very sorry Workman, tho' Time and Necef-
iity made m<» a compleat natural Mechanics sooti
atter, as I believe it would do anyone else.;
j°\ L ^rhis Day l wePt abroad with my Gun
and^ifif Dog, arid killM a wild Cat, her Skin
pretty soft, but het Flesh good for nothing: Every
G % Creature
Creature I kilfd, I took off the Skins and prescrv'd
them. Coming back by the Sea Shore, I saw ma^
ny Sorts of Sea-Fowls which I did notunderstand;
but was surprized, and almost frighted with two or
three Seals, which, while 1 was gazing at, not well
knowing what they were, got into the Sea, and
escaped me for that time.
Nov. 6. Alter my Morning Walk, I went to
Work with my Table again, and finished it, tho'
not to my Liking; nor was it long before I learn'd
to mend ir.
Nov. 7. Now it began to be settled fair Wea-
ther. The" 7ch, 8th, 9th, 10th, and Part of the
j 2th (for the nth was Sunday, according to my
Reckoning) I took wholly up to make me a Chair,
and with much ado brought it to a tolerable Shape,
but never to please me ; and even in the Making I
puli'd it to Pieces several times. Note, I soon ne-
glected my keeping i«/wtov; for omitting my Mark
for them on my Post, 1 forgot which was which.
N.v. i;. This Day itgained, which refreshed me
exceedingly, and cooled the Earth, but it was ac-
company'd with terrible Thunder andXigtoing,
which frighted me dreadfully, for fear of ipy Pow-
der: As soon as it was over, 1 resolved tQ .separate
my Stock of Powder into as many little Parcels as
possible, that it might not be in Danger-
N<>v. 14, ik, 16. These three Days I Iper)t in
making little square Chests or Boxes,, which might
hold about a Pound, #or two Pound, at mpst, oi
Powder ; dnd so putting the Powder in* I-sto^ed
it in Places as secure and remote from one another
a§ possible. On one of these three Pays I kiii'd %
large Bird that was good to eat, but I know not
what to call it. *
Nov. 17, This Day I began to dig behind my
Jent 4iuo the Rock, to make room for my farther
"* Cohvc-
Con'vcnicncy. Note, Three Things 1 wanted ex-
ceedingly for this Work, v/i. a Pick-axe, a Shove!,
and a Wheel-barrow or Basket, so I deiisted from
my Work, and began to consider how to supply
that Want, and make me some Tools. As for a
Pick-axc, I made use of the Iron Crows, which
were proper enough, tho* heavy; but the next
Thing was a Shovel or Spade j this was so abso-
lutely necessary, that indeed I could do nothing
effectually without it; but what kind of one to
make I knew not.
Nov. 18. The next Day in searching the Woods,
I found a Tree of that Wood, or like it, which
in the Brdjtls they call the Iron Tree,, for its ex-
ceeding Hardness ,* of this, with great Labour,
and almost spoiling my Ax, I cut a Piece, and
brought it Home too with Difficulty enough, for
it was exceeding heavy.
The excessive Hardness of the Woodland hiving,
ro other Way, made me a long while upon this
Machine, for I work'd it effectually, by little and
Ifttle, into the Form of a Shovel or Spade, the
Handle exactly fhap'd tike ours in England, only
that the broad Part having no Iron shod upon ir
at Bottom, it would not last me so long ; however
it serv'd well enough for the Uses which I had
Occasion to put it tp; but never was a §hovel,
1 believe, made after that Fashion, or so long a
shaking.
1 w^$ still deficient, for I wanted a Basket or a
Wheel-barrow ; a Basket I could not make by any
means, having no such Things as Trigs'that would
bend to make Wicker Ware, at least none yet found
out; and as to the Wheel-barrow, I fancy'd I could
make all but the Wheel, but that I had no Notion
bf, neither did I know how to go about it; besides/
r hid no possible Way to make Iron Gudgeons
G 3 fo£
for the Spindle or Axis of the Wheel to run in, so
I gave it ever• and so for carrying away, the Earth
wnich I dugout ot' the Cave, I made.me a .Thing
like a Hoad which the Labourers carry Mortar in
when they serve the Bricklayers.
This was not so difficult to, me as the making
the Shovel ; and yet this, and the Shovel, and the
Attempt, which I made in vain, to makeaWheel-
barrow, took me up no less than four Days $ I mean
always, excepting my Morning Walk with my Gun,
which i seldom fail'd, and very seldom fail'd also
of bringing home something sit to eat. . r-
Nov. 23. My other Work having now stood
still, because of my making these Tools; \dien they
were finished, I went on,, and working every Day,
as my Strength and Time allows, I sg^nt eigh-
teen Days entirely in widening and deepening my
Cave, that it might hold my Goods comiwdi-
ouily.
Note^ During all this Time, I workU to make
this Room or Cave spacious enough to accommo-
date me as a Warehouse or Magazine, a Kitchen,
a Dining-room, and a Cellar; as for a Lodging,
1 kept to the Tent, except that sometimes in the
wet Season of the Year, it rain\i so hard that I
could not keep my self dry, which cans'd m? after-
wards to cover all my Place within my gale Vith
long Poles in the form of Rafters, leaning ag^ifist
the Rock, and load them with Flags, and hœc
Leaves of Trees like a Thatch. ,4 '[ ,
Decemkr 10. I began now zq think my Cave or
Vault finished, when on a sudden (itsccmsl had
made it too large) a great Quantity! of Earth
fell down from the Top and one Side, so, much,
that m short it frighted me, and not without Rea-
son too, for if I had been under it, I had never
wanted a Grave-digger: Upon this Disaster I had
2 a great
L 8.7 J
a great deal of Work to do over again j for I had
the loose, Earth to carry out, and, which was of
more Importance, I had the Cielmg to pr6p up, so
that I might be sure no more would cotne dawn.
Dec. ii. This Day I went to work wich it a*>
cordingly, and got two Shoars^or Posts pitch'd up-:
right co the Top, with two Pieces of Boards a-cross
over each Post: this Ifinisli'd the next Day - and
setting more Posts up with Boards, in about a
Week more I had the Roof secured; and the Posts
standing in Rows, served me for Partitions to part
of my House.
Dec. i j. From this Day to the 20th, I placed
Shelves, and knock'd up Nails on the Posts to hang
dvery thing up that could be hung up,*;?ænd now* I
begart to be in some Order within Doors,'
Dec. 26. Now I carried every thing into the
Cave, and began to furnish my Houses and set up
some Pieces of Boards like a Dresser, to order my
Victuals upon; but Boards began to be very soarce
with me: Also 1 made me another Table*..-; j .
Dec 24. Much Rain all Night and ail Day;
no stirring out.
Deci 25. Rain all Day.
Dec t€. No Rain, and the Earth much cooler
than before, and pleasanter
Det. 27; Kili'd a young Goat, and lam'd ano-
teh«^ so that I cafch'd it, ami Jed it Home in a
String; when I had it Home, I bound and splin-
tered up its Leg which was broke. N. B. I took
soefreare of it that it lived, and the Leg grew
well, and as stfongas ever; but by nursing it so
long it grew tame, and fed upon the little Green
at %y Door, and would not go away. This
wai the first time that I entertained a Thought
of breeding up some tame Creatures, that I
G 4 might
might have Food when my Powder and Shot was
all spent.
Dec. 28, 29, 30. Great Heats and no Breeze;
so that there was no stirring abroad, except in the
Evening for Food: this Time I spent in putting
all my Things in Order within Doors.
January 1. Very hot still, but I went abroad ear-
ly and late with my Gunj and lay still in the middle
of the Day: This Evening going farther into the
Valleys, which lay towards the Genter of the Island,
I found there was plenty of Goats/ tho' exceeding
fhie and hard to come at; however, I resolved to try
if I could not bring my Dog to hunt them down.
Jan. 2. Accordingly, the.next Day I went out
with my Dog, and set him upon the Goats; but I
was mistaken, for they all faced about upon the
Dog, and he knew his Danger too well, for he
would not come near them.
Jan. 3. I began my Fence or Wall, which, be-
ing still jealous of my being attacks by somebody,
I resolved to make very thick and strong. -
N. B. This Wall being described before* I pnr~
fosely omit 'what, was said in the Journal 
it is sufficient to observe, that J was tfo less
*fime than from the 3d of January-:** the
. 14th of April, working, finishing andyph-
setting this Wall j th£ it was m more (than:
about 24 Xardsin length, being a halfiGivcle
from one Place in the Rock to another, Blace
about eight Tards from it, the Door 0s the
Cave being in the Center behind it. ^
All this time I wotk'd very hard, the Rains
hindering me many Days, nay, sometimes Weeks
together; but I thought I should, never be per-
fectly secure till this Wall was finished; and it is
scarce
scarce credible what inexpressible Labour every
thing was done with, especially the bringing Piles
out of the Woods, and driving them into the
Ground; for I made them much bigger than I
needed to have done.
When this Wall was finished, and the Outside
double fenced with a Turf-Wall raised up dose to
it, 1 periwaded myself, that if any People were to
come on shore there, they would not perceive
any thing like a Habitation t and it was very well
1 did so j as may be observed hereafter, upon a very
remarkable Occasion.
During this time, I made my Rounds in the
Woods for Game every Day when the Rain ad-
mitted me, and made frequent Discoveries in these
Walks of something or other to my Advantage;
particularly I sound a kind of wild Pidgeons, who
built not as Wood-Pidgeons in a Tree, but rather
as Housc-Pidgeons, in'the Holes of the Rocks;
&nd taking some young ones, I endeavoured to
breed them up tame, and did so; but when they
grew older, they flew all away, which perhaps
was at first for want of feeding them,- for I had no-
thing to give them; however, I frequently found
their Nests, and got their young ones, which were
very good Meat.
Andi now in the managing my Houfhold Affairs,
I found myself wanting in many things, which I
thought at first it was impossible for me to makef
as indeed as to some of them it was; for Instance*
I could never make a Cask to be hoop'd; I had a
small Runlet w two, as I observd before, but I
could never arrive to the Capacity of .making one
by them, tho'I spent many Weeks about it; I
could neither put in the Heads, or join the Staves
so true to one another, *al> to make them hold Wa-
ter; so I gave that alsodver
U
In the next place, I was ac a great loss for Can-
dle £ so that as loon as ever it was dark, which
was generally by Seven o* Clock, I was obliged to
go to Bed. I remember the Lump of Bees-Wax,
with' which I made Candles in my African Adven-
ture; but I had none of that now: the only Re-
medy I had was, that when I had kill'd a Goat,
I saved the Tallow, and with a little Dish made
of Clay, which I baked in the Sun, to which I
added a Wick of some Oakum, I made me a
Lamp; and this gave me Light, tho> not a clear
steady Light like a Candle. In the middle of all
my Labours it happened, that rummaging my
Things, I found a little Bag, which, as I hinted
before, had been filled with Corn for the feeding
of Poultry, not for this Voyage, but before, as I
suppose, when the Ship came from Lisbon; what
little Remainder of Corn had been in the Bag,
was all devoured with the Rats, and I saw nothing
in the Bag but Husks and Dust; and being willing
to have the Bag for some other Use, (I think it was
to put Powder in, when I divided it for fear of
the Lightning, or some such Use,) I shook the
Husks of Corn out of it on one side of my Forti-
fication under the Rock.
It was a little before the great Rains, just now
mentions, that I threw this Stuff' away, taking no
notice of any thing, and not so much as remem-
bring that I had thrown any thing there; when
about a Month after, or thereabouts, I saw some
few Stalks of something green (hooting out^ofthe
Ground, which I fancied might be some Plaht I
had not seen; but I was surprized and perfectly
astonifh'd, when after a little longer time I saw
about ten or twelve Ears come out, which were
perfect green Barley of the fame Kind as our Eu-
ropean, nay, as our English Barley.
It
Contusion of my Thoughts on this Occasion; I
had hirherto acted upon no religious Foundation ac
all; indeed I had very few Notions of Religion in
my Head, nor had entertained any Sense of any
Thing that had befallen me, otherwise than as a
Chance, or, as we lightly fay, what; pleases God;
without so much as enquiring into the End of Pro-
vidence in these Things, or his Order in govern-
ing Events in the World: But after I saw Barley
grow there, in a Climate which I knew was not
proper for Corn, and especially that I knew nor
how it came there, it startled me strangely, and I
began to suggest, that God had miraculously caus'd
this Grain to grow without any Help of Seed sown,
and that it was so directed purely for my Suste-
nance on that wild miserable Place.
This touched my Heart a little, and brought
Tears out of my Eyes, and I began to bless my
self, that such a Prodigy of Nature-should happen
upon my Account; and this was the more strange
tome, because I saw near it still all along by the
Side of the Rock, some other straggling Stalks,
which prov'd to be Stalks of Rice, and which I
knew, because I had seen it grow in Africa when
I was ashore there.
I not only thought these the pure Productions
of Providence for my Support, but not doubting,
but that there was more in the Place, I went all
over that Part of the Tfland, where I had been
before, peering in every Corner, and under every
Kock, to fee for more of it, but I could not find
any; at last itoccur'd to my Thoughts, that I had
ihook a Bag ot Chickens Meat out in that Place,
and then the Wonder, began to cease j and I must
coofcse, my religious' ^feaakfulness to God's Pro-
vidence began to abaortoo upon the discover-
ing
ring that all tfiis was nothing but what was com-
mon ; tho* I ought to have been as thankful for so
strange and unforeseen Providence, a$ if it had
been miraculous; for it vvas really the Work of
Providence as tome, that should order or appoint,
that 10 or 12 Grains of Corn should remain un-
spoiled swhen the Rats had destroy Mall the rest)
as ii it had been dropt from Heaven : As also that I
ihould throw it out in that particular Place where,
it being in the Shade of a high Rock, it sprang up
immediately ,• whereas, if I had thrown it any
where else at that Time, it had been burnt up and
destroy M
I carefully sav'd the Earsof this Corn, you may be
fine in their Season, which was about the End of
jfnnt, and laying up every Corn, I resolv'd to sow
them all again* hoping in Time to have some
Quantity sufficient to supply me with Bread; but
it was not till the 4th Year that I could allow my
self the least Grain df this Corn to eat, atfd etferi
then but sparingly, as I shall fay afterwards ift its
Order; for Host all that I sow'd the first Season,
by not observing the proper Time, for I sow'd it
just before the dry Season, so that it nevet^ame
up at all, at least, not as it would have done: Of
which in its Place.
Besides this Barley, there was, as abtfve/so or
30 Stalks of Rice, which I preserved with thetame
Care, and whose Use was of the fame Rind,/ or to'
the fame Purpose, (viz.) to make me Breldf bt
rather Food; for I found Ways to cook it up with-
out baking, tho* I did that also after some Time,
But to return to my Journal.
I worked excessive hard this three or sou?
Months, to get my Wall done; and the f 4th' of
April I closed it up, Contriving to go into it, ^not
by a Door, but over the Wall by a Ladder,-that
there
there might be no Sign on the Outside of my
Habitation.
April 16.1 finished the Ladder* so I went up with
the Ladder to the Top, and then pull'd it up af-
ter me, and let it down on the Inside : This was a
compleat Enclosure to me; for within I had room
enough, and nothing could come at me from with-
out, unless it could sirst mount my Wall.
The very next Day after this Wall was finifh'd*
I had almost had all my Labour overthrown at
once, and my self kill'd ,• the Case was thus: As I
w&s busy in the Inside of it, behind my Tent, just
in the Entrance into my Cave, I was terribly fright-
ed with a most dreadful surprizing thing indeed;
for ail on a sudden I found the Earth came crum-
bling down from the Roof of my Cave, and from
the Edge of the Hill over my Head, and two of
the Posts I had set up in the Cave, €rack'd in a
frightful- manner: I was heartily scared, but thought
nothing of what really was the Cause, only think-
ing that the Top of my Gave wassailing in, as some
of it had done before; and for fear I should be bu-
ried in it, I ran forward to my Ladder, and not
thinking my self safe there neither, I got over my
Wall for fear of the Pieces of the Hill which I ex*
pected might roll down upon me. I Was no sooner
stept dowo upon the firm Ground, but I plainly
fow it was a terrible Earthquake, for the Ground
I stood on shook three times, at about eight Mi-
nutes pi&ance, with three such Shocks as would
Have.overturned the strongest Building that could
be supposed to have stood on the Earth; and a
great Piece of the Top of a Rock, which stood
about Half a Mile from me next the Sea, fell down
with such a terrible Noise, as I never heard in all
my Life. I perceived also* the very Sea.was put
iato a violent Motion by it; and I believe the
Shock
Shocks were stronger under the Water than on the
Istand.
I was so amazM with the Tiling it self, liaving
never feit the like, or discoursed with any one that
had, that! was like one dead orstupify'd ; andthe
Motion of the Earth made my Stomach lick, like
one that was toss'd at Sea ,• but the Noise-of the
falling of the Rock awaked me, as it were, and rou-
ting me from the stupisied Condition A wasi in,
fiild roe with Horrorj and I thought of nothing
then but the Hill falling upo&my Tent, and all my
Houseold Goods, and burying all at #noe; and
this seinck my very Soul within me a secoifd time,
After the third Shock was over* and & felt ho
more for some Time, I began to take Gourage* and
yet I had not Heart enough to get over my Wall a-
gain, for sear of being buried ^alive* but sat-still
upon the Ground, greatly cast dowto and dtsc&nso*
late, not knowing what to dot Ail this while I&ad
not the leasts serious1 religious Thoughts ^diking
but the common, Lwd ha ftkfoy upon m $ aftd
when it was over, that went a#ay too. -
While I sa$ thus, I found thb Air over cast, and
grew cloudy, as if it would tm\; so that-in less
than half an Hour it blew almost dreadful Hurri-
cane: The Sea was all on a sudden cove^d over
with Foam and Froth, the Shore was coverid with
the Breach of the Water, the Trees were torn up
by the Roots, and a terrible Stotm it was*; &id
this held aboat three Houirs, and then begat* to
abate and then in two Hours more it wascal^ and
began to rain very hard. • —
All this while,! fat upon the Ground very much
terrify*d and dejected, when on a sudden if came
into my Thoughts, that thcseWittds and Rain bbitig
theCoosequ«aceof die Earthquake, the Emtedake
itself
itself was spent and over, and I might venture into
my Cave again. With this Thought my Spirits
began to revive, and the Rain helping also t© per-
swade me, A went in and sat down in my Tent;
but the Rain was so violent, that my Tent was
ready to be beaten down with it, and I was forced
to go into x»y Cave, tho' very much afraid and un-
easy, tor tear it should fall on my Head.
This violent Rain forced me to a new Work,
viu- to cut a JHMe thro* my new Fortification like
a Sink to let Water go out, which would else have
drown'd my Cave. After I had been in my Cave
soi#e tii&e, and found still no more Shocks of the
Earthquake follow, I began to be more composed;
and now, to support my Spirits, which indeed
wanted it very much, 1 went to my little Store,
and; taak a small (sup of Rum, which however I
did fihen and always very sparingly, knowfng I
co$d haMe no more when that was gone*
It continued raining all that Night, and great
Part of the next Day, so that I could nat stir a-
broad; but my Mind being more composed, I
bfg^n to think of what I had best do, edndud-
ing, that if the Wand was subject to thfese Earth-
quakes, there would be no living for Aie in a Cave,
but I must consider of building me some little Hue
in aa open Place, which 1 might surround with a
Wall* as I had done here, and so make iftyself se-
cure from wild Beasts or Men; but concluded, if
I staid where I was, I should certainly, one tim€
oroifw, be buried alive.
With these Thoughts I resolv'd to remove my
Tent ftorn the Place where it stood, which was
just ynder t&e hanging Precipice of the Hill, arid
whicj^ if it lhould be fl^ken again, would <ertainr
ly Ml upon; my Tent: And I spent the * w^ ntM
Days
Days, being the ipch and 20th of April, in con-
trivmg where and how to remove my Habitation.
The Fear of being swallow'd up alive, made me
that I never slept in quiet; and yet the Apprehen-
sion of lying abroad without any Fence, was al-
most equal to it: But still, when I look'd about,
and saw how every thing was put in Order, how
pleasantly concealed I was, and how safe from
Danger, it made me very loth to remove.
In the mean time it occurred tome, that it would
require a vast deal of Time for me to do this, and
that I must be contented to run the Venture where
I was, till I had form'd a Camp for myself, and
|iad secured k so as to remove to it: So with this
Resolution I composed myself for a Time, and re-
solv'd that I would go to work with all speed to
build me a Wall with Piles and Cables, &c. in a
Circle, as before, and set my Tent up in k when
it was fimfVd, but that I would venture to stay
where I wasjtiil it was finished and 6t to remove to.
This was the 21st.*
AfmLzz. The next Morning I began toconsider
of Means to put this Resolve* in execution; but I
was,at a great Loss about my Tools: I had three
large Axes* and abundance of Hatchets, (for we
carry>d the Hatchets for Traffic with-the Indians)
but with much chopping and cutting kndtty hard
Wood, they were all full, of Notches, and dull;
and tho I had a Grindstone, I could not tuftiit and
grind my Tools too: this cost me as much Thought
as a Statesman would have bestow'd upon agrand
Point ot Politicks, ora fudge upon the Life and
Ueath o* a Man. At length I contrived awheel
\vnh a-String, to turn it. with my Foot, tfeat 1
might have both my Hands at Liberty. Mt*f I
had not seencany such Thing in £**«^or*ilc«ft
wot to take Notice how it was done, tho' since I
have
have observed, it is very common there; besides
rhac, my Grindstone was very large arid heavy.
This Machine cost me a full Week's Work'to bring
ir to Perfection.
April 28, 29. These two whole Days I took up
in grinding my Tools, my Machine for turning my
Grindstone performing very well.
April 50. Having perceived my Bread had been
low a great while, 1 now took a Survey of it, and
reduced myself to one Bisket-cake a Day, which
made my Heart very heavy.
Mas 1. In the Morning lookmg towards the
Sea-side, the Tide being low, I saw something lie
on the Shore bigger than ordinary, and it look'd
like a Cask; when I came to it9 I found a small
Barrel, and two or three Pieces of the Wreck of
the Ship, which were driven on Shore by the late
Hurricane, and looking towards the Wreck itself,
rthoughe it seemed to lie higher out of the Water
than ir used to do; I examined the Baræi which
was driven on Shore, and soon found it was a
Barrel of Gunpowder, but it had taken Water, and
the Powder was caked as hard as a Stoned Bow*
ever, I rdl'd it farther on Shore so* th^ present, and
went on upon the Sands, as near as I could to the
Wreek of the Ship, to look for more.
When I came down to the Slip I found it -strange-
ly removed t The Forecastle, which lay before bu-
ried in SimkIj was heav'd up at least fix Foot, and
the Stern, which was broke to pieces, and parted
(tarn the rest by the Force of the Sea, soon after
I had left rummaging of her, was tossM as it were
upV'tad-clft *n om Side, and the Sand was thrown
so high on-that Side next her Stern, that whereas
there was a frtat Piace of Water before, so that I
c&dd mot conk within a Quarter of a Mile of the
Wreck without swimming, 1 could now walk
fasrtJt H quite
E?8]
quite up to her when the Tide was out. I was sur-
prized with this at first, but soon concluded it must
be done by the Earthquake; and as by this Vio-
lence the Ship was more broken open than former-
ly, so many things came daily on shore which the
Sea had iooscn'd, and which the Winds and Water
roll'd by degrees to the Land-
This wholly diverted my Thoughts from the
Design of removing my Habitation; and I busied
myself mightily that Day especially, in searching
whether I could make any way into the Ship, but
J found nothing was to be expected of that kind,
for that all the inside of the Ship was choakM up
with Sand: However, as I had learnt not to de-
spair of any thing, I resolved to pull every thing.
to pieces that I could of the Ship, concluding that
every thing I could get from her would be of some
Use or other to me.
May 3. I began with my Saw, and cut a Piece
of a Beam thto*, which I thought held some of
the upper Part, or Quarter-Deck, together, and
when I had cut it thro', I clears away the Sand
as well as I could, from the Side which lay highest;
but the Tide coming in, I was obliged to give over
for that time.
May 4. I went a sifting, but caught not one Fish
that I durst eat of, till I was weary of my Sport,
when just going to leave off, I caught a young Dol-
phin. I had made me a long Line of some Rope*,
Yarn, but I had no Hooks, yet I frequently caught
Fish enough, as much as I cared to eat;,- all which
I dry d in the Sun, and eat them dry. j
Afoy s. Work'd on the Wreck, cut .another
Tteam asunder, and brought three great Fir Planks
ost from the Decks, which I tied tqgetjicr, and
made swim on Chore when the Tide p£ Flood
came on.
May
May 6. WorkM on the Wreck, got several Iron
Bolts out of her, and other Pieces of Iron Work,
vvork'd very hard, and came home very much tir'd,
and had Thoughts of giving it over.
May 7. Went to the Wreck, again, but with an
Intent not to work, but found tiie Weight of the
Wreck had broke itself down, the Beams being cut,
that several Pieces of the Ship fcem'd to lye loose,
and the Inside of the Hold lay so ppen> that I
could see into it, but almost full of Water and Sand.
May 8. Went to the Wreck, and carry M au Iron
Crow to wrench up the Deck, which lay now
quite clear of the Water or Sand; I wrench a open
two Planks, and brought them on Shore also with
the Tide: I left the Iron Crow in the Wreck for
next Day.
May $. Went to the Wreck, and with the Crow
made Way into the Body of the Wreck, and felt
several Casks, and loofeiAi them with tlj.e. Qrow,
but could not break them up ; I felt also* the Roil
of £^//$Lead, and could stir it, but it was top
heavy to move.
Af«r ro, n, 12, ij, 14. Went every D^y to
the Wreck, and got a great deal of Pieces of Tim-
ber and Boards, or Plank, and 2 or 3Q0 Weight
of It-on. .
Mas xf. I carry*d two Hatchets tg*#y"if I
cot^d pot cut a Piece off of the Roll of Lead, bv
p!abYr| the Edge of one Hatchet, and driving it
with she other; bat as it lay about a Fdot and a
half in the Water, I could not Mke any Blow to
drive the Hatchet.
Mas 16. It had' blow'd hard in the Night, and
the Wreck append more broken by the Force of
the Water; hm I fta/d so long <n the Wood* to get
Pidgeom for Food, that the Tide presented m»
going to the Wreck that Day,
H 2 May
May 17. I saw some pieces of the Wreck blown
on Shore, at a great Distance, two Miles off me,
but resolv'd to fee what they were, and found it
was a piece of the Head, but too heavy for me to
bring away.
May 14. Every Day to this Day I work'd on
the Wreck, and with hard Labour I loosen'd some
things so much with the Crow, that the first blow-
ing Tide several Casks floated out, and two of the
Seamen's Chests; but the Wind blowing from the
Shore, nothing came to Land that Day, but pieces
of Timber, and a Hogshead which had some Bra-
zil Pork in it, but the Salt-water and the Sand had
spoil'd it.
I continued this Work every Day to the 15th of
June, except the time necessary to get Food,
which I always appointed, during this Part of my
Employment, to be when the Tide was up, that I
might be ready when it was ebb'd out, and by this
Time I had gotten Timber, and Plank, and Iron-
Work enough to have built a good Boat, if I
bad known how; and also I got at several times,
and in several Pieces, near 100 Weight of the Sheet-
Lead.
June 16. Going down to the Sea-side, I found
a large Tortoise or Turtle; this was the first I had
seen, which it seems was only my Misfortune, not
any defect of the Place, or Scarcity; for had I hap-
pened to be on the other side of the Island* I
might have had Hundreds of them every Day^ as
I found afterwards; but perhaps had paid dear
enough for them.
June 17/1 spent in cooking the Turtle; I
found in her threescore Eggs; and her Flesh was to
me at that time the most savoury and pleasant
that ever I tasted in my Life, having had no jFlcfb,
but
hut of Goats and Fowls, since I landed in this
horrible Place.
June 18. RajVd all Day, and I stay*d within,
I thought at this Time the Rain felt cold, and I
was something chilly, which 1 knew was not usual
in that Latitude.
June 19. Very ill, and sliivering, as if the Wea-
ther had been cold.
June 20. No Rest all Night, violent Pains in
my Head, and feverish.
June 21. 'Very ill, frighted almost to Death
with the Apprehensions of my fad Condition, to
be sick, and no Help: Pray'd to God for the
first Time since the Storm of Hull, but scarce
knew what I said, or why; my Thoughts being
all confused.
June 22. A little better* but under dreadful
Apprehensions of Sickness.
June 23. Very bad again, cold and shivering,
and then a violent Head-ach.
June 24. Much better.
June 25. An Ague very violent ,• the Fit hejd
me "'seven Hours, cold Fit and hot, with faint
Swe^ts.after it.
* Jum 26. Better; and having no Victuals to eat,
took rtiy Gun, but found my self very weak;
hdwever I klll'd a She-Goat, and with much Dif-
ficulty got it Home, and broiiM some of it, and
eat • J^would fain have stew'd it, and made some
Broath/ bat had no Pot.
June 27. The Ague again so violent, that 1 lay
a-Bed all Day, and neither eat or drank. I was
ready to perifli for Thirst, but so weak/I had
not Strength to stand up, or to* get my self any
Water to drink: Pray'd to God again, but was
light-headed, and when I was not, 1 was so igno-
rant, that I knew not what to fay; only I lay and
H 3 cry^
cry'd, Lord look upon me, Lord pity me, Lord have
Mercy upon me: I suppose I did nothing else for two
or three Hours, till the Fit wearing oft, I fellafleep,
and did not wake till far in the Night. When 1
wak'd, I found myself much refreshed, but weak,
and exceeding thirsty : However, a$ J had no Wa-
ter in my whole Habitation, I was forcMto lye till
Morning, and went to sleep again: In this second
SUep, I had this terrible Dream.
I thought, that I was sitting on the Ground on
the Outside of my Wall, where I fat. when the
Storm blew after the Earthquake, and that I saw
a Man descend from a great black Cloudy in a
bright Flame of Fire, and light upon the Ground:
He was all over as bright as a Flame,so tharTcould
but just bear to look towards him; his Counte-
nance was most inexpressibly dreadful, impossible
for Words to describe ; when he stepped updn t&c
Ground with his Feet, I thought the £artrn trem-
bled, just as it had done before in the Earthquake,
and all the Air look'd, to my Apprehension, 'as if
it had been fiil'd with Flashes of Fir$.
He was no sooner landed upon the Eartb, but
he moved forward towards me, with a long Spear
or Weapon in his Hand, to Ml me ;• artd when he
came to a rising Ground, at some Distance, he
spoke to me, or I heard 4 Volte so terrible, that
it is impossible to exprefrthe Terror of it^ all that
I can fay, I understood,'"was this, Seeing M these
Things have vm brought thee to Repentance, M&tiw
shah die: At which ords, I thought he lifted ftp
the Spear that was in his Hand to kill xht
No one that (hall em read this Account, will
expect that I should be zh\t to describe theHbrtors
of my Soul at this terrible Vifmn; I mfcm, that e-
ven while it was a Dream, I even dreamed of those
Horrors; nor is it any more possible to Inscribe
the
the Impression that remained upon my Mind when
I awaked and sound it was bat a Dream.
I had,alas! no divine Knowledge} what I had
received oy the good Instruction ot my Father was
then worn out by an uninterrupted Scries, for &
Years, of Seafaring Wickedness, and a constant Con-
versation with nothing but such as were like my
felt, wicked and profane to the last degree: I do
not remember that I had in ail that Time one
Thougnt that so much as tended either to look-
ing upwards towards God, or inwards towards a
Reflection upon my own ways: But a certain Stu-
pidity of Soul, without Desire of Good, or Con-
science of Evil, had entirely overwhelms me, and
I was all that the moll luiuned, unthinking, wicked
Creature among our common Sailors can be sup-
posed to be, not having the least Sense, either of
the Fear of God in Danger, or of Thankfulness to
God in Deliverances.
la die relating what is already past of my Story,
this will be the more easily believ'd, when I (hall
add, that thro* all the Variety of Miseries that
had to this Day befallen me, I never had so much
as one Thought, of it being the Hand of God, or
that it was a just Punishment for my Sin, my re-
bellions Behaviour against my Father, or my pre-
sent Sius, which were great, or so much as a Pu-
nishment for the general Course of my wicked Life*
When I was on the desperate Expedition on the
defect Shoresrof Africa, 1 never had so much as one
Thought of what would become of me, or one
Wish to .God to direct me whither I should go, or
to keep me from the Danger which apparently sur-
rouridkd me, as well from voracious Creatures as
cruel Savages: But I was meerly thoughtless of God,
w a Providence, acted like a meer Brute from the
Principles of Nature, and by the Dictates of com*
xnon Sense only, and indeed hardly that,
H 4 When
C l04 J
When I was deliver'd and taken up at Sea by the
Portugal Captain, well used, and dealt justly and
honourably with, as well as charitably, I had nor
the least Thankfulness on my Thoughts. When
again J was shipwrecked, ruin'd, and in Danger of
drowning on this Island, I was as far from Re-
morse, or looking on it as a Judgment; I only said
to myself often, that I was an unfortunate Dog, and
born to be always miserable.
It is true, when I got on shore first here, and
found all my Ship's Crew drowns and my self
spared, I was surprized witlra kind of Extasy, and
some Transports of Soul, which» had the Grace ot
God assisted, might have come up to true Thank-
fulness.; but it ended where it begun, in a meer
common Flight of Joy, or, as I may soy^ being glad
Iuuis alive, without the least Reflection upoer the
distinguishing Goodness of the Hand wh&frhad
preserved me, and had singled me out ta he pre-
served, when all the rest were destroyed; 'or-an*En-
quiry why providence had been thus merciful' to
me; even just the fame common sort of Joy iwhich
Seamen generally have after they have got safe a-
fhore from a Shipwreck, which they drown all in the
next Bowl of Punch, aad forger almost as soon as
it js over, and all the rest of my Life was like it.
Even when I was afterwards, on due Conside-
ration, made sensible of my Condition, ifcour I was
cast on this dreadful Place, out of the ReacH of hu-
mane Kind, out of all Hope of ftelief^of Prospect
ot Redemption, as soon as I saw buv£-?v*fyt&<£
living, and that I should not starve and perish for
Hunger-all the Sense of my Affliction wore effj
and I begun-to be very easy, applv'd myself to the
Works proper for my Preservation and Supoly, and
was far enough from being afflided at my Con-
dition, as a Judgment from Heaven, or as the
Hand
Hind of God against me: these were Thoughts
which very seldom entered into my Head.
The growing up ot the Corn, as is hinted in my
journal, had at first some little Influence upon me,
and began to affect me with Seriousness, as Idng as
I thought it had something miraculous in it; but
as loon as ever that Part of the Thought was re-
moved, all the Impression which was raised from ic
wore oft also, as I have noted already.
Even the Earthquake, tho* nothing could be
more terrible in its Nature, or more immediately
directing to the invisible Power, which alone di-
rects such- things^ yet no* sooner was the first Fright
over, but the Impression it had made went 6ft also.
I had no more Sense of God or his Judgments,
much less of the present Affliction, of myCitcum-
stances being from his Hand, than if I had been in
the most prosperous Condition of Lt&." *
But bow when I -began to be sick, and a leisure-
ly View of the Miseries of Death came to place
itself before me; when my Spirits b^gan *to sink
under the Burden of a strong Distemper, and*Na-
rure was exhausted with the Violence' t*f the Fe*
ver; Conscience, that had slept so \m£> began to a-
wake, and I began to reproach myself with my past
Life, in which I had so evidently, by uncommon
Wkkcdness, provoked the Justice of God to lay me
under uncommon Strokes, and to deal with me in
so "vindictive a manner.
These Reflections oppreftM me for the second or
third Day of my Distemper, and in the Violence,
as well of the Fever as of the dreadful Reproaches
of my Conscience, extorted some Words from me,
like praying to God, tho* I cannot fay they were
either a Prayer attended with Desires, or with
Hopes; it was rather the Voice of meer Fright
and Distress- my Thoughts were confused, the
Con-
L i°<U
Convictions great upon my Mind, and the Hoirot
of dying in such a miserable Condition, raised V*.
pours into my Head with the meer Apprehensions;
and in these Hurries of my Soul, 1 know not what
my Tongue might express; But it was rather Ex-
clamation, such as, Lord! what a miserable Crea-
ture am I! If I should be sick, I (hall certainly die
for want os Help, and what will become of me!
Then the Tears burst out of my Eyes, and I could
fay no more for a good while.
In this Interval, the good Advice of my Father
came to my Mind, and presently his Prediction,
which I mention'd at the beginning of this Story,
viz. That if I did take this foolish Step, God\ would mt
I less me3 at id I vNuld have Leisure hereafter to repel
upon having mgkihd his Counsel, when there might fa
mne to afftst m my Recovery. Now,, said i aloud,
my dear Father's Words are come to pass; God's
Justice has overtaken me, $nd I have none to help
or hear me: I rejected,.{tie Voice ..of.Providence,
which had mercifully put me in a Posture or Sta-
tion of Life, wherein I might have been happy
and easy; bat I would neither see it myself,or Jeam
to know the Blessing of it from, my Parents; I left
them tomo^rn over my Folly, and now I am left
to mourn under the Consequences of it: I refused
their Help and Assistance, who would have lifted
me into,the World, and would have mad& every
thing cas; to me, and now I have Difficulties to
struggle with, too great for even Nature itself to
support, and no Assistance, no Help, no Cohort,
no AdvKe. Then I cry'd out, L®d be my Wp, for
1 am w great Dist* ess.
This wp thefcst Prayer, if I may caJi it so,
that I had made for many Tears, But J return to
my journal.
June
June 28. Having been somewhat refrcfhM with
the Sleep I had had, and the Fit being entirely
off, 1 got up; and tho' the Fright and Terror of
my Dream was very great, yet 1 considers, that
the Fit of the Ague would return again the next
Day, and now was my Time to get something to
refresh and support my self when I should be ill;
and the first thing I did, I fill'd a large square
Case Bottle with Water, and set it upon my Table>
in reach os my Bed ,• and to take off the chill
or aguish Disposition os the Water, I put about
a Quarter of a Pint of Rum into ity and mix'd
them together; then I got me a Piece of the
Goat's Flesh, and broifd it on the Coals, but could
eat very little; I walk'd about, but was very weak,
and withal, very fad and heavy-hearted in the Sense
of my miserable Condition, dreading the Return
ot my Distemper the next Dav; at Night I made
my Supper of three of the Turtle's Eggs, which
I roasted in the Ashes, and eat, as we call it, in
the Shell; and this was the first Bit of Meat I had
em* ask'd God's Blessing to, even 4s I could re-
member, in my whole Life.
After I had eaten, I try'd to walk, but found
my scl£ so weak, that I could hardly carry the
Gun (for I never went out without that;) so I
went but a little Way, and fat down upon the
Oround, looking out upon the Sea, which was
just before me, and very calm and smooth: As
I fat here, some such Thoughts as these occurred
to me *
What is this Earth and Sea of which 1 have seen
Tul whence is it produe'd, and what am I,
and all the other Creatures, wild and tame, human
ana Brutal, whence a/e we?
Sore
Sure we arc all made by some secret Power3 who
formM the Earth and Sea, the Air and Sky ; and
who is that?
Then it foHowM most naturally, it is God that
has made it all: Well, but then it came on strange-
ly; if God has made all these Things, He guides
and governs them all, and ail Things that concern
them; for the Power that could make all Things,
must certainly have Power to guide and direct
them.
If so, nothing cm happen in the great Circuit
of his Works, either without his Knowledge or
Appointment.
And if nothing happens without his Know-
ledge, he knows that I am here, and am in this
dreadful Condition; and if nothing happens with-
out his Appointment, he has appointed all this to
befal me. , <
Nothing occurred to toy Thought- to contradict
any,of these Conclusions; and therefore it rested
upon me with the greater Force, that it must needs
be, that God hath appointed all this to befal me;
that I was brought to this miserable Circumstance
by his Direction; he having the sole Power, not of
me only, but of] every Thing that happenM in the
World. Immediately it folloVd, . f'
Why harOoi done this to me? What have Idone to
be thus us\i? ^
My Conference presently check?d me in that En-
quiry, as if 1 had biasphem'd, and methought it
spoke to me like a Voice; WRENCH! dost thou
ask*-what thou haft done! Look back Upon a dreadful
misspent Life, and ask thy self what thou haft not
done? Ask, Why is it that thou we-t not lofig ago de-
stroyxd? Why wen thou not drown'd in Yarmouth
Roads? KiWd in the Fight when the Ship was taken by
the Sallee Men of War? Devour'd by the wild Beasts
on
ow the Coaft of Africa? Or, drown*d HERE, when
all the Crew perijb'd but tbyselj? Dost thou ask, What
have I done *
1 was struck dumb with these Reflections, as one
astonished, and had not a Word to fay, no not to
answer to my self, but rose up pensive and sad,
walked back to my Retreat, and went up over my
Wall, as if 1 had been going to Bed, but my
Thoughts were sadly disttirb'd , and I had no in-
c ination to sleep; so I sat down in my Chair, and
lighted my Lamp, for it began to be dark. Now,
as the apprehension of the return of my Distemper
rcnifyM me very much,it occurred to my Thought,
that the Brasilia-its take no Physick but their To-
bacco, for almost ail Distempers; and I had a
Piece of a Roll of Tobacco in one of the Chests,
which was quite cured, and some also that was
green, and not quite cured.
I went, directed by Heaven no doubt, for in
this Chest I found a Cure both for Soul and Body;
I open'd the Chest, and found what I look'd for,
viz*, the Tobacco; and as the few Books I had
favM, lay there too, 1 took out one of the Bibles
which I mentioned before, and which to this time I
had nor found Leisure, or so much as Inclination
to look into; I fay, I took it out, and brought both
that and the Tobacco with me to the Table.
What Use to make of the Tobacco, I knew not,'
as to ray Distemper, or whether it was good for it
or no ; but i try'd several Experiments with it, as
if I was resolv'd it should hit one Way or other:
J first took a piece of a Leaf, and chew'd it in my
Mouth, which indeed at first almost stupify'd my
Brain, the Tobacco being green and strong, and
that 1 had not been .much Wd to it; then J took
some and steeped.it an Hour or two in some Rum,
and resolv'd to take a Dose of it when I lay down;
and
and lastly, I burnt some upon a Pan of Coak, and
held my Nose close over the Smoke of it as long as
I could bear it, as well for the Heat as almost tor
Suffocation.
In the interval of this Operation, I took up the
Bible and began to read, but my Head was too
much disturbs with the Tobacco to bear reading,
at least at that time; only having opened the Book
casually, the first Words that occurred to me were
these, Call on me in the Day of Trouble, and I will de*
Itver, and thou flmlt glorify me.
The Words were very apt to my Cafe, and made
some Impression upon my Thoughts at the Time of
reading them, tho* not so much as they did after-
wards; for as for being delivered, the Word had no
Sound, as 1may fay, to me; the Thing was so remote,
so impossible in my Apprehension of Things, that
I began to fay as the Children of Israel did, when
they were promised Flesh to eat, Can God spread a
'Table in the Wilderness i So I began to fay, Can God
himself deliver me from this Place? And as it was
not for many Years that any Hope appear'd, this
prevails very often upon my Thoughts: But
however, the Words made a great Impression upon
me, and I mused upon them very often. It grew
now late, and the Tobacco had, as I said, do&'d
my Head so much, that I inclined to sleep; fo 1
left my Lamp burning in the Cave, left I fiiould
want any thing in the Night, and went to Bed \
but before I lay down, I did what I never had don©
in all my Life, I kneel'd down and pray'd toGod
to fulfil the Promise to me, that if I called upon him
in the Day of Trouble, he would deliver me; af-
ter my broken and imperfect Prayer war over, I
drunk the Rum in which I had steep'd theTdbacco,
which was so strong and rank of the Tobacco,
that indeed I could scarce get it do wa. immediately
z uP°n
upon this I went to Bed, I sound presently it slew
up in my Head violently; but 1 tell into a found
Sleep, and waked no more till by the Sun it must
necessarily be near Three o'Clock in the Afternoon
the next Day; nay, to this Hour I am partly of the
Opinion, that I ilept all the next Day and Night,
and till almost Three that Day after; for other-
wile I knew not how 1 should lose a Day out of my
Reckoning in the Days of the Week, as it appear'd
some Years after I had done; for if I had lost it by
crossing and re-crossing the Line, I should have lost
mote than one Day: tfut certainly I lost a Day in
my Account, and never knew which way.
jBe^ that however one way or other, when I
awak'd I found myself exceedingly refreshed, and
my Spirits lively and chearful; when I got up, I
was stronger than 1 was the Day before, and my
Stomach better, for 1 was hungry ,• and in stiort,
I had no Fie the next Day, but continued much
alter d tor the better -. this was the 29th.
The joth. was my Well Day of Course, and I
went abroad with my Gun, but did not care to
travel too far: I kill'd a Sea-Fowl or two, some-
thing hke a Brand-Goose, and brought them Home,
but was.not very tor ward to eat them; so I eat some
more ot the Turtle's Eggs, which were very good.
This Evening I renews the Medicine which I had
fiippolcd did me good the Day before, viz.. the To-
bacco steep'd in Rum, only I did not take so much
as before, nor did I chew any of the Leaf, or hold
my Head, over the Smoke; however, I was not
so well the next Day, which was the 1st <jf July
as I hoped I ftould have been; for I had a'little
spice of,the cold Fir, but it was not much.
Jui} i. I renew'd the Medicine all *he three
doubled the Quantity which 1 drank.
3 I
3. I miss'd the Fit for good and all, the' I did
not recover my full Strength for some Weeks after:
While I was thus gathering Strength, my Thoughts
run exceedingly upon this Scripture, I wiU deliver
thee; and the Impossibility of my Deliverance lay
much upon my Mind, in bar of my ever expecting
it: But as I was discouraging myself with such
Thoughts, it occurr'd to my Mind, that 1 pored so
much upon my Deliverance from the main Affli-
ction, that I disregarded the Deliverance 1 had re-
ceived; and I was, as it were, made to ask my-
self such Questions as these, viz.. Have 1 not been
delivered, and wonderfully too, from Sickness?
From the most distressed Condition that could be,
and that was so frightful to me? and what notice
had I taken of it? Had I done my Part, God had
delivered mey but I had not glorified him: that is to
fay, I had not own'd and been thankful for that
as a Deliverance, and how could I expect greater
Deliverance?
This touchJd my Heart very much, and imme~
diately I kneei'd down and gave God Thanks a*
loud, for my Recovery from my Sickness.
jfuly 4. In the Morning 1 took the Bible, and be-
ginning at the New Testament, I began seriously
to read it, and imposed upon myself to read a
while every Morning and every Night, not tying
myself to the Number of Chapters, but as long as
my Thoughts sliould engage me: It was not long
after I set seriously to this Work, but I found
my Heart more deeply and sincerely astected with
the Wickedness of my past Life: The Impres-
sion of my Dream revived, and the Words, AS
these Things have not hough thee to Repentance, ran se-
riously in my Thoughts: I was earnestly begging
of God tf give me Repentance, when it btppen'ii
providentially the very Day that rcadjpg the Scrip-
ture,
turc, I came to these Words, He is exalted a Prince
and a Saviour, to give Repentance-, and to give Remissi-
on: I threw down the Book, and with toy Heart as
well as my Hands lifted up to Heaven, in a Kind
of Extasy of Joy, I cry ed out aloud, Jesus then Son
of David, Jtfith thou exalted Prime and Saviour,
give me Repentance \
This was the first time that I could fay, in the
true Sense of the Words, that I prayed in all my
Life i for now I prayed with a Sense of my Condi-
tion, and with a true Scripture View of Hope
founded on the Encouragement of the Word of
God; and ftom this time, I may fay, I began to
have Hope chat God would hear me,
Now I began to construe the Words mentioned
above, Call en me, and I will deliver you, in a diffe-
rent Sense from what I had ever done before; for
then I had no. Notion of any thing being called
Deliverance, but my being delivered from the Cap-
tivity I was in, for tho' I was indeed at large in
the Place, yet the Island was certainly a Prison to
me, and that in the worst Sense in the World; but
now I learn'd to take it in another Sense. Now I
look'd back upon my past Life with such Horror,
and my Sins appeared so dreadful, that my Soul
sought nothing of God, but Deliverance from the
Load of Guilt that bore down all my Comfort.
As for my solitary Life it was nothing; I did not
so much as pray to be delivered from ir, or think
of it; it was all of no Consideration in Compari-
son to this; and 1 added this Part here, to hint to
whoever shall read it, that whenever they come to
a true Sense of things, they will find Deliverance
from Sin a much greater Bleffing, than Delive-
rance from Affliction.
But leaving this Part, I return to my Journal,
I My
Part I.
My Condition began now to be, tho' not less
miserable as to my Way of living, yet much easier
to my Mirfd ; and my Thoughts being directed, by
a constant reading the Scripture, and praying to
God, to things of a higher Nature; I had a great
deal of Comfort within, which till now I knew
nothing of: Also, as my Health and Strength re-
turned, I bestirr'd my self to furnift my self with
every thing that I wanted, and make my way of
living as regular as I could.
From the 4th of July to the 14th, I was chiefly
employs in walking about with my Gun in ray
Hand, a little and a little at a Time, as a Man
that was gathering up his Strength afrer a Fit of
Sickness: For it is hardly to beimagin'd, how low
I was, and to what Weakness I wasreducU The
Application which I made use of was perfectly
new, and perhaps what had never cur'd an Ague
before, neither can I recommend it to any cne to
practise, by this Experiment,- and tho' it did car-
ry otf the Fit, yet it rather contributed to weaken-
ing me; for I had frequent Convulsions in my
Nerves and Limbs for some time.
I learnt from it also this in particular, that be.
ing abroad in the rainy Season was the most per.
nicious thing to my Health that could be, especi-
ally in those Rains which came attended with
Storms and Hurricanes of Wind; for as the Rain
which came in a dry Season was always most ac
company'd with such Storms, so I found that Rain
was much more dangerous than the Rain which
fell in September and OHokr.
I had been now in this unhappy Island above 10
Months; all Possibility of Deliverance from this
Condition seemd to be entirely taken from me;
and I firmly believed, that no human Shape had
ever set Foot upon that Place. Having now secnr'd
my
[ >'5.]
my Habitation, as I thought, fully to my mind, I
had a great Desire to make a more perfect Disco-
very of the Island,, and to fee what other Produ-
ctions I might find, which yet I knew nothing
of.
It was the iyth of Jufy that I began to take a
more particular Survey of the Island itself: I went
up the Creek first, where, as I hinted, I brought
my Rafts on Shore. I found, after I came about
two Miles up, that the Tide did not flow any
higher, and that it was no more than a little
Brook of running Water, and very fresh and good;
but this being the dry Season, there was hardly any
Water in some Parts of it, at least not enough to
run in any Stream, so as it could beperceivd.
On the Bank of this Brook I found many plea-
sant Savanas, or Meadows, plain, smooth, and
cover'd with Grass; and on the rising Parts of
them next to the higher Grounds, where the Wa-
ter, as it might be supposed, never overflowed, I
found a great deal of Tobacco,green and growing
to a great and very strong Stalk.* There were divers
other Plants which I had no Notion of, or Under-
standing about, and might perhaps have Vertues
of their own which I could not find out.
1 searched for the Cassava Root, which the Indi-
ans in all that Climate make their Bread of, but I
could find none. I saw large Plants of Aloes, but
did not then understand them. I saw several Sugar
Canes, but wild, and for want of Cultivation, im*
perfect. I contented my self with these Discoveries
for this time, and came back musing with my self
what Course I might take to know the Vertuc
and Goodness of any of the Fruits or Plants which
I should discover, but could bring it to noConclu*
sion; for in short, I had made so little Observa-
tion while I was in the Bmsils% that I knew little
I % of
of the Plants in the Field, at least very little that
might serve me to any Purpose now in my Di-
stress.
The next Day, the idth, I went up the fame
Way again, and after going something farther than
I had gonetheDay before, I found the Brook and
the Savanas began to cease, and the Country be-
came more woody than before. In this Parti found
different Fruits, and particularly I found Melons*
upon the Ground in great Abundance, and Grapes
upon the Trees ; the Vines had spread indeed over
the Trees, and the Clusters of Grapes were just
now in their Prime, very ripe and rich. This was
a surprizing Discovery, and I was exceeding glad
of them; but I was warn'd by my Experience to
eat sparingly of them, remembring, that when I
was ashore in Barbarjy the eating of Grapes kill'd
several of our Englijh Men who were Slaves there,
by throwing them into Fluxes and Fevers: But I
found an excellent Use for these Grapes, and that
was to cure or dry them in the Sun, and keep
them as dry'd Grapes or Raisins are kept, which
I thought would be, as indeed they were, as
wholesome, as agreeable to eat, when no Grapes
might be to be had.
I spent all that Evening there, and went not
back to my Habitation, which by the way was
the first Night, as I might fay, I had lain from
Home. In the Night I took my first Contrivance,
aad got up into a Tree, where I slept well, and
the next Morning proceeded upon my Discovery,
travelling near four Miles, as I might judge by
the Length of the Valley, keeping still due North,
with a Ridge of Hills on the South and North-
oide ot me.
m At the End of this March I came to an Open-
ing, where the Counrry seemed to descend to the
West,
West, and a little Spring of fresh Water, which
issued out of the Side of the Hill by me, run the
other Way, that is, due East; and the Country
appeared so fresh, so green, so flourishing, every
thing being in a constant Verdure or Flourish of
Spring, that itlook'd like a planted Garden.
I descended a little on the Side of that delicious
Vale, surveying it with a secret kind of Pleasure,
(tho* mixt with my other afflicting Thoughts) to
think that this was all my own, that I was King
and Lord of all this Country iudefeasibly, and
had a Right of Possession ; and if I could convey
it, I might have it in Inheritance, as compleatly
as any Lord of a Manor in England. I saw here
Abundance of Cocoa Trees, Orange and Lemon
and Citron Trees; but all wild, and few bear-
ing any Fruit, at least, not then: However,
the green Limes that I gathered, were not only
pleasant to cat, but very wholesome ; and I
mix'd their Juice afterwards with Water, which
made it very wholesome, and very cool and re-
freshing.
I found now I had Business enough to gather
and carry Home; and I resolved to lay upaSrore,
as well of Grapes, as Limes and Lemons, to fur*
nisli my self for the wet Season, which I knew
was approaching.
In order to this, I gather'd a great Heap of
Grapes in one Place, and a lesser Heap in another
Place, and a great Parcel of Limes and Lemons
in another Place ; and taking a few of each with
me, I travelfd homeward, and resolved to come
again, and bring a Bag or Sack, or what I could
make, to carry the rest Home.
Accordingly, having spent three Days in this
Journey, I came Home (so I must now call my
Tent and my Cave) but before I got thither, the
I 3 Grapes
Grapes were spoilt, the Richness of the Fruits
and the Weight of the Juice having broken them,
and bruised them, they were good soriittle or no-
thing; as to the Limes, they were good, but I
could bring but a lew.
The next Day, being the ipth, I went back,
having made me two small Baggs to bring Home
my Harvest: But I was surpnz'd, when coming to
my Heap of Grapes, which were so rich and sine
when 1 gathered them, I sound them all spread
about, trod to Pieces, and dragg'd about, some
here, some there, and Abundance eaten and de-
voured; By this I concluded there were some wild
Creatures thereabouts, which had done this;
but what they were I knew not.
However, as I found that there was no laying
them up on Heaps, and no carrying them away in
a Sack, but that one Way they would be destroys,
and the other Way they would be cruslsd with
their o^n Weight, I took another Course; for I
gathered a large Quantity of the Grapes, and hung
them upon the Out-Branches of the Trcesi that
they might cure and dry in the Sun; and as for
the Limes and Lemons, I carry'd as many back
as I could well stand under.
When I came Home from this Journey, I con-
templated with great Pleasure the Fruitsulness of
that Valley, and the Pleasantness of the Situation,
the Security from Storms on that Side the Water,
and the Wood, and concluded that I had pitch'd
upon a Place to fix my Abode, which was by far
the worst Part of the Country. Upon the whole,
I began to consider of removing my Habitation,
and to look out for a Place equally safe, as where
I now was situate, i( possible, in that pleasant
fruitful Part of the Island,
This
This Thought run long in my Head, aud I was
exceeding fond of it for some Time, the Pleasant-
ness of the Place tempting roe,* but when I came
to a nearer View of it, and to consider that I was
now by the Sea-side, where it was at least possible
that something might happen to my Advantage,
and by the fame ill Fate that brought me hither,
might bring some other unhappy Wretches to the
fame Place • and tho' it was scarce probable that
any such thing should ever happen, yet to enclose
my self among the Hills and Woods, in the Center
of the Island, was to anticipate my Bondage, and
to render such an Affair not only improbable, but
impossible; and that therefore I ought not by a-
ny Means to remove.
However, I was so enamour'd of this Place,
that I spent much of my Time therefor the whole
remaining Part of the Month of July; and tho*
upon second Thoughts I resolv'd as above, not to
remove, yet I built me a little kind of a Bower,
and surrounded it at a Distance with a strong
Fence, being a double Hedge, as high as I could
reach, well stak'd, and fill'd between with Brujh-
wood; and here I lay very secure, sometimes two
or three Nights together, always going over it
with a Ladder, as before; (o that I fancy'd now
I had my Country House, and my Sea-Coast-
House: And this Work took me up to the Be-
ginning of August.
I had but newly finish?d my Fence, and began
to enjoy my Labour, but the Rains came on, and
made me slick dole to my first Habitation ; for
tho' I had made me a Tent like the other, with a
Piece of a Sail, and spread it very well ; yet 1
had not the Shelter of a Hill to keep me from
Storms, nor a Cave behind me to retreat into,
when the Rains were extraordinary.
I 4 About
About the Beginning of August, as I said, I had
finish'd my Bower, and began to enjoy myself.
The third of Augusts I found the Grapes I had
hung up were perfectly dry'd, and indeed, were
excellent good Raisins of the Sun; so I began to
take them down from the Trees, and it was very
happy that I did so,- for the Rains which follow-
ed would have fpoil'd them, and I had lost the
best Part of my Winter Food \ for I had above
two hundred large Bunches of them. No sooner
had I taken them all down and carry'd most of
them Home to my Cave, but it began to rain; and
from hence, which was the fourteenth of August,
it rain'd more or less every Day, till the middle of
OBohtr ; and fomtimes so violently, that* i could
not stir out of my Cave for several Days.
In this Season I was much surpriz'd with the
Increase of my Family; I had been concern'd for
the Loss of one of my Cats, who run away from
me, or as 1 thought had been dead, and J heard no
more Tale or Tidings of her, till to my Astonish-
ment she came home about the End of August,
with three Kittens. This was the more strange to
me, because tho* I had kilfd a wild Cat, as I
calfd it, with my Gun ,* yet I thought it was a
quite differing Kind from our European Cms; yet
the young Cats were the fame kind of House-
breed like the old one; and both my Cats being
Females, I thought it very strange: But from these
three Cats, 1 afterwards came to be so pester'd
with Cats, that I was fore'd to kill them like Ver-
min, or wild Beasts, and to drive them from my
House* as much as possible.
From the fourteenth of August to the twenty
sixth, incessant Rain, so that I could not stir, and
was now very careful not to be much wet. In this
Confinement I began to be straitned for Food, but
venturing
venturing out twice, I one Day kill'd a Goat; and
the last Day, which was the twenty-sixth, found
a very large Tortoise which was a Treat to me,
and my Food was regulated thus: I eat a Bunch
of Raisins for my Breakfast, a Piece of the Goats
Flesh, or of the Turtle, for my Dinner broifd;
(for to my great Misfortune, 1 had no Veslel to
boil or slew any thing) and two or three of the
Turtle's Eggs for my Supper.
During this Confinement in my Cover by the
Rain, l work'd daily two or three Hours at en-
larging my Cave, and by Degrees work'd it on
towards one Side, till I came to the Outside of the
Hill, and made a Door or Way out, which came
beyond my Fence or Wall, and so I came in and
out this Way: But I was not perfectly easy at
lying so open; for as I had manag'd my self be-
fore, I was in a perfect Enclosure, whereas now I
thought I lay expos'd, and yet I could not per.
ceive that there was any living thing to fear, the
biggest Creature that I had yet seen upon the island
being a Goat
September the thirtieth, ?was now come to the
unhappy Anniversary of my Landing. I cast up the
Notches on my Post, and found 1 had been on
Shore three hundred and sixty five Days. I kept
this Day as a solemn Fast, setting it apart to Re-
ligious Exercise, prostrating myself on the Ground
with the most serious Humiliation, confessing my
Sins to God, acknowledging his righteous judg-
ments upon me, and praying to him to have Mer-
cy on me, thro' Jesus Christ; and having not
tasted the least Refreshment for twelve Hours,
even till the going down of the Sun, 1 then eat a
Bisket-Cake, and a Bunch of Grapes, and went
to Bed, fini&ing the Day as I began it.
I had
I had all this rime observed no Sabbath-Day •
for as at first I had no Sense of Religion upon my
Mind, I had after some time omitted to distin-
guisli the Weeks, by making a longer Notch than
ordinary for the Sabbath-Day, and so did not really
know what any of the Days were; but now ha-
ving call up the Days, as above, I found I had
been there a Year; so I divided it into Weeks,
and fen apart every seventh Day for a Sabbath •
tho' I found at the End of my Account I had lost
a Day or two in my Reckoning.
A little after this my Ink began to fail me, and
so I contented my self to use it more sparingly,
and to write down only the most remarkable E*
vents of my Life, without continuing a daily Me-
morandum of other things.
The rainy Season, and the dry Season, began now
to appear regular to me, and I learnt to divide
them so, as to provide for them accordingly. But
I bought all my Experience before I had it; and
this I am going to relate, was one of the most dis-
couraging Experiments that I made at all. I have
mentions that I had favVJ the few Ears of Barley
and Rice which I had so furprizingly found spring
up, as I thought, of themselves, and believe there
were about thirty Stalks of Rice, and about twen-
ty or Barley ; and now I thought it a proper time
to soxv it after the Rains, the Sun being in its
Southern Position going from me.
Accordingly I dug up a Piece of Ground, as
well as I could with my wooden Spade, and di-
viding it into two Parts, I sow'd my Grain; but
fs I was sowing, it casually occiud to my
I noughts, that I would not sow it all at first, be-
cause I did not know when was the proper time
tor it; to I sow'd about two thirds of the Seed,
leaving about a Handful of each.
It
It was a great Comfort to me afterwards, that
I did so, for not one Grain of that I sow'd this
time came to any thing ; for the dry Months fol-
lowing, the Earth having had no Rain after the
Seed was sown, it had no Moisture to assist its
Growth, and never came up at all, till the wet
Season had come again, and then it grew as if it
had been but newly sown.
Finding my first Seed did not grow, which I
easily imagin'd was by the Drought, I sought for
a moister Piece of Ground to make another Trial
in, and I dug up a Piece of Ground near my new
Bower, and fow'd the rest of my Seed in February,
a little before the Vernal Equinox; and this hav-
ing the rainy Months of March and April to water
it, sprung up very pleasantly, and yielded a very
good Crop; but having Part of the Seed left on-
ly, and not daring to sow all that I had, I had but a
small Quantity at last, my whole Crop not a-
mounting to above half a Peck of each kind.
But by this Experiment 1 was made Master of
my Business, and knew exactly when the proper
Season was to sow; and that I might expect two
Seed-rimes, and two Harvests every Year.
While this Corn was growing, 1 made a little
Discovery which was of Use to me afterwards:
As soon as the Rains were over, and the Weather
began to settle, which was about the Month of
November, \ made a Visit up the Country to my
Bower, where tho' I had not been some Months,
yet I found all things just as I left them. TheCir-
cleordoubleHedgethat I had made, was not on-
ly firm and entire, but the Stakes which I had cut
out of some Trees that grew thereabouts, were all
shot out, and grown with long Branches, as much
as a Willow-tree usually shoots the first Year after
sopping its Head. I could not tell what Tree to
call
cal! it, that these Stakes were cut from. I was
furpriYd, and yet very well pleas'd, to fee the
young Trees grow; and I prun'd them, and led
them up to grow as much alike as I could ; and
it is scarce credible how beautiful a Figure they
grew into in three Years; so that tho* the Hedge
made a Circle of about twenty five Yards in Dia*
meter, yet the Trees, for such I might now call
them, soon cover'd it; and it was a corn-
pleat Shade, sufficient to lodge under all the dry
Season.
This made me resolve to cut some more Stakes,
and make me a Hedge like this in a Semicircle
round my Wall, I mean that of my first Dwell-
ing, which I did ; and placing the Trees or Stakes
in a double Row, at about eight Yards distance
from my first Fence, they grew presently, and
were at first a sine Cover to my Habitation, and
afterward serv'd for a Defence also, as 1 (hall ob-
serve in its Order.
I found now, that the Seasons of the Year
might generally be divided, not into Summer and
Winter* as in Europe*, but intotherainy Seasons,
and the dry Seasons, which were generally thus:
March > ^ainy» t^ie Sm being then on,
Half April] > 0r ttear tll€ Eluim*>
Hat Aprils
Æ'C Dry> thz Sun beinglthen to the
JulyX NmhQi^^4
Half August, J
Half
Half August, ~) Rain> the Sna being thcn come
September, V back
Half OBvber, >
Half Ottober, }
1Zm£ £ Dry' thC Sm ***** then t0 thc
"' f South of the Line.
January, \
Half February^ J
The Rainy Season sometimes held longer or
shorter, as the Winds happen'd to blow ; but this
was the general Observation I made. After I had
found, by Experience, the ill Consequence of be-
ing abroad in the Rain, I took Care to furnish my
self with Provisions beforehand, that I might not
be oblig'd to go out ; and T fat within Doors as
much as possible during the wet Months.
In this Time I found much Employment, (and
very suitable a!so to the Time) for I found great
Occasion of many things which I had no way to
furnish my self with, but by hard Labour and con-
slant Application,* particularly, I try'd many Ways
to make my self a Basket, but all the Twigs I
could get for the Purpose prov'd so brittle, that
they would do nothing. It prov'd of excellent Ad-
vantage to me now, that when I was a Boy, I
used to take great Delight in standing at a Basket-
maker's in the Town where my Father liv'd, to
see them make their Hacker-ware; and being, as
Boys usually are, very officious to help, and a
great Observer of the Manner how they work'd
those things, and sometimes lending a Hand, I
had by this means full Knowledge of the Methods
of it, that I wanted nothing but the Materials;
when it came into my Mind, that the Twigs of
that Tree from whence I cut roy Stakes that grew,
might
[»«]
m
«.icht possibly be as rough as the Sallow, and
jf/J/ow, and G/e" in England, and I resolv d to
^Accordingly the next Day I went to ray Coun-
try-House, as I cail'd it, and cutting some of the
smaller Twigs, I found them to my Purpose as
much as I could desire j whereupon I came the next
time prepared with a Hatchet to cut down a
Quantity, which I soon found, for there was great
Pusnty os them; These I set up co dry within my
Circle or Hedge, and when they were fit for Use,
I carry'd them to my Cave; and here during the
next Season, 1 employ'd myself in making, as well
as Imdd, a great many Baskets, both to carry
Earth, or to carry or lay up any thing as I had oc*
casioit; and tho'1 did not finish them very hand-
somely, yet I made them sufficiently serviceable for
my Purpose; and thus afterwards I took Care ne-
ver to be without them; and as my Wicker-ware
decayed, 1 made more, especially I made strong
deep Baskets to place my Corn in, instead of Sacks,
when 1 should come to have any Quantity of it.
Having master'd this Difficulty, and employ'd
a world of Time about it, 1 besbrr'd myself to see,
if possible, how to supply two Wants. I had no
Vessels to hold any thing that was Liquid, ex-
cept two Runlets which were almost full of Rum,
and some Glass Bottles, some of the common Size,
and others which were Cafe-Bottles square, for
the holding os Waters, Spirits, &c. I had not so
much as a Pot to boil any thing, except a great
Ketrle which I fav'd out of the Ship, and which
was too big for such Use as I desir'd it, viz,, to
make Broth, and stew a Bit of Meat by itself.
The second Thing I would fain have had, was a
Tobacco- Pipe; but it was impossible to me to
make
make one; however 1 found a Contrivance for
rhat too Ut ia.lt.
I employ'd my self in planting my second Rows
r stakes or Piles, and in this Wicker working all
the Summer, or dry Season, when another Busi-
ness took me up more Time than it could be ima-
magind 1 could spare.
I mention d betorc, that I had a great Mind to
see the whole ifland, and that I had travelled up
the Brook, and so on to where I built my Bower,
and where I had an Opening quite to the Sea on
the other Side of the Ifland. I now resolved to
travel quite cross to the Sea-fliore on that Side:
So taking my Gun, a Hatchet, and my Dog, and
a larger Quantity of Powder and Shot than usual,
with* two Bisket-Cakcs, and a great Bunch of
Raisins in my Pouch for my Store, I began my
Tourney. When I had pass'd the Vale where my
Bower stood, as above, I came within View of
the Sea, to the Weft, and it being a very clear
Day, I fairly descry'd Land, whether an Ifland or a
Continent, I could not tell ; but it lay very high,
extending from the West to the W. S. W. at %
very great Distance; by my Guess it could not be
less than fifteen or twenty Leagues oft
I could not tell what Part of the World this
might be, otherwise than that I knew it must be
Part of America; and as I concluded by all my
Observations, must be near the Spanish Dominions,
and perhaps was all inhabited by Savages, where
if I should have landed, I had been in a worse
Condition than I was now; and therefore 1 ac-
quiesced in the Dispositions of Providence, which
I began now to own, and to believe, ordered eve-
ry thing for the best; I fay, I quieted my Mind
with this, and left afflicting my self with fruitless
Wishes of being there.
Besidest
Besides, after some Pause upon this Affair, I
considers, that if this Land was the Spanish Coast,
I fliould certainly, one Time or other, see some
Vessel pass or re-pass one Way or other $ but if
not* then it was the Savage Coast between the Spa-
nish Country and Bra/iis, which where indeed the
worst oiSavages; forthey are Cannibals, or Men*
Eaters, and fail not to murther and devour all the
human Bodies that fall into their Hands.
With these Considerations I walk'd very lei-
surely forward. I found that Side of the Island
where I now was, much pleasanter than mine, the
open or Savana Fields sweet, adorn'd with Flowers
and Grafs, and full of very fine Woods. I saw A-
bundance of Parrots, and fain I would have caught
one, if possible, to have kept it to be tame, and
taught it to speak to me. I did, after some Pains
taking, catch a young Parrot, for I knocks it
down with a Stick, and having recover'd it, I
brought it home; but it was some Years before I
could make him speak: However, at last I taught
him to call me by my Name very familiarly; But
the Accident that follow'd, tho' it be a Trifle,
will be very diverting in its Place.
I was exceedingly diverted with this Journey: I
found in the low Grounds, Hares, as I thought
them to be, and Foxes, but they differ'd greatly
from all the other Kinds I had met with; nor could
I satisfy myself to eat them, tho* I kill'd several:
But I had no need to be venturous; for I had no
Want of Food, and of that which was very good
too; especially these three Sorts, viz,. Goats, Pid-
aeons, and Turtle or Tortoise; which, added to my
Grapes, Leaden-Hall Market could not have fur-
nifli'd a Table better than I, in Proportion to the
Company; and tho' my Cafe was deplorable
enough, yet I had great Cause for Thankfulness,
and
that 1 was not driven to any Extremities for
Food ,* but rather Plenty, even to Dainties.
I never traveled in this Journey above two
Miles outright in a Day, or thereabouts • but I
took so many Turns andRemrns to fee what Dis-
coveries I could make, that I came weary enough
to the Place where I resolv'd to /it down for all
Night; and then I either repos'd my self in a
Tree, or surrounded myself with a Row of Stakes
set upright in the Ground, either from one Tree
to another, or so &$ no wild Creature could come
at me, without waking me.
As soon as I came to the Sea-Shore, I was sur-
prized to see that I had taken up my Lot on the
worst Side of the Island; for here indeed the Shore
was covet'd with innumerable Turtles, whereas
on the other Side I had found but three in a Year
and half. Here was also an infinite Number of
Fowls of many Kinds, some of which Iliad seen*
and some of which I had not seen before, and
many of them very good Meat • but such as I knew
not the Names of, except those call'd Penguins.
I could have {hot as many as I pleas'd, but was
very sparing of my Powder and Shot; and there-
fore had moreMind to kill a She-Goat, if I could,
which I could better seed on: And tho* there
were many Goats here more than on my Side the
Island, yet it was with much more Difficulty that
I could come near them, the Country being slat
and even, and they saw me much sooner than
when I was on the Hill.
I confess this Side of the Country was much
pleasanter than mine, but yet I had not the least In-
clination to remove ;for as I was fix'd iri my Ha-
bitation, it became natural to me, and T seem'd all
the while I was here, to-be as it were upon a Jour-
ney, and from Home ; However, 1 traveled along
Part I. K the
the Shore of the Sea, towards the East, I suppose
about twelve Miles; and then setting up a great
Pole upon the Shore for a Mark, I concluded I
would go Home again ; and that the next Journey
I took should be on the other Side of the Island,
East from my Dwelling, and so round till I came
to my Post again; Of which in its Place.
I took another Way to come back than that I
went, thinking I could easily keep all the Island so
much in my View, that I could not miss finding
my first Dwelling by viewing the Country; but t
found my self mistaken ; for being come about two
or three Miles, I found my self descended into a
very large Valley ; but so surrounded with Hills,
and those Hills covered with Wood, that I could
not fee which was my Way by any Direction but
that of the Sun, nor even then, unless I knew very
well the Position of the Sun at that Time of the
Day-
It happened, to my farther Misfortune, that
the Weather prov'd hazey for three or four Days,
while I was in this Valley; and not being able to
fee the Sun, I wander'd about very uncomfortably,
and at last was obliged to find out the Sea-Side,
look for my Post, and come back the fame Way
I went; and then by easy Journeys I turned home-
ward, the Weather being exceeding hot, and my
Gun, Ammunition, Hatchet, and other Things
very heavy.
In this Journey my DogsurpnVd a young Kid,
and leizd upon it, and I running in to take hold
ot it, caught it, and sav'd it alive from the Dog:
1 had a great mind to bring it Home if I could;
for 1 had often been musing, whether k might not
be possible to get a Kid or two, and so raise a
tfreed ot tame Goats, which might supply me
when my Powder and Shot should be all spent.
I made
I made a Collar to this little Creature, and
with a String which I made of some Rope-Yarn
which I always carry'd about me, I led him along,
tho' with some Difficulty, till I came to my Bow-
er, and there I enclos'd him, and left him; for I
was very impatient to beat Home,from whence I
had been absent above a Month.
I cannot express what a Satisfaction it was to
ine, to come into my old Hutch, and lie down in
my Hammock-Bed : This little wandring Journey,
without settled Place of Abode, had been so un-
pleasant to me, that my own House, as I call'd it
to my self, was a perfect Settlement to me, com-
par'd to that; and it render'd every thing about
me so comfortable, that I resolv'd I would never
go a great Way from it again, while it should be
my Lot to stay on the Island.
I repos'd myself here a Week, to rest and regale
myself after my long Journey ; during which, most
of the Time was taken up in the weighty Affair
of making a Cage sot my Poll, who began now to
be a meer Domcstick, and to be mighty well ac^
quainted with me. Then I began to think of the
poor Kid, which I had pent in within my little
Circle, and resolv'd to go and fetch it Home, or
give it some Food; accordingly I went, and found
it where I lest it; for indeed it could not get out,
but was almost starv'd for want of Food: I went
and cut Boughs of Trees, and Branches of such
Shrubs as 1 could find, and threw it over, and ha-
ving fed it, I ty%d it as i did before, to lead it a-
way ; but it was so tame with being hungry, that
I had no need to have ty'd it ,• for it follow'd me
like a Dog } and as I continually fed it, the Crea-
ture became so loving, so gentle, and so fond, that
it became from that time one of my Domesticks
also, and would never leave me afterwards.
K 2 The
The rainy Season of the Autumnal Equinox was
now come, and I kept the30th of September in the
fame solemn manner as before, being the Anniver-
sary of my Landingonthelfland, having now been
there two Years, and no more Prospect of being de-
livered than the first Day I came there. I spent the
whole Day in humble and thankful Acknowledg-
ements of the many wonderful Mercies which my so-
litary Condition was attended with,and without
which it might have been infinitely more miserable.
I gave humble and hearty Thanks that God had
been pleased to discover to me, even that it was
possible I might be more happy in this solitary
Condition, than I should have been in a Liberty of
SocictyandinallthePleasuresofthe World, That
He could fully make up to me the Dcficiences of
my solitary State, and the want of Human So-
ciety, by his Presence, and the Communications of
his Grace to my Soul, supporting, comforting, and
encouraging me to depend upon his Providence
here, and hope for his Eternal Presence hereafter.
It was now that I began sensibly to feel how
much more happy the Life I now led was, wirh
all its miserable Circumstances, than the wicked,
cursed abominable Life I led all the past Pare of
my Days; and now I changed both my Sorrows
and my Joys ; my very Desires alterU my Affe.
ctions changed their Gusts, and my Delights were
perfectly new, from what they were at my first
coming, or indeed for the two Years past.
Before, as ( walked about, either on my Hunt-
ing, or for viewing the Country, the Anguish of
my 5ouI at my Condition would break out upon
me on a sudden, and my very Heart would die
within me, to think of the Woods, the Mountains,
tnt Uefarts I was in ; and how I was a Prisoner
Iocs a up with the Eternal Bars and Bolts of the
Ocean,
Ocean, in an uninhabited Wilderness, without
Redemption. In the midst of. the greatest Com-
posures of my Mind, this would break out upon
me like a Storm, and make me wring my Hands,
and weep like a Child. Sometimes it would take
me in the Middle of my Work, and 1 would im-
mediately sit down and sigh, and look upon the
Ground for an Hour or two together; and this
was still worse to me; for if 1 could burst our into
Tears, or vent my self by Words, it would go oil,
and the Grief having exhausted itself, would abate.
But now I began to exercise my self with new
Thoughts , !daily read the Word of God, and
apply'd all the Comforts of it to my present State.
One Morning being very sad, I opened the Bible
upon these Words, / will never, never leave thee, nor
forsake thee; immediately it occurred, that these
Words were to me, why else should they be dire-
cted in such a Manner, just at the Moment when I
was mourning over my Condition, as one forsaken
of God and Man? Well then, said 1, if God does
not forsake me, of what ill Consequence can it be,
or what matters it, tho' the World sliould all for-
sake me ; seeing on the other Hand, if I had all the
Worjd, and should lose the Favour and Blessing
of God, there would be no Comparison in the
Loss.
From this Moment 1 began to conclude in my
Mind, that it was possible for me to be more hap-
py in this forsaken, solitary Condition, than it was
probable 1 sliould have ever been in any other par-
ticular State in the World ; and with this Thought
I was going to give Thanks to God for bringing
me to this Place. a *
I know not what it was, but something shocked
my Mind at that Thought, and 1 durst not speak
the Words; How canst thou be such a Hypocrite,
K?' ((aid
(said I, even audibly) to pretend to be thankful for
a Condition, which however thou may'st endea-
vour to be contented with, thou wouldst rather
pray heartily to be delivered from; so I slope
there : But tho* I could not say, I thank'dGod for
being there; yet I sincerely gave Thanks to God
for opening my Eyes, by whatever afflicting Pro-
vidences, to fee the former Condition of my Life,
and to mourn for my Wickedness, and repent. I
never opened the Bible or (but it, but my very Soul
within me bless'd God for directing my Friend in
England, without any Order of mine, to pack it
up among my Goods; and for assisting me after-
wards to save it out of the Wreck of the Ship.
Thus, and in this Disposition of Mind, I begaq
my third Year ; andtho' I have not given the Rea-
der the Trouble of so particular an Account of my
Works this Year as the first; yet in general it may
be observed, that I was very seldom idle; but ha-
ving regularly divided my Time, according to the
several daily Employments that were before me,
such as, Firsts my Duty to God, and the reading
the Scriptures, which I constantly set apart some
time for, thrice ev^ry Day. Secondly, The going
Abroad with my Gun for Food, which generally
took me up three Hours in every Morning, when it
did not Rain. 'Thirdly, The ordering, curing,pre-
serving and cooking what I had kilfd or catch'dfot
my Supply ;these took up great Part of the Day .*
Also it is to be considered, that the Middle of the
Day when theSun was intheZ^A, the Violence
of the Heat was too great to stir out; so that
about four Hours in the Evening was all the time
I could be supposed to work in; with this Excep-
tion, that sometimes I changed my Hours of
Hunting and Working, and went to Work in the
Morning)
Morning, and Abroad with my Gun in the Aster-
noon.
To this short time allow'd for Labour., I desire
may be added the exceeding Laborioufhess of my
Work, the many Hours which for want of Tools,
want of Help, and want of Skill, every thing I
did, took up out of my Time: For Example, I
was full two and forty Days making me a Board
for a Jong Shelf, which I wanted in my Cave;
whereas two Sawyers with their Tools, and Saw-
Pit, would have cut six of them out of the fame
Tree in half a Day.
My Cafe was this; it was to be a large Tree
which was to be cut down, because my Board was
to be a broad one. This Tree I was three Days
a cutting down, and two more cutting off the
Bows, and reducing it to a Log, or Piece of Tim-
ber. With inexpressible hacking and hewing I
reduced both the Sides of it into Chips, till it be-
gun to be light enough to move; then 1 turn'd ic,
and made one side of it smooth, and slat, as a
Board from End to End; then turning that side
downward, cut the other side, till I brought the
Plank to be about three Inches thick, and smooth
on both Sides. Any one may judge the Labour of
my Hands in such a Piece of Work; but Labour
and Patience carry'd me thro1 that and many o-
thcr things; I on3y observe this in particular, to
shew the Reason why so much of my time went
away with so little Work, viz* that what might
be a little to be done with Help and Tools, was
avast Labour, and requit'd a prodigious time to
do alone, and by Hand.
But notwithstanding this, with Patience and La-
bour I went thro1 many things, and indeed every
thing that roy Circumstances made necessary to me
to do, as will appear by what follows.
K 4 I was
I was now in the Months of November and De-
cember, expecting my Crop of Barley and Rice.
The Ground I had manur'd or dug up for them
was not great; for as I obscrv'd, my Seed of each
was not above the Quantity of half a Peck; for
I had lost one whole Crop by sowing in the dry
Season; but now my Crop promis'd very well,
when on a sudden I found i was in Danger of
losing it all again by Enemies of several Sorts,
which it was scarce possibfe to keep from it 5 as
first, the Goats, and wild Creatures which I call'd
Hates, who tasting the Sweetness of the Blade,
Jay in it Night and Day, as soon as it came up,
and eat it so close, that it could get no time to flioot
up into Stalk.
This I saw no Remedy for, but by making an
Enclosure about it with a Hedge, which I did
with a great deal of Toil ; and the more, because
it required Speed. However, as ray Arable Land
was but small, suired to my Crop, I got it totally
well fenced in about three Weeks time; and shoot-
ing some of the Creatures in the Daytime, I set
my Dog to guard ic in the Night, tying him up
to a Srake at the Gate, where he would stand and
bark all Night long $ so in a little time the Ene-
mies forsook the Place, and the Corn grew very
strong aud well, and began to ripen apace.
But as the Beasts ruined me before, while my
Corn was in the Blade, so the Birds were as likely
to rum me now, when it was in the Ear; for go-
ing along by the Place to fee how it throve, I saw
my little Crop surrounded with Fowls of I know
not how many Sorts, who stood as it were watch-
ing nil I should be gone. I immediately let fly
among them (for I always had my Gun with me.)
1 Had no sooner (hot, but there rose up a little
Cloud
Cloud os Fowls, which I had not seen at all,
from among the Corn it self.
This touch'd me sensibly, for I foresaw, that in
a few Days they would devour all my Hopes,
that 1 should be statVd, and never be able to raise
a Crop at all, and what to do I could not tell:
However, I rcsolv'd nor to lose my Corn, if possi-
ble, tho* I siiould watch it Night and Day. In
the first Place, I went among it to see what Da-
mage was already done, and found they had
fpoil'd a good deal of it; but that as it was yet
too green for them, the Loss was not so great, but
that the Remainder was like to be a good Crop
if it could be sav'd.
I staid by it to load my Gun, and then coming
away 1 could easily see the Thieves sitting upon
all the Trees about me, as if they only waited rill
I was gone away, and the Event proved it to be
so; for as I walk'd off as if I was gone, I was no
sooner out of their Sight, but they dropt down one
by one into the Corn again. I was soprovok'd,
that I could not have Patience to stay till more
came on, knowing that every Grain that they eat
now, was, as it might be faid% a Peck-loaf to me m
the Consequence; but coming up to the Hedge, I
fir'd again, and kilfd three of them* This was
what I wiflui son so I tooji them up, and served
them as we serve notorious Thieves in England*
(viz) Hang'd them in Chains fora Terror to others.
It is impossible to imagine almost, that this should
have such an Effect as it had; for the Fowls would
not only not come at the Corn, but in short they
forsook all that Part of the Island, and I could
never fee a Bird near the Place as long as my
Scare*Crows hung there.
This
This I was very glad of, you may be sure; and
about the latter end of December, which was our
second Harvest of the Year, I reap'd my Crop.
I was sadiy put to it for a Scythe or a Sickle to
cut it down, and all I could do was to make one as
well as I could out of one of the broad Swords ot
Cutlasses, which I sav'd among the Arms out ot
the Ship. However, as my first Crop was but
small, I had no great Difficulty to cut it down: In
short, I reap'd it my way, for I cut nothing oft'but
the Ears, and carry *d it away in a great Basket
which I had made, and so rubb'd it out with my
Hands: And at the End of all my Harvesting, I
found that out of my half Peck pf Seed, I had
near two Bushels of Rice, and above two Bushels
and a half of Barley, that is to fay 3 by my Guess,
for I had no Meafare at that time.
However, this was a great Encouragement to
me; and I foresaw that in time, it would please
God to supply me with Bread: And yet here I
was perplex'd again, for I neither knew how to
grind or make Meal of my Com, or indeed how
to clean it ami part it; nor if made into Meal, how
to make Bread of it ; and if how to make it, yet
I knew not how to bake it. These things being
added to my Desire of having a good Quantity sot
Store, and to secure a constant Supply, 1 resolvd
not to taste any of this Crop, but to preserve it all
for Seed against the next Season, and in the mean
time to employ all my Study and Hours of work-
ing to accomplish this great Work of providing
my self with Corn and Bread.
It might be truly said, that now I work'd for
my Bread. 'Tis a little wonderful, and what I be-
lieve few People have thought much upon, (viz.) the
strange Multitude of little things necessary in the
Pro-
Providing, Producing, Curing, Dressing, Making
and Finishing this one Article of Bread.
I that wm reduced to a meer State of Nature,
found this to be my daily Discouragement, and
was made more and more sensible of it every Hour,
even after I had got the firs! handful of Seed-Corn,
which, as I have said, came up unexpectedly, and
indeed to a Surprize.
First, I had no Plow to turn up the Earth, no
Spade or Shovel to dig it. Well, this I conquer'd,
by making a wooden Spade, aslobserv'd before;
but this did my Work but in a wooden Manner;
and tho'it cost me a great many Days to make it,
yet for want of Iron it not only wore out the
sooner, bus made my Work the harder, and made
it be perform'd much worse.
However, this I bore with, and was content to
work it out with Patience, and bear with the Bad-
ness of the Performance. When the Corn was
sow'd, I had no Harrow, but was forced to go
over it my self, and drag a great heavy Bouqh of a
Tree over it, to scratch it, as it may be call'd, ra-
ther than Rake or Harrow it.
When it was growing and grown, I have ob-
scrv'd already how many things I wanted, to
Fence it, secure it, mow or reap it, cure and
carry ic Home, thrash, part it from the ChafF,
and save jt. Then I wanted a Mill to grind it,
Sieves to dress it, Yeast and Salt to make it into
Bread, and an Oven to bake it j and yet all these
things I did without, as shall be observed; and
yet the Corn was an inestimable Comfort and Ad-
vantage to me too. All this, as I said, made
every thing laborious and tedious to me, bub that
there was no Help for; neither was my time so
much Loss to me, because I had divided it, a
certain Part of it was every Day appointed to
these
these Works; and as I resolved to use none of the
Corn for Bread till I fud a greater Quantity by
me, I had the next six Months to apply my self
wholly by Labour and Invention to furnish my self
with Utensils proper for the performing all the
Operations necessary for the making the Corn
(when 1 had k) fit for my Use.
But first, I was to prepare more Land, for I
had now Seed enough to sow above an Acre of
Ground. Before I did this, I had a Week's Work
at least to make me a Spade, which when it was
done,was but asorry one indeed, and very heavy,
and requir'd double Labour to work with it;
however I went thro' that, and sow'd my Seed in
two large flit Pieces of Ground, as near my
House as I could find them to my Mind, and
fene'd them in with a good Hedge, the Stakes of
which were all cut of that Wood which I had set
before, and knew it would grow, so that in one
Year's time I knew I should have a Qujck or Li-
ving Hedge, that would want but little Repair.
This Work was not so little as to take me up less
than three Months, because great Part of that
time was of the wet Season, when I could not
go abroad.
Within Doors, that is, when it rained, and I
could not go out, I found Employment on the fol-
lowing Occasions,- always observing, that all the
while I was at Work, I diverted my self with talk-
ing to my Parrot, and teaching him to Speak;
and I quickly learned him to know his own Name,
an4 at last to speak it out pretty loud, POLL,
which was the first Word I ever heard spoken in
the Istand by any Mouth but my own. This
therefore was not my Work, but an Assistant to my
Work; for now, as I said, I had a great Employ-
ment upon my Hands, as follows, (viz) I had
long
long study'd, by some Means or other, to make
my self some Earthen Vessels, which indeed I
wanted sorely, but knew not where to come at
them: However, considering the Hear ot the
Climatei I did not doubt but if I could find out
any such Clay, 1 might botch up some such Pot, as
might, being dry'd in the Sun, be hard enough,
and strong enough to bear handling, and to hold
any Thing that was dry, and required to be kept
so; and as this was necessary in the preparing
Corn, Meal, &c, which was the Thing I was up-
on, 1 resolved to make some as large as I could,
and fit only to stand like Jars to hold what should
be put into them.
It would make the Reader pity me, or rather
laugh at me, to tell how many aukward Ways I
took to raise this Paste, what odd mishapen ugly
Things I made, how many of them fell in, and how
many fell out, the Clay not being stiff enough to
bear its own Weight; how many crack*d by the
over violent Heat of the Sun, being set out too
hastily ;and how many fell in Pieces with only re-
moving, as well before as after they were dry'd;
and in a Word, how after having laboured hard
to find the Clay, to dig it, to temper it, to bring
it home and work it, 1 could not make above two
large Earthen ugly things, I cannot call them Jars,
in about two Months Labour.
However, as the Sun bak'd these two very dry
and hard, I lifted them very gently up, and set
them down again in two great Wicker-Baskets,
which I had made on purpose for them, that they
might not break j and as between the Pot and the
Basket there was a little room to spare, I sturTd it
full of the Rice and Barley Straw, and these two
Pots being to stand always dry, I thought would
hold
hold my dry Corn, and perhaps the Meal when
the Corn was bruised.
Tho* I miscarried so much in my Design for
large Pots, yet I made several smaller things with
better Success;such as little round Pots, flat Dish-
es, Pitchers and Pipkins, and any thing my Hand
turn'd to, and the Heat of the Sun bak'd them
strangely hard.
But all this would not answer my End, which
was to get an Earthen Pot to hold what was Li-
quid, and bear the Fire, which none of these could
do. It happened aster some time, making a pretty
large Fire for cooking my Meat, when I went to
put it out after I had done with it, I sound a bro-
ken Piece of one of my Earthen- ware Vessels in the
Fire, burnt as hard as a Stone, and red as a Tile,
I was agreeably surpriz'd to see it, and said to my
self, that certainly they might be made to burn
whole, if they would burn broken.
This set me to studying how to order my Fire,
so as to make it burn me some Pots. I had no
notion of a Kiln, such as the Potters burn in, or
of glazing them with Lead, tho' 1 had some Lead
to do it with; but I plac'd three large Pipkins,
and two or three Pots in a Pile one upon another,
and plac'd my Fire-wood all round it with a great
Heap of Embers under them; I ply'd the Fire
with fresh Fuel round the Outside, and upon th$
Top, till I saw the Pots in the Inside red hot quite
thro', and observ'd that they did not crack at all;
when J saw them clear red, I let them stand in
that Heatabout $ or 6 Hours, till I found one of
them, tho' it did not crack, did melt or ran, for
the Sand which was mixed with the Clay melted
by the Violence of the Heat, and would have run
into Glass if I had gone on; so I slack'd my Fire
gradually, till the Pots began to abate of the red
Colour
Colour, and watching them all Night, that I
might notice the Fire abate too fast, in the Morn-
ing 1 had three very good, I will not say hand-
some Pipkins, and two other Earthen Pots, as hard
burnt as could be desir'd ; and one of them per-
fectly glaz'd with the Running of the Sand.
After this Experiment, I need not fay that I
wanted no fort of Earthen Ware for my Use \ but
I must needs fay, as to the Shapes of them, they
were very indifferent, as any one may suppose,
when I had no Way of making them, but as the
Children make Dirt-Pyes, or as a Woman would
make Pyes that never learnt to raise Paste.
No Joy at a Thing of so mean a Nature was
ever equal to mine, when I found I had made an
Earthen Pot that would bear the Fire; and 1 had
hardly Patience* to stay till they were cold, before
I set one upon the Fire again, with some Water in
it, to boil me some Meat, which it did admirably
well; and with a Piece of a Kid I made some ve«
ry good Broth, though I wanted Oatmeal, and
several other Ingredients requisite to make it so
good as I would have had it been.
My next Concern was, to get me a Stone Mor-
tar to stamp or beat some Corn in; for as to the
Mill, there was no Thought at arriving to that
Perfection of Art, with one Pair of Hands. To sup-
ply this Want I was at a great Loss; for of all
Trades in the World I was as perfectly unqualified
for a Stone-Cutter, as for any whatever; neither had
I any Tools to go about it with. I spent many a
Day to find out a great Stone big enough to cut
hollow, and make fit for a Mortar, and could find
none at all, except what was in the solid Rock, and
which I had no Way to dig or cut out; nor indeed
were the Rocks in the Island of Hardness h&ci*
ent, but were all of a sandy crumbling Stone,
which
which would neither bear the Weight of a heavy
Pestle, or would break the Corn without filling it
with Sand : So aster a great deal of Time lost in
searching for a Stone, I gave it over, and rcsolv'd
to look out a great Block of hard Wood, which
1 found indeed much easier; and getting one as
big as I had Strength to stir, I rounded it, and
form'd it on the Outside with my Axe and Hat-
chet, and then with the Help o^ Fire and infinite
Labour, made a hollow Place in it9 as the Indians
in Brafil make their Cames. After this, I made a
great heavy Pestle or Beater, of the Wood calfd
the Iron* Wood, and this I prepared and laid by
against I had my next Crop of Corn, when 1 pro-
pos'd to my self to grind, or rather pound, ray
Corn into Meal to make my Eread.
My next Difficulty was to make a Sieve, or
Searfe, to dress my Meal, and to part it from the
Bran and the Husk, without which I did not fee
it possible I could hare any Bread. This was a
most difficult Thing, so much as but to think on;
fortobe sure I had nothing like the necessary Thing
to make it; I mean fine thin Canvas, or Stuff to
search the Meal through. And here 1 was at a full
Stop for many Months; nor did I really know
what to do ; Linnen I had none left, but what was
meer Rags; I had Goats Hair, but neither knew
I how to weave it or spin it; and had 1 known
how, here was no Tools to work it with ; all the
Remedy that I found for this, was, That at last I
did remember I had among the Seamens Cioaths
which were sav'd out of the'Ship, someNeckloaths
of Callicoe or Muslin: and with some Pieces of
these I made three small Sieves, but proper enough
for the Work; and thus I madesliift for some Years;
how 1 did afterwards, I shall stew in its Place.
The
The baking Part was the next thing to be con-
siders, and how I should make Bread when 1 came
to have Corn; for first I had no Yeast. As to that
Fart, as rhere was no supplying the Want, so I did
not concern my self much about it: But for dn
Oven, I was indeed in great Pain. At length 1
found out an Experiment for that also, which was
this ; 1 made some Earthen Vessels very broad, but
not deep; that is to fay, about two Foot Diame-
ter, and not above nine Inches deep; these I burnt
in the Fire, as ! had done the other, and laid them
by; and when I wanted to bake, I made a great
Fire upon my Hearth, which 1 had pav'd with
some square Tiles of my own making and burn-
ing also; but I should not call them square.
When the Fire-wood was burnt pretty much into
Embers, or live Coals, I drew them forward upon
this Hearth, so as to cover it all over, and there I
let them lye, till the Hearth was very hot; then
sweeping away all the Embers, I set down my
Loaf, or Loaves, and whelming down the Earth-
en Pot upon them, drew the Embers all round the
Outside of the Pot, to keep in, and add to the
Heat ; and thus, as well as in the best Oven in the
World, I bak'd my Barley-Loaves, and became in
little time a meer Pastry-Cook into the Bargain;
for 1 made my self several Cakes of the Rice and
Puddings; indeed I made no Pies, neither had I
any Thing to put into them, supposing I had, ex-
cept the Flesh cither of Fowls or Goats.
It need not be wondered at, if all these things
took me up most Part of the third Year of my A-
boad here,- for it is to be obferv'd, that in the In-
tervals of these Things, 1 had my new Harvest and
Husbandry to manage; for I reap'd my Corn in its
Season, and carry'ditHomeas well as I could, and
laid it up in the Ear, in my large Baskets, till I had
Part I. L Time
Time to rub it out; for I had no Floor to thiaft
it on, or Instrument to thrash it with.
And now indeed my Stock of Corn encreasing, [
really wanted to build my Barns bigger: I wanted
a Place to lay it up in; for the Increase of the Corn
now yielded me so much, that I had of the Barley
about twenty Bushels, and of the Rice as much, or
more; insomuch, that now I resolved to begin to
use it freely, for my Bread had been quite gone a
great while; also I resolved to see what Quantity
would be sufficient for me a whole Year, and to
sow but once a Year. .
Upon the whole, I sound that the forty Bushels
of Barley and Rice was much more than 1 could
consume in a Year; so 1 resolved to sow just the
same Quantity every Year that I sow'd the last, in
hopes that such a Quantity would fully provide me
with Bread, &c.
All the while these things were doing, you may
be sure my Thoughts run many times upon the
Prospect of Land which i had seen from the other
Side of the Island, and I was not without secret
Wishes that I was on Shore there, fancying the
seeing the main Land, and an inhabited Country,
I might find some Way or other to convey my felt
farther, and perhaps at last find some Means of
Escape.
But all this while I made no Allowance for the
Dangers of such a Condition, and how 1 might fall
into the Hands of Savages, and perhaps such as I
might have Reason to think far worse than the Li-
ons and Tigers of Africa. That if I once came in-
to their Power, I should run a Hazard more than a
thousand to one of being kilf d, and perhaps of be-
ing eaten ; for I had heard that the People of the Car'
rib'tan Coasts were Cannibals, or Men-eaters ,* and
f knew by the Latitude, that I could not be far oft
from
from that Shore. That suppose they were not Can-
nibals, yet that they might kill me, as many Em^
peans who had fallen into their Hands had been ser-
ved, even when they had been ten or twenty
together j much more I that was but one, and
could make little or no Defence. All these
things, I fay, which Ioeght to have considers welt
ofs and I did cast up in my Thoughts afterwards,
yet tookup none of my Apprehensions at first; and
my Head run mightily upon the Thought ot
getting over to the Shore.
Now I wiflul for my Boy Xuvy, and the Long-
Boat with the Shoulder of Mutton Sail, with
which I faiTd above a Thousand Miles on the
Coast of Africk; but this was in vain. Then £
thought I would go and look on our Ship's Boat*
which, as I have said, was blown up upon the
Shore a great Way in the Storm, when we were
first castaway. She lay almost where she did at first,
but not quite ,• and was turn'd by the force of the
Waves and the Winds, almost Bottom upward,
against a high Ridge of beachy rough Sand; but
no Water about her as before
If I had had Hands to have resitted her, and to
have launch'd her into the Water, the Boat would
have done well enough, and I might have gone
back into the Brasils with her easily enough * but
I might hare easily foreseen, that 1 could no more
turn her, and set her upright upon her Bottom, than
1 could remove the Island. However, I went to the
Wood and cut Levers and Rollers, and brought
them to the Boat, resolv'd to try what I could do •
suggesting to my self, that if I could but turn her
down, 1 might easily repair the Damage slie had
received, and she would be a very good Boat, and
i might go to Sea in her very easily.
I spar'd no Pains indeed in this Piece of fruitless
loil, and spent, I think, three or four Weeks a*
L % bou:
bout it: at last finding it impossible to heave it up
with-my little Strength* I fell to digging away the
Sand to undermine it, and so to make it fall
down, setting Pieces of Wood to thrust and
guide it right in the Fall.
But when I had done this, I was unable to stir
it up again, or to get under it, much less to move
it forwards towards the Water; so I was sored
to give it over; and yet, tho* 1 gave over the
Hopes of the Boat, my Desire to venture over
for the Main increased, rather than decreased, as
the Means for it feem'd impossible. •
This at length put me upon thinking, whether
it was not possible to make myself aCanoe or Peria*
gun, such as the Natives of those Climates make,
even without Tools, or, as I might fay, without
Hands, viz. of the Trunk of a great Tree. This I
not only thought possible, but easy, and pleased
my self extreamly with the Thoughts of making itj
and with my having much more Convenience for
it than any of the Negroes or Indians j but not
at all considering the particular Inconveniences
which 1 lay under, more than the Indians did, viz.
Wantof Hands to move it, when it was made* into
the Water; a Difficulty much harder for me to
surmount, than all the Consequences of Want of
Tools could be to them .• For what was it to me,
that when 1 had chosen a vast Tree in the Woods,
I might with great Trouble cut it down, if after I
might be able with my Tools to hew and dub the
Outside into a proper Shape of a Boat, and
burn or cut Out the inside to make it hollow, so
to make a Boat of it> if after ftll this, 1 must leave
it just there where 1 found it, and was not able
to launch it into the Water.
One would have thought, I could not have had
the least Reflection upon my Mind of my Circum-
stance?
stance, while I was making this Boat, but I should
have immediately thought how I should get it into
the Sea; but my Thoughts were so intent upon
my Voyage over the Sea in it, that I never once
considers! how 1 should get it oft of the Lands
and it was really in its own Nature more easy for
me to guide it over forty five Miles of dea, than
about Forty five Fathom of Land, where it lay,
to set it a-float in the Water.
I went to work upon this Boat the most like a
Fool that ever Man did, who had any of his
Senses awake. I pleas'd my self with the Design,
without determining whether I was ever able to
undertake it; not but that the Difficulty of launch-
ing my Boat came often into my Head ; but I put
a stop to my own Enquiries into it, by this foolish
Answer which I gave my self, Less first make it> til
warrant I'll find some Way or other to get it along,
when *ti$ done.
This was a most preposterous Method; but the
Eagerness of my Fancy prevaifd, and to work I
went. 1 fell'd a Cedar Tree; I question much
whether Solomon ever had such a one for the Build-
ing the Temple at Jerusalem. It was five Foot
ten Inches Diameter at the lower Part next the
Stump, and four Foot eleven Inches Diameter at
the End of twenty two Foot, after which it les-
sen'd for a while, and then parted into Branches:
It was not without infinite Labour that I fell'd
this Tree: I was twenty Days hacking and hew-
ing at it at the Bottom; I was fourteen more get-
ting the Branches and Limbs, and the vast spread-
ing Head of it cut off, which I hack'd and hew'd
through with Axe and Hatchet, and inexpressible
Labour: After this, it cost me a Month to shape
it, <$nd dub it to a Proportion, and to something
like the Bottom of a Boat, that it might swim up-
L 3 right
right as ic ought to do. It cost: me near three
Months more to clear the Inside, and work it out
so, as to make an exact Boat of it: This I did in-
deed without Fire, by mere Mallet and Chislel, and
by the dint of hard Labour, till I had brought icto
be a very handsome Periagua, and big enough to
have carried six and twenty Men, and consequently
big enough to have carried me and all my Carpo.
When I had gone through this Work, I was ex-
tremely delighted with it. The Boat was really
much bigger than J ever saw a Canoe, or Periapt,
that was made of one Tree, in my Life. Many a
weary Stroke it had cost, you may be sure; and
there remained nothing but to get it into the Water;
and had I gotten it into the Water, I make no que-
stion, but I should have began the maddest Voy-
age and the most unlikely to be performs, that
ever was undertaken.
But all my Devices to get it into the Water
faifd me, though they cost me infinite Labour too.
It lay about one hundred Yards from the Water,
and not more: But the first Inconvenience was,it
was up Hill towards the Creek: Well, to take a-
way this Discouragement, I resolv'd to dig into
the Surface of the Earth, and so make a Declivi-
ty: This I begun, and it cost me a prodigious dea!
of Pains; but who grudges Pains, that have their
Deliverance in View? But when this was work'd
through, and this Difficulty manag'd, it was still
much at one: for I could no more stir the Cam
than I could the other Boat.
Then I measur'd the Distance of Ground, and
refolv'd to cut a Dock, or Canal, to bring the Wa-
ter up to the Came, seeing I could not bring the
Canoe down to the Water; Well, I began this
Work, and when 1 began to enter into it, and cal-
culated how deep it was to be dug, how broad,
haw
how the Stuff to be thrown out, f found, that by
che Number of Hands I had, being none but my
own, it must have been ten or twelve Years before
I stiould have gone through with it; for the Shore
lay high, so that at the upper End it must have
been at least twenty Foot deep ; so at length, tho*
with great Reluctancy, i gave this Attempt over
also.
This griev'd me heartily, and now I saw, tho*
too late, the Folly of beginning aWork before we
count the Cost, and before we judge rightly of
our own Strength to go through with it.
In the middle of this Work, I finish*d my fourth
Year in this Place, and kept my Anniversary with
the fame Devotion, and with as much Comfort as
ever before; for by a constant Study, and serious
Application of the Word of God, and by the As-
sistance of his Grace, I gain'd a different Know-
ledge from what 1 had before. 1 entertain'd diffe-
rent Notions of things. I look'd now upon the
World as a thing remote, which I had nothing to
do with, no Expectation from, and indeed no De-
sires about: In a Word, I had nothing indeed to
do with it, nor was ever like to have ; so I thought
it look'd as we may perhaps look upon it hereafter,
viz*, as a Place I had lived in, but was come out of
it; and well might 1 fay, as Father Abraham to
Dives, Between me and thee is a gnat Gulf h fixed.
In the first Place, 1 was removed from all the
Wickedness of the World here: J had neither the
Lust of the Flejh, the Lust of the Eye, or the Pride of
Life. I had nothing to covet; for I had all that I
was now capableof enjoying; I was Lord of the
whole Minor; or if Ipleas'd I might call myself
King* or Emperor over the whole Country which
1 had Possession of. There were no Rivals: I had
no Competitor, none to dispute Sovereignty or
L 4 * Com*
Command wkh me- I might have rais'd Ship.
Loadings of Corn; but i had no Use for it ; so I let
as little grow as I thought enough for my Occasi-
on. I had Tortoise or Turtles enough; but now
and then one was as much as I could put to any
Use. I had Timber enough to have built a Fleet
of Ships. I had Grapes enough to have made Wine,
or to have cur'd into Raisins, to have loaded that
Fleet when they had been built.
But all I could make use of, was All that was
valuable. I had enough to eat, and to supply my
Wants, and what was all the reft to me ? *lf Ikill'd
more Flesh than 1 could eat, the Dog must eat it,
or the Vermin; if I sow'd more Corn than [
could eat, it must be spoifd. The Trees that I
cut down were lying to rot on the Ground: I
could make no more Use of them than for Fewel,
and that I had no Occasion for, but to dress my
Food.
In a Word, the Nature and Experience of
Things dictated to me upon just Reflection, that
all the good Things of this World, are no farther
good to us,, than they are for our Use; and that
whatever we may heap up indeed to give others,
we enjoy as much as we can use, and no more.
The most covetous griping Miser in the World
would have been cured of the Vice of Covetousness,
it he had been in my Cafe j for I possessed infinitely
more than I knew what to do with. I had no room
for Desire, except it was of things which I had not,
and they were but Trifles, tho' indeed of great
Use to me* i had, as I hinted before, a Parcel
of Money, as well Gold as Silver, above thirty
iix Pounds Sterling: Alas! there the nasty sorry
useless btuff lay; I had no manner of Business
ior it:; and I often thought with my self, that I
would have given a Handful of it for a Gross of
Tobacco*
Tobacco Pipes, or for a Hand-mill to grind my
Corn ; nay, i would have given it all forSixpenny-
worth of 7*umip and Carrot Seed out of England,
or for a Handful of Pease and Beam, and a Bottle
of Ink: As it was, I had not the least Advantage
by it, or Benefit from it; but there it Jay in a Draw-
er, and grew mouldy with the Damp of the Cave,
in the wet Season; and if I had had the Drawer
full of Diamonds, it had been the fame Cafe ,• and
they had been of no manner of Value to me, be^
cause of no Use.
I had now brought my State of Life to be much
easier in itself than it was at first, and much easier
to a*y Mind, as well as to my Body. I frequently
fat down to my Meat with Thankfulness, and ad-
mired the Hand of God's Providence, which had
thus spread my Table in the Wilderness. I learned
to look more upon the bright Side of ray Condi-
tion, and less upon the dark Side; and to consider
what I enjoy'd, rather than what I wanted; and
this gave me sometimes such secret Comforts, that
I cannot express them; and which I take Notice
of here, to putthose discontented People in mind
of it, who cannot enjoy comfortably what God
has given them, because they see and covet some-
thing that he has not given them. All our Dis-
contents about what we want, appeared to me to
spring from the Want of Thankfulness for what
we have.
^ Another Reflection was of great Use to me, and
doubtless would be so to any one that should fall
into such Distress as mine was ; and this was to
compare my present Condition with what I at first
expected it should be; nay, with what it would
certainly have been, if the good Providence of
God had not wonderfully ordered the Ship to be
cast up nearer to the Shore, where I not only could
come
come at her, but could bring what I got out of
her to the Shore, for my Relief and Comfort;
without which, I had wanted for Tools to work,
Weapons for Defence, or Gun-powder and Shot
for petting ray Food.
1 spent whole Hours, I may fay whole Days, in
representing to myself in the most lively Colours,
how I must have acted, if I had got nothing out
of the Ship; how I could not have so much as
got any Food, except Fifli and Turtles; and that
as it was long before! found any of them, 1 must
have perifli'd first: That I should haveJiv'd, if I
had not perifh'd, like a meer Savage: That if I
had kilfd a Goat, or a Fowl, by any Contrivance,
I had no way to flea or open them, or part the
Flesh from the Skin and the Bowels, or to cut it
up ; but must gnaw it with my Teeth, and pull it
with my Claws like a Beast.
These Reflections made me very sensible of the
Goodness of Providence to me, and very thankful
for my present Condition, with all its Hardships
and Misfortunes : And this Part also I cannot but
recommend to the Reflection of those who are apt
in their Misery to say, Is any JjftiBion like mine >
Let them consider, how much worse the Cases of
some People are, and their Cafe might have been,
if Providence had thought sir.
I had another Reflection which assisted me also
to comsort my Mind with Hopes; and this was
comparing my present Condition with what! had
if « d' and had thercso**e Reason to expect from
the Hand of Providence. I had liv'd a dreadful
Imperfectly destitute of the Knowledge and Fear
« God. I had been well instructed by Father and
Mother • neither had they been wanting to me in
their early Endeavours, to infuse a religious Awe
ot God into my Mind, a Sense of my Duty, and
of
of what the Nature and End of my Being reqmYd
of me. But alas I falling early into the Sea-faring
Life, which of all the Lives is the most destitute
of the Fear of God, tho' his Terrors arc always
before them; I fay, falling early into the Sea-fa*
ring Life, and into Sea-faring Company, all that
Hctle Sense of Religion which I had entertained,
was lauTht out of me by my Mess-Mates, by a
hardened despising of Dangers, and the Views
of Death, which grew habitual tome, by my Jong
Absence from all manner of Opportunities to con-
verse with any thing but what was like my self, or
to hear any thing that was good, or tended to-
wards it.
So void was I of every thing that was good, or
of the least Sense of what I was, or was to be,
that in the greatest Deliverances I enjoy *d, such
as my Escape from Sal/e, my being taken up by the
Portuguese Master of the Ship, my being planted
so well in Brafils, my receiving the Cargo from
England* and the like, I never once had the Word
Thank Gcd, so much as on my Mind, or in my
Mouth; nor in the greatest Distress had I so much
as a Thought to pray to him; or so much as to fay,
Lord have Mercy upon me\ no nor to mention the
Name of God, unless it was to {wear by, and
blaspheme it.
I had terrible Reflections uponmyMind forma-
my Months, asl have already observ'd, on the Ac-
count of my wicked and harden'd Life past; and
%vhen I look'd about me, and considers what par-
ticular Providences had attended me iince my co-
ming into this Place, and how God had dealt boun-
tifully with me ; had not only punished me L-se than
my Iniquity had deserved, but had so plentifully pro-
vided for me; this gave me great Hopes that my
Rcpen-
Repentance was accepted, and that GOD had
yet Mercies in Store for me;
With these Reflections I work'd my Mind up,
not only to Resignation to the Will of God in the
present Disposition of my Circumstances, but even
to a sincere Thankfulness for my Condition; and
that I who was yet a living Man, ought not to
complain, seeing I had not the due Punishment of
my Sins $ that I enjoy'd so many Mercies which
I had no Reason to have expected in that Place;
that I ought nevermore to repine at my Condition,
but to rejoyce, and to give daily Thanks for that
daily Bread which nothing but a Croud of Wonders
could have brought. That I ought to consider I
had been fed even by a Miracle, even as great as
that of feeding Elijah by Ravens; nay, by a long
Series of Miracles, and that I could hardly have
nam'd a Place in the unhabitable Part of the World,
where I could have been cast more to my Advan-
tage.* A Place, where, as I had no Society, which
was my Affliction on one Hand, so I found no ra-
venous Beasts, no furious Wolves or Tygers to
threaten my Life; no venomous Creatures or poi-
sonous, which might feed on my Hurt, no Sa-
vages to murder and devour me,
In a Word, as my Life was a Life of Sorrow
one Way, so it was a Life of Mercy another; and
I wanted nothing to make it a Life of Comfort,
but to be able to make my Sense of God's Good-
ness to me, and Care over me in this Condition,
be my daily Consolation ,• and after I did make a
just Improvement of these Things, I went away
and was no more fad.
I had now been here so long, that many Things
which I brought on Shore for my Help, were ei-
ther quite gone, or very much wasted and near
spent.
My
My Ink, as I observed, had been gone for some
Time, all but a very little, which I eek'd out with
Water a little and a little, till it was so pale it
scarce left any Appearance of Black upon the Pa-
per: As long as it lasted I made Use of it to mi-
nute down the Days of the Month on which any
remarkable Thing happen'd to me; and first by
casting up Times past, 1 remember that there was
a strange Concurrence of Days in the various Pro-
vidences which befel me, and which, if I had been
superstitiousty inclin'd to observe Days as Fatal or
Fortunate, I might have had Reason to hare
look'd upon with a great deal of Curiosity.
First, i had observ'd, that the sartie Day that I
broke away from my Father and my Friends, and
run away to Hull in order to go to Sea, the fame
Day afterwards I was taken by the Sal/e Man of
War, and made a Slave.
The fame Day of the Year that I escaped out
of the Wreck of that Ship in Yarmouth Roads,
that fame Day-Year afterwards I made my Escape
from Salle in the Boat.
The fame Day of the Year I was born on, (<*//&.)
the 30th of September, the fame Day I had my Life
so miraculously saved 26 Year after, when I was
cast on Shore in this Island; so that my wicked
Life and solitary Life began both on a Day.
The next Thing to my Inks being wasted, was
that of my Bread, I mean the Bisket which I
brought out of the Ship: This I had husbanded
to the last Degree, allowing my self but one Cake
of Bread a Day, for above a Year; and yet f
was quite without Bread for near a Year before
I got any Corn of my own ; and great Reason I
had to be thankful that I had any at all, the get-
ting it being, as has been already observed, next
to miraculous.
My
My Clothes began to decay too mightily: As
toLinnen, I had none a good while, except some
checquer'd Shirts which I found in the Chests of the
other Seamen, and which I carefully preferv'd, be-
cause many Times I could bear no other Clothes
on but a Shirt; and it was a very great Help tome
that I had among all the Mens Clothes of the
Ship almost three Dozen of Shirts. There were al-
so several thick Watch Coats of theSeamens, which
were left indeed, but they were too Lot to wear;
and tho* it is true, that the Weather was so vio-
lent hot, that there was no need of Clothes, yet I
could not go quite naked; no, tho* I had been
inclined to it, which I was not, nor could abide
the Thoughts of it, tho' 1 was all alone.
The Reason why I could not go quite naked,
was, I could not bear the Heat of the Sun so well
when quite naked, as with some Clothes on; nay,
the very Heat frequently blister'd my Skin ; where-
as with a Shirt on, the Air itself made some Mo-
tion, and whistling under that Shirt, was twofold
cooler than without it: No more could I ever bring
myself to go out in the Heat of the Sun without a
Cap or Hat; the Heat of the Sun beating with
such Violence as it does in that Place, would give
me the Head-Ach presently, by darting so direct-
ly on my Head, without a (Jap or Hat on; so
that I could not bear it; whereas if I put on
my Hat, it would presently go away.
Upon those Views I began to consider about put*
ting the few Rags I had, which I calf d Clothes,
into some Order: 1 had worn out all the Waste-
coats I had, and my Business was now to try if I
could not make Jackets out of the great Watch-
Coats which I had by me, and with such other
Materials as I had ; so I set to work a Tayloring#
or rather indeed a Botching; for 1 made most
piteous
piteous Work of it. However, I made slnft to
make two or three new Wastecoats, which I hoped
would serve me a great while; as for Breeches or
Drawers, 1 made but very sorry shift indeed, till
afterward.
1 have mentioned, that I saved the Skins of all
the Creatures that 1 kilfd, 1 mean four-footed ones,
and 1 had hung them up stretch'd out with Sticks
in the Sun, by which means some of them were so
dry and hard that they were fit for little, but others
it seems were very useful. The first thing I made
of these was a great Cap for my Head, with the
Hair on the Outside to shoot off the Rain; and
this I perform'd so well, that after this 1 made me
a Suit of Clothes wholly of these Skins, that is to
fay, a Wastecoat and Breeches open at Knees* and
both loose, for they were rather wanting to keep
me cool, than to keep me warm. 1 must not omit
to acknowledge that they were wretchedly made;
for if I was a bad Carpenter, I was a worse Tœyfo.
However, they were such as I made very good
shift with; and when I was abroad, if it happened
to Rain, the Hair of the Wastecoat and Cap be-
ing outermost, 1 was kept very dry.
After this I spent a great deal of Time and Pains
ro make me an Umbrella. I was indeed in great
Want of one, and had a great Mind to make one
I had seen them make inthtBrafils, where they are
very useful in the great Heats which are there:
And I felt the Heats every jot as great here, and
greater too, being nearest the Equinox; besides, as
1 was much obliged to be abroad, it was a most
useful thing to me, as well for the Rains as the
Heats. I took a world of Pains at it, and was a
great while before 1 could make any thing likely to
hold; nay, after 1 thought I had hit the Way, I
spoilt 2 or 3 before 1 made one to my Mind j but
ac
at last I made one thatanswer'd indifferently well;
the main Difficulty I found was to make it to let
down. I could make it to spread, but it did not
let down too, and draw in; it was not portable for
me any Way but just over my Head, which would
not do. However, at last, as I said, I made one
to answer, and covered it with Skins, the Hair up-
wards- so that it cast off the Rain like a Pent-
house, and kept off the'Sun so'effectually, that I
could walk out in the hottest of the Weather, with
greater Advantage than I could before in the cool-
est, and when 1 had no Need of it, could close it
and carry it under my Arm.
Thus 1 lived mighty comfortably, my Mind be-
ing entirely composed by resigning to the Will of
God, and throwing my self wholly upon the Dis-
posal of his Providence. This made my Life bet-
ter then sociable ; for when I began to regret the
want of Conversation, I would askmy self, whether
thus conversing mutually with my own Thoughts,
andxas I hope I may fay, with even God himself
by Ejaculations, was not better than the utmost
Enjoyment of human Society in the World?
1 cannot fay, that after this, for five Years, any
extraordinary Thing happened to me, butlliv'don
in the fame Course, in the same Posture and Place,
as just before. The chief Thing I was employ'din,
besides my yearly Labour of planting my Barley and
Rice, and curing my Raisins, of both which I al-
ways kept tip just enough to have sufficientJStock
of one Year's Provisions beforehand; 1 fay, besides
this yearly Labour, and my daily Labour of going
out with my Gun, I had one Labour to make me
a Canoe, which at last I finished : So that by dig-
ing a Canal to it of six Foot wide, and four Foot
deep, I brought it into the Creek, almost half a
Mile. As for the first, which was so vastly big,
as
as I made it without considering before-hand, as I
ought to do, how 1 should be able to launch it j so
never being able to bring it to the Water, or bring
the Water "to it, 1 was oblig'd to let it lie where it
was, as a Memorandum to teach me to be wiser
next Time. Indeed the next Time, tho* I could
not get a Tree proper for it, and was in a Place
where I could not get the Water to it, at any less
Distance than as I have said, near half a Mile; yet
as I saw it was practicable at last, I never gave it
over; and though I was near two Years about it,
yet I never grudg'd my Labour, in Hopes of hav-
ing a Boat to go off to Sea at last.
"However, tho' my little Periagua was finifh'd,
yet the Size of it was not at all answerable to the
Design which I had in View, when I made the
first; I mean of venturing over to the Terra Firma,
where it was above forty Miles broad ; accor-
dingly, theSraalnese ofmy Boat assisted to put an
End to that Design, and now I thought no more
of it; But as I had a Boat, my next Design was to
make a Tour round the Island; for as I had been
on the other Side, in one Place, crossing, as I have
already described it, over the Land ; so the Dis-
coveries I made in that little Journey, made me
very eager to fee other Parts of the Coast ;and now
I had a Boat, 1 thought of nothing but sailing round
the Ifland.
For this.Purpose, that I might do every thing
with Discretion and Consideration, I fitted up a
little Mast to my Boat, and made a Sail to it out
of some of the Pieces of the Ship's Sail, which lay
in Store, and of which I had a great Stock by me.
Having fitted my Mast and Sail, and try'd the
Boat, I found she would fail very well: Then I
made little Lockers or Boxes, at either End of my
Boat, to put Provisions, Necessaries^ and Ammuni-
Part 1. M tion,
tion, &c into, to be kept dfy, either from Rain,
or the Spry'e of the Sea i and % little long hollow
Place I cut in the Inside of the Boat, where I could
lay my Gun, making a Flag to hang down over
it to keep it dry.
I fix'd my Umbrella also in a Step at the Stern,
like a Mast, to stand over my Head, land keepthe
Heat of the Sun off of me like an Autiing; and
thus I every now atid them tdok a little Voyage
upon the Sei, but ileVer went far our, ndr far from
the little Creek ; but at last being eager to view
the Circumference bf My littleKitrgdotoi, I resolv'd
upon my Tour, and accordingly 1 Victualsd my
Ship for the Voyage, putting in two Dozen of
my'Loaves, (Cakes I should- rarher call them) of
Barley Bread, an Earthern Pot full of parch'd Rice,
a Food I eat a great deal of, a little Bottle ot
Rum, half a Goat, and Powder and Shot for kill-
ing more, knd two large Watch*coats, of those
which, as I mentioned before, I had fav'd out of
the Sca'toens Chests; these I took, one to lie up-
on, and the other to coVer me in the Night.
It was the sixth ol November > in the sixth Year
of my Reign, or iny Captivity, which you please,
that 1 set out on this Voyage, and I found it much
longer than I expected; for though the Island it-
self was not very targe, yet when I came to th«
East Side of it, I found a great Ledge of Rocks
lie out about two Leagues into the Sea, some a*
bove Water, some under it; and beyond that, a
Shoal of Sand, lying dry fails ia League more ; so
that 1 was obliged to go a great Way otic to Sea
to double the Point.
When first I discovers them, I toasgomgtog:^
over my Enterprise, and cofne back again, nc*
knowing how far it tfiight oblige me to go outre
Sea; aftd above all,xfonbting howistiould get back
again* fo I'came to an Anchor, for I ha J made
me a kind of art Anchor with a Piece of a broken
Graplin, which I got out os the Ship.
Having secur'd ttiy Boat, I took my Gun, and
went on Shore, climbing up upon a Hill, which
seem'd to overlook that Point, where I saw the
full E&tent of it, and resolv'd 'to venture.:
In my viewing the Sea from that Hill where |
flood, I percfciVd a strong, and indeed, a most fu-
rious Current, which run to the East* and even
came close to the Point; sand I took the more
Notice of it, because 1 saw there might be some
Danger, that when I came into it, I might be car-
ry'd out to Sea by the Strength of it^ and not be
able to make the Island again; and indeed, had I
not gotten first up upon this Hill, I believe it
would have been so; for there was the fame Cur-
rent on the other Side the Island, only that it sec
off at a farther Distance; and I saw there was a
strong Eddy ynder the Shore; so I had nqthing to
do but to get m out of the first Current, and I
should presently be in an Eddy.
I sty here, however, two Days; because the
Wind blowing pretty fresh at £. S. £, and that
being just contrary to the said Current, made a
grtat Breach of the Sea upon the Point; so that
it was ti<jt fase for me rb keep too close to the
Shore for the Breach, nor to go too far off be-
cause of the Stream.
The third Day in the Morning, the Wind ha-
ving abated over Night, the Sea was calm, and t
ventur'd; but I am a Warning Piece again to all
raft and ignorant Pilots ; for no sooner was 1 come
to the Point, when even I was not my Boat's
Length frt>m the Shore, but I found my self in a
great Depth of Water, atid a Current like the Sluice
m a Mill: h carry'd my Boat along with it
M 2 with
with such Violence, that all 1 could do, could not
keep her so much as on the Edge of it; but 1 found
it hurry'd me farther and farther out from the Ed*
dy, which was on my Left Hand. There was no
Wind stirring to help me, and all I could do with
my Paddles signify'd nothing; and now I began to
give my self over for lost; for as the Current was
on both Sides the Island, I knew in a few Leagues
Distance they must join again, and then I was ir-
recoverably gone; nor did I fee any possibility of
avoiding it; so that I had no Prospect before me
but of perishing; not by the Sea, for that was
calm enough, but of starving for Hunger. I had
indeed found a Tortoise on the Shore, as big al-
most as 1 could lift, and had toss'd it into the
Boat; and 1 had a great Jar of fresh Water, that is
to fay, one of my Earthen Pots; but what was all
this to being driven into the vast Ocean, where, to
be sure, there was no Shore, no main Land, or
Island, for a thousand Leagues at least?
And now I saw how easy it was for the Provi-
dence of God to make the most miserable Condi-
tion Mankind could be in, worse. Now I look'd
back upon my desolate solitary Island, as the roost
pleasant Place in the World, and all the Happiness
my Heart could wish for, was to be but there
again. I stretch'd out my Hands to it with eager
Wishes. O happy Desart, said I, I sliall never see
thee more! O miserable Creature, said I, whi-
ther am I going! Then 1 reproach'd my self with
my unthankful Temper, and how I had repin'd at
my solitary Condition; and now what would I give
to be on Shore there again? Thus we never see
the true State of our Condition, till it is illustrated
to us by its Contraries; nor know how to value
what we enjoy, but by the Want of it. It is scarce
possible to imagine the Consternation I was now in,
being
being driven from my beloved Island (for so it ap-
peared tome now to be) into the wide Ocean, al-
most two Leagues, and in the utmost Despair of
ever recovering it again. However I work'd hard
till indeed my Strength was almost exhausted, and
kept my Boat as much to the Northward, that is,
towards the Side of the Current which the Eddy
lay on, as possibly as I could ; when about Noon, as
the Sun pass'd the Meridian, I thought I felt a lit-
tle Breeze of Wind in my Face, springing up from
the S. S. E. This chear'd my Heart a little, and
especially when in about half an Hour more it
blew a pretty small gentle Gale. By this Time I
was gotten at a frightful Distance from the Ifland,
and had the least Cloud or hazy Weather interven'd,
I had been undone another Way too j for I had no
Compass on Board, and should never have known
how to have steer'd towards the Ifland, if 1 had
but once lost Sight of it; but the Weather con*
tinuing clear, I apply*d my self to get up my Mast
again, spread my Sail, standing away to the North
as much as possible, to get out of the Current.
Just as I had set my Mast and Sail, and the Boat
began to stretch away, I saw even by the Clear-
ness of the Water, some Alteration of the Current
was near; for where the Current was so strong, the
Water was foul,- but perceiving the Water clear, I
found the Current abate, and presently I sound to
the East, at about half a Mile, a Breach of the Sea
upon some Rocks; these Rocks I found caus'd the
Current to part again, and as the main Stress of it
ran away more Southerly, leaving the Rocks to the
North-East, so the other returnd by the Repulse of
the Rocks, and made a strong Eddy, which ran
back again to the North-West with a very 0 arp
Stream.
M 3 They
They who know what it is to have a Reprieve
brought to them upon the Ladder, or to be rescu-
ed from Thieves just going to murder them* oc
who have been in such like Extremities, may guess
ivhat my present Surprize of Joy was, and how
gladly I put my Boat intothe Stream of this Eddy,
and the Wind aJso freshening, how gladly I spread
my Sail to it, running chearfully before the Wind,
and with a strong Tide or Eddy under Foot.
This Eddy carty'd me about a League in my
Way back again directly towards the J (land, but
about two Leagues more to the Northward thaq
the Current wliich carried me away at first ; so
that when 1 came near the Ward, I sound myself
open to the Northern Shore of it, that js to fay,
the other End of the Island opposite to that whicfei
I went out from.
When I had made something more than a League
of Way by the Help qf this Current or Eddys I
found it was spent and servd me no farther. How-
ever, I sound that ijeing between the two great
Currents, (viz,) that on the South Side, which
had hurried me away, and thar an the North,
which lay about a League on the other Side: I fay,
between these two, in the Wake of the Island, I
found the Water atleast stilland running no Way;
and having still a Breeze of Wind fair for me, I
kept on steering directly for the Island, dip* not
making such fresh Way as I did before.
About four a-Clock in the Evening, being then
within about aLeague of the Island, I found the
Point of the Rocks which occasion'4 this Disaster,
stretching out, as is described before, to the South-
ward, and casting off the Current more Southward-
ly, had of course made another Eddy to the North,
and this I sound very strong, but not directly setting
the Way my Course lay, which was due West, but
almost
almost full North. However, having a fresh
Gale, i stretcji'd a-cross this Eddy slanting North-
West, and in about an Hour came within about a
Mile of the Shore, where it being smooth Water,
I soon got to L^nd.
When I was on Shore I fell on my Knees, and
gave God Thanks for my Deliverance resolving to
lay aside all Thoughts of my Deliverance by my
Boat • and refreshing my self with such Things as
I had, I brought my Boat close to the Shore in a
little Cave that J had spy'd under some Trees, and
laid me down tq sleep, being quite sppntwith the
Labour and Fatigue of the Voyage.
I was now at a great Loss which Way to get
Home with my Boat: I had run so much Hazard,
and knew too much the Case to think of attempt-
ing it by the W^y I went out; and what might be
at the other Side, (I mean the West-Side) I knew
not, nor had I any Mind to run any more Ventures,
so I only resolved in the Morning to make my Way
Westward along the Shore, and to fee if there was
po Creek where I might lay up my Fregate in Safe-
ty, so 3s to have tier again it' I wanted her* In about
threel^iies, or thereabout, coasting the Shore,!came
to a very good Inlet, or pay, about a Mile over,
which narrow'd till it came tp a very Ijttle Rivulet
t>r Brook, where I fount} a very convenient Harbour
for my Boat, and where see lay as if she had been
in a little Pock made on purpose for hpr. Here I
put in, and having stow'd ray Boat very safe, t went
on Shore to look about me, and see ^here 1 was.
1 soon found I had but a little pafscl bv the Place
where I had been before, when 1 travell si on Foot
po that Shore ; so taking nothing out of my'j3oar,
but my Gun and my Cnjbrella, for it \yas ex-
ceeding hqt, 1 began spy March. The W^y was
comfortable enough alter such a Voyage as I had
M 4 been
been upon, and I reach'd my old Bower in the
Evening, where I found every thing standing as I
left it j for J always kept it in good Order, being,
as I said before, my Country-house.
I got over the Fence, and laid me down in the
Shade to rest my Limbs, for I was very weary, and
fell asleep: But judge you, if you can, that read my
Story what a Surprize 1 must be in, when I was
wak'd out of my Sleep by a Voice calling me by
my Name several times, Robin, Robin, Robin Crusoe,
poor Robin Crusoel where are you Robin Crusoe?
Where are you? Where have you been?
I was so dead asteep at first, being fatigu'd with
Rowing, or Paddling, as it is call'd, the first
Part of the Day, and with Walking the latter
Part, that I did not wake throughly; but dozing
between steeping and waking, thought I dream'd
that some body spoke to me: But as the Voice
continu'd to repeat Robin Crusoe, Robin Crusoe, at
last I began to wake more perfectly, and was at
first dreadfully frighted, and started up in the ut-
most Consternation: But no sooner were my Eyes
open, but I saw my Poll sitting on the Top of the
Hedge, and immediately knew that it was he that
spoke to me; for just in such bemoaning Language
I had used to talk to him, and teach him; and he
had lcarn'd it so perfectly, that he would sit upon
my Finger, and lay his Bill close to my Face, and
cry, Poor Robin Crusoe, Where are you} Where have
you been? How come you here? and iuch things as I
had taught him.
However, even though I knew it was the Parrot,
and that indeed it could be no body else, it was
a good while before I could compose my self.
First, I was amaxed how the Creature got thither,
and then how he should just keep about the Place,
and no where else: But as 1 was well satisfied it
could
could be no body but honest Poll, I qot it over;
and holding our my Hand, and calling him by his
Name Poll, the sociable Creature came to me, and
sat upon my Thumb, as he used to do, and conti-
nued talking to me, Poor Robin Crusoe, and hew
did 1 come here? And where had I been? Just as
if he had been overjoy'd to fee me again; and so
I carry'd him Home along with me.
1 had now had enough of rambling to Sea for
some time, and had enough to do for many Days
to sit still, and reflect upon the Danger 1 had been
in. I would have been very glad to have had
my Boat again on my Side of the Island; but I
knew not how it was practicable to get it about.
As to the East Side of the Island, which I had
gone round, I knew well enough there was no ven-
turing that Way- my very Heart would (brink,
and my very Blood run chill but to think of it:
And as to the other Side of the island, I did not
know how it might be there; but supposing the
Current ran with the same Force against the Shore
at the East, as it pase'd by it on the other, I might
run the fame Risk of being driven down the
Stream, and carry'd by the Island, as 1 had been
before, of being carry'd away from it; so with these
Thoughts I contented my self to be without any
Boat, tho' it had been the Product of so r^any
Months Labour to make it, and of so macy more
to get it unto the Sea,
In this Government of my Temper I remained
near a Year, lived a very sedate retired Life, as
you may well suppose; and my Thoughts being
very much composed as to my Condition, and
fully comforted in resigning my self to the Dis-
positions of Providence, 1 thought 1 bVd really ve-
ry happily in all things, except that of Society.
I im-
pen
1 improved my self in this Time ,m a:' "e
cbanick Exercises which my Na'c^;  < a<
©a applying my self to, r?ad I •»«--*c* ° *.<* • , ;.
Occasi^sti havem-idc -1 very ^ood ':rs ^r, cu,t%
cially considering how fr'v Tools I' ><'•
Besides this, 1 arnv'd at an un<-xr *i<-d F\r-
section in ray Earthen Watt: £id co*-cv*vcj will
enough tor1 ike them with a Wheel, which 1 found
infinitely easier and better ; becure I maiteTh'ngs
round and fhapeable* which before ^ere filthy
Things indeed to look on. But 1 think i was ne-
ver more vain of my own Performance, or more
Joyful for any Thing 1 found outj than for my be-
ing able to make a Tobacco-Pipe. And tho' it was
9 very ugly clumsy Thing} when k was done>cn4
only burnt red .like other Earthen Ware, ver as k
was hard and firm, and would draw the Smoak, 1
was exceedingly comforted with if; for I had been
always used to Smoak, and there were P;pcs in
the Ship, but 1 forgot them at first, not knowing
that there was Tobacco in the Island; am.; after-
wards, when 1 fearch'd the Ship again, 1 could
not come at any Pipes at all
In œy Wicker-ware also 1 improved much, and
made Abundance of necessary Baskets, as well as
my Invention fhew'd me, though not very hand-
some, yet they were such as were very handy and
convenient for my laying Things up in, or fetching
Things home in. For Example, if I klif d a Goaf
abroad, 1 could hang it up in a Tree, flea it, and
dress it, and cut it in Pieces and brkig it home in
a Basket; and the like by a Turtle, I could cut it
wp> take out the Egg$, and a Piece or two of the
Flesli, which was enough for roe, and bring them
home in a Basket, and leave the test behind
me. Also large deep Baskets were my Recei-
vers for my Corn, which i always rubb'd out as
soon
 
soon as. it was dry, and cured, and kept it in
great Baskets.
1 began now to perceive my Powder abated
considerably, and this was a Want which it was
impossible forme to supply, and 1 began seriously
to consider what I must do when I should have no
more Powder -3 that is to fay, how I should do to
kill any Goats. I had, as is pbserv'd in the third
Year of my being here, kept a young Kid, and
bred her up tame, | was in hopes of getting a
He-Goat, but 1 could not by any means bring it
to pass, till my Kid grew an old Goat; aud I
could never find in my Heart to kill her, till she
dy'd at last osmeer Age.
But being now in the eleventh Year of my Re-
sidence* and, as I have said, my Ammunition grow-
ing low, J set my self to study some Art to trap
and snare the Goats, to fee whether I CQuld not
catch some of them alive, and particularly I want-
ed a She-Goat great with Young.
To thjs Purpose I made Snares to hamper them,
and 1 dQ believe they were more than once taken
in them; but my Tackle was not good, for I had
no Wire, and I always found them broken, and
my Bait devour'd.
At length I resolv'd to try a Pit-fall, sp J dug
several large Pits in the Earth, in Places where I
had ohferv'd the Goats used to feed, and over these
Pits I placed Hurdles of my own making too,
witha great Weight upon them; and scvfi^l times
I put Ears of Barley and dry Rice, without set-
ting the Trap, and I could easily perceive that the
Goats had gone in and eaten up the Corn, for I
could see the Mark of their Feet. At length I set
three Traps in one Night, and going the tm%
Morning I found them all standing, and yet the
Bait eaten and gone. This was very discouraging:
How*
However, I alter'd my Traps, and, not ta trouble
you with Particulars, going one Morning to fee
my Traps, I found in one of them a large old He-
Goat, and in one of the other three Kids, a Male
and two Females.
As to the old one, I knew not what to do with
him, he was so fierce I durst not go into the Pit
to him; that is to fay, to go about to bring him
away alive, which was what I wanted. I could
have kilfd him, but that was not my Business, nor
would it answer my End. Sq I e'en let him out,
and he ran away as if he had been frighted out of
his Wits: But I had forgot then what I had
learned afterwards, that Hunger will tame a Lion.
If 1 had let him stay there three or four Days with-
out Food, and then have carry'd him some Water
to drink, and then a little Corn, he would fan
been as tame as one of the Kids, for they are
mighty sagacious tractable Creatures where they
are well used.
However, for the present I let him go, know-
ing no better at that time; then I went to the
three Kids, and taking them one by one, I ty'd
them with Strings together, and with some Diffi-
culty brought them all home.
It was a good while before they would feed, but
throwing them some sweet Corn, it tempted them,
and they began to be tame: And now 1 found that
if I expected to supply my self with Goat Fleffi,
when I had no Powder or Shot left, breeding
some up tame was my only Way, when perhaps
I might have them about my House like a Flock
of Sheep.
But then it presently occur'd to me, that I must
keep the Tame from the Wild, or else they would
always run wild when they grew up ,• and the only
Way for this was to have some enclosed Piece o(
Groundi
Ground, wellfenc'd either with Hedge or Pale, to
keep them in so effectually, that those within
might not breakout, or those without break in.
This was a great Undertaking for one Pair of
Hands; yet as i saw there was an absolute NcceC
sity of doing it, my first Piece of Work was to
find out a proper Piece of Ground, viz, where
there was likely to be Herbage for them to cat,
Water for them to drink, and Cover to keep them
from the the Sun.
Those who understand such Enclosures will
think I had very little Contrivance, whcnlpitch'd
upon a Place very proper for all these, being a
plain open Piece of Meadow-Land or Savanna,
(as our People call it in the Western Colonies,)
which had two or three little Drills of fresh Water
in it, and at one end was very woody: 1 fay
they will smile at my Forecast, when I stall tell them
I began my enclosing of this Piece of Ground in
such a Manner, that my Hedge or Pale must have
been at least two Mile about. Nor was the Mad-
ness of it so great as to the Compass, for if it was
ten Mile about 1 was like to have time enough to
do it in. But I did not consider that my Goats
would be as wild in so much Compass, as if they
had had the whole Istand, and I should have so
much Room to chafe them in, that 1 siiould never
catch them.
My Hedge was begun and carry'don, I believe,
about fifty Yards, when this Thought occur'd to
me; so I presently stopt short, and for the first Be-
ginning I resolv'd to inclose a Piece of about 150
Yards in Length, and 100 Yards in Breadth, which
as it would maintain as many as I should have
in any reasonable Time, so as my Flock encreased,
I could add more Ground to my Enclosure.
This
This was acting with some Prudence, and I
went to work with Courage. I was about thrct
Months hedging in the first Piece, and till I had
done it I tether'd the three Kids in the best Part of
It, and us'd them to feed as near mt as possible to
make them familiar ,• and very often I would go and
carry them some Eats of Barley, #t a Handful
of Rice, and feed them out of my Band ; so that
after my Inclosure Was finifb'd, and I let them
loose, they would follow me up and down, bleat-
ing after me for a handful of Corn.
Thisanswer'd my End, and in aboutaYearand
Half I had a Flock of about twelve Goats, Kids,
and all; and in two Years more I had three and
forty, besides several that I took and kill'd for my
Food. And after that I inclosed five several
Pieces of Ground to feed them in, with little
Penns to drive them into, to take them as I want*
id, and Gates out of one Piece of Ground into
another.
But this was not all; for now I t\m only had
Goats-Flesli to feed on when I pleafc'd, but Milk
too, a Thing which indeed in my Beginning I did
not so much as think of, and which, when it catne
into my Thoughts, was really an agreeable Stir-
ptize. For now I set up my Dairy, and had some-
times a Gallon or two of Milk in a Day. And i$
Nature, who gives Supplies of Food to every
Creature, dictates even naturally how to make use
of it ; so I that had never milk'd a Cow, much less
a Goat, or seen Butter or Cheese made, very rea-
dily and handily, tho' after a great many Essays
and Miscarriages, made me both Butter and Cheelc
at last, and never wanted it afterwards.
How mercifully can our great Creator treat his
Creatures, even in those Condirions in which they
seem'd to be over-wheim'd in Destruction 1 Ho^
cast
can he sweeten the bitterest Providences aird give
us Cause to praise him for Dungeons and Prisons i
What a Table was here spread for me in a Wil-
derness, where I saw nothing at first bat to periii
for Hunger!
It would have made a Stoiek smile to have seen
me and my little Family sit down to Dinner ; there
was my Majesty, the Prince and Lord of the whole
Island •• I had the Lives of al) my Subjects at my
absolute Command. I could hang, draw, give
Liberty, and take it away, and no Rebels among
all my Subjects.
Then to fee how like a King I din'd too all a-
lone, attended by my Servants 5 Polh as if he had
been my Favourite, was the only Person permit-
ted to talk to me. My Dog, who was now grown
very old and crazy, and had found no Species to
multiply his Kind upon, fat always at my Right
Hand; and two Cats, one on one Side the Ta-'
ble, and one on the other, expecting now and
then a Bit from my Hand, as a Mark of special
Favour.
But these were not the two Cats which I brought
on Shore ac first, for they were both of them dead,
and had been interred near my Habitation by my
own Hand; but one of them having multiply <l
by I know not what Kind of Creature, these tf ere
two which I had preserv'd tame, whereas the rest
run wild in the Woods, and became indeed trou-
blesome to me at last ; for thfcy would often
come into my House, and plunder ixie too, till at
last I was obliged to shoot them, and did kill a
great many ; at length they test me with this At-
tendance; and in this plentiful Manner I liv'd;
neither could I be said to want any Thing but
Society, and of that in some time after this I was
Hke to have too much.
I was
I was something impatient, as I have oblerv'd,
to have the Use of my Boat, though very loath ro
run any more Hazards; and therefore sometimes I
fat contriving Ways to get her about the Island,
and at other times 1 fat my self down contented
enough with her. But I had a strange Uneasiness in
my Mind to go down to the Point of the Island,
where, as I have said, in my last Ramble, I went
up the Hill to see how the Shore Jay, and how the
Current set, that I might see what I had to do.
This Inclination increased uponmeevery Day,and
at length I resolved to travel thither by Land; fol-
lowing the Edge of the Shore Ididso; But bad any
one in England been to meet such a Man as I was, it
must either have frighted them, or raised a great
deal of Laughter; and as 1 frequently stood still to
look at my self, 1 could not but smile at the Noti-
on of my travelling thro' York/hire with such an
Equipage, and in such a Dress. Be pleased to take
a Sketch of my Figure as follows.
1 had a great high shapeless Cap, made of a
Goat's Skin, with a Flap hanging down behind,
as well to keep the Sun from me, as to shoot the
Rain off from running into my Neck; nothing
being so hurtful in these Climates, as the Rain
upon the Flesh under the Clothes.
I had a short Jacket of Goatskin, the Skirts
coming down to about the Middle of my Thighs;
and a Pair of open-kneed Breeches of the fame; the
Breeches were made of theSkin of an old He-goat,
whose Hair hung down such a Length on either
Side, that like Pantaloons it reach'd to the Middle
of my Legs. Stockings and Shoes I had none, but
I had made me a Pair of something, I scarce know
what to call them, like Buskins, to flap over my
Legs, and lace on either Side like Spatterdafhers;
but
but of a most barbarous Shape, as indeed were all
the rest of my Cloaths.
1 had on, a broad Belt of Goat's Skin dry'd,
which I drew together with two Thongs of the
fame, instead of Buckles, and in a kind of a Frog
on either Side of this, instead of a Sword and a
Dagger, hung a little Saw and a Hatchet, one on
one Side, one on the other. I had another Belt not
so broad, and fasten'd in the fame manner, which
hung over my Shoulder $ and at the End of it,
under mv left Arm hung two Pouches, both made
of Goats Skin too; in one of which hung my
Powder, in the other my Shot: At my Back I car-
ried my Basket, on my Shoulder my Gun, and over
my Head a. great clumsy ugly Goat-Skin Umbrello,
but which, after all, was the most necessary thing
I had about me, next to my Gun: As for my Face,
the Colour of it was really not so Moktta like as
one might expect from a Man not at all careful of
it, and living within 9 or io Degrees of the Equinox*
My Beard I had once suffered to grow till it was
about a Quarter of a Yard long; but as I had both
Scissars and Razors sufficient, I had cut it pretty
siiort, except what grew on my upper Lip, which
I had trimm'd into a large Pair of Mahometan
Whiskers, such as t had seen worn by some Turks,
whom I saw at Sallee, for the Moors did not wear
such, tho* the Turks did; of these Mustachioes, or
Whiskers, I will not fay they were long enough to
hang my Hat upon them, but they were of a
Length and Shape monstrous enough, and such as
in England would have passed for frightful.
But all this is by the by; for as to my Figure, I
had so few to observe me, that it was of no man-
ner of Consequence; sol say no more to that Part.
In this kind of Figure I went my new Journey, and
wa* ou| five or six Days. I traveled first along the
Parti. n Sea-
Sea-Shore, directly to the Place where I first brought
my Boat to an Anchor, to get up upon the Rocks;
and having no Boat now to take care of, I wento-
ver the Land a nearer Way, to the fame Height
that I was upon before; when looking forward to
the Point of the Rocks which lay out, and which
I was oblig'd to double with my Boat, as I said a-
bove, I was surpriz'd to see the Sea all smooth and
quiet, no Rippling, no Motion, no Current, any
more there than in other Places.
I was at a strange Loss to understand this, and
resolv'd to spend some Time in the observing it, to
see if nothing from the Sets of the Tide had occa-
sions it; but I was presently convinced how it was,
v/Zm That the Tide of Ebb setting from the West,
and joyning with the Current of Waters from some
great River on the Shore, must be the Occasion of
this Current; and that according as the Wind blew
more forcibly from the Wefl> or from the North, this
Current came near, or totnt farther from the Shore:
for waiting thereabouts till Evening, I went up to
the Rock again, and then the Tide of Ebb being
made, I plainly saw the Current again as before,
dnly, that it ran farther off, being near half a
League from the Shore; whereas in my Cafe, it
set close upon the Shore, and hurried me and my
Canoe along with it, which at another Time it
would not have done.
This Observation convinced me, That I had no-
things to do but to observe the Ebbing and the
Flowing of the Tide, and I might very easily bijing
my Boat about the Island again: But wjhen I be-
gan to think of putting it in Practice, I had such a
Terror upon my Spirits at the Remembrance of
the Danger I had been in, that I could not think of
it again with any Patience ; but on the contrary, I
rook up another Resolution,- which was more safe,
though
though more laborious; and this wasf, That I
would build, or rather make me another Penagua%
or Canoe i and so have one for one Side of the Island,
and one for the other.
You are to understand, that now I had, as I
may call it, two Plantations in the Ifland; one my
little Fortification or Tent, with the Wall about
it under the Rock, with the Cave behind me,
which by this Time I had ertlargM into several
Apartments or Cares, one within another. One
of these, which was the dryest, and largest, and
had a Door out beyond my Wall or Fortification ;*
that is to fay, beyond where my Wall join'd to
the Rock, was all fill'd up with the large Eartheti
Pots, of which I have given an Account, and'with
fourteen or fifteen great Baskets, which would hold
five or six Bufliels each, where I laid up my Stores:
of Provision, especially my Corn, some in the Ear
cut oft" short from the Straw, and the other rubb'd'
out with my Hand*
As for my Wall made, as before, with long Stakes
or Piles, those Piles grew all like Trees, and were
by this Time grown so big, and spread so very'
much, that there was not the least Appearance to?
any one's View of any Habitation behind them.
Near this Dwelling of mine, but a little farther
within the Land, and upon lower Ground, lay my
two Pieces of Corn-Ground, which I kept duly
cultivated and sow'd, and which duly yielded" me
their Harvest in its Season; and whenever I had
Occasion for more Corn, I had more Land adjoin-
ing as fit. as that.
Besides this, I had my Country Seat, and' 1 had
now a tolerable Plantation there also; for firsts I'
had my little Bower, as I callM it, which i kept
in Repair j that is to fay, I kept the Hedge which'
circled it inconstantly fitted up to its usual Height,
N z the
the Ladder standing always in the inside ,• I kept
the Trees which at first were no more than my
Stakes, but were now grown very firm and tall • I
kept them always so cut, that they might spread
and grow thick and wild, and make the more agree-
able Shade, which they did effectually to my Mind,
In the middle ot this I had my Tent always stand-
ing, being a piece of a Sail spread over Poles set up
for that Purpose, and which never wanted any re-
pair or renewing; and under this I had made me
a Squab or Couch, with the Skins of the Creatures
I had kiird, and with other soft Things, and a
Blanket laid or> them, such as belonged to our Sea-
Bedding, which I had saved, and a great Watch-
Coat to cover me; and here, whenever I had oc-
casion to be absent from my chief Seat, I took up
my Country Habitation.
Adjoyning to this I had my Enclosures for my
Cattle, that is to fay, my Goats: And as I had
taken an inconceivable deal of pains to fence and
enclose this Ground, so I was so uneasy to see it
kept entire, lest the Goats should break thro', that
I never left ostj till with infinite Labour 1 had stuck
the Outside of the Hedge so full of small Stakes,
and so near to one another, that it was rather a
Pale than a Hedge, and there was scarce room to
put a Hand thro* between them, which afterwards
when those Stakes grew, as they all did in the next
rainy Season, made the Enclosure strong, like a
Wall, indeed stronger than any Wall.
This will testify for me that I was not idle,
mnd that I spared no Pains to bring to pass what-
ever appeared necessary for my comfortable Sup-
pott ,• for I considers the keeping up a Breed of
tame Creatures thus at my Hand, would be a li-
ving Magazine of Flesli, Milk, Butter and Cheese,
fof
for me as long as I liv'd in the Place, if it were to*
be forty Years, and that keeping them in my
Reach, depended entirely upon my perfecting my
Enclosures to such a degree, that I might be sure
of keeping them together; which by this Method
indeed I so effectually secured, that when these
little Stakes began to grow, I had planted them
so very thick, 1 was forced to pull some of them
up again.
In this Place also I had my Grapes growing,
which I principally depended on for my Winter
Store of Raisins, and which I never failed to pre-
serve very carefully, as the best and most agreeable
Dainty of my whole Diet; and indeed they were
not agreeable only, but physical, wholesome, nou-
rishing and refreshing to the last degree.
As this was also about half way between my
other Habitation and the Place where I had laid
up my Boat, I generally stay'd and lay here in my
Way thither; for I used frequently to visit my
Boat, and I kept all things about or belonging to
her in very good Order; sometimes I went out
in her to divert myself, but no more hazardous
Voyages would I go, nor scarce ever above a Stone's
Cast or two from the Shore, I was so apprehen-
sive of being hurried out of my Knowledge again
by the Currents, or Winds, or any other Accident:
J3ut now I come to a new Scene of my Life.
It happens one Day about Noon,going towards
my Boat, I was exceedingly surpriz'd with the Print
of a Man's naked Foot on the Shore, which was
very plain to be seen in the Sand: I stood like one
Thunder-struck, or as if J had seen an Apparition;
I listened, I look'd round me, I could hear nothing,
nor see any thing; I went up,to a rising Ground to
look farther: I went up the Shore, and down the
Shore, but it was all one, I could fee no other
N 3 Impression
Impression but that one, I went to it again to see
if there were 4ny mote, and to observe if it might
not be my Fancy; but there was no Room foe
that, for there was exactly the very Print of a Foot,
Toes, Heel, and every Part of a Foot; how it
came thither, I know not, nor could in the least
imagine. But after innumerable fluttering Thoughts,
like a Man perfectly confused and out of myself, 1
came home to my Fortification, not feeling, as we
jfey, the Ground I went on, but terrify*d to the last
degree, looking behind me at every two or three
Steps, mistaking every Bush and Tree, and fancy-
ing every Stump at a distance to be a Man; nor is
it possible to describe how many various Shapes a-
frighted Imagination represented things to me in;
how many wild Ideas were found every Moment
in my Fancy, and what strange unaccountable
Whimsies came into my Thoughts by the Way.
When I came to my Castle, tor so I think I call'd
it ever after this, I fled into it like one pursued;
whether I went over by the Ladder, as first con-
trived, or went in at the Hole in the Rock, which
1 call'd a Door, I cannot remember; no, nor could
I remember the next Morning; for never frighted
Hare fled to Cover, or Fox to Earth, with more
Terror of Mind than I to this Retreat.
I slept none that Night; the farther I was from
the Occasion of my Fright, the greater my Ap-
prehensions were; which is something contrary to
the nature of such things, and especially to the
usual Practice of all Creatures in Fear: But I was
so embarrass'd with my own frightful Ideas of the
thing, that I form'd nothing but dismal Imagina-
tions to myself, even tho' I was now a great way
off it. Sometimes J fancy'd it must be the De-
vil; and Reason join'd in with me upon this Sup-
position: For how sliould any other thing in hu-
man
man Shape come into the Place ? Where was the
Vessel that brought them? What Marks was there
of any other Footsteps? And how was ft possible
a Man should come there? But then to think that
Satan should take human Shape upon him in such a
Place where there could be no manner of Occasion,
tor it, but to leave the Print of his Foot behind
lnm,and that even for no Purpose too (for he could
not be sure I should see it) this was an Amusement
the other Way: I considered that the Devil might
have found out Abundance of other Ways to have
terrify 'd me, than this of the single Print of a Foot.
That as I liv'd quite on the other side of the Island,
he would never have been so simple to leave a Mark
in a Place where it was ten Thousand to One whe-
ther I should ever see it or not, and in the Sand
too, which the first Surge of the Sea upon a high
Wind would haye deface! entirely : All this seemed
inconsistent with the Thing itself, and with all
the Notions we usually entertain of the Subtilty
of the Devil.
Abundance of such Things as these assisted to ar-
gue me out of all Apprehensions of its being the
Devil: And I presently concluded then, that it must
be some more dangerous Creature, w. That it
must be some of the Savages of the main Land
over-against me, who had wandered out to Sea in
their Canoes, and either driven by the Currents, or
by contrary Winds, had made the Island; and had
been on Shore? but were gone away again to Sea,
being as loth, perhaps, to have staid in this deso-
late Island,as I would have been to have had them.
While these Reflections were rolling upon my
Mind, I was very thankful in my Thoughts, that
I was so happy as not to be thereabouts at that
Time, or that they did not fee my Boat, by which
they would have concluded that fpme Inhabitants
N4 ha4
had been in the Place, and perhaps have searched
farther for me: Then terrible Thoughts rack'd my
Imagination about their having found my Boat,
and that there were People here 1 and that if so, I
should certainly have them come again in greater
Numbers, and devour me; that if it should happen
so that they should not find me, yet they would
find my Enclosure, destroy all my Corn, carry away
all my Flock of tame Goats, and I should perish at
last for meer Want.
Thus my Fear banifh'd all my Religious Hope,
all that former Confidence in God, whiph was
founded upon such wonderful Experience as I had
had of his Goodness, now vanished ; as if he that
had fed me by Miracle hitherto, could not preserve
by his Power the Provision which he had made for
me by his Goodness. I reproach'd myself with my
Easiness, that would not sow any more Corn one
Year than would just serve me till the next Season,
as if no Accident could intervene to prevent my
enjoying the Crop that was upon the Ground;
and this I thought so just a Reproof, that I resolv'd
for the future to have two ot three Years Corn be-
fore-hand, so that whatever might come, I might
not perish for want of Bread.
How strange a Chequer-Work of Providence is
the Life of Man! and by what secret differing
Springs are the Afftctions hurried about, as differ-
ing Circumstances present 1 To Day we love what
to Morrow we hate; to Day we seek what to Mor-
row we shun; to Day we desire wW to Morrow
we fear ; nay, even tremble at the Apprehensions of.
This was exemplified in me at this Time in the
most lively Manner imaginable; for T, whose only
Affliction was, that I seem'd banisliM from human
Society, that I was alone, circumscribed by the
boundless Ocean, cut off from Mankind, and com
demn'd
demn'd to what I call silent Life; that I was as
one whorri Heaven thought not worthy to be num-
bered among the Living, or to appear among the
rest of his Creatures; that to have seen one of my
own Species, would have scem'd to me a Raising
me from Death to Life, and the greatest Blessing
that Heaven itself, next to the supreme Blessing of
Salvation, could bestow; J say, that I ffiould now
tremble at the very Apprehensions of seeing a Man,
and was ready to sink into the Ground at but the
Shadow, or silent Appearance of a Man's having
set his Foot on the Island.
Such is the uneven State of Human Life ; and it
afforded me a great many curious Speculations af-
terwards, when I had a little recovered my first
Surprize ; I considered that this was the Station of
Life, the infinitely wife and good Providence of
God had determin'd for me; that as I could not
foresee what the Ends of Divine Wisdom might be
in all this, so I was not to dispute his Sovereignty,
who, as I was his Creature, had an undoubted
Right by Creation, to govern and dispose of me
absolutely as he thought fit; and who, as I was a
Creature who had offended him, had likewise a
judicial Right to condemn me to what Punishment
he thought fit; and that it was my Part to submit
to~bear his Indignation, because I had sinn'd a-
gainst him.
I then reflected, that God, who was not only
Righteous but Omnipotent, as he had thought fit
thus to punish and afflict me, so he was able to
deliver me; that if he did not think fit to do it,
cwas my unquestion'd Duty to resign myself abso-
lutely and entirely to his Will: And on the other
hand, it was my Duty also to hope in him, pray
to him, and quietly to attend the Dictates and
Directions of his daily Providence.
These
These Thoughts took me up many Hours, Days,
hay, 1 may fay, Weeks and Months -y and one par'
ticular Effect: of my Cogitations on this Occasion,
I cannot omit, viz,. One Morning early, lying m
my Bed, and filled with Thoughts about my Dan-
get from the Appearance of Savages, I found it
difcompos'd riie very much; upon which those
Words of the Scripture came into my Thoughts,
Call upon me in the Day of Trouble, and I will delmr,
'and thou Jlialt glorify me.
Upon this, rising cheerfully out of my Bed, my
Heart was not only comforted, but I was guided
and encouraged to pray earnestly to God for De-
liverance: when I had done praying, I took up
my Bible, and opening it to read, the first Words
that presented to me, were, Wait on the Lord, and
be of good Cheer, and he stall strengthen thy Heart;
wait, I say, on the Lord. It is impossible to express
the Comfort this gave me. In Answer, I thank-
fully laid down the Book, and was no more fad,
at least, not on that Occasion.
In the Middle of these Cogitations, Apprehen-
sions, and Reflections, it came into my Thought one
Day, that all this might be a meer Chimera of my
6wrt; and that this Foot might be the Print of my
qwit Foot, when I came on Shore from my Boat:
Thischear'd me up a little too, and I began to per-
swade ittyself it was all a Delusion; that it was no-
thing else but my own Foot; and why might not I
cottie that Way from the Boat, as well as I was go-
ing that Way to the Boat ? Again, I considers also
that I could by no Means tell for certain where 1
had trod, dnd where I had not j and chat if at last
this was 6nly the Print of my own Foot, I had
play'd the Part of those Fools, who strive to make
Stories of Spectres and Apparitions, and then are
frighted at thetii more than any body.
Now
Now I began to take Courage, and to peep aw
broad again; tor I had not stirr'd out of my Castl0
for three Days and Nights; so that I began t^
starve for Provision; for I had little or nochin
within Doors, but lome Barley Cakes and Water.
Then I knew that my Goats wanted to be milk'd
too, which usually was my Evening Diversion; and
the poor Creatures were in great Pain and Inconve-
nience for want of it; and indeed it almost spoiled
ome of them, and almost dry'd up their Milk.
Heartning myself therefore with the Belief that
this was nothing but the Print of one of my own
feet, (and so I might be truly said to start at my
own Shadow ) I began to go abroad again, and
went to my Country-House to milk my Flock; but
to see with what Fear I went forward, how often I
look'd behind me, how I was ready every now* and
then to lay down my Basket, and run for my Life,it
would have made any one have thought I was haunt-
ed with an evil Conscience, or that I had been late-
ly most terribly frighted; and so indeed I had.
However, as I went down thus two or three
Days, and having seen nothing, I began to be a lit-
tle bolder, and to think there was really nothing in
it but my own Imagination; but I could not per-
swade myself fully of this, till I sliould go down to
the Shore again, and fee this Print of a Foot, and
measure it by my own, and see if there was any Si-
militude or Fitness, that I might be assured it was
my own Foot: But when I came to the Place,
first, it appear'd evidently to me, that when I laid
up my Boat, I could not possibly be on Shore an^
where thereabout: Secondly, when I came to mea-
sure the Mark with my own Foot, I found ifty Foot
not so large by a great deal ,* both these things fill'd
m Head with new Imaginations, and gave me the
Yapours again to the highest degree; so that I
shook
(hook with Cold, like one in an Ague, and I went
Home again, fiil'd with the Belief that some Man
or Men had been on Shore there; or, in short, that
the Ifland was inhabited, and I might be surpriz'd
before I was aware; and what Course to take for
my Security, I knew not.
O what ridiculous Resolutions Men take, when
possefs'd with Fear 1 it deprives them of the Use ot
those Means which Reason offers for their Relief.
The first thing I proposed to myself was, to
throw down my Enclosures, and turn all my tame
Cattel wild into the Woods, that the Enemy might
not find them, and then frequent the Island in Pro-
spect of the same, or the like Booty; then to the
simple thing of digging up my two Corn-Fields,
that they might not find such a Grain there, and
still be prompted to frequent the Island; then to
demolish my Bower and Tent, that they might
not see any Vestiges of Habitation, and be prompt-
ed to look further, in order to find out the Persons
inhabiting.
These were the Subject of the first Night's Co-
gitation, after I was come home again, while the
Apprehensions which had so over run my Mind
were fresh upon me, and my Head was full of Va-
pours, as above. Thus Fear of Danger is ten thou-
sand times more terrifying than Danger itself,
when apparent to the Eyes; and we find the Bur-
den of Anxiety greater by much, than the Evil
which we are anxious about; and,which was worse
than all this, I had not that Relief in this Trouble
from the Resignation I used to practise, that I
hoped to have. I looked, I thought, like Saul, who
complain'd not only that the Philistines were upon
him, but that God had forsaken him; for I did not
now take due ways to compose my Mind, by crying
to God fn my Distress, and resting upon h;s Provi-
dence,
dence, as I had done before, for my Defence and
Deliverance $ which if I had done, I had, at least
been more cheerfully supported under this new Sur-
prize, and perhaps carry'd through it with more
Resolution.
This Confusion of my Thoughts kept me waking
all Night; but in the Morning I fell asleep, and
having, by the Amusement of my Mind, been as
it were tired, and my Spirits exhausted, I slept ve-
ry soundly, and wak'd much better composed than
I had ever been before: And now I began to think
sedately; and upon the utmost Debate with my-
self, I concluded, That this Island, which was so
exceeding pleasant, fruitful, and no farther from the
main Land than as I had seen, was not so entirely
abandon'd as 1 might imagine: That altho* there
were no stated Inhabitants who liv'd on the Spot;
yet that there might sometimes come Boats off
from the Shore, who either with Design, or per-
haps never, but when they were driven by cross
Winds, might come to this Place.
Thar I had liv'd here fifteen Years now, and had
not met with the least Shadow or Figure of any
People yet; and that if at any Time they should
be driven here, it was probable they went away
again as soon as ever they could, seeing they had
never thought fit to fix there upon any Occasion,
to this Time.
That the most I cou'd suggest any Danger from,'
was, from any such casual accidental Landing of
straggling People from the Main, who, as it was
likely if they were driven hither, were here against
their Wills ,* so they made no stay here, but went off
again with all possible Speed, seldom staying one
Night on Shore, lest they should not have the
Help of Hie Tides, and Day-light back again ; and
that therefore I had nothing to do but to consider
of
of some safe Retreat, in Cafe I should fee any Sa-
vages land upon the Spot.
Now I began sorely to repent, that 1 had dog
my Cave so large, as to bring a Door through
again, which Door, as I said, came out beyond
were my Fortification joyn'd to the Rock: Upon
maturely considering this therefore, I refolvM to
draw me a second Fortification, in the fame Man-
ner of a Semicircle, at a Distance from my Wall,
just where I had planted a double Row of Trees
about twelve Years before, of which i made men-
tion: These Trees having been planted so thick
before, there wanted but a few Piles to be driven
between them, that they should be thicker, and
stronger, and my Wall would be soon finished.
So that I had now a double Wall, and my outer
WaH was thickned with Pieces of Timber, old Ca-
bles, and every thing I could think of to make it
strong; having in it seven little Holes, about as
big a£ I might put my Arm out at. In the Inside
of this I thickned my Wall to about ten Foot
thick, with continually bringing Earth out of my
Cave, and laying its at the Foot of the Wall, and
walking upon it ; and through the seven Holes, I
contrivM to plant the Mufquets, of which I took
Hotice, that I got seven on Shore out of the Ship;
these, I fay, I planted like my Cannon, and fitted
them into Frames that held them like a Carriage,
that so I could fire all the seven Guns in two Mi-
nutes time: This Wall I was many a weary Month
a finishing, and yet never thefught my self safe til!
it was done.
When this was done, I stuck all the Ground
without my Wall, for a great way every way, as
full with Stakes or Sticks of the OJterAlkc Wood,
which I found so apt to grow, as they could well
stand i insomuch, that I believe I might serin near
twenty
twenty Thousand of them, leaving a pretty large
Space' between them and my Wall, that I might
have Room to see an Enemy, and they might have
: o Shelter from the young Trees, if they attempt-
ed ro approach my outer Wall.
Thus in two Years time I had a thick Grove,
and in five or Six Years time I had a Wood before
my Dwelling, growing so monstrous thick and
llrong, that it was indeed perfectly impassable; and
no Men, of what kind soever, would ever imagine
that there was any Thing beyond it, much less a
Habitation. As for the Way which I proposed to
myself to go in and out, for I left no Avenue, it
was by setting two Ladders ; one to a Part of the
Rock which was low, and then broke in, and left
room to place another Ladder upon that; so when
the two Ladders were taken down, no Man living;
could come down to me without mifehieving him-
self: and if they had come down, they were still
on the Outside of my outer Wall.
Thus I took all the Measures human Prudence
could suggest for my own Preservation -, and it will
be seen at length, that they were not altogethec
without just Reason ; though I foresaw nothing at
that Time, more thaa my meer Fear suggested to
me.
While this was doing, I was not altogether care-
less of my other Affairs ; for I had a gre^t Concern
upon me for my little Herd of Goats; they were
not only a present Supply to me, upon every Occasi-
on, and began to be sufficient to me, without the
Expence of Powder and Shot, but also without
the Fatigue of Hunting after the wild ones ; and I
was loth to lose the Advantage of them, $nd to
have them all to nurse up over again.
To this Purpose, after long Consideration, I
could think of but two Ways to preserve them;
one
one was to find another convenient Place to dig *
Cave under Ground, and to drive them into it eve-
ry Night; and the other was to enclose two ot
three little Bits of Land, remote from one another,
and as mudi concealed as I could, where 1 might
keep about half a dozen young Goats in each Place.
So that if any Disaster happen'd to the Flock in ge-
neral, I might be able to raise them again with lit-
tle Trouble and Time: And this, tho* it would
require a great deal of Time and Labour,! thought
was the most rational Design.
Accordingly, I spent some Time to find out the
riiost retired Parts of the 1 stand; and 1 pitch'd up-
on One Which was as private indeed as my Heart
could wise for; it was a little damp Piece of
Ground in the middle of the hollow and thick
Woods, \tfhete* as is observed, I almost lost myself
once before, endeavouring to come back that way
from the Eastern Part of the Island: Here Hound
a clear Piece of Land near three Acres, so sur-
rounded with Woods, that it was almost an En-
closure by Nature, at least it did not want near so
much Labour to make it so, as the other Pieces oi
Ground I had worked so hard at. 4 t .
I immediately went to work with this Piece of
Ground, and in less than a Month's time, I had
so fenced it round, that my Flock or Herd, call c
which you please, who were not so ^vild now as
at first they might be supposed to be, were well
enough secured in it. So without any farther De-
lay, I removed ten She Goats and two He-Goats
to this Piece; and when they were there, I conti-
nued to perfect the Fence till I had made it as se-
cure as the other, which, however, I did at more
Leisure, and it took me up more Time by a great
deaU
   - AU
All this Labour I was at the Expence o£ purely
from my Apprehensions on the Account of the
Print of a Man s Foot which I had seen; for as yet
1 never saw any human Creature come near the
liknd, and I had nowliv'd two Years under these
Uneasinesses, which indeed made my Life much less
comfortable than it was before; as may well be
imagin'd by any who know what it is to live in
the constant Snare of the Fear of Man; and this I
must observe with Grief too, that the Discompo-
sure of my Mind had too great Impressions also up-
on the religious Part of my Thoughts/or the Dread
and Terror of falling into the Hands of Savages
and Canibals lay so upon my Spirits, that I seldom
sound myself in a due Temper for Application to
my Maker, at least not with the sedate Calmness
and Resignation of Soul which I was wont to do ,• I
rather pray'd to God as under great Affliction and
Pressure of Mind, surrounded with Danger, and in
Expectation every Night of being murder'd and de-
vours! before Morning; and I must testify from my
Experience,that a Tempel of Peace,Thankfulnese,
Love and Affection, is much the more proper Frame
for Prayer than that of Terror and Discomposure;
and that under the Dread of Mischief impending,
a Man is more fit for a comforting Performance
of the Duty of praying to God, than he is for Re-
pentance on a Sick-bed: For these Discomposures
affect the Mind as the others do the Body ,• and
the Discomposure of the Mind must necessarily be
as great a Disability as that of the Body, and
much greater, praying to God being properly an
Act of the Mind, not of the Body.
But to go on ; After I had thus secur'd one Part
of my little living Stock, I went about the whole
Island, searching for another private Place, to make
Part L O such
such another Deposit; when wandring mote to the
West Point os the Wand than I had ever done yet,
and looking out to Sea, 1 thought I saw a Boat up-
on the Sea, at a great Distance. I had found a
Prospective-Glass, or two, in one of the Seamen's
Chests, which I sav'd out os our Ship; but I had
it not about me, and this was so remote, that I
could not tell what to make of it, tho* I lookM
at it till my Eyes were not able to hold to look
any longer; whether it was a Boat, or not, I do
not know; but as I descended from the Hill, I
could see no more of it, so I gave it over j only I
resolved to go no more out without a Prospective-
Glass in my Pocket.
When I was come down the Hill, to the End of
the Island, where indeed I had never been before,
I was presently convlnc'd, that the seeing the Print
of a Man's Foot, was not such a strange thing in
the Island as I imagin'd; and but that it was a spe-
cial Providence that I was cast upon the Side of the
Island, where the Savages never came, I should ea-
sily have known, that nothing was more frequent
than for the Canoes from the Main, when they hap-
pcn'd to be a little too far out at Sea, to shoot over
to that Side of the Island for Harbour; likewise as
they often met, and fought in their Canoes, the Vic-
tors having taken any Prisoners, would bring them
over to this Shore, where, according to their dread-
ful Customs, being all Canibals, they would kill
and eat them; of which hereafter.
When I was come down the Hill to the Shore,
as I sard above, being the S.W. Point of the Island,
I was perfectly confounded and amaz'd; nor is
it possible for me to express the Horror of my
Mind, at feeing the Shore spread with Skulls,
Hands, Feet, and other Bones of human Bodies»
and particularly I obferv'd a Place where there had
been
been a Fire made, and a Circle dug in the Earth,
like a Cock-pit, where it is supposed the Savage
Wretches had fat down to their inhuman Feast-
ings upon the Bodies of their Fellow-Creatures.
I was so astonisti'd with the Sight of these
Things, that I entertained no Notions of any
Danger to myself from it for a long while ,• all
my Apprehensions were buried in the Thoughts
of such a Pitch of inhuman, hellish Brutality, and
the Horror of the Degeneracy of human Nature;
which tho* I had heard often, yet I never had so
near a View of before; in short, I turned away
my Face from the horrid Spectacle; my Stomach
grew sick, and I was just at the Point of Faint-
ing, when Nature discharged the Disorder from
my Stomach ,• and having vomited with an uncom-
mon Violence, I was a little relieved ; but could
not bear to stay in the Place a Moment; so I got
me up the Hill again, with all'the Speed I couldj
and walk'd on towards my own Habitation.
When I came a little out of that Part of the
Island, I stood still awhile as araaz'd; and theu
recovering myself, I looked up with the utmost Af-
fection of my Soul, and with a Rood of Tears in
my E/es, gave God Thanks that had cast my first
Lot in a Part of the World, where I was distin-
guished from such dreadful Creatures as these;
and that tho* I had esteemed my present Condition
very miserable, had yet given me so many Com-
forts in it, that I had still more to give Thanks
for than to complain of; and this above all, that
I had, even in this miserable Condition,beeri com-
forted with the Knowledge of himself, and the
Hope of his Blessing, which was a Felicity more
than sufficiently equivalent to all the Misery which
I had stflkr'd, or could suffer.
O % In
In this Frame of Thankfulness, I went Home to
my Castle, and began to be much easier now, as to
the Safety of my Circumstances, than ever I was
before; for I obscrv'd that these Wretches never
came to this Ifland in search of what they could
get; perhaps not seeking, not wanting, or not ex-
pecting any Thing here; and having often, no
doubt, been up in the cover'd woody Part of it,
without finding any thing to their Purpose. I knew
I had been here now almost eighteen Years, and
never saw the least Footsteps of human Creature
there before; and I might be here, eighteen more
as entirely concealed as I was now, if I did not
discover myself to?them, which I had no manner
of Occasion to do, it being my only Business to
keep myself entirely conceasd where I was, un-
less I found a better fort of Creatures than Cam-
bais to make myself known to.
, Yet I entertain d :seeh an Abhorrence of the sa-
vage Wretches that I have been speaking of, and
of the wretched inhuman Custom*of their devour-
ing and eating one another up, that I continued pen-
sive and sad, and kept close within my own Circle
for almost two Years after this: When I fay mjr
own Circle, I mean by it, my three Plantations,
viz*, my Castle, my Country Seat, which I call'd
my Bower, and my Enclosure in the Woods; nor
did I look after this for any other Use than as an
Inclosure for my Goats; for the Aversion which
Nature gave me to these hellish Wretches was
such, that I was fearful of seeing them, as of feeing
the Devil himself; nor did I so much as go to loot
after my Boat in all this Time; but began rather
to think of making me another; for I could not
think of ever making any more Attempts to bring
the other Boat round the Island to me, lest I
should meet with some of these Creatures at Sea,
in
in which, if I had happcn'd to have fallen into their
Hands, I knew what would have been my Lot.
Time however, and the Satisfaction 1 had, that
I was in no Danger of being discovered by these
People, began to wear off my Uneasiness about
them; and I began tolivejust in the fame composed
Manner as before ,* only with this Difference, that
I us'd more Caution, and kept my Eyes more a-
bout me than I did before, lest 1 should happen to
he seen by any of them; and particularly I was
more cautious of firing my Gun, Jest any of them-
being on the Island, should happen to hear of it;
and it was therefore a very good Providence to
me, that I had furnifh'd my self with a tame Breed
of Goats, that I needed not hunt any more about
the Woods, or (hoot at 'cm; and if I did catch
any of 'cm after this, it was by Traps and Snares,
as I had done before; so that for two Years after
this, 1 believe I never fir'd my Gun once oft; tho* I
never wentout without it; and which was more,
as I had sav'd three Pistols out of the Ship, I always
earned cm out with me, or at least two of them*
sticking them in my Goat-Skin Belt ,• I also fur-
bished up one of the great Cutlashes, that I had out
ot the Ship, and made me a Belt to put it on also;
so that 1 was now a most formidable Fellow to look
at, when I went abroad, if you add to the former
Description of my self, the Particular os two Pi-
stols, and a great broad Sword hanging at my Side
in a Belt, but without a Scabbard.
Things going on thus, as I have said, for some
Time, I seem'd, excepting these Cautions, to be
redue'd to my former calm sedate way of Living,
all these Things tended to (hewing me more and
more how far my Condition was from being mise-
rable, compared to some others; nay, to many o-
ther Particulars of Life, which it might have plea-
O 3 fed
[I9H
fed God to have made my Lot. It put me upon
reflecting, how little repining there would be
among Mankind, at any Condition of Life, if Peo-
ple would rather compare their Condition with
those that are worse, in order to be thankful, than
be always comparing them with those which are
better, to assist their Murmurings and Complain-
ings.
As in my present Condition there were not real-
ly many Things which I wanted; so indeed I
thought that the Frights I had been in about
these Savage Wretches, and the Concern I had been
in for my own Preservation, had taken off the Edge
of my Invention for my own Conveniences; and I
had dropt a good Deiign, which I had once bent
my Thoughts too much upon; and that was to try
if I could not make some of my Barley into Malt,
and then try to brew my self some Beer: This was
really a whimsical Thought, and I reprov'd my
self often for the Simplicity of it; for I presently
saw there would be the Want of several Things ne-
cessary to the making my Beer, that it would be
impossible for me to supply: As First, Casks to
preserve it in, which was a Thing that, as I have
observ'd already, I could never compass; no, tho*
I spent not many Days, but Weeks, nay Months,
m attempting it, but to no purpose. In the next
place, I had no Hops to make it keep, no Yeast
to make it work, no Copper or Kettle to make it
boil; and yet all these Things notwithstanding, I
terily believe, had not these Things interven'd, I
mean the Frights and Terrors I was in about the
Savages, I had undertaken it, and perhaps brought
it to pass too; for I seldom gave any Thing over
without accomplisliing it, when I once had it in
py Head enough to begin it*
Bat
But my Invention now run quite another Way |
for Night and Day I could think of nothing but
how I might destroy some of these Monsters in their
cruel bloody Entertainment, and, if possible, save
the Victim they should bring hither to destroy. It
would take up a larger Volume than this whole
Work is intended to be, to set down all the Con-
trivances I hatched, or rather brooded upon in my
Thoughts, for the destroying these Creatures, or
at least frighting cm, so as to prevent their coming
hither any more ,* but all was abortive, nothing
could be possible to take Effect, unless I was to be
there to do it my self; and what could one Man
do among them, when perhaps there might be
twenty or thirty of them together, with their
Darts, or their Bows and Arrows,with which they
could slioot as true to a Mark, as I could with my
Gun?
Sometimes I contrived to dig a Hole under the
Place where they made their Fire, and put in five
or six Pounds of Gun-powder, which when they
kindled their Fire, would consequently take Fire,
and blow up all that was near it j but as in the first
place I sliould be very loth to waste so much Powder
upon 'em, my Store being now within the Quan-
tity of one Barrel,* so neither could I be sure of its
going oft* at any certain time, when it might sur-
prize them, and at best, that it would do little more
than just blow the Fire about their Ears and fright
them, but not sufficient to make them forsake th$
Place; so I laid it aside, and then propos'd, that
I would place my self in Ambush, in some conve-
nient Place, with my three Guns, all double loa-
ded; and in the middle of their bloody Ceremo-
ny let sly at 'em, when I should be sure to kill or
wound perhaps two or three at every (hoot, and
Fhcn falling in upon them with my three Pistols,
O 4 and
and my Sword, I made do doubt but that if there
were twenty I should kill them all. This Fancy
pleas'd my Thoughts for some Weeks, and I was
so full of it, that I often dreamt of it; and some-
times, that I was just going to lee sly at them in
my Sleep.
I went so far with it in my Imagination, that I
employed myself several Days to find out proper
Places to put myself in Ambuscade, as I said, to
watch for them; and I went frequently to the Place
itself, which was now grown more familiar to me;
and especially while my Mind was thus hll'd with
Thoughts of Revenge, and of a bloody putting
twenty or thirty of them to the Sword, as I may
call it; the Horror I had at the Place, and at the
Signals of the barbarous Wretches devouring one
another, abated my Malice.
Well, at length I found a Place in the Side of the
Hill, where I was satisfy'd I might securely wait,
till I saw any of their Boats coming, and might
then, even before they wrould be ready to come on
Shore,convey myself unseen into Thickets of Trees,
in one of which there was a Hollow large enough
to conceal me entirely; and where I might sit, and
observe all their bloody Doings, and take my full
Aim at their Heads, when they were so close toge-
ther, as that it would be next to impossible that \
should miss my Shoot, or that I could fail wound-
ing three or four of them at the first Shoot.
In this Place then I resolv'd to fix my Design,
and accordingly I prepared two Muskets, and my
ordinary Fowling-Piece. she two Muskets I
loaded with a Brace of Slugs each, and four or five
smaller Bullets, about the Size of Pistol-Bullets;
and the Fowling-Piece I loaded with near a Hand-
jfull of Swan-Shot, of the largest Size; I also loaded
piy. Pistols with about four Bullets each, and in this
'' Posture^
Posture, well provided with Ammunition for a
second and third Charge, I prepar'd myself for
my Expedition.
After I had thus laid the Scheme of my Design,
and in my Imagination put it in Practice, I conti-
nually made my Tour every Morning up to the
Top of the Hill, which was from my Castle, as
I calf d it, about three Miles, or more, to fee if I
could observe any Boats upon the Sea, coming near
the Island, or standing over towards it; but I be-
gan to tire of this hard Duty, after I had for two
or three Months constantly kept my Watch -> but
came always back without any Discovery, there
having not in all that Time been the least Appea-
rance, not only on, or near the Shore; but not
on the whole Ocean, so far as my Eyes or Glastes
could reach every Way.
As long as I kept up my daily Tour to the Hill
to look out, so long also I kept up the Vigour of
my Design, and my Spirits scem'd to be all the
while in a suitable Form, for so outrageous an Exe-
cution as the killing twenty or thirty naked Savages,
for art Offence which I had not at all enter'd into
a Discussion of in my Thoughts, any further than
my Passions were ar first fir'd by the Horror I con-
ceived at the unnatural Custom of that People of the
Country, who it seems had been suffered by Provi-
dence, in his wise Disposition of the World, to have
no other Guide than that of their own abominable
and vitiated Passions; and consequently were left,
and perhaps had been so for some Ages, to act such
horrid Things, and receive such dreadful Cu-
stoms, as nothing but Nature entirely abandons
of Heaven, and acted by some hellish Degeneracy,
could have run them into: But now when,. as I
have said, I began to be weary of the fruitless Ex-
cursion which I had made so long, and so far, eve-
*•• ry
fy Morning in vain, so my Opinion cf the Action
itself began toalter, and I began with cooler mi
calmer Thoughts to consider what it was I was go-
ing to engage in; what Authority or Call I had,
to pretend to be Judge and Executioners upon these
Men as Criminals, whom Heaven had thought li:
for so many Ages to suffer, unpunisli'd, to go on,
and to be, as it were, the Executioners of his Judg-
ments one upon another: How far these People
were Offenders against me, and what Right I had
to engage in the Quarrel of that Blood, which they
shed "promiscuously one upon another, I debated
this very often with my self thus: How do 1 kr.o*
what God himself judges in this particular Cas; >
It is certain these People do not commit this as x
Crime; it is not against their own Consciences re-
proving, or their Light reproaching them. They
do not know it to be an Offence, and then comm::
it in defiance of divine Justice, as we do in almo'i
all the Sins we commit. They think it no more a
Crime to kill a Captive taken in War, than we do
to kill an Ox; nor to eat human Flesh, than v;
do to eat Mutton.
When I had considers this a little, it follows
necessarily, that I was certainly in the Wrong n
It; that these People were not Murderers in the
Sense that I had before condemns them in m>
Thoughts; any more than those Christians were
Murderers, who often put to Death the Prisoners
taken in Battle; or more frequently, upon nury
Occasions, put whole Troops of Men to me
Sword, without giving Quarter, tho* they threw
down their Arms and submitted.
In the next place it occur'd tome, that albeit
the Usage they gave one another was thusbruti&
and inhuman; yet it was really nothing to me:
These People had done me no Injury: That if they
attempt a
attempted me, or I saw it necessary for my imrhe-
tiare Preservation to sail upon them, something
might be said for it; but that I was yet out of their
Power, and they had really no Knowledge of me,
and consequently no Design upon me; and there-
tore it could not be just tor me to fall upon them.
That this would justify the Conduct osthe Spaniards
ir, all their Barbarities pra&is'd in America, where
they destroy \1 Millions of these People, who, how-
tur they were Idolaters and Barbarians, and had
several bloody and barbarous Rites in their Cu-
i:.>:ns, such as sacrificing human Bodies to their I-
tiois, were yet, as to the Spmiia\ds, very innocent
People ; aud that the rooting cm out of the Coun-
uy, is spoken os with the utmost Abhorrence and
Detestation, by even the Spaniards themselves, at
this Time, and by all other Christian Nations of
Europe, as a mere Butchery, a bloody and unnatu-
ral Piece of Cruelty, unjustifiable either to God
or Man; and such, as for winch the very Name of
a Spaniard is reckon*d to be frightful and terrible to
all People of Humanity, or of Christian Compas-
sion: As is the Kingdom ot'Spam were particularly
eminent for the Product os a Race of Men, whd
were without Principles of Tenderness, or the com-
mon Bowels of Pity to the Miserable, which is rec-
koned to be a Mark of generous Temper in the
Mind.
These Considerations really put me to a Pause,
and to a kind os a full Stop; and I began by little
and little to be oft os my Design, and to conclude,
I had taken wrong Measures m my Resolutions to
attack the Savages ,• that it was not my Business to
meddle with 'cm, unless they first attack'd me, and
this it was my Business, if possible, to prevent;
but that it I were discovers and attack'd, rhen
I knew my Duty.
On
On the other hand, I argu'd with my self, That
this really was the Way not to deliver my self, but
entirely to mine and destroy myself; for unless I
was sure to kill every one that not only should be
on Shore at that Time, but that should ever come
on Shore afterwards, if but one of them escaped, to
tell their Country-People what had happens,
they would come over again by Thousands to re-
venge the Death of their Fellows, and I should
only bring upon myself a certain Destruction,
which at present I had no manner of Occasion
for.
Upon the Whole I concluded, that neither in
Principles nor in Policy I ought one Way or other
to concern myself in this Affair. That my Busi-
ness was by all possible means to conceal mysclt
from them, and not to leave the least Signal to
them to guessb y, that there were any living Crea-
tures upon the Iiland; I mean of human Shape.
Religion join'd in with this Prudential, and I
was convinced now many Ways, that I was per-
fectly out of my Duty, when I was laying all my
bloody Schemes for the Destruction of innocent
Creatures, I mean innocent as to me: As to the
Crimes they were guilty of towards one another, I
had nothing to do with them j they were Natio-
nal, and I ought to leave them to the Justice ot
God, who is the Governor of Nations, and knows
how by National Punishments to make a just Re-
tribution for National Offences; and to bring pub-
lick Judgments .upon those who offend in a publics
Manner, by such Ways as best please him.
This appeared so clear to me now, that nothing
was a greater Satisfaction to me, than that I had
not been suffered to do a Thing which I now few
so much Reason to believe would have been no less
a Sin, than that of wilful Murder, if I had com-
mitted
mitred it; and I gave most humble Thanks on
my Knees to God, that had thus delivered me
from Blood-guiltiness; beseeching him to grant
me the Protection of his Providence, that I might
not fall into the Hands of Barbarians; or that I
might not lay my Hands upon them, unless I had
a more clear Call from Heaven to do it, in De-
fence of my own Life.
In this Disposition I continu'd for near a Year
after this; and so sor was I from desiring art Oc--
calion for failing upon these Wretches, that in all
that Time I never once went up the Hill to fee
whether there were any of them in Sight, or to
know whether any of them had been on Shore
there, or not, that I might not be tempted to re-
new any of my Contrivances against them, or be
provoked by any Advantage which might present
itself to fall upon them ; only this I did, I went
and removed my Boat, which I had on the other
Side the Island, and carried it down to the East
End of the whole Island, where I ran it into a little
Cove, which I found under some high Rocks, and
where I knew, by reason of the Currents, the
Savages durst not, at least would not come with
their Boats, upon any Account whatsoever-
With my Boat I carried away every Thing that
I had left there belonging to her, tho* not neces-
sary for the bare going thither, viz,. A Mast and
Sail, which I had made for her, and a Thing like.
an Anchor, but indeed which could not be call'd
either Anchor or Grapling; however, it was the
belt I could make of its kind: All these I removed,
that there might not be the least Shadow of any
Discovery, or any Appearance of any Boat, or of
any human Habitation upon the Island.
/Besides this, I kept myself, as I said, more re-
tired than ever, and seldom went from my Cell,
other
other than upon my constant Employment, viz. to
milk my She-Goats, and manage my little Flock in
the Wood; which, as it was quite on the other
Part of the Island, was quite out of Danger; for
certain it is, that these savage People, who some-
times haunted this Island, never came with any
Thoughts of finding any thing here; and conse-
quently never wandred off from the Coast; and I
doubt not, but they might have been several times
on Shore, after my Apprehensions of them had
made me ca,utious,as well as before ,* and, indeed,
I look'd back with some Horror upon the Thoughts
of what my Condition would have been, if I had
chop'd upon them, and been discover d before that,
when naked and unarmed, except with one Gun,
and that loaded often only with small Shot. I walk-
ed every where peeping, and peeping about the
Island, to fee what I could get; what a Surprize
should I have been in, if, when I discovered the
Print of a Man's Foot, I had instead of that seen
fifteen or twenty Savages, and found them pur-
suing me, and by the Swiftness of their Running,
no Possibility of my escaping them?
The Thoughts of this sometimes funk my very
Soul withiu me, and distressed my Mind so much,
that I could not soon recover it, to think what I
should have done, and how I not only should not
have been able to resist them, but even should not
have had Presence of Mind enough to do what I
might have done; much less, what now after Jo
much Consideration and Preparation I might be
able to do. Indeed> after serious thinking of these
Things, I would be-very melancholy, and sosie-
times it would last a great while,* but I resold it
at last all into Thankfulness to that Providence
which had delivered me from so many unseen Dan-
gers, and had kept me from thofe Mischiefs which
I could
I could no way have been the Agent in delivering
myself from; because I had not the least Notion
ot any such Thing depending, or the least Sup-
position of it being possible.
This renew'd a Contemplation, which often had
come to my Thoughts in former Time, when first
1 began to fee the merciful Dispositions of Hea-
ven, in the Dangers we run thro* in this Life: How
wonderfully we are delivers when we know no-
thing of it. How when we arc in (a Quandary, as
we call it) a Doubt or Hesitation, whether to go
this Way, or that Way, a secret Hint shall direct
us this Way, when we intended to go that Way;
nay, when Sense, our own Inclination, and perhaps
Business has call'd to go the other Way,yet a strange
Impression upon theMind,from we know not what
Springs, and by we know not what Power, IhalL
over-rule us to go this Way; and it (hall afterwards
appear,that had we gone that Way which we should
have gone, and even to our Imagination ought to
have gone, we should have been ruin'd and lost.
Upon these, and many like Reflections, I after-
wards made it a certain Rule with me, That when-
ever I found those secret Hints, or Pressings of my
Mind, to doing, or not doing any Thing that pre-
sented ; or to going this Way, or that Way, I never
tail'd to obey the secret Dictate; tho* I knew no
other Reason for it, than that such a Pressure, or
such a Hint hung upon my Mind: I could give ma-
ny Examples of the Success of this Conduct in the
Course of my Life; but more especially in the lat-
ter Part of my inhabiting this unhappy Island; be-
sides many Occasions which it is very likely I might
have taken notice of, if I had seen with the same
Eyes then, that I saw with now: But *tis never too
late to be wife; and I cannot but advise all consi-
dering Men,whose Lives are attended with such ex-
traordinary
tio8]
tfaordinary Incidents as mine, or even tho* not so
extraordinary, not to slight such secret Intimati-
ons of Providence, let them come from what invi-
sible Intelligence they will, that I shall not discuss,
and perhaps cannot account for; but certainly they
are a Proof of the Converse of Spirits, and the se-
cret Communication between those embody'd, and
those unembody'd; and such a Proof as can never
be withstood : Of which I {hall have Occasion to
give some very remarkable Instances in the Remain-
der of my solitary Residence in this dismal Place.
; I believe the Reader of this will not think
strange, if I confess that these Anxieties, these
constant Dangers I liv'd in, and the Concern that
was now upon me, put an End to all Invention,
and to all the Contrivances that I had laid for my
future Accommodations and Conveniencies. I had
the Care of my Safety more now upon my Hands,
than that of my Food. I carM not to drive a Nail,
or chop a Stick of Wood now, for fear the Noise
I should make should be heard ; much less would
I sire a Gun, for the fame Reason ; and above all, I
was intolerably uneasy at making any Fire, lest the
Sftioak, which is visible at a great Distance in the
Day, should betray me; and for this Reason I
removed that Part of my Business which requini
Eire, such as burning of Pots and Pipes, &c. into
my new Apartment in the Woods, where, after I
had been some Time, I found, to my unspeakable
Consolation, a mere natural Cave in the Earth,
which went in a vast way, and where, I dare say,
no Savage, had he been at the Mouth of it, would
be so hardy as to venture in, nor indeed would
any Man else, but one who, like me, wanted no-
thing so much as a safe Retreat.
The
The Mouth of this Hollow was at the Bottom
of a great Rock, where, by meer Accident (I
would fay, if I did not fee abundant Reason to
ascribe all such things now to Providence) I was
cutting down some thick Branches of Trees, to
make Charcoal ,• and before I go on, I must ob-
serve the Reason of my making this Charcoal;
which was thus t
I was afraid of making a Smoak about my Ha-
bitation, as I said before; and yet I could not live
there without baking my Bread, cooking my
Meat, &c. so I contrived to burn some Wood here,
as I had seen done in England under Turf, till it
became Chark, or dry Coal,- and then putting the
Fire out, I preserved the Coal to carry home, and
perform the other Services, which Fire was want-
ing for at home, without danger of Smoak.
But this by the by. While I was cutting down
some Wood here, I perceived that behind a very
thick Branch of low Brush-wood, or Under-wood,
there was a kind of hollow Place; I was curious to
look into it, and getting with difficulty into the
Mouth of it, I found it was pretty large, that is
to fay, sufficient for me to stand upright in it, and
perhaps another with me; but I must confess to
you, I made more haste out than I did in, when
looking further into the Place, and which was per-
fectly dark, I saw two broad shining Eyes of some
Creature, whether Devil or Man, I knew nor,
which twinkled like two Stars, the dim Light
from the Cave's Mouth shining directly in, and
making the Reflection.
However, after some Pause, I recovered myself,
and began to call myself a thousand Fools, and
tell myself, that he that was afraid to fee the De-
vil, was not fit to live twenty Years in an Island all
alone; and that I dufst to believe time was no-
Part L P thing
thing in this Cave that was more frightful than mv
self; upon this, plucking up my Courage, I took up
a great Firebrand, and in I rufh'd again, with the
Stick flaming in my Hand: I had not gone three
Seeps in, but I was almost as much frighted as I was
before; for I heard a very loud Sigh, like that of a
Man in some Pain, and it was follow'd by a broken
Noise, as if of Words half express'd, and then a
deep Sigh again: I step'd back, and was indeed
struck with such a Surprize, that it put me into a
cold Sweat; and if I had had a Hat on my Head,
I will not answer for it, that my Hair might noc
have lifted it ofK But still plucking up my Spirits
as well as I could, and encouraging myself a little,
with considering that the Power and Presence os
God was every where, and was able to protect me j
upon this I step'd forward again, and by the Light
of the Firebrand, holding it up a little over my
Head, I saw lying on the Ground a most monstrous
x frightful old He-Goat, just making his Will,as we
fay, and gasping for Lite, and dying indeed ot
meer old Age.
I stir'd him a little, to see if I could get him out,
and he essay'd to get lip, but was not able to raise
himself; and I thought with my self, he might e'en
lie there; for if he had frighted me so, he would
cercainly fright any of the Savages, if any of them
should be so hardy as to come in there while he
had any Life in him.
I was now recovers from my Surprize, and be-
gan to look round me, when I found the Cave was
but very small, that is to fay, it might be about
twelve Foot over, but in no manner of Shape, ei-
ther round or square, no Hands having ever been
employed in making it, but those of meer Nature:
I observed also, that there was a Place at the fur-
ther side of it that went in further, tbut was so
••" low,
till]
low, that ft required me to creep upon my Hand3
and Knees to go into it,and whither I went I knew
not; so-having no Candle, I gave it over for some
time; but resolved to come again the next Day*
provided with Candles, and a Tinder-box, which
1 had made of the Lock of one of the Muskets,
nth some Wild-fire in the Pan.
Accordingly, the next Day I came provided
with six large Candles of my own making,- for I
made very good Candles now of Goat's Tallow}
and going into this low Place, I was obliged to
creep upon all Fours, as I have said, almost ten
Yards; which, by the way,l thought was a Ven-
ture bold enough, considering that I knew not how
far it might go, nor what was beyond it. When
1 was got thro* the Strait, I found the Roof rose
higher up, I believe near twenty Foot; but never
was such a glorious Sight seen in the Island, I dare
fay, as it was, to look round the Sides and Roof
of this Vault or Cave; the Walls reflected i hun-
dred thousand Lights to me from my two Candles;
what it was in the Rock, whether Diamonds, or
any other precious Stones, or Gold* which I rather
supposed it to be, I knew not.
The Place I was in, was a most delightful Ca-
vity, or Grotto, of its kind, as could be expe&ed,
tho' perfectly dark; the Floor was dry and le-
vel, and had a sort of small loose Gravel upon
it • so that there was no nauseous or venomous
Creature to be seen, neither was there any Damp
orvVet on the Sides or Roof: The only Difficul-
ty in it was the Entrance, which, however, as it
was a Place of Security, and such a Retreat as I
wanted, I thought that was a Convenience; so
that I was realty rejoiced at the Discovery, and re-
kived, without any delay, to bring some of those
tilings which I was most anxious about to this
P * Place;
[HI]
Place; particularly, I resolv'd to bring hither my
Magazine of Powder, and all my spare Arms,
viz,. Two Fowling-Pieces, (for I had three in all)
and three Maskers, (for of them 1 had eight in all;)
so I kept at my Castle only five, which stood rea-
dy mounted, like Pieces of Cannon, on my out-
most Fence; and were ready also to take out upon
any Expedition.
Upon this Occasion of removing my Ammuni-
tion, I took occasion to open the Barrel of Pow-
der which I took up out of the Sea, and which
had been wet -> and I found that the Water had pe-
netrated about three or four Inches into the Pow-
der on every side, which caking and growing hard,
had preserved the inside like a Kernel in a Shell;
so that I had near sixty pounds of very good Pow-
der in the Centre of the Cask; and this was an a-
greeable Discovery to me at that time; so I car-
ried all away thither, never keeping above two or
three pounds of Powder with me in my Castle, for
fear of a Surprize of any kind: I also carried thi-
ther all the Lead I had left for Bullets.
I fancied myself now like one of the ancient Gi-
ants, which were said to live in Caves and Holes
in the Rocks, where none could come at them;
for I perswaded myself, while I was here, if five
hundred Savages were to hunt me, they could ne-
ver find me out; or if they did, they would not
venture to attack me here.
The old Goat, who I found expiring, died in
the Mouth of the Cave, the next Day after I made
this Discovery; and I found it much easier to dig
a great Hole there, and throw him in, and cover
him with Earth, than to drag him out: So I in*
terr'd him there, to prevent Offence to my Nose.
I w«
I was now in my twenty-third Year of Resi-
dence in this Island, and was so naturalized to the
place, and to the Manner of living, that could I
have but enjoyed the Certainty, that no Savages
would come to the Place to disturb me, I could
have been content to have capitulated forspending
the rest of my Time there, even to the last Mo-
ment, till I had laid me down and died, like the old
Goat in the Cave. I had also arriv'd to some little
Diversions and Amusements,which made the Time
pass more pleasantly with me a great deal than
it did before; at first, I had taught my Polly as I
noted before, to speak; and he did it so familiarly,
and talk'd so articulately and plain, that it was
very pleasant to me; and he lived with me no less
than fix and twenty Years. Hoiv long he might
live afterwards, I know not; tho' I know they
have a Notion in»the Braji!s> that they live a hun-
dred Years; perhaps poor Poll may be alive there
still, calling afeer Poor Robin Crusoe to this Day. I
wish no Englishman the ill Luck to come there and
hear him; but if he did, he would certainly believe
it was the Devil. My Dog was a very pleasant
and loving Companion to me for no less than six-
teen Years of my Time, and then died of meet
old Age,- as for my Cats, they multiplied, as I hav?
obsetv'd, to that degree, that 1 was obliged to shoot
several of them at first, to keep them from devour-
ing me and all I had; but at length, when the
two old ones I brought with me were gone, and
after some time continually driving them from mef
and letting them have no Provision with me, they
all ran wild into the Woods, except two or three
Favourites, which I kept tame, and whose Young,
when they had any, I always drown'd; and these
were part of my Family. Besides these, I always
kept two or three Houftold Kids about me,which I
P 3 taught
.tfught to feed out of ray Hand ,• and I had two
more Parrots, which talk'd pretty well, and would
#11 call Robin Crusoe, but none like my first; nor in-
deed, did I take the Pains with any of them that I
fud done with him. I had also several tame Sea-
Fowls, whose Names I know not, which I caught
upon the $hore, and cut their Wings,- and the lit-
tle Stakes which I had planted before my Castle-
Wall, being now grown up to a good thick Grove,
these Fowls all lived among these low Trees, and
t>red there, which was very agreeable to me; so
that, as I said above, I began to be very well con-
tented with the Life I led, if it might but have
been secured from the Dread of the Savages,
But it was otherwise directed j and it may not
be amiss for all People who shall meet with my
Story, to make this just Observation from it, viz.
How frequently, in the Course of qur Lives, the
Evil which in it self wq seek most to shun, and
y/hich, when we are fallen into, is the most dread-
ful to us, is oftentimes the very means or door of
our Deliverance, by which alone we can be rais'd
again from the Affliction we are fallen into. I could
give many Examples of this in the Course of my un-
accountable Life; but in nothing was it more par?
ticularly remarkable than in the Circumstances of
my last Years of solitary Residence in this Island
It was now the Month of JDecemher, as I said a-
bove, in my twenty-third Year; and this being the
southern Solstkf, for Winter I cannot call it, wa?
the particular Time of my Harvest, and require4
piy being pretty much abroad in the Fields; when
going out pretty early in the Morning, even before
it was thorow Day-light, I was surprised with see-
ing a Light of some Fire upon the Shore, at a di-
stance from me, of about two Miles, towards the
find of the Island, where I had observed some Sa-
"'* *' •"'"' yages
vagcs had been, as before, but not on the other
Safe; but to my great Affliction, it was on my
Side of the Island/
I was indeed terribly surpriVd at the Sight, and
slept short within my Grove, not daring to go
out lest I might be sufpriz'd; and yet I had no
more Peace within, from the Apprehensions I had,
that if these Savages, in rambling over the Island,
should find my Corn standing, or cut, or any of my
Works and Improvements, they would immediate-
ly conclude, that there were People in the Place,
and would^then never give over till they had found
me oun In this Extremity I went back directly to
my Castle, pnll'd up the Ladder after me, and made
all things without look as wild and natural as I
could.
Then t prepared my self within, putting my self
in a Postare of Defence; I loaded all my Cannon, as
I call'd them,- that is to soy, my Muskets, which
were mounted upon my new Fortification, and all
my Pistols, and resolv'd to defend my self to the
last Gasp, not forgetting seriously to commend my
self to the divine Protection, and earnestly to pray
to God to deliver me out of the Hands of the Bar-
barians,* and in this Posture I continued about two
Hours, but began to be mighty impatient for In-
telligence abroad, for I had no Spies to send out.
After sitting a while longer, and musing what I
should do in this Cafe, I was not able to bear sit-
ting in Ignorance any longer; so setting up my
Ladder to the side of the Hill, where there was a
flat Pace, as I observed before, and then pulling
the Ladder up after me, I set it up again, and
mounted to the Top of the Hill; and pulling out
my Prospective-Glass, which I had taken on pur^
pose, I laid me down flat on my Belly on the
Ground, and began to look for the Place. I pre-
f 4 sently
sently found there were no less than nine naked Sa-
vages sitting round a small Fire, they had made,
not to warm them, for they had no need of that]
the Weather being extream hot; but, as I sup-
posed, to dress some of their barbarous Diet of hu-
mane Flest, which they had brought with them,
whether alive or dead, I could not know.
They had two Canoes with them, which they had
haled up upon the Shore; and as it was then Tide
of Ebb, they scem'd to me to wait for the Return
of the Flood, to go away again; it is not easy to
imagine what Confusion this Sight put me into,
especially seeing them come on my side tbejfland,
and so near me too j but when I observ'd their
coming must be always with the Current of the
Ebb, I began afterwards to be more sedate in my
Mind, being satisfy'd that I might go abroad with
Safety all the Time of the Tide of Flood, if they
were not on Shore before: And having made this
Observation, I went abroad about ray Har.xfl-
Work with the more Composure.
As I expected, so it prov'd; for as soon as the
Tide made to the Westward, I saw them all take
Boat, and row (or paddle, as we call it) all a-
way: 1 should have observed, that for an Hour
and more before they went off, they went to dan-
cing, and I could easily discern their Postures and
Gestures by my Glasses: I could not perceive, by
my nicest Observation, but that they were starfc
naked, and had not the least Covering upon them;
but whether they were Men or Women, that I
could not distinguish.
As soon as I saw them fhip'd and gone, I took
two Guns upon my Shoulders, and twoBistolfj**
my Girdle, and my great Sword by my side, with-
out a Scabbard, and with all the Speed I was aW?
to make, I went away to the Hill, wheie * had dm
cover'd the first Appearance of all; and as soon as
1 gotthicber, which was not less than two Hours,
(tor I could not go apace, being so loaden with
Arms as I was) I perceived there had been three
Qutoes more of Savages on that Place; and look-
ing out further, I saw they were all at Sea toge-
ther, making over for the Main.
This was a dreadful Sight to me, especially
when going down to the Shore, I could see the
Marks of Horror which the dismal Work they had
been about had left behind k, viz,, the Blood, the
Bones, and Pare of the Flesh of human Bodies,
eaten and devoured by those Wretches, with Mer-
riment and Sport; I was so silj'd with Indigna-
tion at the Sighr, that I began now to premedi-
tate the Destruction of the next that I saw there,
let them be who or how many soever.
It seemM evident to me, that the Visits which
they thus make to this Island, are not very fre-
quent ; for^ it was above fifteen Months before
any more of them came on Shore there again; that
is to fay, I never saw them, or any Footsteps, or
Signals of them, in all that time * for as ro the.
rainy Seasons, then they are sure not to come a-
broad, at least not so far; yet ail this while I
hvd uncomfortably, by reason of the constant
Apprehensions I was in of their coming upon me
by surprize, from whence I observe, that the Ex-
piation of Evil is more bitter than the Suffer-
in-; especially if there is no room to shake off
tnar Lvp.i uinon, or thrse Apprehensions.
Duiv.v; ail this tinv.\ I was in the murdering
Humour; and took u.- nost of my Hours, which
|*>u.d luvc been better employs, in contriving
nowxn L.i-cumvenc ;i:,d fall upon them the very
next turx I should fee them; especially if they
Jiould be divided, as they were the last time, in-
to
to two Parties > nor did I consider at all, that if I
kill'done Party, suppose ten or a dozen, I was still
the next Day, or Week, or Month, to kill another,
and so, another, even adinfimtum, till I should be at
length no less a Murderer than they were u\ being
Man-eaters, and perhaps much more so.
I spent my Days now in great Perplexity and
Anxiety of Mind, expecting that I should one Day
or other fall into the Hands of these merciless Crea-
tures i and if I did at any time venture abroad, it
was not without looking round me with the great-
eft Care and Caution imaginable; and now I found
to my great Comfort, how happy it was that 1
provided for a tame Flock or Herd of Goats • for
I durst not upon any account sire my Gun, espe-
cially near that side of the Island where they' usu-
ally came, lest I should alarm the Savages; and
if they had fled from me now, I was sure to have
them come back again, with perhaps two or three
hundred Canoes with them in a few Days, and then
I knew what to expect.
However, I w6re out a Year and three Months
more, before I ever saw any more of the Savages
and then I found them again, as I shall soon observe.
It is true, they might have been there once ot twice;
but either they made no Stay, or at least, I did not
hear them; but in the Month of May, as near as I
could calculate, and in my four and twentieth Year,
I had a very strange Encounter with them,of which
in its Place.
The Perturbation of my Mind, during this fif-
teen or sixteen Months Interval, was very great;
I slept unquiet, dreamt always frightful Dreams,
and often started out of my Sleep in the Night: In
the Day great Troubles overwhelmed my Mind,
and in the Night I dreamt often of killing the
Savages^
Savages, and of the Reasons why I might justify
the doing of it: But to wave all this for a while;
it was in the middle of Mayy on the sixteenth Day
I think, as well as my poor wooden Calendar
would reckon; for I mark'd all upon the Post still;
I fay, it was on the sixteenth of May% that it blew
a very great Storm of Wind, all Day, with a great
deal of Lightning and Thunder, and a very foul
Night it was after it: I know not what was the
particular occasion of it; but as I was reading in
the Bible, and taken up with very serious Thoughts
about my present Condition, I was surpriz'd with
a Noise of a Gun, as I thought, fir'd at Sea.
This was to be sure a Surprize of a quite diffe-
rent Nature from any I had met with before; for
thelMotions this put into my Thoughts were quite
of another kind. I started up in the greatest Haste
imaginable, and in a trice clapt my Ladder to the
middle Place of the Rock, and pulfd it after me,
and mounting it the second Time, got to the Top
of the Hill, the very Moment that a Flash of Fire
bid me listen for a second Gun, which accordingly,
in about half a Minute, I heard, and by the Sound
knew that it was from that Part of the Sea where
I was driven down the Current in my Boat.
I immediately considered that this must be some
Ship in Distress, and that they had some Comrade,
or some other Ship in company,and fii^d these Guns
for Signals of Distress, and to obtain Help: I had
this Presence of Mind at that minute, as to think,
that tho' I could not help them, it may be they
might help me; so I brought together all the
dry Wood I could get at hand, and making a good
handsome Pile, I set it on Fire upon the Hill; the
Wood was dry, and blaz'd freely; and tho' the
Wind blew very hard, yet it burnt fairly out, that
J Was certain, if there was any such Thing as a
Shi|>,
Ship, they must needs fee it, and no doubt they did,
for as soon as ever my Fire blaz'd up, I heard ano-
ther Gun, and after that several others, all from the
fame Quarter. I ply'd my Fire all Night long, till
Pay broke; and when it was broad Day, and the
Air cleared up, I saw something at a great Distance
at Sea, full East of the Island, whether a Sail, ora
Hull, I could not distinguish, no not with my Glas-
ses, the Distance was so great, and the Weather still
something hazy also; at least it was so out at Sea*
I look'd frequently at it all that Day, and soon
perceiv'd that it did not move ,• so I presently con-
cluded that it was a Ship at an Anchor; and being
eager, you may be sure, to be satisfy'd, I took my
Gun in my Hand, and run toward the South-Eajl
§ide of the Island, to the Rocks where I had for-
merly been carry cl away with the Current, and
getting up there, the Weather by this Time being
perfectly clear, I could plainly fee, to my great
Sorrow, the Wreck of a Ship cast away in the
"Night, upon those concealed Rocks which I found
when I was out in my Boat; and which Rocks, as
they checked the Violence of the Stream,and made
a kind of Counter-Stream or Eddy, were the Oc-
casion of my recovering from the most desperate
hopeless Condition that ever I had been in in all
my Life.
Thus,what i$ one Man's Safety,is another Man's
Destruction; for it seems these Men, whoever they
were, being out pf their Knowledge, and the
Rocks being wholly under Water, had been driven
upon them in the Night,the Wind blowing hard at
j£. and E. N. E. Had they seen the Island, as I must
necessarily suppose they did not, they must, as I
thought, have endeavour'd to have fa v'd themselves
on Shore by the Help of their Boat; but their firing
of Guns for Help, especially when they sow, as I
imaging
imaging, my Fire, fill'd me with Many Thoughts:
First I imagin'd, that upon feeing my Light, they
might have put themselves into their Boat, and
have endeavour'd to make the Shore; but that the
Sea going very high, they might have been cast
away; other times I imagin'd, that they might
have lost their Boat before, as might be the Cafe
many ways; as particularly, by the Breaking of
the Sea upon their Ship, which many times obli-
ges Men to stave, or take in pieces their Boat; and
sometimes to throw it over Board with their own
Hands: Other times I imagin'd, they had some
other Ship or Ships in Company, who, upon the
Signals of Distress they had made, had taken them
up and carry 'd them off: Other whiles I fancy'd,
they were all gone off to Sea in their Boat, and
being hurry'd away by the Current that I had been
formerly in, were carry'd out into the great Ocean
where there was nothing but Misery and Perishing;
and that perhaps they might by this Time think of
starving, and of being in a Condition to eat one
another.
As all these were but Conjectures at best,soin the
Condition I was in, I could do no more than look
on upon the Misery of the poor Men, and pity
them, which had still this good Effect on my Side,
that it gave me more and more Cause to give
Thanks to God, who had so happily and comfort-
ably provided for me in my desolate Condition; and
that of two Ships Companies who were now cast
away upon this Part of the World, not one Life
should be spared but mine: I learnt here again to
observe, that it is very rare that the Providence of
God casts us into any Condition of Life so low, or
any Misery so great, but we may see something or
other to be thankful for; and may see others in
worse Circumstances than our own.
Such
Such certainly was the Cafe of these Men, of
whom I could not so much as sefc Room to sup-
pose any of them were sav'd; nothing could make
it rational, so much as to wish or expect that they
did not all perish there, except the Possibility only
of their being taken up by another Ship in Com-
pany: and this was but mere Possibility indeed; for
I saw not the least Signal or Appearance of any
such Thing.
I cannot explain,by any possible Energy of Words,
what a strange Longing or Hankering of Desires I
felt in my Soul upon this Sight; breaking out some-
times thus; O that there had been but one or two;
nay, or but one Soul sav'd out of the Ship, to have
escap'd to me, that I might but have had one Com-
panion, one Fellow-Creature to have spoken to me,
and to have conversed with 1 In all the Time of my
solitary Life, 1 never felt so earnest, so strong a De-
sire after the Society of my Fellow-Creatures, or so
deep a Regret at the Want of it.
There are some secret moving Springs in the Af-
fections, which, when they are set a-going by some
Object in View, or be it some Object, though not
in View, yet rendered present to the Mind by the
Power of Imagination, that Motion carries out the
Soul by its Impetuosity to such violent, eager Em-
bracings of the Object, that the Absence of it is
insupportable.
Such were these earnest Wisliings,That but one
Man had been sav'd! O that it had been but One! I
believe I repeated the Words, O that it hadbeen but
Om\ a thousand times; and the Desires were so
movd by it, that when I spoke the Words, my
Hands would clinch together, and my Fingers press
the Palms of my Hands, that if I had had any soft
Thing in my Hand, it would have crushed it invo-
luntarily j and my Teeth in my Head would strike
together,
tcgether, and set against one another so strong,
thac for some time I could not part them again.
Let the Naturalists explain these Things, and
the Reason and Manner of them; all I can say to
them is, to describe the Fact, which was even sur-
prising to me when I found it; tho'I kne w not from
what it should proceed, it was doubtless the Effect
of ardent Wishes, and of strong Ideas form'd in my
Mind,jealizing the Comfort which the Conversa-
tion of one of my Fellow-Christians would have
been to me.
But it was not to be; either their Fate, or mine,
or both, forbid it; for till the last Year of my be-
ing on this Island, I never knew whether any were
sav'd out of that Ship or no,- and had only the Af-
fliction some Days after, to fee the Corps of a
drown'd Boy come on Shore, at the End of the
Island, which was next the Shipwreck: He had on
no Cloaths, but a Seaman's Wastcoat, a Pair of o-
pen knee'd Linnen Drawers, and a blue Linnen
Shirt ,• but nothing to direct me so much as to guess
what Nation he was of: He had nothing in his
Pocket but two Pieces of Eight and a Tobacco-
Pipe; the last was to me often times more Value
than the first.
I was now calm, and I had a great Mind to
venture out in my Boat to this Wreck ,• not doubt-
ing but I might find something on Board, that
might be useful to me ,* but that did not altogether
press me so much, as the Possibility that there
might be yet some living Creature on board,whose
Life I might not only save, but might, by saving
that Life, comfort my own to the last Degree;
and this Thought clung so to my Heart, that I
could not be quiet, Night nor Day, but I must
venture out in my Boat on board this Wreck ,• and
committing the rest to God s Providehee, I thought
the
the Impression was so strong upon my Mind, that
it could not be resisted, that it must come from
some invisible Direction, and that I sliould be want-
ing to my self, if I did not go.
Under the Power of this impression, I hastened
back to my Castle, prepaid every Thing for my
Voyage, took a Quantity of Bread, a great Pot
for fresh Water, a Compass to steer by, a Bottle of
Rum ,• for I had still a great deal of that left; a
Basket full of Raisins: And thus loading my self
with every Thing necessary, I went down to my
Boat, got the Water out of her, and got her afloat,
loaded ail my Cargo in her, and then went Home
again for more; my second Cargo was a great Bag
full of Rice, the Umbrella to set up over my Head
for Shade, another large Pot full of fresh Water,
and about two Dozen of my small Loaves, or
Barley Cakes, more than before, with a Bottle of
Goat's Milk, and a Cheese; all which, with great
Labour and Sweat, I brought to my Boat; and
praying to God to direct my Voyage, I put out,
and rowing or paddling the Canoe along the Shore,
I came at last to the utmost Point of the Island,
on that Side, (viz,.) N. E. And now I was to launch
out into the Ocean, and either to venture, or not
to venture. I looked on the rapid Currents which
ran constantly on both Sides of the Island, at a
Distance, and which were very terrible to me,
from the Remembrance of the Hazard I had been
in before, and my Heart began to fail me; for 1
foresaw that i( I was driven into either of those
Currents, I sliould be carry'd a vast Way out to
Sea, and perhaps out of my Reach, or Sight of
the Island again; and that then, as my Boat was
but small, if any little Gale of Wind sliould rise, *
should be inevitably lost.
These
These Thoughts so oppressed my Mind, that I
began to give over my Enterprize, and having ha-
led my Boat into a little Creek on the Shore, I
stept out, and fate me down upon a little rising
bit of Ground, very pensive and anxious, between
Fear and Desire about my Voyage; when, as I was
musing, I could perceive that the Tide was turn'd
and the Flood came on, upon which my going was
for so many Hours impracticable* Upon this
presently it occur'd to me, that I should go up to
the highest Piece of Ground I could find, and ob-
serve, if I could, how the Sets of the Tide pr Cur-
rents lay, when the Flood came in, that I might
judge whether, if I was driven one Way out, I
might not expect to be driven another Way home,
with the fame Rapidness of the Currents: This
Thought was no sooner in my Head, but least my
Eye upon a little Hill, which sufficiently over-
looked the Sea both Ways, and from whence I had
a clear View of the Currents, or Sets of the Tide,
and which Way I was to guide myself in my Re-
turn ,• here I found, that as the Current of the Ebb
set out close by the South Point of the Island, so
the Current of the Flood set in close by the Shore
of the North Side, and that I had nothing to do
but to keep to the North of the Island in my Re-
turn, and I should do well enough.
Encouraged with this Observation, Iresolv'd the
next Morning to set out with the first of the Tide;
and reposing myself for the Night in the Canoe,
under the great Watch-coat I mentioned, I launched
out: I made first a little out to Sea full North, till
I began to seel the Benefit of the Current, which set
Eastward, and which carry'd me at a great Rate,
and yet did not so hurry me as the Southern Side
Current had done before, and so as to take from
we all Government of the Boat» but having a
Part L Q^ strong
strong Steerage with my Paddle, I went at a
great Rate, directly for the Wreck, and in less
than two Hours I came up to it.
It was a dismal Sight to look at: The Ship,
which by its Building was Spabijh, stuck fast,
jaumM in between two Rocks; all the Srcrn and
Quarter of her was beaten to Pieces with the Sa;
and as her Forecastle, which stuck in the Rods,
had run on with great Violence, her Mainmast and
Foremast were brought by the Board; that is to
fay, broken short off; but her Boltsprit was found,
and the Head and Bow appears firm ; when I
came close to her, a Dog appear'd upon her, who
seeing me coming, yelp'd and cr\ % and as seen
a*s I calfd him, jumpM into the Sea, to come to
me, and I took him into the Boat, but found him
almost dead for Hunger and Thirst: I gave him
a Cake of my Bread, and he eat it like a rave-
nous Wolf, that had been starving a Fortnight in
the Snow: I then gave the poor Creature some
fresh Water, with which, if I would have let him,
he would have burst himself
After this I went on Board ; but the first Sight
I met with, was two Men drown'd in the Cook-
Roomer Forecastle of the Ship, with their Arms
fast about one another: I concluded, as is indeed
probable, that when the Ship struck, it being in *
Storm, the Sea broke so high, and so continually
over her, that the Men were not able to bear it,
and were strangled with the constant rushing in ot
the Water, as much as if they had been under
Water. Besides the Dog, there was nothing left m
the Ship that had Life, nor any Goods that 1
could fee, but what were spoiled by the Water.
There were some Casks of Liquor, whether-Wine
or Brandy, I knew not, which lay lower in the
Hold; and which, the Water being ebb'd out, j
could see ; but they were coo big to meddle with:
I saw several Chests, which I behevU belonged to
(ome of the Seamen, and I got two of them in-
to the Boat, without examining what was in them.
Had the Stern of the Ship been hVd, and the
Fore-part broken off, I am persuaded I might
have made a good Voyage; for by what I fouiifl
in these two Chests, 1 had room to suppose the
Ship had a great deal of Wealth on board ; and
is I may guess by the Course (he steer'd, she must
have been bound from the Buenos Ares, or the
Rio de la Plata, in the South Patt of America, be-
yond the Brasihy to the Havana, in the Gulphqf
Mtxico, and so perhaps to Spam: She had, no
doubt, a great Treasure in her, but of no U&
at that time to any Body; and what became of
the rest of her People, 1 then knew not.
I found; besides these Chests, a little Cask full of
Liquor, of about twenty Gallons, which I got in-
to my Boat, with much Difficulty: There were
several Muskets in a Cabbin, and a great Powder-
horn, with about four Pounds of Powder in it;
as for the Muskets, I had no occasion for them, so
1 lefc them, but took the Powder-horn : I took a
Fire shovel and Tongs, which I wanted extreme-
ly ; as also two little Brass Kettles, a Copper-Pot
to make Chocolate, and a Gridiron; and with
this Cargo, and the Dog, I came away, the Tide
beginning to make home again ; and the fame E-
vening,about an Hour within Night, I reach'd the
Wand again, weary and fatigu'd to the last Degree.
I repos'd that Night in the Boat, and in the Morn-
ing 1 rcsolv'd to harbour what 1 had gotten in my
new Cave,not to carry it home to my Castle. After
refrefliing myself, I got ail my Cargo on Shore, and
began to examine the Particulars: The Cask of
Liquor I found to be a kind of Rum, but not such
Q 2 as
as we had at the Brasih j and in a Word, not at
all good; but when I came to open the Chests, I
found several things of great Use to me: For Ex-
ample, I found in one a fine Case of Bottles, of an
extraordinary kind, andfill'd with Cordial Waters
fine, and very good ,• the Bottles held about three'
Pints each, and were tip't with Silver: I found
two Pots of very good Succades,or Sweetmeats
so fasten'd also on Top, that the salt Water had'
not hurt them ; and two more of the same, which
the Water had fooil'd : I found some very good
Shirts, which were very welcome to me, and about
a dozen and a half of Linnen white Handkerchiefs,
and colour'd Neckcloths; the former were also
very welcome, being exceeding refreshing to wipe
my Face in a hot Day; besides" this, when I came
to the Till in the Chests, I found there three great
Bags of Pieces of Eight, which held about eleven
hundred Pieces in all; and in one of them, wrapt
up in a Paper, six Doubloons of Gold, and some
small Bars or Wedges of Gold ; I suppose they
might all weigh near a Pound.
The other Chest I found had someCIoaths in it,
but of little Value ; but by the Circumstances it
luust have belong'd to the Gunner's Mate, tho'
there was no Powder in k, but about two Pounds
of sine glaz'd Powder, in three small Flasks, kept,
I suppose, for charging their Fowling-pieces on oc-
casion : Upon the whole, I got very little by this
Voyage, that was of any use to me ; for as to the
Money, I had no manner of occasion for it j 'twas
to me as the Dirt under my Feet ,• and I would
have given it all for three or four Pair of EngUJh
Shoes and Stockings, which were things I greatly
wanted, but had not had on my Feet now for
many Years: I had, indeed, gotten two Pair of
Shoes now, which I took, off of the Feet of the
two
two drowns Men, who I saw in the Wreck; and
I found two Pair more in one of the Chests, which
were very welcome to me ; but they were not like
our Englijh Shoes, either for Ease or Service, be-
ing rather what we call Pumps than Shoes: I
found in this Seaman's Chest about fifty Pieces of
Eight in Royals, but no Gold; I suppose this
belong'd to a poorer Man than the other, which
scem'd to belong to some Officer-
Well, however, I lugged this Money home to
my Cave, and laid it up, as I had done that be-
fore, which I brought from our own Ship; but it
was great Pity, as I said, that the other Part of
this Ship had not come to my Share, for I am sa-
tisfy'd I might have loaded my Canoe several times
over with Money*, which, if I had ever eseap'd to
England, would have lain here safe enough tiU I
might have come again and fetch'd it.
Having now brought all my Things on Shore,
and fecund them, I went back to my Boat, and
row'd or paddled her along the Shore to her old
Harbour, where I laid her up, and made the best
of my Way to my old Habitation, where I found
every Thing safe and quiet; so I began to repose
myself, live after my old Fashion, and take care of
my Family Aflairs; and for a while I liv'd easy
enough; only that I was more vigilant than I us*d
to be, look'd out oftner, and did not go abroad so
much; and if at any time I did stir with any Free-
dom, it was always to the East Part of the Island,
where I was pretty well satisfy*d the Savages ti&*
ver came, and where I could go without so many
Precautions, and such a Load of Arms aid Am-
munition, as I always carry'd with me, if I went
the otter Way.
I liv'd in this Condition near two tears store i
but my unlucky Head, that was always to let m#
Q^ 3 know
[2,30]
know it was born to make my Body miserable,
was all the two Years fill'd with Projects and De-
signs how, if it were possible, I might get away
from this Island; for sometimes I was for making
another Voyage to the Wreck, tho* my Reason
told me that there was nothing left there worth the
Hazard of my Voyage: Sometimes for a Ramble
one Way, sometimes another; and I believe veri-
ly, if I had had the Boat that I went from SaUee
in, I should have ventured to Sea, bound any where,
I knew not whither*
: I have been, in all my Circumstances, a Memento
to those who are touch'd with the general Plague
of Mankind, whence, for ought I know, one half
of their Miseries flow; I mean, that of not being
satisfy'd with the Station wherein God and Na-
ture hath placed them; for not to look back upon
my primitive Condition, and the excellent Advice
of my Father, the Opposition to which was, as I
tkay caUity my Original Sin, my subsequent
Mistakes of the fame kind had been the means of
my coming into this miserable Condition; for had
that Providence, which so happily had seated me
at the Brajtlsy as a Planter, bless'd me with con-
fin'd Desires, and I could have been contented to
have gone on gradually, I might have been by this
Time, I mean in the Tsime of my being in this Island,
one of the most considerable Planters in the Bra-
sih; nay, I am persuaded, that by the Improve-
ments I had mad£ in that little time I livM there,
and the Encrease I should probably have made, if I
had stay'd, I might have been worth an hundred
thousand Moyadores; and wh^t Business had I to
leave a settled Fortune, a well-stock-d Plantation,
improving and increasing, to turn Supra Cargo to
Guinea, to fetch Negroes, when Patience and
Tiijie would have so encreas'd our Stock at
Home,
Home, that we could have bought them at our
own Door, stem those whose Business it was to
fetch them? And though it had cost us something
more, yet the Difference of that Price was by n&
means worth saving at so great a Hazard.
But as this is ordinarily the Fate of young Heads,
so Reflection upon the Folly of it is as ordinarily
the Exercise of more Years, or of the dear-bought
Experience of Time; and so it was with me now j
and yet so deep had the Mistake taken Root in my
Temper, that I could not satisfy my self in my
Station, but was continually poring upon the
Means and Possibility of my Escape from this
Place j and that I may with the greater Pleasure
to the Reader bring on the remaining Part of my
Story, it may not be improper to give some Ac*
count of my first Conceptions on the Subject of
this foolish Scheme for my Escape,- and how, and
upon what Foundation I acted.
I am now to be supposed retiYd into my Ca-
stle, after my late Voyage to the Wreck, my Fri-
gate laid up, and secur'd under Water as usual,
and my Condition restor'd to what it was befbr^:
I had more We; 1th, indeed,, than I had before,
but was not at atl the richer; for I had no more
Use for it, than the Indians of Peru had before the
Spaniards Came there. *
It was one of the Nights, in the rainy Season in
March, the four and twentieth Year of my first set-
ting Foot in this Island of Solitariness, I was ly-
ing in my Bed, cfr Hammock, awake, very well in
Health, had no Pain, no Distemper, no Uneasi-
ness of Body, no, nor any Uneasiness of Mirid,
more than ordinary; but could by no means close
my Eyes^ihat is, so as to sleep; no, not a Wink
all Nightlong, otherwise than as follows:
Q4' It
It is as impossible as needless, to set down the
innumerable Crowd of Thoughts that whirl'd
through that great Thorowfair of the Brain, the
Memory, in this Night's Time: I run over the
whole History of my Life in Miniature, or by
Abridgment, as I may call it, to my coming to this
island i and also of the Part of my Life since I
came to this Island. In my Reflections upon the
State of my Cafe, since I came on Shore on this
Island* I was comparing the happy Posture of my
Aftairs, in the first Years of ray Habitation here,
eompar'd to the Life of Anxiety, Fear, and Care,
which I had livrd in ever since I had seen the Print of
a foot in the Sand; not that I did not believe the
Savages had frequented the Island even all the while,
and might have been several Hundreds of them at
Times on Shore there; but I had never known it5
and was incapable of any Apprehensions about it;
my Satisfaction was perfect, tho* my Danger was
the fame; and I was as happy in not knowing my
Danger, as if 1 had never really been exposed to it,
This furnifh'd my Thoughts with many very pro-
fitable Reflections, and particularly this one, How
infinitely good that Providence is, which has pro-
vided in its Government of Mankind such narrow
Bounds to his Sight and Knowledge of Things >
and tho* he walks in the midst of so many thousand
Dangers, the Sight of which, if discovered to him,
would distract his Mind, and sink his Spirits, he is
kept serene and calm, by having the Events of
Things hid from his Eyes, and knowing nothing
pf the Dangers which iurround him.
After these Thoughts had for some Time enter-
tfMii'd me, I came to reflect seriously upon the real
t)anger I had been in for so many Years in this
very Island; and how I had walk'd about in the
greatest Security, and with all possible Tranquilli-
ty • even when perhaps nothing but a Bttow of a
Hill, a great Tree, or the casual Approach of
Night, had been between me and the worst kind
of Destruction, viz,. That of falling into the Hands
of Canibals and Savaged, who would have sciz'd
on me with the fame View as I did of a Goat of
a Turtle, and have thought it no more a Crime to
kill and devour me, than I did of a Pidgeon or %
Curlieu. I should unjustly flander my self, if I
fliould fay I was not sincerely thankful to my great
Preserver, to whose singular Protection I acknow-
ledge], with great Humility, that all these ust-
known Deliverances were due ,• and without which
I must inevitably have fallen into their mercileft
Hands.
When these Thoughts were over, my Head was
for some time taken up in considering the Nature
of these wretched Creatures, I mean, the Savages;
and how it came to pass in the Wotld, that the
wife Governour of all Things should give up any
of his Creatures to such Inhumanity; nay, to some-
thing so much below even Brutality itself, as td
devour its own Kind: But as this ended in sotiie
( at that Time fruitless ) Speculations, it occutM
to me to enquire, what Part of the World these
Wretches liv'd in; how far off the Coast was front
whence they came; what they ventur'd over so far
from Home for,- what kind of Boats they had;
and why I might not order my self, and itiy Bust-
ness so, that I might be as able to go over thi-
ther, as they were to come to me.
I never so much as troubled my self to consider
what I should do with my self #hen I came thi-
ther; what would become of me, if I fell into the
Hands of the Savages; or how I should escape froih
them, if they attempted me; no, nor so much ire
how it was possible for me to reach the Coast, aim
not
not be attempted by some or other of them, with-
out any Possibility of delivering my self; and ifl
fliould not fall into their Hands, what I should do
for Provision, or whither 1 fliould bend my Course,*
none of these Thoughts, I fay, so much as came
in my way; but my Mind was wholly bent upon
the Notion of my passing over in my Boat to the
main Land: I look'd back upon my present Condi-
tion, as the most miserable that could possibly be;
that I was not able to throw myself into any thing
but Death that could be c$Ua worse ,* that if I
reach'd the Shore of the Main, I might, perhaps,
meet with Relief, or I might coast along, as I did
on the Shore of Africk, 'nil I came to some inha-
bited Country, and where I might find some Re-
lief; and after all, perhaps I might fail in with
some Christian Ship that might take me in; and
if the worse came to the worst, I could but die,
which would put an End to all these Miseries at
once. Pray Note, All this was the Fruit of a dis-
turbs Mind, an impatient Temper, made as it
were desperate by the long Continuance of my
Troubles, and the Disappointments 1 had met in
the Wreck 1 had been on board of, and where 1
had been so near the obtaining what I so earnestly
long'd for, viz*, some Body to speak to, and to learn
some Knowledge from, of the Piace where I was,
and of the probable Means of my Deliverance;
1 fay, I was agitated wholly by these Thoughts:
All my Calm of Mind in my Resignation to Pro-
vidence, and waiting the Jslue of the Dispositions
of Heaven, seem'd to be suspended ,• and I had, as
jt were, no Power to turn my Thoughts to any
Thing, but to the Pro>ed of a Voyage to the
Main, which came upon me with such Force, ana
iich .an Impetuosity of Desire, that it was not to
be resisted. , _f .
When this had agitated my Thoughts for two
Hours, or more, with such Violence, that it set
my very Blood into a Ferment, and my Pulse beat
as high as if I had been in a Fever, merel^with
the extraordinary Fervour of my Mind about it;
Nature, as if I had been fatigu'd and exhausted
with the very Thought of it, threw me into a
sound Sleep: One would have thought I should
have dreamt of it; but I did not, nor of any
thing relating to it; but I dreamt, that as I was
going out in the Morning, as usual, from my Castle,
I law upon the store two Canoes, and eleven Sava-
ges coming to Land, and that they brought with
them another Savage, who they were going to kill,
in order to eat him; when, on a sudden, the Sa-
vage, that they were going to kill, jump'd away,
and ran for his Life; and I thought in my Sleep,
that he came running into my little thick Grove,
before my Fortification, to hide himself; and that
I seeing him alone, and not perceiving that the
other sought him that way, fhew'd myself to him,
and smiling upon him, encouraged him; that he
kneefd down to me, seeming to pray me to assist
him; upon which I stew'd my Ladder, made him
go up, and carry'd him into my Cave, and he be-
came my Servant; and that as soon as I had got-
ten this Man, I said to myself, now I may certain-
ly venture to the Main Land; for this Fellow
will serve me as a Pilot, and will tell me what to
do, and whither to go tor Provisions; and whi-
ther not to go for fear of being devour'd, what Pla-
ces to venture into, and what to escape. I wak'd
with this Thought, and was under such inexpres-
sible Impressions of Joy at the Prospect of my E-
scape in ray Dream, that the Disappointments
Fhich I felt upon coming to myself, and finding it
was np more than a Dream, were equally extra-
vagant
ragant th€ other way, and threw me Into a very
great Dejection of Spirit.
Upon this, however, I made this Conclusion,
That^my ohly way to go about an Attempt for an
Escape, was, if possible, to get a Savage into ray
Possession ; and, ir possible, it should be one of their
Prisoners, whom they had condemned to be eaten,
and should being thither to kill; but these Thoughts
fUll were attended with this Difficulty, that it was
impossible to effect this, without attacking a whole
Caravan of them, and killing them ail ; and this
was not only a Very desperate Attempt, and might
Eiisearry; but, on the other hand, I had greatly
scrupled the Lawfulness of it to me, and my Heart
trembled at the Thoughts of {bedding so much
Blood, tho' it was for my Deliverance. 1 need
not repeat the Arguments which occur'd to me
against this, they being the fame mentioned before:
But tho* I had other Reasons to ofier now, viz,
that those Men were Enemies to my Life, and
would devour me, if they could, that it was Self-
preservation in the highest Degree, to deliver my
self from this Death of a Life, and was acting in
my own Defence, as much as if they were actually
assaulting me, and the like : I fay, tho* these things
argued for it, yet the Thoughts of shedding hu-
man Blood for my Deliverance, were very terrible
to me, and such as I could by no Means reconcile
myself to a great while.
However, at last, after many secret Disputes
with myself, and after great Perplexities about
it, (for all these Arguments, one way and another,
struggled in my Head a long time) the eager pre-
vailing Desire of Deliverance at length master o
all the rest, and I resotv'd, if possible, to get one
of these Savages into my Hands, cost what it
would.
would. My next thing then was to contrive how
to do it; and this indeed was very difficult to re-
solve on. Bat as I cduld pitch upon no probable
Means for it, so I resolv'd to put myself upon the
Watch, to see them when they came on Shore,
and leave the rest to the Event, taking such Mea-
sures as the Opportunity should present, let be
what would be.
With these Resolutions in my Thoughts, I set
myself upon the Scout, as often as possible, and
indeed fo often till I was heartily tired of it; for
it was above a Year and a half that I waited, and
for great Part of that Time went out to the West
End, and to the South-West Corner of the Ifland
almost every Day, to fee for Canoes, but none
appears. This was very discouraging, and be*
gan to trouble me much; tho* I can't fay that it
did in this Cafe as it had done some time before
that, viz.. wear oft* the Edge of my Desire to the
thing i but the longer it seeixTd to be delay'd, the
more eager I was for it: In a Word, I was not at
first so careful to sliun the Sight of these Savages,
and avoid being seen by them, as I was now ea-
ger to be upon them.
Besides, I fancied m>self able to manage one,
nay, two or three Savages, if I had them, so as
to make them entirely Slaves to me, to do what-
ever I sliould direct them, and to prevent their
being able at any time to do me any Hurt. It
was a great while that I pleased myself with this
Affair; but nothing still presented; all my fito-
cies and Schemes came to nothing, for no Sava-
ges came near me for a great while.
About a Year and half after I had entertains
these Notions, and, by long musing, had as it were
resolv'd them all into nothing, for want of an Oc-
casion to put them in Execution, I was surprized
one
one Morning early, with seeing no less than five
Cmtm all on Shore together on my Side the Ifland,
and the People who belong'd to them all landed,
and out of my Sight: The Number of them broke
all my Measures; for seeing so many, and know-
ing that they always came four, or fix, or sometimes
more, in a Boat, I could not tell what to think of
it, or how to take my Measures, to attack twen-
ty or thirty Men single-handed ,- so * lay still in
my Castle, perplexed and discomforted; however
1 put myself into all the same Postures for an At-
tack, that I had formerly provided, and was just
ready for Action, if any thing had presented. Ha*
vitig waited a good while, listening to hear if they
made any Noise, ar length being very impatient,
I set my Guns at the Foot of my Ladder, and
clamber'd up to the Top of the Hill by my two
Stages, as usual, standing so, however, that my
Head did not appear above the Hill; so that they
€fculd not perceive me by any Means: Here I ob*
serv'd, by the help of my Prospective-Glais, that
they were no less than thirty in Number ; that
they had a Fire kindled, that they had had Meat
dress'd; how they had cook'd it, that I knew not,
or what it was; but they were all dancing in I
know not how many barbarous Gestures and Fi-
gures, their own Way, round the Fire.
While I was thus looking on them, I perceiv d
by my Prospective two miserable Wretches dragd
from the Boats, where, it seems, they were laid by*
and were now brought out for the Slaughter. 1
perceived one of them immediately sell, being
knock'd down, I suppose with a Club or wooden
Sword, for that was their vVay, and two or three
others were at work immediately, cutting him ope*1
for their Cookery, while the other Victim was kit
standing by himself, till they sliould be ready fc*
tuna-
him. In that very Moment this poor Wretch fee-
ing himself a little at Liberty, Nature inspired him,
with Hopes of Life, and he started away from
them, and ran with incredible Swiftness along the
Sands directly towards me, I mean, towards that
Part of the Coast where my Habitation was,
I was dreadfully frighted (that I must acknow-
ledge) when I pcrcciVd him to run my Way;
and especially,, when, as I thought, I saw him pur-
sued by the whole Body; and now I expected
that Part of my Dream was coming to pass, and
that he would certainly take (helter in my Grove;
but I could not depend by any means upon my
Dream for the rest of it, viz,, that the other Sa-
vages would not pursue him thither, and find hiifi
there. However, I kept my Station, and my Spi-
rits began to recover, when I found that there was
not above three Men that follow'd him ; and still'
more was I encouraged, when I found that he
antstript them exceedingly in running, and gain'd,
Ground of them, so that if he could but hold it
foi* half an Hour, I saw easily he would fairly
get away from them ail.
There was between them and my Castle the
Creek which I mentioned often at the first Part of
my Stcry, when I landed my Cargoes out of the
Ship; and this I saw plainly, he must neceflarily
swim over, or the poor Wretch would be taken
there: But when the Savage escaping came thi-
ther, he made nothing of it, tho* the Tide was
then up; but plunging in, swam thro5 in about
thirty Strokes, or thereabouts, landed, and ran on
with exceeding Strength and Swiftness; when the
three Persons came to the Creek, I found that
two of them could swim, but the third could not;
and that standing on the other Side, he looked at
the other, but went oo further; and soon after went
softlv
softly back again, which, as it happen'd, was ?e*
ry well for him in the main.
I observ'd, that the two who swam, were yet
more than twice as long swimming over the Creek,
as the Fellow was that fled from them : It came
now very warmly upon my Thoughts, and indeed
irresistibly, that now was my Time to get me a
Servant, and perhaps a Companion, or Assistant j
and that I wascall'd plainly by Providence to save
this poor Creature'sLifc; I immediately run down
the Ladders with all possible Expedition, fetch'd
my two Guns, for they were both but at the Foot
of the Ladders, as I observ'd above j and getting
up again with the same haste, to the Top of the
Hill, I crose'd toward the Sea; and having a very
foort cut, and all down Hill, dap'd myself in the
Way between the Pursuers and the pursued, hal-
lowing aloud to him that fled, who looking back,
was at first perhaps as much frighted at me as
at them; but I beckon'd with my Hand to him
to come back, and in the mean time, I slowly ad-
vanced towards the two that follow'd ; then rustl-
ing at once upon the foremost, I knoek'd him down
withtheSrockdf my Piece; I waslothtofire, be-
cause I would not have the rest hear; tho at that
Distance it would not have been easily heard;
and being out of Sight of the Smoak too, they
would not have easily known what to make of it:
Having knoek'd this Fellow down, the other who
pursu d him stopt, as if he had been frighted 5
and I advanced apace towards him; but as I came
nearer, I perceiv'd presently, he had a Bow and
Arrow, and was fitting it to slioot at me ; lo *
•was then necessitated to shoot at him first; which
I did, and kiU'd him at the first Shoot: The poor
Savage who fled, but had stop'd, tho' he saw botn
his Enemies fallen, and kill'd, as he thought, yet
was so frighted with the Fire, and Noise of my
Piece, that he stood slock still, and neither came
forward or went backward, tho' he seem'd rather
inclin'd to fly still, than to come on; I hollow'd
again to him, and made Signs to come forward,
which he easily understood, and came a little way,
then stop'd again, and then a little farther, and
ftop'd again ; and J could then perceive that he
stood trembling, as if he had been taken Prisoner,
and had just been to be kilfd, as his two Enemies*
were ; I beckoned him again to come to me, and
gave him all the Signs of Encouragement that I
could think of; and he came nearer and nearer,
kneeling down every ten or twelve Steps, in token
of Acknowledgment for my saving his Life; Ismil'd
at him, and looked pleasantly, and beckon'd tohim
to come still nearer; at length he came close tome,
and then he kneel'ddown again, kiss'd the Ground,
and laid his Head upon the Ground, and taking
me by the Foot, set my Foot upon his Head:
This, it seems, was in token of swearing to be ray
Slave for ever. I took him up, and made much of
him, and encouraged him all I could : But there
was more Work to do yet, for I perceiv'd the Sa-
vage whom I knocked down, was not kill'd, but
stun'd with the Blow, and began to come to him-
self; so I pointed to him, and showing him the Sa-
vage, that he was not dead ,* upon this he spoke
some Words to me, and tho* I could not understand
them, yet I thought they were pleasant to hear,
for they were the first Sound of a Man's Voice that
I had heard, my mm excepted, for above twenty-five
fears. Bat there was no time for such Reflec-
tions now; the Savage, who was knock'd down,
recovered himself so far, as to sit up upon the
Ground, and I perceived that my Savage began to
be afraid; but when I sow that, I presented my
Part L R other
other Piece at the Man, as if 1 would shoot him;
upon this my Savage, fw so I call him now, made a
Motion to me to lend him my Sword, which hung
naked in a Belt by my Side; so I did : He no sooner
had it, but he runs to his Enemy, and at one Blow
cut off his Head as cleverly, no Executioner in Ger-
many could have done it sooner or better; which I
thought very strange, for one, who 1 had reason to
believe, never saw a Sword in his Life before, ex-
cept their own wooden Swords; howevcr,it seems,
as I learn'4 afterwards, they make their wooden
Swords so sharp, so heavy, and the Wood is so
har4 that they will cut oft Heads even with them,
ay and Arms, and that at one Blow too. When
he had done this, he comes laughing to me in Sign
of Triumph, and brought me the Sword again,
and with abundance of Gestures, which I did not
understand, laid it down with the Head ot the
Savage that he had kill'd, just before me.
But that which astonish'd him most was, to know
how 1 had kill'd the other Indian so far off) so,
pointing to him, he made Signs to me to let him
go to him; So I bad him go, as well as I could;
when he came to him, he stood like one ztqm%
looking at him, turn'd him first on ope Side, then
on. t'other, look'd at the Wound the Bullet had
made, \yfaich it seems was just in his Breast, where
it had made a Hole,and no great Quantity of Blood
had followed, but he had bled inwardly, for he
was quite dead: He took up his Bow and Ar-
rows, aqd came back; so I turned to go away*
and beckon'd to him to follow me, making S#§
to him that more might come after them.
Upon this he sign'd to me, that he should bury
them with Sand, that they might not be seen by the
.rest if they follow'd; and so I made Signs again »
him to do so; he fell to work, and m an Iftstant m
had
had serap'd a Hole in the Sand with lus Banck,
big enough to bury the first in, and then drag'd
him into it, and covered him, and did so also by
the other; I believe he had bury'd them both in
a Quarter of an Hour ,• then calling him away, I
carry "d him not to my Castle, but quite away to
my Cave, on the further Fart of the Island; so I
did not let my Dream come to pass in that Pars,
r/s,. That he came into my Grove for Shelter.
Here I gave him Dread, and a Bunch of Raiii&J
to car, and a Draught of Water, which I found he
was indeed in great Distress for, by his running;
and having rerresli'd him, I made Signs for him
to go lie down and sleep, pointing to a Place
where I had laid a great Parcel os Rice Straw,
and a Blanket upon it, which 1 used to lleep up-
on myself sometimes; so the poor Creature laid
down and went to sleep.
He was a comely handsome Fellow,perfectly well
made, with ihait long Limbs, not too large, tall,
and well fliap'd; and,as I reckon,abouc twenty-six
Years of Age. He had a very good Countenance*
not a fierce and surly Aspect, but scem'd to have
something very manly in his Face, and'yet he had
ail the Sweetness and Softness of an European in liis
Countenance too, especially when he smil'd. His
Hair was long and black, not curl'd like Wool; his
Forehead very high,and large,and a great Vivacity
and sparkling Sharpness in his Eyes. The Colour of
his Skin was not quite black, but very tawny, and
yet not of an ugly yellow nauseous Tawny, as the
Brafiliaw, and Virginians, and other Natives of
America are, but of a bright kind of a dun Olive
Colour, that had in it something very agreeable,
tho* not very easy to describe. His Face was round
and plump, his Nose small, not flat like the Ne-
groes, a very good Mouth, thin Lips, and his
R a fine
sine Teeth, well set, and white as Ivory. After he
had flumber'd, rather than slept, about halt an
Hour, he wak'd again, and comes out of the Cave
to'me, for I had been milking my Goats, which I
had in the Enclosure just by: When he espy'd me,
he came running to me, laying himself down
again upon the Ground, with ail the possible Sips
ot an humble thankful Disposition, making a many
antick Gestures to show it: At last he lays his
Head flat upoft the Ground, close to my Foot,
and sets my other Foot upon his Head, as he had
done before; and after this, made all the Signs to
me of Subjection, Servitude, and Submission ima-
ginable, to let me know how he would serve me
as long as he liv'd- I understood him in many
things, and let him know I was very well pleas'd
with him ; in a little time I began to speak to
him, and teach him to speak to me ; and first, I
made him know his Name sliould be Friday, which
was the Day I sav*d his Life; I called him so for
the Memory of the time ; I likewise taught him
to say Mafiery and then let him know that was to
be my Name; I likewise taught him to say B
and No> and to know the Meaning of them; I gave
him some Milk in an earthen Pot, and let him see
me drink it before him, and sop my Bread in it;
and I gave him a Cake of Bread to do the like,
which he quickly comply'd with, and made Signs
that it was very good for him.
I kept there with him all that Night, but assoon
as it was Day, I beckoned to him to come with
me, and let him know I would give him (orat
Cloaths, at which he seem'd very glad, for he was
stark-naked : As we went by the Place where he
had bury a the two Men,he pointed exactly to the
Place, and sliew'd me the Marks that he had
made to find them again, making Signs to o*e
that
that we should dig them up again, and? eat them j
at this I appeared very angry, express'd my Ab-
horrence of it, made as it" I would vomit at the
Thoughts of it, and beckon'd with my Hand to
him to come away, which he did immediately,
with great Submission. I then led him- up to the
Top of the Hill, to fee if his Enemies were gone j
and pulling out my Glass, I looked, and saw plain-
ly the Place where they had been, but no Appea-
rance of them, or of their Canoe*; so that it was
plain that they were gone, and had left their two
Comrades behind them, without any Search aker
them.
But I was not content with this Discovery, but
having now more Courage,and consequently more
Curiosity, I took my Man Friday with me, giving
him the Sword in his Hand, with the Bow and
Anows at his Back, which I found he could use
very dexterously, making him carry one Gun for me,
and I two for myself, and away we marched to the
Place where these Creatures had been; for I had a
mind now to get some fuller Intelligence of them:
When I came to the Place, my very Blood ran
chill in my Veins, and my Heart funk within me
at the Horror of the Spectacle: Indeed it was a
dreadful Sight, at least it was so to me, tho' Friday
made nothing of it: The Place was cover'd with
human Bones, the Ground dy'd with their Blood,
great Pieces of Flesh left here and there, half
eaten, mangled and scorch'd; and, in short, alt the
Tokens of the triumphant Feast they had been ma-
king there, afrer a Victory over their Enemies. I
saw three Skulls, five Hands, and the Bones of three
or four Legs and Feet, and abundance of other Parts
of the Bodies; and Friday3 by his Signs, made me
understand, that they brought over spur Prisoners
to seast upon; that three of them were eaten up,
R 3 and
arid that he, pointing to himself, was the fourth:
That there had been a great Battel between them
and their next King, whose Subjects it seems he had
been one of > and that they had taken a great Num-
ber of Prisoners, all which were carried to seve-
ral Places "by those that had taken them in the
Fight, in order to feast upon them, as was done
her'e by these Wretches upon those they brought
hither.
I eausM Friday to gather all the Skulls, Bones,
FleQi, and whatever remafn?d, and lay them to-
gether on a Heap, and make a great Fire upon it,
and burn them all to Ashes: I found Friday had still
a hankering stomach after some of the Flesh, and
was still a Canibal in his Nature; but I discovers
so much Abhorrence at the very Thoughts of it,
and at the least Appearance of it, that he durst not
discover it; for I had, by some means, let him know
that I would kill him if he ofter*d k*
. When we had done this, we came back to out
Castle, and there I fell to work for my Man Fidaji
and first of all I gave him a Pair of Linen Drawers,
which I had out of the poor Gunner's Chest I men-
tip'n'd, and which I found in the Wreck; and which,
with a little Alteration, fitted him very well; then
I made him a Jerkin of GoatVSkin, as well as my
Skill would allows and I was now grown a tolerable
good Taylor j and I gave him 4 Cap, which 1 h^
made of a Hare-skin, very convenient and fashion-
able enough; and thus he was c!oath*d, for the
present, tolerably well, and was mighty well pleasM
to fee himself4lmost as well cloatfAl as his Mailer:
Irs true, he went aijkwardly in these things at first;
wearing the Drawers was very auk ward to him,
^nd the Sleeves of the Waistcoat gall'd his Shoul-
ders, and the inside of his Arms; but a little easing
them, where he complained they hurt him, *nd
using hfmself to them, at length he took to them
very well.
The next Day after I came Home to my Hutch
with him, 1 began to consider where I should lodge
him; and that I might do well tor him, and yet be
perfectly easy my self. I made a little Tent for him
in the vacant Place between my two Fortifications,
in the Inside of the laft, and in the Outside of the
first: And as there was a Door or Entrance there
into my Cave, I made a formal fram'd Door-cnfe,
and a Door to it of Boards, and set it up in the
Passage, a little within the Entrance j and causiiig
the Door to open on the Inside, I bar'd it up m tlite
Nighr, taking in my Ladders too; so that Friday
could no way come at me in the Inside of my inner-
most Wall,without making so much Noise in getting
over, that it must needs waken me; for my first
Wall had now a complcat Roof over it of long
Poles, covering all my Tent, and leaning up %6 the
Side of the Hill, which was again laid cross with
smaller Sticks instead of Laths* and then thatch'd
over a great Thickness with the Rice-Straw, Which
was strong like Reeds; and at the Hole or Place
which was left to go in or out by the Ladder , 1
had plac'd a kind of Trap-door, which if it had
been attempted on the Out-side, would not have
open'd at all, but would have fallen down, and
made a great Noise; and as to Weapon*, I £od*
them all into my Side every Night.
But I needed none of all this Precaution; for
never Man had a more faithful, loving, sincere Scr->
vant than Friday was to me; without Factions,
Sullenncse, or Designs, perfectly obliged and en-
gag'd; his-very Affections were ry'd to rite, like
those of a Child to a Fathet; and I dkm soy, he
would have sacrifice his Life for the ft¥ft>g mine,
upon any Occasion whatsoever t The mny Testi-
fy 4 monies
monies he gave me of this, put it out of doubt,
and soon convine'd me , that I needed to use no
Precautions as to my Safety on his account.
This frequently gave me occasion to observe,
and that with wonder, that however it had pleas'd
God in his Providence, and in the Government of
the Works of his Hands, to take from so great a
Part of the World of his Creatures, the best Uses
to which their Faculties, and the Powers of their
Souls are adapted; yet that he has bestow'd upon
them the fame Powers, the fame Reason, the same
Affections, the fame Sentiments of Kindness and
Obligation, the fame Passions and Resentments of
Wrongs, the fame Sense of Gratitude, Sincerity,
Fidelity, and all the Capacities of doing Good,
and receiving Good, that he has given to us; and
that when he pleases to offer them Occasions of
exerting these,, they are as ready, nay, more ready
to apply them to the right Uses for which they
were bestow'd, than we are. And this made me
tery melancholy sometimes, in reflecting, as the se-
veral Occasions presented, how mean a Use we
make of all these, even tho' we have these Powers
enlighten'd by the great Lamp of Instruction, the
Spirit of God, and by the Knowledge of his Word,
added to our Understanding; and why it has plea-
fed God to hide the like saving Knowledge from
so many Millions of Souls, who (if I might judge
by this poor Savage) wpuld make a much better
Use of it than we did.
From hence I sometimes was led top far to in-
vade the Sovereignty of Providence; and, as it
were, arraign the Justice of so arbitrary a Disposi-
tion of Things, that fliould hide that Light from
some, and reveal it to others, and yet expect a like
Duty from both: But I shut it up and check'd my
Yhpu^hts with this Conclusion, Firsts That we did
.;' '' "•"' ': nos
not know by what Light and Law these fiiould be
condemned; but that, as God was necessarily, and,
by the Nature of his Being, i^nitely holy and just,
so it could not be, but that if tl^e Creatures were
all sentene'd to absence from himself, it was on ac-
count of sinning against that Light, which, as the
Scripture fays, was a Law to themselves, and by
such Rules as their Consciences would acknowledge
to be just, tho* the Foundation was not discovered
to us: And, Secondly, That still as we are all the
Clay in the Hand of the Potter, no Vessel could
fay to him, Why hast thou formed me thus?
But to return to my new Companion: I was
greatly delighted with him, and made it my Busi-
ness to teach him every thing that was proper to
make him useful, handy and helpful; but especially
to make him speak, and understand me when I
speak; and he was the aptest Scholar that ever
was, and particularly was so merry, so constantly
jdiligent, and so pleased when he could but under-
stand me, or make me understand him, that it was
very pleasant to me to talk to him; and now my
Life began to be so easy, that I began to say to
myself, that could I but have been safe from more
Savages, I cared not if I was never to remove
from the Place while I liv'd.
After I had been two or three Days return'd to
my Castle, I thought, that, in order to bring Friday
off from his horrid way of feeding, and from the
Relish of a Canibal's Stomach, I ought to let him
taste other Flesh; sol took him out with me one
Morning to the Woods. I went, indeed, intending
to kill a Kid out of my own Flock, and bring it
home and dress it: But as I was going, I saw a
She-Goat lying down in the Shade, and two young
Kids sitting by her. I catch'd hold of Friday,
Kold, fays I, stand still j and made Signs to him
not
C*5o]
hot to stftr, immediately I presented my Piece, ftat
and kili'd one of the Kids. The poor Creature,
who had at a Distance, indeed, seen me kill the Sa-
vage, his Enemyj§but did not know, or could i*
magine how it was done, was sensibly surpnVd,
trembled and shook, and look'd so amaz'd, that I
thought he would have sunk down. He did not
see the Kid I had (hot at, or perceive shad kill'd
it, but rip'd'up his Waistcoat to feel if he was not
wounded \ and as I found, presently thought I was
resolv'd to kill him; for he tame and knees d down
to me, and embracing my Knees, said a great
many Things I did not understand, but I could
easily see that the Meaning was to pray me not to
kill him.
I soon found a Way to convince him that I would
do him no Harm, and taking him up by the Hand,
laugh'd at him, and pointing to the Kid which I
had kilfd, beckon'd to him, to run and fetch it,
which he did ,• and while he was wondering and
looking to see how the Creature was kill'd, I loaded
my Gun again, and by-and-by I saw a great Fowl,
like a Hawk, sit upon a Tree within shot; so, to
let Friday understand a little what I would do, 1
calfd him to me again, pointing at theFowli
which was indeed a Parrot, tho* I thought it had
been a Hawk 11 fay, pointing to the Parrot, and to
my Gun, and to the Ground under the Parrot, td
let him fee I would make it fall, I made him utt
derstaiid that I would shoot and kill that Bifd> ac-
cordingly I fir'd, and bad him look, and immediate-
ly he saw the Parrot fall; he stopd lik$ one fright-
ed again, notwithstanding all I had said to ftm* > ast4
I found he was the more amaz'ti, because he did not
see me put any thing into the Gun; but thought
that there must be some wonderful Fund of Death
and Destruction in that Thimj, $ty$ to kill Man*
Beast, Bird, or any thing near or far ofls; and the
Astonishment this created in him was such, as
could not wear off for a long time; and I believe,
if I would have let him, he would have worfhip'd
me and my Gun: As for the Gun it sets, he would
not so much as touch it for several Days after; bat
would speak to it, and talk to it, as if it had an-
swered him, when he was by himself; which as I
afterwards Iearn'd of him, was to desire it not to
kill him.
Well: After his Astonishment was a little oincr
at this, I pointed to him to run and fetch the
Bird I had sliot, which he di<iy but stay'd some
Time; for the Parrot not being quite dead, was
flutters a good way off from the Place where
ihe sell; however, he found her, took her up,
and brought her to me; and, as I had perceiv'd
his Ignorance about the Gun before, I took this
Advantage to charge the Gun again, and not let
him see me do it, that I might be ready for any
other Mark that might present; but nothing more
efter'd at that Time; so I brought home the Kid,
and the fame Evening I took the Skin oft and cut
it out as well as I could; and having a Pot for
that Purpose, I boiVd or stew'd some of theFlesli,
and made some very good Broth; and after I had
begun to eat some, I gave some to my Man, who
seem d very glad of it, and lik'd it very well; but
that which was strangest to him, was to see me
eat Salt with it; he made a sign to me, that the
Salt was not good to eat, and putting a little in-
to his own Mouth, he scem'd to nauseate it, and
would spit and sputter at it, washing his Mouth
With fresh Water after it; on the other hand, I took
some Meat in my Mouth without Salt, and I pre^
tended to spit and sputter for want of Salt, as fast as
fie had done at the Salt; but it woijld not do, ha
W0U14
would never care for Salt with his Meat, or in his
Broth; at least, not a great while, and then but
a very little.
Having thus fed him with boil'd Meat and
Broth, I was resolv'd to feast him the next Day
with roasting a Piece of the Kid; this I did by
hanging it before the Fire in a String, as I had seen
many People do in England, setting two Poles up,
one on each side the Fire, and one cross on the*
top, and tying the String to the cross Stick, let-
ting the Meat turn continually: This Friday ad-
mir'd very much; but when he came to taste the
Fleshy he took so many ways to tell me how well
he lik'd it, that I could not but understand him;
and at last he told me he would never eat Man's
Flesh any more, which I was very glad to hear.
The next Day I set him to work to beating some
Gorn out, and sifting it in the manner I used to do,
as I obscrv'd before; and he soon understood how
to do it as well as I, especially, after he had seen
what the meaning of it was, and that it was to
make Bread of; for after that I let him fee me make
my Bread, and bake it too; and in a little Time
Friday was able to do all the Work forme, as well
as I could do it my self.
I began now to consider,that having two Mouths
to feed instead of one, I must provide more Ground
for my Harvest, and plant a larger Quantity of
Corn than I used to do; sol mark'd out a larger
Piece of Land, and began the Fence in the fame
manner as before, in which Friday not only work'd
very willingly and very hard, but did it very
chearsolly,- and I told him what it was for, that it
was for Corn to make moreBread, because he was
now with me, and that I might have enough for
him and myself too: He appear'd very sensible of
that Part, and let me know, that he thought I had
much
much more Labour upon me on his Account, than
1 had for myself; and that he would work the
harder for me, if I would tell him what to do.
This was the pleafantest Year of all the Life I
led in this Place : Friday began to talk pretty well,
and understand the Names of almost every thing I
had occasion to call for, and of every Pl&cc I had
to fend him to, and talk a great deal to me; so
that, in short, I began now to have some use for my
Tongue again, which indeed I had very little oc-
casion for before; that is to fay, about Speech; Be-
sides the Pleasure of talking to him, I had a singu-
lar Satisfaction in the Fellow himself; his simple
unfeign'd Honesty appears to me more and more
every Day, and 1 began really to love the Creature;
and on his Side, I believe he lov'd me more than it
was possible for him ever to love any thing before.
I had a mind once to try if he had any hankering
Inclination to his own Country again; and having
learn'd him English so well, that he could answer
me almost any Questions, I ask'd him whether the
Nation that he belonged to never conquer'd in
Battle? At which he smil'd and said, Yes, yes, we
always fight the better; that is, he meant always
get the better in Fight ,• and so we began the fol-
lowing Discourse. You always fight the better, said
I, How came you to be taken Prisoner then Friday?
Friday. My Nation beat much, for all that.
Master. How beat; if your Nation beat them,
how came you to be taken?
Friday. They more many than my Nation in
the Place where me was; they take one, two,
three, and me: my Nation over-beat them in
the yonder Place, where me no was; the ;e my
Nation take one, two, great Thousand.
^ Master. But why did not your Side reef er you
from the Hands of your Enemies then?
Friday*
Friday. They run one, two, three, andme> and
make go in the Canoe; my Nation have no Caw*
that Time.
Master. Well, Fnday> and what does your Na*
tion do with the Men they take? do they carry
them away, and eat them* as*these did?
Friday. Yes, my Nation eat Man's- too, eat
all up.
Mtffiw- Where do they carry them?
Friday. Go to other Place where they think.
Master. Do they come hither?
Friday. Yes, yes, they come hither; come other
else Place.
Master. Have you been here with them?
Friday. Yes, I been here: [Points to the N. W*
Side of the Island, which, it seems, vim their Side^]
By this I understood, that my Man Friday had
formerly been among the Savages, who used to
come on Shore on the farther Part of the Island, o\\
the said Man-eating Occasions that he was now
brought for ,* and some time after, when I took
the Courage to carry him to that Side, being the
samel formerly mentioned,, he presently knew tht
Place* and told me, he was there once when they
eat up twenty Men, two Women, and one Child;
Ha could not tell twenty in English ; but he num-
bered them by laying so many Stones in a Row,
and pointing to me to tell them over.
I have told this Passage, because it introduces
what follows ,• that after I had had this Discourse
with himj I ask'd him how far it was from our
Island to the Shore, and whether the Games were
not often lost: He told me there was no Danger,
no Canoes ever lost i but that after a little way out
to the Sea, there was a Current, and a Wind al-
ways one way in the Morning, the ather- in the
Afternoon.
This
This I understood to be no more than the Sets of
the Tide, as going out, or coming in ,* but I after-
wards understood it was occasions by the great
Draft and Reflux of the mighty River Oroonooh;
in the Mouth or the Gulph of which River, as I
thought afterwards, our Island lay; and that this
Land, which I perceiv'd ro the W. and N.W. was
the great Island xfrinidad, on the North Point of
the Mouth of the River. I ask'd Friday a thousand
Questions about the Country, the Inhabitants, the
Sea, the Coast, and1 what Nations were near; he
told me all he knew, with the greatest Openness
imaginable. I ask*d him the Names of the seve-
ral Nations of his fort of People, but could get
no other Name than Caribs; from whence I easi-
ly understood, that these were the Caribhes, which
our Maps place on the Part of America, which
reaches from the Mouth of the River Oroonooko to
Guiana, and onwards to St. Martha: He told me
that up a great way beyond the Moon, that was,
beyond the setting of the Moon, which must be
W. from their Country, there dwelt white-beard-
ed Men, like me; and pointed to my great Whis-
kers, which I mentioned before ,- and that they
{iad killed much Mam, that was his Wotd : By all
which I understood he meant the Spaniards, whose
Cruelties in America had been spread over the
whole Countries, and were remembers by all the
Nations from Father to Son.
I enquired if he could tell me how I might
come from thislstand, and get among those white
Men ,• he told me* Yes, yes, I might go in tm
Canoe i I could not understand what he meant,
or make him describe to me what he meant by
two Canoe, till at last, with great Difficulty, I
found he meant it must be in a large great Boat,
,asbigasftw Cannes.
This
This Part of Friday's Discourse began to relish
with me very well; and from this time I enter*
tain'd some Hopes, that one time or other I
might find an Opportunity to make my Escape
from this Place, and that this poor Savage might
be a means to help me to do it.
During the long time that Friday had now been
with me, and that he began to speak to me, and
understand me, I was not wanting to lay a Foun-
datien of religious Knowledge in his Mind; par-
ticularly, I ask'd him one time, who made him?
The poor Creature did not understand me.at all,
but thought I had ask'd who was his Father: But
I took it by another Handle, and askid him who
made the Sea, the Ground we walk'don, and the
HiUs and Woods? He told me, it was one old
Benamuckef, that lived beyond all. He could de-
scribe nothing of this great Person, but that he was
very old; much older, he said, than the Seaorthe
Land, than the Moon or the Stars. I ask'd him
then, if this old Person had made all things, why
did not all things worship him? He look'd verjf
grave, and with a perfect Look of Innocence, said,
AH things said O to him. I ask'd him, if the People
who die in his Country, went away any where?
He said, Yes, they all went to Benamuche. Then
I ask'd him, whether these they eat up went thi-
ther too? He said, Yes.
From these Things I began to instruct him in
the Knowledge of the true God. I told him, that
the great Maker of all Things lived up there,
pointing up towards Heaven: That he governs
the World by the fame Power and Providence by
which he had made it: That he was Omnipotent,
could do every thing for us, give every thing to
us, take every thing from us; and thus, by de*
grees, I open'd his Eyes. He listened with great
Attest?
Attention, and received with Pleasure the Notion
of Jes*s Christ being sent to redeem us, and of the
manner of making our Prayers to God, and his
being able to hear us, even into Heaven. He told
me one Day, that if our God could hear us up
beyond the Sun, he must needs be a greater God
than their Benamuckee, who liv'd but a little way
eft', and yet could not hear, till they went up to
the great Mountains where he dwelt, to speak
to him. I ask'd him, if ever he went thither to
speak to him. He said, No, they never went that
were young Men; none went thither but the old
Men, who he caifd their Oowckakee, that is, as I
made him explain it to me, their Religious, or
Clergy, and that they went to fay 0, (so he call'd
saying Prayers) and then came back, and told them
what Benamuckeefaid. By this I observed, that there
is Priestcraft even amongst the most blinded igno-
rant Pagans in the World, and the Policy of
making a secret Religion, in order to preserve
the Veneration of the People to the Clergy, is
not only to be sound in the Rowan, but perhaps
among ail Religions in the World, even among
the most brutish and barbarous Savages.
I endeavoured to clear up this Fraud to my
Man Friday* and told him, That the Pretence of
their old Men going up to the Mountains to fay O
to their God Bermmuckee, was a Cheat, and their
bringing Word from thence what he saia, was
much more so; that if they met with any Answer,
or spoke with any one there, it must be with an
evil Spirit: And then I enterM into a long Dis-
course with him about tlse t)evil, the Original of
hinvhis Rebellion against God, his Enmity to
Man, the Reason of it, his setting himself up in
the dark Parts of the World to be worshiped in-
stead of God, and as God $ and the many Strata-
Part I. S gems
gems he made use of, to delude Mankind to their
Ruin; how he had a secret Access to our Passions,
and to our Affections, to adapt his Snares so to
our Inclinations, as to cause us even to be our own
Tempters, and to run upon our Destruction by
our own Choice.
I found it was not so easy to imprint right No-
tions in his Mind about the Devil, as it was about
the Being of a God. Nature assisted all my Argu-
ments to evidence to him even the Necessity of a
great first Cause, and over-ruling governing Power,
a secret directing Providence, and of the Equity
and Justice of paying Homage to him that made
us, and the like. But there appears nothing of
all this in the Notion of an evil Spirit, of his Ori-
ginal, his Being, his Nature, and above all, of his
Inclination to do Evil, and to draw us in to do
so too. And the poor Creature puzzled me once
in such a manner, by a Question merely natural
and innocent, that I scarce knew what to say to
him. I had been talking a great deal to him of
the Power of God, his Omnipotence, his dread-
ful Aversion to Sin, his being a consuming Fire to
the Workers of Iniquity; how, as he had made
us all, he could destroy us and all the World in a
Moment; and he listens with great Seriousness to
me all the while.
After this, I had been telling him how theDe-
vd was God's Enemy in the Hearts of Men, and
us'd all his Malice and Skill to defeat the good
Designs of Providence, and to ruin the Kingdom
of Christ in the World, and the like. Well, fays
Friday, but you fay, God is so strong, so great, is
he not much strong, much might as the Devil?
Yes, yes, fays I, Friday, God is stronger than the
Devil, God is above the Devil, and therefore we
pray to God to tread him down under out Feet,
j and
and enable us to resist his Temptations, and quench
his fiery Darts. But, fays he again, if God much
strongs much might as the Devil, why God no MB the
Devil, so make him no more do wicked?
I was strangely surpriz'd at his Question, and
after all, tho' I was now an old Man, yet I was
but a young Doctor, and ill enough qualified for
a Casuist, ora Solver of Difficulties: And, at first,
I could not tell what to fay; so I pretended not to
hear him, and ask'd'him what he said: But he
was too earnest for an Answer to forget his Ques-
tion; so that he repeated it in the very same broken
Words, as above. By this time I had recovers
myself a little, and I said, God will at last punijh
him severely, he is refervd for the Judgment, and is
to be cast into the bottomless Pit, to dwell with ever"
lasting Fire. This did not satisfy Friday, but he re-
turns upon me, repeating my Words, Reserve.
At Last, me no understand; But why not kiUthe
Devil now, not kill great ago? You may as well ask
me, said I, why God does not kill you and I,
when we do wicked things here that offend him:
We are prescrv'd to repent and be pardon'd- He
muses a while at this; Well, well, fays he, mighty
affectionately, that well; so you, I, Devil, all wick-
ed, all preserve, repent, God pardon all. Here I was
mo down again by him to the last degree, and it
was a Testimony to me, how the mere Notions
of Nature, tho' they will guide reasonable Crea-
tures to the Knowledge of a God, and of a Wor-
ship or Homage due to the Supreme Being of God,
as the Consequence of our Nature ,• yet nothing but
divine Reveladon can form the Knowledge of Je-
sm Christ,md of a Redemption purchased for us,of a
Mediator of the new Covenanted ofanlnterceslbr,
at the Footstool of God's Throne; I fay, nothing
bat a Revelation from Heaven can form these in
S % the
the Soul ; and that therefore the Gospel of our
Lord and Saviour Jesm Christ, I mean, the Word
of God, and the Spirit of God, promis'dsor the
Guide and Sanctifier of his People, are the abso-
lutely necessary Instructors of the Souls of Men
in the saving Knowledge of God, and the means
of Salvation.
I therefore diverted the present Discourse be-
tween me and my Man, rising up hastily, as upon
some sudden Occasion of going out; then sending
him for something a good way off, I serioufly pray'd
to God, that he would enable me to instruct saving-
ly this poor Savage, assisting by his Spirit the
Heart of the poor ignorant Creature, to receive the
Light of the Knowledge of God in Christ, recon-
ciling him to himself, and would guide me to speak
so to him from the Word of God, as his Consci-
ence might be convinced, his Eyes open'd, and his
Soul sav'd. When he came again to me, I enter'd
into a long Discourse with him upon the Subject
of the Redemption of Man by the Saviour of the
World, and of the Doctrine of the Gospel preach'd
from Heaven, viz. of Repentance towards God,
and Faith in our blessed Lord Jesm. I then ex-
plained to him, as well as I could, why our blessed
Redeemer took not on him the Nature of An-
gels, but the Seed of Abraham, and how for that
Reason the fallen Angels had no Share in the Re-
demption; that he came only to the lost Sheep of
the House of Israel, and the like.
I had, God knows, more Sincerity than Know-
ledge, in all the Methods I took for this poor
Creatures Instruction, and must acknowledge what
I believe all that act upon the fame Principle will
find, that in laying Tilings open to him, I really
jnfonnd and instructed myself in many things, that
cither I did not know, or had not fully considered
before j
before ,* but which occurrM naturally to my mind,
upon my searching into them, for the Information
of this poor Savage; and I had more Affection in
my Enquiry after Things upon this Occasion, than
ever I felt before; so chat whether this poor wild
Wretch was the better for me or no, I had great
Reason to be thankful that ever he came to me:
My Grief set lighter upon me, my Habitation
grew comfortable to be beyond measure; and
when I reflected that in this solitary Life which I
had been confined to, I had not only been mov'd
myself to look up to Heaven, and to seek to the
Hand that had brought me there, but was now
to be made an Instrument, under Providence, to
save the Life, and, for ought I know, the Soul of a
poor Savage, and bring him to the true Knowledge
of Religion, and of the Christian Doctrine, that he
might know Christ Jesus, to whom is Life eternal.
I fay, when I reflected upon all these things, a se-
cret Joy run thro' every Part os my Soul, and I
frequently rejoiced that ever I was brought to this
Place, which I had so often thought the most
dreadful of all Afflictions that could possibly have
befallen me.
In this thankful Frame I continued all the Re-
mainder of my Time, and the Conversation which
employed the Hours between Friday and I, was
such, as made the three Years which we liv'd there
together, perfectly and compleatly happy, if any
such Thing as compleat Happiness can be form'd in a sub-
lunary State. The Savage was now a good Chri-
stian, a much better than I; tho* I have Reason
to hope, and bless God for it, that we were equal-
ly penitent, and comforted restored Penitents:
We had here the Word of God to read, and no
farther off from his Spirit to instruct, than if we
had been in England.
S 3 I al-
I always apply'd my self to reading the Scrip-
ture, to let him know, as well as I could, the
Meaning of what I read; and he again, by his se-
rious Enquiries and Questions, made me, as Isaid
before,* much better Scholar in the Scripture-Know-
ledge, than I (hould ever have been by my own
private meer reading. Another thing I cannot re-
frain from observing here also from Experience, in
this retired part of my Life, m, How infinite
and inexpressible a Blessing it is, that the Know-
ledge of God, and of the Doctrine of Salvation by
Chnjl Jesm, is so plainly laid down in the Word
of Cod, so easy to be received and understood,
that as the bare reading the Scripture made me ca-
pable of understanding enough of my Duty to car-
ry me directly on to the great Work of sincere Re-
pentance for my Sins, and laying hold of a Saviour
for Life and Salvation, to a stated Reformation
in Practice, and Obedience to ail God's Com-
mands, and this without any Teacher or Instruc-
ter (I mean, humane ) so the fame plain Instruc-
tion sufficiently setVd to the enlightning this sa-
vage Creature, and bringing him to be such a
Christian, as I have known few equal to him in
my Life.
As t6 all the Disputes, Wranglings, Strife, and
Contention, which has happened in the World about
Religion,whether Niceties in DoctrineS,or Schemes
of Church-Government, they were all perfectly
useless to t\Sy as, for ought I can yet fee, they have
been to all the rest in the World: We had the sure
Guide to Heaven, viz,* the Word of God; and we
Had, bkjsed be God, comfortable Vie ws of the Spi-
rit of God, teaching and instructing us by his Word,
hading m into aU Truth, and making us both wil-
ling and obedient to the Instruction of his Word;
and I cannot fee the least Use that the greatest
Know-
Knowledge of the disputed Points in Religion,
which have made such Confusions in the World,
would have been to u$, if we could have obtained
it: But I must go on with the Historical Part of
Things, and take every Part in its Order.
After Friday and I became more intimately ac-
quainted, and that he could understand almost all
I said to him, and speak fluently, thoJ in broken
Englijh> to me ,* 1 acquainted him with my own
Story, or at least so much of it as related to my
coming into the Place, how I had liv'd there, and
how long. I let him into the Mystery , for such
it was to him, of Gunpowder and Bullet, and
taught him how to (hoot: I gave him a Kmte,
which he was wonderfully delighted with, and I
made him a Belt, with a Frog hanging to it, such
as in England we wear Hangers in; and in the Frog,
instead of a Hanger, I gave him a Hatchet, which
was not only as good a Weapon in some Cafes, but
much more useful upon other Occasions.
I described to him the Country of Europe, and
particularly England, which I came from; how we
liv'd, how we worsliip'd God, how we behaved to
one another; and how we traded in Ships to all
Pares of the World: I gave him an Account of the
Wreck which I had been on board of, and fhew'd
him as near as I could the Place where she lay ,•
but slie was all beaten in Pieces before, and gone.
I (hew'd him the Ruins of our Boat, which we
lost when we escap'd, and which I could not stir
with my whole Strength then, but was now fallen
almost all to Pieces: Upon seeing this Boat, Friday
stood musing a great while, and said nothing; I
ask'd him what it was he study'd upon; at last, fays
he, me see such Boat like come to Place at my Nation.
I did not understand him a good while; but at
l?st, when I had examin'd further into ir> I under-
S 4 stood
stood by him, that a Boat, such as that had been,
came on shore upon the Country where he liv'd;
that is, as he explained it, was driven thither by
stress of Weather: I presently imagined, that some
European Ship must have been east away upon their
Coast, and the Boat might get loose, and drive a-
fhore, but was so dull, that I never once thought
of Men making escape from a Wreck thither,
much less whence they might come; so I only en-
quired after a Description of the Boat.
Friday defcnb'd the Boat to me well enough; but
brought me better to understand him, when he ad-
ded, with some Warmth, we save the white Mans
from drown: Then I presently ask'd him, if there
were any white Mans, as he call'd them, in the
Boat? Yes, he said, the Boat full of white Mam. I
ask'd him how many? He told upon his Fingers
seventeen, I ask'd him then what became of 'em?
He told me, theylivey they dwell at my Nation.
This put new Thoughts into my Head; for I
presently imagined, that these might be the Men
belonging to the Ship that was cast away in fight
of my Island, as I now call it; and who, after the
Ship was struck on the Rock, and they saw her
. inevitably lost, had sav'd themselves in their Boat,
and were landed upon that wild shore, among the
Ravages.
Upon this, I enquired of him more critically,
what was become of them; he assur'd me they
liv'd still there; that they had been there about
four Years; that the Savages let them alone, and
gave them Victuals to live. I ask'd him, how it
came to pass they did not kill them and eat them?
He said, No, they make Brother with them; that is,
as I understood him, a Truce: And then he ad-
ded, "They no eat Mans but when make the War fight:
QTh^t 13 to fay, they never eat any Men, but
such
such as come to fight with them, ar4 are taken
in Bat tel.
It was after this, some considerable Time, that
being on the Top of the Hill, at the East side
of the Island, from whence, as I have said, I had
in a clear Day discovered the Main or Continent
of America; Friday, the Weather being very serene,
looks very earnestly towards the main Land, and
in a kind of Surprize falls a jumping and dancing,
and calls out to me, for I was at some Distance
from him: I ask'd him what was the Matter; O
Joy! fays he, 0 Glad! 'Theresee my Country, there
my Nation!
I obferv'd an extraordinary Sense of Pleasure ap-
pear'd in his Face, and his Eyes sparkled, and his
Countenance discovers a strange Eagerness, as if
he had a mind to be in his own Country again;
and this Observation of mine put a great many
Thoughts into me, which made me at first not so
easy about my new Man Friday as I was before;
and I made no doubt, but that i( Friday could get
back to his own Nation again, he would not only
forget all his Religion, but all his Obligation to
me; and would be forward enough to give his
Countrymen an Account of me, and come back
perhaps, with a Hundred or two of them, and
make a Feast upon me, at which he might be as
merry as he used to be with those of his Enemies,
when they were taken in War.
But I wrong'd the poor honest Creature very
piuch, for which I was very sorry afterwards.
However as my Jealousy increased, and held me
some Weeks, I was a little more circumspect, and
not so familiar and kind to him as before; in
which I was certainly in the wrong too, the ho-
nest grateful Creature having no Thought about it,
|>ut what consisted with the best Principles, both
as
as a religious Christian, and as a grateful Friend,
as appeared afterwards to my full Satisfaction.
While my Jealousy of him lasted, you may be
sure I was every day pumping htm to fee if he
would discover any of the new Thoughts, which
I suspected were in him; but I found every thing
he said was so honest, and so innocent, that I
could find nothing to nourish my Suspicion; and,
in spite of all my Uneasiness, he made me at last
entirely his own again; nor did he in the least
perceive that I was uneasy, and therefore I could
not suspect him of Deceit.
One Day, walking up the same Hill, but the
Weather being hazy at Sea, so that we could not
fee the Continent, I called to him, and said, Fri-
day, do not you wish your self in your own Coun-
try, your own Nation? Yes, he said, I be much Q
glad to be at my own Nation. What would you do
there said I, would you turn wild again, eat Mens
Flesh again, and be a Savage as you were before?
He look'd full of Concern, and shaking his Head,
said, No, no, Friday tell them to live good, tell them
to pray God, tell them to eat Corn-head, Cattle-flejh,
Milk, no eat Man again: Why then, said I to him,
7*bey will kill yon. He looked grave at that, and
then said, No, they no kill me, they willing love learn:
He meant by this, they would be willing to learn.
He added, they leaned much of the bearded Mans
that came in the Boat. Then I ask'd him if he
would go back to them? He smii'd at that, and
told me he could not swim so far. I told him I
would make a Canoe for him. He told me, he
would go, if I would go with him. I go! says I,
why, they will eat me if I come there: No, no,
fays he, me make they no eat you, me make they muck
love you.^ He meant, he would tell them how I had
kill ci his Enemies, and iav'd his Life, and so he
would
would make them love me; then he told me, as
well as he could, how kind they were to seventeen
white Men, or bearded Men, as he call'd them,
who came on shore there in distress.
From this Time, I confess, I had a mind to
venture over, and fee if I could possibly join with
these bearded Men, who, I made no doubt, were
Spaniards or Portuguese; not doubting but,if I could,
we might find some Method to escape from thence,
being upon the Continent, and a good Company
together, better than I could from an Island forty
Miles oft* the Shore, and alone without Help. So,
after some Days, I took Friday to work again, by
way of Discourse, and told him, 1 would give him
a Boat to go back to his own Nation; and ac-
cordingly I carry'd him to my Frigate, which lay
on the other side of the Island, and having clear'd
it of Water; for I always kept it funk in the Wa-
ter, I brought it out, fhew'd it him, and we both
went into it.
1 found he was a most dextrous Fellow at ma-
naging it, would make it go almost as swift and
fast again as I could; so when he was in, I said to
jiim, Well, now, Friday, shall we go to your Na-
tion? He look'd very dull at my saying so, which,
it seems, was because he thought the Boat too
sifiall to go so far. I told him then I had a big-
ger; so the next Day I went to the Place where
the first Boat lay which I had made, but which I
could not get into the Water; he said that was big
enough; but then, as I had taken no Care of it,
and it had lain two or three and twenty Years
there, the Sun had split and dry'd it, that it was
in a manner rotten. Friday told me, such a Boat
jvould do very well, and would carry much enough
Yittk) prink. Breads th§t was his way of Talking.
Upon
Upon the Whole, I was by this Time so fix'd
upon my Design of going over with him to the
Continent, that I told him we would go and make
one as big as that, and he (hould go home in it.
He answered not one Word, but look'd very grave
and sad: I ask*d him what was the Matter with
him; he ask'd me again thus, Why you angry mad
with Friday, what me done? I ask'd him what he
meant; I told him I was not angry with him at all:
No angry! No angry! fays he, repeating the Words
several times, IVhy send Friday home away to my
Nation? Why, fays I, Friday', did you not fay you
wifli'd you were there? Yes, yes, fays he, wish he both
there, no wijh Friday there, no Master there. In a
word, he would not think of going there without
me: I go there, Friday, fays 1, what shall I do
there? He turn'd very quick upon me at this: You
do great deal much Good, fays he, you teach wild Mam
be good sober tame Mans; you tell them know God,
fray God, and live new Life, Alas, Friday, fays I,
thou knowest not what thou say'st, I am but an
ignorant Man myself. Yer, yes, says he, you teachee
me Good, you teachee them Good. No, no, Friday,
fays I, you shall go without me, leave me here to
live by my scl£ as I did before. He look'd confus'd
again at that Wdrd, and running to one of the
Hatchets, which he us'd to wear, he takes it up
hastily, and gives it me; what must I do with this?
fays I to him: You take kill Friday, fays he: What
must I kill you for? said I again. He returns ve-
ry quick, What you fend Friday away for? take kill
Friday, no fend Friday away. This he spoke so
earnestly, that I saw Tears stand in his Eyes. In a
word, I so plainly discovei'd the utmost Aflfeaion
in him to me, and a firm Resolution in him, that
1 told him then, and often after, that I woukf ne-
ver send him away from me, if he was willing to'
stay with me. Upon
Upon die whole, as found by all his Discourse
a settled Affection to me, and that nothing should
part him from me, so I found all the Foundation
of his Desire to go to his own Country, was laid
in his ardent Affection to the People, and his Hopes
of my doing them good; a Thing, which as I had
no Notion of myself, so I had not the least Thought
or Intention, or Desire of undertaking it. But still
I found a strong Inclination to my attempting an
Escape, as above, founded on the Supposition ga-
thered from the Discourse, viz. That there were
seventeen bearded Men there, and therefore, with-
out any more Delay, I went to work with Friday
to find out a great Tree proper to fell, and make a
large Periagua or Canoe to undertake the Voy-
age. There were Trees enough in the Island to
have built a little Fleer, not of Periagua's and Ca-
noes, but even of good large Vessels. But the main
Thing I looked at, was to get one so near the Wa-
ter that we might launch it when it was made, to
avoid the Mistake I committed at first.
At \aJ\9Friday pitched upon a Tree, for I found he
knew much better than I what kind of Wood was
fittest for it; nor can I tell, to this Day, what Wood
to call the Tree we cut down, except that it was
very like the Tree we call Fustic, or between thatr
and the Nicaragua Wood, for it was much of the
fame Colour and Smell. Friday was for burning the
Hollow or Cavity of this Tree out to make it for
a Boat: But I shewed him how rather to cut it out
with Tools, which after I had fhew'd him how
to use, he did very handily, and in about a Month's
hard Labour we finished it, and made it very
handsome, especially when with our Axes, which I
fhew'd him how to handle, we cut and hew'd the
Out-side into the true Shape of a Boat; after this,
however, it cost us near a Fortnight s Time to gee
4 her
her along, as it were, Inch by Inch upon greae
Rowlers into the Water. But when see was in,
she would have carry'd twenty Men with great
Ease.
When she was in the Water, and tho' see was so
big, it amaz'd me to fee with what Dexterity and
how swift my Man Friday would manage her, turn
her, and paddle her along ,• so I ask'd him if he
would, and if we might venture over in her > Kx,he
said, he venter over in her very well, though great him
Wind. However, I had a farther Design that he
knew nothing of, and that was to make a Mast and
Sail,and to fit her with an Anchor and Cable: As
to a Mast, that was easy enough to get; so I pitch'd
upon a strait young Cedar-Tree, which I found near
the Place, and which there was great Plenty of
in the Island; and I set Friday to Work to cut it
down, and gave him Directions how to seape and
order it. But as to the Sail, that was my particular
Care ; I knew I had old Sails, or rather Pieces of
old Sails enough ; but as I had had them now 16
Years by me, and had not been very careful to pre-
serve them, not imagining that I seould ever have
this kind of use for them, I did not doubt but they
were all rotten ; and indeed most of them were so;
however, I found two Pieces which appeared pret-
ty good, and with these I went to work, and with
a great deal of Pains, and auk ward tedious
stitching (you may be sure) for Want of Needles,I
at length made a three-corner'd ugly Thing, like
what we call in England, a Shoulder of Mutton
Sail, to go with a Boom m Bottoms and a little
short Sprit at the Top, such as usually our Ships
Loug-Boats fail with, aud such as I best knew how
to manage j because it was such a one as I had
to the Boat in which I made my Escape from Bar
tary, as related in the first Part of my Story.
I was
I was near two Months performing this last
Work,s/i&. rigging and fitting my Mast and Sails;
for I finished them very compleat, making a small
Stay, and a Sail, or Foresail to it, to assist, if we
should turn to Windward ,* and which was more
than all, I Bxd a Rudder to the Stern of heft to
steer with ,• and tho* I was but a bungling Ship-
wright, yet as I knew the Usefulness, and even
Necdlity of such a Thing, I apply'd myself with
so much Pains to do it, that at last I brought it
to pass, tho' considering the many dull Contri-
vances I had for it that fail'd, I think it cost me
almost as much Labour as making the Boat.
After all this was done too, I had my ManFri-
day to teach as to what belong'd to the Navigation
of: my Boat; for tho' he knew very well how to
paddle the Canoe, he knew nothing what belong'd
to a Sail and a Rudder, and was the most amaz'd
when he saw me work the Boat too and again in
the Sea by the Rudder, and how the Sail gyb'd,
and filfd this Way or that Way, as the Course, we
saifd, changed; I say, when he saw this, he stood
like one astonished and amaz'd: However, with
a little Use, I made all these Things familiar to
him ,• and he became an expert Sailor, except that
as to the Compass, I could make him understand
very little of that. On the other Hand, as there
was very little cloudy Weather, and seldom or ne-
ver any Fogs in those Parts, there was the less
Occasion for a Compass, seeing the Stars were
always to be seen by Night, and the Shore by
Day, except in the rainy Seasons, and then no
Body cared to stir abroad, either by Land or Sea.
I was now enter'd on the seven and twentieth
Year of my Captivity in this Place; though the
three last Years that I had this Creature with me,
ought father to be left out of the Account, my Ha-
bitation
bitation being quite of another kind th^n in all the
rest os the time. I kept the Anniversary of my
landing here with the same Thankfulness to God
for his Mercies, as at first; and if I had such Cause
of Acknowledgment at first, I had much more so
now, having such additional Testimonies of the
Care of Providence over me, and the great Hopes
I had of being effectually and speedily deiiver'd;
for I had an invincible Impression upon my
Thoughts, that my Deliverance was at hand, and
that I should not be another Year in this Place:
However, 1 went on with my Husbandry, dig-
ging, planting, fencing, as usual; I gathered and
cur'd my Grapes, and did every necessary Thing,
as before.
The rainy Season was in the mean time upon
me, when I kept more within Doors than at other
Times; so I had stow'd our new Vessel as secure as
we could, bringing her up into the Creek, where,
as I said in the beginning, Handed my Rafts from
the Ship, and haling her up to the Shore, at high
Water Mark, I made my Man Friday dig a little
Dock, just big enough to hold her, and just deep
enough to give her Water enough to float in j and
then, when the Tide was out, we made a strong
Dam cross the End of it to keep the Water out;
and so she lay dry, as to the Tide, from the Sea;
and to keep the Rain off,- we laid a great many
Boughs of Trees so thick, that she was as well
thatch'd as a House; and thus we waited for the
Month of November and December, in which I de-
signed to make my Adventure.
When the fettled Season began to come in, as
the Thought of my Design returned with the fair
Weather, 1 was preparing daily for the Voyage;
and the first Thing I did, was to lay by a certain
Quantity of Provisions, being the Stores for our
Voyage,* and intended, in a Week or a Fortnight's
Time*
i *7J 1
'time, to often the Dotk,afid launch out our Soatv
I was'busy one Morning up6n something of this
bind^wiien I called to Friday, and bid hirn go to thd
Sea-shore, and fee if he £ould find a Turtle, Ot
Tortoise, a Thing which We genefally gtft onfce £
Week, for the sake of the Eggs, as Well as the
Ftesti; Friday had not been long gone, when hd
caipe running back, and flew over Ay oiiter Wall,
or Fence, like One that felt tidt the Grbtind, or the
Steps he set his Feet on; arid besote I had Time to
speak to him, he cries oiit to nie, O Master I O Mu-
ster! 0 Sorrow! D bad! What's the matter, Friday?
fays t; 0yonder, there, fays he, one, two, three Canoe \
one, two, three! By his way of speaking I conclu-
ded there were six; but on Enquiry I found it was
but three: Well, Friday sayS I, do not be frighted;
so I heartened him Up as well as I could: However,
I saw the poot Fellow was most terribly scared; for
nothing ran in his Head but that they were come to
look for hiin, and would cut him in pieces, and e*at
hirii; and the poor Fellow tfefribled so, that I
scarce kne^ what to do with him: I comforted hint
as well as I could, and told him I was in as much
Danger as he, and that they would eat me as well as?
him; fat, fays I, Friday we must resolve to fight them;
Can you sight, Friday? Mejhoot, fays he, but there
come many great Number. No matter for that, said
I again, our Guns will fright therft that We do not
kill; so I ask'd him, Whether if I refoiv ct to defend
him, he wtfuld defend me, and stand by me, and do
just as I bid hith? He said, Me die, when you bid dieK
Master i so I went and fetched a good Dram of
Rum, and gave him ,• for I hid been so good a Hus-
band of my Rutft, that 1 had a great deal left;
When he had drank it, I made him take the two
so wting-Pieces, which we always carry M, and load
thehi With large Swan-Shot, as big as small Pistol
T Bullets;
Bullets; then I took four Muskets, and loaded
them with two Slugs, and five small Bullets each;
aind my two Pistols I loaded with a brace of Bul-
lets each: 1 hung my great Sword as usual, naked
by my side, and gave Friday his Hatchet.
When I had thus prepared my self, I took my Per-
spective Glass, and went up to the fide of the Hill,
to fee what I could discover ,• and I found quickly,
by my Glase, that there were one and twenty Sa-
vages, three Prisoners* 4nd' three Canoes; and that
their whole Business seemed to be the triumphant
Banquet upon these three humane Bodies,(a barba-
rous Feast indeed) but nothing moire than, as I had
observed was usual with them.
I observed also, that they were landed not where
they had done when Friday made his Escape, but
nearer to my Creek* where the Shore was low, and
where a thick Wood came close almost down to the
Sea: This, with the Abhorrence of the inhumane
Errand these Wretches came about, filled me with
such Indignation, that I came down again to Friday
arid told him, I was resolv'd to go down to, them,
and kill them all; and ask'd him if he would stand
by me? He has now gotten over his Fright, and
his Spirits being a little rais'd with the Dram I had
given him, he was very chearful, and told me, as
before, he would die, when I did die.
In this Fit of Fury, I took first and divided the
Arms which I had charg'd, as before, between us:
I gave Friday one Pistol to stick in his Girdle, and
three Guns upon his Shoulder,- and I took one Pi-
stol, and the other three my self; and in this Po-
sture we marefi'd out: I took a small Bottle of Rum
in my Pocket, and gave Friday a large, Bag with
more Powder and Bullet ,• and as to Orders, I
charg'd him to keep close behind me, and not to
stir,orihoot, or do any thing, till I bid him; and
in
in the mean time, not to speak a Word: In this
Posture I fetched a Compass to my Right Hand of
near a Mile, as well to get over the Creek, as to
get into the Wood; so that I might come within
shot of them before I should be discovered, which
I had seen by my Glass it was easy to do.
While I was making this March, my former
Thoughts returning, I began to abate ^my Resolu-
tion; I do not mean, that I entertains any Fear
of their Number; for as they were naked, unarmed
Wretches, 'tis certain I was superior to them; nay,
though I had been alone; but it occur'd to my
Thoughts, What Call? What Occasion? much
less, What Necessity, I was in to go and dip my
Hands in Blood, to attack People, who had neither
done or intended me any Wrong? Who, as to me,
were innocent, and whose barbarous Customs were
their jown Disaster, being in them a Token indeed
of God's having left them, with the other Nations
of that part of the World, to such stupidity, and
to such inhumane Courses; but did not call me to
take upon me to be a Judge of their Actions, much
less an Executioner of his Justice; that whenever
he thought fit, he would take the Cause into his
own Hands, and by National Vengeance punish
them as a People for National Crimes; but that,
in the mean time, it was none of my Business; that
it was true, Friday might justify it, because he was
a declared Enemy, and in a state of War with those
very particular People, and it was lawful for him
to attack them; but I could not fay the fame with
respect to me. These Things were so warmly
.press'd upon my Thoughts all the Way as I went,
that I resolv'd I would only go and place myself
near them, that I might observe their barbarous
Feast, and that I would act then as God should
direct; but that unless something oifer'd that was
T * more
more a-Call tome than yet I knew of, I would
not meddle with them.
With this Resolution I enter'd the Wood, and
with all possible Waryness and Silence (Friday fol-
lowing close at my Heels) I marchM till I came
ro the Skirt of the Wood, on the Side which was
next to them; only that one Corner of the Wood
lay between me and them: Here I caHrd softly to
Friday, and stewing him a great Tree, which was
just at the Corner of the Woody I bad him go to
the Tree, and bring me word if he could fee there
plainly what they were doing; he did so, and came
immediately back to me, and told me they might
be plainly view'd there ,* that they were all about
their Fire, eating the Flefli of one of their Priso-
ners; and that another lay bound upon the Sand,
a little from them, which he said they would kill
next, and which fir'd all the very Soul within me:
He told me it was not one of their Nation, but one
of the bearded Men, who he had told me of, that
came to their Country in the Boat: I was fill'd
with Horror at the very naming the white-bearded
Man, and, going to the Tree, I saw plainly, by my
Glass, a white Man, who lay upon the Beach of
the Sea, with his Hands and his Fe«t ty'd with
Flags, or Things like Rushes, and that he was an
Emopeatiy and had Cloaths on.
There was another Tree, and a little Thicket
beyond it, about fifty Yards nearer to them than
the Place where I was^ which, by going a little way
about, I saw I might come at undiscovered, and
that then I should be within half Shot of them; so
1 with-held my Passion, though I was indeed en-
rag'd to the highest Degree, and going back about
twenty Paces, I got behind some Bushes, which held
all the way, till I came to the other Tree,- and then
I came to a little rising Ground, which gave me &
-•' full
full View as them, at the Distatfcc of about eigh-
ty Yards.
I had now not a Moment to lose; for nineteen
of the dreadful Wretches fate upon the Ground,
all close huddled together, and had just sent the o*'
ther two to butcher the poor Christian, and bring
him perhaps Limb by Limb to their Fire; and
they were stooped down to untie the Bands at his
Feet: I turn'd to Friday', now, Friday, said I, do
as I bid thee; Friday said he would; then, Friday^
says I, do exactly as you fee me do, fail in no-
thing; so I set down one of the Muskets and the
Fowling-Piece upon the Ground, and Friday did
the like by his j and with the other Musket I took
my Aim at the Savages, bidding him do the like;
then asking him, if he was ready? he said, Yes;
then fire at them, said I; and the same Moment
I fir'd also,
Friday took his Aim so much better than I, that
on the side that he shot, he kill'd two of them,
and wounded three more; and on my side, I kiii'd
one, and wounded two: They were, you may be
sure, in a dreadful Consternation; and all of /em,
who were not hurt, jumped up upon their Feet,
but did not immediately know which Way to run,
or which Way to look ,• for they knew not from
whence their Destruction came; Friday kept his
Eyes close upon me, that as I had bid him, he
might observe what I did; so, as soon as the first
Shot was made, I threw down the Piece, and tools
up the Fowling-Piece, and Friday did the like.; he,
see me cock, and present, he did the same again;
Are you ready? Friday, said I,* yes, %s he; Jet
% then, fays I, in the Name of God, and with
t}iat I fir'd again among the amaz'd Wretches, and
sp did Friday; and as our Pieces were now loadea
With what.{ £alfd Swan-Shot, or small Pistol Buh
T 3 lets,
lets, we found only two drop; but so many were
wounded, that they ran about yelling and skream-
ing like mad Creatures, all bloody, and miserably
wounded, most of them; whereof three more sell
•quickly after, though not quite dead.
Now, Friday, says I, laying down the diseharg'd
Pieces, and taking up the Musket, which was yet
loaden, follow me, fays I; which he did, with a
great deal of Courage; upon which I rushed out of
the Wood, and fhew'd myself, and Friday close at
my Foot: As soon as I perceived they saw me, I
shouted as loud as I could, and bad Friday do so
too; and running as fast as I could, which by the
way xvas not very fast, being loaden with Arms as I
was, I made directly towards the poor Victim, who
was, as I said, lying upon the Beach, or Shore,
between the Place where they sat and the Sea;
the two Butchers, who were just going to work
with him, had left him, at the Surprize of our first
Fire, and fled in a terrible Fright to the Sea-side,
and had jumped into a Came, and three more of the
rest made the fame Way: I turned to Friday, and
bid him step forwards, and fire at them; he under-
stood me immediately, and running about forty
Yards to be near them, he shot at them, and I
thought he had kill'd them all: for I saw them all
fall of a Heap into the Boat; though I saw two of
them up again quickly: However, he kill'd two
of them, and wounded the third; so that he lay
down in the Bottom of the Boat, as if he had been
dead.
While my Mm Friday fir'd at them, I pull'dout
my Knife, and cut the Flags that bound the poor
Victim; and loosing his Hands and Feet, I lifted
him up, and ask «1 him in the Portuguese Tongue,
What he was? He answer'd in Latin, Christianus;
but was so weak and faint, that he could scarce
stand,
stand, or speak; I took my Bottle out of my Pocket,
and gave it him, making signs that he should
drink, which he did ,• and I gave him a Piece of
Bread, which he eat; then I ask*d him, What
Countryman he was? And he said, Espagniok; and
being a little recover'd, let me know by all the
signs he could possibly make, how much he was
in my Debt for his Deliverance: Seignior, said I,
with as much Spani/b as I could make up, we will
talk afterwards, but we must fight now,- if you
have any Strength left, take this Pistol and Sword,
and layabout you. He took them very thankfully,
and no sooner had he the Arms in his Hands, but
as if they had put new Vigour into him, he flew
upon his Murderers like a Fury, and had cut two
of them in Pieces in an instant; for the Truth is3
as the whole was a Surprize to them, so the poor
Creatures were so much frighted with the Noise of
our Pieces, that they fell down for meer Amaze-
ment and Fear, and had no more Power to at-
tempt their own Escape, than their Flelh had to
resist our Shot,* and that was the Case of those five
that Friday shot at in the Boat; for as three of
them fell with the Hurt they receiv'd, so the other
two fell with the Fright.
I kept my Piece in my Hand still, without firing,
being willing to keep my Charge ready, because 1
had given the Spaniard my Pistol andSwordj so I
call*d to Friday, and bad him run up to the Tree
from whence we first fir'd, and fetch the Arms
which lay there, that had been discharged, which
he did with great Swiftness,- and then giving him
my Musket, I fat down myself to load all the rest
again, and bad them come to me when they want-
ed :^ While I was loading these Pieces, there hap-
pened a fierce Engagement between the Spaniard
and one of the Savages, who made at him with one of
T 4 their
E J8p ]
their great woo4en Swords, the fame Weapon that
was tp have kilVd him before, if I had not prevent-
ed it: The Spaniard who was as bold and is brave
as could be imaging tho* weak, had Fought this
Indian a good while, and had cut him two great
Wounds on his Head; but the Savage being a
stout lusty Fellow, closing in with him, had throws
Kim down (being faint; and was wringing my
$wo£d out of his hand, when the S]>aniard,xho un-
dermost, wifely quitting the Sword* drew the Pistol
from his Girdle, ihot the Savage through the Body,
and kiird him upon the Spot, before I, who was
running to help him, could cpme near him.
Friday being now left tp his Liberty, pursu'd the
flying Wretches with no Weapon in Bis J3and, but
1ns Hatchet/ and with that he dispatched those
three, whp'as I said before, were wounded at first
and falJen,atid all the rest he could come up with;
and the Spaniard coming to me for a Gun, I gave
him one of the Fowling-Pieces, with which he
pursued two of the Savages, anc| wounded then*
both j but ^s he was nqt able to run, they both
pot from him into the Woqci, where Friday pursird
them, and kilTd one of them; t>ut the other was
too nimble for him; and tho'he was wounded, ys?
bad plungM himself into the Sea, and swam with
all his Might off to those two who were left in
tHe Canoe, which thr^e in the Canoe, with one
wounded, who we know not whether he dy'd or no,
were afl that escaped our Hancis of one and twenty.
The Account of th? rest is as follows j
| Kiil'd at oiir first §hot from the Tree.
| Killed at the next Shot,
i KiU'd by Friday in the Boat.
| %i\\*& by Ditto, of those at first wounded.
| ftilty by Ditto, in the Wood.
2 KillM by tthe Spaniard.
4 Kill'd, being found dropt here and there of
their Wounds, or kill'd by Friday m his Chace
of them.
4 Escap'd in the Boat, whereof pne wounded,
if not dea<d.
ar |n all
Those that were in the Canoe, workfd hard to
get out of Gun-shot; and tho* Friday made two
or three shot at them, I did not find that he hit
$ny of them: Friday would fain have had me took
one of their Canoes, and pursued them; and indeed
I was very anxious about their Escape, lest, carry-?
ing the News Home to their People, they siiould
$ome back, perhaps, with two or three hundred o£
their Canoes, apd devour ps by meer Multitude; so
I consented to pursue them by Sea, and running to
one of their Canoes, I jumpM in, and bad Friday
follow me; but when I wa? in the Cqnoe, I was
surprized to find another poor Creature lie there
alive, bound Hand and Foot, as the Spaniard was,
for the Slaughter, and almost dead with Fear, not
knowing what the matter was ,* for h$ had not been
able to look qpover the side qf the Boat, he was
tied so hard, Neck and Heels, and had been tied so
long, that he had really little Life in him.
I immediately cut the twisted Flags, or Ru(he$>
\jr!iich they had bound him with, and would have
help'd him up; but he could not stand, or speak,
but groaird most pitsously,believing, itseems,stili
that he was only unbpund in order to be kill'd-
When Friday ctmt to him, I bad him speak to
hiiji, and tell him of his Deliverance, and pulling
out my Bottle^ ajade him givf %b$ poo? W*etch *
1 '> "*' '; '' ;<' <' i '" Pram,
Dram, which, with the News of his being deli*
ter'd, revived him> and he set tip in the Boat; but
whea Friday Game to hear liim speak, and look'd
in his Face, it would have moved any one to Tears
t& have seen how Friday Bss*d him, embraced him,
hugg'd him, cry'd, laugh'd, hollow'd, jumpM a~
botit, danced, fung, then cry'd again, wrung his
Hands, beat his own Face and Head, and then
fung, and jump'd about again, like a distracted
Creature: It was a good while before I could make
him speak to me, or tell me what was the matter;
but when he came a little to himself, he told me
that it was his Father.
It is not easy for me to express how it moved
j&c to fee what Extasy and filial Affection had
work'd in this poor Savage, at the sight of his Fa-
ther, and of his being delivers from Death; nor
indeed can I describe half the Extravagances of his
Affection after this; for he went into the Boat and
out of the Boat a great many times: When he
went in to him, he would sit down by him, open
his Breast, and hold his Fathers Head close to his
Bosom, half an Hour together, to nourish it; then
he took his Armiahd Ankles, which were numb'd
Jnd stitf with the binding, and chased and rubbed
ffeem with his Hands; and I perceiving what the
Cafe was, gave him some Rum out of my Bottle/
to rub them with, which did them a great deaf
of good.
r This Action put an End to our Pursuit os the
Canoe, with the other Savages, who were now
gotten almost out of sight; and it was happy for
us that we did not; for it blew so hard within two
Hours after, and before they could be gotten a
Quarter of their Way, and continued blowing so
hard all Night, and that from the NorttrlVefl,
whichwas against theœi, thatl could not suppose
their
their Boat could live, or that they ever reach'd to
their own Coast.
But to return to Friday* he was so busy about
his Father, that I could not find in my Heart to
take him oft* for some time: But after I thought
he could leave him a little, I call'd him to me,
and he came jumping and laughing, and pleas'd to
the highest Extream: then I ask'd him, If he had
given his Father any Bread? He shook his Head,
and*said, None : Ugly Dog eat all up self; so I gave
him a Cake of Bread out of a little Pouch I carried
on purpose; I also gave him a Dram for himself
but he would not taste it, but carried it to his Fa-
ther: I had in my Pocket also two or three Bunches
of my Raisins, so I gave him a Handful of theih
for his Father. He had no sooner given his Fa-
ther these Raisins, but I saw him come out of the
JBoatJand run away as if he had been bewitch'df;
he run at such a rate; for he was the swiftest Fel-
low of his Foot that ever I saw; I say, he run at
such a rate, that he was out of sight, as it were,
in an~instant; and tho* LcsU'd and hollow'd too
after him, it was all one, away he went, and in a
Quarter of an Hour, I saw him come back again,
tho- not so fast as he went; and as he came near-
er, I found his Pace was flacker, because he had
something in his Hand.
When he came up to me, I found he had been
quite Home for an Earthen Jugg, or Pot, to bring
his Father some fresli Water, and that he had got
two more Cakes, or Loaves of Bread: The Bread
he gave me,but the Water he carried to his Father:
However, as I was very thirsty too, I took a little
sup of it. This Water revived his Father more
than all the Rum or Spirits lhad given him; for
he was just fainting with Thirst.
When
When his Father had drank, I called to him t©
know if there was any Water left; he said, Yes;
and I bad him give it to the poor Spaniard
who was in as much Want of it as his Father;
and I sent one of the Cakes, that Friday brought,
to the Spaniard too, who was indeed very weak,
and was reposing himself upon a green Place, un-
der the Shade of a Tree, and whose Limbs were
also very stiff, and very much swell'd with the
rude Bandage he had been tied with. When I saw
that upon Friday's coming to him with the Water,
he sat up and drank, and took the Bread, and be-
gan to eat, I went to him, and gave him a handful
of Raisins; he looked up in my Face with all the
Tokens of Gratitude and Thankfulness that could
appear in any Countenance; but was so weak,
cot withstanding he had so exerted himself in the
Fight, that he could not stand up upon his Feet;
he tried to do it two or three times, but was
really not able, his Ankles were so swell'd and so
painful to him ,• so I bad him sit still, and caus'd
Friday to rub his Ankles, and bathe them with
Rum, as he had done his Father's.
I observ'd the poor affectionate Q-eature every
two Minutes, or perhaps less, all the while he
was here, turn'd his Head about, td fee if his Fa-
ther was in the fame Place and Posture as he left
him sitting; and at last he found he was not to
be seen; at which he started up, and without
speaking a Word, flew with that Swiftness to him,
that one could scarce perceive his Feet to touch
the Ground as he went: But when he came, he
only found he had laid himself down to ease his
limbs; so Friday came back to me presently, and
I then spoke to the Spaniard to let Friday help
him up if he could, and lead him to the Boat, and
then he should carry him to our Dwelling, where
J WQulq
t»«n.
1 would take care of him: But Friday, a lusts
strong Fellow, took the Spaniard quife up upon
his Back, and carry'd him away to the Boat, ami
set him down softly upon the oide oi* Gunnel ot
the Canoe, with his Feet in the Inside of it, and!
then lifted him quite ih, and set hita close to his
Father, and presently stepping out again, launch'd
the Boat off, and paddled it along the Shore faster
than I could #alk, tho* the Wind blew pretty
hard too ,* so he brought them both safe intp our
Creek; and leaving them in the Boat, runs away
to fetch the other Canoe; As he pass'd me, I
spoke to him, and askM him, whither he went!
he told me, Go fetch more Boat; so away he went,
like the Wind; for sure never Man or Horse run
like him, and he had the other Canoe in the Creekf
almost as soon as I got to it by Land; so he
wafted me over, and then went to help our new
Guests out of the Boat, which he did; but they
were neither of them able to walk ; so that poor
friday knew not what to do.
To remedy this, I went ro work in my Thought,
and calling to Friday to bid them sit down on the
Bank while he came to me, I soon made a kind of
Hand-Barrow to lay them on, and Friday and I
carry M them up both together upon it between us:
But when we got them to the Outside of our Wall,
or Fortification, we were at a worse Loss than be-
fore; for it was impossible to get them over; and
I was resolved not to break it down: So I set to
Work again; and Friday and I,in about two Hours
Time, made a very handsome Tent, covered with
old Sails, and above that with Boughs of Trees,
being in the Space without our outward Fence,
and between that and the Grove of young Wood
which I had planted: And here we made them two-
Beds of such Things as I had, viz. of good Rice-
Straw,
§traw, with Blankets laid upon it to lie or, aud
another to cover them on each Bed.
My Island was now peopled, and I thought my
, self very rich in Subjects; arid it was a merry Re-
flection which I frequently made, How like a King
I lookU First of all, the whole Country was my
Own meer Property ,• so thatl had an undoubted
Right of Dominion. 2dly, My People were per-
fectly subjected: I was absolute Lord and Law-
giver; they all ow'd their Lives to me, and were
ready to lay down their Lives, if there had km Oc-
mswn of ity for me. It was remarkable too, we had
but three Subjects, and they were of three different
Religions. My Man Friday was a Protestant, his
Father was a Pagan and a CanibaU and the Spaniard
was a Papist: However, I allow'd Liberty of Con-
science throughout my Dominions: But this is by
the way.
As soon as I had sccur'd my two weak rescued
Prisoners, and given them Shelter, and a Place to
rest them upon, I began to think of making some
Provision for them: And the first Thing I did, I
ordered Friday to take a yearling Goat, betwixt a
Kid and a Goat, out of my particular Flock, to
be kilfd: When 1 cut off the binder Quarter, and
chopping it into small Pieces,! set Friday to Work,
to boiling and stewing, and made them a very
good Dish, I assure you, of Flesh and Broth, ha-
ving put some Barley and Rice also into the
Broth; and as I cooled it without Doors, for 1
made no Fire within my inner Wall, so I carry'd
it all iftto the new Tent; and having set a Table
there for them, I sat down and eat my own Din-
ner also with them, and, as weU as I could, cheard
diem and encouraged them: Friday being my Inter-
preter, especially to his Father, and, indeed, to the
Spaniard too; for the Spaniard spoke the Language
of the Savages pretty well.
After we had dined, dr rather supped, I orderM
Friday to take one of the Canoes, and go and
fetch our Muskets and other Fire-Amis, which for
want of Time we had left upon the Place of Battle;
and the next Day I order ci him to go and bury
the dead Bodies of the Savages, which lay open to
the Sun, and would presently be offensive,* and I
also orders him to bury the horrid Remains of
their barbarous Feast, which I knew were prett^y
much, and which I could not think of doing my
self; nay, I could not bear to see them, if I went
that Way: All which he punctually performs, anii
defae'd the very Appearance of the Savages being
there; so that when I went again, I could scarce
know where it was, otherwise than by the Corner
of the Wood pointing to the Place.
I then began to enter into a little Conversation
with my two new Subjects; and first I set Friday
to enquire of his Father, what he thought of the
Escape of the Savages in that Canoe, and whether
we might expect a Return of them with a Power
too great for us to resist: His first Opinion was,that
thcSavages in the Boat never couldliveout the Storm
which blew that Night they went oft; but must of
Necessity be drown'd or driven South to those other
Shores where they were as sure, to be devoured as
they were to be drowned if they were castaways
but as to what they would do if they came safe on
fiiore, he said he knew not; but it was his Opini-
on that they were so dreadfully frighted with the
manner of their being attack'd, the Noise and the
Fire, that he believ'd they would tell their People,
they were all kill'd by Thunder and Lightning, nttt
by the Hand of Man, and that the two which ap-
peared, (viz,.) Friday md'me, were two Heavenly
Spirit*
t *88 j
Spirits or Furies come down to destroy them, and
not Men with Weapons: This he said he knew*,
because he heard them all cry out s6 in their Lan-
guage to one another; fortf was impossible to then!
to conceive that a Man could dart Fire, and speak
^thunder, and kill at a Distance without lifting up
the Hand, a& was done now: And this old Savage
wai in the right ,• for, as I understood since by
other hands, the Savages never attempted to go
over to the Island afterwards; they were so terri-
fied with the Accounts given by those sour Men,
(for it seems they did escape the Sea) that they be-
liev'd whoever went to that enchanted Island would
be destroyed with Fife from the God$.
This however I knew not, and therefore was
under continual Apprehensions for a good while,
and kept always upon my Guard, me and all my
Army; for as we were how four of us, I would
have ventur'd upon a hundred of them fairly in the
open Field at any time.
In a little time, howevef, ho riidrt' Castdei ap-
pearing, the Fear of their coming wore off, and I
began to take my former Thoughts of a Voyage
to the Main into Consideration, being likewise
assur'd by Friday's Father, that I might depend up-
on good Usage from their Nation on his Account,
if I would go.
But my Thoughts were a little suspended, when
1 had a serious Discourse with the Spaniards and
when t understood that thete were sixteen ftiore
of his Countrymen and Portugese, who having
been cast away, and made their Escape to that
side, liv'd there at Peace indeed with the Sa-
vages, but were very sore put to it for Necessaries
and indeed for Life: I ask'd him all the Par-
ticulars of their Voyage, and found they were
« Sfmijk Ship, bound from the Rio de la Plat^
%0
to the Havana, being directed to leave their Load-
ing there, which was chiefly Hides and Siver, and
to bring back what European Goods they could
meet with there; that they had five Portuguse Sea-
men oh Board, whom they took out of another
Wreck; that five of their own Men were drown'd
When first the Ship was lost, and that these escaped
thro* infinite Dangers and Hazards, and arrivM al-
most starved on the C##/&*/ Coast, where they ex-
pected to have been devours every Moment.
Ut told me, they had some Arms with them*
but they were perfectly useless, for that they had
neither Powder or Ball, the Washing of the Sea
having spoil'd all their Powder, but a little, which
they used at their first Landing to provide them-
selves some Food.
I-ask'd him what he thought would become of
them there, and if they had formed no Design of
making any Escape: He said, They had many
Consultations about it, but that having neither
Vessel, nor Tools ta build one, or Provisions of any
Kind,, their Counsels always ended in Tears and
t)efpair.
I ask'd him how he thought they would receive
a Proposal from me, which might tend towards an
Escape: And Whether, if they were all here, it might
hot be done? I told him with Freedom, I fear'd
mostly their Treachery and ill Usage of me, if I
put my Life in their Hands; for that Gratitude was
no inherent Virtue in the Kature of Man,- nor
did Men always square their Dealings by the Obli-
gations they had receiv'd, so much as they dii
by the Advantages they expected. I told him, it
would be very hard, that I should be the Instrument
of their Deliverance, and that they should after-
Wards make me their Prisoner in New Spain, where
an Englishman was certain to be made a Sacri-
Part. I. U fice
sice, what Necessity, or what Accident foever3
brought him thither: And that I had rather be de-
liver a up to th^ Savages, and be devour'd alive,
thaq fall into the merciless Claws of the Priests,
and be carry?d into the Inquisition. I added, That
otherwise 1 was perfwaded, if they were all here,
we might, with sp many Hands, build a Bark large
enough to carry us ail away, either to the Brasils
Southward, or to the Islands, or Spanijk Coast
Northward: But that if in Requital they should,
when I had put Weapons into their Hands, carry
me by Force among tfieir own People, I might be
ill used for my Kindness to them, and make my
Cafe worse than it was before. \,"
He answered with a great deal of Candor and
Ingenuity, That their Condition w&s so miserable,
and they. Were so sensible of it, that he believed
they would abhor the Thought of using any Man
unkindly that should contribute to their Delive-
rance; and that, if I pleased, he would go to them
with the old Man, and discourse with them about
it, and return again, and brfng me their Answer:
That he would make Conditions with them upon
their solemn Oath, That they would be absolute-
ly under my Leading, as their Commander and
Captain; and that they should swear upon the Ho-
ly Sacraments and Gospel, to be true to me, and
to go to such Christian Country as that I should
agreee to,and no other; ami to be directed whol-
ly and absolutely by my Orders, till they were
landed safely in such Country as I intended; and
that he would bring a Contract from them under
their Hands for that Purpose.
Then he told me, he would first swear to me
himself, That he would never stir from me as long
ashelivU till I gave h'm Orders; and that he
would take my Side to the last Drop of his Blood,
• ••- "'if
if there should happen the least Breach of Faith
among his Countrymen.
He told mey they were all of them very civil
honest Meti,and;rhey were under the greatest Di-
stress imaginable, having neither \Velpons or
Cloches, nor any Food, but at the Mercy and Di-
scretion of the Savages s out of all Hopes of evet
returning to their own Country; atijU that he was
sure, if I would undertake their Relief, they wou'd
live and die by me.
Upon these Assurances, I resolv'd to venture to
relieve them, if possible, and to fetid the old &a~
vage and this Spaniard over to them to treat: But
when he had gotten all Things in a Readiness to
go, the Spaniard himself started an Objection,
which had so much Prudence in it on one Hand,
and so much Sincerity on the other Hand, that I
could not butbe very well satisfy'd. in it; and, by
His Advice,4 put off the Deliverance of his Com-
rades for at least half a Year. The Cafe Was thus:
He had been with us now about a Month; du-
ring which Time I had let him see in what Man-
ner I had provided, with the Assistance of Provi-
dence, for my Support; and he saw evidently
what Stock of Corn and Rice I had laid up; which j
as it was more than sufficient for my self, so it was
not sufficient, at least without good Husbandry,
for my Family, now it was encreas'd to Numbet
lour: But much less would it be sufficient, if his
Countrymen, who were, as he^said, fourteen still
alive, ihould come oven and least of air would
it be sufficient to victual our Vessel, if wfe should
build one, for a Voyage to any of the Christian
Colonies of America. So he told me, he thought
it would be more advisable, to let him and the
two other dig and cultivate some more Land, a*
touch as I could spare Seed to sow; and thit we
U % should
Ihouid wait another tiarvest, that we might have
a Supply of Corn for his Country-men when they
should come j for Want might be a Temptation to
them to disagree, or not to think themselves deli-
vered, otherwise than out of one ^Difficulty into
another. You know, says he, the Children ofijf-
raeh though they rejoie'd at first for their being
delivers out oi^Egypt, yet rebell'd even against
God himself that delivered them, when they came,
to want Bread in the Wilderness.
His Caution waa so seasonable, and his Advice
so good, that I could not but be very well plcas'd
with'his Proposal, as well as I was satisfy'd' with
his Fidelity. So we fell to digging all four of us,
as well as she wooden Tools we were furnished
ivitli permitted; and in about a Month's Time, by
the End of which it was Seed-time, we had gotten
as much Land cut'd and trimm'd up, as we sow'd
22 Bushels of Barley on, and 16 Jirrs of Rice*
which was, in short, all the Seed we had to spare;
nor indeed did we leave ourselves Barley sufficient
for our own Food, for the six Months that we had
to expect our Crop, that is to fay, reckoning from
the Time we set our Seed aside for sowing; for it
is not to be suppos'd it is six Months in the Ground
in the Country. _
Having now Society enough, and our Number
being sufficient to put us out of Fear of the Savages,
if they had come, unless their Nmiiber had been
very great, we went freely all over the Island*
where-ever we found Occasion ,• and as here we had
our Escape or Deliverance upon our Thoughts, it
was impossible, at least for me, 'to have the
Means of itJ out of mine; to this Purpose, I
mark'd out several Trees, which I thought fit for
pur Work, and I set Ft iday and his Father to cut-
ting them down* and then I caused the Spaniards
ta
to whom! imparted my Thought on that Affair,
to oversee and direst their Work. 'I fliew'd them
with what indefatigable PainsI had hew'da large
Tree into single Planks, and I caus'd them to do
the like, till they had made about a Dozen large
Plants of good'Oak, near two Foot broad, 35 Foot
long, and from two Inches to four Inches thick:
What prodigious Labour it took up, any one may
imagine.
At the fame Time I contrived to encrease my lit—
isle Flock of tame Goats as much as I could ;, and
to this Purpose I made Friday and the Spaniard go
put one Day, and my self, with Friday, the next
Day ,• for we took our Turns: And by this Means
we got about %o young Kids to breed up with the
rest; for wherf-ever we shot the Dam, we sav'd
the Kids, and added them to our Flock: But above
all, the Season for curing the Grapes coming on,
I caus'd such a prodigious Quantity tp be hujig up
in the Sun, that I believe, had we been at Alkant*
where the Raisifrs of the Sun are cured, we could
have silled 60 or 80 Barrels > and these, with our
Bread, was a great Part of our Food, and very
good Living too, I assure you; for it is an ex-
ceeding nourishing Food.
It was now Harvest, and bus Crop in good Or-
der \ it was not the most plentiful Encrease I had
seen in the I(]and, but however it was enough to
answer our End ; for from our 22 Bushels of Bar-
ley, we brought in and threshed out above 220
IJusliets; and the like in Proportion of the Rice,
which was Store enough for our Food to the next
Harvest, tho' all the 16 Spaniards had been onShore
with me; or if we had been ready for a Voyage,
it would very plentifully have victualed our Ship,
to have carry <i us to any Part of the World, that
is to fay, ot Anurka.
U 3 When
When we had thus hous'd and kcut'4 our Ma-
gazine of Corn, we fell to Work to make mor$
Wicker Work, viz. Great Baskets in which wi
kept it; and the Spaniard was very handy and
dexterous at this Part, and often blam'd me that
I did not make some Things for Defence, of this
{Cind of Work; but I saw no Need of it.
And now having a full Supply of Food for all
the Guests I expected, I gave the Spaniard Leave
to go over to the Main> to fee what he could do
with those he had left behind him there. I gave
him a strict Charge in Writing, not to bring any
Man with him, who would not first swear in the
Presence of himself and of the old Savage, That
he would no Way injure, sight with, or attack the
Person he Would find in the Island, who was so
kind to send for them in Order to their Delive-
rance; but that they; would stand by and defend
him against aftj/uchs^Attempts, and where-ever
they went, would lie entirely under^ and subjected
to his Command j and that this should be put in
Writing, and sign'd with their Hands: How we
were to have this done, when I knew they had
neither Pen or Ink, that, indeed, was a Question
which we never asked.
Under these Iftstructions, the Spaniard, and the
o!d Savage (the Father of Friday) went away in onf
6( the Canoes, which ih$y might be said to come
in, or rather were brought in> when they came as
Prisoners to be devour'd by the Savages.
I gave each of them a Musket with a Firelock
on it, and about eijht Charges of Powder and
Ball, charging them to be very good Husbands of
both, and not to use either of them but upon ur-
gent Occasion
This was a chcarful Work, being the first Mea-
sures used by me in View of my Deliverance for
now
now tj Years and some Days. I gave them Pro*-
visions of Bread, and of dry Grapes, sufficient for
themselves for many Days, and sufficient for all
their Country-men for about eight Days time > and
wishing them a good Voyage, I fee them go, a-
greeing with them about a Signal they should hang
out at their Returns, by which I should know them,
again, when they came back, at a Distance, before
they came on Shore.
They went away with a fair Gale on the Day
that the Moon was at Full; by my Account in the
Month of 0-Icier; but as for an exact Reckoning
of Days, after I had once lost it, I could never re-
cover it again; nor had I kept even the Number of
Years so punctually; as to be sure that I was right,
t!io*,as it prov'd, when lafrerwards examine! my Ac-
count, I found I had kept a true Reckoning of Years.
It was no less than eight Days I had waited foe
them, when a strange and unforeseen Accident in-
terven'd, of which the like has not, perhaps, b'eerv
heard of in History. I was fastafleepin my Hutch',
one Morning, when my Man Friday came running
in. to me, and cali'd aloud, Master, Master, they]
are come, they are come.
I jump'd up, and, regardless of Danger, I went
out as as soon as could get ray Clothes on, thro*
rpyjittle Grove, wjiich ( by the Way ) was by this
Time grown to be a very thick Wood: I fay, re-
gardlcse of Danger, I went without my Arms,
which was not my Custom to do; but I was fur-
prized, when turning my Eyes to the Sea, I pre-
sently si*v a Boat at about a League and Half's DK
stance, standing in for the Shore, with a Shoulder of
Mutton Sail, as they call it, and the Wind blow-
ing pretty fair to bring them in: Also I observed
presently, that they did not come from that Sid«
which the Shore lay on, but from the S6a;her-'
U 4 most
[l96]
ipost End of the Island: Upon this I call'd Friday
in, and bid him lye close, for these were not the
People we look'd for, and that we might not know
yet whether they were Friends or Enemies.
In the next Place, I went in to fetch my Per-
spective Glass, to fee what I could make of them;
and having taken the Ladder put, I climb*d up to
the Top of the Hill, as I used to do when I was
apprehensive of any Thing, and to take ipy View
the plainer without being discovered.
I had scarce set my Foot on the Hill, when my
Eye plainly discovered a Ship lying at an Anchor,
at about two Leagues and an half's Distance from
me South-south-east, but not above a League and
an half from the Shore. By my Observation it ap-
peared plainly to be an Englifo Ship, and the Boat
iippear'd to be an English Long-Boat.
I cannot express the Confusion I was in, tho'the
Joy of seeing a Ship, and one whom I had Reason to
believe was Mann'd by my own Country-men, and
consequently Friends, was such as I cannpt de-
scribe; but yet I had some secret Doubts hupg a-
bout me, I cannot tell from whence they came,
bidding me keep upon my Guard. In the first
Place, it occurred to #ie, to consider what Business
an English Ship, could have in that Part of the Worldj
since it was not the Way to, or from any Part of the
World, where the English had any Traffick y and I
knew there had been no Storms to drive them in
there, as in Distress j and that if they were Eng-
lish really, \t was most probable that they were
here upon no good Design ,• and that 1 had better
continue as I was, than fall into the Hands of
Thieves and Murderers.
Let no Man despise the secret Hints and Notices
of Danger, which sometimes are given him
Fhfn he may think there is no Possibility of its be-
ing
ing real. That such Hints and Notices are given
us, I believe few that have made any Observati-
ons of Things can deny; that they are certain Dis-
coveries of an invisible World, and a Converse of
Spirits, we cannot doubt; and if the Tendency
of them seems to be to warn us of Danger, why
fliould we not suppose they are from some friendly
Agent, (whether supreme, or inferior and subor-
dinate, is not the Question) and that they are gi-
ven for our Good?
The present Question abundantly confirms me
in the Justice of this Reasoning; for had I not
been made cautious by this secret Admonition,
come it from whence it will, I had been undone
inevitably, and in a far worse Condition than be-
fore, as you will fee presently,
I had not kept my self long in this Posture, but
I saw the Boat draw near the Shore, as if they
lpok'd for a Creek to thrust in at for the Conveni-
ence of Landing; however, as they did not come
quite far enough, they did not fee the little Inlet
where I formerly landed my Rafts; but run their
Boat on Shore upon the Beach, at about half a
Mile from me* which was very happy forme; for
otherwise they would have landed just, as I may
fay, at my Door, and would soon have beaten me
out of my Castle, and, perhaps, have plunder'd me
of all I had.
When they were on Shore, I was fully satisfy*d
they were Enghfo Men; at least most of them;
one or two I thought were Dutch; but it did not
prove so: There were in all eleven Men, whereof
three of them I found were unarm'd, and, as t
thought, bound ; and when the first four or five of
them were jump'd on Shore, they took those three
out of the Boat as Prisoners: One of the three I
cquld perceive using the most passionate Gestures of
Entreaty^
fntreaty, Affliction and Despair, even to a'kind of
Extravagance; the other two, I coftld perceive,
lifted up their Hands sometimes, and appeared con-
cern Jd indefcd*, but not to such a Degree as the
first.
I was perfectly confounded at the Sight, and
knew not what the Meaning of it slionfd be. Fri-
day call'd out tome in Englijh, as well as he could#
0 Master! Tun see English Mans eat Prisoner as weli
as Savage Mans. Why, fays I, Friday, do you
think they are a going to eat them then? les fays
Friday, They will eat them: No, no, fays I, Friday,
1 am afraid they will murder them, indeed, but
you may be sure they will not eat theflfi.
k\\ this while I had no Thought of what the
Matter really was ; but flood trembling with the
Horror of the Sight, expecting every Moment when
the three Prisoners should be kilfd; nay, once I saw
one of the Villains lift up his Arm with a great Cut-
lash, (as the Seamen call it) or Sword, to strike one
ot the poor Men \ and I expected to fee him fall
every Moment, at which a1) the Blood in my Body
scem'd to run chill in my Veins.
I wiflul heartily now for my Spaniard, and the
Savage that was gone with him; or that I had a- \
ny Way to have come undiscovered within Shot os
them, that I might have rescu'd the three Men j
for I saw no Fire-Arms they had among them, but
it fell our to my Mind another Way.
After I had obferv'd the outrageous Usage of the
three Men by the insolent Seamen, I obscrv'd the'
Fellows run scattering about the Land, as if they
wanted to fee the Country: I observed that the
three other Men had Liberty to go also where they
pleas'd; but they fat down all three upon the'
Ground very pensive, and look'd like Men in 5
Despair.
This
This put me Mind ot the first Time when I
came on Shore, and began to look about me» how
I gave my self over for lost, how wildly I look'd
round me, what dreadful Apprehensions I had, and
how I lodg'd in the Tree ail Night for fear of be-
ing devour'd by wild Beasts.
As I knew nothing that Night of the Supply I
was to receive by the providential Driving of the
Ship nearer the Land, by the Storms and Tide, by
which I have since been so long nourished and sup-
ported; so these three poor desolate Men knew
nothing how certain of Deliverance and Supply
they were, how near it was to them, and how ef-
fectually and really they were in a Condition of
Safety, at the fame Time that they thought them-
selves lost, and their Cafe desperate.
So tittle do we see before us in the World, and
so much Reason have we to depend chearfuiiy up-
on the great Maker of the World, that he does not
leave his Creatures so absolutely destitute, but that
in the worst Circumstances they have always some-
thing to be thankful for, and sometimes are near-1
er their Deliverance than they imagine *, nay, are
even brought to their Deliverance by the Me^ns
by which they seem to be brought to their Destru-
ction^
It was just at the Top of High-water when these
People came on Shore, and while partly they stood
parlying with the Prisoners they brought* and
partly while they rambled about to fee what kind
of a Place they were in, they had carelessly staid till
the Tide was spent, and the Water wasebb'd con-
siderably away, leaving their Boat a-ground.
They had left two Men in the Boat, who as I
found afterwards, having drank a little too much
Brandy, fell a-sleep; however, one of them waking
sooner than the other, and finding the Boat too fast
a-ground
a-ground for him to stir it, hallow'd for the rest
who were straggling about, upon which they all
soon came to the Boat; but it was past all their
Strength to launch her, the Boat being very heavy,
and the Shore on that side being a soft oozy Sand,
almost like a Quick-Sand.
In this Condition, like true Seamen, who are, per-
haps,the least of all Mankind given to Fore-thought,
they gave it over, and away they stroll'd abeut the
Country again ,* and I heard one of them fay aloud
to another, (calling them off from the Boat) Whyy
kt her alone, Jack, cant ye, [he'II float next 'Tide; by
which I was fully confirm'd in the main Enquiry,
of what Countrymen they were?
All this while I kept my self very clofe,not once
daring to stir out of my Castle, any farther than to
my Place of Observations, near the Top of the Hill;
and very glad I was, to think how well it was for-
tify \\: I knew it was no less than ten Hours before
the Boat could be on float again, and by that
Time it would be dark, and I might be at more
Liberty to fee their Motions, and to hear their
Discourse, if they had any.
In the mean Time I fitted my self up for a Bat-
tle, as before; tho* with more Caution, knowing
I had to do with another kind of Enemy than I had
at first; I order'd Friday also, whom I had made an
excellent Marksman with his Gun, to load him-
self with Arms: I took my self two Fowling-Pieees,
and I give him three Muskets. My Figure, indeed,
was very fierce; I-had my formidable Goatrskin
Coat on, with the great Cap I have mentioned, a
naked Sword by my Side, two Pistols in my Belt,
and a Gttsi upon each Shoulder.
It was my Design, as I said above, not to have
made any Attempt 'till it was dark: But about
two a-Clock, being the Heat of the Day, I found
that
that m short they were all gone straggling into tl**
Woods, and, as I thought, were laid down tp Skep.
The three poor distressed Men, too anxious sor their
Condition to get any Sleep, were, however, let
down under the Shelter of a great Tree, at about
a quarter of a Mile from me, and, as I thought,
out of Sight of any of the rest.
Upon this I resolv'd to discover my self to fhem*
and learn something of their Condition: Immedi-
ately I march'd in the Figure as above, my Man
Friday at a good Distance behind me, as formidable
for his Arms as I, but not making quite so staring
& SpcBre-ltke Figure as I did.
I came as near them undiscover'd as I could, and
then before any of them saw me, I calfd aloud to
them irf Spanish, What are ye Gentlemen?
They started up at the Noise, but were test
times more confounded when they saw i$e, and
the uncouth Figure that I made. They made no
Answer at ail; but I thought I perceived them just
going to fly from me, when I spoke to them in
English; Gentlemen, said I, do not be surprized at
me; perhaps you may have a Friend near you
when you did not exped it. He must be Tent di-
rectly from Heaven then, said one of them very
gravely to me, and fulling of his Hat at the fame "time
to me, for our Condition is past the help of Man.
Ail Help is from Heaven, Sir, said I. But can
you put a Stranger in the Way how to help you,
for you seem to me to be in some great Distress?
I saw you when you landed, and when you seem'd
to make Application to the Brutes that came with
you, I saw one of them lift up his Sword to kill
you.
The poor Man, with Tears running down his
Face, and trembling, looking like one astonifh'd,
seturn'd* Am I talking toGod^ or Man! h it a real
Matt"
Man, or an Angel! Be in no fear about that, Sic,
Jaid Iy is God had sent an Angel to relieve you, he
would have come better cloth'd, and arm'd after
another Manner than you see me in; pray lay aside
your Fears, I am a Man, an Englishman, and dis-
posal to assist you, you fee; I have one Servant
only; we have Arms and Ammunition i tell us
freely, Can we serve you ?   What is your
Cafe?
Our Cafe, said he, Sir, is too long td tell you,
while our Murders are so near; but, in short.
Sir, I was Commander of that Ship, my Men
have mutiny\i against me, they have been hardly*
prevails on not to murder me, and at last
have set me on Shore in this desolate Place, with
these two Men with me, one my Mate, the other
a Passenger, where We expected to perish, believ-
ing the Place to be uninhabited, and know not yet
what to think of it
Where are those Brutes, your Enemies, said
Do you know where they are gone? There they lye,
Sir, said he, pointing to a Thicket of Trees, my
Heart trembles for fear they have seen us, and heard
you speak , if they have, they wiH certainly murder us
all
Have they any Fire-Arms, said I? He answers,
they had only two Pieces, and one which they
left in the Boat. Well then, said I, leave the rest
to me ; I see they are all asleep, it is an easy thing
to kill them all; but shall we rather take them
Prisoners? He told me there was two despe-
rate Villains among them that it was scarce safe
to dew any Mercy to; but if they were secured,
he bdiev'd all the rest would return to their
Duty. I asked him,"'which they were? He
told me, he could not at that Distance describe
thep&; but he would obey my Orders in arty tiling
I would
I would direct. Well, fays I, let us retreat out of
their View or Hearing, lest they awake, and we
will resolve farther; so they willingly went back
with me, till the Woods covered us from them*
Look you, Sir, said I, is I venture upon your
Deliverance, are you willing to make two Condi-
tions with me; he anticipated my Proposals, by
telling me, that both he and the Ship, if recoverYi,
should be wholly directed and commanded by me
in every thing; and if the Ship was not recovers,
he would live and die with me in what Part of the
World soever I would send him m, and the two o-
ther Men said the same.
Welly says Ii rny Conditions are ha two, I. That
while you stay on this Island with me, you will not
pretend to any Authority here ; and if Ipi^t Arms
into your Hands, you will upon all Occasions give
them up tome, and do no Prejudice to me or mine,
upon this Jliand, and in the mean time be governed
by my Orders.
z. That if the Ship is, pr may be recovered,
you will carry me and my Man to England Pas-
sage-free.
He gave me all the Assurances that the Invention
and Faith of Man could devise, that he would com-
ply with these most reasonable Demands, and be-
sides would owe his Life to me, and acknowledge
it upon all Occasions as long as he livM.
Well then, said I, here are three Muskets for
you, with Powder and Ball •> tell me next what you
think is proper to be done. He shewed all the
Testimony of his Gratitude that he was able;
but ofter a to be wholly guided by me. I told him,
I thought it was hard venturing any Thing; but
the best Method I could think of was to fire upon
them at once, a> they lay; and if any was not
kili'd as the first Volley, and offered to submit,
we;
toe might save them, and so put it wholly updn
God's Providence to direct the Shot.
He said very modestly, That he was loth to
kill them, if he could help it; but that those two
Were incorrigible Villains, and had been the Au-
thors of all the Mutiny in the Ship, and if they
escaped, we fliould be undone still; for they would
go on Board, and bring the whole Ship's Com-
pany, and destroy us all. Well then, said I, Ne-
cessity legitimates rtiy Advice; for it is the only
Way to save our Lives. However, seeing him still
Cautious of shedding Blood, I told him they should
go themselves, and manage as they found conve-
nient.
In the Middle of this Discourse we heard some
os them awake, and soon after we saw two of
them on their Feet: I ask'd him, if either of them
were the Men whom he had said were the Heads
ot the Mutiny? He said, No: Well then, said I,
you may let them escape, and Providence seems to
have waken'd them on Purpose to save themselves.
"Now, fays I, if the rest escape you, it is your
Fault.
Animated with this, he took the Musket I
had given him in his Hand, and a Pistol in
his Belt, and his two Comrades with him^ with
each Man a Piece in his Hand. The two Men,
who were with him going first, made some
Koise, at which one of the Seamen, who was
awake, turn'd about, and seeing them coming,
Cry'd out to the rest, but it was too late then, for
the Moment he cry%d out, they fir'd; / mean the rwo
Men, the Captain wisely reserving his own Piece:
They had so well aim'd their Shot at the Men they
knew, that one of them was kiirdon the Spot, and
the other very much wounded ,* but not being dead,
he started up upon his Feet, and eall'd eagerly Cot
Help,
help to the other; but the Captain stepping to him;
told him, 'twas too late to cry for Help, he should
call upon God to forgive his Villainy,and with that
Word knock'd him down with the Stock of his
Musket; so that he never spoke more t There were
three more in the Company, and one of them was
also slightly wounded : By this time I was come;
and when they saw their Danger, and that it was
in vain to resist, they begg'd for Mercy i The Cap-
tain told them, he would spare their Lives, if they
would give him any Assurance of their Abhorrence
of the Treachery they had been guilty of, and
would swear to be faithful to him in recovering the
Ship, and afterwards in carrying her back to Ja-
maica, from whence they came: They gave hiiti
all the Protestations of their Sincerity that could
be desir'd, and he was willing to believe them, and
spare their Lives, which I was not against ,- only I
oblig'd him to keep them bound Hand and Foot
while they were upon the Island.
While this was doing, I sent Friday with thfc
Captain's Mate to the Boat, with Orders to secure
her, and bring away the Oars and Sail, which they
did ; and by and by, three stragling Men that
were (happily for them) parted from the rest, came
back upon hearing the Guns fir'd, and feeing their
Captain, who before was their Prisoner, now their
Conqueror, they submitted to be bound also, and
so our Victory was compleat.
It now remained, that the Captain and t should
enquire into one another's Circumstances: I began
first, and told him my whole History, which he
heard with an Attention even to Amazement, and
particularly at the wonderful Manner of my beings
furnished with Provisions and Ammunition; and?1*
indeed, as my Story is a whole Collection of Won-
ders, it affected him deeply; but when ^Q rcflected
Part I. X from
from thence upon himself, and how I seem'd to
have been preferv'd there on purpose to save his
Life, the Tears ran down his Face, and he could
not speak a Word more.
After this Communication was at an End, I car-
ry'd him and his two Men into my Apartment,
leading them in just where I came out, viz,, at the
Top of the House, where I refrefh'd them with
such Provisions as I had, and shew'd them all the
Contrivances I had made, during my long, long,
inhabiting that Place.
All I fhew'd them, all I said to them, was per-
fectly amazing; but above all, the Captain admir'd
my Fortification, and how perfectly I had conceal *d
my Retreat with a Grove of Trees, which having
been now planted near twenty Years, and the Trees
growing much faster than in England, was become
a little Wood, and so thick, that it was unpaslable
in any Part of it, but at that one Side, where 1
had reserv'd my little winding Passage into it, I
told him, this was my Castle and my Residence;
but that J had a Seat in the Country, as most Prin-
ces have, whither I could retreat upon Occasion,
and I would shew him that too another Time;
but at present our Business was to consider how to
recover the Ship: He agreed with me as to that;
but tpld me, he was perfectly at a Lose what Mea-
sures to take; for that there were still six and twen-
ty Hands on Board, who having enter'd into a
cursed Conspiracy, by which they had all forfeited
their Lives to the Law, would be hardened in it
now by Desperation; and would carry it on, know-
ing that if they were redue'd, they should be
brought to the Gallows as soon as they came to
England, or to any of the English Colonies; and
that therefore there would be no attacking them
with so small a Number as We were,
I mused
1 mused for some time upon what he had said,
and sound it was a very rational Conclusion; and
that therefore something was to be resolved on ve-
ry speedily, as well to draw the Men on Board in-
to some Snare for their Surprize, as to prevent their
Landing upon us, and destroying us. Upon this it
presently occurrJd to me, that in a little while, the
Ship's Crew wondering what was become of their
Comrades and of the Boat, would certainly come
on Shore in their other Boat* to fee for them, and
that then perhaps they might Come arm'd, and be
too strong for us: This he aliow'd was rational.
Upon this I told him, the first Thing we had to
do, was to stave the Boat, which lay upon the
Beach, so that they might not carry her off; and
taking every thing out of her, leave her so ter use-
less as not to be sit to swim; accordingly we went
on Board, took the Arms which were left on Board,
out of her, and whatever else we found there,
which was a Bottle of Brandy, and another of
Rum, a few Bisket-Cakes, a Horn of Powder, and
a great Lump of Sugar, in a Piece of Canvas; the
Sugar was five or six Pounds; all which was
very welcome to me, especially the Brandy and
Sugar, of which I had had none left for many
Years.
When we had carryM all these Things on Shore,
(the Oars, Mast, Sail, and Rudder of the Boat,
were carry*d away before, as above) we knock'd a
great Ho'e in her Bottom, that if they had come
strong enough to master us* yet they could not
carry off the Boat.
Indeed it was not much in my Thoughts, that
We could be able to recover the Ship; but my View
Was, that if they went away without the Boat, I did
not much question to make her fit again, to carry us
away to the Leeward Islands* and call upon our
X % Friends
Friends the Spaniards% in my Way, tor I had them
still in my Thoughts.
While we were thus preparing our Designs, and
had first, by main Strength, heaved the Boat up
upon the Beach, so high that the Tide would not
fleet her off at High-Water-Mark; and, besides,
had broke a Hole in her Bottom, too big to be
quickly stopp'd, and were fat down musing what
we should do, we heard the Shif> fire a Gun, and
saw her make a Waft with her Ancient, as a Sig-
nal for the Boat to co«w on Board •, but no Boat
stirr'd; and they fir'd severaltimes,-making other
Signals for the Boat.
At last when all their Signals and Fixings provd
fruitless, and they found the Boat did not stir, we
saw them, by the Help of my Glasses, hoist ano-
ther Boat out, and row towards the Shore; and
we found, as they approached, that there was no
less than ten Men in her, and that they had Fire-
Arms with them.
As the Ship lay almost two Leagues from the
Shore, we had a full View of them as they came,
and a plain Sight of the Men, even of their Faces,
because the Tide having set them a little to the
East of the other Boat, they rowed up under Shore,
to come to the same Place, where the other had
landed, and where the Boat lay.
By this Means, I fay,we had a full View of them,
and the Captain knew the Persons and Chara-
aers of all the Men in the Boat; of whom he said,
chat there were three very honest Fellows, who
he was sure were led into this Conspiracy by the
rest, being overpowered and frighted^
But that as for the Boatswain, who it seems was
the chief Officer among them, and all the rest, they
were as outrageous as any of the Ship's Crew, and
were, no doubt, made desperate in their new Enter-
prize;
C 3°9l
prize,* and terribly apprehensive he was, that they
would be too powerful for us.
1 smiTd at him, and told him, that Men in our
Circumstances were past the Operations of Fear:
That feeing almost every Condition that could be
was better than that which we were supposed to be
in, we ought to expect: that the Consequence, whe-
ther Death or Life, would be sure to be a Delive-
rance. I asked him what he thought of the Cir-
cumstances of my Life? And, whether a Delive-
rance were not worth venturing for? And where,
Sir, said I, is your Belief of my being preferv'd here
on Purpose ro save your Life, which elevated you
alittle While ago? For my Part, said I, there seems
to be but one Thing amiss in all the Prospect of it:
What's that? says he; why, said I, JTis that, as you
fay, there are three or four honest Fellows among
them, which should be spared; had they been all of
the wicked Part of the Crew, I should have thought
God's Providence had singled them out to deliver
them into your Hands; for depend upon it, every
Man of them that comes a-siiore are our own, and
shall die or live, as they behave to us.
As I spoke this with a rais'd Voice and chearful
Countenance, I found it greatly encouraged him, so
we set vigorously to our Business: We had, upon
the first Appearance of the Boat's coming from the
Ship, considered of separating our Prisoners^ and
had indeed sceur'd them effectually.
Two of them, of whom the Captain was less as-
sur'd than ordinary, I sent with Friday y and one of
the three (delivered Men) to my Cave, where they
were remote enough, and out of Danger of being
heard or discovers, or of finding their Way out of
the Woods, if nhey could have delivered themselves.
Here they left them bound, but gave them Provisi-
on$> and promised them if they continued there
X 3 quietly,
quietly, to give them their Liberty iri a Day or
two; but that if they attempted their Escape, they
should be put to Death without Mercy. They pro-
mis'd faithfully to bear their Confinement with
Patience, and were very thankful that they had
such good Usage as to have Provisions, and a Light
left them ; tor Friday gave them Cand'es (such as
we made ourselves) for their Comfort; and they
did not know but that he stood Centinel over
them at the Entrance.
The pther Prisoners had better Usage ,* two of
them were kept pinicnVi indeed, because the Cap-
tain was not tree to trust them, but the other two
were taken into my Service upon their Captain's
Recommendation, and upon their solemnly enga-
ging to live and die with us; so, with them and the
three honest Men, we were seven Men well arm'd;
and I made no doubt we should be able to deal well
enough with the Ten that were a coming, consi-
dering that the Captain had said, there were three
or four honest Men among them also.
As soon as they got to the Place where their o*
ther Boat lay, they run their Boat into the Beach,
and came all on Shore, hauling the Boat up after
them, which I was glad to fee; for I was afraid
they would rather have left the Boat at an An-
chor, some Distance from the Shore, with some
Hands in her to guard her; and so we should not
be able to seize the Boat. "' -
Being on Shore, the first Thing they did, they
ran all to the other Boat, and it was easy to see
that they were qnder a great Surprize, to find her
stripped as above, of all that Was in her, and a
great Hole in her Bottom.
After they had mus'd a while upon this, they
set up two or three great Shouts, hollowing with
all their &fjght, to try if they could make their
Companions
Companions bear * but all was to no Purpose: Then
they came al! close in a Ring, and fir'tia Volley of
their small Arms, which indeed we heard, and the
Echoes made the Woods ring; but it was all one,
those in the Cave we were sure could not hear, and
those in our Keeping, though they heard it well e-
nough, yet durst give no Answer to them.
They were so aitonish'd at the Surprize of this,
that as they told us afterwards, they resohr>d to go
all on Board again to their Ship, and let them know
there, that the Men were all murder'd, and the
Long-Boat staved; accordingly they immediately
launch'd their Boat again, and got all of them on
Board,
The Captain was terribly amaz'd, and even con-
founded at this, believing they would go on Board
the Ship again, and set Sail, giving their Comrades
for lost, and so he should still lose the Ship, which
he was in Hopes we should have recovered; but he
was quickly as much frighted the other way.
They had not been long put off with the Boar,
but we pereeiv'd them all coming on Shore again;
but with this new Measure in their Conduct, which
it seems they consulted together upon, viz,. To
leave three Men in the Boat, and the rest to go on
Shore, and go up into the Country to look for
their Fellows.
This was a great Disappointment to us; for now
we were at a Loss what to do; for our seizing
those seven Men on Shore would be no Advantage
to us, if we let the Boat escape, because they would
then row away to the Ship, and then the rest of
them would be sure to weigh and set Sail, and so
our recovering the Ship would be lost.
However, we had no Remedy but to wait and
see what the Issue of Things might present: The
seven Men came on Shore, and the three who re-
X 4 main'd
inain'd in the Boat, put her off to a good Distance
from the Shore, and came to an Anchor to wait
for them; so that it was impossible for us to come
at them in the Boat.
Those uiat came on Shore kept close together,
marching towards the Top of the little Hill, under
which my Habitation lay; and we could fee them
plainly, tho' they could not perceive us: We
could have been very glad they would have come
nearer to us, so that we might have hr'd at them,
or that they would have gone farther off, that we
might have come Abroad.
But when they were come to the Brow of the
Hill, where they could fee a great Way into the
Valleys and Woods, which lay towards the North-
East Parr, and where the Island lay lowest, they
shouted and hallowed till they were weary; and
not caring, it seems, to venture far from the Shore,
nor far horn one another, they fat down together
under a Tree, to consider of it; Had they thought
fit to have gone to sleep there as the other Party
of them Lad done, they had done the Job for us;
but they were too full of Apprehensions of Dangera
to venture to go to deep, tho* they could not tell
what the Danger was they had to fear neither.
[ The Captain made a very just Proposal to me,
upon this Consultation of theirs, viz,. That per-
haps they would all fire a Volley again, to endea-
vour to make their Fellows hear, and that we
fiiould.all sally upon them, just at the Juncture
when their Pieces were all discharg'd, and they
would emainly yield, and we should have them
without Blood-siied: 1 hVd the Proposal, provided
it was done while we were near enough to come
up to them, before they could load their Pieces
again.
Blrt
But this Event did not happen, and we lay still
a long Time, very irresolute what Course to take;
at length I told them, there would be nothing to
be done in my Opinion till Night; and then it
they did not return to the Boat, perhaps we might
find a Way to get between them and the Shore,
and so might use some Stratagem with them in
the Boat, to get them on Shore.
We waited a great While, tho' very impatient
for their Removing, and were very uneasy; when,
after long Consultations, we saw them start all up,
and march down towards the Sea: It seems they
had such dreadful Apprehensions upon them, of
the Danger of the Place, that they resolv'd to go
on Board the Ship again, gitfe their Companions
over for lost, and so go on with their intended
Voyage with the Ship.
As soon as I perceiv'd them go towards the Shore,
I imagin'd it to be as it really was, That they had
given over their Search, and were for going back
again; and the Captain, as soon as I told him my
Thoughts, was readyto sink at the Apprehensi-
ons oi it, but I presently thought of a Stratagem to
fetch them back again, and which answer'd my
End to a Tittle.
I order'd Friday and the Captain's Mate, to go
over the little Creek Westward, towards the Place
where the Savages came on Shore, when Friday was
rescu'd; and as soon as they came to a little rising
Ground, at about half a Mile's Distance, I bad them
hallow as loud as they could, and wait till they
found the Seamen heard them, that as soon as ever
they heard the Seamen answer them, they should
return it again, and then keeping out of Sight, take
a Round, always answering when t other hallow'd,
to draw them 4S far into the Island, and among the
Woods,
IJI4]
Woods a$ possible, and then wheel about again to
me, by such Ways as I directed them.
They were just going into the Boat, when Fri-
day and the Mate follow'd, and they presently heard
them, and answering, run along the Shore West-
ward, towards the Voice they heard, when they
were presently stopp'd by the Creek, where the
Water being up* they could not get over, and
pali'd for the Boat to come up, and set them over,
'as indeed I expected.
When they had set themselves over, I observed,
that the Boat being gone up a good Way into the
Creek, and, as it were, in a Harbour within the
Land, they took one of the three Men out of her
to go along with them, and left only two in the
Boat, having fastened her to the Stump of a little
Tree on the Shore.
This was vdiat I wisti'd for, and immediately
leaving Friday and the Captain's Mate to their Bu-
siness I took the rest with me, and crossing the
Creek out of their Sight, we sorprjVd the two
Men before they were aware, one of them lying
on Shore, and the other being in the Boat; the
Fellow on Shore was between steeping and waking,
and going to start up, the Captain, who was fore-
most, ran in upon him, and knock d him down, and
then called out to him in the* Boat to yield, or he
was a dead ^ap.
There needed very few Arguments to perswade
a single Man to yield, when he saw sive Men upon
him* and his Comrade knocked down; besides, this
Was, it seems, one of the three who were not so hear-
ty in the Mutiny as the rest of the Crew, and there-
lore was easily perswaded, not only to yield, but
afterwards toJoin very sincerely with us.
In the mean time, Friday and the Captain's Mate
so well managed their Business with the rest, that
they
[J??]
they drew them, by Hollowing and Answering
from one Hill to another, and from one Wood ttf
another, till they not only heartily tir'd them, bai
left them where they were very sure they could
not reach back to the Boat before it was dark j
and indeed they were heartily tir'd themselves al-
so by the Time they came back to us.
We had nothing now to do but to watch sot
them in the Dark, and to fall upon them, so as to
make sure Work with them.
It was several Hours after friday came back to
me, before they came back to their Boat, and we
could hear the foremost of them long before they
came quite up, calling to those behind to come
along, and could also hear them answer, and com-
plain how lame and tir'd they were, and not able
to come any faster, which was very welcome
News to us.
At length they came up to the Boat; but'tis
impossible to express their Confusion, when they
found the Boat fast a-ground in the Creek, the
Tide ebb'd out, and their two Men gone, we
could hear them call to one another in a most la-
toentable Manner, teiiing one another they were
gotten into an inchanted Island i that either there
were Inhabitants in it, and they should all be mur-
der'djorelse there were Devils or Spirits in it, and
they sliould be all carry *d away and devourU
J rfhey hollow'd again, and calfd their two
Comrades by their Names a great many Times,
but no Answer. After some Time, we could see
them,-by the little Light there was, run about
wringing their Hands, like Men in Despair; and
rhat sometimes ^they would go and sit down in the
Boat to rest themselves, then come a-ftore again,
and walk about again, and so the fame Thing
over again. * «
My Men would sain have me give them Leave
to fall upon them at once in the Dark; but I was
willing to take them at some Advantage, so to
spare them, and kill as few of them as I could,*
and especially I was unwilling to hazard the kil-
ling any of our Men, knowing the other were
very well armed. I resolved to wait to see it they
did not separate ,* and therefore to make sure of
them, I drew my Ambuscade nearer, and ordered
Friday and the Captain to creep upon their Hands
and Feet as close to the Ground as they could,
that they might not be discovered, and get as near
them as they could possibly, before they offer'd to
lire.
They had not been long in that Posture, but
that the Boatswain, who was the principal Ring-
leader ot the Mutiny, and had now shewn himself
the most dejected and dispirited of all the relK
came walking towards them with two more oi:
their Crew; tl^eCaptain was so eager, as having
this principal Rogue so much in his Power, that
he could hardly have Patience to let him come so
near as to be lure of him j for they only heard his
Tongue before: But when they came nearer, the
Captain and Friday starting up on their Feet, let
fly 4t them. _
The Boatswain was kill'd upon the Spot; the
next Man was (hot into the Bo^ly, and fell just by
him, tho' he did not die till an Hour or two after;
and the third run for it.
At the Noise of the Fire, I immediately ad-
vane'd with my whole Army, which was now
fight Men, viz,, my self GeneralissimOj Friday my
Lieutenant-General, the Captain apd his two Men,
and the three Prisoners of War^ m\iom we had -tru-
fteef with Arms,
«*-•• * ". We
We came upon them indeed in the Dark, so that
they could not see our Number, and I made the
Man they had left in the Boat, who was now one
ot us, to call them by Name, to cry if I could
bring them to a Parley, and so might perhaps re-
duce them to Terms, which fell out just as we de-
sir'd-: For indeed it was easy to think, as their
Condition then was, they would.be very willing
to capitulate » so he calli out as loud as he could,
to one of them, Tom Smith, Tvm Smith; Tom Smith
anfwer'd immediately, H? bo j that tRohinfon? For
it seems he knew his Voice : T'other answers, Ayf
ay, for God's fake, Tom Smith, throw down your
Arms, and yield, or you are all dead Men this Mor
ment.
Who must we yield to ? When are they? (says Smith
again;) Here they are, fays he, here's our Captain,
and fifty Men with him, have been hunting you
this two Hours> the Boatswain is kill'd, WtliFrye
is wounded, and I am a Prisoner \ and ifyoudf
not yield, you are all lost.
Will they give us Quarter then, (fays "torn Smith)
and we will yield? sUgo and askr if you promise to
yield, fays Robinson; so he asked the Captain, and
the Captain himself then calls out, You Smith,yo)X
know my Voice* if you lay down your Arms im-
mediately, and submit, you shall have your Lives,
all but Will. Atkins.
Upon this, WM*Atkins cry'd out5 For God's fake,
Captain, gtw me Quarter, What have 1 done i 'They
have been all as bad as I; which by the Way was not
true neither; fork seems this WM* Atkins was the
first Man that laid Hold of the Captain, when they
first mutiny'd, and used him barbarously, in tying
his Hands, and giving him injurious Language.
However, the Captain told him he must lay dowfl
Mis Arms at Discretion, and trust to the Gover-
nor's
ncur's Mercy, by which he meant me; for ihey
all call'd me Governour.
In a Word, they all laid down their Arms, and
begg'd their Lives,• and I sent the Man that had
parleyed with them, and two more, who bound
them all; and then my great Army of 50 Men,
which particularly with those three, were all but
eight, came up and seized upon them all, and up-
on their Boat, only that I kept my self and one
more out of Sight, for Reasons of State.
Our next Work was to repair the Boat, and to
think of seizing the Ship; and as for the Captain,
now he had Leisure to parley with them, he expo-
stulated with them upon the Villainy of their Pra-
ctices with him, and at length, upon the farther
Wickedness of their Design, and how certainly it
must bring them to Misery and Distress in the
End, and perhaps to the Gallows.
They all appear'd very penitent, and begg'd hard
for their Lives; As for that, he told them they
were none of his Prisoners, but the Commander's of
the Island; that they thought they had set him on
Shore in a barren uninhabited Island, but it had
pleas'd God so to direct them, that the Island
was inhabited, and that the Govemour was an
EttglijhMm; that he might hang them all there, ii
he pleas'd; but as he had given them all Quarter,
he supposed he would fend them to England^ to be
dealt with there, as Justice requir'd, except At-
kins, who was commanded by the Governour to
advise to prepare for Death; for that he would be
hang'd in the Morning.
Though this was alia Fiction of his own, yet
it had its desired Effect; Atkins fell upon his Knees
-to beg the Captain to intercede with the Gover*
nojar for his Life, and all the rest begg'd of him
for
for God's sake, that they might not be sent to
England.
It now occurred to him, that the Time of our
Deliverance was come, and that it would be a most
easy Thing to bring these Fellows in, to be hearty
in getting Possession of the Ship; so I retir'd in the
Dark from them, that they might not fee \that
Kind of a Governour they had, and calfd the Cap-
tain to me; when I eall'd, as at a good Distance,
one of the Men was order'd to speak again, and say
to the Captain, Captain, the Commander calls for
you; and presently the Captain reply'd, Tiff his
Excellency, I am jujl a coming: This more perfectly
amus'd them; and they all believ'd that the Com-
mander was just by with his fifty Men.
Upon the Captain's coming to me, I told him
my Project for seizing the Ship, which he lik'd of
wonderfully well, and resolv'd to put it in Execu-
tion the next Morning.
But in Order to execute it with more Art, and td
be secure of Success, I told him we must divide the
Prisoners, and that he shoud go and take Atkins
and two more of the worst of them, and send
than pinion'd to the Cave where the others lay:
This was committed to Eiday and the two Men
who came on Shore with the Captain.
They convey 'd them to the Cave, as to a Pri-
son j and it was, indeed, a dismal Place, especial-
ly to Men in their Condition.
The other I order'd to my Bower, as I calfd itf
of which I have given a full Description; and as
it was fene'd in, and they pinion'd, the Place wa?
secure enough, considering they were upon thek
Behaviour.
To these in the Morning I sent the Captain, who
was to enter into a Parley with them, in a Word,
touy them* and tell me, whether he thought they
might
Inight be trusted or no, to go on Board and sur-
prize the Ship. He talk'd to them of the Injury
clone him, of the Condition they were brought to;
and that though the Governour had given them
Quarter for their Lives, as to their present Action,
yet that if they were sent to England, they would
all be hanged in Chains, to be sure,* but that if
they would join in such an Attempt, as to recover
the Ship, he would have the Governour's En-
gagement for their Pardon.
Any one may guess how readily such a Propo-
sal may be accepted by Men in rheir Condition;
they fell down on their Knees to the Captain, and
promised with the deepest Imprecations, that they
would be faithful to him to the last Drop, and
that they should owe their Lives to him, and
Would go with him all over the World ,* that they
Would own him for a Father to them as long as
they HvU
Well, fays the Captain, I must go and tell the
Governour what you fay, and fee what I can do
to bring him to consent to it: So he brought me
an Account of the Temper he found them in ',
and that he verily believed they would be faith-
ful
However, that we might be very secure, I told
him he should go back again, and chuse out those
live, and tell them, they might see that he did not
want Men; that he would take out those five to
be his Assistants, and that the Governour will keep
the other two, and the three that were sent Priso*
tiers to the Castle (my Cave) as Hostages, for the
Fidelity of those five ,* and that if they prov'd un-
faithful in the Exeurion, the five Hostages should
be hang'd in Chains alive upon the Shore.
This
t J"]--
Thii look'd severe, andconvinc'd them that the
Governour was in Earned; however, they had no
Way left them bat to accept it» and it was now
the Business of the Prisoners, as much as of the
Captain, to perswade the^ other five to do their
Duty.
Our Strength was now thus ordered for the Ex-
pedition, i. The Captain, his Mate, and Passenger.
2. Then the two Prisoners of the first Gang, to
whom, having their Characters from the Captain,
I had given their Liberty, and trusted them with
Arms. 3. The other two, whom 1 had kept till now
in my Bower pinion'd, but, upon the Captain's
Moricfc, had now releasU 4. These five released
at last; so that they were twelve in all, besides
five we kept Prisoners in the Cave for Hostages.
I ask'd the Captain, If he was willing to ven-
ture with these Hands on board the Ship? For,
as for me and my Man Friday, 1 did not think
it was proper for us to stir, having seven Men
left behind; and it was Employment enough for
us to keep them asunder, and supply them wirh
Victuals.
As to the five in the Cave, I resolv'd to keep
them fast ; but Friday went in twice a Day to them,
to supply them with Necessaries; and I made the
other two carry Provisions to a certain Distance,
where Friday was to take it.
When I fhew'd my self to the two Hostages, it
was with the Captain, who told them, I was the
Person the Governour had ordered to look after
them, and that it was the Go vernour's Pleasure they
should not stir any where but by my Direction;
that if they did, they should bt setch'd into the
Castle, and be laid in Irons; (o that as we ne-
ver suffer 'd them to see me as Governour, <b I
now appeared as another Person, and spoke of the
Part I. X Govern-!
<joverno«r, the Garrison, the Castle, and the like,
upon all Occasions.
The Captain now had no Difficulty before him,
but to furnish his two Boats, stop the Breach of
one, and Man them. He made his Passenger
Captain of one, with four other Men j and him-
self, and his Mate, and five more, went in theo-
then And they contrived their Business very well;
for they came up to the Ship about Midnight. As
soon as they came within Call of the Ship, he made
Rubinjm hale them, and tell them he had brought
off the Men and the Boat, but that it was a long
Time before they had found them, and the like;
holding them in a Chat till they came to the Ship s
Side i when the Captain and the Mate* entering
first with their Arms, immediately knock'ddot^n
the Second Mace and Carpenter with the But-er.d
of their Muskets, being very faithfully seconded
by their Men; tVey secured all the rest that were
upon the Main and Quarter Decks, and began to
fasten the Hatches to keep them down who were
below, when the other Boat and their Men enter-
ing at the Fore-Chains, secured the Fore-Castle of
the Ship, and the Skuttle Which went down into
the Cook-Room, naaking tluee Men they found
there Prisoners.
When this was done, and all safe upon Deck, the
Captain ordered the Mate wkh-three Men to break
into the Round-House, where the new Rebel Cap-
tain lay, and, having taken the Alarm, was got-
ten up, and with two Men and a Boy had gotten
Fire-Arms in their Hands i and when the Mate
jxrith a Ctow split open the Door, the new Cap-
tain and his Men sir'd boidly among, them, and
mounded the Mate .with a MusJket-Ball, which
broke his Arm, and wounded two napre ©f the Men,
butMrdnobpdyv
Ths
The Mate calling for Help, rufh'd however in-
to the Round-House, wounded as he was, and
with his Pistol shot the new Captain through the
Head, the Bullet entering at his Mouth, and came
#ut again behind one of his Ears; so that he ne-
ver spoke a Word; upon which the rest yielded,
and the Ship was taken effectually, without ahy
more Lives lost.
As soon as the Ship was thus secured, the Cap-
tain ordered seven Guns to be fir'd, which was the
Signal agreed upon with me, to give me Nonce
of his Success, which you may be sure I was very
glad to hear, having fat watching upon the Shore
for it, till near two of the Clock in the Morning.
Having thus heard the Signal plainly, I laid me
down; and it having been a Day of great Fatigue
to me, I ilept very found, till I was something fur-
priz'd with the Noise of a Gun; and presently
starting up, I heard a Man call me by the Name of
Governour, Governour, and presently I knew the
Captain's Voice, when climbing up to the Top of
the Hill, there he stood, and pointing to the Ship,
he embrae'd me in his Arms, My dear Friend and
Deliverer, fays he, there's your Ship, for/he is all yours,
and so are we and aUthat belong to her. I cast my Eyes
to the Ship, and there (he rode within little more
than half a Mileof the Shore; for they had weighed
her Anchor as soon as they were Masters of her;
and the Weather being fair, had brought her to an
Anchor just against the Mouth of the little Creek;
and the Tide being up, the Captain had brought
the Pinnace in near the Place where I first landed
my Rafts, and so landed just at my Door.
I was at first ready to sink down with the Sur-
prize: For I saw my Deliverance indeed visibly
put mto my Hands, all Things easy, and a large
bhip just ready to carry me away whither I plea-
* * fed
fed to go. At first, for some Time, I was not ihk
to answer him one Word; but as he had taken
me iii-his Arms, I held fast by him, or I ifaould
have fallen to the Ground.
He p€rceiv'd the Surprise, and immediately
pulls a Bottle out of his Pocket, and gave me a
Dram of Cordial, which he had brought on pur-
pose for me; after I drank it, I fat down up-
on the Ground j and though it brought me to my-
self, yet it was a good while before I could speak
a Word to him.
All this while the poor Man was in as great an
Txtasy as \ only not under any Surprize, as I was;
and he said a thousand kind tender Things to me,
co compose and bring me to myself: but such
was the Flood of Joy in my Breast, that it put all
my Spirits into Cohftjsion; at last it broke out
anto Tears, and in a little while after I recovered
my .Speech.
Then I took my Tarn, ard embrac^ him as
my Deliverer; and we rejoye'd together. I told
him, I look'd upon him as a Man sent from Hea-
ven to deliver me, andthat the whole Transanctien
feem'dto be a Chain of Wonders,* that such Things
as these were the Testimonies we had of a secret
Hand of Providence governing the World, and an
Evidence, that the Eyes of an infinite Power could
search into the remotest Corner of die World, and
lend Help to the Miserable whenever he pleased.
I forgot not to lift up my Heart in Thankful-
ness to Heaven; and what Heart could forbear to
bids him, who had not only in a miraculous Man-
ner provided for one in such a Wilderness, and
in such a desolate Condition, but from whom
e\er Dei iverance must always be acknowledged
t® proceed!
Wtcst
When we had talked a whfie, the Captain told
me, he had brought me some little Refreshment,
such as the Ship afforded, and such as the Wretches
that had been so long his Masters had not plun-
dered him of; Upon this he xfdfd aloud to the
Boat, and bid his Men bring the Things a-sliorc
that were for the Governour; and indeed it was
a Present, as if I had been one not that was to be
earry'daway along with them, but as if I had been
to dwell upon the Ifland still, and they were -to
go without me-
First he had brought me a Cafe of Bottles full
of excellent Cordial Waters, six large Bottles of
Madera Wine; the Bottles held two Quarts a-
P*ece; two Pound of excellent good Tobacco,
twelve good Pieces of the Ship's Beef, and six Pie-
ces of Pork, 'With a Bag of Peases and about a hun-
dred Weight of Bisket.
He brought me also a B.ox of Sugar, a Box of
Flower, a Bag full of Lemons, and two Bottles of
Lime-juice, and abundance of other Things: But
besides these, and what was a thousand times more
useful ta me, he brought me six clean new Shirts,
six very good Neckcjoaths, two Pair of Gloves
one Pair of §hoe$, a Hat, and one Pair of IStock-
ings, and a very good Suit of Clqathsof his own,
which had been worn but very little,: In a Word,
he cloathed me from Head to Foot]
It was a very kind and agreeable Present, as any
one may imagine, to onesin my Circumstances:
But never was any thing in the World of that Kind
so unpleasant, awkard, and uneasy as it was t9
me to wear such Cloaths.at their first putting on.
After these Ceremonies past, and after all his
good Things were brought into my little Apart-
ment, we began to consult what was to -be done
with the Prisoners we had ; for it was worth con-
X 3 #dedug
sidering, whether we might venture to take them
away with us or no, especially two of them, whom
we knew to incorrigible and refractory to the
last Degree; and the Captain said, he knew they
were such Rogues, that there was no obliging
them, and if he did carry them away, it must be
in Irons, as Malefactors, to be delivered over to
Justice at the first English Colony he could come
at # and I found that the Captain himself was very
anxious about it.
Upon this, I told him, that if he desir'd it, I
durst undertake to bring the two Men he Ipoke of,
to make it their own Request that he should leave
them upon the Island: 1 should be very glad of that,
fays the Captain, with au my Heart.
Well, fays I, I will fend for them up, and talk
with them for you: So I caus'd Friday and the two
Hostages, for they were now discharged, their
Comrades having performs their Promise': I say, I
caused them to go to the Cave, and bring up the
live Men, pinion'd as they were, to the Bower, and
keep them there till I came.
After some Time, I came thither drek'd in my
new Habit, and now I wascall'd Governour again;
being all met, and the Captain with me, I caus'd
the Men to be brought before me, and I told them,
I had had a full Account of their villainous Beha-
viour to the Captain, and how they had run away
with the Ship, and were preparing to commit far-
ther Robberies, but that Providence had en-
snared them in their own Ways, and that they
were fallen into the Pit which they had digg'd for
others..'
I let them know, that by my Direction the Ship
had been feiYd, that she lay now in the Road, and
they.might sec by and by, that their new Captain
bad
had received the Reward os his Villainy, for that
they might fee him banging at the Yard-Arm.
That as to them, I wanted to know what they
had to fay, why I should not exefute them as Pi-
rates taken in the Fact, as by my Commission they
could not doubt I had Authority to do.
One of them answer'd in the Name of the rest.
That they had nothing to fey but this, That when
they were takeni the Captain promis'd them their
Lives, and they humbly implor'd my Mercy: But
I told them I knew not what Mercy to shew them;
for, as for my self, I had resolved to quit the
Ifland with all my Men, and had taken Passage
with the Captain to go for England: And as for
the Captain, he could not carry them to England>
other than as Prisoners in Irons to be try'd for
Mutiny and running away with the Ship 5 the
Consequence of which, they must needs know,
would be the Gallows; so that I could not tell
which was belt for them, unless they had a Mind
to take their Fate in the Ifland; if they defied that,
I did not care, as I had Liberty to leave ir, I had
some Inclination to give them their Lives, if they
thought they could (hist on Shore.
They seem'd very thankful for it, said they
would much rather venture to stay there, than to
becarrySd to England to be hang'd; so I left it on
that Imic.
* However, the Captain seem'd to make some
Difficulty of iV as if he durst not leave them
there: Upon this" I seenvd a little angry with the
Captain, and told him, That they were my priso-
ners, not his; and1 that seeing I had offer'd them
so much Favour, I would be as good as my Word;
and that if he did not think fit to consent to it, J
would set them at Liberty as I |ound them j and
if he did not like it, he might take them again if
he could catch them.
Upon this they appeared very thankful, and I
accordingly set tftfem at Liberty, and bad them re-
tire into the Wpods, to the Place whence they
came, and 1 would leave them some Fire Arms,
some Ammunition, ancl some Directions how they
fliould live very well, if they thought fit.
Upon this, I prepared to go on Board the Ship,
but told the Captain, that I wpuld stay that Night
to prepare my Things, and desir-d him to go on
Jtoard in the mean Time, and keep all right in
the Ship, and fend the Boat on Shore the next Day
forme; ordering him, in the mean time, to cause
the new Captain who was kill'd, to be hang'd at
the Yard-Arm, that these Men might see him.
When she Captain was gone, I sent for the Men
up to me to my Apartment, and enter'd seriously
into Discourse with them os their Circumstances;
I told them, I thought they had made a right
Choice; that if the Captain carryM them away,
they would certainly be hang'd. I sliewed them
the new Captain hanging at the Yard-Arm of the
Ship, and told them they had nothing less to expect.
When they had all declar'd their willingness to
stay, I then told thepi, I would let them into the
Story of my living there, and put them into the
Way of making it easy to* them. Accordingly I
gave them the whole History of the Place, and of
my coming to it; sliew'd them my Fortifications,
the way I made my Bread, planted my Corn, cu-
red my Grapes; and in a Word,' all that was ne-
ccflary to make them easy; I told them the Story
also of the sixteen Spaniards that were to be expect-
ed ,* for whom I left a Letter, and ijiade them
promise to treat them in common with them-:
lelves.' ••- < •• * • - —
I left
I left them my Fire-Arms, viz. Five Muskets,
three Fowling-pieces, and three Swords, I had
#bove a Barrel arid half of Powder left ,• for after
the first Year or two, I used but little, and wasted
none. I gave them a Description of the Way I
managed the Goats, and Directions to milk and
fatten them, and to make both Butter and Cheese.
In a Word, I gave them every Part of my own
Story ; and I told them, I would prevail with the
Captain to leave them two Barrels of Gun-Powder
more, and spine Garden-Seeds, which I told them
I would have been very glad of; also I gave them
the Bag of Pease which the Captain had brought
me to eat, and bad them be sure to sow and en-
crease them.
Having done all this, I left them the next Dayt
$nd went on Board the Ship: We prepar'd imme-
diately to fail, but did not weigh that Night:
The next Morning early, two of the five Men
came swimming to the Ship's Side, and making %
most lamentable Complaint of the other three,
begg'd to be taken into the Ship, for God's Sake,
for they should be murder'd, and begged the Cap-
tain to take them on Board, tho* he liang'd them
immediately.
Upon this, the Captain pretended to have no
Power without me; but after some Difficulty, and
afer their solemn Promises of Amendment, they
were taken pn Board, and were some time after
soundly whipped and pickled; after which, they
proved very honest and quiet Fellows.
Some time after this, the Boat was ordered on
Shore, the Tide being up, with the Things promi-
sed to the Men, to which the Captain, at my Inter-
cession, caus'd their Chests and Cloaths to be ad-
ded, which they took, and were very thankful for?
I also encouraged them, by telling them, that it
it
f 330]
it-lay-in my Way to send any Vessel to take them
in* 1 would not forget them.
When I took Leave of this Island,. I carry*d on
Board for Reliques the great Goat s Skin Cap I had
made, my Umbrella, ind one of-my Parrots;
also I forgot not to take the Money I formerly
mention'd, which had lain by me so long useless,
that it was grown rusty, or tarnislbed, and could
hardly pass for Silver, till it had been a little
rubbed and handled; as also the Money I found
in the Wreck of the Spanish Ship.
And thus I left the Island the Nineteenth of
December, as I found by the Ship's Account, in the
Year i68<5, after I had been upon it eight and
twenty Years, two Months* and nineteen Days;
being delivered from this second Captivity the same
Day of the Month that I first made my Escape in
the Barco-LongO) from /imong the Moors of SaBee.
In this Veslel, after along Voyage, I arriv'd in
England j the Eleventh of June, in the Year 1687,
having been thirty and five Years absent-
When 1 came to England, I was as perfect a
Stranger to all the World, as if I had never been
known there. My Benefactor and faithful Stew-
ard,whom I had left in Trust with my Money, was
alive, but had had great Misfortune's in the World;
was become a Widow the second Time, and very
low an the World: I made her easy as to what stie
ow*d me, alluring her, I would give her no Trouble;
but on the contrary, ingratitude to her former
Care and Faithfulness to me, I relieved her, as my
little Stock would afford, which at that Time
would indeed allow me to do but little for her;
but I assur'd her, I would never forget her former
Kindness to me; nor did 1 fofget her, when I had
sufficient to help her; as shall be observed in its
Place.
I went
I went down afterwads into Yorkshire; but my
Father was dead, and my Mother, and all the Fa-
mily extinct, except that I found two Sistets, and
two of the Children of one of my Brothers ,* and as
I had been long ago given over for dead, there had
been no Provision made for me; so that, in a Word,
I found nothing to relieve or assist me; and that
little Money I had, would not do much for me, as
to fettling in the World.
I met with one Piece of Gratitude indeed, which
I did not expect; and this was, That the Master
of the Ship, whom I had so happily delivers, and
by the fame Means sav'd the Ship and Cargo, ha-
ving given a very handsome Account to the Own-
ers of the Manner how I had sav'd the Livas ot
the Men, and the Ship, they invited me to meet
them, and some other Merchants concerned, and
all together made me a very handsome Complement
upon the Subject, and a Present of almost two
hundred Pounds Sterling.
But after making several Reflections upon the
Circumstances of my Life, and how little Way this
would go towards settling me in the World, I re-
solv'd to go to Lisbon, and see if I might not come
by some Information of the State of my Plantation
in the Brajils> and of what was become of my Part-
ner, who I had Reason to suppose had some Years
now given me over for dead.
With this View I took Shipping for Lisbon,
where I arriv'd in April following; my Man Fri-
day accompanying me very honestly in all these
Ramblings, and proving a most faithful Servant
upon all Occasions.
When I came to Lisbon I found out, by Enqui-
ry, and to my particular Satisfaction, my old Friend
the Captain of the Ship, who first took me up at
.Sea, off of the Shore of Ajrick: He was now
grow**
gr.own old* and had teh off the Sea, baying put
his Son, who was far from a young Man, into his
Ship; and who still used the Bmfil Trade. The
old Man did not know me, and, indeed, I hardly
knew him ', but I soon brought him to my Re-
membrance, and £s soon brought myself to his
Remembrance, when I told him who I was.
Aftersomp passionate Expressions of the old Ac-
quaintance, I ckquir'd, you may be sure, after my
Plantation and my Partner: The old Man told me
he had not been in the Brafih for about nine Years;
but that he could assure me, that when he came
away, my Partner was living, but the Trustees,
who I had join'd with him to take Cognisance of
my Part, were both dead; that however, he ber
liev'd that I would have a very good Account of
the Improvement of the Plantation; for that upon
the general Belief of my being cast away and
drown'd, my Trustees had-given in the Account of
the Produce of my Part of the Plantation, to the
Procurator Fiscal; who had appropriated it, in
Case I never came to claim it, one Third to the
King, and two Thirds to the Monastery of St. An-
guflin% to be expended for the Benefit of the Poor,
and for the Conversion of the Indians to the Ca-
tholick Faith; but that i£ I appear jd, or any one
for me, to claim the Inheritance, it should be re-
stor'd; pnly that the Improvement, or annual
Production, being distributed to charitable Uses,
could not be restored > but he assured me, that the
Steward of the King's Revenue (from Lands) and
the Provedorc, or Steward of the Monastery,
had taken great Care ail along, that the Incumr
bent, that is to fay, my Partner, gave every Year
a faithful Account of the Produce, of whi^h they
received duly my Moiety,
I ask*4
t ask'd him if he knew to what Height es krr
provement he had brought the Plantaton? And,
whether he thought it might be worth looking as1
ter; or whether, on my going thither, I should
meet with no Obstruction to my possessing my just
Right in the Moiety?
He told me, he could not tall exactly to what
Degree the Plantation was improv'd; but this he
knew, that my Partner was grown exceeding rich
upon the enjoying bat one Half of it; and that, to
the best of his Remembrance, he had heard, that"
the King's Third of my Part, which was, it seems,
granted away to some other Monastery, or Reli-
gious House, amounted to above two hundred
Moidores a Year ,• that as to my being restored to a
quiet Possession of it, there was no Question to be
made ot that, my Partner being alive to witness
my Title, and my Name being also enroll*d in the,
Register of the Country; also he told me, that
the Survivors of my two Trustees, were very fair
honest People, and very Wealthy » and he bdiev'd
I would not onfy have their Assistance for putting
me in Possession, but would find a very consider-
able Sum of Money in their Hands, for my Ac-
count; being the Produce of the Farm, while theis
Fathers held the Trust,,and before it was given up,
as above, which, as he remember'd* wasior abouc
twelve Years.
I fhew'd my self a little concerns, aad uneasy
at this Account, and enquired of the old Captain,
how it came to pass, that the Trustees should thus
dispose of my E&cts, when he knew thac I had
made ray Will, and had made him* the Portuguese
Captain, my universal Heir, &c.
He told me, that was true; but that as there
was no Proof of my being dead, he could not act
as Executor, until some certain Account should
come
come of my Death; and that besides, he was not
willing to intermeddle with a Thing so remote:
That it was true, he had'Registers my Will,
and put in his Claim; and could he have given
any Account of my being dead or alive, he would
have a£ted by Procuration, and taken Possession of
the Ingenio (so they call 'd the Sugar-house) and
had given his Son, who was now at the Brajih,
Order to do it.
But, fays the old Man, I have one piece of
News to tell you, which, perhaps, may not be so
acceptable to you as the rest, and that is, That
believing you were lost, and all the World believ-
ing so also, your Pann:r and Trustees did offer
to accompt to me in your Name, tor six or eight
of the first Years of Profits, which I receiv d;
but there being at that Time, fays he3 great Dis-
bursements for increasing the Works, building an
Ingenio, and buying Slaves, it did not amount to
near so much as afterwards it produe'd : However,
fays the old Man, I shall give you a true Account
of what I have received in all, and how I have
clispos'd of it.
After a few Days farther Conference with this
aacient Friend, he brought me an Account of the
six first Years Income or my Plantation, sign'd by
my Partner, and the Merchant's Trustees, being
always deliver'd in Goods, viz*. Tobacco in Roll,
and Sugar in Chests, besides Rum, Molossus, &c.
which is the Consequence of a Sugar Work; and
I found, by this Accounts that every Year the In-
come considerably Increas'd: But, as above, the
Disbursement being large, the Sum at first was
small: However, the old Man let me see, that he
was Debtor to me 470 Moidores of Gold, besides
60 Chests of Sugar, and 15 double Rolls of To*
bacco, which were lost in his Ship ', he having been
fcip-
ship*wrecked coming Home to Lisbon, about i*
fears after my leaving the Place-
The good Man then begun to complain of his
Misfortunes, and how he had been oblig'd to make
Use of my Money to recover his Losles, and buy
him a Share in a new Ship: However, my old
Friend, fays he, you shall not want a Supply in
your Necessity; and as soon as my Son returns,
you shall be fully satisfy'd.
Upon this* he pulls out an old Pouch, and gives
me 160 PortugalMoidores m Gold; and giving
me the Writings of his Title to the Ship, which
his Son was gone to the Bmfik in, of which he
was a Quarter Part Owner, and his Son another,
he puts them both into my Hands for Security of
the rest.
I was too much mov'd with the Honesty and
Kindness of the poor Man, to be able to bear this;
and remembring what he had done for me, how
he had taken me up it- Sea, and how generouily he
had used me on all Occasions, and, particularly,
how sincere a Friend he was now to me, I could
hardly refrain weeping at what he had said to me:
Therefore, first I ask'd him, if his Circumstances
admitted him to spare so much Money at that
Time, and if it would not straiten him? He told
me, he could not say but it might straiten him a
little; but however, it was my Money, and I
might want it more than he.
Every thing the good Man said was full of Af-
fection, and I could hardly refrain from Tears
while he spoke: In short, I took 100 of the Moi-
dores, and cail'd for a Pen and^ Ink to give him a
Receipt for them; then I returns him the rest, and
told him, if ever I had Possession of the Plantation,
I would return the othec to him ailso, as indeed I
afterwards did 1 and that as to the Bill of Sale of
his
his Part in his Son's Ship, I would not take it by
any Means ; but that if I wanted the Money, I
found he was honest enough to pay me ; and if I
did not, but came to receive what he gave me Rea-
son to expect, I would never have a Penny more
from him.
When this was pafs'd, the old Man began to ask
me/ if he should put me in a Method to make my
Claim to my Plantation? I told him, I thought to
go over to it myself: He said, Z-might do so if I
pleased; but that if I did not, there were Ways c*
nough to secure my Right, and immediately to ap-
propriate the Profits to my Use ,• and as there were
Ships in the River of Lisbon, just Feady to go away
to Bmstly he ftiade me enter my Name in a publfck
Register, with his Affidavit, affirming upon Oath
that I was alive, and that I was the fame Person
who took up the Land for the Planting the said
Plantation at first.
This being regularly attested by a Notary, and
a Procuration affix'd, he directed me to fend it with
a Letter of his Writing, to a Merchant of his Ac-
quaintance at the Place, and then proposed my
staying With him 'till an Accountearae of the Re-
turn.
Never any thing was more honourable than the
Proceedings upon rfiis Procuration; for in less than
seven Months I teceiv'd a large Packet from the
Survivors of my Trustees, the Merchants, for whose
Account I went to Sea, in which were the follow-
ing particular Letters and Papers enclosU
First, There was the Account Current of the
Produce of my Farm, or Plantation, from the Year
when their Fathers had belanc'd with my old Por-
tugal Captain, being for six Years; the Balance
appear'd to be 1174 Moidores in my Favour.
Secondh,
Secondly^ There was the Accounr of four years
more, while they kept the Effz&s in their Hands,
before the Government claimM the Administra*
tion, as being the Effects of a Person not to be
found, which they call Civil Death; and the Bal-
lance of this, the Value of the Plantation encrea-
sing, amounted to Cruisadoes, which made
3241 Moidores.
Ihirdij, There was the Prior of the Augustins
Account, who had received the Profits for above
fourteen Years; but not being to account for what
wasdifpos'd to the Hospital, very honestly declared
he had 872 Moidores not distributed, which he
acknowledge to my Account: as to the Ring's
Part, that refunded nothing.
There was a Letter of my Partner's, congratula*
ting me very affectionately upon my being alive,
giving me an Account how the Estate was *im-*
prov'd, and what it produced a Year, with a Par-
ticular of the Number of Squares or Acres that it
contain'd ,• how planted, how many Slaves there
were upon it; and making two and twenty Crosses
for Bleffings, told me he had said so many Ave Ma-
rias to thank the Blessed Virgin that I was alive;
inviting me very passionately to come over and
take Possession of my own, and in the mean time
to give him Orders to whom he should deliver my
Effects, if I did not come myself; concluding
With a hearty Tender of his Friendship, and that
of his Family, and sent me, as a Present, seven
fine Leopards Skins, which he had, it seems, recei-
ved from Afrkky by some other Ship \frhich he had
sent thither, and who* it seems, had made a betted
Voyage than I: He sent me also five Chests of ex-
cellent Sweetmeats, and an Hundred Pieces of
Gold uncoin'd, not quite so large as Moidores.
Part I. Z Bf
t ft8 ]
• By the lame Fleet, my two Merchant-Trustees
fhipp'dme 1200 Chests of Sugar, 800 Rolls of To-
bacco, and the rest of the whole Accompt in Goto.
I might well fay now, indeed, That the latter
End of Job was better than the Beginning. It is
impossible to express the Flutterings of my very
Heart, when I looked over these Letters, and espe-
cially when I found,all my Wealth about me; foe
as the Brastl Ships come all in Fleets, the fame
Ships which brought my Letters, brought my
Goods *, and the Effects were safe in the River be-
fore the Letter came to my Hand. In a Word,
1 tnrti'd pale, and ^rew sick; and had not the old
Man nm and fetched me a Cordial, I believe the
sudden Surprize of Joy had overset Nature, and I
had dy'd upon the Spot.
Kay, after that I continued very ill, and was so
some Hours, 'till a Physician being sent for, and
something of the real Cause rfof my Illness being
known, he order'd me to be let Blood: after
which 1 had Relief, and grew well: But I verily
believe, if it had not been eas'd by the Vent given
irt that Manner to the Spirits, I should have
<§y d»
I was now Master, all on a sudden, of above
$000 I Sterling iti Money, and had an Estate, as
I might well Call it, in the Brasil, of above a
thousand Pounds a Year, as sure as an Estate o:
Lands in England; And, in 3 Word, I fas ma
Condition which I scarce knew how to understand,
tu- how to compose myself for the Enjoyment
C The first Thing! did, was to recommence my
original Benefactor, my good old - Captain, _who
had been first Charitable to me in roy Distress,
Kmd tome in the Beginning, and Honest to me at
the End: I fhewYJ him all that was sent me; 1
told him, that next to the Providence ot Heaven*
which disposes all Tilings, it was owing to him;
and that it now lay on me to reward him, winch
1 would do a hundred Fold: So I inst returned to
him the hundred Moidores I had received of him*
then I sent for a Notary, and caused him to draw
up a General Release or Discharge for the 470
Moidores, which he had acknowledged he ow'ci me,
in the fullest and firmest manner possible; alter
which, I caus'd a Procuration to be drawn, im-
po wering him to be my Receiver of the Annual Pro-
sits of my Plantation, and appointing my Partner
to Accompt to him, and make the Returns by the
usual Fleets to him in my Name: And a Clause in
the End, being a Grant os 100 Moidores a Year to
him, during his Life, out of the Effects, and 50
Moidores a Year to his Son after him, tor his Life:
And thus I requited my old Man.
I was now to consider which Way to fleer my
Course next, and what to do with the Estate time
Providence had thus put into my Hands,- and, in-
deed, I had more Care upon my Head now, thart
I had in my silent State of Life in the Island*
where I wanted nothing but what I had, and
had nothing but what I wanted: Whereas I had
now a great Charge upon me, and my Business
was how to secure it. I had ne'er a Cave now to
hide my Money in, or a Place where it might lye
without Lock or Key, 'till it grew mouldy and
tarnistul before any Body would meddle with it:
On the contrary, 1 knew nor where to put it, or
who to trust with it. My old Patron, the Cap-
tain, indeed was honest, and that was the only
Refuge I had.
In the next Place, my Interest in the Brasils
scem'd to summon me thither » but now I could
not tell how to chink of going thither, 'till I had
Z % fettled
fettled my Affairs, and left my Effects in some safe
Hands behind me. At first J thought of my old
Friend the Widow, who I knew was honest, and
would be just to me; but then stie was in Years,
and but poor, and, for ought I knew, might be in
Debt; so that, in a Word, I had no Way but to
go back to England myself, and take my Effects
with me.
It was some Months however before I resolved
upon this; and therefore, as I had rewarded the
old Captain fully, and to Satisfaction, who had
been my former Benefactor, so I began to think of
my poor Widow, whose Husband had been my
first Benefactor^ and she, while it was in her Power,
my faithful Steward and Instructor. So the first
Thing I did, 1 got a Merchant in Lisbon to write to
his Correspondent in London, not only to pay a
Bill, but to go find her out, and carry her in Mo-
ney an hundred Pounds from me, and to talk with
her, and comfort her in her Poverty, by telling
her, she should, if I liv'd, have a further Supply:
At the fame time I sent my two Sisters in the
Country, each of them an hundred Pounds, they
being, though not in Want, yer not in very good
Circumstances; one having been marry'd, and left
a Widow, and the other having a Husband not so
kind to her as he should be.
But among all my Relations or Acquaintances,
I could not yet pitch upon one, to whom I durst
commit the the Gross of my Stock, that I might go
away to the Bra/ils, and leave Things safe behind
me; and this greatly perplexed me.
I had once a Mind to have gone to the Brafils,
and have settled myself there; for I was, as it
were, naturalized to the Place; but I had some lit-
tle Scruple in my Mind about Religion, which in-
sensibly drew me fc$ck, of which I sliail fay more
presents.
presently. However, it was not Religion that
kept me from going there for the present; and as
I had made no Scruple of being openly of the Re-
ligion of the Country, aU the while I was among
them, so neither did I yet ^ only that now and
then having of late though: more of it, (than for-
merly) when I began to think of living and dy-
ing among them, I began to regret my having
professed my (elf a Papist, and thought it might
not be the best Religion to die with.
But, as I have (aid, this was nor the main Thing
that kept me from going to the Bmsils; but that
really I did not know with whom to leave my Ef-
fects behind me» so I resolv'd at last to go to Eng-
land with ic, where, if I arriv'dj concluded I sliould
make some Acquaintance, or find some Relations
that would be faithful to me •, and accordingly I
prepar'd to go for England with all my Wealth.
In order to prepare Things for my going Home,
I first (the Brasil Fleet being just going away) re-
solv'd togive Answers suitable to the just and faith-
ful Account of Things 1 had from thence; and first
to the Prior of St. Augustine. I wrote a Letter full of
Thanks for their just Dealings, and the Offer of
the 872 Moidores, which was indifpos'd of, which
I desir'd might be given, 500 to the Monastery,4nd
372 to the Poor, as the Prior sliould direct, desi-
ring the good Padres Prayers for me, and the like.
1 wrote next, a Letter of thanks to my two
Trustees, with all the Acknowledgment that so
much Justice and Honesty ca 1 I'd for •, as for send-
ing them any Present, they were far above hav-
ing any Occasion of it.
Lastlyy I wrote to my Partner, acknowledging
his Industry in the Improving the Plantation, and
his Integrity in encreafing the Stock of the Works,
giving him Instructions for his future Govern-
Z 3 ment
mentis my Part, according to the Powers I had
left with my oldPatron3 to whom I desir'd him to
fend whatever became due to me, "till he should
hear from me more particularly,- assuring him, that
it was my Intension, not only to come to him, but
to settle myself there for the Remainder of my
Life: To this I added a very handsome Present of
some Italian Silks for his Wiff apd two Daughters,
for such the Captain's Son informed me he had;
with two Pieces of fine English Broad-Cloath, the
|>est J could get in Lisbon, five Pieces of black Bays,
and some Flanders Lace of a good Value.
Having thus settled my Affairs, fold my Cargoe,
and tiirn'd all my Effects into good Bills of Ex-
change, my next Difficulty was, which Way to go
to England; I had been accustomM enough to the
£ca, and yet I had a strange Aversion to go to
Evglandby Sea at that Time; and though I could
give no Reason for i^ yet the Pffiiculty encreas'd
upon me so much, that though shad once fhipp'd
my Baggage in order to go, yet I altered my Mind,
and that not once, but two or three times.
It is true, I had been very unfortunate by Sea,
and this might be some of the Reasons: But let
no Man slight the strong Impulses, of his own
Thoughts in Cafes of such Moment j Two of the
Ships which I had singled out to go in, I mean,
more particularly singled out than any other, that
is to %, so as in one of them to put my Things on
Board, and in the orher to have agreed with the
Captain; I fay, two of these Ships miscarry yd>viz»
one was taken by the Algerines, and the other
was cast away on the Start near Torbayy and all the
People drown'd except three ,• so that in either of
those Vessels I had been made miserable, and in
which, most, it was hard to say,
Haying
. Havingbeeii thus harass'd in my Thoughts, my
old Pilot, to whom I communicated every things
press'd me earnestly not to go by Sea; but either
to go by Land to the Groyne, and cross over the
Bay of Biscay to Rochell, from whence it was but
an easy and safe Journey by Land to Paris, and so
to Calais and Dover * or to go up to Madrid, and
so all the Way by Land through Frame.
In a Wordf I was so prepossess'd against my going
by Sea at all, except from Calais to Dover, thac
1 resolv'd to travel all the Way by Land; which,
as I was not in Haste, and did rot value the
Charge, was by much the plcasanter Way* and to
make it more lo, my old Captain brought an Eng-
Ujh Gentleman, the Son of a Merchant in Lisbon,
who was willing to Travel with me: After which,
we pick'd up two moxt EnglishMerchants also, and
two young Portuguese Gentlemen, the last going to
Paris only ^ so that we were in all fix of us, and
five Servants; the two Merchants, and the two
Portuguese contenting themselves with one Servant
between two, to save the Charge; and as for me,
I got an English Sailor to travel with me as a Ser-
vant, besides my Man Friday, who was too much
a Stranger, to be capable of siippliyng the Place
of a Servant on the Road.
In this Manner 1 sent out from Lisbon; and our
Company being all very well mounted and arm'd,
we made a little Troop, whereof they did me the
Honour to call me Captain, as well because 1 was
the oldest Man, as because 1 had two Servants,
and, indeed, was the Original of the whole
Journey.
As I have troubled you with none of my Sea
Journals, so I shall trouble you now with none of
my Land Journal: But some Adyentures that hap-
Z 4 Fcn'(*
pen'd to us in this tedious and difficult Journey* I
must not omit.
When we came to Madrid, we being all of us
Strangers toSpain, were willing to stay iomeTime
to fee the Court of Spain, and to fee what was
worth observing; but it being the latter Part of
the Summer, we hastens away, and set out from
Madrid about the Middle of OBder: But when we
came to the Edge of Navarre, we were alaram'd
aj several Towns on the Way, with an Account,
rhat so much Snow was fallen on the French Side
of the Mountains, that several Travellers were
oblig'd to come back to Pampeluna, after having
attempted at an extreme Hazard, to pass on.
When we came to Pampeluna it self, we found (t
so indeed \ and to me that had been always used
to a hot Climate, and indeed to Countries where
we could scarce bear any Cloathson, the Cold was
insufferable* nor, indeed, was it more painful than
it was surprizing, to come but ten Days before out
of the Old Castile, where the Weather was not only
warm, but very hot-, and immediately to feel a
Wind from the Pyreman Mountains, so very keen,
so severely cold, as to be intollerable, and to en-
danger benumming aud perishing of our Fingers
and Toes.
Poor Friday was really frighted when he saw she
Mountains all covert! with Snow, and felt cold
Weapher, which he had never seen or felt before
in his Life.
To mend the Matter, when we came to Pam-
pluna, it continu'd Snowing wich so much Vio-
lence, and so long, that the People said, Winter
was come before its Time, and the Roads, which
were difficult before, were now quite impassable;
for, in a Word* the Snow lay in some Places toa
thick for us to Travel s and being not hard frozen,
8S
E 345 D
n In the Case in Northern Countries, there was no
going without being in Danger of being bury'd
alive every Step, We staid no less than twenty
Days at Pampekna; when (seeing the Winter
coming on, and no likely hood os its being better,
for it was the severest^ Winter all over Europe
that had beenlcnown in the Memory of Man) I
proposed that we should all go away to Fonterabia%
and there take Shipping for Bourdeaux, which
was a very little Voyage.
But white we were considering this3 there came
in four French Gentlemen, who having been stop-
ped on the French side of the Passes, as we were on
the Spanijlo, had found out a Guide, who traver-
sing the Country near the Head of Langued.oct had
brought them over the Mountains by such Ways,
that they were not much incommoded with the
Snow; and where they met with Snow in any
Quantity, they said it was frozen hard enough to
bear them and their Horses.
We sent for this Guide, who told us, he would
undertake to carry us :he fame Way, with no Ha-
zard from the Snow, provided we were arm'd suf-
ikiently to protect us from wild Beasts \ for, he
said, upon these great Snows, it was frequent for
some Wolves to show themselves at the Foot of
the Mountains, being made ravenous for want of
Food, the Ground being cover'd with Snow: We
told him we were well enough prepared for such
Creatures as they were, if he would ensure us from
a Kind of two legged Wolves, which we were told
we were in most Danger from., especially on the
French Side of the Mountains.
He satisfy'd us there was no Danger of that Kind
in the Way that we were to go: So we readily a-
greed to follow hima as did also twelve other Gen-
tlemen,
tlemen, with their Servants some French, some
Spanishy who, as I said, had attempted to go, and
were oblig'd to come back again.
Accordingly we all set out for Pampelunafmx\\
our Guide, en the fifteenth of November; and in-
deed, I was JurprizM, when instead of going for-
ward, he came directly back with m^ on the fame
Roa-I that we came from Madrid* above twenty
Miles•, Hicn, being pafs'd two Rivers, and come
into the \/ :n Country, we found out fejves in a
warmCliimtc a^ain, where the Country was pica-
suit, and iu-. haow to be seen; but on a sudden,
t-jruing r.) i:u; Lets, he appioach'd the Mountains
another Way; aud tho' ic is true, the Hills and
Precipices look'd dreadful, yet he made so many
Tours, "such Meanders, and led us by such wind-
ing Ways, that we wer,e insensibly pais'd the
Height of the Mountains, without being much
incumber'd with the Snow; and all on a sudden
he fliew'd us the pleasant fruitful Provinces of
Langwkc aud Gasceigfy all green and flout ilfcing;
tho' indeed it was at a great Distance, and we had
iome tough Way to pals yet.
We were a little uneasy however, when we
found it snow'd one whole Day, and at Night,
so,fast, that we could not travel; but he bids us
he easy, we should fouti be past it all: We founcj,
indeed j that we beg^st to descend every Day,
and to come more North than before, and so
depending upon our Guide, we went on*
It was about two Hours before Night, when
our Guide being iomerhiog before us, and not just
in Sight, out rulh'd three monstrous Wolves, and
after them a Bear, out of a hollow Way, ad joy n-
nig to a thick Wood; two of the Wolves flew up-
on the Guide, aud had he been half a Mile before
us, he had been devour'd indeed, before we could
have
have help'd him: One of them fasten'd upon his
Horse, and the other attacked the Man with that
Violence, that he had not Time, or not Presence
of Mind enough to draw his Piste], but hollowed
and cry'd out to us most lustily; my Man Eidaj
being next tome, 1 bid him ride up, and see what
was*rhe Matter: As soon as Friday came in Sight
of the Man, he hoilow'd as loud as t other, 0 Ma-
ster! O Master! But like a bold Fellow, rode di-
rectly up to the poor Man, and with his Pistol
shot the Wolf that attacked him into the Head,
It was happy for the poor Man, that it was my
Man Friday ; for he having been used to that kind
of Creature in his Country, had no Fear upon
him; but went close up to him, and shot him, as
above; whereas any of us would have fir'dat^
farther Distance, and have perhaps either mifs'd
the Wolf, or endangers (hooting the Man.
But it was enough to have terrify *d a bolder
Man than I, and indeed it alarm'd all our Compa-
ny, when with the Noise of Friday's Pistol, we
heard on both Sides the dismalicst howling of
Wolves, and the Noise redoubled by the Ecchoof
the Mountains, that it was to us as if there had
been a prodigious Multitude of them ; and perhaps
indeed, there was not such a few, as that we had
no Cause of Apprehensions.
However, as Friday had killed this Wolf, the ei-
ther, that had fastened upon the Horse, left him im-
mediately, and fled, having happily fastened upon
his Head, where the Bosses of the Bridle had stuck
in his Teeth, so that he had not done him much
Hurt: The Man, indeed, was most hurt; for the
raging Creature had bit him twice, once on the
Arm, and the other Time a little above his Knee;
and he was fust as it were tumbling down by the
Disorder
Disorder of the Horse, when Friday came up and
£hot the Wolf.
It is easy to suppose, that at the Noise of Fri~
day's Pistol, we all mended our Pace, and rid up as
fast as the Way (which was very difficult) would
give us Leave, to fee what was the Matter; as
soon as we came dear of the Trees, which blinded
us before, we saw clearly what had been the Case,
and how Friday had disengaged the poor Guide,-
though we did not presently discern what Kind of
Creature it was he had killed.
But never was a Fight manag'd so hardily, and
in luch a surprizing Manner,as that which follows
between Friday and the Bear, which g^ive us all
(though at first we were surpru'd and afraid for
him) the greatest Diversion imaginable. A<> the
Bear is a heavy, clumsey Creature, and does not
gallop as the Wolf does, who is swift and light';
so he has two particular Qualities, which generally
are the Rule of his Actions ; First, As to Men, who
are not his proper Prey, I fay, not his proper Prey,
because,thoJ I can't fay what excessive hunger might
do, which was now their Cafe, the Ground being
all cover'd with Snow ; but as to Men3 he does not
usually attempt them, unless they first attack him:
On the contrary, if you meet him in the Woods, it
you don't meddle with him, he won't meddle with
you ; but then you must take care to be very civil
to him, and give him the Road, for he is a very
nice Gentleman, he won't go a step out of his Way
for a Prince; nay, if you are really afraid, your
best way is to look another Way, and keep going
on; for sometimes, if you stop, and stand still, and
look stedfastly at him, he takes it for an Affront; but
if you throw or toss any thing at him, and it hits
him, though it were but a Bit or Stick as big *$
your Fiiiger, he takes it for an Affront, and sets all
his
his other Business aside to pursue his Revenge,
for he will have Satisfaction in Point of Honour*
that is his first Quality: The next is. That if he
be once affronted, he will never leave you, Night
or Day» till he has his Revenge, but follows at
a good round Rate, till he overtakes you.
My Man Friday had delivered our Guide, and
when we came up to him, he was helping him off
from his Horse, for the Man was both hurt and
frighted, and indeed the last more than the first;
when on the sudden, we spy'd the Bear come out
of the Wood, and a vast monstrous one it was,
the biggest by far that ever 1 saw. We were all a
little surprized when we saw him, but when Friday
saw him, it was easy to see Joy and Courage in the
Fellow's Countenance: 0 !0!0! (aysFriday, three
Times pointing to him, O Master J TougivemetQ
Leave, me jhokee to Hand with him, me make you good
laugh,
I was surpriz'd to sec the Fellow so pleas'd; Tou
Fool you, fays I, he will eat you up: Eatee me up ! Eatee
me up! fays Friday, twice over again; Me eatee
htm up: Me make you good Laugh: You all stay here,
me /how you good Laugh: So down he sits, and gets
his Boots off in a Moment, and put on a Pair of
Pumps, (as we call the flat Shoes they wear) and
which he had in his Pocket, gives my other Ser-
vant his Horse, and, with his Gun, away he flew,
swift like the Wind.
The Bear was walking softly on, and offered to
meddle with no Body, till Friday coming pretty
near, calls to him, as if the Bear could understand
htm j Hark ye, hark ye, fays Friday, me speakee wit
you: We followed at a Distance; for now being
comedown on theGascoign Slit of the Mountains,
we were enter'd a vast great Forest, where the
Country was plain, and pretty open, tho* many
'Trees in it scattered here aad there, Friday
Priday, who had, as we fay, the Heels of the fiteaf,
came up with him quickly, and takes up a great
Stone and throws ac him, and hit him just on the
Head; but did him ho more Harm, than if he had
thrown it against a Wall ,• but it atlfwer'd Friday's
End -y for the Rogue was so void 6f Fear, that he
did it purely to make the Bear follow him, and
show us some Laugh, as lie call'd k.
As soon as the Bear felt the Scone, and saw him,
he turns about, and comes after him, taking devi-
lish long Scrides, and shuffling along at a strange
Rate, so as would put a Horse to a middling Gal-
lop; away runs Friday y and takes his Course, asii:
he run cowards us for Help; so we all resolved to
fire at once upon the Bear, and deliver my Man;
tho* I was angry at him heartily for bringing the
Bear back upon us, when he was going about
his own Business another Way; and especially 1
wa3 angry that he had turned the Bear upon us, and
then runaway; and I cairdoutTa^ Dog, said I,
is this your makingus laugh ? Come away, and take your
Hoife, that we mayjhoot the Creature; He hears me,
and cries out, No Jhoot, no Jhoot, stand ftiB> you get
much Laugh. And as the nimble Creature run two
Foot for the Beast's one, he turn'd on a sudden, on
one Side of us, and seeing a great Oak-Tree, sit sot
his Purpose, he beckon'd us to follow, and dou-
bling his Pace, he gets nimbly up the Tree, laying
his Gun down upon the Ground, at about five or
six Yards from the Bottom of the Tree.
The Bear soon came to the Tree, and we fol-
lows at a Distance; the first Thing he did, he
stopped at the Gun, smelt to it, but let it lie, and
up he scrambles into the Tree, climbing like a Cat,
tho* so monstrously heavy: I was amazed at the
Folly* as I thought it, of my Man, and could not
for my Life fee any Thing to laugh at yet, till fee-
ing the Bear get tip the Tree3 We all rode nearer
to him.
When we came to the Tree, there was Friday
got out to the.small of a large Limb of the
Tree, and the Bear got about half Way to him;
as soon as the Bear got out to that Part where the
Limb ofthe Tree was weaker, Hay fays he to us,
now you fee me teachee the Bear dance; so he falls a
jumping and sliaking the Bough, at which the Bear
began to totter, but stood still, and began to look
behind him, to fee how he should get back; then
indeed we did laugh heartily: But Friday had not
done with him by a great deal; when he fees him
stand still, he calls out to him again, as if he had
suppos'dthc Bear could speak English; What, you
no come farther? Pray you come farther; so he Jest
jumpiftg and shaking the Bough ; and the Bear, just
as if he had understood what he said, did come a
little farther, then he fell a jumping again, and
the Bear stopp'd again. \
We thought now was a good Time to knock him
6n the Head, and called to Friday to stand still,
and'we would shoot the Bear; bathe cry 'd out
earnestly, Opray! Ofray! nostoot, me shoot by and
then; he would have said, by and by. However, to
fiiorten the Story, Friday dane'd so much, and
the Bear stood so ticklish, that we had laughing
enough indeed, but still could not imagine what
the Fellow would do; for first we thought he de-
pended upon sliaking the Bear off; and we found
the Bear was too cunning for that too; for he
would not go out far enough to be thrown down
but clings fast with his great broad Claws and
Feet, so that we could not imagine what would
fee the End of it, and where the Jest would be
at last m
But Friday put us out of Doubt quickly; for
seeing the Bear cling fast to the Bough, and that
he would not be perswaded to come any fatther;
Well) well, said Friday, you no come farther, me go,
me go ', you no come to me, me come to you; and upon
this, he goes out to the smallest End of the Bough,
Where it would bend with his Weight, and gently
lets himself down by it, Aiding down the Bough,
till he came near enough to jump down on his Feet,
and away he run to his Gun, takes it up, and
stands still.
Well, said I to him, Friday, What will you do
now? Why don't you sliOot him? Noftoct, says
Friday, no yet, me /hoot nona, me Ho kill-, me flay, give
you one more Laugh: And indeed so he did, as you
will fee presently; for when the Bear see his Ene-
my gone, he comes back from the Bough where he
stood; but did it mighty leisurely, looking behind
him every Seep, and coming backward till he
got into the Body of the Tree: then with the
lame hinder End foremost, he came down the
Tree, grasping it with his Claws, and moving
one Foot at a Time, very leisurely; at this Jun-
cture, and just before he could (et his hind Feet
upon the Ground, Friday stepped close to him,
clapp'd the Muzzel of his Piece into his Ear, and
shot him dead as a Stone.
Then the Rogue turn'd about, to see if we did
not laugh, and when he saw we were pleas'd by
our Looks, he falls a laughing himself very loud,-
So we kiU Bear in my Country, says Friday, so you
kill them, fays I, why you have no Guns: 2%
fays he, no Gun, hutjhoot great much long Arrow.
This was, indeed, a good Diversion to us; but
yve were still in a wild Place, and our Guide very
much hurt, and what to do we hardly knew vthe
Howling of Wolves run much in my. Head; and in-
deed
dted, except the Noise I once heard on the Shore*
of Africa^ of which I have said something already*
I never heard any thing that sill'd me with so much
Horror.
These things, and the Approach of Night, cal*
led us off, or else, as Friday would have had us,
we should certainly have taken the Skin of this
monstrous Creature off, which was worth savings
but we had three Leagues to go* and our Guide
haften'd us, so welek him and went forward on
our Journey.
The Ground was still coverd with Snow, tho*
not so deep and dangerous as on the Mountains,
and the ravenous, Creatures, as we heard after-
wards, were come down into the Forest and plain
Country, press*d by Hunger to seek for Food; and
had done a great deal of Mischief in the Villages,
where they surpriz'd the Country People, kilfd a
great many of their Sheep and Horses, and some
People too.
We had one dangerous Place to pass, which
our Guide told us, if there were any more Wolves:
in the Country, we should find them there ,* and
this was a small Plain, surrounded with Woods
on every Side, and a long narrow Defile or Lane,
which we were to pass to get through the Wood,
and then we should come to the Village where we
were to lodge.
It was within half an Hour of Sun-set when we
entered the first Wood; and a little after Sun-set,
when we came into the Plain, we met with no-
thing in the first Wood, except that in a little
Plain within the Wood, which was not above two
Furlongs over, we saw five great Wolves cross the
Road* full Speed one after another, as if they had
been in Chase of some Prey, and had it in Vkw,
A a they
they took no Notice of us, and were gone* and
out of our Sight in a few Moments.
Upon this our Guide, who by the Way was a
wretched faint-hearted Fellow, bid us keep in a
ready Posture: for he believ'd there were more
Wolfes a coming.
We kept our Arms ready, and our Eyes about us,
but we saw no more Wolves, "till we came thro1
that Wood, which was near half a League^ and en-
ter'd the Plain; as soon as we came into the Plain,
we had Occasion enough to look about us; The
first Object we met with, was a dead Horse •,
that is to fay, a poor Horse which the Wolves
had kill'd, and at least a Dozen of them at Work ,*
we could not fay eating of him, but picking of his
Bones rather $ for they had eaten up all the Flesh
before.
We did not think fit to desturb them at their
Feast, neither did they take much Notice of
us: Friday would have let fly at them, but I
would not suffer him by any Means; for I found
we were like to have more Business upon our
Hands than we were aware of. We were not
gone half over the Plain, but we began to hear the
Wolves houl in the Wood on our Left, in a fright-
ful Manner, and presently after we saw about a
hundred coming on directly towards us, all in a
Body, and most of them in a Line, as regularly as
an Army drawn up by expewencM Officers. I
scarce knew in what Manner to receive them;
but found to draw ourselves in a close Line was
the only way: So we form'd in a Moment: But
that we might not have too much Interval, I or-
dered, that only every other Man should firet and
that the others who had not fird would stand rea-
dy to give them a second Volley immediately, if
thty continu'd to advance upon us> and that then
those
those who had sir'd at first, should not pretend to
load their Fuzees again, but stand ready with every
one a Pistol, for we were all arm'd with a Fuzee,
and a Pair of Pistols each Man; so we were by
this Method able to fire six Volleys, half of us at
a Time \ however, at present we had no Necessi-
ty: for upon firing the first Volley, the Enemy
made a full Stop, being terrify*d as Well with the.
Noise, as with the Fire ,• four of them being shot
into the Head dropped, several others were wound-
ed, and went bleeding osti as we could fee by the
Snow, I found they stopp'd, but did not immedi-
ately retreat,• whereupon remembring that 1 had
been told, that the fiercest Creatures were terri*
fy'd at the Voice of a Man, I caus'd all our Com-
pany to hollow as loud as we could ,• and I found
the Notion not altogether mistaken; for upon
our Shout, they began to retire, and turn about |
then I ordered a second Volley to be fir'd, in their
Rear, which put them to the Gallop, and away
they went to the Woods.
This gave us leisure to charge our Pieces again*
and that we m.'ght lose no Time we kept going;
but we had but little more than loaded our Fu-
zees, and put our selves into a Readiness, when
we heard a terrible Noise in the same Wood, on
our Left, only that it was farther onward the
fame Way we were to go.
The Night was coming on, and the Light be-
gan to be dusky, which made it worse on our Side;
but the Noise encreafing, we could easily perceive
that it was th$ howling and yelling of those hel-
lish Creatures; and on a sudden, we perceiVd 2 ot
3 Troops of Wolves, one on our left, one behind
us, and one on our Front ,• so that we feem*d to
be surrounded with 'em; however, as they did not
fall upon u$j we kept our Way forward* as fast as
A a a we
we could make our Horses go, which the Way be-
ing very rough, was only a good large Trot; and
in this manner we came in View of the Entrance
of a Wood, thro which we were to pass, at the
farther side of the Plain; but we were greatly
surpnVd, when coming near the Lane, or Pass,
we saw a confus'd Number of Wolves standing
just at the Entrance,
On a sudden, at another opening of the Wood,
we heard the Noise of a Gun; and looking that
Way, out ruslsd a Horse, faith a Saddle, and a
Bridle on him, flying like the Wind, and sixteen
or seventeen Wolves after him, full Speed; in-
deed, the Horse had the Heels of them ^ but as
we supposed that he could not hold it at that rate,
we doubted not but they would get up with him
at last, and no question but they did.
For here we had a most horrible Sight; for ri-
ding up to the Entrance where the Horse came
out,we found the Carcass of another Horse, and of
two Men, devoured by the ravenous Crcatures3and
one of the Men was no doubt the fame who we
heard fire the Gun ^ for there lay a Gun just N
him fir'd off; but as to the Man, his Head, and
the upper Part of his Body, was eaten up.
This fill'd us with Horror, and we knew not
what Course to take, but the Creatures relblv'd us
soon » for they gather'd about us presently,in hopes
of Prey; and I verily believe there were three hun-
dred of them : It happened very much to our Ad-
vantage, that at the Entrance into the Wood, but
a little Way from it, there lay some large Timber
Trees, which had been cut down the Summer be-
fore, and I suppose, lay there for Carriage \ J
drew my little Troop in among those Trees, and
placing our selves in a Line, behind one long
Tree, 1 adviVd them all to Light, and .keeping
that
that Tree before us, for a Breast-Work, to stand
in a Triangle, or three Fronts, enclosing our
Horses in the Center,
We did so, and it was well we did > for never
was a more furious Charge than the Creatures
made upon us in this Place; they came on us with
a growling kind of a noise and mounted the Piece
of Timber, (which as 1 said, wasour Breast-Work,
as if they were only rustling upon their Prcv >
and this Fury of theirs, it seems, was principally
occasions by their seeing our Horses behind us.
which was the Prey they aimed at: I ordered
our Men to fire as before, every other Man •, and
they took their Aim so hire, that indeed they,
kilrd several of the Wolves at the first Volley;
but there was a Necessity to keep a continual
Firing* for they came on like Devils3 those be-
hind, pushing on thole before.
When we had fir'd our second Volley of our
Fuzees, we thought they stopp'd a little, and I
hop'd they would have gone off; but kwas but a
Moment * for others came forward again; so we
fir'd two Vollevs of our Pistols, and I believe in
these four Filings, we kill'd seventeen or eigh-
teen of them, and lam$d twice as many$ yet
they came on again.
I was loath to spend our last Shot too hastily; so
1 caird my Servant,not my Man Friday, for he was
better employ'd* for with the greatest Dexterity
imaginable, he had charg'd my Fuzee, and his
own, while we were engag'd,but as I said, I calPd
my orher Man, and giving him a Horn of Powder,
lbad him lav a Train, ail along the Piece of Tim-
ber, and let It be a large Train; he did io, and had
but just Time to get away, when the Wolves came
up to it, aud some were got up upon it;, when
I snapping an uncharged Pistol, close to the Pow-
A a 3 (3er,
dav set it cm fire; those that were upon the Tim-
ber were scorch'd with it, and six or seven of
them fell, or rather jumped in among u$> with
the Force and Fright of the Fire, we dispatched
these in an Instant, and the rest were so frighted
with the Light, which the Night, for it was
now very near dark, made more terrible, that
they drew back a little*
Upon which I ordered our last Pistols to de fir'd
off in one Volley* and aker that we gave a Shout;
upon this, the Wolves turn'd Tail, and we sal-
ly ?d immediately upon near twenty lame Ones,
who we found strugling on the Ground, and
fell a cutting them with our Swords, which an-
swer'd our Expectation ; for the Crying and Howl-
ing they made was better understood by their Fel-
lows, so that they all fled and left us.
We had, first and last, killed- about threescore
of them; and had it been Pay-light* we had
kill'd m?ny more: The Field <>f Battle being thus
ejear'd, we made forward again; for we had still
near a League!to go. We heard the ravenous
Creatures howl and yell in the Woods as we went,
several times; and sometimes we fancy*d we saw
some of them, but the Snow dazling our Eyes,
v/e were not certain; so in about an Hour more,
we came to the Town, where we were to lodge,
which we found in a terrible Fright; and all in
Arms; for it seems, that the Night before, the
Wolves and some Bears had broke into the Vil-
lage, and put them in a terrible Fright j and they
were oblig'd to keep Guard Night and Day, but
especially in the Night, to preserve their Cattle,
Und indeed their People.
The next Morning our Guide was so ill, and his
Limbs swell'd with the rankling of his two Wounds^
th»t he could go no farther j so we were oblig'd to
* ' • take
take a new Guide there, and go to Tfokuse, where
we found a warm Climate, a fruitful pleasant Coun-
try and no Snow, no Wolves, or any Thing like
them; but when we told our Story at 7%olouse9 they
told us it was nothing but what was ordinary in the
great Forest at the Foot of the Mountains, especi-
ally when the Snow lay on the Ground. But they
enquired much what kind of a Guide we had got-
ten, that would venture to bring us that Way in
such a severe Season; and told us, it was very much
we were not all devotir'd. When we told them how
we plac'd our selves, and the Horses in the middle,
they blam'd us exceedingly, and told us it was fifty
to one but we had been all destroyed $ for it was the
Sight of the Horses which made the Wolves so fu-
rious, seeing their Prey ; and that at other Times
they are really afraid of a Gup; but they being ex-
cessive hungry, and raging on that Account, the
Eagerness to.come at the Horses had made them
senseless of Danger; and that if we had not by the
continued Fire, and at last by the Stratagem of the
Train of Powder, mastered them, it had been great
Odds but that we had been torn to pieces; where-
as had we been content to have fat still on Horse-
back, and find as Horsemen, they would not have
taken the Horses so much for their own when Men
were on their Backs, as otherwise ; and withal they
told us, that at last, if we had stood altogether,
and left our Horses, they would have been so eager
to have devoured them, that they might have come
off tafe, especially having our Fire Arms in ogr
Hands, and being so many in Number.
For my Part, I was never so sensible of Danger
in my Life ; for seeing above three hundred Devils
come roaring and open-mouth'd to devore as, and
have nothing to shelter us, or retreat to, I gave
myself over for lost ;and as it was, I believe, I
A a 4 shall
{ball never care to cross those Mountains again; I
think I would much rather go a thousand Leagues
by Sea, though I were sure to meet with a Storm
once a Week.
I have nothing uncommon to take Notice of, in
my Passage through France $ nothing but what ci-
ther Travellers have given an Account of, with
much more Advantage than I can. I travell'd from
T'houlouse to Paris, and without any considerable
Stay, came to Callaisy and landed safe at Dover> the
fourteenth of January, after having had a severe
cold Season to travel in,
I was now come to the Center of my Travels,
and had in a little Time all my new discovers E-
state safe about me, the Bills of Exchange which I
brought with me having been very currently paid.
My principal Guide, and Privy-Counsellor, was
my good ancient Widow, who in Gratitude for the
Money I had sent her, thought no Pains too much,
or Care too great, to employ for me; and I trusted
her so entirely with every Thing, that J was per-
fectly easy as to.the Security of my Effects ,* and in-
deed, 1 was very happy from my Beginning, and
now to the End, in the unspotted Integrity of this
good Gentlewoman.
And now I began to thtik of leaving my Effects
with this Woman, and setting out for Lisbon, and
so to the Brafils; but now another Scruple came in
my Way, and that was Religion; for as I had en-
tertain cl some Doubts about the Roman Religion,
even while I was abroad, especially in my State of
Solitude; so I knew there was no going to the Bra-
fik for me, much less going to settle there, unless I
resolv'd to embrace the .&>/^#CathoIick Religion,
without any Reserve ,• unless on the other hand, I
resolv'd to be a Sacrifice to my Principles, be 3
J4artyr for Religion, and die in the Inquisition; so
I r^
I resolv'd to stay at Home, and if I could find
Means for it, to dispose of my Plantation.
To this Purpose I wrote to my old Friend at
Lisbon, who in Return gave me Notice, that he
could eahly dispose of it there: Bur ihac if I
thought fit to give him Leave to offer it in my
Name to the two Merchants, the Survivors of my
Trustees who liVd in the Brasils, who must fully
understand the Value of it, who Jiv'd just upon the
Spor, and who I knew were very rich, so that
he believed they would be fond of buying u;
he did not doubt, but I should make 4 or 5000
Pieces of Eight the more of it.
Accordingly I agreed, gave him Order to offer
it to them, and he did (0; and in about 8 Month
more, the Ship being then returned, he sent me an
Account, that they had accepted the Offer, and
had remitted 33000 Pieces of Eight, to a Cor-
respondent of theirs at Lishn, to pay for it.
In Return, I signed the Instrument of Sale in the
Form, which they sent from Lisbon, and sent it to
my old Man, who sent me Bills of Exchange for
3 28000 Pieces of Eight to me, for the Estate; re-
serving the Payment of 100 Moidores a Year to
him, the old Man, during h»s Life, and 50 Moi-
dores afterwards to his Son tor his Life, which I
had promiVd them, which the Plantation was to
make good as a Rent-Charge. And thus 1 have
given the first Part of a Life of Fortune and Ad-
venture, a Life of Providence's Checquer-Work,
and of a Variety which the World will seldom
be able to shew the like of: Beginning foolishly,,
but closing much more happilv than any Part of
it ever gave me Leave so much as to hope for.
Any one would think, that in this State of com-
plicated good Fortune, I was past running any
more Hazards > and so indeed I had been, if other
Cir-
Circumstances had concurred, but I was inured to
a wandering Life, had no Family, nor many Rela-
tions, nor however rich had I contracted much Ac-
quaintance j and though I had sold my Estate in
the Brafih, yet I could not keep the Country out
of my Head, and had a great Mind to be upon
the Wing again, especially I could not resist the
strong Inclination I had to see my Island, and to
know if the poor Spaniards were in Being there,
and how the Rogues I left there had used them.
My true Friend the Widow, earnestly dis wa-
ded me from it, and so far prevaiPd with me, that
for almost seven Years she prevented my running
abroad; during which Time, I took my two
"Nephews, the Children of one of my Brothers,
into my Care: The eldest having something of
his own I bred up as a Gentleman, and gave him
a Settlement of some Addition to his Estate, after
my Decease j the other I put out to a Captain of
a Ship > and after five Years, finding him a sen-
sible, bold, enterprising young Fellow, I put him
into a good Ship, and sent him to Sea: And this
young Fellow afterwards drew me in, as old as
I was, to farther Adventures myself.
In the mean time, I in part settled myself here;
for first ot all Imarry'd, and that not either to my
Disadvantage or Dissatisfaction, and had three
Children, two Sons and one Daughter: But my
Wife dying, and my Nephew coming Home with
good Success from a Voyage to Spain, my Inclina*
tion to go abroad, and his Importunity, prevailed
^nd engag'd me to go in his Ship, as a private Tra-
der to the East-Indies: This was in the Year 169^.
I this Voyage I visited my "new Colony in the
Ifland, saw my Successors the Spaniards, had the
whole Story of their Lives, and of the Villans I
left therej how at first they insulted the poor Spar
niards
wards, how they afterwards agreed, disagreed, li-
nked, separated, and how at last the Spaniards
were oblig'd to use Violence with them* how they
were subjected to the Spaniards, how honestly the
Spaniards us'dthem; a History, if it were enter'd
into, as full of Variety and wonderful Accidents,
as my own Part, particularly also as to their Bat-
tles with the Carribeans > who landed several times
upon the Island, and as to the Improvement they
made upon the Island itself, and how five of them
made an Attempt upon the main Land, and
brought away eleven Men and five Women Pri-
soners, by which, at my coming, I found about
twenty young Children on the Island.
Here I stay'd about 20 Days, left them Sup-
lies of all necessary Things, and particularly of
Arms, Powder, Shot, Cloaths, Tools, and two
Workmen, which I brought from England with
me, viz* a Carpenter and a Smith.
Besides this, I shared the Island into Parts with
'em, reserv'd to myself the Property of the whole,
but gave them such Parts, respectively as they a-
greed on; and having settled all Things with
them, and engaged them not to leave the Place,
I left them there.
From thence I touch'd at the Brajils,'"from whence
I sent a Bark, which I bought there, with more
People to the Island, and in it, besides other Sup-
pi iesj I sent seven Women, being such as I found
proper for Service, or for Wives to such as would
take them : As to the English Men, I promised them
to fend them some Women from England, with a
good Cargo of Neceslaries, if they would apply
themselves to Planting, which I afterwards per-
formed. And the Fellows prov'd very honest
and deligent after they were master'd, and had
theij; Properties set apart for them. I sent them
also
also from the Brajils five Cows, three of them be-
ing big with Calf, some Sheep, and some Hogs,
which, when I came again, were considerably en-
creas'd.
But all these Things, with an Account how 300
Carrbkscame and invaded them, and ruin'd their
Plantations, and how they fought with that whole
Number twice, and were at first defeated, and
three of them kiirdj but at last a Storm destroy-
ing their Enemies Canoes, they famifli'd or de-
stroyed almost all the rest, and renew'd and re-
covered the Possession of their Plantation, and still
liv'd upon thellland.'
AU these Things, with some very surprizing In-
cidents in some new Adventures of my own, for
ten Years more, I may perhaps give a farther
Account of hearafter.
FINIS.
 
BOOKS Printed for, and Sold by Wil-
tuMTAYLOR^nk Sign os the Ship
in Pater-Noster-Row.
!• A Neat, Beautiful, and Correct Edition of Platarcffs
x\ Morals, in 5 Vol. i2mo. Translated from the Greek
by ieveral Hands.
2. Quid's Metamorphosis in 2 Vol. in i2mo. Adorned with
Cuts.
g% ,~Epistle in \2fm. with Cuts.
4. Poems by the Author of the Choice, 12/&0.
5. Poems by the Lady IVincbetfea, 80.
6. Poems by Mr. Dryden> 6 Vol. 12wo.
7. Mr. Cw^rm's Plays and Poems, 3 Vol. So.
8. The New Atlantis in 2 Vol. 12wo.
9. Dr. Garth's Difpenlatory. With Cuts, and a compleat
"Key, 12 wo.
10. Mr. Manrearings Works in Prose and Verse, So,
11. The Ad ventures ot' lelemacm in 2 Vol. i2**o. withCuts.
12. Boetlm of the Consolation of Philosophy, i2wo.
13. JBfljjfc's Art of EngliJI) Poetry in 4 Vol. being a corn-
pleat Common Place Book to the Works of our most emi-
nent EngUjb Poets. Continued to the Year 1718.
14. Memoirs of the Court of England\ by Count De Gram*
monU The second Edition, with a compleat Key, 80.
15. Mr. Lawrence Eebard'sTranslation oii Plautus's Come-
dies, with Critical Remarks, 12wo.
16. Lord Clarendons History in 6 Vol. in Large and Small
Paper.
17. The Adventures of Th>agtnesand Cbancll^ a Romance.
Done from the Greek of Heliadmts* in 2 Pocket Volumes.
1S. The
Books Printed for W. Taylor,
18. The Religious Philosopher in 2 Vol. The third and
last Vol. is in the Press, and will shortly be publilhed.
19. The Annaltof King George in 4 Vol. 8p.
20. Dr* JDefaguliery$ Hydrostaticks, Sa.
21. Bilhop Beveridge'% Thoughts in 2 Volumes S<?. with
Cuts.
22. The fame in i2mo*
23.  His Sermons in 12 Vol. 80.
24. -< His Thesaurus iu 4 Vol. 8a.
25.  His Necessity of publick Prayer and frequent
Communion.
26# ——.-His Exposition of the 39 Articles of the Church
of England.
27.^Mr. Spineless Sick Man Visited, Third Edition, 80.
28. Dr. Woodwards Fair Warnings to a Careless World.
Adorned with Cuts.
29. Dr. Barrow of Contentment, Patience, and Resigna-
tion to the Divine Will, i2n?o.
30. Advice to a Son, directing how to demean himself in
tl%e most important Affairs of Lite, i2mo.
31. Mr. KettelwelPs Works in 2 Vol. in Folio.
32. Bishop Taylor's Holy Living and Dying, 80.
33. His Golden Grove, i2#?o.
35. , His Life of Christ will shortly be put to the
Press with new Cuts, designed by the best Masters, Folio*
35. Bishop Patrick's Devotions, i2mo.
36. His Christian Sacrifice, i2mo.
3 7. Archbishop of Cambrayjot the Existence of God, S$V. %c*
38. Mr. Whiston** Theological and Mathematical Works.
39. Dr. gttine/s Corrrpleat English Dispeniatory, So.
40. Catv, a Tragedy. The Ninth Edition. By Mr. Ad*
disotiy i2tno.
41. The Distressed Mother, a Tragedy. By Mr. Philips^
12mo.
42. The Careless Husband, a Comedy. By Mr. Gibber*
X2mo.
43. The Justice of Peace's Vade Mecum, \2mo.
44. Militia-Law. Being an Abstract of all the Acts of Par-
liament, relating to the Militia, ©V. t2nto.
4*5. The compleat Sportsman, with all the Laws relating
to the Game.
46. The Country Gentleman's Vaje Meeum, itmc*
47. The Turkun Spy continued, Vol. L
48. Com*
4B. Compleat History of Withcraft, Magick and Sor-
cery, 12 mo.
49. Logick, or the Art of Thinking, i2me.
50. Lawrence's Clergymen and Gentlemen's Recreation, S0.
51. The Lady's Recreation in Gardening. By C. Evlw,
Esq*, 80.
52. Dugdak's Monasticon Anglicanum. Tranflated into
Englijhy with above 100 Cuts of Cathedrals, Abbies* Mona-
steries, and other Religious Houses. Folio.
53. Tbeatrum Scotix. Containing Prospects of the moft
considerable Places in Scotland, with about 60 Copper Plates.
Folio.
54. Pomponii Melæ, de situ Orbis Libri tres.
* Belgium Britannicum. Auttcre Guil. Musgrove, F.R.S.
55. Medulla Hist. Anglican*. Begun by Dr. Bowel, an*
continued to this Time, by an able Hand. Adorn'd with
Cuts of the most remarkable Incidents.
56. The genuine Works of St. Cyprian, with his Life.
Translated into English by Dr. Marsml. Folio.
57. Memoirs of the Affairs of Ireland from the Restorati-
on.
58. Memoirs of the Affairs of Scotland.
59. Revolutions of Sweden. Bv the Abbot VertoU
60. Kerjefs Diaionarium Anglo Britannicum.
61. Wingate\ Arithmetics with a Supplement by G*
Shelley.
62. Love\ whole Art of Surveying and Measuring Land,
63. Swiff* Miscellanies, in Prose and Verse.
64. A Treatise of both Globes. To which is added, A
Geographical Description of our Earth, 1 imo.
65. Lex Mercatori; Or, the Laws relaiting to Commerce.
66. Martin's Description of the Western 1 stands of Scotland*
67. Wits Common-Wealth, for the Use of Schools.
68. AJhmoleh Order of the Garter Abridged, with Cuts.
69. The Present State of France, in 2 Vol. in \%mo.
70. Epistolæ Abelardi & Heloisse, 80.
71. Georgii Beuchanani Epistobe, %o.
72. Gulielmi Nicholsii Historic Sacræ, i2mo.
73. Analysis Æquationum. Auctore J. Raphfin, M. Ag
F. R. S.
74. Demonstration de Deo, ab eodem Auctore.
75. De Christo Imkando, Auctore Thoma Kentpisioj
cam Figuris Ænefe,
76. ThiUpfs
76. rbilzps's World os Words, or universal English Dicti-
onary.
77. The same in Octavo, Abridged and Impro-
ved. By J. Kersey.
78. Dr. Salmon's English Herbal, or History os Plants
adorned with Figures of the most considerable Species, re-
presenting to the Life the true Forms of those several
Plants, in an Alphabitical Order.
79. Mr. Boyle's large Historical and Critical Dictiona-
ry, in 4 Volumes.
80. Bishop Hcpkin's Work, collected into one Volume.
81. The Works of the Reverend and Learned Dr. Isaac
Barrcw, published by Archbishop TiUotson.
82. A Report from the Committee of Secrecy, appoin-
ted by Order of the House of Commons, to examine seve-
ral Books and Papers laid before the House, relating to
the late Negotiations of Peace and Commerce, ©V. Re-
ported on the 9th of June, 1715* By the Right Honou-
rable Robert Walple, Eiq; Chairman ot' the said Commit-
tee. Published by Order of the House of Commons.
With an Appendix of Original Papers.
83. Sacred Geography, contained in 6 Maps. 1. Shew-
ing the Situation of Paradise, and the Country inhabited
by the Patriarchs. 2. The Peopling of the World by the
Sons of Ntab, and the Israelites journeying in the Wilder-
ness. 3. A Plan of the City of 'Jerusalem, with a View of
Solomon's Temple, and all trie sacred Utensils therein. 4.
The Holy Land divided into the twelve Tribes of Israel,
in which is exactly traced our Saviour's Travels. 5. The
Land oi\ Canaan. 6. The Travels of St. Paul, and the rest
of the Apostles. The whole very useful for the better
understanding the Holy Bible.
84. Vitruviui Britannicus: Or, The British Architect, con-
taining the Plans, Elevations and Sections of the Regular
Buildings, both publick and private, in Great Britain, with
Variety of new Designs, in 200 large Folio Plates, en-
graven by the best Hands. In two Volumes. All delinea-
ted from the Buildings, or from the Original Drawings
of the Architects, who have most generously promoted
this useful Work. By Mr. CampbeU
85. Pietas Londinenfis: Or, The Present Ecclesiastical
State of London. By James Paterson, A. M.
86. The Peerage of England: Or, An Historical and
Genealogical Account of the present Nobility.
87. An Enquiry into the Nature and Place of HeH. By
Tobias Svoinden*
THE FARTHER
ADVENTURES
ROBINSON CRUSOE,
Being the Second and Last Part
o
OF HIS
LIFE,
And Strange Surprizing
Accounts of his Travels
Round three Parts of the Globe.
Written by Himself.
%\yt S>econt> Qftutlcm.
To which is added a Map of the Worlds in which is I
Delineated the Voyages of RO BINSON C B.USOE.
 
LONDON: Printed for W. Taylor at the j
Ship in Pater'Noffer-Row. Mdccxix.
X XX Xj
PREFACE.
 
H E Success the for-
mer Part of this
Work has met with
in the World, has
yet been no other than is ac-
knowledged to be due to the fur-
prising Variety of the Subpcl,
and to the agreeable Manner of
the Performance.
A 2
All
AU the Endeavours of en*
vious People to reproach it with
being a Romance', to search it
for Errors in Geography, Incon-
sistency in the Relation, and Con-
tradictions in the Faff, have pro-
ved abortive, and as impotent
as malicious.
Thejuji Application of every
Incident, the religious and useful
Inferences drawn from every
Part, are so many Testimonies to
the good Design of making it
publick, and must legitimate aU the
Part that may be calfd Inventi-
on, or Parable in the Story.
The
The Second Part, if the E-
ditofs Opinion may pass, is (con-
trary to the Usage of Second
Parts,) every Way as entertain-
ing as the Fir si, contains as
strange and surprising Incidents,
and as great a Variety of them-,
nor is the Application less serious,
or suitable, and doubtless will,
to the sober, as well as ingenious
Reader, be every way as profi-
table and diverting: And this
makes the abridging this Work,
as scandalous, as it is knavish
and ridiculous, feeing, while to
Jlwrten the Book, that they may
seem to reduce the Value, they
strip it of all those Refletlions,
as well religious as moral, which
are
are not only the greatest Beauties
of the Work, but are calculated,
for the infinite Advantage of the
Reader.
By this they leave the Work
naked of its brightesl Ornaments)
and if they would, at the fame
Time pretend, that the Author
hasjupplyd the Story out of his
Invention, they take from it the
Improvement, which alone re-
commends that Invention to wife
and good Men.
'7]he Injury these Men do the
Proprietor of tMs Work, is a
Vraclice allhoneB Men abhor,
and he believes he may challenge
them to shew the difference be-
tween
tween that and Robbing on the
Highway, or Breaking open a
House,
If they can't Jhew any Dif-
ference in the Crime,they will find
it hard to shew why there should
beany Difference in the Punish-
ment: And he will answer for
it, that nothing shall be wanting
w his Part, to do them Justice.
 
THE
sup Tublijhed, the $th Edition
OF the Life and strange surprising Ad-
ventures of Robinson Crusoe, of York,
Mariner: Who lived eight and twenty Years
all alone in an un-inhabited Island on the
Coast of America, near the Mouth of the
Great River Oroonoque; having been cast on
Shore by Shipwreck, wherein all the Men
perished but himself. With an Account how
he Was at last as strangely delivered by Py-
rates. Written by himself. To this Edition
is added 4 Map of the World, in which is
Delineated the Voyages of Robinson
Causofe. Printed lor W. Taylor, at tin
Ship in Pater-Nofter-Row.
M B. The pretended Abridgment of this
Book, clandestinely Printed for T. Cox\
at the Amsterdam Coffee-House^ consists
only of some scatter'd Passages incohe-
rently tacked together; wherein the Au-
thor's Sense throughout is wholly mistaken,
theMattersof Fsct misrepresented, and the
Moral Reflections misapplied. It's hop'd
the Publick will not give Encouragement
to so bale a Practice/the Proprietor in-
tending to Prosecute the Venders accorl-
irg to Law.
A M A V of die W O R LD,on w^ is Delimited dicVoyages
ol'JiOWNSON CRUSO
 
The Farther
ADVENTU RES
O F
Robinson Crusoe,©V.
 
HAT homely Proverb used on
so many Occasions in England, viz*
'That ivhat is bred in the Bone will
not go out of the Fle$> was never
more verify \i, than in the Story
of my Life. Anyone would think,
that after thirty-five Years Affliction, and a Va-
riety of unhappy Circumstances, which few Men*
if any ever, went thro' before, and after near se-
ven Years of Peace and Enjoyment in the Fulness
of all Things; grown old, and when, if ever, it
might he allowed me to have had Experience of
every State of middle Life, and to know which
was most adapted to make a Man compleat-
ly happy: I fay, after all this, any one would
have thought, that the native Propensity to Ram-
bling, which I gave an Account of in my first
Part II. B Setting
Setting out into the World, to have been pre-
dominant in my Thoughts, should be worn out,
the volatile Part be fully evacuated, or at
least condens'd, and I might at 61 Years of
Age have been a little inclin'd to stay at Home,
and have done venturing Life and Fortune any
more.
TSTay farther, the common Motive of foreign
Adventures was taken aWay in me ; for I had no
Fortune to make, I had nothing to seek: If I had
eain'd ten thousand Pound, I had been no richer;
for I had already sufficient for me, and for those I
had to leave it to; and that I had was visibly
encreasing; for having no great Family, I could
not spend the Income of what I had, unless I would
set up for an expensive Way of Living, such as
a great Family, Servants, Equipage, Gayety > and
the like, which were Things I had iio Notion of, or
Inclination to; so that I had nothing indeed to do%
but to sit still, and fully enjoy what I had got, and
fee it encreafe daily upon my Hands.
Yet all these Things had no Eflfect upon me, or
at least, not enough to resist the strong Inclination
I had to go abroad again, Which hung about me
like a chronical Distemper,- particularly the De-
sire of seeing my new Plantation in the Island,
and the Colony I left there, run in my Head con-
tinually. I dream'd of it all Night, and my Ima-
gination run upon it all Day; it was uppermost in
all my Thoughts, and my Fancy Ivork'd {o steadi-
ly and strongly upon it, that I talk'd of it out oi:
Sleep; in short, nothing could remove it out of
my Mind; it even broke so violently into all my
Discourses, that it made my Conversation tire-
some; for I could talk of nothing else, all my
Discourse run into it, even to Impertinence, and I
saw it myself.
I have
I have often heard Persons of good Judgment
fay, That all the Stir People make in the V/orld
about Ghosts and Apparitions, is owing to the
Strength of Imagination, and the powerful Ope-
ration of Fancy on their Minds; that there is no
such Thing as a Spirit appearing, or a Ghost walk-
ing, and the like: That People's poring affectio-
nately upon the past Conversation of their deceas'd
Friends, so realizes it to them, that they are
capable of fancying, upon some extraordinary
Circumstances, that they /fee them, talk to
them, and are answered by them , when in Truth,
there is nothing but Shadow and Vapour in
the Thing, and they really know nothing of the
Matter.
For my Part, I know not to this Hour, whe-
ther there are any such Things as real Apparitions,
Spectres, or Walking of People after they are dead;
or whether there is any Thing in the Stories they
tell us of that Kind, more than the Product of
Vapours, sick Minds, and wandring Fancies:
But this I know, that my Imagination work'd up
to such a Height, and brought me into such Exta-
sies of Vapours, or what else I may call it, that I
actually suppos'd my self, often-times upon the
Spot, at my old Castle behind the Trees ) saw my
old Spaniard, Friday's Father, and the reprobate
Sailors I left upon the Ifland,* nay* I fancy'd I talk'd
with them, and lookM at them so steadily, tho' I
was broad awjce, as at Persons just before me;
and this I did, till I often frighted my self with the
Images my fancy represented to me. One Time in
my Sleep I had the Villainy of the three Pyrate Sai-
lors so lively related to me by the first Spaniard and
Fridays Father, that it was surprizing; they told
me how they barbarously attempted to murder all
the Spaniards, and chat they set Fire to the Provisi-
B a on?
ons they had laid up* on Purpose to distress and
starve them; Things that I had never heard of, and
that indeed were never all of them true in Fact:
But it was so warm m my Imagination, and so rea-
liz'd to me, that to the Hour I saw them, I could
not be perswaded, but that it was,or would be true;
also how I resented it, when the Spaniard com-
plained to me, and how I brought them to Justice,
try'dthem before me* andorder'd them all three
to be hang'd. What there was really in this, sliail
be seen in its Place: For however I came to form
such Things in my Dream, and what secret Con-
verse of Spirits injected it, yet there was very much
of it true. I fay, I own, that this Dream had no-
thing in it literally and specifically true: But the
general Part was so true, the base villainous Beha-
viour of these three hardens Rogues was such, and
had been so much worse than all I can describe,
that the Dream had^too much Similitude of the
Fact; and as I would afterwards have puniflied
them severely, so if I had hang'd them all, I had
been much in the Right, and should ha* been ju-
stifiable both by the Laws of God and Man.
But to return to my Story. In this Kind of
Temper I had liv'd some Years, I had no Enjoy-
ment of my Life, no pleasant Hours, no agreeable
Diversion but what had some thing or other of
this in it; so that my Wife, who saw my Mind
so wholly bent upon it, told me very seriously one
Night, That she believ'd there was some secret
powerful Impulse of Providence upon me, which
had determin'd me to go thither again; and that
fiie found nothing hindred my going, but my being
engag'dto a Wife and Children. She told me,
that it was true, she could not think of parting
with me; but as flie was assurd, that if she was
dead, it would be the first Thing I should do: So
as
s5]
as k scem'd to her, that the Thing was determined
above, she wbuld not be the only Obstruction:
For if I thought fit, and resolv'd to go  here
(he found me very intent upon her Words, and
that I look'd very earnestly at her,* so that it a lit-
tle disorders her, and she stopped. I ask*d her,
Why she did not go on, and fay out what slie was
going to fay; but I perceiv'd her Heart was too
full, and some Tears stood in her Eyes: Speak out
my Dear, said I, Are you willing I should go ? No,
says she very affeBionatelyy I am far from willing:
But if you are resolv'd to go, says she, and rather
than I will be the only Hindrance, I will go with
you; for tho' I think it a most preposterous Thing
for one of your Years, and in your Condition,* yet
if it must be, said she again weeping, I won't
leave you; for if it be of Heaven, you must do it.
There is no resisting it,- and if Heaven makes it
your Duty to go, he will also make it mine to go
with you, or otherwise dispose of me, that I may
not obstruct it.
This affectionate Behaviour of my Wises
brought me a little out of my Vapours, and I be-
gan to consider what I was doing; I corrected
my wandring Fancy, and began to argue with my
self sedately, what Business I had after threescore
Years, and after such a Life of tedious Sufferings
and Disasters, and closed in so happy and easy a
Manner: I say, what Business I had to rush into
new Hazards, and put my self upon Adventures;
fit only for Youth and Poverty to run into?
With those Thoughts, I considered my new En->
gagement, that I had a Wife, one Child born, and
my Wife then great with Child of another; that I
had ail the World could give me, and had no
Need to seek Hazards for Gain; that I was de-
clining in Years, and ought to think rather of lea-
B 3 ving
vmg what I had gain'd, than of seeking to en-
crease it; that as to what my Wife had said, of its
being an Impulse from Heaven, and that it should be
my Duty to go, I had no Notion of that; so after
many ot thele Cogitations, I struggled with the
Power of my Imagination, reason'd myself out of
it, m I believe People may always do in like Cafes, if
they will; and, in a Word, I conquered it; com-
pos'd my self with such Arguments as occur'd to
my Thought, and which my present Condition
fyrnisli'd me plentifully with; and particularly, as
the most effectual Method, I refolv'd to divert my
self with other Things, and to engage in some Bu-
siness that might effectually tye me up from any
more Excursions of this Kind; for I found that
Thing return-upon me chiefly when I was idle,
had nothing to do, or any Thing of Moment im-
mediately before me.
^ To this Purpose I bought a little Farm in the
County of Bedford, and resolv'd to remove my
self thither. I had a little convenient House upon
it, and the Land aboutitI found was capable of
great Improvement, and that it was many Ways
suited to my Inclination, which delighted in Cul-
tivating, Managing, Planting and Improving of
Land; and particularly, being an Inland Country,
I was remov'd from conversing among Ships/ Sai-
lors, and Things relating to the remote Part of the
iWorld.
'In a Word, I went down to my Farm, settled
my Family, bought me Ploughs, Harrows, a Cart,
Waggon, Horses, Cows, Sheep; and setting se-
riously to Work, became in one half Year, a meer
Country Gentleman; my Thoughts were entirely
taken up in Managing my Servants, Cultivating
the Ground, Enclosing, Planting, &c, and I liv'd,
£$ I thought, the most agreeable {-ife that Nature
was capable of directing, or that a Man always
bred ro Misfortunes was capable of being retrea^
fed to.
I farmed upon my own Land, I had no Rent
to pay, was limited by no Articles; I could pull
up or cut down as I pleased: What I planted, was
for myself, and what I improved, was tor my Fa-
mily; and having thus left off the Thoughts of
Wand ring, 1 had not the least Discomfort in any
Fart of Life, as to this World. Now 1 thought
indeed that I enjoyed the middle State of Life,
that my Father so earnestly recommended to me,
andliv'da kind of heaven!} Lite, something like
what is described by the Poet upon the Subject
of a Country Life.
Free from Vices ^ free from Care,
Age has no Pain, and Youth no Snare.
But in the Middle of all this Felicity, one Blow
from unforeseen Providence unhingM me at once;
and not only made a Breach upon me inevitable
and incurable, but drove me, by its Consequences,
into a deep Relapse of the wandring Disposition
which, as I may say, being born in my very Blood,
soon recovered its Hold of me, and like the Re-
turns of a violent Distemper, came on with an
irresistible Force upon me; so that nothing could
make any more Impression upon me. This Blow
was the Loss of my Wife.
It is not my Business here to write an Elegy up*
on my Wife, give a Character of her particular
Virtues, and make my Court to the Sex by the
Flattery of a Funeral Sermon* She was, in a few
Words, the Stay of all my Affairs, the Center of
ail my Enterprizes, the Engine, that by her Pru-
dence reduced me to that happy Compass I was
B 4 ip.
in, from the most extravagant and ruinous Pro-
ject that fluttered in my Head, a$ above; and
did more to guide my rambling Genius, than a
Mother's Tears, a Father's Instructions, a Friend's
Counsel, or my own reasoning Powers could do.
I was happy in listening to her Tears, and in be-
ing mov'd by her Intreaties, and to the last De-
gree desolate and diilocated in the World by the
Loss of her.
When she was gone, the World look'd aukward-
ly round me > I was as much a Stranger in it, in
my Thoughts, as I was in the Brafils, when I went
first on Shore there; and as much alone, except
as to the Assistance of Servants, as I was in my
Island. I knew neither what to do, or what not
to do. I saw the World busy round me, and Part
labouring for Bread, and the other Part squan-
dring in vile Excesses or empty Pleasures, equally
miserable, because the End they propos'd still fled
from them; for the Man of Pleasure every Day
surfeited of his Vice, and heaped up Work for
Sorrow and Repentance; and the Men of Labour
spent their Strength in daily Stragglings for Bread
to maintain the vital Strength they laboured with,
so living in a daily Circulation of Sorrow, living
but to work, and working but to live, as if dai-
ly Bread were the only End of wearisome Life,
and a wearisome Life the only Occasion of daily
Bread.
This put me in Mind of the Life I liv'd in my
Kingdom, the Island; where I suffered no more
Corn tp grow, because I did not want it; and bred
no more Goats, because I had no more Use for
them: Where the Money lay in the Drawer 'till it
grew mouldyv and had scarce the Favour to be
iook'd upon in 20 Years,
AH
All these Things, had I improved them as I
ought to have done* and as Reason and Religion
had dictated to me, would have taught to me to
search farther than human Enjoyments for a full
Felicity, and that there was something which cer-
tainly was the Reason and End of Life, superiour
to these Things, and which was either to be
possessed, or at least hoped for on this Side the
Grave.
But my sage Counsellour was gone, I was like a
Ship without a Pilot, that could only run afore
the Wind: My Thoughts run all away again into
the old Affair, my Head was quite turned with
the Whimsies of foreign Adventures; and all the
pleasant innocent Amusements of my Farm, and
my Garden, my Cattle, and my Family, which be-
fore entirely possess'dme, were nothing to me, had
no Relish, and were like Musick to one that has
no Ear, or Food to one that has no Taste: In a
Word, I resolved to leave off House-keeping, lett
my Farm, and return to London ,* and in a few
Months after, I did so.
When I came to London^ I was still as uneasy as
I was before, I had no Relisli to the Place, no
Employment in it, nothing to do but to saunter
about like an idle Person, of whom it may be said,
he is perfectly useless in God's Creation; and it is
not one Farthing Matter to the rest of his Kind,
whether he be dead or alive. This also was the
Life which of all Circumstances of Life was the
most my Aversion, who had been all my Days
used to an active Life , and I would often fay to my
self, A State of Idleness is the very Dregs of Life; and
indeed I thought I was much more suitably em-
ployed, when I wa? twenty six Days a making me
a Deal Board.
It
It was now the beginning of the Year 1^93,
when my Nephew,whom as I had observed before,
I had brought up to the Sea, and had made him
Commander of a Ship, was come Home from a
short Voyage to Bi!boa> being the first he had
made; and he came to me, and told me, that
some Merchants of his Acquaints had been pro-
posing to him to go a Voyage for them to the East
Indies, and to Chhia, as private Traders: And
now Uncle, fays he, if you will goto Sea with
me, I'll engage to land you upon your old Ha-
bitation in the Island, for we are to touch at
the Brasih.
Nothing can be a greater Demonstration of a
future State, and of the Existence of an invisible
World, than the Concurrence of second Causes
with the Ideas of Things, which we form in out
Minds, perfectly reserved, and not communicated
to any in the World.
My Nephew knew nothing how far my Di-
stemper of Wandring was returned upon me, and
I knew nothing of what he had in his Thoughts
to fay, when that very Morning before he came to
me, I had in g gre^t deal of Confusion of Thought,
and revolving every Part of my Circumstances in
my Mind, come to this Resolution, .wx>. That I
would go to &*fan9 and consult with my old Sea-
Captasn ,* and so if it was rational and practi-
cable, I would go and fee the Istand again, and
fee what was become of my People there* I had
pleased my self wish %hp Thoughts of peopling
the Place, and carrying Inhabitants from h$nce,
getting a Patent for she Poflession, and I know
not what; when in the Middle of all this, in
comes my Nephew, as I have (aid, with his Pro-
ject of carrying me thither, in his Way to ^
EaftLidies.
I paus'J
I paus'd a while at his Words, and looking
steadily at him, What Devil> said I, sent you of
this unlucky Errand? My Nephew starti'd as if he
had been frighted at first; but perceiving I was
not much displeas'd with the Proposal, he reco^
ver'd himself. I hope it may not be an unlucky Pro-
posal, Sir, says he, I dare fay you would be pleased
to fee your new Colony there, where you once
reigned with more Felicity, than most of your
Brother Monarchs in the World.
In a Word, the Scheme hit so exactly with my
Temper ; that is to fay, the Prepossession I was
under, and of which I have said so much, that I
told him in few Words, if he agreed with the
Merchants, I would go with him: But I told
him, 1 would not promise to go any farther than
my own Island. Why Sir5 fays he, you don't want
to be left there again, I hope? Why, said I, can
you not take me up again in your Return? He
told me, it could not be possible, that the Mer-
chants would allow him to come that Way with
a loaded Ship of such Value, it being a Month's
Sail out of his Way, and might be three or fours
Besides, Sir, if I sliould miscarry, said he, and
not return at all, then you would be just reduced
to the Condition you were in before.
This was very rational; but we both found out
a Remedy for it, which was to carry a framed
Sloop on board the Ship, which being taken in
Pieces, and shipped on board the Ship, might by
the Help of some Carpenters, whom we agreed to
carry with us, be set up again in the Island, and
finished, fit to go to Sea in a few Days.
I was not long resolving; for indeed the Impor-
tunities of my Nephew join'd in so effectually with
my Inc ination, that nothing could opppse me %
Qn the other Hand, my Wife being dead, I had
no
no Body concerned themselves so much for me, as
to perswade me one Way or other, except my
ancient good Friend the Widow, who earnestly
struggled with me to consider my Years, my ealy
Circumstances, and the needless Hazards of a long
Voyage; and above all, my young Children : But
it was all to no Purpose, I had an irresistible De-
sire to the Voyage; and I told her, I thought
there was something so uncommon in the Impres-
sions I had upon my Mind for the Voyage, that
it would be a Kind of resisting Providence, if
I should attempt to stay at Home; after which,
she ceased her Expostulations, and joined with me,
not only in making Provision for my Voyage, but
also in settling my Family Affairs for my Ab-
sence, and Providing for the Education of my
Children.
In Order to this, I made my Will, and settled
the Estate I had in such a Manner for my Chil-
dren, and placed in such Hands, that I was per-
fectly easy and satisfied they would have Justice
done them, whatever might befal me; and for
their Education, I left it wholly to my Widow,
with a sufficient Maintenance to her self for her
Care: All which she richly deserved; for no
Mother could have taken more Care in their E-
ducation, or understood it better •, and as she li-
ved 'till I came Home, I also lived to thank her
for it.
My Nephew was ready to fail about the Be-
ginning of January 1694-5, and I with my Man
Friday went on board in the Downs the 8th* ha-
ving besides that Sloop which I mentioned above,
a very considerable Cargo of all Kinds of neces-
sary Things for my Colony, which if I did not
find in good Condition, I resolved to leave so.
First,
First, I carried with me some Servants, whom
I purposed to place there, as Inhabitants^ or at
least to set on Work there upon my own Account
while I stay'd, and either to leave them there, or
carry them forward, as they should appear wil-
ling. Particularly, I carried two Carpenters, a
Smith, and a very handy ingenious Fellow, who
was a Cooper by Trade, but was also a gene-
ral Mechanick; for he was dexterous at making
Wheels, and Hand-Mills to grind Corn, was a
good Turner, and a good Pot-Maker ,* he also
made any Thing that was proper to make of
Earth, or of Wood; in a Word, we call'd him
Our Jack of all Trades.
With these I carried a Taylor, who had offe-
red himself to go Passenger to the East Indies with
my Nephew, but afterwards consented to stay on
our New Plantation, and prov'd a mostneceslary
handy Fellow as could be desir'd, in many other
Businesses, besides that of his Trade \ for as I ob-
served formerly, Necessity arms us for all Employ-
ments.
My Cargo, as near as I can collect, for I have
not kept an Account of the Particulars, consisted
of a sufficient Quantity of Linncn, and some thin
English Stuffs for clothing the Spaniards that I ex-
pected to find there* and enough of them, as by
my Calculation might comfortably supply them
for seven Years. If I remember right, the Mate-
rials I carried for clothing them with, Gloves,
Hats, Shoes, Stockings, and all such Things as
they could want for Wearing, amounted to above
200 Pounds, including some Beds, Bedding, and
Houfhold-Stuff, particularly Kitchen Utensils, with
Pots, Kettles, Pewter, Brass, &c. and near an
hundred Pound more in Iron-Work, Nails, Tools
of
of every Kind, Staples, Hooks, Hinges, and eve-
ry necessary Thing I could think of.
I carried also an hundred spare Arms, Muskets,
and Fuzees, besides some Pistols, a considerable
Quantity of Shot of all Sizes, and two Pieces of
Brass Cannon; and because 1 knew not what
Tirfie, and what Extremities I was providing for*
I carried an hundred Barrels of Powder, besides
Swords, Cutlasses, and the Iron Part of some Pikes,
and Halberts; so that in short we had a large Ma-
gazine of all Sorts of Stores; and I made my Ne-
phew carry two small Quarter-Deck Guns more
than he wanted for his Ship, to leave behind, if
there was Occasion; that when we came there*
we might build a Fort, and Man it against all
Sorts of Enemies ,• And indeed, I at first thought
there was Need enough for it all, and much more,
if we hopM to maintain our Possessionofthe Island,
as shall be seen in the Course of that Story.
I had not such bad Luck in this Voyage as I
had been used to meet with,* and therefore shall
have the less Occasion to interrupt the Reader,
who perhaps may be impatient to hear howMat-
rers went with my Colony; yet some odd Acci-
dents, cross Winds, and bad Weather happened,
on this first Setting-out, which made the Voyage
longer than I expected it at first; and I who had
never made but one Voyage, (wz. ) my first Voyage
to Guinea, in which I might be said to come back
again, as the Voyage was at first designed, began
to think the fame ill Fate still attended me; and
that I Vv as born never to be contented with be-
ing on Shore, and yet to be always unfortunate •
at Sea.
Contrary Winds first put us to the Northward,
and we were obliged to put in at Gahvay in Ire-
land, where we lay Wind-bound two and twen-
ty
ty Days; but we had this Satisfaction with the
Disaster, that Provisions where here exceeding
cheap, and in the utmost Plenty; so that while
we lay here, we never touched the Ship's Stores,
hat rather added to them; also I took in several
live Hogs, and two Cows, and Calves, which
I resolv'd, if I had a good Passage, to put on
Shore in my Island, but we found Occasion to dis-
pose otherwise of them.
We set out the 5 th of February from Ireland,
and had a very fair Gale of Wind for some Days.
As I remember, it might be about the 20th of Fe-
bruary in the Evening late, when the Mate having
the Watch, came into the Round-house, and told
us, he saw a Flash of Fire, and heard a Gun fir <1,
and while he was telling us of it, a Boy came in,
and told us the Boatswain heard another. This
made us all run out upon the Quarter-Deck, where
for a while we heard Nothing, but in a few Mi-
nutes we saw a very great Light, and found that
there was some very terrible Fire at a Distance.
Immediately we had Recourse to our Reckonings,
in which we all agreed, that there could be no
Land that Way, in which the Fire shewed it self*
no not for five hundred Leagues, for it appeared
at W. N. W. Upon this we concluded it must be
some Ship on Fire at Sea; and as by our hearing
the Noise of Guns just before, we concluded it
could not be far off, we stood directly towards it,
because the.farther we faiTd, the greater the Light
appeared, tho* the Weather being haizy, we could
not perceive any Thing but the Light for a while.
In about Half an Hour's Sailing, the Wind being
fair for us, though not much of it, and the Wea-
ther clearing up a little, we could plainly discern
that it was a great Ship on Fire in the Middle of
the Sea.
I was
I was most sensibly touch'd with this Disaster,
tho' not at all acquainted with the Persons engag'd
in it; I presently recollected my former Circum-
stances, and in what Condition I was in, when
taken up by the Portugal Captain; and how much
more deplorable the Circumstances of the poor
Creatures belonging to this Ship must be, if they
had no other Ship in Company with them. Upon
this, I immediately order'd, that five Guns should
be fir'd, one soon after another, that, if possible,
we might give Notice to them, that there was
Help for them at hand, and that they might en-
deavour to save themselves in their Boat; for tho*
we could fee the Flame of the Ship, yet they, it
being Night, could fee nothing of us.
We lay by some Time upon this, only driving
as the burning Ship drove, waiting for Day-Light;
when, on a sudden, to our great Terror, tho'
we had Reason to expect it, the Ship blew up
in the Air; and immediately, that is to fay, in
a few Minutes, all the Fire was out, that is to
fay, the rest of the Ship funk. This was a terrible,
and indeed an afflicting Sight, for the Sake of the
poor Men, who, I concluded, must be either all
destroyed in the Ship, or be in the utmost Distress
in their Boat in the Middle of the Ocean, which
at present, by Reason it was dark, I could not
fee. However, to direct them as well as I could,
I caused Lights to be hung out in all the Parts
of the Ship where we could, and which we had
Lanthorns for, and kept siring Guns ail the Night
long, letting them know by this, that there was
a Ship not farostl
About 8 Clock in the Morning we discovered
the Ship's Boats by the Help of our Perspective
Glasses, and found there were two of them, both
throng'd with People, and deep in the Water: We
perceiv-
perceived they row'd, the Wind being against them,
that they saw our Ship, and did their utmost to
make us see them*
We immediately spread our Antient to let them
know we saw them, and hung a Waft out as a Sig-
nal for them to come on board, and then made
more Sail, standing directly to them. In little
more than half an Hour we came up with them,
and in a word, took them all in, being no less than
sixty four Men, Women, and Children; for there
were a great many Passengers.
Upon the whole, we found it was a French Mer-
chant Ship of .300. Tun, homeward bound from
Quebeck, in the River of Canada. The Master
gave us along Account of the Distress of his Ship*
how the Fire began in the Steerage* by the Negli-
gence of the Steersman; but on his crying out for
Help, was,.,#s,e very Body thought, entirely put
out, when tjiey found that some Sparks of the first
Fire had gotten in.tp, some Part of the, Ship, so dif-
ficult to come at, that they could not effectually
quench it, till getting in between the Timbers,
a,nd within the Ceiling of the Ship, it proceeded
into the Hold, and mastered all the Skill, and all
the Application they werc^able to exert.
They had no more to .do then, but to get into
their Boats, which to their great Comfort were
pretty large, bsing their Long-Boat, and a great
Shalloup, besides a small Skiff, which was of no
great Service to them, other than to get some
fresh Water and Provisions into her after they had
fecund their Lives from the Fire. They had in-
deed small Hope of their Lives by getting into
these Boats at that Distance from any Land, only
as they said well, that they were.cscap'd from the
Fire, and had a Possibility that some Ship might
happen to be at Sea, and might take them in.
Pare II. C They
*f fiey fiad Sails, Oars, and a Compass, and wm
preparing to ttiake the best of their Way back to
Newfound-Land,, the Wind blowing pretty fair,
tot"it blew an easy Gale at S. E. by E. They had
as much Provisions and Watet, as With sparing it
{o as to be next Door to Starving, might support
them about 12 Days; in which, if they had no
bad Weather, and no contrary Winds, the Cap-
rain said, he hop'd he might get the Banks of
Newfound-Land, and might perhaps take some Fish
to sustain them till they might go on Shore. But
there were so many Chances against them in all
these Cases; such as, Storms to overset and foun-
der them, Rains and Cold to'benumb and perish
their Limbs, contrary Winds tt> keep them out and
starve them/ that it must have been ntxt to mira-
culous if they had esca^d.
,; In'the "midst qf their Consultations, everyone
fereing hopeless, and ready to despaif, the Captain
vtfith Tears in his Eyes told me, they were on a
fttddcn surpmM with the Joy pf hearing a Gun fire,
and after that four more,- these were the five
Guns which I caused tdbe fired at first seeing the
Light: This revived their Hearts, and gave them
the Notice, "which, as above, Idesir'd it should,
hvii,.)- that there was a Ship at hand for their
kfip. -i >• •'.
It was'upon hearing these Guns, that they
took down their Masts and Sai!$; the Sound com-
itig from the Windward, they resolv'd to lye by
till Morning, :Some Time after this, hearing no
more Gams, theylir'd three Muskets, one a con-
siderable While after another; but these, the
Wind being contrary, we never heard.
Some Time after that again, they were stiH
more agreeably'turptiz'd with seeing our Lights,
and hearing the Guris, which, as I have said,!
* caus'd
caus'd to be sir'd all the rest of the Night; this
set them to work with their Oars, to keep their
Boats a-head, at least, that we might the sooner
come up with them ; and at last, to their inex-
pressible Joy, they found we saw them-
It is imposiblc for me to express the several Ge-
stures, the strange Extasies, the Variety of Po-
stures which" thole poor delivers People run into, to
express the Jcjy of their Souls at so unexpected at
Deliverance ; Grief and Fear arc easily described;
Sighs, Tears, Groans, and a very sew. Motions
of the Head and Hands make up the Sum of its
Variety :' But an Excess of Joy, a Surprise of Joy;
has a Thousand Extravagances in it; there were
some (in Tears, some raging, and'tearing them-*
selves,,as if they had been in the greatest Agonies
of Sorrow, some stark-raving and down-right Lu-
nacick, some ran about the Ship stamping with
their Feet, .others wringing' their Hands1;: some
were dancing, some singmg, some laughing, more
crying,- many quite dumb, not able to speak a
Word.; othefs sick and vomiting several swoon-
ing, and ready to saint; and a few were Crossing
themselves, and giving God Thanks.
I would not wrong them neither; there might
be many that were thankful afterward, but the
Passion was too strong for them at first, and they
^yere not able to master it; they were thrown into
Extasies, and a Kind of Frenzy, and it was but a
very few that were composed and serious in their
Joy.
Perhaps the Cafe may have some Addition to it
from the particular Circumstance ot that Natiost
they belong'd to, I mean the JRwcA, whose Tem-
per is allowed to be more Volatile, more passio-
i ate, and more sprightly, and their Spirits more
fluid than in other Nations. I am not Philoso-
C a - phet
phet enough to determine the Cause, but nothing
I had ever seen before came up to it: The Exta-
sies..poor Friday9 my trusty Savage, was in, when
he so und his Father in the Boat, came-the nearest
to it, and the Surprize of the Master and his two
Companions, whom I delivered from, the Villains
that set them on Shore in the Island's, came a lit-
tleWay towards it; but nothing was to compare
to this, either that I saw in Fridayy or any where
else in my Life.
It is further observable, that these Extrava-
gances did not shew themselves in that different
Manner! have mentions in different Persons only:
But all tfte Variety would appear in a short Suc-
cession of Moments in one and the fame Person.
A Man that we saw this Minute dumb, and as it
were stupid and confounded, should the next Mi-
nute be dancing and hallooing like an Antick;
and the next Moment,fe tearing,his^H'ai'r, or pul-
ling his Clothes to Pieces, ,and stamping them un-
der his Feet, like a mad Man; and a few Mo-
ments after that, we should have Kim all in Tears,
then sick, then swooning; and had not immediate
Help been had, would, in a few Moments more
have been dead. And thus it was not with one or
two, or ten or twenty, but with the greatest Part
of them; and if I remember right, our Surgeon
was obliged to let above thirty of them Blood.
There were two Priests among them, one an
old Man, and the other a young Man; and that
which was strangest was, that the oldest Man
was the worst. As soon as he set his Foot on
board our Ship, and saw himself safe, he dropt
down stone-dead/not the least Sign of Life could
b$ perceiy'd in him; our Surgeon immediately ap-
ply d proper Remedies lo recover him, and was
the only Man in the Ship that believ'd he was not
dead;
dead. At length he opened a Vain in his Arm*
having first chaff'd and rubb'd the Part so as to
warm it as much as possible: Upon this the Blood,
which only dropp'd at first, flowed something free-
ly; in three Minutes after, the Man open'd his
Eyes, and about a Quarter of an Hour after that,
he spoke, and grew better, and quite well. After the
Blood was stopp'd, he walk'd about, and told us Ut
was perfectly well, took a Dram of Cordial which
the Surgeon gave him, and was what we calfd,
Come to himself. About a Quarter of an Hour after,
they came running into the Cabin to the Surgeon,
who was bleeding a French Woman that had fain-
ted, and told him, the Priest was gone stark mad.
It seems he had begun to revolve the Change of
his Circumstance, and again this put him into an
Extafy of Joy, his Spirits whirs d about faster than
the Veslels could convey them; the Blood grew
hot and feverish, and the Man was as fit for Bedlam
as any Creature that ever was in it. The Surgeon
would not bleed him again in that Condition,
but gave him something to dose, and put him to
Sleep, which after some Time operated upon him,
and^ he wak'd the next Morning perfectly com-
pos'd and well.
The younger Priest behav'd with great Com-
mand o* his Passion, and was really an Example
of a serious well-govern'd Mind. At his first com-
ing on board the Ship, he threw himself flat on his
Face, prostrating himself in Thankfulness for his
Deliverance, in which I unhappily and unseasona-
bly disturbs him, really thinking he had been in
a Swoon; but he spake calmly, thank'd me, told
me, he was giving God Thanks for his Delive-
rance, andbegg'd me to leave him a few Moments,
md that, next to his Maker, he would give me
Thanks also.
C 3 I wat
I was heartily sorry, that I disturbs him, and
not only left him, but kept others from interrup-
ting him also. Me continued in that Posture about
three Minutes, or little ftiore, after I left him,
then came tome, as he had said he would, and
with a great deal of Seriousness and Affect o'n, but
with Tears in his Eyes, thank'd me that had un-
der God, given him anciso many miserable Crea-
tures their Lives. I told him, I had no Room to
move him to thank God for it, rather than me:
But I added, That it was nothing but what Rea-
son and Humanity dictated to all Men, and that we
had as much Reason as he to give Thanks to God,
who had bleis'd us so tar as to make us the Instru-
ments of his Mercy to so many of his Creatures.
After this, the young Priest apply'd himself to
his Country-Fo'M, and labour'd to compose them;
perswaded, entreated, argued, reasoned with them,
and did his utmost to keep them within the Exer-
cise of their Reason; and with some he had Suc-
cess, tho* others were for a Time out of all Go-
vernment of themselves.
I cannot help committing this to Writing, as
perhaps it may be useful to those into whose Hands
it may fall, for the guiding themselves in all the
Extravagances of their Passions for if an Excess
of Joy can carry M^n out to such a. Length beyond
the Reach of their Reason, what will not the
Extravagances of Anger, Rage, and a provok'd
Mind, carry us tp? And indeed here I saw Reason
for keeping an exceeding Watch over our Passions
of every Kind, as well those of Joy and Satisfa-
ction, as thos? of Siorrow and Angef.
We were something disordered by these Extravat
ganccs among our new Guests for the first Day, but
when they had been retird, Lodgings provided fo^
them as well as our Ship would allow, and they
ha4
had slept heartily, as most ot them did, they were
quite another Sort of People the next Day.
Nothing of good Manners or civil Acknowledg-
ments for the Kindness shewn them was wanting;
the French, his known, are natural]} apt enough
to exceed that Way. The Captain and one of the
Priests came to me the next Day, and desiring to
speak with me and my Nephew, the Commander,
began to consult with us what should be done
with them; and first they told us, that as we had
saved their Lives, so all they had was little enough
for a Return to us for that Kindness received;
The Captain said, they had saved some Money
and some Things of Value in their Boars, catchVi
hastily out of the Flames, and if we would ac-
cept it, they were ordered to make an Oftlr of
it all to us; they only desired to be set en Shore
somewhere in our Way, where, if possible, they
might get Passage to France.
My Nephew was for accepting their Money at
first Word, and to consider what to do with them
afterwards; but I over-rul'd him in that Part,,
for I knew what it was to be set on Shore in a
strange Country; and if the Portugal Captain that
took me up at Sea had served me so, and took all
I had for ray Deliverance, I must have starv'd, or
have been as much a Slave at the Brasils as I had
been in Bmbary, the meer being sold ro a Maho-
metan excepted; and perhaps a Portuguese is not
ipuch abetter Master than a Turk, if not in some
Cafes a mueh worse.
I therefore told the French Captain, that we had
taken them up in their Distress, it was true ; but
that it was pur Duty to do so as we were Fe'.xw-
Creaturcs, and as we would desire to be so deli-
vered if we were in the like, or iriy other Extremi-
ty; that we had done nothing sot them but what
C 4 Wc
we believed they would have done for us, if we
had been in their Cafe, and they in ours; but that
we took them up to save them, not to plunder
them ,• and it would be a most barbarous Thing to
take that little from them which they saved out of
the Fire, and then set them on Shore and leave
them : That this would be first to save them from
Death, and then to kill them our selves; save them
from Drowning, and abandon them to Starving j
and therefore I would not let the least Thing be
taken from them. As to setting them on Shore, I
told them indeed that was an exceeding Difficulty
to us, for that the Ship was bound to the East Indies;
and tho* we were driven out of our Course to the
Westward a very great Way, and perhaps were di-
rected by Heaven on Purpose for their Deliverance,
yet it was impossible for us wilfully to change our
Voyage on this particular Account, nor could my
Nephew, the Captain, answer it to the Freighters,
with whom he was under Charter-Party to pur-
sue his Voyage by the Way-of Bra/il; and all I
knew we could do for them, was to put our selves
in the Way of meeting with other Ships home-
ward bound from the West Indies, and get them
Passage, if possible, to England or Frame.
The first Part of the Proposal was so generous
and kind, they could not but be very thankful for
it ,• but they were in a very great Consternation,
especially the Passengers, at the Notion of being
carried away to the East Indies; and they then in-
treated me* th^t feeing I was driven so far to the
Westward, before I met with them, I would at least
keep on the fame Course to the Banks of New-
found-land, where it was probable I might meet
with some Ship or Sloop that they might hire to
carry them back to Canada, from whence they
cajne.
J thought
I thought this was but a reasonable Request on
their Part, and therefore I inclined to agree to it;
for indeed I considered, that to carry this whole
Company to the East Indies, would not only be
an intolerable Severity upon the poor People, but
would be mining our whole Voyage by devouring^
all our Provisions; so I thought it no Breach ot
Charter-Party, but what an unforeseen Accident
made absolutely necessary to us, and in which no.
one could fay, we were to blame; for the Laws
of God and Nature would have forbid that we
should refuse to take up two Boats full of People
in such a distressed Condition; and the Nature of
the Thing as well respecting our selves as the
poor People, obliged us to set them on Shore some
where or other for their Deliverance : So I con-
sented that we should carry them to Newfound-
land, if Wind and Weather would permit, and if
not, that I would carry them to Martinico in the
West Indies.
The Wind continued fresh Easterly, but the
Weather pretty good; and as the Winds had con*
tinued in the Points between N. E. and S. E. a
long Time, we misled several Opportunities of
sending them to France; for we met several Ships
bound to Europe, whereof two were French, from
St. Christopher's, but they had been so long beating
up against the Wind, that they durst take in no
Passengers for fear of wanting Provisions for the
Voyage, as well for themselves as for those they
should take in; so we were obliged to go on. It
was about a Week after this that we made the
Banks of Newfound-land, where, to shorten my Sto-
ry, we put all our French People on Board a Bark*
which they h>Vd at Sea there, to put them on
Shore, and afterwards to carry them to France, if
they could get Provisions to viaual themselves
v' with,
with. When, I say, all the French went on Shore,
1 should remember, that the young Priest I spoke
of, hearing we were bound to the East Indies, de-
sired to go the Voyage with us, and to be set on
Shore on the Coast of Coromandel, which I readi-
ly agreed to, for I wonderfully lik'd the Man, and
had very good Reason, as will appear afterwards;
also four of the Seamen entered themselves on our
Ship, and proved very useful Fellpws.
From hence we directed our Course to the Weft
Indies, steering away S. and S. by Ef for about
twenty Days together, sometimes little or no Wind
at all, when we met with another Subject for our
Humanity to work upon, almost as deplorable as
that before.
It was in the Latitude of 27 Degrees, 5 Minutes
North, and the 19th Day of March 1^94-5, when
we Ypy'd a Sail, our Course S. E. and by S. we
soon perceived it was a large Vessel, and that (he
bore up to us, but could not at first know what
to make of her, till after cotftipg a little nearer,
we found she had lost her Main-top-Mast, Fore-
mast and Boltsprit, and presently she fired a Gun
as a Signal of Distress; the Weather was pretty
good, Wind at N. N. W. a fresh Gale, and we
loon came to speak with her.
We found her a Ship of Bristol, bound Home
from Barbadcesy but had been blown out of the
Road at Barbadoes 2l few Days before she was rea-
dy to fail, by a terrible Hurricane, while the Cap-
tain and chief Mate were both gone on Shore; so
that besides the Terror of the Storm, they were
but in an indifferent Cafe for good Artists to bring
die Ship Home. They had been already nine
Weeks at Sea, and had met with another terrible
Storm after the Hurricane was over, which had
blown them quite out of their Knowledge to the
* * West-
Westward, and in which they lost their Masts, as
above. They told us they expected to have seen the
Bahama Islands, but were then driven away again
to the South-East by a strong Gale of Wind at
N. N. W. the fame that blew now, and having no
Sails to work the Ship with but a main Course,
and a kind of square Sail upon a Jyry Fore-mast,
which they had set up, they could not lye near
the Wind, but were endeavouring to stand away
for the Canaries.
But that which was worst of all, was, that they
were almost starved for want of Provisions; besides
the Fatigues they had undergone, their Bread and
Flesli was quite gone; they had not one Ounce left
in the Ship, and had had none for eleven Days;
the only Relief they had, was, their Water was nor
all spent, and they had about half a Barrel of
Flower left; they had Sugar enough; some Suc^
cades, or Sweet-meats, they had at first, but they
were devourd, and they had seven Casks ot* Rum.
There was a Youth and his Mother, and a Maid-
Servant on Board, who were going Passengers,
and thinking the Ship was ready to fail, unhappi-
ly came on Board the Evening before the Hurri-
cane began, and having no Provisions of their own
left, they were in a more deplorable Condition than
the rest, for the Seamen being reduced to such an
extreme Necessity themselves, had no Compassion,
we may be sure, for the poor Passengers, and th?y
were indeed in a Condition that their Misery is
very hard to describe.
1 had, perhaps, not known this Part, if my Cu-
riosity had not led me, the Weather being fair, and
the Wind abated, to go on Board the Ship. The
Second Mate who upon this Occasion command-
ed the Ship, had been on Board our Ship, and he
told me indeed they had three Passengers in the
'"* Great
Great Cabin, that were in a deplorable Con-
dition; nay, says he, I believe they are dead, for
I have heard nothing of them for above two Days,
and I was afraid to enquire after them, said he,
for I had nothing to relieve them with.
We immediately apply'd our selves to give
them what Relief we could spare; and indeed I
had so far over-ruled Things with my Nephew,
that I would have victualTd them, tho1 we had
gone away to Virginia, or any Part of the Coast of
America j to have supply'd our selves,-but there
was no Necessity for that.
But now they were in a new Danger ,• for they
were afraid of eating too much, even o f that little
we gave them. The Mate,or Commander, brought
six Men with him in his Boat, but these poor
Wretches look'd like Skeletons, and were so weak,
they could hardly sit to their Oars: The Mate
himself was very ill, and half starved; for he de~
clar'd he had reserved nothing from the Men, and
went Share and Share alike with them in every
Bit they eat.
I caution'd him to eat sparingly, but set ^feat
before him immediately, and he had not eaten
three Mouthsuls before he began to be Sick, and
out of Order; so he stopt a while, and our Sur-
geon mix'd him up something with some Broth,
which he said would be to him both Food and
Physick; and after he had taken it, he grew bet-
ter. In the mean Time, I forgot not the Men '> J
order'd Victuals to be given them, and the poor
Creatures rather devourd than eat it; they were
so exceeding hungry, that they were in a kind ra-
venous, and had no Command qf themselves ,• and
two of them eat with so mupti Greediness, that
they were in Danger of their Lives the next
Morning.
The
The Sight of these People's Distress was very
moving to me, and brought to Mind what I had a
terrible Prospect of at my first coming on Shore in
the Island, where I had neither the least Mouth-
ful of Food, or any Prospect of procuring any; be-
sides the hourly Apprehension I had of being made
the Food of other Creatures : But all the while the
Mate was thus relating to me the miserable Con-
dition of the Ship's Company, I could not put
out of my Thought the Story he had told me of
the three poor Creatures in the Great Cabin, (viz,.)
the Mother, her Son, and the Maid-servant, whom
he had heard nothing of for two or three Days,
and whom he seem'd to confess they had wholly ne-
glected, their own Extremities being so great; by
which I understood, that they had really given
them'no Food at all, and that therefore they must
be perish'd, and be all lying dead perhaps on the
Floor, or Deck of the Cabin.
As I therefore kept the Mate, whom we then cal-
led Captain, on board with hisMen,to refresh them,
sol also forgot not the starving Crew that were
left on board, but order'd my own Boat to go on
board the Ship, and with my Mate and twelve
Men to carry them a Sack of Bread, and four ©r
five Pieces of Bcq[ to boil. Our Surgeon chargM
the Men to cause the Meat to be boiTd while they
stay'd, and to keep Guard in the Cook-Room, to
prevent the Men taking it to eat raw, or taking it
out of the Pot before it was well boiTd, and then
to give every Man but a very little at a Time ; and
by this Caution he preserv'd the Men, who would
otherwise ha' killed themselves with that very
Food that was given them on Purpose to save their
Lives.
At the fame Time, I order'd the Mate to go
into the Great Cabin, and fee what Condition the
pooc
poor Paslsengers were in, and if they were alive,
to comfort them, and give them what Refresh-
ment was proper j and the Surgeon gave him a
large Pitcher with some of the prepared Broth
which he had given the Mate that was on board,
and which he did not question would restore them
gradually.
I was not satisfy*d with this, but as I said a*
bove, having a great Mind to see the Scene of Mi-
sery, which I knew the Ship itself would present
me with, in a more lively Manner than I could
have it  by Report, I took the Captain of the Ship,
as we now call'd him, with me, and went myself
a little after in their Boat.
I found the poor Men on board almost in a Tu-
mult, to get the Victuals out of theBoyler before
it was ready: But my Mate observed his Order,
and kept a good Guard at the Cook-Room Door,
and the Man he plac'd there, after using ail possi-
ble Perswalion to< have Patience, kept them off
by Force*. However, he caused some Bisket
Cakes to be dipped in the Pot, and softened with the
Liquor of the Meat, which they calls Brews, and
gave them every one, one, to stay their Stomachs,
and tcld them it was for their own Safety that he
was obiig'd to give them but a little at a Time.
But it was ail in vain; and had I not come on
Board, and their own Commander and Officers
with me, and with good Words, and some Threats
also of giving them no more, I believe they would
have broke into the Cook-Room by Force, and
tore the Meat out of the Furnace: For Words
are indeed, of very small Force to a hungry Belly.
However we pacify'd them, and fed them gradu-
ally and cautiously for the first Time, and the next.
Time gave them more, and at last fiii'd their Bel-
lies, and the Men did well enough.
But
Cabin, was ot another Nature, and far beyond
the rest; for as first the Ship's Company had so
little for themselves, it was but too true that they
had at first kept them very low, and at last total-
ly neglected them; so that for six or seven Days,
it might be said, they had really had no Food at
all, and for several Days before very little. The
poor Mother, who as the Men reported, was a
Woman of good Sense and good Breeding, had
spar'd all slie could get, so astectionately for her Son,
that ac last she entirely sunk under it : And when
the Mate of our Ship went in, she sat upon the
Floor or Deck, with her Back up against the
Sides, between two Chairs, which were lash d fait*
and her Head funk in between her Shoulders, like
a Corpse, tho* not quite dead. My Mate said
all he could to revive and encourage her, and with
a Spoon put some Broth into her Mouth j she o-
pen'd her Lips, and lifted up one Hand, but could
not speak; yet she understood what he said, and
made Sign* to him, intimating that it was too
late for her, but pointed to her Child, as if site
would have said, they should take Care of him. ^
However, the Mate,who was exceedingly mov d
>#ith the Sight!, Endeavoured to get some ot the
Broth into her Mouth 5 and as he said, got two
or three Spoonfuls down, tho' I question whether
he could be sure of it or not: But it was too late,
and she dy'd the same Night.
The Youth, who was preserved at the Price of
his most affectionate Mother's Life, was not so far
gone, yet he lay in a Cabin-bed as one stretch'd
bnt, with hardly any Life left in him 5 he had
a Piece of an old Glove in his Mouth, having
eaten up the rest of it; however, being young, and
having more Strength than his Mother, the Mate
got
got something down his Throat, and he began sen-
sibly to revive? tho5 by giving him some time after
but two or three Spoonfuls extraordinary, he was
very iick, and brought it up again.
But the next Care was the poor Maid; she lay
all along upon the Deck hard by her Mistress,
and just like one that had fallen down with an A-
poplexy,and struggled for Life: Her Limbs wer$
distorted, one of her Hands was clasped round the
Frame of a Chair, and (he grip'd it so hard, that
we could not easily make her let go -9 her other
Arm lay over her Head, and her Feet lay both to-
gether set fast against the Frame of the Cabin Ta-
ble. In short, she lay just like one in the last Ago-
nies of Death, and yet she was alive too.
The poor Creature was not only starved with
Hunger, and terrify'd with the Thoughts of
Death, but as the Men told us afterwards, was
broken-hearted for her Mistress, whom slie saw dy-
ing for two or three Days before, ^nd whom ilie
lov'd most tenderly,
We knew not what to do with thi$poor Girl.;
for when our Surgeon, who was a tytan oi very
great Knowledge an$ Experipn.ee, ha4 with great
Application r.ecover'4 her as tip; Life $ he had her
upon his Hau4 as to herSense§, for she was lit-
tle less than distracted for a cp^fideirabk Time af-
ter, as shall appear presently..
Whoever shall tead these Memorandum must be
desir'd co consider^ that Visits at Sea are not like
a Journey into the Country, where sometimes Peo-
ple stay a Wejek pr a Fortnight at a Place. Our
Business was to relieve this distressed Ship's Crew,
but not to lye by for them; and tho' they were
willing to steer the fame Course with as for some
Days, yet we could carry no Sail to keep Pace
with a Ship that had no Masts. However, as their
Captain
fcaptain begg'd of us to help him to set up a Main-
Top-Mast,* and a Kind of a Top-Mast to his Jury
Fore-Mast. We did, as it were lye by him for
three or four Days* and then having given him
five Barrels of Beef, and a Barrel of Pork, two
Hogsheads of Bisket, and a Proportion of Peas*
Flour, and what other Things we could spare;
and taking three Casks of Sugar, some Rum, and
some Pieces of Eight of them for Satisfaction, we
left them, taking on board with us, at their own
earnest Request* the Priest, the Youth, and the
Maid, and all their Goods.
The young Lad was about seventeen Years of
Age, a pretty, well-bred, modest, and sensible
Youth, greatly dejected with the Loss of his Mo-
ther, and as it seems had lost his Father but a few
Months before at Berbadoes. He begg'd of the
Surgeon to speak to me to take him out of the
Ship, for he said the cruel Fellows had murther'd
his Mother j and indeed so they had, that is to fay*
pajstvely> for they might ha' spar'd a small Suste-
nance to the poor helpless Widow, that might-
have preserved her Life, tho* it had been but just
to keep her alive* But Hunger knows no Friend,
no Relation, no Justice, no Righr, and therefore
is remorseless, and capable of no Compassion.
The Surgeon told him how far we were going,
and how it would carry him away from all his
Friends, and put him perhaps in as bad Circum-
stances almost as those we found him in > that is
to fay, starving in the World. He said he mattered
not whether he went, if he was but delivered
from the terrible Crew he was among: That th6
Captain (by which he meant me, for he could
know nothing of my Nephew) had fav'd his Life,
and he was lure would not hurt him; and as for
the Maid, he was sure, if she came co herself, flie
Part II. D would
#ou!d be tery thankful for it, let m carry them
where we would* The Surgeon represented the
Case so astectionatdy to me, that I yielded, and
we took them both on board with all their Goods,
except eleven Hogsheads of Sugar, which could
not beremov'd, or come at j and as the Youth had
a Bill ot Lading for them, I made his Commander
sign a Writing, obliging, himself to g© as soon
as he came t» Bristol, to one Mr. Rogers a Mer-
chant there, to whom the Yowth said he was re-
lated, and to dehver a Letter which I wrote t&
him, and all the Goods he had belonging to the
deceased Widow ,* which I suppose was not done,
for 1 could never learn that the Ship came to Bri-
stol, but was, as is most probable, lost at Sea, be-
ing in Ib disabled a Condition, and so far from a*
ny Land, that I am of Opinion, the first Storm
she met with afterwards she might founder in the
Sea, for she was leaky, and had Damage, in hcE
Hold when we met with her.
I was now in the Latitude of 15? Deg. 32 Min.
and had hitherto had a tolerable Voyage as to
Weather, thor at first the Winds had been con-
trary. I (hall trouble no body with the little In*
cidents of.Wind> Weather, Currents, &c. on the
rest of our Voyage; but fhortning my Story for
she fake of what is to follow, shall observe that
I came to my old Habitation, the Island, on the
loth of'April 16^. Jt was with no small Difficul-
ty that I found the Place; for as I came to it>
and went from it before* on the South and East
Side of the Island, as coming from the Brajils, so
How coming in between the Main and the Wand,
and having no Chart for the Coast, nor any Land-
Mark, I did not know it when I saw it, m know
whether I saw it or no.
We beat about a great while, and went on Shore
m several Islands in the Mouth ot the great River
Ormooque^ but none for my Purpose. Only this I
learn'd by my Coasting the Shore, thatl was un-
der one great Mistake before, viz,, that the Con-
tinent which I thought I saw, from the Island I
liv'd in, was really no Continent, but a long Island,
or rather a Ridge of Islands, reaching from one
to the other Side of the extended Mouth of that
great River, and that the Savages who came to
my Island, were not properly those which we call
Caribbees, but Islanders, and other Barbarians o£
the fame Kind, who inhabited something nearer
to our Side than the rest.
In short, I visited several of these Islands to no
Purpose j some I found were inhabited, and some
were not. On one of them I found some Spaniards,
and thought they had liv'd there; but speaking
with them, I found they had a Sloop lay in a
small Creek hard by, and they came thither to
make Salt, and to catch some Pearl Muslels if they
could, but that they belong'd to the Isle de Trini-
dad* which lay farther North, in the Latitude of
10 and 11 Degrees.
But at last coasting from one Island to another,
sometimes with the Ship, sometimes with the
French Man's Shalloup, which we had found a con-
venient Boat, and therefore kept her with their
very good Will; at length I came fair on the South
Side of ray Island, and I presently knew the very
Countenance of the Place; so I brought the Ship
s&fe to an Anchor, Broadside with the little Creek
where was my old Habitation.
As soon as I saw the Place, I casl'd for Friday,
and ask'd him if he knew where he was? He
iook'd about a little, and presently clapping his
Hands, cry'd; O )es, O thm9 Oyes, 0 there,
D z poia-
pointing to onr old Habitation, and fell a dan-
cing and capering like a mad Fellow, and I had
much ado to keep him from jumping into the Sea,
to swim ashore to the Place.
Well, Friday, says I, do you think we shall find
any Body here or no? And what do you think,
ftiail we fee your Father? The Fellow stood mute
as a Stock a good while; but when I nam'd his
Father, the poor affectionate Creature look'd de-
fected, and I could fee the Tears run down his
Face very plentifully. What is the Matter, Fri~
day, fays 1? Are you troubled because you may
see your Father? No, no, says he, shaking his
Head, no fee him more, no ever more fee again?
why so, said I Friday, how do you kmw that? O
nOj O no, says Friday, he long ago die, long ago,-
he much old Man. Well, well, said /, Friday,
you don't know; but shall we fee any one else
then? The Fellow, it seems, had better Eyes
than I, and he points just to the Hill above my
old House; and tho* we lay half a League ost^ he
cries out, we fee! we fee! yes* we fee much
Men there, and there, and there. I look'd, but
I could fee no body, no not with a Perspective
Glass, which was, I suppose, because I could not
hit the Place, for the Fellow was right, as I found
upon Enquiry the next Day, and there was five
or six Men altogether, stood to look at the Ship,
not knowing what to think of us.
As soon as Friday had told me he saw People*
I eaus'd the English Ancient to be spread* and rir'd
three Guns, to give them Notice we were Friends,
ana in about half a Quarter of an Hour after, we
perceiv'd a Smoke rise from the Side of the Creek;
so I immediately order'd a Boat out, taking Fri~
day with me, and hanging out a white Flag, or
flag of Truce, I ^enc dire^Jy oo Shore, taking
with
with me the young Fryer I mentions, to whom
I had told the whole Story of my living there*
and the Manner of it, and every Particular both of
my self, and those I lest there; and who was o&
that Account extremely desirous to go with m£*
We had besides about sixteen Men very well
arm'd, if we had found any new Guests there
%vhich we did not know of; but we hadiio Need
of Weapons.
As we went on Shore upon the Tide of Flood,
near high Water, we row'd directly into the Creek,
and the first Man I fix'd my Eye upon, was the Spa*
niardwhok Life I had fav'd, and whom I knew by
his Face perfectly well; as to his Habit I shall de-
scribe it afterwards. I ordered no body to go on
Shore at first but my self, but there was no keep-
ing Friday in the Boat; for the affectionate Crea-
ture had spy'd his Father at a Distance, a good
Way off of the Spaniards, where indeed I saw no-
thing of him; and if they had not he him go on
Shore, he would have jumped into the Sea. He was
no sooner on Shore, but he flew away to his Father
like an Arrow out of a Bow. It wou.d have
made any Man have shed Tears in Spight of the
firmest Resolution, to have seen the first Transports
of this poor Fellow's Joy when he came to his Fa-
ther; how he embrae'dhim, kiss'd him, strok'd his
Face, took him up in his Arms, set him down
upon a Tree, and lay down by him, then stood
and look'd at him, as any one would look at a
strange Picture for a Quarter of an Hour toge-
ther; then lye down on the Ground, and stroke his
J-egs, and kiss them, and then get up again, and
stare at him; one would ha' thought the Fellow
bewitchM: Bat it would ha* made a Dog laugh
to fee how the next Day his Passion run out
another Way: In the Morning he walked along the
D 3 Shore,
Shore, to and again, with his Father several Hours*
always leading him by the Hand, as if he had
been a Lady; and every now and then he would
come to fetch something or other for him to the
Boat, either a Lump of Sugar, or a Dram, a Bis-
ket Cake, or something or other that was good.
In the Afternoon his Frolicks run another Way;
for then he would set the old Man down upon
the Ground, and dance about him, and make a
Thousand antick Postures and Gestures; and all
the while he did this, he would be talking to him2
and telling him one Story or another of his Tra-
vels, and of what had happened to him Abroad,
to divert him. In short, if the fame filial Affecti-
on was to be found in Christians to their Parents,
in our Part of the World, one would be tempted
to fay, there would hardly ha* been any Need of
the Fifth Commandment.
But this is a Digression ,* I return to my Lan-
ding. It would be endless to take Notice of all
the Ceremonies and Civilities that the Spaniards
receiv'd me with. The first Spaniard, whom, as I
said, I knew very well, was he whose Life I had
sav'd ,* he came towards the Boat, attended by
one more, carrying a Flag of Truce also; and he
did not only not know me at first, but he had
no Thoughts, no Notion of its being me that was
come, till I spoke to him: Seignior, said I in Por-
tuguese, Do you not know me? At which he spoke
not a Word; but giving his Musket to the Man
that was with him, threw his Arms abroad, and
saying something in Spanish, that I did not perfectly
hear, come? forward, and embrae'd me, teUing me
he was inexcusable, not to know that Face again,
that he had once seen, as of an Angel from Hea-
ven sent to save his Life: He said Abundance of
tery handsome Things, as a well-bred Spaniard al-
ways
ways lnows how ,* and then beckoning to the fat-
son that attended him, bad him go and call out hi$
Comrades. He then ask'd me, if I would walk to
my old Habitation, where he would give me Pol1
session of my own House again, and where I sliould
see there had been but mean Improvements; so I
walk'd along with him ; bur alas i I could no more
find the Place again, than it* I had never been there;
tor they had planted so many Trees, aud plac'd
them in such a Posture, so thick and close to one
another; aud in ten Years Time they were grown
so big, that in short the Place was inaccessible, ex*-
cept by such Windings and blind Ways, as they
themselves only, wIkj made them, could iind.
I ask'd them what put them upon all these For-
tifications? He told me, I would fay there was
Need enough of it} when they had given me an
Account how they had pass'd their Time since
their Arriving m the Island, especially aster they
jhad the Misfortune to iind that I was gone. He
told me, he could not but have some Satisfaction in
my good Fortune, when he heard that I was gone
£way in a good Ship, and to my Satisfaction; and
jthat he had often-tiraes a strong Perswafion, that
pne Time or other he should sec me again: But no*
tiling that ever befel him in his Life, he sad, was
so surprizing and afflicting to him at first, as the
^Disappointment he was uuder when he came back
to the Island, and found I was not there.
As to the three Barbarians {so he call'd them)
that were left behind, and of whom he said he had a
long Story to tell me; the Spaniards all thought
themselves much better among the Savages, only
that their Number was so senall. And, fays hef
had they been strong enough, we had been all long
ago in Purgatory; and with that he cross'd him-
self on the Breast : But Sir, fays he, J hope you will
B 4 npt
not be displeased, when I (hall tell you how foreM
by Necessity we were obi g'd, for our own Preserva-
tion, to disarm them, and make them our Subjects,
who would not be content with being moderately
our Masters, but would be our Murtherers. I an-
swers, I was heartily afraid of it when I left
them there; and nothing troubled me at my par-
ting from the Island, but that they were not come
back, that 1 might have put them in Possession of
every Thing first, and left the other in a State of
Subjection, as they deserved: But if they had re-
duced them to it, I was very glad, and Jhould be
very far from finding any Fault with it; for I knew
they were a Parcel of refractory, ungovern'd Vil-
lains, and were fit for any Manner of Mis-
chief.
While I was saying this, came the Man whom
he had sent back, and with him eleven Men more:
In the Distress they were in,it was impossible to guess
what Nation they were of: But he made all clear
both to them and to me. First he turn?d to me, and
pointing to them, said, These, Sir, are some of the
Gentlemen who owe their Lives to you ,* and then
turning to them, and pointing to me, he let them
know who I was j upon which they all came up
one by one, not as if they had been Sailors and
ordinary Fellows, and I the like, but really, as if
they had been Ambasladors of Noblemen, and I a
Monarch or a great Conqueror; their Behaviour
was to the last Degree obliging and courteous, and
yetmix'd with a Manly, Majestick Gravity, which
very well became them; and in ihort, they had so
much more Manners than I, that I scarce knew
bow to receive their Ciyilities, much less how to
return them in Kind.
The History of their coming to, and Conduct in
the Inland, after my going a^ay* is so very re-
markable^
^iarkaWe, and has so many Incidents, which th<?
former Part of my Relation will help to underr
stand, and whkh will in most of the Particulars,
refer to that Account I have already given, that i
cannot but commit them with great Delight to the
Reading of those that come after me.
I (hall no longer trouble the Story with a Re-
lation in the first Person, which will put me tQ
the Expence of ten thousand Said fx, and Said he s,
and he' To'id m£s> and I fold hints, and the like;
but I shall collect the Facts historically, as near
as I can gather them out of my Memory from what
they related to me, and from what I met with in
my conversing with them and with the Place.
In Order to do this succinctly, and as intelligi-
bly as I can, I must go back to the Circumstance
in which I left the Island, and in which the Per-
sons were of whom I am to speak. And first it is
necessary to repeat, that I had sent away Friday's
Father and the Spaniard, the two whole Lives I
had rescued from the Savages: I fay, I had sent
them away in a large Canoe to the Main, as I thetf
thought it3 to fetch over the Spaniard's Companions,
whom he had left behind him, in order to save
them from the like Calamity that he had been in;
and in order to succour them for the present, and
that if possible, we might together find some Way
for our Deliverance afterward.
When I sent them away, I had no visible Ap-
pearance of, or the least Room to hope for my
own Deliverance any more than I had twenty Years^
before; much less had I any Foreknowledge of
what afterwards happened, I mean of an Englifo
Ship coming on Shore there to fetch me off; and
it could not but be a very great Surprize to them
when they came back, not only to find that I was
gone, but to nd threeStrangers left on the Spot,
p of-
possessed of al! that I had left behind me, which
would otherwise have been their own.
The first Thing, however, which I enquired
into, that I might begin where I left off, was of
their own Part; and desired he would give me
a particular Account of his Voyage back to his
Countrymen with the Boat, when I sent him to
fetch them over. He told me there was little
Variety in that Part, for nothing remarkable hap-
pened to them on the Way, they having very cairn
Weather, and a smooth Sea; for his Countrymen
it could not be doubted, he said, but that they
were overjoyed to see him. (It seems he was the
principal Man among them, the Captain of the
Vessel they had been shipwrecked in having been
dead some Time) they were, he said, the more
surprized to see him, because they knew that he
was fallen into the Hands of the Savages, who,
they were satisfied, would devour him as they did
all the rest of the Prisoners ,• that when he told
them the Story of his Deliverance, and in what
Manner he was furnished in carrying them away,
it was like a Dream to them; and their Astonish-
ment, they said, was something like that of Joseph S
Brethren, when he told them who he was, and
told them the Story of his Exaltation in Pharaoh s
Court: But when he shewed them the Arms, the
Powder, the Ball, and the Provisions that he
brought them for their Journey or Voyage, they
were restored to themselves, took a just Share ot
the Joy of their Deliverance, and immediately pre-
pared to come away with him.
Their first Business was to get Canoes * and in
this they were obliged not to stick so much upon
the honest Part of it, but to trespass upon their
friendly Savages, and to borrow two large Canoes,
ar Periagua's, on Pretence of going out 4 Fifhing?
or for Pleasure.
In these they came away the next Morning. It;
seems they wanted no Time to get themselves rea-
dy ; for they had no Baggage, neither Qpthes or
Provisions, or any Thing in the World, but what
they had on them, and a few Roots to eat, of
which they used to make their Bread.
They were in all three Weeks absent, and in
that Time unluckily for them5 I had the Qcca- *
si on offered for my Escape, as I mentioned in my
other Part, and to get orf from the Island, lea-
ving three of the most impudent, hardned, ungo-
verned, disagreeable Villains behind me, that any
Man could desire to meet with, to the poor Spa-
wards great Grief and Disappointment, you may-
be sure.
The only just Thing the Rogues did, was,
That when the Spaniards eame pn Shore, they
gave my Letter to them, and gave them Provi-
sions and other Relief, as I had ordered them to
do; also they gave them the long Paper of Di-
rections which I had left with them, containing
the particular Methods which I took for manag-
ing every Part of my Life there ,• the Way how I
baked my Bread, bred up tame Goats, and plan-
ted my Corn, how I cur'd my Grapes, made my
JPots; and in a Word5 every Thing I did. All
this being written down, they gave to the Spa-
niards, two of whom understood English well e-
nough; nor did they refuse to accommodate the
Spaniards with every thing else, for they agreed
very well for some Time. They gave them an
equal Admission into the House or Cave; and they
began to live very sociably, and the Head Spaniard,
who had seen pretty much of my Methods, and
Friday's Father together, managed all their Af-
fairs:
fairs: For, as for the English Men, they did no-
thing but ramble about the Island, siioot Parrots,
and catch Tortoises, and when they came Home
at Night, the Spaniards provided their Suppers
for them.
The Spaniards would have been satisfied with
this, would the other but have let them alone,
which, however, they could not find in their
Hearts to do long, but like the Dog in the Man-
ger, they would not eat themselves, and would
not let others eat neither. The Differences, never-
theless, were at jfirst but trivial, and such as arc
not worth relating j but at last, it broke out in-
to open War, and it begun with aU the Rudeness
and Insolence that can be imagined, without Rea-
son, without Provocation, contrary to Nature, and
indeed, to common Sense , and tho* it is true the
first Relation of it came from the Spaniards them-
selves, whom I may call the Accusers, yet when
J came to examine the Fellpws, fhey could not
deny a Word of it.
But before I come to the Particulars of this
Part, I must supply a Defect in ray former Rela-
tion, and this was, that I forgot to set down a-
mpjig jthe rest, that just as we were weighing the
Anchor to set Sail, there happened a little Quar-
rel on board our Ship, which I was afraid once
would have turned to a second Mutiny; nor was
ft appeased, till the Captain rouzine up his Cou-
xage., and talcing us all to his Assistance, parted
them t>y Foree^ and making two of the most re-
factory Fellows Prisoners, he laid them in Irons;
and as they had been active in the former Disor-
ders, and let fall some dangerous ugly Words the
second Time, he threatned to carry them in Irons
to England, and have them hanged there for Mu-
tiny, and running away with the Ship.
w •- This,
This, it seems, tho' the Captain did not Intend
to do it, frighted some other Men in the Ship, and
some of them had put it into the Heads of the
rest, that the Captain only gave them good Words
for the present, till they should come to some En-
glish Port, and that then they should be all put into
Jayl, and try'd for their Lives.
The Mate got Intelligence of this, and acquain-
ted us with it ,* upon which it was desired, that
1, who still pafs'd for a great Man among them,
should go down with the Mate, and satisfy the
Men, and tell them, that they might be assured,
if they behav'd well the rest of the Voyage, all
they had done for the Time past should be par-
doned. So I went, and after passing my Honour's
Word to them, they appeared easy ; and the more
so, when I caused the two Men, who were in Irons,
*o be released and forgiven.
But this Mutiny had brought us to an Anchor
for that Night; the Wind also failing calm, next
Morning we found, that our two Men who had
been laid in Irons, had stole each of them a Mus-
ket, and some other Weapons; what Powder or
Shot they had, we know not; and had taken the
Ship's Pinnace, which was not yet hal'd up>
and ran away with her to their Companions, in
Roguery, on Shore.
As soon as we found this, I ordered the Long-
Boat on Shore, with twelve Men and the Mate,
and away they went to seek the Rogues, but they
could neither find them, nor any of the rest; for
thev ail fled into the Woods when they saw the
Boat coming on Shore. The Mate was once re-
fclv'd, in Justice to their Roguery, to have de-
stroyed their Plantations, burnt all their Housliold-
Stuff and Furniture, and left them to shift without
it i but having no Order, he let it ail alone, left
every
every Thing as theyjbund it* and bringing the
Pinnace away, came: on- Board without them.
These two Men made their Number five, but
the other three Villains were so much ^wickeder
than these, that after they had been two or three
Days together, they turn'd their two new Comers
out of Doors to shift for themselves^ and would
have nothing to do with them, nor could they for
a good while be perswaded to give them any
Food; as for the Spaniards they were not yet come.
When the Spaniards came first -on Shore, the Bu-
siness began to go forward; the Spaniards would
have perswaded the three English Brutes to have
taken in their two Countrymen again, that, as they
said, they might be all one Family; but they would
not hear of it. So the two poor Fellows liv'd by
themselves, and finding nothing but Industry and
Application would make them live comfortably,
they pitch'd their Tents on the North Shore of the
Island, but a little more on the IVefi, to be out of
the Danger of the Savages, who always landed
on the East Pasts of the Island.
Here they built them two Huts, one to lodge
in, and the other to lay up their Magazines and
Stores in, and the Spaniards having given them
some Corn for Seed, and especially some of the
Pease which I had left them; they dug, and plan-
ted, and enclosed, after the Pattern I had set for
them all, and began to live pretty well. Their first
Crop of Corn was on the Ground; and tho' it was
but a little Bit of Land which they had dug up at
first, having had but a little Time, yet it was
enough to relieve them, and find them with Bread
and other Eatables; and one of the Fellows being
the Cook's Mate of the Ship, was very ready at
making Soup, Puddings, and other such Prepara-
tion
tions, as the Rice, and the Milk, and such little
Flesh as they got, furniihra him to do.
They were going on in this little thriving Po-
sture, when the three unnatural Rogues, their own
Countrymen too, in meer Humour, and to insult
them, came and bullied them, and told them,
the Kiand was theirs, that the Governor, mean-
ing me, had given them Possession of it, and no
Body else had any Right to it, and damn 'em*
they should build no Houses upon their Ground,
unless they would pay them Rent for them.
The two Men thought they had jested at first,
ask'd them to cmne in and sit down, and fee what
fine Houses they were that they had built, and
tell them what Rent they demanded; and one of
them merrily told them,if they were Ground-Land-
lords, he hoped, if they built Tenements upon
their Land, and made Improvements, they would,
according to the Custom of Landlords, grant
them a long Lease, and bid them go fetch a Scri-
vener to draw the Writings. One of the three
damning and raging, told "them, they should fee
they were not in Jest, and going to a little Place
at a Distance, where the honest Men had made
a Fire to dress their Victuals, he takes a Fire-
brand, and claps it to the Out-side of their Hut,
and very fairly set it on Fire, and it would have
been all burnt down in a few Minutes, if one^of
the two had not run to the Fellow, thrust him
away, and trode the Fire out with his Feet, and
that not without some Difficulty too.
The Fellow was in such a Rage at the honest
Man's thrusting him away, that he returned up-
on him with a Pole he had in his Hand, and had
not the Man avoided the Blow very nimbly, and
run into the Hut, he had ended his Days at once.
His Comrade seeing the Danger they were both in,
run
run In after him* and immediately they came both
out with their Muskets, and the Man that was
first struck at with the Pole,' knocked the Fellow
down that begun the Quarrel, with the Stock
of his Musket, and that before the other two
could come to help him, and then seeing the reft
come at them, they stood together, and presenting
the other Ends of their Pieces to them* bad them
stand off.
The other had Fire-Arms with them too, but
one of the two honest Men* bolder than his Com*-
tfade, and made desperate by his Danger, told them *
if they offer'd to move Hand or Foot3 they were
dead Men, and boldly commanded them to lay
down their Arms. They did not indeed lay down
their Arms* but seeing him so resolute, it brought
them to a Parley, and they consented to take
their wounded Man with them, and be gone; and
indeed it seems the Fellow was wounded suffici-
ently with the Blow. However, they were much
in the wrong, since they had the Advantage, that
they did not disarm them effectually* as they
might have done, and have gone immediately to
the Spaniards and given them an Account how
the Rogues had treated them; for the three Vil-
lains studied nothing but Revenge, and every Day
gave them some Intimation that they did so.
JBut not to crowd this Part with an Ac*
count of the lefler Part of their Rogueries, such as
treading down their Corn, shooting three young
Kids, and a She-Goat, which the poor Men had
got to breed up tame for their Store; and, in a
word, plaguing them Night and Day in this Man-
ner, it forced the two Men to such a Desperation*
that they resolv'd to fight them all three the first
Time they had a fair Opportunity. In Order to
this, they resolv'd to go to the Castle* as they cz\U
it?
It, that was my old Dwelling, where the three
Rogues and the Spaniards aii liv'd together, at
that Time intending to have a iair Battle, and
the Spaniards should Hand by to ice fair Play; so
they get up in the Morning before Day, and came
to the Place, and called the English Men by their
Names, telling a Spaniard, that answered, that
that they wanted to speak with them.
It happened, that the Day before, two os the
Spaniards having been in the Woods, had seen
one os the two Englijh Men, whom, for Distinction,
1 call the Honest Mw> and he had made a fad Com-
plaint to the Spaniards os the barbarous Usage
they had met with from their three Countrymen,
and how they had ruin'd their Plantation, and
destroy'd their Corn, that they had i.uxjtuM so
hard to bring forward, and luliM the Milch-Goat
and their three Kids, which was all they had pro-
vided for their Sustenance; and that if he and \\\%
Friends, meaning the Spaniards, did not aliist
them again, they should be starved. When the
Spaniards came home at Night, arid they were
all at Supper, he took the Freedom to reprove the
three English Men, tho'in very gentle and mannerly
Terms, and ask'd them, How they could be so
cruel, they being harmless inoffensive Fellows,
and that they were only putting themselves in a
way to subsist by their Labour, and that it had
cost them a great deal os Pains to bring things to
such Perfection as they had?
One of the English Men returned very brisk-
ly, What had they to do there? That they came
on Shore without Leave, and they iliould not
plant or build upon the Island, it was none of
their Ground. Why, fays the Spaniard very
calmly, Seignior Ingiese, they must not starve.
The English Man reply'd like a true rouch-hewii
Part II. E Tar-
>
Tarpaulin, they might starve and be damn'd,
they should not Plant nor Build. But what
must they do then, Seignior, said the Spaniard i
Another "of the Brutes returned, do j D-—n
'em, they should be Servants, and work for them.
But how can you expect that of them, fays the
Spaniard, that are not bought with your Money >
You have no Right to make them Servants.
The Englifl) Man answer'd, the liland was theirs,
the Governour had given it to them, and no
Man had any thing to do there but themselves;
and with that swore by his Maker, that they
would go and burn all their new Huts, they
should build none upon their Laud.
Why, Seignior, lays the Spaniard, by the fame
Rule we must be your Servants coos Ah, fays the
bold Dog, and so you shall too, before we have
done with you, mixing two or three G-dDamme's
in the prope intervals of his Speech. The Spaniard
only sinil'd at that, and made him no Answer,
However, this little Discourse had heated them,
and starting up, one says to the other, I think
it was he they called Will. Atkins, Come Jack, let
us <*o and have t'other Brush with them; well
demolish their Castle, I'll warrant you, they (hall
plant no Colony in our Dominions.
Upon this, they went aJi^ Trooping away,
with every Man a Gun, a Piiiol, and a Sword,
and mutteVd some insolent Things among them-
selves, of what they would do to the Spaniards
too, when Opportunity offered; but the Spaniards
ft leems did not so perfectly understand them,
as to know all the Particulars; only, that, in gene-
ral, they threatned them hard for caking the two^
Englifi Mens Part. y
Whether they went, or how they bestow d
their Time that Evening, the Spaniards laid,
they
they did not know; but it seems they wandred
about the Country, Pare of the Night, and then
lying down in the Place which I used to call
my^Bowcr, they were weary, and over-ikpt
themselves. The Cafe was this, they had re-
solv'd to stay till Mid-night, and so to take the
two poor Men when they were asleep, and as
they acknowledge afterwards, intended to set
Fire to their Huts while they were in them, and
either burn them in them, or murder them as they
came out; and as Malice seldom sleeps very sound*
it was very strange they siiould not have been
kept waking.
However, as the two Men had also a Design
upon them, as I have said, tho* a much fairer
one than that of Burning and Murthering, it hap-
pened, and very luckily for them all* that they
were up and gone abroad, before the bloody-mind-
ed Rogues came to their Huts.
When they came there and found the Men
**one, Atkins, who it seems was the forwardest
Man, call'd out to his Comrades, ha! Jack, here's
the Nest, but D-~n 'em the Birds are flown;
they mused a while to think what should be the
Occasion of their being gone abroad so soon*
and suggested presently, that the Spaniards had gi-
ven them Notice of it, and with that they
shook Hands, and swore to one another that they
would be reveng'd of the Spaniards. As soon as
they had made this bloody Bargain, they fell to
work with the poor Mcns Habitation; they did
not set Fire indeed to any thing, but they pulled
down both their little Houses, and pulTd them
so Limb from Limb, that they left not the least
Stick standing, or scarce any Sign on the Ground
where they stood: They tore all their lirte col-
lected Housliold Stuff in Pieces, and threw eve-
E z r/
ry Thing about in such a manner, that the poor
Men afterwards found some of their Things a
Mile off their Habitation. b
When they had done this, they pull'd up all
the young Trees the poor Men had planted,
pull'd up an Enclosure they had made to secure
their Cattle and their Corn; and in a Word, sack'd
and plunder'd every thing, as compleatly as a
Hoord of Tartars would have done.
The two Men were at this Juncture gone to find
them out, and had resolved to sight them where-
ever they had been, tho' they were but two to
three: So that had they met, there certainly would
have been Bloodshed among them, for they were
all very stout resolute Fellows, to give them their
due.
But Providence took more Care to keep them
assunder, than they themselves could do to meet;
for, as if they had dogg'd one another, when
the three were gone thither, the two were here;
and afterwards when the two went back to find
them, the three were come to the old Habita-
tion again; we shall see their differing Conduct
presently. When the three came back, like furi-
ous Creatures, flufh'd with the Rage which the
Work they had been about had put them into,
they came up to the Spaniards, and told them
what they had done, by way of Scoff and Bra-
vado; and one of them stepping up to one of
the Spaniards, as if they had been a Couple of
Boys at Play, takes hold of his Hat, as it was
upon his Head, and giving it a Twirl about,
sneering in his Face, fays he to him. And y>*>
Seignior, Jack Spaniard, fiatt have the fame Sauce,
rf you do mt mend your Manners: The Spaniard, who
tho a quiet civil Man, was as brave as a Man
could
could be desired to be, and withal a strong
well-made Man, look'd steadily at him for a
good while, and then having no Weapon in
his Hand, stept gravely up to him, and with
one Blow of his Fist knock'd him down, as an
Ox is fell'd with a Pole-Axe; at which one of
the Rogues, insolent at the first, fir'd his Pistol
at the Spaniard immediately. He miss'd his Body
indeed, for the Bullets went thro' his Hair, but
one of them touched the tip of his Ear, and he
bled pretty much. The Biood made the Spa-
niard believe, he was more hurt then he really
was, and that put him into some Heat; for be-
fore, he acted all in a perfect Calm; but now
resolving to go thro5 with his Work, he stoop'd
to take the Fellow's Musket whom he had knock'd
down, and was just going to shoot the Man, and
had fir'd at him, when the rest of the Spaniards,
being in the Cave, came out, and calling to him
not to shoot, they stept in, secured the other
two, and took their Arras from them.
When they were thus disarmed, and sound they
had made all the Spaniards their Enemies, as well
as their own Countrymen, they began to cooJ,
and giving the Spaniards better Words, would
have had their Arms again; but the Spaniards
considering the Feud that was between them and
the other two English Men, and that it would
be the best Method they could take, to keep them
from one another, told them, they would do
them no Harm, and if they would live peace-
ably, they would be very willing to assist and
sociate with them, as they did before; but that
they could not think of giving them their Arms
again, while they appear'd so resolv'd to do Mis-
chief with them to their own Countrymen, and
E 3 had
had even threatned them all, to make them their
servants.
The Rogues were now no more capable to
heat Reason, than to act Reason, and being re-
fund their Arms, they went raving away and
raging like mad Men, threatning what they
would do, thq' they had no Fire-Arms. But
the Spaniards despising their Threatning, told
them they should take Care how they otier'd a-
ny Injury to their Plantation or Cattle, for if
they did, they would slioot them as they would
do ravenous Beasts, where ever they found them;
and if they fell into their Hands alive, they
jQiould certainly be hang'd. However, this
was far from cooling them, but away they went
raging and (wearing like Furies of Hell. As soon
as^they were gone, came back the two Men in
Passion and Rage enough also, rfio* of another
Kind ^ for having been at their Plantation, and
finding it all demoliiVd and destroyed, as above,
it will easily be suppos'd they had Provocation e-
notigh; they could scarce have Room to tell
their Talc, the Spaniards were so eager to tell
them theirs ^ and it was strange enough to find
three Men thus bully nineteen, and receive no
Punishment at all.
9 The Spaniards indeed despised them, and espe-
cially having thus disarmed them, made light of
all their Threatmngs; but the two Englijh Men
resoled jto have the r Remedy against them,
what Pam soever it cost to find them out.
But the Spaniards interpos'd here too, and told
them, that as they had difarm'd them, they could
not consent that they (the Two) ihould pursue
them with Fire-Arms, and perhaps kill them-,
out fad the grave Spaniard, who was their Go-
Vtmout^ we will endeavour to make them dq
you
[Hi
you Justice if you will leave it to us; for as there
is no doubt but they will come to us again when
their Passion is over, being not able to subsist
without our Assistance, we promise you to make
no Peace with them, without having a full Satis-
faction for you; upon this Condition we hope
you will promise to use no Violence with them,
other than In your own Defence.
The two English Men yielded to this very
awkardly, and with great Reluctance; but the
Spaniards protested, they did it only to keep
them from Bloodshed, and to make all easy at
last; for said they, we are not so many os us9
here is Room enough for us all, and it is great
Pity we should not be all good Friends; at length
they did consent, and waited for the Issbeofthe
Thing, living for some Days with the SApaniardst
for their own Habitation was destroyed.
In about Eve Days Time the three Vagrants^
tir'd with Wandring, and almost starved with
Hunger, having chiefly liv'd on Turtles Eggs
all that while, came back to the prove, and find-
ing my Spaniards who, as I have said, was the
Governour, and two more with him walking
by the Side of the Creek, they came up in a
very submissive humble Manner, and oegg'd
to be received again into the Family- The
Spaniards used them civilly, but told them, they
had acted so unnaturally by their Countrymen,
and so very grossly by them (the Spaniards)
that they could * not come to any Conclusion,
without consulting the two Englifl) Men and
the rest; but however, they would go to
them and discourse about it, and they would
know in half an Hour. It may be guess?d, that
they were very hard put to it; tor, it seems3 as
they were to wait this half Hour for an An-
E 4 fwer,
*wer, they begged they would send them out
some Bread in the mean Time, which he did,
and lent them at the same Time a large Piece of
Goats f iefh, and a broiled Parrot, which they
eat very heartily, for they were hungry enough.
After Half an Hour's Consultation they were
call'd in, and a long Debate had among them,
their two Contrymen charging them with the
Ruin of all their Labour, and a Design to mur-
der them *, all which they owned before, and
therefore could not deny now. Upon the whole,
the Spaniard acted the Moderator between them,
and as they had obliged the two English Men
not to hurt the three while they were naked and
unarmed, so they now obliged the three to go
and build their Fellows two Huts, one of the
fame, and the other of larger Dimensions, than
they were before; to fence their Ground again3
where they had pulled up the Fences, plant
Trees in the Room of those pulled up, dig up
the Laud again for planting Corn, where they
had spoiled it * «and in a Word, to restore every
Thing in the same State they found it, as near
as they could, for entirely it could not be, the
Season for the Corn, and the Growth of the
Trees and Hedges, not being possible to be re-
covered.
Well, they submitted to all this, and as they
had Plenty of Provisions given them all the while,
they grew very orderly, and tjie whole Society
began to five pleasantly and agreeably together,
only that these three Fellows could never be per-
fwaded to work, I mean for themselves, except
now and then a little, just as they pleased. Howe-
ver, the Spaniards told them plainly, that if they
would but live sociably and friendly together, and
study, in the whole the Good of the Plantation,
they
they would be content to work for them, and let
them walk about, and be as idle as they pleas'd;
and thus having lived pretty well together for a
Month or two, the Spaniards gave them Arms
again, and gave them Liberty to go abroad with
them as before.
It was not above a Week aster they had these
Arms, and went abroad, but the ungrateful Crea-
tures began to be insolent and troublesom as be-'
fore; but however, an Accident happening pre-
sently upon this, which endangered the Safety of
them all, they were obliged to lay by all private;
Resentments, and look to the Preservation of their
Lives.
It happened one Night, that the Spaniard Go-
vernor, as I call him, that is to fay, the Spaniard,
whose Life I had saved, who was now the Cap-
tain, or Leader, or Governor of the rest, found
himself very uneasy in the Night, and could by
no Means get any Sleep; he was perfectly well
in Body, as he told me the Story, only found his
Thoughts tumultuous, his Mind" run upon Men
fighting and killing of one another, but was
broad awake, and could not by any Means
get any Sleep. In short he lay a great while, but
growing more and more uneasy, he resolved to
rise: As they lay, being so many of them, upon
Goats-skins, laid thick upon such Couches, and
Pads, as they made for themselves, not in Ham-
mocks and Ship Beds, as I did, who was but
one, so they had little to do, when they were
willing to rife, but to get up upon their Feet,
and perhaps put on a Coat, such as it was,
and their Pumps, and they were ready for
going any Way that their Thoughts guided
them.
Being
Ltfl
Being thu$-gotten up, he look'd out, but being
dark, he could see little or nothing ,• and besides,
the Trees which I had planted, as in my former
Account is described, and which were now grdwn
tall, intercepted his Sight, so that he could on-
ly look up, and fee that it was a clear Star-
light Night, and hearing no Noise, he returned
and laid him down again; but it was all one, he
could not sleep, nor could he compose himself
to any Thing like Rest, but his Thoughts were
to the last Degree uneasy, and yet he knew not
for what.
Having made some Noise with rising and
walking about, going out and coming in, ano-
ther os them waked, and calling, asked, who
it was that was up? The Governor told him,
how it had been with him. Say you so, fays
the other Spaniard, such Thing > are not to be
slighted, I assure you; there is certainly some
Mischief working, says he, near us; and present-
ly he asked him, Where are the Englijh Men?
They are all in their Huts, fays he, safe enough.
It seems, the Spaniards had kept Possession of the
main Apartment, and had made a Place where
the three English Men, since their last Mutiny al-
ways quartered by themselves, and could not come
at the rest. Well, fays the Spaniard, there is
something in it, I am perswaded from my own
Experience; I am satisfied our Spirits embodied
have a Converse wish, and receive Intelligence
from the Spirits unembodied, and inhabiting the
invisible World, and this friendly Notice is gi-
ven for our Advantage, if we know how to
make Use of it. Come, says he, Met us go out
and look abroad, and if we find nothing at all
in it to justify the Trouble, I will tell vou a Sto-
'. ' ry
ry to the Purpose, that shall convince you of
the Justice of my proposing it.
In a Word, they went out to go to the Top
of the Hill, where I used to go, but they being
strong and in good Company, not alone, as I
was, used none of my Cautions, to go up by the
Ladder, and then pulling it up after them, to go
up a second Stage to the Top, but were going
round thro* the Grove unconcerned and unwary,
when they were surprized with seeing a Light,
as of Fire, a very little Way off from them, and
hearing the Voices of Men, not of one, or two,
but of a great Number.
In all the Discoveries I had made of the Sava-
ges landing on the Island, it was my constant Care
to prevent them making the least Discovery o£
there being any Inhabitant upon the Place; and
when by any Occasion they came to know it, they
felt it so effectually, that they that got aw«y were
scarce able to give any Account of it, for we
disappeared as soon as possible; nor did ever any
that had seen me, escape to tell any one else, ex*
cept it were the three Savages in our last Encoun-
ter, who jumped into the Boat, of whom I mem-
tioned, that I was afraid they sliould go Home
and bring more Help.
Whether it was the Consequence of the E-
scape of those Men, that so great a Numbec
came now together, or whether they came ig-*
norantly, and by Accident, on their usual bloody
Errand, they could not it seems understand;
but whatever k was, it had been their Business,
either to have concealed themselves, us not to
have seen them at all, much less to have let
the Savages have seen that there were any In-
habitants in the Place, or to have fallen upon
them so effectually, as that not 4 Man of them
sliould
sliould have escaped, which could only have
been, by getting in between them and their
Boats; but this Presence of Mind was wanting
to them, which was the Ruin of their Tranquil-
lity for a great while.
We need not doubt, but that the Governour
and the Man with him, surprized with this Sight
run back imediately, and rais'd their Fellows,
giving them an Account of the imminent Danger
they were all in; and they again as readily took
the Alarm, but it was impossible to perswade
them to stay close within where they were, but
that they must run ail out to see how Things
stood.
While it was dark indeed, they were well e-
nough, and they had Opportunity enough for
some Hours to view them by the Light of three
Fires they had made at a Distance irom one a-
tiother; what they were doing they knew not,
and what to do themselves they knew not. For,
first, the Enemy w^re too many; and secondly,
they did not keep together, but were divided in-
to several Parties, and were on Shore in several
Places.
The Spaniards were in no small Consternation
at this Sight, and as they found that the Fel-
lows ran straggling all over the Shore, they
made no Doubt, but first or last, some of them
would chop in upon their Habitation, or upon
some other Place, where they would see the
Token of Inhabitants^ and they were in great
Perplexity also for fear of their Flock of Goats,
which would have been little less than starving
them, if they sliould have been destroyed; so
the first thing they resolved upon, was to dis-
patch three Men away before it was light, ws.
two Spaniards and one Englishman, to driv£ all
the
the Goats away to the great Valley where tho
Cave was, and if Need were, to drive them in-
to the very Cave itself.
Could they have seen the Savages all toge-
ther in one Body, and at any Distance from
their Canoes, they resolved, it they had been
an hundred of them, to have attacked them,*
but that could not be obtain'd, for they were
some of them two Miles oft" from the other, and,
as it appeared afterwards, were ot two different
Nations.
And aiter having mused a great while on the
Course they should take, and beaten their Brains
in considering their present Circumstances, they
rcsolv'd at last, while it was dark, to fend
the old Savage, Friday's Father, out as a Spy,
to learn, it possible, something concerning them,
what they came for, and what they intended to
do; the old Man readily undertook it, and
stripping himself quite naked, as most ot the
Savages were, away he went. After he had
been gone an Hour or two, he brings Word,
that he had been among them undiscovered,
that he found they were two Parties and of
two several Nations who had War with one
another, and had had a great Battle in their
own Country, and that both Sides having had
several Prisoners taken in the Fight, they were
by meer Chance landed all in the fame Island,
for the devouring their Prisoners, and making
merry; but their coming so by Chance to the
fame Place had spoil'd all their Mirth; that
they were in a great Rage at one another, and
that they were so near, that he believ'd they
would sight again, as soon as Day-light began to
appear; but he did not perceive that they had
any Notion of any Body's being on the Island
but
but themselves. He had hardly made in End
of telling his Story, when they could perceive,
by the unusual Noise they made, that the two
little Armies were engag'd in a bloody Fight.
Friday's Father uled all the Arguments he
could to perswade our People to lye close, and
not be seen; he told them their Safety consisted
in it, and that they had nothing to do but lye
still, and the Savages would kill one another to
their Hands, and then the rest would go away;
and it was so to a Tittle. But it was impossible
to prevail,-especially upon the Englishmen, their
Curiosity was so importunate upon their Pru-
dentials, that they must run out and fee the
Battle: However, they used some Caution too.
(viz,.) they did not go openly, just by their own
Dwelling, but went farther into the Woods, and
plac'd themselves to Advantage, where they
might securely see them manage the Fight, and,
as they thought, not to be seen by them > but it
seems the Savages did fee them, as we shall find
hereafter.
The Battle was very fierce, and if I might
believe the Englishmen, one of them said, he
could perceive, that some of them were Men of
great Bravery, of invincible Spirits, and of
great Policy in guiding the Fight. The Battle,
they said, held two Hours* before they could
guess which Party would be beaten; but thest
that Party which was nearest our People's Habi-
tation began to appear weakest, and after some
Time more, some of them began to fly; and this
put our Men again into a great Consternation,
lest any ot those that fled should run into the
Grove, before their Dwelling, for Shelter, and
thereby involuntarily discover the Place; and
that by Consequence the Pursuers should do the
i*kc in Search for them. Upon this they resolv'd
that they would Hand arm\i within the Wail,
and whoever came into the Grove, they should
sally out over the Wall and kill them; so that,
it' possible, not one should return to give an Ac-
count ot it. They ordered also, that it sliould be
done with their Swords, or by knocking them down
with the Stock ot the Musket, but not by iliooc-
ingthem> for tear of the Noise.
As they expected, it fell out; three of the
routed Army sled for Life, and, crossing the
Creeks ran directly into the Place, not in the least
knowing whether they went, but running as in-
to a thick Wood tor Shelter; the Scout they
kept to look Abroad, gave Notice of this with-
in, with this Addition, to our Mcns great Satis-
faction (m.) That the Conquerors had not pur-
sued them, or seen which Way they were gone.
Upon this, the Spaniard Governour, a Man of
Humanity, would not suffer them to kill the
three Fugitives, but sending three Men out by
the Top of the Hill, ordered them to go round
and come in behind them, surprize, and take
them Prisoners, which was done. The Residue
of the conquer'd People fled to their Canoes, and
got otttoSea; the Victors retired, and made no
Pursuit, or very little, but drawing themselves into
a Body together, gave two great skreaming
Shouts, which they suppos'd was by way of Tri-
umph, and so the Fignt ended: And the fame
Day, about three a Clock in the Afternoon, they
also maren'd to their Canoes > and thus the Spani-
ards had their Iiland again free to themselves,
their Fright was over, and they saw no Savages
in several Years afrtcr.
After they were all gone, the Spaniards cam:
out of their Deri, and viewing the Field ofBactl.-,
they
they sound about two and thirty dead Men upon
the Spot i some were killed with great long Ar*
rows, some of which were found sticking in their
Bodies; but most of them were killed with their
great wooden Swords, sixteen or seventeen of
which they found in the Field of Battle* and as
many Bows, with a great many Arrows. These
Swords were strange great unweildy Things, and
they must be very strong Men that used them,
Most of those Men that were killed with them,
had their Heads mash'd to Pieces, as we may fay*
or as we call it in English, their Brains knocks
out, and several their Arms and Legs broken; so
that 'tis evident they fight with inexpressible Rage
and Fury. We found not one wounded Man that
was not stone dead; for either they stay by their
Enemy till they have quite kill'd him, or they car-
ry all the wounded Men, that are not quite dead*
away with them.
This Deliverance tam'd our English Men for a
great while; the Sight had filled them with Hor-
ror, and the Consequences appear'd terrible to the
last Degree, even to them, if ever they should -fall
into the Hands of those Creatures, who would not
only kill them as Enemies, but kill them for Food,
as we kill our Cattle. And they profess'd to me,
that the Thoughts of being eaten up like Beef
or Mutton, tho' it was supposed it was not to be
till they were dead, had something in it so hor-
rible, that it nauseated their very Stomachs, made
them sick when they thought of it, and filled their
Minds with much unusual Terror, that they were
not themselves for some Weeks after.
This, as I said, tamed even the three English
Brutes I have been speaking of; and for a great
while after they were very tractable, and went
about the common Business of their whole Society,
well
\vcll enough; planted, sowM, reap'd, and begun
to be all naturaliz'd ro the Country. But some-
time after this, they fell all into such Measure*
as brought them into a great deal of Trouble.
They had taken three Prisoners, as I had ob-
served, and these three being lusty stout young
Fellows, they made them Servants, and taught
them to work for them, and as Slaves they did
Well enough; but they did not take their Mea-
sures with them as I did by my Man Fryday, viz*
to begin with them upon the Principle of having
saved their Lives, and then instruct them in the
rational Principles of Life, much less of Religion*
civilizittg and reducing them by kind Usuageand
affectionate Arguings; but as they gave them thei£
Food every Day, so they gave them their Work
too, and kept them fully employed in Drudgery
enough ,• but they fail'd in this, by it, that they
never had them to ailist them and fight for them,
as I had my Man Friday, who was as true tome
as the very Flesh upon my Bones.
But to come to the Family Pirt, being all novtf
good Friends; for Common Danger, as I said a*
bove, had effectually reconciled them, they began
to consider their general Circumstances; and "the
first Thing that came under their Consideration
was, Whether, seeing the Savages particularly
haunted that Side of the Island, and that there
"were more remote and retired Parts of it equally
adapted to their Way of Living, and manifestly
to their Advantage, they should not rather remove
their Habitation, and plant in some more propef
Place for their Safety, ahd especially for the Se*
curity of their Cattie and Corn?
Upon this, after long* Debate, it was conclu-
ded, That they would not remove their Habita-
tion; because, that some Time or other, they
p*« U. F thought
thought they might hear from their Governor
again, meaning me; and if I should send any one
to seek them, 1 should be sure to direct them to
that Side, where,4 if they should find the Place
demolished, they would conclude the Savages had
kill'd us all, and we were gone, and so our Sup-
ply would go too.
But as to their Corn and Cattle, they agreed to
remove them into the Valley where my Cave was,
where the Land was as proper for both, and where
indeed there was Land enough : However up-
on second Thoughts, they altered one Part of that
Resolution too, and resolved only to remove Part
of their Cattle thither, and plant Part of their
Corn there ; and so if one Part was destroyed, the
other might be saved. And one Part of Prudence
they uled, which it was very well they did, wa.
That they never trusted those three Savages, which
they had Prisoners, with knowing any Thing of
the'Plantation they had made in that Valley, or
of any Cattle they had there; much less of the
Cave there, which they kept, in Cafe of Neces-
sity, as a safe Retreats and whither they carried
also the two Barrels of Powder, which I had sent
them at my coming away.
But however they resolved not to change their
Habitation, yet they agreed, that as I had care-
fully covered it first with a Wall of Fortification,
andthen with a Groyeof Trees;, so, seeingitheir
Safety consisted entirely in their being concealed,
of which they were now fully convinced j they set
to work to cover and conceal the Place yet moic
effectually than before,. " To this Purpose, as I
had planted Trees, (:or rather thrust in Stakes,
which in Time all grew up to be Trees ) for some
good Distance before the Entrance into my Apart-
jaieiu i they went on in the fame Manner, and fir
led up she rest of that whole Space ot Ground,
from the Trees I had set, quite down to the Side
of the Creek, where, as I said, I landed my Floats,
and even in the very Ooze where the Tide flowM,
not so much as leaving any Place lo J and, or any
Sign that there had been any Landing therea-
bout. These Stakes also, beiwjofa Wood very
forward to grow, as I have noted formerly, they
took Care lo have generally very much larger
and taller than those which I had planted; and
as they gvew apace, so they planted them so ve-
ry thick and close together, that when they had
been three or four Years grown, there was no
piercing with the Eye any considerable Way into
the Plantation. And as for that Part which I
had planted, the Trees were grown as thick as a
Man's Thigh ; and among them they placed so
many other short oncsy aud so thick, that, in a
Word, it stood like a Pallisado, a Quartet of a
MUc thick, and it was next to impossible to pene-
trate it, but with a little Army to cut it all down;
for a little Dog could hardly get between the
Trees, they stood so close.
But this was not all, for they did the fame by
ail the Ground to the right Hand, and to the
Lett, and round even to the Top of the Hill *
leaving no Way, not so much as for themselves
to come out, but by the Ladder placed up to the
Side of the Hill, and then lined up, and placed
again from the first Stage up to the Top; which
Ladder, when it was taken down, nothing but
what had Wings or Witchcraft to assist it, could*
come at them*
This was excellently well contrived; nor was
it less than what they afterwards found Occa-
sion for, which served to convince me, that as
human Prudence has the Authority of Provi-
F a 'i dene*
dence to justify it, so it has, doubtless, the Di-
rection ot* Providence to set it to Work; and
would we listen carefully to the Voice of it, 1
am fully perswaded we might prevent many of
the Disasters which our Lives are now by our
own Negligence, subjected to. But this by the
Way.
I return to the Story. They lived two Years
after this in perfect Retirement, and had no
more Visits from the Savages: They had, indeed,
an Alarm given them one Morning which put them
into a great Consternation; for some of the Spa-
niards being out early one Morning on the West-
Side, or rather the End of the Island, which, by
the1 Way, was that End where I never went, for
fear of being discovered, they were surprized with
seeing above twenty Canoes of Indian, just coming
cm Shore.
They made the best of their Way Home, ia
Hurry enough; and giving the Alarm to their
Comrades, they kept close all that Day and the
next, going out only at Night, to make Obser-
vation: But they had the good Luck to be mi*
{taken; for, wherever the Savages went, they did
not land at that Time in the Island, but pursued
some other Design.
-And now they had another Broil with the three
English Men; one of which, a most turbulent Fel-
low, being in a Rage atone of the three Slaves,
which I had mentioned they had taken, because
the Fellow had not done something right which
lie bid him do, and seemed a little untractable
in his shewing him, drew a Hatchet out <>(*&
Frog-Belt, in which he wrote it by his Side, and
fell upon the poor Savage, not to cdri'ect him, but
to kill him. One of the Spaniards, who was by,
feeing him give the Fellow a barbarous Cut with
the
C<59l
the Hatchet, which he aimed at his Head, but
struck into his Shoulder, so that he thougnt he
had cut the poor Creature's Arm off, ran to hiirf,
and entreated him not to murder the poor Man,
clapt in between him and the Savage, to prevent
the Mischief.
The Fellow being enraged the more at thi£,
struck at the Spaniard with his Hatchet, and
swore he would serve him as he intended to seive
the Savage; which the Spaniard perceiving, avoi-
ded the Blow; and with a Shovel which he had
in his Hand, (for they were all working in the
Field about their Corn-Land) knocked the Brute
down. Another of the English Men running at
the fame Time to help his Comrade, knocked the
Spaniard down; and then two Spaniards more came
in to help their Man, and a third English Man fell
in upon them. They had none of them any Fire-
Arms, or then other Weapons but Hatchets and
other Tools, except this third Engltjh Man; he
had one of my old rusty Cutlasses, with which he
made at the two last Spaniards, and wounded them
both. This Fray set the whole Family in an Up-
roar, and more Help coming in, they took the
three Englijh Men Prisoners. The next Question
was, What should be done with them, they had
been so often mutinous, and were so furious, so
desperate, and so idle withal, that they knew
not what Course to take with them; for they
were misehevous to the highest Degree, and va-
lued not what Hurt they did to any Man; so
rhat, in short, it was not safe to live with them.
The Spaniard, who was Governor, told them
in so many Words, That if they had been of his
own Country, he would have hang'd them; for
all Laws and all Govcrnonrs were co preserve So-
ciety; and those who were dangerous to the So-
f 3 ciety;
ciety, aught to be expelled out of it; but as they
were Englijh Men, and that it was to the gene*
rous Kindness of an Englift Man that they all ow'd
their preservation and Deliverance, he would use
them with all possible Lenity, and would leave
them to the Judgment of the other two English
Men, who were their Countrymen.
One of the two honest Englijh Men stood up,
and said, they desir'd it might not be left to them;
for says he, 1 am sure we ought to sentence them to
the Gallows; and with that gives an Account how
Jp'M. Atkins, one of the three, had proposed to
have all the five Englifi Men join together, and
murder all the Spaniards when they were in their
Sleep.
When the Spaniard Governor heard this, he calls
to Urtlliam Atkins, How, Seignior Atkins, fays he,
would you murder us all? What have you to fay
to that : That hardned Villain w#s so far frpm
denying it, that he said it was true, and G—d
d—n him if they would not do it still before they
had done with them Well, but Seignior Atkiw>
fays the Spaniard, What have we dons' to you,
that you would kill us? And what would you
get by killing us? And what must we do to pre-
vent your killing us? Must we kill you, or yoij
will kill us? Why will you put us to the Neces-
sity of this, Seignior Atkins, fays the Spaniard very
calmly and smiling?
Seignior Atkins was in such a Rage at the Spa-
niard's making a Jest: of it, that had he not been
he'd by three Men, and withal had no Weapons
with him, it was thought he would have attemp-
ted to have kiifd the Spaniard in the Middle of all
the Company.
This hair-brairi'd Carriage obliged them to con-
fer seriously what was to be done. The two
English Men and the Spaniard who savM the poor
Savage, was of the Opinion, they should hang one
ot the three for an Example to the rest, ami that,
particularly, it should be he that lUvl txtficc at-
tempted to commit Murder with his Hatchet-,
and indeed there was some Reason to believe he
had done it, tor the poor Savage was in such a
miserable Condition with the Wound he had re-
ceived, that it was thought he could nor live.
But the Governor Spaniard still said No, it was
an English Man that had sav'd all their Lives, and
he would never consent to put an Englft Man to
Death, tho" he had murdered Half ot them; nay,
he said, if he had been kilPd himself by an English
Man, and had time left to speak, it should be,
that they would pardon him.
This was so positively insisted on by the Go-
vernor Spaniard, that there was no gainsa)ing it;
and as merciful Counsels are most apt to prevail
where they arc so earnestly press \i, so they all
came into it; but then it was to be considered,
what should be done to keep them from doing the
Mischief they design'd; for all agreed, Governor
and all, that Means were to be i:f;.d for preserving
the Society from Danger; after a long Debate it
was agreed, First, That they should be disarmed,
and not permitted to have cither Gun, or Powder
or Shot, or Sword, or ary Weapon, and should
be turned out of the Society, and left to live
where they would, and how Jiey would, by them-
selves \ but that none of the rest, cither '-"s awards
or Eughfi, should converse with rhem, speak with
them, or have any Thing to do with them; that
they should be forbid to come within a certain
Distance of the Place wh. re the rest dwelt; and
that ii: they offered to commit any Dilordcr, so as
to foci, burn, kill, or destroy any of the Corn,
F 4 Plant-
Plantings, Buildings, Fences, or Cattle belonging
to the Society, they should dye without Mercy,
and they would shoot them wherever they could
find them.
The Gpvernour, a Man q( great Humanity
musing upon the Sentence, considers a little up-
on it, and turning to the two honest English Man,
said, Hold, you must reflect, that it will be long
e'er they can raise Corn and Cattle of their own,
#nd they must not starve: We must therefore al*
Jow therp Provisions; so he caus'd to be added,
That they should have a Proportion of Corn gi-
ven th$m to last them eight Months, and for Seed
to sow, by which Time they might be suppos'd
to raise some of their own; that they should have
six Milch-Goats, four He-Goats, and six Kids
given them, as well for present Subsistence, as for
a Store; and that they should have Toob given
them for their Work in the Fields; such as, six
Hatchets, an Axe, a Saw, and the liket But they
should have none of these Tools, or Provisions,
unless they would swear solemnly, that they
would not hurt or injure any of the Spaniards with
them, or of their Fellow English Man.
Thus they dismissed them the Society, and
turn'd them out to shift for themselves. They
went away sullen and refractory, as neither con-
rented to go away, or to stay; but, as there was
no Remedy, they went, pretending, to go and
chuse a Place where they would settle themselves
to plant and live by themselves, and some Provi-
sions were given them, but no Weapons.
About four or live Days after, they came a-
gain for some Victuals, and gave the Governour
an Account where they had pitclrd their Tents,
and mark'd themselves out an Habitation and
^Plantation; and it was a very convenient Place
indeed.
indeed, on the remotest Part of the Island, N. &
much about the Place where I landed in my first;
Voyage, when I was driven out to Sea, the Lord
knows whether, in my Attempt to surround the
Island.
Here they built themselves two handsome
Huts, and contriv'd them, in a Manner, like my
first Habitation, being close under the Side ot* a
Hill, having some *Trees growing already on
three Sides of it, so that by planting others it
would be very eaiily cover'd trom the Sight, un-
less narrowly search ci for; they desir'd some dry'd
Goats-skins for Beds and Covering, which were
given them $ and upon giving their Words, that
they would nor disturb the rest, or injure any of
their Plantations, they gave them Hatchets and
what other Tools they could spare, some Peas,
Barley, and Rice, for lowing, and, in a Word,
any Thing they wanted, but Arms and Ammuni-
tion.
They hVd in this separate Condition about six
Months, and had gotten in their Harvest, thof
the Quantity was but small, the Parcel of Land
they had planted being but little , for indeed, ha-
ving all their Plantation to form, they had a
great deal of Work upon their Hands I And when
they came to make Boards, and Pots, and such
Things, they were quite out ot their Element,
and could make nothing of it; and when the rainy
Season came on, for want of a Cave in the Earth,
they could not keep their Grain dry, and it was
in great Danger of spoiling: And this humbled
them much; so they came and begg'd the Spani-
ards to help them, which they very readily did,
and in four Days work'd a great Hoie in the Side
ot the Hill for them, big enough to secure their
Corn, and other Things irom the Rain; but i>
was
was but a poor Place, at best, compar'd tomine^
and especially as mine was then, for the Spaniards
had greatly enlarged it, and made several new
Apartments in it.
About three Quarters of a Year after this Sepa-
ration, anew Frolick took these Rogues, which,
together with the former Villainy they had com-
mitted, brought Mischief enough upon them, and
bad very near been the Ruin of the whole Colo-
ny: The three new Soeiates began, it seems, to be
weary of the laborious Lise they Jed, and that
without Hope of bettering their Circumstances;
and a Whim took them, that they would make
a Voyage to the Continent from whence the Sa-
vages came, and would try if they could not
seize upon some Prisoners among the Natives
there, and bring them Home, so to make them
do the laborious Part of their Work for them.
The Project was not so preposterous, if they had
gone no farther; but they did nothing, and pro-
posal nothing,' but had either Mischief in the De-
sign, or Mischief in the Event: And if I may give
jny Opinion, they seem'd to be under a Blast from
Jieaven; for if we will not aliow a visible Curse to
pursue visible Crimes, how (hall we reconcile the
Events of Things with the Divine Justice? It was
pertainly an apparent Vengeance on their Crime
of Mutiny and Pyracy, that brought them to the
State they were in; and as they fliew'd not the
least Remorse for the Crime, but added new Vil-
lainies to it, such as, particularly, the Piece of
monstrous Cruelty qf wounding a poor Slave, be-
cause he did not, or perhaps could not, under-
stand to do what he was directed; and to wound
him in such a Manner, as, no Question, made
him a Cripple all his Life; and in a Place where
W Surgeon or Medicine could be had toxhis Cure;
"'' """ '*' and
and what was still worse, the murderous Intent,
pr, to do Justice to the Crime, the intentional
Murder, for such, to be sure it was, as was af-
terwards the form'd Design they all laid, to mur-
der the Spaniards in cold Blood, aud in their
Sleep.
But I leave observing, and return to the Story.
The three Fellows come down to the Spaniards
one Morning, and in very humble Terms desir'd
to be admitted to speak with them; The Sfaith
ards very readily heard what they had to say,
which was this, That they were tir'd of Using
in the Manner they did; that they were not handy
enough to make the Necessaries they wanted $
and that having no Help, they found they should
be starvfd: But if the Spaniards would give them
Leave to take one of the Canoes which they came
over in, and give them Aims and Ammunition,
proportions for their Defence, they would go
over to the Main, and feck their Fortune, and so
deliver them from the Trouble of supplying them
with any other Provisions.
The Spaniards were glad enough to be rid of
them, but yet very honestly represented to them
the certain Destruction they were running into;
told them they had siifser'd such Hardships up-
on that very Spot, that they could, without any
Spirit of Prophesy, tell them, that they would
be starv'd, or be murder'd, and bad them consi-
der of it.
The Men replyM audaciously, they should be
starved if they stay'd here, for they could not
work, and would not work; and they could but be
Jlarv'd Abroad; and if they weremurder'd, there
was an End cf them, they had no Wives or Chil-
dren to cry after them; and in short, insisted im-
jpprtunatcly upon their Demand, declaring, that
they would go, whether they woa!d*give them any
Arms or no.
The Spaniards told them, with great Kindness,
that if they were resolv'd to go, they should
not go like naked Men, and be in no Conditi-
on to defend themselves; and thattho*they could
ill spare their Fire-Arms, having not enough for
themselves, yet they would let them have two
Muskets, a Pistol, and a Cutlass, and each Man
a Hatchet, which they thought was sufficient: for
them.
In a Word, they accepted the Offer, and having
baked them Bread enough to serve them a Month,
and given them as much Goats-Flesh as they
could eat while it was sweets and a great Basket
full of dry'd Grapes, a Pot full of hre(h Water,
and a young Kid alive to kill, they boldly set out
in a Canoe for a Voyage over the Sea, where it
was at leasts Miles broad.
The Boat was indeed a large one, and would
jhave very well carry*d fifteen or twenty Men;
and, therefore, was rather too big for them to
manage: But as they had a fair Breeze, and the
Flood-Tide with them, they did well enough:
They had made a Mast of a long Pole, and a Sail
of four large Goat-Skins dry'd, which they had
sow'd or lac'd together; and away they went mer
nly enough; the Spaniards called after them,
Bon Veyajo; and no Man ever thought of seeing
them any more.
ThcSpaniards would osteji say to one anpther,and
the two honest EpgHJh Men who remained behind,
how quietly and comfortably they liv?d now those
three turbulent Fellows were gone; as for their
ever coming again, that was the remotest Thing
from their Thoughts that could be imagin d;
when behold, after two and twenty Days Absence,
"'""' ope
one of the English -Menu being abroad upon his
Planting-Work, fees three strange Men coming to-
wards him at a Distance, with Guns upon their
Shoulders.
Away runs the 'English Man, as^if he was be-
witch'd, comes frighted and amaz'd to the Go-
vernour Sfainard, and tells him they were all un-
done, for there were Strangers landed upon the I-
iland, he could not tell who. The Spaniard, pau-
sing a while, fays he to him, How do you mean,
you cannot tell who? They are the Savages to be
sure. No, no, says the English Man, they are Men
ip Clothes, with Arms: May, then, fays the Spani*
ard, Why are you concerns? If they are not Sa-
vages, they must be Friends, for there is no Chri-
stian Nation upon Earth, but will do us Good ra-
ther than Harm.
While they were debating thus, comes the
three EngUfh Men, and standing without the
Wood, which was new planted, halloo'd to them;
they presently knew their Voices, and so all the
Wonder of that kind ceas'd. But now the Ad-
miration was turn'd upon another Question, (viz,.)
What could be the Matter, and what made them
come back again 1
It was long before they brought the Men
in, and enquiring where they had been, and what
they had been doing, they gave them a full Ac-
count of their Voyage in a sew Words, (viz*.) That
they reached the Land in two Days, or something
less, but finding the People alarms at their cow
ing, and preparing with Bows and Arrows to fight
them, they durst not go on Shore, but sail'd on to
the Northward six or seven Hours* till they came
lo a great Opening, by which they perceived,
that the Land they saw from our Island was not
the Main, but an Island 5 that jentring that Opining
of
[ 7» I'
of the Sea, they saw another Island cm the Right-
Hand North, and several more West; and being
resolved to land somewhere, they put over to one
of the Islands which lay West, and went boldly
on Shore; that they found the People very cour-
teous and friendly to them, and that they gave
them several Roots, and some dry'd Fish, and ap-
pears very sociable j and the Women, as well as
the Men, were very forward to supply them with
any thing they could get for them to ear, and
brought it to them a great Way upon their Heads.
They continued Jlere four Daysf and enquired,
as well as they could of them by Signs, what Na-
tions were this Way and that Way; and were told
of several fierce and terrible People that liv a al-
most every Way, who, as they ,rnade Signs to
them, used to eat Men. iLr as for themselves,
they said, that they never eac Men or Women, ex-
cept only such as they took in the Wars, and then
they ownM that they made a great Feast, and cat
their Prisoners.
The English Men enquired when they had a Feast
of that Kind, and they told him abouttwo Moons
$g°> pointing to the Moon, and then to two Fin-
gers j and that their great King had two hundred
Prisoners now, which he had taken in his War >
and they were feeding them to make them fat for
the next Feast. The 'English Men seem'd mighty
desirous to fee those Prisoners, but the other mi-
staking them, thought they were desirous to have
some of them to carry away for their own eating-
So they beckon'd to them, pointing to the setting
of, the Sun, and then to the rising, which was to
signify, that the next Morning at Sun-rising they
would bring some for them; and accordingly the
next Morning they brought down five. Women
and eleven Men, and gave them tathe Englijh M&h
to
to carry with them on their Voyage/ just as we
would bring so many Cows and Oxen down to a
Sea-Fort Town, to victual a Ship.
As brutish and barbarous as these Fellows were
at Home, their Stomachs turn'd at this Sight, and
they did not know what to do ,* to refuse the Pri-
soners, would have been the highest Affront to
tire savage Gentry that offered them; and what to
do with them they knew not. However, upon some
Debates, they resolved to accept of them, and in Re-
turn they gave the Savages that brought them one
ot* their Hatchets, an old Key, a Knife, and fix
or seven of their Bullets, which, tho* they did not
understand, they seemM extremely pleas'd with:
And then tying the poor Creatures Hands behind
them, they (the People; dragg'd the poor Priso-
ners into the Boat for our Men.
The English Men were obliged to come away as
soon as they had them, or else they that gave them
this noble Present would certainly have expected
that they should have gone to work with them,
have kiird two or three of them the next Morning,
and perhaps have invited the Donors to Dinner.
But having taken their Leave with all the Re-
spects and Thanks that could well pass between
People, where on either Side they understood not
one Word they could fay, they put off with their
Boat, and came back towards the first Hland, where,
wheri they arriVd, they set eight of their Priso-
ners at Liberty, there being too matiy of them sot
their Occasion.
In their Voyage, they endeavonr'd to have some
Communication with their Prisoners, but it was
impossible to make them understand any Thing*
nothing they could fay to them, or give them,
or do for them, but was lobk'd upon as going a-
bout to murder them. They first ojf all unbound
them
them, but the poor Creatures skream'd at that, e-
specially the Women, as if they had just felt the
Knife at their Throats; for they immediately con-
eluded they were unbound on purpose to be kill'd.
If they gave them any Thing to eat, it was the
fame Thing; then they concluded it was for fear
they should sink in Flesh, and so not be fat enough
to kill. If they look'd at one of them more parti-
cularly, the Party presently conduded, it was to
fee whether he or she was tattest and fittest to kill.
Nay, after they had brought them quite over,
and began to use them kindly* and treat them
well, still they expected every Day to make a Din-
ner or Supper for their new Matters*
When the three Wanderers had given this tin-
accountable History, or Journal of their Voyage
the Spaniard ask'd them, Where their new Family
was? And being told that they had brought them
on Shore, and put them into one of their Hutsj
and were come up to beg some Victuals for them;
they (the Spaniards) and the other two English Men
that is to lay, the who e Colony, resolv'd to go
all doWo to the Piace and fee them, and did so, and
Friday's Father with them.
When they came into the Hut, there they fat all
bound j for when they had brought them on Shore,
they bound their Hands that they might not take
the Boat and make their Escape. There, I fay,
they sat, all of them stark naked. First > There
were three Men, lusty comely Fellows, well
fhap'd, strait and fair Limbs, about thirty to thir-
ty five Years of Age; and five Women, whereof
two might be from thirty to forty, two more not
above four or five and twenty, and the fifth, a
tall comely Maiden about sixteen or seventeen.
The Women were weiifavour'd agreeable Persons,
both in Shape and Features* only tawny, and
two of them, had they been perfect White, would
have passed for very handsome Women even in
London itself, having pleasant agreeable Counte-
nances, and of a very modest Behaviour, especially
when they came afterwards to be cloth a, and
dress'd, as they call'd it, tho* the Dress was very
indifferent, it must be confess'd; of which hereafter.
The Sight, you may be sure, was something
uncouth to out Spaniards, who were (to give them
a just Characters Men of the bell Behaviour, of
the most calm, sedate Tempers, and perfect Good-
humour that ever I met with, and in particular,
of the most Modesty, as will presently appear:
I say, the Sight was very uncouth, to fee two na-
ked Men and five naked Women, all together
bound, and in the most miserable Circumstances
that Human Nature could be supposed to be, viz.
to be expecting every Moment to be dragged our,
and have their Brains knocked out, and then to be
eaten up like a Calf that is kill'd for a Dainty.
The first Thing they did, was to cause the old
Indian, Friday's Father, to go in and see first, if he
knew any of them, and then if he understood any
of their Speech. As soon as the old Man came in,
helook'd seriously at them, but knew none of
them; neither could any of them understand a
Word he said, or a Sign he could make, except
one of the Women.
However, this was enough to answer the End,
which was, to satisfy them, that the Men into
whose Hands they were fallen, were Christians;
that they abhorr'd eating of Men or Women, and
that they might be sure they would not be kilfd.
As^ soon as they were aslurd of this, they disco-
vers such Joy, and by such aukward, and seve-
ral Ways, as is hard to describe; for it seems
they were ot several Nations.
Part II. G The
./"The Woman* who was their Interpreter, was
bid in the next Place to ask them, if they were
willing to be Servants, and to work for the Men
who had brought them away, to save their Lives;
at which they all fell a Dancing •, and presently
one fell to taking up this, and another that, or any
Thing that lay next, to carry on their Shoulders,
to intimate that they were willing to work.
The Governour, who found, that the having
Women among them would presently be attended
with some Inconvenience, and might occasion
some Strife, and perhaps Blood; ask'd the three
Men, what they intended to do with these Wo-
men, and how they intended to use them; whe-
ther as Servants, or as Women; One of the Eng-
lish t Men answered very boldly and readily. That
they would use them as both* To which the Go-
vernor said, I am not going to restrain you from
it, you are your own Masters as to that: But
this 1 think is but just, for avoiding Disorders and
Quarrels amongst you; and I deiire it of you, for
that Reason only, viz,. That you will all engage,
that if any of you take any of these Women, as
a Woman or Wile, that he siiall take but one;
and that having taking taken one, none else should
touch her; for tho' we cannot marry any of you,
yet \is but reasonable, that while you stay here,
the Woman any of you takes, should be maintains
by the Man that takes her, and should be his Wife;
I mean, lavs he, while he continues here, and
that none else siiall have any Thing to do with
her: All this, appeared so just, that every onea-
greed to it without any Difficulty.
. Then the English Men ask'd the Spaniards, if they
designed to take any of them? But every one of
them answer'd, NO: Some of them said, they
haef Wives in Spain-, and the others didnot like
Women
C»J.3
Women that v*ere not Christians; and all toge-
ther dcclar'd, that they would not touch one of
them; which was an Instance of such Virtue as I
have not met with in all my Travels. On *c
other Hand, to be short, the five Englijl Men took
them every one a Wife, that is to lay, a tem-
porary Wife; and so they sec up a new Form ot
Living for the Spaniards and Fridays Father
liv'd fn my old Habitation, which they had en-
larg'd exceedingly within. The three Servants
which were taken in the late Battle of the Sava-
ges, liv'd with them; and these carry'd on the
main Part, of the Colony, supplying all the rest
with Food, and assisting them in any Thing as
they could, or as they found Necessity re-
quir'd.
But the Wonder of this Story was, how five
such refractory, ill-match'd Fellows should agree
about these Women, and that two of them should
not pitch upon the same Women, especially see-
ing two or three of them were, without Compa-
rison, more agreeable than the other: But they
took a good Way enough to prevent quarrelling
among themselves; for they set the five Women
by themselves in one of their Huts, and they
went all into the other Hut, and drew Lots among
them, who fhouldchuse first.
He that drew to chuse first, went away by him-
self to the Hut where the poor naked Creatures
were, and fetch'd out her he chose; and it was
worth observing, that he that chose first took her
that was reckon'd the homeliest, and the oldest ot
the five, which made Mirth enough among the rest j
and even the Spaniards langh'd at it: But the Fel-
low considers better than any of them, that, it
was Application and Businefsthat they wereto ex-
Q % pect
pe&L Assistance in, as much as any Thing else * and
she proved the best Wife of all the Parcel.
When the poor Women saw themselves set in
a Row thus, and fetched out one by one, the Ter-
rors of their Condition returned upon them again,
and they firmly believed that they were now a go-
ing to be devoured; accordingly when the Eng-
lish Sailor came in, and fetched out one of them,
the rest set up a most lamentable Cry, and hung a-
bout her, and took their Leave of her with such
Agonies and such Affection, as would have grie-
ved the hardest Heart in the World; nor was it
possible for the English Men to satisfy them*, that
they were not to be immediately murdered, 'till
they fetched the old Man, Friday's Father, who im-
mediately let them know that the five Men, who
had fetch'd them out one by one, had chosen ^em
for their Wives.
When they had done, and the Fright the Wo-
men were in was a little over, the Men went to
Work, and the Spaniards came and helped them;
and in a few Hours they had built them everyone
anew Hut>or Tent, for their Lodging apart; for
those they had already were crowded with their
Tools, Houstiold-Sciiff and Provision. The three
wicked Ones had pitched farthest off, and the two
honest Ones nearer, but both on the North Shore
of the IQand, so that they continued separate as
before* And thus my Island was peopled in three
Places; and, as I might fay, three Towns were
begun to be planted.
And here 'tis very well worth observing, That
as it often happens in the World (what the wife
Ends of God's Providence are in such a Disposition
of Things, I cannot fay ) the two honest Fellows
had the two worst Wives, and the three Repro-
bates, that were scarce worth hanging, that were
fit for nothing, neither seemed born to do them*
selves Good, or any one else, had three clever, diL
Jigent, careful, and ingenious Wives; not that the
two first were ill Wives as to their Temper or
Humour; for all the five were most willing, quiet,
passive, and subjected Creatures, rather like Slaves
than Wives ,* but my Meaning is9 they were not
alike capable, ingenious, or industrious, or alike
cleanly and neat.
Another Observation I must make, to the Ho-
nour of a diligent Application on one Hand, and
to the Disgrace of a slothful, negligent, idle Tem-
per, on the other, that when I came to the Place,
and viewed the several Improvements, Plantings,
and Management of the several little Colonies, the
two Men had so far out-gone the three, that there
%vas no Comparison. They had indeed both of
them as much Ground laid out for Corn as they
wanted; and the Reason was, because, according
to my Rule, Nature dictated, that it was to no
Purpose to sow more Corn than they wanted, but
the Difference of the Cultivation, of the Planting,
of the Fences, and indeed of every thing else was
«sy to be seen at first View.
The two Men had innumerable young Trees
planted about their Huts, that when you came
to the Place, nothing was to be seen but a Wood,
and tho' they had twice had their Plantations de-
molished, once by their own Countrymen, and
once by the Enemy, as (hall be shewn in its Place;
yet they had restored all again, and every Thing
was thriving and flourishing about them; they
had Grapes planted in Order, and managed like
a Vineyard, rbo* they had themselves never seen
any thing of that Kind; and by their good orde-
ring their Vines, their Grapes were as good again
as any of the others- They had a'so found them-
G 3 selves
t W]
selves out a Retreat in the thickest Part of the
Woods, where5 though there was not a natural
Cave, as 1 had found, yet they made one with
incessant Labour of their Hands, and where when
the Mischief which followed happened, they se-
cured their Wives, and Children, so as they could
never be found; they having by flicking innu-
merable Stakes and Po'es of the Wood, which, as
I said, grew so easily, made the Wood unpayable,
except in som&Places, where they climbed up to
get over the out-side Part, and then went on by
Ways of their, own leaving.
As. to the three Reprobates, as I justly call
them, tho'they were much civilized by their new
Settlement, coitapir^d to what they were before,
and were not so quarrelfom, having not the fame
Opportunity; yet one of the certain Companions
ok.a- profligate Mind never left them, and that
was their Idleness. It is true, they planted Corn,
and made Fences; but Solomon's Words were ne-
ver, better verified than in them. I went by the Vine-
yard of the Slothful, and it was all over-grown with
Thorns; for when the Spaniards came .to view their
Crop, they could not fee it in some Places for
Weeds. The Hedge had several Gaps in it, where
the wild Goats had gotten in9 and eaten up the
Com; perhaps, here and there, a dead Bush was
erarama in, to stop them out for the present,
but it was only shutting the Stable Door after the
Stead was stoln. Whereas, when they looked on
the Colony of the other two, rhere was the ve-
ry Pace of Industry and Success upon all they
<kd:; there vps not a Weed to be seen in all their
Gom, or a Gap in any of their Hedges: And
they on the other Hand verified Solomon s Words in
another Place, "that the diligent Hand maketh rich;
tor every Thing grew and thrived* and they had
":.. Plenty
[870
Plenty within and without; they had more taepe
Cattle than the other, more Utensils and Neces-
saries within Doors, and yet more Pleasure and
Diversion too.
It is true, the Wives of the three were very
handy and cleanly within Doors, and having lear-
ned the English Ways of Dressing and Cooking from
, one of the other English Men, who, as 1 said,
was CookVmate on board the Ship, they dreilcd
their Husbands Victuals very nicely and well;
whereas the other could not be brought to under-
stand it. But then the Husband, who, as I fay,
had been Cook Vmate, did it himself; but as ft^r
the Husbands of the three Wives, they louerd a-
bout, fetch \i Turtles Eggs, and caught Fisli and
Birds: In a Word, any thing but Labour, and
thcy'far'd accordingly. The Diligent liv'd vydl
and comfortably, and the Slothful liv'd hard and
beggarly; aud so 1 believe, generally speaking, it
is all over the World.
But now I come to a Scene different from all
that had happened before, either to them, or to
me; and the Original of the Story was this.
Early one Morning there came on Shore
five or six Canoes of Indians, or Savages, call
them which you please j and there is no Room
to doubt that they came upon die old Errand of
feeding upon their Slaves: But that Part was
now so familiar to the Spaniards, and to our
Men too, that, they did not concern themselves
^bout it, as 1 did; but having been made sensi-
ble by their Experience, that their only Busi-
ness was to lye concealed, and that i( they were
not seen by any of the Savages, they would go
off again quietly when their Business was done,
having as yet not the least Notion of there
Ci 4 being
being any Inhabitants in the Island; I say, ha-
ving been made sensible of this, they had no-
thing to do but to give Notice to all the three
Plantations, to keep within Doors, and not sliew
themselves, only placing a Scout in a proper
Places to give Notice when the Boats went to Sea
again.
This was without doubt very right; but a
Disaster spoiled all these Measures, and made it
known among the Savages, that there were
Inhabitants there, which was in the End the De-
solation of almost the whole Colony; after the
Canoes with the Savages were gone off, the
Spaniards peep'd abroad again, and some of them
had the Curiosity to go to the* Place where they
had been, to see what they had been doing: Here,
to their great Surprize, they found three Sa-
vages left behind, and lying fast asleep upon the
Ground; it was supposed, they had either been
so gorg'd with their inhuman Feast, that, like
Beasts, they were asleep, and would not stir when
the others went, or they were wanderyd into the
Woods, and did not eoi$c back in time to be taken
in.
The Spaniards -were greatly surpriz'd at this
Sight, and ^perfectly at a Loss what to do. The
Spaniard Governour, as it happen'd, was with
them, and his Advice was ask'd, but he prosefs'd
he knew not what to do; &$ for Slaves, they had
etiough already; and as to killing them, they
were none of them inclined to that. The Spaniard
Governour told me, they could not think of shed-
ding innocent Blood, for as to them, the poor
Creatures had done them no Wrong, invaded
none of their Property, and they thought they
had no just Quarrel'against them, to take away
their Lives*
And
And here I must, in Justice to these Spaniards*
observe, that let the Accounts of Spanish Cruelty
in Mexico and Peru, be what they will, I never
met with seventeen Men of any Nation whatso-
ever, in any foreign Country, who were so uni-
versally Modest, Temperate, Virtuous, so very
Good-humour'd, and so Courteous as these Spa-
niards? and as to Cruelty, they had nothing of it
in their very Nature, no Inhumanity, no Barbarity,
no outrageous Passions, and yet all of them Men
of great Courage and Spirit.
Their Temper and Calmness had appeared
in their bearing the unfufferable Usage of the
three English Men; and their Justice and Huma-
nity appear'd now in the Case of the Savages,
as above. After some Consultation, they re-
solv'd upon this, that they would lye still a
while longer, 'till, if possible, these three Men
might be gone; but then the Governour Spaniard
recollected, that the three Savages had no Boar,
and that if they were left to rove about the Ifland,
they would certainly discover that there were
Inhabitants in it, and so they should be undone
that Way.
Upon this, they went back again, and there
lay the Fellows fast asleep still ; so they resolv'd
to waken them, and take them Prisoners, and
they did so. The poor Fellows were strangely
frighted when they were seiz'd upon and bound,
and afraid, like the Women, that they should be
murder'd and eaten; for it seems those People
think all the World does as they do, eating Mens
Flefli; but they were soon made easy as to that,
and away they carry'd them.
It was very happy to them that they did not
carry them Home to their Castle, I mean to my
Palace under the Hill j but they carry'd them
first
first to the Bpwer, where was the chief of their
Country-work, such as the keeping the Goats,
the planting die Corn, &c. and afterwards, they
carry a them to the Habitation of the two £»-
glijh Men.
Here they were set to Work, tho' it was not
much they had for them to do; and whether it
was by Negligence in guarding them, or that they
.thought the Fellows could not mend themselves,
1 know not, but one of them ran away, and
taking into the Woods, they could never hear of
him more.
They had good Reason to believe he got Home
again soon after, in some other Boats or Canoes
ok Savages, who came on Shore three or four
Weeks afterwards, and who, carrying on their Re-
vels as usual, went off again in two Days time.
This Thought.terrify\i them exceedingly; for
they concluded, and thax not without good
Cause indeed, that if this Fellow came safe
Home among his Comrades, he would certainly
give them an Account, that there were People in
the Island, as also how few and weak they were;
for this Savage, as I obferv'd before, had never
been told, and it was very happy he had not, how
many there were, or where they liv'd; nor had he
ever seen or heard the Fire of any of their Guns,
much less had they ihewn him any of their other
retired Places; such as the Cave in the Valley, or
the new Retreat which the two English Men had
made, wd ^)e l&e*
The first Testimony they had that this Fel-
low had given Intelligence of them, was, that
about two Months after this, six Canoes of Sa-
vages, with about seven, or eight, or ten Men
|n a Canoe, coming rowing along the North-jGde
pf the Island* where they never used to come
before,
before? and landed about an Hour aster Sun-
rise, at a convenient Place, about a Mile from
the Habitation of the two Englishmen, where this
dcap'd Man had been kept. As the Spaniard
Governour said, had they been all there, the
Damage would not have been so much, for not a
Man of them would have escaped; but the Case
difter'd now very much, for two Men to fifty
was too much odds: The two* Men had the Hap-
piness to discover them about a League oft, lo
that it was above an Hour before they landed,
and as they landed a Mile from their Huts, it
was some time before they could come at them:
Now having great Reason to believe that they
were betray'd, the first Thing they did, was to bind
the two Slaves which were lett, and cause two
of the three Men, whom they brought, with the
Women, who it seems prov'd very faithful to
them, to lead .them with their two Wives, and
whatever they could carry away with them, to
their retired Place in the Woods* which 1 have
spoken of above, and there to bind the two Fel-
lows Hand and Foot /till they heard farther.
In the next Place, seeing the Savages were all
come on Shore, and that they bent their Course
directly that Way, they open'd the Fences where
their Milch-Goats were kept, and drove them all
out, leaving their Goats to straggle into the
Wood, whither they pleas'd, that the Savages
might think they were all bred wild; but the
Rogue who came with them was too cunning for
that, and gave them an Account of it all j for
they went directly to the Place.
When the two poor frighted Men had secur'd
their Wives and Goods, they sent the other Slave
they had of the three, who came with the Women,
and who was at their Place by Accident, away ro
the
the Spaniards^ with all Speed, to give them the
Alarm, and desire speedy Help; and in the mean
Time they took their Arms, and what Ammuni-
tion they had, and retreated towards the Place in
the Wood, where their Wives were sent, keeping
at a Distance, yet so that they might see, if possi-
ble, which Way the Savages took.
They had not gj>ne far, but that, from a ri-
sing Ground, they could fee the little Army of
their Enemies come on directly to their Habita-
tion, and in a Moment more, could fee all their
Huts and Houfhold-Stuff flaming up together,
to their great Grief and Mortification; for they
had a very great Loss, to them irretrievable, at
least for some Time. They kept their Station
for a while, 'till they found the Savages, like wild
Beasts, spread themselves ail over the Place, rum*
maging every Way, and every Place they could
think of, in Search for Prey, and in particular for
the People, of whom it now plainly appear'd they
had Intelligence.
The two EngUffmen feeing this, thinking them-
selves not secure where they stood, because as
it was likely some of the wild People might
come that Way, so they might come too many
together, thought it proper to make another Re-
treat about half a Mile farther, believing as it
atterwards happened, that the farther they stroll'd,
the fewer would be together.
The next Halt was at the Entrance into a very
thick grown Part of the Woods, and where an old
Trunk of a Tree stood, which was hollow and
vastly large; and in this Tree they both took their
Standing, resolving to see there what might offer.
They had not stood there long, but two of the
Savages appeared running directly that Way, as if
they had already had Notice where they stood,
and
and were coming up to attack them," and a little
Way farther, they spied three more coming after
them, and five more beyond them, all coming the
same Way; besides which, they saw seven or eight
more at a Distance, running another Way; for in
a Word, they ran every Way like Sportsmen beat-
ing for their Game.
The poor Men were now in great Perplexity,
whether they should stand and keep their Posture,
or fly : But after a very sliort Debate with them-
selves, they considered, that if the Savages ranged
the Country thus before Help came, they might'
perhaps find out their Retreat in the Woods, them
all would be lost; so they resolved to stand them
there: And if they were too many to deal with,
then they would get up to the Top of the Tree,
from whence they doubted not to defend them-
selves, Fire excepted, as long as their Ammunition
lasted, tho'all the Savages that were landed, which
was near fifty, were to attack them.
Having resolved upon this, they next considered
whether they should fire at the first two, or wait
for the three, and so take the middle Party, by
which the two and the five that followed would be
separated; and they resolv'd to let the two first
pass by, unless they fliould'spy them in the Tree,
and come to attack them. The two first Savages
also confirmed them in this Regulation, by turning
a little from them towards another Part of the
Wood i but the three, and the five after them,
came forwards directly to the Tree, as if they had
known the English Men were there.
Seeing them come so strait towards them, they
resolved to take them in a Line, as they came;
and as they resolved to fire but one at a time,
perhaps the first Shot might hit them all three.
To which Purpose, the Man who was to sire, put
three
three or four Bullets into his Piece, and having
a fair Loop-hole, as it were, from a broken Hole
in the Tree, he took a sure Aim, without being
seen, waiting till they were within about thirty
Yards of the Tree, so that he could not miss.
While they were thus waiting, and the Sava-
ges came on, they plainly saw, that one of the
three was the Run-away Savage that had escap'd
from them, and they both knew him distinctly,
and resolv'd that if possible, he should not escape,
tho' they should both fire; so the other stood rea-
dy with his Piece, that if he did not drop at the
first Shot, he should be sure to have a second.
But the first was too good a Marksman to miss
his Aim; for as the Savages kept near one ano-
ther, a little behind in a Line, in a Word hefir'd
and hit two of them directly: The foremost was
kill'd outright, being shot in the Head: The fe*
cond, which was the Run-away Indian, wassliot
thro' the Body, and fell, but was not quite dead: And
the third had a little Scratch in the Shoulder, per-
haps by the fame Ball that went thro" the Body of
the second, and being dreadfully frighted, tho1
not much hurt, sat down upon the Ground, skream-
ing and yelling in a hideous mannen
The five that were behind, more frighted with
the Noise than sensible of the Danger, stood still
Et first; for the Woods made the found a thousand
Times bigger than it really was ,* the Echo's rat-
tling from one Side to another, and the Fowls
fifing from all Parts, skreaming and making*
every Sort, a several Kind of Noise, according to
their Kind, just as it was when I fir'd the first
Gun that perhaps was ever shot: off in that Place
since'it was an Island.
However, all being silent again, and they not
knowing what the Matter was* came on uncon-
cerns
ternM, 'till they cime to the Plaee where their
Companions lay in a Condition miserable enough:
And here the poor ignorant Creatures, not sensible
that they were within Reach of the same Mis-
chief, stood ail of a Huddle over the wounded
Man, talking, and, as may be supposed, enquiring
of him, how he came to be hurt; and who, *ti$
very rational to believe, told them, that a Flash of
Fire first, and immediately after that, Thunderfrom
their Gods, had kill'd two and wounded him :This,
I fay, is rational; for nothing is more certain than
that, as they saw no Men near them, so they had
never heard a Gun in all their Lives, or so much
as heard of a Gun; neither knew any Thing of
killing or wounding, at a Distance, with Fire and
Bullets; if they had, one might reasonably be-
lieve, they would not have stood so unconcern'd
in viewing the Fate of their Fellows, without some
Apprehension of their own.
Our two Men, tho', as they confessed to me, it
griev'd them to be obliged to kill so many poor
Creatures, who, at the fame Time had no Notion
of their Danger; yet having them all thus in
their Power, and the first having loaded his Psece
again, resolv'd to let fly both together among
them; and singling out, by Agreement, which to
aim at, they slioc together, andlkill'd, or very much
wounded four of them; the fifth frighted even
to Death, tho* not hurt, fell with the rest : So that
our Men seeing them all fall together, thought
they had kill'd them all.
The Belief that the Savages were all kill'd, made*
our two Men come boldly out from the Tree be*
fore they had charged their Guns again, which
was a wrong Step; and they were under some
Surprise when they came to the Place, and found
nokss than four of the Men alive^ and of them"
two
s?tf]
two very little hurt, and one not at all: Thiso-
blig'd them to fall upon them with the Stocks of
their Muskets; and first they made sure of the
Run-away Savage, that had been the Cause of all
the Mischief, and of another that was hurt in
his Knee, and put them out of their Pain; then
the Man that was not hurt at all, came and
kneefd down to them, with his two Hands
held up, and made piteous Moans to them by
Gestures and Signs, for his Life; but could not
fay one Word to them that they could under-
stand.
However, they sign'd to him to sit down at the
Foot of a Tree thereby; and one of the Englijf)
Men, with a Piece of Rope-Twine which he
had, by great Chance, in his Pocket, ty'd his
two Feet fast together, and his two Hands be-
hind him, and there they left-him; and, with what
Speed they could, made after the other two, which
were gone before * fearing they, or any more of
them, should find the Way to their covered Place
in the Woods, where their Wives, and the few
Goods they had left, lay. They came once in Sight
of the two Men, but it was at a great Distance;
however, they had the Satisfaction to see them
cross over a Valley towards the Sea, the quite con-
trary Way from that which led to their Retreat,
which they were afraid of,- and being satisfy'd
with that, they went back to the Tree, where
they left their Prisoner* who, as they suppos'd,
was delivered by his Comrades; for he was gone,
and the two Pieces of Rope-Yarn, with which
they bound him, lay just at the Foot of the
Tree.
They were now in as great Concern as before,
not knowing what Course to take, or how near
the Bnemy might be, or in what Numbers; so they
resold
rcsoJvYl to go away to the Place where their Wives
were, to fee if all was well there, and to make
them easy, who were in Fright enough to be sure;
fortho' the Savages were their own Country Folk,
yet they were most terribly afraid of them* and
"perhaps the more, for the Knowledge they had
of them.
When they eame there, they found the Savagds
had been in the Wood, and very near that Place,
but had not found it; for it was indeed inaccessi-
ble, by the Trees standing so thick, as before, had
not the Persons seeking it been directed by those
thatkne# it, which these did not; they found
therefore every Thing very safe, only the Women
in a terrible Fright. WliLe they were here, they
had the Comfort to have seven of the Spaniards
come to their Assistance; the other ten, with their
Servants, and old Friday* I mean Friday's Father*
were gone in a Body to defend their Bower, and
the Corn, and Cattle that was kept there, in
Cafe the Savages should have rov'd over to that
Side of the Country; but they did not spread so
far. With the seven Spaniards came one of tha
three Savages who, as I said, were their Priso-
ners formerly; and with them also came the Sa-
vage, whom the Englifl) Men Lad left bound Hand
and Foot at the Tree; for it seems they came that
Way, saw the Slaughter of the seven Men, and
tttiixsund the eighth, and brought him along with
them; where* however, they were oblig'd to bind
him again, as they had the two others, who were
left when the third run away.
The Prisoners begah now to be a Burden to
them; and they were so afraid of their escaping,
that they were once resolving to kill them all, be-
lieving they were under an absolute Necessity to
do so, for their own Preservation* However, th@
Part II. H Spaniard
Spaniard Governour would not consent to it, but
order'd for the present, that they should be sent
out of the Way to my old Cave in the Valley, and
be kept there with two Spaniards to guard them,
and give them Food for their Subsidence, which
was done; and they were bound there Hand and
Foot for that Night.
When the Spaniards came, the two Englifl) Men
were so encourag'd, that they could not satisfy
themselves to stay any longer there; but taking
five of the Spaniards, and themselves, with four
Muskets and a Pistol among them3 and two stout
Quarter-Staves, away they went in Quest of the
Savages. And first uheycame to the Tree where the
Men lay that had been kill'd \ but it was easy to
see, that some more of the Savages had been there;
for they had attempted to carry their dead Men
away, and had dragg'd two of them a good Way*
but had given it over. From whence they advane'd
to the first rising Ground, where they stood, and saw
their Camp destroy'd, and where they had the
Mortification still to see some of the Smoke; but
neither could they here see any of the Savages.
They then resolv'd, tho5 with all possible Caution,
to go forwards towards their ruinM Plantation.
But a little before they came thither, coming in
Sight of the Sea Shore, they saw plainly the Sava-
ges all embarking again in their Canoes, in order
to be gone.
They seemM sorry at first; and there was no
Way to come at them, to give them a parting
Blow: But upon the whole, were very well satis-
fy *d to be rid of them.
The poor English Men being now twice ruin'd*
and all their improvement destroy'd, the rest all
agree to come and help them to rebuild, and to
assist them with needful Supplies. Their three
Country-
Countrymen, who were not yet noted for having
the least Inclination to any Good, yet as soon as
they heard of it (for they living remote Eastward,
knew nothing of the Matter 'till all was over) came
and ofter'd their Help and Assistance, and did very
friendly work for several Days, to restore their
Habitation, and make Necessaries for them: And
thus, in a little Time, they were set upon their
Legs again.
About two Days after this, they had the far-
ther Satisfaction of feeing three of the Savages
Canoes come driving on Shore, and at some Di-
stance from them, two drown'd Men; by which
they had Reason to believe, that they had met
with a Storm at Sea, and had overset some of
them; for it had blown very hard the very Night
after they went off.
However, as some might miscarry, so on the
other Hand, enough of them escap'd to inform the
rest, as well of what they had done, as of what
had happen'd to them; and to whet them on to a-
nother Enterprise of the fame Nature, which they,
it seems, refolv'd to attempt, with sufficient Force
to carry all before them; for except what the first
Man had told them of Inhabitants, they could fay
little to it of their own Knowledge; for they ne-
ver saw one Man, and the Fellow being kill'd
that hid affirmJd it, they had no other Witness to
confirm it to them.
It was five or six Months after this, before they
heard any more of the Savages; in which Time
our Men were in Hopes they had either forgot
their former bad Luck, of given over the Hopes
of better; when on a sudden they were invaded
with the molt formidable Fleet, of no less than
eight and twenty Canoes full of Savages, atm'd
with Bows and Arrows, great Clubs, wooden
H % Swords*
Swords, and such like Engines of War; ami
they brought such Numbers with them, that in
short, it put all our People into the utmost Con-
sternation.
As they came on Shore in the Evening, and at
the Easter-most Side of the Island, our Men had
that Night to consult and consider what to do;
and, in the first Place, knowing that their being
entirely concealed, was their only Safety before,
and would much more be so now, while the Num-
ber of their Enemies was so great, they therefore
resolved first of all to takedown the Huts which
were built for the two English Men, and drive
away their Goats to the old Cave; because they
suppos'd the Savages would go directly thither, as
soon as it^was Day, to play the old Game over
again, tho' they did not now land within two
Leagues of it.
In the next Place, they drove away all the Flock
of Goats they had at the old Bower, as I cali'd it,
which belonged to the Spaniards; and in sliortjesc
as little Appearance of Inhabitants any where as
was possible; and the next Morning early they
posted themselves with all their Force at the Plan-
tation of the two Men, waiting for their Coming.
As they guess'd, so it happened: These new Inva-
ders leaving their Canoes at the East End of the
Island, came ranging along the Shore directly to-
wards the Place, to the Number of two hundred
and fifty, as near as our Men could judge. Our
Army was but small indeed; but that which was
worse, they had not Arms for all their Number
neither. The whole Account, it seems, stood
thus. First, as to the Men,
1J Spaniards.
5 English Men.
i Old
I Old Friday j or Friday's Father.
3 The three Slaves taken with the Women;
prov'd very faithful.
3 Other Slaves who liv'd with the Spaniards.
To arm these, they had>
ii Muskets.
5 Pistols.
3 Fowling Pieces.
5 Mustets or Fowling Pieces, which were
taken by me from the mutinous Seamen,
whom I reduc'd.
% Swords, 3 o!d Halberds.
To their Slaves they did not give either Mus-
ket or Fuzee, but they had every one a Halberd*
or a long Staffs like a Quarter-Staff, with a great
Spike of Iron fastned into each End of it, and
by his Side a Hatchet; also every one of our Men
had Hatchets. Two of the Women could not be
prevailed upon but they would come into the
Fight; and they had Bows and Arrotvs, which
the Spaniards had taken from the Savages, whett
the first Action happened, which I have spoken of,
where rhe Indians fought with one another, and
the Wcrmen had Hatchets too.
The Spaniard Governor, whom I have described
so often, commanded the whole; and WiUiam At-
kins j who, though a dreadful Fellow for Wicked-
ness, was a most daring bold Fellow ; commanded
under him. The Savages came forward like Lk
ons, and our Men which was the worst of their
Fate, had no Advantage in their Situation i on-
ly that William Atkins, who now proved a most
lieful Fellow, with six Men was planted just be-
hind a small Thicket of Buftes, as an advanced
H 3 Guard,
Guard, with Orders to let the first of them
pass by, and then fire in the Middle of them;
and as soon as he had fired, to make his Re-
treat as nimble as he could, round a Part of
the Wood, and so come in behind the Spaniards
where they stood, having a Thicket of Trees all
before them.
When the Savages came on, they run strag-
ling about every Way in Heaps, out of all man-
ner of Order, and William Atkins let about fifty of
them pass by him; then seeing the rest come in a
very thick Throng, he orders thre^ of his Memo
fire, having loaded their Muskets with six or se-
ven Bullets a piece, about as big as large Pistol
Bullets. How many they killM or wounded they
knew not, but the Consternation and Surprize
was inexpressible among the Savages; they were
frighted to the last Degree, to hear such a dread-
ful Noises and see their Men killed, and others
hurt, but fee no Body that did it; when in
the Middle of their Fright, William Atkins and
his other three, let fly again among the thickest
of them; and in less than a Minute the first
three, being loaded again, gave them a third
Volley.
Had William Atkins and his Men retired im-
mediately, as soon as they had fir'd, as they were
ordered to do; or had the rest of the Body been
at Hand to have poureci in their Shot continually,
the Savages had been effectually routed; for the
Terror that was among them, came principally
from this, (viz,. ) That they were killed by the
Gods with Thunder and Lightning, and could fee
no Body that hurt them; but William Atkins stay-
ing to load again, discovered the Cheat. Some ot
the Savages, who were at a Distance, spying them*
came upon them behind, and though Atkim and
his
his Men fir\l at them also, two or three Times,
and killed above twenty, retiring as fast as they
could, yet they wounded Atkins himself, and kil-
led one of his Fellow English Men with their Ar-
rows, as they did afterwards one Spaniard) and
one of the Indian Slaves who came with the Wo*
men. This Slave was a most gallant Fellow, and
fought most desperately, kilkd five of them with
his own Hand, having no Weapon, but one of the
arm'd Staves, and a Hatchet.
Our Men being thus hard laid at, Atkins woun-
ded, and two other Men killed, retreated to a
rising Ground in the Wood; and the Spaniards,
aster firmg three Vollies i.pon them, retreated al-
so; for their Number was so great, and they
were so desperate, that though above fifty of them
were killed, and more than so many wounded,
yet they came on in the Teeth of our Met?, fear-
less of Danger, and (hot their Arrows like a
Cloud j and it was observed, that their woun-
ded Men, who were not quite disabled, were made
outrageous by their Wounds, and fought like Mad-
men.
When our Men retreated, they left the Spaniard
and the English Man that was kiMed behind them;
and the Savages, when they came up to them,
killed them over again in a wretched Manner,
breaking their Arms, Legs and Heads, with their
Clubs and wooden Swords, like true Savages: But
finding our Men were gone, they did not seem to
pursue them, but drew themselves up in a Kind
ot a Ring, which is5 it seems, their Custom, and
shouted twice in Token of their Victory. After
which, they had the Mortification to see several
of their wounded Men fall, dying with the mcer
Loss of Blood.
H 4 The
The Spaniard Governor having drawn his little
Body up together upon a rising Ground, Atkim,
though he was wounded, would have had him
marched, and charged them again altogether at
once: But the Spaniard reply'd, Seignior Aikm%
you fee how their wounded Men fight, let them
alone till Morning; all these Vounded Men will
be stiff and sore with their Wounds, and faint with
the Loss of Blood; and so we shall have the sew-
er to engage.
The Advice was good: But William Atkins re-
plied merr.ly, That's true, Seignior, and so shall
I too; and that's the Reason I would go on
while I am warm. Well, Seignior Atkins, fays the
Spaniards you have behaved gallantly, and* done
your Part j we will fight for you, if you cannot
come on; but I think it best to stay 'till Morning:
So they waited.
But as it was a clear Moon-light Night, and
they found the Savages in great^Disorder about
their dead and wounded Men, and a great Hur-
ry and Noise among them where they lay, they
afterwards resolved to fall upon them in the Night,
especially if they could come to give them but one
Volley before they were discovered, which they
had a fair Opportunity to do ; for one of the two
fLngtijh Men, in whose Quarter it was where
the Fight began, led them round/between the
Woods and Sea-fide Westward, and then turning
short South, they came so near where the thickest
pf them lay, that before they were seen or heard,
(Mgbtof them fir'd in among them, and did dread-
ful Execution upon them, In Half a Minute
snore, eight others fired after them, pouring in
their Small Shot in such a Quantity, that Abun-
dance were killed and wounded; ^nd all this while
they
they were not able to see who hurt them, or
which Way to fly.
The Spaniards charged again with the utmost
Expedition, and then divided themselves into three
Bodies, and resolved to fall in among them alto-
gether. They had in each Body eight Persons, that
is to fay, 24, whereof were 22 Men, and the two
Women, who by the Way fought desperately.
They divided the Fire-Arms equally in each
Party, and so of the Halberds and Staves. They
would have had the Women keep back, but they
said, they were resolv'd to die with their Husbands.
Having thus formed their little Array,they marched
out from among the Trees, and they came up to
the Teeth of the Enemy, shouting and hallooing as
loud as they could. The Savages stood all toge-
ther, but were in the utmost Confusion, hearing
the Noise oi our Men stiouting from three Quar-
ters together; they would have fought if they had
seen us. And as soon as we came near enough to
be seen, some Arrows were fliot, and poor old
Friday was wounded, tho1 not dangerously. But
our Men gave them no Time; but running up
to them, sired among them three Ways, and then
fell in with the But-ends of their Muskets, their
Swords, arm'd Staves, and Hatchets, and laid a-
bout them so well, that in a Word, they set up a
dismal Streaming and Howling, flying to save their
Lives, which Way soever they could.
Our Men were tired with the Execution; and
killed, or mortally wounded, in the two Fights,
about 180 of them 1 the rest, being frighted out
of their Wits, scour'd through the Woods, and
over the Hills, with all the Speed and Fear that
nimble Feet could help them to do; and as we
did not trouble our selves much to pursue them,
|he^ get altogether to the Sea Side, where they
landed^
landed, and where their Canoes lay. But their
Disaster was not at an End yet; for it blew a ter-
rible Storm of Wind that Evening from the
Seaward, so that it was impossible for them to «q
off; nay, the Storm continuing all Night, when
the Tide came up, their Canoes were most of them
driven by the Surge of the Sea so high upon the
Shore, that it requir'd infinity Toil to get them
off; and some of them were even dafh'd to Pieces
against the Beach, or against one another.
Our Men, tho* glad of their Victory, yet got
little Rest that Nignt; but having refreshed them*
selves as well as they could, they resolv'd to march
to that Part of the Island where the Savages were
fled, and fee what Posture they were in. This
necessarily led them over the Place where the
Fight had been, and where they found several ot
the poor Creatures not quite dead, and yet past re?
covering Life; a Sight disagreeable enough to
generous Minds; for a truly great Man, tho' ob-
liged by the Law of Battle to destroy his Enemy,
takes no Delight in his Misery.
However, there was no Need to give any Or-
ders in this Cafe; for their own Savages, who
were their Servants, dispatched those poor Crea-
tures with their Hatchets.
At length they came in View of the Place
where the more miserable Remains of the Savages
Army lay, where there appeared about an hundred
still; their Posture was generally sitting upon the
Ground, with their Knees up towards their Mouth,
and the Head pu*between the two Hands, leaning
down upon the Knees.
When our Men came within two Musket Shot
of them, the Spaniard Governor ordered two Mui-
kets to be sir'd without Ball, to alarm them;
this he did, that by their Countenance he might
know
know what to expect, v&. Whether they were
still in Heart to fight, or were so heartily beaten,
as to be dispirited and discourag'd, and so he might
manage accordingly.
This Stratagem took 5 for, as soon as the Rava-
ges heard the first Gun, and saw the Flash of
the second, they started up from their Feet in the
greatest Consternation imaginable -, and as our
Men advanced swiftly towards them, they all ran
skreaming and yawling away, with a kind of a
howling Noise, which our Men did not under-
stand, and had never heard before; and thus they
ran up~the Hills into the Country.
At first, our Men had much rather the Weather
had been calm, and they had all gone away to
Sea: But they did not then consider that this
might probably have been the Occasion of their
coming again in such Multitudes, as not to be
resisted, or, at least, to come so many, and so of-
ten," as would quite desolate the Island, iand starve
them. Will Atkins therefore, who, notwithstand-
ing his Wound, kept always with them, prov'd
the best Counsellor in this Cafe: His Advice was,
to take the Advantage that offer'd, and clap in
between them and their Boats, and so deprive
them of the Capacity of ever returning any more
to plague the liland.
They consulted long about this, and some were
against it, for fear of making the Wretches fly
to the Woods, and live there desperate ; and so
they should have them to hunt like wild Beasts,
be afraid to stir out about their Business, and have
their Plantations continually rifled, all their tame
Goats destroys, and, in short, be redue'd to a
Life of continual Distress.
Will. Atkins told them, they had better have
to do with a hundred Men, than with a hundred
Na-
Nations : That as they must destroy their Boats,
io they must destroy the Men, or be all of them
destroy a themselves. In a Word, he shewM them
the Ncceslity of it so plainly, that they all
came into it; so they went to work immediate-
ly with the Boats, and getting some dry Wood
together from a dead Tree, they try'd to set
some on them on Fire, but they were so wet, that
they would not burn; however, the Fire so burn'd
the upper Part, that it soon mlde them unfit for
swimming in the Sea as Boats. When the Indians
saw what they were about, some of them came
running out of the Woods, and coming as near as
they could to our Men, kneel'd down, and cry'd,
Oa, 0a, Wuramokciy and some other Words of
their Language, which none ot the others under-
stood any thing of; but as they made pitiful Ge-
stures, and strange Noises, it was easy to under-
stand! they begg'd to have their Boats spar'd,
and that they would be gone, and never come
there again.
But,our Men were now satisfy \1» that they
had no Way to preserve themselves, or to save
their Colony, but effectually to prevent any of
these People from ever going Home again; de-
pending upon this, that if ever so much as one
of them got back into their Country to tell the
Story, the Colony was undone; so that letting
them know that they should not have any Mer-
cy, they fell to work with their Canoes, and de-
stroys them every one, that the S.qrm had not
destroy'd before; at the Sight of which, the Sa-
vages rais'd a hideous Cry in the Woods, which
oar People heard plain enough; after which, they
ran about the Ifland like distracted Men ; so that,
in a Word, our Men did not really know at first
what to do with them.
Nor
Nor did the Spaniards, with all their Pru-
dence, consider, that while they made those
People thus desperate, they ought to have
kept good Guard at the same Time upon their
Plantations; for tho' it is true, they had driven
away their Cattle, and the Indians did not find
out their main Retreat, 1 mean my old Castle
at the Hill, nor the Cave in the Valley, yet
they found out my Plantation at the Bower,
and pull'd it all to LJkces9 and ail the Fences and
Planting about it; trod all the Corn under
Foot; tore up the Vines and Grapes, being just
then almost ripe, and did to our Men an ine-
stimable Damage, tho* to themselves not one Far-
thing-worth of Service.
Tho' our Men were able to fight them upon
all Occasions, yet they were in no Condition to
pursue them, or hunt them up or down; for as
they were too nimble of Foot for our Men, when
they found them (ingle, so our Men durst not
go about singlej for fear of being surrounded with
their Numbers. The best was, they had no
Weapons; for tho* they had Bows, they had no
Arrows left, nor any Materials to make any, nor
had they any edg'd Tool or Weapon among
them.
The Extremity and Distress they were reduc*d
to was great, and indeed deplorable j but at the
fame Time, our Men were also brought to very
bad Circumstances by them; for tho' their Re- ,
treats were preserved, yet their Provision was
destroys, and their Harvest spoiTd, and what to
do, or which Way to turn themselves, they knew
not: The only Refuge they had now, was the Stock
of: Cattle they had in the Valley by the Cave,
and some little Corn which grew there; and the
Plantation of the three Englishmen^ William At*
kins
him and his Comrades, who were now reduc'd
to two, one of them being kilfd by an Arrow,
which struck him on the Side of his Head,
just under the Temple, so that he never spoke
more; and it was very remarkable, that this
was the fame barbarous Fellow who cut the
poor Savage Slave with his Hatchet, and who
afterwards intended to have murder'd all the
Spaniards.
I looked upon this Cafe to hare been worse
at this Time, than mine was at any Time, after
I first discovers the Grains of Barley and Rice,
and got into the Manner of planting and raising
my Corn, and my tame Cattle ,• for now they
had, as I may fay, a hundred Wolves upon the
Island, which would devour every Thing they
could come at, yet could very hardly be come at
themselves.
The first Thing they concluded, when they saw
what their Circumstances were, was that they
would, if possible drive them up to the farther
Part of the Island, South-West, that if any more
Savages came on Shore, they might not find one
another. Then, that they would daily hunt and
harrafs them, and kill as many of them as they
could come at, till they had reduced their Num-
ber; and if they could at last tame them, and
bring them to any Thing, they would give them
Corn, and teach them how to plant and live up-
on their daily Labour.
In order to this, they so followM them, and so
terrify'd them with their Guns, that in a few
Days, if any of them fir'd a Gun at an Indian* if
he did not hit him, yet he would fall down for
Fear; and so dreadfully frighted they were, that
they kept out of Sight farther and farther, till at
last
last our Men following them, and every Day al-
most lulling and wounding some of them, they
kept up in the Woods and hollow Places so much,
that it reduced them to the utmost Misery for
Want of Food, and many were afterwards found
dead in the Woods, without any Hurt, butmeer-
lv starv'd to Death.
'When our Men found this, it made their
Hearts relent, and Pity mov'd them; especially
the Spaniard Governour, who was the most gentle-
manly generous-minded Man that ever I met with
in my Life; and he proposed, if possible, to take
one of them alive, and bring him to understand
what they meant, so far as to be able to act as
Interpreter, and to go among them, and fee if
they might be brought to some Conditions, that
might be depended upon, to save their Lives, and
to do us no Spoil.
It was some while before any of them could
be taken; but being weak and half starved, one
of them was at last surpnVd and made a Priso-
ner : He was sullen at first, and would neither
eat or drink; but finding himself kindly used,
and Victuals given him, and no Violence offered
him, he at last grew tractable, and came to
himself.
They brought old Friday to him, who talked
often with him, and told him how kind the other
would be to them all; that they would not only
save their Lives, but would give them a Part of
the Island to live in, provided they would give
Satisfaction that they would keep in.their own
Bounds, and not come beyond it, to injure or
prejudice others, and that they should have Corn
given them, to plant and make it grow for their
Bread, and some Bread given therti for their pre-
sent Subsistence ,* and old Friday bad the Fellow
go and talk with the rest of his Countrymen;
and fee what they said to it, assuring them, that
if they did not agree immediately, they should
be all destroy'd;
The poor Wretches, thoroughly humbled, and
reduced in Number to about thirty seven, clos'd
with the Proposal at the first Offer, and begg'd
to have some Food given( them; upon which,
twelve Spaniards and two Englifl) Men well arm'd,
with three Indian Slaves, and old Friday, march'd
to the Place where they were; the three Indian
Slaves carry'd them a large Quantity of Bread,*
some Rice boil'd up to Cakes, and dry'd in the
Sun, and three live Goats; and they were or-
der'dtogoto the Side of a Hill, where they
fat down, eat the Provisions very thankfully,
and were the most faithful Fellows to their Words
that could be thought of; for except when they
came to beg Victuals and Directions, they never
came out ot their Bounds; and there they liv'd
when I came to the Island, and I went to see
them.
They, had taught them both to plant Corn*
make Bread, breed tame Goats, and milk them ,•
they wanted nothing but Wives, and they scon
would have been a Nation. They were con-
fin'dto a Neck of Land, surrounded with high
Rocks behind them, and lying plain towards the
Sea before them, on the South-East Corner of
the Ifland: They had Land enough, and it was
very good and fruitful; they had a Piece of
Land about a Mile and half broad, and three or
four Mile in Length.
Our Men taught them to make wooden
Spades, such as I made for myself, and gave
them among them twelve Hatchets, and three
or four Knives; and there they liv'd the most
sub*
Ubjeded innocent Creatures that ever wert
heard of. #
After this, the Colony enjoy d a perfect Irart-
quillity with Resped to the Savages* till I came
to revisit them, which was above two Years:
Not, but that now and then some Canoes of Sa-
vages came on Shore for their triumphal unnatu-
raf Feasts; but as they were of several Nations,
and perhaps had never heard of those that came
before, or the Reason of it, they did not make
any Search or Enquiry after their Countrymen;
and if they had, it would have been very hard to
have found them out.
Thus, I think, I have given a fall Account
of all that happened to them, to my Return, at
least that was worth Nonce. The Indians or Sa*
vages were wonderfully civiliz'd by them, and
they frequently went among them, but forbid,
on Pain of Death, any of the Indians coming
to them, because they would not have their Set-
tlement betray*d them.
One Thing was very remarkable, viz. that
they taught the Savages to make Wicker-work*
or Baskets; but they soon outdid their Masters;
for thefy made Abundance of most ingenious
Things in Wicker-work ,• particularly, ail Sorts
of Baskets, Sieves, Bird-Cages, Cup-boards, &&
as also Chairs to sit on, Scools, Beds, Coaches,
and Abundance of other Things, being very in-
genious at such Work, when they were once put
in the Way of it.
My coming was a particular Relief to these
People, because we furnisli'd them with Knives,
Scistars, Spades, Shovels, Pick-axes, and all Things'
of that Kind which they could want
With the Help of these Tools th£y were so
very handy, that they came at last to build*
Part II. I up
up their HutSt 6c our Houses, very handsomely;
raddling or working it up like Basket-work
all the way round, which was a very extraor-
dinary Piece of Ingenuity, and lookM very odd,-
but was an exceeding good Fence, as well against
Heat, as against all Sorts of Vermin; and
our Men were so taken with it, that they got
the wild Savages to come and do the like for
them; so that when I came to fee the two Eng-
lish Mens Colonies, they look'd, at a Distance,
as if theyliv'd al! like Bees in a Hive. And as
for Will Atkins^ who was now become a very in-
dustrious, necessary, and sober Fellow, he had made
himself such a Tent of Basket-work as I believe
was never seen,* it was 120 Paces round in the
Out-side, as I meafur'd by my Steps; the Walls
were as close work'd as a Basket in Pannels, ot
Squares, of 32 in Number, and very strong,
standing about seven Foot high. In the Middle
was another not above 22 Pac^es round, but
built stronger, being Eight-square in its Form;
and in the eight Corners stood eight very strong
Posts, round the Top of which he laid strong
Pieces pinn'd together with wooden Pins, from
which he rais'd a Pyramid for the Roof, of eight
Rafters, very handsome, I assure you, and join'd
together very well, tho' he had no Nails, and
only a few Iron Spikes, which he made him-
self too, out of the old Iron that I had left
there; and indeed this Fellow stew'd Abundance
of Ingenuity in several Things, which he had
no Knowledge of. He made him a Forge, with
a Pair of wooden Bellows to blow the Fire ; he
made himself Charcoal for his Work, and he
form'd out of one of the Iron Crows a middling
good Anvel to hammer upon; in this Manner
he made many Things, but especially Ifooks,
Staples,
Staples, and Spikes, Bolts and Hinges. But to re-
turn to the House ,• after he had pitched the Roof
of his innermost Tent, he work'd it up be-
tween the Rafters with Basket-work, so firm,
and thatclui that over again so ingeniously
with Rice-straw, and over that a large Leaf of
a Tree, which covered the Top, that his House
was as dry as if it had been til'd or slated. In-
deed he own'd that the Savages made the Basket-
work for him.
The outer ^Circuit was covered, as a Lean-to,
all round this inner Apartment, and long Rafters
lay from the two and thirty Angles to the top
Posts of the inner House, being about twenty Foot
Distance * so that there was a Space like a Walk
within the outer Wicker-wall, and without the in-
ner, near twenty Foot wide.
The inner Place he partitions off with the
fame Wicker-work, but much fairer, and di-
vided it into six Apartments, so that he had
six Rooms oh a Floor; and out of every one of
these there was a Door, first into the Entry or
Coming into the main Tent, and another Door
into the Space or Walk that was round it; so
that Walk was also divided into six equal Parts,
wJikh scrv'd not only for Retreat, but to store
up any Necessaries which the Family had Oc-
casion for. These six Spaces not taking up the
whole Circumference, what other Apartments
the outer Circle had, were thus orderU As soon
as you were in at the Door of the outer Circle,
you had a short Passage strait before you to
the Door of the inner House, but on either
Side was a Wicker Partition, and a Door in L
by which you went, first, into a large Room
or Store-house, twenty Foot wide, and about thip»
ty Foot long, and thro* that into another not
* z quite
quite so long; so that in the outer Circle wa$
ten handsome Rooms, fix of which were on-
ly to be come at thro' the Apartments of the
jinner Tenti and scrvM as Closets or retiring
/Rooms to the respective Chambers of the inner
Circle; and four large Ware-houses or Barns, or
what you please to call them, which went in
jthro' one another, two on either Hand of the
^Passage, that led thro* the outer Door to the in-
jner Tent.
Such a Piece of Basket-work, I believe, was
bnever seen in the World, nor a House, or Tent,
so neatly contriv'd, much less, so built. In this
great Bee-hive liv'd the three Families, that
is to fay, WiU. Atkins and his Companion; the
third was kilfd, but his Wife remained with
three Children; for flic was, it seems, big with
Child when he dy'd, and the other two were not
at all backward to give the Widow her full Share
of every Thing, I mean, as to their Corn, Milk,
Grapes, &c and when they kill'd a Kid, or
found a Turtle on the Shore; so that they all
liv'd well enough, tho' it was true, they were
not so industrious as the other two, as has been
obferv'd already.
One Thing, however, cannot be omitted, viz.
That is for Religion, I don't know that there
was any Thing of that Kind among them j they
pretty often indeed put one another in Mind that
there was a God, by the very common Method
of Seamen, m. Swearing by his Name: Nor
were their poor ignorant Savage Wives much the
better for having been marry'd to Christians, as
we must call them > for as they knew very little
of God themselves, so they were utterly uncapa-
bkt of entering into any Discourse with their Wives
about
about a God, or to talk any thing to them con-
cerning Religion.
The utmost of all the Improvement which I
can say the Wives had made from them, was,
that they had taught them to speak English pret-
ty well, and all the Children they had, which
were near 20 in all, were taught, to speak English
too, from their first learning to speak, tho* they
at first: spoke it in a very broken Manner, like
their Mothers. There were none of these Chil-
dren above six Years old when I came thithe?, for
it was not much above seven Years that they had
fetched these five Savage Ladies over, but they had
all been pretty fruitful, for they had all Children,
more or less: I think the Cook's Mate's Wife was
big of her sixth Child; and the Mothers were al
a good Sort of well-govern'd, quiet, laborious Wo-
men, modest and decent, helpfiil to one another;
mighty observant and subject to their Masters, I
cannot call them Husbands; and wanted nothing
but to be well instructed m the Christian Reli-
gion, and to be legally marry'd; both which were
happily brought about afterwards by my Means,
or, at least, in Consequence of my coming among
them.
Having thus given an Account of the Colony
in genera', and pretty much of my five Runagate
English Men, 1 must fay something of the Spaniards^
who were the main Body of- the Family; arid in
whose Story there are some Incidents also remark-
able enough.
I had a great many Discourses with them about
their Circumstances when they were among the
Savages: They told me readily, that they had
no Instances to give of their Application or Inge^
unity in that Country; that they were a poor
I 3 raife
miserable dejected Handful of People •, that if
Means had been put into their Hands, they had
ytt so abandons themselves to Despair, and so
sunk under the Weight of their Misfortunes,
that they dioughtof nothing but Starving: One
of them* a grave and very sensible Man, told
me, he was convinc'd they were in the Wrong;
that it was not the Part of wife Men to give up
themselves to their Misery, but always to take
Hold of the Helps which Reason offer'd, as well
for present Support, as for future Deliverance.
fcse told me, that Grief was the most senseless
insignificant Passion in the World •, for that it
regarded only Things past, which were gene-
rally impossible to be recalls or to be remedy'd,
but had no View to Things to come, and had no
Share in any Thing that look'd like Delive-
rance, but rather added to the Affliction, than
propos'd a Remedy: And upon this, he repeated
aSpanifl) Proverb; which tho' I cannot repeat
in just the fame Words that he spoke in, yet I re-
member I made it into an English Proverb of my
own, thus:
In Trouble to be troubled.
Is to have your Trouble daubs d.
He ran on then in Remarks upon all the little
Improvements I had made in my Solitude; my
-un.weary'd Application, as he call'd it, and how
I had made a Condition, which, in its Circum-
stances, was at first much worse than theirs a
thousand Times, more happy than theirs was,
.even now, when they were all together. He
told me, it was remarkable, that English Men
had a greater Presence of Mind in their Distress,
than any People that ever he met with*, that
their
thcitunhappy Nation, and the Portuguese, were
the worst Men in the World to struggle witft
Misfortunes; For their first Step in Dangers, af-
ter the common Efforts are over, was always to
despair, Ik down under k^ and die, without
rousing their Thoughts up to proper Remedies
for Escape.
I told him, their Case and mine differ'd exceed-
ingly,, that they were cast upon the Shore with-
out Necessaries, without Supply of Food, ofy of
present Sustenance, till they could provide:
That it is true, I had this Disadvantage and Dis-
comfort, that I was alone; but then the Supplies
I had providentially thrown into my Hands,
by the unexpected driving of the Ship on Shore*
was such a Help, as would have encourag'd any
Creature in the World to have applied himself
as I had done. Seignior, fays the Spaniard, had
we poor Spaniards been in your Case, we should
never have gotten half those Things out of the
Ship, as you did: Nay, fays he, we should ne-
ver have found Means to have gotten a Raft to
carry them, or to have gotten the Raft on Shore
without Boat or Sail > and how much less should
we have done, said he, if any of us had been a-
lone? Well, I desired him to abate his Compli-
ment, and goon with the History of their com*
ing on Shore, where they landed: He told me,
they unhappily landed at a Place where there
were People without Provisions; whereas, had
they had the common Sense to have put off to Sea
again, and gone to another Island a little farther,
they had found Provisions, tho' without People*
there being an Island that Way, as they have been
told5 where there was Provisions, tho* no Peo-
ple^ that is to fay, Thntht Spaniards of Trinidad
had frequently 'been there , and had fill'd the
I 4 * Island
Island with Goats and Hogs at several Times;
where they have bred in such Multitudes, and
where Turtle and Sea-Fowls were in such Plenty,
that they could ha'been in no Want of Flesh., tho*
they had found tie Bread; whereas here, they
were only sustain'd with a few Roots and Herbs,
which they understood not, and which had no
Substance in them, and which the Inhabitants
gave them sparingly enoughs and who could
tre^ them no better, unless they would turn Ca*
riibals, and eat IVensFlelh, which was the great
Dainty of their Country.
They gave me an Account how many Ways
they strove to civilize the Savages they were with,
and to teach them rational Customs in the ordi-
nary Way of Living, but in vain; and how rhey
retorted it upon them, as unjust, that they who
came there for Assistance and Support, should at-
tempt to set up for Instructors of those that gave
them Bread v intimating, it seems, that none
should setup for the Instructors of others, but
those who coukl live without them.
They gave me dismal Accounts of the Extre-
mities they were driven to; how sometimes they
were many Ways without any Food at all * the
Island they were upon being inhabited by a Sort
of Savages thar lived more indolent, and for that
Reason were left supplied with the Neccflaries of
Life, than they had Reason to believe others
were in the fame Part of the World; and yet
they found,, that these Savages were less ravenous
4nd voracious, than those who had better Sup-
plies of Food.
Also they added, That they could not but fee
with what Demonstrations of Wisdom and Good-
rlcse the governing Providence of God directs the
BveiUS Qi Things in the Wprld j wjii'ch they said,
t;. -•- ?<p;
appeared in their Circumstances* for if pressed
by the Hardships they were under, and the Bar-
renness of the Country where they were, they
had searched after a better Place to live in \ they
had then been out of the Way of the &dk( that
happen'd to them by my Means.
Then they gave me an Account, how the Sa-
vages, whom they liVdamong,expected them to
go out with them into their Wars: And it was
true, that, as they had Fire-Arms with them,
had they not had the Disaster to lose their Am-
munition, they should not have been serviceable
only to their Friends, but have made themselves
terrible both to Friends and Enemies, but being
without Powder and Shot, and yet in a Condi-
tion, that they could not in Reason deny to go
out with their Landlords to their Wars; when
they came into the Field of Battle, they were in
a worse Condition than the Savages themselvesi
for they neither had Bow^or Arrows, nor could
they use those the Savages gave them > so that
they could do nothing but stand still, and be
wounded with Arrow.*, till they came up to the
Teeth of their Enemy •, and then indeed the
three Halbards they had^ were of Use to them •,
and they would often drive a whole little Ar-
my before them with those Halbards and shar-
pens Sticks put into the Mpzfcles of their Mus-
kets: But that for all this* they were some-
times surrounded with Multitudes, and in great
Danger from their Arrows, till at last they
fpund the Way to make themselves large Tar-
gets of Wood, which they cover'd with Skim
of wild Beasts, whose Names they knew not;
and these cover'd them from the Arrows of
the Savages; that notwithstanding these, they
Were sometimes in great Danger, and were once
five
five of them knock'd down together with the Clubs
of the Savages, which was the Time when one of
them was taken Prisoner; that is to say, the%-
niard, whom I had relieved, that at first they
thought had been killed: But when afterwards
they heard he was taken Prisoner, they were under
the greatest Grief imaginable, and would willing-
ly have ventured their Lives td have rescued him.
They told me, That when they were so knocks
dowtn, the rest of their Company rescued them,
and stood over them, fighting till they were come
to themselves, all but him who they thought had
been dead; and then they made their Way with
their Halberds and ^Pieces, standing close toge-
ther in a Line, thro' a Body of above a thousand
Savages, beating down all that came in their Way,
got the Viaory over their Enemies, but to their
great Sorrow, because it was with the Loss of their
Friend; whom, the other Party finding him alive,
carried off with some others, as I gave an Ac-
count in my former.
They described most affeaionately, how they
were surprized with Joy at the Return of their
Friend andCompanion in Misery,who they thought
had been devoured by wild Beasts of the worst
Kind, {viz,.) by wild Men; and yet how more
and more they were surprized with the Account
he gave them of his Errand, and that there was not
a Christian in any Place near, much more one that
was able, and had Humanity enough to contri-
bute to their Deliverance.
^ They described how they were astonished at the
Sight of the Relief I sent them, and and at the
Appearance of Loaves of Bread, Things they had
not seen since their coming to that miserable Place.
How often they cross'd it, and bfefs'd it, as Bread
sent from Heaven; and what a reviving Cordial
it
it was to their Spirits to taste it,• as also of the
other Things I had sent for their Supply. And
after all, they would have told me something of
the Joy they were in, at the Sight of a Boat and
Pilots to carry them away to the Person and Place
from whence all these new Comforts came ; but
they told me it was impossible to express it by
Words, for their excessive Joy, naturally driving
them to unbecoming Extravagances, they had no
way to describe them, but by telling me that they
bordered upon Lunacy, having no way to give
Vent to their Passion, suitable to the Sense that
was upon them ,* that in some it worked one Way,
and in some another; and that some of them, thro*
a Surprize of Joy, would burst out into Tears;
others stark mad, and others immediately faint.
This Discourse extremely affected me, and calfd to
my Mind Friday's Extasy, when he met his Father,
and the poor People's Extasy, when I took them
up at Sea, after their Ship was on Fire; the Mat«
of the Ship's Joy, when he found himself delivered
in the Place where he expected to perifli; and my
own Joy, when after 28 Years Captivity, I found
a good Ship ready to carry me to my own Coun-
try. All these Things made me more sensible of
the Relation of those poor Men, and more affected
with it.
Having thus given a View of the State of
Things, as I found them, I must relate the Heads
of what 1 did for these People, and the Condition
in which I left them. It was their Opinion and
mine too, that they would be troubled no more
with the Savages; or that if they were, they would
be able to cut them off, if they were twice as ma-
ny as before; so they had no Concern about that.
Then I entred into a serious Discourse with the
Spaniard, whom I call Governor, about their Stay,
in
in the Island ; for as I was nor come to carry any
of them off, so it would not be just to carry off
some, and leave others, who perhaps would be un-
wiilmg to stay, if their Strength was diminished.
On the other Hand, I told them, I came to esta-
blish them there, not to remove them ,• and then I
let them know, chat I had brought with me Relief
of sundry Kinds for them; that I had been at a
great Charge to supply them with all Things neces-
sary, as well for their Convenience, as their Defence •,
and that I had such and such particular Persons with
me, as well to enerease and recruit their Number,
as by the particular necessary Employments which
they were bred to, being Artificers, to assist them in
those things, in which, at present, they were to seek.
They were altogether when I talk'd thus to
them, and before I delivered to them the Stores I
has brought, ask?d them one by one, If they had
entirely forgot, and buried the first Animosities
that had been among them, and would (hake Hands
with one another, and engage in a strict: Friendship
and Union of Interest, that so there might be no
more Misunderstanding or Jealousies.
WiMam Atkins, with Abundance of Frankness
and good Humour, said, They had met with Af-
flictions enough to make them ail sober, and Ene-
piies enough to make them all Friends; that for
his Part, he would live and die with them; and
was so far from designing any thing against the
Spaniards; that he owned they had done nothing
to him, but what his own mad Humour made
tieeeifary, and what he would have done, and per-
haps much worse in their Case ; and that he would
ask them Pardon, if I desired it, for jthe foolilh
and brutish Things he had done to them; and
was very willing and desirous of living in Terms
of entire Friendship and Union with them; and
would
would do any thing that lay in'his Power to
convince them of it; and as tor going to England,
he cared not if he did not go thither these twenty
Years.
The Spaniards said, They had indeed at first
disarmed and excluded 14/iUmm Atkins and his two
Countrymen for their ill Conduce, as they had
let me know; and they appealed to me, for the
Necessity they were under to do so: But that Wil-
liam Atkins had behaved himself so bravely in the
great Fight they had with the Savages, and on
several Occasions since; and had shewn himself so
faithful to, and concerned for the general Interest
of them all, that they had forgotten all that was
past, and thought he merited as much to be trust-
ed with Arms, and to be supply'd with Necessa-
ries as any of them; and that they had testified
their Satisfaction in him, by committing the Com-
mand to him, next to the Governor himself.
And as they had an entire Confidence in him
and all his Countrymen, so they acknowledged
they had merited that Confidence by all the Me-
thods that honest Men could merit to be valued
and trusted; and they mod heartily embraced the
Occasion of giving me rhis Assurance, that they
would never have any Interest separate from one
another.
Upon these frank and open Declarations of
Friendship, we appointed the next Day to dine
all together ,* andindeed we made a splendid Feast:
I caused the Ship's Cook and his Mate to come,
on-Shore, and dress our Dinner; and the old
Cook's Mate we had on Shore,assisted. We brought
on Shore six Peeesofgood Beef, and four Pieces
of Pork out of the Ship's Provision, with our Punch-
Bowl, and Materials to fill it;fand in particular,
gave them ten Bottles of French Claret, and ten
Boc-
Bottles of English Beer; Things that neither the
Spaniards, or the English Men had tasted for many
Years; and which, it may be supposed, they were
exceeding glad of.
The Spaniards added to our Feast five whole
Kids, which the Cooks roasted; and three of them
were sent cover'd up close on Board the Ship, to
the Seamen, that they might feast on fresh Meat
from on Shore, as we did with their Salt Meat
from on Board.
After this Feast, at which we were very inno-
cently merry, I brought out my Cargo of Goods,
wherein, that there might be no Dispute about
dividing, I shewM them that there was sufficient
for them all; and desir'd that they might all take
an equal Quantity of the Goods that were for
wearing; that is to fay, equal when made up; as
first, I distributed Linnen sufficient to make every
one of them sour Shirts; and at the Spaniards
Request afterwards, made them up six; these
were exceeding comfortable to them, having
been what, as I may fay, they had long since
forgot the Use of, or what it was to wear
them.
1 allotted the thin English Stuffs, which I men-
tioned before, to make every one a light Coat, like
a Frock, which I judged fittest for the Heat of
the Season; cool and loose, and order'd, that when-
ever they decayed, they should make more, as they
thought fit: The like for Pumps, Shoes, Stockings
and Hats, &c.
I cannot express what Pleasure, what Satis-
faction, fat upon the Countenances of all these
poor Men, when they saw the Care I had ta-
ken of them, and how well I had furnifhM
them ,• they told me, I was a Father to them,
and that having such a Correspondent as I was?
in
in so remote a Part of the World, it would
make them forget that they were left in a de-
solate Place; and they all voluntarily engag'd
to me not to leave the Place without my Con-
sent. 
Then I presented to them the People I had
brought with me, particularly the Taylor* the
Smith, and the two Carpenters, all of them
most necessary People; but above all, my ge-
neral Artificer, than whom they could not
name any thing that was more useful to them.
And the Taylor, to shew his Concern for them,'
went to work immediately, and, with my Leave,
made them every one a Shirt the first Thing
he did; and which was still more, he taught
the Women, not only how to sow and stitch,
and use the Needle, but made them aflist to make
the Shirts for their Husbands, and for all the
rest.
As to the Carpenters, I scarce need mention
how useful they were, for they took in Pieces all
my clumsy unhandy Things, and made them clever
convenient Tables, Stools, Bed-steads, Cup-boards,
Lockers, Shelves, and every thing they wanted
of that Kind.
But to let them fee how Nature made Arti-
ficers at first, I carried the Carpenters to fee Will*
Atkins's Basket-house, as I ealla it, and they both
own'd they never saw an Instance of such natural
Ingenuity before j nor any thing so regular, and
so handily built, at least of its Kind: And one of
them, when he saw it, after musing a good while,
turning about to me, I am sure, says he, that Man
has no need of us you need do nothing but give
him Tools.
Then I brought them out all my Store of Tools,
and gave every Man a Digging-Spade, a Shovel,
and
and a Rake, for we had no Harrows or Plows I
and to every separate Place, a Pick-axe, Crow*
a broad Axe, and a Saw; always appointing!
that as often as any were broken, or worn out*
they should be supply'd without grudging, out of
the general Stores that 11 eft behind*
ISIailsjStaples^ingesjHammers^hissels^nives,
Sciflars^ and all sorts of Tools, and *Iron-work,
they had without Tale, as they required, for no
Man would care to take more than they wanted,
and he must be a Fool that would waste or spoil
them, on any Account whatever ,• and for the Use
of the Smith, I left two Ton of unwrought Iron
for a Supply.
My Magazine of Powder and Arms, which I
brought them, was such, even to Profusion, that
they could not but rejoice at them ; for now they
could march as I usMtodo, with a Musket upon
each Shoulder, if there was Occasion, and were
able to fight a thousand Savages, if they had but
some little Advantages of Situation, which also
they could not miss of, if they had Occasion.
I carry'd on Shore with me the young Man,
whose Mother was starv'd to Death, and the
Maid also; flie was a sober, well educated, reli-
gious young Woman, and behav'd so inoffensive-
ly, that every one gave her a good Word ; (lie
had indeed an unhappy Life with us, there being no
Woman in the Ship but herself,- but she bore it with
Patience. After a while seeing Things so well or-
dered, and in so fine a way of thriving upon my
Ifland, and considering that they had neither Busi-
ness or Acquaintance in the East-Indies, or Reason
for taking so long a Voyage : I say, considering all
this, both of them came to me, and desir'd I would
give them leave to remain on the Ifland, and be eir
ter'd among my Family, as they call'd- it.
I agreed
I agreed to it readily, and they had a little
Plat ot Ground allotted to them, where they had
three Tents or Houses set up, surrounded with
a Basket-work, Palisado'd like Atkins's, adjoining
to his Plantation: Their Tents were contriv'd
so, that they had each of them a Room apart to
lodge in, and a middle Tent like a great Store-
house to lay all their Goods in, and to eat and
drink in. And now the other two English Men re-
moved their Habitation to the fame Place, and so
the Island was divided into three Colonies,and no
more, viz,, the Spaniards with old Friday, and the
first Servants, at my old Habitation under^ the
Hill; which was, in a Word, the capital City;
and where they had so enlarg'd and extended their
Works, as well under, as on the Out-side of the
Hill, that they liv'd, tho' perfedly concealed,
yet Full at large. Never was their such a little Ci-
ty in a Wood, and so hid, I believe, in any Part
of the World; for I verily believe, a thousand
Men might have ranged the Island a Month, and
if they had not known there was such a Thing, and
looked on purpose for it, they would not have found
it*, for the Trees stood so thick, and so close, and
grew so fast matted into one another, that no-
thing but cutting them down first could discover
the Place; except the only two narrow Entrances,
where they went in and out, could be found, which
was not very easy. One of them was just down
at the Water-Edge of the Creek, and it was
afterwards above two hundred sards to the Place;
and the other was up the Ladder at twice, as
I have already formerly describ'd it; and they
had a large Wood thick planted, also, on the
Top of the Hill, which contains above an
Acre, which grew apace, and cover'd the Place
from all Discovery there, with only one narrow
Part II. K Place
Place between two Trees, not easy to be discovered,
to enter on that Side.
The other Colony was that of WiB. Atkins,
where there were four Families of Englijh Men,
I mean those I had left there, with their Wives
and Children; three Savages that were Slaves;
the Widow and Children of the English Man that
was kili'd, the young Man and the Maid; and
by the way, we made a Wife of her also, before
we went away: There were also the two Carpen-
ters and the Taylor, whom I brought with me for
them; also the Smith, who was a very necessary
Man to them, especially as a Gunfmithi to take
care of their Arms; and my other Man, whom 1
called, Jack of all Trades, who was in himself as
good, almost, as 20 Men; for he wag not only a
very ingenious Fellow, but a very merry Fellow,
and before I went away, we married him to the
honest Maid that came with the Youth in the Ship
I mentions before,
And now I speak of Marrying, it brings me na-
turally to fay something of the French Eccleilastick
that I had brought with me out of the Slvp's
Crew whom I took up at Sea. It is true, this Man
was a Roman, and perhaps it may give Offence to
some hereafter, if 1 leave any Thing extraordina-
ry upon Record, of a Man, whom, before I begin*
I must, (to set him out in just Colours) represent
in Terms very much to his Disadvantage, in the
Account of Protestants; as first, that he was a Pa-
pist; secondly, a Popish Priest; and thirdly, a French
Popish Priest. ^ -
But Justice demands of me to give him a due
Character; and I must fay, he was a grave, sober,
pious* and most religious Person; exact in his
Life, extensive in his Charity, and exemplar in al-
most every thing he did. What then can any one
fay,
lay against my being very sensible of the Value df
such a Man, notwithstanding his Profession? Tho*
it may be my Opinion, perhaps, as well a$ the
Opinion of others, who shall read this, that he
was mistaken.
The first Hour that I began to converse with
him, after he had agreed to go with me to the
Eaft-fadies> I sound Reason to delight exceedingly
in his Conversation; and he first began with me
about Religion, in the most obliging Manner ima-
ginable.
Sir, says he, you have not only, under God,
(and at that he crossed his Breast) sav'd my
Life, but you have admitted me to go this Voyage
in your Ship, and by your obliging Civility have
taken me into your Family, giving me aa Op-
portunity of free Conversation. Now Sir, says
he, you fee by my Habit what my Profession is,
and I guess by your Nation what yours is: I
may think it is my Duty, and doubtless it is so,
to use my utmost Endeavours, on ail Occasions, to
bring all the Souls I can to the Knowledge of the
Truth, and to embrace the Catholick Doctrine;
but as I am here under your Permission, and in
your Family, I am bound in Justice to your Kind-
ness, as well as in Decency and good Manners, to
be under your Government; and therefore I (hall
not, without your Leave, enter into any Debates
on the Point of Religion, in which we may not
agree farther than you ihall give me Leave.
I told him, his Carriage was so modest, that I
could not but acknowledge it; that it was true^
we were such People as they eail'd Hereticks ; but
that he was not the first Catholick that I had con-
versed with, without falling into any Inconvenien-
cies, or carrying the Questions to any Height iti
K 2 Debate:
Debate: That lie should not find himself tk
worse tised for being of a different Opinion from
us, and if we did not converse without any Dis-
like on cither Side upon that Score, it should be
his Fault, not ours.
He reply'd, That he thought all our Conver-
sation might be easily separated from Disputes:
That it was not his Business tocap Principles with
every Man he discours'd with; and that he ra-
ther desir'd me to converse with him < as a Gen-
tleman, than as a Religieuseh that if 1 would
give him Leave at any 1 ime (0 discourse upon
religious-Subjects, he would readily comply with
it; and that then, he did not doubt but I would
allow him also to defend his own Opinions, as
well as he could-, but that without my Leave he
would not break in upon me with any such
Thing,
He told me farther, That he would not cease
to do all that became him in his Office, as a
Priest, as well as a private Christian, to procure
the Good of the Ship, and the Safety of all
that was in her; and tho' perhaps we would not
join with him, and he could not pray with us,
he hop'd he might pray for us, which he would
do upon all Occasions." In this Manner we con-
verse i and as he was of a most obliging Gentle-
man-like Behaviour, so he was, if 1 may be al-
lowed to fay so, a Man of good Sense, and as I
believe, of great Learning.
He gave me a most diverting Account of his
Life,and of the many extraordinary Events of it*
of many Adventures which had befallen hrm in
the few Years that he had been abroad in the
World; and particularly, this was very remar-
kable, (viz,.) That in the Voyage be was now en-
gag'd, he had had the Misfortune to be five Times
fhipp'd
fiiipp'd andunsliippUand nevertogo tothe Placq.
whither any of the Ships, he was in, were at
first designed: That his first Inrenc was to have
gone to MartinkOy and that he went on board aj
Ship bound thither, at St. Malo; but being fore'd
into Lisbon by bad Weather, the Ship receiVd
some Damage by running a ground in the Mouth
of the River Tagus9 and was obliged to unload
her Cargo there: That finding a Portuguese Ship.
there bound to the Maderas, and ready to soil*
and supposing he should easily meet with a Vest
k\ there bound to Maninko *, he went on board,
in Order to fail to the Maderas. But the Master
of the Portuguese Ship being but an indifferent Ma-
nner, had been out in his Reckoning, and they
drove to Fial\ where, however, he happens to
rind a very goad Market for his Cargo, which
was Corn, and therefore resolved not to go to
the Maderasy but to load Salt at the Isle of May*
aud to go away to Newfoundland. He had no Re-
medy in this Exigence, but to go with the Ship,
and had a pretty good Voyage as far as the Banks y
so they call the Place where they catch the Fi(h,
where meeting with a French Ship, bound from
F ame to Quebeck in the River of Canada, and from
thence to Martinko, to carry Provisions, he thought
he-should have an Opportunity to compleat his
first Design: But when he came to Qjiobeck, the
Master of the Ship dy'd, and the Ship proceeded
no farther > so the next Voyage he fnipp'd him*
self tor France^ in the Ship thar wasburnr, when
we took them up at Sea, and then shipp'd with us
for the Eaft Indies, as 1 have already laid. Thus
he had been disappointed in five Voyages, all,
as I may call /f, in one Voyage, besides what 1 (hall
have Occasion to mention farthet of the fame
Pcilon.
K 3 But,
it
But, 1 (ball not make Digressions into other
Mens Stories^ which have no Relation to my
own. I return to what concerns our Affair in the
Island: He came to ipe one Morning, sot he
lodg'd among us all the while we were upon the
Island | % and k happen'dto be just when I was go-
ing to visit the Emlijh Ms ns Colony at the far-
thest Part of the Island; I fay, he came to me,
and told me, with a very grave Countenance,
That he had for two or three Days delir'd an
Opportunity of some Discourse with me, which
he hop'd would not be displeasing to me, because
he thought it might in some Measure correspond
with my general Design, which was the Pro-
sperity of my new Colony, and perhaps might
put it, at least more than he yet thought it was,
in the Way of God's Blessing.
I look'd a little furpnVd at the last Part of his
Discourse, and turning a little short, How Sir,
said I, can it ksaid, that we are not in the Way
of God's Blessing, after such visible Affiances and
windersul Deliverance^ as we have seen here, and
of which J have given you a large Account?
If you had pleas'd Sir, [aid be9 with a world of
Modesty, and jet with great Readiness^ to have heard
me, you would have found no room to have
been displeas'd, much less to think so hard of me,
that I should suggest, that you have not had won-
derful Assistances and Deliverances^ and I hope,
on your Behalf, that you are in the Way ofGods
Btessing, and your Design is exceeding good, and
will prosper: But, Sir, tho' it were more so,
than is even possible to you, yet there may be
some among you that are not equally right in
their Actions: And you know, that in the Story
of the Children of Israel, one Achan in the Camp,
remov'd God's Blessing from them, and turned
his
his Hand so-against them, that six and thirty of
them, tho' not concern'd in the Crime, were
the Object of Divine Vengeance, and bore the
Weight of that Punishment.
I was sensibly touch'd with his Discourse, and
told him, his Inference was (o just, and the whole
Design scemM so sincere, and was really so-reli-
gious in its own Nature, that I was very sorry I
had interrupted him, and begged him to goon;
and in the mean Time, because it feem'd, that
what we had both to say might take up some
Time, 1 told him, I was going to the English Mms
Plantations, and ask'd him to go with me, and
we might discourse of it by the Way: He told
me, he would more willingly wait on me thither,
because there partly the Thing was acted, which
he desir'd to speak to me about j so we walk'd
on; and I press'd him to be free and plain with
line in what he had to sivy.
Why then. Sir, fays he, be pleased to give me
Leave to lay down a few Propositions as the Foun-
dation of what 1 have to fay, that we may not
differ in the general Principles, tho* we maybe
of some differing Opinions in the Practice of Par-
ticulars. First, Sir, tho' we differ in some of
the doctrinal Articles of Religion; and it is very
unhappy that it is so, especially in the Case be-
fore us, as I shall faew afterwards: Yet there
are some general Principles in which we both a-
gree, (viz,.) Hrst, That there is a God; and that
this God having given us some stated general Rules
for our Serv Ice and Obedience, we ought not wil-
lingly and knowingly to offend him j either by ne-
glecting to do what he has commanded, or by do-
ing what he has expressly forbidden: And let our
different Religions be what they will, this general
Principle is readily own'd by us all, That the Blef-
iingof God does not ordinarily follow a presum-
K 4 ptuous
ptuous Sinning against his Command; and every
good Christian will be affectionately concerns to
prevent any that are under his Care, living in a total
.Neglect ot God arjd his Commands. It is not your
Men being Protestants, whatever my Opinion may
be of such, that discharges me from being con-
cerned for their Souls, and from endeavouring, if
it lies before me, that they should live in as little
Distance from an Enmity with their Maker, as
possible, especially if you give me Leave to med-
dle so far in your Circuit.
I could not yet imagine what he a;m\l at, and
told him, I granted all he had said, and thank'd
him, that he would so far concern himself for us;
and begg'd he would explain the Particulars of
what he had observed, that, like Joshua, to take
his own Parable, I might put away the accursed
Thing from us.
Why then, Sir, fays he, I will take the Liber-
ty you give me; and there are three Things,
which, if I am right, must stand in the Way of
God's Blessing upon your Endeavours here, and
which I should rejoice for your fake, and their
own, to fee remold/ *^qd, Sir, fays he, I pro-
mise myself; that you wjil fully agree with me in
them all, as soon as I name them; especially be-
cause I shall convince you/ that every pne of them
may, with great Eafq 'and very much to vour Sa-
tisfaction, be remedy \1.
He gave me rip Leave to put in any more Ci-
vilities, but went on. first, Sir, fays he, you
have here four English Men, who have fetched Wo-
men from among the Savages, and have taken
them as their Wives, and have had many Chil-
dren by them all, and yet are not marry'd to them
after any stated legal Manner, as the Laws of
Mod and Man require; and therefore are yet, in
"" • £" ': ^ '' ' ;;/'   '' ; the
the Sense of both, no less than Adulterers, and li-
ving in Adultery. To this, Sir, fays he, 1 know
you will object, That there was no Clergyman
or Priest of any Kind, or of any Profession, to
perform the Ceremony; nor any Pen and Ink, or
Paper, to write down a Contract of Marriage,
and have it sign'd between them. And I know
also, Sir, what the Spaniard Governour has told
you; I mean of the Agreement that he oblig'ci
them to make, when they took these Women (viz,.)
That they should chuse them out by Consent, and
keep separately to them; which, by the way, is
nothing* of a Marriage, no Agreement with the
Women, as Wives, but only an Agreement among
themselves, to keep them from Quarrelling.
Bur, Sir, the Essence of the Sacrament of Ma-
trimony (To he call'd it, being a Roman) consists
not only in the mutual Consent of the Parties to
take one another, as Man and Wife, but in the
formal and legal Obligation, that there is in the
Contract, to compel the Man and Woman at all
Times, to own and acknowledge each other, obli-
ging the Men to abstain from all other Women, to
engage in no other Contract while these subsist;
and on all Occasions, as Ability allows, to pro-
vide honestly for them and their Children, and to
oblige the Woman to the fame, or like Conditions,
mutatis mutandis, on their Side.
Now, Sir, fays he, these Men may, when they
please, or when Occasion presents, abandon these
Women, disown their Children, leave them to pe-
rish, and take other Women, and marry them
whilst these are living. And here he added, with
some Warmth, How, Sir, is God honoured in this
unlawful Liberty? And how shall a Blessing suc-
ceed your Endeavours in this Place? However good
in themselves, and however stmere , in your Design^
while
while these Men, who at present are your Sub-
jects, under your absolute Government and Do-
minion, are allowed by you to live in open A-
dultery?
I confess, I was struck &t the Thing itself, but
much more with the convincing Arguments he
supported it with; for it was certainly true, that
tho* they had no Clergyman upon the Spot, yet a
formal Contract on both Sides, made before Wit-
nesses, and confirmed by any Token, which they had
all agreed to be bound by, tho* it had been but
breaking a Stick between them, engaging the Men
to own these Women for their Wives, upon all
Occasions, and never to abandon them or their
Children, and the Womei) to the fame with their
Husbands, had'been an effectual lawful "Marriage
in the Sight of God ; and it was a great Neglect
that it was not done.
But I thought to have gotten off with my young
Priest, by telling him, that all that Part was done
when I was not here, and they had liv'd so many
Years with them now, that if it was an Adultery,
it was past Remedy, they could do nothing in it
fiow.
Sir, says he, asking your Pardon fir such Freedom,
you are right in this, that it being done in your
Absence, you could not be charg'd with that Fait
of the Crime: But I beseech you, flatter not your-
self, that you are not therefore under an Obliga-
tion to do your utmost now to put an End to it.,
How can you think, but that, let the Time past
lye on whom it will, all the Guilt, for the future,
will lye entirely upon you ? Because it is certainly
in your Power now to put an End to it, and in no
Body's Power but yours.
I was so dull still, that I did not take him right;
but I imagined, that by putting an End to it, he
meant
meant that I should part them, and not suffer them
to live together any longer: And I said to hlm% I
could not do this by any Means, for that it would
put the whole Island into Confusion. Hescem'd
surprized, that I should so far mistake him. No,
Sir, jays he, I do not mean, that you should now
separate them, but legally and effectually marry
them now; and as, Sir, my Way of marrying them
may not be so easy to reconcile them to,* tho* it
will be as effectual, even by your own Laws, so
your Way may be as well before God, and as va%
lid among Men; I mean, by a written Contract,
signed by both Man and Woman, and by all the
Witnesses present, which all the Laws of Euros?
would decree to be valid.
I was amazed to fee so much true Piety, and so
much Sincerity of Zeal, besides the unusual Impar-
tiality in his Discourse, as to his own Party or
Church, and such true Warmth for the preserving
People that he had no Knowledge of, or Relation
to; I say, for preserving them from transgressing
the Laws of God ; the like of which 1 had in-
deed not met with any where. But recollecting
what he had said, of marrying them by a written
Contract, which I knew would stand too; I re-
turn'd it back upon him, and told him, I granted
all that he had said to be just, and on his Part
very kind, that I would discourse with the Men
upon the Point now, when I came to them. And
I knew no Reason why they should scruple to let
him marry them all, which I knew well enough
would be granted to be as authentick and valid in
England, as if they were married by one of our
own Clergymen. What was afterwards done in
this Matter, I shall speak os by itself.
I then press'd him to tell me what was the Second
Complaint which he had to make, acknowledging,
that
that I was very much his Debtor for the Fhsty and
thanked him heartily for it. He told me, he would
use the same Freedom and Plainness in tht Second,
and hoped I would take it as well. And this was,
That notwithstanding thekEngl/jh Subjects of mine,
us he called them, had lived with those Women for
almost seven Years, had taught them to speak Eng-
lish, and even to read it; and that they were, as
he perceived, Women of tolerable Understanding,
and capable of Instruction', yet they had not to
this Hour taught them any thing of the Christian
Religion, no, not so much as to know that there
was a God, or a Worship, or in what Manner
God was to be served, or that their own Idolatry,
and worshipping they knew not whom, was false
and absurd.
This, he said, was an unaccountable Neglect,
and what God would certainly call them to Ac-
count for, and perhaps at last take the Work out
of their Hands. He spoke this very affectionately
and warmly. I am perswaded, fays he, had those
Men lived in the Savage Country, whence their
Wives came, the Savages would have taken more
Pains to have brought them to be Idolaters, and
to worship the Devil, than any of these Men, so
far as he could fee\ had taken with them to teach
them the Knowledge of the true God. Now, Sir,
said he, tho'1 do not acknowledge your Religion,
or you mine, yet we should be glad to see theDe-
vilY Servants, and the Subjects of his Kingdom,
taught to know the general Principles of the Chri-
stian Religion; that they might, at least, hear of
God, and or a Redeemer, and of the Resurrection,
and of a future State, Things which we ail be-
lieve; they had at least been so much nearer com-
ing into the Bosom of the true Church, than they
art
are now in the publick Profession of Idolatry and
Devil-Worfhip.
I could hold no longer; I took him in my Arms,
and embraced him with an Excels of Passion. How
tar, Jaid I to him, have 1 been from understanding
the most essential Pare of a Christian ( viz,.) to
love the Interest ot the Christian Church, and the
good of other Mens Souls. I scarce have known
what belongs to being a Christian. O, Sir, do
not fay so, rep If d he, this Thing is not your Fattlt.
No,/yj /, but why did I never lay it to Heartas
well as you? 'Tis not too late yet, sard he, be not
too forward to condemn your sdt But what can be
done now, Jaid I, you see I am going away? Will
you give me Leave, said he, to talk with these poor
Men about it? Yes, with all my Heart, said I,
and I will oblige them to give Heed to what you
fay too. As to that, said he, we must leave them
to the Mercy of Christ; but it is our Business to
assist them, encourage them, and instruct them;
and if you will give me Leave, and God his Bles-
sing, I do not doubt but the poor ignorant Souls
shall be brought Home into the great Circle of
Christianity, into the particular Faith that we
all embrace, and that even while you stay here.
Upon this, I said, I shall not only give you Leave,
but give you a thousand Thanks for it. What fol-
lowed on this Account, I (hall mention also again
in its Place.
I now prelVd him for the "third Article, in which
we were to blame. Why really, says he, it is of
the fame Nature ; and I will proceed, asking your
Leave, with the fame Plainness as before. It is a-
bout your poor Savages, who arc, as I may fay,
your conquered Subjects. It is a Maxim, Sir, that
is, or ought to be received among all Christians of
what Church or pretended Church soever, (viz..)
The
The Christian Know/edge ought to he propagated by all
possible Means, and on all possible Occasions. 'Tis on
this Principle that our Church fends Missionaries
into Persia, India, and China, and that our Clergy,
even ot the superior Sort, willingly engage in the
friost hazardous Voyages, and the most dangerous
Residence among Murderers and Barbarians, to
teach them the Knowledge of the true God, and
to bring them over to embrace the Christian Faith,
Now, Sir, you have such an Opportunity here,
to have six or seven and thirty poor Savages
brought over from Idolatry to the Knowledge of
God their Maker and Redeemer, that I wonder
how you can pass such an Occasion of doing
Good, which is really worth the Expence of a
Man's whole Life.
I was now struck dumb indeed, and had not
one Word to fay. I had here a Spirit of true
Christian Zeal for God and Religion before me,
let his particular Principles be of what Kind so-
ever. As for me, I had not so much as entertai-
ned a Thought of this in my Heart before, and I
believe should not have thought of it,- forllook'd
upon these Savages as Slaves, and People, whom,
had we had any Work for them to do, we would
ha' used as such, or would ha5 been glad to have
transported them to any other Part of the World I
tor our Business was to get rid of them, and we
would all have been satisfied, if they had been
sent to any Country, so they had never seen their
own. But to the Case. I say, I was confounded at
his Discourse, and knew not what Answer to make
him. He looked earnestly at me, seeing me in
some Disorder. Sk,says he, I shall be very sorry,
if what I have said gives you any Offence.": No,
no, fays I, I am offended with no Body but my
self: But I am perfectly confounded, not only to
think
think that 1 should never take any Notice of this
before, but with reflecting what Notice I am able
to take ot it now. You know, Sir, said s, what
Circumstances I am in; I am bound to the Eafh
Indies, in a Ship freighted by Merchants, and to
whom it would be an unsufterable Piece of Inju-
stice to detain their Ship here, the Men lying all
this while at Victuals and Wages upon the Own-
ers Account. It is true, I agreed to be allowed
twelve Days here, and if I stay more, I must pay
3 /. Sttrling per Diem Dcmorage, nor can I stay up-
on Demorage above eight Days more, and 1 have
been here thirteen Days already, so that I am per-
fectly unable to engage in this Work, unless I would
suffer my self to be left behind here again, in which
Case, if this single Ship should miscarry in any
Part of her Voyage, I should be just in the same
Condition that I was left in here at first, and from
which I have been so wonderfully delivered.
He owned the Cafe was very hard upon me, as
to my Voyage, but laid it Home upon my Con-
science, whether the Blessing of saving seven and
thirty Souls, was not worth my venturing all I had
in the World for? I was not so sensible of that as
he was I returned upon him thus. Why, Sir, it
is a valuable Thing indeed, to be an Instrument
in God's Hand to Convert seven and thirty Hea-
thens to the Knowledge of Christ, but as you are
an Eccksiastick, and are given over to the Work, so
that it seems so naturally to fall into the Way of
your Profession ,* how is it, that you do not rather
offer your self to undertake it, than press me to it'?
Upon this he fae'd about, just before me, as
we walk'd along, and putting me to a full Stop,
made me a very low Bow. I most heartily thank
God and you, Sir, fays he, for giving me so evi-
dent a Call to so biefled a Work; and if you think
your
your sell: diicharg'd from it, and dcfire me to un-
dertake it, I will most readily do it, and think it
a happy Reward for ail the Hazards and Difficul-
ties of- such a broken disappointed Voyage as I
have met with, that I may be dropt at last into
so glorious a Work.
I discovers! a kind of Rapture in,his Face while
he spoke th'sto me; his Eyes sparkl'd like Fire, his
Face glow'd, and his Colour came and went, as
if he had been falling into Fits. In a Word, he was
fir'd with the Joy of being embark *d in such a
Work. I paus'd a considerable while before I could
tell what to fay to him, for I was really surpnVd
to find a Man of such Sincerity and Zeal, and car-
ry'd out in his Zeal beyond the ordinary Rate ot
Men, not of his Profession only, but even of any Pro-
fession whatsoever. But aster I had considers it
a-while, I ask'd him seriously if he was in earnest,
and that he would venture on the single Considera-
tion of any Attempt on those poor People, to be
locked up in an implanted Island for, perhaps, his
Life, and at last might not know whether he should
be able to do them any Good, or not?
He turn'd short upon me, and ask'd me what I
call'd a Venture? Pray, Sir, said he, what do
you think I consented to go in your Ship to the
East-Indies for} Nay, said 1, that I know not,
unless it was to preach to the Indians; Doubt-
less it was, said he; and do you think, if I
can convert these seven and thirty Men to the
Faith of Christ, it is not worth my Time, thoJ I
should never be fetch'd off the Island again;
nay, is it not infinitely of more Worth to save so
many Souls, than my Life is, or the Life of twen-
ty more of the fame Profession? Yes, Sir, fays be,
1 would give Christ and the blessed Virgin Thanks
all my Days, if I could be made the least happy
Instru-
Instrument of saving the Souls of these poor Men,
riio' I was never to let my Foot essof this Island,
or see my native Country any more. But since
you will honour me, says he, with purring me into
this Work, for which I veiii fray for )0ti all the Days, of
my Life; I have one humble Petition to you, said
he, besides. What is that, said /? Why, fays
he, it is, that you will leave your Man Friday with
me, to |be my Interpreter to them, and to assist:
me; for without some Help I cannot speak to them*
or they to me.
I was sensibly troubled at his requesting Friday^
becar.se I could not think of parting with him, and
that for many Reasons; he had been the Compa-
nion of my Travels; lie was hot only faithful to
me, but sincerely affectionate to the last Degree,
and I had refolv d to do something considerable for
him, ii he out hVd me, as it was probable he
would. Then I knew that, as I had bred Friday
up to be a Protestant, it would quite confound him
to bring him to embrace another Profession; and
he would never, while his Eyes were open^ be-
lieve that his oldMailer was a Heretick, and would
be damn'd ; and this might in the End ruin the
poor Fellow's Principles, and so turn him to his
Hrst Idolatry.
However, a sudden Thought relievM me in
this Strait, audit was this; I told him, I could
not fay that I was Willing to part with Friday on
any Account whatever, tKo* a Work that to him
was of more Value than his Life, ought to be to
me of much less Value than the keeping or parting
with a Servant. But on the other hand, I was per-
f waded, that Friday wou'd by no Means consent to
part with me, aud I could not force him to it
Without his Consent, without manifest Injustice, be-
Part II. L cause
cause I had promisVi and engag'd him to me, that
he wonld never leave me, un cis 1 put him away.
He seem'd very much concerned at it, for he had
no'rational Access to these poor People, seeing he
il:d not understand one1 Word os their Language,
jior they one Word, of his. To remove this Diffi-
culty, I told him, fotdafs Father had learn M Spa-
vijby which 1 found he also understood, and he
Should serve iiim for an Interpreter ; so he was much
tetter satisfied, and nothing could perswade him,
Imt he would stay to endea\our to convert them;
but Providence gave another, and very happy
iTurn to all this.
I crdme hack now to the first Part, of his Ob-
jections. When we came to the [Englifl) Men, I
sent for them all together, and aKcr some Ac-
count, given them of what I had done for them.,
viz. what necdlary Things I had provided for
them, and how they, were distributed, which
they were verv sensible of, and very thankful
for; I began to talk to them of the scandalous
Life they led, and gave them a full Account of the
Notice the Clergyman' had already taken .of it,
iind; arguing how unchristian and irreligious a
Life it was. I first ask\l them if they were mar-
ried Mcti or Batchclors? They soon explains
their Condition to me, and ftew'd me that two
of them were Widowers, and the other three were
single Men or Batchclors. I ask'd them with what
Consciences they couid take these Women and lye
with them, as they had done, call them their
Wives, and have so many Children by them, and
not be marry'd lawfully to them.
They all gave me the Answer that I expected*
viz,, that there was no Body to marry them; that
they agredd-before the Governor to keep them as
their Wives; and to keep them and own them as
their
their Wives; and they thought, as Things stood
with them, they were as legally married as if they
had been married by a Parson, and with all the
Formalities in the World.
I told them, that no doubt they were married
in the Sight of God, and were bound in Consci-
ence to keep them as their Wives, but that the
Laws of Men being otherwise, they might pre-
tend they were not married* and so desert the poor
Women and Childten hereafter; and that their
Wives being poor desolate Women, friendless arid
moneyless, would have no way to help themselves,
I therefore told them, that unless I was assur'd of
their honest Intent, I could do nothing for them;
but would take Care that what I did should be for
the Women and their Children without them ; and
that unless they would give some Assurances that
they would marry the Women, I could hot think
it was convenient they, should continue together as
Man and Wise, for that it was both scandalous to
Men, and offensive to God, who they could not
think would bless them, if they went on thus.
All this went on as I expected, and they told
me* especially Wdl Atkins^ who seem'd now to
speak for the rest, that they lov'd their Wives as
well, as if they had been born in their Own Na-
tive Country, and would not leave them upon
any Account whatever; and they did very believe
their Wives were as virtuous and as modest,
and did, to the utmost of their Skill, a$ much for
them, and for their Children, as any Wromen
could possibly do, and they would not part with
them on any Account. And Wdl. Atkins for hi&
own Particular added* if any Man would take
him away, and offer to carry him Home to Eng-
land, and make him Captain of the best Man of
War in the Navy, he would not go' with him.
La &
if he might not carry his Wise and Children with
'him rand it there was a Clergyman in the Ship,
he would: be married to her now with all hu>
Heart.
This was just as I would have it; the Priest
was rot with me at that Moment, but was i.ot
lar off: So to try him farther, I told him 1 had
a ;Clerg}man with me, and it he was sincere, I
%vould have him married the next Morning, and
bid him consider of it, and talk with the rcll.
He. said, as tor himself, he need not consider of it
.at all, tor lie was very ready to do it, and was
<;U d I had a Minister' with me, and he believ'd
they would be all willing also. 1 then told him
that my Friend the Minister was a Ft inch Man,
jmd could not speak Englijb, but that I would ait
the Clerk between them: He never so much as
ask'd me whether he was Papist or Protestant,
which was indeed whit 1 was afraid of: But, I
fay, they never enquired about jt. So we parr
ed* I went back to mv Clergyman, and Will. At-
kins went in to talk with his Compfanions. I de-
UtMthe French Gentleman not to fay any thing to
them, till the Business, was thorough ripe, and I
told him what Atisw*r the McrHiad .given me.
Bstore I went from their Quarter, they all came
to.me, and told me> they had been considering
what I had said; , thatthey were very glad to hear
1 had a Clergyman in my Company, and they
wct&vevy willing io give me the Satisfa&ion I de-
lii''dr and to be formally -Married as soon .as 1
plcasM y for they were far from desiring to part
with their Wives, and that they meant nothing but
what was very honest wh~n they chose them : Sol
appointed them to meet me the œxtMonnmg, and
t hat in the mean time they should ier thetr Wives
I \o\v tin meaning of xhc. Marriage-taw i and that
It
it was not only to prevent any Scandal, but also
to oblige them', that they should not forsake them,
whatever might happen.'
The Women were easily made sensible ot the
Meaning os the Thing, and were very well latif
tied with it, as, indeed, they had Reason to be; ib
they fail'd not to attend all together at my Apart-
ment the next Morning, where I brought out my
Clergyman; and tho* he had not on a Minister's
Gown, alter the Manner of Enghnd, or the Ha-
bit of a Priest, after the Manner of France ; yet
having a black Veil something like a Cassock, with
a Sash round it, he did not look very unlike a Mi*
mllcr; and as for his Language, I was his Inter-
pieter.
Uut the Seriousness of his Behaviour to them,
and the Scrup.es he made of marrying the Wo-
men, because they were not baptjVd, and pro-
lefVd Chrijhaiis, gave them an exceeding Reve-
rence for his Person; and there was no need after
that, to enquire whether he was a Clergyman or
no.
Indeed, I was afraid his Scruple would have
been carry'd so far, as that he would not have
marry*d them at all; nay, notwithstanding all I
was able to fay to him, he refuted me, though
modestly, yet very steadily, and at last refused ab-
solutely to marry them, unless he had first talk'd
with the Men, and the Women too; and though
at first I was a little backward to it, yet at last I
agreed to it with a good Will, perceiving the Sin-
cerity of his Design.
When he came to them, he let them know,
that I had acquainted him with their Circum-
stances and with the present Design: That he
was very willing to perform that Part of his Fun-
ction, and marry them as I had desir'd; but that
L 3 before
fcffore he could do it, he must take thp Liberty
to talk with jtheav He told them, That in the
kight of all indifferent Men, and in the Sense of
the Lpte of Society, they had jiv'd all this
while in an open Adultery; and that it was true,
that nothing but the Consenting ;o marry, or ef-
fectually separating them from one another now,,
pould put an End to it; but th^re was a Difficul-
ty in it too, with respect to the taws of Chri-
stian Matrimony, vfhich he was not fully satisfy *d
about, <vi%>. That of marrying one th^t is a pro-
feseM Christian, to a Savage, an Idolater, and n
Heathen,: one that is not baptiz'd ; and yet that
he did not fee that there was Time left for it
to endeavour to perswade the Women to be bap-
tjz'd, or to profess the N«ime of Christ, whom they
I^ad, he doubted, heard nothing of, and without
yvhkh they cpujd not be baptized.
He told thfm, fie doubted they were but in-
different Christians themselves; th#t they had but
little Kn<?wkdg^ of God, or of his Ways; and
therefore he could not expect that they had said
much to their Wives on that Head yet; but that
unless they would promise him to use their Endea-
vour with their Wives,to perswade them to become
Christians, and would as well as they could instruct
them in the Knowledge and Belief of God that
made^them, and to worftip Jesus Christ that re-
deems them, he could not marry them ,• for he.
would have no Hand in joining Christians with
Savages; nor was it consistent with the Principles
of the Christian Religion ,• and was indeed ex-
pressly forbidden in God's Law.
The}' heard all this very attentively, and I de-
livers it very faithfully to them, from his Mouth,
as near his own Words as I could, only some-
times adding something of my own to convince
them
them how just it was, and hov* Ivvas of his Mind;
and I always very faithfully distinguished between,
wnac I said for my self, and what were the Cler-
gy man's Words. They told me, it vas very true,,
what the Gentleman had said, that they were but;
very indifferent Christians themselves, and*thatthev
never talk'd to their Wives about Religion. Lord^
Sir! fays Will Atkins, how should we teach them
Religion? Why, we know nothing our selves $
and besides, Sir, said be, should we go to talk
to them of God, and Jesus Christ, and Heaven and
Hill, 'twould be to make them laugh at us, and
ask us, What we believe our selves? And if we
should tell them we believe all the Things that:
we speak of to them; such %s of good People
going to Heaven, and wicked People to the De~
vil, they would ask us, Where we intend to go
our selves, that believe all this, and are such wick-
ed Fellows, as we indeed are? Why, Sir, 'tisr
enough to give them a Surfeit of Religion at first:
Hearing. ^ Folks must have some Religion them-
selves, before they pretend to teach other People.
I fill. Atkins, said J to him, tho' I am afraid what
you fay has too much Truth in it, yet can you
not tell your Wife that flic's in the wrong? That
taere is a God, and a Religion better than her
own; That her Gods are Idols, that they can
neither hear nor speak; That there is a great Be-
ing that made all Things, and that can destroy all
that he had made; That he rewards the Good,
and punishes the Bad: And, that we are to be
judged by him at last for all we do here. You
are not so ignorant, but even Nature it ieif will
teach you that ali this is true, and I am satisfi-
ed you know it all to be true, and believe it
yowjr Ieif.
L 4 That's
That's true, Sit% said Atkins; but with what
pace can I fay any Thing to my Wife of all this,
;when she will tell me immediately it cannot be
true?
Not true, said I! What do you mean by that?
Why, Sir, said be, she will tell me it cannot be
true, that this God I shall tell her of can be just,
or can punish, or reward, since I am not punish'd,
and sent to the Devil, that have,been such a
wicked Creature as she knows I have been, even
to her, and to every Body else; and that I should
be suffered to live, that have been always acting
sp contrary to what I must tell her is Good, and
to what I ought to have done?
Why, truly, Atkins, Ja'd> h 'am ^fraid thou
speakest too much Truth: And with that I Jet the
Clergyman know whitAtkim had said, for he was
impatient to know. O! said the Priest, tell him
there is one Thing will make him the best Minister
in the World to his Wife, and that is, Repentance;
for none teach Repentance like true Penitents. He
wants nothing but to repent, and then he will be
so much the better qualified to instruct his Wife.
H9 will then be ab!e to tell her, that there is not
only a God, and that he is the just Rewarder of
Good and Evil -9 but that he is a merciful Being,
and with infinite Goodness and Long-suffering for-
bears to punish those that ostend, waiting to be
gracious, and willing not the Death of a Sinner,
but rather that he should return and live 2 That
oftentimes suffers wicked Men to go oh a long
Time, and even reserves Damnation to the gene-
ral Day of Retribution. That it isa clear Evi-
dence of God, and of a future State, that righteous
Men receive not their Reward, or wicked Men
their Punishment, until they come into another
World j and this will lead him to teach his Wife
the
theDoctrme of the Resurrection, and of the last
Judgment v ter him hut repent for himself, he
will be an excellent Preacher of Repentance to
his Wife.
1 repeated all this to Atkim, who Jook'd very
serious all the while, and who, we could easily
perceive, was more than ordinarily affected with
it: When being eager, and hardly suffering me
to make an End, I know all tbisy Master, says he,
and a great deal more; but 1 han't the Impudence
to talk thus to my Wife, when God, and my
own Conscience knows, and my Wife will be an
unden'ableEvidence against me, that I have hVd,
as I had never heard of a God, or future State,
or any Thinij about it: And to talk of my re-
penting, ALAS! And. with that he fetch'd a deep
Sigh; and 1 could fee, that Tears stood in his
Eyes: 'Tis past all that with me. Past it! A T-
KlNS, saldl% What do'st thou mean by that?
1 know well enough what I mean, fays he, I mean
'tis too late, and that is too true.
1 told my Clergyman Word for Word what he
said. The poor 7ealous Priest(I must call him so;
{qt^ be his Opinion what it will, he had certainly
a most singular Affection for the Good of other
Mens Souls-, and it would be hard to think he had
not the like for his own) 1 fay, this zealous, affe-
ctionate Man could not refrain Tears also: But,
recovering himself, he said to me, Ask him but
one Question, Is he easy that it is too late, or is
he troubled, and wishes it were not so? 1 put the
Question fairly to Atkins, and he answered with
a great deal of Passion, How could any Man be
easy in a Condition that certainly must'end in e-
ternal Destruction? That he was far from being
easy, but that, on the contrary, he believed it
Would one Time or other ruin him.
What
What do you mean by that? said I. Why,, he
said he believed he sliould, one Time or other,
cut his Throat to put an End to the Terror of
it.
The Clergyman {hook his Hted-with a great
Concern in his Face, when I told him all this:
Bac turnitlfj quick %Q me uptm ky says he. If that
he his Cafe, you may assure him, it is not coo late \
Christ will give him Repentance: But pray,/w
ht^ explain this to him^ That as no Man is iav'd
hut by Christ and the Mcri» of his Passion, pro-
curing divine Mercy for him, how can it be too
late tor any Man to receive Mercy? Does he
think he is able toiin beyond the Power or Reach
of divine Mercy? Pray tell him, there may be
a Time when provqk'd Mercy wiU no longer
strive, and when God may refuse 10 hear, but
that 'tts never too late for Men to ask Mercy \
and we that are Christ's Servants are command-
ed to preach Mercy at all Times, in the Name ofje-
fm Christy to all those that sincerely repent} so that
"cis never too lace to repent.
I told Atkins ail this, and he heard me with
great Earnestness; but it seem'd as if he turn'd off
the Diseourie to the rest •, for he laid to me he
would go and have some Talk with his Wife; so
he went out a while, and we ralB'd to the rest.
I perceiVd they were all stupidly ignorant as to
Matters of Religion, much as I was when I went
rambling away from my Father; and yet that
there were none of them backward to hear what
had been ted; and all of them scriouily promised
that they would talk with their Wives about ir,
and do their Endeavour to pe'iwade them tocurn
Christians,
The Clergvman smiTd upon me, when I repor-
ted whar Answer they gave^ but said nothing a
; good
good while; but, at last, (baking his Head, We that
$rc Christ's Servants, says he, can go no further
than to exhort and instruct: j and when Men comply,
submit to the Reproof, and promise what we ask,
\i$ ail we can do: We are bound to accept their
good Words. But believe me, Sir, said he, what-
ever you may have known of the Life of that Man
yoq call Will. Atkins, I believe he is the only sincere
Convert among them; I take that Man to be a
ttue Penitent; 1 won't defpare of the rest; but that
Man is apparently struck with the Sense of his past
Life; 4nd I doubt not, but when he comes to
talk Religion to his \Vik3 he will talH himself ef-;
scctually into it; for attempting to te^ch others, is
sometimes the best way of reaching our selves, I
knew a Man, who having nothing but a summary
Notion of Religion himself, and being wicked and
profligate to the last Degree in his Life, made a
thorough Reformation in himself, by labouring to
convert a Jew. If that poor Atkins begins but one?
to tflk seriously of Jesus Christ to his Wife, my
Life for it, he talks himself into a thorough Con-
vert, makes himself a Penitent: And who knows
what may follow?
Upon this Discourse however, and their pro-
mising, as obove, to endeavour to perswade their
Wives to embrace Christianity, he marry'd the
other three Couple; but Will Atkins and his Wife
were not yet come in. After this, ray Clergyman,
waiting a while, was curious to know where At-*
kins was gone; and, turning to me, sap he, I en-
treat you, Sir, let us walk out of your Labyrinth
here, and look > I dare fay, we slull find this poor
Man somewhere or other talking seriously to his
Wife, and teaching her already something of Re-
ligion. I began to be of the same Mind; so we
wen: out together, and I carry a him a Way
which
which none but knew myself, and where the Trees
were so thick sets as that it was not easy to sec
thro* the Thicket of Leaves, and far harder to fa
in> than to see out; when, coming to the Edge of
the Wood',**I saw Atkins and his tawny Savage
Wife sitting under the Shade of a Busli, very eager
in Discourse. I slopp'd short trill my Clergyman
came up to me; and then having (hew' him
where they were, we stood and look'd very steadi-
er them a good while.
We observed him very earnest with her, point-
ing up to the San, and to every Quarter of the Hea-
vens, then down to the Earth, then out to the
S^a, then to himself, then to her, to the Woods
to the Trees. Now, fays my Clergyman, you Ice
my Word- are made good, the Man preaches to
her; mark him now/he is telling her, that our
God has made him, and her, and the Heavens,
the Earth, the Sea, the Woods, the Trecs^ &c. I
believe he is, said I; immediately we pci'CcivWlVil
Atkins start up upon his Feet, fail down on his
Knees, and lift up both his Hands: We suppose
he {aid something, but we could not hear him, it
was too far,for that. He did not continue kneeling
half a Minute, but comes and fits down again by
his Wife, and talks to her again. We pereeiv'd
then the Woman very attentive, but whether foe
said any thing or no we could not tell; while the
poor Fellow was upon his Knees, I could seethe
Tears run plentifully down myClergyman's Cheeks
and I could hardly forbear my self; but it was a
great Affliction to ns both that we were not near
enough to hear any thing that pafs'd between them,
.Well, however, we co'iid come no nearer lot
fear of disturbing them, so we resolv'd to fee an
End of this Piece of jtiU Cfinversntkn, and it spoke
loud enough to us without the Help of Voice. He
fat
far down again, as I have said, close by her, and
talk'd again earnestly ro her, and two or three
rimes we could fee him embrace her most pal-
iMnarc'.y: Another time we law him take out his
Hai.dkcichief and wipe her Lyes, and then kise
her again with a hind ot* Transport very ur.usual;
and after several os these Things we fee him, on a
sudden, jamp up again, and lend her his Hand to
help her up, when immediately, leading her by
the Hand a Step or two, they both kneesd down
together, and continu'd so about two Minutes.
Mv Friend could bear it no longer, but cries out
aland, St. PAUL St. PAUL! 6c/m>M/jc prayeth;
I was afraid Atk:n* would hear him, therefore I
entreated him to withhold him/elf awhile, that
we might sec an End of the Scene,- which to me, I
must confess, was the most attesting* and yet the
most agreeable that ever I saw in my Life Weil,
he strove with himself, and contain'd himself for a
while, but was in such Raptures of Joy, to think
that the poor Heathen Woman was become a
Christian, that he was no: able to contain himself.
He wept several times, then throwing up his Hands
and crossing his Breast, said over several Things
Ljacuiatory, ai:d by way of giving God Thanks
for so miraculous a Testimony of the, Success of
ouwEndcavours. Some he spoke softly, and I could
not well hear, others audibly, some in I.iumy some
in F.aich; then two or three times the Tears
of Joy would interrupt him, that in; could not
speak at all: But I begg'd that he would com-
pose himself and let us more narrowly and fully
observe what was before us, which he did for a
Time5 and the Scene was not ended there yetj
for after the poor Man b\k\ his Wire were risen
again from their Knees, we observed he stood talk-
ing still eagerly to her; a*.d we observed by her
Moti-
3Motion, that siie was greatly affected with what
he said, by her frequent lifting up her Hands, lay-
ing her Hand to her Breast, and such other Po-
stures, as usually express the greatest Seriousness
and Attention. This continued about half a Quar-
ter of an Hour, and then they walk'd away too j
so that we could fee no more of them in that Si-
tuation,
I took this Interval to talk with my Clergyman:
And first, I told him, I was glad to lee the Parti-
* culars we had both been Witnesses to; that tho, I
was hard' enough ot Belief in such Cases, yet
that I began to think it was all very sincere tore,
both in the Man and his Wife, however ignorant
they might both be; and I hop'd such a Beginning
would have a yet more happy End t And who
knows,said Iy but these two may in Time, by In-
struction and Example, work Upon some ot the
others? Some of them I said ht, turning quiek upon
to*> ay, upon\ all of them; depend upon ivy if thole
two Savages, for hehaSbeeh but little better, as
you relate it* should embrace Jesus Christ, they
will never leave "till they wdrk upon all the rests
for true Religion is naturally communicative,
and he that is once made a Christian, will never
leave a Pagan behind him, if he can help it. 1
own'ditwas a most Christian Principle to think
so, and a Testimony of a true Zearl, as well as a
generous Heart in him: But^ my Friend, said h
Will you give me Leave to start one Difficulty here?
I cannot tell how to object the least Thing against
that affectionate Concern, which you shew ferthe
turning the poor People from their Paganism to
the Christian Religion: But how does this com-
fort you, while these People are in your Account
out of the Pale o£ theCatholick Church, without
which you believe there is no Salvation,- so that
yoet
you esteem these but Hereticks, and for other Rea-
sons, as efte&ually lost as the Pagans themselves.
To this he answer'd with abundance of Cao-
dor and Christian Charity thus: Sir, lam a Ca~
tholick of the Roman Church, and a Priest of the
Order of St. BencdiB, and 1 embrace all the Prin-
ciples of the Roman Faith: But yet ii you will
believe me, and that I do not speak in Compliment to
yuiy or ;;/ rejpecl to my Circumstances and your Civilities;
1 fay, ne\ erthcless, I do not look upon you, who
call your selves Reforms, without iome* Charity-:
I dare not fay, tho* I know it is our Opinion in generals
1 fay, 1 dare not fay, that you cannot be iav'd -
I will by no means limit the Mercy of Christ so
far, as to think that he cannot receive you into
the Bosom of his Church in a Manner to us unper-
ccivable, and which it as impossible for us to know*
and I hope you have the fame Charity for us.
1 pray daily for your being all resior'd to
Christ's Church, by whatsoever Methods he* who
is All-wife, is pleas'd to direct: In the mean t^me,
sure you will allow it to consist with me, as a Ro-
man, to distinguish far between a Protestant and a
Pag^n; between one that calls on Jesus Christ,
tho* in a Way which I do not think is according
to the true Faith, and a Savage, a Barbarian, that
knows no God, no Christ, no Redeemer; and if
you are not within the Pale of the Catholick
Church, we hope you are nearer being restored to
it than those thar knew nothing of God or his
Church: And I rejoice therefore when I see this
poor Man, who you fay has been a Profligate,
and almost a Murderer, kneel down and pray
to Jesus Christ, as we suppose he did, tho* not
lully enlighten'd; believing that God, from whom
every such Work proceeds, will sensibly touch his
Heart, and bring him to the further Knowledge
5fthat 'truth in his own Time; and if God dial!
influence this poor Man to convert and instruct
the poor ignorant Savage his Wire, I can never
believe that he shall be calt away himself. And
have I not Reason then to rejoyce, the nearer any
are brought to the Knowledge of Christ, tho'they
may not be brought quite home into the Bosom oV
the Catholick Church, just in the Time when I
may desire it? leaving it to the Goodness of Christ
to perfect his Work in his own Time, and his own
Way. Certainly I would rejoyce if all the Sava-
ges in America were brought like this poor Woman
to pray to God, tho* they were to be all Prote-
stants at first, rather than they should continue Pa-
gans and Heathens; firmly believing, that he that
had bestowed the first Light to them, would fur-
ther illuminate them with a Beam of his heavenly
Grace, and bring them into the Pale of his Church
when he should fee good.
I was astonislied at the Sincerity and Temper
of this truly pious Papist, as much as I was op-
pressed by the Power of his Reasoning; and it
presently occurred to my Thoughts, that it such
a Temper was universal, we might be all Catho-
lick Christians, whatever Church or particular Pro;
session we joined to, or joined in; that a Spirit ot
Charity would soon work us all up into right
Principles. And in a Word, as he thought, that
the like Charity would make us all Catholicks;
so I told hipi, I believed, had all the Members
of his Church the like Moderation, they would
soon be all Protestants. And there we left that
Part, for we never disputed at all
However, I talked to him another Way, and
taking him by the Hand, My Friend, says I, 1 wife
all the Clergy of the Romijh Church were blest with
such Moderation, and had an equal Share of y<>lir
H Chr
Charity, t am entirely of your Opinion,* but I
mull tell you, that if you should preach such Do-
ctrine in Spain or Italy, they would put you into
the Inquisition. f
It may be so, said he, I know not what they
might do in Spain or Italy, but I will not say they
would be the better Christians for that Severity,
for I am sure there is no Heresy in too much Cha-
rity.
Weil, as Will Atkins and his Wife were gone,
our Business there was over: So we went back
our own Way; and when we came back, we found
them waiting to be called in; observing this, I
ask'd my Clergyman, If we {hould discover to him
that we had seen him under the Bush, or no? -And
it was his Opinion we should # not; but that we
would talk to him first, and hear what he would
fay to us. So we called him in alone; no Body
be.ng in the Place but our selves: And I began
with him thus*
Will. Atkim, said I3 prithee what Education had
you? What was your Father?
W. A. A better Man than ever I shall be. Sir,
my Father was a Clergyman.
R. C. What Education did he give you?
W. A. He would have taught me well, Sir i
but I despised all Education, Instruction, or Cor-
rection, like a Beast as I was.
JR. C. It's true, Solomon fays, He that despises Re-
proof is brutish.
W* A. Ay, Sir, I was brutish, indeed, I mur-
dered my Father: For God's Sake, Sir, talk no
more about that, Sir; I murdered my poor Father.
Pr. Ha I a Murderer! #
* Here the Priest started ( (ot I interpreted every
Word as he ipoke it) and look'd pale. It
Part II. M seems
semis he believed that Will, had really killed
his own Father.
R. C No, no, Sir, I do not understand him so.
Witt. Atkins, explain your sets. You did not kill
your Father, did you, with your own Hand?
W. A. No, Sir, I did not cut his Throat, but
I cut the Thread of his Comforts,* and short-
ned his Days; I broke his Heart by the most un-
grateful, unnatural Return, for the most tenderjaf-
tectionate Treatment that ever Father gave, or
Child could receive.
R. C. Well, I did not ask you about your Fa-
ther, to extort this Confession; I pray God give
you Repentance for it, and forgive you that, at J
all your other Sins; but I asked you, because I
see, that the/ you have not much Learning, yet
you are not so ignorant as some are in Things that
are Good; that you have known more of Religicti
a great deal than you have practised.
W.A. Tho* you, Sir, did not extort the Con-
fession that I made about my Father, Conscience
does; and whenever we come to look back upon
our Lives, the Sins against our indulgent Parents
are certainly the first that touch us; the Wounds
they make lye the deepest, the Weight they leave
will lye heaviest upon the Mind, of all the Sins we
can commit.
JR. C You talk too feelingly and sensibly for me
Atkins; I cannot bear ir.
W. A. You bear it, Master! I dare say you know
nothing of it.
* R. C. Yts7 Atkins, every Shbre, every Hill, nay,
I may fay, every Tree in this Island is Witness to
the Anguish of my Soul, for my Ingratitude ar«J
base Usage of a good tender Father y a, Father
much like yours, by vou'r Description; and I ^ur
dcreel my Father as well as you, Will. Atkins;
but 1 think, for all that, my Repentance is ihdre
of yours too # by a great deal.
# / would have said more, if I could have ti-
strainedmy Passions \ but I thought this poor
Mans Repentance was so muchfincerer than
mine, that I was going to leave off the Dis"
course and retire, for I was surprized with
what he said% and thought, that instead os
my going about to teach and instruct him, the
Man was a Teacher and Infirucier to me, in
a most surprising and unexpeBed Manner.
I laid all this before the young Clergyman, who
was greatly affected with it, and said to me, Did
I not say, Sir, that when this Man was converted,
he would preach to us all? I tell you, Sir, if this
one Man be made a true Penitent, here will be ho
need of me, he will make Christians of all in the
Island. But having a littlfc composed my self, I
renewed any Discourse with Will. Atkins,
But, Will, said I, how comes the Sense of thi<i
Matter to touch you just now?
W. A. Sir, you have set me about a Work that
has struck a Dart tho* my very Soul. I have beefi
talking about God and Religion to my Wife, in
Order, as you diirected me, to make a Christian
of her, and she has preached such a Sdrmon to me,
as I shall never forget while I live.
R. C. No, no, it is not your Wife has preach *d
to you ; but when you were moving religious Ar-
guments tt> her, Conscience has flung them back
upon you.
W. A. Ay, Sir, with such a For£e as is n6t td
be resisted.
R. C. Pray Will let us know what passed be-
tween you and your Wife* tori know something
of it already.
W* A. Sir, it is impossible to give you a full Ac-
count of it \ I am too full to hold it, and yet have
no Tongue to express ; it but let her have said
what she will, and tho' I cannot give you an Ac-
count of it, this I can tell you of it, that I resolve
to amend and reform my Life.
jR. C. But tell us some of it. How did you be-
gin, WiU? For this has been an extraordinary Case*
that's certain. She has preach'd a Sermon, indeed,
if she has wrought this upon you.
W A. Why, I first told her the Nature of our
Laws about Marriage, and what the Reasons were,
that Men and Women were oblig'd to enter into
such Compacts, as it was neither in the Power of
one or other to break; that otherwise, Order and
Justice could not be maintained, and Men would
run from their Wives, and abandon their Chil-
dren, mix confusedly with one another, and nei-
ther Families be kept intire, or Inheritances be set-
tled by legal Descent.
R. C. You talk like a Civilian, Will, could you
ftiake her understand what you meant by Inheritance
and Families? They know no such Thing among
the Savages, but marry any how, without Regard
to Relation, Consanguinity, or Family, Brother
and Sister; nay, as I hav e been told, even the Fa-
ther and Daughter, and the Son and Mother.
W.J.I believe, Sir, you are misinformed, and my
Wife assures me the contrary, and that they abhor
it; perhaps, for any farther Relations they may not
be so exact as we are: But she tells me they nea
ver touch one another in the neat Relations you
speak of.
it C Well, what did she say, to what you told
her? W.A.
W. A. She said, she lik'd it v<?ry well, and it
was much better than in her Country.
R. C. But did you tell her what Marriage was?
W. A. Ay, ay, there began all our Dialogue. I
#skd her if she would be marry'd to me our Way?
She ask'd me what Way that was? I told her Mar-
riage was appointed by God \ and here we had a
strange Talk together, indeed, as ever Man and
Wile had, I believe.
N. B. This Dialogue between W. Atkins and his
Wife, ml took it down in Writings just after
he told it we, was as follows.
IPife. Appointed by your God! Why, have you
a Gp J in your Country?
W A. Yes, my Dear, God is in every Country.
Wife. No, you God in my Country; my Coun-
try have the great old Benamuckee God.
W. A. Child, I am very unfit to sliew you who
God is. God is in Heaven, and made the Heaven
and the Earth, the Sea, and all that in them is/
Wife. No, makee de Earth ,• no you God make
All Earth, no make my Country. #
* W. kJaugheda little at her'Expression, ofGdd
not making her Country.
Wife. No laugh, why laugh me? This no
Thing to laugh. *'
* He was justly reproved by his Wife, for she was
more serious than he dt first.
W. A. That's true indeed, I will not laugh any
more my Dear.
Wife. Why you fay, you God make all.
W. A. Yes, Child, our God made the whose
World and you, and me, and all Tfiings \ for he
is the only true God. There is iiQ God but him;
he lives for ever in Heaven.
M 3 Wifr
Wife. Why you no tell me long ago?
W. A* That's true indeed, but i nave been 4
wicked Wretch,, and have not only forgotten to
acquaint thee with any Thing before, but have
Jived without God in the World my self.
Wife. W hat have you de great God in you
(Country, you no kno'him? No sav O to him?
No do good Thins for him? That no pos-
sible!
W. A. It istoo true \ tW for all that, we live
as ff there was no God in Heaven, or that he had
no Power on Earth.
fpife. But why, God let yop do so ?. Why lie
no makee you good live?
W- A. It is all our own Fault.
Wife. But you fay me, he is Great, much
Greats have much great Power ^ can makee kill,
when he-will; why he no makee kill when you
no serve him? No fay O to him? No be good
Mans.
W. A* That is.•true; he might strike me
dead, and I ought to expect it \ for I have been
«. wicked Wretch, that is true; but God is
fnercifulj and does not deal with us as we de-
serve.
Wife. But then, do not ypu tell God Tankee
for that too?
W. A. No, indeed, I have not thapk'd God
for his Mercy, any more than I have fear'd God
for his Power.
"Wife. Then you God no God j me no think,
believe, he be such one, great much Power,
strong •, no makee kill you thq'you makee him
much angry.
'" W, A. What! will my wicked Life hinder
you from believing in God? What a dreadful
Creature am t* and what a sad Truth is it,
chat the horrid Lives of Christians hinders the
Conversion of Heathens?
Wife. How me tink you have great much
God * up there, and yet no do well, no do
good Thing? Can he cell? Sure he no tell what
you do.
* She points us to Heaven*
If/. A. Yes, yes, he knows and fees all Things s
he hears us speak, sees what we do, knows what
yre think, tho* we do not speak.
Wife. What! he no hear you swear, curse,
speak the great Damn.
IV. A. i esv yes, he hears It all
Wife. Where be then the muchee great Power
strong.
W. A. He is merciful, that's all we can fay
for it \ and this proves him to be the true GqcJ;
he is God and not Man *, and therefore we are not
consum'd. *
* Here Will* Atkins told us he was struck with
Horror, to think how he could tell his Wife so
clearly that God Jees, and hears, and knows
the secret Thoughts of the Heart, and all that
we do; and yet that he had dard to do all the
vile Things he had done.
Wife. Merciful 1 what you call that?
W. A. He is our Father and Maker, and he
pities and spares us.
Wife. So then he never makee kill, never an-
gry when you do wicked; then he no good him-
self, or no great able.
W. A. Tes,yes> my Dear* he is infinitely good,
and infinitely great, and able to punish too, and
M 4 some-
sometimes to stiew his Justice and Vengeance, he
lets fly his Anger to destroy Sinners, and make
Examples; many are cut oft in their Sins.
Wife. But no make kill you yet, than he tell
you may be that he no make you kill, so you make
de Bargain with him, you do bad Thing, he no
be angry at you, when he be angry at other
Mans.
W. A. No indeed, my Sins are all Presumpti-
ons upon his Goodness; and he would be infi-
nitely just if he destroy *d me as he has done other
Men.
Wife. Well, and yet no kill, no makee you
dead, what you fay to him for that, you no ceil
him Tankee for all that too?
W. A. I am an unthankful, ungrateful Dog,
that's true.
Wife. Why? He no makee you much good
better, you fay he makee you.
W* A. He made me as he made all the World \
'tis I have deform'd my self, and abus'd his Good-
ness, and made my self an abominable Wretch.
Wife. I wish you makee God know me, I no
makee him angry, I no do bad wicked Thing.
Here Will. Atkins said his Heart funk within
hinty to hear a poor untaught Creature de-
sire to be taught to knoxv God, and he fud*
a wicked Wretch, that he could not fay one
Word to her about God, but what the Re-
proach of his own Carriage would make mofi
irrational to her to believe; nay, that al-
ready fie had told him, that she could not be-
lieve in God, because he that wm so wicked
was not destroy'V* ,
W.A.
W. A. My Dear, yon mean, you wish I coul4
teach you to know God, not God to know you,
for he knows you already, and every Thought ia
your Heart.
Wise. Why then he know what I fay to you
now? He know me wisli to know him; how shall
me know who makee me?
W. A. Poor Creature, he must teach thee, I
cannot teach thee; Til pray to him to teach thee
to know him, and to forgive me that I am un-
worthy to teach thee.
*fhe poor Fellow was in such an Agony at her
desiring him to make her know God, and h^r
wiping to know him, that, he said, he fell
down on his Knees before her, and prayd to
God to enlighten her Mind with the saving
Knowledge of Jesm Christy and to pardon his
Sins, and accept of his being the unworthy In-
strument ofinfirutling her in the Principles of
Religion; after which, he fat down by her a-
gain, and their Dialogue went on. N. B.
This was the Time when we saw him
kneel down, and lift up his Hands.
Wife. What you put down the Knee for? What
you hold up the Hand for? What you fay? Who
you speak to? What is all that?
W. A. My Dear, I bow my Knees in Token of
my Submission to him that made me; I said O to
him, as you call it, and as you fay, your old Men
do to their Idol Benamukee; that is, I pray'd to
him.
Wife. What you fay O to him for >
W. A. I pray'd to him to open your Eyes, and
your Understanding, that you may know him, and
be accepted by him,
a - Wife.
Wise* Can he do that too.?
J^. 4. Ves, he can, he can do all Things,
Wije. But now he hear what you fay?
IV A. Yes, he has bid us pray to him, and pro-
mised to hear us.
Wife. Bid you pray? When he bid you? How
he bid you? What! you hear him speak?
W.A. No, we do not hear him speak, but he
has revealed himself many Ways to us.
Here he was at a great Z,css to make her under -
flandy that God hat revealed himself to us by
his Word> and what hu Word wcu; But at
last he told it her thus.
W. A. God has spoken to some good Men in
former Days, even from Heaven, by plain Words j
and God has inspired good Men by his Spirit j
and they have written all his Laws down in a
Book.'
Wife. Me no understand that, where is Book?
W A. Alas, my poor Creature, I have not this
Book 1 but I hope I shall one Time or other get
jt for you, and help you to read it.
Here he embraced her with great AJfechon;
but with inexpressible Grief, that he had
not a Bible.
Wife. But how you makee me Juiow, that God
teachee them to write that Book?
W A. By the fame Rule that w<p know him to
be God.
Wife. What Rule, what Way you know him?
W A. Because he teaches and commands no-
thing but what is good, righteous, and holy;
and tends to make us pcrsc&ly gopd, as well as
% ' :' per-
perfectly happy; and because he forbids and
jcommands us to avoid all that is wicked, that
is evil in k self, or evil in its Consequences.
Wife. That me would understand, that me fain
fee; if he teachee all good Thing, forbid all wick-
ed Thing, he reward all good Thing, punish all
wicked Thing, he make all Thing, he give all
Thing, he hear me when I fay O to him, as you gp
do just now; he makee kill me, if I wish be good,
he spare me, no makce kill me, when I no be good;
all this you fay he do, yet he be great God; me
take, think, believe him be great God; me fay
0 to him top with you my Dear.
Here the poor ]Sfan could forbear no longer;
but raising her up, made her kneel by him, and
he ptay'd to God aloud to instruct her in the
Knowledge of himself by his Spirit, and that by
some good Providence, if possible, she might
sometime or other come to have a Bible, that
she might read the Word of God, and be taught
by it to know him.
This was the Time that we saw him lift her
up by the H#nd, and saw him kneel down by
her, as above.
They had several other Discourses, it seems,
after this, too long to set down here; and parti-
cularly she made him promise, that since he con-
fest his own Life had been a wicked abominable
Course pf Provocation against God, that he
would reform it> and not make God angry any
more, lest he should make him dead, as she callM
it, and then she should be left alone, and never be
taught to know this God better; and lest he
should be miserable, as he had told her wicked
Men should be after Death.
This was a strange Account, and very affecting
so us bpth, but particularly to the young Clergy-
man:
man; he was indeed wonderfully siirpriz'd with
it, but under the greatest: Affliction imaginable,
that he could not talk to her, that he could not
speak English to make her understand him; and
as flie spoke but very broken English, he could
not understand her- However, he tum'd himself
to me, and told me, that he believed there must be
more to do with this Woman than to marry her:
I did not understand him at first, but at length he
explains himself, viz,, that she ought to be
Baptiz'd.
I agreed with him in that Part readily, and
was for going about it presently: No, no, hold
Sir, said he% tho'l would have her be Baptiz'd by
all Means, yet I must observe, that fl/M. Atkins,
her Husband, has indeed brought her in a won-
derful Manner to be willing to embrace a reli-
gious Life, and has given her Just Ideas of the
Being of a God, of his Power, Justice, Mercy;
yet I desire to know of him, if he had said any
Thing to her of Jesus Christ, and of the Salva-
tion of Sinners, ot the Nature of Faith in him,
and Redemption by him, of the Holy Spirit, the
Resurrection, the last Judgment, and a future
State.
I callM JVM. Atkins again, and ask'd him ; but
the poor Fellow fell immediately into Tears, and
told us he had said something to her of all those
things, but that he was himself so wicked a Crea-
ture, and his own Conscience so reproaeh'd him
with his horrid ungodly Life, that he trembled at
the Apprehensions, that her Knowledge of him
should lessen the Attention she fhoirld give to those
Things, and make her rather contemn Religio11
than receive it: But he was assur'd, he said, that
her Mind was so dispos'd to receive due ta-
preffions of all those Things, that if I ^voul(i
r to but
but discourse with her, she would make it ap-
pear to my Satisfaction, that my Labour would
not be loll upon her.
Accordingly I call'd her in, and placing my self
as Interpreter between my religions Priest and the
Woman, I entreated hirrt to begin with her; but
sure such a Sermon was never preach'd by a Popish
Priest in these latter Ages of the World; and, as
I told htm, I thought he had all the Zeal, all the
Knowledge, all the Sincerity of a Christian,
without the Error of a Roman Catholkk; and that
I took him to be such a Clergy man, as the Ær?~
man Bishops were before the Church of Romezfc
sum'd spiritual Sovereignty over the Consciences
of Men.
In a Word, he brought the poor Woman to em-
brace the Knowledge of Christ, and of Redemp-
tion by him, not with Wonder and Astonishment
only, as she did the first Notions of a God> but
with Joy and Faith, with an Affection and a sur-
prizing Degree ok Understanding, scarce to be
imagined, much less to be expressed; and at her
own Request she was BaptiVd.
When he was preparing to Baptize her, I en-
treated him, that he would perform that Office
with some Caution, that the Man might not per-
ceive he was of the Roman Church, if possible,
because of other ill Consequences which might
attend a Difference among us in that very Reli*-
gion, which we were instructing the other in;
He told me, that as he had no consecrated Cha-
pel, no proper Things for the Office, I should fee
he would do it in a Manner that I should not know
by it, that he was a Roman Catholick my self, if I
had not known it before: And so he did; sot
saying only some Words over to himself in Latin;
which I could not understand, he pour'd a whole
Did*
JDifhful of Water upon the Woman's Head* pro
nouncing in French, very loud, MARY, which was
the Name her Husband deftrd me to give her; for I
was her Godfather, I Baptize thee in the Name of
the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy
Ghoft ; so that none could know any Thing by it,
what Religion he was of: He gave the Benedicti-
on afterwards in Latin; but either Will. Atkins
did not know but it was in French, or else did
not take Notice of it at that time.
As soon as this was over, we married them;
and after the Marriage was, over, he turn'd him-
self to Will. Atkins, and in a very affectionate
Manner exhorted him, not only to presevere in
that good Disposition he was in, but to support
the Convictions that were upon him by a Reso-
lution to reform his Life; told him it was in vain
to fay he repented, if he did not forsake his
Crimes: Represented to him, how God had ho-
noured him with being the Instrument of bring-
ing his Wife to the Knowledge of the Christian
Religion, and that he sliould.be careful he did
not dishonour the Grace of God, and that if
he did, he would fee the Heathen a better
Christian than himself, the Savage converted, and
the Instrument cast 2way.
He said a great many good Things to them
both, and then recommending them in a few
Words to God's Goodness, gave them the Bene-
diction again, I repeating every Thing to them
in English, and thus ended the Ceremony. I
think it was the most pleasant, agreeable Day
to me, that ever I passed in my whole Life.
But my Clergyman had not done yet; his
Thoughts hung continually upon the Conversion
of the seven and thirty Savages, and fain he
would have stayed upon the Island to have un-
der-
dettaken it; but I convinced him, first, that his
Undertaking was impracticable in itself; and se-
condly, that perhaps I would put it into a Way
of being done in his Absence to his Satisfaction;
ot which by and by.
Having thus brought the AfEiir of the Island
to a narrow Compass, I was preparing to go on
board the Ship* vdien the young Man, whom I had
taken out of the famish'd Ship's Company, came
to me, and told me, he understood I had a Cler-
gyman with me* and that I caused the Englifl)
Men to be married to the Savages, whom they
called Wives; that he had a Match too, which
he desir'd might be finished before I went, between
two Christians, which he hop'd would not be
disagreeable to me.
I knew this must be the young Woman who
was his Mother's Servant, for there was no other
Christian Woman on the Island; so I began to
perfwade him not to dc any Thing of that Kind
rashly, or because he found himself in this soli-
tary Circumstance. I represented to him, that he
had some considerable Substance in the World, and
good Friends, as I understood by himself, and by
his Maid also ; that his Maid was not only poor,
and a Servant, but was unequal to him, she be-
ing six or seven and twenty Years old, and he
not above seventeen or eighteen -, that he might
1rery probably, with my Assistance, make a Remove
from this Wilderness, and come into his own
Country again, and that then it would be a
thousand to one but he would repent his Choice;
and the Dislike of that Circumstance might be
disadvantageous to both. I was going to fay
more, but he interrupted me, smiling, and told
ftie, with a great deal of Modesty, that I mistook
in my Guesles,* that he had nothing o£ that Kind
m
in his Thoughts, his present Circumstance being
melancholly and disconsolate enough; and he was
very glad to hear that I had Thoughts of put-
ting them in a Way to fee their Country again,
and nothing should have put him upon slaying
there, but that the Voyage I was going was so
exceeding long and hazardous, and would carry
him quite out of the Reach of all his Friends ,•
that he had nothing to desire of me, but that I
would settle him in some little Property in the
Island where he was, give him a Servant or two
and some few Necessaries, and he would settle
himself here like a Planter, waiting the good
Time, when, if ever I returned to England^would
redeem him, and hop'd I would not be unmind-
ful of him when I came into England; that he
would give me some Letters to his Friends in
London, to let them know how good I had been
to him, and in what Part of the World, and
what Circumstance I had left him in,- that he
promised me, that whenever I redeemed him,
the Plantation, and all the Improvement he had
made upon it, let the Value be what it would,
should be wholly mine.
His Discourse was very prettily delivers, con-
sidering his Youth, and was the more agreeable
to me, because he told me positively the Match
was not for himself: I gave him all possible As-
surances, that if I hVd to come safe to England,
I would deliver his Letter, and do his Business
effectually, and that he might depend I would
never forget the Circumstance I had left him in;
but still I was impatient to know who were the
Persons to be married, upon which he told me, it
was my Jack of all Trades, and his Maid Susm.
I was most agreeably surprjVd, when he
nam'd the Match, for indeed I thought it very
suit;v
suitable ,\ the Character of that Man I hard
given already; and as for the Maid, (lie was a
very honest* modest, sober and religious young
Woman, had a very good Share of Sense, was a-
greeabk enough in her Person, spoke very hand-
somely, and to the Purpose, always with Decem
cy and good Manners^ and not backward to
speak when any Thing required it, or imperti-
nently forward to speak when it was not her Bu-
siness; very handy and housewifely in any Thing
that was before her; an excellent Manager, and
fit indeed to have been Governess to the whole
Island; she knew very well how to behave to all
kind of Folks (he had about her, and to better*
if she had found any there.
The Match being proposed in this Manner^
we married them the fame Day, and as I was
Father at the Altar, as I may fay, and gave her
away, so I gave her a Portion; for I appointed
her and her Husband a handsome large Space of
Ground for their Plantation. And indeed this
Match, and the Proposal the young Gentleman
made to give him a small Property in the Islands
put me upon parcelling it out amongst them,
that they might not quarrel afterwards about
their Situation.
This Sharing out the Land to them, I left to
WiU. Atkins, who indeed was now grown a most
sober, grave, managing Fellow, perfectly reformed,*
exceeding pious and religious, and as far as I
tnay be allow'd to speak positively in such * a
Case, I verily believe, was a true sincere Penitent.
He divided Things so justly, and so much to
every one s Satisfaction, that they only desired
©tie general Writing under ray Hand for- the
whole, which I caused to be drawn up and signed
and seal'd to them, setting out the Bounds and
fart II N Sitin
Situation of every Man's Plantation, and testify*
ing that I gave them thereby severally a Right
to the whole Possession and Inheritance of the
respective Plantations or Farms, with their Im-
provements to them and their Heirs, reserving
all the rest of the Island as my own Property,
and a certain Rent for every particular Planta-
tion after eleven Years, if I, or any one from me,
or in my Name, eame to demand it, producing
an attested Copy of the fame Writing.
As to the Government and Laws among them,
I told them I was not capable of giving them
better Rules, than they were able to give them-
selves, only made them promise me to live in
Love and good Neighbourhood with one ano-
ther; and so I prepared to leave them.
One Thing I must not omit, and this, is, that
being now settled in a Kind of Common-Wealth
among themselves, and having much Business
in Hand, it was but odd to have seven and thir-
ty Indians live in.a Nook of the Island inde-
pendent, and indeed unemployed; for except-
ing the providing themselves Food, which they
had Difficulty enough in too,, sometimes,
they had no manner of Business or Property to
manage. I propos'd therefore to the Governour
Spamard, that he should, go to them with Fridays
Father, and propose to them to remove, and
either plant for themselves, or take them into their
several Families as Servants to be maintains
for their Labour, but without being absolute
Slaves ,• for I would not admit them to make
them Slaves by Force, by any Means, because
they had their Liberty given them by Capitulati-
on, and as it were, Articles of Surrender, which
they ought not to break*
They
[*79.l
They Aost willingly embraced the Proposal*
and came ail very chearsuily along with him;
so we alloted them Land and Plantations, which
three or four accepted of, but all the rest
chose to be employed as Servants in the several
Families we Had settled; and thus my Colony
was in a Manner fettled, as follows. The *5jp4-
to'ards possessed my original Habitation, which
was the Capital City, and extended their Plan-
tations all along the Side of the Brook, which
made the Creek that I have so often described,
as far as my Bower; and as they increas'd their
Culture, it went always Eastward. The English
liv'd in the North-East Part, where Will. Atkins^
and his Comrades began, and came on South-
ward, and South-West, towards the back Part
of the Spaniards, and every Plantation had a great
Addition of Land to take m if they found Occa-
sion, so that they need not justle one another for
want of Room.
All the East End of the lfland was left uninha-
bited, that ii any of the Savages fliould come on
Shore there, only for their usual customary Bar-
barities, they might come arid go, if they disturbs
no Body, no Body would disturb them; and no
doubt but they ^ere often ashore, and went away
again; for I never heard that the Planters were
attacked or disturbed any more.
It mw came into ffly Thoughts, that I had
hinted to my Friend the Clergyman, that the
Work of Converting the Savages, might perhaps
be set on Fbbt in his Absence* to his Satisfaction i
and I told him, that now I thought it was put
in a fair Way> far the Savages being thus div^
ded among the Christians, if they would but
every one df then* do their Part with thoJfe
N 2 whtfb
which came utider their Hands/-! hdp'd it might
have a very good Effect.
He agreed presently in that, if, said he, they
will do their Part; but how, sdys he, shall we
obtain that of them? 1 told him, we would
call them together, and leave it in Charge with
them, or go to them one by one, which he
thought best, so we divided it; he to speak to
"the Spaniards, who were all Papists, and I to the
'English, who were all Protestants; and we re-
'commended it earnestly to them, and made them
promise, that they never would make any Di-
stinction of Papist or Protestant, in their ex-
"horting the Savages to turn Christians; but teach
"them the general Knowledge of the true God,
and of'their Saviour Jesus Christ; and they like-
wise promis'd us, that they would never have
any Differences or Disputes one with another a-
bout Religion.
When. I came to WU. Atkins's House, I may call
ft so, for such a fclouse, or such a Piece of Basket-
*Work, I believe, was not standing in the World
'again; I fay, when I came there, I found the
young Woman I have mention'd above, and Will
'Atkins's Wife, were become Intimates; and this
prudent religious young Woman, had perfected
i:he Work William Atkins had begun; and though
jt was not above four Days after what I have re-
lated, yet the new baptiVd Savage Woman was
made such a Christian, as I have seldom heard ot
any like her in all my Observation, ot Converse-
*ctdn, in the World. «
: It came next into my Mind in the Morning
"before I went to them, that amongst all the
:needful Things I had to leave With them, I had
*ti6t left them- a Bible, in which, I-fhew'd my
'ftl£"'Icss considering for them, than my g00tj
Friend
Friend the Widow was for me, when she lent
me the Cargo of an hundred Pounds from Li$«
bmi% where she pack'd up 3 Bibles, and a Prayer-
book: However, the good Woman's Charity had
a greater Extent than ever she imagined; for they
were referv'd for the Comfort and Instruction of?
those, that made much better Use of them than I
had done.
I took one of the Bibles in my Pocket, and*
when I came to Will. Atkin$y$ Tent or House, and
found the young Woman, and Atkins's baptiz'd
Wife, had been discoursing of Religion together;
for Will Atkins, told it me, with a great deal of
Joy: I ask'd it they were together now, and liQ
laid, yes; so I went into the House, and he with
me, and we found them together very earnest in
Discourse. O Sir! says Witt. Atkins, when God
has Sinners to reconcile to himself, and Al/ens to
bring Home, he never wants a Messenger; my
Wife has got a new Instructor! -I knew I was un-
worthy, as I was uncapable of that Work! That
young Woman has been sent hither from Heaven;
ihe is enough to convert a whole Island of Savages!
The young Woman blufli'd, and rose up to go away,
but I defir'd her to sit still ; I told her, she had a
good Work upon her Hands, and I hop'd God
would bless her in it.
We talk'd a little, and I did not perceive they
had any Book among them, though I did not ask;
but I put my Hand in my Pocket, and pull'd out
ray Bfolc; here, fays i, to Atkins, I have brought
you an Assistant that perhaps you had not before.
The Man was so confounded, that he was not able
to speak for some Time; but recovering himself
he takes it with both his Hands, and turning to
his Wife, here, my Dear, fays he; did not I tejl
you, oyr God, tho' he lives above, could hear
^ 3 what
what we said? Here's the Book I prayed for, when
son and I kneel'd down under the Btifli; now God
has heard us, and sent it; when he had said so,
the Man fell into such Transports of a passionate
|oy, that between the Joy of having it, and giv-
ing God thanks for it, the Tears run down his
Face like a Child that was crying.
The Woman was surprized, and was like to
have run into a Mistake, that none of us were
aware of; for she firmly believ'd God had sent
the Book upon her Husband's Petition: It is true,
that providentially it was so, and might be ta-
ken so in a consequent Sense; but I believ'd it
would have been no difficult Matter at that Time,
to have perswaded the poor Woman to have be-
liev'd, that an express Messenger came from Hea-
ven, on purpose to bring that individual Book;
but it was too serious a Matter, to suffer any De-
lusion to take Place ; so I turn'd to the young Wo-
man, and told her we did not desire to impose
upon the new Convert, in her first, and more ig-
norant Understanding of Things; and begg'd her
to explain to her, that God may be very properly
said to answer our Petitions, when in the Course
of his Providence, such things are in a particular
Manner brought to pass, as we petition cl for; but
we do not expect Returns from Heaven, in a mira-
culous and particular Manner, and that it is our
Mercy, that it is not so.
This the young Woman did afterwards effe-
ctually; so that there was, I assure you, no Priest-
craft bsed here; and I should have thought it
one of the most unjustifiable Frauds in the
World, to have had it so. But the Surprize pf
Jdy upon Will. Atkins, is really not to be expres-
sed; and there we may be sure, there was na
Delusion * Sure, no Man was ever more thank-
ful
ful in the World for any Thing of its Kind, than
he was for his Bible; nor I believe, never any
Man was glad of a Bible from a better Principle:
And tho* he had been a most profligate Creature,
desperate, headstrong, outrageous, furious, and
wicked to a great Degree; yet this Man is a stan-
ding Rule to us all, for the well instructing Chil-
dren, (viz,-) that Parents should never give over
to teach and instruct, or ever despair of the Sue-*
cess of their Endeavours, let the Children be e~
ver so obstinate, refractory > or to Appearance, in-
sensible of Instruction; for if ever God in his Pro-
vidence touches the Consciences of such, the
Force of their Education returns upon them,
and the early Instruction of Parents is not lost;
tho* it may have been many Years laid asleep;
but some Time or other they may find the Benefit
of it.
Thus it was with this poor Man, however ig-
norant he was, or divested of Religion and Chri-
stian Knowledge; he found he had some to do
with now, more ignorant than himself; and that
the least Part of the Instruction of his good Fa-
ther that could now come to his Mind, was of
Use to him.
Among the rest it occurred to him, he said,
how his Father us'd to insist much upon the in-
expressible Value of the Bible, the Privilege and
Blessing of it to Nations, Families, and Persons;
but he never entertained the least Notion of the
Worth of it, till now; when being to talk to
Heathens, Savages, and Barbarians, he wanted
the Help of the written Oracle for his Assi-
stance.
The young Woman was very glad of it also
for the present Occasion, tho* she had one, and
so had the You-th on board our Ship among
N 4 their
their Goods, which were not yet brought on Shore;
^nd now having said so many Things of this young
Woman, I cannot omit telling one Story more
of her, and my self, which has something in it ve-
ry informing and remarkable.
I have related, to what Extremity the poor
young Woman was reduced; how her Mistress
was starved to Death, and did die on board
that unhappy Ship we met at Sea; and how the
whole Ship's Company being reduced to the
last Extremity; the Gentlewoman, and her Son,
and this Maid, were first hardly used as to Pro-
visions, and at last totally neglected and starved;
, that is to fay, brought to the last Extremity of
Hunger.
One Day being discoursing with her upon the
. Extremities they suffered, I a$k\i her if flic could
describe by what she had felt, what it was to
starve, and how it appeared; flie told me, flic
believed stie could; and slie told her Tale very di-
stinctly thus:
u First, Sir, said she, we had for some Days far'd
*' exceeding hard, and suffered very great Hunger;
cc but now at last, we were wholly without Food
<c of any Kind, except Sugar, and £ little Wine,
€€ and a little Water. The first Day, after I had
cc receiv'd no Food at all, I found my self towards
€C Evening, first empty and sickisti at my Stomach,
" and nearer Night mightily inclined to yawn-
*& ing, and sleepy, I laid down on a Couch in the
"great Cabin to sleep, and slept about three
"Hours, and awak'd a little refresli'd; having
u taken a Glass of Wine when I lay down; after
••# being about three Hours awake, it being a-
. fc bout five a Clock in the Morning, I found my
f self empty, and my Stprju^h sis kifh, and lay
'•' *  '' "*c down
Cfc down again, but could not sleep at all, being
"very faint, and ill; and thus I continued all the
*c second Day, with a strange Variety, first him*-
"gry, then sick again, with Reachings to vomit.
"The second Night being obliged to go to Bed
"again, without any Food, more than a Draught
"of fair Water, and being asleep, I dream'd I
Cc was at BerbadoeSy and that the Market was
€i mightily stock'd with Provisions> that I bought
"some for my Mistress, and went and din'd very
cc heartily.
<c 1 thought my Stomach was as full after this
"as any would have been after, or at a good
u Dinner > but when I wak'd, I was exceedingly
"funk in my Spirits, to find my self in the Ex-
cc tremity of Famine: The last Glass of Wine we
€C had, I drank, and put Sugar in it, because of
*£ its having some Spirit to supply Nourishment;
cc but there being no Substance in the Stomach
"for the digesting Office to work upon, I sound
<c the only Effect of the Wine was, to raise dis-
cc agreeable Fumes from the Stomach, into the
"Head; and I lay, as they told me, stupid, and
•' senseless, as one drunk for some Time.
<c The third Day in the Morning, after a
"Night of strange and confus'd inconsistent
<c Dreams, and rather dozing than sleeping, I
c< wakcl, ravenous and furious with Hunger;
cc and I question, had not my Understanding re-
u turn'd andconquer'd it; I fay, I question whe-
<c ther, if I had been a Mother, and had had alit-
"tie Child with me, its Life would have been
cc safe or not?
"This lasted about three Hours; during which
Time I was twice raging mad as any Creature
in Bedlam, as my young Master told me, and as
^ he can now inform you.
V In
<c In one of these Fits of Lunacy or Distraction*"
"whether by the Motion of the Ship, or some
"Slip of my Foot, I know not; I fell down, and
u struck my Face against the Corner of a Palat
"Bed, in which my Mistress lay; and with the
fC Blow the Blood gusli*d out of my Nose ; and
*€ the Cabin Boy bringing me a little Bason, I
€t fat down and bled into it a great deal; and as
u the Blood run from me, I came to my self; and
<c the Violence of the Flame or the Fever, I was
<c in, abated, and so did the ravenous Part of the
f< Hunger.
<c Then I grew sick, and reach'd to vomit, but
fC could not; for I had nothing in my Stomach to
<c bring up: After I had bled some Time, I
€€ swoon'd, and they all believ'd I was dead; but
€i I came to my self soon after, and then had a most
*4 dreadful Pain in my Stomach, not to be descri-
u bed; not like the Cholick, but a gnawing ea-
u ger Pain for Food: And towards Night it went
€c off with a kind of earnest Wishing or Longing
€c for Food; something like, as I suppose, the
cc Longing of a Woman with Child. I took ano-
"ther Draught of Water with Sugar in it, but
€c my Stomach loathed the Sugar, and brought
€c it all up again; then I took a Draught of Wa-
<c ter without Sugar, and that stay'd with me;
4C and I laid me down "upon the Bed, praying
46 most heartily, that it would please God to
€€ take me away; and composing my Mind in
<c Hopes of it, 1 flumber'd a while, and then
€t waking, thought my self dying, being light with
<c Vapours from an empty Stomach. I recom-
46 mended my Soul then to God, and earnestly
H wift'dthat some Body would throw me into the
"Sea.
iC AH
"All this while my Mistress lay by me, just, as
"I thought, expiring, but bore it with much mor$
"Patience than I, and gave the last Bit of Bread
"flie had left to her Child, my young Master, who
u would not have taken it, but she obliged him to
"eat it; and I believe it sav'd his Life.
"Towards the Morning I flept again, and first
"when I awaked, I fell into a violent Passion of
u Crying, and after that had a second Fit of vio-
"lent Hunger. I got up ravenous, and in a most
cc dreadful Condition. Had my Mistress been dead,
H as much as I loved her, I am certain, I should
"have eaten a Piece of her Flesh, with as much
"Relish, and as unconcerned, as ever I did the
"Flesh ot any Creature appointed for Food i and
"once or twice I was going to bite my own Arm.
€t At last, I saw the Bason in which was the Blood
"I had bled at my Nose the Day before. I ran to
"it, and swallowed it with such Haste,, and such
"a greedy Appetite, as if I had wondred noBo-
u dy had taken it before, and afraid it would be
a taken from me now.
"Tho* after it was down, the Thoughts of it
cc filled me with Horror, yet it check'd the Fit of
"Hunger, and I drank a Draught of fair Water,
"and was composed and refrefhM for some Hours
u after it. This was the 4th Day, and thus I
<c held it, 'till towards Night, when within the
"Compass of three Hours, I had all these several
"Circumstances over again, one after another,
<c (viz* ) sick, sleepy, eagerly hungry, Pain in the
"Stomach, then ravenous again, then sick again,
"then lunatick, then crying, then ravenous again;
<£ and so every Quarter of an Hour, and my Strength
"wasted exceedingly. At Night I laid me down,
"having no Comfort, but in the Hope that I
!* ftould die before Morning.
V All
<c Alt this Night I had no Sleep. But the Him*
^ ger was now turned into a Disease ; and I had a
<c terrible Cholick and Griping, by Wind, instead
"of Food, having found its Wgy into die Bowels.
"And in this Condition I lay "till Morning, when
"was surprized a little with the Cries and La-
cc mentations of my young Master, who called out
"to me that his Mother was dead. I lifted up
<c my self a little; for I had not Strength to rise,
<c but found (he was not dead, though slie was
€i able to give very little Signs of Life.
"I had then such Convulsions in my Stomach,
<c for want of some Sustenance, that I cannot de-
<c scribe, with such frequent Throws and Pangs
"of Appetite, that nothing but the Tortures of
<c Death can imitate: And in this Condition I
"was, when I heard the Seamen above cry out,
€C A Sail, a Sail, and halloo and jump about, as
iC if they were distracted,
/' I was not able to get off from the Bed, and
<c my Mistress much less; and my young Master
<c was so sick, that I thought he had been expi-
*c ring; so we could not open ;he Cabin Door,
*c or get any Account whgt it was that occasioned
"such a Combustiop, nor had we had any Coir
<c versatioa with the Ship's Company for two
€t Days; they having told us, that they had not
fc a Mouthful of any Thing to eat in the Ship;
(t and they told us afterwards, they thought we
V had been dead.
"It was this dreadful Condition we were in
<c when you were sent to save our Lives * and how
"you found us, Sir, you know as well as I, and
** better too.
This was her own Relation, and is such a di-
stinct Account of Starving to PeatJi, as I confess,
Inq-
I never met with, and was exceeding entertain-
ing to me. I am the rather apt to bei.eve it to
be a true Account, because the Youth gave me
an Account ot* a good Part of it ,\ though I must
own, not so distinct and so feelingly as his Maid;
and the rather, because it seems his Mother fed
him at the Price of her own Life: But the poor
Maid, tho5 her Constitution being stronger than
that of her Mistress, who was in Years, and a
weakly Woman too, (he might struggle harder with
it. 1 fay, the poor Maid might be supposed to feel
the Extremity something sooner than her Mistress,
who might be allowed to keep the last Bit some-
thing longer than she parted with any to relieve the
Maid. No Question, as the Cafe is here related,
if our Ship, or some other, had not so providen-
tially met them, a few Days more would have
ended all their Lives, unless they had prevented It
by eating one another; and even that, as their CaTe
stood, would have served them but a little while,
they being yoo Leagues from any Land, or any
Possibility of Relief, other than in the miraculous
Manner it happened: But this is by the Way.
I return to my Disposition of Things among the
People.
And, First, It is to be observed hem, That for
many Reaions I did not think fit to let them
know any Thing of the Sloop 1 had framed, and
which I thought of setting up among them, for I
found, at least at my first coming, such Seeds of Divi-
sions among them, that I saw it plainly, had I
set up the Sloop, and left it among them, they
would upon every light Disgust |iave separated, and
gone away from one another, or perhaps have tur-
ned Pyrates, and so made the Island a Den of
Thieves, instead of a Plantation of sober and re-
ligious People, so as I intended it. Nor did I leave
the
the two Pieces of Brass Cannon that I had on
Board, or the two Quarter-Deck Guns, that my
Nephew took extraordinarily, for the fame Rea-
son. I thought it was enough to qualify them for
a defensive War against any that should invade
them; but not to set them up for an offensive War,
or to encourage them to go Abroad to attack o-
thers, which in the End would only bring Ruin
and Destruction upon themselves and all their Un-
dertaking. I reserved the Sloop therefore, and the
Guns, for their Service another Way, as I (hall
observe in its Place.
I have now done with the Island. I left them
all in good Circumstances, and in a flourishing
Condition, and went on board my Ship again
the of y having been five
and twenty Days among them. And as they were
all resolved to stay upon the Island 'till I came to
remove them, I promised to send some farther Re-
lief from the Brafils, if I could possibly find an Op-
portunity: And particularly, I promised to send
them some Cattle, such as Sheep, Hogs and Cows.
For as to the two Cows and Calves which I brought
from England, we had been obliged by the Length
of our Voyage to kill them at Sea, for want of
Hay to feed them.
The next Day, giving them* a Salut^ ot five
Guns at Parting, we set Sail, and arriv'd at the
Bay of AU-Saims in the Braftls in about 22 Days;
meeting nothing remarkable in our Passage, but
this. That about three Days after we fail d, being
becalm'd, and the Current setting strong to the
E.N.E. running, as it were, into a Bay orGulpn
on the Land Side, we were driven something out
of our Course, and (Mice or twice our Men cry a
Land to the Eastwards but whether it was the
Coir
Continent or Islands, we could riot tell by any
Means.
But the third Day towards Evening, the Sea
smooth, and the Weather calm, we saw the Sea,
as it were covered towards the Land with some-
thing very black, not being able to discover what
it was3 'till after some Time, our chief Mate go-
ing up the main Shrowds a little Way, and look-
ing at them with a Perspective, cryM out it was
an Army. I could not imagine what he meant
by an Army, and spoke a little hastily, calling the
Fellow a Fool, or some such Word: Nay, Sir,
fays bey don't be angry, for \is an Array and a
Fleet too j for 1 believe there are a thousand Ca-
noes, and you may fee them paddle along, and
they are coming towards us too, apace.
I was a little surpnYd then indeed, and so was
my Nephew, the Captain; for he had heard such
terrible Stories of them in the Island, and having
never been in those Seas before, that he could not
tell what to think of it, but said two or three
Times, we should all be devoured. I must confess,
considering we were becalm'd, and the Current*
set strong towards the Shore, I hVd it the worse 2
However, I bad him not be afraid, but bring
the Ship to an Anchor, as soon as we came so
near to know that we must engage them.
The Weather continued calm, and they came
on apace towards us; so I gave Order to come
to an Anchor, and furl all our Sails: As for the
Savages, I told them they had nothing to fear but
Fire; and therefore they should get their Boats out,
and fasten them, one dose by the Head, and the
other by the Stern, and Man them both well, and
wait the Issue in that Posture. This I did, that
the Men in the Boats might be ready with Skeets
and Buckets to put out any Fire these Savages
might
ftiight endeavour to fix to the Outside of iU
Ship* .
In this Posture we lay by for them, and in a lit-
tle while they came up with us ,• but never was
such a horrid Sight seen by Christians: My Mate
was much mistaken in his Calculation of their
Number, I mean of a thousand Canoes; the most
we could make of them when they came up, be-
ing about a hundred and six and twenty; and a
great many of them too -, for some of them had
sixteen or seventeen Men in them, and some more;
and the least six or seven.
When they came nearer to us, they scem'd to
be struck with Wonder and Astonishment, as at a
Sight which they had doubtless never seen before;
nor could they at first* as we afterwards under-
stood, know what to make of us. They came
boldly up* however^ very near to us, and seem'd
to go about to row round us; but we call'd to out
Men in the Boats, not to let them come too
fiear them.
This vers Order brought us to an Engage-
ment with them, without our designing it; tor
five or six of their large Canoes came so near our
Long-Boat, that our Men beckon'd with their
Hands to them to keep back; which they under-
stood very well, and went back; but at their Re-
treat, about 50 Arrows came on board us from
those Boats > and one of our Men in the Long-
Boat was very much wounded*
However, I call'd to them not to fire by any
Means; but we handed down some Deal-Boards
into the Boat, and the Carpenters presently set
up a kind of a Fence, like waste Boards, to* cover
them from the Arrows of the Savages, if they
should shoot again.
About
About half an Hour afterwards they came all
up in a Body a-stern of us, and pretty near us, so
ftear that we could easily discern what they wqre,
tho* we could not tell their Design: And I easily
found they were some of my old Friends* the fame
Sort of Savages that I had been used to engage
with; and in a little Time more they rowM a lit-
tle farther out to Sea, 'till/they came directly
Broad-side with us* and then row'd down strait
upon us, 'till thqy came so <,near,* that they could
hear us speak. Upon this/I, brder'd all my Men
to keep close, lest they slioi^4 (hoot any more
Arrows, and made all our ^Juns ready; but be-
ing so near as to be within hearing, I made Friday
go out upon the Deck, and call out aloud to them
in his Language to know what they meant, whifch.
accordingly he did; whether they understood him
or not, that I knew not: But as soon as he hid
cairdtothem, six of them, who were in the fore-
most or nighest Boat to us, turn'd their Canoes
from us, and stooping down, Ihew'd us their na-
ksd Backsides, just as if in kuglijby saving your
Presence, they had bid us kiss--—. Whether this
was a Defiance or Challenge, we know not,* or
wherher it was done in meer Contempt, or as a
Signal to the rest; but immediately Friday cry'd
out they were going to shoot, and unhappily for
him poor Fellow > they let fly about 300 of their
Arrows, and, to my inexpressible Grief, kilfd
poor Friday, no other Man being in their Sight.
The poor fello w was shot with no less than three
Arrows; and about three more fell very near him;
such unlucky Marksmen they were.
I was soenrag*d with the Loss of my old Ser-
vant, the Companion of all my Sorrows and Soli-
tudes, that I immediately order'd five Guns to be
loaded with small Shot, and four with great, and
PartH Q gave
r m j
gatfe'them such a Broad-fide, ds they had new-'
heard in their Lives before, to be sure.
 They were not-above half a Cable Length oft'
when wefir'd; and our Gunners took their ^im
so 'well, that three or four of their Canoes were
overset, as we'-had reason to believe, by one Slior
only.-;'
The- ill Manners "of turning up theif bare Back-
(Idcs'-tous, gave-us'no gteat Otfence; neither die*
f kp9t¥ for certain,; whether that which'would pal?
for' the greatest Coiitfertpt' airtotfg life" might be
o'iVdfc'rstood so by them,1 or not; therefore in Re-
ut^fi^I hatl Only resolved to'toave sis A four or five
iltit\s at them with Powder only, which 1: knew
#c|&d fright'thein sufficiently*! -Btit when tliey
4Mr'M''\\s directly With all' the\Fiity' they were
clf^bie of, and especially is they batfkilfd my
fmk Friday, whom I so entirely" lov'd and vahuh
and:who indeed' so' well deserved it i 1 not only
had"'been jidiify'd 'befdre God and Man, bur
would have" been very glad3 if 1 could, to have
overset every "Canoe there, and tlrown'd every
onc*of them. . '" '' •
1 can "neither tell howra any we killM, or how
many'We wounded a: this Broad-fide; but lore
such a Fright and Hurry never was seen among
such'a Multitude; there were 13 or 14 of their
Canoes- split and overset in all, aiid the 'Men all set
a swimming; the rest frighted out of their Wits,
icour'd away a* fast as they could, taking but httle
Care to save those" whose Boats were split or spoi-
led with'our Shot. So I suppose, that"they ^'cre
many of them lost. And our Men took one Voot
Fellow "swimming for his Life, above an Iloitf
after they were 'all f^onc.
^ Our small Shot from out Cannon must needs
kill and wound a great many: Bat in short, w
v , never
never knew any Thing how it went with them ,*
for they fled so fast, that in thee Hours or there-
abouts, we could nai Kc above three or lour ib'ay;-
&ling Canoes; im u,d we ever iee the icii any^
more; tor a Breeze of Wind Iprint-in^ up the
fame JKvcniug, we we^hed and ut Suit lor the
£rafi!s*
we had a Prisoner hxkca; but the Creature
was so sullen, that he wor.id neither ear or speak;
and we all fane) o lie would starve himself to
Death: But i too!, a Way to care him; for 1
made them take him and turn him into the Long-
boat, and made him believe they would toss him-
into the Sea again, and so leave him where, they
found him, if he would not speak; Nor would
that do; but they really did throw him into .the
Sea, and came away from him; and then he'
follows them j for he swam like a Cork, and
call'd to them in his Tongue, tho* they knew not
one Word ot what he said: However* at last they
took him in again, and then he began to be more
tractable; nor did i ever design they should drown
him.
We were now under Sail again; but 1 was the most
disconsolate Creature alive, for want of my Man
Friday* and would have been very glad to have gone
back to the Island, to have taken one of the rest
from thence for my Occasion, but it could not
be; so we went on. We had one Prisoner, as 1
have laid \ and 'twas a long while before we could
nake him understand any thing: But, in time,
wv Men taught him some Engiifi^ and he bega/i
to be a little tractable ; afterwards we enquired
•vhat Country lie came from, but could make no-
* ing'df what he said; for its Speech was so odd,
"Gutturals, and spoke in the Throat in such m
How odd Manner, that we could ncter form a
O 2' Word
iiii
Word from him; and we were all of Opinion;
that they might speak that Language as well, if
they were gagged, as otherwise: Nor could we
perceive that they had any Occasion, either tor
Teeth, Tongue, Lips or Palat; but form'd their
Words, just as a hunting Horn forms a Tune with
an open Throat. He told us however, some time
after, when we taught him to speak a little English^
that they were going with their Kings to fight a
great Battle. When he said Kings, we ask'd him
liow many Kings? He said, they were FIVE
3SIAT1QN, we could not make him understand
the Plural S. and that they all join'dto go against
Two  Nation. We ask'd him, what made them
<Joftie'Up"to us? He said, to makee to great Wonder
tookrWhetek is to be observ'd, That all those
Natives, is also those of Africa, when they learn
English j ' they always add two E's at the End of
the Words where we use one, and make the Ac-
cent upon them, as makie takee, and the like; and
wecould not break them of it j nay,, I could hard-
ly m-akei Friday, leave it off, tho? at last he did.
And now I name the poor Fellow once more,
Lmust take my last Leave of him \ poor honest
Friday! We buried him with all the Decency and
Solemnity possible; by putting him into a Coffin,
and throwing him ifrto the Sea: And I caus'd 'em
to fire eleven Guns for him: and so ended the
Life of the most grateful, faithful, honest, and most
affectionate Servant that ever Man had.
We went now away with a fair Wind for Bra-
ftly and in about twelve Days Time we made Land
in the Latitude of five Degrees South of the Line,
bcHYgthe North Eastermost Land of all that Part
of America, We kept on S. by E. in Sight of the
Shore four Days, wheip we made Cape. St. Augw
ftfoe> and in thtee Days came to an Anchor off of
:: .' . the
he Bay of AU Sams, the old Place of my De!«se-
ance, from whence came both my good and evil
Fate.
Never Ship came to this Part that had less Bu-
siness than I had ; and yet it was with great Diffi-
culty that we were admitted to hold the least
Correspondence on Shore, not my Planter himself,
who was alive, and made a great Figure among
them; not my two Merchants Trustees, not the
Fame of my wonderful Preservation in that Island,
could obtain me that Favour: But my Partner re-
mcmbring, that I had given yoo Moidores to the
Prior of the Monastery of the Augustine*, and 272
to the Poor, went to the Monastery, and oblig'd
the Prior that then was, to go to the Governor^
and get Leave for me personally, with the Captain
and one more, besides eight Seamen, to come on
Shore, and no more; and this upon Condition
absolutely capitulated for, that we should not of-
fer to land any Goods out of the Ship3 or to carry
any Person away without Licence.
They were so strict with us, as to landing any
Goods, that it was with extream Difficulty that
I got on Shore three Bales of English Goods, lhch
as, fine broad Cloaths, Stuffs, and some Linnen^
which I had brought for a Present to my Partner.
He was a very generous, broad-hearted Man,
tho* like me, he came from little at first; and tho*
he knew not that I had the least Design of giving
him any Thing, he sent me on Board a Present of
fresh Provisions, Wine, and Swcat-mears, worth
above 30 Moidores, including some Tobacco,
and three or four fine Medals- in Gold: But I was
even with him in my Present, which, as I have
said, consisted of fine broad Cloach, English Stuftsr
Lace, and fine Hollands. Also I delivered him
about the Value of 100 lib. Sterl in the fame
O 3 Goodst
Gopds, for other Uses ,• and I obliged him to set
up the Sicop which I had brought with me from
England, as I have said, for the Use of my Colo-
ny, in order to send the -Refreshments I intended
to my Plantation.
Accordingly, he got Hands, and finished the
Sloop in a very few Days, for (lie was ready fram'd
and I gave the Master of her such Instructions,
as he could not miss the Place, nor did he mis} them,
as I had an Account from my Partner afterward*.
I got him soon loaded with the small Cargo I
sent them; and one of our Seamen that had been
on Shore with me there, ofter'd to go with the
Sloop, and settle there upon my Letter to the
Governpnr Spaniard9to allot him a sufficient Quan-
tity of Land for a Plantation; and giving him
some Clothes, and Tools for his Planting-Work,
which he said he understood, having been an old
Planter at Maryland, and a Buccaneer into the
bargain.
v I encouraged the Fellow, *by granting all he
desired; and as an Addition, 1 gave him the Sa-
vage, which we had taken Prisoner of War, to
be his Slave, and order'd the Governour Spaniard
to give him his Share of every riling he wanted,
ivith the rest.
When we came to fit this Man out, my old Part*
uer told me, there was a certain very honest Fel-
low, a Brasil Planter of his Acquaintance, who
had fallen into the Displeasure of the Church ; 1
know not whar the Matter is with him, fays he;
but on my Conscience, I think he is a Heretiek
ih his Heart, and he has been obliged to conceal
Himself for fear of the Inquisition ; that he would
be very glad of such an Opportunity to make his
Escape, with his Wife and two Daughters; and if
£ would let them go to the Island, and allot them
\ . V" '~ "aPlan-
a Plantation, he would give them a small Stock to
begin with ; for the Officers of the Inquisition had
kiAi all his Effects and Lilate, and he had no-
thing left but a little Houfliold Stuff, and two
Slaves. And, adds he, Tho* 1 hate his Principles,
yet I would not have him hill into their Hands; tor
he would aUurcdiy be burnt alive, it lie docs.
I granted this presently, and jom'd im &igli[ti
Man with them, and we conecafd the Man, and
his Wire and Daughters on board Out* Ship, till
the Sloop put out to go to Sea; and then shaving
put all their Goods on board the Sloop, ionic
time before,"' we put them on boatd the Sloop,
after he was got out or the Bay.
Our Seaman was mightily pleas'd with this new-
Partner; and their Stock indeed was much alike
rich in Too's, in Preparations, and a Farm, but
nothing to begin with, but as above: However,
they carried o\ er with them, which was worth all
the reii, lome Materials tor planting Sugar-Canes,
with some Plants of Canes; which he, 1 meant,
the Portugal Man, undcrllood very well.
Among the rell ot the Supplies sent my Tenants
m the liiand, I sent them by their Sloop, three
Milch Cows, and five Calves, about 22 Hogs a-
mong 'em, three Sows big with Pig, two Mare*;,
and a Stone-Horse.
For my Spaniards according to my Promise, I
engag'd three Portugal Women to go, and recom-
mended ir to them to marry them, and ule them
kindly. I could have procured more Women, but
I renu-mber'd, that the poor persecuted Man had
two] Daughters, and 'there was but live or the
Spiwiuvds that wanted ; the reft had Wives ot their
own, tiio' in another Country.
Ail this Cargo arriv'd fate, and as you may
easily suppose, very welcome to my old Inhabi-
O4 tai;:.%
t ants, who were now, with this Addition, between
fixty and seventy People, besides little Children;
of which, there was a great many. I found Let-
ters at London from them all by the Way of Ushmy
when I came back to England; of which I shall
also take some Notice immediately.
I have now done with my Ifland, and all Man-
ner of Discourse about it; and whoever reads the
rest of my Memorandums, would do well to turn
his Thoughts entirely from it, and expect to read
of the Follies of an old Man, not warned by his
own Harm^, much less by those of other Men, to
beware of the like; not cool'd by almost forty
Years Misery and Disappointments, not satisfy tl
with Prosperity beyond Expectation, not made cau-
tious by Affliction and Distress beyond Imitation.
I had no more Business to go to the East-Indies,
than a Man at full Liberty, and having committed
no Crime, has to go to the Turn-key at Newgate,
and desire him to lock him up among the Prisoners
there, and starve him. Had I taken a small Ves-
sel from England, and went directly to the Island;
had I loaded her, as I did the other Vessel, with
all the Necessaries for the Plantation, and for my
People took a Patent from the Governour here,
to have secur'd my Property, in Subjection only
to that of England; had I carried over Cannon and
Ammunition, Servants and People, to plant, and
taking Possession of the Place, fortified and streng-
then a it in the Name of England, and ihcreas'd it
with People, as I might easily have done; had I
then fettle! my self there, and sent the Ship back,
ioaden with good Rice, as I might also have done
in six Months time, and order'd my Friends to
have fitted her out again for our Supply; had I
done this, and staid there my self, I had, at leasts
acted 1:1-x a Man of common sense; ijuc I was pot-
sest
sell: with a wandring Spirit, scorn'd all Advanta-
ges; I pleased my self with being the Patron of
those People I placed there, and doing for them in
a Kind of haughty majestick Way, like an old Pa*
triarchal Monarch; providing for them, as if I
had been Father of the whole Family, as well as
of the Plantation. But I never so much as preten-
ded to plant in the Name of any Government
or Nation, or to acknowledge any Prince, or to
call my People Subjects to any one Nation more
than another; nay, I never so much as gave the
Place a Name, but left it as I found it, belonging
to no Man $ and the People under no Discipline
or Government but my own; who, though I had
Influence over them as Father and Benefactor, had
no Authority or Power, to act or command one
way or other, farther than voluntarily Consent mo-
ved them to comply. Yet even this, had I stay'd
there, would have done well enough ,* but as I
rambled from them, and came there no more, the
last Letters I had from any of them, was by my
Partner's Means ,* who afterwards sent another
Sloop to the Place, and who sent me Word, tho*
I had not the Letter till five Years after it was
written, that they went on but poorly, were male-f
content with their long Stay there. That Witi,
Atkins was dead: That five of the Spaniards were
come away, and that tho* they had not been much
molested by the Savages, yet they had some Skic-
miflies with them ,• that they begged of him to
write to me, to think of the Promise I had made,
to fetch them away, that they might fee thek
own Country again before they dy'd.
But I was gone a Wild-Goose Chase indeed; and
they that will have any more of me, must be con-
lent to follow me thro' a new Variety of Follies,
......... Hard-
Hardships, and wild Adventers; wherein the ju-
stice of Providence may be duly observed, and we
may see how easily Heaven can gorge us with our
own Desires, make the strongest of our Wishes be
our Affliction, and punish us most severely with
those very Things which we think, it would be
our utmost Happiness to be allowed in.
Let no wife Man flatter himself with the
Strength of his own Judgment, as if he was able
to chuse any particular Station of Life for himseif.
Man is a fliort-fighted Creature, fees but a very
little Way before him; and as his Passions are none
of his best Friends, so his particular Affections
are generally his worst Counsellors.
I fay this with Respect to the impetuous Desire
I had from a Youth, to wander into the World }*
and hpw evident it now was, that this Principle
was preferv'd in me for my Punishment. How ir
came on, the Manner, the Circumstance, and the
Conclusion of it, it iseafie to give you Historical-
ly, and with its utmost Variety of Particulars.
But the secret Ends of Divine Power> in thus per-
mitting us, to be hurried down the Stream ot
our own Desires, is only to be understood of thole
who can listen to the Voice of Providence* and
draw religions Consequences from God's Justice*
and their own Mistakes.'
1 Beit, I had Business,' or no Business, away I
went. "Fis no Time now to enlarge any farther
iipon the Reasons, or Absurdity of my own Con-
duct. But to come to the History. I was em-
tarlied for the Voyage, and the Voyage I went.
I should only add here, that my honest and tru'y
£ious fclergyman left me here; a Ship being ready
to go to Ltsfany he ask'd me Leave to go thither, be*
tug still, as he observed* bound never to finish any
Voyage he began. How happy had it been for me*
ii I had gone with him I But
k But it was too late now. All things Heaven
appoints are bell. Had I^one with him,* I hkd
never had so many Things to be thankful. for,
and you had never heard of 'the Second Part of
the Travels and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. So
I must leave here the fruitless exclaiming at my
self, and go on with my Voyage.
From the Brafils, we made directly away over
the Atlantick Sea, to the Cape de hnEssex once, or
as we call it, The Cape os Good Hope; and had a
tolerable good Voyage, our Course generally South-
East; now and then a Storm, and some contrary
Winds, but my Disasters at Sea were at an End;
my future Rubs and cross Events were to befal
me on Shore; that it might appear the Land was
as well prepared to be our Scourge, as the Sea,
when Heaven, who directs the Circumstances of
Things, pleases to appoint it to be so.
Our Ship was on a Trading Voyage, and had
a Supra Cargo on board, who was to direct all her
Motions after she arrived at the Cape; only being
Jimied to certain Numbers of Days, for Stay, by
Charter-party, at the several Ports she was to go
to. This was none of my Business, neither did I
meddle with it at all. My Nephew, the Captain,
and the Supra-Cargo adjusting all those things be-
tween them, as they thought fit.
We made no Stay at the Cape longer than was
needful, to take in fresh Water, but made the best
of our Way for the Coast ot CoromandeL We were
indeed informed, that a French Mm of War of fif-
ty Guns, and two large Merchant Ships, were
gone for the Indies, and as I knew we were at Wrar
with France, I had some Apprehensions of them:
But they went their Way, and we heard no more
ot them.
I shall
I shall not pester my Account, or the Readers
with Descriptions of Places, Journals of our Voya-
ges, Variations of Compass, Latitudes, Meridian*
Distances, Trade-Winds, Situation of Ports, and
the like; such as almost all the Histories of long
Navigation are full of, and makes the Reading
tiresome enough, and are perfectly unprofitable to
all that read it, except only to those who are to
go to those Places themselves.
, It is enough to name the Ports and Places, which
we touch'd as, and what occurred to us upon our
passing from one to another. We touched first at
the Island of Madagascar; where, tho* the People
are fierce and treacherous, and in particular, very
well armed with Lances and Bows, which they
use with inconceivable Dexterity; yet we fared ve-
ry well with them a while, they treated us very ci^
vily; and for some Trifles which we gave them,
such asl^nives; Seislars, C7V. they'brought us ele-
ven good fat Bullocks, middling in Size, but very
good.in Flesh; which we took in partly for fresh
Provisions for our present Spending, and the rest,
to Salt for the Ship's Use. ; *
*' We were obliged to stay here some Time aster
we had furnish'd our selves with Provisions ; and
I, that was always too curious, to look into every
Nook of the World wherever I came, was for
going on Shore as soft as I could. It was on the
'£afi Side of the Island that we went on Shore one
Evening; and the People, who by the Way arc
very numerous, came thronging about us,-and,
stood gazing at us at a Distance; but as we had
traded freely with them, and had been kindly
used, we thought our selves in no Danger: But
when we saw the People, we cut three Boughs out
of a Tree, and stuck them up ata Distance from
us, which it seems, is a Mark in the Country, not
only
fonly of Truce and Friendship, but when it is ac^
cepted, theocher Side sec up three Poles or Boughs*
which is a Signal, that they accept the Truce too;
but then, this is a known Condition of the Truce,
that you are not to pass between their three Poles
towards them, nor they to come past your three
Poles or Boughs, towards you; so that you arc
perfectly secure within the three Poles, and all the
Space between your Poles and theirs^ is allow'd
like a Market, for tree Converse, Traffick, and
Commerce, When you go there, you must not
carry your Weapons with you; and it they come
into that Spactv they stick up their Javelins and
Laimees^ all. at. the first Poles, and come on un-
arm d ; but if any Violence is offer'd them, andi
she Trufce thereby broken, away they run to the
Poles, and lay hold of their Weapons, and then
the Truce is at atiEnd.
It happen'd dne Evening when we went on
Shore, that a greater Number of their People
came down than usual, but all was very friendly
and civil, and they brought in several Kinds of
Provisions, for which We satisfied them, with such
Toys as we had; their Women also brought us
Milk, and Roots, and several Things very ac-
ceptable to us, and all was quiet; and we made
us a little Tent or Hur% of some Boughs of Trees,
and lay on Shore all Night.
1 knew not what was the Occasion, but I was
not so well satisfied to lye on Shore as the rest;
and the Boat lying at an Anchor, about a Stone-
cast from the Land, with two Men in her to take
Care of her, I made one of them eome on Shore,
and getting some Boughsof Trees to cover us also
ii\ the Boat, I spread the Sail on the Bottom
of the Boat, and lay under the Cover of the Bran-
ches of Trees all Night in the Boat.
About
About two a-clock in the Morning, we heard
one of our Men make a terrible Noise on the
Shore, calling out for God's Sake, to bring the
Boat in, and come and help them, for they were
all like to be murther'd; at the fame Time I heard
the firing of five Muskets,-which was the Number
of the Guns they had, and that, three Times
over j for it seems, the Natives here were not so
easily frighted with Guns, as the Savages were in
America, where 1 had to do with therti.
Ail this while, I knew not what was the Mat*
ter; but rouzing immediately from Sleep with
the Noise, I caused the Boat to be thrust in, and
resolved, with three Fuzees we had on board, to
land and assist our Men.
We got the Boat soon to the Shore, but our
Men were in too much Haste; for being come to
the Shore, they plunged into the Water to gee
to the Boat with all the Expedition they could,
being pursued by between three and four hundred
Men. Our Men were but nine in all, and only
five of them had Fusees wick them; the rest had
indeed Pistols and Swords, bat they were of small
Use to them.
We took up seven os our Men, and with Dif-
ficulty enough too, three of them being very iil
wounded; and that which was still worse, n*as
that while we'stood in the Boat to take our Men
in, we were in as much Danger as they were in
on Shore; for they pour'd their Arrows in vpw
us so thick, that we were fain to barricade the Sice
of the Boat up with the Benches, and two or
three loose Boards, which to our great Satisfa-
ction we had by mere Accident or Providence in
the Boat.
And yet, had it been Day-light, they are it
seems such exact Marks-men, that if they could
- . have
have seen but the least Part of any of ns, they-
would have been sure of us. We had by the Light
of the Moon a little Sight of them, as they Hood
pelting us from the Shore with Darts and Ar-
rows; and having got ready our Fire-Arms, we
tMve them a Volley, that we could hear by the
Cries of some of them, that we had wounded seve-
ral ; however, they stood thus in Battle Array on
rhe Shore till Break of Day, which we suppose
was, that they might fee the better to take sheitf
Aim at in.
In this Conditon we lay, and could not tcls
how to weigh our Anchor, or set up our Sail, be-
cause we must needs stand up in the Boat, and they
were as sure to hit my as we were to hit a Bird in
a Tree with small Shot. We made S.'gnals of Di-
stress to the Ship, which* tho* we road a League'
off, yet my Nephew, the Captain, hearing our
Firing, and by Glasses perceiving the Posture
we lay in, and that we fir'd towards the Shore;
pretty well understood us; and weighing Anchor,
with al! Speed, he stood as near the Shore as he
durst with the Ship, and then sent another Boat1
with ten Hands in her to assist us; but we calfd
to them nor to come too near, telling them what
Condition we were in: However, they stood in
) carer to us; and one ol- the Men taking the
Knd of a Tow-Line in his Hand, and keeping
our Boat between him and the Enemy, so that
they could not perfect!;, fee him, swam" on board
us, and made fast the Line to the Boat; upon
which we flipped our little Cable, and leaving our
Anchor behind, they tow'd us out of Reach of
the Arrows, we all the while lying close behind
the Barricade we had made.
As soon as we were get from between the Ship
and the Shore, that flie could lay her Side to the
Shore^
Shore, she run along just by them, and we pour'd
in a Broad-side among them loaden with Pieces
of Iron and Lead, small Bullets, and such Stuff,
besides the great Shot, which made a terrible Ha-
vock amongst them.
When we were got on board, and out of Dan-
ger, we had Time to examine into the Occasion
of this Fray; and indeed our Supra-Cargo who
had been often in those Parts, put me upon it;
for he said, he was sure the Inhabitants would
not have touched us after we had made a Truce, if
we had not done something to provoke them to
it. At length it came out, (viz,.) that an old
Woman who had come to sell us some Milk, had
brought it within our Poles, with a young Wo-
man with her, who also brought some Roots
or Herbs; and while the old Woman, whether
she was Mother to the young Woman or no,
they could not tell, was selling us the Milk, one
of our Men offered some Rudeness to the Wench
that was with her, at which the old Woman made
a great Noise. However, the Seaman would not
quit his Prize, but carryM her out of the old Wo-
man's Sight among the Trees, it being almost
dark. The old Woman went away without her,
and as we suppose, made an Out-cry among the
People flie came from; who upon Notice, rais'd
this great Army upon us in three or four Hours >
and it was great Odds, but we had been all de-
stroy M.
One of our Men was kill'd with- a Launce
thrown at him just at the Beginning of the At-
tack, as he (ally'd out of the Tent they had made;
the rest came off free, all but the Fellow who was
the Occasion of all the Mischief, who paid dear
enough for his black Mistress; for we could toot
hear what became of him a great while. We lay
upon
\ip5n the Shore two Days after, tho' the Wind pre-
sented, and made Signals for him ; made our Boat
fail up Shore and down Shore, several Leagues,
but in vain; so we were oblig'd to give him o-
ver, and if he alone had suffer'd for it, the Loss
had been the less.
I could not iatissie my self^ however, without
venturing on Shore once more, to try if I could
learn any Thing of him or them; it was the
third Night after the Action, that I had a great
Mind to learn, if I could by anyMeans, what Mis-
chief we had done, and how the Game stood on
the Indians Side: I was careful to do it in the
Dark, lest we should be attacked again; but I
ought indeed to have been sure, that the Men I
went with had been under my Command, be*
fore I engaged in a Thing so hazardous and mis-
chievous as I was brought into by it, without my
Knowledge or Design.
We took twenty stout Fellows with us as any
in the Ship, besides the Supra-Cargo and my sclf^
and we landed two Hours before Midnight, at the
fame Place where the Indians stood drawn up the
Evening before. I landed here, because my De-
sign, as I have said, was chiefly to fee if they had
quitted the Field, and if they had left any Marks
behind them of the Mischief we had done them;
and I thought, if we cduld surprize one or two of
them, perhaps we might get our Man again bf
Way ot Exchange.
We landed without any Noises and divided our
Men into two Bodies, whereof the Boatswain
commanded one, and I the other; we neither
saw or heard any Body stir when we landed, and
we march'd up one Body at a Distance from the
other, to the Place, but at first could see nothing,
it being very dark > till by and by, our Boatswain
Pitt II. P that
^at led the first Party, stumbled, and fell over a
dead Boy. This made them halt a while, for
knowing by the Circumstances that they were at
the Place, where the Indians had stood, they wait-
ed for my coming up. Here we concluded to halt
till the Moon began to rife, which we knew
would be in less than an Hour, when we could ea-
sily discern the Havock we had made among therm
we told two and thirty Bodies upon the Ground,
whereof two were not quite dead: Some had an
Arm, and some a Leg stiot off, and one his Head;
those that were wounded we fuppos'd they had
carried away.
When we had made, as I thought, a full Disco-
very of all we could come at the Knowledge
of, I was resolv'd for going on Board* but the
Boatswain and his Party sent me Word, that
they were resolv'd to make a Visit to the Indian
Town, where these Dogs, as they call'd tljem,
dwelt, and ask'd me to go along with them \
and if they cpuld find them, as still they fan-
cied they should, they did not doubt getting a
good Booty, and it might be, they might find
7%o, Jeffery there, that was the Mans Name we had
loft.
Had they sent to ask my Leave to go, I knew
well enough what Answer to have given them h
for I would have commanded them instantly on
Board, knowing it was not a Hazard sit for us
to run, who had a Ship, and Ship-loading in our
Charge, and a Voyage to make, which depend-
ed very much upon the Lives of the Men •, but
as they sent me Word they were resolved to go*
and only ask'd me and my Company to go along
with them, I positively refus'd it, and rose up*
fqr I was sitting on the Ground, in Order to go to the
Boat. One or two ©f the Men began to impor-
tune
tune me to go, and when I refused positively*
began to grumble, and fay they were not under
my Command, and they would go: Come Jack,
fays one of the Men, will you go with me? I'll go
for one; Jack said he would, and another mL
lowed, and then another: And in a Word, they
ail left me but one, whom I perswaded to stay*
and a Boy left in the Boat > so the Supra-Cargo
and I, with the third Man* went back to the
Boat, where we told them we would stay for
them, and take Care to take in as many of
them as should be left; for I told them it was
a mad Thing they were going about, and sup-
posed most of them would run the Fate of 7m<*
fnas Jeffery.
They told me, like Seamen, they'd warrant it
they would come off again, and they would take
Care, &$. So away they Went: I entreated 'em to
consider the Ship and Voyage; that their Lives
were not their own, and that they were entrusted
with the Voyage in some Measure* that if they
miscarry'd, the Ship might be lost for want df
their Help, and that they could not answer it to
God or Man. I said a great deal more to 'em on.
that Head, but I might as well have talVd to
the Main Mast of the Ship; they were mad upon
their Journey, only they gave me good Words,
and begg*d I would not be angry: That they
would be very cautious, and they did not doubt
but they would be back again in an about Hour
at farthest ,* for the Indian Town, they said, was
toot above half a Mile oft though they found it a-
bove two Miles before they got to it.
Well, they aih went away, as above; and tho'
the Attempt was desperate, and such, as none
but mad Men would have gone about, yet to
give them their due, they went about it as warily
P a as
as boldly: They were gallantly armed, that's
true; for they had every Man a Fuzee or Mus-
ket, a Bayonet, every Man a Pistol; some of
them had broad Cutlasses, some os them Hangers,
and the Boatswain and Two more^ had Pole-
Axes : Besides alt which, they had among them
thirteen Hand-Grenadoes. Bolder Fellows, and
better provided, never went about any wicked
[Work in the World.
When they went out, their chief Design was
Plunder, and they were in mighty hopes of find-
ing Gold there; but a Circumstance which none
of them were aware of, set them on Fire with
Revenge, and made Devils of them all. When
they came to the few Indian Houses which they
thought had been the Town, which was not a-
bove half a Mile off; they were under a great
Disappointment; for there were not above 12
or 13 Houses*, and where the Town was, or
how big, they knew not: They consulted there-
fore what to do, and were some time before they
could resolve: For if they fell upon these, they
must cut all their Throats, and it was ten to one
but some of them might escape, it being in the
Night, tho* the Moon was up; and if one esca-
ped, he would run away, and raise all the Town,
to they should have a whole Army upon them:
Again, On the other hand, it they went away,
and left those untouched (for the People were all
asleep) they could not tell which Way to look
for the Town.
However, the last was the best Advice; so
they resolved to leave them, and look for the
Town as well as they could. They went on a
little Way, and found a Cow tied to a Tree 1
this they presently concluded, would be a good
Guide to them; for they said, the Cow certain-
ty
ly belonged to the Town before them, or the
Town behind them; and if they untied her, they
should see which Way (be went,- if she went
back they had nothing to say to her; but if fte
went forward, they had nothing ta do but io
follow her: So they cut xhe Cord, which was
made of twisted Flags, and the Cow went on be-'
fore them; in a Word, the Cow led them di-
rectly to the Town, which as they report, con-
sisted of above 200 Houses, or Huts; and in some
of these, they found several Families living toge-
ther.
Here they found all in Silence, as profoundly
secure, as Sleep, and a Country that iiad never
seen an Enemy of that Kind could make them;
and first, they call'd another Council, to consi-
der what they had to do j aid in a Word, they
resolv'd to divide themselves into thiee Bodies,
and to set three Houses on Fire in three Parts of
the Town; and as the Men came out, to se'ze
them and bind them; if any resisted, they need
not be aik'd what to do then, and so to search
the rest of the Houses for Plunder; but they re-
solv'd to march silently first, thro* the Town,
and see what Dimensions it was of, and if they
might venture upon it or no.
They did so, and desperately resolv'd that they
would venture upon them ,* but while they were
animating one another to the Work, three of
them that were a little before the rest, call'd out
aloud to them, and-toid them they had found
'lfum. Jejfery; they all run up to the Place, and
so it was indeed; for there they found the poor
Fellow hang'd up naked by one Arm, and his
Throat cut; there was an Indian House just by
the T;ee, where they found sixteen or seventeen
o* the principal Indians who had been concerr/d in
P 3 the
the Fray with us before; and two or three of them
wounded with our Shot; and our Men found they
were awake, and talking* one to another in than
Hoiise, but knew not their Number.
{The Sight of their poor mangled Comrade so
-enrag'd 'em, as before, that they swore to one
another they vsould be Ireveng'd, and that not an
Indian who came into their Hands - should have
Quarter, and to Work they went immediately;
and yet not so madly as by the Rage and Fury they
were in might be expected. Their first Care was
to get something that would soon take Fire; but
alter a little Search, they found that would be
to no Purpose; but moll: of the Houses were
low, and thatch'd with Flags or Rushes, of which
the Country is full ,* so* they presently made some
wild Fire, as we call it, by wetting a little Pow-
der in the Palms of their hands, and in a Quarter
of an Hour they set the Town on fire in four or
five Places; and particularly that Hoise where
the Indians were not gone to Bed. As soon as the
Fire began to blaze, the poor frighted Creatures
began to rush out to save their Lives; but met
with their Fate in the Attempt, and especially at
the Door, where they drove 'em back, the Boat-
swain himself killing one or two with his Pole-Axe.
The House being large* and many in it, he did not
care togo in, but calfd for a Hand-Grenado, and
threw it among ^em, which at first frighted 'em;
but, when it burst, made such Havock among 'em,
that they cried out in a hideous manner.
In short, most of the Indians who were in the
open Part of the House, were killed or hurt with
the Grcnado, except two or three more who
press'd to the Door, which the Boatswain and two
inor§ kept with their Bayonets in the Muzzles of
their
their Pieces, and dispatch'd all who came that
Way. But there was another Apartment in the
House where the Prince or King, or whatever he
was, and several other were, and these they kept iti
till the House, which was by this time all ot a light
Flame, sell in upon them, and they were smothers
or burnt together.
All this while they fir'd not a Gun, because
thev would not waken the People faster than they
could master them; but the Fire began to waken
them fast enough* and our Fellows were glad to
keep a little together in Bodies; for the Fire
grew so raging, al! the Houses being made of light
combustible Stuff, that they could hardly bear the
Street between them, and their Business was to
follow the Fire for the surer Execution. As fast a?
the Fire either fore'd the People out of those
Houses which were burning, or frighted them out
of others, our People were ready at their Doors to
knock them on the Head, still calling and halloo**
ing to one another, to remember Tlmn. Jeffery.
While this was doing, I must confess 1 was very
uneasie, and especially when 1 saw the Flames of
the Town, which, it being Night, feem'd to be
just by me.
My Nephew, the Captain, who wasrouz'd by
his Men too, seeing such a Fire, was very uneasie,
not knowing what the Matter was, or what Dan-
ger I was in; especially hearing the Guns too;
for by this time they began to use their Fire-Arms;
a thousand Thoughts opprest his Mind concern-
ing me and the Supra-Cargo what should become
of us: And at last, tho' he could ill spare any more
Men, yet not knowing what Exigence wemrght
be n, he takes another Boat, and with 13 Men
and himself, come on Shore to me.
P4 He
He was surpriVd to see me and the Supra-Carga
in the Boat with no more than two Men > and tho*
he was glad that we were well, yet he was in the
fame Impatience with us to know what was doing;
fox the Noise continu'd, and the Flame encreas'd;
In short it was next to an Impossibility for any
Men in the World, to restrain their Curiosity, to
know what had happened, or their Concern for the
Safety of the Men: In a Word, the Captain told
me, he would go and he p his Men, let what
would come. I argu'd with him, as I did before
with the Men, the Safety of the Ship, the Danger
of the Voyage, the Interest of the Owners and
Merchants, &c. and told him, I would go, and the
two Men, and only fee if we could at a Distance
learn what was like to be the Event, and come
back and tell him.
It was ail one, to talk to my Nephew, as it was
to talk to the rest before; he would go, he said,
and he only wiiVd he had left but ten Men in
the Ship 5 for he could not think of having his
Men lost for want of Help, he had rather lose the
Ship, the Voyage, and his Lite and all ; anda-
way went he.
In a Word, I was no more able to stay behind
now, than I was to perfwade them not to go,' so
in short, the Captain order'd two Men to row
back the Pinnace, and fetch twelve Men more,
leaving the LongrBoat at an Anchor^ iand that
when they came back, iix Men should; keep the
two Boats, and six more come after us >! so *that
he left only 16 Men in the Ship ,• for the whole
Ship's Company consisted of 65 Men,; ^where-
of two were lost in the last Quarrel, which brought
this Mischief on. *
Being now on the March, you maybe sure we
feltlitdeof the Ground we trode on; and being
guided
guided by the Fire, we kept no Path, but went
directly to the Place of the Flame. If the Noise
of the Guns was surprizing to us before, the
Cries of the poor People were now of quite another
Nature, and fili'd us with Horror. I must confess,
I never was at the Sacking a City, or at the Ta-
king a Town by Storm. I had heard of Oliver
Cromwell's, taking Drqgheda in Ireland, and killing
Man, Woman, and Child. And I had read of Count
Till/s lacking of the City of Magdeburgh, and cut-
ting the Throats of 22000 of all Sexes. But I ne-
ver had an Idea of the Thing it self before, nor
1$ it possible to defaibe it, or the Horror which
was upon our Minds at hearing it.
However, we went on, and at length came to
the Town, tho' there was no entring the Streets of
it for the Fire. The first Object we met with, was
the Rums of a Hut or House, or rather the Allies
of it, for the House was consumed; and just be-
sore it, plain now to be seen by the Light of the
Fire, lay four Men and three Women kilTd \ and
as we thought, one or two more lay in the Heap
among the Fire* in short, there were such Instan-
ces of a Rage altogether barbarous, and of a Fu-
ry, something beyond what was human, that we
thought it impossible our Men could be guilty of
it, or if they were the Authors of it, we thought
they ought to be every one of them put to the
worst of Deaths. But this was not all, we saw
the Fiie encreas'd forward, and the Cry went on
just as the Fire went on ; so that we were in the
utmost Confusion. We advanced a little Way far-
ther, and behold, to our Astonishment, three Wo-
men naked, and crying in a most dreadful Man-
ner, come flying, as if they had indeed had Wings,
and af:er them sixteen or seventeen Men, Natives,
in the fame Terror and Consternation, with three
of
pf our English Butchers, for I can call them no bet-
ter, in their Rear, who, when they could not
overtake them, fired in among them, and one that
was killed by their Shot, fell down in our Sight,
When the rest saw us, believing us to be there
Enemies, and that we would murder them as
well as those that pursued them, they set up a
most dreadful Shriek, especially the Women; am!
two of them fell down as if already dead with the
Fright. ;. '.
My very Sout shrunk within me, and my Blood
ran chill in my Veins, when I sow this; and 1 be-
lieve, had the three Englijh Sailors that pursued
them come on, I had made our Men kill them all.
However, we took some Ways to let^the poor fly-
ing Creatures knowy that we.wouldnot.hurt them,
and immediately they came up to us^ and kneeling
down, with their Hands lifted tip, made piteous
Lamentation to us to save them, which we let
them know we would: Whereupon*, they crept
-altogether in a Huddle close behind us, as for Pro-
tection. Heft my Men drawn up together, and
charged them to hurt no Body, but if possible to
get at some of our People, and see what Devil it
was poffess'd them, and what they intended to do;
and in a Word, to command them oft; afluring
them, that if,they stay\i till Day-light, they
would have an hundred thousand M-n about their
Ears. I fay, I left them,, and went among those
flying People, taking only two of our Men with
me; and there was indeed a piteous Spectacle a-
tnongthem. Some of them had. their Feet terri-
bly burnt with trampling and running thro' the
Fire, others their Hands burnt; one of the Women
had fallen down in die Fire, and was very much
burnt before she could get out again; and two or
three of the Men had Cuts in their Backs and
Thigh
Thighs from our Men pursuing,' and another was
dot thro5 the Body, and died while I was there.
I would fain have learned what the Occasion
of all this was, but I could not understand one
Word they said; tho' by Signs I perceived that
some of them knew not what was the Occasion
themselves. I wa$ so terrified in my Thoughts at
this outrageous Attempt, that I could not stay
there, but went back to my own Men, and resol-
ved to go into the Middle of the Town thro7 the
Fire, or whatever might be in the Way, and ppt
an End to it, cost what it would. Accordingly,
as soon as I came back to my Men, I told them my
Resolution, and commanded them to follow me,
when in the very Moment came four of our Men
with the Boatswain at their Head, roving over
the Heaps of Bodies they had killed, all covered
with Blood and Dust, as it they wanted more Peo-
ple to Massacre, when our Men hallooM to them
as loud as they could halloo, and with much ado
one of them made them hear; so that they knew
who we were, and came up to us.
As soon as the Boatswain saw us, he set up a
Halloo like a Shout of Triumph, for having, a$
he thought, more Help come, and without bea-
ring to hear nje, Captain, jays he, noble Captain,
I am glad you are come! We have not half done
yet, villainous Hell-hound Dogs! I'll kill as many
of them as poor Tom. has Hairs upon his Heads
We have sworn to spare none of them, well root
out the very Nation of 'em from the Earth. And
thus he run on, out of Breath too with Action,
and would not give us Leave to speak a Word.
At last, raising my Voice, that I might silence
him a little, Barbarous Dog, said I, what are you
doing? I won't have one Creature touched more,
upon Pain of Death. I charge you upon your
Life
Life, to stop your Hands, and stand still here, or
you area dead Man this Minute.
Why, Sir, says he, do you know what you do,
or what they have done i If you want a Reason
for what we have done, come h'tlier. And with
that he shewed me the poor Fellow hanging with
his Throat cut,
I confess, I was urged then my self, and at ano-
ther Time would have been forward enough; but
I thought they had carried their Rage too far,
and I thought of Jacob's Words to his Sons Simeon
and Levi. Cwjed be their Anger* fox it was Fierce;
and their Wrath for it was Cruel But I had now
a new Task upon my Hands; for when the Men I
carried with me saw the Sight, as I had done, I
had as much to do to restrain them* as I should
have had with the other. Nay, my Nephew him-
self fell in with them, and told me in their Hea-
ring, that he was only concerned for Fear of the
Men being overpowered ; for as to the People, he
thought not one of 'em ought to live; for they
had all glutted themselves with the Murder of the
£oor Man, and that they ought to be used like Mur-
derers. Upon these Words, away run eight of my
Men with the Boatswain and 1ns Crew, to com-
plete their bioedy Work; and I feeing it quite out
of my Power to restrain them, came away pensive
and fad; for I could not bear the Sight, much less
the horrible Noise and Crie, of the poor Wretches
that fell into-'their Hands. .
I got no Body to come back wich me but the
Supra-Carco and two Men; and with these I
walked back to the Boats. It was a very great
Piece of Folly in me, I confess, to venture bad.,
as it were alone; for as it began now to be al-
most Day, and the Alarm had run over the Coun-
try, there Hood above forty Men armed with Lan-
ces
ccs and Bows at the little Place where the t % or i£
Houses flood mentioned before; but by Accident
I missVI the Place, and came directly to the Sea*
fide; aud by the Time I got to the Sea-side it was
broad Day. Immediately I took the Pinnace, and
went aboard, and sent her back to assist the Men
in what might happen.
• I observ'd about the Time that I came to the
Boat-side, that the Fire was pretty well out, and
the Noiie abated; but in about half an Hour af-
ter I got on Board, I heard a Volley of our Mens
Fire-Arms, and saw a great Smoke; this, as I un-
derstood afterwards, was our Men falling upon
the Men, who, as 1 said, stood at the few Houses
on the Way, of whom they kill'cl sixteen or seven-
teen, and set all those Houses on Fire, but did not
meddle with the Women or Children.
By that Time the Men got to the Shore again
with the Pinnace, our Men began to appear;
they came dropping in, some and some, i;ot in
two Bodies, and in Form as they went, but all in
Heaps, straggling here and there in such a Man-
ner, that a small Force of resolute Men might have
cut them all off.
But the Dread of them was upon the whole
Country; ard the Men were amaz'd and surpriz'd,
and so frighted, that I believe a hundred of them
would have fled at the Sight of but five of our
Men. Nor in ail this terrible Action was there a
Man who made any considerable Defence, they
were so surprix'd between the Terror ot the Fire,
and the sudden Attack of our Men in the Dark,
that they knew not which Way to turn them-
ielves; for if they had fled one Way, they were
met by one Party; if back again, by another; so
that they were everywhere knocked down: Nor
did any of our Men receive the least Hurt, except
one,
C 2.2.2. ]
Bne, who strained his Foot, and another had one
of his Hands very much burnt.
I was very angry with my Nephew the Cap-
tain, and indeed with all the Men, in my Mind,
but with him in particular, as well for his acting
so out of his Duty, as Commander of the Ship, and
having the Charge of the Voyage upon him, as in
his prompting rather than cooling the Rage df
his Men in so bloody and cruel an Enterprise. My
Nephew answered me very respectfully; but told
; me, That when he saw the Body os the poor Sea-
man whom they had murder'd in such a cruel and
barbarous Manner, he was not Master of himself,
neither could he govern his Passion. He own'd3
he should not have done so, as he waS Comman-
der of the Ship; but as he was a Man, and Na-
ture mov'd him, he could not bear it. As for the
rest of the Men, they were not subject to me at
all, and they knew it well enough; so they took
no Notice of my Dislike.
The next Day we set Sail, so we never heard
any more of it: Our Men diflfer'd in the Account
of the Number they kill'd: Some said one Thing,
some another; but according to the best of their
Accounts put altogether, they killed or destroys
about 150 Peopki Men, Women, and Children
and left not a House standing in the Town.
As for the poor Fellow Tho. Jeffery, as he was
quite dead, for his Throat was so cut, that his
Head was half off, it would do him no Service to
bring him away, so they left him where they
found him, only took him down from the Tree
where he was hang'd by one Hand.
However just our Men thought this Action, I
was against them in it; and I always, after that
Time told them, God would blast the Voyage;
for I look'd upon all the Blood they sted that Night
to be Murther in them: For tho* it is true that
they had kifsd "tho. yeffiery> yet it was as true^
that Jeffery was the Aggressor, had broken the
Truce, and had violated or debauch'd a young
Woman of theirs who came down to them inno-
cently, and on the Faith of their publick Capi-
tulation.
The Boatswain defended this Quarrel when we
were afterwards on board: He said, it is true*
that we seem'd to break the Truce, but really had
not, and that the War was begun the Night
before by the Natives themieives, who had {hot
at us, and kiil'd one of our Men without any just
Provocation,* so that as we were in a Capacity to
sight them now, we might also be in a Capacity
to do our selves Justice upon them in an extraor*
dinary Manner, that tho' the poor Man had taken
a little Liberty with a Wench, he ought not to have
been murther'd, and that in such a villainous Man-
ner; and that they did nothing but what was just,
and what the Laws of God allow'd to be done to
Murderers.
One would think this should have been enough
to have warn'd us against going on Shore among
Heathens and Barbarians: But it is impossible to
make Mankind wife, but at their own Experience;
and their Experience seems to be always of most
Use to them, when it is dearest bought.
We weiie now bound to the Gulph ofPerJia,and
from thence to the Coast ot Coromandel, only to
touch at Surrati But the Chief of the Supra-Car-
go's Design lay at the Bay of Bengafe, where if he
miss'd ot his Business outward bound, he was to go
up to China, and return to the Coast as he came
Home.
The first" Disaster that befel us, was in the
Gulph of Persia, where sive of our Men venturing
on
on Shore on the Arabian Side of the Gulph, wctt
surrounded by the Arabians, and either all kill'dot
carry'd away into Slavery; the rest of the Boat's
Crew were not able to rescue them, and had but
just Time to get-off their Boat I began to up-
braid them with the just Retribution of Heaven in
this Cafe: But the Boatswain very warmly told
me, he thought I went farther in my Censures
than I could stew any Warrant for in Scripture,
and referred to the 13 St. Luke, Verse 4th. where our
Saviour intimates, that those Men, on whom the
Tower of Siham fell, were not Sinners above all
the Galileans: But that which indeed put me to
Silence in the Cafe, was, That not one of these
five Men; who were now lost, were of the Num-
ber of those \tfho went on Shore to the Maslkre
of Madagascar; (so I always caffd it, tho our Men
could not bear the Word Maisacre with any Patience:)
And indeed, this last Circumstance, as I have said,
put me to Silence for the present.
But my frequent Preaching to them on this
Subject had worse Consequences than 1 expected;
and the Boatswain* Who had been the Head of
the Attempt, came up boldly to me one Time,
and told me, he found, that 1 continually brought
that Affair upon the Stage, that I ftfade unjust Re-
flections upon it, and had used the Men very ill on
that Account, and himself in particular; that a*
I was but a Pastenger, and had rid Comrttand in
the Ship, or Concern in the Voyage, thty were
not oblig'd to bear it; that they did not know,
but I might have some ill Design in my Head,
and perhaps to call them to Account for it, whc n
they came to England; and that therefore, unless
I would resolve to have done with it,* and alsty
not to concern my self any farther with him* or
any of his Affairs* he would leave the Ship; ^
he
he did not think it was safe to sail with me among
them.
I heard him patiently enough 'till he had done,
and then told him, that I did confess I had all a~
long oppos'd the Majjaneof Madagascar, for such I
would always call it; and that I had on all Occa-
sions spoken my Mind freely about it, though not
more upon him than any of the rest : That as to
my having no Command in the Ship, that was
true; nor did I exercise any Authority, only took
my Liberty of speaking my Mind in Tilings which
publickly concerned us all; and what Concern I
had in the Voyage was none of his Business; that
I was a considerable Owner of the Ship; and in
that Claim I conceived I had a Right to speak e-
ven farther than I had yet done, and would not be
accountable to him or any one else, and begun to
be a little warm with him. He made but little
Reply to me at that Time, and I thought that
Affair had been over. We were at this Time in
the Road at Bengal, and being willing to fee the
Place, I went on Shore with the Supra-Cargo in
the Ship's Boat, to divert myself, and towards li-
vening was preparing to go on Board, when one
o£ the Men came to me, and told me, he would
not have me trouble my self to come down to the
Boat, for they had Orders not to carry me on
Board any more. Any one may guess what a Sur-
prize I was in at so insolent a Message,- and I ask'd
the Man, who bad him deliver that Errand to
me? He cold me, the Cockswain. I said no more
to the Fellow, but bad him let them know he had
deliver'd his Message, aud that I had given him
no Answer to it.
I immediately went and found out the Supra-
Cargo, and told him the Story, adding what I
presently foresaw, (viz..) That there would cer-
Parr II Q tainly
ttinly be a Mutiny in the Ship, and entreated him
to go immediately on Board the Ship in an Indian
Boat, and acquaint the Captain of it: But I might
ha' spared this Intelligence; for before I had spoken
to him on Shore, the Matter was effected on Board.
The Boatswain, the Gunner, the Carpenter; and
in a Word, all the inferior Officers, as soon as I
was gone off in the Boat, came up to the Quar-
ter-Deck, and desir'd to speak with the Captain,
and there the Boatswain making a long Harangue,
for the Fellow talked very well, and repeating all
he had said to me, told the Captain in few Words,
That as I was now gone peaceably on Shore, they
were loath to use any Violence with me; which,
if I had not gone on Shore, they would otherwise
have done, to oblige me to have gone: They there-
fore thought fit to tell him, That as they sliipp'd
themselves to serve in the Ship under his Com-
mand, they would perform it well and faithfully:
But if I would not quit the Ship, or the Captain
oblige me to quit it, they would all leave the
Ship, and fail no farrher with him; and at that
Word, ALL, he turn'd his Face about towards
the Main-mast, which was it seems the Signal a-
greed on between them ,• at which, all the Sea-
men being got together, they cry'd out, One and
ALL, One and ALL.
m My Nephew, the Captain, was a Man of Spi-
rit, and of great Presence of Mind; and tho' he
was surpnVd, you may be sure, at the Thing* yet
he told them calmly, that he would consider of
the Thing, but that he could do nothing fn it 'till
he had spoken to me about it* He us'd some Ar-
guments with them, to shew them the Unreason-
ableness arid Injustice of the Thing : But it was all
in vain, they swore and shook Hands round before
his Face, that they would go all on Shore* unless
he
he wduld engage to them, not to suffer me to come
any more on Board the Ship.
This was a hard Article upon him, who knew* his
Obligation to me, and did not know how I might
take It; so he began to talk cavalierly to them, told
them that I was a very considerable Owner of the
Ship, and that in Justice he could not put me out
of my own House; that this Was next Door to
serving me, as the famous Pirate Kid had done,
\fcho made the Mutiny in a Ship, set the Captain
on Shore in an uninhabited Island, and run away
with the Ship; that let them go into what Ship
they would, if ever they came to England again,
it Would cost them dear; that the Ship was mine,
and that he could not put me out of it ; and that
he would rather lose the Ship and the Voyage too,
than disoblige me so much; so they might do as
they pleased i However, he would go on Shore*
and talk with me on Shore, and invited the Boat-
swain to go with him, and perhaps they might ac-
commodate the Matter with me.
But they all rejected the Proposal, and said, they
would have nothing to do with me any more, nei-
ther on Boards or on Shorej and if I came on Board,
they would all go on Shore. Well, said the Cap-
tain, if you are all of this Mind, let me go
on Shore and talk with him; so away he came
to me with this Account, a little after the Mes-
sage had been brought to me from the Cock-
swain.
I was very glad to fee my Nephew, I must con-
fess j for I was not without Apprehensions, that
they would confine him by Violence, set Sail, and
run away with the Ship, and then I had been
stripped naked in a remote Country, and nothing
to help myself: In short, I had been in a worse
Case, than when I was all alone in the Inland.
Q. 2 But
But they had not come that length, it seems, td
my great Satisfaction; and when my Nephew
told me what they had said to him, and hqw they
had sworn, and shook Hands, that they would one
and all leave the Ship, if I was suster'4 to come on
Board, I told him, he Ihould not be concerned at
it at all, for I would stay on Shore. I only desir'd
he would take Care and fend me all my necessary
Things on Shore, and leave me a sufficient Sum of
Money, and I would find my Way to England, as
well as I could.
This was a heavy Piece of News to m# Ne-
phew; but there was no Way to help it, but to
comply with it: So, in short, he went on Board
the Ship again, and satisfy*d the Men, that his
Uncle had yielded to their Importunity, and had
sent for his Goods from on Board the Ship; so
that Matter was over in a very few Hours, the
Men returned to their Duty, and I began to consi-
der what Course I should steer.
I was now alone in the remotest Part of the
World, as I think I may call it; for I was near three
thousand Leagues by Sea farther off from England,
than I was at my Island; only it is true, I might
travel here by Land over the Great Mogul's
Country to Surratte, might go from thence to Ba-
fora by Sea, up the Gulph of Persia, and from
thence might take the Way of the Carravans over
the Desartof Arabia to Ales po and Scanderoon ', from
thence by Sea again to Italy, and so over Land in-
to France, and this put-together might be, at least,
a full Diameter of the Globe; but if it were to be
measur'd, I suppose it would appear to be a great
deal more.
I had another Way before me, which, was to
wait for some English Ships, which were coming
to Bengal from Achin on the Island of Sumatra,
and
and get Passage oh Board them for England: But
as t came hither without any Concern with the
Engijh East-India Company, so it would be diffi-
cult to go from hence without their Licence, unless
with great Favour of the Captains of the Ships*
tor of the Company's Factors, and to both I was
an utter Stranger.
Here I had the particular Pleasure, speaking by
Contraries, to fee the Ship fail without me, a
Treatment I think a Man in my Circumstances
scarce ever rhet with, except from Pirates run-
ning away with a Ship, and setting those that
would not agree with their Villainy, on Shore,
Indeed this was next Door to it, both Ways. How-
ever, my Nephew left me two Servants, or ra-
ther one Companion, and one Servant; the first was
Clark to the Purser, whom he engat/d to go with
me, and the other was his own Servant. I
took me also a good Lodging in the House of
an English Woman, where several Merchants
fodg'dj some French, two Italians, or rather Jews3
and one Englist Man: Here 1 was handsomely
enough entertained; and that!might not be said
to run rashly upon any Thing, I stay'd here above
nine Months, considering what Course to take,
and how to manage myself. I had some English
Goods with me ot' Value, and a considerable Sum
df Money, my Nephew furnishing me with a
thousand Pieces of Eight, and a Letter of Cre-
dit for more, if I had Occasion, that I might; not
be straitened whatever might happen.
I quickly disposed of my Goods,and to AdvatV?
tagetoo; and, as I originally intended, I bought
here sonk very good Diamonds, which, of ail
other Things, was the most proper for me in my
present Circumstances, because I might always
carry my whole Estate about me.
(^3 After
Afer a long Stay here, and many Proposals
m2.dc for my Return to England, but none falling
out to my Mind, the English Merchant who lodg-
ed with me, and with whom I had contracted an
intimate Acquaintance, came to me one Mor-
ning: Country-man, fays he, I have a Project to
communicate to you, which, as it suits with my
Thoughts, may, for ought I know, suit with yours
also, when you shall have throughly considered
it.
Here we are posted, says he, you by Accident,
and I by my own Choice, in a Part pf th^ World
very feipote from our own Country * £>ut it is in a
Country, where, by us who understand Trade
and Business, a greatde^l of Money is to be got;
If you will put a thousand Pound to my thousand
Pound, we will hire a Ship here, thefiri| we can
got to our Minds; you shall be Captain, Til be
Merchant, and we will go a Trading Voyage to
China; for what should we stand itill for? The
whole World is in Motion*, rouling round and
round; all the Creatures of God, heavenly Bodies
and earthly are busy and diligent, VVh|y should we
be idle? There arc no Drones in the World but;
Men, Why should we be of that Number?
I hk'd his Proposal very well, and the more,
because it scem'd to be express *d with sp much
good Will, and*in so friendly ^ Manner: I
will not say, but that I might by my loose and
tmhing'd Circumstances be the fitter to embrace
a Proposal for Trade , or indeed for any Thing
else; whereas, otherwise., Trad<? was none of my
Element: However, 1 might perhaps fay with
some Truth, that if Trade was not my Element,
gambling was, and no Proposal for seeing any
rart of the World which I never had seen before,
could possibly come amiss to me.
''' It
It was however, some Time before w$ could
get a Ship to our Minds; and when we had got
a VefleJ, it was not easy to get English Sailors ;.
that is to fay, so many as were neeellkry ^o go-
vern the Voyage, and manage the Sailors which
we sliould pick up there. After some Time we
got a Mate, a Boatswain, and a Gunner English;
a Dutch Carpenter, dnd three Portuguese Fdre^
mail Men; with these we found, we could do
well enough, having Indian Sea-men, such as they
are, to make up.
There are many Travellers, who have wrote
the History of their Voyages and Travels this
Way, that it would be very little Diversion to
any Body, to give a long Account of the Places
we went to, and the People who inhabit there;
those Things I leave to others, and refer the
Reader to those Journals and Travels of English
Men, of which, many I find are publish*d, and
more promis'd every Day i 9tis enough to me to
tell you, That I made this Voyage to Achin, in
the Island Sumatra, and from thence to Siam,
where we exchang'd some of our Wares for Opi-
um, and some Arrack, the first, a Commodity
which bears a great Price among the Chinese, and
which at that Time, was very much wanted
there. In a Word, we went up to Smkan, made
a very great Voyage, were eight Months our,
and returned to Bengal, and I was very well
satisfy^ with my Adventure. I observe, that
our People in England, often admire how the
Officers which the Company fend into India,
and the Merchants generally stay there, get such
very great Estates as they do, and sometimes
come Home worth 6o, to 70 100 thousand Pound
at a Time.
But it is no Wonder, or at least we sliall see
so much farther into it, when we consider the
Q.4 in-
innumerable Ports ajid Races where they have
a free Commerce; that it will then be no Wonder;
and much less will it be so, when we consider,
at all those Places and Ports where the
English Ships come, there is; so much, and such
constant Demand for tk Growth of all other
Countries, that there is a certain Vent for the Re-
turns, as well as a Market abroad, for the Goods
carried out.
In short, we m^de f very good Voyage, and
I got so much Money by the first Adventure, and
such an Insight into the Method of getting more,
that had I beqn twenty: Years younger, I should
have been tempted tp J^ave staid here, an^ fought
no farther, for making my Fortune; but what
was all this, to a Man on .the." wrong Side of
threescore, that was rich enough, and came a-
broad, more in Obedience to a restless, Pesire of
seeing the World, than a covetous Desire of get-
ting in it; and indeed I think, 'tis with great Ju-
stice, that I now call it a restless Desire, for it
was so. When I Was at Home, I was restless to
go abroad; and now I was abroad, I was restless
to be at Home: I fay, what Gain was this to
me? I was rich enough, nor had I apy uneasie
Desires about getting more Motif y; ^nd therefore
the Profits of the Voyage to me, were Things of
no great Force, fcr the prompting me forward
to farther Undertakings; and I thought that by
this Voyage, J had m^dc no Progress at ail, be-
cause I was come backf as 1 might call 4t> to the
Place from whence I, came, as to a Home j where-
as, my Eye, which like that, which Sckmm speaks
of, was never satisfied with Seeing, was still more
desirous of Wandringand Seeing. I wa$ icome
into a Part of the World, which I was never in
before; and that Partis particular wfoah \ had
heard much of, and msls resolved to fee as muck
of as I could, and then I thought, I might fay,
I had seen all the World, that was worth see-
ing.
But my Fellow-Traveller and I had different
Notions; I do not name this, to insist upon my
own; for I acknowledge his were the most just*
and the most suited to the End of a Merchant's
Life ,* who, when he is abroad upon Adven-
tures, 'tis his Wisdom to stick to that as the best
Thing for him, which he is like to get the most
Money by. My new Friend kept himself to the
Nature of the Thing, and would have been con-
tent to have gone like a Carrier $ Horse, always
to the fame Inn, backward and forward, provi-
ded he could, as he calfd it, find his Account in it;
On the other hand, mine was the Notion of a
mad rambling Boy, that never cares to fee a Thing
twice over.
B^t this was not all: I had a Kind of Impati-
ence upon me to be nearer Home, and yet, the
most unsettled Resolution imaginable which Way
to go. In the Interval of these Consultations, my
Friend, who was always upon the Search for
Business, proposed another Voyage to me among
the Spice Islands, and to bring Home a Loading
of Cloves from the Manillas, or thereabouts,- Pla-
ces where indeed the Dutch do trade, but Islands,
belonging purely to the Spaniards; tho* we went
not so far, but to some other, where they have
not the whole Power, as they have at Batavia,
Ceylony&c. We were not long in preparing for this
Voyage ,* the chief Difficulty was in bringing me
to come into it: However, nothing else offering,
and finding that really Stirring about, and Trading,
the Profit being so great, and, as I may fay, cer-
tain, had more Pleasure in it, and more Satisfa-
ctioa
aion to the Mind, than sitting still, which to me
especially was the unhappiest Part of Life; I re-
solved on his Voyage too, which we made very
successfully, touching at Borneo, and several
Islands, whose Names I do not remember, and
came Home in about five Months. We sold our
Spice, which was chiefly Cloves, and some Nut-
megs, to the Per/tan Merchants, who carry*d them
away for the Gulph; and making near five of one,
we really got a great deal of Money.
My Friend, when we made up this Account,
smil'd at me * Well now, said he, with a Sort of
agreeable insulting my indolent Temper; Is not
this better than walking about here, like a Man
of nothing to do, and spending our Time in staring
at the Nonsense and Ignorance of the Pagans ? Why
truly, fays I, my Friend, I think it is, and I be-
gin to be a Convert to the Principles of Merchan-
dizing: But I must tell you, said I, by the Way,
you do not know what I am a doing; for if once
I conquer my Backwardness, and embark hear-
tily, as old as I am, I stall harrass you up and
down the World, till I tire you; for I shall pur-
sue it so eagerly, I shall never let you lye still.
But to be short with my Speculations, a little
while after this, there came in a Dutch Ship from
Batavia \ she was a Coaster, not an European Tra-
der, and of about two hundred Ton Burthen:
The Men, as they pretended, having been so sick-
ly, that the Captain had not Men enough to go
to Sea with. He Jay by at Bengal, and having
it seems got Money enough, or being willing for
other Reasons, to go for Europe, he give pub-
lick Notice, that he would fell his Ship: This
came to my Ears before my new Partner heard of
n; and I had a great Mind to buy it, so I goes
Home to him, and cold him of it He considered
a while,
a while, for he was no rash Man neither j but
musing some Time, he reply*d, She is a little too
big, but however, we will have her: According-
ly we bought the Ship, and agreeing with the
Master, we paid for her, and took Poslession;
when we had done so, we resolved to entertain
the Men, if we could, to join them with those we
had, for the pursuing our Business; but on a sud-
den, they having received not their Wages, but
their Share of the Money, not one of them was to
be found. We enquired much about them, and
at length were told, that they were all gone to-
gether by Land to Agra, the great City of the
Mogul's Residence; and from thence were to
travel to Suratte, and so by Sea, to the Gulph
of Persia.
Nothing had so heartily troubled me a good
while, as that I mise'd the Opportunity of going
with them * for such a Ramble I thought, and
in such Company, as would both have guarded
me, and diverted me, would have suited mighti-
ly with my great Design; and I should both have
seen the World, and gone homewards too; but
I was much better satisfied a few Days after, when
I came to know what Sort of Fellows they were |
for in short, their History was, that this Man
they call'd Captain, was the Gunner only, not the
Commander ^ that they had been a trading Voy-
age, in which they were attacks on Shore by
soine of the Mallayansy who had kiti'd the Captain,
and three of his Men; and that after the Captain
was killed, these Men, eleven in Number, had re-
solved tp run way with the Ship, which they did j
4nd brought her in at the Bay of Bengal, leaving
the Mate and five Men more on Shore, of whom
we shall bear further.
Well,
Well, let them gome by the Ship how they
would, we came honestly by her, as we thought,
tho' we did nor, I confess, examine into Things so
exactly as we ought, for we never enquired any
Thing of the Seamen; who, if we had examined,
would certainly have faulter'd in their Account
contradicted one another, and perhaps contradi-
cted themselves, or one how or other, we should
have seen Reason to have suspected them. But the
Man sliew'd us a Bill of Sale for th$ Ship, to one
Emanuel Clo/ierjhoven, or some such Name; for I
suppose it was all a Forgery, and cait'd himself by
that Name, and we could not contradict him; and
being withal a little too unwary, or at least, ha-
ying no Suspicion of the Thing, we went thro'
with our Bargain.
We pick'd up some more English Seamen here
after this, and some Dutch; and now we resol-
ved for a second Voyage, to-the South East for
Cloves, &c. that is id fay, among the Philippine
and MoUucco Isles: And in short* not rofilJ this Part
of my Story with Trifles, when what is yet to
come, is so remarkable; I spent from fitst to last
six Years in this Country, trading from Port td
Port, backward and forward* and with very good
success; and was now the last Year with my new5
Partner, going in the Ship above-mentioned, on
a Voyage to China *, but designing first to Siant, to
buy Rice.
^ In this Voyage, being by, contrary Winds ob-
liged to beat up and down a great while in the
Straits of MoUucto,-, and among the Islands,- we
were no sooner got clear of those difficult
Seas, but we found our Ship had sprung a
Leak, and we were not able by all our Industry
to find it out where it was: This forced us to
make for some Port, and my Partner, who knew
the
the Country better than I did, directed the Cap-
tain to put into the River of Cambodia, for I had
made the English Mite, one Mr. Thompson, Captain,
not being willing to take the Charge of two Ships upon m$
self. This River lyes on the North Side of the
great Bay or Gulf, which goes up to Siam.
While we were here, and going often on Shore
%r Refrefliment, there comes to me one Day an
English Man, and he was, it seems, a Gunner's
Mate, on board an English East-India Ship, which
rode in the fame River, up at, or near the City o£
Cambodia; what brought him hither, we know
not: But he comes up to me, and speaking in Eng-
lish, Sir, sap he, you are a Stranger to me, and I
to you j but I have something to tell you, that ve*
ry nearly concerns you.
I looked steadily at him a good while, and
thought at first i had known him, but I did not.
If it very nearly concerns me, said /, and not your
self, what moves you to tell it me? I am moved,
sap he% by the imminent Danger you are in, and for
ought I fee, you have no Knowledge of it. I know
no Danger I am in, said I, but that my Ship is
leaky, and I cannot find it out; but I purpose to
lay her a-Ground to Morrow, to see if I can find
it. But Sir, says he, leaky, or not leaky, find it,
or not find it, you will be wiser than to lay your
Ship on Shore to Morrow, when you hear what I
have to say to you. Do yon know Sir, said he,
the To#n of Cambodia lyes about fifteen Leagues
tip this River? And rherc are two large English
Ships about five Leagues on this Side, and three
Dutch. Well, said I, and what is that to me?
Why, Sir, said he, is it for a Man that is upon
such Adventures as you are upon,- to come into a
Port, and not examine first what Ships there are
there,
therd, and whether he is able to deal with them?
I suppose you do not think you are a Match for
them. I was amused very much at his Discourse,
but not amazed at it, for I could not conceive
what he meant. I turn'd short upon him, and
said, Sir, I wish you would explain your self. I
cannot imagine what Reason I have to be afraid
of any Company os Ships, or Dutch Ships. I all
no Interloper, what can they have to fay to me?
He looked like a Man half angry, half pleas'd,
and pausing a while, but smiling, Well, Sir, said
he> if you think your self secure, you must take
your Chance. I am sorry your Fate should blind
you against good Advice: But assure your self*
if you do not put to Sea immediately, you will
the very next Tide be attacked by five Long-Boats
full of Men, and perhaps if you are taken, you'll
be hang'd for a Pirate, and the Particulars be ex-
amined afterwards. I thought Sir, added he> I
should have met with a better Reception than
this, for doing you a Piece of Service of such Im-
portance. I can never be ungrateful, said I, for
any Service, or to any Man that offers me any
Kindness; but it is past my Comprehension said /,
what they should have such a Design upon me son
However, since you say, there is no Time to be lost,
and that there is some villainous Design in Hand
against me, Til go on board this Minute, and put
to Sea immediately, if my Men can stop the Leak,
or if we can swim without stopping it. But Sir*
said I, shall I go away ignorant of the Reason
of all this? Can you give me no farther Light
into it?
I can tell you but Part of the Story, Sir, says
he, but I have a Dutch Seaman here with me, and
I believe I could perswade him to tell you the rest;
but there i& scarce Time for it. But the Short of
the
the Story is this. The first Part of which, I sup*-
pose, you know well enough, ( viz.) That you
was with the Ship at Sumatray that there your
Captain was murdered by the Mallayam, with
three of his Men, and that you or some of those
who were on board with you ran away with the
Ships and are since turn'd Pirates. This is the
Sum of the Story, and you will be all seized as
Pirates I can assure you, and executed, with very
little Ceremony ,* for you know, Merchants Ships
shew but little Law to Pirates, if they get'em in-
to their Power.
Now you speak plain Englifi, said 1> and I thank
you; and tho' I know nothing that we have done,
like what you talk of, but am sure we came honest-
ly and fairly by the Ship; yet seeing such Work is
a-doing as you fay, and that you seem to mean ho-
nestly, I'll be upon my Guard. Nay, Sir, fays
he, do not talk of being upon your Guard ; the
best Defence is, to be out of Danger, if you
have any Regard to your Life, and the Lives of all
your Men, put out to Sea without fail at High-
Water j and as you have a whole Tide before you,
you will be gone too far out before they can come
down, for they come away at High-Water,- and
as they have twenty Miles to come, you get near
two Hours of them, by the Difference of the Tide,
not reckoning the Length of the Way. Besides, as
they are only Boats, and not Ships, they will not
venture to follow you far out to Sea, especially
if it blows.
Well, fays I, you have been very kind in this,
what shall I do for you, to make you Amends?
Sir, fays hey you may not be so willing to make
me any Amends, because you may not be convin-
ced of the Truth of it. I'll make an Oster to you.
I have nineteen Months Pay due to me on board
the
s 240 J
the Ship-  -' which I came out of England
in, and the Dutch Man that is with me, has seven
Months Pay due to him; if you will make good
our Pay to us, we will go along with you; and
if you find no more in it, we will desire no more;
But if we do convince you, that we have saved
your Lives, and the Ship, and the Lives of ail
the Men in her, we will leave the rest to you.
I consented to this readily, and went imme-
diately on board, and the two Men with me. As
soon as I came to the Ship Side, my Partner, who
was on Board, came out on the Quarter-Deck, aud
called to me with a great deal of Joy, O ho? 0
ho 1 we have stepped the Leak! we have stopped the
Leak! Say you so, 'said 7, thank God* but weigh
the Anchor immediately. Weigh ! says he, what
do you mean by that? What is the Matter, fays
he? Ask no Questions, fays /, but all Hands to
work, and weighs without losing a Minute. He
was surprized; but however, he called the Cap*
tain, and he immediately ordered the Anchor to
be got up: And tho* the Tide was not quite
done, yet a little Land Breeze blowing, we stood
out to Sea. Then I called him into the Cabin, and
told him the Story at large; and we called in the
Men, and they told us the rest of it. But as it
took us up a great deal of Time* .so before we had
done, a Seaman comes to the Cabin Door, and
calls out to us, that the Captain bad him tell us.
we were chas'd. Chas'd, said /, by whom, and
by what? By five Sloops or Boats, says the Feh
low, full of Men. Very well, said I, then it is
apparent there is something in it. In the next
Place I ordered all our Men to be called up, and
and told them, that there was a Design to seize
the Ship, and to take us for Pirates *, and asked
them, If they would stand by us* and by one ano-
ther 7
ther i the Men answer'd chearfully, that one and
all, they would live and die with us: Then I
asked the Captain, what Way he thought best
for us to manage the Fight with them; for relist
them I was. resolved we would, and that, to the
last Drop; he said readily, That the Way was to
keep them oft" with our great Shot, as long as we
could, and then to fire .at them with our small
Arms as long as we could; but when neither of
these would do any longer, we should retire to
our close Quarters j perhaps they Iu>d not Mate-
rials to break open our Bulk-Heads, or get in
upjon us.
The Gunner had, in the mean Time, Order
to bring two Guns to bear fore and aft out of
the Steerage, to cfear the Deck, and load them
with Musquet-Bullets and small Pieces of old Iron,
and what next came to Hand, and thus we made
ready for Fight; but all this while we kept
out to Sea, with Wind enough, and could
fee the Boats at a Distance, being five large Long-
BoatSy following us with all the fail they could
make.
Two of those Boats, which by our Glasses we
could fee were English, out-failed the rest and were
near two Leagues a-Head of them, and gain'd
upon us considerably; so that we found they
would come up with us: Upon which, we fired
a Gun without Ball, to intimate, that they should
bring too, and we put out a Flag of Truce, as
a Signal for Parley, but they kept crowding after
us, till they came within Shot, when we took in
our White Flag, they having made no Answer to
ky hung out a red Flag, and sired at them with
a Shot. Notwithstanding this, they came on,
till they were near enough to call to them with
a speaking Trumpet, which we had on Boafd;
Part II. R so
so we call'd to *them, and b'A them keep off at
their Peril.
It was all one, they crowded after u$, and en-
deavoured to come under our Stern, so to board
us on our Quarter ,• upon which, seeing they were
resolute for Mjfch ef, and depended upon the
Strength that followed thcm3 I ordered to bring
the Ship to, lo that they lay upon our Broad-fide,
when immediately we fir cl sire Guns at them;
one of which, had been levelled so true., as to carry
away the Stern of the hindermost Boat, and bring
them to the Necessity of taking down their Sail,
and running all to the Head ot the Boat to keep her
from linking; so she lay by, and had enough
of it; but feeing the foremost Boat crowd
on after us, we made ready to sire at her in par-
ticular.
While this was doing, one of the three Boats
that was behind, being forwarder than the other
two, made up to the Boat which we had disabled,
to relieve her, and we could afterwards fee her
takeout the Men; we call'd again to the fore-
most Boat, and oster'd a Truce to parley again,
and to know what was her Business wirh us; but
had no Answer, only she crowded close under
our Stern. Upon this our Gunner, who was a ve-
ry dexterous Fellow, run out his two Chafe-Guns,
and sired again at her; but the Shot missing, the
Men in the Boat shouted, wav'd their Caps, and
came on: But the Gunner getting quickly ready
again, sir'd among them the second Time;
one Shot of which, tho' it miss'd the Boat it
selfi yet fell in among the Men, and we could
easily see, had done a great deal of Mischief
among them; but we "taking no Notice of
that, war'd the Ship again, and brought our
Quarter to bear upon them, and firing three
Guns
Guns more, we found the Boat was split almost
to Pieces; in particular, her Rudder* and a Piece
of her Stern was shot quite away, so they handed
their Sail immediately, and were in great Dis-
order; But to compleat their Misfortune, our
Gunner let fly two Guns at them again,- where
he hit them we could not tell, but we found the
Boat was (inking, and some of the Men already
in the Water. Upon this, I immediately Mann <i
out our Pinnace, which we had kept dole by
our Side, with Orders to pick up some of the
Men if they could, and save them from drown-
ing, and immediately to come on board with them;
because we saw the rest of the Boats began to come
up. Our Men in the Pinnace followed their Or-
ders, and took up three Men; one of which was
just drowning, and it was a good while before we
could recover him* As soon as they were on
Board, we crowded all the Sail we could make,
and stood farther out to Sea, and we found that
when the other three Boats came up to the first
two, they gave over their Chafe.
Being thus delivered from a Danger, which
tho' I knew not the Reason of it, yet seem'd to be
much greater than 1 apprehended; I took Care
that we would change our Course, and not let any
one imagine whither we were going; so we stood
out to Sea Eastward, quite out of tlm Course of
ail European Ships, whether they were bound 10
Chinax or any where else, within the Commerce of
the European Nations.
When we were now at Sea, we began to con-
sult with the .two Seamen, and enquire first what
the Meaning of all this should be, and the Dutch
Man let us into the Secret of it at once; telling us,
that the Fellow that sold us the Ship, as we said*
was no more than a Thief, that had run away
R % with
With her: Then he told us, how the Captanl
whose Name too he told us, tho' I do not remem-
ber, was treacherously murdered by the Na-
tives on the Coast of Mallacca, with three of his
Men ,* and that he, this Dutch Man, and four
more, got into the Woods, where they wandered
about a great while; till at length, he in particu-
lar, in a miraculous Manner made his Escape, and
swam off to a Dutch Ship, which sailing near the
Shore, in its Way from China, had sent their Boat
on Shore for fresh Water h that he durst not come
to that Part of the Shore where the Boat was, but
Austin the Night, to^take the Water farther oft^
and the Ship's Boat took him up.
He then told us, that he went to Batavia, where
two of the Sea-men belonging to the Ship arriv'd,
having deserted the rest in' their Travels, and
gave an Account, that the Fellow who had run
away with the Ship, fold her at Bengal, to a Set
of Pirates, which were gone a Cruising in her;
and that they had already taken an knglist Ship,
and two Dutch Ships very richly laden.
This latter Part we found to concern us direct-
ly, and tho'we knew it to be false; yet as my Part-
ner said very well, if we had fallen into their
Hands, and they had had such a Prepossession
against us before-hand, it had been in vain for us to
have defended our selves, or to hope for any good
Quarter at their Hands; and especially considering
that our Accusers had been our Judges, and that
we could have expected nothing from them, but
what Rage would have dictated, and an ungo-
verned Passion have executed : And therefore it was
his Opinion, we should go directly back to Bengal,
irom whence we came, without putting in at any
Port whatever; because there, we could give a
j>ood Account of pur selves, could prove where
we were when the Ship put in, whom We bought
her of, and the like; and which was more than
all the rest, if we were put to the Necessity ot
bringing it before the proper Judges, we should
be sure to have some Justice, and not be hang'd
first, and judg'd afterwards.
I was sometime of my Partner's Opinion > but
after a little more serious thinking, I told him, I
thought it was a very great Hazard for us to at-
tempt returning to Bengal, for that we were on
the wrong Side of the Straits of Malacca ; and that
if the Alarm was given, we should be sure to be
Way-laid on every Side, as well by the Dutch ot
Batavia, as the English else where; that if we
should be taken, as it were running away, we
should even condemn our selves, and there would
want no more Evidence to destroy us. I also asked
the Englifo Sailor's Opinion, who said, he was of
my Mmd, and that we should certainly be taken.
This Danger, a little startled my Partner and
all the Ship's Company,* and we immediately re-
solved to go away to the Coast of Tonquin, and
so on to the Coast of China, and pursuing the first
Design as to Trade, find some Way or other to
dispose of the Ship, and come back in some of
the Vessels of the Country, such as we could get.
This was approved of as the best Method for our
Security; and accordingly we steered away N.
N. E. keeping above fifty Leagues off from the
usual Course to the Eastward.
This however put us to some Inconveniences;
for first the Winds, when we came to the Distance
from the Shore, scem'd to be more steadily against
us, blowing almost Trade, as we call it, from the
East, and E. N.E. so that we Were a long while
l1pon our Voyage, and we Were but ill provided
With Victuals for so long a Voyage j and which
R 3 was
was still worse, there was some-Danger that chose
English and Dutch Ships, whose Boats pursued us,
whereof some were bound that Way, might be got
in before usy and if not, some other Ship, bound to
China, might have Information of us from them,
and pursue us with the lame Vigour,
I must confess, I was now very uneasy, and
thought my self, including the late Escape from
the Long-Boats, to have been in the most dange-
rous Condition that ever I was in thro* all my past
Life; for whatever ill Circumstances I had been
in, I was never pursued fora Thief before; nor
had I ever done any Thing that merited the Name
of Dishonest or Fraudulent, much less Thievish.
1 had chiefly been my own Enemy, or as I may
rightly fay, I had been no Body's Enemy but my
own : But now I was embarrafs'd in the worst Con-
dition imaginable; for tho' I was perfectly inno-
cent, I was in no Condition to make that Inno-
cence appear: And if I had been taken, it had
been under a supposed Guilt os the worst Kind;
at least, a Crime esteemed so among the People I
had to do with,
This made me very anxious to make an Escape,
tho\ which Way to do it, I knew not, or what
Port Or Place we should go to: My Partner seeing
me thus dejected, tho'he was tire most concerned
at first, began to encourage me; and describing
to me the several Ports of that Coast, told me he
would put in on the Coast of Chocbimhlna, or the
Bay of Tonquin, intending to go afterwards to
Macao, a Town once in the Possession of the Por-
tuguefty and where still a great many European Fa-
milies resided, and particularly the Missionary
Priests usually went thither, in Order to their %q-
jagiorwa^d to China.
Hither
Hither then we resolvM to go ,• and according-
ly, tho3 after a tedious and irregular Course, and
very much straitned for Provisions, we came with-
in Sight of the Coast veryeary in the Morning;
and upon Reflection upon the past Circumstances
we were in, and the Danger it we had not e-
icaped, we refolv'd to put into a small River,
which however had a Depth enough of Water
for us, and to see if we could, either over Land,
or by the Ship's Pinnace, come to know what
Ships were in any Port thereabouts. This happy
Step, was indeed our Deliverance; for tho' we
did not immediately fee any European Ships in the
Bay of Tonquiny yet the next Morning there came
into the Bay two Dutch Ships, and a third with-
out any Colours Ipred out, but which we believ'd
to be a Dutch Man, pass\\ by ac about two Leagues
Distance, steer ng for the Coast of China; mid in
the Afternoon went by two English Ships steering
the fame Course; and thus, we thought, we saw
our selves beset with Enemies, both one Way ot
other. The Place we were in was wild and bar-
barous3 the People Thieves, even by Occupation
or Profession j and tho' it is true we had not much
to seek of them, and except getting a few Provi-
sions, car'd not how little we had to do with
them, yet it was with much Difficulty that we
kept our selves from being insulted by them seve-
ral Ways.
We were in a small River of this Country, with-
in a few Leagues of its utmost Limits North-
ward ; and by our Boat we coasted North-East to
the Point ot Land, which opens the great Bay
oiTonquins and it was in this beating up along
the Shore, that we discovered, as above, that in
a Word, we were surrounded with Enemies. The
People we were among, were the most barbarous
R 4 cf
of all the Inhabitants of the Coast; having no Cor-
respondence with any other Nation, and dealing
only in Fish, and Oil, and such gross Commodi-
ties; and it may be particularly seen, that they
are, as I said> the molt barbarous of any of the
Inhabitants, (viz,.) that among other Customs they
have this as one, (viz,) That if any Vessel have
the Misfortune to be siiipwreck'd upon the Coast,
they presently make their Men all Prisoners or
Slaves; and it was not long before we found a
Spice of their Kindness this Way, on the Occasion
following.
I have observed above, that our Ship sprung
a Leak at Sea, and that we could not find it out;
and however it happened, that, as I have said, it
was stopped unexpectedly in the happy Minute of
our being to be seiz'd 'by the Dutch and English
Ships in the Bay otSiam; yet as we did not find
the Ship so perfectly sit and sound as wedesir'd,
we resolved, while we were in this Place, to lay
her on Shore, takeout what heavy Things we had
on Board, which were not many, and to waft and
clean her Bottom, and, if possible, to find out
where the Leaks were,
Accordingly, having lightens the Ship, and
brought all our Guns and other moveable Things
to one Side, we tfy'd to bring her down, that we
might come at her Bottom; but on second Thoughts
we did not care to lay her dry on Ground, neither
could we find out a proper Place for it.
The Inhabitants v^ho had never been acquain-
ted with such a Sight, came wondering down to
the Shore, to look at us; and seeing the Ship lye
down on one Side in such a Manner, and heeling
in towards the Shore, and not seeing our Men
who were at Work on her Bottom, with Stages,
and with their Boats on the Offside, they present-
ly
Jy concluded, that the Ship was cast away, and
so lay fast on the Ground.
On this Supposition they came all about us in
two or three Hours time, with ten or twelve
large Boats, having some of them eight, some
ten Men in a Boat, intending, no doubt, to have
come on Board, and plunder'd the Ship -> and if
they had found us there, to have carry'd us away
for Slaves to their King, or whatever they call
him \ for we knew nothing who was their Go-
vernonr.
When they came up to the Ship, and began to
row round her, they discovered us all hard at
Work on the Out-fide of the Ship's Bottom and
Side, washing, and graving, and stopping as eve-
ry Sea-faring Man knows how.
They stood for a while gazing at us, and we,
who were a little surpriz cl, could not imagine
what their Design was; but, being willing to be
fure> we took this Opportunity to get some of us
into the Ship, and others to hand down Arms
and Ammunition to those that were at Work, to
defend themselves with, if there should be Occa-
sion; and it was no more than Need; for in less
than a quarter of an Hour's Consultation, they
agreed, it seems, that the Ship was really a Wreck,
that we were all at Work, endeavouring to save
her, or to save our Lives by the Help of our Boats;
and when we handed our Arms into the Boats,
they concluded, by that Motion, that we were
endeavouring to save some of our Goods. Upon
this they took it for granted we all belonged to
them; and away they came down upon our Men,
as if it had been in a Line of Battle.
Our Men, seeing so many of them, began to be
frighted; for we lay but in an ill Posture to fights
and cry'd out to us to know what they should do:
Iim-
I immediately callM to the Men who work'd upon
the Stage, to Hip them down, and get up the Side
into the Ship ; and bad those in the Boat to row
round and come on board: And those tew of us,
who were on board, worked with all the Strength
and Hands we had, to bring the Ship to Rights,
But however, neither the Men upon the Stage,
or those in the Boats, could do as they were
ordered, before the Cvchinchineses were upon them,
and two of their Boats boarded our Long-Boat,
and began to lay hold of the Men as their Pri-
soners.
The first Man they laid hold of was an English
Seaman; a stout strong Fellow, who haying a
Musket in his Hand, never offered to fire ky but
laid it down in the Boat, like a Fool, as /thought.
But he understood his Business better than I could
teach him; for he grappled the Pagan, and drag-
ged him by main Force, out of their own Boat
into ours; where taking him by the two Ears, he
beat his Head so against the Boat's Gunnel3 that
the Fellow died instantly in his Hands; and in
the rtiean time, a Dutch Man, who stood next,
took up the Musket, and with the But-end of it,
so laid about him, that he knock'd down five of
them, who attempted to enter the Boat. But this
was doing little, towards resisting thirty or forty
Men, who fearless, because ignorant of their Dan-
ger, began to throw themselves into the Long-
Boa t, where we had but five Men, in ail, to de-
fend it. But one Accident gave our Men a com-
plete Victory, which deserv'd our Laughter rather
than any Thing else. And that was this.
Our Carpenter being preparing to grave the
Out-side of the Ship, as well as to pay the Seanus
where he had caulk'd her to stop the Leakes, had
got two Kettles just kt down into the Boat \ one
'find
siil'd with boiling Pitch, and the other with Ro-
sin, Tallow, and Oil, and such Stuffs as the Ship-
wrights use for that Work. And the Man that at-
tended the Carpenter, had a great Iron Ladle in
his Hand, with which he supplied the Men that
were at Work, with that hot Stuff. Two of the
Enemy's Men entred the Boat just where this Fel-
low stood, being in the Fore-sheets; he immedi-
ately saluted them with a Ladle full of the Stuff,
boiling hot, which so burnt and scalded them,
being half naked, that they roared out like two
Bulls, and enraged with the Fire, leap'd both in-
to the Sea. The Carpenter saw it, and cried out,
Well done, Jack, give them some more of it: And
stepping forward himself, takes one of their Mops,
and dipping it in the Pitch-Pot, he, and his Man
threw it among them so plentifully,, that in short,
of all the Men in the three Boats, there was not
one that was not scalded, and burnt with it in a
most frightful and pitiful Manner, and made such a
howling and crying, that I never heard a worse
Noise, and indeed nothing like it; for it is worth
observing, That though Pain naturally makes all
People cry out; yet every Nation has a particu-
lar Way of Exclamation, and making Noises as
different from one another, as their Speech. I
cannot give the Noise these Creatures made, a
better Name than Howling, nor a Name more
proper to the Tone of it; for I never heard any
Thing more like the Noise of the Wolves, which
as I have said, I heard howl in the Forest on the
Frontiers of Languedoc.
I was never pleas'd with a Victory better in my
Life; not only as it was a perfect Surprize to me,
and that our Danger was imminent before; but
as we got this Victory without any Bloodshed,
except of that Man, the Fellow killed with his
naked
naked Hands, and which I was very much con-
cerned at; for I was sick of killing such poor sa-
vage Wretches, even tho* it was in my own De-
fence, knowing they came on Errands which they
thought just, and knew no better. And that tho*
it may be a just Thing, because necessary, for there
is no necessary Wickedness in Nature, yet I thought
it was a fad Life, in which we must be always obli-
ged to be killing our Fellow-Creatures to preserve
jDur own; and indeed I think so stilh and I would
even now suffer a great deal, rather than I would
take away the Life, even of the Person injuring
me. And I believe* all considering People, who
know the Value of Life, would be of my Opi-
nion; at least, they would, if they entred seriously
into the Consideration of it.
But to return to my Story. All the while this
was doing, my Partner and I, who managed the
rest ot the Men on board, had with great Dex-
terity brought the Ship almost to Rights; and ha-
ving gotten the Guns into their Places again, the
Gunner calfd to me, to bid our Boat get out of the
Way, for he would let fly among them. I called
back again to him, and bid him not ofter to fire,
for the Carpenter would do the Work without him,
but bad him heat another Pitch-Kettle, which
our Cook, who was on Board, took Care of Bu^
the Enemy were so terrified with what they had
met with in their first Attack, that they would
not come on again. And some of them that
were farthest off, seeing -the Ship swim, as it were
upright, begun, as we supposed, to see their Mi"
stake, and give over the Enterprize, finding it was
not as they expected. Thus we got clear of this
•merry Fight; and having gotten some Rice, and
some Roots, and Bread, with about sixteen good
bie Hoes on Board, two Days before, we re-
solv'd
solv'd to stay here no longer, but go forward
whatever came of it 5 for we made no Doubt but
we should be surrounded the next Day with
Rogues enough, perhaps more than our Pitch-
Kettle would dispose of for us.
We therefore got all our Things on Board the
fame Evening, and the next Morning were ready to
fail. In the mean time, lying at an Anchor ac some
Distance, we were not so much concerned, being
now in a fighting Posture, as well as in a failing
Posture, if any Enemy had presented. The next
Day having finished our Work within Board, and
finding our Ship was perfectly heai'd of all her
Leaks, we set Sail. We would have gone into the
Bay oOonquin; for we wanted to inform our selves
of what was to be known concerning the Dutch
Ships that had been there; but we durst not stand
in there, because we had seen several Ships go in,
as we (uppos'd, but a little before; so we kept
on N. E. towards the Isle of Formosa, as
much afraid of being seen by a Dutch or English
Merchant Ship, as a Dutch or Engltjh Merchant
Ship in the Mediterranean is of an Algerine Man of
War.
When we were thus got to Sea, we kept out N. E.
as if we would go to the Manillas or the Philip-
pine Islands; and this we did, that we might not
fall into the Way of any of our European Ships,-
and then we steer'd North 'till we came to the La-
titude of 22 Degrees, 30 Min. by which Means
we made the Island Formosa directly, where we
came to an Anchor, in order to get Water aifd
fresh Provisions, which the People there, who are
very courteous and civil in their Manners, supply\i
us with willingly^ and dealt very fairly and punctu-
ally with us in all their Agreements and Bar-
gains,* which is what we did not find among
other
other People; and may be owing to the Re-
mains of Christianity> which was once planted
here by a Dutch Missionary of Protestants, and
is a Testimony of what 1 have often observ'd,
viz,. That the Christian Religion always civili-
zes the People, and reforms their Manners,
where it is receiv'd, whether it works saving
Effects upon them or no.
From hence we sail'd still North, keeping the
Coast of China at an equal Distance, till we knew
we were beyond all the Ports of China, where
our European Ships usually come; beingresolv'd*
if possible, not to fall into any of their Hands,
especially in this Country, where, as our Circum-
stances were, we could not fail of being entirely
ruiri*d; nay, so great was my Fear in particular,
as to my being taken by them, that I believe firm-
ly, I would much rather have chosen to fall into
the Hands of the Spanish Inquisition.
Being now come to the Latitude of 30 Degrees,
we resolved to put into the first trading Port we
should come at; and standing in for the Shore, a
Boat came off two Leagues to us, with an old
Portuguese Pilot on Board, who knowing us to be
an European Ship, came to offer his Service, which
indeed we were very glad of» and took him on
Board 1 upon which, without asking us whither
we would go, he dismissed the Boat he came in,
and sent them back*
I thought it was now so much in our Choice*
to make the old Man carry us whither we would;
that I began to talk with him about carrying us
to the Gulph of Nanquin, which is the most
Northern Part of the Coast of China: The old
Man said he knew the Gulph of Nanquin very
well > but smiling, ask'd in what we would do
there?
I told
I told him, we would sell our Cargo, and pur-
chase CA/Vm-Wares, Callieoes, Raw-Silk^, Tea,
Wrought-Silks, &c. and so would return by the
fame Course we came. He told us our best Port
had been to have put in at Macm% where we could
not have fail d of a Market for our Opium, to
our Satisfaction, and might for our Money have
purchased all Sorts of China-Goods^ as cheap as
We could at Nanquin.
Not being able ro put the old Man out of his
Talk, of which he was very opiniated or conceit-
ed, I told him we were Gentlemen, as well as
Merchants, and that we had a Mind to go and
fee the great City of Pecking, and the famous
Court of the Monarch of China. Why then, fays
the old Man, you should go to Ningpo, where
by the River which runs into the Sea there,
you may go up within five Leagues of the
Great Canal This Canal is a navigable River,
which goes thorough the Heart of that vast Empire
of China, crosses all the Rivers, passes some con-
siderable Hills by the Help of Sluices and Gates,
and goes up to the City of Pecking, being m
Length near 270 Leagues.
Well, said I, Seignior Portuguese, but that is not
our Business now: The great Question is, If you
can carry us up to the City of Nanquin, from
whence we can travel to Pecking afterwards? Yes,
he said, he could do so very well, and that there
was a great Dutch Ship gone by that Way just
before. This gave me a little Shock; and a Dutch
Ship was now our Terror, and we had much ra-
ther have met the Devi}, at least, if he had not
come in too frightful a Figure; and we depend-
ed upon it, that a Dutch Ship would be our De-
struction, for we were in no Condition to fight
them; all the Ships they trade with into those
Parts
Parts being of great Burthen* and of much great-
er Force than we were.
The old Man found me a little confus'd, and
under some Concern, when he nam'd a Dutch
Ship, and said to me, Sir, you need be under no
Apprehensions of the Dutch, I suppose they are
not now at War with your Nation : No, says I,
that's true* but I know not what Liberties Men
may take when they are out of the Reach of the
Law: Why, fays hc9 you are m Pirates, what
need you fear ? They will not meddle with peace-
able Merchants sure.
If I had any Blood in my Body that did not
fly up into my Face at that Word, it was hin-
ders by some Stop in the Vessels, appointed by
Nature to prevent it * for it put me into the grea-
test Disorder and Confusion imaginable: Nor was
it possible for me to conceal it so, but that the
old Man easily perceiv'd it.
Sir, fays he, I find you are in some Disorder in
your Thoughts at my Talk, pray be pleas'd to
go which Way you think fit, and depend upon it,
Til do you all the Service I can. Why,, Seignior,
(aid I, it is true I am a little unsettled in my Reso-
lution at this Time whither to go in particular;
and I am something more so, for what you said
about Pirates, I hope there are no Pirates in these
Seas •, we are but in an ill Condition to meet
with them, for you fee we have but a small
Force, and but very weakly Mann'd.
O Sir, fays he% do not be concern'd, I do not
know that there has been any Pirates in these Seas
these fifteen Years, except one which was seen, as
I hear, in the Bay of Siamy about a Month since;
bat you may be assured (he is gone to the South-
ward*, nor was (he a Ship of any great Force, or
fit for the Work; (he was not built for a Pri-
vateer,
tratecr, but was run away with by a reprobate
Crew that were on Board, after the Captain and
some of his Men had been murdered by the Ma-
layans, at, or near the Island of Sumatra.
What! said I, (seeming to know nothing of the Mat-
ter) did they.minder the Captain? tiosaid'be, 1
do not understand that they murdered him; but as
they afterwards run away with the Ship, it is ge-
nerally believed they betrayed him into the Hands
of the Malayans, who did murder him, and per-
haps they procured them to do it. Why then,
said I, they deserve Death as much as if they had
done it themselves. Nay, says the old Man, they
do deserve it, and they will certainly have it, if
they light upon any Englijl) or Dutch Ship j for
they have all agreed together, that if they meet
that Rogue, they will give him no Quarter.
But, said I to him, you say the Pirate is gone
out of those Seas. How can they meet with him;
Why, that is true, fays he, they do fay so* but he
was, as I tell you, in the Bay of Si am, in the Ri-
ver Cambodia, and was discovered there by some
Dutch Men who belonged to the Ship, and who'
were left on-Shore when they run away with hef:
And some English and Dutch Traders being in the
River, they were within a little of taking him.
Nay, said he, if the foremost Boats had been well
seconded by the rest, they had certainly taken him;
but he finding only two Boats within Reach of
him, tacked about, and fired at these two, and
disabled them before the other came up, and then
standing off to Sea, the other were not able to
follow him, and so he got away. But they haye
all so exact a Description of the Ship, that they
will be sure to know him; and wherever tbiy
find him, they have vowed to give no Quarter, to
Part 'II. S either
either the Captain, or the Seamen, but to hang
them all up at the Yard-Arm.
What! Jays Iy will they execute them right or
wrong i hang them first, and judge them after-
ward? O Sir! fays the old Pilot, there's no Need
to make a formal Business of it with such Rogues
as those, let them tie them Back to Back, and set
them a driving. It is no more than' they richly
deserve.
I knew I had my old Man fast aboard, and that
he could do me no Harm, so that I turned short
upon him; Well now, Seignior, Said /, and this
is the very Reason, why 1 would have you carry
us up to Nanquw, and not to put back to Macoa,
or to any other Part of the Country, where the
English or Dutch Ships come: For be it known
to you Seignior, those Captains of the English and
Dutch Ships, are a Parcel of rash, proud, insolent
Fellows, that neither know what belongs to Ju-
stice, nor how to behave themselves, as tneLaws
of God and Nature: direct; but being proud ot
their Offices, and not understanding their Power,
they would act the Murderers to punish Rob-
bers; would take upon them to insult Men falfly
accused, and determine them guilty without due
Enquiry; and perhaps I may live to call some ot
them to an Account for it, where they may be
taught how Justice is to be executed, and that no
Man ought to be treated as a Criminal, 'till some
Evidence may be had of the Crime, and that he
is the Man.
With this I told him, that this was the very
Ship they attacked, and gave him a full Account
of the Skirmish we had with their Boats* and how
foolishly and Coward-like they behaved. I told
him all the Story of our buying the Ship, and how
the Dutch Men served us. I told him the Reasons
I ted
I Had to believe that this Story of killing the Ma<
ster by the Malayans was true ,• as also the running
away with the Ship: But that it was all a Fiction
of their own, to suggest that the Men were turned
Pirates; and they ought to have been sure it was
so, before they had ventured to attack us by Sur-
prize, and oblige us to resist them; adding that
they would have the Blood of those Men, whom
we kill'd there in our just Defence, to answer for.
The old Mast was amaz'd at this Relation, and
told us, we were very much in the Right to go
away to the North, and that if he might advise us,
it should be to sell the Ship in China, which we
might very well do, and buy or build another in
the Country; and said he, though you will not
get so good a Ship, yet you may get one able
enough to carry you and all your Goods back
again to- Bengal, or any where else.
I told him, I would take his Advice, when I
fcaine to any Port where I could find a Ship for
my Turn, or get any Customer to buy this. He
reply'd, I should meet with Customers enough for
the Ship zxNanqum, and that a Chinese Jonk would
serve me very well to go back again; and that he
would procure me People, both to buy one and
sell the other.
Well, but Seign'or,^/ 2, as you fay they know
the Ship so well, I may perhaps, if I follow your
Measures, be instrumental to bring some honest
innocent Man into a terrible Broil, and perhaps
to be murdered in cold Blood; for wherever they
find the Ship, they will prove the Guilt upon the
Men, by proving this was the Ship, and so inno-
cent Men may probably be over-powered and
murdered. Why, says the eld Mtn, I will find out
a Way to prevent that also; for as 1 know all
those Commanders you speak of, very yvelJ, and
Si IhaU
shall see them all as they pass by, I will be sure to
set them to Rights in the Thing, and let them
know that they had been so much in the Wrong;
that tho' the People, \Vho were on board ac first,
might run away with the Ship, yet it was not
true that they had turned Pirates; and that in par-
ticular, these were not the Men that first went off
with the Ship, but innocently bought her for their
Trade j and I am perswaded they will so far be-
lieve me, as at feast to act more cautiously for the
Time to come. ' Well* says /, And will you deliver
one Message to them from me? Yes, I will, fays
he, if you will gife it under your Hand in Writing,
that 1 may be ible to prove, that it came from
you, and not mit of my own Head. I answered*
That I would readily give it him under my Hand;
so I took a Pen, and Ink, and Paper, and wrote at
large,the Story of assaulting me with the Long-
.Boats, &c. the pretended Reason of it, and the
unjust ertiel Design of it; and concluded to the
Comriianders, that they had done what they not
only should ha' been afham'd of, but also, that
'if ever they came to England^ and I liv'd to see
them there, they should all pay dearly for it, it
the Laws of my Country were not grown out
of Use before I arrived there.
My old Pilot read this over and over again,
and ask'd me several Times if I would stand to it}
I answered, I would stand to it as long as I had
any Thing left in the World, being sensible that I
should one Time or other find an Opportunity
to put it home to them: But we had no Occasi-
on ever to let the Pilot carry this Letter; for he
never went back again. While those Things
were passing between us, by Way* of Discourse,
we went forward, directly for Nanquiny and
iii about thirteen Days Sail came to an An-
chor
chor at die South-West Point of the great Gulph
oiNanquin, where, by the Way, I came by Ac-
cident to understand, that two Dutch Ships were
gone the Length before me, and that I should cer-
tainly fall into their Hands. I consulted my Part-
ner again in this Exigency, and he was as much at
a Lois as I was, and would very gladly have been
safe on Shore almost any where. However, I was
not in such Perplexity neither; but I ask'd the old
Pilot, if there was no Creek or Harbour, which I
might put into, and pursue my Business with the
Chinese privately, and be in no Danger of the Ene-
my? He told me, If I would fail to the South-
ward about two and forty Leagues, there was k
little Portcaird Quincbaug, where the Fathers of
the Mission usually landed from Macao, on their
Progress to teach the Christian Religion to the
Chinese*, and where no European Ships ever put in';
and if I thought to put in there, 1 might consider
what farther Course to take when I was ashore.
He confess'd, he said, it was not a Place for Mer-
chants, except that at some certain Times they
had a Kind of a Fair there, when the Merchants
from Japan came over to buy the Chinese Mer-
chandizes.
We all agreed to go back to this Place; the
Name of the Port, as he calfd it, I may perhaps
speil wrong; for I do not particularly remem-
ber it, having lost this, together with the Names
of many other Places, set down in a little Pocket-
Book, which was spoiled by the Water, on an
Accident, which I shall relate in its Order; but
this I remember, that the Chines or Japonese
Merchants we corresponded with, call'd it by a
differing Name from that which our Portuguese
Pilot gave ir, and pronounced it, as above*
Qunc hang.
Sj As
As we were unanimous in our Resolutions to
go to this Place, we weigh'd the next Day, ha-
ving only gone twice ashore, where we were to
get fresh Water; on both which Occasions, the
People of the Country were very civil to us, and
brought us Abundance of Things to sell to us; 1
mean> of Provisions, Plants, Roots, Tea, Rice, and
some Fowls; but nothing without Money.
We came to the other Port, (the Wind being
contrary) not till five Days, but it was very much
to our Satisfaction; and I was joyful, and I may
fay, thankful, when 1 set my Foot safe on Shore;
resolving, and my Partner too, that if it was
possible to dispose of our selves and Effects, any
other Way, tho* not every Way to our Satisfa-
ction, we would never set one Foot on board
that unhappy Vessel more; and indeed I must
acknowledge, that of all the Circumstances of
Life, that ever I had any Experience of, nothing
makes Mankind so compleatly miserable, as that,
of being in constant Fear. Well does the Scrip-
ture fay, 'the Fear of Man brings a Snare; it is a
Life of Death, and the Mind is so intirely sup-
pressed by it, that it is capable of no Relief; the
animal Spirits sink, and all the Vigour of Na-
ture, which usually supports M?n under other
Afflictions, and is present to them in the greatest
Exigencies, fails them here,
Nor did it fail of its usual Operations upon
the Fancy, by heightening every Danger, repre-
senting the Englishand Dutch Captains, to be
Men uncapable of hearing Reason, or of distin-
guishing between honest Men and Rogues; or
between a Story calculated for our own Turn,
made out of nothing, on Purpose to deceive,
and a true genuine Account of our whole Voy-
age, Progress, and Design ,* for we might many
Ways have convinc'd [any reasonable Creature,
that we were not Pirates; the Goods we had on
board, the Course we steer'd, our frankly shew-
ing our selves, and entering into such and such
Ports; and even our very Manner, the Force we
had, the Number of Men, the few Arms, little
Ammunition, sliort Provisions; ail these would
have served to convince any Men, that we were
no Pirates j the Opium, and other Goods we
had on board, would make it appear, the Ship
had been at Bengal; the Dutch Men, wfio it was
&id, had the Names of ail the Men that were in
the Ship, might easily fee that we were a Mixture
of English, Portuguese, and Indians, and but two
Dutch Men on board. These, and many other
particular Circumstances, might have made it
evident to the Understanding of any Comman-
der, whose Hands we might fall into, that we
were no Pirates.
But Rar, that blind useless Passion, work d a-
iiother Way, and threw us into the Vapcwrs; it
bewildred our Understandings, and set the Ima-
gination at Work, to form a thousand terrible
Things, that perhaps might never happen. We
first supposed, as indeed every Body had related to
u§5 that the Seamen on board the English and
Dutch Ships, but especially the Duuh, were so en-
raged at the Name of a Pirate, and especially
{it our beating of their Boats, and escaping, that
they would not give themselves Leave to enquire,
whether we were pirates or no; but would ex-
ecute us off Hand, as we call it, without giving
us any Room fora Defence. We reflected that
there was really sq much apparent Evidence be-
sore them, that they would scarce enquire after
any more; as first, That the Ship was certainly
?he fame, and th$t some of the Seamen among
'" S 4 * theni
them knew her, and had been on board her;
and secondly, That when we had Intelligence
at the River of Cambodia, that they were coming
down toi examine u$, we fought their Boats and
fled ; so that we made no doubt but they were
fully fatisfy*d of our being Pirates, as we were sa-
tisfy'd of the contrary i and as I often said, I know
not but I lhould have been apt to have taken
those Circumstances for Evidence, if the Tables
were turnd, and my Cafe was theirs, and have
made no Scruple of cutting all the Crew to Pie-
ces, without believing, or perhaps considering,
what they might have to offer in their Defence.
But let that be how it will, those were our
Apprehensions j and both my Partner and I too
scarce slept a Night, without dreaming of Hal-
ters, and Yard-Arms; that is to fay, Gibbets,
of fighting, and being taken ; of killing, and be-
ing kiil'd; and one Night I was in such a Fury
in' my Dream,* fancying the Dutch Men had
boarded us, and I was knocking one of their
Seamen down, that I struck my double Fist a-
gainst the Side of the Cabin I lay in, with such
a Force, as wounded my Hand most grievously,
broke my Knuckles, and cut and bruised the
Flesh; so that it not only wak'd me out of my
Sleep, but I was once afraid I should have lost
two of my Fingers.
Another Apprehension I had, was of the cruel
Usage we might meet with from them, if we
sell into their Hands; then the Story of Am-
foyna came into my Head, and how the Dutch}
might perhaps torture us, as they did our Coun-
trymen there; and make some of the Men, by
Extremity of Torture, confess those Crimes
they never were guilty of,' own themselves, and
ill of us to be Pirates, and so they would put
us
us to Death, with a formal Appearance of Ju?
#ice,* and that they might be tempted to do
this, for the Gain of our Ship and Cargo, which
was worth four or five thousand Pounds, put al-
together.
These Things tormented me and my Partner
too, Night and Day; nor did we consider that:
the Captains of Ships have no Authority to act
thus> and if we had surrendered Prisoners to
them, they could not answer the destroying us,
or torturing us, but would be accountable for it,
when they came into their own Country: This I
fay, gave me no Satisfaction> for if they will
act thus with us, what Advantage would it be
to us, that they would be called to an Account
for it; or if we were first to be murthered,
what Satisfaction would it be to us to have them
punislvd when they came Home?
I cannot refrain taking Notice here, what Re-
flections I now had upon the past Variety of my
particular Circumstances ,* how hard I thought it
was, that I who had spent forty Years in a Life
of continu'd Difficulties, and was at last come
as it were to the Port or Haven, which all Men
drive at, (viz.) to have Rest and Plenty, should
be a Voluntier in new Sorrows, by my own un-
happy Choice; and that I, who escaped so
many Dangers in my Youth, should now come
to be hang'd in my old Age, and in so remote a
J?lace, for a Crime I was not in the least inclin'd
to, much less really guilty of; and in a Place
and Circumstance, where Innocence was not like
to be any Protection at all to me.
After these Thoughts, something of Religion
would come in; and I would be considering,
that this scem'd to me to be a Disposition of
immediate Providence, and I ought to look up-
on
on it, and submit to it as such; that although I
was innocent as to Men, I was far from being
innocent as to my Maker; and I ought to look
in and examine, what other Crimes in my Life,
were more obvious to me; and for which, Pro-
vidence might justly inflict this Punishment, as a
Retribution; and that I ought to submit to this,
just as I would to a Shipwreck, if it had pleased
God to have brought such a Disaster upon me.
In its Turn, Natural Courage would some-
times takes its Place; and then I would be talk-
ing my self up to vigorous Resolutions, that I
would not be taken, to be barbarously used by a
Parcel of merciless Wretches, in cold Blood;
that it were much better to have fallen into th£
Hands of the Savages, who were Men-Eatery
and who, I was sure, would feast upon me,
when they had taken me; than by those, who
would perhaps glut their Rage upon me, by in-
human Tortures and Barbarities; that in the
Cafe of the Savages, I always resolved to die
fighting, to the last Gasp; and why should I not
do so, seeing it was much more dreadful to me
at leasts to think of falling into these Mens Hands,
than ever it was to think of being eaten by Men j
for the Savages, give them their Due, would not
eat a Man tifl he was dead, and kill'd them
first, as we do a Bullock,• but that these Men had
many Arts beyond the Cruelty of Death. When
ever these Thoughts prevails, I was sure to put
my self in a kind of Fever, with the Agitations
"of a supposed Fight; my Blood would boil, and
my Eyes sparkle, as if I was engag'd ,• and I al*
ways resolvM that I would take no Quarter at
their Hands; but even at last, i( I could resist no
longer, I would blow up the Ship, and all that
was in her, and leave them but little Boaty to
b^afi o£ 4 By
By how much the greater Weight, the Anxie-
ties and Perplexities of these Things were tq
put Thoughts while we were at Sea, by so mucli
the greater was our Satisfaction, when we saw
our selves on Shore; and my Partner told me he
dream'd, that he had a very heavy Load upon his
Back, which he was to carry up a Hill, and
found that he was not able to stand long under
it; but that the Portuguese Pilot came an4 took
it off his Back, and the Hill disappeared, the
Ground before him shewing all smooth and
plain, and truly it was so» we were all like Men,
who had a Load taken off their Backs.
For my Parr, I had a Weight taken off from
my Heart, that I was not able any longer to
bear; and as I said above, we resolvd to go no
more to Sea in that Ship. When we came on Shore,
the old Pilot, who was now our Friend, got us a
Lodging and a Ware-House for our Goods, which
by the Way, was much the fame; it was a little
House or Hut, with a large House joyning to
it, all built with Canes, and pallisadoed round
with large Canes, to keep out pilfering Thieves,
of which, it seems there were not a few in that
Country. However, the Magistrates allowed us
also a little Guard, and we had a Sentinel with
a kind of Halberd, or H^lf-pike, who stood
Sentinel at our Door; to whom we allowed a
Pint of Rice, and a little Piece of Money, about
the Value of three Pence per Day, so that our
Goods were kept very safe.
The Fair or Mart, usually kept in this Place,
had been over some Time; however, we found
that there were three or four Jonks in the River,
and two JafannerS) I mean, Ships from Japan,
with Goods which they had bought in China, and
were not gone away, having Japonese Merchants
pn Shore, The
The first Thing our old Portuguese Pilot aid
for us, was to bring us acquainted with three
Missionary Rmifi Priests, who were in the Town,
and who had been there some Time, converting
the People to Christianity > but we thought they
made but poor Work of it, and made them but
sorry Christians when they had done. However,
that was none of our Business: One of these was
a French Man, whom they call'd Father Sirmu; he
was a jolly well conditioned Man, very free in
his Conversation, not seeming so serious and
grave as the other two did ,• one of whom was
a Portuguese, and the other a Genoese; but Father
Simon was courteous, easy in his Manner, and
very agreeable Company. The other two were
more reserved, seem'd rigid and austere, and ap^
piy'd seriously to the Work they came about,
(viz,.) to talk with, and insinuate themselves a-
inong the Inhabitants, wherever they had Op-
portunity. We often eat and drank with those
Men, and tho' I must confess, the Conversion
as they caU it, of the Chineses to Christianity,
is so far from the true Conversion required, to
bring Heathen People to the Faith of Christ*
that it seems to amount to little more, than
letting them know the Name of Christ, and
fay some Prayers to the Virgin Mary, and her
Son, in a Tongue which they understand not,
and to cross themselves and the like ,• yet it must
be confess^, that these Religious, whom we call
Missionaries, have a firm Belief that these People
ihall be sav'd, and that they are the Instruments
of it; and on this Account, they undergo not only
the Fatigue of the Voyage, and Hazards of liv-
ing in such Places, but oftentimes Death* it self,
with the most violent Tortures, for the Sake
'of this Work; and it would be a great Want
of
of Chanty in us, whatever Opinion we have of
*he Work itself, and the Manner of their doing
it, i( we should not have a good Opinion of their
Zeal, who undertook it with ib many Hazards,
and who have no Prospect of the Jeatt temporal
Advantage to themselves.
But to return to my Story-, this French Priest,
Father Simon, was appointed it seems, by Order
of the Chief of the Mission, to goup tolekingy
the Royal Seat of the Cbinje Emperor, and
waited only for another Priest, who was order'd
to come to him from Macao, to go along with
him; and we scarce ever met together, but he
was inviting me to go that Journey, telling me,
how he would sliew me all the glorious Things
of that mighty Empire-, and among the rest,
the greatest City in the World > a City, said
lie, that your London and our Paris put together,
cannot be equal to. This was the City of Peking^
which I confess is very great, and infinitely full
of People •, but as I look'd on those Things
with different Eyes from other Men, so I slull
give my Opinion of them in few Words, when
I come in the Course of my Travels, to speak
more particularly of them.
But first, I come to my Fryar or Missionary;
dining with him one Day, and being very mer-
ry together, I ihew'd some little Inclination to
go with him, and he presi'd me and my Part-
ner very hard, and with a great many Perswa-
sions to consent. Why Farher Simonf fays my
Partner, why sliould you desire our Company
so much? You know we are Hereticks, and you
do not love us, nor cannot keep us Company
with any Pleasure. O i says he, You may per-
haps be good Catholicks in Time*, my Business
here is to convert .Heathens, and who knows
but
but I may, convert you too. Very well, fa-
ther, said I, so you will preach to us all the
Way* I won't be troublesome to you, says he;
our Religion does not divest us of good Man-
ners \ besides, fays he, we are here like Country-*
men, and so we are, compared to the Place we are
in ; and if you are Hugenots^ and I a Catho-
lick, we may be all Christians at last ; at least,
said he, we are all Gentlemen, and we may con-
verse so, without being uneasy to one another. I
lik'd that Part of his Discourse Very well, and
it began to put me in Mind of my Priest, that I
had left in the Brasitss but this Father Simon did
not come up to his Character, by a great deal^
for tho' Father Simon had no Appearance of a
criminal Levity in him neither, yet he had not
that Fund of Christian Zeal, strict: Piety, and
sincere Affection to Religion, that my other
good Ecclesiastick had, of whom I have said so
much.
But to leave him a little, fho' he ne^er left
us, nor sollicking us to go with him •, but we
had something else before us at first; for we
had all this while our Ship, and our Merchan-
dize to dispose of, and we began to be very doubt-
ful what we should do, for we were now in a
Place of very little Business •, and once I was a-
boutto venture to fail for the River of Kilar*>
and the City otNanyuin: But Providence seen/d
now more visibly, as I thought, than ever, to
concern itself in our Affair \ and I was encou-
raged from this very Time, to think, I should
one Way or other get out of this tangled Cir-
cumstance, and be brought Home to my owh
Country again, tho* 1 had not the least View
of the Manner* and when 1 began sometimes
to think of it, could not imagine by what Me-
thod
thod it was to be done: Providence, Isay, be-
gart hereto clear up our Way a Jittle; and the
first Thing that offered was, that our old Portu-
guese Pilot brought a Japan Merchant to us, who
ocgan to enquire what Goods we had ; and in
the first Place, he bought ail our Opium, and
gave us a very good Price for it, paying us in
Gold by Weight* some in small Pieces ot their
own Coin, and some in small Wedges, of a-
bout ten or eleven Ounces each. While we were
dealing with him for our Opium, it came into
my Head, that he might perhaps deal with us
for the Ship too, and 1 ordered the Interpreter
to propose it to him v he slirunk up his Shoul-
ders at ir, when it was first propos'd to him;
but in a kw Days after, he came to me with
one of the Missionary Priests for his Interpreter,
and told me, he had a Proposal to make to
me, and that was this: He had bought a great
Quantity of Goods of us, when he had no
Thoughts (or Proposals made to him) of buy-
ing the Ship; and that therefore, he had not
Money enough to pay for the Ship; but if I
would let the fame Men who were in the Ship
navigate her, he would hire the Ship to go to
Japan, and would send them from thence to
the Philippine Islands with another Loading, which
he would pay rhe Freight ot> before they went
from Japan; and that at their Return, he would
buy the Ship. I began to listen to his Proposal,
and so eager did my Head still run upon Ram-
bling, that I could not but begin to entertain a
Notion of going myself with him, and to sail
from the Philippine Islands, away to the South-
Seas; and accordingly I ask'd the Japan Mer-
chant, if he would not hire us to the Philippine
Islands, and discharge us there; he said, No, he
could
could not do that* for then he could not have
the Return of his Cargo * but he would dis-
charge us in Jap<m> he laid, at the Ship's Re-
turn. Well, still 1 was for caking him at that
Proposal, and going myself* but my Partner,
wiser than myself, perswaded me from it, re-
presenting the Dangers as well of the Seas* as of
the Japonesesj who are a false, cruel, and trea-
cherous People v and then of the Spaniards ^ at
the Philippines) more false3 more cruel, and more
treacherous than they.
But to bring this long Turn of our Affairs to
a Conclusion* the first Thing we had to do, was
to conlult with the Captain of the Ship, and
with his Men, and know if they were willing
to go to Japan; and while I was doing this, the
young Man, whom, as I said, my Nephew had
left with me as my Companion for my Tra-
vel came to me, and told me, that he thought
that Voyage promised very fair, and that
there was a great Prospect of Advantage, and
he would be very glad if I undertook it ; but
that if I would not, and would give him
leave, he would go as a Merchant, or how 1
pleas'd to order him; that if ever he came to
England* and I was there and alive, he would
render me a a faithful Account of his Success,
and it stiould be as much mine as I pleas'd.
I was really loath to part with him, but con-
sidering the Prospect: of Advantage., which was
really considerable, and that he was a ypung
Fellow^ as* likely to do well in it, as any I
knew, I inclin'd to let him go * but first Itold
him, I would consult my Partner, and give him
an Aniwer the next Day* My Partner and I
discoursed about it, and my Partner made a
most generous Offer* he told.me* you know it
has
lias been an unlucky Ship, and we both resolve
not to go to Sea in it again ; if your Steward,
so he calfd my Man, will venture the Voyage* HI
leave my Share tif the Vessel to him, and lee
him make" his best of it; and if we live to meet
in England, and he meets with Success abroadj
he shall account for one Half of the Profits of
the Ship^ Freight to us, the other stall be his
own.
If my Partner, who was no Way concerned
with my young Man, made him such an Offer,
I could do no less than offer him the fame* and
all the Ship's Company being willing to go with
him, we made over Half the Ship to him in Pro-
perty, and took a Writing from him, obliging
him to account for the other, and away he
Went to Japan. The Japan Merchant prov'd
a very punctual honest Man to him, protected
him at Japan, and got him a License to come on
Shore, which the Europeans in general have not
lately obcained * paid him his Freight very pun-
ctually, sent him to the Philippines, loaded with
Japan, artd China Wares, and a Supra-Cargo of
their own, who trafficking with the Spaniards,
brought back European Goods again, and a great
(Quantity of Cloves, and other Spices •, and there
he was not only paid his Freight very well, and
at a very good Price, but being not willing to
fell the Ship then, the Merchant furniih'd him
with Goods, on his own Account; that for some
Money, and some Spices of hi* own, which he
brought with him, he went Back to the Manillas
to the Spaniards, where he sold his Cargo very
well. Here having gotten a good Acquaintance
at Manilla, he got his Ship made a free Ship* and
the Governor of Manilla hired him, to go to Ac-
capulco, in America, off the Coast of Mexico, and
Part II. T gave
gave him a License to Land there, and travel
to Mexico, and to pass in any Spanish Ship to £«-
ropey with all his Men.
He made the Voyage to Accupuko very happily,
and there he sold his Ship; and having there al-
so obtained Allowance to travel by Land, to Por~
to-BeUoy he found Means some how or other, to
get to Jamaica, with all his Treasure \ and about
eight Years after, came to England exceeding
Rich; of the Which, I shall take Notice in its
.Place ^ in the mean Time, I return to our parti-
cular Affairs.
Being now to part with the Ship, and Ship's
Company; it came before us of Course, to consi-
der what Recompence we should give to the two
Men, that they gave us such timely Notice of the
Design against us in the River of Cambodia. The
Truth was, that they had done us a considerable
Service, and deserv'd well at our Hands; tho* by
the Way, they were a Couple of Rogues too \ for
as they believ'd the Story of our being Pirates, and
that we had really run away with the Ship, they
came down to us, not only to betray the Design
that was form'd against us, but to go to Sea with
lisas Pirates; and one of them confesses after-
wards, that nothing else but the Hopes of going
a Roguing brought him todoir* However, the
Service they did us was not the Ms > and there-
fore,, as I had protmYd to be grateful to them,
I first order'd the Money to be paid to .them,
which they sold was due to them on board their
respective Ships s that is to fay, the Engltjh Man
nineteen Months Pay,, and to the Dutch Man se-
ven •, and over and above that, I gave them,
each of them, a small Sum of Money tri'dold,
and which contented them very well. Then I
made the -English Man Gunner m the" Ship, the
Gunrier being now made second Mare, and Ptir-
ser; the Dutch Man I made Boatswain; so they
were both very well pleas'd, and prov'd very
serviceable, being both able Seamen, and vtiy
stout Fellows.
We were now on Shore in China > if I thought
myself banisli'd* and remote from my own
Country at Bengal, where I had many Ways to
get home for my Money; what could I think
of myself now ? When I was gotten about a thou-
sand Leagues farther off from'home, and per-
fectly destitute of all Manner of Prospect of Re-
turn.
All we had for it was this, that in about four
Months Time, there was to be another Fair at the
Place where we were; and then we might be a-
blc to purchase all sorts of the Manufactures of
the Country, and withal, might possibly find
some Chinese Jonks or Vessels from lonquin, that
would be to be sold, and would carry us and our
Goods, whither we pleas'd; this I lik*d very
well, and resolv'd to wait; besides, as our
particular Persons were not obnoxious, so if any
English or Dutch Ships came thither, perhaps we
might have an Opportunity to load our Goods*
and get Passage to some other Place in lkdia%
nearer hdme.
Upon these Hopes we resolv'd to continue
here i but to divert our selves, we took two or
three Journeys into the Country; first we went
ten Days Journey to fee the City of Nanquin, a
Gity well worth seeing indeed i they say it has a
Million of People \n k •, which however, I do
not believe. It is regularly built, the Streets all
exactly strait, and cross cftie another, in direct.
Lines, which giyes the Figure of it great Ad-
Vantage*
T a But
But wheft I come to compare the miserable
People of these Countries with ours, their Fa-
bricks, their Manner of Living, their Govern-
ment, their Religion, their Wealth, and their
Glory, (as some call it) I must confess, I do i\m
so much as think it is worth naming, or worth
my while to write of, or any that shall come
after me to read.
It is very observable* that we wonder at the
Grandeur, the Riches, the Pomp, the Ceremo-
nies, the Government,* the Manufactures, the
Commerce, and the Conduct of these People >
not that it is to be wonder'd at, dr indeed in the
least to be regarded; but because, having first a
true Notion of the Barbarity of those Coun-
tries, the Rudeness and the Ignorance that pre-
vails there, we do not expect to find any such
Things so far off.
Otherwise, what are their Buildings to the Pa-
laces and royal Buildings of Europe? What is their
Trade, to the universal Commerce of England?
Hollands France and Spain } What are their Cities
to ours, for Wealth, Strength, Gaiery of Appa-
rel, rich Furniture, and an infinite Variety?
What are their Ports, supply'd with a few Jonfcs
and Barks to our Navigation, our Merchant
Fleets, our large and powerful Navies? Our City
of London has more Trade than all their mighty
Empire. OneEnglijhy or Dutch, or French Mail
of War of 80 Guns, would fight and destroy all
the Shipping of China. But the Greatness of their
Wealth, their Trade, the Power of their Govern-
ment, and Strength of their Armies, is surprising
to us, because, as I have said, considering them as
a barbarous Nation of ^Pagans, little better than
Savages, we did not expect such Things among
them j and this indeed is the Advantage with
which
which all their Greatness and Power is repre-
sented to us; otherwise it is in it self nothing at alJ;
for as i have said of their Ships, so may be said
of their Armies and Troops: AU the Forces of
their Empire, tho' they were to bring two Mil-
lions of Men into the Field together, would
be able to do nothing but ruin the Country, and
starve themscves. If they were to besiege a strong
Town in Flanders, or to sight a disciplined Army,
one Line of German Curiassiers, or of French Caval-
ry, would overthrow all the Horse oi China. A Mil-
lion of their Foot could not stand before one em-
battled Body of our Infantry, posted so as not to
be surrounded, tho' they were to be not one to
twenty in Number: Nay, I do not boast, if I say
that 3*0000 German or English Foot, and iooco
French Horse, would fairly beat all the Forces of
China: And so of our fortified Towns, and of the
Art of our Engineers in assaulting and defending
Towns. There's not a fortified Town in China,
could hold out one Month against the Batteries
and Attacks of an European Army; and at the fame
Time, ail the Armies in China could never take
such a Town as Dunkirk, provided it was not
starv'd; no, not in ten Years Siege. They have
Fire-Arms,' 'us true, but they are aukward,
clumsy, and uncertain in going off: They have
Powder, but.it is of no Strength: They Ikv-
neither Discipline in the Field, Exercise to their
Arms, Skill to attack, or Temper to retreat,-
and therefore, I must confess, it seem'd sttange to
me, when I came Home, and heard our People
say such fine Things of the Power, Riches, Glo-
ry, Magnificence, and Trade of the Chinese; be-
cause 1 saw, and knew that they were a contemp-
tible Herd or Crowd of ignorant sordid Slaves,
subjected to a Government qualified only to rale
T 3 such
such a People; and in a Word, for I am now
launched quite beside my Design ,• I say, in a Word,
were not its Distance inconceiveably great from
Muscovy, and was not the Muscovite Empire almost
as rude, impotent, and ill govern "d a Crowd of
Slaves as they, the Czar of Muscovy might with
much Ease drive them all out of their Cduntry,
and conquer them in one Campaign : And had the
Czar, who I since hear is a growing Prmcea and
begins to appear formidable in the World, fallen
this Way, instead of attacking the warlike Swedes,
in which Attempt, none of the Powers of Europe
would have envy'd or interrupted him; he might
by this Time have been Emperor of China, instead
of being beaten by the King of Sweden at Narva,
when the latter was not one to six in Number.
As their Strength, and their Grandeur, so their Na-
vigation, Commerce, and Husbandry, is imper-
fect and impotent, compared to the fame Things
in Europe; also in their Knowledge, their Lear-
ning, their Skill in the Sciences. They have Globes
and Spheres, and a Smatch of the Knowledge
of the Mathematicks ,* but when you come to
enquire into their Knowledge, how short-sighted
are the wisest of their Students! they know nothing
of the Motion of the heavenly Bodies; and so
grossly and absurdly ignorant, that when the Sun is
cclips'd, they think Yis a great Dragon has as-
saulted, and run away with it, and they fall a
clattering with all the Drums and Kettles in the
Country, to fright the Monster away, Just as we
do to hive a Swarm of Bees.
As this is the only Excursion of this Kind which
I have made in all the Account I have given of
my Travels, so I shall make no more Descriptions
of Countries and People, 'tis none of my Business,
pr any Part of my Design; but giving an Account
of
oi my own Adventures, through a Life of inimi**
table Wandrings, and a long Variety of Changes,
which perhaps few that come after me will have
heard the like of; I shall therefore fay very little
of all the mighty Places, defart Countries, and
numerous People, I have yet to pass thro', more
than relates to my own Story, and which my Con-
cern among them will make necessary. I was now,
as near as I can compute, in the Heart of China,
about the Latitude of thirty Degrees North of the
Line, for we were return'd from Nmqiiin: I had
indeed a Mind to fee the City of Peking, which I
had heard so much of,, and Father Simon impor-
tun'd me daily todo it. At length hisTime of going
away being set, and the other Missionary, who
was to go with him, being arriv'd from Macao,
it was necessary that we should resolve, either to
go, or not to go; so I referred him to my Partner,
and left it wholly to his Choice, who at length
refolv'd it in the Affirmative, and we prepar'd for
our Journey. We set out with very good Advan-
tage, as to finding the Way; for we got Leave to
travel in the Retinue of one of their Mandarines,
a Kind of Viceroy, or principal Magistrate in the
Province where they reside, and who take great
State upon them, travelling with great Atten-
dance, and with great Homage from the People,
who are sometimes greatly impoverished by them,
because all the Countries they pass thro5 are obliged
to furnish Provisions for them and all their At-
tendance. That which I particularly observed,
as to our travelling with his Baggage, was this,
That tho* we received sufficient Provisions*, both
for our selves and our Horses, from the Country,
as belonging to the Mandarin, yet we were oblig'd
to pay for every Thing we had, after the Mar-
ket Price of the Country, and the Mandarin's
T 4 Steward,
Steward, or Commissary of the Provision^, col-
lected kdiKdy from us; so that our travelling In
the Retinue of the Mandarin, tho' it was a very
great Kindness to us, was not such a mighty Fa-
vour in him, but was indeed a great Advantage
to him, considering there were above thirty other
People travelled in the fame Manner besides us,
under the Protection of his Retinue, or as we may
call it, under his Convoy. This, | fay, was a great
Advantage to him, for the Country furnished all
the Provisions for nothing, and he took all our Mo-
ney for them.
We were five and twenty Days travelling to Pe-
king, through a Country infinitely populous, but
miserable cultivated; the Husbandry, the Ge~
conomy, and the Way of living miserable, though
they boast so much of the Industry of the People^
I fay, miserable; and so it is, if we who under-
stand how to live, were to endure it, or to com-
pare it with pur own; but not so to these poor
Wretches who know no other. The Pride of these
People is infinitely great, and exceeded by nothing,
but their Poverty, which adds to that which I call
their Misery: And I must needs think the naked
Savages of America live much more happy, because,
as they have nothing, so they desire nothing •
whereas these are proud and insolent, and in the
main, are meer Beggars and Drudges. Their
Ostentation is inexpressible, and is chiefly shewed
in their Clothes and Buildings, and in keeping
Multitudes of Servants or Slaves, and, which is to
the last Degree ridiculous, their Contempt of all
the World but themselves.
I must confess, J travelled more pleasantly after-
wards in the Desarts and vaast Wildernesses of
Grand Tartary, than here; and yet the Roads
h^re
here are well paved, and well kept, and very con-
venient for Travellers: But nothing was more
aukward to me, than to fee such an haughty, im-
perious, insolent People in the midst of the gros-
sest Simplicity and Ignorance, for all their famed
Ingenuity is no more. And my Friend Father Si-
mon and I, used to be very merry upon these Oc-
casions, to fee the beggarly Pride of those People.
For Example. Coming by the House of a Coun-
try Gentleman, as Father Simon cali'd him, about
ten Leagues off of the City of Nanquin, we had first:
of all, the Honour to ride with the Master of the
House about two Miles. The State he rode in,
was a perfect Don Quixotism, being a Mixture of
3?omp and Poverty.
The Habit of this greasy Don was very proper
for a Scaramouch or Merry Andrew, being a dirty
Callicoe, with all the Tawdry and Trapping of
a Fool's Coat, such as Hanging-sleeves, Tossels^
and Cuts and Slashes almost on every Side : It co-
vered a Tastaty Vest, as greasy as a Butcher, and
which testified that his Honour must needs be a
most exquisite Sloven.
His Horse was a poor, lean, starved, hobbling
Creature, such as in England might fell for about
30 or 40 Shillings; and he had two Slaves fol-
lowed him on Foot, to drive the poor Creature
along. He had a Whip in his Hand, and he be-
laboured the Beast as fast about the Head, as his
Slaves did about the Tail; and thus he rode by
us with about ten or twelve Servants; and we
were told he was going from the City to his
Country Seat, about Haifa League before us. We
travelled on gently, but this Figure of a Gentle-
man rode away before us, and we stopped at a
Village about an Hour to refresh us. When we
same by th? Country Seat of this great Man, we
saw
saw him in a little Place, before his Door, eating
his Repast. It was a Kind of a Garden, but he
was easy to be seen, and we were given to un-
derstand that the more we look'd on him, the bet-
ter he would be pleased.
He sat under a Tree, something like the Pal-
metto Tree, which effectually shaded him over the
Head, and on the South-side, but under the Tree
also, was placed a large Umbrello, which made
fhat Part look well enough. He fat lolling back
In a great Elbow-Chair, being a heavy corpulent
Man, and his Meat being brought him by two
Women Slaves: He had two more, whose Office,
I think, few Gentlemen in Europe would accept of
their Service in, (viz,.) One fed the Squire with
a Spoon, and the other held the Disli with one
Hand, and scraped off what he let fall upon his
Worship's Beard and Taffaty Vest, while the great
fat Brute thought it below him to employ his own
Hands in any of those familiar Offices, which
Kings and Jyionarchs would rather do, than be
troubled with the clumsy Fingers of their Ser-
vants.
I tpok this Time to think what Pains Mens
Pride puts them to; and how troublesome a
haughty Temper, thus ill-manag'd, must be to a
Man of common Sense; and leaving the poorWretch
to please himself with our looking at him, as if
we admired his Pomp, whereas we really pitied
and contemned him, we pursued our Journey; only
Father Simon had the Curiosity ro flay to inform
himself what Dainties the Country Justice had to
feed on, in all his State, which he said, he had the
Honour to taste of, and which was, I think, a
Pose that an Englijh Hound would scarce have
eaten, if it had been offered him, ( v\%» ) a Mess of
boil'd Rice, with a great Piece of Garlick in it,
and
and a little Bag fiil'd with Green Pepper, and
another Plant which they have there, something
like our Ginger, but smelling like Musk, and
tasting like Mustard: All this was put together,
and a small Lump or Piece of lean Mutton boifd
in it ,* and this was his Worship's Repast, four
or five Servants more attending at a Distance. If
he fed them meaner than he was fed himself, the
Spice excepted, they must fare very coarsely indeed.
As for our Mandarin, with whom we traveled,
he was respected like a King; surrounded always
with his Gentlemen, and attended in all his Ap-
pearances with such Pomp, that 1 saw little of
him but at a Distance; but this I observ'd, that
there was not a Horse in his Retinue, but that
our Carriers Pack-Horses in England seem to me
to look much better; but they were so cover'd
with Equipage, Mantles, Trappings and such
like Trumpery, that you cannot see whether
they are fat or lean: In a Word, we could see
scarce any thing but their Feet and their Heads.
I was now light-hearted, and all my Trouble
and Perplexity that I have given an Account of
being over, I had no anxious Thoughts about
me, which made this Journey the pleasanter to
me, nor had I any ill Accident attended me, only
in the passing or fording a small River, my Horse
fell, and made me free of the Country, as they
call it, that is to fay, threw me in. The Place
was not deep, but it wetted me all over; I men-
tion it, because it spoil'd my Pocket- Book, where-
in I had set down the Names of several People
and Places which I had Occasion to remember, and
which, not taking due Care os', the Leaves rotted,
and the Words were never after to be read, to my
great Loss, as to the Names of some Places I
touch'd at in this Voyage.
v '"' At
At length we arnVd at Peking; I had nq Body
with me but the Youth, whom my Nephew, the
Captain, had given me to attend me as a Servant*
and who proved very trusty and diligent ,• and
my Partner had no Body with him but one Ser-
vant, who was a Kinsman : As for thcPortuguese Pi-
lot, he being desirous to see the Court, we gave him
his Passage, that is to fay, bore his Charges for
his Company, and to use him as an Interpreter;
for he understood the Language of the Country,
and spoke good French, and a little Englift: And
indeed, this old Man was a most useful Implement
to us every where; for we had not been above a
Week at Peking, when he came laughing, Ah,
Seignior Inglefe, fays he, I have something to tell you
will make your Heart glad. My Heart glad^ fays I,
What can that be? I dont knew any thing in this Coun-
try can either give me Joy or Griej to any g>eat Degree.
TeS) yes, said the old Man in broken English,- make
you glad, me sorrow ; sorry he would have said. This
made me more inquisitive. Why, said I, will it
make you sorry? Becauje% said he, you have bought
me here 2$ Days Journey^ and will leaDe me to go
back aloney and which way sloaB Iget to my Port aster*
wards without a $hipy without a Horse, without Pe-
tune? So he called Money, being his broken La-
tin, of which he had Abundance to make us mer-
ry with.
In short, he told us there was a great Carravan
of Muscovite and Polish Merchants in the City,
and they were preparing to set out on their Jour-
ney by Land to Muscovy within four or five Week s,
and he was sure we would take the Opportunity
to go with them, and leave him behind to go
back all alone. I confess, I was surpriVd with
his News, a secret Joy spread it self over my
whole Soul, which I cannot describe, and never
felt
salt before or since, and I had no Power for a
good while to speak a Word to the old Man; but
at last I turn'd to him: How do you know this,
laid I, are you sure it is true? Yes, fays he, I
met this Morning in the Street an old Acquain-
tance of mine, an Armenian, or one you call a
Grecian, who is among them; he came last from
Ajlracan, and was designing to go to Tmqum
where I formerly knew him, but has alter'd his
Mind, and is now refolv'd to go with theCarravan
to Muscow, and so down the River JVolga to Astra-
can. Well, Seignior, soys I, do not be uneasy a-
bout being left ro go back alone ,• if this be a Me-
thod for my Return to England, it shall be your
Fault if you go back to Macao at all. We then
went to consulting together what was to be done,
and I ask'd my Partner what he thought of the
Pilot's News, and whether it would suit with his
Affairs? He told me he would do just as I would,
for he had settled all his Affairs so well at Bengal*
and left his Effects in such good Hands, that
as we had made a good Voyage here, if he
could vest it in China Silks, wrought and raw*
such as might be worth the Carriage, he would
be content to go to England, and then make his
Voyage back to Bengal, by the Company's
Ships.
Having resolv'd upon this, we agreed, that if
our Portugal Pilot would go with us, we would
bear ^his Charges to Mascow or to England if he
pleas'd; nor indeed were we to be esteemed over
generous in that Part neither, if we had not re-
warded him farther, for the Service he had done
us was really worth all that, and more: for he had
not only been a Pilot to us at Sea, but he had
bt€a like a Broker for us on Shore: and his pro-
curing for us the Japan Merchant, was some
hundred
hundred of Pounds in our Pocket: So we con-
sulted together about it, and being willing to
gratify him, which was indeed but doing him
Justice, and very willing also to have him with us
besides, for he was a most neeeflary Man on all
Occasions, we agreed to give him a Quantity of
coin'd Gold, which, as I compute it, came to a-
bout 175 Pounds Sterling between us, and to bear
all his Charges, both for himself and Horse, ex-
cept only a Horse to carry his Goods.
Having settled this among our selves, we calfd
him to let him know what we had resolved; I told
him, he had complain d of our being to let him
go back alone, and I was now to tell him we
were resolv'd he should not go back at all 1
That as we had resolved to go to Europe with the
Carravan, were solv'd also he should go with us*
and that we calfd him, to know his Mind. He
shook his Head, and said, it was a long Journey,
and he said no Pecune to carry him thither, or
to subsist himself when he came there. We told
him, we believ'd it was so, and therefore we had
resolv'd to do something for him, that should
let him see how sensible we were of the Service
he had done u% and also how agreeable he was
to us; and then I told him what we had resolvM
to give him here, which he might lay out as we.
Would do our own; and that as for his Charges*
if he would go with us, we would set him safe
a-fhore* (Life and Casualties excepted) either in
Muscovy or England, which he would, at our own
Charge, except only the Carriage of his Goods.
He received the Proposal like a Man transported!
and told w he would go with us over the whole
World; and so, in short, we all prepaid our selves
for the Journey. However, as it was with us, so
it
it was with the other Merchants, they had many
Things to do, and instead of being ready in five
Weeks, it was four Months and some odd Days,
before all Things were got together.
It was the Beginning of Fekuary,our Stile, when
we set out from Peking; my Partner and the old
Pilot had gone Express back to the Port where we
had first put in, to dispose of some Goods which
we had left there; and I with a Chinese-Merchant,
whom I had some Knowledge of at Nanquin^ and
who came to Peking on his own Aftairs, went to
Nanquin, where I bought ninety Pieces of fine Da-
masks, with about two hundred Pieces of other
very fine Silks, of several Sorts, some mix'd with
Gold, and had all these brought to Peking against
my Partner's Return. Besides this, we bought a
very large Quantity of Raw Silk, and some other
Goods, our Cargo amounting in these Goods only
to about three thousand five hundred Pounds Ster-
ling, which, together with Tea, and some fine
Callicoes, and three Camels Loads of Nutmegs
and Cloves, loaded in all eighteen Camels for our
Share, besides those we rode upon ,* which with
two or three spare Horses, and two Horses loaded
with Provisions, made us in short 26 Camels and
Horses in our Retinue.
The Company was very great, and, as near
as I can remember, made between three and
four hundred Horse, and upwards of a hundred
and twenty Men, very well armed and provided
for all Events: For as the Eastern Carravans are
subjected to be attacked by the Arabs, so are these
by the Tartars $ but they are not altogether so
dangerous as the Arabs, nor so barbarous when
they prevail.
The Company consisted of People of several
Nations, such as Muscovites chiefly; for there were
above
above sixty of them who were Merchants or In-
habitants of* Muscow, though of them, some were
livoniam, and to our particular Satisfaction, five
of them were Scots, who appeard also to be Men
of great Experience ill Business, and Men of very
good Substance.
When we had travelled bne Day's Journey, the
Guides, whowetefivein Number, call'd all the
Gentlemen and Merchants, that is to fay, all the
Passengers except the Servants, to a great Coun-
cil, as they calfd it* At this great Council every
one deposited a Certain Quantity of Money to a
common Stock, sot the necessary Expence of buying
Forage on the Way, where it was not otherwise
to be had, and for satisfying the Guides, getting
Horses, and the like. And here they conuituted
the Journey, as they call it* viz,, they named Cap-
tains and Officers, to draw us all up, and give
the Command in Cafe of an Attack,* and gave
every one their Turn of Command: Nor viras this
forming us into Order any more than what we
found needful upon the Way> as shall be observed
in its Place.
The Road all on this Side of the Country is
very populous, and is full of Potters and Earth-
makers, that is to fay, People that tempered the
Earth for rhe China Ware ,• and as I was coming
along, our Portugal Pilot, who had always some-
thing or other to say to make us merry, came
sneering to me, and told me, he would shew me the
greatest Rarity in all the Country, and tljat I
should have this to fay of China, after all the ill-
humoured Things I had said of it, that I had seen
one Thing which was not to be seen in all tftc
World beside. I was very importunate to lenow
what it was. At last he told me it was a'Gentle-
man's House built ail with China Ware, ''Wei?,
sdjS
says /, are not the Materials of their Building the
Product of their own Country; and so is all China
Ware; is it not? No, no, fays he, I mean it is
an House all made of China Ware, such as you
call it in England; or, as it is called in our Coun-
try, PorceSain. Well, fays 1, such a Thing may be.
How big is it? Can we carry it in a Box upon
a Camel? If we can, we will buy it. Upon a
Camel! fays the old Pilots holding up both his
Hands, why there is a Family of thirty People
lives in it.
I was then (Curious indeed to fee it, and whcii
I came to it, it was nothing but this. It was a
Timber-House, or a House built, as we call it in
England, with Lath and Plaister, but all the Plai-
stering was really China Ware, that is to fay, it
was plaistered with the Earth that makes China
Ware.
The Outside, which the Sun shone hot upon,'
was glaz'd, and looked very well, perfect white,
and painted with blue Figures, as the large China
Ware in England is painted, and hard, as it it had
been burnt. As to the Inside, all the Walls, in-
stead of Wainscot, were lined tip with hardned
and painted Tiles, like the little square Tiles we
call Gaily-Tiles in England, all made of the .finest
China, and the Figures exceeding fine indeed, with
extraordinary Variety of Colours mixed with
Gold, rftany Tiles making but one Figure, but
joined fo artificially, the Mortar being made of
the fame" Earth, that it was very hard to fife where
the Tiles met. The Floors of the Rooms were
of the fame Composition, and as hard as the
earthen Floors we have in use in several Pa;tts of
England, especially Lincolnshire, Nottinghamshire, Lei-
cestershire, &c. as hard as a Stone, and smooth, but
not burnt and painted,except some smaller 'Rooms
Part II. V like
p. 190 3
like Closctj, which were all as it were paved
with the fame Tile. The Ceiling, and in a
Word, all the* plaist'ering Work in the whole
House were of the same Earth ,- and after all, the
Roof was covered with Tiles of the fame, but of
a deep shining Black.
This was a China Warehouse indeed, truly and
literally to'be called so; and had I not been upon
the Journey, I could have stay'd some Bays to fee
and examine the Particulars of it." They told me
there were Fountains and Fish-ponds in the Gar-
den, all pavM at the Bottom and Sides with the
fame, and fine Statues set up in Rows on the Walks,
entirely formed of the PorceUain Earth, and burnt
whole.
* As this is one of the Singularities of China, so
they may be allowed to excel in it; but I am very
sure they excel in their Accounts of it; for they
told me such incredible Things of their Perfor-
mance in Crockery Ware, for such it is, that I care
stoc to relate, as knowing it could not be true.
They told me in particular, of one Workman that
made a Ship with all its Tackle, and Masts, and
Sails, in Earthen1 Ware, big enough to carry fifty
Men. If he had told me, he launched it, and made
a Voy%e to Japan in it, I might have said some-
tiling to it indeed; but as it was, I knew the
whole of the Story; which was in short, asking
Pardon for the Word, that the Fellow lied. Sol
smiled, and s^id nothing to it. *
TKis odd Sight, kept me two Hours Behind the
Caravan,, for which, the Leader of it for the Dayr
fined me about the Value of three Shillings, and
told me, if it had been three Days Journey with-
outaf W*U> as it was three Days within, he
mult h*ve fined me four times as much, and made
me ask Pardon the next Council Day, So I pro-
mised*
toiled to be more orderly; for indeed I sound
afterward the Orders made for keeping all toge-
ther, were absolutely neeeslary for our common
Safety.
In two. Days itiore, we pass'd the great China
Wall> made for a Fortification against the Tartars;
and a very great Work it is, going over Hills and
Mountains in a needless Track, where the Rocks
are impassable, and the Precipices such as no Ene-
my could possibly enter, or indeed climb up, or
where if they did, no Wall could hinder them.
They tell us, its Length is near a thousand English
Miles, but that the Country is five hundred in %
strait measured Line, which the Wall bounds*
without measuring the Windings and Turnings it
takes, 'Tis about four Fathom high, and as ma-
ny thick in some Places.
I stood still an Hour, or thereabout, without
trespassing our Orders, for so long the Caravan was
in faffing the Gate; I fay, I stood still an Hour to
look at it on every Side, near, and far off; I mean,
that was within my View. And the Guide of
our Carayan, who had been extolling it for the
Wonder of the World, was mighty eager to hear
my Opinion of it. I told him it was a most ex-
cellent Thing to keep off the Tartars; which he
happened not to understand as I meant it, and so
took it for a Compliment: But the old Pilot
laughed. O Seignior Inglefe, fays he, you speak in
Colours. In Colours, said Iy What do you mean
by that? Why, you speak what looks white this
fVay, and black that Way; gay one Way, and dull
another Way* You tell him it is a good Wall to
keep out Tartars? You tell me by that, it is good
for nothing but to keep out Tartars, or it will
keep out none but Tartars. I understand you, Seig-
^ 2 flier
hior Atgkfi) I understand you, says he, but Seig-
nior Chinese understood you his own way.
Well, fays I, Seignior, do you think it would
stand out an Army of our Country People, with
a good Train of Artillery; or our Engineers, with
two Companies of Miners; Would not they bat-
ter it down in ten Days, that an Army might
enter in Battalia, or blow it up in the Aiu, Foun-
dation and all, that there should be no Sign of it
left? Ah, ah, fays he, I know that. The Chinese
wanted mightily to know what I said, and I gave
him Leave to tell him a sew Days after, for he was
then almost out of their Country, and he was to
leave us in a little time afterward ,* but when he
knew what I had said, he was dumb all the rest
of the Way, and we heard no more of his fine
Story of the Chinese Power and Greatness, while
he stayed.
After we had pass'd this mighty Nothing cali'd
a Wall, something like the PiEls Wall, and so fa-
mous in Northumberland\ and built by the Romans %
we began to find the Country thinly inhabited,
and the People rather confined to live in fortified
Towns and Cities, as being subject to the Inroads
and Depredations of the Tartars, who rob in great
Armies, and therefore are not to be resisted by
the naked Inhabitants of an open Country.
And here I began to find the Necessity of keep-
ing together in a Carravan as we travelled; for
we saw several Troops of Tartars roving about %
but when I came to fee them distinctly, I won-
derd more that the Chinese Empire could be con-
quers by such contemptible Fellows; for they
are a meer Hoord or Crowd of wild Felldws,
keeping no Order, and understanding no Disci-
pline, or manner of Fight.
Their
Their Horses are poor lean starved Creature?,
taught nothing, and fit for nothing; and this we
said, the first Day we saw them, which was af-
ter we ^entered the wider Part of the Country.
OuriLeader for the Day, gave Leave for about
sixteen ofus to go a hunting, as they call it; and
what was this but hunting of Sheep: However,
it may be call'd hunting too; for the Creatures
are the wildest and swiftest of Foot that ever I
saw of their Kind; only they will not run a great
Way, and you are sure of Sport when you begin
the Chase; for they appear generally thirty or
forty in a Flock, and like true Sheep, always keep
together when they fly.
In Pursuit of this odd fort of Game, it was
our Hap to meet with about forty Tartars; whe-
ther they were hunting Mutton as we were, or
whether they look'd for another Kind of Prey, I
know not; but as soon as they saw us, one of
them blew a kind of a Horn very loud, but with
a barbarous Sound, that I had never heard before,
and by the way, never care to hear again: We all
suppos'd this was to call their Friends about them,
and so it was; for in less than half a Quarter of
an Hour, a Troop of forty or fifty more appear*d,
at about a Mile Distance; but pur Work was o^er
first, as it happen'd.
One of the Scots Merchants of Muscow hap-
pened to be amongst us, and as soon as he heard
the Horn, he told us in short, that we had no-
thing to do, but to charge them immediately
without Loss of Time; and drawing us up in a
Line, he ask'd if we were reiolv'd? We told him,
we were ready to follow him; so he rode directly
up to them. They stood gazing at us like a meer
Crowd, drawn up in no Order, nor {hewing the
Face ot* any Order at all; but as soon as they saw
U 3 us*
us advance, they let fly their Arrows, which
however missM us very happily. It seems they
mistook not their Aim; but their Distance; for
their Arrows all fell a little short of us, but with
so true an Aim, that had we been about twenty
Yards nearer, we must have had several Men
wounded, if not kilfd.
Immediately we halted; and tho* it was at a
great Distance, we fir'd, and sent them Leaden
pullets for Wooden Arrows, following our Shot
full Gallop, to fall in among them Sword in Hand,
for so our bold Scot that led us directed. He was
indeed but a Merchant, but he bchav'd with that
Vigour and Bravery on this Occasion, and yet,
with such a cool Courage too, that I never saw
any Man in Actjon fitter for Command. As soon
as we came up to them, we fir'd our Pistols in
their Faces, and then drew; but they fled in the
greatest Confusion imaginable. The only Stand
any of them made, was on our Right, where
three of them stood, and by Signs calf d the rest
to come back to them, having a kind of Semiter
in their Hands, and their Bows hanging at their
Backs. Our brave Commander, without asking
any Body to follow him, gallops up close to them,
and with his Fuzec knocks one of them off his
Horse, kilfd the second with his Pistol, and the
third ran away ,• and thus ended our Fight: But
we had this Misfortune ac tending it, (viz,,) That
all our Mutton that we had in Chafe, got away*
We had not a Man kilfd or hurt > but as for the
Tartars, there was about five of them kilfd: Who
were wounded, we knew not; but this we knew,
that the other Party was so frighted with the
Noise of our Guns, that they made off, and never
made any Attempt upon us.
We
We were all this while in the Chinese Dominion*.
and therefore the 'Tartars were not so bold as after-
wards; but in about five Days we enter'd a vast
great wild Desert, which held us three Days and
Nights March; and we wereoblig'd to carry out
Water with us in great Leather Bottles, and to
encamp ail Night, just as I have heard they do in
die Desert of Arabia.
I ask'd whose Dominion this was in, and they
told me, this was a kind of Border, that mights
be called no Mans Laud; being a Part of the
Great Karakathie% or Grand Tart ary$ but that
however it was all.rcckon'd to China; but that
there was no Care taken here, to preserve it
from the Inroads of Thieves, and therefore it
was reckoned the worst Desert in the whole
World, tho5 we were to go over some much
larger.
In passing this Wilderness, which I confess was
at the first very frightful to me, we sew two or
three Times little Parties of the Tartars, but they
fbern'd to be upon their own Affairs, and to have
no Design upon us; and so like the Man who
met the Devil, if they had nothing to fay to
us, we had nothing to fay to them; we let
them go.
Once however, a Party of them came so near,
as to stand and gaze at us; whether it was to
consider what they should do, whether attack us,
or pot attack us, that we knew not; but when
we were pafsM at some Distance by them, we
made a Rear-Guard of forty Men, and stood
ready for them, letting the Caravan pass half a
Mile, or thereabouts, tie fore us; but after a while
they march!d off, only we found they saluted us
with five Arrows at their Parting; one of which
wounded a Horse so, that it disabled him, and
U 4 we
we left him the next Day, poor Creature, in
great Need of a good Ferrier,- we suppose they
might slioot more Arrows, which might fail
shore of us; but we saw no more Arrows or Tar-
tars that Time.
We travels near a Month after this, the Ways
being not so bad as at first, tho' still in the Do-
minions of the Emperor of China, but lay for the
most Part in Villages; some of which were for-
tified, because of the Incursions of the Tartars.
When we came to one of these Towns, (it was
about two Days and a Half Journey before we
were to come to the City Naum) I wanted to
buy a Camei, of which there are Plenty to be
sold al 1 the Way upon that Road, and of Horses
also, such as they are, because so many Caravans
coming that Way, they are often wanted. The
Person that I ipoke to, to get me a Camel, would
have gone and setch'd it for me, but I, like a Fool,
must be officious, and go my self along with him s
The Place was about two Miles out of the Vil-
lage, whet*e, it seems, they kept the Camels and
Horses feeding under a Guard.
I walk-d it on Foot with my old Pilot, being
very desirous, forsooth, of a little Variety. When
we came to the Place, it was a low marshy
Ground, walfd round with a Stone-wall, piled
up dry, without Mortar or Earth among it, like
a Park, with a little Guard of Chimsi Soldiers
at the Door* Having bought a Camel, and a-
greed for the Price, I came away, and the Chimfe
Man, that went with me, led the Camel; when
on a sudden came up five Tartars on Horse-
back; two of them seized the Fellow, and took
the Camel from him, while the other three stepped
tip to me j and my old Pilot seeing us, as it were,
unarmed ; for I had no Weapon about me but my
Swords
Sword, which could but ill defend me against
three Horse-men: The first that came up, stop^\i
short upon my drawing my Sword ,* (for ti;c/ are
errant Cowards) but a second coming upon my
Left, gave me a Blow on the Head, which I ne-
ver felt till afterward, and wondered when I came
to my self, what was the Matter with me, and
where I was, for he laid me flat on the Ground;
but my never failing old Pilot, the Portuguese (so
Providence unlooked for directs Deliverances from
Dangers, which to us are unforeseen) had a Pistol
in his Pocket, which I knew nothing o(> nor the
Tartars; neither if they had, I suppose they would
not have attacked us: But Cowards are always
boldest when there is no Danger.
The old Man seeing me down, with a bold
Heart siepp'd up to the Fellow that had struck
me, and laid hold of his Arm with one Hand,
and pulling him down by main Force a little to-
wards him with the other, sliot him into the
Head, and laid him dead upon the Spot. He then
immediately stepp-d up to him who had stopp'd us,
as I laid, and before he could come forward a-
gain, (for it was all done as it were in a Moment)
made a Blow at him with a Semiter which he al-
ways wore $ but missing the Man, cut his Horse
into the Side of his Head, cut one of his Ears off
by the Root, and a great Slice down the Side of
his Face. The poor Beast enraged with the Wound,
was no more to be governed by his Rider, tho-'the
Fellow fat well enough too; but away he flew,
and carried him quite out of the Pilot's Reach,
and at some Distance rising up upon his hind
Legs, threw down the Tartar, and fell upon
him.
In this Interval, the poor Chinese came in, who
had lost th§ Camd, but he had no Weapon; how-
ever*
ever, seeing the Tartar down, and his Horse fallen
upon him, away he runs tp him, and seizing upon
an ugly ill-savour'd Weapon he had by his Side,
something like a Pole-axc, but not a Pole-axe nei-
ther, he wrenched it from him, and made shift
to knock his Tartarian Brains out with it. But
my old Man had the third Tartar to deal with
still, and seeing he did not fly, as he expected, nor
come on to fight him, as he apprehended, but
stand stock still, the old Man stood still too, and
falls to work with his Tackle to charge his Pistol
again: But as soon as the Tartar saw the Pistol,
whether he supposed it to be the same, or another,
I know not, but away he scowered, and lest my
Pilot, my Champion 1 call'd him afterward, a com-
pleat Victory.
By this Time I was a little awake, for I thought
when first I began to wake, that I had been in
a sweet Sleep; but as I said above, I wondered
where 1 was, how I came upon the Ground, and
what was the Matter. In a Word, a few Moments
after, as Sense returned, I felt Pain, tho' I did not
know where ; I elapp'd my Hand to my Head, and
took it away bloody; then I felt my Head ach,
and then in another Moment, Memory returned,
and every Thing was present to me again.
I jump'd up ppon my Feet instantly, and got
hold of my Sword, but no Enemies in View. I
found a Tartar lie dead, and his Horse standing very
quietly by him; and looking farther, I saw my
Champion and Deliverer, who had been to see
what the Chinese had done, coming back with his
Hanger in his Hand. The old Man feeing me on
my Feet, came running to me, and embraced me
with a great deal of Joy, being afraid before that
I had been killed, and seeing me bloody, would
&e how I was hurt •> but it was not much, only
what
what we call a broken Head,* neither did I af-
terwards find any great Inconvenience from the
Blow, other than the Place which was hurt, an4
which was well again in two or three Days.
We made no great Gain however by this Vi-
ctory, for we lost a Camel, and gained a Horse ,-
but that which was remarkable, when we came
back to the Village, the Man demanded to be
paid for the Camel I disputed it, and it was
brought to a hearing before the Chinese'Judge of
the Place; that is to fay, in English, we went
before a Justice of the Peace: Give him his due,
he acted with a great deal of Prudence and Im-
partiality; and hav/ng heard both Sides, he
gravely ask'd the Chinese Man, that went with
me to buy the Camel, whose Servant he was?
I am no Servant, fays he, but went with the
Stranger. At whose Request, fays the Justice?
At the Stranger's Request, fays he. Why then,
fays the Justice, you were the Strangers Ser-
vant for the Time, and the Camel being de-
livers to his Servanr, it was delivered to him,
and he must pay for it.
I confess the Thing was clear, that I had
not a Word to fay; but admiring to fee such just
Reasoning upon the Consequence, and so accu-
rate stating the Case, I pay'd willingly for the
Camel, and sent for another; but you may ob-
serve, I sent for it, I did not go and fetch it my
self any more j I had enough os that.
The City of Naum is a Frontier of the Chi"
nese Empire; they call it fortified, and so it is,
as Fortifications go there; for this I will venture
to affirm, that all the Tartars in Karakathi/,
which I believe, are some Millions, could not
batter down the Walls with their Bows and Ar-
rows: But to call it strong, if it were attacked
with
with Cannon, would be to make those who un-
derstand it, Jaugh at you.
We wanted, as I have said, above two Pays
Journey ot this City, when Messengers were sent
Express to every Part of the Road, to tell all
Travellers and Caravans, to halt till they had a
Guard sent for them; for that an unusual Body
of Tartars, making ten thousand in all, had ap-
peared in the Way, about thirty Miles beyond
the City.
This was very bad News to Travellers; how-
ever, it was carefully done of the Governour,
and we were very glad to hear we should have
a Guard. Accordingly, two Days after, we had
two hundred Soldiers lent us from a Garrison of
the Chinese!) on our left, and three hundred piore
from the City of Naum, and with those we ad-
vanced boldly. The three hundred Soldiers from
Naunty march'd in our Front, the two hundred
in our Rear, and our Men 911 each Side of our
Camels with our Baggage, and the whole Carra-
van in the Center. In this Order, and well pre-
pared for Battle, we thought our selves a Match
for the whole ten thousand Mogul "Tartars, if they
had appeared; but the next Day when they did
appear, it was quite another thing.
It was early in the Morning, when marching
from a little well situated Town calfd Changu,
we had a River to pass, where we were obliged
to ferry ,* and had the Tartars had any Intelli-
gence, then had been the Time to have attacked
us, when the Carravan being over, the Rear-
Guard was behind; but they did not appear. ,
About three Hours after, when we were en-
ter'd upon a Desart of about fifteen or sixteen
Miles over, behold, by a Cloud of Dust they
rais'd, we saw an Enemy was at Hand, and they
werfc
were at Hand indeed, for they came on upon the
Spur.
The Chineses, our Guard on the Front, who
had talk'd so big the Day before, began to stag-
ger, and the Soldiers frequently iook'd behind
them, which is a certain Sign in a Soldier, that
he is just ready to run away. My old Pilot was
of my Mind, and being near me, he call'd out,
Seignior Ingkse, fays he, those Fellows must be
encourag'd, or they will ruin us all \ for if the
Tartars come on, they will never stand it. I am
of your Mind, said /, but what Course must be
done ? Done ! says he, let fifty of our Men ad-
vance, and flank them on each Wing, and en-
courage them, and they will fight like brave
Fellows in brave Company-, but without, they
Will every Man turn his Back. Immediately I
rode up to our Leader, and told him, who Was
exactly of our Mind; and accordingly, fifty of
usmarch'd tQthe right Wing, and fifty to the
left, and the rest made a Line of Reserve; and
so we march'd, leaving the last two hundred
Men to make another Body by themselves, and
to guard the Camels; only that if need were,
they should send a hundred Men., to assist the last
fifty.
In a Word, the Tartars came on, and an in-
numerable Company they were v how many fae
could not tell, but ten Thousand we thought
was the least. A Party of them came on first,
and view'd our Posture, traversing the Ground
in the Front of our Line* and as we found them
within Gun shot, our Leader orBered the two
Wings to advance swiftly, and give them a Sal-
vo on each Wing with their Shot, which was
done i but they went off, and I suppose back to
give an Account of the Reception they were
Jike
like to meet with: And indeed that Salute
cfogg'd their Stomach, for they immediately
halted, stood a while to consider of it, and
wheeling off to the left, they gave over the De-
sign, and said no more to us for that time >
which was very agreeable to our Circumstances,
which were but very indifferent for a Battle with
such a Number.
Two Days after this, we came to the City
Nauny or Naum; we thank'd the Gpvernour for
his Care for us, and collected to the Value of a
hundred Crowns, or thereabouts* which we
gave to the Soldiers sent to guard w, and here
we rested one Day. This is a Garrison indeed,
and there were nine hundred Soldiers kept here;
but the Reason of it was; that formerly the
Muscovite Frontiers lay nearer to them than they
do now, the. Muscovites having, abandon'd thgt
Part of the Country (which lies from this* City
West, for about two hundred Miles) as deso-
late and unfit for Use •, and more especially, be-
ing so very remote, and so difficult to send
Troops thither for its Defence; for we had yet
above two thousand Miles to Muscovy, properly
so call'd.
Aster this, we pass'd several great Rivers, and
two dreadful Desarts, one of which we were 16
Days passing over, and which, as I said, was to
be calrd m Mans Land; and on the 13th of A-
frilwc came to the Frontiers of the Muscovite Do-
minions: I think the first City or Town, or
Fortress, whatever it might be call'd, that be-
longs to the Osar of Muscovy, was calFd Argun^
being on the West Side of the River Argun.
I could not but discover an infinite Satisfacti-
on3 that I was so soon arrived in, as I call'd it,
a Chri«
a Christian Country, or at least in a Country
governed by Christians; for tho' the Muscovites
do, r®# my Opinion, but just deserve the Name of
Christians, yet such they pretend to be, and
are very devout in their Way, It would certain-
ly occur to any Man who travels in the World
as I have done, and who had any Power of Re-
flection; I fay, it would occur to him, to re-
flect what a Blessing it is to be brought into
the World, where the Name of God, and of
a Redeemer is known, worshipped and ador'd j
and not where the People given up by Heaven
to strong Delusions, worship the Devil, and
prostrate themselves to Stocks and Stones, wor-
ship Monsters, Elements, horrible shaped Ani-
mals, and Statues, or Images of Monsters-, not
a Town or City wepass'd thro*, but had their
Pagods, their Idols, and their Temples, and ig-
norant People worshiping, even the Works of
their own Hands.
Now we came where at least a Face of the
Christian Worship appears where the Knee
was bow'd to Jesus-, and whether ignorantly or
not, yet the Christian Religion was own'd, and
the Name of the true God was calfd upon, and
adored• and it made the very Recesses of my
Soul rejoice to fee it. I saluted the brave Scots
Merchant I mentioned above, with my first Ack-
nowlegment of this*, and taking him by the
HaodV I# said to him, Blessed be God, we are
once again come among Christians, He smiled,
and answered, do not rejoice too soon Country-
man, these Muscovites are but an odd sort of Chri-
stians; and but for the Name of it, you may
fee very little of the Substance, for some Months
farther of our Journey.
Well, fays I, but still 'tk better than Paganism,
and worshipping of Devils. Why, 111 tell you,
fays
says he, except the Ruffian Soldiers in Garrisons*
and a few of the Inhabitants of the Cities upon
the Road j all the rest of this Country* for a-
bove a thousand Miles farther, is inhabited by
{he worst, and molt ignorant of Pagans j and
so indeed we found it.
We were now launch'd into the greatest Piece
of solid Earth, if I understand any Thing of the
Surface of the Globe, that is to be found in any
Part of the Earth ; we had at least twelve hun-
dred Miles to the Sea, Eastward; we had at
least two Thousand to the Bottom of the Baltick
Sea, Westward ; and above three thousand Miles*
it we left that Sea, and went on West to the
British and French Channels: We had full five
thousand Miles to the Indian% or Persian Sea,
South j and about eight hundred Miles to the
Frozen Sea, North: Nay^ if some People may
be believed, there might be no Sea* North-East*
till we came round the Pole, and consequently,
into the North-West, and so had a Continent of
Land into America, the Lord knows where; tho*
I could give some Reasons, why I believe that to
be a Mistake.
As we enter'd into the Muscovite Dominions,
a good while before we come to any considera-
ble Towns, we had nothing to observe there
but this; first, that all the Rivers that run to
the East, as I understood by the Cham, which
some in our Carravan had with than; it was
plain, all those Rivers ran into the great River
YamouTy or Gammour: This River, by the natural
Course of it must run into the East Sea, or Chi-
nese Ocean. The Story they tell us, that the
Mouth of this River, is choak'd up with Bull-
rushes, of a monstrous Growth, (vm.) three
Fco: about, and twenty or thirty Foot high j I
must
must be allowed to say, I believe nothing of; but
as its Navigation is of no Use, because there is
no Trade that Way, the Tartars to whom alone
it belongs, dealing in nothing but Cattle ,* so no
Body that ever I heard of, has been curious enough,
either to go down to the Mouth of it in Boats,
or come up from the Mouth of it in Ships; but
this is certain, that this River running due East,
in the Latitude of carries a vast Con-
course of Rivers along with it, andfind s an Ocean
to empty it self in that Latitude. So we are sure
of Sea there.
Some Leagues to the North of this River, there
are several considerable Rivers, whose Streams run
as**due North as the Tamour runs East j and these
are all found to join their Waters with the great
River Tartarus, named ofrom the Northernmost
Nations of the Mongul Tartars, who the Chinese
fay, were the first Tartars in the World; and
who, as our Geographers alledge, are the Gog
and Magog mentioned in sacred Story.
These Rivers running all Northward, as well
as all the other Rivers, 1 am yet to speak of, make
it evident, that the Northern Ocean bounds the
Land also on that Side ; so that it does not seem
rational in the least to think, that the Land can
extend it self to join with America on that Side, or
that there is not a Communication between the
Northern and the Eastern Ocean; but of this I
shall fay no more; ic was my Observation at that
timej and therefore I take Notice of it in this Place.
We novtr advanced from the River Arguna by easy
and moderate Journeys, and were very visibly
obliged to the Care the Czar of Muscovy has taken
to have Cities and Towns built in as many Places
as are possible to place them, where his Soldiers
Part H.- X keeP
keep Garrison something like the Stationary Sol-
diers piac\! by the Romans in the remotest Coun-
tries of their Empire, some of which I had read
particularly were placd in Britain for the Security
of Commerce, and for the lodging Travellers;
and emu it was here-, for wherever we came5
tho" at these Towns and Stations, the Garrisons
and Governor were Ruffian*, and ptofess'd Chri-
stians, yet the Inhabitants of the Country^ were
mere Paganss sacrificing to Idols, and worshipping
the Sun,°Moon, and Stars, or all the Host of Hea-
.•vcn, and not only so, but were of all the Heathens
and Pagans that ever I met with, the most barba-
jrous,cxccpt only that they did not eat Man's Flesl^
as our Savages of America did.
Some Instances of this we met with in the
Comjuy between Argmia, where we enter the Mus-
covite Dominions, ana a Cuy of Tartars and Ruffians
together, ca 1 I'd N.n&iuskoy, in which is a con-
tinue! Defart or Forest, which cost us 20 Days to
travel over k. In a Village near the last of those
Places I had the Curiosity to go and fee their Way
of Living, which is mpst brutish and unsufferable ^
they had I suppose a great Sacrifice that Day, for
there stood out upon an old Stump of a Tree, an I-
dol made of Wood, frightful as the Devil, at least
asanyThing we can think of to represent thcDevil,
can be made \ it had a Head certainly not so much
as resembling any Creature that the World ever
saw; Ears as big $s Goats Horns, and as high;
Eyes as big as a Crown-Piece; a Nose like a crook-
ed Ram's Horn, and z Mouth extended four cor-
ner'd like that of a Lion, with horrible Teeth,
hooked like a Parrot's under Bill; it was dressed up
in the filthiest Manner that you could suppose •, its
upper Garment was of Sheep-Skins, with the
Wool outward, a great Tartar Bonnet on the Head,.
With
With two Horns growing through it \ it Was a-
bout eight Foot high, yet had no Feet or Legs, or
any other Proportion of Parts.
This Scarecrow was set up at the outer Side of
the Village, and when I came near to ity there
was 16 or 17 Creatures, whether Men or Wo-
men, I could not tell, for they make no Distin-
ction by their Habits, either of Body or Head,
These lay all flat on the Ground, round this for-
midable Block of sliapeless Wood: I saw no
Motion among them any more, than if they
had been all Logs of Wood like the Idol, and
at first, really thought they had been so* but
when I came a little nearer, they started up up-
on their Feet3 and rais'd a howling Cry, as if it
had been so many deep-mouth'd Hounds, and
Walk'd away as it they were displeased at our di-
sturbing them. A little Way off from the Idol,
and at the Door of that Tent or Hutt, made all
of Sheep-Skins and Cow-Skins, dry'd, stood
three Butchers•, I thought they were such when
I came nearer to them, I found they had long
Knives in their Hands, and in the middle of the
Tent appeared three Sheep kili'd, and one young
Bullock or Steer. These, it seems, were Sacri-
fices to that senstess Log of an Idol, and these
three Men, Priests belonging to it* and the 17
prostrated Wretches, were the People who
brought the Offering, and were making their
Prayers to that Stock.
I confess 1 was more mov'd at their Stupidity
and brutish Worship of a Hobgoblin, than ever
I was at any Thing in my Life*? to sec God's
most glorious and best Creature, to whom he
had granted so many Advantages, even by Creation,
above the rest of the Works of his Hands, ve-
sted with a reasonable Soul, and that Soul adorn'd
X 2 with
with Fatuities and Capacities, adapted both to
honour his Maker, and be honoured by him,
funk and degenerated to a Degree so more than
stupid, as to prostrate itself to a frightful No-
thing, a meer imaginary Object dress'd up by
themselves, and made terrible to themselves by
their own Contrivance; adorn'd only with Clouts
and Rags •, and that this should be the Effect of
meer Ignorance, wrought up into hellish Devo-
tion by the Devil himself; who envying (to his
Maker) the Homage and Adoration of his Crea-
tures, had deluded them into such gross, surfeic-
ing, sordid aud brutish Things,as one would think
should shock Nature itself.
But what lignify'd all the Astonishment and
Reflection of Thoughts; thus it was, and 1 saw
it before my Eyes, and there was no room to
wonder at it, or think it impossible-, ail my Ad-
miration turn'd to Rage, and I rid up to the I-
mage, or Monster, call it what you will, and with
my Sword cut the Bonnet that was on its Head in
two in the Middle, lo that it hung down by one
of the Horns-, and one of our Men that was with
me took hold of the Sheep-Skin that cover'd it,
and pull'd at it, when behold a most hideous
Outcry and Howling run thro' the Village, and
two or three hundred People came about my Ears,
ib that I was glad to scour for it •, for we sew
some had Bows and Arrows i but 1 resolved from
that Moment to visit them again.
Our Carravan rested three Nights at theTown,
which was about four Miles off, in order to pro-
vide some Horses which they wanted, several of
the Horses having been lam'd, and jaded with the
badness of the Way and long March over the last
Desart; so we had some Leisure here to put my
Design
Design in Execution : I communicated my Project
to the Scots Merchant of Muscow, of whose Courage
I had had sufficient Testimony, as above. I
told him what I had seen, and with what Indig-
nation I had since thought that human Nature
could be so degenerate: I told him, I was rcsolv'd
if I could but get four or five Men well armM to
go with me, I was resolv'd to go and destroy that
vile, abominable Idol, and let them see that it had
no Power to help itself, and consequently could
not be an Object: of Worship, or to be pray'd to,
much less help rhem that offer'd Sacrifices to it-
He laugh a at me ; says he, Your Zeal may be
good, but what do you propose to yourself by
it? Propose said /, to vindicate the Honour of
God, which is insulted by this Devil Worship. But
how will it vindicate the Honour of God, said be!
while the People will not be able to know what
you mean by it, unless you could speak to them
and tell them so, and then they will sight you, and
beat you too^ I'll aiTnre you, for they are despe-
rate Fellows, and that especially in Defence of
their Idolatry. Can we not, said I, do it in the
Night, and then leave them the Reasons and Causes
in Writing in their own Language? Writing! said
he, why there is not a Man in five Nations of
them that know any thing of a Letter, or how to
read a Wrord in any Language, or in their own.
Wretched Ignorant! said I to him j however I
have a great Mind to do it; perhaps Nature may
draw Inferences from it to them, to let them fee
how brutish they are, to worship such horrid
Things. Look you, Sir, said he, if your Zeal
prompts you to it so warmly, you must do it; but
in the next Place I would have you consider, these
wild Nations of People are subjected by Force to
the Czar of Muscovy s Dominions^ and if.you do
X 3 thisa
this, his ten to one but they will come by Thou-
sands to the Governour of Nertsinskay, and con-
plain, and demand Satisfaction; and if he cannot
give them Satisfaction, 'us ten to one but they
revolt,* and will occasion a new War with all the
'Tartars in the Country.
This, I confess, put new Thoughts into my
Head for a while; but I harp'd upon the fame
String ttill, and al! that Day I was uneasy to put
my Project m Execution. Towards the Evening the
Scots Merchant met me by Accident in our Walk
about the Town, and deiir'd to speak with me,-
I believe said he, I have put you oft* of your good
Design: I have been a little concerned about it
since, for I abhor the Idol and the Idolatry as
much as you can do: Truly, fays /, you have put
it oft a little as to the Execution of it, but you
have not put it all out of rny Thoughts, and I
believe I shall do it still before I quit this Place,
tho' I were to be delivered up to them for Satis-
faction. No, no, fays he, God forbid they should
deliver you up to such a Crew of Monsters; they
Hull not do that neither, that would be murdering
you indeed. Why, fays I, how would they use me?
Useyouisayshe; I'll tell you how they served a
poor Ruffian, who affronted them in their Wor-
ship just as you did, and who they took Prisoner;
after they had lam'd him with an Arrow that he
could not run away, they took him and stripped
him stark naked, and set him up on the top of the
Idol Monster, and stood all round him, and shot
as many Arrows into him as would stick over
his whole Body, and then they burnt him and all
the Arrowsistidking in him as a Sacrifice to the
Idol. And was this the fame Idol? Yes, fays he,
the very fame. Well, Jays I, Fil tell you a Story;
J? J related the Story of our Men at Madagascar,
and
and how they burnt and sack'd the Village therej
and kill'd Man, Woman and Child, for their mur-
dering one of our Men, just as it is related before;
and when I had done, I added, that I thought
we ought to do so to this Village.
He listened very attentively to the Story ,* but
when I talk'd of doing so to that Village, says he,
You mistake very much, it was not this Village,
it was almost a hundred Mile from this Place, but
it was the fame Idol, for they carry him about in
Procession all over the Country : Well, then, fays
I, then that Idol ought to be punish'd for it, and
it shall, says I, if I live this Night out.
In a Word, finding me resolute, he lik'd the
Design, and told me I should not go alone, but
he would go with me, and bring a stout Fellow,
one of his Countrymen, to go also with us % and
one, fays he, as famous for his Zeal at you can
desire any one to be, against such Devilish things
as these. In a Word, he brought me his Comrade,
a ScctsMan, whom he calfdCaptainiJ/c^r^, and
I gave him a full Account of what 1 had seen, and
in a Word, of what I intended; and he told me
readily, he would go with me if it cost him his
Life; so we agreed to go only us three, I had
indeed propos'd it to my Partner, but he declined
it; he said, he was ready to assist me to the ut-
most, and upon all Occasions for my Defence; but
that this was an Adventure quite out ot his Way;
so, I fay, we resolved upon our Work only us
three aud mv Man-Servant, and to put it in Exe-
cution that Night about Midnight, with ail the
Secresy imaginable.
However, upon second Thoughts, we were
willing to delay it till the next Night, because
the Carravan being to set forward in the Morning,
we supoosM the Govcrnour could not pretend
. X 4 »
to give them any Satisfaction upon us, when we
were out of his Power. The Sects Merchant, as
steady in his Resolution for the* Enterprise, as
bold in executing, brought me a Tartar's Robe or
Gown of the Sheep-Skins, and a Bonnet, with
a Bow and Arrows, and had provided the fame
for himself and his Countryman, that the People,
if they saw us, should not be able to determine
who we were.
All the first Night we spent in mixing up some
combustible Matter with Aqua-vitæ, Gun-powder,
and such other Materials as we could get; and ha-
ving a good Quantity of Tar in a little Pot, a-
bout an Hour after Night we set out upon our
Expedition.
We came to the Place about eleven a Clock at
Night, and sound that the People had not the least
Jealousy of Danger attending their Idol: The
Night was cloudy, yet the Moon gave us Light
enough to fee that the Idol stood just in the fame
Posture and Place that it did before. The People
seemed to be all at their Rest, only, that in the
great Hutt, or Ten t, as we called it, where we
saw the three Priests, whom we mistook tor Butch-
ers, we saw a Light, and going up close to the
Door, we heard People talking, as if there were
five or six of them. We concluded therefore, that if
we set the Wid-fire to the Idol, these Men would
come out immediately, and run up to the Place to
rescue it from the Destruction that we intended for
it, and what to do with them we knew not, Once
we thoughts carrying it away, and setting Fire
to it at a Distance; but when we came to handle
it, we found it too bulky for our Carriage, so we
were at a Loss again. The second Scots Man was
for setting Fire to the Tent or Hutt, and knocking
the Creatures that were there on the Head when
they
they came out; but I could not joyn with that;
I was against killing them, if it was poffib.'e to be
avoided: Well then, said the Scots Merchant, 111
tell you what we will do, we will try to take them
Prisoners, tye their Hands behind them, and
make them stand still, and fee their Idol de-
stroys.
As it happen'd, we had Twine or Packthread
enough about us, which was used to tye our Fire-
Works together with; so we resolv'd to attack
the People first, and with as little Noise as we
could. The first Thing we did, we knocked at
the Door, which issued just as we desired it; for
one of their Idol Priests came to the Door: We
immediately seized upon him, stopp'd his Mouth,
and ty'd his Hands behind him, and led him to
the Idol, where we gagg'd him, that he might
not make a Noise; ty'd his Feet also together,
and left him on the Ground.
Two of us then waited at the Door, expecting
that another would come out to see what the
Matter was; but we waited so long 'till the third
Man came back to us; and then no Body coming
out, we knocked again gently, and immediately out
came two more, and we served them just inthe same
Manner, but were obliged to go all with them,
and lay them down by the Idol some Distance
from one another: When going back, we found
two more were come out to the Door, and a
third stood between them within the Door: We
seiz'd the two, and immediately tyM them, when
the third stepping back, and crying out, my
Scots Merchant went in after him, and taking
out a Composition we had made, that would on-
ly smoke and stink, he set Fire to it, and threw
it in among them. By that Time the other Scots
Man and my Man taking Charge of the two
Men
l3Hl
Men who were already bound, and ty'd together
also by the Arm, led them away to the Idol, and
left them there, to see if their Idol would :relieve
them, making Haste back to us.
When the Fuze we had thrown in had fill'd the
Hutt with so much Smoke, that they were almost
suffocated, we then threw in a small Leather Bag
of another Kind, which flam'd like a Candle,
and following it in, we found there was but four
People left, who, it seems, were two Men and
two Women; and, as we supposed, had been
about some of their Diabolick Sacrifices: They
appeared, in short, frighted to Death, at least so
as to lit trembling and stupid, and not able to
speak neither, for the Smoke.
In a Word, we took them, bound them as we
liad the other, aud all without any Noise: I
should have said, we brought them out of the
House or Hutt first; for indeed we were not able
to bear the Smoke any more than they were. When
we had done this, we carry'd them altogether to
the Idol. When we came there, we fell to
work with him ; and first we daub'd him all over,
and his Robes also, with Tar and such other Stuff
as we had, which was Tallow mix'dwith Brim-
stone i then westopp'd his Eyes, Ears, and Mouth,
full of Gun-Powder, and then we wrapped up a
great Piece of Wild-fire in his Bonnet, and then
sticking all the Combustibles we had brought with
us upon him, we looked about to fee if we could
find any Thing else to help to burn him, when
my Man remembred, that by the Tent or Hutt
where the Men were, there lay a Heap of dry
Forage, whether Straw or Rushes I do not re-
member \ away he and one of the Sects Men run,
and fetch'd their Arms full of that. When we had
done this, we took all our Prisoners, and brought
them.
them, having unty'd their Feet, and ungagg'd their
Mouths, and made them stand up, and set them
just before their monstrous Idol, and then set Fire
to the whole.
We stay'd by it a Quarter of an Hour, or therea-
bouts, till the Powder in the Eyes, and Mouth, and
Ears of the Idol blew up, and we could perceive
had split and deformed the Shape; and in a Word,
'till we saw it burn into a meer Block or Log of
Wood; and then setting the dry Forage to it, we
found it would be quite consumed, when we be-
gan to think of going away: But the Scots man
said no, we must not go, for these poor deluded
Wretches will all throw themselves into the Fire,
and burn themselves with the Idol. So we resol-
ved to stay 'till the Forage was burnt down too,
and then we came away and left them.
In the Morning we appeared among our Fellow
Travellers exceeding busy, in getting ready lor our
Journey; nor could any Man suggest that we had
been any where but in our Beds, as Travellers
might be supposed to be, to fit themselves for the
Fatigue of that Day's Journey.
But it did not end so, The next Day came a
great Multitude of the Country People, not only
of this Village, but of a hundred more, for oughc
I know, to the Town-Gates, and in a most out-
rageous Manner, demanded Satisfaction of the Ruf-
fian Governour, for the insulting their Priests,
and burning their great Chant-Chirfhaungu, such a
hard Name they gave the monstrous Creature they
worshipped. The People of Nertfimkay, were at
first in a great Consternation, for they said, the
Tartars were no less than thirty thousand, and that
in a few Days more, would be one hundred thou-
sand strong.
The
The Ruffian Governor sent out Messengers to
appease them, and gave them all the good Words
imaginable. He assured them, he knew nothing
of it, and that there had not a Soul of his Garri-
son been abroad ; that it could not be from any
Body there; and if: they would let him know who
it was, they should be examplarily punished. They
returned haughtily, that all the Country reveren-
ced the great Cham-Chi-fhaungu^ who dwelt in
the Sim, and no Mortal would have decreed to of-
fer Violence to his Image, but some Christian Mis-
creant, so they calfd them it seems; and they there-
fore denounced War against him, and all the RuJ~
siaw, who, they said, were Miscreants and Chri-
stians.
The Governor still patient, and unwilling to
make a Breach, or to h&ve any Cause of War al-
ledged to be given by him, the Czar having strict-
ly charged them to treat the conquered Country
with Gentleness and Civility, gave them still ail
the good Words he could: At last he told them,
there was a Caravan gone towards Russia that Mor-
ning, and perhaps it was some of them, who had
done them this Injury j and that if they would be
satisfied with that, he would fend after them, to
enquire into it. This seemed to appease them a
little; and accordingly the Governor sent after
us, and gave us a particular Account how the
Thing was, intimating withal, that if any in our
Caravan had done it, they should make their E-
scape \ but that whether they had done it or no,
we flhould make all the Haste forward that was
possible; and that in the mean time, he would
keep them in Play as long as he could.
This was v$ry friendly in the Governor: How-
ever, when it came to the Caravan, there was no
Body
Body knew any Thing of the Matter. And as
for us, that were guilty, we were the least of all
suspected; none so much as asked us the Que-
stiop. However the Captain of the Caravan for
the Time, took the Hint, that the Governor gave
u$> and we marched or travelled two Days and
two Nights, without any considerable Stop; and
then we lay at a Village called Plothus ; nor did we
make any long Stop here, but hastned on towards
Jarawena, another of the Czar of Muscovy s Co-
lonies, and where we expected we should be safe ,-
but it is to be observed, that here we began for
two or three Days March, to enter upon the
vast nameless Desart, of which I shall say more
in its Place: And which, if we had now been
upon it, it is more than probable we had been
all destroyed. It was the second Day's March
from Plothusy that by the Clouds of Dust behind
us, at a great Distance, some of our People be*
gan to be sensible we were pursued. We had en-
tered the Desart, and had passed by a great Lake
called, Schaks-Ojer, when we perceived a very great
Body of Horse appear on the other Side of the
Lake to the North,. we travelling West. We ob-
served they went away West as we did, but
had supposed we would have taken that Side of
the Lake, whereas, we very happily took the
South Side; and in two Days more, we saw
them not, for they believing we were still be-
fore them, pushed on till they came to the River
Udda. This is a very great River when it pas-
ses farther North ,* but where we came to it, we
found it narrow, and fordable.
The third Day they either found their Mi-
stake, or had Intelligence of us, and came pou-
ring in upon us, towards the Dusk of the Even-
ing.
ing: We had, to our great Satisfaction, just pitch'd
upon a Place for our Camp, which was very
convenient for the Night; for as we were up-
on a Defart, thoJ but at the Beginning of it*
that was above five hundred Miles over, we had
no Towns to lodge at, and indeed expected
none but the City Jarawem, which we had yet
two Days March to; the Defart, however, had
some few Woods in it on this Side, and little
Rivers, which ran all into the great River Udda.
It was in a narrow Strait between two little, but
very thick Woods, that we pitch'd our littld
Camp for that Night, expecting to be attacked
in the Night.
No Body knew but ourselves* what we were
pursued for ,* but as it Was usual for the Mmgul
7artar.no go about in Troops in that Defart, so
the Caravans always fortify themselves every
Night against them, as against Armies of Rob-
bers; and it was therefore no new Thing to be
pursued.
But we had this Night, of all the Nights of
our Travels, a most advantageous Camp; for
we lay between two Woods, with a little Rivu*
Jet running just before our Front; so that we
could not be surrounded, or attacked any Way,
but in our Front or Rear: We took Care also
to make our Front as strong as we could, by
placing our Packs, with our Camels and Horses,
all in a Line on the Inside of the River, and fel-
ling some Trees in our Rear.
In this Posture we encamp'd for the Night*
but the Enemy was upon us before we had fi-
nifh'd our Situation: They did not come on us like
Thieves, as we expected, but sent three Messen-
gers to us, to demand the Men to be delivered to
them, that had abus'd their Priests, and burnt
their
their God, Cham-Chi-Thaungu with Fire, that
fhey might burn them with Fire; and upon
this, they said they would go away, and do us
no farther Harm; otherwise, they would burn
us all with Fire. Our Men look'd very blank
at this Message, and began to stare at one ano-
ther, to fee who look'd with most Guilt in their
Faces *, but no Body was the Word, no Body did
it. The Leader of the Caravan sent Word, he
was well assur'd, it was not done by any of our
Camp; that we were peaceable Merchants, tra-
velling on our Business; that We had done no Harm
to them, or to any one else; and that therefore*
they must look farther for their Enemies who had
injur'd them, for we were not the People; so de-
fied them not to disturb us,* for, if they did, we
should defend our selves.
They were far from being satisfy'd with this
for an Answer, but a great Crowd of them came
down in the Morning by Break of Day to our:
Camp; but seeing us in such an unnaccountable
Situation, they durst come no farther than the
Brook in our Front, where they stood and fhewM
ys such a Number, that indeed terrify'd us very
much*, for those that spoke least of them, spoke
of ten thousand: Here they stood and looked
at us a while, and then setting up a great Howl,
they let fly a Crowd of Arrows among us; but
we were well enough fortify'd for that; for we
fhelter'd under our Baggage; and I do not remem-
ber, that one Man of us Was hurt.
Some Time aster this we saw them move a little
to our Right, and expected them on the Rear,
,when a cunning Fellow, a Cojsack, as they call them,
oijaraivena, in the Pay of the Muscovites, calling
to the Leader of the Caravan, said to him, Til go
fend all these People away to Sibeilka; this was
a Ci-
a City, sour or five Days Journey at least to the
South, and rather behind us: So he takes his
Bow and Arrows, and getting on Horse-back, he
rides away from our Rear directly, as it were
back to Nenssinskay. After this, he takes a great
Circuit about, and comes to the Army of the
Tart ar sy as if he had been sent Express to tell
them a long Story i that the People who had
burnt the Cham-ChiThaungu, were gone to Siheilka,
with a Caravan of Miscreants, as he calfd them,
that is to fay, Christians; and that they had re-
solv'd to burn the God SchaUIsaYy belonging to the
ToHguefes.
As this Fellow was himself a meet Tartar, and
perfectly spoke their Language, he counterfeited
so well, that they all took it from him, and
away they drove in a most violent Hurry to
Siheilka, which it seems was five Days Journey
to the North, and in less than three Hours, they
were entirely out of our Sight, and we never
heard any more of them ,• and we never knew
whether they went to that other Place called Si-
heilka, or no.
So we passed safely on to the City of Jarawena,
where there was a Garrison of Muscovites, and
there we rested five Days, the Caravan being ex-
ceedingly fatigued with the last Day's hard March,
and with Want of Rest in the Night.
From this City we had a frightful Desart,
wh.'ch held us three and twenty Days March.
We furnisli'd our selves with some Tents here,
for the better accommodating our selves in the
Night; and the Leader of the Caravan, procu-
red sixteen ^Carriages or Waggons of the Coun-
try, for carrying our Water and Provisions, and
these Carriages were our Defence every Night
round our little Camp; so that had the Tartars
appeared,
Appeared, unless they had been very numerous
Indeed, they would not have been able to hurt
us,
We may well be supposed to want Rest again
after this long Journey; for in this Delart we saw
abundance of the Sable-Hunters, as they calPd
them- These are all Tartars of the Mongul Tartarj^
of which this Country is a Part, and they fre-
quently attack small Caravans, but we saw no
Numbers of them together. 1 was curious to fee
she Sable Skins they catched, but could never
speak with any of them, for they durst not come
near us, neither durst we straggle from our Com-
pany, to go near them.
After we had pass'd thisDesart we came into a
Country pretty well inhabited > that is to say,
we found Towns and Castles, settled by the
Czar -of Muscovy, with Garrisons of Stationary
Soldiers to protect the Caravans, and defend the
Country against the Tartars, who would other-
Wife make it very dangerous travelling; and his
Czarijb Majesty has given such strict Orders for
the well guarding the Caravans and Merchants,
that if there are any Tartars heard of in tke
Country, Detachments of the Garrisons are al-
Ways sent to see the Travellers safe from Station
to Station.
And thus the Governour ot Admskoy, whom I
had Opportunity to make a Visit to, by means
of the Scots Merchant who was acquainted with
him, offer'd us a Guard of 50 Men, if we thought
there was any Danger, to the next Station.
J thought long before this, that as we came
nearer to Europe we (hould find the Conntry bet-'
ter peopled, and the People more civiliz'd, but I
found myself mistaken in both., for we had yertbe
Part II. Y Nap
Nation of thcTcngueses to pass through * where We
saw the same Tokens of Paganism and Barbarity*
or worse, than before, only as they were conquer'd
by the Muscovites, and entirely redue'd, they were
not so dangerous; but for Rudeness of Manners,
Idolatry, and Multitheism no People in theWorld
ever went beyond them. They are cloth'd all in
Skins of Beasts, and their Houses arc built of the#
fame* You know not a Man from a Woman, nei-
ther by the Rugged ness of their Countenances or
their Clothes •, and in the Winter, when the
Ground is cover'd with Snow, they live under
Ground in Houses like Vaults, which have Ca-
vities going from one to another.
If the Tartars had their Cbam-Chi~Tongu for a
whole Village or Country, thele had Idols in eve-
ry Hutt, and in every Cave \ besides, they wor-
ship the Stars, the Sun, the Water, the Snow, and
in a Word, every Thing that they do not under-
stand, and they understand but very little; so
that almost every Element, every uncommon
'[Thing, sets them a sacrificing.
But I am no more to deicribe People than
Gauntries, any farther than my own Story comes
to be concerned in them. I met with nothing pe-
culiar to myself in this Country* which I reckon
was from the Desart which I spoke of last, at least
400 Miles, half of it being another Desart, which
took us up 12 Days severe travelling, without
House, or Tree, or Bufb, but were obliged again
to carjy our own Provisions, as well Water as
Bread. After we were out of this Desart, and
had traveirdtwoJ)ays, we came to Jane^ayy a
Muscovite City or Station, on thegreat River Jane-
z,ay: This River they told us parted Europe from
dfia> tho' our Map-makers, as I am tpld, do noc
agree to it * however, it is certainly the Eastern
Boun-
Boundary of the aqcient Meria, which now
makes up a Province only of the vast Muscovite
Empire, but is itself equal in Bigness to the
whole Empire of Germany.
And yet itere I obscrv'd Ignorance and Pagan-
ism still prevaiPd, except in the Muscovite Garri-
sons; all the Country between the River Oby and
the River Jauezay is as entirely Pagan, and the
People as barbarous, as the remotest of thcTartars,
nay, as any Nation, for ought I know$ in Asia or
America. I also found, which 1 obferv'd to the
Muscovite Governors, whom I had Opportunity to
converse with, that the poor Pagans are not much
the wiser or the nearer Christianity for being un-
der the Muscovite Government; which they ack-
nowledge was true enough; but, as they said,
Was none of their Business: That if the Czar ex*
pected to convert his Siberian, orTonguese. or'Tartar
Subjects, k should be done by sending Clergymen
among them* not Soldiers > and they added, with
more Sincerity than I expected, that they found
it was not so much the Concern of their Mo-
narch to make the People Christians^ as it was to
make them Subjects.
From this River to the greatRiver <%, we crossed
a wild and uncultivated Country. I cannot fay 'ti$
a barren Soil; *ti$ only barren of People, and good
Management, otherwise it is in itself a most plea-
sant, fruitful and agreeable Country. What In-
habitants we found in k are all Pagans,except such
as are sent among them fromRufsia', for this is the
Country I mean on both Sides the River Oby^
whither the Muscovite Criminals^ that are not pui
to Death, ate banisli'd, and from whence it is
next to impossible they should ever come away*
1 have nothing material to fay of my partial-,
lar Affairs, till 1 came to Tokkki, the capital City
Y a of
of Siberia, where I continued some time ori the fol-
lowing Occasion. -
We had been now almost seven Months on our
journey, and Winter began to come on apace *
whereupon my Partner and I called a Council a-
bout our particular Affairs, in which we found it
proper, .considering that we were bound for Eng-
land, and not for Muscow, to consider how to dis-
pose os ourselves. They told us of Sledges and
Race Deer to carry us over the Snow in the Win-
ter time | and indeed they have such Things, that
it would be incredible to relate the Particulars of*
by which Means the Ruffians travel more in the
Winter than they can in Summer, because in these
Sledges they are able to run all Night and Daj;
the Snow being frozen, is one universal Covering to
Nature, by which the Hills, the Vales, the Ri-
vers, the Lakes, all are smooth, and hard as a
Stone, and they run upon the Surface, without
any Regard to what is underneath.
But 1 had no Occasion to push at a Winter Jour-
ney of this Kind. I was bound to England, not
to MifcGWy and my Rout lay two Ways, either I
must go on as the Caravan went, till I came to
Jerostaw, and then go off West for Narva, and
the Gulph of Finland; arid so either by Sea or
Land to Dant&ick, where I might possibly fell my
China Cargo to good Advantage, or I must leave
the Caravan at a little Town oh the Dwina, from
whence I had but si* Days by Water to Anh-An-
gel, and ffom thence/might be sure of Shipping,
either to England, Holland, or Hamburgh.
Now to go any of these Journeys in the Winter,
would ha' been preposterous; for as to Dantz,ick,
the* Baltick would be frozen up, and I could not gee
Passage, and to go by Land in those Countries,
iœ-S far less safe than among the Movgul Tartars:
Like-
jLkewise to go to Anh-Angel in Oclokr, all the
Ships would be gone from thence, and even the
Merchants who dwell there in Summer, retire
South to Moscow in the Winter, when the Ships
are gone; so that I should have nothing but Ex-
tremity of Cold to encounter, with a Scarcity of
Provisions, and must lye there in an empty Town
all the Winter. So that upon the whole I thought
it a much better Way to let the Caravan go, and
tp make Provision to winter where I was, viz*.
at Tohhki in Siberia, in the Latitude of De-
grees, where I was sure of three Things to wear
out a cold Winter with, viz,. Plenty of Provi-
sion such as the Country afforded -, a warm House,
with Fuel enough, aud excellent Company ', of
ail which I (hall give a full Account in its Place.
I was now in a quite different Climate from my
beloved Island, where I never felt Cold except when
I had my Ague. On the contrary, I had much
to do to bear my Clothes on my, Back, and never
made any Fire but without Doors, and for my
Necessity in dressing my Food, &c. Now I made
me three good Vests, with large Robes or Gowns
over them to hang down to th^ Feet, and button
close to the Wrests, and all these lin'd with Furs
to make them sufficiently warm.
* As to a warm House, 1 must confess I greatly di-
sliked our Way in England of making Fires in c-
very Room in the House, in open Chimneys,
which when the Fire was out, always kept the
Air in the Room cold as the Climate: But taking
an Apartment in a good House in the Town, I
ordered a Chimney to be built like a Furnace, in
the Center of six several Rooms, like a Stove, the
Funnel to carry the Smoke went up one Way, the
Door to come ac the Fire, went in another, ami
- Y 3 aU
all the Rooms were kept equally warm, but no
Fife seen j just as they heat the Bagnioes in Eng-
land.
By this Means we had always the fame Climate
in all the Rooms, and an equal Heat was preserv'd;
and how cold soever it was without, it was al-
ways warm within, and yet we saw no Fire, nor
was incommoded with any Smoke.
The most wonderful Thing of all was, that it
should be possible to meet with good Company
here, in a Country so barbarous as that of the
most Northerly Parts of Europe^ near the frozen
Ocean, and within but a very few Degrees of
Jssova Zernbla.
But this being the Country where the State Cri-
minals of Muscovy, as I observed before,,are all ba-
nished this City, was full of Noblemen, Princes,
Gentlemen, Colonels; and in short, all Degrees of
the Nobility, Gentry, Soldiery and Courtiers of
Muscovy. Here was the famous Prince Gallk%en%
the old General Rofastiski, and several other Per-
sons of Note, and some Ladies.
By Means of my Scots Merchant, whom neverthe-
less I parted with here, I made an Acquaintance
here with several of these Gentlemen, and some ot
them of the first Rank; and from these in the long
Winter Nights in which I stay'd here, I received
several very agreeable Visits. It was talking one
Istight with Prince one of the banished
Ministers of State, belonging to the Czar of Mus-
covy, that my Talk of my particular Cafe began.
He had been telling me Abundance of fine Things
of the Greatness, the Magnificence, the Domi-
nions, and the absolute Power of the Emperor of
the -jRiiffiaw. I interrupted him, and told him 1
was a greater and more powerful Prince than e-
vet the Czar ofMu/my was, tho* my Dominions
were not so large, or my People so many. Thf
Ruffian Grandee look'd £ little sutpnVd, and fixing
his Eyes steddily upon me, began to wonder what
I meant.
I told him, his Wonder would cease when I had:
explained my self, First, I told him, I had the ab-
solute Disposal of the Lives and Fortunes of all
my Subjects: That notwithstanding my absolute
Power, I had not one Person disaffected to my
Government, or to my Person, in gil my Domi-
nions. He shook his Head at that, gnd said*
there indeed I outdid the Czar of Muscovy. I told
him, That all the Lands in my Kingdom were
my own, and all my Subjects were not only my.
Tenants, but Tenants at Will : That they woukf
pll fight for me to the last Drop; and that never
Tyrant, for such I acknowledged my self to be, was
ever so universally beloved, and yet so horribly,
feared by his Subjects.
After amusing them with these Riddles in Go-
vernment for a while, 1 open'd the Cafe, and told
them the Story at large of my living in the Island,
and how I managed both my self and the People
there that were under me, jus}, as I have since mi-
nuted it down. They were exceedingly taken with
she Story, and especially the Prince, who told me
with a Sigh, that the true Greatness of Life was
tq be Master of our selves: That he would not
have exchanged such a State of Life as mine, to
have been Czar of Muscovy; and that he found
more Felicity in the Retirement he scem'd to be
banisli'd to there, than ever he found in the high-
est Authority he enjoy'd in the Court of his Master
$he Czat: That the Heighth of human Wisdom
was to bring our Tempers down to our Circum-
stances; and to make a Calm within, under the
Weight of the greatest Storm without. When hej
Y 4 came
Came first hither, he said he used to tear the Hair
from his Head, and the Clothes from his Back, as
others had done before him; but a lit tie Time and
Consideration had made him look into himself,
as well as round him to Things without: That he
found the Mind of Man, if it was but once brought
to reflect upon the State of universal Life, and
how little this World was coneern'd in its true
Felicity, was perfectly capable of making a Fe-
licity for it self, fully satisfying to it self, and
suitable to its own best Ends and Desires, with
kit very little Assistance from the World: That
Air to breath in, Food to sustain Life, Clothes
fdr Warmth, and Liberty for Exercise in Order to
Health, compleated, in his Opinion, all that the
World could do for us; and thoJ the Greatness,
the Authority, the Riches, and the Pleasures
which some enjoy'd in the World, and which he
had en joy'd his Share of, had much in them that
was agreable to us; yet he observed that all those
Things chiefly gratify'd the coarsest of our Affe-
ctions, such as our Ambition, our particular Pride,
our Avarice, our Vanity, and our Sensuality; all
which were indeed rhe meer Product of the worst
Part of Man, were in themselves Crimes, ^ and
had in them the Seeds of all Manner of Crimes,
but neither were related to, or concerned with any
of those Virtues that constituted us wife Men, or
of those Graces which distinguish^ us as Chri-
stians: That being now deprived of all the fancy'd
Felicity which he enjoy'd in the full Exercise of
all thole Vices, he said he was at Leisure to look
upon the dark Side of them, where he found all
Manner of Deformity, and was now convinced,
that Virtue only makes a Man truly wife, rich,
and great, and preserves him in the Way to a su-
perior Happiness in a future State. And in this
lie
Jie said, they were more happy in thmf Banifli*
ment than all their Enemies were, who had the
lull Posleffion of all the Wealth" and Power that
they (the Banished) had left behind them.
Nor, Sir, fays he, do I bring my Mind to this
politically, by the Necessity of my Circumstances,
which some call miserable; but if I know any
Thing of my self, I would not now go back, tho*
the Oar, my Master, should call me, and re-instate
me in all my former Grandeur $ I say, F would no
more go back to it, than I believe my Soul, when
it lhall be deliver'd from this Prison of the Body,
and has had a Taste of the glorious State beyond
Life, would come back to the Jayl of Flesh and
Blood it is now enclos'd in, and leave Heaven to
deal in the Dirt and Crime of human Affairs.
He spoke this with so much Warmth in his
Temper, so much Earnestness and Motion of his
Spirits, which were apparent in his Countenance,
that it was evident it was the true Sense of his
Soul: There was no room to doubt his Since-
rity.
I told him, I once thought my self a kind of a
Monarch in my old Station, of which I had given
him an Account, but that I thought he was not a
Monarch only, but a great Conqueror; for that he
that has got a Victory over his own exorbitant
Desires, and has the absolute Dominion over him-
self, whose Reason entirely governs his Will, is
certainly greater than he that conquers a City.
But, my Lord,said /, shall I take the Liberty to
ask you a Question? With all my Heart, fays he.
If the Door of your Liberty was opened, said I9
would you not take hold of it to deliver your
self from this Exile.
Hold said he, your Question is subtle, and re-
cuires some serious just Distinctions, to give it a
iincerc
sincere Answer j and I'll give it you from the Bot-
tom of my Heart. Nothing that I know of in this
W0M would move me to deliver my self from this
State of Banishment, except these two ,* First, the;
Enjoyment of my Relations, and Secondly, a lit-
tle warmer Climate; but I protest to you, that
to go back to the Pomp of the Court, the Glory,
the Power, the Hurry of a Minister of State, the
Wealth the Gaiety, and the Pleasures, that is to
fay, Follies of a Courtier; if my Master should
fend me Word this Moment, that he restores me
to all he banish \1 me from ;• I protest, If I know,
my self at all, I would not leave this Wilderness,
these Deserts, and these frozen Lakes, for the Pa-
lace at Muscow.
But, my Lord, said I, perhaps you not only
are banifh'd from the Pleasure of the Court, and
from the Power, and Authority, and Wealth you
enjoy'd before, but you may be absent too from
some of the Conveniences of Life, your Estate
perhaps confiscated, ancl your Etfects plundered,
and the Supplies kit you here may not be suitable
to the ordinary Demands of Life.
Ay, fays he, that is as yon suppose me to be 3
Lord, or a Prince, &c So indeed I am •, but you
arc now to consider me only as a Mani a human
Creature not at all distinguifh'd from another,
and so I can suffer no Want, unless I should be
visited with Sickness and Distempers. However,
to put the Question out of Dispute, you see our
Manner: We are in this Place five Persons of Rank j
we live perfectly retired, as suited to a State of Ba-
nishment; we have something rescu'd from thq
Shipwreck of our Fortunes, which keeps us from
the meer Necessity of hunting for our Food; But
the poor Soldiers who are here, without that
Help, live in as much Plenty a? we* who gft
into
into the Woods and catch Sables and Foxes,- the
Labour of a.Month will maintain them a Year;
and as the Way of Living is not expensive, so it
is not hard to get sufficient to our selves. So that
Objection is out of Doors.
I hare not room to give a full Acomit of the
most agreeable Conversation I had with this truly
great Man i in all which he fhew'd that his
Mind was so inspired with a superior Knowfedge
of Things, so supported by Religion, as well as
by a vast Share of Wisdom; that his Gomtempt
ot the World was really as much as he had ex-
press \I, and that he was always the fame to the
last, as will appear in the Story I am going to
tell.
I had been here 8 Months, and a dark dreadful
Winter I thought it to be, the Cold so intense,
that I could not so much as look about without
being wrapt in Furs, and a Mask of Fur before
my Face, or rather a Hood with only a Hole for
Breath, and two for Sight: The little Day-light
we had, was, as we reckons, for three Months, not
above five Hours a Day, and six at most; only that
the Snow lying on the Ground continually, and the
Weather clear, it was never quite dark : OurHorscs
were kept (or rather starved) under Ground, and
as for our Servants, for we hir'd three Servants
here to look after our Horses and selves, we had
every now and then their Fingers and Toes to
thaw and take Care of, lest they should mortify
and fall oft".
It is true, within Doors we were warm, the
Houses being close, the Walls thick, the Lights
small, and the Glass all double ,* our Food was
chiefly the F'iefn of Deer dry'd and cur'd in the
Season; good Bread enough, but bak'd as Biskets;
dry'd Fislr of several Sorts* and some Flefli of
Mut-
Mutton, and of the Buffeloes, which is pretty
good Beef. All the Stores of Provision for the
Winter are laid up in the Summer, and wellcur'd;
our Drink was Water mix'd with Aqua-vitæ in-
stead of Brandy, and for a Treat, Mead instead
of Wine, which, however, they have excellent
good. The Hunters* who venture abroad all Wea-
thers, frequently brought us in fresh Venison, ve-
ry fat and good, and sometimes Bears Flesh, but
we did not much care for the last: We had a good
Stock of Tea, "with which we treated our Friends,
as above; and in a Word, we hVd very chearfully
and well, all things considerd.
It was now March, and the Pays grown consi-
derably longer, and the Weather, at least, tolera-
ble; so the other Travellers began to prepare Sleds
to carry them over the Snow, and to get things rea-
dy to be going; but my Measures being fix'd, as I
have said, for Anh~Asigel> and not to Muscovy ot
the Baltics I made no Motion; knowing very well
that the Ships from the South do not set out for
that Part of the World till May or June, and that
if I was there by the beginning of August, it would
be as soon as any Ships would be ready to go away:
And therefore, 1 fay, I made no Hast? to be gone,
as others did. In a Word, Isaw a great many Peo-
ple, nay, all the Travellers go away before me;
It seems every Year they go from hence to Muf*
cow for Trade, (vizi.) to carry Furs, and buy Ne-
cessaries with them, which they bring back to fur-
nish their Shops, also others went of the fame
Errand to Arch-Angel, but then they also being
to come back *again above 800 Miles, went all
out before me. .'
In short, about the latter End of May I began
to make all ready to pack up; and as I was doing
this, it occur'd to mei that seeing all these People
were
were baiulh'd by the Czar of Muscovy to Siberia
&nd yet when they came there, were left at Liberty
to go whither they would; why did they not
then go away to any Part of the World when-
ever they thought fit, and I began to examine
what should hinder then from making such an At-
tempt.
But my Wdnder was over, when I entered upon
that Subject with the Person I have menrion'd,
who ansvver'd me thus: Consider First, Sir, said
he, the Place where we are; and Secondly, the
Condition we are in; especially, said he, the Ge-
nerality of the People who are banish *d hither;
we are surrounded, said he, with stronger Things
than Bars and Bolts; on the North Side an anna-
vigable Ocean, where Ship never sail'd, and Boat
never swam; neither, if we had both, could w^
know where to go with them: Every other Way*
said he, v^e have above a Thousand Miles to pass
through the Czar's own Dominions, and By-Ways
utterly unpaflable, except by the Roads made by
the Governour, and by the Towns garrison 'd by
his Troops; so that \%fe could neither pass undis-
covered by the Road/or subsist apy other Way#
so that it is in vain to attempt it.
I was silenc'd indeed at once, and found that
they were in a Prison, every Jot as secure as if
they had been lock'dup in the Castle at Muscow§
however, it came into my Thought, that I might
certainly be made an Instrument to procure the
Escape of this excellent Person, and that what-
ever Hazard I run* I would certainly try if! could
carry him off. Upon this I took an Occasion one
Evening to tell him my Thoughts: I represented
to him, thar it was very easy for me to carry him
away, there being no Guard over him in the Coun-
try, and as I was not going to Muscov), but to Arch-
Angel,
Angel, and that I went in the nature of a Carravan,
by which I was not oblig'd to lye in the Stationary
Towns in the Desart, bat could encamp every
Might where I would, we might easily pass unin-
terrupted to Arch-Angel, where I would immedi-
ately secure him on Board an 'English or Dutch Ship,
and carry him off safe along with me ; and as to
his Subsistence, and other Particulars, it should
be my Care till he could better supply himself.
He heard me very attentively, and look'd ear-
nestly on me all the while I spoke ,* nay, I could lee
in his very Face, that what I said put his Spirits
into an exceeding Ferment; his Colour frequently
chang'd, his Eyes look'd red, and his Heart flut-
tered, that it might be even perceiv'd in his Coun-
tenance; nor could he immediately answer me.
When I had done, and as it were expected what
he would fay to it; but after he had paused a little
he embraced me, and said, how happy are we
unguarded Creatures as we are, that even our
greatest Acts of Friendship are made Snares to us,
and we are made Tempters of one another! My
dear Friend, said he, your Office is so sincere,
has such Kindness in it, is so disinterested in it
self, and is so "calculated for my Advantage, that
I must have very little Knowledge of the World,
if I did not both wonder at it, and acknowledge
the Obligation I have upon me to you for it.
But did you believe I was sincere in what I have so
often said to you of my Contempt of the World?
Did you believe I spoke my very Soul to you, and
that I had really obtained that Degree of Felicity
here, that had plac'd me above all that the Wdrld
could give me, or do for me? Did you believe I
was sincere, when I told you I would not go back,
if I was recall'd even to all, that once I was in
the Court with the Favour of the Czar my Master?
Did
j)id you believe me, my Friend, to be an hottest
Many or did you think me to be a boasting Hypo-
crite? Here he stopp'd, as if he would hear what
I would fay, but indeed, I soon after perceiVd, thatf
he stopp'd because his Spirits wer^ in Motion, his
great Heart was full of Struggles, md he could
not go on. I was* I confess, astonish'd at the
Thing as well as at the Man, and 1 us*d some Ar-
guments with him to urge him to set himself: free 2
That he ought to look upon this as a Door opened
by Heaven for his Deliverance, and a Summons
by Providence, who has the Care and Disposition
of all Events* to do himself good, and to render
himself useful in the World.
He had by this Time recovered himself: How
do you know Sir, says he warmly, that instead of
a Summons from Heaven, it may not be a Feint of
another Instrument? Representing in all the allu-
ring Colours to me the Shew of Felicity as a Deli-
verance* which may in itself be my Snare, and
tend directly to my Ruin: Here I am free from
the Temptation of returning to my former misera-
ble Greatness,,- there I am not sure but that all the
Seeds of Pride, Ambition, Avarice and Luxury,
which I know remain in Nature, may revive and
take Root; and in a Word, again overwhelm me,
and then the happy Prisoner, whom you see now
Master of his Soul's Liberty, shall be the miserable
Slave of his own Senses, in the Full of all personal
Liberty: Dear Sir, let me remain in this blessed
Confinement, banish'd from the Crimes of Life,
rather than purchase a Shew of Freedom, at the
Expence of the Liberty of my Reason, end at the
Expence of the future Happiness which now I have
in my View, but shall then, I fear, quickly lose
Sight of; for I am but Flesh, a Man, a meet- Man,
have Passions and Affections as likely to possess and
over-
Iti* ]
Overthrow me as any Man: O b^ hot mf
Friend and my Tempter both together 1
If I was surprised before, I was quite dumb now,
and stood silent, looking at him, and indeed ad-
mir'd at what I fa w; the Struggle in his Soul was
so great, that tho' the Weather was extreamly
cold, it put him into a most violent Sweat, and I
found he wanted to give Vent to his Mind ; so
I said a Word or two, that I would leave him to
consider of it, and wait on him again, and then
I withdrew to my own Apartment.
About two Hours after I heard some Body at,
or near, the Door of my Room, and I was going
to open the Door, buthe had opened it, and came
in: My dear Friend, fays he* you had almost o-
versct me, but I am recovered , do not take it ill
that I do not close with your Offer, I aflure
you, 'tis not for want of a Sense of the Kindness
of it in you, and I came to make the most Oncers
Acknowledgment of it to you ; but I. hope I have
got the Victory over my self.
My Lord, said /, I hope you are fully satisfy3d
that you do not resist the Gall of Heaven. Sirf
said he, if it had been from Heaven, the same
Power would have influenced me to accept it I
but I hope, and am fully satisfy'd, that it is
from Heaven rhat 1 decline it, and I have an infi-
nite Satisfaction in the Parting, that you shall
leave me an honest Man still, tho' not a free Man.
I had nothing to do but to acqbiesce, and
make Professions to him of my having no End
in it, but a sincere Desire to serve him : He em-
brae'd me very passionately,, and assured me, he
was sensible of that, and should always acknow-
ledge it, and with that he offer'd me a very
fine Present of Sables, too much indeed for
me to accept from a Man in his Circumstances,
awd
and I wduld have avoided them, but he would not
be refus'd.
The next Morning I sent my Servant to his
Lordsliip, with a sinaii Present of Tea, and two
Pieces of China Damask* and four little Wedges
of Japan Gold, which did not ail weigh above
six Ounces, ot thereabout, but were far short of
the Value of his Sables, which, indeed, when I
came to England^ I found worth near 200 /. He
accepted the Tea, and one Piece of the Damask,
and one of the;, Pieces-of .Gold, which had a
fine Stamp upon it, of the Japan Coinage, which I
found he took for the Rarity of it, but would
not take any more, and he sent,Word by my Ser-
vant, that he desir'd to speak with me.
When I came to him, he told me, i knew
what had passed between us, and hop'd I would
not move him any more in that Affair; but
that since I had made such a generous Offer to
him, he aslcd me* if I had Kindness enough to
offer the fame to another Person that he would
name to me, in whom he had a great Share ot
Concern. 1 told him, that I could not say I en-
clin'd to do so much for any one but himself,
for whom I had a particular Value, and should
have been glad to have been the Instrument
of his Deliverance i however, if he would please
to name the Person to me, I would give him
my Answer, and hop'd he wduld not be displea-
sed with me, if he was with my Answer. He
told me, it was only his Son, whom, tho* I had
not seen, yet was in the fame Condition with
himself, and above two hundred Miles from him*
on the other Side the Ohyi but that if I con-
sented, he would fend for him.
I made no Hesitation, but told him I would
do it: I made some Ceremony in letting him
Part II Z undi
understand that it was wholly on his Accounts
and that feeing I could not prevail on him, I
would shew my Respect to him, by my Concern
for his Son j but these* Things are too tedious to
repeat here: He sent away the next Day for his
Son, and in about twenty Days he came back
witlvthe Meflenger, bringing six or seven Horses,
loaded with vety rich Furs, and which in the
whole, amounted to a very great Value.
His Servants brought the Horses into the
Town, but left the young Lord at a Distance,
till Night, when he came incognito into our
Apartment, and his Father presented him to
me •, and ia short, we concerted there the Man-
ner of our travelling, and every Thing proper
far the Journey.
I had bought a considerable Quantity of Sables,
black Fox Skins, fine Ermines, and siich other
Furs as are very rich *T I fay, I had bought them
in that City in Exchange for some of the Goods
1 brought from China; in particular for the Cloves
and Nutmegs, of which, I fold the greatest Part
here, and the rest afterwards at Arch-Angel% for
a much better Price than I could have done ar
London; and my Partner who was sensible of
the Profit, and whose Business more particular-
ly than mine was Merchandize, was mightily
pleased with our Stay, on Account of the/T rat-
sick we made here. , -
It was the beginning of June, when I left this
remote Place, a City, I believe,-little heard of
in the World; and indeed it is so far out of
the Road «of Commerce, that I know not how
it should be much talk'd ,of. We were now come
to a very small Carravan, being only thirty
two^ Horses and Camels in all, and all of them
pa&'d for mine* tho* my new Guest was Propri-
eioc
etdtr of eleven of them. It was most hattiral 4\(q
that I should take More Servants with me than
I had before, and the young Lord pass'd for my
Steward; what grefat Man I pass'd for my sest;
1 know not, neither did it concern me to en-*
quire. Wt had here, the worst and the largest
Desart to pass over that we met with in all the
Journey; indeed I call it the worst, because the
Way was Very deep in some Places, and very
uneven in others; the best we had to sa^ for
it, was, that we thought we had no Trdops ot'Tar*
tars and Robbers to fear, and that they never
came on this Side the Obyy or at least, but very
seldom, but we found it otherwise.
My ytfung Lord had with him, a faithful
Muscovite Servaht* or rather a Siberian Servant,
\frho was perfectly acquainted with the Country,
and led us by private Roads, that we avoided
coming in rd the principal Towns and Cities,
upon the great Road* such as Tumen, Soly-Kam*
skoiy and several others; because the Muscovite
Garrisons Which are kept there, are very cu-
rious and strict in their Observation upon Tra*
Vellers * and searching lest any of the banish'd
Persons of Note should make their Escape that
Way into Muscovy; but by this Means, as we
were kept out of the Cities, so our whole Jour-
ney was a Desart, and we were obliged to encamp
and lye in Our Tents, when we might have;
had very good Accommodation in the Cities
on the Way: This the young Lord was so sen-
sible of, that he would not allow us to lye a-
broad, when we came to several Cities, on the
Way3 but lay abroad himself with hit Servant
in the Woods, and met us always at the ap-
pointed Places*
i
Zi Wt
We were just enter'd Europe, having pass'd
the River Kama, which in these Parts, is the
Boundary between Europe and Asia, and the first
Ctry on the .European Side was call'd •Sb/y-
Kumsknj which is as much as to fay, the great
Ciiy, on the River a>//<?; and here we thought
to have seen sobe evident Alteration in the
People, their Manner, their Habity their Reli-
gion, and their Business; but we were mistaken,
tor as we had a vast Dcfart to.pals, which by
Relation, is near seven hundred Miles long m
some Places, but nor* above two hundred Miles
over where we p'dWd it > so 'all we came past
that horrible Place, we found very little Diffe-
rence between ti;u;t Country and the Mogul Tar-
tar y\ the P.eple, most Pagans, and little better
than the Savages ot Jmotca, their Houses and
Towns full oi" Idols, and their Way of Living,
v/holly,barbarous, except in the Cities as above,
and the Villages near them; where .there are
Christians as they call themselves, of the Greek
Chutch, but have their Religion mingled with
io many Reliques ot Superstition,, that it is scarce
to be known in some Places from meer Sorcery
and Witchcraft.
In passing this Forest, I thought indeed we must,
after all our Dangers were in our Imagination e-
seap'd, as before, have been plundered and robbed,
and perhaps murther'd by a Troop of Thieves;
of what Country they were, whether the ro-
ving Bands of the OjUathi, a Kind of Tartars or
wild.People on the Bank of the bhyy and ranged
thus far; or whether they were the Sable-
Hunters of Siberia, I am yet at a Loss to know;
but, they were .all on Horseback, carry'd Bows
juid Arrows, and 'were "at first about five and
forty in Number. They came so near to us, as
within
within about two Musquet Shot, and asking no
Questions, they surrounded us with their Horse,
and look'd very earnestly upon us twice. f At
length they placed themselves just in our Way,
upon which, we drew up in a littleLine before our
Camels, being not above iixteen Men in all;
and being drawn up thus, we halted and
sent out the Siberian Servant, who attended his
Lord, to see who they were. His Master was
the more willing to let him go, because he was
not a little apprehensive, that they were a Si-
berian Troop sent out aster him: The Man
came up near them with a Flag of Truce,
and caifd them, but tho' he spoke several
of their Languages of Dialects or Languages ra-
ther, he could not understand a Word they
said. However, after some Signs to him, not
to come nearer to them at his Peril, so he said,
he understood them to mean offering to shoot at
him if "he advanced, the Fellow came back no
wiser than he went, only that by their Dress*
he said, he believ'd them to be some Tartars of
Kalmuck, or of Circassian Hoords; and that there
must be more of them upon the great Desart,
tho' he never heard that any of them ever were
seen so far North before.
This was small Comfort to us; however, w&
had no Remedy. There was on our left Hand at a-
bout a Quarter of a Mile's Distance, a little Grove
or Clump of Trees which stood close to^etheri
and very near the Road; I immediately resolv'd
we would advance to those Trees, and fortify our
selves as well as we could there; for first I con*
sidered, that the Trees would in a great Mea-
sure cover us from their Arrows, and in the next
Place, they could not come to charge us in a Bo-
dy. It was indeed my old Portuguese Pilot who
I Z 3 pro-
proposed it, and who had this Excellency at*
tending him, namely, that he was always readiest,
and moil apt to direct and encourage us in Ca-?
sesofthe most Danger. We advanced immedi-
ately with what Speed we could, and gainxi that
little Wood, the "tartars or Thieves, for we know
not what to call them, keeping their Stand,
and not attempting to hinder us. When we came
thither, we found to our great Satisfaction, that
it was a swampy springy Piece of Ground, and
on the one Side, a very great Spring of Water,
which running out in a little Rill or Brook, was
a little farther, joyn'd by another of the like
Bigness, and was in short, the Head or Source of
a considerable River, call'd afterwards the Win-
ska; the Trees which grew about this Spring,
were npt in all above two hundred, but were very
large, and stood pretty thick; so that as soon as
we got in, we saw our selves perfectly safe from
the Enemy, unless they alighted and attacked us
on Foot.
But to make this more difficult, our Portu-
guese, with indefatigable Application, cut down
great Arms of the Trees, and laid them hang-
ing not quite cm off from one Tree to another,
lo that he made a continued Fence almost round
US.
We stay?d here waiting the Motion of the Ene-
my some Hours, without perceiving they made
any Motion; when about two Hours before
Kight, they came down directly upon us, and
tho we had not perceived it, we found they had
been join'd by some more of the same, so that
they were near fourscore Horse, whereof bow-
ever, we fancy'd some were Womem They
fame on till they were within half Shot of our
|iule Wood, when we fir'd one Musquet without
Ball,
Ball, and call'd to them in the Ruffian Tongue,
to know what they wanted, and bid them keep
off; but as if they knew nothing of what we
said, they came on with a double Fury direct-
ly up to the Wood-side, not imagining we were
so barricado'd that they could not break in. Our
old Pilot was our Captain, as well as he had
been our Engineer, and desirM of us not to fire
upon them till they came within Pistol-Shot,
and that we might be sure to kill, and that when
we did fire, we should be sure to take good
Aim; we bad him give the Word of Command,
which he delay'd so long, that they were some
of them within two Pikes Length of us when we
sir'd.
We aim'd so true, (or Providence dire&ed our
Shot so sure) that we kill'd fourteen of them,
and wounded several others, as also several of their
Horses; for we had all of us loaded our Pieces
with two or three Bullets at least.
They were terribly surpriz'd with our Fire,
and retreated immediately about one Hundred
Rods from us,- in which Time, we loaded our
Pieces again, and feeing them keep that Distance,
we sally'd out and cacql/d four or five of their
Horses, whose Riders we suppose were kill'd,
and coming up to the dead, we could easily
perceive they were Tartars, but knew not trom
what Country, or how they came to make an
Excursion such an unusual Length.
About an Hour after they made a Motion to
attack us again, and rode round our little Wood,
to see where else they might break in; but find'
ing us always ready to face them, they went off
again, and we resolv'd not to siir from the Place
(m thajt Night.
Z4 We
We slept little you may be sure, but spent
the most Part of the Night in strengthning our
Situation, and * barricadoing the Entrances into
the Wood, and keeping a strict Watch. We
waited for Day-Light, and when it came, it
gave us a very unwelcome Discovery indeed;
for the Enemy, whom we thought were dis-
courag'd with the Reception they had met
with, were now encreased to no less than three
hundred, and had set up eleven or twelve
Hutts and Tents, as if they were resolv'd to be-
siege us; and this little Camp they had pitched
upon the open Plain, at about three Quarters
of a Mile from us. We were indeed surpriz'd
at this Discovery; and now I confess, I gave
my self over for lost, and all that I had. The
Lois of my Effects did not lye so near me, (tho*
they were very considerable) as the Thoughts of fal-
ling into the Hands of such Barbarians, at the lat-
ter End of my Journey, after so many Difficult
ties and Hazards as I had gone through; and even
in Sight of our Port, where we expected Safety
and Deliverance. As for my Partner, he was ra-
ging; Ht declar'd, that to lose his Goods would
be his Ruin, and he would rats er die than be
siarv'd; and he wa% for fighting to the last
Drop.
The young Lord, as gallant as ever Flesh shewed
itself, was for fighting to the lait aiso; and my old
Pilo; was of the Opinion we were able to resist
them all, in the Situation we were then in; and
thus we spent the Day iu Debates of. what we
(houladoj but towards Evening, wefou^dthat
the Number of our Enemies still. encreas*d,
perhaps as they were abroad in .several Parties
tor Prey. The first had sent out Scouts to call
fer Help, and to acquaint them of the Booty;
and
and we did not know, but by the Morning they
might still be a greater Number; so I began to
enquire of thole People we had brought from
ToboUki, ii there was no other, or more private
Ways by which we might avoid them in the
Night, and perhaps either retrea; to some Town,
or get Help to guard us over the Desart.
The Siberian, who was Servant to the young
Lord, told us, if we,designed to avoid them, and
not fight, he would engage to carry us off in the
Night, to a Way that went North towards the
PetroUy by which he made no Question but we
might get away, and the Tartars never the wi-
ser: But he said, his Lord had told him, he
would not retreat, but would rather chuse to
fight. I told him, he mistook his Lord; for
that he was too wife a Man to love Fighting for
the Sake of it; that 1 knew his Lord was brave
enough by what he had fhew'd already j but
that his Lord knew better, than to deiirc to have
seventeen or eighteen Men fight five hundred,
unless an unavoidable Necessity forced them to
it; and that if he thought it possible for us
to escape in the Night, we had nothing else to
do but to attempt it- He answered, If his Lord
gave him such Orders^ he would lose his Life
if he did not perform it. V\re soon brought his
Lord to give that Order,' tho' privately, and
we immediately prepar'd for the putting it in
Practice.
And first, as soon as it began to be dark, we
kindled a Fire in our little Camp, which we
kept burning, and prepar'd so as to make it
burn all Night, that the Tartar might conclude
we were still there; but as soon as it was dark,
(that is to fay) so as we could fee the Stars (tor
our Guide would not stir before) having all otr
Horses
Horses and Camels ready loaden, we followed our
new Guide, who I soon found steer'd himself by
the Pole, or North Star, all the Country being le-
vel for a long Way.
After we had travelled two Hours very hard, it
began to be lighter still, not that it was quite dark
ail Night, but the Moon began to rife, so that
in a Word, it was rather lighter than we wished it
to be ; by six a Clock the next Morning we were
gotten near forty Miles^ though the Truth is, we
almost spoiled our Horses. Here we found a Ruf-
fian Village named Kermaz*mskoy> where we rested,
and heard nothing of the Cabnuck "tartars that
Day. About two Hours before Night we let
out again, and travelled till eight the next Mor-
ning, though not quite so quiet as before, and
about seven a Clock we pasted a little River cal-
led Kirtza, and came to a good large Town inha-
bited by Russians, and very populous, czlMOzornoys.
There we heard that several Troops or Hoords
of Calmucks had been Abroad upon the Desart,
but that we were now completely out of Dan-
ger of them, which was to our great Satisfaction
you may be sure. Here we were obliged to get
some fftfh<Horses, and having Need enough of
Rest, ^fc stayM five Daysj and my Partner and
I agreed to give the honest Siberian, who brought
us thither, the Value of test Pistoles, for his con-
ducting us.
In five Days more we came to Vettflima, upon the
River JVitx,ogda, and running into the Dwina-7*-We
were there very happily near the End of our Tra^
vels by Land, that River being Navigable in se-
ven Days Passage to Arch-Angel. From hence we
came to Lawremkoy the 3d of July, and providing
our selves with two Luggage Boats, and a Barge
m our own Cpnyeni^nce, we embarked the 7th*
and
and arrived all safe at Arch-Angel the 18th, havinc
been a Year and five Months and three Days on
the Journey, including our Stay of eight Months
and odd Days at Tobolski.
We were obliged to stay at this Place (ix Weeks
for the Arrival of the Ships, and must have tarry"d
longer, had not a Hamburgher come in above a
Month sooner than any of the Englijh Ships, when
after some Consideration, that the City of Ham-
burgh might happen to be as good a Market for
our Goods as London, we all took Freight with
him, and having put my Goods on Board, it was
most natural for me to put my Steward on Board
to take Care pf them, by which Means my young
Lord had £ sufficient Opportunity to conceal hirn^
self, never coming on Shore in all the Time we
stayed there; and this he did, that he might not
be seen in the City, where some of the Mufcow
Merchants would certainly have seen and disco-
vered him.
We sailed from Arch-Angel the 20th of August
the same Year, and after no extraordinary bad
Voyage, arrived in the Elbe the 13 th of September.
Here my Partner and I found a very good Sale for
our Goods, as well those of China, as the Sables,
&c. of Siberia j and dividing the Produce of our
Effects, my Share amounted to 3475 --17-- 3d.
notwithstanding so many Losses we haci sustained,
jind Charges we had been at; only remembring
that I had included in this, about six hundred
Pounds worth of Diamonds which I had purcha-
sed at Bengal.
Here the young Lord took his Leave of us, and
went up the Elbe in order to go to the Court of
Vienna, where he resolved to seek Protection, and
where he could correspond with those of his Fa-
ther's Friends who were left alive. He did not
P?rt
part without all the Testimonies he could give
me of Gratitude for the Service I had done him,
and his Sense of my Kindness to the Prince his
Father.
To conclude, having staid near four Months
in Hamburgh^ I came from thence over Land to
the Hague, where 1 unbark'd in the Pacquet3
and arriv'd in London the 10th of January, 1705,
having been gone from England ten Years and
nine Months.
And here, resolving to harrass myself no
more, 1 am preparing for a longer Journey than
all these, having iiv'd 72 Years, a Use of infi-
nite Variety, and learn'd sufficiently to know the
Value of Retirement and the idling of end*
ding our Days In Peace.
 
F 1 N 1 £
Books Printed for and Sold by W. Taylor*
at the Ship in Fat er-Nosier-Row*
Jr. 'T* HREE short Treatises: (i.) A Modest Pica for
J| the Clergy, (2.) A Sermon of tiie Sacerdotal Be-
nediction. (3.) A Discourse PublisiYd to undeceive the
People in Point of Tithes. Published by Dr. Hickes.
2. A Collection of Tracts in Defence of the Church of
England. Recornmended. by Dr. Hickes.
3. Dr. Whitby's Annotations on the New Testament in
3 Vol. Folio. The 4th Edition. N. B. The Addi-
tions may be had alone, which will compleat the S^t$
of those who have bought; the former Impressions.
4. Dr. Burnet's (Late Bishop of Sarum) Sermons on feve-
* ral Occasions: To which is added, An Essay towards a
New Book of Homilies. Writ at the Request of the
Late Archbishop Tijlotfon.
J. A Supplement to Mr. Nelson's Festivals: Being a
Companion for the Lord's-Day.
6. Mr. Nelson's Companion for the Festivals and Fasts
of the Church of England.
7. Eusebius's Ecclesiastical History in Folio. Translated
from the best Paris Edition.
8. Mr. Kettlewell's Nine Discourses: With his Character.
By R> Nelson, £%
9. A Body of Divinity consonant to the Doctrine of the
Church of England, In 2 Vol. By N Clark, Rector of
Shafton St. James's in Dorset.
10. Drelincou' t of Death.
11. Nelson's Great Duty, of Frequenting the C. Sacrifice.
12. The Apologies of Justin Martyr, Terrullian, and Mi-
nucius Fœlix, in Defence of the Christian Religion:
With the Commonitory of Vincentius Lirinenlis.
Translated from their Original: Together, With a
Prefatory Dissertation about the right Use of the Fa-
thers. By W. Reeves, M. A. Rector of Craneford irt
Middlesex.
13. Dr. Geddes Tracts in 3 Vol. Octavo.
14. Bishop Wilkins of Prayer and Preaching.
15. Selden * Table-Talk. A
16. Wv
BOOKS Sold by W. Taylor,
16. Bishop Beveridge's Thoughts, in 2 Vol. 80. Printed
on a large Letter, and fine Paper, adorn'd with Cuts.
17. Mr. Locke's Paraphrase oh St. Paul's Epistles.
,3# His Familiar Letters, 80.
J9 ^ His Works in 3 Vol. Fol.
20. Moral Books of the Old Testament Paraphrased.
21* Mr. Spinckes's Sick Man Visited, So. ad Edition.
22* Dr. Woodward's Fair Warnings to a Careless World,
with Cuts. 3d Edition. #
13. The Devout Communicant Exemplify d, in his Beha-
viour before, at, and after the Sacrament, 1 rnio.
24. Mrs. Singer's Collection of Divine Hymns and Poems.
a j. Bishop Beveridge's Sermons in 12 Vol. 80.
z& _ His Great Necessity of Publick Prayer, and1
Frequent Communion.
27. Dr. Marshall's Translation of St. Cyprian, with his
Life, Folio.
18. Arch-Deacon Echard's Ecclesiastical History, Folio.
29. Dr. Barrow's Works, 2 Vol. folio.
30. Arch-Bifliop WhitgitVs lift. Published by Mr.
Strype, Folio.
31. Religious Philosopher, 3 Vol. 80.
32. Dr. Barrow of Contentment, Patience and Resigna*
tion to the Divine Will.
33. Bishop Taylor's Liberty of "Prophesying.
34. Directions how to Walk with God al! the Day long.
By a Reverend Divine of the Church of England.
35. Arch-Bishop Wake's Sermons, on several Occasions,
80. ad Edition.
36. Dr. Wife's Sermons, PreachM at the Metropolitan
Church of Canterbury, 80.
37. Arch-Deacon Pearson's Sermons, PreachM at the Ca-
thedral of York.
38. The Life of Arch-Bishop Tillotson, In Folio and
Octavo. .
3p — Of Mr. Kettlewell. By Dr. Hickes, Mr,
Nelson, &c. .'
40. Mr. Kettle well's Works, in 1 Vol. in Fol.
41. Mr. Chillingworth's Works, Folio.
42. Mr. Lowthe's Independency of the Church, &c.
43. Dr. Lowthe's Commentary on Isaiah and Jere*
miah, 40.
44. Bibliotheca Biblica: Or, A Commentary on the
Bible.
4?. Arch-Bishop of Cambray of the Existence of God, &c*
46. Boetius of the Consolation of Philosophy. By Lord
Preston.
47. Bishop BlackhaH's Sermon*. Published in his Life-
Time, Vol. a. 4*-
4$. Dr. Moor, late td. Bishop of Ely's Sermon's, 2 Vol. U.
49. The History of Diodorus Siculus, the moil ancient of
Historians, Tranflated into English hy G. Booth, Esq;
50. Mr. Wing's whole Art of Surveying and Measuring
of Land, Fol.
$1. The Roman History by Titus Livlus. Faithfully
done into English, Fol.
52. PufFendorfFs Law of Nature and Nations, with Bar.
beral's Notes.
53- Clark's Praxis Curiæ Ecclesiasticæ, 40.
54. Cæsar cum Notis Delphini.
55« Suetonius cum Notis Delphini.
56. Ludlow's Memoir^ of the Civil War, 3 Vol. So.
57- Clerici Logica, nmo.
58. Salust cum Notis Delphini, So.
59. Beza's Latin Testament, nmo.
60. Mr. Lock of Education.
61. His Treatises of Government. N. B. The for-
mer Editions are very erroneous.
62. Dean Hickes's Sermons in * Vol. Bo.
63. Culpeper's English Physician, nmo,
64. -—- HisMidwifry, nmo.
6$. —- His Dispensatory, nmo.
66, New Academy of Complements.
67. Claris Body of Divinity, 2 Vol. So.
6%, Dr. WehYsDionysius, Cum. Tab. Geogr.
69. Virgil cum Notis Delphini, 80.
70. — Idem NotisBinaldi, nmo.
7*. Era/mus Notis Binaldi, nmo
I2. Mr. Reeves Translation of Justin Martyr, &c»
73. Brown's Spelling Book, 80.
?4. English Expositor, nmo.
75s. Gibson's Anatomy, 7th Edit.
16. Poetæ Minores Gr. & Lat.
77. Q. Curtius Delphini, 80,
78. Needham's Hieroclis Gr. & Lar.
79. Cole's Dictionary, Engliih & Lat.
80. Tetemachus Tranflated by Mr. Boycr.
81. Hebrew Psalter, nmo.
82. Keay^s Measurer's Companion.
83. Baxter's Horace, 80.
84. Lucian's Works, English, 4 Vol. Bo.
85. Arwaker's Fables. „.«—,« ,,. «
t6. Mr. Marshall's Chronological Tables revis J by the
late Bishop of Worcester, Folio.
87. Six Maps of Scripture Geography, proper to bind up
with Folio Bibles; Or, Dean Prideaux s Connexion.
U. Mr. ChiUingworth's Safe Way to Salvation.
89. Boyfe s
89. Bo)se's Exposition on the 39 Articles of the Church
of England, Folio.
90. Ihe Works of the Learn d Dr. Barrow, published by
Archbishop Tillutson. Folio.
91. Dr Simon's can-leat Herbal, with Cuts, Folio.
92. Vk :\>.,s iiijtaniiicus; Or, the British Architect, m
two H<!--cired large Plates, by Mr. Campbell, Folio.
93. i.u^a.vU s Mofutflion Anglicanum in English. Folio.
94. she Life of Archbishop lillotsony Folio.
95. Littleton's dictionary.
96. Demonstvatio de Deo, Authore Josepho Raphson, 40.
9l' Z *' i^f'^1' eqimtionum, ab eodem Authore.
98. Bloom s History pf the Bible.
9^. Lowtb\ Convr.ntary on Isaiah and Jeremiah, 40.
joclJVij. Senexs Survey of .the Roads of England and
waits, 4c.
loi. The Life and strange surprizing Adventures of Ro«
bimon Cruloe, of York, Mariner, in 2 Vol.
102. Dr. Quincy's Dispensatory, 80.
103. - His Physical Dictionary.
jo4. The History of the Turks, with the Life and Alcho-
ran ot Mahomet, in 4 Vol. So.
Jos. Plutarch's Lives and Morals, irt 10 Vol. iimo.
106. Ov/d's Metamorphosis in 2 Vol. nmo.
,07. — Epistles in English, with Cuts, '12m*.
108. Art of Love, &c. translated by Mr. Dryden, &c.
109. Mjlton s Paradise Lost, with new Cuts, and Mr. Ad-
dilon s Notes, 1 imo.
xs?: sjrJ0an Suckling's Works, with some Account of
his Life, iimo.
in. Sir John DenhamVPocms, with the Sophy, a. Tra-
gedy, iimo. J
112. Poems on several Occasions, by the Rev. Mr. Pom-
fret, iimo. 
llV IKcelebrated Poems of Dr.John Donne, Dean o
at. raul s, 1 imo.
114. The Devil on two Sticks, an agreeable and Instru-
ctive Satyr on the Virtues and Vices of the Age, nmo.
115. Lady W inchelsea's Poems, 80.
116. Plautus Comedies, translated by Mr.Echard, with
Remarks.
117. The new Atlantis in 2 Vol. nmo.
118. Dr. Garth's Dispensary with Cuts, and a compleat
Key, iimo. r
119. Mr. Arthur Manwaring's Works
/so. The Reward of Virtue, being the Adventures of
Iheagmes, andChariclia, 2 Vol. iimo.
111. Dr. Desagtiliers's Hy drostaticks, %u x a *
&k
 
fi 'til*: '<' rtw".;i.';-^ 
'ft
*a
 
%""'
I
&*$$>' •
Vwf,.rrv'>
'* «."' # "* *\
