MAYNARD'S ENGLISH CLASSIC SERIES
ROBINSON CRUSOE
BY
x Daniel De Foe
ADAPTED FOR' USE IN SCHOOLS
By PETER PARLEY
TWUtb Introduction ano tlotes

, i**%i
NEW YORK
CHARLES E. MERRILL CO.

DANIEL DEFOE
Copyright, 18g5, by Maynard, Merrill, & Co-
-r-'f*7
Introduction
Daniel Defoe, immortal as the author of Robinson
Crusoe, was born about 1661, in the parish of St.
Giles, London, England. His family belonged origi-
nally to Northamptonshire, and his father, James Foe,
was a butcher in St. Giles's, and was living so late as
1705. It was Daniel who first changed his name to
De Foe, or Defoe, about 1703, for unknown reasons.
His parents were dissenters from the Established
Church, and he had a good education at a dissenting
academy. He soon, however, abandoned his early
idea of becoming a dissenting minister, and engaged
in business, apparently as a hose-merchant, about
the year 1685. Little is known of his early life, but
it seems he was out with Monmouth, and it is certain
that he volunteered into King William's army in
1688, traveled both in France and Spain, and became
bankrupt about 1692. His debts, or at least a great
part of them, he paid up later with a scrupulousness
most honorable to him. His restless pen was active
throughout the bitter struggle under Anne between
the High-Church party and the dissenters, and his
famous treatise, The Shortest Way with the Dissenters
(1703), made him a martyr in the cause. Ostensibly
written by a "high-flyer," it advocated the extirpa-
tion of dissenters with a masterly irony, which at
first deceived and then infuriated his opponents, as,
in his own words in The Present State of Parties
4 INTRODUCTION
(1712), it "cut the throat of the whole party." The
House of Commons ordered the book to be burned,
and a reward of fifty pounds was offered for his ap-
prehension, from which fortunately we have an exact
description of his appearance as "a middle-sized,
spare man, about forty years old, of a brown com-
plexion, and dark brown-colored hair, but wears a
wig ; a hooked nose, a sharp chin, gray eyes, and a
large mole near his mouth." Tried at the Old Bailey
in July, he was sentenced to pay a fine of 200 marks,
to stand thrice in the pillory, and to be imprisoned
during the queen's pleasure. Accordingly, the 'un-
abashed Defoe ' stood in the pillory the last three days
of July, 1703, in the midst of a sympathetic mob that
protected him from insult, and even drank his health.
On the same day he suffered appeared his masculine
Hymn to the Pillory, which concluded with a noble
defiance to the government, expressed in some of his
finest lines. During his imprisonment in Newgate he
continued an incessant literary activity upon "oc-
casional conformity " and other points at issue in the
great controversy, published a "true collection" of
his writings, and started his Review (19th February,
1704—11th June, 1713). At first a weekly, after eight
numbers a bi-weekly, and after the eighth number of
the second volume a tri-weekly newspaper, "purged
from the errors and partiality of newspapers and
petty statesmen of all sides." This was Defoe's largest
if not his most important work, and indeed forms one
of the greatest monuments of literary industry ever
reared by a single hand, embracing as it does, in more
than five thousand printed pages, essays on almost
every branch of human knowledge, and these written
during but nine years, in which also he published no
fewer than eighty distinct works, themselves contain-
ing as many as 4727 pages. Its "Scandal Club,"
which discussed minor matters of manners, was dis-
tinctly the forerunner of the more famous Tatlers and
Spectators. In August, 1704, Defoe was released
from prison at the instigation of his friend Harley,
who, moreover, procured for him pecuniary relief and
employment, thus earning for himself the journalist's
unceasing gratitude.
In 1715 appeared the first volume of the Family
Instructor, and four years later the first volume of
the immortal Robinson Crusoe, which at once leaped
into that popularity which it will never cease to
retain. The same year appeared the second volume,
and the year after the greatly inferior sequel. De-
foe's realistic imagination worked most freely on a
basis, however slight, of fact, and this was found for
him in the four years' solitary residence of a marooned
sailor, Alexander Selkirk, on the island of Juan Fer-
nandez. Perhaps no man at fifty-eight in the whole
history of literature ever devised a more splendid
masterpiece of creative imagination than this marvel-
ous story, which carries with it the irresistible con-
viction of very truth.
Meantime Defoe had been prospering in his affairs.
He built himself a ' very handsome house,' at Stoke-
Newington, where he amused himself with gardening,
and the company of his three daughters. A mystery
not yet satisfactorily explained hangs around his last
days. His affairs seem to have fallen into confusion,
one of his sons had behaved undutifully, and he was
under apprehensions of some trouble, which may,
however, have been due merely to a degree of mental
derangement. He died "of a lethargy" in Rope-
makers' Alley, Moorfields, 26th April, 1731, and was
buried in Bunhill Fields.
Defoe remains one of our greatest English writers,
and his greatness is of a kind unlikely to be disturbed
by a competitor. His immense vitality and "energy,
clear-sightedness, and ready power of forcing plain
arguments either in prose or verse to an irresistible
conclusion, make him the typical journalist—to be

Map showing the Places mentioned in the Narrative.
surpassed only by Swift at his best ; but it is to a
much rarer quality than this that he owes his fame—
his incomparable realism and faithfulness in fiction,
the secret of which must be looked for, not in his
singularly plain and direct language, his simple-look-
ing but most effectively artistic digressions, or his
\
perfect though artless preservation of dramatic pro-
priety, but in that subtle and impalpable genius which
informs his style. For his character he was shifty,
and perhaps somewhat low in his moral perceptions.
In this story of Robinson Crusoe, edited by that
famous writer for the young, Peter Parley (S. G.
Goodrich), it is designed to present the narrative,
as originally published by Defoe, freed from the
exceptionable passages which that contains Sir Walter Scott has remarked that this work has
given more pleasure than any other in our language.
It is perhaps more universally read than any other.
It is desirable, therefore, that it should be purified
from every thought and expression which might sully
the mind-or manners of youth. The work is full of
moral truth and lessons of virtue; and it is hoped
that in its present shape it may be useful and accept-
able to young readers.
I I ,

"AVe saw a sight that filled us with horror.'
ROBINSON CRUSOE
CHAPTER I.
I was born in the city of York, England, in the
year 1632. My father was a foreigner, being a
native of Bremen, and acquired a handsome prop-
erty by mercantile pursuits, in which he first
engaged in Hull. My mother's maiden name was 5
Robinson, and I was called Robinson Kreutznaer,
or, by corruption, Crusoe. We are now called,
nay, we write our name, Crusoe; and so my com-
panions always called me.
I had two brothers, both older than myself.10
The eldest rose to the rank of lieutenant-colonel
in the army, and fell at the head of his regiment
in the battle near Dunkirk, which was fought
against the Spaniards. The fate of my second
brother was never discovered. 15
It was supposed that, after the loss of two mem-
* Bremen, a large city and port of Germany, on the Weser.
7 Corruption of words. Uncommon words, and words difficult to pronounce
often get changed into others which are easier or already known.
ROBINSON CRUSOE
at one time held by the Kngli»h.
bers of the family, I should be contented to follow
the wishes of my father, and settle quietly at home,
in some peaceful and honorable profession. But,
alas! I was bent on going to sea.
5 Neither my parents nor relatives were satisfied
with this idle longing for perilous adventure. My
father strongly advised me to relinquish my wild
projects, and assured me that I should never go to
sea with his consent. In the kindest manner, he
1o pointed out the dangers which would threaten me,
the hardships I should be compelled to undergo,
and feelingly adverted to the fate of my two elder
brothers, the remembrance of which caused the
tears to flow down his venerable cheeks. In con-
trast to the dangers of the ocean, he painted the
calm and safe delights of domestic life on shore,
and ended by conjuring me to follow his advice,
and listen to his reasoning.
The sight of my father in so much trouble, for
20 a time, dimmed the adventurous fire within me,
and I internally resolved to remain at home, and
comfort the declining years of my excellent parents.
But it was not long before I began to be weary of
the land, and sigh for the unknown pleasures of the
25 sailor.
By means of my mother, I endeavored to obtain
my father's consent to my going on board some
vessel; but he was inflexible. To this day I can-
not forget the awful solemnity with which he said,
30" That boy might be happy, if he would stay at
home; but if he goes abroad, he will be the most
miserable wretch that ever was born. I can give
no consent to it."
b One day, I went by chance to Hull, where I
happened to meet an acquaintance, of about my 5
own age, who was going to London in one of his
father's vessels. He offered me a passage, and
urged me to accompany him; and, without con-
sulting my father or mother, without even letting
them know of my intention, without asking God's 10
blessing on my voyage, in an evil hour, on the 1st
of September, 1651,I went on board a ship bound
for London.
My misfortunes commenced early; for no sooner
had we got out of theHumber, than the wind began 15
to rise, and we were soon exposed to the fury of a
tempest. I attempted to walk the deck, but was
soon thrown off my feet, and compelled to cling to
a water-cask for safety. I was dreadfully sea-sick,
and believed that death was near. In the agony 20
of my spirit, I prayed Almighty God to save my
life, and promised, if my prayer was heard, and I
"was permitted once more to set foot on land, that
I would never leave my poor parents again.
But when the storm ceased, and I saw the wide 25
waters, lately lashed into fury, smiling before me
in blue beauty, I forgot the promises I made the
night before, and plunged at once into the mad
,BHumber, the opening or river-mouth between Yorkshire and Lincoln,
shire, England, on which Hull stands.
revelry of my shipmates. When I spoke of the
storm, they laughed at its terrors, and termed it a
"mere capful of wind," and it was, in fact, nothing
to what we soon after encountered while lying at
5 anchor in Yarmouth roads.
On this occasion, the wind blew in such a man-
ner, that we were forced to cut away the masts;
and even this was not enough; for, finding the
vessel sinking, we had recourse to a boat, into
to which we got with great difficulty.
We had not been more than a quarter of an hour
out of our ship, when we saw her sink; and then
I understood for the first time, what was meant by
a ship foundering in the sea. I must acknowledge
15 that I had hardly eyes to look up, when the sea-
men told me she was sinking; for, from the mo-
ment they put me into the boat, my heart was, as
it were, dead within me, partly with fright, partly
with horror of mind, and the thoughts of what was
20 yet before me.
But at length we reached the land in safety.
My misfortunes did not cure my passion for the
sea; and so, instead of going home to my parents,
I embraced an offer made me by the captain of a
25 vessel bound to the western coast of Africa, to be
his companion in the voyage, free of expense, and
with liberty to traffic with the natives. My kind
friends supplied me with about ,£40, which I ex-
6 Yarmouth roads, a belt of sea off Yarmouth in Norfolk, where ships lie
at anchor.
pended on such toys as the captain told me would
be salable at Guinea. The voyage proved un-
commonly prosperous; and, on my return, I found
myself the possessor of £300, which so fired my
imagination, that I determined to continue in the 5
Guinea trade, doubting not that I should soon
become a rich man.
Alas! these extravagant expectations were
doomed never to be realized. My second voyage
was disastrous. When near the African coast, we iO
were attacked by a vessel belonging to the Moorish
pirates of Sallee, and, our ship being disabled in
the fight, three of our men killed, and eight
wounded, we were obliged to yield, and were all
carried prisoners into Sallee, a port belonging to 15
the Moors.
My treatment was not so harsh as I feared that
it might be; for, while my shipmates were taken
into the interior of the country, to labor for the
emperor, the pirate-chief, pleased with my youth20
and activity, kept me to wait upon himself. Two
years were passed in sighing for my liberty; for I
had no means of making my escape. My master
would not take me to sea with him, and when his
ship was in port, I slept in the cabin, but was 23
closely watched.
2 Guinea, a large district on the west coast of Africa. Guineas were so
called because first made of gold brought from there. Part of Guinea is called
the Gold Coast. See Map.
12 Satfoe, a town in Morocco,on the north-west coast of Africa, formerly noted
for the number of pirates there. See Map.
However, being once sent in my master's long-
boat, with Ishmael, or Muley, a Moor, and Xury,
a Moresco boy, to catch some fish, I conceived the
hope of making my escape. This boat had a cabin
5 in the middle, like that of a barge, with a place to
stand behind it to steer in, and room before for a
hand or two to stand and work the sails. She
sailed with what we call a shoulder-of-mutton sail;
and the boom was jabbed over the top of the cabin,
10 which lay very snug and low; it had room in it for
my master to lie with a slave or two, and a table
to eat on, with some small lockers to put in some
bottles of such liquor as he thought fit to drink,
together with his bread, rice, and coffee.
£5 On pretence of a prospect of sport, I conveyed
guns, powder and shot, on board, previously to
which I had stowed away a great lump of beeswax,
which weighed above half a hundredweight; with
a parcel of twine or thread, a hatchet, a saw, and
20 a hammer, all of which were of great use after-
wards, especially the wax, to make candles.
Everything needful being prepared, we went out
of port to fish. The wind blew from N. N. E.,
which was contrary to my desire; for, had it blown
25 southerly, I had been sure to have made the coast
of Spain, and at least reached the bay of Cadiz;
but my resolutions were, blow which way it might,
8 Moresco. one of the mixed race of Moors and Arabs.
The Moors inhabited the North of Africa, and got their name from their dark
color.
M Cadiz, on the south-west coast of Spain.
ROSWSdN CRUSOZ t$
I would quit that horrid place where I was, and
leave the rest to fate.
After we had fished some time, and caught
nothing,—for, when I had fish on my hook, I would
not pull them up, so that he might see them,—I S
said to the Moor, "This will not do, our master
will not thus be served; we must stand farther
off." He, thinking no harm, agreed, and, being in
the head of the boat, set the sails; and, as I had
the helm, I stepped forward to where the Moor10
was, and, pretending to stoop for something behind
him, I seized him by surprise, and tossed him clear
overboard into the sea.
He rose immediately,—for he swam like a cork,
—and called to me, begging to be taken in, and 15
telling me that he would go all over the world
with me. He swam so strongly after the boat,
that he would have reached me very quickly, there
being but little wind; upon which I snatched a
fowling-piece, and, taking aim at him, told him 20
I had done him no hurt, and, if he would be quiet,
I would do him none. "But," said I, "you swim
well enough to reach the shore, and the sea is
calm; make the best of your way to shore, and I
will do you no harm; but if you come near the25
boat, I'll shoot you through the head; for I am
resolved to have my liberty."
On this, he turned about, and swam for the
shore; and I do not doubt that he reached it with
ease, for he was an excellent swimmer. 30
I could have been content to have taken this
Moor with me, in the place of the boy; but there
was no trusting him. When he was gone, I turned
to the boy, and said to him, "Xury, if you will be
5 faithful to me, I'll make you a great man; but if
you will not stroke your face to be true to me,"—
that is, swear by Mahomet and his father's beard,
—" I must throw you into the sea too." The boy
smiled in my face, and spoke so innocently, that I
1o could not mistrust him; and he promised to be
faithful to me, and go all over the world with me.
CHAPTER II.
For several days, the wind favored our design
of coasting in a southerly direction; and it was
with sincere pleasure that I found myself far from
15 the emperor of Morocco's dominions. At length
I determined to land, as we were out of water, and
accordingly dropped anchor, one evening, in a little
creek, where I doubted not we should be able to
supply our wants.
20 We were deterred from landing that evening, by
the hideous roarings of some huge wild beasts,
which plunged into the creek, and lashed the
7 Mahomet, or Mohammed, was born at Mecca, about 570 a. m, where he
spent most of his life. He died 632 a. d" and was buried at Medina. He
founded a religion which is called Islam, and which is now professed by many
millions of people in the East.
waves in their terrible gambols, conveying an idea
of terror which I never shall forget. One of these
monsters swam to the boat, but, upon my discharg-
ing a fowling-piece at him, turned round, and
made for the shore. 5
All that I saw and heard convinced me that this
was that vast country south of Morocco, which the
negroes had abandoned to the wild beasts, and
which the Moors occasionally enter in immense
bodies, for the sake of hunting. Having procured 10
water, I again left the coast.
The want of proper nautical instruments was a
serious one; but I entertained the hope of meet-
ing with some Christian merchant-vessel on the
coast of Africa. There appeared to be little pros-15
pect of the speedy fulfilment of this hope, and I
began to look upon myself as an outcast, justly
punished for quitting the domestic fireside, and
neglecting the excellent advice of the best of
parents. 20
One day, on approaching the coast, I perceived
a huge lion lying on the side of a hill. "Xury," said
I to the boy, "you shall go on shore and kill him."
Xury looked frightened, and said, " Me kill! he
eat me at one mouth!" one mouthful, he meant: 25
however, I said no more to the boy, but bade him
lie still, while I took our largest gun, and loaded
it with a good charge of powder, and two
slugs, and laid it down. Then I loaded another
gun with two bullets; and the third,—for we 30
2
i8
ROBINSON CRUSOE
had three pieces—I loaded with five smaller bul-
lets.
I took the best aim I could with the first piece,
so as to shoot him in the head; but he lay with
5 his leg raised a little above his nose, and the slugs
hit his leg above the knee, and broke the bone.

"He gave the most hideous roar that I ever heard."
He started up, growling at first, but, finding his
leg broke, fell down again, and then got up upon
three legs, and gave the most hideous roar that I
10 ever heard.
I was a little surprised that I had not hit him
upon the head; however, I took up the second
19
piece immediately, and, though he began to move
off, fired again, and shot him through the head,
and had the pleasure to see him drop, and make
but little noise, but lie struggling for life.
Then Xury took heart, and insisted on going 5
ashore. "Well, go," said I ; so the boy jumped
into the water, and, taking a little gun in one
hand, swam to shore with the other hand, and,
coming close to the creature, put the muzzle of the
piece to his ear, and, shooting him through the 10
head a second time, dispatched him.
This was game, indeed, but no food; and I was
very sorry to lose three charges of powder and
shot, upon a creature that was good for nothing to
us. However, thinking that his skin might be, in 15
one way or other, of some value to us, Xury and I
went to work upon him; but it took us both the
whole day. At length we got the hide off him,
and, spreading it on the top of our cabin, the sun
effectually dried it in two days' time; and it after-20
wards served me to lie upon.
It was some time before we saw any of the na-
tives. The first negroes we beheld were naked
and unarmed, and brought us water and food. I
was at a loss how to reward these poor friendly 25
creatures, until an incident occurred which enabled
me to do them an essential service. As they stood
upon the shore, a wild animal from the mountains,
in pursuit of another beast, dashed through them,
and plunged into the water. 30
As he approached rather nearer our boat than
was agreeable, I fired my fowling-piece at him,
and sent a ball through his brain. His companion
escaped. On drawing him out of the water, he
5 proved to be a large and beautiful leopard, the skin
of which I carefully preserved.
It is impossible to express the astonishment of
the poor negroes at the noise and fire of my gun:
some of them fell upon the sea-beach almost life-
1o less. But when they saw the creature dead, and
sunk in the water, they took heart, and held up
their hands in admiration of the weapon I had
killed the leopard with.
When I was in doubt where I should ever be-
15 hold a Christian face again, the welcome sight of
a sail on the horizon revived all my hopes. But
doubt soon mingled with my hope. The vessel
might be an enemy—might not be coming to meet
us. Joy! joy I she nears! She descries us! We
20 can see them lower a boat. Yes; we were rescued
from our perilous solitude by a Portuguese
merchant-ship, bound for the Brazils!
The captain behaved with great generosity to-
wards me. He purchased my boat, and such
25 articles as I was willing to sell, and even induced
me to part with the boy Xury. I was very loath
to sell the poor boy's liberty, when he had assisted
me in gaining my own; but I stipulated that the
captain should agree to free him in ten years, on
30 condition of his turning Christian.
When, shortly afterwards, I settled in the Bra-
zils, and commenced raising sugar-canes and
tobacco, I found, more than ever, that I had done
wrong in parting with my boy Xury. But, alas!
for me to do wrong, that never did right, was no 5
great wonder.
However, I went on with my plantation, gradu-
ally accumulating property, but too rash and too
ambitious to be satisfied with the ordinary means
of gaining wealth. I had been discontented with 10
my early home; I was discontented now, and must
go and leave the happy prospect of being a rich
and thriving man in my new plantation, only to
pursue a rash and immoderate desire of rising
faster than the nature of the thing admitted; and 15
thus, as will be seen, I cast myself down into the
deepest gulf of human misery that ever man fell
into, or that is consistent with life and a state of
health, in this world.
It happened that three merchants came to me 20
one morning, to make, as they said, a secret pro-
posal to me. They told me that they had a mind
to fit out a ship to go to Guinea; that they all had
plantations as well as I, and were straitened for
servants; that as it was a trade could not be carried 25
on, for they could not publicly sell the negroes
when they came home, so they desired to make
but one voyage, to bring the negroes on shore
privately, and divide them among our own planta-
tions; and, in a word, the question was, whether I30
would go as their supercargo in the ship, to man-
age the trading part upon the coast of Guinea;
and they offered to give me an equal share of the
negroes, without providing any part of the stock.
5 I, that was born to be my own destroyer, could
no more resist the guilty offer, than I could restrain
my first rambling designs, when my father's good
counsel was lost upon me. I went on board, in
an evil hour, on the 1st of September, 1659, being
1o the same day, eight years, that I- went from my
father and mother, at Hull, in order to act the
rebel to their authority, and the fool to my interest.
Our ship carried about one hundred and twenty
tons burthen, mounted six guns, and carried four-
15 teen men, besides the master, his boy and myself.
We had on board no cargo of goods, except such
toys as were fit for our trade with the negroes, as
beads, bits of glass, shells, and odd trifles, especially little looking-glasses, knives, scissors, hatchets, and
2o the like.
After passing the line, being in about 7 degrees
22 minutes north latitude, a violent tornado or
hurricane, which settled into a regular nor'easter,
took us quite out of our knowledge, and drove us
25 along for twelve days. Finding out, at length,
something about our position, the master and I
concluded that it was most prudent to steer for
Barbadoes, which we judged to be the nearest
land.
30 But, being in latitude 12 degrees 18 minutes,
another storm came upon us, and drove us west-
ward, out of the track of commerce. In this dis-
tress, we discovered land; and soon after, the ship
struck upon a sand-bank. With great difficulty,
we launched our only boat, got into it, and, show s ing off from the vessel, committed our souls to
God in the most earnest manner; and, the wind
driving us towards the shore, we hastened our
destruction with our own hands, pulling, as well
as we could, towards the land. 10
As we made nearer and nearer the shore, the
land looked more frightful than the sea. After
we had driven about ten miles, as we reckoned it,
a raging wave took us with such fury, that it over-
set the boat at once; and, separating us from one 15
another, gave us not time even to utter a prayer,
for we were swallowed by the waves in a moment.
I was, myself, cast at length upon the rocks by a
tremendous wave, and there I clung fast, that I
might avoid being drowned. After a little time, 2o
I found that the waves were not as high as at first,
and being near land, I held on till they abated. I
then took a run, which brought me so near the
shore, that the next wave, though it went over me,
did not carry me away; and the next run I took2S
brought me near the main land, where, to my great
comfort, I clambered up the cliffs of the shore, and
was out of the reach of the water.
I now knelt down' upon the grass, and, looking
upward, thanked my gracious God for preserving 30
my life, when, but a few minutes before there ap-
peared to be no hope. I believe it is impossible to
express what the ecstasies and transports of the
soul are, when it is so saved as I may say, out of
5 the very grave. I do not wonder now, that, when
a malefactor, who has the halter about his neck,
and is just going to be hurled into eternity, if he
has a reprieve brought him—I do not wonder that
they bring a surgeon to bleed him the moment he
1o is informed of it, that the surprise may not drive
the life from his heart;
For sudden joys, like griefs, confound at first.
I now cast my eyes toward the stranded vessel,
but the breach and froth of the sea were so great,
15 that I could hardly see it in the distance, and could
not but wonder how I could have got to the land.
CHAPTER III.
Having secured myself in the branches of a
tree, I enjoyed a comfortable night's rest, and
awoke the next day much refreshed. I found that
20 the vessel had been stranded within about a mile of
the shore, and saw that, had we remained on board,
all of us would have been saved. But, alas 1 none
but myself was left. I swam to the vessel, and
found that, although there was a great deal of
water in her, the provisions were dry; and I made
a hearty meal on biscuit.
I built a raft of spare yards and planks, and the
first article that I committed to it, was a carpenter's
chest of tools. My next care was to get ammuni-
tion and arms. There were two very good fowl-

The first cargo from the wreck.
ing-pieces in the great cabin, and two pistols,
these I secured, with a small bag of shot, and two
old rusty swords. I knew there were three barrels
of powder in the ship, but knew not where ouriO
gunner had stowed them; but with much search I
found them, two of them dry and good, the third
wet. I got them into my boat, with the arms.
I had three encouragements in getting them on
shore: 1. A smooth, calm sea. 2. The tide rising
5 and setting in to the shore. 3. What little wind
there was blew favorably for me. I fortunately
found two or three broken oars belonging to the
boat, and besides the tools which were in the chest,
I found two saws, an axe, and a hammer; and
10 with this cargo I put to sea. For about a mile, my
raft went very well, only I found it drive a little
way from the place where I intended to land; by
this I perceived that there was some current in the
water, and I hoped to find a creek or river, in
i 5 which I could land my cargo with safety.
I soon saw a little opening of the land, and I
found a strong current of the tide set into it; so
I guided my raft as well as I could to keep the
middle of the stream. But now I almost suffered
20 shipwreck, by running on a shoal, from which the
rising tide finally lifted me off. I was carried on
shore in a little creek, and the turn of the tide left
my cargo high upon the land.
The next thing I did was to view the country,
25 and seek some spot whereon to build a dwelling,
to shelter my goods. Ascending a high hill, about
a mile from the creek, I ascertained that I was
on an island, which appeared barren, and was
probably inhabited only by wild beasts.
30 Though I saw many I birds, could not tell
"\
whether they were fit to eat or not. On coming
back, I shot a large bird in a great wood. I be-
lieve it was the first gun that had been fired there
since the creation of the world. I had no sooner
fired, than, from all parts of the wood, there arose 5
an innumerable number of fowls, of various kinds,
making a confused screaming. They were all un-
known to me; and the flesh of the bird I shot was
like carrion.
I built a temporary hut with the articles that10
composed my cargo, and lay down to sleep, but
not without fear of wild beasts. The second
voyage I made to the ship, I brought away three
bags full of nails and spikes, a great screw-jack, a
dozen or two of hatchets, and, above all, that most 15
useful thing, called a grind-stone. All these I
secured, together with several things belonging to
the gunner, particularly two or three iron crow-
bars, two barrels of musket bullets, seven mus-
kets, and another fowling-piece, with an addi-20
tional quantity of powder, and a large bag full of
small shot. I found also a great roll of sheet
lead, but this was so heavy that I could not hoist
it up to get it over the ship's side.
Besides these things, I took all the men's 25
clothes that I could find, and a spare foretopsail, a
hammock, and some bedding; and with these I
14 Screw-Jack, an instrument for raising heavy weights by means of a
screw.
loaded my second raft, and brought them all safe
on shore, to my very great comfort.
I was under some apprehensions, during my
absence from the land, that, at least, my provisions
5 might be devoured on shore; but, when I came, I
found no sign of a visitor, except a creature, like
a wild-cat, that sat on one of the chests. She did
not appear to be afraid of me, nor did she attempt
to harm me; so I threw her a bit of biscuit,
To which she ate with satisfaction. She looked
as if she should like more; but I showed
her, that I could spare no more; so she marched
off.
My next care was to build a tent with sailcloth
15 and some poles that I had cut; and into this I con-
veyed those articles that I feared might be injured
by the sun and rain. I then piled up all the
empty chests and casks in a circle round the tent,
to fortify it against any sudden attempt, either of
20 man or beast.
When I had done this, I blocked up the door of
the tent with some boards within, and an empty
chest set upon end without; and, spreading one of
the beds upon the ground, laying my two pistols
25 just at my head, and my gun by my side, I went
to bed for the first time. I slept very quietly all
night, for I was very weary, and the night before
I had slept little, and had labored very hard all
day, as well to bring all the things from the ship,
30 as to get them on shore.
I had now the largest magazine, of all kinds,
that was ever laid up for one man; but I was not
satisfied still; for, while the ship sat upright, I
thought I would get everything out of her that I
could. So every day, at low water, I went on 5
board and brought away something.
Having got everything out of the vessel that I
thought would be of any service to me, I began to
think it necessary to secure myself against sav-
ages, or wild beasts, should any appear. I found to the place I was in was not fit for a settlement, as I
was upon a low, marshy ground, near the sea, and
I believed the spot would not be healthy, particu-
larly since there was no fresh water near it; so I
resolved to look for a more healthy and convenient 15
spot of ground.
At length, I found a little plain at the foot of a
rising hill; the front of this hill, toward the plain,
was steep as a house-side, so that nothing could
come down upon me from the top. On the side 20
of this, there was a rock with a hollow place worn
a little way in, like the entrance or door of a
cave; but there was not really any cave, or way
into the rock, at all.
On the flat of the green, just before this hollow 25
place, I resolved to pitch my tent. This plain
was not above a hundred yards broad, and about
1 Magazine, a storehouse. The word is used here for the things kept in a
storehouse.
twice as long, and lay like a green before my door,
and, at the end of it, the ground descended irregu-
larly every way down into the low lands by the
sea side. It was on the north-west side of the
S hill, so that I was sheltered from the heat every
day, till it came to a west-by-south sun, which, in
those countries, is near the setting.
Before I pitched my tent, I drew a half-circle
before the hollow place, in which I planted two
1orows of strong stakes, driving them into the
ground till they stood very firm, like piles; the
biggest end being about five feet and a half out of
the ground, and sharpened at the top. The two
rows did not stand above six inches from each
pother.
I next took the pieces of cable, which I had cut
in the ship, and laid them one upon another, with
in the circle between the two rows of stakes, up tc
the top; then placing other stakes in the inside,
20 leaning against them, about two feet and a half
high, like a spur to a post. This fence was so
strong that neither man nor beast could get into
it, or over it. It cost me a great deal of time and
labor, especially the cutting and driving in of the
25 piles.
The entrance into this place was not by a door,
but by a short ladder, to go over the top; which
ladder, when I was in, I lifted down after me; so
that I was completely fenced in, and fortified, as I
30thought, from the world; and, consequently, slept
secure in the night, which, otherwise, I could not
have done.
I succeeded in excavating the rock, and making
a cave just behind my tent, which served me as a
cellar. The first day I went out shooting, I dis- 5
covered that there were many wild goats on the
island. After I had resided on the island some
ten or twelve days, it occurred to me that I should
lose my reckoning, for want of books, pen and ink,
and should even be unable to distinguish the Sab-i0
bath from the working-days; so, to prevent this, I
erected a great cross upon the sea-shore, and in-
scribed upon it with my pen-knife, "I came on
shore here on the 30th of September, 1659." Up-
on the sides of this post, I cut, every day, a notch l5
with my knife; and every seventh notch was as
long again as the rest, and every first day of the
month as long again as that long one: and thus I
kept my calendar, or weekly, or monthly, and
yearly reckoning of time. 20
I forgot to mention, that I brought out of the
ship, pens, ink, and paper, several parcels in the
captain's, mate's, and carpenter's keeping, three or
four compasses, some mathematical instruments,
dials, perspectives, charts, and books of navigation ; 25
all of which I huddled together, uncertain whether
I might want them, or no. I also found three
very good Bibles, some Portuguese books, and
among them two or three prayer-books, beside
several other books; all of which I carefully30
secured. I must not forget to mention, that we had
on board the ship, two cats and a dog. I carried
the cats on shore: the dog swam to land the day after the wreck, and was a trusty servant to me
5 for many years. I wanted nothing that he could
bring me, nor any company that he had the power
to furnish. I only wanted to have him talk to
me; but that he could not do.
I was in want of a spade, pick-axe, and shovel,
10 needles, pins, and thread; and it was a long time
before I got my other things to rights. But I
made a table and chair and shelves, and then set
to work to keep my journal. I had reason to be
thankful that I was alive—that there was no pros-
opect of my starving—that I was cast upon an
island where there were neither savages nor wild
beasts to trouble me—and that God had wonder-
fully sent the ship in near enough to the shore, to
enable me to get necessaries to supply my immedi-
20 ate wants and provide for myself as long as I lived.
Although singled out and separated from all the
world, I was also singled out from all the ship's
crew, to be spared from death.
-
23
CHAPTER IV.
I kept my journal as long as my writing materials
lasted. I shall not copy the whole of this, because
it will only be repeating what the reader already
knows. My first entry in my journal was the
ROBINSON CRUSOE
September 30,1659. I, poor, miserable Robinson
Crusoe, being shipwrecked, during a dreadful storm,
came on shore on this dismal, unfortunate island,
which I called the Island of Despair; all the rest
of the ship's company being drowned, and myself 1o
almost dead.
The 31st, in the morning, I went out into the
island, with my gun, and killed a she-goat: her
poor kid followed me home. The little thing re-
fused to eat, and I was forced to kill it also. 15
December 10. I began to think the cave, or
vault, in the rear of my tent, finished, when, on a
sudden (it seems I had made it too large), a great
quantity of earth fell down from the top, on one
side, terrifying me greatly. It would have killed 20
me had I been in at the time. Accordingly, this
day I commenced erecting posts to secure my cave,
and made shelves across between them, and drove
nails into them to hang up things upon.
3
December 27. Killed one young goat, and lamed
another, so that I caught it, and led it home by a
string. When I reached home, I found that his
leg was broken, and so set to work, and splintered
5 it. I took such care of it that it lived, and the leg
grew as strong as ever; but, by nursing it so long,
I had tamed it completely, and it refused to leave
me, feeding on the green before my door. This
was the first time I thought of breeding tame crea-
te tures to serve me for food, when I had fired away
all my powder and shot.
From January to April, I kept hard at work
upon my dwelling and wall, though my work was
often interrupted by the rain, which, in the wet
15 season, falls almost incessantly. Among other
things, of which I stood in need, and could not make,
was a hooped cask. I also wanted candles, and, to
supply myself, made use of the following contriv-
ance. When I killed a goat, I saved the tallow,
20 and put it in little dishes of baked clay, to which
I made wicks of oakum; and these gave me a
pretty bright, but an unsteady kind of light.
Happening to find a little bag, which had onc6
contained corn that had been eaten by the ship rats,
25I threw out the dust that remained at the bottom,
just before the rainy season, when, to my great
surprise, about a month afterwards, ten or twelve
ears of English barley sprung forth. I gathered
* Splintered, fastened with splinters or small pieces of wood to keep it
straight.
these, with some stalks of rice; and they afterwards
yielded me abundant harvests.
April 17. There happened a most terrible
earthquake, that shook the earth from the top of
my cave, and cracked two of the posts, forcing me 5
to plant my ladder, and fly over the wall, in fears
for my life. I had no sooner reached the ground
without, than I perceived that it swelled fright-
fully, like the surge of the sea, and made me giddy
by its motion. A huge rock, about a mile off, was i0
shaken from its base, and the ocean boiled and
roared like the waters of a vast caldron.
The earthquake was followed by a heavy rain.
The dreadful scene I had just witnessed made me
think that it would be necessary to remove my 15
tent to some securer place; but I concluded to
stay where I was, till I found a spot that suited me.
May 1. In the morning, looking towards the
sea-side, the tide being low, I saw something lying
on the shore, which, on my coming up to it, turned 20
out to be a small barrel from the wreck. Finding
the wreck much broken up, I determined to get
what I could from it.
June 15. This day I ceased laboring to procure
articles from the wreck, having obtained a vast 2S
store of necessaries.
June 16. Going down to the sea-side, I found a
large tortoise, or turtle. This was the first I had
18 Turtle* The turtle, or sea-tortoise, is properly a reptile which has its back
covered by a horny case or shell, from under which it puts out its head, limbs, seen, which, it seems, was my misfortune, and not
a defect of the place, or scarcity. The next day I
spent in cooking the turtle. The flesh was the
most agreeable I ever tasted in my life, and formed
a pleasant change from that of the goats and 5
pigeons I had been eating all along.
June 18. This day brought the commencement
of an attack of fever and ague, which lasted, with
a few intervals, until July 3, when the fits left
me, but left me so weak that I did not recover my 10
strength for some weeks after. In all this time, I
used tobacco, in various ways as medicine; but I
doubt if it was any advantage to me.
While I was gathering strength, my mind dwelt
upon the passage in Scripture, " Call on me in the 15
day of trouble, and I will deliver thee, and thou
shalt glorify me." I began to think that I did not
feel the gratitude I ought. I was forced to ask
myself these questions, viz. Had I not been
delivered, and wonderfully too, from sickness— 20
from the most distressing condition that could
be? and what notice had I taken of it! Had
I done my part? God had delivered me, but
I had not glorified him; that is to say; I had not
owned and been thankful for the deliverance; and 25
how could I expect a greater?
These reflections touched my heart very much,
and tail. It can swim much better than it can walk, and seldom comes ashore
except to lay its eggs. Both the eggs and the flesh of some turtles are very
good to eat.
and I immediately kneeled down, and gave God
thanks aloud for my recovery from sickness.
From the fourth of July to the fourteenth, I
was chiefly employed in walking about, with my
gun in my hand, a little and a little at a time, as 5
is necessary to one that is gathering his strength
after a fit of sickness; and it can hardly be im-
agined to what weakness I was reduced. In one of
my brief expeditions, I encountered two seals
upon the sea-shore; but, the moment they espied10
me, they made off, with clumsy haste; and I was
too weak and spiritless to give them chase. I now
learned, by experience, that being abroad in the
rainy season was most pernicious to my health.
I had now been in the Island of Despair more 15
than ten months, and saw no possibility of an
escape from it; but I had secured my habitation
fully to my mind, and had a great desire to make
a fuller survey of the island, and see what produc-
tions I might find, that might be useful to me. 20
On the 15th of July, I began my particular
survey of the island. I first went up the creek,
where I brought my rafts on shore, and found, after
I came about two miles up, that the tide did not
flow any higher, and that it was no more than a 25
little brook of running water, very fresh and good;
but, this being the dry season, there was hardly
14 Pernicious, injurious; hurtful.
27 Dry season. In tropical countries, the sun being always so nearly over-
head, they cannot have spring, autumn, or winter. They have a perpetual sum-
any water in some parts of it; at least, not enough
to run into a regular stream.
On the banks of this brook, I found many
pleasant savannahs, or meadows, plain, smooth, and
5 covered with grass; and, on the rising parts of
them, next to the higher grounds, where the
water never overflowed, I found a great deal of
tobacco. There were, also, many other plants, but
I did not know their names. I searched in vain
10for the cassava root, of which the Indians make
their bread. I saw large plants of aloes, although
I did not then know them, and several sugar-
canes, in a wild state.
On the 16th of July, I went up the same way
I5again; and, after going something farther than I
had done the day before, I found that the brook
and savannahs ceased, and the country became more
closely covered with trees. In this part of the
country, I found different fruits—melons lying on
20 the ground in abundance, and grapes growing
upon vines, which hung in beautiful festoons from
tree to tree. These rich and abundant clusters of
grapes were now just ripe.
I knew, by experience, that it was imprudent to
25 eat freely of them from the vine, but I made them
mer; and the only division of seasons that can be made is into rainy and dry.
See p. 44.
4 Savannahs, properly a North American name for large meadows or
prairies.
10 Cassava. From the fibre of this plant tapioca is obtained
11 Aloe, a plant used in medicine.
39
useful by drying them in the sun; thus securing
a supply of excellent raisins for the season when
fruit was scarce.
In the night, I slept in a tree, and the next
morning pursued my course of discovery, travel- 5
ling about four miles, keeping to the north, with
a ridge of hills on the south and north side of me.
At the end of my march, I came to an opening,
where the country seemed to descend to the west;
and a little spring of fresh water, which issued out10
of the side of the hill by me, ran the other way,
that is, to the east. The country appeared so
fresh, so green, so flourishing, everything being
in constant verdure, and in the bloom of spring,
that it seemed like a fairy garden. 15
I descended a little on the side of that delicious
valley, surveying it with a secret kind of pleasure,
to think that this was all my own—that I was
king and owner of all this country, and had an in-
disputable right to it. I saw here abundance of 20
cocoa-trees, orange, and lemon, and citron trees,
but all wild, and few bearing any fruit, at least,
not then; however, the green limes that I
gathered were not only pleasant to eat, but very
wholesome; and I mixed their juice afterwards 25
with water, which made it very wholesome, and
very cool and refreshing.
I now resolved to lay up a store of grapes, limes,
and lemons, to furnish myself for the wet season,
which I knew was approaching. In order to do 30
this, I gathered a great heap of grapes in one place,
and a smaller heap in another place, and a great
parcel of limes and lemons in another place; and,
taking a few of each with me, I travelled home-
5 ward, and resolved to come again, and bring a bag,
or sack, or what I could make, to carry the rest
home.
Accordingly, having spent three days in this
journey, I came home (so I must now call my tent
1o and cave); but, before I got thither, the grapes
were spoiled: the richness of the fruit, and the
weight of the juice, having broken and bruised
them, they were good for little or nothing. As to
the limes, they were good, but I could bring only
15 a few.
The next day, being the 19th, I went back, hav-
ing made two small bags, to bring home my harv-
est. But I was surprised, when, coming to my
heap of grapes, which were so rich and fine when
20I gathered them, I found them all spread abroad,
trodden to pieces, and dragged about, some here,
some there, and abundance eaten and devoured.
By this, I concluded that there were some wild
creatures thereabouts; but what they were, I knew
25 not.
However, as I found there was no laying them
up in heaps, and no carrying them away in a sack,
but that one way they would be destroyed, and
the other way they would be crushed with their
30 own weight, I took another course; I gathered a
-x
large quantity of the grapes, and hung them upon
the outer branches of the trees, that they might
cure and dry in the sun; and, as for the limes and
lemons, I carried as many back as I could well
walk under. 5
When I came home from this journey, I consid-
ered, with pleasure, the fruitfulness of the valley,
and the pleasantness of the situation; the security
from storms on that side of the water, and the
wood; and concluded that I had pitched upon the .10
very worst part of the country for my abode. Up-
on the whole, I began to think of removing my
situation, and looking out for a safe dwelling-place
in that pleasant, fruitful part of the island.
I thought on this subject for a long time, the 15
pleasantness of the place tempting me; but when
I came to a nearer view of it, and considered that
I was now near the sea-side, where it was, at least,
possible that something might happen to my ad-
vantage, and that the same ill fate that brought 20
me hither might bring some unhappy wretches to
the same place; and though it was scarcely prob-
able that any such thing should ever happen, yet
to enclose myself among the hills and woods, in
the centre of the island, was to ensure my bondage, 25
and to render my release not only improbable, but
impossible; I thought, therefore, I ought not, by
any means, to remove.
However, I was so charmed with this place, that
I spent much of my time there for the whole re-3"
maining part of the month of July; and though I
resolved not to remove, yet I built me a little kind
of bower, and surrounded it, at a distance, with a
strong fence, being a double hedge, as high as I
S could reach, well staked and filled between with
brushwood; and here I lay very secure, sometimes
two or three days together, always going over the
fence by a ladder, as before; so that I now con-
gratulated myself on having a country house and
to a sea-coast house. This work occupied the begin-
ning of August.
As soon as my fence was finished, I thought I
should enjoy the fruit of my labor, when the rains
came on, and made me keep to my first habitation;
15 for, though I had made me a tent, like the other,
with a piece of a sail, and spread it very well, yet
I had not the shelter of a hill to keep me from
storms, nor a cave behind me, to retreat into during
extraordinary rains.
20 About the beginning of August, as I said, I had
finished my bower, and began to enjoy myself.
The third of August, I found that the grapes I had
hung up were perfectly dry, and were, in fact, ex-
cellent raisins. So I began to take them down
25 from the trees; and it was very lucky that I did
so, for I had more than two hundred large bunches
of them; and no sooner had I taken them all
down, and carried most of them to my cave, than
it began to rain. From that time (the 15th of
30 August) it rained, more or less, every day, till the
42 ROBINSON CRUSOE
middle of October, and sometimes so violently
that I could not stir out of my cave for several
days.
One of my cats, that had been missing for some
time, came back again with a troop of kittens at 5
her heels; and, as they soon grew up, I began to
be afraid that the little cats would eat me out of
house and home; so I found myself obliged to
clear them out without much ceremony.
From the 14th of August to the 26th, there was 10
incessant rain, so that I could not stir out. In
this confinement, I began to be straitened for food;
but, venturing out twice, I one day killed a goat,
and the last day, which was the 26th, found a very
large turtle, which was a treat to me. My food 15
was regulated thus:—I ate a bunch of raisins for
my breakfast, a piece of the goat's flesh, or turtle,
broiled, for my dinner, and two or three of the
turtle's eggs for supper.
During my confinement, I worked daily, two or 20
three hours, at enlarging my cave; and, by degrees,
worked it on towards one side, till I came to the
outside of the hill, and made a door or way out,
which came beyond my fence or wall; and so I
came in and out this way. 25
September 30. I had now reached the unhappy
anniversary of my landing. I added up the notches
on my post, and found I had been on shore three
27 Anniversary, the same day of the year as that on which a former event has
happened.
hundred and sixty-five days. I kept this day as a
solemn fast, setting it apart for religious exercises,
prostrating myself on the ground with the most
serious humiliation, confessing myself to God, ac-
5 knowledging the righteousness of his judgment
upon me, and praying him to have mercy upon me,
through Jesus Christ. I did not taste any food
until the going down of the sun, when I ate a bis-
cuit-cake and a bunch of grapes, and went to bed,
10 finishing the day as I had begun it.
As soon as the rains were over, and the weather
began to settle, which was about the month of
November, I made a visit up the country to my
bower; where, though I had not been there for
15 some months, I found all things just as I had left
them. The circle, or double hedge that I.had
made, was not only firm and entire, but the stakes,
which I had cut off some trees that grew there-
abouts, had shot out into long branches, like wil-
20 lows.
I was pleased to see the young trees grow; and
in three years they formed a delightful grove,
which afforded a charming shade and pleasant
lodging-place, during the dry season.
25 I found, now, that the seasons of the year might
generally be divided, not into summer and winter,
as in Europe and North America, but into the
rainy seasons and the dry seasons as follows :—
38 Rainy seasons and dry seasons. In the tropics, immediately underthe
rays of the sun, the air becomes heated and rises, thus causing other air to flow
4S
Half February, \
March, } Rainy.
Half April, )
Half April,
May,
June, y Dry.
July,
Half August,
Half August,
September, > Rainy.
Half October,
Half October,
November,
December, > Dry.
January, j
Half February, J
I5
I spent a great deal of time in the basket-mak-
ing, for I had found good materials, and soon grew
very expert at the business. I employed myself 20
in this wicker-work, and in planting my second"
rows of stakes, all the summer, or dry season, when
another business took up more time than it could
be imagined I could spare.
in both from north and south to fill the empty space. Two opposite winds are
thus produced, called the Trade-Winds. These flowing over the surface of
the ocean become laden with water, and when they meet, right under the sun,
they too rise upwards until they reach a colder region above, when the water
which they carried in the form of vapor becomes condensed into clouds and then
into rain, and falls down in very heavy showers. When the sun is north of the
equator it is the rainy season there, since the trade-winds only meet, and the rain
only falls, immediately under the sun. Therefore places near the equator have
two rainy and two dry seasons every year, since the sun passes over them twice
in the course of each year.
CHAPTER V.
Having resolved to go across my island, I set
out with plenty of powder and shot, some biscuit
and raisins in my pouch, with my gun and hatchet,
and my faithful dog as a companion. I passed
5 from my bower until I saw the sea to the west;
and, as it was a clear day, discovered land, stretch-
ing from the westward to west-south-west.
I had very little doubt that this was the con-
tinent of South America, but supposed it was that
io portion inhabited by savages, who are cannibals,
and dreaded by the Spaniards. How much reason,
then, had I to be thankful that I had not been
thrown upon their inhospitable shore I
I found this side of the island much pleasanter
15 than the one on which I had settled; there being
abundance of fruit, birds, a kind of hare, and
foxes, and plenty of turtles. I must not forget to
mention that I succeeded in knocking down a
young parrot with a stick, and carried him home
20 with me; but it was some years before I could
teach him to pronounce my name.
I travelled along the shore to the east, about
twelve miles, when I set up a pole to mark the
spot, intending, at some future time, to travel
from my dwelling towards the east, till I should
reach this post. On returning, I got lost among
the woods and valleys; and when I finally
reached my habitation, I was so overjoyed, that I
resolved not to quit it, for some time, at least. In S
this journey I caught a young kid, which I suc-
ceeded in taming.
My crops of corn, from which I had hoped so
much, and which I had carefully enclosed, to keep
off beasts, were destroyed by birds, until I shot10
some of the offenders, and hung them up in my
cornfield; after which I was no more plundered.
The want of earthen-ware induced me to try my
hand at the potter's trade. Two months' labor
produced me a pair of the ugliest jars that ever I 15
set my eyes on. I soon got to making smaller
things quite handily; but, as they were only baked
in the sun, they would not hold water and beer.
I wanted an earthen pot that would do both.
It happened, after some time, when I went to 20
put out a large fire that I had made, I found a
broken piece of one of my earthen-ware vessels in
the fire, burnt as hard as a stone, and red as a tile.
I was agreeably surprised to see it, and said to my-
self that, certainly, they might be made to burn 25
whole, if they would burn broken.
I placed three large pipkins and two or three
pots in a pile, one upon the other, and placed my
firewood all round it, with a great heap of embers
under them. I kept supplying the fire with fresh 30
fuel round the outside, and upon the top, till I saw
the pots in the inside red-hot quite through, and
observed that they did not crack at all. When I
saw them clear red, I let them stand in that heat
5for about five or six hours, till I found one of
them, though it did not crack, about to melt; for
the sand which was mixed with the clay melted
with the violence of the heat, and would have run
into glass, if I had gone on. So I slacked my fire
10 gradually till the pots began to lose their red
color. I watched them all night, that I might not
let the fire die away too fast, and in the morning
found I had three very good—I will not say very
handsome—pipkins, and two other earthen pots,
r5as hard burnt as could be desired. One of them
was perfectly glazed with the running of the sand.
The care with which I cultivated my corn and
rice, was repaid by abundant harvests, till, at
length, I raised forty bushels of barley and rice a
20 year, which, I calculated, was full enough to
supply my wants. My corn I beat with a pestle
of iron-wood, in a huge wooden mortar. I suc-
ceeded so well with my pottery, that I was at no
loss for the means of baking.
25 When I had arranged all my things comfortably,
I began to think seriously about leaving the island,
and I wondered how I should be able to accomplish
it. If I had had my boy Xury and the long-boat
-2 Mortar, pestle. A mortar is a hollow stone vessel in which anything is
ground or pounded by a heavy instrument called a pestle.
with the shoulder-of-mutton sail, we could have
left the island in a twinkling, and skimmed the
waters like a sea-bird—but it was vain to think of
these!
I worked away a long while upon our ship's 5
boat, that was cast upon the shore in the storm;
but all my labor was thrown away, for I could not
refit her. At length I determined to make a canoe
in the woods.
I went to work upon this boat like a man who 10
had none of his senses about him. To be sure, the
difficulty of launching my boat often came into my
mind, but I put a stop to my own inquiries with
this foolish answer, " Let me first make it—I war-
rant I'll find some way or other to get it along, iS
when it is done."
This was a most preposterous method; but the
eagerness of my fancy prevailed, and to work I
went, and felled a cedar tree: I question much
whether Solomon ever had such an one for the 20
building of the temple of Jerusalem. It was five
feet ten inches in diameter, at the lower part next
the stump, and four feet eleven inches in diameter
at the end of twenty-two feet, after which it dimin-
ished for a while, and then parted into branches. 25
It was not without infinite labor that I felled
this tree. I was twenty days hacking and hewing
at it at the bottom; I was fourteen more getting
the branches and limbs, and the vast spreading
head of it, cut off, which I hacked and hewed 30
4
through with my axe and hatchet with inexpres-
sible labor.
After this, it cost me a month to shape it, and
cut it to proportion, and to something like the
5 bottom of a boat, that it might swim upright, as it
ought to do. It cost me nearly three months more
to clear the inside, and work it out so as to make
an exact boat of it. This I did by mere mallet
and chisel, and by dint of hard labor, till I had
10 brought it to be a very handsome periagua, large
enough to carry six-and-twenty men.
When I had gone through with this work, I was
delighted with it, and entering it, surveyed it in
triumph. The boat was really much larger than I
15 ever saw a canoe or periagua that was made out of
one tree in my life. Many a weary stroke it had
cost, you may be sure; and now there remained
nothing to do but to get it into the water. If I
could have got it into the water, I should have
20 begun the maddest voyage that was ever under-
taken.
But all my plans for getting it into the water
failed, though they cost me infinite labor. It lay
about one hundred yards from the water, and not
25 more; but the first inconvenience was, it was up-
hill towards the creek. With prodigious pains I
dug away the surface of the earth, so as to make
a descent from the canoe; but I could no more stir
the canoe than I could the other boat.
30 Then I measured the distance of ground, and
51
resolved to cut a dock or canal, to bring the water
up to the canoe, seeing that I could not bring the
canoe to the water. Well, I began this work, and
when I began to enter into it, and calculated how
deep it was to be dug—how broad—how the stuff 5
was to be thrown out—I found it must have been
ten or twelve years before I should have gone
through with it; for the shore lay high, so that, at
the upper end, it must have been, at least, twenty
feet deep. At length, with great reluctance, I10
gave over this attempt. This grieved me sadly;
and now I saw the folly of beginning a work, be-
fore we count the cost, or know our own strength.
In the middle of this work, I finished my fourth
year in this place, and kept my anniversary with 15
the same devotion, and with as much comfort, as
before. I had now been here so long, that many
things which I had brought from the wreck, were
either gone or nearly spent. My ink was almost
gone :—but what troubled me most, my clothes had 20
decayed.
I do not know that I have mentioned, that I had
saved the skins of all the creatures I had killed,
and dried them in the sun. The first thing I made
of these was a great cap for the head, with the hair 25
on the outside to shed the rain. I afterwards made
a whole suit of clothes from these skins; that is to
say, a waistcoat and breeches, open at the knees,
both loose, and badly enough made, for I was a
very indifferent tailor. 30
52
ROBINSON CRUSOE
Lastly, I made an umbrella, and covered it with
skins, so that it served to keep off both sun and
rain. When I had no use for it, I could close it
and carry it under my arm.
5 Thus I lived comfortably, and resigned myself
to the will of God, throwing myself wholly upon
the disposal of his providence. This made my life
better than sociable; for, when I began to regret
the want of conversation, I would ask myself,"
10 whether thus conversing with my own thoughts,
and, as I hope I may say, even with my Maker,
in my prayers, was not better than the utmost
enjoyment of human society in the world.
CHAPTER VI.
Fob about five years, nothing extraordinary
15 happened to me, but I lived along in the old way.
Besides my yearly labor of planting my barley and
rice, and curing my raisins, and my daily sporting
with my gun, I went to work to make me a canoe.
I kept hard at it till I had finished it, when, by
20 digging a little canal, I fairly got it afloat.
As for the large canoe, it was of no use to me,
and so I let it stay where it was, to remind me to
avoid undertaking anything again before I had
calculated my means for finishing it. My little
periagua, being finished in two years, was, as I
have just said, fairly afloat.
Yet the size of it would not permit me to cross
to terra firma, and so I gave up all thoughts of
doing so; but I resolved to sail round my island. 5
For this purpose I fitted up a little mast to my
boat and made a sail to it out of some of the pieces
of the ship's sails that I had saved. Having tried
the boat, and found that she sailed very well, I made
little lockers or boxes at each end of the boat, to10
put provisions, necessaries, ammunition, etc., into
to be kept dry. I cut a little hollow place in the
inside of the boat, where I could lay my gun,
making a flap to hang down over it to keep it dry.
I fixed my umbrella, also, in a step at the stern, T5
like a mast, to stand over my head, and keep the
heat of the sun off me, like an awning, and thus I
make my first little trip in comfort. At last,
being eager to sail round my little kingdom, I re-
solved upon my tour, and, accordingly, victualled 20
my ship for the voyage, putting in two dozen of
my loaves of barley-bread, an earthen pot full of
parched rice, of which I was very fond, half a goat,
powder and shot for killing more, and two large
watch-coats, which I had formerly got out of the 25
seamen's chests. These I took, one to lie upon,
and the other to cover me in the night.
It was the sixth of November, in the sixth year
of my reign, or my captivity, whichever you please,
that I set out on this voyage, and it was much 30
longer than I expected; for though the island
itself was not very large, yet, when I came to the
east side of it, I found a great ledge of rocks reach-
ing about two leagues into the sea, some above
5 water, some under it; and beyond this, a shoal of
sand, lying dry half a league more; so that I
was obliged to go a great way out to sea to double
that point.
When I first discovered these rocks, I was going
1o to give up my enterprise, and return, not knowing
how far I might be obliged to put to sea, and,
above all, not knowing how I could get back again.
So I came to an anchor, took my gun, went on
shore, climbed up a hill, and, having satisfied my
15 self about the length of the point, resolved to keep
on.
In viewing the sea from the hill where I stood,
I perceived a furious current which ran to the
east, and came close to the point; and I took par-
zo ticular notice of it, because I knew if I got into
it, I might be carried out to sea, and not be able to
make the island again. There was the same
current on the other side of the island, only it set
off at a greater distance; and I saw that there was
25 a strong eddy under the shore; so that I had
nothing to do but to get out of the first current,
and I should presently be in the eddy.
I lay here, however, two days, because the wind
26 Eddy, a whirl or circular current of water, often caused by a current striking
against something and being partly turned back.
SS
blew pretty fresh, and the surf rolled upon the
shore; so that it was unsafe to keep close to the
beach, on account of the surf, and dangerous to
keep farther out, on account of the stream. The
third day, in the morning, the wind having abated 5"
over night, the sea was calm, and I ventured; but
no sooner had I reached the point, and was only a
boat's length from the shore, than I found myself
in deep water, and in a current like the sluice of a
mill. 10
It carried my boat along with such violence,
that all I could do could not keep her so much as
on the edge of it; but I found it hurried me far-
ther and farther out from the eddy, which was on
the left hand. There was no wind stirring to help 15
me, and I could do nothing with my paddles. And
now I began to give myself up for lost, for, as the
current was on both sides of the island, I knew the
currents must soon join, and then I should be lost.
I had the dreadful prospect of perishing, not by 20
the sea, for that was calm, but by hunger. I had
indeed found a turtle on the shore, and tossed it
into the boat, and I had a pot of fresh water, but
what was this to being driven into the vast ocean,
where there was no shore, no main land or island, 25
for a thousand leagues, at least!
And now I even desired to be placed in my
former condition, miserable as I then thought it.
I looked back on my desolate, solitary island, as
l;Sluice of a mill, stream which flows put from a pond to drive a mill.
the pleasantest place in the world, and the greatest
wish of my heart was to be there again. I stretched
out my hands towards it with eager wishes.
"Oh, happy desert!" said I, "I shall never see
5 thee more!"" -
Then I reproached myself with my unthankful
temper, because I had repined at my solitary con-
dition: and now, what would I not give to be on
shore there again! I found it true that we do not
10 know how to value anything till we lose it. It is
scarcely possible to imagine my consternation on
being driven from my beloved island into the wide
ocean, almost two leagues. I almost despaired of
ever being able to return to it again.
15 However, I exerted myself to the utmost, and un-
til I was nearly exhausted, to keep my boat as much
to the northward as I possibly could. About noon,
as the sun passed the meridian, I thought I felt a
little breeze of wind in my face, springing up from
20 the south-south-east. This cheered me up a little,
especially when, in about half an hour, it blew a
gentle gale.
By this time, I was a great way from the island;
and,, if it had been cloudy, I should have lost
25 all hope of finding it again, for I had no com-
pass, and should not have known which way to
point the head of the boat. But, the weather con-
tinuing fine, I put up my mast again, sailed away
to the north, and endeavored to get clear of the
30 current.
A
Just as I had set my mast and sail, and the boat
began to move forward, I saw, by the clearness of
the water, that some alteration of the current was
near; for, where the current was very strong, the
water was foul. I found that some rocks caused 5
the current to part: the largest part of it ran to
the south, leaving the rocks to the north-east; and
the other part, returned by the repulse of the rock,
made a strong eddy, which ran back again to the
northwest, with a very sharp stream. Gladly I10
spread my sail, and ran cheerfully before the wind,
with a strong tide in my favor.
This eddy carried me about a league in my way
back again directly towards the island, but about
two leagues more to the northward; so that, when 15
I came near the island, I found myself on the
northern shore, opposite to the place at which I
had set out.
About four o'clock in the evening, being then
within about a league of the island, I found that 20
the point of rocks, stretching out, as I have de-
scribed before, to the southward, and casting off the
current more southwardly, had of course made
another eddy to the north; and this I found very
strong. However, with a fresh gale I stretched 25
across this eddy, slanting north-west, and, in about
an hour, came within a mile of the shore; and, as
it was smooth water, I soon got to land.
When I was on shore, I fell on my knees, and
gave God thanks for my deliverance, resolving to 30
lay aside all thoughts of escaping by my boat. I
refreshed myself with what things I had with me,
brought my boat into a little cove under the trees,
and lay down to sleep, quite worn out with the
5 labor of the voyage.
The next day, being resolved not again to en-
counter the perils of the sea, I determined to find
a harbor for my boat, which I did, and stowed it
away in a safe place. I then went on shore to see
10 in what part of the island I was.
I soon found that I was near the place where I
had been before, during my journey on foot; so,
taking nothing out of my boat but my gun and my
umbrella,—for it was exceedingly hot,—I began
15 my march homeward. I reached my old bower in
the evening, where I found everything standing
in good order, just as I had left it.
I got over the fence, and lay down in the shade
to rest my limbs, for I was weary, and soon fell
20 asleep. Judge of my surprise, when I was awak-
ened from my sleep by a voice calling me by name
several times—" Robin, Robin, Robin Crusoe!
poor Robin Crusoe! Where are you, Robin
Crusoe? Where have you been?"
25 I started up in the utmost terror; butno sooner
were my eyes fairly open, than I saw my Pol, sit-
ting on the hedge, and knew that it was he that
had been calling me, in that melancholy language
I had taught him. He would frequently sit upon
30 my finger, and lay his bill close to my face, and
cry, " Poor Robin Crusoe, where are you? Where
have you been? How came you here?"
I wondered how the creature came there, and
why he should keep about the place. However,
as I was well satisfied it could be nobody but 5
honest Pol, I held out my hand, and called him by
name; and the sociable creature came to me, and
sat upon my thumb, as he used to do, and con-
tinued saying to me, "Poor Robin Crusoe, how
did you come here? and where have you been ?" i0
just as if he had been overjoyed to see me again.
So I carried him along with me, and we reached
our home in safety.
Being now in the eleventh year of my residence
and my ammunition growing low, I began to25
devise some plan by which I might trap and snare
the goats, and keep them alive. I accordingly
made pitfalls, and succeeded both in catching and
taming them. In about a year and a half, I had a
flock of about twelve goats, kids and all; and in 20
two years more, I had forty-three, besides several
that I took and killed for my food. After that, I
enclosed five pieces of ground to feed them in,
with little pens to drive them into, and gates lead-
ing from one pen to another. 25
But this was not all; for now I not only had
goat's flesh to feed on when I pleased, but plenty
of milk; a thing which, in the beginning, I had
not thought of. I soon learned to milk my goats,
and had sometimes a gallon or two of milk in a 30
day. After a great many attempts, I made butter
and cheese, which were a great addition to my
comforts.
How merciful is God! How can he sweeten
5 the bitterest misfortunes, and give us cause to
praise him in dungeons and prisons! What a
table was here spread for me in the wilderness,
where, at first, I expected only to perish with hun-
ger!
10 It would have made the gravest of men smile,
to have seen me, and my little family, sit down to
dinner. There was myself, the prince and lord of
the whole island. I had the lives of all my sub-
jects at absolute command; to give life and
15 liberty, or take them away, as I pleased, and I had
no rebels among all my subjects.
Then to see how like a king I dined, too; all
alone, and attended by my servants! Pol, as if
he were my favorite, was the only person permitted
20 to talk to me: my dog, now grown very old and
crazy, sat at my right hand; and two cats were
placed, one on one side of the table, and one on the
other, expecting now and then a bit from my hand,
as an especial favor.
25 With this attendance, and in this manner, I
took my meals. When I passed my threshold,
and crossed my wall, I found new attendants in
my goats, which would often surround me on my
return from the chase, as if to welcome me home.
CHAPTER VII.
I NOW resolved to go down to the point where
my boat lay; but, surely, never before did man
travel in such a dress. My appearance would
have drawn a crowd of boys to my heels, in any
civilized country. I had a great, high, shapeless 5
cap, made of goat skin, with a flap hanging down
behind, to keep the sun and rain from my neck.
I had a short jacket of goat's skin, the skirts com-
ing down to about the middle of my thighs; and
a pair of open-kneed breeches of the same stuff. 10
Instead of stockings and shoes, I had a pair of
huge boots or buskins, that napped over my legs,
and were laced at the sides, like gaiters.
I had on a broad belt of dried goat's skin, in
which hung a sword and hatchet, one on each 15
side. Another belt, slung over my shoulders, sup-
ported two goat-skin pouches, which contained my
powder and shot. At my back I carried my bas-
ket—on my shoulder my gun—and over my head
I held a great, clumsy, ugly goat-skin umbrella; 20
but which, after all, was the most necessary thing
I had about me, next to my gun. My beard was
short, with the exception of a pair of very formi-
dable mustachios on my upper lip.
So much for my looks—about which I was not 25
at all particular, as there was no soul to see me.
I first ascended a hill, so that I could overlook the
point of rocks I was to double with my boat, and
was surprised to find the sea perfectly calm, with-
5 out any more motion or current than in other
places. I was soon convinced, from observation,
that the current was owing to the ebbing and flow-
ing of the tide.
One day, towpjds noon, as I was going to my
No boat, I saw the print of a man's naked foot upon
the shore. This filled me with horror and aston-
ishment. I stared wildly around me, expecting to
see a furious'savage, or, perhaps, a dozen of them,
every moment. Every stump and bush took the
15shape of a man; and I fled home, as if half a hun-
dred cannibals were hard upon my heels. For
weeks and months my fears continued.
One morning, early, as I was lying in my bed,
and filled with dread at the thought of meeting
2othe savages, the words of Scripture came into my
mind, "Call upon me in the day of trouble, and I
will deliver thee, and thou shalt glorify me."
Upon this, rising cheerfully, I not only felt com-
forted, but encouraged to pray earnestly to my
25 God for my deliverance. When I had done pray-
ing, I took up my Bible, and, opening it, saw these
words: "Wait on the Lord, and be of good cheer,
and he shall strengthen thy heart. Wait, I say,
on the Lord." It is impossible to express the com-
30 fort this gave me.
My cheerfulness did not soon abate; for I began
to flatter myself that the print of the foot which I
had seen was no other than my own, and that I
had absolutely been frightened to death at nothing
at all; so I took courage, and ventured to go 5
abroad again once more. I had not stirred out of
my castle for three days and nights; so that I
began to be in want of provisions, having little or
nothing within doors, but some barley cakes and
water. 10
I knew, too, that my goats wanted to be milked.
This was usually my evening's amusement; and
the poor creatures now must be sadly in want of
my help. Therefore, strengthening myself in the
belief that what I had seen was nothing but the 15
print of my own foot, I took courage, and went
abroad again, travelled to my country-house, and
milked my flock. But, to tell the truth, I went
along with fear and trembling, looking anxiously
about me, and starting at the rustling of every 20
leaf.
However, as I went out two or three days with-
out seeing anything, I grew bolder, and deter-
mined to go to the place where I had seen the
print of the foot, and measure it by my own, to 25
discover whether or no I had cause for alarm. I
found that my foot did not half fill the print on
the sand; and I was again filled with consterna-
tion. I thought that the island might be in-
habited, and that I was not safe a moment. 30
My fears did not suffer me to sleep that night;
and I passed the hours of darkness in thinking
what I could do to avoid an attack of the savages.
I thought at first, that I would tear down all my
s fences, destroy my barley, and drive my goats into
the woods, so that the savages should find nothing
to keep them on the island, or induce them to re-
peat their visit. Then I thought I would tear
down my tent and bower, and destroy everything
10 which might lead them to think that the island
was inhabited.
In the morning I fell asleep, and awoke rather
refreshed and comforted. I now laid aside the
foolish thoughts of the night. I concluded that
15 this island, which was so fruitful, pleasant, and
near to the main land, was not wholly deserted,
but that, though it was not regularly inhabited,
yet boats might often come off from the shore,
either by design, or driven by contrary winds.
20 I had lived here fifteen years now, and had not
met with a single being; so I concluded that, if
any men were driven on the island at times, they
probably went away again, without remaining
long. All I had to do, was to look out for some
25 safe retreat, in case the savages should land near
me.
Upon consideration, I resolved to make a second
fortification, in a half-circle, at a distance from my
wall, just where I had planted a double row of
— trees, about twelve years before. These trees had
been planted so thick, that there wanted only a
few piles to be driven between them to make a
thick and strong wall. This was soon done, and I
was very well satisfied with my work.
I now had a double wall. The outer wall was 5
thickened with pieces of timber, old cables, and
everything I could think of, to make it strong.
In this I cut seven holes, large enough for me to
put my arm through. Inside, I piled up dirt, and
stamped it down; so that the foot of the wall was 10
about ten feet thick. Through the seven holes I
planted the seven muskets that I got out of the
ship. I fitted them into frames, like gun-car-
riages, so that I could work them handily, and fire
the seven guns in two minutes. I planted nearly 15
twenty thousand stakes of a tree like the willow,
that grew easily in front of my wall, leaving a
space between them and my wall. Thus, in two
years, I had a thick grove, and in five years, a
wood before my dwelling, so thick and strong, that 20
it was really impossible to pass through it. Thus
I took all the measures human prudence could
suggest, for my own preservation.
While I was thus employed, I did not forget
my goats. They were of very great use to me : 2t.
indeed, the loss of them would have been felt
severely. They supplied me with milk; and it is
well known that goat's milk is the nicest in the
world; and I made abundance of butter and cheese
from it. When I wanted meat, I killed a goat; 30
5
and this saved my powder and shot, of which I
had good reason to be very careful.
I could think of but two ways to preserve my
goats: one was, to find another convenient place
5 to dig a cave under ground, and drive them into
it every night; and the other was, to enclose two
or three little bits of land, remote from one an-
other, and as much concealed as I could, that I
might keep about half a dozen young goats in each
10 place; so that, if any accident happened to the
flock in general, I might be able to bring some up
again with little trouble.
It was now my object to find some nice retired
spots, suitable for my purpose. I pitched upon
!5one, which was as private as my heart could wish;
for it was a little, damp piece of ground, in the
middle of the hollow and thick woods, where I
almost lost myself once before.
Here I found a clear patch of land, containing
20 about three acres, so surrounded by woods that it
appeared enclosed by nature. At least, it did not
want nearly so much labor to make it so, as the
other pieces of ground I had worked so hard at.
I immediately went to work with this piece of
25 ground and, in less than a month, I had so fenced
it round, that my flock or herd, which had lost
much of their wildness, were well enough secured
in it. I then removed some goats into it. All
this labor was in consequence of seeing the print
30 of a man's foot.
CHAPTER VIII.
I ttat> now lived two years in fear of the can-
nibals. After I had secured part of my live-stock
I went about the island to try to discover another
place of equal security, where I might place the
rest. One day, wandering more to the west point 5
of the island than I had ever done before, and look-
ing out to sea, I thought I saw a boat at a great
distance. I had found one or two spy-glasses in a
sea-chest, which I had saved out of the ship; but
I had neither of them with me. I gazed and 10
gazed upon the boat, which seemed like a speck
upon the sea, till my eyes fairly ached; but it was
too far off for me to make anything out of it; so
I thought I would come down the hill, resolving
not to go out again without a spy-glass. 15
When I came down the hill to the shore, being
the south-west point of the island, I was perfectly
confounded and amazed; for I saw the shore
spread with skulls, hands, feet, and other bones of
human bodies. I also observed a place where 20
there had been a fire made, and a circle dug in the
earth, where I supposed the savage wretches had
been feasting on the bodies of their unhappy
brethren.
"I was filled with horror and astonishment at the sight."
68
I gazed and gazed at the dreadful spectacle,
without any thought of my own danger. I was
filled with horror and astonishment at the sight.
To think of men so brutal, so cruel, as to murder
their fellow-creatures, and then cook and eat them. 5
It made the blood run cold within me. Then I
became very sick and faint, and crawled away from
that dreadful place as fast as I was able.
As soon as I had recovered, I lifted up my eyes
to heaven, and gave God thanks that I was set 10
apart from these miserable wretches, and that I
had been comforted with the knowledge of him-
self, and the hope of his blessing, which was a
happiness that made up for all the misery I had
suffered, or could suffer. I also felt relieved by 15
the thought, that I had been here eighteen years
without seeing any cannibals, and it might be as
long before they saw me, unless I chose to show
myself to them, which I thought I might easily
avoid doing. 20
Yet I felt such an abhorrence of the savage
beings that I have been speaking of, and of their
wicked, inhuman custom of eating one another up,
that I continued pensive and sad, and kept close
within my own circle for almost two years after 2,
this. When I say my own circle, I mean by it my
three plantations, namely, my castle, my country-
seat, or bower, and my enclosure in the woods.
All this time, I did not go to look after my boat;
and thought of building myself another, for I did 30
not wish to go round the island to get it, for fear
of meeting some of the inhuman wretches, who, I
did not doubt, would devour me, if I fell into their
hands. Time, however, began to wear off my un-
5easiness about them; and I lived much in the
same manner as before, except that I was cautious,
and kept constantly on the lookout. I was partic-
ularly careful about firing my gun, lest it should
be heard on the island. It was, therefore, fortu-
1onate that I had furnished myself with a tame
breed of goats, as I was now under no necessity of
hunting.
For two years after this, I believe, I did not once
fire a gun, though I never went out without one;
15 and, if you add to my former description of myself,
the particular of a brace of pistols, and a naked
broadsword, hanging in a belt, you must allow that
I was now a most formidable person.
I found a place in the side of a hill, where I was
20 satisfied I could securely watch for the cannibals'
boats. In that case, before they were ready to
come on shore, I formed a plan of removing to a
thicket of trees, in one of which there was a hollow
large enough to conceal me entirely. Here I
25 might sit and observe all the bloody doings of these
wretches, and take my full aim at their heads,
when they were so close together, that it was
next to impossible that I should fail of wounding
three or four of them at the first shot.
30 In this place, I prepared two muskets and my
ordinary fowling-piece. The two muskets I loaded
with a brace of slugs each, and four or five smaller
bullets, about the size of pistol-bullets. The fowl-
ing-piece I loaded with nearly a handful of swan-
shot, of the largest size. I also loaded my pistols 5
with about four bullets each; and thus, well pro-
vided with ammunition for a second and third
charge, I set out on my expedition.
After I had thus laid my plans, I continually
made my tour, every morning, up to the top of the 10
hill, which was about three miles from my house,
to see if I could observe any boats upon the sea,
coming towards the island; but I always came
back without making any discovery, though I kept
strict watch for three months. 15
But my feelings gradually changed with regard
to the savages, by a train of serious reflection. I
considered that, although the actions of the canalbals were doubtless very wicked, yet I had no
right to punish them myself; and to fire upon20
them would be an act little short of murder, and
guilty in the sight of Almighty God. Besides, by
interfering with them, I might bring destruction
on myself; and thus no one good purpose would
be gained. 25
In this disposition I continued nearly a year;
and so far was I from desiring an opportunity of
falling upon these wretches, that, during all this
time, I never went up the hill to ascertain whether
any of them had been on shore or not. I removed 3°
my boat, which was on the other side of the island,
and carried it down to the eastern shore, where I
put it into a little cove, which I found under some
high rocks, where I knew the savages would not
5 venture with their boats.
My fears, as to my safety, now almost put a
stop to my contrivance and inventions. I could
not drive a nail or chop a stick of wood, but with
fear that the noise should be heard; and I was
1overy unwilling to make any fire, lest the smoke,
which is seen from a great distance in the day,
should betray me. For this reason, I removed
that part of my business which required fire, such
as burning of pots and pipes, etc., into my new
15 apartment in the wood, where, after I had been
some time, I found, to my unspeakable consola-
tion, a natural cave, which was very deep, and
extended some distance into the earth.
The mouth of this hollow was at the bottom of
20 a great rock, where I had cut some thick branches
of trees, to make charcoal. Before I proceed, I
must tell you why I made this charcoal. I was
afraid of making a smoke about my habitation, as
I said before; and yet I could not live without
-5 baking my bread, cooking my meat, etc. So I con trfVed to burn some wood here under the turf, till
it became chark, or dry coal; and then, putting
1 Contrivance, skill In contriving or inventing.
"Charcoal, coal which is made by burning or charring wood under turf so as
to keep out the air. Charcoal givesa very hot clear fire without •moke.
73
the fire out, I preserved the coal to carry home
with me.
While I was cutting some wood here, I espied
a hollow place behind some low brush-wood. I
was curious to look into it; and, crawling with 5
difficulty into the mouth of it, I found it large
enough for me to stand upright in. But I must
confess that I made more haste to get out than I
did to get in; for, on looking farther into the
place, which was perfectly dark, I saw what I10
thought shining eyes, which twinkled like two
stars.
After some time, I recovered myself, and, laugh-
ing at my fears, seized a flaming brand, and dashed
into the cave again. But I suddenly stopped, on 15
hearing a deep sigh, which made my blood run
cold. However, there was no backing out; and,
screwing up my courage to the sticking point, I
went forward, and saw, lying on the ground, a
frightful old he-goat, just dying of old age. 20
I now looked around me, and found that the
cave was quite small, but so dark, that I put off
my examination till the next day. The next day,
I went, provided with several large candles, and,
passing through the outer chamber of the cave, 25
crawled through a narrow passage on my hands and
knees. When I got through this, I found that the
roof rose higher than twenty feet; and a more
glorious sight than the sides and ceiling of the
vault presented I have never seen. A hundred^
thousand brilliant spars reflected the light of my
candles; and it seemed as if I had suddenly stepped
into an eastern palace, which had been decked out
for a banquet.
5 It was, indeed, a most delightful grotto, though
quite dark. The floor was dry and level, and
covered with loose gravel. I rejoiced at this dis-
covery, and resolved, without delay, to take some
of those things which I was most anxious about to
10 this place; particularly my magazine of powder,
and all my spare arms. At my castle I kept five
muskets, which stood ready mounted, like cannon,
and were ready, also, for me to take out on any
expedition.
15 When I removed my ammunition, I was obliged
to open the barrel of powder, which I took up out
of the sea, and which had been wet. I found that
the water had penetrated three or four inches into
the powder on every side; which, caking and
20 growing hard, had preserved the inside, like a
kernel in a shell; so that I had nearly sixty
pounds of very good powder in the centre of the
cask. This was a pleasant discovery, at that time.
So I carried all away to my grotto. I also carried
25 thither all the lead I had left, for bullets.
I fancied that I was now like one of the ancient
giants, who were said to live in caves and holes of
the rocks, where no one could get at them; for I
1 Spars, stalactites of carbonate of lime hanging like icicles from the roof.
They are caused by the dripping of water.
persuaded myself, that, if five hundred savages
were to hunt for me, they could never find me;
or, if they did, would not venture to attack me.
The old goat, that I found expiring, died in the
mouth of the cave the next day after I made this
discovery; and, digging him a grave, I interred
him with great solemnity.
CHAPTER IX.
It was now the twenty-third year of my residence
in the island; and I was so naturalized to the
place, and the manner of living that, could I have ,0
enjoyed the certainty that no savages could come
to the place to disturb me, I could have been con-
tent to have remained, until, like the old goat in
the grotto, I lay down and died of old age.
It was now the month of December. On go-,,
ing out, early one morning, I was surprised at
seeing a fire-light upon the sea-shore, about two
miles off.
I went back to my castle, pulled my ladder after
me, and made all things look as wild and natural as 20
I could. Then I prepared myself within, loading
my cannon, or muskets and pistols; all the time
praying that I might be delivered from the hands
of the barbarians. I staid there about two hours,
when, getting impatient, I planted my ladder on 2$
the side of the hill, where there was a flat place,
and then, pulling the ladder up after me, I set it
up again, and mounted to the top of the hill. Pull-
ing out my spy-glass, I lay down flat on my face,
and began to look out for the savages.
5 I soon found that there were no less than nine
naked men sitting round a small fire. They had
two canoes with them, which they had hauled
upon the shore; and, as it was then ebb tide, they
seemed to await the return of the flood, to go
10 away again. As soon as the tide made to the
westward, I saw them all take to their canoes and
paddle away.
On going down to the shore, I could see the
marks of the dismal work they had been about—
15 the blood, the bones, and part of the flesh of human
bodies, which had been devoured by those wretches
with merriment and sport. I was so filled with
anger at the sight, that I began to meditate the
destruction of the next I saw there, no matter who,
20 or how many they were. It was a year and three
months before I saw any more of the savages.
On the 16th of May, there was a terrible storm
and, through the noise of the midnight thunder,
I heard the report of the guns of a vessel in distress.
25 So I brought together all the dry wood I could get
and made a great fire on the hill, which I supplied
with fuel, and kept alive till morning, when I saw
something, but what, I could not tell, stationary,
at a great distance from the shore.
30 I went towards the south-east side of the island,
and, the weather being perfectly clear, I could
plainly see, to my great grief, the wreck of a ship,
cast away in the night upon those concealed rocks,
which I had found out in my boat.
Some days after, the corpse of a boy washed on .5
shore at the end of the island which was next the
ship. He had on no clothes but a seaman's jacket,
a pair of open-kneed linen drawers, and a blue linen
shirt; but nothing which could give me an idea of
his name or nation. 10
It was now calm, and I had a great mind to
venture out -in my boat to this wreck, thinking
that I should find something useful on board. So
I hastened back to my castle, prepared everything
for my voyage, took a quantity of bread, a great 15
pot for fresh water, a compass to steer by, and a
basket of raisins; and, thus loading myself with
everything necessary, I went down to my boat,
got her afloat, and put my cargo into her.
Then I went home for more. My second cargo 20
was a great bag full of rice, an umbrella, to set up
over my head for a shade, another large pot full
of fresh water, and about two dozen of my small
loaves or barley-cakes, with a bottle of goat's milk,
and a cheese. I prayed God to direct my voyage, 25
and set out, paddling the canoe along the shore,
until I came to the north-east point of the island.
And now I prepared to launch out into the
ocean. I looked on the rapid currents which ran
constantly on both sides of the island, and which 30
were very terrible to me, from the recollection of
my former danger. My heart began to fail me;
fori foresaw that if I was driven into either of these
currents, I should be carried a great way out to
5 sea, and, perhaps, out of the reach or sight of the
78 ROBINSON CRUSOE
should rise, I should inevitably be lost.
These thoughts so oppressed my mind, that I was
beginning to relinquish my voyage, when, as I was
10 musing, I perceived that the tide had turned; so I
resolved to set out the next morning with the ebb-
tide. I slept that night, in the canoe, and the next
morning set out, and in less than two hours reached
the wreck.
15 It was a dismal sight to look at. The ship, which,
by its build, was Spanish, stuck fast, jammed in
between two rocks. All her stern and quarter
were beaten to pieces with the sea; and, as her
forecastle had run upon the rocks with great vio-
20 lence, her mainmast and foremast were broken short
off, but her bowsprit was sound, and the head and
bow appeared firm.
When I approached, a dog came running along
the wreck, yelping, and sprang into the sea. I
25 took the poor creature into the boat, and fed him,
for he was almost dead with hunger. I then gave
him some fresh water; and he would have drank
enough to have killed him, if I had not prevented
him.
30 After this, I went on board. The first sight I
met with, was two men drowned in the cook-room,
or forecastle of the ship, with their arms clasped
about one another. I concluded that, when the
ship struck, the sea broke so continually over her,
that the men were suffocated by the constant rush- 5
ing of the water. Besides the dog, there was noth-
ing left in the ship, nor any goods, that I could
see, but what were spoiled by the water. I found,
however, several chests, which I got into the boat.
I took a powder-horn, a fire-shovel and tongs, 10
two little brass kettles, a copper pot, and a gridiron;
and, with this cargo, and the dog, I came away,
the tide beginning to make home again. The same
evening, I reached the island again; but I was so
tired and sleepy, that I passed the night in the 15
boat.
The next morning, I began to examine my cargo.
I found some sweetmeats, some shirts and pocket-
handkerchiefs. Besides these, I found bags which
held about eleven hundred pieces of money; and, 20
in one of them, wrapped up in paper, there were
six doubloons of gold, and some small bars or
wedges of gold. I suppose they all weighed nearly
a pound.
In the other chest, I found some clothes, and a 25
few pounds of glazed powder. On the whole, I
got but little by this voyage. As for the money,
it was of no use; I would have given it all for
three or four pairs of English shoes and stockings.
Having brought all my things on shore, and 30
secured them, I went back to my boat, and paddled
her along shore to her old harbor, where I laid her
up, and made the best of my way to my old habit-
ation, where I found everything safe and quiet.
5 So I began to repose myself, live in my old way,
and take care of my family affairs. For a time, I
lived easily enough, only I was more watchful than
I used to be, and did not go abroad so often. The
only place to which I ever went freely, was the
10 eastern part of the island, where, I was satisfied,
the savages never came, and where I could go with-
out loading myself with arms and ammunition,
which I was obliged to carry, if I went the other
way.
CHAPTER X.
15 I lived in this condition nearly two years more,
occupying myself, during the whole time, in form-
ing plans to escape from my island. One morn-
ing, early, I was surprised to see five canoes on
shore together; but the people who belonged to
20 them were out of my sight. I climbed to the top
of my hill, and observed, by the help of my spy-
glass, thirty savages. They had kindled a fire to
cook meat, and were dancing round it with many
barbarous gestures.
25 While I was looking on, two miserable wretches
were dragged from the boats, in the bottom of
which they had been lying, and were now brought
out for slaughter. One of them was knocked
down, instantly, with a club, and two or three,
others seized on him at once, cutting him up, to
prepare him for the cookery. The other victim 5
was left standing by himself. Seizing the oppor-
tunity, he started, and ran, for his life, directly
towards my part of the coast.
I was terrified, when I saw the poor wretch run
this way, but I soon found that only three followed 10
him; and he ran with such surprising swiftness,
that I was almost sure that he would give his
enemies the slip. The party now arrived at the
creek, which was between them and my castle.
The flying savage dashed in, and crossed it with a15
few brave strokes. Two of his pursuers took the
water, and followed close behind; but the third,
after pausing a moment on the brink, turned, and
went slowly back.
I now resolved to save the life of a fellow-20
creature, if possible. So I came speedily down
the hill, and placed myself between the pursuers
and the pursued, hallooing to him who fled, and
beckoning him to come back. In the meantime, I
slowly advanced towards the two that followed; 25
then, rushing at once upon the foremost, I knocked
him down with the stock of my piece. Seeing
what had befallen this fellow, the other pursuers stopped, as if, he had been frightened: but, as I
came nearer, I saw he was taking aim at me with 30
6
an arrow; so I levelled my gun at him, and shot
him dead.
The poor savage who had fled, now stopped,
when he saw both his enemies vanquished; but
5 he was so frightened with the fire and noise
of my piece, that he stood quite still. I made
signs to him to come forward, which he readily
understood, and came a little way, then stopped
again, then came a little farther, and stopped. I
lothen saw that he was trembling violently.
I beckoned him again to come to me, and gave
him all the encouraging signs that I could think
of. He came nearer and nearer, kneeling down,
every ten or twelve steps, in token of acknowl-
i5edgment for my having saved his life. I smiled
at him, and beckoned him to come still nearer. At
length, he came close to me, and then he kneeled
down again, and, taking hold of my foot, placed it
upon his head. By this, he meant that he would
20 serve me and be my slave forever.
I took him up, and encouraged him all I could.
But there was more work to do yet; for the savage
whom I had knocked down was only stunned, and
was now coming to himself. I pointed to him,
25 and showed him the savage. Upon this he spoke
some words to me, and though I could not under-
stand their meaning, yet they were very pleasant
to hear, for they were the first sounds of a man's
voice that I had heard, my own excepted, for more
30 than twenty years.
But there was no time for such reflections now.
The savage who was knocked down, recovered
himself so far as to sit up upon the ground; and
I perceived that my savage began to be afraid;
but he motioned me to lend him the sword that 5
hung by my side; and, when I gave it to him, he
ran and cut off his enemy's head, and brought it,
with many signs of triumph, and laid it at my
feet.
He was astonished at the manner in which I had to
killed the other savage. He turned the body over
and over, until he had found the bullet-hole,
at which he gazed with great attention. He then
made signs that he would bury the bodies, that
none of the other savages might find them. His 15
hands supplied the place of spades, and, in about
a quarter of an hour, they were both buried. I
then took my new companion to my cave.
Here I gave him water and a bunch of raisins,
and, having made signs for him to lie down upon 20
a bunch of rice-straw and a blanket, he soon fell
fast asleep. He was a good-looking fellow, about
twenty-six years of age, of a tawny color, with a
pleasant countenance, good features, and bright,
sparkling eyes. 25
After he had slept about half an hour, he waked
again, and came out to me as I was milking the
goats. He came running to me, and lay down on
the ground, making every sign of a thankful dis-
position, and giving me to understand that he3a
- Making every sign of a thankful disposition."
would serve me as long as he lived. I understood
him in many things, and let him know that I was
very well pleased with him.
In a little while I began to speak to him and
teach him to speak to me; and, first, I taught him 5
that his name was Friday, which was the day on
which I saved his life. I likewise taught him to
say Master, and let him know that was to be my
name. I taught him to say Yes, and No, and told
him what they meant. I gave him some milk in 1O
an earthen pot, and showed him how to sop his
bread in it, which he did, making signs that he
liked it.
The next day, I went with Friday to the place
where he had buried the two savages. He sig-15
nified that he would dig them up, and eat them;
but I showed my disgust at it, and made him come
away. We then ascended the hill, and, looking
all round, we found that the savages had gone.
I then went to the place where the cannibals 20
had held their feast, and found it covered with
human bones and bits of human flesh, and dyed
with .blood. I saw three skulls, five hands, the
bones of three or four legs, with other parts of
bodies. Friday, by his signs, made me understand 25
that they had brought over four prisoners to feast
upon, and that he and the rest had been lately
taken in a great battle. The sad remains of the
feast I made Friday burn.
When he had done this, we came back to our 3C
castle; and there I fell to work on Friday, dress-
ing him in a pair of linen drawers, a coat of goat's
skin, and a fashionable cap of hare's skin. At first,
these things made him look awkward, and he
5 complained of their hurting him; but he soon got
used to them, and liked them.
The next day, I began to consider where I should
lodge him. That I might be perfectly secure, I
made a little tent for him, in a vacant place, be-
10 tween my two fortifications, in the inside of the
last and the outside of the first. As there was a
door, or entrance, there, into my cave, I made
a framed door-case and door of boards, and set it
up in the passage, a little within the entrance.
15 I caused the door to open on the inside, and
barred it up at night, taking in my ladders too;
so that Friday could not get at me without making
noise enough, in climbing the wall, to awaken me;
and as for weapons, I took them all into my side
20 of the house every night.
But I needed none of these precautions, for
never had man a more faithful, loving, sincere serv-
ant than Friday was to me:—without passion,
ill-temper, or art, perfectly obliging and engaging,
25 his affections were tied to me, like those of a child
to a father; and I dare say he would have sacri-
ficed his life to save mine upon any occasion.
I was greatly delighted with him, and made it
my business to teach him everything that was
3°proper to make him useful and handy; but espe-
cially to make him speak, and understand me when
I spoke to him. He was so merry, so constantly
diligent, and so pleased, when he could understand
me, or make me understand him, that it was very
pleasant to me to talk to him. And now my life
began to be so easy, that I said to myself, "If I
were only free from the fear of the savages, I care
not if I were never to go away from this island,
which now appears so pleasant."
CHAPTER XI.
I now thought it my duty to cure Friday of his 10
love for human flesh. So I one day pointed out a
kid to him, and shot it dead. I brought home the
kid, and, the same evening, took off the skin, and
boiled a piece of the meat, which I made him eat;
and he appeared to relish it very well. The next 15
day I fed him with roast kid; and hoped by these
means to show him that animal flesh alone was
proper for food.
He soon learned to work very readily for me,
assisting me in beating and sifting my corn, and 2c
in enclosing a larger space for raising it in larger
quantities; because, as I had now two mouths, in-
stead of one, to feed, I thought it necessary to
increase my harvests. The company of Friday,
who was both intelligent and honest, made this2S
year the pleasantest one that I had passed in the
island.
One day, I wanted to try whether Friday wished
to see his own country again; and, as he now spoke
5 English quite well, I asked him if the nation he
belonged to always conquered in battle. At this,
he smiled, and said, "Yes, yes—we always fight
the better;" that is, " we always get the better
in the fight." "You always get the better I " said
1o I; "how came you to be taken prisoner, then,
Friday?"
Friday. My nation beat much, for all that.
Master. How beat? If your nation beat them,
how came you to be taken prisoner?
15 Friday. They more than my nation in the place
where me was: they take one, two, three and me.
My nation over-beat them in the yonder place,
where me no was: there my nation take one, two
great thousand.
20 Master. But why didn't your side recover you
from the hands of your enemies, then?
Friday. They run one, two, three, and me, and
make go in the canoe. My nation have no canoe
that time.
25 Master. Well, Friday, and what does your
nation do with the men they take? Do they
carry them away, and eat them, as these did?
Friday. Yes, my nation eat mans too—eat all up.
Master. Where do they carry them?
30 Friday. Go to other place where they think.
Master. Do they come hither?
Friday. Yes, yes, they come hither; come other
else place.
Master. Have you been here with them?
Friday. Yes, I been here. [Points to the 5
north-west side of the island, which, it seems, was
their side.) I thought that our island lay in the mouth of
the great river Orinoco, and that the land I saw to
the west and north-west, was the great island of 10
Trinidad, on the north point of the mouth of the
river. I asked Friday a thousand questions about
the country, the inhabitants, the sea, the coast, and
what nations were near. He told me all he knew,
without any hesitation. 15
I asked him the names of the several nations of
his sort of people, but could get no other name
than Caribs, from whence I understood that these
were the Caribbees, which our maps place on that
part of America which reaches from the mouth of the 20
river Orinoco to Guiana, and onwards to St. Martha.
Friday told me that, up a great way be}rond the
moon,—he meant beyond the setting of the moon,
—which must be west from their country, there
dwelt white, bearded men, like me, and pointed to 25
my whiskers—that they had killed much mans
(many men); by which I understood him to mean
the Spaniards, whose cruelties in America had been
spread over all its parts, and were remembered by
all nations, 30
90
ROBINSON CRUSOE
I inquired if he could tell me how I could leave
my island, and come among these white men;
and he answered, very eagerly, "Oh! yes! you
might go in two canoe." I did not know what he
S meant by two canoes; but, at last, I found that he
meant a boat as large as two canoes.
I instructed Friday in his religious duties, and
had soon reason to be pleased with the intelligence
and piety he showed. The conversation between
10 Friday and me was so pleasant, that, for three years,
we lived together as happily as men can in this
earthly state.
After Friday and I became more intimately ac-
quainted, and he could understand almost all I said
15 to him, and speak to me readily, though in broken
English, I showed him how to use powder and ball,
and gave him a knife and a hatchet to put in his
belt.
I then told him my story, and described to him
20 the countries of Europe, and particularly England,
from which I came—how we lived, how we wor-
shipped God, and how we traded, in ships, to all
parts of the world. I showed him the boat in
which I escaped from the wreck, which was de-
25 cayed and useless. Upon seeing this boat, Friday
stood a good while without saying anything. I
asked him what he was thinking of. At last, he
said," Me see such boat come to place at my nation."
Friday described the boat very well, and added,
30 " We saved the white mans from drown."
I asked him if there were many white mans, as
he called them, in the boat. "Yes," he said, "the
boat full of white mans." I asked him how many,
and he counted on his fingers, seventeen. I
asked him what became of them, and he said, 5
"They live, they dwell at my nation." This story
made me think that they were the crew of the
vessel that had been cast away on my shore.
I again asked what had become of them; and
Friday assured me that they still lived among his 10
nation, and had been supplied with victuals for
four years. I asked him how it happened that his
nation had not killed and eaten them. "Oh!"
said he, "they make brother" (make peace with
them ); and then he added, "they eat no mans, 15
but when they make the war fight; " that is to say,
they never eat any men but such as come to fight
with them, and are taken in battle.
Some time after this, as we were on the top of a hill
on the eastern side of the island, on a fair day, 20
Friday looked earnestly towards the main land, and
then began to jump and dance about, shouting to
me, who was at some distance from him. "What
is the matter, Friday?" said I, " what has got
into you?" lf O, joy?" said he, " O, gladI there 2;
see my country I there my nation!" "How
strong," thought I, "is this poor savage's love of
country! and yet he would not desert me for the
world."
One day, walking up the same hill, when the 30
92 ROBINSON CRUSOEweather was so hazy that we could notsee the con-
tinent, I said to Friday, "Don't you wish yourself
in your own country, among your own nation?"
"Yes," answered Friday, "I be much glad to be
5 at my own nation."
"What would you do there?" asked I; "would
you turn wild again, eat men's flesh again, and be
a savage, as you were before?"
Friday looked very serious, and, shaking his
1O head, said, "No, no: Friday tell them to live
good—tell them to pray God—tell them to
eat corn-bread, cattle-flesh, milk; no eat man
again."
"Why, then," said I to him, "they will kill
»5you."
Friday looked very serious, and then said, " No,
they no kill me; they willing, love to learn." He
added, that they learned much of the bearded
mans that came in the boat. Then I asked him if
20 he would go back to them. He smiled, and said
he could not swim so far.
I told him I would make a canoe for him. He
told me he would go, if I would go with him. "I
go!" said I, " why, they will eat me if I come
25 there." "No, no," said he; "me make them no
eat you—me make them much love you." He
meant he would tell them how I had killed his
enemies, and saved his life, and so make them love
me.
30 After some days, I took Friday to the other side
-
93
of the island, and showed him my boat, which I
kept sunk under water. He was very dexterous
at managing it, being able to make it go almost as
fast again as I could. When we were in it, I said,
"Now, Friday, we will go to your country." Up- 5
on this, he looked very dull, and I found it was
because he thought it was not large enough. I
then took him to see the first boat which I had
made; but as I had taken no care of it, and allowed
it to lie in the sun for twenty-two years, it was 10
quite decayed. Friday told me such a boat would
do very well, and would carry "much enough
vittle, drink, bread:" that was his way of express-
ing himself.
Upon the whole, I was now bent on going over 15
with him to the continent; and I told him we
would go and make a boat twice as big as that,
and that he should go home in it. He made no
answer, but looked very sad. I asked him what
was the matter with him. 20
"Why," said he, "why you angry, mad with
Friday? what me done?"
"I don't know what you mean," said I; "I am
not angry with you."
"No angry I no angry !" said he, repeating my 25
words several times; "then why send Friday
home away to my nation?"
"Why," said I, "Friday, you said you wished
we were both there."
"Yes, yes," said he, " wish we both there: no 30
wish Friday there, no Master there. Master go
too."
"I go there, Friday!" said I; "what should I
do there?"
5 "You do great deal much good," said he; "you
teach wild mans be good, sober, tame mans;
you tell them know God—pray God—lead new
life."
"Ah, Friday!" said I, " you don't know what
io you're saying. I'm only a poor, ignorant man
myself."
"Yes, yes," said Friday, " you teach me good
—you teach me good."
"No, no, Friday," said I, "you shall go with-
15 out me: leave me here to live by myself, as I did
before."
He looked dreadfully distressed at this, and,
snatching up a hatchet, gave it to me. "What
must I do with this ?" asked I.
20 » You take and kill Friday," answered he.
"What must I kill you for? " said I.
"What you send Friday away for? Take kill
Friday, kill Friday,— no send Friday away." The
tears stood in his eyes, and he brought out the
25 words with pain. To reward his affections, I
told him that he should never leave me, unless he
wished it; and then he was as much pleased as he
was grieved before, and capered and danced round
me, with a thousand comical signs of joy.
CHAPTER XII.
As Friday assured me that the bearded men
who came to this country were treated very well
by his people, I felt a strong desire to go over to
the continent and see them; justly considering, if
I could make some friends there, that there would 5
be a better chance of my escaping to some civilized
country than if I remained, unaided, on my island.
I therefore went to work with Friday, to find out
a tree fit to cut down and make a periagua, or
canoe, of. At last, Friday pitched upon a tree, to which was the tree that we call, fustic, having
much the same color and smell as nicaragua-wood.
Friday wanted to burn out the middle of this with
fire; but I showed him how to work with my tools;
and, after laboring hard for a month, we cut it out 15
handsomely, and shaped it like a boat.
It was a tedious piece of business to get it to the
water; but we put great rollers under it, and
shoved it along, inch by -inch, little by little, till
we got it afloat. To my great joy, it swam like a 20
duck ; and Friday darted into it, and paddled about
with the greatest dexterity. But of sails he had
no idea. These I resolved to rig out.
I was nearly two months in rigging and fitting
my mast and sails; for I made them very complete.
I fixed a rudder to the stern, which worked very
well; and then, having all things in order, I taught
5 my man Friday how to navigate my sail-boat. He
learned in a short time, and became a very expert
sailor.
I had now entered on the. twenty-seventh year
of my residence in this place, and kept the anniver-
1osary of my arrival with my usual attention. I
blessed God for his various mercies to me, and re-
joiced in the prospect of a speedy deliverance.
However, I went on with my farming—digging,
planting, and enclosing as usual. I gathered and
15 cured my grapes, and did everything necessary,
as before. And now, to prepare for the rainy sea-
son, I dug a dock for my boat, and Friday and I
built a cover for it.
With the return of fair weather, I daily prepared
20 for my voyage. The first thing I did was to lay
up a certain quantity of provision, intending, in a
week or fortnight, to open the dock and launch
our boat. One morning, I sent Friday to the sea-
shore, to see if he could find a turtle. Friday,
25 however, soon came back, flying over the wall, and
cried out to me," O Master! O Master! O sorrow l Obad!"
"What's the matter, Friday ?" said I.
"O ! yonder, there !" said he; "one, two three
30 canoe ! one, two, three I"
\
"Well, Friday," said I, "don't be frightened,
you must fight them, like me. Can you fight,
Friday?"
"Me shoot," said he; "but there be great many
much wild mans." 5
"No matter," I rejoined; "our guns will kill
half, and frighten the rest. Now, my man, will
you stand by me, fight like a lion, and do as I bid
you?"
"Me die when you bid die," said the faithful to Friday. My preparations were soon made. We
took the two fowling-pieces, and four muskets,
loaded with slugs and bullets. I also charged my
pistols, and belted on my sword. I gave Friday his
hatchet. 15
Having made these preparations, I took my spy-
glass, and went up the hill, to look out for the
enemy. I found there were twenty-three savages,
three prisoners, and three canoes; and their whole
business seemed to be a triumphant banquet upon 20
these three human bodies — a most barbarous
feast!
I observed that they had landed near my creek,
and were in a place near some brushwood, which
would afford good concealment. I came down to 25
Friday, and gave him a pistol and three guns, with
a bag of powder and ball. I took another pistol
and the remaining three guns myself. I charged
Friday not to speak a word, and to do just as I bid
him. 30
1
While I was marching to the shelter of the wood,
I considered whether it was proper for me to con-
stitute myself the executioner of these savages, and
dip my hands in their blood. As for Friday, he
5 was their declared enemy; but I had no such ex-
cuse. On the whole, I resolved to post myself in
a convenient place, and act as circumstances should
warrant.
Having entered the wood, I sent Friday to a
1o tree, at the corner of it, and toldhiin to look out, and
bring me word what the savages were doing. He
came back, and told me that he could see them
very plainly—that they were about the fire, eating
the flesh of one of the prisoners, and that another
15 was lying bound on the sand, ready to be devoured.
The last, he said, was one of the white, bearded
men that came to his country in the boat.
This filled me with rage. I went to the tree,
and saw plainly, by the glass, a white man, who
20 lay upon the sea-beach, dressed in European
clothes, and bound hand and foot with flags.
There was another tree, and a little thicket beyond
it, about fifty yards nearer to the savages than the
spot where I stood; and Friday and I, by going
25 round a little, came to this shelter.
There was not a moment to lose; for nineteen of
the savages were huddled together on the ground,
and had just sent the other two to murder the poor
Christian, and bring him, perhaps, limb by limb,
30 to their fire. They had stooped down to unbind
his feet. "Now, Friday," said I, "do exactly as
you see me." So I laid one of the muskets and
the fowling-piece on the ground, and Friday did
the same. Both of us then took aim. "Fire!"
cried I; and both pieces exploded at the same in- 5
stant.
Friday killed two and wounded three, while I
killed one and wounded one. The savages were
thrown into a dreadful fright, and sprang up in
consternation. Friday and I now caught up our 10
fowling-pieces, and fired with a steady aim. So
many were wounded, that they ran about like mad
creatures, yelling and screaming, and the blood
dripping from their wounds.
"Now, Friday," said I, "follow me; " and we 15
rushed together from the wood, shouting with all
our might. I ran directly towards the poor victim;
the other savages having fled, and sprang into the
canoe, where Friday fired upon them. They
dropped down; for he had killed one and wounded 20
the other. I now cut the bonds of the poor prisoner,
and gave him drink and food. He said he was
Espagnole (a Spaniard). As soon as he had re-
covered, I put a sword into his hand, and assisted
him to rise. 25
"Senor," said I, with as much Spanish as I could
muster, " this is no time to talk: if you have any
strength left, take this pistol and sword, and lay
about you." As soon as he received the arms, he
flew upon his murderers like a fury, and cut two 30
of them to pieces in an instant. I kept my piece
in my hand, and told Friday to run up to the tree
from which we first fired, and bring the arms which
he had left there. Giving him my musket, I sat
S down to reload all the rest.
Meanwhile, there was a fearful battle between
the brave Spaniard and a stout Indian. The
Spaniard struck a blow at his enemy, but the In-
dian threw him down, and was wrenching the
10 sword out of his hand, when the Spaniard pulled
out his pistol and shot him through the head. The
huge savage rolled over in the sand, struggled for
an instant, and then grew suddenly stiff and cold
as marble.
15 Friday and the Spaniard continued to fight as
long as a single savage remained. The account of
the loss of the savages is as follows: Three were
killed at one shot from the wood: two were killed
at the next shot: one was killed by Friday in the
20 boat: two more of those first wounded were killed
by Friday; and one he killed in the wood: three
were killed by the Spaniard: four dropped of then
wounds and died, and four escaped in the boat.
As one of the canoes was deserted, Friday and I
25 sprang in, to pursue the savages by sea, when we
were surprised to find a poor savage, bound, in the
bottom of the boat. As soon as Friday saw him,
he embraced him, hugged him, cried, laughed,
hallooed, jumped about, danced, sung, and acted as
30 if he was crazy. The moment he found breath,
x
Friday recognizes his father.
ioa ROBINSON CRUSOEhe informed me that the poor prisoner was his
father.
After feeding the Spaniard, and Friday's father,
Friday and I carried them, on a litter, to my castle,
5 where, as we could not take them over the wall,
we raised a tent formed of old sails, and made two
good beds of blankets and bundles of rice-straw.
After supper, I sent Friday to bring back the arms
from the field of battle, and to bury the dead bodies
10 and the remains of the savage feast.
I understood, from the Spaniard, that there were
sixteen more Spaniards and Portuguese, who had
escaped from a wreck, and lived among the savages,
but found it difficult to get the necessaries of life.
15I asked him if he thought his countrymen would
treat me well, if I brought them over to my island,
and procured the means of our. escaping to New
Spain. He told me that he thought their present
situation was so miserable, that they would not
20 treat any one unkindly who should rescue them.
He offered to go to them, and make them sign an
agreement to be true to me, and to acknowledge
me as their commander.
Upon these assurances, I resolved to venture to
25 relieve them, if possible, and to send the old savage
and this Spaniard over to them, to talk the affair
over with them. But, when all things were in
readiness for starting, the Spaniard raised an objec-
tion, which had so much prudence and sincerity in
y. it, that, by his advice, I put off the deliverance of
his comrades for, at least, six months. The case,
as stated by the Spaniard, was this :—
He had been with us now about a month; during
which time, I had let him see in what manner,
with the assistance of Providence, I provided for S
my support; and he saw, plainly, what stock of
barley and rice I had laid up. This was more than
enough for myself, but it was not sufficient for my
family, now that it was increased to four.
If it was not enough for four, how could we get10
along if fourteen Spaniards were added to my
family? We should not have enough to victual a
vessel, if we built one, for a voyage to one of the
Christian colonies of America. So he told me, he
thought it would be more advisable to let him, and 15
the other two, dig and cultivate some more land,
as much as I could spare seed to sow, and then
wait till another harvest should supply us with corn
for his countrymen when they should come; as
want might tempt them to quarrel, and they might 20
see themselves delivered from one difficulty only
to fall into another. "You know," said he, " that
the children of Israel, though they rejoiced, at first,
at their being delivered out of Egypt, rebelled
even against God himself, when they came to want 25
bread in the wilderness."
CHAPTER XIII.
I was very well pleased with the prudent pro
posal of the Spaniard; so we all four began to dig
as well as the tools we had would allow. In a
month, we had so much land prepared, that we
5 sowed twenty-two bushels of barley, and sixteen
jars of rice, which was all the seed I had.
We felled trees, and made, with infinite labor,
about a dozen good oak planks, nearly two feet
broad, thirty-five feet long, and from two to four
1o inches thick. At the same time, I contrived to in-
crease my flock of tame goats as much as I could;
and, whenever we shot she-goats, we kept their
kids, and added them to the tame flock.
But, above all, the season for grapes coming on,
15I caused a prodigious quantity to be hung up in
the sun. It was now harvest-time, and our crop
was in good order. We had two hundred and
twenty bushels of barley, and enough food to have
victualled a ship to go to any part of America.
20 Thus, having a full supply of food for all the guests
expected, I gave the Spaniard leave to go over to
the main land, to see what he could do for those
he had left behind him there.
I gave him a strict charge, in writing, not to bring any man with him who would not first swear,
in the presence of himself and of the old savage,
that he would no way injure, fight with, or attack,
the person he should find on the island, who was
so kind as to send for them, in order to deliver 5
them; but that they would stand by and defend
him against all such attempts, and, wherever they
went, be entirely under, and subjected to, his com-
mand; and that this should be put in writing, and
signed by their hands. How we were to have 10
this done, when I knew they had neither pen nor
ink, was a question that we never asked.
Under these instructions, the Spaniard and
Friday's father went away in one of the canoes.
I gave them each a musket, with about eight 15
charges of powder and ball, charging them to be
sparing of them. I had now hopes of my deliver-
ance, which I had never before felt during the
twenty-seven years of my captivity. I gave them
provisions sufficient to last them and the Spaniards 20
eight days, and wished them a prosperous voyage,
having agreed that they should hang out a signal,
by which I might know them on their return.
When I had waited for them eight days, a
strange and unforeseen accident occurred. I was 25
fast asleep, one morning, when my man Friday
came running in to me, and called out—" Master I
Master! they are come, they are come!"
I sprang up, and dressed myself, and ran through
my little grove unarmed. I was surprised, when 30
I turned my eyes on the ocean, to see a sail-boat,
about five miles off, standing in to the shore, with a
pretty fair breeze. I also observed, that it came
from the southerly end of the island. Upon this,
5I called Friday in and told him to keep close,
for these were not the people we looked for, and
I did not know whether they were friends or
enemies.
I then sought my spy-glass, to see what I could
1omake of them, and climbed, by the help of the
ladder, to the top of the hill. I had hardly set
foot on the hill, when I saw a ship lying at anchor,
at about two leagues and a half distance from me,
south-south-east, by not more than a league and a
15 half. It clearly appeared to be an English ship,
and the boat an English long-boat.
I saw the boat draw near the shore, as if they
were looking for a creek to land in. However,
they landed on the beach, about a half a mile from
20 me. When they were on the shore, I was fully
satisfied that they were Englishmen. Their num-
ber was eleven—all armed but three, who appeared
to be prisoners, and were taken out of the boat by
the first four or five who leaped on shore. The
25 three unarmed men often lifted up their hands, as
if in great distress of mind.
I was perfectly confounded at the sight, and
knew not what to make of it. Friday called out
to me in English, as well as he could, " O Master!
30 you see English mans eat prisoners as well as
%
savage mans." "Why," said I, "Friday, do you
think they are going to eat them, then?" "Yes,"
said Friday, "they will eat them." "No, no, Fri-
day," said I; "I am afraid that they will murder
them, indeed; but you may be sure they will not 5
eat them."
All this time, I expected to see the poor pris-
oners killed every moment. Once I saw a villain
raise a cutlass over one of the poor men; but he
let it fall again without doing him any injury, 1c
Yet it was very evident that the intentions of the
stronger party were far from friendly.
As there were no firearms among them, I
thought that, if the Spaniard had been with me,
I should have been able to save the prisoners. 15
And, even now, I had some hopes of rescuing them.
The seamen scattered themselves about the country,
and left the three at liberty. But they did not in-
cline to walk about, and sat down, sadly, upon the
ground. It was high water when the party came 20
on shore; and now the tide had ebbed considerably,
and left their boat aground. Two men had been
left in the boat; but they were drunk, and had
fallen asleep.
I now resolved to prepare myself for battle, still 25
keeping within my fortifications. I ordered Friday
to load himself with arms; I myself took two fowl-
ing-pieces, and gave him two muskets. My figure
was truly fierce; for I had my formidable goat-
skin coat on, with my huge cap, a drawn sword, 30
a gun upon each shoulder, and a brace of pistols in
my belt.
I intended not to make any attempt before dark;
but I found that the seamen had all strolled into
5 the woods, and were probably asleep. The three
poor, distressed men were sitting in the shade of a
great tree, about a mile from me, and, as I thought,
out of sight of the rest. I therefore resolved to
discover myself to them.
i0 I marched off, looking like a spectre, with Fri-
day behind me, accoutred in a proper manner, as
the squire of so formidable a knight. I came close
to them without their seeing me, and said, in
Spanish, "Who are ye, gentlemen?"
15 They started up at the noise, but were ten times
more confounded when they saw me. They were
first preparing to fly, when I spoke to them in
English. "Gentlemen," said I, "do not be sur-
prised to see me; perhaps you may have a friend
20 near you, when you do not expect it." "He must
be sent directly from heaven, then," said one of
them, very gravely, and pulling off his hat to me,
"for our condition is past the help of man." "All
help is from heaven, sir," said I; "but how can
25 you put a stranger in the way to help you? You
seem to be in great distress. I saw you when you
landed; and when you seemed to beg mercy of the
brutes that were with you, I saw one of them lift
up his sword to strike you."
30 The poor man trembled, and, with tears running
down his face, said, " Am I talking to a real man,
or an angel?" "Be in no fear about that, sir,"
said I; "if God had sent an angel to relieve you,
it would have been in a far different form from .
the one now before you. Pray lay aside your fears 5
I am a man,—an Englishman,—and disposed to
assist you. You see I have only one servant.
We have arms and ammunition. Tell us freely,
can we serve you? What is your case?"
"Our case, sir," said he, "is too long to tell 10
you, while our murderers are so near. But, in
short, sir, I was commander of that ship. My men
having mutinied against me, have been prevailed
on to set me on shore in this desolate place, with
these two companions,—one my mate, the other a 15
passenger,—where we expected to perish, believing
the place, to be uninhabited."
"Where are your brutal enemies?" asked I.
"Do you know where they are gone?" "There
they are, sir," said he, pointing to a thicket of 20
trees; "my heart trembles for fear they have seen
us, and heard you speak: if they have, they will
certainly murder us all."
"Have they any firearms?" said I. He an-
swered, "They have only two pieces, and one 25
which they left in the boat. "Well, then," said
I, "leave the rest to me. I see they are all asleep.
It is an easy thing to kill them all; but shall we
not rather take them prisoners?" He told me
there were two desperate villains among them, whom 3"
it would hardly be safe to spare; but, if they were
secured, he thought the rest would return to their
duty. He said that he could not describe them at
. this distance, but would obey me in anything I
5 would direct. "Well," said I, "let us retreat
out of their hearing, for fear of their waking; and
we will talk further about this matter."
When we had got into the woods, I asked if, in
case of my delivering him, he was willing to do as
to I wished him. He said that he would place both
himself and the ship at my disposal. "Well,"
said I, " my conditions are but two:—1. That,
while you stay on this island with me you will not
pretend to any authority here; and, if I put arms
15 into your hands, you will, upon all occasions, give
them up to me, and do no harm to me or mine,
upon this island, and, in the mean time, be gov-
erned by my orders.
"2. That if the ship is, or may be, recovered,
20 you will carry me and my man to England, pas-
sage-free." He gave all the assurances that a rea-
sonable man could desire, that he would comply
with these my just demands.
"Well, then," said I, " here are three muskets
25 for you, with powder and ball: tell me, next, what
you think is proper to be done." He wished only
to take the lives of the two ringleaders ; because
he thought that, if this was done, the others would
prove willing to submit. We accordingly advanced
30 upon the mutineers, and shot the two villains.
The others, finding it useless to resist, threw them-
selves upon their knees, and begged for mercy.
The captain spared their lives; but I thought my-
self obliged to keep them bound, hand and foot,
while they remained upon the island. I then sent 5
Friday and the captain's mate to secure the boat,
which they did.
I told the captain my whole history, and showed
him my house. The captain admired my fortifica-
tion and my trees; but his anxiety about his own 10
affairs induced him to return speedily to them.
There were still twenty-six hands on board his ship,
who had entered into the conspiracy, and knew
that their lives would be lost as soon as they
touched English ground; therefore they were des-15
perate, and it would be very dangerous to attack
them.
I thought that we might lay a snare for them,
when they should come on shore to see what had
become of their comrades; therefore I advised him 20
to stave the boat that they might not carry her off,
after we had taken everything out of her which
was of any value. I had strong hopes, now, of
being able to recover the ship.
CHAPTER XIV.
The next day, we heard a gun fired from the
ship, which was a signal for the boat to come off
the shore. At last, when several guns failed to
procure the return of the boat, we saw, by our
S glasses, another boat lowered to the water, and
shoved off from the vessel. As they approached,
the captain recognized them. There were ten men
in the boat, and these were furnished with fire-
arms. Three of them, the captain said, were hon-
mesh fellows, and, doubtless, had been forced to
join the mutineers; but the boatswain, and the
remaining six, were the worst fellows in the ship.
I cheered the captain, and told him that we
should certainly succeed; and my confidence im-
15boldened the rest of our party. Two of our pris-
oners were permitted to join us, on their promis-
ing solemnly to stand by us. As soon as the second
boat's crew landed, they hauled their boat up on
the beach, and ran to examine the other boat.
20 They appeared very much astonished at finding it
turned bottom upwards and a hole knocked in the
bottom. They shouted for their companions, and
fired volleys of muskets, but received no answer
but the echoes.
Three men were left in the boat, while the rest
went to search the island. The men in the boat
shoved her a little way off shore, and then came
to anchor. The men on the island soon became
so frightened, that they ran down towards the shore 5
and would have gone off in their boat, had I not
sent Friday and the captain's mate towards the
place where the savages had landed, to halloo to the
sailors, and draw them as far into the woods as
possible. 10
As soon as they heard Friday and the mate, they
went in the direction of their voices, but were soon
stopped by the creek. Then they drew the boat
up the creek, crossed it, fastened the boat to a
stump, and left only two men in her. Leaving 15
Friday and the captain's mate, I, with the remain-
der of our men, surprised the men in the boat;
and they not only yielded, but were persuaded to
join us.
Their companions had been led so completely 20
astray by Friday and the mate, that it was quite
dark when they came to the creek, where they
found the boat aground (for the tide had ebbed)
and the two men gone. I formed an ambush, and
ordered Friday and the captain to creep upon their 25
hands and feet, as close to the ground as they could,
that they might not be discovered, and get as near
them as possible before they offered to fire.
They had not been long in that posture, before
the boatswain, who was the principal ringleader of 3°
S
the conspiracy, came walking towards them with
two more of the crew. When they came near, the
captain and Friday, starting to their feet, fired
upon them. The boatswain was killed upon the
5 spot; the next man was mortally wounded, and
the third man ran away.
At the noise of the firing, I immediately ad-
vanced with my whole army, which consisted of
eight; viz., myself, generalissimo; Friday, my
10lieutenant-general; the captain and his two men;
and the three prisoners of war, whom he had
trusted with arms.
We came upon them in the dark, so that they
could not know our strength; and I made one of
15 the men, whom we had surprised in the boat, call
out, "Tom Smith! Tom Smith!" Tom Smith
answered immediately, "Who's that? Robinson?"
for, it seems, he knew his voice. The other an-
swered, "Ay, ay:—for God's sake, Tom Smith,
20 throw down your arms and yield, or you are all
dead men this moment."
"Who must we yield to? Where are they?"
said Smith again. "Here they are," answered
Robinson: "here is our captain, and fifty men
25 with him, have been hunting you these two hours;
the boatswain is killed, Will Frye is wounded, and
I am a prisoner 5 and if you do not yield, you are
all lost."
"Will they give us quarter, then," said Tom
30 Smith, " if we will yield?" "I'll go and ask, if you
promise to yield," said Robinson. So he asked the
captain; and the captain himself called out, "You,
Smith, you know my voice: if jrou lay down your
arms immediately, and submit, you shall have your
lives, all but Will Atkins." 5
On this, Will Atkins cried out, "For God's
sake, captain, give me quarter. I am not so bad
as you think me." The captain told him he must
lay down his arms at discretion, and trust to the
governor's mercy—meaning me. In short, they 10
all begged their lives, and appeared very penitent.
Atkins, and the worst of the mutineers, were pin-
ioned and imprisoned in my cave: the rest were
confined in my bower.
"When I had formed my plan for seizing the 15
ship, I made use of the assistance of five of the
mutineers: three prisoners, becoming hostages,
were answerable for the conduct of the five. I was
to remain on shore. The captain furnished his
two boats, and manned them: five men went in20
one of them, and he himself, his mate, and five
more, went in the other.
As soon as they came within call of the ship,
the captain made Robinson hail them, and tell
them that he had brought off the men and the boat; 25
and he kept them in conversation till they came to
the ship's side. The captain and mate entered first,
and, after a short, but severe skirmish, the ship
was secured. The captain then ordered seven
guns to be fired—a signal which he had agreed 30
'After a short, but severe skirmish, the ship was secured."
upon, to convey to me the news of his success.
The next morning, the captain brought me, besides
refreshments, six clean shirts, six very good neck-
cloths, a pair of shoes, a hat, a pair of stockings,
and a very good suit of clothes. 5
We next began to consider what we should do
with our prisoners. Five of them were such incor-
rigible rascals, that the captain was afraid to take
them with him, and concluded that it was best to
leave them upon the island. They themselves 10
were glad to stay, for they expected to be punished
for their crimes with death.
When they had all declared their willingness to
stay, I told them I would tell them my story, and put
them into the way of making it easy for them to live 1S
on the island comfortably, as I had done. I gave
them the whole history of the place, and of my
coming to it; showed them my fortifications, the
way I made my bread, planted my corn, cured my
grapes: in a word, I gave them all the informa- 20
tion necessary to make them easy. I told them
the story of the sixteen Spaniards, that were
expected; for whom I left a letter, and made
them promise to treat them well, in all re-
spects. 25
I left them my firearms—five muskets, three
fowling-pieces, and some swords. I had about a
barrel of powder left; for, after the first year, I had
used but little. I gave them a description of the way I managed the goats, with directions how to 30
milk and fatten them; also, how to make both
butter and cheese.
In short, I gave them every part of my own
story, and I told them that I would prevail on the
5 captain to leave them two barrels of gunpowder,
and some garden-seed. Having done all this, I
left them the next day, and went on board the
ship. We prepared immediately to sail, but did
not weigh anchor that night. The next morning,
10 early, two of the five men came swimming to the
ship's side, making a piteous complaint of the other
three. They begged to be taken into the ship, and
made solemn promises of amendment. The cap-
tain, at length, consented to take them on board,
15 and they afterwards proved very quiet, orderly
fellows.
Some time after this, I went on shore with the
articles I had promised to the men; to which the
captain added their chests and clothes. I encour-
20 aged them by telling them that, if it ever was in
my power to send a vessel to take them away I
would not forget them.
CHAPTER XV.
When I took leave of my island, I carried on
board, for relics, the great goat-skin cap I had
made, my umbrella, and one of my parrots; and,
also, a sum of money, which I found in the wreck.
This had laid so long useless, that the silver and 5
gold had grown rusty and tarnished, and required
a great deal of rubbing and polishing to make it
look at all like money. And thus I left the island
on the nineteenth of December, as I found, by the
ship's account, in the year 1686, after I had lived 10
upon it twenty-eight years, two months, and nine-
teen days.
After a long voyage, I arrived in England, June
11, 1687, having been thirty-five years absent.
When I came to England, I was as perfect a 15
stranger to all the world as if I had never been
known there. I went down into Yorkshire; but I
found my parents dead, although I found there
two sisters and two nephews. But I had, long ago,
been given over for dead, and no provision had 20
been made for me, so that I found nothing to relieve
or assist me; and what money I had, was not enough
to enable me to settle in the world.
The captain, however, did me a kindness, out of
gratitude, which I certainly did not expect, and
which I was very thankful for. It was this: He
gave the owners of the ship a flattering account of
the way in which I had saved their property, and
the lives of the crew; and he represented my con-
5 duct in so favorable a light, that they called a meet-
ing, complimented me very highly, and made me a
present of nearly two hundred pounds sterling.
Yet, even with this, I had not enough to set me
up in business; so I thought I would go to Lisbon,
10 to see if I could not find out something about my
plantation in the Brazils, and learn what had become
of my partner, although I was very much afraid I
should hear that he was dead. My faithful man
Friday accompanied me to Lisbon, where I found
15 the captain of the ship that first took me up, at sea,
on the coast of Africa. He had now grown old,
and retired from the service; his son being in com-
mand of his ship, and in the Brazil trade.
The old man received me with delight, as soon
20 as he knew who I was. He told me he had not
been in the Brazils for nine years, but that, when he
was last there, my partner was living. He told
me that the government had appropriated my plan-
tation, in case I never came to claim it—one third
25 to the king, and two thirds to the monastery of
St. Augustine, to be expended for the benefit of the
poor, and for the conversion of the Indians to the
Catholic faith; but, in case I appeared to claim it,
it was* to be restored to me.
30 "But," said the old man, " I have one piece of
news to tell you, which, perhaps, may not be so
acceptable to you as the rest; and that is, that,
believing you dead, your partner and trustees
offered to account to me, as your executor, for six
or eight of the first years of profit, which I received. 5
But, as there had been some heavy expenses, in
the way of building, and buying slaves, the amount
was not very great; but I will give you a true
account of what I received, and the manner in
which I disposed of it." 10
He brought me an account of the first six years'
income of my plantation, signed by my partner
and the merchants' trustees. I found that my old
friend owed four hundred and seventy moidores of
gold, besides sixty chests of sugar, and fifteen dou-15
ble rolls of tobacco, which were lost in his vessel,
when he was shipwrecked, on his return to Lis-
bon, about eleven years after my leaving the place.
The good man then began to complain of his
misfortunes, and how he had been obliged to make 20
use of my money to recover his losses, and buy
himself a share in a new ship. "However, my
friend," said he, "you shall not want a supply, in
your necessity ; and, as soon as my son comes home,
your claims shall be fully satisfied." 25
Upon this, he pulled out an old pouch, and gave
me two hundred Portugal moidores in gold; and,
giving me his writings of his title to the ship, in
which his son had gone to the Brazils, of which he
owned one fourth, and his son another fourth, he 30
put them into my hands as security for the pay-
ment of the remainder of the debt.
I was too much affected by the honesty and
kindness of the good old man, to be able to bear
5 all this; and, remembering what he had done for
me,—how he had taken me up at sea, and how
good he had been to me on every occasion,—I could
not help shedding tears; and I asked him if he was
able to spare so much money at that time. He
TO said that it would put him to some inconvenience,
but he had rather want it himself than that I should
want it.
I could not bear to deprive him of so large a
sum; and so I called for pen and ink, to give him
15 a receipt for one hundred moidores only. Then I
returned him the rest, and told him that if ever I
had the plantation, I would return him all, and
that I would not take the bill of sale of the part
of his son's ship that belonged to him.
20 I told the old man that I thought of going over
to the Brazils to prefer my claim to my plantation;
but he said there was no need of doing so, because
I could enter my claim to it at Lisbon, and send
to the trustees for the money. I did so, and
25 received a fair account from the trustees, and an
affectionate letter from my partner, who congratu-
lated me on my escape from my sufferings, and
on the success of my plantation. He wanted me
to come over and take possession of it, but offered
30 to send my effects to me, if I preferred it.
I might now well say, that the latter end of Job
was better than the beginning. I cannot tell you
how my heart beat, when I looked over these letters,
and cast my eyes upon my wealth; for, as the
Brazil ships all came in fleets, the same ships that 5
brought my letters brought my goods; and the
effects were safe in the Tagus before the letter came
to hand. I turned pale, from the revulsion of my
feelings; but my good old friend, the captain,
brought me a cordial, and saved me from fainting. 10
I was now master of more than fifty thousand
pounds sterling, and my estate in the Brazils was
worth, certainly, one thousand pounds a year. I
now discharged my debt of gratitude to my good
old friend. I released him from the obligation to 15
return the money he had borrowed of me—I re-
turned what I had taken—I empowered him to re-
ceive the profits of my plantation—and I settled a
hundred moidores a year on him for life, and fifty a
year on his son, when my kind friend should be no 20
more.
I now prepared to go to England with all my
wealth; so I sold my cargo, and turned the profits
into bills of exchange. I had such a dread of the
sea from the many misfortunes that had happened 2S
to me upon it, that I resolved to go to England by
land, when I should only have to make the short
passage of the Straits of Dover.
6 Tagus. Lisbon is situated on the Tagus River.
To render the journey pleasant, I contrived to
make up a party, being joined by a young English-
man, the son of a merchant of Lisbon, two other
English merchants, and two Portuguese gentle-
5 men, who were going as far as Paris. We had five
servants, two of which were mine, for I had hired
an English sailor, as a servant, to assist Friday,
whose entire ignorance of the manners of civilized
countries made him almost useless on a journey.
iO When we got to Navarre, we were sorry to hear
that a great deal of snow had fallen on the French
side of the Pyrenees; so much, indeed, that a
great many travellers had turned back, for fear of
being buried in it. They told us that the snow
15 did not freeze hard on the top, as it did in colder
countries, making it very dangerous to travel over
it, when it was deep.
At Pampeluna, we stayed twenty days; and it
snowed almost the whole time. Friday hardly
20 knew what to make of the snow, or the cold, for
he had never known either before. When he
went out into the snow-banks, he cried out,
"Master! Master! me burn!" for the extremes
of heat and cold seemed to him alike.
25 I had determined to go to Fontarabia, and there
take shipping for Bordeaux, when some travellers
arrived with a guide, who had led them hither
from the French side of the Pyrenees. I asked
this man if he thought he could conduct us into
30 France. He said there was no danger about the
>
snow, for the surface of it was frozen very hard;
but he said there were a great many hungry wolves
at the foot of the mountains, and that they often
attacked travellers, at this season of the year.
"No matter," said I, "we are well mounted and 5
armed; and I, that have faced cannibals, am not to
be scared out of my wits by a parcel of wolves."
Therefore, we set out, trusting to our guide,
whom we found a very skilful one. As we ad-
vanced to the north, the snow began to deepen, 10
and it stormed frequently. As we were journey-
ing along, about two hours before night, when our
guide was a little way before us, three wolves and
a bear rushed out of a hollow. Two of the wolves
flew upon our guide: one fastened upon the horse, 15
and the other attacked the man so fiercely, that
he had not presence of mind enough to draw a
pistol, but shouted for help. I told Friday to
ride hard, and see what was the matter. Friday
put spurs to his horse, and galloped up to the 20
guide, when, seeing what had happened, he put
his pistol to the wolf's head, and shot him dead.
The poor guide had been bitten twice.
The noise of the pistols was answered by the
howlings of innumerable wolves, whose hideous 25
cries struck a cold chill to our hearts. After tor-
menting the bear in every way, chasing him about,
and hopping from tree to tree, like a monkey,
Friday killed him. He seemed to enjoy the sport
highly. 30
We were still in a wild, frightful place, and the
cries of the wolves sounded on every side of us.
The ground was covered with snow, although it
was neither so deep nor so dangerous as on the
S mountains. We had one bad place to pass, where,
the guide told us, we should be sure to find wolves,
if there were any in the country. This was a
plain, which we entered after riding through a
wood. On this plain, we encountered a large body
1o of these ravenous animals; but, on our firing
sharply among them, they retreated, with hideous
howlings, into the woods, which we were obliged
to go through, after crossing the plain.
We reloaded our pieces, and rode on, at a sharp
15 trot, hearing, all the time, the barking, growling,
and snapping, of thousands of wolves. On a sud.
den, at an opening in the wood, we heard the re-
port of a gun; and, presently, out darted a horse,
saddled and bridled, flying like the wind, with
20 sixteen or seventeen wolves after him at full
speed.
Riding up to the place from which the horse
came, we saw a sight that filled us with horror.
There lay the carcass of a horse, and the bodies of
25 two men, half devoured: a gun lay near one of
them, evidently just discharged. This filled us
with horror; but we had no time to deliberate, for
three hundred or more wolves speedily gathered
around us. At the entrance of the wood, there lay
30 some felled trees, among which I drew up my little
troop. We alighted, and formed a triangle, or
three fronts, with our horses in the centre.
The wolves rushed on, with low growls, furious
at seeing the horses secured, and sprang upon our
5 fortification of trees. Then I ordered my men to
fire. Many wolves were killed at the first dis-
charge, and the rest retreated; but we kept load-
ing and firing, and they kept retreating, and again
attacking with redoubled fury.
1o I then gave Friday my powder-horn, and told
him to lay a large train along one of the pieces of
timber. This he did expertly; and the moment
he had done it, the wolves rushed upon the tim-
ber, when I snapped my pistol among the powder,
15 and it instantly blazed up. Six or seven wolves
fell over upon us, scorched to the bone, and the
main body retreated, on our giving a terrible
shout and discharging our pistols.
We rushed out, immediately, upon nearly
20 twenty, which were lamed and struggling on the
ground, and cut them to pieces with our swords.
I suppose we killed about sixty, in all. We then
mounted, and rode off, for we had nearly three
miles to go to the town where we were to pass the
25 night. The wolves did not attack us again, but
we heard them howling all night. We arrived
safely at the inn, but were obliged to leave the
guide there, in consequence of the severe wounds
he had received.
30 The next day we went on with our journey, and
in time I reached England, without having any
further adventures.
I had been so active all my life, that I found
some difficulty in settling down to a quiet country
life, and indeed my housekeeping was not of long
duration, as it was not more than' a year before I
started on my travels again. Some very surpris-
ing adventures of my own during the next ten
years I may, perhaps, give a further account, of,
hereafter.'
THE END.
ROBINSON CRUSOE
BY
x Daniel De Foe
ADAPTED FOR' USE IN SCHOOLS
By PETER PARLEY
TWUtb Introduction ano tlotes

, i**%i
NEW YORK
CHARLES E. MERRILL CO.
DANIEL DEFOE
Copyright, 18g5, by Maynard, Merrill, & Co-
Introduction
Daniel Defoe, immortal as the author of Robinson
Crusoe, was born about 1661, in the parish of St.
Giles, London, England. His family belonged origi-
nally to Northamptonshire, and his father, James Foe,
was a butcher in St. Giles's, and was living so late as
1705. It was Daniel who first changed his name to
De Foe, or Defoe, about 1703, for unknown reasons.
His parents were dissenters from the Established
Church, and he had a good education at a dissenting
academy. He soon, however, abandoned his early
idea of becoming a dissenting minister, and engaged
in business, apparently as a hose-merchant, about
the year 1685. Little is known of his early life, but
it seems he was out with Monmouth, and it is certain
that he volunteered into King William's army in
1688, traveled both in France and Spain, and became
bankrupt about 1692. His debts, or at least a great
part of them, he paid up later with a scrupulousness
most honorable to him. His restless pen was active
throughout the bitter struggle under Anne between
the High-Church party and the dissenters, and his
famous treatise, The Shortest Way with the Dissenters
(1703), made him a martyr in the cause. Ostensibly
written by a "high-flyer," it advocated the extirpa-
tion of dissenters with a masterly irony, which at
first deceived and then infuriated his opponents, as,
in his own words in The Present State of Parties
(1712), it "cut the throat of the whole party." The
House of Commons ordered the book to be burned,
and a reward of fifty pounds was offered for his ap-
prehension, from which fortunately we have an exact
description of his appearance as "a middle-sized,
spare man, about forty years old, of a brown com-
plexion, and dark brown-colored hair, but wears a
wig ; a hooked nose, a sharp chin, gray eyes, and a
large mole near his mouth." Tried at the Old Bailey
in July, he was sentenced to pay a fine of 200 marks,
to stand thrice in the pillory, and to be imprisoned
during the queen's pleasure. Accordingly, the 'un-
abashed Defoe ' stood in the pillory the last three days
of July, 1703, in the midst of a sympathetic mob that
protected him from insult, and even drank his health.
On the same day he suffered appeared his masculine
Hymn to the Pillory, which concluded with a noble
defiance to the government, expressed in some of his
finest lines. During his imprisonment in Newgate he
continued an incessant literary activity upon "oc-
casional conformity " and other points at issue in the
great controversy, published a "true collection" of
his writings, and started his Review (19th February,
1704—11th June, 1713). At first a weekly, after eight
numbers a bi-weekly, and after the eighth number of
the second volume a tri-weekly newspaper, "purged
from the errors and partiality of newspapers and
petty statesmen of all sides." This was Defoe's largest
if not his most important work, and indeed forms one
of the greatest monuments of literary industry ever
reared by a single hand, embracing as it does, in more
than five thousand printed pages, essays on almost
every branch of human knowledge, and these written
during but nine years, in which also he published no
fewer than eighty distinct works, themselves contain-
ing as many as 4727 pages. Its "Scandal Club,"
which discussed minor matters of manners, was dis-
tinctly the forerunner of the more famous Tatlers and
Spectators. In August, 1704, Defoe was released
from prison at the instigation of his friend Harley,
who, moreover, procured for him pecuniary relief and
employment, thus earning for himself the journalist's
unceasing gratitude.
In 1715 appeared the first volume of the Family
Instructor, and four years later the first volume of
the immortal Robinson Crusoe, which at once leaped
into that popularity which it will never cease to
retain. The same year appeared the second volume,
and the year after the greatly inferior sequel. De-
foe's realistic imagination worked most freely on a
basis, however slight, of fact, and this was found for
him in the four years' solitary residence of a marooned
sailor, Alexander Selkirk, on the island of Juan Fer-
nandez. Perhaps no man at fifty-eight in the whole
history of literature ever devised a more splendid
masterpiece of creative imagination than this marvel-
ous story, which carries with it the irresistible con-
viction of very truth.
Meantime Defoe had been prospering in his affairs.
He built himself a ' very handsome house,' at Stoke-
Newington, where he amused himself with gardening,
and the company of his three daughters. A mystery
not yet satisfactorily explained hangs around his last
days. His affairs seem to have fallen into confusion,
one of his sons had behaved undutifully, and he was
under apprehensions of some trouble, which may,
however, have been due merely to a degree of mental
derangement. He died "of a lethargy" in Rope-
makers' Alley, Moorfields, 26th April, 1731, and was
buried in Bunhill Fields.
Defoe remains one of our greatest English writers,
and his greatness is of a kind unlikely to be disturbed
by a competitor. His immense vitality and "energy,
clear-sightedness, and ready power of forcing plain
arguments either in prose or verse to an irresistible
conclusion, make him the typical journalist—to be

Map showing the Places mentioned in the Narrative.
surpassed only by Swift at his best ; but it is to a
much rarer quality than this that he owes his fame—
his incomparable realism and faithfulness in fiction,
the secret of which must be looked for, not in his
singularly plain and direct language, his simple-look-
ing but most effectively artistic digressions, or his
\
perfect though artless preservation of dramatic pro-
priety, but in that subtle and impalpable genius which
informs his style. For his character he was shifty,
and perhaps somewhat low in his moral perceptions.
In this story of Robinson Crusoe, edited by that
famous writer for the young, Peter Parley (S. G.
Goodrich), it is designed to present the narrative,
as originally published by Defoe, freed from the
exceptionable passages which that contains Sir Walter Scott has remarked that this work has
given more pleasure than any other in our language.
It is perhaps more universally read than any other.
It is desirable, therefore, that it should be purified
from every thought and expression which might sully
the mind-or manners of youth. The work is full of
moral truth and lessons of virtue; and it is hoped
that in its present shape it may be useful and accept-
able to young readers.

"AVe saw a sight that filled us with horror.'
CHAPTER I.
I was born in the city of York, England, in the
year 1632. My father was a foreigner, being a
native of Bremen, and acquired a handsome prop-
erty by mercantile pursuits, in which he first
engaged in Hull. My mother's maiden name was 5
Robinson, and I was called Robinson Kreutznaer,
or, by corruption, Crusoe. We are now called,
nay, we write our name, Crusoe; and so my com-
panions always called me.
I had two brothers, both older than myself.10
The eldest rose to the rank of lieutenant-colonel
in the army, and fell at the head of his regiment
in the battle near Dunkirk, which was fought
against the Spaniards. The fate of my second
brother was never discovered. 15
It was supposed that, after the loss of two mem-
* Bremen, a large city and port of Germany, on the Weser.
7 Corruption of words. Uncommon words, and words difficult to pronounce
often get changed into others which are easier or already known.
ROBINSON CRUSOE
at one time held by the Kngli»h.
bers of the family, I should be contented to follow
the wishes of my father, and settle quietly at home,
in some peaceful and honorable profession. But,
alas! I was bent on going to sea.
5 Neither my parents nor relatives were satisfied
with this idle longing for perilous adventure. My
father strongly advised me to relinquish my wild
projects, and assured me that I should never go to
sea with his consent. In the kindest manner, he
1o pointed out the dangers which would threaten me,
the hardships I should be compelled to undergo,
and feelingly adverted to the fate of my two elder
brothers, the remembrance of which caused the
tears to flow down his venerable cheeks. In con-
trast to the dangers of the ocean, he painted the
calm and safe delights of domestic life on shore,
and ended by conjuring me to follow his advice,
and listen to his reasoning.
The sight of my father in so much trouble, for
20 a time, dimmed the adventurous fire within me,
and I internally resolved to remain at home, and
comfort the declining years of my excellent parents.
But it was not long before I began to be weary of
the land, and sigh for the unknown pleasures of the
25 sailor.
By means of my mother, I endeavored to obtain
my father's consent to my going on board some
vessel; but he was inflexible. To this day I can-
not forget the awful solemnity with which he said,
30" That boy might be happy, if he would stay at
home; but if he goes abroad, he will be the most
miserable wretch that ever was born. I can give
no consent to it."
b One day, I went by chance to Hull, where I
happened to meet an acquaintance, of about my 5
own age, who was going to London in one of his
father's vessels. He offered me a passage, and
urged me to accompany him; and, without con-
sulting my father or mother, without even letting
them know of my intention, without asking God's 10
blessing on my voyage, in an evil hour, on the 1st
of September, 1651,I went on board a ship bound
for London.
My misfortunes commenced early; for no sooner
had we got out of theHumber, than the wind began 15
to rise, and we were soon exposed to the fury of a
tempest. I attempted to walk the deck, but was
soon thrown off my feet, and compelled to cling to
a water-cask for safety. I was dreadfully sea-sick,
and believed that death was near. In the agony 20
of my spirit, I prayed Almighty God to save my
life, and promised, if my prayer was heard, and I
"was permitted once more to set foot on land, that
I would never leave my poor parents again.
But when the storm ceased, and I saw the wide 25
waters, lately lashed into fury, smiling before me
in blue beauty, I forgot the promises I made the
night before, and plunged at once into the mad
,BHumber, the opening or river-mouth between Yorkshire and Lincoln,
shire, England, on which Hull stands.
revelry of my shipmates. When I spoke of the
storm, they laughed at its terrors, and termed it a
"mere capful of wind," and it was, in fact, nothing
to what we soon after encountered while lying at
5 anchor in Yarmouth roads.
On this occasion, the wind blew in such a man-
ner, that we were forced to cut away the masts;
and even this was not enough; for, finding the
vessel sinking, we had recourse to a boat, into
to which we got with great difficulty.
We had not been more than a quarter of an hour
out of our ship, when we saw her sink; and then
I understood for the first time, what was meant by
a ship foundering in the sea. I must acknowledge
15 that I had hardly eyes to look up, when the sea-
men told me she was sinking; for, from the mo-
ment they put me into the boat, my heart was, as
it were, dead within me, partly with fright, partly
with horror of mind, and the thoughts of what was
20 yet before me.
But at length we reached the land in safety.
My misfortunes did not cure my passion for the
sea; and so, instead of going home to my parents,
I embraced an offer made me by the captain of a
25 vessel bound to the western coast of Africa, to be
his companion in the voyage, free of expense, and
with liberty to traffic with the natives. My kind
friends supplied me with about ,£40, which I ex-
6 Yarmouth roads, a belt of sea off Yarmouth in Norfolk, where ships lie
at anchor.
pended on such toys as the captain told me would
be salable at Guinea. The voyage proved un-
commonly prosperous; and, on my return, I found
myself the possessor of £300, which so fired my
imagination, that I determined to continue in the 5
Guinea trade, doubting not that I should soon
become a rich man.
Alas! these extravagant expectations were
doomed never to be realized. My second voyage
was disastrous. When near the African coast, we iO
were attacked by a vessel belonging to the Moorish
pirates of Sallee, and, our ship being disabled in
the fight, three of our men killed, and eight
wounded, we were obliged to yield, and were all
carried prisoners into Sallee, a port belonging to 15
the Moors.
My treatment was not so harsh as I feared that
it might be; for, while my shipmates were taken
into the interior of the country, to labor for the
emperor, the pirate-chief, pleased with my youth20
and activity, kept me to wait upon himself. Two
years were passed in sighing for my liberty; for I
had no means of making my escape. My master
would not take me to sea with him, and when his
ship was in port, I slept in the cabin, but was 23
closely watched.
2 Guinea, a large district on the west coast of Africa. Guineas were so
called because first made of gold brought from there. Part of Guinea is called
the Gold Coast. See Map.
12 Satfoe, a town in Morocco,on the north-west coast of Africa, formerly noted
for the number of pirates there. See Map.
However, being once sent in my master's long-
boat, with Ishmael, or Muley, a Moor, and Xury,
a Moresco boy, to catch some fish, I conceived the
hope of making my escape. This boat had a cabin
5 in the middle, like that of a barge, with a place to
stand behind it to steer in, and room before for a
hand or two to stand and work the sails. She
sailed with what we call a shoulder-of-mutton sail;
and the boom was jabbed over the top of the cabin,
10 which lay very snug and low; it had room in it for
my master to lie with a slave or two, and a table
to eat on, with some small lockers to put in some
bottles of such liquor as he thought fit to drink,
together with his bread, rice, and coffee.
£5 On pretence of a prospect of sport, I conveyed
guns, powder and shot, on board, previously to
which I had stowed away a great lump of beeswax,
which weighed above half a hundredweight; with
a parcel of twine or thread, a hatchet, a saw, and
20 a hammer, all of which were of great use after-
wards, especially the wax, to make candles.
Everything needful being prepared, we went out
of port to fish. The wind blew from N. N. E.,
which was contrary to my desire; for, had it blown
25 southerly, I had been sure to have made the coast
of Spain, and at least reached the bay of Cadiz;
but my resolutions were, blow which way it might,
8 Moresco. one of the mixed race of Moors and Arabs.
The Moors inhabited the North of Africa, and got their name from their dark
color.
M Cadiz, on the south-west coast of Spain.
I would quit that horrid place where I was, and
leave the rest to fate.
After we had fished some time, and caught
nothing,—for, when I had fish on my hook, I would
not pull them up, so that he might see them,—I S
said to the Moor, "This will not do, our master
will not thus be served; we must stand farther
off." He, thinking no harm, agreed, and, being in
the head of the boat, set the sails; and, as I had
the helm, I stepped forward to where the Moor10
was, and, pretending to stoop for something behind
him, I seized him by surprise, and tossed him clear
overboard into the sea.
He rose immediately,—for he swam like a cork,
—and called to me, begging to be taken in, and 15
telling me that he would go all over the world
with me. He swam so strongly after the boat,
that he would have reached me very quickly, there
being but little wind; upon which I snatched a
fowling-piece, and, taking aim at him, told him 20
I had done him no hurt, and, if he would be quiet,
I would do him none. "But," said I, "you swim
well enough to reach the shore, and the sea is
calm; make the best of your way to shore, and I
will do you no harm; but if you come near the25
boat, I'll shoot you through the head; for I am
resolved to have my liberty."
On this, he turned about, and swam for the
shore; and I do not doubt that he reached it with
ease, for he was an excellent swimmer. 30
I could have been content to have taken this
Moor with me, in the place of the boy; but there
was no trusting him. When he was gone, I turned
to the boy, and said to him, "Xury, if you will be
5 faithful to me, I'll make you a great man; but if
you will not stroke your face to be true to me,"—
that is, swear by Mahomet and his father's beard,
—" I must throw you into the sea too." The boy
smiled in my face, and spoke so innocently, that I
1o could not mistrust him; and he promised to be
faithful to me, and go all over the world with me.
CHAPTER II.
For several days, the wind favored our design
of coasting in a southerly direction; and it was
with sincere pleasure that I found myself far from
15 the emperor of Morocco's dominions. At length
I determined to land, as we were out of water, and
accordingly dropped anchor, one evening, in a little
creek, where I doubted not we should be able to
supply our wants.
20 We were deterred from landing that evening, by
the hideous roarings of some huge wild beasts,
which plunged into the creek, and lashed the
7 Mahomet, or Mohammed, was born at Mecca, about 570 a. m, where he
spent most of his life. He died 632 a. d" and was buried at Medina. He
founded a religion which is called Islam, and which is now professed by many
millions of people in the East.
waves in their terrible gambols, conveying an idea
of terror which I never shall forget. One of these
monsters swam to the boat, but, upon my discharg-
ing a fowling-piece at him, turned round, and
made for the shore. 5
All that I saw and heard convinced me that this
was that vast country south of Morocco, which the
negroes had abandoned to the wild beasts, and
which the Moors occasionally enter in immense
bodies, for the sake of hunting. Having procured 10
water, I again left the coast.
The want of proper nautical instruments was a
serious one; but I entertained the hope of meet-
ing with some Christian merchant-vessel on the
coast of Africa. There appeared to be little pros-15
pect of the speedy fulfilment of this hope, and I
began to look upon myself as an outcast, justly
punished for quitting the domestic fireside, and
neglecting the excellent advice of the best of
parents. 20
One day, on approaching the coast, I perceived
a huge lion lying on the side of a hill. "Xury," said
I to the boy, "you shall go on shore and kill him."
Xury looked frightened, and said, " Me kill! he
eat me at one mouth!" one mouthful, he meant: 25
however, I said no more to the boy, but bade him
lie still, while I took our largest gun, and loaded
it with a good charge of powder, and two
slugs, and laid it down. Then I loaded another
gun with two bullets; and the third,—for we 30
2
ROBINSON CRUSOE
had three pieces—I loaded with five smaller bul-
lets.
I took the best aim I could with the first piece,
so as to shoot him in the head; but he lay with
5 his leg raised a little above his nose, and the slugs
hit his leg above the knee, and broke the bone.

"He gave the most hideous roar that I ever heard."
He started up, growling at first, but, finding his
leg broke, fell down again, and then got up upon
three legs, and gave the most hideous roar that I
10 ever heard.
I was a little surprised that I had not hit him
upon the head; however, I took up the second
19
piece immediately, and, though he began to move
off, fired again, and shot him through the head,
and had the pleasure to see him drop, and make
but little noise, but lie struggling for life.
Then Xury took heart, and insisted on going 5
ashore. "Well, go," said I ; so the boy jumped
into the water, and, taking a little gun in one
hand, swam to shore with the other hand, and,
coming close to the creature, put the muzzle of the
piece to his ear, and, shooting him through the 10
head a second time, dispatched him.
This was game, indeed, but no food; and I was
very sorry to lose three charges of powder and
shot, upon a creature that was good for nothing to
us. However, thinking that his skin might be, in 15
one way or other, of some value to us, Xury and I
went to work upon him; but it took us both the
whole day. At length we got the hide off him,
and, spreading it on the top of our cabin, the sun
effectually dried it in two days' time; and it after-20
wards served me to lie upon.
It was some time before we saw any of the na-
tives. The first negroes we beheld were naked
and unarmed, and brought us water and food. I
was at a loss how to reward these poor friendly 25
creatures, until an incident occurred which enabled
me to do them an essential service. As they stood
upon the shore, a wild animal from the mountains,
in pursuit of another beast, dashed through them,
and plunged into the water. 30
As he approached rather nearer our boat than
was agreeable, I fired my fowling-piece at him,
and sent a ball through his brain. His companion
escaped. On drawing him out of the water, he
5 proved to be a large and beautiful leopard, the skin
of which I carefully preserved.
It is impossible to express the astonishment of
the poor negroes at the noise and fire of my gun:
some of them fell upon the sea-beach almost life-
1o less. But when they saw the creature dead, and
sunk in the water, they took heart, and held up
their hands in admiration of the weapon I had
killed the leopard with.
When I was in doubt where I should ever be-
15 hold a Christian face again, the welcome sight of
a sail on the horizon revived all my hopes. But
doubt soon mingled with my hope. The vessel
might be an enemy—might not be coming to meet
us. Joy! joy I she nears! She descries us! We
20 can see them lower a boat. Yes; we were rescued
from our perilous solitude by a Portuguese
merchant-ship, bound for the Brazils!
The captain behaved with great generosity to-
wards me. He purchased my boat, and such
25 articles as I was willing to sell, and even induced
me to part with the boy Xury. I was very loath
to sell the poor boy's liberty, when he had assisted
me in gaining my own; but I stipulated that the
captain should agree to free him in ten years, on
30 condition of his turning Christian.
When, shortly afterwards, I settled in the Bra-
zils, and commenced raising sugar-canes and
tobacco, I found, more than ever, that I had done
wrong in parting with my boy Xury. But, alas!
for me to do wrong, that never did right, was no 5
great wonder.
However, I went on with my plantation, gradu-
ally accumulating property, but too rash and too
ambitious to be satisfied with the ordinary means
of gaining wealth. I had been discontented with 10
my early home; I was discontented now, and must
go and leave the happy prospect of being a rich
and thriving man in my new plantation, only to
pursue a rash and immoderate desire of rising
faster than the nature of the thing admitted; and 15
thus, as will be seen, I cast myself down into the
deepest gulf of human misery that ever man fell
into, or that is consistent with life and a state of
health, in this world.
It happened that three merchants came to me 20
one morning, to make, as they said, a secret pro-
posal to me. They told me that they had a mind
to fit out a ship to go to Guinea; that they all had
plantations as well as I, and were straitened for
servants; that as it was a trade could not be carried 25
on, for they could not publicly sell the negroes
when they came home, so they desired to make
but one voyage, to bring the negroes on shore
privately, and divide them among our own planta-
tions; and, in a word, the question was, whether I30
would go as their supercargo in the ship, to man-
age the trading part upon the coast of Guinea;
and they offered to give me an equal share of the
negroes, without providing any part of the stock.
5 I, that was born to be my own destroyer, could
no more resist the guilty offer, than I could restrain
my first rambling designs, when my father's good
counsel was lost upon me. I went on board, in
an evil hour, on the 1st of September, 1659, being
1o the same day, eight years, that I- went from my
father and mother, at Hull, in order to act the
rebel to their authority, and the fool to my interest.
Our ship carried about one hundred and twenty
tons burthen, mounted six guns, and carried four-
15 teen men, besides the master, his boy and myself.
We had on board no cargo of goods, except such
toys as were fit for our trade with the negroes, as
beads, bits of glass, shells, and odd trifles, especially little looking-glasses, knives, scissors, hatchets, and
2o the like.
After passing the line, being in about 7 degrees
22 minutes north latitude, a violent tornado or
hurricane, which settled into a regular nor'easter,
took us quite out of our knowledge, and drove us
25 along for twelve days. Finding out, at length,
something about our position, the master and I
concluded that it was most prudent to steer for
Barbadoes, which we judged to be the nearest
land.
30 But, being in latitude 12 degrees 18 minutes,
another storm came upon us, and drove us west-
ward, out of the track of commerce. In this dis-
tress, we discovered land; and soon after, the ship
struck upon a sand-bank. With great difficulty,
we launched our only boat, got into it, and, show s ing off from the vessel, committed our souls to
God in the most earnest manner; and, the wind
driving us towards the shore, we hastened our
destruction with our own hands, pulling, as well
as we could, towards the land. 10
As we made nearer and nearer the shore, the
land looked more frightful than the sea. After
we had driven about ten miles, as we reckoned it,
a raging wave took us with such fury, that it over-
set the boat at once; and, separating us from one 15
another, gave us not time even to utter a prayer,
for we were swallowed by the waves in a moment.
I was, myself, cast at length upon the rocks by a
tremendous wave, and there I clung fast, that I
might avoid being drowned. After a little time, 2o
I found that the waves were not as high as at first,
and being near land, I held on till they abated. I
then took a run, which brought me so near the
shore, that the next wave, though it went over me,
did not carry me away; and the next run I took2S
brought me near the main land, where, to my great
comfort, I clambered up the cliffs of the shore, and
was out of the reach of the water.
I now knelt down' upon the grass, and, looking
upward, thanked my gracious God for preserving 30
my life, when, but a few minutes before there ap-
peared to be no hope. I believe it is impossible to
express what the ecstasies and transports of the
soul are, when it is so saved as I may say, out of
5 the very grave. I do not wonder now, that, when
a malefactor, who has the halter about his neck,
and is just going to be hurled into eternity, if he
has a reprieve brought him—I do not wonder that
they bring a surgeon to bleed him the moment he
1o is informed of it, that the surprise may not drive
the life from his heart;
For sudden joys, like griefs, confound at first.
I now cast my eyes toward the stranded vessel,
but the breach and froth of the sea were so great,
15 that I could hardly see it in the distance, and could
not but wonder how I could have got to the land.
CHAPTER III.
Having secured myself in the branches of a
tree, I enjoyed a comfortable night's rest, and
awoke the next day much refreshed. I found that
20 the vessel had been stranded within about a mile of
the shore, and saw that, had we remained on board,
all of us would have been saved. But, alas 1 none
but myself was left. I swam to the vessel, and
found that, although there was a great deal of
water in her, the provisions were dry; and I made
a hearty meal on biscuit.
I built a raft of spare yards and planks, and the
first article that I committed to it, was a carpenter's
chest of tools. My next care was to get ammuni-
tion and arms. There were two very good fowl-

The first cargo from the wreck.
ing-pieces in the great cabin, and two pistols,
these I secured, with a small bag of shot, and two
old rusty swords. I knew there were three barrels
of powder in the ship, but knew not where ouriO
gunner had stowed them; but with much search I
found them, two of them dry and good, the third
wet. I got them into my boat, with the arms.
I had three encouragements in getting them on
shore: 1. A smooth, calm sea. 2. The tide rising
5 and setting in to the shore. 3. What little wind
there was blew favorably for me. I fortunately
found two or three broken oars belonging to the
boat, and besides the tools which were in the chest,
I found two saws, an axe, and a hammer; and
10 with this cargo I put to sea. For about a mile, my
raft went very well, only I found it drive a little
way from the place where I intended to land; by
this I perceived that there was some current in the
water, and I hoped to find a creek or river, in
i 5 which I could land my cargo with safety.
I soon saw a little opening of the land, and I
found a strong current of the tide set into it; so
I guided my raft as well as I could to keep the
middle of the stream. But now I almost suffered
20 shipwreck, by running on a shoal, from which the
rising tide finally lifted me off. I was carried on
shore in a little creek, and the turn of the tide left
my cargo high upon the land.
The next thing I did was to view the country,
25 and seek some spot whereon to build a dwelling,
to shelter my goods. Ascending a high hill, about
a mile from the creek, I ascertained that I was
on an island, which appeared barren, and was
probably inhabited only by wild beasts.
30 Though I saw many I birds, could not tell
"\
whether they were fit to eat or not. On coming
back, I shot a large bird in a great wood. I be-
lieve it was the first gun that had been fired there
since the creation of the world. I had no sooner
fired, than, from all parts of the wood, there arose 5
an innumerable number of fowls, of various kinds,
making a confused screaming. They were all un-
known to me; and the flesh of the bird I shot was
like carrion.
I built a temporary hut with the articles that10
composed my cargo, and lay down to sleep, but
not without fear of wild beasts. The second
voyage I made to the ship, I brought away three
bags full of nails and spikes, a great screw-jack, a
dozen or two of hatchets, and, above all, that most 15
useful thing, called a grind-stone. All these I
secured, together with several things belonging to
the gunner, particularly two or three iron crow-
bars, two barrels of musket bullets, seven mus-
kets, and another fowling-piece, with an addi-20
tional quantity of powder, and a large bag full of
small shot. I found also a great roll of sheet
lead, but this was so heavy that I could not hoist
it up to get it over the ship's side.
Besides these things, I took all the men's 25
clothes that I could find, and a spare foretopsail, a
hammock, and some bedding; and with these I
14 Screw-Jack, an instrument for raising heavy weights by means of a
screw.
loaded my second raft, and brought them all safe
on shore, to my very great comfort.
I was under some apprehensions, during my
absence from the land, that, at least, my provisions
5 might be devoured on shore; but, when I came, I
found no sign of a visitor, except a creature, like
a wild-cat, that sat on one of the chests. She did
not appear to be afraid of me, nor did she attempt
to harm me; so I threw her a bit of biscuit,
To which she ate with satisfaction. She looked
as if she should like more; but I showed
her, that I could spare no more; so she marched
off.
My next care was to build a tent with sailcloth
15 and some poles that I had cut; and into this I con-
veyed those articles that I feared might be injured
by the sun and rain. I then piled up all the
empty chests and casks in a circle round the tent,
to fortify it against any sudden attempt, either of
20 man or beast.
When I had done this, I blocked up the door of
the tent with some boards within, and an empty
chest set upon end without; and, spreading one of
the beds upon the ground, laying my two pistols
25 just at my head, and my gun by my side, I went
to bed for the first time. I slept very quietly all
night, for I was very weary, and the night before
I had slept little, and had labored very hard all
day, as well to bring all the things from the ship,
30 as to get them on shore.
I had now the largest magazine, of all kinds,
that was ever laid up for one man; but I was not
satisfied still; for, while the ship sat upright, I
thought I would get everything out of her that I
could. So every day, at low water, I went on 5
board and brought away something.
Having got everything out of the vessel that I
thought would be of any service to me, I began to
think it necessary to secure myself against sav-
ages, or wild beasts, should any appear. I found to the place I was in was not fit for a settlement, as I
was upon a low, marshy ground, near the sea, and
I believed the spot would not be healthy, particu-
larly since there was no fresh water near it; so I
resolved to look for a more healthy and convenient 15
spot of ground.
At length, I found a little plain at the foot of a
rising hill; the front of this hill, toward the plain,
was steep as a house-side, so that nothing could
come down upon me from the top. On the side 20
of this, there was a rock with a hollow place worn
a little way in, like the entrance or door of a
cave; but there was not really any cave, or way
into the rock, at all.
On the flat of the green, just before this hollow 25
place, I resolved to pitch my tent. This plain
was not above a hundred yards broad, and about
1 Magazine, a storehouse. The word is used here for the things kept in a
storehouse.
twice as long, and lay like a green before my door,
and, at the end of it, the ground descended irregu-
larly every way down into the low lands by the
sea side. It was on the north-west side of the
S hill, so that I was sheltered from the heat every
day, till it came to a west-by-south sun, which, in
those countries, is near the setting.
Before I pitched my tent, I drew a half-circle
before the hollow place, in which I planted two
1orows of strong stakes, driving them into the
ground till they stood very firm, like piles; the
biggest end being about five feet and a half out of
the ground, and sharpened at the top. The two
rows did not stand above six inches from each
pother.
I next took the pieces of cable, which I had cut
in the ship, and laid them one upon another, with
in the circle between the two rows of stakes, up tc
the top; then placing other stakes in the inside,
20 leaning against them, about two feet and a half
high, like a spur to a post. This fence was so
strong that neither man nor beast could get into
it, or over it. It cost me a great deal of time and
labor, especially the cutting and driving in of the
25 piles.
The entrance into this place was not by a door,
but by a short ladder, to go over the top; which
ladder, when I was in, I lifted down after me; so
that I was completely fenced in, and fortified, as I
30thought, from the world; and, consequently, slept
secure in the night, which, otherwise, I could not
have done.
I succeeded in excavating the rock, and making
a cave just behind my tent, which served me as a
cellar. The first day I went out shooting, I dis- 5
covered that there were many wild goats on the
island. After I had resided on the island some
ten or twelve days, it occurred to me that I should
lose my reckoning, for want of books, pen and ink,
and should even be unable to distinguish the Sab-i0
bath from the working-days; so, to prevent this, I
erected a great cross upon the sea-shore, and in-
scribed upon it with my pen-knife, "I came on
shore here on the 30th of September, 1659." Up-
on the sides of this post, I cut, every day, a notch l5
with my knife; and every seventh notch was as
long again as the rest, and every first day of the
month as long again as that long one: and thus I
kept my calendar, or weekly, or monthly, and
yearly reckoning of time. 20
I forgot to mention, that I brought out of the
ship, pens, ink, and paper, several parcels in the
captain's, mate's, and carpenter's keeping, three or
four compasses, some mathematical instruments,
dials, perspectives, charts, and books of navigation ; 25
all of which I huddled together, uncertain whether
I might want them, or no. I also found three
very good Bibles, some Portuguese books, and
among them two or three prayer-books, beside
several other books; all of which I carefully30
secured. I must not forget to mention, that we had
on board the ship, two cats and a dog. I carried
the cats on shore: the dog swam to land the day after the wreck, and was a trusty servant to me
5 for many years. I wanted nothing that he could
bring me, nor any company that he had the power
to furnish. I only wanted to have him talk to
me; but that he could not do.
I was in want of a spade, pick-axe, and shovel,
10 needles, pins, and thread; and it was a long time
before I got my other things to rights. But I
made a table and chair and shelves, and then set
to work to keep my journal. I had reason to be
thankful that I was alive—that there was no pros-
opect of my starving—that I was cast upon an
island where there were neither savages nor wild
beasts to trouble me—and that God had wonder-
fully sent the ship in near enough to the shore, to
enable me to get necessaries to supply my immedi-
20 ate wants and provide for myself as long as I lived.
Although singled out and separated from all the
world, I was also singled out from all the ship's
crew, to be spared from death.
-
23
CHAPTER IV.
I kept my journal as long as my writing materials
lasted. I shall not copy the whole of this, because
it will only be repeating what the reader already
knows. My first entry in my journal was the
ROBINSON CRUSOE
September 30,1659. I, poor, miserable Robinson
Crusoe, being shipwrecked, during a dreadful storm,
came on shore on this dismal, unfortunate island,
which I called the Island of Despair; all the rest
of the ship's company being drowned, and myself 1o
almost dead.
The 31st, in the morning, I went out into the
island, with my gun, and killed a she-goat: her
poor kid followed me home. The little thing re-
fused to eat, and I was forced to kill it also. 15
December 10. I began to think the cave, or
vault, in the rear of my tent, finished, when, on a
sudden (it seems I had made it too large), a great
quantity of earth fell down from the top, on one
side, terrifying me greatly. It would have killed 20
me had I been in at the time. Accordingly, this
day I commenced erecting posts to secure my cave,
and made shelves across between them, and drove
nails into them to hang up things upon.
3
December 27. Killed one young goat, and lamed
another, so that I caught it, and led it home by a
string. When I reached home, I found that his
leg was broken, and so set to work, and splintered
5 it. I took such care of it that it lived, and the leg
grew as strong as ever; but, by nursing it so long,
I had tamed it completely, and it refused to leave
me, feeding on the green before my door. This
was the first time I thought of breeding tame crea-
te tures to serve me for food, when I had fired away
all my powder and shot.
From January to April, I kept hard at work
upon my dwelling and wall, though my work was
often interrupted by the rain, which, in the wet
15 season, falls almost incessantly. Among other
things, of which I stood in need, and could not make,
was a hooped cask. I also wanted candles, and, to
supply myself, made use of the following contriv-
ance. When I killed a goat, I saved the tallow,
20 and put it in little dishes of baked clay, to which
I made wicks of oakum; and these gave me a
pretty bright, but an unsteady kind of light.
Happening to find a little bag, which had onc6
contained corn that had been eaten by the ship rats,
25I threw out the dust that remained at the bottom,
just before the rainy season, when, to my great
surprise, about a month afterwards, ten or twelve
ears of English barley sprung forth. I gathered
* Splintered, fastened with splinters or small pieces of wood to keep it
straight.
these, with some stalks of rice; and they afterwards
yielded me abundant harvests.
April 17. There happened a most terrible
earthquake, that shook the earth from the top of
my cave, and cracked two of the posts, forcing me 5
to plant my ladder, and fly over the wall, in fears
for my life. I had no sooner reached the ground
without, than I perceived that it swelled fright-
fully, like the surge of the sea, and made me giddy
by its motion. A huge rock, about a mile off, was i0
shaken from its base, and the ocean boiled and
roared like the waters of a vast caldron.
The earthquake was followed by a heavy rain.
The dreadful scene I had just witnessed made me
think that it would be necessary to remove my 15
tent to some securer place; but I concluded to
stay where I was, till I found a spot that suited me.
May 1. In the morning, looking towards the
sea-side, the tide being low, I saw something lying
on the shore, which, on my coming up to it, turned 20
out to be a small barrel from the wreck. Finding
the wreck much broken up, I determined to get
what I could from it.
June 15. This day I ceased laboring to procure
articles from the wreck, having obtained a vast 2S
store of necessaries.
June 16. Going down to the sea-side, I found a
large tortoise, or turtle. This was the first I had
18 Turtle* The turtle, or sea-tortoise, is properly a reptile which has its back
covered by a horny case or shell, from under which it puts out its head, limbs, seen, which, it seems, was my misfortune, and not
a defect of the place, or scarcity. The next day I
spent in cooking the turtle. The flesh was the
most agreeable I ever tasted in my life, and formed
a pleasant change from that of the goats and 5
pigeons I had been eating all along.
June 18. This day brought the commencement
of an attack of fever and ague, which lasted, with
a few intervals, until July 3, when the fits left
me, but left me so weak that I did not recover my 10
strength for some weeks after. In all this time, I
used tobacco, in various ways as medicine; but I
doubt if it was any advantage to me.
While I was gathering strength, my mind dwelt
upon the passage in Scripture, " Call on me in the 15
day of trouble, and I will deliver thee, and thou
shalt glorify me." I began to think that I did not
feel the gratitude I ought. I was forced to ask
myself these questions, viz. Had I not been
delivered, and wonderfully too, from sickness— 20
from the most distressing condition that could
be? and what notice had I taken of it! Had
I done my part? God had delivered me, but
I had not glorified him; that is to say; I had not
owned and been thankful for the deliverance; and 25
how could I expect a greater?
These reflections touched my heart very much,
and tail. It can swim much better than it can walk, and seldom comes ashore
except to lay its eggs. Both the eggs and the flesh of some turtles are very
good to eat.
and I immediately kneeled down, and gave God
thanks aloud for my recovery from sickness.
From the fourth of July to the fourteenth, I
was chiefly employed in walking about, with my
gun in my hand, a little and a little at a time, as 5
is necessary to one that is gathering his strength
after a fit of sickness; and it can hardly be im-
agined to what weakness I was reduced. In one of
my brief expeditions, I encountered two seals
upon the sea-shore; but, the moment they espied10
me, they made off, with clumsy haste; and I was
too weak and spiritless to give them chase. I now
learned, by experience, that being abroad in the
rainy season was most pernicious to my health.
I had now been in the Island of Despair more 15
than ten months, and saw no possibility of an
escape from it; but I had secured my habitation
fully to my mind, and had a great desire to make
a fuller survey of the island, and see what produc-
tions I might find, that might be useful to me. 20
On the 15th of July, I began my particular
survey of the island. I first went up the creek,
where I brought my rafts on shore, and found, after
I came about two miles up, that the tide did not
flow any higher, and that it was no more than a 25
little brook of running water, very fresh and good;
but, this being the dry season, there was hardly
14 Pernicious, injurious; hurtful.
27 Dry season. In tropical countries, the sun being always so nearly over-
head, they cannot have spring, autumn, or winter. They have a perpetual sum-
any water in some parts of it; at least, not enough
to run into a regular stream.
On the banks of this brook, I found many
pleasant savannahs, or meadows, plain, smooth, and
5 covered with grass; and, on the rising parts of
them, next to the higher grounds, where the
water never overflowed, I found a great deal of
tobacco. There were, also, many other plants, but
I did not know their names. I searched in vain
10for the cassava root, of which the Indians make
their bread. I saw large plants of aloes, although
I did not then know them, and several sugar-
canes, in a wild state.
On the 16th of July, I went up the same way
I5again; and, after going something farther than I
had done the day before, I found that the brook
and savannahs ceased, and the country became more
closely covered with trees. In this part of the
country, I found different fruits—melons lying on
20 the ground in abundance, and grapes growing
upon vines, which hung in beautiful festoons from
tree to tree. These rich and abundant clusters of
grapes were now just ripe.
I knew, by experience, that it was imprudent to
25 eat freely of them from the vine, but I made them
mer; and the only division of seasons that can be made is into rainy and dry.
See p. 44.
4 Savannahs, properly a North American name for large meadows or
prairies.
10 Cassava. From the fibre of this plant tapioca is obtained
11 Aloe, a plant used in medicine.
39
useful by drying them in the sun; thus securing
a supply of excellent raisins for the season when
fruit was scarce.
In the night, I slept in a tree, and the next
morning pursued my course of discovery, travel- 5
ling about four miles, keeping to the north, with
a ridge of hills on the south and north side of me.
At the end of my march, I came to an opening,
where the country seemed to descend to the west;
and a little spring of fresh water, which issued out10
of the side of the hill by me, ran the other way,
that is, to the east. The country appeared so
fresh, so green, so flourishing, everything being
in constant verdure, and in the bloom of spring,
that it seemed like a fairy garden. 15
I descended a little on the side of that delicious
valley, surveying it with a secret kind of pleasure,
to think that this was all my own—that I was
king and owner of all this country, and had an in-
disputable right to it. I saw here abundance of 20
cocoa-trees, orange, and lemon, and citron trees,
but all wild, and few bearing any fruit, at least,
not then; however, the green limes that I
gathered were not only pleasant to eat, but very
wholesome; and I mixed their juice afterwards 25
with water, which made it very wholesome, and
very cool and refreshing.
I now resolved to lay up a store of grapes, limes,
and lemons, to furnish myself for the wet season,
which I knew was approaching. In order to do 30
this, I gathered a great heap of grapes in one place,
and a smaller heap in another place, and a great
parcel of limes and lemons in another place; and,
taking a few of each with me, I travelled home-
5 ward, and resolved to come again, and bring a bag,
or sack, or what I could make, to carry the rest
home.
Accordingly, having spent three days in this
journey, I came home (so I must now call my tent
1o and cave); but, before I got thither, the grapes
were spoiled: the richness of the fruit, and the
weight of the juice, having broken and bruised
them, they were good for little or nothing. As to
the limes, they were good, but I could bring only
15 a few.
The next day, being the 19th, I went back, hav-
ing made two small bags, to bring home my harv-
est. But I was surprised, when, coming to my
heap of grapes, which were so rich and fine when
20I gathered them, I found them all spread abroad,
trodden to pieces, and dragged about, some here,
some there, and abundance eaten and devoured.
By this, I concluded that there were some wild
creatures thereabouts; but what they were, I knew
25 not.
However, as I found there was no laying them
up in heaps, and no carrying them away in a sack,
but that one way they would be destroyed, and
the other way they would be crushed with their
30 own weight, I took another course; I gathered a
-x
large quantity of the grapes, and hung them upon
the outer branches of the trees, that they might
cure and dry in the sun; and, as for the limes and
lemons, I carried as many back as I could well
walk under. 5
When I came home from this journey, I consid-
ered, with pleasure, the fruitfulness of the valley,
and the pleasantness of the situation; the security
from storms on that side of the water, and the
wood; and concluded that I had pitched upon the .10
very worst part of the country for my abode. Up-
on the whole, I began to think of removing my
situation, and looking out for a safe dwelling-place
in that pleasant, fruitful part of the island.
I thought on this subject for a long time, the 15
pleasantness of the place tempting me; but when
I came to a nearer view of it, and considered that
I was now near the sea-side, where it was, at least,
possible that something might happen to my ad-
vantage, and that the same ill fate that brought 20
me hither might bring some unhappy wretches to
the same place; and though it was scarcely prob-
able that any such thing should ever happen, yet
to enclose myself among the hills and woods, in
the centre of the island, was to ensure my bondage, 25
and to render my release not only improbable, but
impossible; I thought, therefore, I ought not, by
any means, to remove.
However, I was so charmed with this place, that
I spent much of my time there for the whole re-3"
maining part of the month of July; and though I
resolved not to remove, yet I built me a little kind
of bower, and surrounded it, at a distance, with a
strong fence, being a double hedge, as high as I
S could reach, well staked and filled between with
brushwood; and here I lay very secure, sometimes
two or three days together, always going over the
fence by a ladder, as before; so that I now con-
gratulated myself on having a country house and
to a sea-coast house. This work occupied the begin-
ning of August.
As soon as my fence was finished, I thought I
should enjoy the fruit of my labor, when the rains
came on, and made me keep to my first habitation;
15 for, though I had made me a tent, like the other,
with a piece of a sail, and spread it very well, yet
I had not the shelter of a hill to keep me from
storms, nor a cave behind me, to retreat into during
extraordinary rains.
20 About the beginning of August, as I said, I had
finished my bower, and began to enjoy myself.
The third of August, I found that the grapes I had
hung up were perfectly dry, and were, in fact, ex-
cellent raisins. So I began to take them down
25 from the trees; and it was very lucky that I did
so, for I had more than two hundred large bunches
of them; and no sooner had I taken them all
down, and carried most of them to my cave, than
it began to rain. From that time (the 15th of
30 August) it rained, more or less, every day, till the
42 ROBINSON CRUSOE
middle of October, and sometimes so violently
that I could not stir out of my cave for several
days.
One of my cats, that had been missing for some
time, came back again with a troop of kittens at 5
her heels; and, as they soon grew up, I began to
be afraid that the little cats would eat me out of
house and home; so I found myself obliged to
clear them out without much ceremony.
From the 14th of August to the 26th, there was 10
incessant rain, so that I could not stir out. In
this confinement, I began to be straitened for food;
but, venturing out twice, I one day killed a goat,
and the last day, which was the 26th, found a very
large turtle, which was a treat to me. My food 15
was regulated thus:—I ate a bunch of raisins for
my breakfast, a piece of the goat's flesh, or turtle,
broiled, for my dinner, and two or three of the
turtle's eggs for supper.
During my confinement, I worked daily, two or 20
three hours, at enlarging my cave; and, by degrees,
worked it on towards one side, till I came to the
outside of the hill, and made a door or way out,
which came beyond my fence or wall; and so I
came in and out this way. 25
September 30. I had now reached the unhappy
anniversary of my landing. I added up the notches
on my post, and found I had been on shore three
27 Anniversary, the same day of the year as that on which a former event has
happened.
hundred and sixty-five days. I kept this day as a
solemn fast, setting it apart for religious exercises,
prostrating myself on the ground with the most
serious humiliation, confessing myself to God, ac-
5 knowledging the righteousness of his judgment
upon me, and praying him to have mercy upon me,
through Jesus Christ. I did not taste any food
until the going down of the sun, when I ate a bis-
cuit-cake and a bunch of grapes, and went to bed,
10 finishing the day as I had begun it.
As soon as the rains were over, and the weather
began to settle, which was about the month of
November, I made a visit up the country to my
bower; where, though I had not been there for
15 some months, I found all things just as I had left
them. The circle, or double hedge that I.had
made, was not only firm and entire, but the stakes,
which I had cut off some trees that grew there-
abouts, had shot out into long branches, like wil-
20 lows.
I was pleased to see the young trees grow; and
in three years they formed a delightful grove,
which afforded a charming shade and pleasant
lodging-place, during the dry season.
25 I found, now, that the seasons of the year might
generally be divided, not into summer and winter,
as in Europe and North America, but into the
rainy seasons and the dry seasons as follows :—
38 Rainy seasons and dry seasons. In the tropics, immediately underthe
rays of the sun, the air becomes heated and rises, thus causing other air to flow
4S
Half February, \
March, } Rainy.
Half April, )
Half April,
May,
June, y Dry.
July,
Half August,
Half August,
September, > Rainy.
Half October,
Half October,
November,
December, > Dry.
January, j
Half February, J
I5
I spent a great deal of time in the basket-mak-
ing, for I had found good materials, and soon grew
very expert at the business. I employed myself 20
in this wicker-work, and in planting my second"
rows of stakes, all the summer, or dry season, when
another business took up more time than it could
be imagined I could spare.
in both from north and south to fill the empty space. Two opposite winds are
thus produced, called the Trade-Winds. These flowing over the surface of
the ocean become laden with water, and when they meet, right under the sun,
they too rise upwards until they reach a colder region above, when the water
which they carried in the form of vapor becomes condensed into clouds and then
into rain, and falls down in very heavy showers. When the sun is north of the
equator it is the rainy season there, since the trade-winds only meet, and the rain
only falls, immediately under the sun. Therefore places near the equator have
two rainy and two dry seasons every year, since the sun passes over them twice
in the course of each year.
CHAPTER V.
Having resolved to go across my island, I set
out with plenty of powder and shot, some biscuit
and raisins in my pouch, with my gun and hatchet,
and my faithful dog as a companion. I passed
5 from my bower until I saw the sea to the west;
and, as it was a clear day, discovered land, stretch-
ing from the westward to west-south-west.
I had very little doubt that this was the con-
tinent of South America, but supposed it was that
io portion inhabited by savages, who are cannibals,
and dreaded by the Spaniards. How much reason,
then, had I to be thankful that I had not been
thrown upon their inhospitable shore I
I found this side of the island much pleasanter
15 than the one on which I had settled; there being
abundance of fruit, birds, a kind of hare, and
foxes, and plenty of turtles. I must not forget to
mention that I succeeded in knocking down a
young parrot with a stick, and carried him home
20 with me; but it was some years before I could
teach him to pronounce my name.
I travelled along the shore to the east, about
twelve miles, when I set up a pole to mark the
spot, intending, at some future time, to travel
from my dwelling towards the east, till I should
reach this post. On returning, I got lost among
the woods and valleys; and when I finally
reached my habitation, I was so overjoyed, that I
resolved not to quit it, for some time, at least. In S
this journey I caught a young kid, which I suc-
ceeded in taming.
My crops of corn, from which I had hoped so
much, and which I had carefully enclosed, to keep
off beasts, were destroyed by birds, until I shot10
some of the offenders, and hung them up in my
cornfield; after which I was no more plundered.
The want of earthen-ware induced me to try my
hand at the potter's trade. Two months' labor
produced me a pair of the ugliest jars that ever I 15
set my eyes on. I soon got to making smaller
things quite handily; but, as they were only baked
in the sun, they would not hold water and beer.
I wanted an earthen pot that would do both.
It happened, after some time, when I went to 20
put out a large fire that I had made, I found a
broken piece of one of my earthen-ware vessels in
the fire, burnt as hard as a stone, and red as a tile.
I was agreeably surprised to see it, and said to my-
self that, certainly, they might be made to burn 25
whole, if they would burn broken.
I placed three large pipkins and two or three
pots in a pile, one upon the other, and placed my
firewood all round it, with a great heap of embers
under them. I kept supplying the fire with fresh 30
fuel round the outside, and upon the top, till I saw
the pots in the inside red-hot quite through, and
observed that they did not crack at all. When I
saw them clear red, I let them stand in that heat
5for about five or six hours, till I found one of
them, though it did not crack, about to melt; for
the sand which was mixed with the clay melted
with the violence of the heat, and would have run
into glass, if I had gone on. So I slacked my fire
10 gradually till the pots began to lose their red
color. I watched them all night, that I might not
let the fire die away too fast, and in the morning
found I had three very good—I will not say very
handsome—pipkins, and two other earthen pots,
r5as hard burnt as could be desired. One of them
was perfectly glazed with the running of the sand.
The care with which I cultivated my corn and
rice, was repaid by abundant harvests, till, at
length, I raised forty bushels of barley and rice a
20 year, which, I calculated, was full enough to
supply my wants. My corn I beat with a pestle
of iron-wood, in a huge wooden mortar. I suc-
ceeded so well with my pottery, that I was at no
loss for the means of baking.
25 When I had arranged all my things comfortably,
I began to think seriously about leaving the island,
and I wondered how I should be able to accomplish
it. If I had had my boy Xury and the long-boat
-2 Mortar, pestle. A mortar is a hollow stone vessel in which anything is
ground or pounded by a heavy instrument called a pestle.
with the shoulder-of-mutton sail, we could have
left the island in a twinkling, and skimmed the
waters like a sea-bird—but it was vain to think of
these!
I worked away a long while upon our ship's 5
boat, that was cast upon the shore in the storm;
but all my labor was thrown away, for I could not
refit her. At length I determined to make a canoe
in the woods.
I went to work upon this boat like a man who 10
had none of his senses about him. To be sure, the
difficulty of launching my boat often came into my
mind, but I put a stop to my own inquiries with
this foolish answer, " Let me first make it—I war-
rant I'll find some way or other to get it along, iS
when it is done."
This was a most preposterous method; but the
eagerness of my fancy prevailed, and to work I
went, and felled a cedar tree: I question much
whether Solomon ever had such an one for the 20
building of the temple of Jerusalem. It was five
feet ten inches in diameter, at the lower part next
the stump, and four feet eleven inches in diameter
at the end of twenty-two feet, after which it dimin-
ished for a while, and then parted into branches. 25
It was not without infinite labor that I felled
this tree. I was twenty days hacking and hewing
at it at the bottom; I was fourteen more getting
the branches and limbs, and the vast spreading
head of it, cut off, which I hacked and hewed 30
4
through with my axe and hatchet with inexpres-
sible labor.
After this, it cost me a month to shape it, and
cut it to proportion, and to something like the
5 bottom of a boat, that it might swim upright, as it
ought to do. It cost me nearly three months more
to clear the inside, and work it out so as to make
an exact boat of it. This I did by mere mallet
and chisel, and by dint of hard labor, till I had
10 brought it to be a very handsome periagua, large
enough to carry six-and-twenty men.
When I had gone through with this work, I was
delighted with it, and entering it, surveyed it in
triumph. The boat was really much larger than I
15 ever saw a canoe or periagua that was made out of
one tree in my life. Many a weary stroke it had
cost, you may be sure; and now there remained
nothing to do but to get it into the water. If I
could have got it into the water, I should have
20 begun the maddest voyage that was ever under-
taken.
But all my plans for getting it into the water
failed, though they cost me infinite labor. It lay
about one hundred yards from the water, and not
25 more; but the first inconvenience was, it was up-
hill towards the creek. With prodigious pains I
dug away the surface of the earth, so as to make
a descent from the canoe; but I could no more stir
the canoe than I could the other boat.
30 Then I measured the distance of ground, and
51
resolved to cut a dock or canal, to bring the water
up to the canoe, seeing that I could not bring the
canoe to the water. Well, I began this work, and
when I began to enter into it, and calculated how
deep it was to be dug—how broad—how the stuff 5
was to be thrown out—I found it must have been
ten or twelve years before I should have gone
through with it; for the shore lay high, so that, at
the upper end, it must have been, at least, twenty
feet deep. At length, with great reluctance, I10
gave over this attempt. This grieved me sadly;
and now I saw the folly of beginning a work, be-
fore we count the cost, or know our own strength.
In the middle of this work, I finished my fourth
year in this place, and kept my anniversary with 15
the same devotion, and with as much comfort, as
before. I had now been here so long, that many
things which I had brought from the wreck, were
either gone or nearly spent. My ink was almost
gone :—but what troubled me most, my clothes had 20
decayed.
I do not know that I have mentioned, that I had
saved the skins of all the creatures I had killed,
and dried them in the sun. The first thing I made
of these was a great cap for the head, with the hair 25
on the outside to shed the rain. I afterwards made
a whole suit of clothes from these skins; that is to
say, a waistcoat and breeches, open at the knees,
both loose, and badly enough made, for I was a
very indifferent tailor. 30
ROBINSON CRUSOE
Lastly, I made an umbrella, and covered it with
skins, so that it served to keep off both sun and
rain. When I had no use for it, I could close it
and carry it under my arm.
5 Thus I lived comfortably, and resigned myself
to the will of God, throwing myself wholly upon
the disposal of his providence. This made my life
better than sociable; for, when I began to regret
the want of conversation, I would ask myself,"
10 whether thus conversing with my own thoughts,
and, as I hope I may say, even with my Maker,
in my prayers, was not better than the utmost
enjoyment of human society in the world.
CHAPTER VI.
Fob about five years, nothing extraordinary
15 happened to me, but I lived along in the old way.
Besides my yearly labor of planting my barley and
rice, and curing my raisins, and my daily sporting
with my gun, I went to work to make me a canoe.
I kept hard at it till I had finished it, when, by
20 digging a little canal, I fairly got it afloat.
As for the large canoe, it was of no use to me,
and so I let it stay where it was, to remind me to
avoid undertaking anything again before I had
calculated my means for finishing it. My little
periagua, being finished in two years, was, as I
have just said, fairly afloat.
Yet the size of it would not permit me to cross
to terra firma, and so I gave up all thoughts of
doing so; but I resolved to sail round my island. 5
For this purpose I fitted up a little mast to my
boat and made a sail to it out of some of the pieces
of the ship's sails that I had saved. Having tried
the boat, and found that she sailed very well, I made
little lockers or boxes at each end of the boat, to10
put provisions, necessaries, ammunition, etc., into
to be kept dry. I cut a little hollow place in the
inside of the boat, where I could lay my gun,
making a flap to hang down over it to keep it dry.
I fixed my umbrella, also, in a step at the stern, T5
like a mast, to stand over my head, and keep the
heat of the sun off me, like an awning, and thus I
make my first little trip in comfort. At last,
being eager to sail round my little kingdom, I re-
solved upon my tour, and, accordingly, victualled 20
my ship for the voyage, putting in two dozen of
my loaves of barley-bread, an earthen pot full of
parched rice, of which I was very fond, half a goat,
powder and shot for killing more, and two large
watch-coats, which I had formerly got out of the 25
seamen's chests. These I took, one to lie upon,
and the other to cover me in the night.
It was the sixth of November, in the sixth year
of my reign, or my captivity, whichever you please,
that I set out on this voyage, and it was much 30
longer than I expected; for though the island
itself was not very large, yet, when I came to the
east side of it, I found a great ledge of rocks reach-
ing about two leagues into the sea, some above
5 water, some under it; and beyond this, a shoal of
sand, lying dry half a league more; so that I
was obliged to go a great way out to sea to double
that point.
When I first discovered these rocks, I was going
1o to give up my enterprise, and return, not knowing
how far I might be obliged to put to sea, and,
above all, not knowing how I could get back again.
So I came to an anchor, took my gun, went on
shore, climbed up a hill, and, having satisfied my
15 self about the length of the point, resolved to keep
on.
In viewing the sea from the hill where I stood,
I perceived a furious current which ran to the
east, and came close to the point; and I took par-
zo ticular notice of it, because I knew if I got into
it, I might be carried out to sea, and not be able to
make the island again. There was the same
current on the other side of the island, only it set
off at a greater distance; and I saw that there was
25 a strong eddy under the shore; so that I had
nothing to do but to get out of the first current,
and I should presently be in the eddy.
I lay here, however, two days, because the wind
26 Eddy, a whirl or circular current of water, often caused by a current striking
against something and being partly turned back.
SS
blew pretty fresh, and the surf rolled upon the
shore; so that it was unsafe to keep close to the
beach, on account of the surf, and dangerous to
keep farther out, on account of the stream. The
third day, in the morning, the wind having abated 5"
over night, the sea was calm, and I ventured; but
no sooner had I reached the point, and was only a
boat's length from the shore, than I found myself
in deep water, and in a current like the sluice of a
mill. 10
It carried my boat along with such violence,
that all I could do could not keep her so much as
on the edge of it; but I found it hurried me far-
ther and farther out from the eddy, which was on
the left hand. There was no wind stirring to help 15
me, and I could do nothing with my paddles. And
now I began to give myself up for lost, for, as the
current was on both sides of the island, I knew the
currents must soon join, and then I should be lost.
I had the dreadful prospect of perishing, not by 20
the sea, for that was calm, but by hunger. I had
indeed found a turtle on the shore, and tossed it
into the boat, and I had a pot of fresh water, but
what was this to being driven into the vast ocean,
where there was no shore, no main land or island, 25
for a thousand leagues, at least!
And now I even desired to be placed in my
former condition, miserable as I then thought it.
I looked back on my desolate, solitary island, as
l;Sluice of a mill, stream which flows put from a pond to drive a mill.
the pleasantest place in the world, and the greatest
wish of my heart was to be there again. I stretched
out my hands towards it with eager wishes.
"Oh, happy desert!" said I, "I shall never see
5 thee more!"" -
Then I reproached myself with my unthankful
temper, because I had repined at my solitary con-
dition: and now, what would I not give to be on
shore there again! I found it true that we do not
10 know how to value anything till we lose it. It is
scarcely possible to imagine my consternation on
being driven from my beloved island into the wide
ocean, almost two leagues. I almost despaired of
ever being able to return to it again.
15 However, I exerted myself to the utmost, and un-
til I was nearly exhausted, to keep my boat as much
to the northward as I possibly could. About noon,
as the sun passed the meridian, I thought I felt a
little breeze of wind in my face, springing up from
20 the south-south-east. This cheered me up a little,
especially when, in about half an hour, it blew a
gentle gale.
By this time, I was a great way from the island;
and,, if it had been cloudy, I should have lost
25 all hope of finding it again, for I had no com-
pass, and should not have known which way to
point the head of the boat. But, the weather con-
tinuing fine, I put up my mast again, sailed away
to the north, and endeavored to get clear of the
30 current.
A
Just as I had set my mast and sail, and the boat
began to move forward, I saw, by the clearness of
the water, that some alteration of the current was
near; for, where the current was very strong, the
water was foul. I found that some rocks caused 5
the current to part: the largest part of it ran to
the south, leaving the rocks to the north-east; and
the other part, returned by the repulse of the rock,
made a strong eddy, which ran back again to the
northwest, with a very sharp stream. Gladly I10
spread my sail, and ran cheerfully before the wind,
with a strong tide in my favor.
This eddy carried me about a league in my way
back again directly towards the island, but about
two leagues more to the northward; so that, when 15
I came near the island, I found myself on the
northern shore, opposite to the place at which I
had set out.
About four o'clock in the evening, being then
within about a league of the island, I found that 20
the point of rocks, stretching out, as I have de-
scribed before, to the southward, and casting off the
current more southwardly, had of course made
another eddy to the north; and this I found very
strong. However, with a fresh gale I stretched 25
across this eddy, slanting north-west, and, in about
an hour, came within a mile of the shore; and, as
it was smooth water, I soon got to land.
When I was on shore, I fell on my knees, and
gave God thanks for my deliverance, resolving to 30
lay aside all thoughts of escaping by my boat. I
refreshed myself with what things I had with me,
brought my boat into a little cove under the trees,
and lay down to sleep, quite worn out with the
5 labor of the voyage.
The next day, being resolved not again to en-
counter the perils of the sea, I determined to find
a harbor for my boat, which I did, and stowed it
away in a safe place. I then went on shore to see
10 in what part of the island I was.
I soon found that I was near the place where I
had been before, during my journey on foot; so,
taking nothing out of my boat but my gun and my
umbrella,—for it was exceedingly hot,—I began
15 my march homeward. I reached my old bower in
the evening, where I found everything standing
in good order, just as I had left it.
I got over the fence, and lay down in the shade
to rest my limbs, for I was weary, and soon fell
20 asleep. Judge of my surprise, when I was awak-
ened from my sleep by a voice calling me by name
several times—" Robin, Robin, Robin Crusoe!
poor Robin Crusoe! Where are you, Robin
Crusoe? Where have you been?"
25 I started up in the utmost terror; butno sooner
were my eyes fairly open, than I saw my Pol, sit-
ting on the hedge, and knew that it was he that
had been calling me, in that melancholy language
I had taught him. He would frequently sit upon
30 my finger, and lay his bill close to my face, and
cry, " Poor Robin Crusoe, where are you? Where
have you been? How came you here?"
I wondered how the creature came there, and
why he should keep about the place. However,
as I was well satisfied it could be nobody but 5
honest Pol, I held out my hand, and called him by
name; and the sociable creature came to me, and
sat upon my thumb, as he used to do, and con-
tinued saying to me, "Poor Robin Crusoe, how
did you come here? and where have you been ?" i0
just as if he had been overjoyed to see me again.
So I carried him along with me, and we reached
our home in safety.
Being now in the eleventh year of my residence
and my ammunition growing low, I began to25
devise some plan by which I might trap and snare
the goats, and keep them alive. I accordingly
made pitfalls, and succeeded both in catching and
taming them. In about a year and a half, I had a
flock of about twelve goats, kids and all; and in 20
two years more, I had forty-three, besides several
that I took and killed for my food. After that, I
enclosed five pieces of ground to feed them in,
with little pens to drive them into, and gates lead-
ing from one pen to another. 25
But this was not all; for now I not only had
goat's flesh to feed on when I pleased, but plenty
of milk; a thing which, in the beginning, I had
not thought of. I soon learned to milk my goats,
and had sometimes a gallon or two of milk in a 30
day. After a great many attempts, I made butter
and cheese, which were a great addition to my
comforts.
How merciful is God! How can he sweeten
5 the bitterest misfortunes, and give us cause to
praise him in dungeons and prisons! What a
table was here spread for me in the wilderness,
where, at first, I expected only to perish with hun-
ger!
10 It would have made the gravest of men smile,
to have seen me, and my little family, sit down to
dinner. There was myself, the prince and lord of
the whole island. I had the lives of all my sub-
jects at absolute command; to give life and
15 liberty, or take them away, as I pleased, and I had
no rebels among all my subjects.
Then to see how like a king I dined, too; all
alone, and attended by my servants! Pol, as if
he were my favorite, was the only person permitted
20 to talk to me: my dog, now grown very old and
crazy, sat at my right hand; and two cats were
placed, one on one side of the table, and one on the
other, expecting now and then a bit from my hand,
as an especial favor.
25 With this attendance, and in this manner, I
took my meals. When I passed my threshold,
and crossed my wall, I found new attendants in
my goats, which would often surround me on my
return from the chase, as if to welcome me home.
CHAPTER VII.
I NOW resolved to go down to the point where
my boat lay; but, surely, never before did man
travel in such a dress. My appearance would
have drawn a crowd of boys to my heels, in any
civilized country. I had a great, high, shapeless 5
cap, made of goat skin, with a flap hanging down
behind, to keep the sun and rain from my neck.
I had a short jacket of goat's skin, the skirts com-
ing down to about the middle of my thighs; and
a pair of open-kneed breeches of the same stuff. 10
Instead of stockings and shoes, I had a pair of
huge boots or buskins, that napped over my legs,
and were laced at the sides, like gaiters.
I had on a broad belt of dried goat's skin, in
which hung a sword and hatchet, one on each 15
side. Another belt, slung over my shoulders, sup-
ported two goat-skin pouches, which contained my
powder and shot. At my back I carried my bas-
ket—on my shoulder my gun—and over my head
I held a great, clumsy, ugly goat-skin umbrella; 20
but which, after all, was the most necessary thing
I had about me, next to my gun. My beard was
short, with the exception of a pair of very formi-
dable mustachios on my upper lip.
So much for my looks—about which I was not 25
at all particular, as there was no soul to see me.
I first ascended a hill, so that I could overlook the
point of rocks I was to double with my boat, and
was surprised to find the sea perfectly calm, with-
5 out any more motion or current than in other
places. I was soon convinced, from observation,
that the current was owing to the ebbing and flow-
ing of the tide.
One day, towpjds noon, as I was going to my
No boat, I saw the print of a man's naked foot upon
the shore. This filled me with horror and aston-
ishment. I stared wildly around me, expecting to
see a furious'savage, or, perhaps, a dozen of them,
every moment. Every stump and bush took the
15shape of a man; and I fled home, as if half a hun-
dred cannibals were hard upon my heels. For
weeks and months my fears continued.
One morning, early, as I was lying in my bed,
and filled with dread at the thought of meeting
2othe savages, the words of Scripture came into my
mind, "Call upon me in the day of trouble, and I
will deliver thee, and thou shalt glorify me."
Upon this, rising cheerfully, I not only felt com-
forted, but encouraged to pray earnestly to my
25 God for my deliverance. When I had done pray-
ing, I took up my Bible, and, opening it, saw these
words: "Wait on the Lord, and be of good cheer,
and he shall strengthen thy heart. Wait, I say,
on the Lord." It is impossible to express the com-
30 fort this gave me.
My cheerfulness did not soon abate; for I began
to flatter myself that the print of the foot which I
had seen was no other than my own, and that I
had absolutely been frightened to death at nothing
at all; so I took courage, and ventured to go 5
abroad again once more. I had not stirred out of
my castle for three days and nights; so that I
began to be in want of provisions, having little or
nothing within doors, but some barley cakes and
water. 10
I knew, too, that my goats wanted to be milked.
This was usually my evening's amusement; and
the poor creatures now must be sadly in want of
my help. Therefore, strengthening myself in the
belief that what I had seen was nothing but the 15
print of my own foot, I took courage, and went
abroad again, travelled to my country-house, and
milked my flock. But, to tell the truth, I went
along with fear and trembling, looking anxiously
about me, and starting at the rustling of every 20
leaf.
However, as I went out two or three days with-
out seeing anything, I grew bolder, and deter-
mined to go to the place where I had seen the
print of the foot, and measure it by my own, to 25
discover whether or no I had cause for alarm. I
found that my foot did not half fill the print on
the sand; and I was again filled with consterna-
tion. I thought that the island might be in-
habited, and that I was not safe a moment. 30
My fears did not suffer me to sleep that night;
and I passed the hours of darkness in thinking
what I could do to avoid an attack of the savages.
I thought at first, that I would tear down all my
s fences, destroy my barley, and drive my goats into
the woods, so that the savages should find nothing
to keep them on the island, or induce them to re-
peat their visit. Then I thought I would tear
down my tent and bower, and destroy everything
10 which might lead them to think that the island
was inhabited.
In the morning I fell asleep, and awoke rather
refreshed and comforted. I now laid aside the
foolish thoughts of the night. I concluded that
15 this island, which was so fruitful, pleasant, and
near to the main land, was not wholly deserted,
but that, though it was not regularly inhabited,
yet boats might often come off from the shore,
either by design, or driven by contrary winds.
20 I had lived here fifteen years now, and had not
met with a single being; so I concluded that, if
any men were driven on the island at times, they
probably went away again, without remaining
long. All I had to do, was to look out for some
25 safe retreat, in case the savages should land near
me.
Upon consideration, I resolved to make a second
fortification, in a half-circle, at a distance from my
wall, just where I had planted a double row of
— trees, about twelve years before. These trees had
been planted so thick, that there wanted only a
few piles to be driven between them to make a
thick and strong wall. This was soon done, and I
was very well satisfied with my work.
I now had a double wall. The outer wall was 5
thickened with pieces of timber, old cables, and
everything I could think of, to make it strong.
In this I cut seven holes, large enough for me to
put my arm through. Inside, I piled up dirt, and
stamped it down; so that the foot of the wall was 10
about ten feet thick. Through the seven holes I
planted the seven muskets that I got out of the
ship. I fitted them into frames, like gun-car-
riages, so that I could work them handily, and fire
the seven guns in two minutes. I planted nearly 15
twenty thousand stakes of a tree like the willow,
that grew easily in front of my wall, leaving a
space between them and my wall. Thus, in two
years, I had a thick grove, and in five years, a
wood before my dwelling, so thick and strong, that 20
it was really impossible to pass through it. Thus
I took all the measures human prudence could
suggest, for my own preservation.
While I was thus employed, I did not forget
my goats. They were of very great use to me : 2t.
indeed, the loss of them would have been felt
severely. They supplied me with milk; and it is
well known that goat's milk is the nicest in the
world; and I made abundance of butter and cheese
from it. When I wanted meat, I killed a goat; 30
5
and this saved my powder and shot, of which I
had good reason to be very careful.
I could think of but two ways to preserve my
goats: one was, to find another convenient place
5 to dig a cave under ground, and drive them into
it every night; and the other was, to enclose two
or three little bits of land, remote from one an-
other, and as much concealed as I could, that I
might keep about half a dozen young goats in each
10 place; so that, if any accident happened to the
flock in general, I might be able to bring some up
again with little trouble.
It was now my object to find some nice retired
spots, suitable for my purpose. I pitched upon
!5one, which was as private as my heart could wish;
for it was a little, damp piece of ground, in the
middle of the hollow and thick woods, where I
almost lost myself once before.
Here I found a clear patch of land, containing
20 about three acres, so surrounded by woods that it
appeared enclosed by nature. At least, it did not
want nearly so much labor to make it so, as the
other pieces of ground I had worked so hard at.
I immediately went to work with this piece of
25 ground and, in less than a month, I had so fenced
it round, that my flock or herd, which had lost
much of their wildness, were well enough secured
in it. I then removed some goats into it. All
this labor was in consequence of seeing the print
30 of a man's foot.
CHAPTER VIII.
I ttat> now lived two years in fear of the can-
nibals. After I had secured part of my live-stock
I went about the island to try to discover another
place of equal security, where I might place the
rest. One day, wandering more to the west point 5
of the island than I had ever done before, and look-
ing out to sea, I thought I saw a boat at a great
distance. I had found one or two spy-glasses in a
sea-chest, which I had saved out of the ship; but
I had neither of them with me. I gazed and 10
gazed upon the boat, which seemed like a speck
upon the sea, till my eyes fairly ached; but it was
too far off for me to make anything out of it; so
I thought I would come down the hill, resolving
not to go out again without a spy-glass. 15
When I came down the hill to the shore, being
the south-west point of the island, I was perfectly
confounded and amazed; for I saw the shore
spread with skulls, hands, feet, and other bones of
human bodies. I also observed a place where 20
there had been a fire made, and a circle dug in the
earth, where I supposed the savage wretches had
been feasting on the bodies of their unhappy
brethren.
"I was filled with horror and astonishment at the sight."
68
I gazed and gazed at the dreadful spectacle,
without any thought of my own danger. I was
filled with horror and astonishment at the sight.
To think of men so brutal, so cruel, as to murder
their fellow-creatures, and then cook and eat them. 5
It made the blood run cold within me. Then I
became very sick and faint, and crawled away from
that dreadful place as fast as I was able.
As soon as I had recovered, I lifted up my eyes
to heaven, and gave God thanks that I was set 10
apart from these miserable wretches, and that I
had been comforted with the knowledge of him-
self, and the hope of his blessing, which was a
happiness that made up for all the misery I had
suffered, or could suffer. I also felt relieved by 15
the thought, that I had been here eighteen years
without seeing any cannibals, and it might be as
long before they saw me, unless I chose to show
myself to them, which I thought I might easily
avoid doing. 20
Yet I felt such an abhorrence of the savage
beings that I have been speaking of, and of their
wicked, inhuman custom of eating one another up,
that I continued pensive and sad, and kept close
within my own circle for almost two years after 2,
this. When I say my own circle, I mean by it my
three plantations, namely, my castle, my country-
seat, or bower, and my enclosure in the woods.
All this time, I did not go to look after my boat;
and thought of building myself another, for I did 30
not wish to go round the island to get it, for fear
of meeting some of the inhuman wretches, who, I
did not doubt, would devour me, if I fell into their
hands. Time, however, began to wear off my un-
5easiness about them; and I lived much in the
same manner as before, except that I was cautious,
and kept constantly on the lookout. I was partic-
ularly careful about firing my gun, lest it should
be heard on the island. It was, therefore, fortu-
1onate that I had furnished myself with a tame
breed of goats, as I was now under no necessity of
hunting.
For two years after this, I believe, I did not once
fire a gun, though I never went out without one;
15 and, if you add to my former description of myself,
the particular of a brace of pistols, and a naked
broadsword, hanging in a belt, you must allow that
I was now a most formidable person.
I found a place in the side of a hill, where I was
20 satisfied I could securely watch for the cannibals'
boats. In that case, before they were ready to
come on shore, I formed a plan of removing to a
thicket of trees, in one of which there was a hollow
large enough to conceal me entirely. Here I
25 might sit and observe all the bloody doings of these
wretches, and take my full aim at their heads,
when they were so close together, that it was
next to impossible that I should fail of wounding
three or four of them at the first shot.
30 In this place, I prepared two muskets and my
ordinary fowling-piece. The two muskets I loaded
with a brace of slugs each, and four or five smaller
bullets, about the size of pistol-bullets. The fowl-
ing-piece I loaded with nearly a handful of swan-
shot, of the largest size. I also loaded my pistols 5
with about four bullets each; and thus, well pro-
vided with ammunition for a second and third
charge, I set out on my expedition.
After I had thus laid my plans, I continually
made my tour, every morning, up to the top of the 10
hill, which was about three miles from my house,
to see if I could observe any boats upon the sea,
coming towards the island; but I always came
back without making any discovery, though I kept
strict watch for three months. 15
But my feelings gradually changed with regard
to the savages, by a train of serious reflection. I
considered that, although the actions of the canalbals were doubtless very wicked, yet I had no
right to punish them myself; and to fire upon20
them would be an act little short of murder, and
guilty in the sight of Almighty God. Besides, by
interfering with them, I might bring destruction
on myself; and thus no one good purpose would
be gained. 25
In this disposition I continued nearly a year;
and so far was I from desiring an opportunity of
falling upon these wretches, that, during all this
time, I never went up the hill to ascertain whether
any of them had been on shore or not. I removed 3°
my boat, which was on the other side of the island,
and carried it down to the eastern shore, where I
put it into a little cove, which I found under some
high rocks, where I knew the savages would not
5 venture with their boats.
My fears, as to my safety, now almost put a
stop to my contrivance and inventions. I could
not drive a nail or chop a stick of wood, but with
fear that the noise should be heard; and I was
1overy unwilling to make any fire, lest the smoke,
which is seen from a great distance in the day,
should betray me. For this reason, I removed
that part of my business which required fire, such
as burning of pots and pipes, etc., into my new
15 apartment in the wood, where, after I had been
some time, I found, to my unspeakable consola-
tion, a natural cave, which was very deep, and
extended some distance into the earth.
The mouth of this hollow was at the bottom of
20 a great rock, where I had cut some thick branches
of trees, to make charcoal. Before I proceed, I
must tell you why I made this charcoal. I was
afraid of making a smoke about my habitation, as
I said before; and yet I could not live without
-5 baking my bread, cooking my meat, etc. So I con trfVed to burn some wood here under the turf, till
it became chark, or dry coal; and then, putting
1 Contrivance, skill In contriving or inventing.
"Charcoal, coal which is made by burning or charring wood under turf so as
to keep out the air. Charcoal givesa very hot clear fire without •moke.
73
the fire out, I preserved the coal to carry home
with me.
While I was cutting some wood here, I espied
a hollow place behind some low brush-wood. I
was curious to look into it; and, crawling with 5
difficulty into the mouth of it, I found it large
enough for me to stand upright in. But I must
confess that I made more haste to get out than I
did to get in; for, on looking farther into the
place, which was perfectly dark, I saw what I10
thought shining eyes, which twinkled like two
stars.
After some time, I recovered myself, and, laugh-
ing at my fears, seized a flaming brand, and dashed
into the cave again. But I suddenly stopped, on 15
hearing a deep sigh, which made my blood run
cold. However, there was no backing out; and,
screwing up my courage to the sticking point, I
went forward, and saw, lying on the ground, a
frightful old he-goat, just dying of old age. 20
I now looked around me, and found that the
cave was quite small, but so dark, that I put off
my examination till the next day. The next day,
I went, provided with several large candles, and,
passing through the outer chamber of the cave, 25
crawled through a narrow passage on my hands and
knees. When I got through this, I found that the
roof rose higher than twenty feet; and a more
glorious sight than the sides and ceiling of the
vault presented I have never seen. A hundred^
thousand brilliant spars reflected the light of my
candles; and it seemed as if I had suddenly stepped
into an eastern palace, which had been decked out
for a banquet.
5 It was, indeed, a most delightful grotto, though
quite dark. The floor was dry and level, and
covered with loose gravel. I rejoiced at this dis-
covery, and resolved, without delay, to take some
of those things which I was most anxious about to
10 this place; particularly my magazine of powder,
and all my spare arms. At my castle I kept five
muskets, which stood ready mounted, like cannon,
and were ready, also, for me to take out on any
expedition.
15 When I removed my ammunition, I was obliged
to open the barrel of powder, which I took up out
of the sea, and which had been wet. I found that
the water had penetrated three or four inches into
the powder on every side; which, caking and
20 growing hard, had preserved the inside, like a
kernel in a shell; so that I had nearly sixty
pounds of very good powder in the centre of the
cask. This was a pleasant discovery, at that time.
So I carried all away to my grotto. I also carried
25 thither all the lead I had left, for bullets.
I fancied that I was now like one of the ancient
giants, who were said to live in caves and holes of
the rocks, where no one could get at them; for I
1 Spars, stalactites of carbonate of lime hanging like icicles from the roof.
They are caused by the dripping of water.
persuaded myself, that, if five hundred savages
were to hunt for me, they could never find me;
or, if they did, would not venture to attack me.
The old goat, that I found expiring, died in the
mouth of the cave the next day after I made this
discovery; and, digging him a grave, I interred
him with great solemnity.
CHAPTER IX.
It was now the twenty-third year of my residence
in the island; and I was so naturalized to the
place, and the manner of living that, could I have ,0
enjoyed the certainty that no savages could come
to the place to disturb me, I could have been con-
tent to have remained, until, like the old goat in
the grotto, I lay down and died of old age.
It was now the month of December. On go-,,
ing out, early one morning, I was surprised at
seeing a fire-light upon the sea-shore, about two
miles off.
I went back to my castle, pulled my ladder after
me, and made all things look as wild and natural as 20
I could. Then I prepared myself within, loading
my cannon, or muskets and pistols; all the time
praying that I might be delivered from the hands
of the barbarians. I staid there about two hours,
when, getting impatient, I planted my ladder on 2$
the side of the hill, where there was a flat place,
and then, pulling the ladder up after me, I set it
up again, and mounted to the top of the hill. Pull-
ing out my spy-glass, I lay down flat on my face,
and began to look out for the savages.
5 I soon found that there were no less than nine
naked men sitting round a small fire. They had
two canoes with them, which they had hauled
upon the shore; and, as it was then ebb tide, they
seemed to await the return of the flood, to go
10 away again. As soon as the tide made to the
westward, I saw them all take to their canoes and
paddle away.
On going down to the shore, I could see the
marks of the dismal work they had been about—
15 the blood, the bones, and part of the flesh of human
bodies, which had been devoured by those wretches
with merriment and sport. I was so filled with
anger at the sight, that I began to meditate the
destruction of the next I saw there, no matter who,
20 or how many they were. It was a year and three
months before I saw any more of the savages.
On the 16th of May, there was a terrible storm
and, through the noise of the midnight thunder,
I heard the report of the guns of a vessel in distress.
25 So I brought together all the dry wood I could get
and made a great fire on the hill, which I supplied
with fuel, and kept alive till morning, when I saw
something, but what, I could not tell, stationary,
at a great distance from the shore.
30 I went towards the south-east side of the island,
and, the weather being perfectly clear, I could
plainly see, to my great grief, the wreck of a ship,
cast away in the night upon those concealed rocks,
which I had found out in my boat.
Some days after, the corpse of a boy washed on .5
shore at the end of the island which was next the
ship. He had on no clothes but a seaman's jacket,
a pair of open-kneed linen drawers, and a blue linen
shirt; but nothing which could give me an idea of
his name or nation. 10
It was now calm, and I had a great mind to
venture out -in my boat to this wreck, thinking
that I should find something useful on board. So
I hastened back to my castle, prepared everything
for my voyage, took a quantity of bread, a great 15
pot for fresh water, a compass to steer by, and a
basket of raisins; and, thus loading myself with
everything necessary, I went down to my boat,
got her afloat, and put my cargo into her.
Then I went home for more. My second cargo 20
was a great bag full of rice, an umbrella, to set up
over my head for a shade, another large pot full
of fresh water, and about two dozen of my small
loaves or barley-cakes, with a bottle of goat's milk,
and a cheese. I prayed God to direct my voyage, 25
and set out, paddling the canoe along the shore,
until I came to the north-east point of the island.
And now I prepared to launch out into the
ocean. I looked on the rapid currents which ran
constantly on both sides of the island, and which 30
were very terrible to me, from the recollection of
my former danger. My heart began to fail me;
fori foresaw that if I was driven into either of these
currents, I should be carried a great way out to
5 sea, and, perhaps, out of the reach or sight of the
78 ROBINSON CRUSOE
should rise, I should inevitably be lost.
These thoughts so oppressed my mind, that I was
beginning to relinquish my voyage, when, as I was
10 musing, I perceived that the tide had turned; so I
resolved to set out the next morning with the ebb-
tide. I slept that night, in the canoe, and the next
morning set out, and in less than two hours reached
the wreck.
15 It was a dismal sight to look at. The ship, which,
by its build, was Spanish, stuck fast, jammed in
between two rocks. All her stern and quarter
were beaten to pieces with the sea; and, as her
forecastle had run upon the rocks with great vio-
20 lence, her mainmast and foremast were broken short
off, but her bowsprit was sound, and the head and
bow appeared firm.
When I approached, a dog came running along
the wreck, yelping, and sprang into the sea. I
25 took the poor creature into the boat, and fed him,
for he was almost dead with hunger. I then gave
him some fresh water; and he would have drank
enough to have killed him, if I had not prevented
him.
30 After this, I went on board. The first sight I
met with, was two men drowned in the cook-room,
or forecastle of the ship, with their arms clasped
about one another. I concluded that, when the
ship struck, the sea broke so continually over her,
that the men were suffocated by the constant rush- 5
ing of the water. Besides the dog, there was noth-
ing left in the ship, nor any goods, that I could
see, but what were spoiled by the water. I found,
however, several chests, which I got into the boat.
I took a powder-horn, a fire-shovel and tongs, 10
two little brass kettles, a copper pot, and a gridiron;
and, with this cargo, and the dog, I came away,
the tide beginning to make home again. The same
evening, I reached the island again; but I was so
tired and sleepy, that I passed the night in the 15
boat.
The next morning, I began to examine my cargo.
I found some sweetmeats, some shirts and pocket-
handkerchiefs. Besides these, I found bags which
held about eleven hundred pieces of money; and, 20
in one of them, wrapped up in paper, there were
six doubloons of gold, and some small bars or
wedges of gold. I suppose they all weighed nearly
a pound.
In the other chest, I found some clothes, and a 25
few pounds of glazed powder. On the whole, I
got but little by this voyage. As for the money,
it was of no use; I would have given it all for
three or four pairs of English shoes and stockings.
Having brought all my things on shore, and 30
secured them, I went back to my boat, and paddled
her along shore to her old harbor, where I laid her
up, and made the best of my way to my old habit-
ation, where I found everything safe and quiet.
5 So I began to repose myself, live in my old way,
and take care of my family affairs. For a time, I
lived easily enough, only I was more watchful than
I used to be, and did not go abroad so often. The
only place to which I ever went freely, was the
10 eastern part of the island, where, I was satisfied,
the savages never came, and where I could go with-
out loading myself with arms and ammunition,
which I was obliged to carry, if I went the other
way.
CHAPTER X.
15 I lived in this condition nearly two years more,
occupying myself, during the whole time, in form-
ing plans to escape from my island. One morn-
ing, early, I was surprised to see five canoes on
shore together; but the people who belonged to
20 them were out of my sight. I climbed to the top
of my hill, and observed, by the help of my spy-
glass, thirty savages. They had kindled a fire to
cook meat, and were dancing round it with many
barbarous gestures.
25 While I was looking on, two miserable wretches
were dragged from the boats, in the bottom of
which they had been lying, and were now brought
out for slaughter. One of them was knocked
down, instantly, with a club, and two or three,
others seized on him at once, cutting him up, to
prepare him for the cookery. The other victim 5
was left standing by himself. Seizing the oppor-
tunity, he started, and ran, for his life, directly
towards my part of the coast.
I was terrified, when I saw the poor wretch run
this way, but I soon found that only three followed 10
him; and he ran with such surprising swiftness,
that I was almost sure that he would give his
enemies the slip. The party now arrived at the
creek, which was between them and my castle.
The flying savage dashed in, and crossed it with a15
few brave strokes. Two of his pursuers took the
water, and followed close behind; but the third,
after pausing a moment on the brink, turned, and
went slowly back.
I now resolved to save the life of a fellow-20
creature, if possible. So I came speedily down
the hill, and placed myself between the pursuers
and the pursued, hallooing to him who fled, and
beckoning him to come back. In the meantime, I
slowly advanced towards the two that followed; 25
then, rushing at once upon the foremost, I knocked
him down with the stock of my piece. Seeing
what had befallen this fellow, the other pursuers stopped, as if, he had been frightened: but, as I
came nearer, I saw he was taking aim at me with 30
6
an arrow; so I levelled my gun at him, and shot
him dead.
The poor savage who had fled, now stopped,
when he saw both his enemies vanquished; but
5 he was so frightened with the fire and noise
of my piece, that he stood quite still. I made
signs to him to come forward, which he readily
understood, and came a little way, then stopped
again, then came a little farther, and stopped. I
lothen saw that he was trembling violently.
I beckoned him again to come to me, and gave
him all the encouraging signs that I could think
of. He came nearer and nearer, kneeling down,
every ten or twelve steps, in token of acknowl-
i5edgment for my having saved his life. I smiled
at him, and beckoned him to come still nearer. At
length, he came close to me, and then he kneeled
down again, and, taking hold of my foot, placed it
upon his head. By this, he meant that he would
20 serve me and be my slave forever.
I took him up, and encouraged him all I could.
But there was more work to do yet; for the savage
whom I had knocked down was only stunned, and
was now coming to himself. I pointed to him,
25 and showed him the savage. Upon this he spoke
some words to me, and though I could not under-
stand their meaning, yet they were very pleasant
to hear, for they were the first sounds of a man's
voice that I had heard, my own excepted, for more
30 than twenty years.
But there was no time for such reflections now.
The savage who was knocked down, recovered
himself so far as to sit up upon the ground; and
I perceived that my savage began to be afraid;
but he motioned me to lend him the sword that 5
hung by my side; and, when I gave it to him, he
ran and cut off his enemy's head, and brought it,
with many signs of triumph, and laid it at my
feet.
He was astonished at the manner in which I had to
killed the other savage. He turned the body over
and over, until he had found the bullet-hole,
at which he gazed with great attention. He then
made signs that he would bury the bodies, that
none of the other savages might find them. His 15
hands supplied the place of spades, and, in about
a quarter of an hour, they were both buried. I
then took my new companion to my cave.
Here I gave him water and a bunch of raisins,
and, having made signs for him to lie down upon 20
a bunch of rice-straw and a blanket, he soon fell
fast asleep. He was a good-looking fellow, about
twenty-six years of age, of a tawny color, with a
pleasant countenance, good features, and bright,
sparkling eyes. 25
After he had slept about half an hour, he waked
again, and came out to me as I was milking the
goats. He came running to me, and lay down on
the ground, making every sign of a thankful dis-
position, and giving me to understand that he3a
- Making every sign of a thankful disposition."
would serve me as long as he lived. I understood
him in many things, and let him know that I was
very well pleased with him.
In a little while I began to speak to him and
teach him to speak to me; and, first, I taught him 5
that his name was Friday, which was the day on
which I saved his life. I likewise taught him to
say Master, and let him know that was to be my
name. I taught him to say Yes, and No, and told
him what they meant. I gave him some milk in 1O
an earthen pot, and showed him how to sop his
bread in it, which he did, making signs that he
liked it.
The next day, I went with Friday to the place
where he had buried the two savages. He sig-15
nified that he would dig them up, and eat them;
but I showed my disgust at it, and made him come
away. We then ascended the hill, and, looking
all round, we found that the savages had gone.
I then went to the place where the cannibals 20
had held their feast, and found it covered with
human bones and bits of human flesh, and dyed
with .blood. I saw three skulls, five hands, the
bones of three or four legs, with other parts of
bodies. Friday, by his signs, made me understand 25
that they had brought over four prisoners to feast
upon, and that he and the rest had been lately
taken in a great battle. The sad remains of the
feast I made Friday burn.
When he had done this, we came back to our 3C
castle; and there I fell to work on Friday, dress-
ing him in a pair of linen drawers, a coat of goat's
skin, and a fashionable cap of hare's skin. At first,
these things made him look awkward, and he
5 complained of their hurting him; but he soon got
used to them, and liked them.
The next day, I began to consider where I should
lodge him. That I might be perfectly secure, I
made a little tent for him, in a vacant place, be-
10 tween my two fortifications, in the inside of the
last and the outside of the first. As there was a
door, or entrance, there, into my cave, I made
a framed door-case and door of boards, and set it
up in the passage, a little within the entrance.
15 I caused the door to open on the inside, and
barred it up at night, taking in my ladders too;
so that Friday could not get at me without making
noise enough, in climbing the wall, to awaken me;
and as for weapons, I took them all into my side
20 of the house every night.
But I needed none of these precautions, for
never had man a more faithful, loving, sincere serv-
ant than Friday was to me:—without passion,
ill-temper, or art, perfectly obliging and engaging,
25 his affections were tied to me, like those of a child
to a father; and I dare say he would have sacri-
ficed his life to save mine upon any occasion.
I was greatly delighted with him, and made it
my business to teach him everything that was
3°proper to make him useful and handy; but espe-
cially to make him speak, and understand me when
I spoke to him. He was so merry, so constantly
diligent, and so pleased, when he could understand
me, or make me understand him, that it was very
pleasant to me to talk to him. And now my life
began to be so easy, that I said to myself, "If I
were only free from the fear of the savages, I care
not if I were never to go away from this island,
which now appears so pleasant."
CHAPTER XI.
I now thought it my duty to cure Friday of his 10
love for human flesh. So I one day pointed out a
kid to him, and shot it dead. I brought home the
kid, and, the same evening, took off the skin, and
boiled a piece of the meat, which I made him eat;
and he appeared to relish it very well. The next 15
day I fed him with roast kid; and hoped by these
means to show him that animal flesh alone was
proper for food.
He soon learned to work very readily for me,
assisting me in beating and sifting my corn, and 2c
in enclosing a larger space for raising it in larger
quantities; because, as I had now two mouths, in-
stead of one, to feed, I thought it necessary to
increase my harvests. The company of Friday,
who was both intelligent and honest, made this2S
year the pleasantest one that I had passed in the
island.
One day, I wanted to try whether Friday wished
to see his own country again; and, as he now spoke
5 English quite well, I asked him if the nation he
belonged to always conquered in battle. At this,
he smiled, and said, "Yes, yes—we always fight
the better;" that is, " we always get the better
in the fight." "You always get the better I " said
1o I; "how came you to be taken prisoner, then,
Friday?"
Friday. My nation beat much, for all that.
Master. How beat? If your nation beat them,
how came you to be taken prisoner?
15 Friday. They more than my nation in the place
where me was: they take one, two, three and me.
My nation over-beat them in the yonder place,
where me no was: there my nation take one, two
great thousand.
20 Master. But why didn't your side recover you
from the hands of your enemies, then?
Friday. They run one, two, three, and me, and
make go in the canoe. My nation have no canoe
that time.
25 Master. Well, Friday, and what does your
nation do with the men they take? Do they
carry them away, and eat them, as these did?
Friday. Yes, my nation eat mans too—eat all up.
Master. Where do they carry them?
30 Friday. Go to other place where they think.
Master. Do they come hither?
Friday. Yes, yes, they come hither; come other
else place.
Master. Have you been here with them?
Friday. Yes, I been here. [Points to the 5
north-west side of the island, which, it seems, was
their side.) I thought that our island lay in the mouth of
the great river Orinoco, and that the land I saw to
the west and north-west, was the great island of 10
Trinidad, on the north point of the mouth of the
river. I asked Friday a thousand questions about
the country, the inhabitants, the sea, the coast, and
what nations were near. He told me all he knew,
without any hesitation. 15
I asked him the names of the several nations of
his sort of people, but could get no other name
than Caribs, from whence I understood that these
were the Caribbees, which our maps place on that
part of America which reaches from the mouth of the 20
river Orinoco to Guiana, and onwards to St. Martha.
Friday told me that, up a great way be}rond the
moon,—he meant beyond the setting of the moon,
—which must be west from their country, there
dwelt white, bearded men, like me, and pointed to 25
my whiskers—that they had killed much mans
(many men); by which I understood him to mean
the Spaniards, whose cruelties in America had been
spread over all its parts, and were remembered by
all nations, 30
ROBINSON CRUSOE
I inquired if he could tell me how I could leave
my island, and come among these white men;
and he answered, very eagerly, "Oh! yes! you
might go in two canoe." I did not know what he
S meant by two canoes; but, at last, I found that he
meant a boat as large as two canoes.
I instructed Friday in his religious duties, and
had soon reason to be pleased with the intelligence
and piety he showed. The conversation between
10 Friday and me was so pleasant, that, for three years,
we lived together as happily as men can in this
earthly state.
After Friday and I became more intimately ac-
quainted, and he could understand almost all I said
15 to him, and speak to me readily, though in broken
English, I showed him how to use powder and ball,
and gave him a knife and a hatchet to put in his
belt.
I then told him my story, and described to him
20 the countries of Europe, and particularly England,
from which I came—how we lived, how we wor-
shipped God, and how we traded, in ships, to all
parts of the world. I showed him the boat in
which I escaped from the wreck, which was de-
25 cayed and useless. Upon seeing this boat, Friday
stood a good while without saying anything. I
asked him what he was thinking of. At last, he
said," Me see such boat come to place at my nation."
Friday described the boat very well, and added,
30 " We saved the white mans from drown."
I asked him if there were many white mans, as
he called them, in the boat. "Yes," he said, "the
boat full of white mans." I asked him how many,
and he counted on his fingers, seventeen. I
asked him what became of them, and he said, 5
"They live, they dwell at my nation." This story
made me think that they were the crew of the
vessel that had been cast away on my shore.
I again asked what had become of them; and
Friday assured me that they still lived among his 10
nation, and had been supplied with victuals for
four years. I asked him how it happened that his
nation had not killed and eaten them. "Oh!"
said he, "they make brother" (make peace with
them ); and then he added, "they eat no mans, 15
but when they make the war fight; " that is to say,
they never eat any men but such as come to fight
with them, and are taken in battle.
Some time after this, as we were on the top of a hill
on the eastern side of the island, on a fair day, 20
Friday looked earnestly towards the main land, and
then began to jump and dance about, shouting to
me, who was at some distance from him. "What
is the matter, Friday?" said I, " what has got
into you?" lf O, joy?" said he, " O, gladI there 2;
see my country I there my nation!" "How
strong," thought I, "is this poor savage's love of
country! and yet he would not desert me for the
world."
One day, walking up the same hill, when the 30
tinent, I said to Friday, "Don't you wish yourself
in your own country, among your own nation?"
"Yes," answered Friday, "I be much glad to be
5 at my own nation."
"What would you do there?" asked I; "would
you turn wild again, eat men's flesh again, and be
a savage, as you were before?"
Friday looked very serious, and, shaking his
1O head, said, "No, no: Friday tell them to live
good—tell them to pray God—tell them to
eat corn-bread, cattle-flesh, milk; no eat man
again."
"Why, then," said I to him, "they will kill
»5you."
Friday looked very serious, and then said, " No,
they no kill me; they willing, love to learn." He
added, that they learned much of the bearded
mans that came in the boat. Then I asked him if
20 he would go back to them. He smiled, and said
he could not swim so far.
I told him I would make a canoe for him. He
told me he would go, if I would go with him. "I
go!" said I, " why, they will eat me if I come
25 there." "No, no," said he; "me make them no
eat you—me make them much love you." He
meant he would tell them how I had killed his
enemies, and saved his life, and so make them love
me.
30 After some days, I took Friday to the other side
-
93
of the island, and showed him my boat, which I
kept sunk under water. He was very dexterous
at managing it, being able to make it go almost as
fast again as I could. When we were in it, I said,
"Now, Friday, we will go to your country." Up- 5
on this, he looked very dull, and I found it was
because he thought it was not large enough. I
then took him to see the first boat which I had
made; but as I had taken no care of it, and allowed
it to lie in the sun for twenty-two years, it was 10
quite decayed. Friday told me such a boat would
do very well, and would carry "much enough
vittle, drink, bread:" that was his way of express-
ing himself.
Upon the whole, I was now bent on going over 15
with him to the continent; and I told him we
would go and make a boat twice as big as that,
and that he should go home in it. He made no
answer, but looked very sad. I asked him what
was the matter with him. 20
"Why," said he, "why you angry, mad with
Friday? what me done?"
"I don't know what you mean," said I; "I am
not angry with you."
"No angry I no angry !" said he, repeating my 25
words several times; "then why send Friday
home away to my nation?"
"Why," said I, "Friday, you said you wished
we were both there."
"Yes, yes," said he, " wish we both there: no 30
wish Friday there, no Master there. Master go
too."
"I go there, Friday!" said I; "what should I
do there?"
5 "You do great deal much good," said he; "you
teach wild mans be good, sober, tame mans;
you tell them know God—pray God—lead new
life."
"Ah, Friday!" said I, " you don't know what
io you're saying. I'm only a poor, ignorant man
myself."
"Yes, yes," said Friday, " you teach me good
—you teach me good."
"No, no, Friday," said I, "you shall go with-
15 out me: leave me here to live by myself, as I did
before."
He looked dreadfully distressed at this, and,
snatching up a hatchet, gave it to me. "What
must I do with this ?" asked I.
20 » You take and kill Friday," answered he.
"What must I kill you for? " said I.
"What you send Friday away for? Take kill
Friday, kill Friday,— no send Friday away." The
tears stood in his eyes, and he brought out the
25 words with pain. To reward his affections, I
told him that he should never leave me, unless he
wished it; and then he was as much pleased as he
was grieved before, and capered and danced round
me, with a thousand comical signs of joy.
CHAPTER XII.
As Friday assured me that the bearded men
who came to this country were treated very well
by his people, I felt a strong desire to go over to
the continent and see them; justly considering, if
I could make some friends there, that there would 5
be a better chance of my escaping to some civilized
country than if I remained, unaided, on my island.
I therefore went to work with Friday, to find out
a tree fit to cut down and make a periagua, or
canoe, of. At last, Friday pitched upon a tree, to which was the tree that we call, fustic, having
much the same color and smell as nicaragua-wood.
Friday wanted to burn out the middle of this with
fire; but I showed him how to work with my tools;
and, after laboring hard for a month, we cut it out 15
handsomely, and shaped it like a boat.
It was a tedious piece of business to get it to the
water; but we put great rollers under it, and
shoved it along, inch by -inch, little by little, till
we got it afloat. To my great joy, it swam like a 20
duck ; and Friday darted into it, and paddled about
with the greatest dexterity. But of sails he had
no idea. These I resolved to rig out.
I was nearly two months in rigging and fitting
my mast and sails; for I made them very complete.
I fixed a rudder to the stern, which worked very
well; and then, having all things in order, I taught
5 my man Friday how to navigate my sail-boat. He
learned in a short time, and became a very expert
sailor.
I had now entered on the. twenty-seventh year
of my residence in this place, and kept the anniver-
1osary of my arrival with my usual attention. I
blessed God for his various mercies to me, and re-
joiced in the prospect of a speedy deliverance.
However, I went on with my farming—digging,
planting, and enclosing as usual. I gathered and
15 cured my grapes, and did everything necessary,
as before. And now, to prepare for the rainy sea-
son, I dug a dock for my boat, and Friday and I
built a cover for it.
With the return of fair weather, I daily prepared
20 for my voyage. The first thing I did was to lay
up a certain quantity of provision, intending, in a
week or fortnight, to open the dock and launch
our boat. One morning, I sent Friday to the sea-
shore, to see if he could find a turtle. Friday,
25 however, soon came back, flying over the wall, and
cried out to me," O Master! O Master! O sorrow l Obad!"
"What's the matter, Friday ?" said I.
"O ! yonder, there !" said he; "one, two three
30 canoe ! one, two, three I"
\
"Well, Friday," said I, "don't be frightened,
you must fight them, like me. Can you fight,
Friday?"
"Me shoot," said he; "but there be great many
much wild mans." 5
"No matter," I rejoined; "our guns will kill
half, and frighten the rest. Now, my man, will
you stand by me, fight like a lion, and do as I bid
you?"
"Me die when you bid die," said the faithful to Friday. My preparations were soon made. We
took the two fowling-pieces, and four muskets,
loaded with slugs and bullets. I also charged my
pistols, and belted on my sword. I gave Friday his
hatchet. 15
Having made these preparations, I took my spy-
glass, and went up the hill, to look out for the
enemy. I found there were twenty-three savages,
three prisoners, and three canoes; and their whole
business seemed to be a triumphant banquet upon 20
these three human bodies — a most barbarous
feast!
I observed that they had landed near my creek,
and were in a place near some brushwood, which
would afford good concealment. I came down to 25
Friday, and gave him a pistol and three guns, with
a bag of powder and ball. I took another pistol
and the remaining three guns myself. I charged
Friday not to speak a word, and to do just as I bid
him. 30
1
While I was marching to the shelter of the wood,
I considered whether it was proper for me to con-
stitute myself the executioner of these savages, and
dip my hands in their blood. As for Friday, he
5 was their declared enemy; but I had no such ex-
cuse. On the whole, I resolved to post myself in
a convenient place, and act as circumstances should
warrant.
Having entered the wood, I sent Friday to a
1o tree, at the corner of it, and toldhiin to look out, and
bring me word what the savages were doing. He
came back, and told me that he could see them
very plainly—that they were about the fire, eating
the flesh of one of the prisoners, and that another
15 was lying bound on the sand, ready to be devoured.
The last, he said, was one of the white, bearded
men that came to his country in the boat.
This filled me with rage. I went to the tree,
and saw plainly, by the glass, a white man, who
20 lay upon the sea-beach, dressed in European
clothes, and bound hand and foot with flags.
There was another tree, and a little thicket beyond
it, about fifty yards nearer to the savages than the
spot where I stood; and Friday and I, by going
25 round a little, came to this shelter.
There was not a moment to lose; for nineteen of
the savages were huddled together on the ground,
and had just sent the other two to murder the poor
Christian, and bring him, perhaps, limb by limb,
30 to their fire. They had stooped down to unbind
his feet. "Now, Friday," said I, "do exactly as
you see me." So I laid one of the muskets and
the fowling-piece on the ground, and Friday did
the same. Both of us then took aim. "Fire!"
cried I; and both pieces exploded at the same in- 5
stant.
Friday killed two and wounded three, while I
killed one and wounded one. The savages were
thrown into a dreadful fright, and sprang up in
consternation. Friday and I now caught up our 10
fowling-pieces, and fired with a steady aim. So
many were wounded, that they ran about like mad
creatures, yelling and screaming, and the blood
dripping from their wounds.
"Now, Friday," said I, "follow me; " and we 15
rushed together from the wood, shouting with all
our might. I ran directly towards the poor victim;
the other savages having fled, and sprang into the
canoe, where Friday fired upon them. They
dropped down; for he had killed one and wounded 20
the other. I now cut the bonds of the poor prisoner,
and gave him drink and food. He said he was
Espagnole (a Spaniard). As soon as he had re-
covered, I put a sword into his hand, and assisted
him to rise. 25
"Senor," said I, with as much Spanish as I could
muster, " this is no time to talk: if you have any
strength left, take this pistol and sword, and lay
about you." As soon as he received the arms, he
flew upon his murderers like a fury, and cut two 30
of them to pieces in an instant. I kept my piece
in my hand, and told Friday to run up to the tree
from which we first fired, and bring the arms which
he had left there. Giving him my musket, I sat
S down to reload all the rest.
Meanwhile, there was a fearful battle between
the brave Spaniard and a stout Indian. The
Spaniard struck a blow at his enemy, but the In-
dian threw him down, and was wrenching the
10 sword out of his hand, when the Spaniard pulled
out his pistol and shot him through the head. The
huge savage rolled over in the sand, struggled for
an instant, and then grew suddenly stiff and cold
as marble.
15 Friday and the Spaniard continued to fight as
long as a single savage remained. The account of
the loss of the savages is as follows: Three were
killed at one shot from the wood: two were killed
at the next shot: one was killed by Friday in the
20 boat: two more of those first wounded were killed
by Friday; and one he killed in the wood: three
were killed by the Spaniard: four dropped of then
wounds and died, and four escaped in the boat.
As one of the canoes was deserted, Friday and I
25 sprang in, to pursue the savages by sea, when we
were surprised to find a poor savage, bound, in the
bottom of the boat. As soon as Friday saw him,
he embraced him, hugged him, cried, laughed,
hallooed, jumped about, danced, sung, and acted as
30 if he was crazy. The moment he found breath,
x
Friday recognizes his father.
father.
After feeding the Spaniard, and Friday's father,
Friday and I carried them, on a litter, to my castle,
5 where, as we could not take them over the wall,
we raised a tent formed of old sails, and made two
good beds of blankets and bundles of rice-straw.
After supper, I sent Friday to bring back the arms
from the field of battle, and to bury the dead bodies
10 and the remains of the savage feast.
I understood, from the Spaniard, that there were
sixteen more Spaniards and Portuguese, who had
escaped from a wreck, and lived among the savages,
but found it difficult to get the necessaries of life.
15I asked him if he thought his countrymen would
treat me well, if I brought them over to my island,
and procured the means of our. escaping to New
Spain. He told me that he thought their present
situation was so miserable, that they would not
20 treat any one unkindly who should rescue them.
He offered to go to them, and make them sign an
agreement to be true to me, and to acknowledge
me as their commander.
Upon these assurances, I resolved to venture to
25 relieve them, if possible, and to send the old savage
and this Spaniard over to them, to talk the affair
over with them. But, when all things were in
readiness for starting, the Spaniard raised an objec-
tion, which had so much prudence and sincerity in
y. it, that, by his advice, I put off the deliverance of
his comrades for, at least, six months. The case,
as stated by the Spaniard, was this :—
He had been with us now about a month; during
which time, I had let him see in what manner,
with the assistance of Providence, I provided for S
my support; and he saw, plainly, what stock of
barley and rice I had laid up. This was more than
enough for myself, but it was not sufficient for my
family, now that it was increased to four.
If it was not enough for four, how could we get10
along if fourteen Spaniards were added to my
family? We should not have enough to victual a
vessel, if we built one, for a voyage to one of the
Christian colonies of America. So he told me, he
thought it would be more advisable to let him, and 15
the other two, dig and cultivate some more land,
as much as I could spare seed to sow, and then
wait till another harvest should supply us with corn
for his countrymen when they should come; as
want might tempt them to quarrel, and they might 20
see themselves delivered from one difficulty only
to fall into another. "You know," said he, " that
the children of Israel, though they rejoiced, at first,
at their being delivered out of Egypt, rebelled
even against God himself, when they came to want 25
bread in the wilderness."
CHAPTER XIII.
I was very well pleased with the prudent pro
posal of the Spaniard; so we all four began to dig
as well as the tools we had would allow. In a
month, we had so much land prepared, that we
5 sowed twenty-two bushels of barley, and sixteen
jars of rice, which was all the seed I had.
We felled trees, and made, with infinite labor,
about a dozen good oak planks, nearly two feet
broad, thirty-five feet long, and from two to four
1o inches thick. At the same time, I contrived to in-
crease my flock of tame goats as much as I could;
and, whenever we shot she-goats, we kept their
kids, and added them to the tame flock.
But, above all, the season for grapes coming on,
15I caused a prodigious quantity to be hung up in
the sun. It was now harvest-time, and our crop
was in good order. We had two hundred and
twenty bushels of barley, and enough food to have
victualled a ship to go to any part of America.
20 Thus, having a full supply of food for all the guests
expected, I gave the Spaniard leave to go over to
the main land, to see what he could do for those
he had left behind him there.
I gave him a strict charge, in writing, not to bring any man with him who would not first swear,
in the presence of himself and of the old savage,
that he would no way injure, fight with, or attack,
the person he should find on the island, who was
so kind as to send for them, in order to deliver 5
them; but that they would stand by and defend
him against all such attempts, and, wherever they
went, be entirely under, and subjected to, his com-
mand; and that this should be put in writing, and
signed by their hands. How we were to have 10
this done, when I knew they had neither pen nor
ink, was a question that we never asked.
Under these instructions, the Spaniard and
Friday's father went away in one of the canoes.
I gave them each a musket, with about eight 15
charges of powder and ball, charging them to be
sparing of them. I had now hopes of my deliver-
ance, which I had never before felt during the
twenty-seven years of my captivity. I gave them
provisions sufficient to last them and the Spaniards 20
eight days, and wished them a prosperous voyage,
having agreed that they should hang out a signal,
by which I might know them on their return.
When I had waited for them eight days, a
strange and unforeseen accident occurred. I was 25
fast asleep, one morning, when my man Friday
came running in to me, and called out—" Master I
Master! they are come, they are come!"
I sprang up, and dressed myself, and ran through
my little grove unarmed. I was surprised, when 30
I turned my eyes on the ocean, to see a sail-boat,
about five miles off, standing in to the shore, with a
pretty fair breeze. I also observed, that it came
from the southerly end of the island. Upon this,
5I called Friday in and told him to keep close,
for these were not the people we looked for, and
I did not know whether they were friends or
enemies.
I then sought my spy-glass, to see what I could
1omake of them, and climbed, by the help of the
ladder, to the top of the hill. I had hardly set
foot on the hill, when I saw a ship lying at anchor,
at about two leagues and a half distance from me,
south-south-east, by not more than a league and a
15 half. It clearly appeared to be an English ship,
and the boat an English long-boat.
I saw the boat draw near the shore, as if they
were looking for a creek to land in. However,
they landed on the beach, about a half a mile from
20 me. When they were on the shore, I was fully
satisfied that they were Englishmen. Their num-
ber was eleven—all armed but three, who appeared
to be prisoners, and were taken out of the boat by
the first four or five who leaped on shore. The
25 three unarmed men often lifted up their hands, as
if in great distress of mind.
I was perfectly confounded at the sight, and
knew not what to make of it. Friday called out
to me in English, as well as he could, " O Master!
30 you see English mans eat prisoners as well as
%
savage mans." "Why," said I, "Friday, do you
think they are going to eat them, then?" "Yes,"
said Friday, "they will eat them." "No, no, Fri-
day," said I; "I am afraid that they will murder
them, indeed; but you may be sure they will not 5
eat them."
All this time, I expected to see the poor pris-
oners killed every moment. Once I saw a villain
raise a cutlass over one of the poor men; but he
let it fall again without doing him any injury, 1c
Yet it was very evident that the intentions of the
stronger party were far from friendly.
As there were no firearms among them, I
thought that, if the Spaniard had been with me,
I should have been able to save the prisoners. 15
And, even now, I had some hopes of rescuing them.
The seamen scattered themselves about the country,
and left the three at liberty. But they did not in-
cline to walk about, and sat down, sadly, upon the
ground. It was high water when the party came 20
on shore; and now the tide had ebbed considerably,
and left their boat aground. Two men had been
left in the boat; but they were drunk, and had
fallen asleep.
I now resolved to prepare myself for battle, still 25
keeping within my fortifications. I ordered Friday
to load himself with arms; I myself took two fowl-
ing-pieces, and gave him two muskets. My figure
was truly fierce; for I had my formidable goat-
skin coat on, with my huge cap, a drawn sword, 30
a gun upon each shoulder, and a brace of pistols in
my belt.
I intended not to make any attempt before dark;
but I found that the seamen had all strolled into
5 the woods, and were probably asleep. The three
poor, distressed men were sitting in the shade of a
great tree, about a mile from me, and, as I thought,
out of sight of the rest. I therefore resolved to
discover myself to them.
i0 I marched off, looking like a spectre, with Fri-
day behind me, accoutred in a proper manner, as
the squire of so formidable a knight. I came close
to them without their seeing me, and said, in
Spanish, "Who are ye, gentlemen?"
15 They started up at the noise, but were ten times
more confounded when they saw me. They were
first preparing to fly, when I spoke to them in
English. "Gentlemen," said I, "do not be sur-
prised to see me; perhaps you may have a friend
20 near you, when you do not expect it." "He must
be sent directly from heaven, then," said one of
them, very gravely, and pulling off his hat to me,
"for our condition is past the help of man." "All
help is from heaven, sir," said I; "but how can
25 you put a stranger in the way to help you? You
seem to be in great distress. I saw you when you
landed; and when you seemed to beg mercy of the
brutes that were with you, I saw one of them lift
up his sword to strike you."
30 The poor man trembled, and, with tears running
down his face, said, " Am I talking to a real man,
or an angel?" "Be in no fear about that, sir,"
said I; "if God had sent an angel to relieve you,
it would have been in a far different form from .
the one now before you. Pray lay aside your fears 5
I am a man,—an Englishman,—and disposed to
assist you. You see I have only one servant.
We have arms and ammunition. Tell us freely,
can we serve you? What is your case?"
"Our case, sir," said he, "is too long to tell 10
you, while our murderers are so near. But, in
short, sir, I was commander of that ship. My men
having mutinied against me, have been prevailed
on to set me on shore in this desolate place, with
these two companions,—one my mate, the other a 15
passenger,—where we expected to perish, believing
the place, to be uninhabited."
"Where are your brutal enemies?" asked I.
"Do you know where they are gone?" "There
they are, sir," said he, pointing to a thicket of 20
trees; "my heart trembles for fear they have seen
us, and heard you speak: if they have, they will
certainly murder us all."
"Have they any firearms?" said I. He an-
swered, "They have only two pieces, and one 25
which they left in the boat. "Well, then," said
I, "leave the rest to me. I see they are all asleep.
It is an easy thing to kill them all; but shall we
not rather take them prisoners?" He told me
there were two desperate villains among them, whom 3"
it would hardly be safe to spare; but, if they were
secured, he thought the rest would return to their
duty. He said that he could not describe them at
. this distance, but would obey me in anything I
5 would direct. "Well," said I, "let us retreat
out of their hearing, for fear of their waking; and
we will talk further about this matter."
When we had got into the woods, I asked if, in
case of my delivering him, he was willing to do as
to I wished him. He said that he would place both
himself and the ship at my disposal. "Well,"
said I, " my conditions are but two:—1. That,
while you stay on this island with me you will not
pretend to any authority here; and, if I put arms
15 into your hands, you will, upon all occasions, give
them up to me, and do no harm to me or mine,
upon this island, and, in the mean time, be gov-
erned by my orders.
"2. That if the ship is, or may be, recovered,
20 you will carry me and my man to England, pas-
sage-free." He gave all the assurances that a rea-
sonable man could desire, that he would comply
with these my just demands.
"Well, then," said I, " here are three muskets
25 for you, with powder and ball: tell me, next, what
you think is proper to be done." He wished only
to take the lives of the two ringleaders ; because
he thought that, if this was done, the others would
prove willing to submit. We accordingly advanced
30 upon the mutineers, and shot the two villains.
The others, finding it useless to resist, threw them-
selves upon their knees, and begged for mercy.
The captain spared their lives; but I thought my-
self obliged to keep them bound, hand and foot,
while they remained upon the island. I then sent 5
Friday and the captain's mate to secure the boat,
which they did.
I told the captain my whole history, and showed
him my house. The captain admired my fortifica-
tion and my trees; but his anxiety about his own 10
affairs induced him to return speedily to them.
There were still twenty-six hands on board his ship,
who had entered into the conspiracy, and knew
that their lives would be lost as soon as they
touched English ground; therefore they were des-15
perate, and it would be very dangerous to attack
them.
I thought that we might lay a snare for them,
when they should come on shore to see what had
become of their comrades; therefore I advised him 20
to stave the boat that they might not carry her off,
after we had taken everything out of her which
was of any value. I had strong hopes, now, of
being able to recover the ship.
CHAPTER XIV.
The next day, we heard a gun fired from the
ship, which was a signal for the boat to come off
the shore. At last, when several guns failed to
procure the return of the boat, we saw, by our
S glasses, another boat lowered to the water, and
shoved off from the vessel. As they approached,
the captain recognized them. There were ten men
in the boat, and these were furnished with fire-
arms. Three of them, the captain said, were hon-
mesh fellows, and, doubtless, had been forced to
join the mutineers; but the boatswain, and the
remaining six, were the worst fellows in the ship.
I cheered the captain, and told him that we
should certainly succeed; and my confidence im-
15boldened the rest of our party. Two of our pris-
oners were permitted to join us, on their promis-
ing solemnly to stand by us. As soon as the second
boat's crew landed, they hauled their boat up on
the beach, and ran to examine the other boat.
20 They appeared very much astonished at finding it
turned bottom upwards and a hole knocked in the
bottom. They shouted for their companions, and
fired volleys of muskets, but received no answer
but the echoes.
Three men were left in the boat, while the rest
went to search the island. The men in the boat
shoved her a little way off shore, and then came
to anchor. The men on the island soon became
so frightened, that they ran down towards the shore 5
and would have gone off in their boat, had I not
sent Friday and the captain's mate towards the
place where the savages had landed, to halloo to the
sailors, and draw them as far into the woods as
possible. 10
As soon as they heard Friday and the mate, they
went in the direction of their voices, but were soon
stopped by the creek. Then they drew the boat
up the creek, crossed it, fastened the boat to a
stump, and left only two men in her. Leaving 15
Friday and the captain's mate, I, with the remain-
der of our men, surprised the men in the boat;
and they not only yielded, but were persuaded to
join us.
Their companions had been led so completely 20
astray by Friday and the mate, that it was quite
dark when they came to the creek, where they
found the boat aground (for the tide had ebbed)
and the two men gone. I formed an ambush, and
ordered Friday and the captain to creep upon their 25
hands and feet, as close to the ground as they could,
that they might not be discovered, and get as near
them as possible before they offered to fire.
They had not been long in that posture, before
the boatswain, who was the principal ringleader of 3°
S
the conspiracy, came walking towards them with
two more of the crew. When they came near, the
captain and Friday, starting to their feet, fired
upon them. The boatswain was killed upon the
5 spot; the next man was mortally wounded, and
the third man ran away.
At the noise of the firing, I immediately ad-
vanced with my whole army, which consisted of
eight; viz., myself, generalissimo; Friday, my
10lieutenant-general; the captain and his two men;
and the three prisoners of war, whom he had
trusted with arms.
We came upon them in the dark, so that they
could not know our strength; and I made one of
15 the men, whom we had surprised in the boat, call
out, "Tom Smith! Tom Smith!" Tom Smith
answered immediately, "Who's that? Robinson?"
for, it seems, he knew his voice. The other an-
swered, "Ay, ay:—for God's sake, Tom Smith,
20 throw down your arms and yield, or you are all
dead men this moment."
"Who must we yield to? Where are they?"
said Smith again. "Here they are," answered
Robinson: "here is our captain, and fifty men
25 with him, have been hunting you these two hours;
the boatswain is killed, Will Frye is wounded, and
I am a prisoner 5 and if you do not yield, you are
all lost."
"Will they give us quarter, then," said Tom
30 Smith, " if we will yield?" "I'll go and ask, if you
promise to yield," said Robinson. So he asked the
captain; and the captain himself called out, "You,
Smith, you know my voice: if jrou lay down your
arms immediately, and submit, you shall have your
lives, all but Will Atkins." 5
On this, Will Atkins cried out, "For God's
sake, captain, give me quarter. I am not so bad
as you think me." The captain told him he must
lay down his arms at discretion, and trust to the
governor's mercy—meaning me. In short, they 10
all begged their lives, and appeared very penitent.
Atkins, and the worst of the mutineers, were pin-
ioned and imprisoned in my cave: the rest were
confined in my bower.
"When I had formed my plan for seizing the 15
ship, I made use of the assistance of five of the
mutineers: three prisoners, becoming hostages,
were answerable for the conduct of the five. I was
to remain on shore. The captain furnished his
two boats, and manned them: five men went in20
one of them, and he himself, his mate, and five
more, went in the other.
As soon as they came within call of the ship,
the captain made Robinson hail them, and tell
them that he had brought off the men and the boat; 25
and he kept them in conversation till they came to
the ship's side. The captain and mate entered first,
and, after a short, but severe skirmish, the ship
was secured. The captain then ordered seven
guns to be fired—a signal which he had agreed 30
'After a short, but severe skirmish, the ship was secured."
upon, to convey to me the news of his success.
The next morning, the captain brought me, besides
refreshments, six clean shirts, six very good neck-
cloths, a pair of shoes, a hat, a pair of stockings,
and a very good suit of clothes. 5
We next began to consider what we should do
with our prisoners. Five of them were such incor-
rigible rascals, that the captain was afraid to take
them with him, and concluded that it was best to
leave them upon the island. They themselves 10
were glad to stay, for they expected to be punished
for their crimes with death.
When they had all declared their willingness to
stay, I told them I would tell them my story, and put
them into the way of making it easy for them to live 1S
on the island comfortably, as I had done. I gave
them the whole history of the place, and of my
coming to it; showed them my fortifications, the
way I made my bread, planted my corn, cured my
grapes: in a word, I gave them all the informa- 20
tion necessary to make them easy. I told them
the story of the sixteen Spaniards, that were
expected; for whom I left a letter, and made
them promise to treat them well, in all re-
spects. 25
I left them my firearms—five muskets, three
fowling-pieces, and some swords. I had about a
barrel of powder left; for, after the first year, I had
used but little. I gave them a description of the way I managed the goats, with directions how to 30
milk and fatten them; also, how to make both
butter and cheese.
In short, I gave them every part of my own
story, and I told them that I would prevail on the
5 captain to leave them two barrels of gunpowder,
and some garden-seed. Having done all this, I
left them the next day, and went on board the
ship. We prepared immediately to sail, but did
not weigh anchor that night. The next morning,
10 early, two of the five men came swimming to the
ship's side, making a piteous complaint of the other
three. They begged to be taken into the ship, and
made solemn promises of amendment. The cap-
tain, at length, consented to take them on board,
15 and they afterwards proved very quiet, orderly
fellows.
Some time after this, I went on shore with the
articles I had promised to the men; to which the
captain added their chests and clothes. I encour-
20 aged them by telling them that, if it ever was in
my power to send a vessel to take them away I
would not forget them.
CHAPTER XV.
When I took leave of my island, I carried on
board, for relics, the great goat-skin cap I had
made, my umbrella, and one of my parrots; and,
also, a sum of money, which I found in the wreck.
This had laid so long useless, that the silver and 5
gold had grown rusty and tarnished, and required
a great deal of rubbing and polishing to make it
look at all like money. And thus I left the island
on the nineteenth of December, as I found, by the
ship's account, in the year 1686, after I had lived 10
upon it twenty-eight years, two months, and nine-
teen days.
After a long voyage, I arrived in England, June
11, 1687, having been thirty-five years absent.
When I came to England, I was as perfect a 15
stranger to all the world as if I had never been
known there. I went down into Yorkshire; but I
found my parents dead, although I found there
two sisters and two nephews. But I had, long ago,
been given over for dead, and no provision had 20
been made for me, so that I found nothing to relieve
or assist me; and what money I had, was not enough
to enable me to settle in the world.
The captain, however, did me a kindness, out of
gratitude, which I certainly did not expect, and
which I was very thankful for. It was this: He
gave the owners of the ship a flattering account of
the way in which I had saved their property, and
the lives of the crew; and he represented my con-
5 duct in so favorable a light, that they called a meet-
ing, complimented me very highly, and made me a
present of nearly two hundred pounds sterling.
Yet, even with this, I had not enough to set me
up in business; so I thought I would go to Lisbon,
10 to see if I could not find out something about my
plantation in the Brazils, and learn what had become
of my partner, although I was very much afraid I
should hear that he was dead. My faithful man
Friday accompanied me to Lisbon, where I found
15 the captain of the ship that first took me up, at sea,
on the coast of Africa. He had now grown old,
and retired from the service; his son being in com-
mand of his ship, and in the Brazil trade.
The old man received me with delight, as soon
20 as he knew who I was. He told me he had not
been in the Brazils for nine years, but that, when he
was last there, my partner was living. He told
me that the government had appropriated my plan-
tation, in case I never came to claim it—one third
25 to the king, and two thirds to the monastery of
St. Augustine, to be expended for the benefit of the
poor, and for the conversion of the Indians to the
Catholic faith; but, in case I appeared to claim it,
it was* to be restored to me.
30 "But," said the old man, " I have one piece of
news to tell you, which, perhaps, may not be so
acceptable to you as the rest; and that is, that,
believing you dead, your partner and trustees
offered to account to me, as your executor, for six
or eight of the first years of profit, which I received. 5
But, as there had been some heavy expenses, in
the way of building, and buying slaves, the amount
was not very great; but I will give you a true
account of what I received, and the manner in
which I disposed of it." 10
He brought me an account of the first six years'
income of my plantation, signed by my partner
and the merchants' trustees. I found that my old
friend owed four hundred and seventy moidores of
gold, besides sixty chests of sugar, and fifteen dou-15
ble rolls of tobacco, which were lost in his vessel,
when he was shipwrecked, on his return to Lis-
bon, about eleven years after my leaving the place.
The good man then began to complain of his
misfortunes, and how he had been obliged to make 20
use of my money to recover his losses, and buy
himself a share in a new ship. "However, my
friend," said he, "you shall not want a supply, in
your necessity ; and, as soon as my son comes home,
your claims shall be fully satisfied." 25
Upon this, he pulled out an old pouch, and gave
me two hundred Portugal moidores in gold; and,
giving me his writings of his title to the ship, in
which his son had gone to the Brazils, of which he
owned one fourth, and his son another fourth, he 30
put them into my hands as security for the pay-
ment of the remainder of the debt.
I was too much affected by the honesty and
kindness of the good old man, to be able to bear
5 all this; and, remembering what he had done for
me,—how he had taken me up at sea, and how
good he had been to me on every occasion,—I could
not help shedding tears; and I asked him if he was
able to spare so much money at that time. He
TO said that it would put him to some inconvenience,
but he had rather want it himself than that I should
want it.
I could not bear to deprive him of so large a
sum; and so I called for pen and ink, to give him
15 a receipt for one hundred moidores only. Then I
returned him the rest, and told him that if ever I
had the plantation, I would return him all, and
that I would not take the bill of sale of the part
of his son's ship that belonged to him.
20 I told the old man that I thought of going over
to the Brazils to prefer my claim to my plantation;
but he said there was no need of doing so, because
I could enter my claim to it at Lisbon, and send
to the trustees for the money. I did so, and
25 received a fair account from the trustees, and an
affectionate letter from my partner, who congratu-
lated me on my escape from my sufferings, and
on the success of my plantation. He wanted me
to come over and take possession of it, but offered
30 to send my effects to me, if I preferred it.
I might now well say, that the latter end of Job
was better than the beginning. I cannot tell you
how my heart beat, when I looked over these letters,
and cast my eyes upon my wealth; for, as the
Brazil ships all came in fleets, the same ships that 5
brought my letters brought my goods; and the
effects were safe in the Tagus before the letter came
to hand. I turned pale, from the revulsion of my
feelings; but my good old friend, the captain,
brought me a cordial, and saved me from fainting. 10
I was now master of more than fifty thousand
pounds sterling, and my estate in the Brazils was
worth, certainly, one thousand pounds a year. I
now discharged my debt of gratitude to my good
old friend. I released him from the obligation to 15
return the money he had borrowed of me—I re-
turned what I had taken—I empowered him to re-
ceive the profits of my plantation—and I settled a
hundred moidores a year on him for life, and fifty a
year on his son, when my kind friend should be no 20
more.
I now prepared to go to England with all my
wealth; so I sold my cargo, and turned the profits
into bills of exchange. I had such a dread of the
sea from the many misfortunes that had happened 2S
to me upon it, that I resolved to go to England by
land, when I should only have to make the short
passage of the Straits of Dover.
6 Tagus. Lisbon is situated on the Tagus River.
To render the journey pleasant, I contrived to
make up a party, being joined by a young English-
man, the son of a merchant of Lisbon, two other
English merchants, and two Portuguese gentle-
5 men, who were going as far as Paris. We had five
servants, two of which were mine, for I had hired
an English sailor, as a servant, to assist Friday,
whose entire ignorance of the manners of civilized
countries made him almost useless on a journey.
iO When we got to Navarre, we were sorry to hear
that a great deal of snow had fallen on the French
side of the Pyrenees; so much, indeed, that a
great many travellers had turned back, for fear of
being buried in it. They told us that the snow
15 did not freeze hard on the top, as it did in colder
countries, making it very dangerous to travel over
it, when it was deep.
At Pampeluna, we stayed twenty days; and it
snowed almost the whole time. Friday hardly
20 knew what to make of the snow, or the cold, for
he had never known either before. When he
went out into the snow-banks, he cried out,
"Master! Master! me burn!" for the extremes
of heat and cold seemed to him alike.
25 I had determined to go to Fontarabia, and there
take shipping for Bordeaux, when some travellers
arrived with a guide, who had led them hither
from the French side of the Pyrenees. I asked
this man if he thought he could conduct us into
30 France. He said there was no danger about the
>
snow, for the surface of it was frozen very hard;
but he said there were a great many hungry wolves
at the foot of the mountains, and that they often
attacked travellers, at this season of the year.
"No matter," said I, "we are well mounted and 5
armed; and I, that have faced cannibals, am not to
be scared out of my wits by a parcel of wolves."
Therefore, we set out, trusting to our guide,
whom we found a very skilful one. As we ad-
vanced to the north, the snow began to deepen, 10
and it stormed frequently. As we were journey-
ing along, about two hours before night, when our
guide was a little way before us, three wolves and
a bear rushed out of a hollow. Two of the wolves
flew upon our guide: one fastened upon the horse, 15
and the other attacked the man so fiercely, that
he had not presence of mind enough to draw a
pistol, but shouted for help. I told Friday to
ride hard, and see what was the matter. Friday
put spurs to his horse, and galloped up to the 20
guide, when, seeing what had happened, he put
his pistol to the wolf's head, and shot him dead.
The poor guide had been bitten twice.
The noise of the pistols was answered by the
howlings of innumerable wolves, whose hideous 25
cries struck a cold chill to our hearts. After tor-
menting the bear in every way, chasing him about,
and hopping from tree to tree, like a monkey,
Friday killed him. He seemed to enjoy the sport
highly. 30
We were still in a wild, frightful place, and the
cries of the wolves sounded on every side of us.
The ground was covered with snow, although it
was neither so deep nor so dangerous as on the
S mountains. We had one bad place to pass, where,
the guide told us, we should be sure to find wolves,
if there were any in the country. This was a
plain, which we entered after riding through a
wood. On this plain, we encountered a large body
1o of these ravenous animals; but, on our firing
sharply among them, they retreated, with hideous
howlings, into the woods, which we were obliged
to go through, after crossing the plain.
We reloaded our pieces, and rode on, at a sharp
15 trot, hearing, all the time, the barking, growling,
and snapping, of thousands of wolves. On a sud.
den, at an opening in the wood, we heard the re-
port of a gun; and, presently, out darted a horse,
saddled and bridled, flying like the wind, with
20 sixteen or seventeen wolves after him at full
speed.
Riding up to the place from which the horse
came, we saw a sight that filled us with horror.
There lay the carcass of a horse, and the bodies of
25 two men, half devoured: a gun lay near one of
them, evidently just discharged. This filled us
with horror; but we had no time to deliberate, for
three hundred or more wolves speedily gathered
around us. At the entrance of the wood, there lay
30 some felled trees, among which I drew up my little
troop. We alighted, and formed a triangle, or
three fronts, with our horses in the centre.
The wolves rushed on, with low growls, furious
at seeing the horses secured, and sprang upon our
5 fortification of trees. Then I ordered my men to
fire. Many wolves were killed at the first dis-
charge, and the rest retreated; but we kept load-
ing and firing, and they kept retreating, and again
attacking with redoubled fury.
1o I then gave Friday my powder-horn, and told
him to lay a large train along one of the pieces of
timber. This he did expertly; and the moment
he had done it, the wolves rushed upon the tim-
ber, when I snapped my pistol among the powder,
15 and it instantly blazed up. Six or seven wolves
fell over upon us, scorched to the bone, and the
main body retreated, on our giving a terrible
shout and discharging our pistols.
We rushed out, immediately, upon nearly
20 twenty, which were lamed and struggling on the
ground, and cut them to pieces with our swords.
I suppose we killed about sixty, in all. We then
mounted, and rode off, for we had nearly three
miles to go to the town where we were to pass the
25 night. The wolves did not attack us again, but
we heard them howling all night. We arrived
safely at the inn, but were obliged to leave the
guide there, in consequence of the severe wounds
he had received.
30 The next day we went on with our journey, and
in time I reached England, without having any
further adventures.
I had been so active all my life, that I found
some difficulty in settling down to a quiet country
life, and indeed my housekeeping was not of long
duration, as it was not more than' a year before I
started on my travels again. Some very surpris-
ing adventures of my own during the next ten
years I may, perhaps, give a further account, of,
hereafter.'
THE END.
