  r s~ . / n.
^V^^"*"^^
Z7 ^ £ <Z</
^5
Hubbard
Imag. Voy.
FFf
34-0^
•A\
V.I
lit*'*.
 ft >binlon(Vulor i .l«f, pb'il Pag< i-M~>l .\./:,.-
THE
LIFB
And Strange Surprizing,
ADVENTURES
O F
Robinson Crusoe,
Of YORK, Mariku :
Who lived eight and twenty Years ?il alone
in an un-inbabired Ifland on the Coafl of America^
near the Mouth of the Great River Qrconrque ; ha-
ving been cafl on Shore by Shipwreck^ wherein all
the Men periihed but himfelf.
With an ACCOUNT how he w«s at laftasftracg-
ly delivered by PYRATES.
Written by Himfelf.
The SIXTH EDITION Adorned with Cuts,.
In Two VOL.
 L 0 ND 0 N: Printed for W. Tayhr, at the Ship and]
Black-Swan, in Pater-Nofter-R.w. MDCCXXU.  }
I
 (itMttth (fa
PREFACE.
IF ever the Story of any private
Maris Adventures in the
World were worth making Pub-
lick, and were acceptable when
Tubliftid, the Editor of this Ac-
count thinks this will be fo.
The Wonders of this Maris '
Life exceed all that (he thinks) is
to be found extant; the Life of one
Man being fcarce capable of a.
greater Variety.
The Story is told zoith Modefty,
with Serioufnefs, and zvith a reli-
gious Application of Events to the
Vfes to which zvife Men always
apply them (viz ) to the InflrucJion
°f
The Preface.
of others by this Example, and to
juftify and honour the Wifdom of
Providence in all the Variety of
our Circumftances, let them hap-
pen how they wiH.
The Editor believes the thing,
to be ajuft Hiftory of Fact j nei-
ther is there any appearance of
Fiction in it; <zAnd however
thinh, because all fuch Thing- are
deputed, that the Improvement of
it, as well to the Diverfion, as to
the lnftrudion of the Reader, will
be the fame; and as fitch, he thinks,
without farther Compliment to the
World, he does them a great Ser-
vice in the Publication.
MB
THE
 THE
LIFE
AND
ADVENTURES
f" OF
Robinfon Crufoe, &c.
Was born in the Year 1632, in the City
ofXrk, of a good Family, thtf not of
that Country, my Father being a* fo-
reigner of Bremen, who fettled firft at
Hull: He got a good Eftate by Merchan-
dise, and leaving off his Trade, lived
afterwards at Tork, from whence he had married my
Mother, whore Relations were named Robhifn, a very
good Family in that Country, and "from whom t was
ca\\ed Robtnfon Kreutxnaer $ but by the ufu'al Corrupti-
on oi Words m England, we are now call'd, nay we
call ourselves, and write our Name Crufoe, and'fo my
Companions always call'd me.- . J
B I
 (O
I had two elder Brothers, one of which was Lieu-
tenant Colonel to an En&lijb Regiment of Foot in Flan->
ders, formerly commanded by the famous Col. Lockbart,
and was killed at the Battle near Dunkirk againft the
Spaniards: What became of my Second Brother I ne-
ver knew, any more than my Father or Mother did
know what was become of me.
Being the third Son of the Family, and not bred to
any Trade, my Head began to be till'd very early with
rambling Thoughts: My Father, who was very anci-
ent, had given me a competent Share of Learning, as far
as Houfe-Education, and a CountryFree-School generally
goes, and defign'd me for the Law ; but I would be
iktisfy'd with nothing but going to Sea ; and my Incli.
nation to this led me £o ftrongly againft the Will, nay
the Commands of my Father, and againft all the En-
treaties and Perfwafions of my Mother and other
Friends, that there feemed to be iomething fatal in that
Propenfion of Nature tending directly to the Life of
Milery which was to befal me.
My Father, a wife and grave Man, gave me ferious
and excellent Counfel againft what he fore-faw was my
Defign. He called me one Morning into his Chamber,
where he was confined by the Gout, and expoftulated
very warmly with me upon this Subjeft : He ask'd me
what Reafons more than a meer wandring Inclination
I had for leaving my Father's Houfe and my native
Country, where 1 might be well introduced, and had
a Profpe& of railing my Fortune by Application and
Induftry, with a Life of Eafe and Pleafure: He told me
it was. for Men of defperate Fortunes on one Hand, or of
aipmng,* fuperiourFortunes on the other, and who went
abroad upon Adventures, to rife by Enter prize, and
make themfelves famous in Undertakings of a Nature
jout of the common Road ; that thefe things were all ei-
ther too far above me, or too far below me ; that mine
was the middle State, or what might be called the up-
per Station of Loro Life, which he had found by long
Experience was the belt State in the World ; the moil
fuited to human Happinefs, not expofed to the Miferies
and Hardfhips, the Labour and Sufferings of theme-
cbanick'Fart of Mankind, and not einbarals'd with the
Prides
( 3)
Pride, Luxury, Ambition and Envy of the upper Part
of Mankind. He told me, I might judge of the Happi-
nefs of this State, by this one thing, v'i\* That this
was the State oC Life which all other People envied ;
that Kings have frequently lamented the miferablc
Confequences of being born to great Things, and wilh'd
they had been placed in the middle of the two Extremes,
between the Mean and the Great; that the wife Maa
gave his Tcftimony to this as the juft Standard of true
Felicity, when he prayed to have neither Poverty or
Riches.
He bid me obferve it, and I fbould always find, that
the Calamities of Life were fhar'd among the upper and
lower Part of Mankind; but that.the middle Station
bad the fewefl Difafters, and was not expos'd to fa
many Viciflitudes as the higher or lower Part of Man-
kind ; nay, they were not fubje&ed to fo many Dillem-
pers and Uneafinefies either oj Body or Mind, as thofe
were, who by vicious Living, Luxury and Extravagan-
ces on one Hand, or by hard Labour, want of Necef-
faries, and mean or infufKcient Diet on the other Hand*
bring Diftempers upon themfelves by the natural Confe-
quences of their Way of Living •, That the middle Sta-
tion of Life was calculated for all Kind of Virtues, and
all Kind of Enjoyments •, that Peace and Plenty were
the Handmaids of a middle Fortune ; that Temperance,
Moderation, Quietnefs, Health, Society, all agreeable
Diversions, and all deilrable Pleafures, were the Blef-
fings attending the middle Station ofLife;that this way
Men went filently and fmoothly thro' the World, and
comfortably ourof it ; notembarafs'd with the Labours
of the Hands or of the Head, not fold to a Life'of Sla-
very for daily Bread, or harrafs'd with perplexed Cir-
cumftances, which rob the Soul of Peace, and the Body of
Rett ; nor enraged with the Paifion of Envy, or the fecret
burning Luft of Ambition for great things; but in ea-
£y Circurnftances Aiding gently thro' the World, and
fenfibly tafling the Sweets of Living, without the Bitter,
feeling that they are happy, and learning by every day's
Experience to know it more fenfibly.
After this, he prefs'd me earneftly, and in the moffc
affe&ionate manner, not to play the young Man, nortp,^
B 2 preci-
(4>
precipitate my felf into Miieries which Nature and the
Station of Lite 1 was born in, feem'd to have provided
againil: ; that I was under no NeceiTity of feekirg my
Lread ; that he would do well for me, and endeavour
to enter me fairly into the Station of Life which he had
been juft recommending to me; and thatif I was not ve-
ry eaiy and happy in the World, it mud be my meer
Fate, or Fault that mult hinder it, and that he fhould
have nothing to anlwer for, having thus diicharged his
Duty in warning me againil: Mealures which he knew
"would be to my hurt: in a word, that as he would do
very kind things for me if I would ftay and fettle at
Home, as he dire&ed ; fo he would not have fo much
hand in my .misfortunes, as to give me any Encourage-
ment to go away: And to dole all, he told me, I had
my elder Brother for an Example, to whom he had ufed
the fame earned: Periwafions to keep him trcm going
into the Low Country Wars, but could not prevail,
his young Defires prompting him to run into the Army,
where he was killed \ and tho5 he laid he would not ceafe
to pray for me, yet he would venture to fa) to me,that if
1 did take this fooliifi Step, God would not blefs me,
and I would have Leifure hereafter to rtfltft upon hav-
ing neglected his Counfel, when there might be none
to alTift in my Recovery.
I obferved in this lad part of his Difcourfe, which
was truly Propbetick, tho1 I fuppofe my Father did not
know it to be fo him felt } I fay, I obltrvM the Tears
run down his Face very plentifully, efpecially when
he fpoke of my Brother who was killed ; and that when
he {poke of my having Leifure to repent, and nom to
afliftme, he was io mov'd, that he broke off the Dili
courfe, and told me, his Heart was lb full, he could fay
no more to me.
I was fincerely aflfe&ed with this Difcourfe, as in-
deed who could be other wile? and I refolv'd not to
think of going Abroad any more, but to fettle at Home
according to my Father's Deiire: But alas! a few Da>s
wore it all off $ and in fhort, to prevent any of my Fa-
ther's farther Importunities, in a fewWeeks afterlreiblv-~
ed to run quite away from him. However, I did not aft
fo haftily neither as the firft heat ofmyRelolution premp-'
ed
(5 )
eci, but I took my Mother at a time when I thought
her a little pleafanter than ordinary, and told her, tnat
my Thoughts were ib entirely bent upon feeing the
World, that L ihouid never fettle to any thing with Re-
solution enough to go through with it, and my Father
had better give me his Content, than force me to go
without it \ that! was now eighteen Years old, which
was too late to go Apprentice to a Trade, or Clerk to
an Attorney \ that 1 was lure, if I did, I fhould never
ferve out my Time, but I ih juld certainly run away
from my Mailer before my Time was out, and go to
bea \ and if fhe would fpeak to my Father to let me go
one Voyage abroad, if I came home again and did not
like it, I would go no more, and I would promile by a
double Diligence to recover the Time that 1 had loll.
This put my Mother into a great Paifion : She told
me, ihe knew it would be to no purpole to fpeak to my
Father upon any fuch Subject; that he knew too well
what was my lnterell, to give his Confent to anv
thing lb much for my Hurt, and that Ihe wondered how
I could think of any fuch thing, after the Difcourle
1 had had with my Father, and iu:h kind and ten-
der Expreilions as ihe knew my Father had uled to m- ;
and that in ihort, if I would ruin my felf, there was no
help tor me -y but 1 might depend 1 ihouid never have
their Confent to it : That for her part fhe would not
have fo much hand in my Deftru&ion ; and i ihouid
never have it to lay, that my Mother was willing when
my Father was not.
Tbo' my Mother refufed to move it to my Father,,
yet, as I heard afterwards, that fhe reported all the
Difcourle to him ; and that my Father, after fhewij^a
great Concern at it, laid toiler with a Sigh, That Bov
might be happy if he would Hay at Home, but if he
goes Abroad, he will be the moll miferablell Wretch
that ever was born ; I can give no Confent to it.
It was not till almoil a Year alter this that I broke
loofe, tho' in the mean time I continued obflinately
deaf to all Propofals of fettling to Bufinefs, and frequent-
ly expoitulating with my Father and Mother, about
their being fo positively determin'd againll what they
knew my Inclinations prompted me t«j. But being one
B 3 D*y
(O
Day at HuUy where I went carnally, and without any
purpofe of making an Elopement that time \ but I fay,
being there, and one of my Companions being going
by Sea to Undon in his Father's Ship, and prompting
*ne to go with them, with the common Allurement of
Seafaring Men, viz* That it fhould cod me nothing for
my Paflage, I coniulted neither Father or Mother any
snore, nor lb much as lent them word of it; but leav-
ing them to hear of it as they might, without asking
God's Blefling, or my Father's, without any Confede-
ration of Circumftances or Confequences, and in an ill
Hour, God knows, on the firfl of September 1651, 1
went on Board a Ship bound for London: Never any
young Adventurer's Misfortunes, I believe, began foon-
^r, or continued longer than mine : The Ship was no
fooner gotten out ot* the Humber, but the Wind began to
fclow, and the Sea to rife in a moil frightful manner ;
?md as I had never been at Sea before, I was mod inex-
preflibly fick in Body, and terrify'd in Mind: I began
now ierioully to refleft upon what I had done, and how
juilly i was overtaken by thejudgment of Heaven for my
•wicked leaving my Father's Houle, and abandoning my
Duty ; all the good Counfel of my Parents, my Father's
Tears, and my Mother's Entreaties came now frelh into
my Mind, and my Confcience, which was not yet come
to the Pitch of Hardnefs to which it has been fmce, re-
proach'd me with the Contempt of Advice, and the
Breach of my Duty to God and my Father.
All this while the Storm encreas'd, and the Sea, which
I had never been upon before, went very high, though
nothing like what I have leen many times fmce •, no,
not* like what I law a few Days after : But it was enough
to affe& me then, who was but a young Sailor, and had
never known any thing .of the matter. I expefted every
"Wave would have fwallowed us up, and that every time
the Ship fell down as I thought it did, in the Trough or
Hollow of the Sea, we mould never rife more : In this
Agony of Mind, 1 made many Vows and Resolutions,
that if it would pleafe God to ipare my Life in this
one Voyage, if ever I got once my Foot upon dry Land
again, I would go directly home to my Father, and ne-
*er fet it into a Ship again while I lived, that I would
take
<7}
take bis Advice, and never run my felf into fuch Mife*
ries as thefe any more. Now I faw plainly the Good-
nefs of his Obfervations about the middle Station of Life,
how eafy, how comfortable he had lived all his Days, and
never had been expofed to Tempefts at Sea, or Troubles
on Shore; and in fhort I refolv'd that 1 would, like a true
penting Prodigal, go home to my Father.
> Thefe wile and fober Thoughts continued all the
while the Storm continued, and indeed fome time after;
but the next Day the Wind was abated and the Sea cal-
mer, and I began to be a little inur'd to it: However,
I was very grave for all that Day, being alio a little Sea-
fick ftill•> but towards Night the Weather clear'd up,
the Wind was quite over, and a charming fine Evening
follow'd ; the Sun went down perfectly clear, and rofe
fo the next Morning, and having little or no Wind, and
a fmooth Sea, the Sun ihining upon it, the Sight was,
as I thought, the mod delightful that ever I faw.
I had flept well in the Night, and was new no more
Sea-fick, but very chearful; looking with wonder upon
the Sea'that was lb rough and terrible the Day before,
and could be fo calm and fo pleafant in lb little time af-
ter. And now left my good Refolutions fhould conti-
nue, my Companion, who had indeed enticed me away,
comes to me, Well Bob, fays he, clapping tre upon the
Shoulder, H ro do you do after it ? 1 warrant, ycu rver&
frighted, voatnt you, lafl Night, when it blew but a Cap
full of Wind ? J Capful! ctyou call it ? faid I, 'twas a ter-
rible Stcrm : A Storm, you fool ycu, replies he, d: you
call that a Stcrm, vohfitvoas nothing at all', give us but
a good Ship, and Sea-room, and we think nothing of fucb
a Squaul of Wind as that \ but you* re but a (reft) Water Sxilcr,
Bob : come let us male a B?wl of Punch, and roe'tif rgtt
all that \ d'ye fee what charming Weather 'tis n:iv? To
moke ihort this fad Part of my Story, we went the way
oFall Sailors, the Punch was made, and I was made half
drunk with it, and in that one Night's Wickednefs t
drown'd all my Repentance, all my Reflections upon my
pad Conduct, all my Refolutions for the future. In a
word, as the Sea was returned to its fmoothnefs of Sur-
face and fettled Calmnefs by the abatement of that
Storm, fo the Hurry of my Thoughts being over my
B 4 Fears
(8)
Fears and Appreheniions of being fwallow'd up by Sea
being torgotten, and the Current ot my former Deiires
returned, i entirely forgot the Vows and fromiies that
I made in my Di tire Is. 1 found indeed ibnie Intervals
of Reflection, and the ferious Thoughts did, as it were,
endeavour to return again fonie times ; but I fliook them
off, and rouz'd my ieif from them as it were from a
Didemper, and applying my ielf to Drinking and Com-
pany, ibon mailer d the Return of thofe Fits, (tor*lb
1 call'd them) and I had in five or fix Days got as eom-
pleat a Vi&ory over Continence, as any young Fellow
that retblv'd not to be troubled with it, couid defire:
But I was to have another Trial for it dill ; and Pro-
vidence, as in luch Calls generally it dees, reiblv'd to
leave me entirely without excufe; For if I would not
take this for a Deliverance, the next was to be liich a
one, as the word and moil harden'd V\ recch among us
would contels both the Danger and the Mercy.
The fixth Day of our being at Sea, we came into
Yarmouth Roads\ the Wind having been contrary, and
the Weather calm, we had made but little Way fince
the Storm. Here we were oblig'd to come to an Anchor,
Jtnd here we ljy, the Wind continuing contrary, vi%,
at South-Weil, for feven or eight Days, during which
time a great many Ships from Newcajile came into the
lame Roads, as the common Harbour where the Ships
might wait for a Wind for the River,
We had not however rid here fo long, but we fhould
have Tided it up the River, but that the Wind blew too
freih ; and after we had lain four or five Days, blew
very hard. However, the Roads being reckoned as
good as a Harbour, the Anchorage good, and our Ground-
Tackle very drong, our Men were unconcerned, and
not in the lead apprehenfive of Danger, but fpent the
Time in Red and Mirth, after the manner of the Sea;
but the eighth Day in the Morning, the Wind increafed,
and we bad all Hands at work to ftrike our Top-Mads,
and make every thing fnug and cloie, that the Ship
might ride as eafy as poilible. By Noon the Sea went
very high indeed, and our Ship rid ForecaJHe in> dap-
ped feveral Seas, and we thought once or twice our An-
chor had come Home j upon which our Mader ordered
ouC
(9)
out the Sheet-Anchor; io that we rode with two An-
chors a-head, and the Cables vered out to the better End-
By this Time it blew a terrible Storm indeed, and
now I began to lee Terror and Amazement in the Faces
even of the Seamen themlelves. The Mailer, tho' vi-
gilant in the Bullnefs or' preferving the Ship, yet as he
went in and out of his Cabin by me, I could hear him
fortly to himlelf lay leveral times, Lord be merci\ul to usy
we pall be all loft, rve Jhall be all undone ; and the like:
During thefe fir It Hurries, I was ilupid, lying ftill in my
Cabin, which was in the Steerage, and cannot defcribe
my Temper : I could ill refume the firil Penitence which
I had fo apparently trampled upon, and harden'd my
felf againil: I thought the Bitternefs of Death had been
pad-, and that this would be nothing too, like the firil.
But when the Mailer himfelf* came by me, as I laid, jull
now, and laid we fhould be all loft, I was dreadfully
frighted: I got up out of my Cabin, and look'd outf
but fu?h a dilmal Sight I never faw: The Sea went
Mountains high, and broke upon us every three or four
Minutes: When I could look about, I could fee no-
thing but Diilreis round us: Two Ships that rid near
us, we found, had cut their Mads by the Board, oeing,
deep loaden ; and our Men cry'd out, that a Ship which
rid about a Mile a-head of us, was founder'd. Two
more Ships being driven trom their Anchors, were run,
out of the Roads to Sea, at all Adventures, and that not
with a Mail (landing. The light Ships fared the beil^
as not fo much labouring in the Sea ; but two or three
of them drove, and came clofe by us, running away with
only their Sprit-Jail out, before the Wind.
Towards Evening the Mate and Boatfwain begg'd
the Mailer of our Ship to let them cut a>#ay the Pore-
Mall, which he was very unwilling to: But the Boat-
fwain proteiling to him, that if he did not, the Shir>
would founder, he confented ; and when they had cut
away the Fore-mail, the M ain-mail Hood fo loofe, and
ihook the Ship, fo much, they were obliged to cut bee
away alio, and make a clear Deck.
Any one may judge what a Condition I mail be in
at all this, who was but a young Sailor., and who had
bttn in luch a Fright before at but a little. But if I
B- 5 ca®
can exprefs at this diftance the Thoughts I had about
me at that time, I was in tenfold more Horror of Mind
upon account of my former Convi&ions, and the hav-
ing returned from them to the Refolutions I had wic-
kedly taken at firft, than I was at Death itfelt ; and
tbefe, added to the Terror of the Storm, put me in fach
a Condition, that I can by no Words defcribe it. But
the word was not come yet; the Storm continued with
fuch Fury, that the Seamen themfelves acknowledged
they had never known a worfe. We had a good Ship,
But flie was deep loaden, and wallowed in the Sea, that
the Seamen every now and then cried out, fhe would
founder. It was my Advantage in one refpe<5fc, that I
t£id not know what they meant by founder, till I en-
iquir'd. However, the Storm was fo violent, that I faw
•what is not often feen, the Mailer, the Boatfwain, and
fome others more fenfible than the reft, at their Pray-
ers, and expe&ing every moment when the Ship would
go to the Bottom. In the middle of the Night, and
tinder all the reft of our DiftrefTes, one of the Men that
Lad been down on purpofe to fee, cried out we had
fprung a Leak; another faid, there was four Foot Wa-
ter in the Hold. Then all Hands were called to the
Pump. At that very Word my Heart, as I thought,
<iied within me, and I fell backwards upon the fide of
tny Bed where I fat, into the Cabin. However, the
Men rouz'd me, and told me, that I that was able to
<io nothing before, was as well able to pump as another;
at which I ftirr'd up, and went to the Pump, and
ivork'd very heartily. Wkile this was doing, the Ma-
iler feeing fome light Colliers, who, not able to ride out
the Storm, were oblig'd to flip and run away to Sea,
and would come near us, order'd to fire a Gun as a Sig-
nal ofDiftrefs. 1 who knew nothing what that meant,
"was fo furprized, that I thought the Ship had broke, or
fome dreadful thing happened. In a word, I was fo
furprized, that I fell down in a Swoon. As this was a
time when every body had his own Life to think of, no
body minded me, or what was become of me ; but an-
other Man ftept up to the Pump, and thrufting me afide
with bis Foot, let me lie, thinking I had been dead j
aad it was a great while before I came to jnv felf.
~ We
 'PJniloe ^hipwrecki: at tamoutti./W././</;/^ n ('tertSu
We work'd on, but the Water encreailng in theHolcf,
it was apparent that the Ship would founder; and tho*
the Storm began to abate a little, yet as it was not pof-
iible Ihe could fwimtill we might run into any Port, id
the Mailer continued firing Guns for Help ; and a light
Ship who had rid it out jull a-head of us, ventured a
Boat out to help us. It was with the utmoft Hazard
the Boat came near us, but it was impofiible for us ta
get on Board, or for the Boat to lie near the Ship fide,
till at lafl the Men rowing very heartily, and ventur-
ing their Lives to fave ours, our Men cad them a Rope
over the Stem with a Buoy to it, and then vered it ouc
h great Length, which they after great Labour and Ha-
zard took hold of, and we hauVd them clofe under our
Stern, and got ail into their Boat. It was to no pur-
pofe for them or us, after we were in the Boat, to think
of reaching to their own Ship; fo all agreed to let her
drive, and only to pull her in towards Shore as much
as we could, and our Matter promifcd them, That if the
Boat was ftav'd upon Shore, he would make it good
to their Mailer: So partly rowing and partly driving,
our Boat went away to the Northward, (loping to-
wards the Shore3 almofl as far as lVintertm~Nej$.
We were not much more than a Quarter of an Hour
out of our Ship, but we faw her fink: And then I un-
der Qood for the fi rft time, what was meant by a Ship
foundering in the Sea. 1 mud acknowledge I had hard*
ly Eyes to look up, when the Sea-men told me ihe was
finking; for rrom that Moment they rather put me?
into the Boat, than that I might be faid to go in, my
Heart was as it were dead within me, partly with
Fright, partly with Horror of Mind, and the Thoughts
of what was yet before me.
While we were in this Condition, the Men yet la-
louring at the Oar to bring the Boat near the Shore,
we could fee, (when our Boat mounting the Waves,
we were able to fee the Shore) a great many People
running along the Strand to affttl us when we ihould
come near : But we made but (low Wat towards the
Shore; nor were we able to reach the Shore, till be;
ipg part: the Light-houfe at WiuUrton^ the Shore falls
off to the Weft ward towards Cnma j and fo the Land
broke
broke off a little the Violence of the Wind;- Here we
got in, and tho' not without much Difficulty, got all
iafe on Shore, and walk'd aiterwards on Foot to Tar-
mouthy where, as unfortunate Men, we were ufed with
great Humanity, as well by the Magistrates or' the
Town, who aifign'd us good Quarters, as by particu-
lar Merchants and Owners or Ships •, and had Money
given us fuflicient to carry us either to London, or back
to Hully as we thought fit.
Had 1 now had the Senfe to have gone back to
Hull, and have gone Home, I had been happy, and my
Father, an Emblem of our bleiTed Saviour's Parable,
had even kill'd the fatted Calt for me; for hearing the
Ship I went away in, was call away in Tar mouth Road,
it was a great while, before he had any AfTurance that
1 was not drown'd.
. But my ill Fate pufh'd me on now, with an ObfK-
nacy that nothing could refill \ And tho' I had feveral
times loud Calls from my Keafon, and my more com-
pofed Judgment to go home, )et 1 had'no Power to
do it : I know not what to call this, nor will I urge,
that it is a iecret over-ruling Decree, that hurries us on
to be the Inftruments of our own Deftru&ion, even
tho' it be before us, and that we puih upon it with our
Eyes open. Certainly, nothing but ibme fuch decreed
unavoidable Mifery attending, and which it was im-
poflible for me to efcape, culd have puili'd me forward
againft the calm Reafonings and Periwafions of my mod:
retired Thoughts, and againft two fuch viiible Inftruc-
tions as 1 had met with in my firft Attempt.
. My Comrade, who had helpM. to harden me be-
fore, and who was the Mailer's Son, was now Ids for-
ward than I. The firft time he fpoke to me after we
were at Tartnouth^ which was not till two or three
Days; for we were feparated in the Town to feveral
Quarters: I fay, the firft time he law me, it appear'd
lis Tone was alter'd *, and looking very melancholy, and
ihaking his Head, ask'd me how I did: And telling his
tather who I was, and how I had come this Voyage
only for a Tryal, in order to go farther abroad; his
Father turning to me with a very grave and concerned
Tone *, Tcimg Man, fays he > you ought never to go to Sea
C 13 )
cny more \ you ought to take this f>r a plain and vifible
Joten, thai you are n-t to be a Seafaring Man, Whyy
Sir, laid I, will you go to Sea no more ? Tbat a ano-
ther Cafe, faid he, it ps my Calling, and therefore my Du-
ty ; but as you made this Voyage j[or a £rfal, y.u fee wtiat\
a lafte Heaven bw given you, of what you are to expect if
you perjiji *, perhaps this is all befallen us on your Ac county
like Jonah in the Ship cf Tarihiili. Fray, continues he,
what are you f And on what Aoccunt did you go to Sea ?
upon that { told him ibme of my Story ; at the End of
which he burfl out with a ilrange kind of Pailion; V\ hat
had I done ! fa}s he, that iixch an unhappy Vv retch
ihould come into my Ship ! i would not let my Foot in
the lame Ship with thee again for a Tboufand Pounds .*
This indeed was, as L faid, an Excuriion of his Spirits,
which were yet agitated by the Senfe of his Lois, and
was farther than he could have Authority to go : How-
ever, he afterwards talk'd very gravely to me, exhor-
me to go back to my Father, and not tempt Providence
to m> Ruin ', told me I might fee a vifible Hand of
Heaven againft me; And young Man, faid he, depend
upon it, ij you do not go bark, wbtre ever you go, you will
meet with n'thing but Difajiers and Disappointments^till
your Fathers Words are fulfilled upon you,
We parted loon arter ; for I made him little Anfwer,
and I law him no more; which way he went I know not :
As lor me, having iome Money in my Pocket,I travelled
to London by Land \ and there, as well as on the Road, had
many Struggles with my felt, what Courfe of Life I
ihould take^and whether I ihould go Home, or go to Sea,
As to going Home, Shame oppofed the beil Motions
that offer'd to my Thoughts ; and it. immediately, oc-
curr'd to me how I ihould be laugh'd at among the
Neighbours, and ihould be aiham'd to fee, not my Father
and Mother only, but even every Body elfe : From
whence I have iince often obferv'd how incongruous and
irrational the common Temper of Mankind is, efpeci-
ally' of Youth, to that Reafon which ought to guide
them in fuch Cafes, vi\* That they are not afliani'd to
fin, and yet are aiharrfd to repent \ not afhairfd of the
A & ion for which they ought juftly to beeileemM Fools,
but are aihamed of the returning, which, only can rnakq
them eileem'd wife Men. In
Tn this State of Life however I remain'd fome time?
uncertain what Meafures to take, and what Courfe of
Life to lead. An irreiiftible Relu&ance continued to
going Home; and as I ftay'd a while, the Remembrance
of the Diftrefs I had been in wore off; and as that a*
bated, the little Motion I had in my Defires to a Re-
turn, wore off with it, till at laft I quite laid afide the
Thoughts of it, and looked out for a Voyage.
That evil Influence which carried me firil away
from my Father's Houfe,which hurried me into the wild
and indigefted Notion of railing my Fortune; and that
imprefs'd thofe Conceits fo forcibly upon me, as to make
me deaf to all good Advice, and to the Entreaties, and
even the Commands of my Father ; I fay, the fame
Influence, whatever it was, prefented the mod: unfor-
tunate of all Enterprizes to my View, and I went on
board a VefTel bound to the Coaft of Africa, or, as our
Sailors valgarly call it, a Voyage to Gu'mey.
It was my great Misfortune, that in all thefe Ad-
ventures I did not fliip my felf as a Sailor; whereby,
tho* I might indeed have work'd a little harder than
ordinary, yet at the fame time I had learned the Duty
and Office of a Foremaft Man ; and in time might
have qualified my felf for a Mate or Lieutenant, if not
for a Matter. But as it was always my Fate to chufe
for the worfe, {o I did here-; for having Money in my
Pocket, and good Cloaths upon my Back, I would al-
ways go on board in the Habit of a Gentleman; and fo I
neither had anyBufinefsin the Ship>or learn'd to do any.
• It was my Lot firft of all to rail into pretty good
Company in London, which does not always happen to
fticl> loofe and unguided young Fellows as I then was ;
the Devil generally not omitting to lay fome Snare for
them very early: But it was not fo with me; I firil fell
Acquainted with the Mafter of a Ship who had been on
the Coaft of -Gumey^ and who having had very good
Succefs there, was refolved to go again ; this Capt. tak •
king a Fancy to my Converfatton,? which „was not
difagreeable at that time, hearing me izy I had a
mind to fee the World, told me, if I would go the
Voyage with him, I ihould be at no Expence ; I ihould
hs his Mefs-Mate and his Companion $ and if I could
carry
carry anything with me, I fhould have all the Advan-
tage of it that the Trade would admit ; and perhaps £
might meet with fome Encouragement.
1 embrac'd the Offer, and entringinto a ftri& Friend-
ship with this Captain, who was an honeft and plain-
dealing Man, I went the Voyage with him, and car-
ried a fmall Adventure with me, which by the diflnte-
refted Honefty of my Friend the Captain, I encreafed
very confiderably ; for I carried about 40 /. in fuch
Toys and Triiles as the Captain dire&ed me to buy.
This 40 h I had mufter'd together by the Affiflance of
fome of my Relations whom I correfponded with, and
who, I believe, got my Father, or at lead my Mother,
to contribute lb much as that, to my firft Adventure.
This was the only Voyage which I may fay was fuc-
cefsful in all my Adventures, and which I owe to the
Integrity and Honefty of my Friend the Captain ; un-
der whom alfo I got a competent Knowledge of the
Mathematicks and the Rules of Navigation, learn'd how
to keep an account of the Ship's Courfe, take an Obfer-
vation, and, in fhort, to underftand fome things that
were needful to be underftood by a Sailor ; For as he
took delight to introduce me, I took delight to learn ;
and, in a Word, this Voyage made me both a Sailor
and a Merchant: For I brought home 5 Pound 9 Oun-
ces of Gold-Dud for my Adventure, which yielded me
in London zt my Return, almoft 300/. and this filled
me with thofe afpiring Thoughts which have fince fo
com pleated my Ruin.
Yet even in this Voyage I had my Misfortunes too •
particularly that I was continually fick, being thrown
into a violent Calenture by the exceffive Heat of the
Climate ; our principal Trading being upon the Coaft,
from the Lat. of 15 Degrees N. even to the Line it feltv
I was now fet up for a Gumy Trader; and my Friend,
to my great Misfortune, dying foon after his Arrival, I
refolved to go the fame Voyage again, and I embark'd
in the fame Veflel with one who was his Mate in the
former Voyage, and had now got the Command of the
Ship. This was the unhappieft Voyage that ever Man
made; for tho' I did not carry quite 100 /. of my new
gain Wealthy that I had 2QO/,left,and which J lodg'd
with
with my Friend's Widow, who was very juit to me,
yet 1 tell into terrible Misfortunes in this Vojage \ and
the hril was this, vi%. Our Ship making her Courie to-
wards the Canary lilands, or rather between thole t (lands
and the African Shore, wasfurpriz'd in the Gray ot the
Coining by a Mocrijb Rover of Salle e> who gave chace
to us with all the bail fhe could make. We crowded
alio as much Canvafs as our Yards would {pread, or our
Math carry, to have got clear ; but finding the Pirate
gain'd upon us, and would certainly come up with us in
a lew Hours, we prepared to fight *, our 5hip having
12 Guns, and the Rogue lb. Aoout three in the At-
ternoon he came up with us, and bringing to, by miltake,
Juil athwart our Quarter, inltead oi atnwart our item*
as he intended, we brought S ol our Guns to bear on that
iide, and pour'd in a tfroadiide upon him, which made
him lheer off again, after returning our Fire, and pouring
in alio his imall Shot from near 200 Men which he had
on Board. However, we had not a Man touch'd, all
pur Men keeping cloie: He prepar'd to attack us again,
and we to defend our lelvcs *, but laying us on Board the
next time upon our other Quarter, he entered 90 Men
upon our Decks, who immediately tell to cutting and
hacking the Decks and Rigging. We ply'd them with
Small-ihot, Half-Pikes, Powder-Cheils, and fuch like,
and clear'd our Deck of them twice. However, to cut
ihort this melancholy part of our Story, our Ship be-
ing diiabled, and three o{x our Men kill'd, and eight
wounded, we were obliged to yield, and were carr)*d
all Priibners into Sallee, a Port belonging to the Moors*
The Ufage I had there was not lb dread ml as at firll
I apprehended ; nor was I carried up the Country to
the Emperor's Court, as the reft of our Men were, but
was kept by the Captain of the Rover, as his proper
Prize, and made his Slavej being young and nimble, and
fit for his Bufinefs. At this furprizing Change of my
Circumitances, from a Merchant to a Miierable Slave,
I was perfectly overwhelmed \ and now I look'd back
upon my Father's prophetick Dilcourie to me} that I
ihould be miferable, and have none to relieve me, which
I thought was now fo efFe£ually brought to pais, that i
could not be vvorie; that now the Hand of Heaven had
( *7 0
oyertaken me, and I was undone without Redemption.
But alas! tms was but a laile or the.Mifery I was
to go thro', as will appear in the Sequal of this Story.
As m> new Patron, or Mailer, had taken me home
to this Houie, fo 1 was in Hoprs that he would take me
with him when he went to Sea again, believing that it
would fome time or other be his irate to be taken by a
Spanijh or Portugal Mm of War ; and that then \ fhould
be let at Liberty. But this Hope of mine was foon ta-
ken, away } for when he went to Sea, he left me on Shore
to luok after his little Garden, and do the common
Drudgery of Slaves about his Houfe; and when he came
home again from his Cruile, he ordered me to lie in the
Cabin, to look after the Ship.
Here I mediated nothing out my Efcape, and what
Method I might take to effedt it; but found no way that
had the lea'ft Piobability in it: Nothing prefented to
make the Suppofition ot it rational } for I had no Body
to communicate it to, that would embark with me, no
Fellow Slave, no Engtijhtnan> IrijhnMTiy ox Sect/man
there but my felf; io that for two Years, tho* I often
plea led my (elf with the Imagination, yet I never had
the kail encouraging Proipecfc of putting it in Practice.
After about two /ears, an odd Circumtlance pretent-
ed it (elf, which put "the old Thoughts of making fome
attempt for my Liberty again in my Head : My Patron
lying at home longer than ufual, without fitting out
his ^hip, which, as i heard was for want of Money,
he ufed conftSntly once or twice a Week, fometimes oft-
ner, if the Weather was fair, to take the Ship's Pinnace,
and go out into the Road a fiihing; and as he always
took me and a young Marefcu with him to row the Boat^
we made him very merry, and I prov'd verydexterousm
catchingFilh; inlomch, that fometimes he would fend me
with a Moo>\ one of his Kinfmen, and the Youth the Via-
refto, as they called him, to catch a Dilh of Fiih for him.
It happened one time, that going afiihing with him in
calm Morning, a Fog role lb thick, that tho* we were
not half a League from the Shore, we loft iight o^ it ;
and rowing we knew not whither or which way, we.
laboured all Day, and all the next Night \ and when the
Morning came, wc found we had pull'd oiFto Sea, in-
ftead
fiead of pulling in for the Shore; and that we were at
leaft two Leagues from the Land : However," we got
well in again, tho9 with a great deal of Labour, and
fome Danger; for the Wind began to blow pretty frefh in
the Morning•> but particularly we were all very hungry.
But our Patron warn'd by this Difailer, refolved to
take moreCare of himfelfforthe future; and having lying
by him the Long-Boat of our Englijk Ship which he had
taken, he refolved he would not go a fifhing any more
without a Compafs and fome Provifion \ (o he orderJd
the Carpenter of his Ship, who alio was an EngUJb
Slave, to build a little State-room or Cabin in the mid-
dle of the Long-Boat, like that of a Barge, with a Place
to ftand behind it to {leer, and haul home the Main-fheet;
and room before for a hand or two to Hand and work
the Sails. She fail'd with that we call a Shoulder of
Mutton Sail; and the Boom gib'd over the Top of the
Cabin, which lay very fnug and low, and had in it,
room for him to lie, with a Slave or two, and a Table
to eat on, with fome fmall Lockers to put in fome Bot-
tles of fuch Liquor as he thought lit to drink > particu-
larly his Bread, Rice and Coffee.
We were frequently out with this Boat a fifhing j and
and as I was moil dextrous to catch Fiih for him, he
never went without me. It happened one day, that he
had appointed to go out in this Boat, either for Plea-
fure or for Fiih, with two or three Moors of fome
Dirt:in&ion, and for whom he had provided extraordi-
narily ; and had therefore lent on Board the Boat over
Night, a larger Store of Provifions than ufual; and
had ordered me to get ready three Fuiees with Pow-
der and Shot, which were on Board his Ship ; for that
theydefign'd fome fpojt of Fowling as well as Fifhing.
I got all things ready as he had dire&ed, and waited
the next Morning with the Boat wafhed clean, her An-
tient and Pendants out, and every thing to accommo-
date his Guefts ; when by and by my Patron came on
board alone, and told me his Guefts had put off going,
upon fome Bufinefs that fell out, and order'd me with
the Man and Boy, as ufual, to go out with the Boat and
catch them/ome Fifh, for that his Friends were to fup at
bisHoUfejhe commanded too,that*as foon as I had got fome
Fiih,
(IP)
Jifli, I fliould bring it home to his Houfe : All whicli
I prepared to do.
This Moment my former Notions of Deliverance
darted into my Thoughts; for now I found I was like
to have a little Ship at my Command; and my Ma-
iler being gone, I prepar'a to furnifli my felf, not for
iifhing Bufinefs, but for a Voyage •, tho' I knew not,
neither did I fo much as confider whether I fhould tteer ;
for any where to get out of that place was my Way*
My firtt Contrivance was to make a Pretence to fpeak
to this Moor, to get fomething for our Sublicence on
board ; for I told him we mult not prefume to eat of
our Patron's Bread ; he faid, that was true; fo he
brought a large Basket of Rusk, or Bisket, of their kind,
and three Jarrs with frefh Water into the Boat: I knew
where my Patron's Cafe of Bottles flood, which it was
evident by the Make, were taken out of fome Engltfh
Prize; and I convey'd them into the Boat while the
Moor was on Shore, as if they had been there before,
for our Matter : I convey'd alio a great Lump of Bees-
Wax into the Boat, which weighed about half a Hun-
dred Weight, with a parcel of Twine or Thread, a
Hatchet, a Saw, and a Hammer, all which were of
great ufe to us afterwards; efpecially the Wax to make
Candles. Another Trick I try'd upon him, which he
innocently came into alfo : His Name \\as'Ifmael> whom
they call Muly, or Moloy \ fo I call'd to him, Mohy> faid
I, our Patron's Guns are all on Board the Boat, can
you not get a little Powder and Shot, it may be we may
kill fome Alcamks (a Fowl like our Curlicus) for our
felves, for I know he keeps the Gunner's Stores in the
Ship ? Yes, fays be, I'll bring fome ; accordingly he
brought a great Leather Pouch, which held about a
Pound and a half of Powder, or rather more; and a-
rother with Shot, that had five or fix Pound, with
fome Bui Jets, and put all into the Boat: At the fame
Time I had found fome Powder of my Matter's in the
great Cabin, with which I filPd one of the large Bot-
tles in the Cafe, which was almoft empty *, pouring what
was in it into another : And thus furnifhed with every
thing needful, we fail'd out of the Port to fifli. The
Cattle
( *<>)
Caftle which is at the Entrance of the Port, knew
who we were, and took no Notice of us; and we
were not above a.Mile out of the Port, before we
haul'd m our Sail, and fet us down to fiih. The
Wind blew from the N. N. E. which was contrary to
my Deiire ; for had it blown Southerly^ 1 had been
fure to have made the Coaft of Spain, and at leaft
reach'd to the Bay of Cadi\ ; but my Reiolutions were,
blow which way it would, 1 would be gone from that
horrid Place where I was, and leave the reft to Fate*
After we had fifh'd fome time, and catclfd nothing,
for when 1 had Filh on my Hook I would not pull
them up, that he might not lee them ; I (aid to the
Moor, this will not do, our Mafter will not be thus
ferv'd, we mull lhnd tarther off: He thinking no
harm, agreed ; and being in the Head of the Boat, fet
the Sails ; and as I had the Helm, I run the Boat out
near a League farther, and then brought her too, as if
I would fiih ; when giving the Boy the Helm, I flept
forward to where the Mar was, and making as if I ftoop'd
for ibmething behind him, I took him by Surprize
with my Arm under his Twift, and tois'd him clear
over-board into the Sea; he role immediately, for )re
fwam like a Cork, and calfd to me, begg'd to be taken
in, told me he would go all over the World with me :
He fwam {'o itrong after the Boat, that he would have
reacrfd me very quickly, there being but little Wind;
upon which I ftep'd into the Cabin, and fetching one
of the Fowling-Pieces, I prefented it at him, and told
him, I had done him no Hurt, and if he would be qui-
et, I would do him none: But laid I, you fwim well
enough to reach the Shore, and the Sea is calm, make
the* belt, of your Wa) to Shore, and I will do you no
Harm, but if you come near the Boat, I'll flioot you
thro' the Head; for I am refolv'd to have my Liber-
ty : So he turn'd himfejf about and fwam for the Shore,
and I make no doubt but he reach1 d it with Eafe, for
he was an excellent Swimmer.
I could have been content to have taken this Moor
"with me, and have drown'd the Boy, but there was no
venturing to trull him : When he was gone, I turn'd
to. the Boy, who they call'd Xuryy and laid to him, Xu-
%
?% if you will be faithful to me, I'll make you a great
Man; but if you will not ftroke your £ ace to be
true to me, that #, fvoear by Mahomet and bps iathtrs
Beard, I mull threw >ou into the Sea too ; the Boy
finil'd in my Face, and fpoke fo innocently, that I could
not miftruft him *, and fwure to be faithful to me, and
go all over the W orld with me.
While I was in View of the Moor that was fwiming,
I flood out dire&ly to Sea, with the Boat, rather ftret-'
ching to Windward, that they might think me gone
towards the Straits-mouth (as indeed any one that had
been in their W7its muft ha5 been fuppos'd to do ; ) for
who would ha5 fuppos'd we were iail'd on to the South-
ward to the truly Barbarian Coaft, where whole Na-
tions ot Negroes were fure to furround us with their
Canoes, and deftroy us ; where we could never once go
on Shore, but we lhould be devour'd by lavage Bcafts,
or more mercilels Savagts of human Rind.
But as loon as it grew dusk in the Evening, I chang-
ed my Courfe, and ileer'd dire&ly South and bv Ealt,
bending my Courte a little toward the Eaft, that t
might keep in with the Shore ; and having a fair freih
Gale of Wind, and a fmooth quiet Sea, 1 made fuch
Sail, that I believe by the next Day at three a-Clock in
the Afternoon, when I firft made the Land, I could
not be lefs than 150 Miles >outh of Saline, quite beyond
the Emperor of Alorocco's Dominions, or indeed of any
other King thereabouts tor we law no People.
Yet fuch was the Fright 1 had taken at the Mcor$y
and the dreadful Apprehenllons I had ot falling into
their Hands, that I would not Hop, or go on Shore, or
come to an Anchor; the Wind continuing Fair, tiU I
had fail'd in that manner five Days : And then theWind
fluffing to the Southward, I concluded alfo, that it a-
ny of our VefTels were in Chafe of me, they alfo would
now give over ; Co I ventur'd to make to the Coaft, and
came to an Anchor in the Mouth of a little River, [
knew not what, or where; neither what Latitude,
what Country, what Nation, or what Rivt-r : * neither
faw, or deuVd to fee any People, the principal thing I
wanted was frefh Water. We came into this '"reek in
the Evening refolving to fwim on Shore as ibon as it *
was
was dark, and difcover the Country ; but as foon as it
was imite dark, we heard fuch dreadful Noifes of the
Barking, Roaring, and Howling of wild Creatures, of
we knew not what Kinds, that the poor Boy was rea-
dy to die with Fear, and begg'd of me not to go on Shore
till Day. Well, Xury, faid I, then I won't \ but it
may be we may fee Men by Day, who will be as bad
to us as thofe Lions; then roe may gi<ve them the jhoot
Gun, fays Xury, laughing, make them run rvey; fuch
Englljh Xury fpoke by converfing among us Slaves,
However, I was glad to fee the Boy £o cheerful, and I
gave him a Dram (out of our Patron's Cafe of Bot-
tles) to chear him up : After all, Xurfs Advice was
good, and I took it, we drop'd our little Anchor, and
lay ftill all Night; I fay (till, for we flept none ; for
in two or three Hours we faw vafl great Creatures
we knew not what to call them) of many Sorts, came
down to the Sea-fhore, and run into the Water, wal-
lowing and waihing themfelves for the Pleafure of
cooling themfelves *, and they made fuch hideous How-
lings and Yellings, that 1 never indeed heard the like.
Xury was dreadfully frighted, and indeed fo was I
too: But we were both worfe frighted when we heard
one mighty Creature come fwimming towards our Boat :
we could not fee him, but we might hear him by his
blowing, to be a monftrous huge and furious Beaft ;
Xury faid it was a Lion, and it might be fo for ought
I know: Poor Xury cried out to me to Weigh
the Anchor and row away ; no lays I, Xury, we can
flip our Cable with a Buoy to it, and go to Sea, they
cannot- follow us far; I had no fooner faid fo, but I
perceiv'd the Creature (whatever it was) within two
Oars length, which fomething furprized me ; however,
I immediately flept to the Cabin-door, and taking up
my Gun, iir'd at him, upon which he immediately
turn'd about, and fwam towards the Shore again.
But it was not poffible to defcribe the horrible Noifes,
and hideous Cries and Howlings, that were raifed as
well upon the Edge of the Shore, as higher within the
Country, upon the Noife or Report of a Gun, a thing I
have fome Reafon to believe thofe Creatures had never
heard before* This convinced me, that there was no
going
going on "Shore for us in the Night upon that Coau^1
and how to venture on Shore in the Day, was another
Queftion too; for to have fallen into the Hands of any
of the Savages, had been as bad as to have fallen into
the hands of Lions and Tigers ; at leaft we were equal-
ly apprehenfive of the Danger of it.
Be that as it would, we were obliged to go on Shore
fomewhere or other for Water, for we had not a Pint
left in the Boat; when or where to get to it^ was the
Point : Xury faid, If I would let him go on Shore with
one of the Jarrs, he would find if there was any Water,
and bring fome to me. I ask'd him, why he would go ?
why I fhould not go, and he (lay in the Boat ? The
Boy anfwered with fo much ArTe&ion, that made me
love him ever after. Says he, If wild Mans cotne^ they
eatme^ yougowcy. Well, Xury, laid I, we will both
go, and if the wild Mans come, we will kill them, they
Siall eat neither of us; fo I gave Xury a Piece of Rusk-
bread to ent, and a Dram out of our Patron's Cafie ot
Bottles, which I mentioned before, and we hauPd the
Boat in as near the Shore, as we thought was proper,
and waded on Shore; carrying nothing but our Arms,
and two Jarrs for Water.
I did not care to go out of fight o^ the Boat, fear-
ing the coming of Canoes with Savages down the River:
But the Boy feeing a low Place, about a Mile up the
Country, rambled to it, and by-and-by I law him come
running towards me : I thought he was purfued by fome
Savage, or frighted with fome Wild Bead, and I run
forward towards him, to help him ; but when I came
nearer to him, I faw fomething hanging over his Shoul-
ders, which was a Creature that he had lhot, like a Hare,
but different in Colour, and longer Legs ; however, we"
were very glad of it, and it was very good Meat; but the
great Joy that poor Xury came with, was to tell me he
had found good Water, and feen no wild Mans.
But we found afterwards that we need not take fuch
Pains for WTater, for a little higher up the Creek where
we were, we found the Water frefh when the Tide was
out, which flows but a little Way up \ fo we filled oar
Jarrs and feafled on the Hare we had killed, and pre-
pared
pared to go on our Way, having feen no Foof-fteps of
any human Creature in that part of the Coimtr}.
As i had been one Voyage to this Coaft before, I
knew very well that the 1Handsof the Canaries^ and the
Cape de Verd I Hands alio, lay not far off from the Coaifc.
But as 1 had notinftruments to take an Observation to
know what Latitude we were in, and did not en&ly
know, or at lead not remember, what Latitude they were
in, 1 knew not where to look for them, or when toiland
off to Sea towardsThem, otherwife I might now eafily
have found fome of thefe iHands. But my Hope was
that if I flood along this Coail till I came to that Part
where the E/ig*ifb traded, I ihould find fome of thtir
VeiTels upon their uiiial Defign o£ Trade, that would
relieve and take us in.
By the bell of my Calculation, that Place where I
now was, mufl be that Country, which lying between
the Emperor of Moncco's Dominions and the Negroes ^
lies watte and uninhabited, except by Vvild Beads ; the
Negroes having abandoned it, and gone farther South,
for fear of the Moors; and the iviours not thinking it
worth inhabiting, by Reafon of its Barranneis; and
indeed both forlaking it becaufe of the prodigious Num-
bers of Tygers, Lyons, Leopards, and other furious
Creatures which harbour there ; lb that the Aicors ufe
it for their Hunting only, where the) go like an Army,
two or three thoufand Men at a time; and indeed for
near an hundred Miles together upon this Coail, we
faw nothing but a wafte uninhabited Country by Day,
and heard nothing but Hcwlings and Roaring of Wild
Beafk by Night.
. .Onceor twice in the Day-time, I thought I Taw the
Pico of l"enerzffc9 being the high Top of the Mountain
Teneriffe in the Canaries ; and had a great' mind to ven-
ture out in Hopes of reaching thither ; but having tri-
ed twice, I was forced in again b} contrary Winds, the
Sea alfo going too high for my little VefTel \ fo I »e-
folv'd to purlue my hrft Defign, and keep along the
Shore.
Several times we were obliged to land for frefhWa'ter,
after we had If ft this Place; and once in particular, be-
ing early in the Morning, we came to an A nchor under
a
a little Point of Land, which was pretty high, and the
Tide beginning to flow, we lay ftill to go farther in.
Xury, whole Eyes wrere more about him than it feems
mine were, calls ibftly to me, and tells me., that we had
heft go farther off the Shore; for, fays he, look yonder
lies a dreadful Monfter on the Side o£ that Hillock, fad
afleep. I look'd where he pointed, and faw a dreadful
Monfter indeed; for it was a terrible great Lion, that
lay on the fide of the Shore, under the Shade of a piece
of the Hill, that hung as it were a little over him. Xu>yy
fays [, you fhall go on Shore, and kill him: Xury looked
frighted, and faid, Me kill! he eat we at one Mcuth;
one Mouthful he meant; however,! faid no more to the
Boy, but bad him be ft ill, and took our biggeft Gun,
which was almoft Musket-bore, and loaded it with a
good Charge of Powder, and with two Slugs, and laid
it down ; then I loaded another Gun with two Bullets,
and the third ( for we had three Pieces) I loaded with
five imaller Bullets. I took the bell Aim I could with
the iirft Piece to have fhot him into the Head ; but he
lay Co with his Leg raised a little above his Nofe, that
the Slugs hit his Leg about the Knee, and broke the
Bone. He ftarted up growling at firft, but, finding his
Leg broke, fell down again, and then got up upon three
Legs, and gave the moil hideous Roar that ever I heard.
I was a little furprized, that I had not hit him on the
Head; however, I took up the fecond Piec? immediate-
ly ; and tho' he began to move off, hr'd again, and fnot
him into the Head, and had the Pleafure to fee him
drop^ and making hut little Noife, he lay ftruggling
for Life. Then Xury took Heart, and would have me
let him go on Shore. Well, go, laid [. So the Boy
jump'd into the Water, and taking the little Gun in one
Hand, fvvam to Shore with the other Hand ; and com-
ing clofe to the Creature, put the Muzzle of the Ti^ca
to his Ear, and iliot him into the Head again, which
difpatched him quite.
This was Game indeed to us, but this was no Food;
and I was very forry, to lofe three Charges of Powder
and Shot upon a Creature that was good for nothing to
us. However, Xury laid, he would have fome of him ;
fo he comes on board, and ask'd me to give him the
C Hatchet:
ftatchet. For what, Xury, fa id I ? Me cut of his Head*
fa-id he. However, Xury could not cut off his Head^ \
hvx he cut off a Foot, and brought it with him, and it
was a monftrous great one.
I bethought my felt'however, that perhaps the Skin
of him might one way or other be of fome Value to us;
and I refolv'd to take off his i>kin if I could. So Xoy
and I went to work with him \ but X-oy was much the
better Workman at it, tor I knew very ill how to do it.
Indeed it took us up (both) the wholeDay, but at lad we
got off the Hide ot him, and fpreading it on the top of
our Cabin, the Sun etfc&ually dried it in two Days
time, and it afterwards ferv'd me to lie upon.
After this Stop, we made on to the Southward con-
tinually for ten or twelve Days, living very iparirgly on
our Proviflons, which began to abate very much, and
^going no oftner in to the 5hore than we were obliged
to for frefh Water. My Deflgn in this, was to make
the River Gambia or Senegal!, that is to fay, any where
about the Cape de Verd> where I was in hopes to meet
with fome Eurcpean Ship, and if I did not, L knew not
what Courfe I had to take, but to feek tor the Ijlands, or
periih there among the Negr.es. \ knew that all the
Ships from Ftir>pe, which faifd either to the Coaft of
Gurnet, or to B?'afil, or to the Eafi Indies, made this Capey
or thofe Jfiands ; and in a word, I put the whole of my
Fortune upon this fingle Point, either that I mail meet
with fome Ship, or mull periih.
When I had purlued this Refoluion about ten Days
longer, as I have laid, 1 began to fee that the Land
was inhabited, and in two or three Places as we failed
hf9 we faw People (land upon the Shore to look at us;
we could alfo perceive they were quite black and {lark
naked. 1 was once inclined to have gone on Shore to
to them \ but X^y was my better Counfellor, and laid
tome, No go, no go: However, I haufd in nearer the
Shore' that I might talk to them, and I found they run
along the Shore by me a good way. Iobferv'd they
had no Weapons in their Hands, except one, who had
a long (lender Stick, which Xury faid was a Lance, and
that they would throw them a great way with good
Aim; io I kept at a ditlance, but talk'd with them by
Signs
Signs as well as I could, and particularly made Signs for
foniething to eat. They beckon'd to me to (top my
Boat, and they would fetch me iome Meat. Upon this
I lower'd the Top of my Sail, and lay by; and two of
them run up into the Country, and in Ids than half an
Hour came back and brought with them two Pieces of
dry Fleih, and fome Corn, fuch as is the Produce of
their Country ; but we neither knew what the one or
the other was : However, we were willing to accept it.
But how to come at it, was our next Difpure ; for I wa*
rot for venturing on Shore to them, and they were as
mucl) afraid of us ; but they took a fafe Way for us all,
for they brought it to the Shore and laid it down, and
went and Hood a great way off, till we fetched it on
Board, and then came clofe to us again.
We made Signs of Thanks to them, for we bad no-
thing to make them amends : But an Opportunity of-
fer'd that very Inftant, to oblige them wonderfully; for
while we were lying by the Micre, came two mighty
Creatures, one pur filing the ether ( as we took it ) with
great Fury, from the Mountains towards the Sea; whe- "
ther it was the Male purfuing the Famale, or whether
they were in Sport, or in Rage, we could not tell any
more than we could tell whether it was ufual or flxange;
but I believe it was the latter, beeaufe in the firft place
thofe ravenous Creatures feldom appear but in the
Night ; and in the fecond place, we {bund the People
terribly frighted, efpecially the Women. The Man that
had the Lance cr Dart, did not Ry from them, but the
red did; however, as the two Creatures ran dire&ly
into the WTater, they did not feem to orfer to fall upon
the N;'gr-es, but plung'd themfelves into the Sea, «i*d
fwam about as if they had come for their Diver Hon ;
£t laft one of them began to come nearer our Boat than
at firft I expe&ed, but I lay ready for him; for I had
loaded my Gun with all poiSble Expedition, and bid
Xury load both the other: As foon as he came fairly
within my Reach, I fir'd, and ihoThim directly into the
Head : Immediately he funk down into the Water, but
rofe inftantly, and plung'd up and down as if he w:.s
Struggling for Life; and lb indeed he was: He imme-
diately made to the Shore, but between the Wound,
C 2 ivhicji
which was his mortal Hurt, and the ftrangling of thS
Water, he died jufl before he reacrfd-the Shore. I
It is impolfible to exprefs the Ailonifhment of thefe
poor Creatures, at the Noiie and the Fire of my Gun \ -
ibme of them were ready even to die for Fear, and
fell down as dead with the very Terror. But when
they law the Creature dead, and funk in the Watery
and that i made Signs to them to come to the Shore,
they took Heart, and came to the Shore, and began to
iearch for the Creature. I found him by his Blood
flaming the Water, and by the help of a Rope,'which
I flung round him, and gave the Negroes to haul, they
dragg'd him on Shore, and found that it was a moil
curious Leopard, fpotted and fine, to an admirable de-
gree \ and the Negroes held up their Hands with Admi-
ration, to think what it was i had kilPd him with.
The other Creature, frighted with the Flaffi of Fire
and the Noiie of the Gun, fwam to the Shore, and ran up
dire&ly to the Mountains, from whence they came,
nor could I at that diftance know what it was. I fuun,d
quickly the Negroes were for eating the Flefh of this
Creature, fo I was willing to have them take it as a
Favour from me, which when I made Signs to them
that they might take him, they were very thankful
for. Immediately they fell to work with him; and
tho5 they had no Knife, yet with a fharpened piece of
Wood, they took off his Skin as readily, and much more
readily than we would have done with a Knife *, they
offer'd me Tome of the Flefh, which I declin'd, mak-
ing as if I would give it them, but made Signs for the
6kin, which they gave me very freely, and brought me
a great deal more of their Provifion, which tho' I did
not underftand, yet I accepted. Then I made Signs to-
them for fome Water, and held out one of my Jars ro
them, turning it Bottom upward, to fhew that it was
empty, and that I wanted to have it filled : They calfd
immediately to fbme of their Friends, and there came
two Women and brought a great Veffel made of £arth,
and burnt, as I fuppoie, in the Sun ; this they fet down
for me, as before, and I fent Xury on Shore with my
Jars, and filled them all three. The Women were as
ftark naked as the Men.
I
(** J
I was now furniih'd with Roots and Corn, fujh ;<s it
was, and Water, and leaving my friendly Negr,e$y I
nude forward for about eleven Days more, without of-
fering to go near the Shore, till I law the Land run out
a great length into the Sea, at about the diilance of four
or five Leagues bcrore me, and the Sea being very calm,
I kept a large Offing to make this Point; at length,
doubling the Point at about two Leagues from the Land,
I faw plainly Land on the other fide to Seaward ; then
I concluded, as it was moffc certain indeed, that this
was the Cape de Vcrd^ and thole the I/lands, called from
thence Cape de Verd lflands* However, they were at a
great Diilance, and I could not well tell what I had befl
to do; lor if I fhould be taken with a Freili of VVind^
I might neither reach one or other.
In this Dilemma, as I was verv penfive, T flept into
the Cabin, and fat me down, Xury having the Helrn^
when on a hidden the Boy cry'd out, Alaftet, Alajler, a
Ship with a Sail I and the foolifh Boy was frighted out
of his Wits, thinking it mud needs be lb me of' his Ma-
iler's Ships lent to purlize us , when I knew we were got*
ten far enough out of their Reach. I jump'd cut of the
Cabin, and immediately law not only the Ship, but
what fhe was, (viz) that it was a Po>tuguefe Ship, and as
I thought, was bound to the Coafbof Guincy for degrees;
But when I obferv'd the Courie fhe fleer'd, I was foou
convinced they were bound fome other Way, and did
not dcrfign to come any nearer tiie Shore ; upon which I
flretch'd out to Sea as much as I could, refolving to
ipeak with them if poffible.
With all the Sail I could make, I found I fhould not
be able to come in their Way, but that they would, he
gone by\ before I could make any Signal to them ;
but alter I had crowded to the utmotl, and began
to defpair, they it feems faw me by the help of their
Perfpeftive Glaffes, and that it was lome European Boat,
which they fuppos'd mufl belong to fome Ship that was
lbfl ; lb they fhortened Sail to let me come up. 1 was
encouraged with this, and as I had my Patron's Anti-
en ton board, I made a Wart of it to them for a Signal
of Diflrefs, and fiYd a Gun, both which they law, for
they told me they faw ** the Smoke, tho5 they did not
C 3 hear
hear the Gun ; upon tbefe Signals they very kindly
brought to, and lay by for me, and in about three Hours
time I came up with them*
1 hey ask'd me what I was, in Portugueft, and in Spa-
nijh, and in French, but I underftood none of them \ but
at tail a Setts Sailor who was on board, call'd to me, and
I auiwer'd him, and told him I was an Engtijhman, that
had made my Eicape out of Slavery from the Mocrs at
Saike *, then they bad me come on board, and very
kindly took me in, and all my Goods.
it was an inexpreflible Joy to me, that any one will be-
lieve; that I was thus deliver'd.as i eileem'd it, from fuch
amiierable and almoil hopelels Condition as I was in :
I immediately orfer'd all I had to the Captain of the
^hip, as a Return for my Deliverance ; but he generouf-
ly tuld me,he would take nothing from me, but that all I
had ihouldl be delivered fafe to me whenl came to theBra-
fils '-, for, fays he, / have favdy cur Lift on no other Terms *y
than as I wvuld beglad to be javed my ft If, and it may
en? time or other be my Let to be taken up in the fame Con-
dition \ befides, (aid he, when 1 carry you to the Brafils,/<?
great a way fnmyour own Country, ifljhould take from y a
tshat Utile yon have-on will be flarv&d there-, and then 1 only
take away that Life I have given* N?, no, Seignur Inglefe
fays he, [[Air. Englifhman^] / will carry you thither m
Cbaiity* and theft 'lvhigs will help you to buy your Subfijlence
the reread your Pajfage h me again*
As he was.charitable in this Propofal, fo he was juil
in the "Performance to a Tittle, for lie order'd the bea-
men, that none ihculd oifer to tcu;h any thing 1 had ;
then he took every thing into his own Foileiuon, and
gave me back an exa<5l Inventory of them, thatl might
ha*v£ them again, even fo much as my three Earthenjars,
As to my Boat, it was a very good one, and that he
faw, and told me he would buy it of me for the Ship's
Uie, and ask'd me what 1 would have for it PI told him,
he had been fo generous to me in every thing, that I
could not offer to make any Price of the Boat, but left
it entirely to him ; upon which he told me he would
give me a Note of his Hand to pay me So Pieces of
Eight for it at Brafil, and when it came there, if any
one offer'd to &ive niore^ he would make it up \ he of-
fend
fePd me alfo ^o Pieces of Eight more for my Boy X^r/y
which I was loth to take ; not that I was not willing 10
let the Captain have him, but I was very loth^ to ieil
the poor Boy's Liberty, who had aflilled me fo faithful- ~
1-y in procuring my own. However, when I let him
know my Realon, heown'dit to be juft, and oftcr'd me
this Medium, that he woitld give the Boy an Obligation
to let him free in 10 Years, if he turned ChriiUn: Upon-
this, and Xury faying he was willing to go to him, 1 let
the Captain have him.
We had a very good Voyage to the Brafils, and arriv'd
m the Bay, dt Todos Us Santos, or sill-Saints-Bay, in about
22 Days after. And now I was once more delivered from
the moil miierable of all Conditions of Life, and what
to.do next with my felf, I was to conflder.
The generous Treatment the Captain gave me, I can
never enough remember ; he would take nothing of ma
for my Pafiage, gave me 20 Ducats for the Leopard's
Skin, and 40 for the Lion's Skin which I had in the Boat,
and caufed every Thing I had in the Ship to be puiw
&ually deliver'd me, and what I was willing to fell, he
bought \ fuch as the Cafe of Bottles, two of my Guns,and
a Piece of the Lump of Bees-wax, for I had made Can-
dles of the reft ; in a word, I made about 220 Pieces of'
Hight of all my Cargo, and with this Stock I went on
Sihore in the Btafils.
I had not been long here, but being,recommended to
the Houfe of a good honeil Man like himfelf, who had
an Ingcnio, as they call it; that is, a Plantation and a
Stigar-Houfe, 1 liv'd with him fome time, and acquain-
ted my felf by that Means with the Manner of their
Planting and making of Sugar ; and feeing how well th<2
Planters liv'd, and how they grew rich fuddainry,* I
refolv'd, if I could get Licence to fettle there, I would
turn Planter among them reiblving.in the mean time to
iind out fome Way to get my Money which I had left
in London, remitted to me. To this purpofe, getting,
a kind of a Letter of Naturalisation, I purchafed as much
Land that was Uncur'd, as my Money would reach,
and form'd a Plan for my Plantation and Settlement,,
and fuch a one as might be fuitable to the Stock which I
proposed to my felf to receive from Engla/jd*
C 4, I*
I had a Neighbour, a Portuguese of Lisbon^ but born of
En$HJb Parens, whole Name was IVefls^ and in much fuch
CircumHances as I was: 1 call him Neighbour, becaufe
his i lantation lay next to mine, and we went on very
fociably together. My Stock was but low as well as his;
and w; rather planted for Food, than any thing elfe,
tor about two Years. However, we began to increafe,
and our Land began to come into Order; To that the
third Year we planted Corns Tobacco, and made each of
us a large Piece or Ground ready for planting Canes in
the Year to come ; but we both wanted Help; and now
1 lound more than be tore, I had done wrong in parting
with my 15oy Xury.
But alas' Tor me to do wrong that never did right,
was no great Wonder: I had no Remedy but to go on :
I was gotten into an Employment quite remote to my
Genius, and dire&ly contrary to the Life I delighted in,
and for which I for Cook my Father's Houfe, and broke
thro' all his good Advice; nay, I was coming into the
very middle Station, or upper Degree of low Life,
whijh my Father adviCed me to before, and which, if
I rciblvcd to go on with, I might as well have ilaid at
home, and never have fatigued my Celfin the World as t
had done ; and 1 uled often to Cay to my Celf, I could
have done this as well in Eng 'and among my Friends, as
have gone 5000 Miles o5f to do it among Strangers and
Savages in a WilderneCs, and at fuch a Diilance, as ne-
ver to hear from any-Part of the World that had theleaft
Knowledge of me.
In this manner \ ufed to look upon my Condition
with the utmoft Regret. I had no Body to converfe
with, but now and then this Neighbour; no Work to
belfoW, but by the Labour of my Hands; and I uCed
to fay, I liv'd juft like a Man cad away upon Come defo-
}ate Ifland, that had no Body there but bimCelf. But
how juil has it been, and how ihould all Men reflet,
that, when they compare their prefent Conditions with
others that are worfe, Heaven may oblige them to make
the Exchange, and be convinced of their former Felici-
ty, by their Experience : I fay, how juft has it been, that
the truly folitary Life I refle&ed on in anlfland of meer
Defolation ihould be my Lot, who had fo often unjuftly
com»
compared it with the Life which I then led, in which
had I continued, I had in all probability been exceeding
prosperous and rich.
I was in fome Degree fettled in my Meafures for carry-
ing on the Plantation, before my kind Friend the Cap-
tain of the Ship, that took me up at Sea, went back ;
for the Ship remained there in providing her Loading,
and preparing for her Voyage, near three Months ; when
telling him what little Stock I had left behind me in
London, he gave me this friendly and fincere Advice."
Seignior higUje, fays he, (for Co he always call'd mej if
you will give me Letters, and a Procuration here in form
to me with Orders to the Perfon who has your Mo-
ney in London, to fend your EfFe&s to Lisbon, to fueh
Perfons as I fhall direct, and in fuch Goods as are pro-
per for this Country, I will bring ycu the Produce of
them, God willing, at my Return; but iince human
Affairs are all fubjeA to Changes and Difafters, I
would have you give Orders but for 100 /. Sterl. which
you fay is half your Stock, and let the hazard be run for
the £ril; lb that if it come fafe, you may order the refl;
the fame way ; and if it mifca»*ry, you may have the o*
ther half lo have Recourfe to for your Supply.
This was fo wholfome Advice, and leok'd io friendly,
that I could not but be convinc'd it was the beft Courfe
I could take; fo I accordingly prepared Letters to the
Gentlewomen with whom I had left my Money, and a
Procuration to the Pvrtuguefe Captain, as he deflred.
I wrote the Englijh Captain's Widow a full Account
of all my Adventures, my Slavery, Efcape, and how L
had met with the Portugal Captain at Sea, the Huma-
nity of his Behaviour, and in what Condition I,w,as
now in, with all other neceflfary Dire&ions for my Sup-
ply; and when this honeft Capt. came to Lisbon, he found
means by fome of thcEnglrJh Merchants there, to fend o-
ver not the Order only, but a full Account of mv Story
to a Merchant at London, wrboprefented it enTe&ually to
her ; whereupon lhe not only delivered the Money, but
out of her own Pocket fent the Portugal Captain'a very
handiome Prefent for his Humanity and Charity to me.
The Merchant in London vefted this ico /. in E,ig!ith
Coodsjfuch as the Captain had writen for; lent them di-
rcc^v
reftly to him at Lisbcn, and he brought them all fafe to
we to the Brajils ; among which, without my Dire&ion.
(for I was too young in my Buiineis to think of them,)
he had taken care to have all Sorts oi Tools, Iron-work,
and Utenfjls nece/Tary for my Plantation, and which
were of great Ufe to me.
When this Cargo arriv'd, I thought my Fortune made,
for I was furpriz'd with the Joy of it *, and my goodStew-
ard the Captain had laid out the 5 /. which my Friend
had fenthun for a Prefent for himfelf, to purchafe, and
bring me over a Servant under Bond for iix Years Ser-
vice, and would nor accept of any Confederation, except
a little Tobacco, which 1 would have him accept, being
of my own Produce.
Neither was this all; but my Goods being all Englijh
Manufadures, fuch as Cloth, Stuff, Bays, and Things
particularly valuable and deilrable in the Country, I
found means to fell them to a very great Advantage ; fo
that I may fay, I had more than four times the Valu-2
of my firft Cargo, and was now infinitely beyond my
poor Neigbour, I mean in the Advancement o{ my Plan-
tation ; for the firft Thing I did, I bought me a Nt-
groe Slave, and an European Servant alfo *, f mean ano-
ther befides that which the Captain brought me from
JLisbcn*
But asabufed Profperity is oftentimes made tie very
Means of our greateft Adverfity, fo was it with me. t
"went on the next Year with great Suceefsin my Planta-
tion : I raifed 5c great Rolls of Tobacco on my own
Ground more than I had difpofed of for NecefTaries a-
wong my Neighbours •, and thefe 50 Rolls being each
of* above a 100 lb. Wt* were well cur'd and laid by, a-
gainft the Return of the Fleet irom Lisbon. And now
increafing in Bufinefs and Wealth, my Head began to be
iiill of Preje&s and Undertakings beyond my Reach ;
iuch as are in deed often the Ruin of the the bed Heads
in Buflnels.
Had I continued in the Station I was now in, I bad
room for all the happy Things to have yet befallen me,
for which my Father fo earned-y recommended a quiet
retired Life, and which he had,- fo fenfibly defcribed
the middle Station oi Life to be- full of 5 but other
Thing?
Ctrl-
Things' attended me, and I was dill to be the wilful A-
gent of :J1 my own Miferies; and particularly to encreafe
my Fault, and double theReile&ionsupon my, felf which
in my nature Sorrows I fhould have Leiiure to make :
All thefeMiicarriages were procured by my apparent ob-
ftinate adhering to my foolifh Inclination ot wandring
abroad, and purfuing that Inclination, in Contradiction,
to the cleared Views of doing my ielf good in a fair and
plain Puriuit of thofe Profpe&s and thofe Meafures of
Life, which Natuie and Providence concurred to pre-
fent me with, and to make my Duty«
As I had once done thus in breaking away from my
Parents, Co I could not be content now, but t muft go
and leave the happyViewI had,of being a rich and a thri-
ving Man in my new Plantation, only to puriue a rafta
and immoderate Deiire of rifmg f after than the Nature
of the Things admitted; and thus I call my ielf down
again into the deepeft Gulph of human Mifery that ever
Man fell into, or perhaps could be confident with Life-
and a State of Health in the World.
To come then by juft Degrees to the Particulars of
this Part of my Story j You may iu^pofe, that having
now lived almoft four Years in the Brafds, and begin-
ning to thrive and profper very well upon my Planta-
tion, I had not only learned tbe Language, but had con-
tracted Acquaintance and Friendship among n\y Fel-
low-Ilanters, as well as among the Merchants at St*~
Salvadre, which was our Port ; and that in my Di[~
ccurfe among them, I had frequently given them an ac-
count of my two Voyages to the Coaft of Guiney^ the
manner of Trading with the Negroes there, and how eafy.
it was to purchafe upon the Coaft, for TrHles f fuch as
Beads, Tcys, Knives, Scijfars, Hatcbsts> Bits of &lafsy
and the like) not only Go!d-Duft> Gubu)-Grafas, EU^
pbmts-Teetb, £5c. but Negroes for the Service of tbe
Brafds^ in great Numbers.
They liftened ilways very attentively to my Difcour—
fes on thefe Heads, but efpecially to that part which re-
lated to tbe buying Negrces, which was a. Trade at that;
time not or\ly not Tar entered into, but as far as it was,
had been carried on by the Aflkento's, or Permiifion, of
the Rings o£ Spain and Portugal -3 and engrois?d in the-
Tub..
Publick Stock ; fo that few Negroes were brought, and
thofe exceffive dear.
It happen'd, being in Company one Day with foms
Merchants andPlanters of myAquaintance,and talking of
thofe things very earneftly,three of them came to me the
next Morning, and told' me they had been muring very
mu:h upon what I had difcourfed of with them the lalt
Kight, and they came to make a fecret Propoial to me,
and after enjoining me Secrecy, they told me that they
had a mini to fit out a Ship to go to Guiney \ that they
had all Plantations as well as I, and were ftraitned for
nothing fo mu:h as Servants; that as it was a Trade
that could not publickly fell the Negroes when they
came home, fo they defired to make but one Voyage,
to bring the Negroes on Shore piivately, and divide
them among their own Plantations ; and in a Word, the
Queftion was, whether I would go their Super-Cargo in
the Ship, to manage the Trading Part upon the Coaft
of Guiney? And they offer'd me that 1 ihould have my
equal Share of the Negroes, without providing any Pare
of the Stock.
This was a fair Propofal, it mud be confefs'd, had it
been made to any one that had not had a Settlement and
Plantation of his own to look alter, which was in a fair
way of coming to be very considerable, and with a good
Sto k upon it. But for me that was thus eftabliih'd,
ani had nothing to do but go on as I had begun, for
three or four Years more, and to have fent for the other
ioo /. from England^ and who in that Time, and with
that little Addition, eculd fear re have faiPd of being
worth 3 or 4000 /. Sterling, and that ensealing too;
for me to think of fu:h a Voyage, was the moll: prepof-
terous*thing that ever Man in fuch Circumftances could
be guilty of
But 1 that was born to be my own Deftroyer, could
no more refill the Offer than I could reftrain myfirft
rambling Oeiigns, when my Father's good Counfel was
was loft upon me. In a Word, I told them I would
go with all my Heart, if they would undertake to look
after my Plantation in my ^bfence, and would difpofe
of it to 'u:has * fhould dire&, if I mifearried. This-
they all engaged to do, and entered into Writings, or
Cove-
Covenants, to do fo; and I made a formal Will, difpo-
fing of my plantation and Eife&s, in cafe of my Death,
making the Captain of the Ship that had fav'd my Life,
as before, my univerfal Heir, but obliging him to dif-
pofe of my EfFe&sas I had directed in my Will, one
half of the Produce being to himfelf, and the other to
be fhipp'd to England,
In ihort, I took all poflible Caution to preferve my
Effefts, and to keep up my Plantation \ had I ufed half
as much Prudence to have look'd into my own Intereft,
and have made a Judgment of what I ought to have
done, and not to have done, I had certainly never gone
away from fo profperous an Undertaking, leaving all the
the probable Views of a thriving Circumftance, and
gone upon a Voyage to Sea, attended with all its com-
mon Hazards ; to fay nothing of the Reafons I had to
expe& particular Misfortunes to my felf.
But I was hurried on, and obey'd blindly the Dic-
tates of my Fancy rather than my Reafon : And accord-
ingly the Ship being fitted out, and the Cargo furniili'd,
and all things done as by Agreement, by my Partners in
the Voyage, I went on board in an evil Hour again,
the lft of Sept. 1659, being the fame Day eight Years
that I went trom my Father and Mother at Hull, in or-
der to aft the Rebel to their Authority, and the Fool to
my own Intereft.
Our Ship was about 120 Tun Burthen, carried 6
Guns and 14 Men, beiides the Mafter, his Boy, and
my felf} we had on board no large Cargo of Goods,
except of lu:h Toys as were fit for our Trade with the
Negrcesy luch as Beads, Bits of Glafs, Shells, and odd
Trifles, efpecially httle Looking-GlaiTes, Knives^ Scif-
fars, Hatchets, and the like.
The fame Day I went on board, we fet Sail, {landing
away to the Northward upon our own Coaft, with
defign to ftretch over for the African Coaft, When
they came into about 10 or 12 Degrees of Norther nLiti-
tube, which it feems was the manner of their Courfe
in thole Days : We had very good Weather, only excef-
five hot, all the Way upon our own Coaft, till we came
to the Height of Cape St, AngulHnc^ from whence keep-
ing farther off at Sea, we loft fight of Land, andfteer'd
as
asriT we were bound for the Ifle Fernandde Nbronba, hold-
ing cur Courie N.E. by N. and leaving thofe Hits en
the Eaft. In this Courie we paft the Line in about 12
Days time, and were by cur tail: Obfervation in 7 De-
grees 22 Min. Northern Latitude, when a violent £ur-
nado rr Hurricane, took us quite out of our Knowledge;
it began from the iouth-Eait, came about to the Nonh-
"Weft, and then fettled into the North-Eaft5 from
whence it blew in fuch a terrible manner, that for 1 aDa} s
together we could do nothing but drive • and fcuddinga-
way before it, let it carry us wherever Fate and the
Euryofthe Winds directed ; and during thele 12 Days, I
need not fay, that 1 expected every Day to be fwallowed
up, nor did any in the Ship expeel to fave their Lives. ;
In,this Diitrefs we had, beiides the Terror of the
Storm, one of cur Men died of the Calenture, and one
Man and the Boy walVd over-board. About the 12th
Day the Weather abating a little, the Mailer made an
Obfervation as well as he could, and found that he was
in about 11 Degrees North Latitude, but that he was
22 Degrees of Longitude Difference Weft from Cape St.
Augujiino, fo that he found he was.gotten upon the Coaft
of Guiana, or the North Part of Brafil, beyond the
River Ama^nes^ toward that of the River Urooncquey
commonly called the Great River ; and now he began
to confult with me what Ccurfe he ihould take, for the
Ship was leaky, 2nd very much difabled, and he was-
for going directly back to the Coaft of Brafil.
I was positively againft that, and looking over the
Charts of the Sea-Coaft of America with him, we con-
cluded there was no inhabited Country for us to have
recenrfe to, till we came within the Circle of the Canb-
bee Jjlands, and therefore refolved to ftand away forBar-
badoes, which by keeping off at Sea, to avoid the In-
draught of the Bay or Gulph of Mexico, we might eafily
perform, as we hoped, in about fifteen Days Sail; where-
as, we could not peffibly make our Voyage to the Coaft.
of'Africa, without fome Affiftance both to our Ship andi
to our felves.
With this Defign we chang'd ourCourfe, and fteer'cl.
away N. W. by W. in order to reach fome of our En-
///Hflands, where I hoped for Relief; but our Voyage*
was
was otherwife determined, for being in the Latitude of
12 Deg, iS, Min. a (econd Storm came upon us, which
carry'd us away with the fame Impttuofity Weftward,
and drove us lb out of the very way of all human Com-
merce, that had all our Lives been laved, as to the Sea,
we were rather in danger of being devoured by ravages,
than ever returning to our own Country.
In this Diflrels, the Wind frill blowing very hardr
one of cur Men, early one Morning, cn'd cut > land $
and we had no iboner run out of the Cabin to look out,
in hopes of feeing whereabouts in the World we were,
but the Miip (truck upon a Sand, and in a Moment, her
Morion being lb ftopp'd, the Sea broke over her in fuch
a manner, that we expe&ed we lhould all have perifrfd
immediately, and we were even driven into our
dole Quarters; to fhelter us from the very Foam and
Sprye of the Sea.
It is noteafy for any one, who has not been in the
like Condition, to defcri-be or conceive the Confterna-
tion of Men in fu-ch Circumilances; we knew nothing,
where we were, or upon what Land it was we were
driven, whether an Illand or the Main, whether inha-
bited or not inhabited ; and as the Rage of the Wind
was flill great, tho5 rather lefs than at iirft, we could
not fo much as hope to have the Ship hold many Mi-
nutes without breaking, in Pieces, unlefs the Winds by
a kind of Miracle fhould turn immediately about. In
a W7ord, we fat looking one upon another, and expec-
ting Death every Moment, and every Lfan a&ing ac-
cordingly, as preparing for another World; for there
was little or nothing more for us to do in this: That
which was our prefent Comfort, and all the Comfort
we had, was, that contrary to our Expe&ation the Ship
did not break yet, and that the Matter faid the Wrind
began to abate.
Now tho' we thought that the WTind did a little
abate, yet the Ship having thus ilruck upon the Sand,
and fticking too fail for us to expe& her getting off>
we were in a dreadful Condition indeed, and had no-
thing to do but to think of faving our Lives as well as
we could. We had a Boat at our Stern, jufl before the
Storm, hit ihe was firft {lav'd by daflun g againft the
Skip's
Ship's Rudder, and in the next Place fhe broke awayi
and either funk or was driven oft to Sea, lb there was
no Hope from her : We had another Boat on board,
but how to get her off into the Sea, was a doubtful
thing; however, there was no room to debate, for
we rancied the Ship would break in pieces every
Minute; and fome told us, fhe was a&ually broken
already.
In this Didrefs the Mate of our VefTel lays hold of
the Boat, and with the help of the reft of the Men, they
got her flung over the Ship's fide, and getting all into
V-4J%er, let go, and committed our felves, being Eleven in
? number, to God's Mercy, and the wild Sea ; for tho'
the Storm was abated confiderably, yet the Sea went
dread;ul high upon the Shore, and might well be call'd
Den voild Zee, as the Dutch call the Sea in a Storm.
And now our Cafe was very difmal indeed; for we
all faw plainly, that the Sea went fo high, that the
Boat could not live, and that we ihould be inevitably
drowned. As to making Sail, we had none, nor, if we
had, could we have done any thing with it \ fo we
work'd at the Oar towards the Land, tho' with heavy
Hearts, like Men going to Execution ; for we all knew,
that when the Boat came nearer the Shore, fhe would
be dafh'd in a thoufand Pieces by the Breach of the Sea,
However, we committed our Souls to God in the mod
' earned manner, and the Wind driving us towards the
Shore, we haften'd our Dedruftion with our own Hands,
pulling as well as we could towards Land.
What the Shore was, whether Rock or Sand, whether
Steep or Shoal, we knew not; the only Hope that could
rationally give us the lead Shadow of Expectation, was,
ifVe might happen into fome Bay or Gulph, or the
Mouth of ibme River, where by great Chance we might
have run our Boat in, or got under the Lee of the Land,
and perhaps made fmooth Water. But there was no-
thing of this appeared; but as we made nearer and
nearer the Shore, the Land look'd more frightful than
the Sea.
After we had row'd, or rather driven about a
League and a hal£ as we reckoned it, a raging Wave,
Mountain-like, came rowling a-ftern of us> and plainly
bid
bid us expe& the Cmp dt Grace. In a word, it took us
with fuch a Fury, that it overfet the Boat at once, and
feparating us as well from the Boat, as from one an-
other, gave us not time hardly to fay^ O God! for we
were all fwallowed up in a Moment.
Nothing can deferibe the Confufion of Thought
which I felt when I funk into the Water ; for tho' I
fwam very well, yet I could not deliver my felf from
the Waves fo as to draw Breath, till that Wave hav-
ing driven me, or rather carried me a vafb Way on to-
wards the Shore, and having fpent it felf, went back,
and left me upon the Land almoft dry, but half dead
with the Water I took in: I had fo much Preience of
Mind, as well as Breath left, that feeing my felf nearer
the main Land than I expe£ed, I got upon my Feet,
and endeavoured to make on towards the Land as faffc
as I could, before another Wave fhould return, and take
me up again. But I foon found it was impoffible to
avoid it; for I faw the Sea come after me as high as a
great Hill, and as furious as an Enemy, which I had
no Means or Strength to contend with; my Bufinefs
was to hold my Breath, and m!e my felf upon the
Water, if L could, and fo by fwimming to preferve my
Breathing, and pilot my felf towards the Shore, ifpof-
iible ; my greatefl Concern now being, that the Sea, as
it wrould carry me a great Way towards the Shore when
it came on, might not carry me back again with it
when it gave back towards the Sea.
The Wave that came upon me again, buried me at
ence 20 or 30 Foot deep in its own Body; and I could
feel my felf carried with a mighty Force and Swiftnefs
towards the Shore a very great W ay; but 1 held niy^
Breath, and aflilted my ielf to fwim Hill forward with!
all my Might. I was ready to burffc with hold!rg my
Breath, when, as I felt my felf riling up, fo, to my
immediate Relief, I found my Head and Hands (hoot
out above the Surface of the Water; and tho* it was
not two Seconds of Time that I could keep my felf fo,
yet it reliev'd me greatly, gave me Breath and new
Courage. I was covered again with Water a good
while, but not fo long but I held it out; and finding the
Water had fpent it fel£ and began to return, I ftruck
forward
U* )
forward againd the Return of the Waves> and felt
Ground again with my Feet. I flood dill a few Mo-
ments to recover Breath, and till the Water went from
ine, and then took to my Heels, and run with what
Strength I had farther towards the Shore* But neither
would this deliver me from the Fury of the Sea, which
came pouring in after me again, and twice more I was-
lifted up by the Waves, and carried forwards as before,
the Shore being very ilat.
The lad time of thefe two had well near been fatal
tome; for the Sea having hurried me along as before,,
landed me, or rather daih'd me againd a piece of a
Rock, and that with fuch Force, as it left me fenfelefs*
and indeed helplefs, as to my own Deliverance; for the
Blow taking my Side and Bread, beat the Breath as
it were quite out of my Body ; and had it returned a-
g3in immediately, I mud have been Arangled in the
Water ; but I recovered a little before the Return of the
Waves; and feeing I fhould be cover'd again with the
Water, I refolv'd to hold fad by a piece of the Rock,
and fo to hold my Breath, if poflible, till the Wave
went back. Now as the Waves were not Co high as at
fixCt, being near Land, I held my Hold, till the Wave
abated, and then fetch'd another Run, which brought
me Co near the Shore, that the next Wave, though it
went over me, yet did not fo fwallow me up, as to car-
ry me away; and t e next Run f took, I got to the
main Land, where, to my great Comfort, I claniber.'d
up the Clifts of the Shore, and C'jct me down upon the
Grafs,- free from Danger, and quite out of the Reach
of the Water.
I was now landed, and fafe on Shore, and began to
ltfok up and thank God, that my Life was fav'd in a
Cafe wherein there was fome Minutes before fcarce any
room to hope. I believe it is impoflible to exprels to><
the Life, what the Extafies and Tranfports of the Sou!
are, when it is fo faved, as I may fay, out of the very
Grave ; and I do not wonder now at that Cudom, vi%*
That when a Malefa&or, who has the Halter about his-
Neck, is tied up. and jud going to be turned oflP, and.
has a Reprieve brought to him; I fay, I do not won-
der that, they brin& a Surgeon with it, to let himBlood
that
that very Moment they tell him of it, that the Sur-
prize may not drive the Animal Spirits from the Hears*
and overwhelm him:
Fcr fudden Joys, lilt Griefs, confound at fvft:,
I walk'd about on the Shore, lifting up my Hands*
and my whole Being, as I may fay, wrapt up in the.
Contemplation of my Deliverance, making a tboufand
Geftures and Motions, which I cannot delcribe, reflec-
ting upon all my Comrades that were drown'd, and
that there fhould not he one Soul iav'd but my felf;
for as for them, i never law them afterwards, or any
Sign of them, except three of their Hats, one Cap, and
two Shoes, that were not Fellows.
I cad my Eyes to the ftranded VefTel, when the
Breach and Froth of the Sea being fo big, I could hard-
ly lee it, it lay fo far off, and confidered, Lord! how
was it poilible [ could get on Shore !
After I had folac'd my Mind with the comfortable
part of my Condition, I began to look round me, to
iee what kind of Place I was in, and what was next to
be done; and I ibon found my Comforts abate, and that,
in a Word, I had a dreadful Deliverance; fori was>
wet. had no-Cloaths to {hift me, nor any thing either
to eat or drink to comfort me 5 neither did 1 fee any
Profpeft before me, but that of perifhing with Hunger,
or being devoured by wild Beads > And that which was
particularly afHi&ing to me, was, that I had no Weapon
either to hunt and kill any Creature for my Suftenance,
or to defend my felf againft any other Creature that
might deflre to kill me for theiis: In a Word, I had
nothing about me but a Knife, a Tobacco-pipe, and "a
little Tobacco in a Box: This was all my Proviflon, and
this threw me into terrible Agonies of Mind, that for a
while 1 run about like a Mad-man. Ni&ht coming up-
on me, I began with a heavy Heart to confider what
would be my Lot, if there were any ravenous Beads in
that Country, feeing at Night they always come abroad
for their Prey.
All the Remedy that o/Fer'd to my Thoughts at that
time, was; to get up into a thick boihy Tree like a Fir,
but
but thorsv, which grew near me, and where! refolv'd
to fit all Night, and confider the next Day what Death
I fhould die, for as yet I faw no FrofpeA of Life. I
walk'd about a Furlong from the Shore, to fee if! could
find any frefh Water to drink, which I did, to my
great Joy; and having drank, and put a little Tobacco
in my Mouth to prevent Hunger, I went to the Tree,
and getting up into it, endeavour'd to place my fe\floy
as that if I fhould deep, I might not fall; and having
cut me a fhort Stick, like a Truncheon, for my De-
fence, I took up my Lodging, and having been excef-
fively fatigu'd, I fell fafl alleep, and flept as comfor-
tably, as I believe few could I ave done in my Condi-
tion, and found my felf the mod reireihed with it, that
I think 1 ever was on fu:h an Occafion.
When I wak'd, it was broad Day, the Weather clear,
and the Storm abated, fo that the Sea did not rage
and fwell as before: But that which furpriz'd me
moil, was, that the Ship was lifted off in the Night
from the Sand where lhe la)7, by the Swelling of the
Tide, and was driven up almoit as far as the Rock,
which I firft menticn'd, where [ had been lb bruis'd by
the daihing me againft it; this being within about
a Mile from the ^hore where I was, and the ship feem-
ing to ftand upright itill, i wifiYd my fclf on board,
that, at lea ft, I might fave fome neceflary Things for
my Ufe.
When I came down from my Apartment in the
Tree, I look'd about me again, and the firfb thing I
found, was the Boat, which lay as the V\ ind and the
Sea had tofs'd her up upon the oand, about two Miles
on my Right Hand: I walk'd as far as I could upon
tlfe*Shore to have got to her, but found a Neck or Inlet
of Water between me and the Boat, which was about
half a Mile broad ; {'o I came back for the prefent, be-
ing more intent upon getting at the Ship, where I hop'd
to find fumething for my prefent Subflrtence.
A little after Noon I found the Sea very calm, and
the Tide ebb'd fo far out, that I could come within
a Quarter of a Mile of the Ship : And here I found a
frefh renewing of my Grief; for T faw evidently, that
it we had kept on board, we had been all fafe, that is
to
to fay, we had all got fafe on Shore, and I had not
been fo miferable as to be left entirely destitute of all
Comfort and Company, as I now was : This forced.
Tears from my Eyes again, but as there was little Re-
lief in that, I relblv'd, if poflible, to get to the Ship ;
fo I pull'd off my Cloaths, for the Weather was hot
to Extremity, and took the Water; but when I came to
the Ship, my Difficulty was flill greater to know how
to get on board, for as flie lay a-grcund, and high out of
the Water, there was nothing within my Reach to lay
hold of, I fwam round her twice, and the fecond time
I eipy'd a irnall piece of Rope, which I wonder'd I did
not lee at firll, hang down by the Fore-Chains fo low,
as with great Difficulty I got hold of it, and by the
Help of that Rope, got up into the Fore-cafHe of the
Ship. Here I found that the Ship was bulg'd, and
had a great deal of Water in her Hold, but that ihe lay
fo on the Side of a Bank of hard Sand, or rather Earth,
that her Stern lay lifted up upon the Bank, and herHead
low almofl to the Water ; by this means all her Quarter
was free, and all that was in that Part was dry ; for
you may be lure my Work was to fearch and to fee
what was fpoil'd, and what was free ; and firfl I found,
that all the Ship's Provilions were dry, and untouched
by the Water, and being very well difpoled to eat, I
went to the Bread-room and fill'd my Pockets with
Bisket, and eat it as I went about other things, for I
had no Time to lofe. I alio found lome Rum in the
great Cabin, of which I took a large Dram, and which
1 had indeed need enough o(, to fpint me for what was
before me. Now I wanted nothing but a Boat to fur-
nifh mj ielf with many things which I forefaw wou]d
be very necelfary to me.
It was in vain to lit dill and wiili for what was not to
be had, and this Extremity rcuzM my Application.
We had feveral fpare Yards, and two or three large
Sparrs of Wood, and a fpare Top-Mad or two in the
Ship ; I refolv'd to fall to work with thefe, and flung
as many of them over-board as I could manage for their
Weight, tying every one with a Rope that they might
not drive away; when this was done, I went down the
Ship's Side, and pulling them to me, I ty'd four of
them
tliem faft together at both Ends as well as I could, in
the Form or' a Raft, and laying two or three iliort Pie-
ces of T.lank upon them crofs-Ways; I found I could
walk upon k very well, but that it was nut able to btar
any great Weight, the Pieces being too light ; fo 1 went
to work, and with the Carpenter's Saw 1 cut a fpare
Top malt into three Lengths, and added them to my
Rait, with a great deal or Labour and Pains ; but the
Hope of fur nil hi ng my felf with NeceiTaries, encou-
raged me to go bejvnd what I ihould have been able
to have done upon another Occaflon.
My Raft was now ftrong enough to bear any reafona-
ble Weight; my next Care was what to load it with,
and how to preferve what F laid upon it from the iurf
of the Sea ; but L was not long coniidering this •, I fird:
laid all the Planks or Boards upon it that I could get9
^and having confider'd well what 1 moil wanted j i
fir ft got three of the Seamens Chefts, which 1 had bro-
ken open and empty'd, and lonerd them down upon
my Raft; the firft of theie I fill'd with Proviilons, vi%.
Bread, Rice, three Dutch Cheefes, five Pieces of dry'd
Goats-Fleih, which we liv'd much upon, and a little
Remainder of European Corn, which had been laid by
for fome Fowls which we brought to Sea with us, but
the Fowls were kill'd; there had been fome Barley and
Wheat together, but, to my great Difappointment, I
found afterwards that the Rats had eaten or fpoifd it
all. As for Liquors, I found feveral Cafes of Bottles
belonging to our Skipper, in which were fome Cordial
Waters, and in all about five or iijc Gallons of Rack ;
thefe I ftow'd by themfelves, there being no need to put
vtjiem into the Cheft, nor any room lor them. While
I was doing this, I found the Tide began to flow, tho'
very calm, and I had the Mortification to fee my Coat,
Shirt, and Waftecoat, which I had left on Shore upon
the Sand, fwim away; as for my Breeches, which were
only Linnen and open-kneed, I fwam on board in
them and my Stockings : However, this put me upon
rummaging for Cloaths, of which I found enough,
but took no more than I wanted for prefent Uie,
for I had other Things which my Eye was more
^pon j as firft, Tools to work with on Shore, and it
was
Was after long fearching that I found out the Carped
ter's Cheft, which was indeed a very ufeful Prize to
me, and much more valuable than a Ship-loading of
<jroid wTould have been at that rime^ I got it down:
to my Rait, even whole as it was, without lofing Tims
to look into it, tor i knew in general what it contained.
My next Care was for ibme Ammunition and Arms ;
there were two very good Fowling-i iects in tl.e great
Cabin, and two Pitfols; theie I iecur'd fii'll, with ibme-
Powder-Horns, and a imall Bag of Shot, and two old
ruily Swords: 1 knew there were three Barrelsoi'Pow-
der in the Ship, but knew not where our Gunner had
ftowM them, but with much Search I found them, two
of thtm dry and good, the third had taken Water;
tbofe two i gut to my Raft, with the Arms.* And now
I thought my icU prett) well freighted, and began to
thirk how I ihould get to bhore with them, having nei-
ther Sail, Oar, or Rudder, and the leail Cap full of
Wind would have overfct all my Navigation.
I had three Encouragements, i. A imooth calm Sea.
2. The Tide riling and letting into the Shore. 3. What
little Wind there was, blew me towards ths Land ; and
thus, having found two or three broken Oars belonging
to the Boat, and befides the Tools which, were in the
Cheu\ I found two Saws, an Axe, and a Hammer, and
with this Cargo I put to Sea: For a Mile or there-
abouts, my Raft went very well, only that I found it
drive a little diilant trenvthe Place where I had landed
before, by which I pcrceiv'd that there was ibme In-
draught of the Water, and confequently I hop\l to find
fome Creek or River there, which I might make ule of
as a Port to get to Land with my Cargo.
As ! imagufd, lb it was ; there appeared before me
a little opening of" the Land, and I found a ftrong Cur-
rent of the Tide let into it, io I guided my Raft as
well as I could to keep in the Middle of the Stream :
But here I had like to have iufFer'd a fecond Ship-
wreck, which, if I had, I think verily would have broke
my Heart \ for knowing nothing of" the Coau\ my Raft
run a-ground at one End of it upon a Shoal, and not be-
ing a-ground at the other End, it wasted but a little
that all my Cargo had flipped off towards that End that
was
was a-float, and fo fallen into the Water: I did my ute
mod by fetting my Back againd the Cheds, to keep'
them in their Places, but could not thrud off the Rait
with all my Strength ; neither durd I ftir from the Po-
fture I was in, but holding up the Cheds with all my
Might, ftood in that manner near half an Hour, in
which time the riilng of the Water brought me a little
more upon a Level ; and a little after, the Water dill
riling, my Raft floated again, and I thrud her off with
the Oar 1 had, into the Channel, and then driving up
higher, I at length found my felf in the Mouth of a
little River, with Land on both Sides, and a drong Cur-
rent or Tide running up. I look'd on both Sides for a
proper Place to get to Shore, for I was not willing to
be driven too high up the River, hoping in time to
fee fome Ship at Sea, and therefore refolv'd to place my
felf as near the Coafl as I could.
At length I fpy'd a little Cove on the right Shore of
the Creek, to which with great Pain and Difficulty I
guided my Raft, and at lad got fo near, as that, reach-
ing Ground with my Oar, 1 could thrud her directly
in \ but here I had like to have dipt all my Cargo in
the Sea again ; for that Shore lying pretty deep, that
is to fay, (loping, there was no Place to land, but
where one End of the Float, if it run on Shore, would
lie fo high, and the other fink lower as before, that it
would endanger my Cargo again: All that I could
do, was to wait till the T. ide was at the highed, keep-
ing the Raft with my Oar5 like an Anchor to hold the
Side of it fad to the Shore, near a £at Piece of Ground,
which I expe&ed the Water would flow over *, and fo
ritdid: As foon as I found Water enough, (for my
Raft drew about a Foot of Water) I thrud her upon
that flat Piece of Ground, and there faden'd, or
moor'd her, by dicking my two broken Oars into the
Ground ; one on one5ide near one End, and one on the
ether Side near the other End ; and thus I lay till the
Water ebb'd away, and left my Raft and all my Cargo
fafe on Shore.
My next Work was to view the Country, and feek
a proper Place for my Habitation, and where to dow
my Goods3 to fecure them from whatever might hap-
pen.
 Ship, frfj.p 4»
pen. Where I was, I yet knew nor; whether on the
Continent, or on an Ifland; whether inhabited., or not
inhabited; whether in Danger ol' Wild Beafts or not:
There was a Hill not above a Mile from me, which
role up very deep and high, and which fcem'd to over-
top ibme other Hills which lay as in a Ridge from it
Northward: I took out one of the Fowling-Fieces,
and one of the Piftols, and an Horn of Powder, and
thus arm'd I trayelled for Difcovery up to the Top of
that Hill, where after I had with great Labour and
Difficulty got up, I immediately faw my Fate to my
.great Ajfli&ion, {vi^J that I was iD an Illand environ'd
every way with the Sea, no Land to be feen> except
fome Rocks which lay a great way off, and two fmall
I Hands lefs than this, which lay about three Leagues to
the Weft.
I found alfo that the I Hand I was in, was barren, and,
as I faw good reafon to believe, uninhabited, except by
WTild Bealts, of whom however I faw none yet ; i faw
abundance of Fowls, but knew not their Kinds, neither
when I kill5d them, couLd I tell what was £t for Food,
and what not. At my coming back, I ihot at a great
Bird which I faw fitting upon a Tree on the Side of a
large Wood; I believe it was the.firft Gun that had
been nYd there iince the Creation of the World. I had
no fooner fir'd, but (rom all the Parts of the Wood
there arofe an innumerable Number of Fowls of many
forts, making a conFus'd Screaming, and crying, every
one according to his ufual Note; but not one of them
of any Kind that 1 knew; As for that Creature Ikllfd,
I took it to be a kind of a Hawk, its Colour and Beak
refembling it, but it had no Talons or Claws more thaft
common, its Fleih was Carrion, and fit for nothirg.
Contented with this Difcovery, I came back to my
Raft, and fell to work to bring my Cargo on Shore,
which took me up the reft of that Day ; what to do
with my felf at Night, I knew not, nor indeed where
to reft; for I was afraid to lie down on the Grourd,.
not knowing but fome wild Beaft might devour me,
tho', as I afterwards found, there was really no need
for thofc Fears.
P How
However, as well as I could, I barricado'd my felf
round with the Chefts and Boards that I had brought
on Shore, and made a kind of a Hutt for that Night's
Lodging; as for Food, I yet faw not which way to
fupply my felf, except that I had feen two or thres
Creatures like Hares^ run out of the Wood where I ihot
the Fowl.
I now began to conflder, that I might yet get
a great many things out of the Ship, which would be
uieiul to me, and particularly ibme of the Rigging
and Sails, and iuch other things as might come to hand",
and I refolv'd to make another Voyage on Board the
Veffel, ifpoffible, and as I knew that the firft Storm
that blew mull necefTarily break her all in Pieces, I re-
folv'd to let all other things apart, till I got every thing
out of the Ship that I could get; then l call'd a Coun-
cil, that is to fay, in my Thoughts, whether I fhould
take back the Raft, but this appeared impra&icable -7 ib
I refolv'd to go as before, when the Tide was down, and
I did fo, only that I ftripp'd before I went from my
Hutt, having nothing on but a checquer'd Shirt, a
pair of Linnen Drawers, and a pair of Pumps on my
Feet.
I got on Board the Ship as before, and prepared a fe-
cond Raft, and having had Experience of the firft, I
neither made this fo unweildly, nor loaded it {o hard,
but yet I brought away feveral things very ufeful to me ;
iis firft, in the Carpenter's Stores 1 found two or three
Bags fall of Nails and Spikes, a great Skrew-Jack, a
dozen or two of Hatchets, and above all, that moft ufe-
ful thing caird a Grindftone; all thefe I fecur'd, toge-
ther with feveral things belonging to the Gunner, par-
ticularly two or three Iron Crowes, and two Barrels of
Mu(quet-Bullets, (even Mufquets, and another Fowling-
Piece, with fome fmall Quantity of Powder more; a
large Bag full of fmall Shot, and a great Roll of Sheet
Lead ; but this lafl was fo heavy, I could not hoiffi it up
to get it over the Ship's fide.
Befides thefe things, I took ail the Men's Cloathsthat
I could find, and~aipare Fore-top-fail, Hammock, and
fome Bediing, and with this I loaded my fecond Kaft,
and
and brought them alfo all fafe on Shore to my very
great Comfort*
1 -was under fome Apprehenfions during my Abfence
from the Land, that at leaft my Provisions might be
devoured on Shore', but when I came.back, i found no
Sign oi' any Vifitor, only there fat a Creature like a
wild Cat upon one of the Cheils, which when I came
towards it, ran away to a little Diftance, and then ftood
fiill; fhe iat very compos'd, and unconcern'd, and look'd
full in my Face, as if ihe had a mind ro be acquainted
with me: I prefented my Gun at her, but as {he did not
underfland it, Ihe was perfe&ly unconcerned at it, nor
did ihe offer to ftir away ; up^n which I tofs'd her a bit
of Bisket, tho' by the way I was not very free of it, for
my Store was not great. However, I fpar'd her a bit
I lay, and ihe went to it, fmelfd of it, and eat it, and
look'd ( as pleas'd) for more \ but I thank'd her, and
could fpare no more, fo ihe mareb'd off.
Having got my iecond Cargo on Shore, (tho' I was
fain to open the Barrels of Powder, and bring them by
Parcels, for they were too heavy, being large Casks) £
went to work to make me a little Tent with the ^ail
and fome Poles which I cut for that Purpofe; and into
this Tent L brought every Thing that I knew would
fpoil, either with Rain, 01 Sun, and I piled all the
empty Chefts and Casks up in a Circle round the Tent,
to fortify it from any fudden Attempt, either from
Man or Bead.
When 1 had done this, I block'd up the Door of the
Tent with fome Boards within, and an empty Cheft fee
up an End without, and fpreading one of the Beds upo^st
the Ground, laying my two Piftols juO: at my Hea d%
and my Gun at Length by me, I went to bed for the
iirft time, and flept very quietly all Night : I was
very weary and heavy, for the Night before I bad flept
little, and had labour'd very hard all Day, as well to
fetch thofe Things from the Ship, as to gtt them on
Shore.
I had the biggefl: Magazine of all Kinds now that
£ver were laid up, I believe, for one Man ; but 1 was
not fatisfied fbill j for while the Ship fat upright in t at
Pofture, I thought I ought to get every thing out of
D 2 * her
her that I could ; fo every day at low Water I went on
board, and brought away Comething or other : But par-
ticularly the third time I went, I brought away as
•much of the Rigging as I could, as alio all the fmaU
Ropes and Rope-twine I could get, with a piece of fpare
Canvas, which was to mend-the Sails upon occafion,
<and the Barrel oi' wet Gun-powder: In a Word, I
brought away all the Sails firft md laft, only that I
was rain to cut them in Pieces, and bring as much at a
time as I could; for they were no more uieful to me
for Sails, but as meer Canvas only.
But that which comforted me more (till, was, that at
laft of all, after I had- made five or fix luch Voyages
as thefe, and thought I had nothing more to expe&
Irom the Ship, that was worth my medling with; I Cay,
after all this, I found a great Hogfhead of Bread,
three large Runlets of Rum or Spirits, a Box of fine Su-
gar, and a Barrel of fine Flower; this was furprizing
to me, becaule 1 had given over expe&ing any more
Proviiions, except what was fpoil'd by the Water. I
loon emptied the Hogihead of that Bread, and wrapt
it up, Parcel by Parcel, in Pieces of the Sails, which I
cat out; and in a Word, I got all this fate on Shore
alio, tho' at feveral times.'
The next Day I made another Voyage; and now
having plundered the Ship of what was portable, and
£t to hand out, I began with the Cables; and cutting
the great Cable into Pieces, fuch as I could move, i
got two Cables and a Haulier on Shore, with all the
Iron-work I could get; and having cut down the Sprit-
_/ail-yard, and the Miien-yard, and every thing I could
$t> make a large Raft, I loaded ic \x ith all thole heavy
Ooods, and came away : But my good Luck began now
to leave me; for this Raft was fo unweildy, and fo over-
laden, that after I was enter'd the little Cove, where
I had lar.dedthe reft of my Goods; not being able to
guide it fo handily as I did the other, it over let, and
threw me and all my Cargo into the Water: As for
my ielf it was no great Harm, for I was near the Shore ;
but as to my Cargo, it was great part of it loft, efpe-
cially the Iron, which I expected would have been of
great Ufe tome: However, when the Tide was out,
I got moil of the Pieces of Cable a/hore, and fome ol
the Iron, tho* with infinite Labour, for I was fain to
dip for it into the Water, a Work which fatigu'd me
very much; after this, I went every Day on Board,
and brought away what I could get.
I had been now 13 Days on Shore, and had been n
times on Board the Ship ; in which time I had brought
away all, that one pair of Hands could well be fuppos'd
capable to bring, tho' I believe verily, had the calm
"Weather held, I ihould have brought away the whole?
Ship, Piece by Piece: But preparing the 12th time to
go on Board, I found the Wind began to rife ; how-
ever, at low Water I went on Board, and tho' I thought
I had rummaged the Cabin {o effedually, as that nothing
more could be found, yet I difcovered a Locker with
Drawers in it, in one of which I found two or three
Razors, and one pair of large ScuTars, with ten
or a dozen good Knives and Forks; in another I
found about thirty fix pounds Value in Money, fome
Euripzan Coin, fome Brafil, fome Pieces ot Eight, fome
Gold, fome silver.
I fmil'd to my felf at the fight of this Money. O
Drug* fazd I alcuJ, what art thou good for? Thm
art not worth to me, no not the taking off of the Ground;
one o( thofe Knives is worth all this Heap; I have no
manner of ufe for thee, e'en remain where thou art,
and go to the Bottom as a Creature whole Life is not
worth faving: However, upon fecond Thoughts, I
took it away, and wrapping all this in a Piece of Can-
vas, I began to think of making another Raft; but
while I was preparing this, I found the Sky over-cau\
and the Wind began to rife, and in a quarter of an Hojjr
it blew a frefh Gale from the Shore; it preiently oc*
cur'd to me, that it was in vain to pretend to make a
Raft, with the Wind off Shore, and that it was my Uu-
finefs to be gone before the Tide of Flood began, other-
wife I might not be able to reach the Shore at all: Ac.
cordingly I let my felf down into the W7ater, and (warn
crofs the Channel, which lay between, the Ship and the
Sands, and even that with Difficult)' enough, partly
with the weight of the things I had about me, and
partly theRoughnefs of the Water, for the V\ ind rofe
D 3 very
very haftily, and before it was quite high Water, it
blew a Storm.
But I was gotten home to my little Tent, where I
by with all my Wealth about me very fecure ; It blew
very hardball that Night, and in the Morning when I
1t,ok'd out, behold no more Ship was to be teen. I was
a 1/ttle iurpvizM, but recovered my felf with this fatis-
lactory Refle&ion, y/?. That i had loft no Time, nor
abated any Diligence to get every thing out of her-that
could be uieful to me, and that indeed there was little
left in her that 1 was able to bring away, if I had had
anora*Tune : 1 now gave over anymore Thoughts of
the Ship, or of any thing out of her, except what might
drive on Shore from her Wreck, as indeed divers Pieces
iA her afterwards did; but thofe things were of Imall
ttfe to me.
My Thoughts were now wholly employ'd about fe-
curing my telt againft either Savages, if any mould appear
or wild Beads, if any were in the I (land \ and 1 had
many Thoughts of the Method how to do this, and what
kind of Dwelling to make*, whether I ihould make me
a Cave in the Earth, or a Tent upon the Earth : And,
in fhort, I reiblv'd upon both *, the Manner and Des-
cription of which it may mot be improper to give ap
-Account of.
I toon found the Place t was in was not for my Set-
tlement, particularly becauie it was upon a low moor-
iih Ground near the Sea, and I believed would not be
whulfome, and more particularly becauie there was no
Water near it; fo I refolv'd to find a more healthy and
more convenient Spct of Ground.
^JL confulttd feveral things in my Situation, which I
found w( uld be proper for me ; firflt, Health, and freih
Water as 1 juft now mention'd *7 iecondly, Shelter from
the Heat ol the Sun \ thirdly, Security from ravenous
Creatures, whether Man or Beaft ; fourthly, a View
to the Sea, that if God lent any Ship in Sight, I might
not lofeany Advantage for my Deliverance, for which
I was not willing to baniih my Expe&ation yet.
In iearch of a Place proper for this, I found a litde
Plain on the iide of a rifing.Plill, whole Form towards
this little plain, was as deep as a Houfe - lide,
fo
f« that nothing could come down upon me from the
Top ; on the fide of this Rock there was a hollow Place
worn a little way in, like the Entrance or Door of a
Cave, but there was not really any Cave or Way into
the Rock at all.
On the Flat of the Green, juft before this hollow
Place, I refolved to pitch my Tent. This Plain was
not above an hundred Yards broad, and about twice as
long, and lay like a Green before the Door, and at the
End of it defcended irregularly every way down into
the low Grounds by the 5ea-flde_, It was on the N. N.
W. fide of the Hill, fo that it was fhelter'd from the
Heat every Day, till it came to aW, and by S. Sun, or
thereabouts^ which in thofe Countries is near the let-
ting.
Before I fet up my Tent, I drew a half Circle before
the hollow Place, which took in about ten Yards in its
Semi-diameter, from the Rock, and twenty Yards in its
Diameter, from its Beginning and Ending.
In this half Circle I pitchM two Rows of ftrong
Stakes, driving them into the Ground till they flood
very firm like Piles, the biggeft End being out of the
Ground about five Foot and a half* and iharpjn'd on
tfyeTop ; the two Rows did not (land above fix Inches
from one another.
Then I took the Pieces of Cable which I had cut in the
Ship,andlaid them in Rows upon one another,withinthe
Circle between thefe two Rows of Stakes, up to theTop,
placing other Stakes in the infide, leaning againft them,
about two Foot and a half high, like a bpur to a Poiiy
and this Fence was Co ftrong, that neither Man or Beaft
could get into it or over it. This coil me a great deal
of Time and Labour, efpecially to cut the Piles in tl-ffe
Woods, bring them to the Place, and drive them into
the Earth.
The Entrance into this Place I made to be, not by a
Door, but by a ihort Ladder^ to go over the Top,
which Ladder, when I was in, I lifted over after me,
and (q, I was compleatly fenced in, and fortified, as I
thotLgJit, from all the World, and consequently llept
fecurefe the Night, which otherwife I could not have
done.tho' as it appear5d afterward, there was no need of
D 4 all
all this Caution from the Enemies I apprehended Dan-
ger from.
Into this Fence, or Fortrefs, with infinite Labour,
I carry*d all my Riches, all my Provifions, Ammunition
and stores, ofr which you have the Account above ; and
I made me a large Tent alio, to preferve me from
the Rains, that in one Part of the Year are very violent
there, I made double, vi\* one fmaller Tent within,
and one larger Tent above it, and cover*d the upper-
mort part oi* it with a large Tarpaulin which I bad
fav'd among the trails.
And now i lay no more For a while in the Bed* which
I had brought on Shore, but in a Hammock, which was
indeed a very good one, andbelong'd to the Mate of the
Ship.
into this Tent I brought ail my Provifions, and every
Thing that would Ipoil by the Wet-, and having thus
encWd all my Goods, 1 made up the Entrance, which
till now I had left open, and lo pafs'd and repafs'd, as
I faid, by a fhort Ladder.
When i had done this3 I began to work my Way in-
to the Rock, and bringing all the Earth and Stones that
I dug down, out thro5 my Tent, I laid them up within
m> Fence in the Nature of a Terrace, k» that it rais'd
the Ground within about a Foot and a Half; and thus
I made a Cave juft behind my Tent, which ferv'd me
like a Cellar to my Houfe.
Itcoft me much Labour, and many Days, before all
thefc Things were brought to Pcrfe&ion, and therefore
Tmuft go back to ibme other Things which took up
fbme of my "I noughts. At the fame Time it happened
af^r \ had laid m) Scheme for the letting up my Tent,
and making the Cave, that a Storm of Rain tailing from
a thick dark Cloud, a hidden Flafh of Lightning hap-
pen'd, and after that, a great Clap of Thunder, as is
naturally the EtftS: of it : I was not fo much furprix'd
with the Lightning, as I was with a Thought which
darted into my Mir.d as fwift as the Lightning it felf:
O my Powder ! my very Heart funk within me, when
I" thought, that atone Blaft all my Powder might be
deftroy'd 5 on which, not niy Defence only, but the
pro~
providing me FooJ> as I thought, entirely depended ;
I was nothing near ib anxious about my own Danger,
tho' had the Powder took Fire, I had never known who
had hurt me.
Such Impreflion did this make upon me, that after
the Storm was over, I laid afide all my Works, my
Building and Fortifying, and apply'd my felf to make
Bags and Boxes to feparate the Powder, and to keep
it a little and a little in a Parcel, in hope, that whate-
ver might come, it might not all take Fire at once, and
to keep it Co apart, that it fhould not be pollible to make
one part fire another. I finished this Work in about a
Fortnight, and I think my Powder, which in all was
about 140 lb. IVt. was divided in no lefs than a hundred
Parcels. As to the Barrel that had been wet, 1 did not
apprehend any Danger from that, fo I piae'd it in my
new Cave, which in my Fancy I called my Ritcbin ;
and the reft I hid up and down in Holes among the
Rocks, fa that no W7et might come to it, marking very
carefully where I laid it.
In the interval of Time while this was doing, I went
out at leaft once every Day with my Gun, as well to di-
vert my felf, as to lee if I could kill any thing fit fop
Food, a nd as near as I could, to acquaint my felf with
what the Ifland produced. The firfb Time I west out,
I prtfently difcover'd that there were Goats in the I-
iland, which was a great Satisfa&ion to me ; but then it
was attended with this Misfortune to me, vif. That
they were fo ihy, fo fubtle, and (o fwift of Foot, that
it was the diificultefl Thing in the World to come at
them : But I was not difcourag'd at this, not doubting,
but I might now and then Ihoot one, as it foon happen^ ;
for after I had found their Haunts a little, I laid wait
in this Manner for them: I obferved, i€ they faw;
me in the Valleys, tbo* they were upon the Rocks*
they would run away as in a terrible Fright; but
if they were feeding in the Valleys, and 1 was up-
on the Rocks, they took no Notice of me ; from whence
I concluded, that by thePofttios of their Opticks, their
Sight was fo dire&ed downward, that they did not rea^
dily fee Obje&s that were above theru ; So afterwards I
D 5 took
took this Method, I always climb'd the Rocks iirft, to
g t ab^ve them, and then had Frequently a fair Mark,
1 he iirft Shot I made among thefe Creatures, I kill'd
a She-Goat which had a litSe Kid by her, which fhe
gave Suck to, which grieved me heartily ; but when the
Old one fell, the Kid ftood ftock iKll by her till I came
and took her up-, and not only fo, but when I carried
the Old one with me upon my Shoulders, the Kid fol-
lowed me quite to my Encloiure *, upon which I laid
down the Damy and took the Kid in my Arms, and car-
ried it over my Pale, in Hopes to have bred it up tame,
but it would not eat, fo I was fore'd to kill it and eat
it my felf; the-fe two iupply'd me with Fleih a great
while, for I eat fparingly ; and fav'd my Provifions (my
Bread efpecially) as much as poifibly I could.
Having now fix'd my Habitation, I found it abfolute-
ly neceilary to provide a Place to make a Fire in, and
Fuel to burn ; and what I did for that, as alfo how I
enlarged my Cave, and what Conveniencies I made, I
ill a H give a full Account of in its Place : But I mud frrft
give Ibtne little Account of my felf, and of my Thoughts
about Living, which it may well be fuppos'd were not
a few.
I had a difinal Profpe<ft of my Condition; for as I
T'yas not cad away upon that Ifland without being dri-
ven, as is (aid, by a violent Storm quite out of the Courfe
of our intended Voyage, and a great Way, vi\. fome Hun-
dreds of Leagues out of the ordinary Courfe of the Trade
of Mankind, I had great Reafon to confider it as a De-
termination of Heaven, that in this defolate Place, and
in this defolate Manner Ifuould end my Life : the Tears
wsmld run plentifully down my Face when T made thefe
Refle&ions, and fometimes I would expoflulate with
my felf, Why Providence fhould thus compleatly ruin its
Creatures, and render them fo abfolutely milerable, {o
without Help, abandoned, and fo entirely deprefs'd that
it could hardly be rational to be thankful for fuch a
Life?
But fomething always return'd fwift upon me to check
thefe Thoughts, and to reprove me; and particularly
one Day walking with my Gun in my Hand by the Sea-
fide, I was very penfive upon the Subject of my prefent
Coa*
Condition, when Reafon, as it were put in, expostulating
with me to'ther Way, thus: Well, you are in a defolate
Condition 'tis^true ; but pray remember, where are the
reft of you? Did not yoii come Eleven of you into the
Boat, where are the Ten ? Why were not thty fav'd, and
youioft ? W hy are you fingled out ? Is it better to be here
or there ? and then I pointed to the Sea. All Evils
are be conlider'd with the Good that is in tbein, and
with what worfe attended them.
Then it occured to me again, how well I was fur-
niih'd tor my Subilftance, and what would have been
my Cafe, if it had not happen'd, Whnb was an Hundred
Th ufa&d to One, that the Ship floated from the Place
were firft fhe {truck, and was driven fo near to the
Shore that I had time to get all thefe things out of her ?
What would have been my Cafe, if I had been to have
Hv'd in the Condition in which I at rirft came on Shore,
without Neceilaries ofLife, or Neceflaries to fupply
and procure them ? Particularly faid I aloud, (tho* to
my ielf )~what would I 'ha' done without a Gun, with-
out Ammunition, without any Tools to make any thing*
or to work with ? Without Cloaths, Bedding, a Tent,
or any manner of Coverings ? And that now I bad all
thefe to a fufficient Quantity, and was in a rair way to
provide my felf in fuch a manner, as to live without my
Gun when,my Ammunition was fpent, fo that I had
a tolerable View pt fubfifting without any Want as long
aslliv'd; for I eonfider'd from the Beginning howl
would provide fpr the Accidents that might happen, and
for the Time that was to come, even not only,after my
Ammunition fbould be fpent, but even after my Health
or Strength fhould decay.
I conteis I had not then entertain1 d any Notion oProy
Ammunition being deftroyMatone Biail:, I mean my
Powder being blown up by lightning, and this made the
Thoughts of it fo furprizing to me when it Kghten'dand
thunder'd, as I obierv'd juli now.
And now being to enter into a .melancholy Relation
of a Scene of iilent Life, fuch perhaps as was never
heard of in the World before, I ihall take it from its Be-
ginning, and continue it in its Order. It was by my
Account, the. 30th «.uf ^cpkmber^ when, in the ruanner
as
as nbovefaid, I ferft fet Foot upon tins horrid Ifland*
when the-Sun being, to us, in its Autumnal Ecjuinojc,
was almoft juft over iny Head, for i reckon'd my felt;
by Observation, to be in the Latitude of 9 Degrees, 22
Minutes North of the Line,
After 1 had been there about Ten or Twelve Days,
it came intdiny Thoughts, that I fhould loie my Rec-
koning of Time for want of Books, and Pen and Ink,
and lhould even forget the Sabbath Days from the wor-
king Days: But to prevent this, I cut it with-my Knife
upon a large Poft, in Capital Letters, apd making it
into a great Crols, I fet it up on the Shore where I hilt
landed, vi{. J catrn on Sb:re here the ^oth of Sept. 1659.
L'pon the Sides of this fquare Poft:, I cut every Day a
Notch with my Knife, and every feventh Notch was
as long again as the reft, and every firft Day of the
JVlonth as long again as that long one; and thus I kept
my Kalendar, or weekly, monthly, and yearly Reckon-
ing of Time.
In the next place we are to obferve, that among the
many things which I brought off the Ship in the ieve-
ral Voyages, which, as abovemention'd, I made to it, I
got feveral things of leis value, but not at all lefs ufe-
lul to me, which I omitted letting down before; as in
particular, Pens, Ink, and Paper, ieveral Parcels in the
Captain's, Mate's, Gunner's, and Carpenter's keeping,
three or four Companies, lb me Mathematical Intern-
ments,, Dials, Perfpe&tves, Charts, and Books of Na-
vigation, all which I huddled together, whether I might
want them or no ; alfo I found three very good Bibles,
which came to me in my Cargo from England, and
which I had pack'd up among my things; fome Portu-
guese Books alio, and among them two or three Pepifh
Prayer-Books, and feveral other Books, all which I care*
fully fecur'd. And I mud not forget that we had in
the Ship a Dog and two Cats, of whofe eminent Hifto-
ry I may have occafion to fay fomething in its Place;
ior I carried both the Cats with me; and as for the
Dog, he jump'd out of the Ship of himfel£ and fwam
on Shore to me the Day after I went on Shore with my
firft. Cargo, and was a trufty Servant to me many
Years: 1 wanted nothing that he could fetch me, nor
any
(*o
any Company that he could make up to me; I on!/
wanted to have him talk to me, but that would nor
do. As I obierv'd before, I found Pen, Ink and Paper,
and I husbanded them to the utmoft \ and I {hall ihew,
that while my Ink lalled, I kept things very exa& ; but
after that was gone, I.could not \ for i could not make
any Ink, by any Means that I could devile.
And this put me in mind that I wanted many things,
notwithftanding all that I had amafVd together ; and of
thele, this of Ink was one, as alfo a Spade, Pick-Axe and
Shovel, to dig or remove the Earth ; Needles, Pins and
Thread ; as for Linnen I foon learn*d to want that with-
out much Difficulty.
This Want of Tools made every Work I did go on
heavily, and it was near a whole Year before I had en-
tirely finiflied my little Pale, or furrounded Habita-
tion : The Piles, or Stakes, which were as heavy as I
could well lift, were a long time in cutting and pre-
paring in the WTcods, and more by tar in bringing
home; (a that I fpent fometimes two Days in «*utting
and bringing home one of thoie Polls, and a third Day
in driving it into the Gtound ; for which purpofe f
got a heavy Piece of W7ood at firfl:, but at laft bethought
iny felf of one of tfie Iron CroWs, which however, tho'
I found it, yet it made driving thofe Polls or Piles very
laborious and tedious Work.
But what need 1 ha* been concerned at theTediouf-
nefs of any thing I had to do, feeing I had time enough
to do it in; nor had I any other Employment if that
had been over, at leaffc, that I could forelee, except the
ranging the Ifland to feek for Food, which I did more
or lefs every Day. ^
I now began to conflder ferioufly my Condition, and
the Circumllance I was reducM to ; and I drew up the
State of my Affairs in Writing; not fo much to leave
them to any that were to come after me, for I was like
to have but few Heirs, as to deliver my Thoughts from
daily poring upon them, and affti&ing my Mini *, and
as my Reafon began now to matter'my Difpondency,
I began to comfort my felf as well as I could, and ih
fet the Good againft the Evil, that I might have fome-
thing to (MinguifU my Cafe from worfo-j andT ftated
it
CO
it very impartially, like Debtor and Creditor, the Com-
forts I enjoy'd, againft the Miferies I fufFer'd, thus;
EVIL. GOOD.
/ am cafl upon a horrible But I am alive, and not
defolate ifland, void of fill drown d, as all my Ships
Hope of Recovery. Company V)as*
1 am fingled cut and ft- But 1 am Jingled out to*
parated, as it were, frvm from all t,be Ship's Crev> to
all the Wtfld to be mzfera- be fpared from Pe&th ^ and
bh* be that mhaculoufly faved
me from Death, can deliver
me from this Condition.
lam divided from Man- But I am not flarvyd and
kind, a Solitahy, one ba- perijhing on a barren Place*
wjlfdfrom human Society, affording no Suftenance.
I have no Cloaihs to cover But I am in a htt C//-
we* mate,where if I had Cloaihs,
I could hardly wear them*
I am without any Ve- But I am cafl en an Ifland
fence or Means to refift any where 1 fee no wild Beafls
Violence of Man or Be aft. to hurt me, as J jaw on ths
Coaft of Africa: And,hwhat
if I had been Shipwr&Kd
there ?
I have no Soul to fpeak.toi But God wonderfully fent
ej relieve me* theShip in near encugh to tht
Shore, that 1 have gotten out
fo many neceffary Shims a$
wiB either fupply my Wants,
or enable <me to fitpfily my»
felf even as long asX live* •
Upon the whole, here was an undoubted TeftimoJ
nyr that there was fcarce any Condition in the World
fo miferable, but there was Something negative or fonie-
thing pcfittiie,to: be.thankful for in it.; and detvthis ftmd
i as
as a Dlre&ion from the Experience of the moft-miferable
of all Conditions in this World, that we may always
find in it fomething to comfort ourtelvcs from, and to
ict in the Description of Good and Evil, on the Credit
fide or'the Account.
Having now brought my Mind a little to relifh my
Condition, and given over looking out to Sea, to fee if
I could fpy a Ship ; I fay, giving over thefe Things, I
began to apply myfelf to accommodate my way ol Liv-
ing, and to make things as eafy to me as 1 could.
I have already defcribed my Habitation, which was
a Tent under the fide of a Rock, furrounded with a
ftrong Pale of Polls and Cables, but I might now ra-
ther call it a Wall *, for I raifed a kind of Wall up againft
it of Turfs, about two Foot thick on the Outlide ; and
after fome time, ( I think it was a Year and half) I
raifed Rafters from it, leaning to the Rock, and thatch'd
or covered it with Boughs of Trees, and fuch things as
I could get, to keep out the Rain, which I found at
fome times of the Year very violent.
I have already obferv'd how I brought all my
Goods into this Pale, and into the Cave which I had
made behind me : But I mult ohferve too, that at firll
this was a confuted Heap of Goods, which as they lay
in no Order, fo they took up all my Place, I had no
room to turn myielf; fo I fet myfelf to enlarge my Cave,
and work'd farther into the Earth', for it was a loofe
fandy Rock, which yielded eafily to the Labour I be-
ftowed on it: And fo when I found I was pretty fafe
as to Beads of Prey, I work'd fxdeways to the Right
Hand into the Rock ; and then turning to the Right a-
gain, workVI quite out, and made me Door to com$
out on the Outiide of my Pale or Fortification.
This gave me not only Egrefs and Regrefs, as At were
a Back-Way to my Tent, and to my Store-houfe, but
gave me-room to How my Goods.
And now I began to apply myfelf to make fuch ne-
ceiTary things as L found I moft wanted, particularly a
Chair and a Table ; for without thefe I was not able to
enjoy the few Comforts I had in the World ; I could
not write or eat, or feveral things, with ib much Plea-
fure without>a Tabic,
So
So T went to work: and here I nittft needs obferve,
that as Reafon is the Subftance and Original of the Ma-
thematicks, fo by dating and fquaring every thing by
Reafon, and by making the molb rational Judgment of
things, every Man may be in time, Mailer of every Me-
chanick Art. I had never handled a Tool in my Lite,
and yet in time, by Labour, Application and Contriv-
ance, I found at laft that I waited nothing but I cculd
have made it, efpecially if I had had Tools; however,
I made abundance of things even without Tools, and
fome with no more Tools than an Adz and a Hatchet,
which perhaps were never made that way before, and
that with infinite Labour. For Example, If I wanted
a Board, I had no other way but to cut down a Tree,
fet it on an edge before me, and hew it flat on either
Side with my Axe, till I had brought it to be as thin
as a Plank, and then dubb it fmooth with my Adz :
It is true, by this Method I could make but one Board
out of a whole Tree, but this I had no Remedy for but
Patience, any more than I had for the prodigious deal
of Time and Labour which it took me up to make a
Plank or Board: But my, Time or Labour was little
worth, and fo it was as well employ'd one way as a-
nether.
However, I made me a Table and a Chair, as I ob-
ferv'd above, in the firft Place, and this 1 did out ot
the fhort Pieces of Boards that I brought on my Raft
from the Ship : But when I had wrought out fome
Boards, as above, I made large Shelves of the breadth
of a Foot and a half, one over another, all along one
fide of my Cave, to lay all my Tools, Nails and Iron-
work, and in a Word, to feparate every thing at large
in their Places, that 1 might eafily come at them ; alio
i knock'd Pieces into the Wall of the Rock to bang my
Guns, and all things that would, hang up*
So that had my Cave been to be feen, it looked like a
general Magazine of all necefTary things; and I had
every thing fo ready at my Hand, that it was- a great
Pleaiure to me to fee all my Goods in fuch Order, and
efpecially to find my Stock of all Neceflaries fo great.
And now it was when I began to keep a Journal of
every Day's Employment, for indeed at fir.ft I was in
too
too much Hurry, and not only a Hurry as to Labour,
but in too much Difcompofure of' Mind, and my Jour-
nal would ha' been Full of many dull things. For Ex-
ample, I mud have {aid thus: Se\t. the 30th. After I
got to Shore, and had efcap'd drowning, inftead of be-
ing thankful to God for my Deliverance, having firffc
vomited, with the great Quantity of fait Water which
was gotten into my Stomach, and recovering my felt a
little, I ran about the Shore, wringing my Hands and
beating my Head and Face, exclaiming at my Mifery,
and crying out, I was undone, undone, till rir'd and faint,
I was forc'd to lye down on the Ground to Repofe, but
durft not deep, for fear of being devoured.
Some Days after this and after I had been on board
the Ship, and had got all I could out of her, yet I could
not forbear getting up to the Top of a little Mountain,
and looking out to Sea, in hopes of feeing a Ship, then
fancy at a vaft: Diftance I fpy'd a Sail, pleafe my felf
with the Hopes of it, and then after looking fteadily till
1 was almoil blind, loie it quite, and fit down and weep
like a Child, and thus encreafe my Mifery by my Folly,
But having gotten over thefe thingt in fome mea-
fure, and having fettled my Houfhold Stuff and Ha-
bitation, made me » Table and a Chair, and all as
handfome about me as! could, I began, lfayy to keep my
Journal, of which I fhall here give you the Copy,
(tho' in it will be told all thefe Particulars over again)
as long as it latted ; for at laft having no more Ink,
I was forced to leave it off.
®«»©«®®@®®»®®«®®$®«®»®
The Journal
Eptember 36, i6«$o. T, poor miferable R?.
brnfcn Crujocy being fhipwreck'd, during a
dreadful Stornyn the Ojfingy came on Shore
on this difmal unfortunate Ifland, which I
call'd the Jfland of Defpair> all the reft of
the Ship's Company feeing drown'd, and my felf al-
moft dead.
 All the reft of the Day I fpent in affli&ing my felf at
the difmal Circumftances I was brought to, vi$. I had
Neither Food, Houfe, Cloaths, Weapon, or Place to
fly to, and in Defpair of any Relief, law nothing but
Death before me, either that I ihould be devour'd by
wild Beafb, murder'd by Savages, or ftarv'd to Death
for want of Food. At the Approach of Night, I flept
in a Tree for fear of wild Creatures, but flept found-
ly, tho5 it rain'd all Night.
Otfcber i. In the Morning I faw, to my great Sur-
prize, the Ship had floated with the high Tide, and
was driven on Shore again much nearer the I Hand,
which, as it was ibme Comfort on one hand (for fee-
ing her fit upright, and not broken to pieces, I hoped,
if the Wind abated, I might get on board, and get fome.
Food and NecefTaries out of her for my Relief} f° on
the other hand, itrenew'd my Grief at the Lofs of my
Comrades, who, I imagined, if we had all {laid on
board, might have faved the Ship, or at leaft that they
would not have been all drowned, as they were; and
that had the Men been faved, we might perhaps have
built us a Boat out of the Ruins of the Ship, to have
carried us to fome other Part of the World. I fpent
great Part of this Day in perplexing my felf on thefe
things 5 but at length feeing the Ship almoft "dry, I
went upon the Sand as near as I coul4? and then fwam
on board : This Day alfo continued raining, tho' with
no Wind at all.
From the ift ofOZober to the 24th. All thefe Days
entirely fpent in many feveral Voyages to get all I could
out of the Ship, which I brought on Shore every Tide
of Flood upon Rafts. Much Rain alfo in thefe Days,
tho' with fome Intervals of fair Weather : But, it feem%
this was the rainy Seafon.
OR. 2C. I overfet my Raft, and all the Goods I had
got upon it; but being in ihoal Water, and the things
being chiefly heavy, 1 recover'd many of them when
the Tide was out.
Oil. 25. It rain'd all Night .and all Day, with fome
Gufts of Wind, during which Time the Ship broke in
Pieces, the Wind blowing a little harder than before,:
and was no more to be feen, except the Wreck of her,
and
and that only at low Water. I fpent this Day in co-
vering and fecuring the Goods which I bad faved, that
the Rain might not ipoil them.
Oct. 26. I walk'd about the Shore alrnoft all Day to
find out a Place to fix my Habitation, greatly concern 54
to fecure my felf from any Attach in the Night, cither
from wild Beads or Men. Towards Night i fix'd upon
a proper Place undef a Rock, and mark'd out a Semi-
Circle for my Encampment, which I refolv'd to
ftrengthen with a Work, Wall, or Fortification, made
of double Piles, lined within with Cable, and without
with Turf. *
From the 2<5th to the 30th, I work'd very hard in
carrying all my Goods to my new Habitation, though
fbme Part of the Tinje it rain'd exceeding hard.
The 31ft in t.he>Iorning I went out into the I (land
with my Gun to feefrbr fome Food, and difcover the
Country, wben^I ktfPd a She-Goat, and her Kid fol-
lowed me Home/which I afterwards kilFd alfo, becaule
it would not feed.
November 1. I let up my Tent under a Rock, and lay
fchere for the firft Night, -making it as large as I could
with Stakes driven in to fwing my Hammock upon*
Ntv. 2. I fet up all my Chefts and Boards, and the
Pieces of Timber which made my Rails, and with them
form'd a Fence round me, a little within the Place I
had mark'd out for my Fortification.
Nov. 3. I went out with my Gun, and kilFd two
Fowls like Ducks, which were very good Food. In the
Afternoon went to work to make me a Tabic.
Ncv. 4. This Morning I began to order my Times
of Work, of going but with my Gun, Time of Sleep,
-and Time of Diverfion, vi%. Every Morning I walk'd
cut with my Gun for two or three Hours, if it did not
rain, then employ'd my felf to work till about eleven
a Clock, then eat what I had to live on, and from
twelve to two I lay down to fleep, the Weather being
exceffive hot, and then in the Evening to work,again :
The working Part of this Day and the ne^t were whol-
ly employed in making my Table, for J was yet but a
very ibrry Workman, thoJ Time and NeceiTity made
me
me a compleat natural Mechanick foon after, as I believe
it would do any one elfe.
Nov, <5. This Day I went abroad with my Gun and
my Dog, and kill'd a wild Cat, her Skin pretty foft,
but her Flelh good for nothing: Every Creature I kill'd,
I took off the Skins and* prefer v'd them. Coming
back by the Sea Shore, I law many Sorts of Sea-Fowls
which I did not understand ; but was fur prized, and al-
moft frighted with two or three^ Seals, which, while
I was gazing at, not well knowinsQvhat they were, got
into the Sea, and efcaped me forffiat time.
Njv. 6. After my Morning WafSp I went to Work
with my Table again, and finiiheS^it," tho' not to my
Liking \ nor was it long before 14l9«&$&to mend it.
Nov. 7. Now it began to bej^^yi fair Weather.
The 7th, 8th, 9th, 10th, and PS^^tn^ath (for the
nth was Sunday, according to rre&^eckj^jLng) I took
wholly up to make me a Chair, ^d^l^fejriuch ado
brought it to a tolerable Shape, but never t*3$leafe me ;
and even in the Making I pull'd it to Pieces feveral
times. Ncte, I foon neglefted my keeping Sunday ; for
omitting my Mark for them on my Poft, I forgot which
Wi$ which.
NW^.13. This Day it rained, which refrefhed me
exceedingly, and cooled the Earth, but it was accompa-
ny'dwith terrible Thunder and Lightning, which fright-
ed me dreadfully, for fear of my Powder : As foon as
it was over, I refolved to feparate my Stock of Powder
into as many little Parcels as poffible, that it might not
be in Danger.
Nov, 14, 1 £, 16. Thefe three Days I fpent in making
little fquare Cherts or Boxes, which might hold about
A Pound, or two Pound, at mod, of Powder; and fo
putting the Powder in, I (lowed it in Places as fecure
and remote from one another as poflible. On one of
thefe three Days I kilfd a large Bird that was good to
eat, but I knew not what to call it.
Nov. 17. This Day I began to dig behind my Tent
into the Rock, to make room for my farther Conveni-
ency. AW, Three Things I wanted exceedingly far
this Work, vr^. a Pick-axe, a Shovel, and a Wheel-
barrow or Basket, fo I defifted from my Work, and be-
gan
gm to confider how to Supply that Want, and make me
jbme Tools. As for a Pick-axe, I made ufe of the I-
ron Crows, which were proper enough, tho' heavy;
but the next Thing was a Shovel or Spade ; this was Co
absolutely neceflary, that indeed 1 could do nothing,ef-
fe&ually without it; but what kind of one to make I
knew not.
Nov. 18. The next Day in Searching the Woods, I
found a Tree of that Wood, or like it, which in the Bra-
fds they call the Inn Tree, for its exceeding Hardnels *r
of this, with great Labour, and almoft Spoiling my Jxy
I cut a Piece, and brought it Home too with Difficul-
ty enough, tor it was exceeding heavy.
Theexceifive Hardnefs of the Wood, and having no
other Way, made me a long while upon this Machine,
for I work'd it effectually, by little and little, into the
Form of a Shovel or Spade, the Handle exa&ly ihap'd
like ours in England^ only that the broad Part having
no Iron fhod upon it at Bottom, it would not laft me
fo long \ however it ferv*d well enough for the UTes
which I had Occafion to put it to ; but never was a
Shovel,. I believe, made alter that Faihion, or fo long
a making.
I was itill deficient, for T wanted a Basket or a Wheel-
barrow ; a Basket I could not make by any means, ha-
ving no fuch Things as Twigs that would bend to make
Wicker Ware, at lead none yet found out; and as to
the Wheel-barrow, I fancy'd I could make all but the
Wheel, but that I had no Notion of, neither did £
know how to go about it; befides, i had no poitible
Way to make Iron Gudgeons for the Spindle or Axis of
theWheel to run in, \o l gave it_over; and fo for cai tying
away the Earth which I dug out of the Cave, I made
me a thing like a Hoad which the Labourers carry Mor-
tar in when they ferve the Brick-la) ers.
Tins was not fo difficult to me as the making the
Shovel y and yet this, and the Shovel, and the Attempt,
which I made in vain, to make a Wheel-barrow, took
,me up no lefs than four Days ; I mean always, except*
ing my Mornings Walk with my Gun, which I Seldom
faiTd, and very Seldom fail'd alfo of bringing home
ibmething fit to eat.
Nov. 23. My other Work haying now flood ftill, be.
caufe of my making thefe Tools \ when they were finifb-
ed, I went on \ and working every Day, as my Strength
and Time allow'd, I fpent eighteen Days entirely in
widening and deepening my Cave, that it might hold
my Goods commodioufly.
Nitey During all this Time, T work'd to make this
Room or Cave Ipacious enough to accommodate me as a
Ware-houfe or Magazine, a Kitchen, a Dining-room,
and a Cellar ; as for a Lodging, I kept to the Tent, ex-
cept that ibmetimes in the wet Seaibn of the Year, it
rain'd fo hard that I could not keep my felf dry, which
caus'd me afterwards to cover all my Place within my
Pale with long Poles in the form of Rafters, leaning a-
gainfh the Rock, and load them with Flags, and large
Leaves of Trees like a Thatch.
December 10. i began now to think my Cave or Vault
iiniihed, when on a iuadain (it ieems I had made it too
large) a great Quantity of Earth fell down from the
Top and one Side, io much, that in fhort it frighted me,
and not without Keaion too., for if! had been undeV it,
I had never wanted a Grave-digger : Upon this Diialler
I had a great deal ot Work to do over again ; for I had
the looie Earth to carry out, and, which was of more
Importance, 1 had the Cieling to prop up, fo that I
might be jure no more would come down.
Dec. 11. This Day I went to work with it accord-
ingly, and got two Shears, or Pods pitch'd upright to
the Top, with two Pieces of Boards a-cro(s over each
Pofl;: This I finihVd the next Day \ and letting more
Pofls up with Boards* in about a Week more I had the
Rooffecured; and the Polls Handing in Rows, ferved
me for Partitions to part off my Houle.
Dec. 17. From this Day to the 20th,T placed Shelves,
and knock'd up Nails on the Pofls to hang every thing
up that could be hung up, and now I began to be in
fome Order within Doors.
Dec 20. Now I carried every thing into the Cave,
and began toTurnifh my Houfe, and fet up fome Pieees-
of Boards like a DrefTer, to order my Visuals upon ^
but Boards began to be very fearce with me: Alfo I
made me another Table.
Dec. 24%
Dec. 24. Much Rain all Night and all Day; no (tix*
ring cut.
Dec. 25. Rain all. Day.
Dec. 26. No Rain, and the Earth much cooler than
before, arid pleafanter.
Dec 27. Kill*d a young Goat, and lanfd another,
fo that I catch'd it, and led it Home in a String ; when
I had it Home, I bound and fplinter'd up its Leg which
was broke. N~. B. I took fuch care of it that ir lived,
and the Leg grew well, and as ftrong as ever ; but by
nurfing it fo long it grew tame, and fed upon the little
Green at my Door, and would not go away. This
was the firft time that lentertained a Thought of breed-
ing up Come tame Creatures, that I might have Food
when my Powder and Shot was all fpent.
Dec. 28, 29, 3c. Great Heats arid no Breeie; fo that
there was no ftirring abroad, except in the Evening for
Food : This Time 1 fpent in putting all rny Things in
Order within Doors.
January 1. Very hot ftill, but I went abroad early
and late with my Gun, and lay flill in the middle of
the Day : This Evening going farther into the Valleys,
which lay towards the Center of the Ifland, I found
ihire was plenty of Goats, tho' exceeding fhie and hard
to come at > however, I refolv'd to try if I could not
bring my Dog to hunt them down.
Jan. 2. Accordingly, the next Day 1 went out with
tny Dog, and fet him upon the Goats *, but i was milt a-
ken, for they all faced about upon the Dog, and he
knew his Danger too well, for he would not come near
them.
*Jan. 3* I hegan my Fence or Wall, which, being ftiH
jealous of my being attack5 d by fnme Body, I reibly'd to
to make very thick and ilrong.
N. B, This Wall being described before, J purpefety
omit what was faid in the Journal : it isfujicrent
to obfefve, that I was no lefs Time tha'n from the
^dof Januarys? the 14th of April, working, finijk-
ing and perfecting this Wall, th<? it was no mere
than about 24 Tards in length, being a half Circle
from one Place in the Rock to another Place aboztt
eight
eight Tards from it> the Doer of'tbs Cave being in
the" Center behind it.
All this time I workM very hard, the Rains hinder-
ing me many Days, nay, fometimes Weeks together ;
but i thought I fhould never be perfe&ly fecure till this
Wall was hninYd ; and it is fcarce credible what inex-
prefTible Labour every thing was done with, efpecially
the bringing Files out of the Woods, and driving them
into the Ground j for I made them much bigger than I
needed to have done.
When this Wall was finifli'd, and the Outfide double
fenced with a Turf-Wall railed up clofe to it, I per.
{waded my lei f, that if any People were come on ihore
there, they would not perceive any thing like a Habi-
tation : And it was very well I did fo, as may^be ob-
ferv'd hereafter, upon a very remarkable Occailon.
During this time, I made my Rounds in the Woods
for Game every Day when the Rain admitted me, and
made frequent Difcoveries in thefe Walks of fomething
or other to my Advantage ; particularly I found a kind
of wild Pidgeons, who built not as Wood-Pidgeons in
a Tree, but rather as Houie-Pidgeons, in the Holes of *
the Rocks •, and taking fome young ones, I endeavoured
to breed them up tame, and did fo \ but when they
grew older, they flew all away, which perhaps was at
firft want of feeding them, for I had nothing to give
them j however X frequently found their Neds, and got
their young ones, which were very good Meat.
And now in the managing my Houfhold Affairs, I
found my felf wanting in many things, which I thought
at flrft it was impoffible for me to make, as indeed as
to fome of them it was : For inflame, I could never
make a Cask to be hoop'd •, 1 had a fmall Runlet or
two, as I obfenfd be fere, but I could never arrive to the
Capacity of making one by them, tho' I fpent many
Weeks about it •, I could neither put in the Heads, or
join the Staves fo true to one another, as to make them
hold Water; fo I gave that alfo over.
In th* next Place, I was at a great lofs for Candle ;
fo that as foon as ever it was dark, which was generally
t>y Seven o5 Clocks I was obliged to go to Bed. I re-
member*
member Jd the Lump of Bees-Wax, with which I made-
Candles in my African Adventure \ but I had none of
that now : The only Remedy I had, was., that when t
had kill'd a Goat, 1 fared the Tallow, and with a little
Difh. made of Clay, which I baked in the Sun, to
which I added a Wjtck of fome Oakum, I made me a
Lamp; and this ga^e me Light, tho' not a clear ftea-
dy Light like a Candle. In the middle of all my La-
bours it happened, that rummaging my Things, I ibunl
a little Bag, which*' as I hinted before, had been fill'd
with Corn for the feeding of Poultry, not for this Voy-
age, but before, as I fuppofe, when the Ship came from
Lisbon ; what little Remainder of Corn had been in the
Bag, was all devoured with the Rats, and I Jaw nothing
in the Bag but Husks and Dull ; and being wil-
ling to hare the Bag for fome other Ufe, (I think k
was to put Powder in, when I divided it for fear of
the Lightening, or fome fuch Ufe,) I iliook the Husks
of Corn out of it on one fide of my Fortification unde r
the Rock.
It was a little before the great Rains, juft now men-
tioned, that I threw this Stuff a way, taking no Notice
of any thing, and not fo much as remembring that I
had thrown any thing there ; when about a Month al-
ter, or thereabouts, I faw foinc few Stalks of fonitthing
green fhooting out of the Ground, which I fancied
might be fome Plant I had not leen; but I was fur-
prized and perfe&ly aflonifh'd, when after a little lon-
ger time I faw about ten or twelve Ears come out, which
were perfe& green Barley of the fame Kind as our Euro-
pean, nay, as our E?iglijb Barley.
It is impoHible to exprefs the Aftonifhment and Con-
fufion of my Thoughts on this Occafion ; I had hi-
therto a&ed upon no religious Foundation at all ; in-
deed I had very few Notions of Religion in my Head,
nor had entertained any Senle of any Thing that had
befallen me, otherwife than as a Chance, or, as we
lightly fay, what pleafes God; without fo much as en-
quiring into the End of Providence in thefe Things,
or his Order in governing Events in the World ; But
after I faw Barley grow there, in a Climate which I
knew was not proper for Corn, and efpecially that I
E knew
knew not how it came there, it ftartled me ftrangly, and
I began to fuggeft, that God had miraculoufly caus'd
this Grain to grow without any Help of* Seed fown, and
tli at it was fo directed purely for my Suftenance in that
.wild miferable Mace.
This touchM my Heart a little, and brought Tears
out of my Eyes, and I began to blefs my felf, that fuch
a Prodigy or Nature Uiould happen upon mv Account;
and this was the more Change to me, hecaule I faw near
it ftill, all along by the Side of the Rock, forue other
Ilraggling Stalks, which prov'd to be Stalks of Rice,
ard which 1 knew, becaule I had feen it grow in Africa
.when I was afhore there.
I not only thought thefe the pure Produ&ions of
Providence for my Support, but not doubting, but that
there was more in the Place, I went all over that Part
•ofthelQand, where 1 had been before, peering in eve-
ry Corner, and'under every Rock, to fee for more of it,
"hut I could not find any; at laft it occur'd to my
Thoughts, that I had fhouk the Bag of' Chickens Meat
cut, in that Place, and then the Wonder began to ceafe ;
and I mud confefs, my religious Thankfulnefs to God*s
Providence began to abate too> upon the difcovering that
all this was nothing but what was common j tho* i ou^ht
to have been as thankful tor fo (Irange and unforeseen
Providence, as if it had been miraculous ; for it was
' really the Work of Providence as to me, that fhould or-
der or appoint, that io or 12 Grains of Corn fhould re-
iniain unipoifd (when the Rats had deftroy'd all the
xeil) as'it'it had been dropt from Heaven : As alio that
I fhould throw it out in that particular Place where,
it being in the Shade of a high Rock, it fprang up im-
mediately \ whereas, if I had thrown it any where elfe
.at that Time, it had been burnt up and deftroy'd.
I carefully favM the Ears of this Corn, you may be
fure in their Seafon, which was about the End o^jum^
and laying up every Corn, I refolv'd to fow them all
again, hoping in Time to have fome Quantity fufficient
Co flip ply me with Bread j but it was not till the 4th
Year that I could allow my felf the lead Grain of this
<Cornto eat, and even then but iparingly, aslfhallfay
Afterwards in its Order; ior I loft all that I fow'd the
fafl:
{Srfi Seafon, not by not obferving the proper Time^-for
I fow*d it juft before the dry Seafon, to that it never
came up at all, at leaft, not as it would have done; Qt
which in its Place. m
Befides this Barley, there was, as abwe, 20or3O
Stalks of Rice, which 1 preferv'd with the fame Care, ami
whole Ufe was of the fame Kind, or to the fame Pur-
pole, (yi\.) to make me Bread, or rather Food ; for F
ibund- W ays to cook it up without baking, tho' I did
that alfo alter fame Time. But to return to my Jour-
nal.
I work'd exceflive hard this three or four Months, to
get my Wall done ; and the 14th of April I clofed it up,
contriving to go into it, not by a Door, but over a Wall
by a Ladder, that there might be no Sign on the Outilde
oimy Habitation.
April 16. I finifb/d the Ladder, fo I went up with
the Ladder to the Top, and then pulPd it up after me,
and let it down on the Infide : 1 his was a compleat
Encloiure to me; for within I load room enough, and
nothing cuuld come at me from without, unlefs it could
iirfl inuunt my Wall,
The very next Day after this W7all was finiih'dL, I had
almoft had all my Labour overthrown at once, and my
felf kill'd ; the Cafe was thus : As I was buiy in the
Infide oi' it, behind my Tent, jufl in the Entrance in-
to my Cave, I was terribly frighted with a moil dread-
ful furprmng thing indeed ; for all on a Hidden I found
the Earth came tumbling down from the Roof at iny
Cave, *nd from the Edge of the Hill over my Stead,
and two of the Poits i had let up in the Cave, crack'd
in a frightful manner ; 1 was heartily feared, but thought
nothing of what really was the Caufe ; only thinking
that the Top of my Cave was falling in, as fome of it
-had done before ; and for fear I ihould be buried in it,
I ran^forward to my Ladder, and not thinking my felf
iafe there neither, I got over my Wall for fear of the
Pieces of the Hill which I expe&ed might roll down up*
on me I was no fooner llept down upon the firm
Ground, but 1 plainly law it was a terrible Earthquake,
for the Ground I flood on (hook three Timts, at about
•eight Minutes Dittance, with three fuch Shocks as
£ 2 would
would have overturned the ftrongefl: Building that
could be luppofed to have flood on the Earth ; and a
great Piece of the Top of a Rock, which flood about
half a Mile from me jjext the Sea, fell down with fuch
a terrible Noife, as I never heard in all my Life. I
perceived alfo, the very Sea was put into a violent Mo-
tion by it*, and I believe the Shocks were ftronger under
the Vv ater than on the I (land.
I was fo amaz'd with the Thing it felf, having never
felt the like, or diicours'd with any one that had, that
I was like one dead or flupified j and the Motion of
the Earth made my Stomack fick, like one that was
tois'd at Sea ; but the Noife of the falling of the Rock
awaked me, as it were, and rouiing me from the ftu-
pified Condition I was in, fill'd me with Horror, and
I thought of nothing then but the Hill falling upon my
Tent, and all my Houfhold-Goods, and burying all at
once '-, and this funk my very Soul within me a fecond
time.
After the third Shock was over, and I felt no more
for fome Time, I began to take Courage, and yet I had
not Heart enough to get over my Wall again, for fear
of being buried alive, but fat ftill upon the Ground,
greatly call down and difconlblate, not knowing what
to do: All this while I had not the leaft ierious reli-
gious Thought, nothing but the common, Zcrd h<£
Mercy up en mc j and when it was over, that went away
too.
While I fat thus, T found the Air over-cart, and it grew
cloudy, as it it would rain; and in lefs than half an Hour
it blew a moil dreadful Hurricane of Wind ; The Sea
all on a hidden cover'd with Foam and Froth, the
Shore was cover'd with the Breach of the Water, the
Trees were torn up by the Roots, and a terrible Storm
it was ; and this held about three Hours, and then be-
gan to abate, and then in two Hours more it was calm,
and began to rain very hard.
All this while I fat upon the Ground very much ter-
rified and deje&ed, when on a fudden it came into my
Thoughts, that thele Winds and Rain being the #Con-
sequence of the Earthquake, the Earthquake it felf
was Jpent and over, and I might venture into my Cave
again.
again : With this Thought my Spirits began to revive,
and the Rain helping alio to perfwade me, I went in
and iat down in my Tent; but the Rain was lb vio-
lent, that my Tent was ready to be beaten down,
with it, and I was forced to go into my Cave, tho'
Very much afraid and uneafy, for fear it lliould fall on
my Head.
This violent Rain forced me to a new Work, vi%. to
cut a Hole thro* my new Fortification like a Sink to let
the Water go out, which would elfe have drown'd my
Care. After £ had been in my Cave fome time, and
found ftill no more Shocks of the Earthquake follow, I
began to be more compoied •, and now, to fupport my
Spirits, which indeed wanted it very much, t went to
my little Store, and took a fmall Sup of Rum, which
however I did then and always very fparingly, know-
ing I could have no more when that was gone.
It continued raining all that Night, and great part
of the next Day, lb that I could not ftir abroad; but
my Mind being more compoied, I began to think of
what I had belt do, concluding, that if the Ifland was
iUbjecl to thefe Earthquakes, there would be no living
for me in a Cave, but I muft conilder of building me
fome little Hut in an open Place, which I might fur-
round with a Wall, as I had done here, and fo make
my felf fecure from wild Beafts or Men; but concluded,
if I ilaid where I was, I fhould certainly, one time or
other, be buried alive.
With thefe Thoughts I refolv'd to remove myl*ent
from'.the Place where, it flood, which was juft under
the hanging Precipice of the Hill, and which, if it
fhould be fhaken again, would certainly fall upon my
Tent: And I fpent the two next Days, being the 19th
ajid 20th ofjfyrtiy in contriving where and how to re-
move my Habitation.
The Fear of being fwallow'd up alive, made me, that
I never ilept in quiet; and yet the Apprehenfion of
lying abroad without any Fence, was almoft equal to
it: But ftill, when I look'd about, and law how every
thing was put in Order, how pleafantly conceaPd I
waajfeand how fafe from Danger, it made me very loth
to remove.
E 3 In
In the mean time ft occurr'd to me, that it would
require a vaft deal oi Time for me to do this, and that
I mull he contested to run the YenttLre where I was,
till I had form'd a Camp for my felf, and had fecured
It fo as to remove to it: So with this Refolurion I com-
poled my felf for a Time, andrefolrd that I would go
to work with all fpeed to build me a Wall with Piles
and Cables, £5r. in a Circle, as before, and let my Tent
ttp in it when it was fmifli'd, but that I would venture
to flay where 1 was, till it was finiih'd and iit to re-
move to* This was the 21 ft.
April ii* The next Morning I began to coniider of
Means to put tl-isRefoive in execution; -butJ was at
a great Lois about my Tools: I had three large Axes,
and abundance of Hatchets, ( for we carried the Hat-
chets for Traffic with the Indians) but with much chop-
ping and cutting knotty hard Wood, they were all full
of Notches, and dull; and tho' I bad a Grind ftone, £
could not turn it and grind my Tools toe; This coik
me as much Thought as a Slatefman would have be-
•ftow'd upon a grand Point of Politicks, or a Judge
upon the Life and Death of a Man. At length I con-
trived a W heel with a String, to turn it with my Foot,
that i might have both my Hands at Liberty. Ntfe±
I had not ieen any fitch Thalfe in England, or It lead
not to take Notice how it was done, tho* iince t have
©bferved, it is very common there ^ besides that, my
Grindftone was very large and heavy. This Machine
coft we a full Week's Work, to hring it to Perfection.
April 2%, 29. Thefe two whole Days T took up-in
grinding my Tools, my Machine for turning my Grind-
ftone performing very well.
April 30. Having perceived my Bread had been low
 a great while, I now took a Survey of it, and reduced
my felf to one Bisket-cake a Day, which made my Hea^t
very heavy.
May 1. Fn the Morning looking towards the Sea^
fide, the Tide being low, i law fomething lie on the
Shore bigger than ordinary, and it look'dlike a Cask 5
when I came to it, I found a fmall Barrel, and two or
three Pieces of the -Wreck of the ^Sliip, which #ere
driven on Shore by the late Hurricane, and looking to-
. wards
wards the Wreck it felf, I thought it Teemed to lie-
higher out of the Water than it uied to do > I examined
the Barrel which was driven on Shore, and ibon found
it was a Barrel of Gun-powder, but it had taken Wa-
ter, and the Powder was caked as hard as a Stone s
However, I roiled it iartber on Shore for the preient,
and went on upon the Sands, as near as I could to the
Wreck of the 5hip, to look ior more.
When I came down to the Ship,. I found it ftrange-
ly removed .• The Forecaftle, which lay before buried
in Sand, was heaved up at leaft fix Foot,' and the Stern*
which was broke to-pieces, and parted from the reft by
the Force of the Sea, foon after I had left rummaging
*)f her, was tofs'd as it were up, and call on one : ide,
and the Sand was thrown Co high on that Side next the
Stern, th<n whereas there was a great Place of Water be-
fore, fo that I could not come within a Quarter of a
Mile of the Wreck without fwimming, I could now
•walk quite up to her when the Tide was out. 1 was
furprized with this at iirft, but foon concluded it mud
be done by the Earthquake; and as by this Violence the
Ship was more broken open than formerly, fo many
things came daily on Shore which the Sea had loofen'd>
and which the Winds and Water rolled by degrees to
the land. &
This wholly diverted my Thoughts from the Defign
of removing my Habitation j and I buiied my ielf
mightily that Day efpecially, in fearching whether I
could make any way into the Ship, but I found nothing
was to beexpe&ed of that kind, for that all the innde
of the Ship was choak'd up with Sand: However, as I
had learnt not to defpair of any thing, I refolved to
pull every thing to pieces that I could of the Ship, con-
cluding that every thing I could get from her would be
©f Come Ufe or other to me.
Map 3. J began with my Saw, and cut a Piece oC a
Beam thro5, which I thought held feme of the upper
Part, or Quarter-Deck, together, and when I had cut
it thro', I cleared away the Sand as welt as I could,
from the Side which lay higheft; but the Tide coming .
in, I was obliged to give over for that time.
E 4 Map
May 4. I went a-fifhing, but caught not one Fiih that
T durft eat of, till I was weary of my Sport, when
juft going to leave off, I caught a young Dolphin. I
nad made me a long Line offome Rope-Yarn, but I
had no Hooks, yet I frequently caught Fifh enough, as
much as I cared to eat •, all which I dryed in the Sun,
*nd eat them dry.
May 5. Work'd on the Wreck, cut another Beam
a (under, and brought three great Fir Planks off from
the Decks, which I tied together, and made f'wim on
Shore when the Tide of Flood came on.
May 6. Work'd on the Wreck, got feveral Iron Bolts
cut of her, and other Pieces ofTron Work, work'd very
hard,and came home very much tir'd, and hadThoughts
of giving it over.
May 7. Went to the Wreck again, but with an Intent
not to work, but found the Weight of the Wreck had
broke it lelf down, the Beams being cut, that feveral
Pieces of the i>hip feeirfd to lye loole, and the Infide of
the Hold lay {o open, that I could fee into it, but al-
mofl full of Water and Sand.
May 8. Went to the Wreck, and carried an Iron
Craw to wrench up the Deck, which lay now quite
clear of the Water or Sand; I wrench'd open two
Planks, and brought them on Shore alio with the
Tide : I left the Iron Crow in the Wreck for next Day,
May 9. Went to the Wreck, and with the Crow
made Way into the Body of the Wreck, and felt feveral
Casks, and loofen'd them with the Crow, but could
not break them up; I felt alfo the Roll of EngHJb Lead,
and could ilir it, but it was to© heavy to move.
May 10,11, 12, 13, 14. Went every Day to the
Wreck, and got a great deal of Pieces of Timber and
Boards, or Plank, and 2 or 300 Weight of Iron.
May 15. I carried two Hatchets to try Vi I could not
cut a Tiece off of the Roll of Lead, by placing the Edge
of one Hatchet, and diiving it with the other; but as it
lay about a Foot and a half in the Water, I could not
make any Blow to drive the Hatchet.
May 16. It hadblow'd hard in the Night, and the
WTreck appear'd more broken by the Force of the Wa-
ter \ but I ftay'd fo long in the Woods to get Pidgeons
for
for Food, that the Tide prevented me going to the
Wreck that Day.
May 17. I faw fome pieces of the Wreck blown on
Shore, at a great Diflance, two Miles off me, but re-
(blv'd to fee what they were, and found it was a piece:
of the Head, but too heavy for me to bring away.
May 24. Every Day to this Day I work'd on the
Wreck, and with hard Labour I loofeifd fome things la
much with the Crow, that rhe firft blowing Tide fe-
veral Casks floated out, and two of the Seamen's
Chefls; but the Wind blowing from the Shore, no-
thing came to Land that Day, but pieces' of Timber,
and a Hogfhead which had fome Brazil Pork in it, but
the Salt-water and the Sand had fpoil'dit.
I continued this Work every Dcty to the i<>th of
June, except the Time neceflfury to get Food, which I
always appointed, during this Part of my Employment,
to be when the Tide was up, that I might be ready
ivhen it was ebb'd out, and by this Time J had gotten
Timber, and Plank, and Iron*Work enough to have
built a good Boat, if I had known how \ and alio I got
at feveral times, and in feveral Pieces, near 100 Weight
of the Sheet-Lead*
June 16. Going down to the Sea-fide, T found a Targe
Tortoife or Turtle; this was the flrft I had feen, which
it feems was only my Misfortune, not any Defe*5r of
the Place, or Scarcity; for had I happin'd to be on the
other Side of the Ifland, I might have had Hundreds of
them every Day, as I found afterwards 5 but perhaps
had paid dear enough for them.
June 17. I fpent in cooking the Turtle ; I found in
her three-fcore Eggs } and her Flefli was to me at that
time the moll favoury and pleafant that ever I tailed in
my Life, having had'no FleJh, but of Goats and Fowls*
ilnce I landed in this horrible Place.
^ June 1S. Kain'd all Day, and I ffay'd within. I
thought at this time the Rain felt cold, and I was fome*
thing chilly, which I knew was not ufual in that La~
titude.
June 19. Very ill, and ihiverlng3 as if the Weather
had been cold*.
E 5 Junt 20*
Jane 20, No Reft all Night, violent Pains In my.
Head, and feverifh.
June 21. Very ill, frighted alrnoft to Death with
the Apprehensions of my lad Condition, to be fick,
and no Help : Pray'd to God for the firfl: lime fxnce
the Storm off of Hull, but fcarce knew what I faid, or
why, my Thoughts being all confuild.
June 22. A little better, but under dreadful Appre-
henfions of Sickneis.
June 23. Very bad again, cold and fliivering, and
then a violent Head-ach.
June 24. Much better.
June 25. An Ague very violent; the Fit held me
feven Hours, cold Fit and hot, with faint Sweats afc
ter itf ' %
June 26. Better ; and having no Vi&uals to eat, took
my Gun, but found. my felf very weak \ however I
kill'd a She-Goat, and with m^uch Difficulty got ik
Home, and broil'd fo me, of it, and $at; I would, fain
have frewed it, and made fome Broath, but had no Pot.
June 27. The Ague aga,jn fo violent, that I lay a-bed
all Day, and neither eat or drank.% I wasxeady to pe-
rifh for Third, but lb weak, I had not Strength to*
(land up, or to get my felf any Water to drink: Pray'd
to God again, but was light-headed,, and,when I was
not, I was fo ignorant,, that I knew, not what to fay;
only I lay and cry'd, JLord look, upon me, JLorJ pity mey
.Lord have Mercy upon me : 1 fuppofel did nothing el fe
for two or three Hours, till the Fit wearing off, L fe^
afleep, and did not wake till far in the Night. -When
I wak'd, I found my felf much refrelh'd, but weak, and
exceeding thirfty : However, as I had no Water in my
whole Habitation, I was fore'd to lye,till Morning, and
went to fleep again: Ip this feqqnd, Sleep, I had tbi*
terrible Dream. .- • lf{
f thought, that I was fitting on the .Ground on the
Outfide of my ,Wall, where I fat when the ^torm blew.
after the Earthquake^ and that I faw a Man defcend
from a great black Cloud, in a bright Flame of Fire,
and light upon the'Ground : He was all over as bright
as a Flame* [a that I could but juft bear to look towards;
him \ his Countenance was mofl; inexpreflibly dreadful,
impoffiMe
f«3)'
impoiftble for Words to defcribe ; when lie ftepp'd up-
on the Ground with his Feet, I thought the Earth
trembled, juft as it had done before in the Earthquake,
and all the Air look'd, to my Appreheniion, as if it
had been fill'd with Flafhes of Fire.
He was no fooner landed upon the Earth, but he
moved forward towards me, with a long Spear or Wea- -
pon in his Hand, to kill me; and when he came to a
rifing Ground, at fome Diflance, he ipoke to me, or t
heard a Voice Co terrible, that it is impoflible to exprefs
the Terror of it; all that I can fay, I underftood, was
this, Seeing all thefe Things have not brought thee to Re*
pentdnce> now tboufoalt die : At which W ords, I thought
he lifted up the Spear that was in his Hand to kill ine,
No one that fhall ever read this Account, will expect-
that I fliould be able ft defcribe the Horrors of my Soul
at this terrible Viiion ; I mean, that even while it was
a Dream, I even dreamed of thofe Horrors ; nor is it
any more poflible to defcribe the Impreflion that re-
rnain'd upon my Mind when I awaked and found it-
was but a Dream*
I had, alas! no divine KnQjvledge ; what I had re-
ceived by the good feiftruftion of my Father, was then
worn out by an uninterrupted Series, for 8 Years, of*
Seafearing"WickedTiefs,and a conftant Confervation with
nothing ,f?ufc fuch, as were like my felf> wicked and pro-
fane to ,the lail Qegree: I do not remember that I had
in all that Time one Thought that io much as tended
either to looking upwards towards God, or inwards*
to wards a Reflection upon my own ways: But a cer-
tain Stupidity of Soul, without. De/Ire of Good,.or Con-
ference of Evil, had entirely overwhelmed me, and I
was,all that the moil hardned, unthinking wicked
Creature.among our common Sailors can be fuppofed to
he, not having the leaft Senfe, either of the Fear of
God in Dangers* or of Thankfulnefs to God in ^Deli-
verances.
In the relating^ what is already pad" of my Story; this
will'be the more eafily believed, when I fhall add, that,
thro' all the Variety of Miferies that had to this Day
befallen me, I never had fo much as one Thought, of
iis.J>ei»g' the Hand of God^ or that, it was a juft PuniuV
mens:
ment for my Sin, my rebellious Behaviour againft my
Father, or my preient Sins, which were great", or Co
much as a Puniihment for the general Courfe of my
wicked Life. When I was on the defperate Expedi-
tion on the defart Shores of Africa, I never had fa
much as one Thought of what would become of me,
or one Wifh to God to dire A me whither I iliould go,
or to keep me from the Danger which apparently fur-
rounded me, as well from voracious Creatures as cruel
Savages : But I was meerly thoughtlefs of God, or a
Providence, a&ed like a meer Brute from the Princi-
ples of Nature, and by the Dilates of common Senfe
only, and indeed hardly that.
When I was deliver'd and taken up at Sea by the
Portugal Captain, well ufed, and dealt juftly and ho-
nourably with, as well as charitably, [ had not the
lead Thankfulnefs in my Thoughts: When again I was
fhipwrcck'd, ruin'd, and in Danger of drowning on this
I Hand, T was as far from Remorfe, or looking on it as
a Judgment \ I only faid to my felf often, that I was
an unjlrlunate Dog, and born to be always miferable.
It is true, when I got on fhore firft here, and found
all my Ship's Crew drownM, and my felf fpared, I
was iurpriz'd with a kind of Extafy, and fame TranP
ports of Soul, which, had the grace of God afufted,
might have come up to true Thankfulnels \ but it end-
ed where it begun, in a meer common Flight of Joy, or,
as T may fay, being glad 1 was alive, without the leaft
Reflexion upon the diftinguifhing Goodnefs oftheHand
which had prelerved me, and had fmgled me out to be.
preferv'd, when all the reft were deftroy'd; or an En-
quiry why Providence had been thus merciful to me;
even juft the fame common fort o^ Joy which Seamen
generally have after they have got fafe a fhore from a.
Shipwreck, which they drown all in the next Bowl of
Punch, and forget almoft as loon as it is ©ver, and all
the reft of my Life was like it.
Even when I was afterwards* on due Confederation,
made fenfible of my Condition, how I wascaft on this
dieadful Place, out of the Reach of human Kind, out
of all Hope of Relief, or Profpeft of' Redemption, as
foon as I faw but a Profpeft of Living, and chat I
fliould
ihould not ftarve and perifh for Hunger, all the Senfe
of my Affli&ion wore off, and I begun to be very eafy,
apply'd my felf to the Works proper ibr my Prefervation
and Supply, and was far enough from being afEi&ed at
my Condition, as a Judgment from Heaven, or as the
Hand of God againft me : Thefewere Thoughts which
very feldom enter'd into my Head.
The growing up of the Corn, as is hinted in my Jour-
nal, had at firtl fome little Influence upon me, and
began to afFedt me with Serioufnefs, as long as I thought
it hadibmething miraculous in it; butasfoonas ever
that Part of the Thought was removed, all the Impref-
fion which was raifed from it wore off alio, as I have
noted already.
Even the Earthquake, tho* nothing could be more
terrible in its Nature, or more immediately directing
to the vidble Power, which alone dire&s uich things,
yet no fooner was the firft Fright over, but the Im-
preiTion it had made went off alio. I had no more Senfe
of God or his Judgments, much lefsof the prefent Affli-
ction of my Circumftances, being from his HancL than
if I had been in the mod profperous Condition of Life.
But now when I began to be fick, and a leifurely
View of the Miferies oi% Death came to place it felf be.
fore me *, when my Spirits began to fink under the Bur-
den of a ftrong Diftemper, and Nature was exhauflred
with the Violence of the Fever ; Confcience, that had
ilept fo long, began to awake, and I began to reproach
my felf with my pad Life, in which I had fo evidently,
by uncommon Wickednefs, provoked the Juflice of
God to lay me under uncommon Strokes, and to deal
with me in \^o vindictive a manner.
Thefe Refte&ions opprefs'd me for the fecond or third
Day of my Diftemper, and in the Violence, as well of
the Fever as of the dreadful Reproaches of my Con-
i.cience, extorted fome Words from me, like praying
to God, tho* I cannot fay they were either a Prayer at-
tended with Defires, or with Hopes ; it was rather the
Voice of meer Fright and Diftrefs ; my Thoughts were
confufed, the Con virions grtW upon my Mind, and
the Horror of dying in fiich a miferable Condition
raifed Vapours into my Head with the meer Appre,
henlions*
henflbns *, and in thefe Hurries of my Soul^ I know nor
what my Tongue might exprefs-: But it was rather
Exclamation, tuch as, Lord ! what a miferable Crea-
ture am I ! if I fhould be fiqk, I {hall certainly die for
want or'Help, and what will become of me ! Then the
Tears burft out of my Eyes, and I could fay no more
a good while.
In this interval,, the good Advice of my Father came
to my Mind, and prefentlv his Prediction, which I men.
tion'd in the beginning of this Story, viz. That if I did
take this joolijb Step^ God would.not b'iefs me> and I would
have Leifure hereafter t) refect upon having neglecled hh
Cotmjely when there might he none to ajjifl W in my Re-
covery. Now, faid I aloud, my dear Father's Words-
are come to pajs : God's J uitice has overtaken me, and
I have-none to help or hear me : I rejected the Voice of
Providence, which had mercifully put me in a Poftu-e
or Station of Life, wherein I might have been happy
apd eafy •, .but I would neither fee it my fel£ or learn
to know the Blefltng of it from my Parents ; I left them
to mourn over my Folly, and now I am left to mourn
under the Confequences of it: I refufed their Help and
Afllftance, who would have lifted me into the World,
and would have made every thing eafy to me, and new-
I 'have Difficulties to druggie with, too great for even
Nature itfelf to Support, and no Afliitance, no Help, no
Comfort, no Advice. Then I cry'd out> Lord be mj
I$dlp,Jor.I fm in great Diflrefs.
This was the' £rfl Prayer, if I may call, it {o that
1' had made for many Years. But I return to any
Journal.
' June 28. Having been fame what refrefli'd with the
Sleep I.had bad, and the Fit being entirely off, I got
up ; andtho5 the Fright,and Terror of my Dream was-
very great, yet I considered, that the Fit of the Ague
would return again the next Day, and now was my
Time to get fomething to refrefh and uipport my felf
when'I $LOuld be ill -y and the firft -thing! did, I fiU'd'
a large iquare Cafe Bottle with Water, and let it upon
my Table, in reach of my Bed ; and to take off the
chill or aguifh Difpofition of the Water* I. put about,
a Quarter, of a Pint, of ftum. into it, andmia'd them.
' " ' to*'
together ; ,then I got. rne a Piece of the Goat's - Flefa*.
and broiVd it on the Coajs, but could eat very little ;
I walked about, but was" very weak, and withal, very
fed and heavy-hearted-in the Serife of my miferable Con-
dition, dreading the Return of my Diitemper the next
Day ; at. Night I made my Supper of three of the
TurtleYEg^s, which I roaited in the A flies, and eat,
as we caD.it, in the Shell; and this was the hrft Bit of
Meat 1 had ever ask'd God> £}ei£ngtQ,.even as I coulc|
rememl^er, in my vyhole Life.
After I had eaten ; I tryld,tp walk but found my
felffo weak, that 1 could .barely carry the Gun( for
I never went out without that*;J-fol1 went but a little:
Way, and iat down upon the Ground, looking out up*
on the Sea, which wasjuft before me,"and very calm^
and fmooth : As I fat. "here, fome Thoughts fuch as thefc
occurred to. me;•, - < ,, - • "
What is this Earth and Seaof which I have "feeri fbn
much ! whence is it praduc d* and what am f, and all*
die.other Creatures,,wild apd, tame, ljumanand brgtala
whence are'we?, .
§ure we are all triad e J?y fome fecret Power, who*
fprm'd the Eartli and Seethe Air a&d Sky $ and who-
is that ?
. Then , it followed moil naturally it is God that hW
made it alb. Well, but then it came pn'ftprigejy 3 ifjQocl
has,made'all t1h^re\Tbj^gs?jHejpu4^\a^ governs't^nY
all, ,and al),Thi^Vtaat;^^^ for ,thp Bower;
that could make all/pam^-niuttfcertajLnly^have IJo^erj
to guide and dire A' them. " '" r
^ If fo, nothing pan. happen in the great Circuit of
his Works, either without ids Knowledge or Appoints
inept. . .
. And if nothing .happens without his Knowledge,? he'
knows that Tarn here, and am in . thisdjeaaful Conditio
on ; and if nothing-happens without l-us Appointment,
he has appointed all.thisto befal me."
Nothing occurr'a to my Thoughts to cqntradiifc any,
of thefe Conclufions ; and therefore it refted upon me
with the -greater Force, that it muft - needs be, that
God had appointed all this to befal me ; that I wa%
brought to th3Lspaiferabl«. ^c^noftance by his Dire&u.
on, he having the fole Power, not of me only, but of
every Thing that happen d in the World. Immediate-
ly it follow'd.
Why has God done this to me ?" What have I done to be
thus u?d ?
My Confcience presently check'd me in that Enquiry,
as if I had blafphem'd, and methought it fpoke to me like
a Voice ; WRElCH! deft thou ask what thou haft imt !
Look back upon a dreadful mif-fpent Life, and ask thy
felf -what thou haft not done ? Ask, Why is it that thou wert
not long ago deftrof'd ? Why wert thou not drown* d in Yar-
mouth Roads ? Killed in the Fight when the Ship was
taken by the Sallee Man of War ? Devoured by the wild
JBeafts on the Coaft of A frica ? Or, drown* d HERE, when
all the Crew perijb'd but thy felf? Doft thou ask, What
have 1 done ?
I was (truck dumb with thele Reflexions, as one a-'
ftonifhed, and had not a Word to fay, no not to anfvver
to my te\f9 but rofe up penfive and lad, walk'd back to
my Retreat, and went up'over my Wall, as if I had
been going to Bed, but my Thoughts were fadly di-
flurb'd, and I had no inclination to ileep ; fo I fat down
in my Chair, and lighted my Lamp, for it began to be
dark. Now, as the Apprehenfion of the return of my
Diftemper terrify'd rfte \ery much, it occur'd to my
Thought, that the" Brafilians take no Phyfick but their.
Tobacco, for almoft all Diftempers 5 and I had a Piece
of a Roll of Tobacco, in one of the Cbefts, which was
quite cured, and forhe alfo that was green, and not
quite cured.
I went, directed by Heaven no doubt, for in this.
Cheft: I found a Cure both for Soul and Body *, I open-
ed the Cheft, and found what I rlook'd for, vi\. the
Tobacco ; and as the few Books I had fav.'d lay there
too, I took out one of the Bibles which I mentibn'd
before, and which to this time I had not found Leifure,
or fo much as Inclination to look into ; I fay, I took it
out, and brought both that and die Tobacco with me
to the Table.
What Ufe to make of the Tobacco, T knew not, as
to my Diftemper, or whether it was good for it or no 5'
but I try'd feveral Experiments with it, -as if I was re-
JQlv'd
folv'd it fhould, hit one Way or other : I firft took a
Piece of a Leaf, and chew'd it -in my Mouth, which
indeed at firft almoft: ftupify'd my Brain, the Tobacco
being green and ftrong, and that I had not been much
us'd to it ; then I took fome and deeped it an Hour or
two in Rum, and refolv'd to take a Dole of it when I
lay down j and laftly, I burnt fome upon a Pan of Coals,
and held my Nofe clofe over the Smoke of it as long
as T could bear it, as well for the Heat as the Virtue
of it, and I held it almoft to Suffocation.
In the interval of this Operation, I took up tlffe~Bi-
ble and began to read, but my Head was too much di-
fturb'd with the Tobacco to bear reading, at leaft at that
time; only having opeifd the Book cafually, the firft
Words that occur*d to me werethefe, Call on me in the
Pay of Trouble> and I will deliver> and thou fnalt glorify
tne.
The Words were very apt to my Cafe, and made
fome Impreffion upon my Thoughts at the Time of read-
ing them, tho* not lb much as they did afterwards •, for
as for being deliver'd, the Word had no Sound, ds J
may fay> to me ; the Thing was fo remote, fo impofll-
ble in my Apprehenflon of Things, that I began to fay
as the Children of Ifrael did, when they were promis'd
Flefh to eat, Can Godfpread a Table in the Wildcrwfs ?
So I began to to fay, Can God himfelf deliver me from
this Place ? A nd as it was not for many Years that any
Hope appear'd, this prevaird very often upon my
Thoughts : But however, the Words made a great Im-
preflion upon me, and I mufed upon them very often.
It grew now late, and the Tobacco had, as I faid, doz'd
my Head fo much, that I inclin'd to deep; fo I left
my Lamp burning in the Cave, left I fhould want any
thing in the Night, and went to Bed ; but before I lay
down, I did what i never had done in all my Life, I kneel-
ed down and pray'd to God to fulfil the Promife to me,
that if I calFd upon him in the Day of Trouble, he
would deliver me; after my broken and imperfe& Pray-
er was over, I drunk the Rum in which I had fteep'd
the Tobacco, which was fo ftrong and rank of the To-
bacco, that indeed I could fcarce get it down. Imme-
diately upon this I went to Bed, and I found prefently it
flew
iiew.up intomy Head violently ; but I-fellinto a found
Sleep, and waked no more till by the Sun it mull ne-
ceflarily be near Three o' Clock in the Afternoon the
next Day ; nay, to this Hour I am partly of the Opi-
nion, that I flept all die next Day and Night, and till
almoft three the Day after; for otherwife I knew not
how I Ihould lofe a Day oat of my Reckoning in the
Days of the Week, as it appeared fome Years after I
had done; for if I had loft it by crofting and re-croifing
the Line, I fhould have lof: more than a Day, but in my
-Account, it was loft, and I never knew v.hich way.
Be that however one way or other, when I awak'd
I found my felf exceedingly refrefii'd, and my Spirits
lively and chearfid ; when Igot up* I »vas (Iron jer than
I was .the Day before, and my Stomach better, for I
was hungry ; and in fliort, I had no Fit the next Day*
but continued much alter'd for the better : this was the
29th.
The 30th was my Well Day of Cor,rfe, and I went
a;broad with my Gun, but did not care to travel too
far: I kill'd a Sea-Fowl or two, fbniething like a.
Brand-Gooie, and brought them Home, but was no&
Very forward to eat them ; fo I eat fome more of the
Turtle's Eggs,, which were very good : This Evening.
I renew'd the Medicine which I had fuppoied did me
good the Day before, vi\. the Tobacco fceep'd in Rum,
only JLdid not take Jo much as before, nor did I chew
any of the Leaf^ or hold my Head over the Smoke 5
however, I -was not fo, well the next Day, \vhich was
the ift of y#ty, as I (hoped I mould have been ; for I
had a little fpice of the cold Fit, but it was not
much.
July 2. I renewed the Medicine all the three ways>
and dozed my felf with it as at firft, and doubled the
Quantity which I drank.
3* IirmVdthe Fit for good and all, tho* I did noC
recover my full Strength for fome Weeks after ; While
I was thus gathering Strength, my Thoughts run ex-
ceedingly upon this bcripture, / will deliver tbse ; and
the Impoflibility of my Deliverance lay much upon
my Mind, in bar of my ever expecting it: But as
I was difcouraging my felf with fuch Thoughts, it
occur'd
©ccur'd to my Mind, that I pored Co much upon my
Deliverance from the main Affli&ion, that I disregarded
the Deliverance I had received ; and I was, as it were9
made to ask my fell fuch Questions as thefe, vi\* Have
I not been deliver'd, and wonderfully too, from Sick*
nefs ? From the. moil diftrefsfd Condition that could be,
and that was io'frightful to me ? And what notice had I
taken of it ? Had 1 done my Part, God bad delivered mey
hut I had not glorified him: That is to fay, I had not
own'd and been thankful for that as a Deliverance, and
how could I expe& greater Deliverance ?
This touched nay Heart very much, and immediately
I kneel?d down and gave God Thanks aloud, for my
Recovery from my Siekneis.
'July 4. In thtAiVlorning I topkthe Bible, and, begin-
ning at the New Teftament, I began feriouOy to read
it, and impofed upon my felf to read a while every
Morning and every Night, not tying my leif to the
Number oi Chapters, but as long as my Thoughts
fliculd engage me : It was not long aiter 1 let ferioully
to thi$ Work, {>ut I found my Heart more deeply and
iincereiy aflfe*&ed with the 'VVickednefs of my pall Life:
TheTrnpreffion 0^ my %eam .reviv'd,. «md th<^Word%
M'tbeje Things have not- brought thee to fltyentapce, rara
feriqufly iii my Thoughts- I was earpeftl}' begging Q*
Gr.d to give me Repentance, when it happened provi-
dentially the very Day that reading the Scripture, 1
<?ftuie to thefe Words, He h exalted a Prime arid a
Smtkur, iq give Reper>t&txc<> &ftd io, groe R;tfiijfion * I
tforejwctewri the .Book, #nd with my Heart as well as
my Hands lifted up to Heaven, in a JUnd of -Extafy of
Joy, F cr^ed out aloud,. J$Ju$ tbcu &n of David, Je-
fiesy tbcu exalted Prince,,and Saviwp, give me Re^
pentarice I
This was thefirft time that I could fay, in the true
Senfe of the Words, that 1 prayed in all my Lite $ foe
liow I prayed withjt Senie of my Condition, and with;
a true Scripture View of Tlope founded on the Encou-
ragementof the Word of God; arid from this time, I
may fay, I began to1 bate Hope that God would heat
*%-
Now I began to conftrue the Words mentioned a-
bove, Call en mey and 1 will deliver you, in a different
Senfe from what I had ever done before; for then I had
no Notion of any thing being called Deliverance, but
my being delivered from the Captivity I was in, for
tho' I was indeed at large in the Place, yet the I (land
was certainly a Prifon to me, and that in the word
Senfe in the World j but now I learn'd to take it in an-
other Senfe. Now I look'd back upon my paft Life
with fuch Horror, and my Sins appear'd fo dreadful,
that my Soul fought nothing of God, but Deliverance
from the Load of Guilt that bore down all my Com-
fort. As for my folitary Life it was nothing; I did
not fo much as pray to be delivered from it, or think of
it; it was all of no Confideration in Comparifon to this;
and I added this Part here, to hint to whoever fhall
read it, that whenever they come to a true Senfe of
things, they will find Deliverance from Sin a much
greater Bleffing, than Deliverance from Affli&ion.
But leaving this Part, I return to my Journal.
My Condition began now to be, tho* not lefs mifer-
able as to my Way of living, yet much eafier to my
Mind; and my Thoughts being dire&ed, hy a conflant
reading the Scripture, and praying to God, to things of
higher Nature; I had a great deal of Comfort within,
which till now I knew nothing of: Alfo, as my Health
and Strength return'd, I beflirr'd my fclf to furnifh my
felf with every thing that I wanted, and make my way
of living as regular as I could.
' From the 4rh ofjuty to the 14th* I was chiefly em-
ployed in walking about with my Gun in my Hand,
a little and a little at a time, as a Man that was ga-
thering up his Strength after a Fit of Sicknefs t For it
Is hardly to be imaging how low I was, and to what
Weaknefs I was reduced. The Application which I
made ufe of, was perfectly new, and perhaps what had
never cur'd an Ague before ; neither can I recommend
it to any one to pra&ice, by this Experiment; and tho'
it did carry off the Fit, yet it rather contributed to
weaken
weaken me; for I had frequent Convulsions In my
Nerves and Limbs for fome time.
I learnt from it alio this in particular, that being
abroad in the rainy Seafon, was the mod pernicious
thing to my Health that could be, efpecialjy in thofe
Rains which came attended with Storms and Hurricanes
of Wind ; for as the Rain which came in a dry Seafon
was always moft accompanied with fuch Storms, fo I
found that Rain was much more dangerous than the
Rain which fell in September and October.
I had been now in this unhappy Ifland above 10
Months; all Poffibility of Deliverance from this Condi-
tion feem'd to be entirely taken from me; and I firmly
believed, that no human Shape had ever fet Foot up-
on that Place. Having now lecur'd my Habitation, as
I thought, fully to my Mind, I had a great Deflre to
make a more perfeft Difcovery of the Ifland, and to fee
what other Produ&ions I might find, which yet I knew
nothing of.
It was the i<$th of July that I began to take a more
particular Survey of the Ifland it felf: I went up the
Creek flrfl, where, as I hinted, I brought my Rafts on
Shore. I found, after I came about two Miles up, that
the Tide did not flow any higher, and that it was no
more than a little Brook of running Water, and very
freih and good ; but this being the dry Seafon, there
was hardly any Water in fome Parts of it, at lead
not enough to run in any Stream, fo as it could be
perceiv'd.
On the Bank of this Brook I found many pleafant
Savants, or Meadows, plain, fmooth, and cover'd with
Grafs; and on the riling Parts of them next to the
higher Grounds, where the Water, as it might be fup-
poled, never overflowed, I found a great deal of To-
bacco, green and growing to a great and very ftrong
Stalk : There were divers other Plants which 1 had no
Notion of, or Undemanding about, and might per-
haps have Virtues of their own, which I could not
And out.
I jearched for the Cajfava Root, which the Indians
in all that Climate make their Bread o^ but I could
And
find none* t few large Plants of Aloes, hut did not
then understand them. I faw feveral Sugar-Canes, bat
wi\h, and rbr Want of Cultivation, imperfe&. I con-
tented my felf with theie Difcoveries for this time, and
came back mufing with my lelf what Courfe I might
take to know the Virtue and Goodnefs of any of the
Fruits or Plants which I fnould difcover, but could
bring it to no Concluflon ; for in fbort, I had made fc
little Obfervation while I was in the Brajils, that I
icnew little of the Plants in the Field, at lead very little
that might ferve me to any Purpofe now in my
Diftrefe.
The next Day, the 16th, I went up the fame Way a^
gain, and after going fomething tether than I had
gone the Day before, I found the Brook and the S0U
iratia's began to ceafe, and the Country became more
woody than before. In this Part I found different
Fruits, and particularly I found Melons upon the
Ground in great Abundance, and Grapes upon the
Trees *? the Vines had fpread indeed over the Trees,
and the Clutters of Grapes were juft now in their Prime,
very ripe and rich. This was a furprizing Difcovery,
and I was exceeding glad of them; but i was warn'd
hy my Experience to eat fpavingly of them, remembring,
that when I was alhore in Barbaiyy the eating of Grapes
idird feveral of our Evgttfo Men who were Slaves there,
by throwing them into Fluxes and Fevers; But I found
an excellent CJfe for thefe Grapes, and that was to cure
ct dry them in the Sun, and keep, them as dry'd Grapes
or Raifins are kept, which I thought would be, as in-
deed they were, as wholefome, and as agreeable to eat,
when no Grapes might be had.
I fpent all that Evening there, and went not back to
my Habitation, which by the way was the firft Night, as
I might fay, I had lain from Home. In the Night I took
-my firfl Contrivance, and got up into a Tree, where
I Uept well, and the next Morning proceeded upon
my Difcovery, travelling near four Miles, as I might
judge by the Length of the Vally, keeping {till due
North* with a Ridge of Hills on the South and North*
gideof-me*
At
l9$i
'At'irTie End'of this March T catheytQ Jan Opening 
where the"Country fefcn¥dtodefcendt6 the Weft^and
aHtile-S^ring of rreffi Water, Which ifilied oiit of the
Side of xfae: Hill by' me, fun the other. Way, that is,
due Eaft 5 'and the Ctitii^y~a$pek?£fk fo freili, lo greent
£0 flouriihing, every tiling being in a, cbnftarii: Verdure
;-or Plaurifh of Spring)J that it look'd like a planted
^Garden. - ' ,\ . •'
I defcended" a little oh the Side of that delicious
Valy, iurveying it with a fecret kind of Fleafure,
(though Bibt vvitli my other affixing Thoughts ) pp
irhink^that.this,was all' my own, that i was.King and
Lord of ^.| tliis Country indefeaiibly, and had a Right
-of Poffeffibh ; and if 1 could convey it, I might have it
in Inheritance, as corhpleatly as any Lord of a*Manbr
in EnglaMi I law here Abundance of Cocoa Tree%
Orange, and Lemon, and Citron Trees,; but all wild,
and few-bearing any Fruit, at leaft, not then ; How-
ever, the4 green Limes, that L gathef'd, were not only
$>leafant to eat, but very wholeibmtf; and i^rnx'd their
. juice afterwards with Water, which' |aade li very
wholefome, and very cboi and refreflung.' / V\
I found now I had feufineiV enough to gather and
carry Home; and I refolved tolay up a Store, as well
of Grapes, as Lime? and Lemons, toiurnifli my'feinor~
' Chd wet §e>fonV which i4 knew wis approaching,
. th ;orde;r fo this, L gather'd a g>eat;Heap of Grapes m
;*on6 Place, and" a leuer Heap in anotlier "Place, and a
r jgireat Parcel of Limes and Lemons in another Place;
' iiid' taking a few of each with trie, V travellM liorne-
• ^vard.,' and refolved to come again, and bring a Bag or
• Sack? or what I could make, to carry the reft Home. ,
Accordingly, having fpent three Days in this jour-
aiey, I came Home (To I muft now call my Tent and
iiiy Caye),but before I got thither, ,tlie tirapes jvvere
' "fpoiMitlieRichnMsb the, Vf eight b.f the
" juice 'haying broken them, and'bruiied^tliemj.ttiey. were
good lor littleof nothing^" as io the Ilimes^ they'\xfr^
. ^oqd, butrl could bring but, a few. T . *J.' , "^
The nekt'Day^ being tijfc; ^th"^ I ^went^b^ck^ ha^-
• ingJniade mfe.two'frnati Baggs.'to bfingtHome hiy Har-
feft; But' I W#§ fuVprii'd, WhW coming "ib nay^Heap
of Grapes, which were fo rich and fine when I gathered
them, I found them all fpread abroad, trod to Pieces
and dragg'd about, fome here, fome there, and Abun-
dance eaten and devoured : >by this I concluded there
were fome wild Creatures thereabouts, which had done
this ; but what they were I knew not.
However, as I found that there was no laying them
up on Heaps, and no carrying them away in a Sack, but
that one Way they would be deflroy'd, and the other
Way they would be cruftfd with their own Weight,
I took another Courfe ; for I gather'd a large Quantity
of the Grapes, and hung them upon the Out-Branches
of the Trees, that they might cure and dry in the Sun ;
and as for the Limes and Lemons, I carry'd as many
back as I could well (land under.
WKen I came Home from this Journey, I contem-
plated with great Pleafure the Fruitfulnefs of that Val-
ley, and the Pleafantnefs of the Situation, the Security
from Storms on that Side the Water, and the Wood,
and concluded that I had pitch'd upon a Place to fix my
Abode, which was by far the word: Part of the Coun-
try. Upon the whole, I began to confider of removing
my Habitation, and to look out for a Place equally fafe,
as where I now was fituate, if poffible, in that pleafant
fruitful Part of the Ifland.
This Thought run long in my Head, and I was ex-
ceeding fond of it for fome Time, the Pleafantnefs of the
Place tempting me *, but when I came to a nearer View
of it, and to confider that I was now by the Sea-fide,
where it was at lead poffible that fomething might hap-
pen to my Advantage, and that the fame ill Fate that
brought me hither, might bring fome other unhappy
Wretches to the fame Place ; and tho' it was icarce pro-
bable that any fuch thing fliould ever happen, yet to en-
clofe my felf among the Hills and Woods, in the Cen-
ter of the Ifland, was to anticipate my Bondage, and
to render fuch an Affair not only impropable, but im-
poffible; and that therefore I ought not by any Means
to remove.
However, I was fo enamour'd of this Place, that I
fpent much of my Time there for the whole remaining
Part of the Month of July j and tho* upon fecond
Thought*
Thoughts I refolv'd as above., not to remove, yet I bulk
me a little kind of a . Bower, and furrounded it at a
Diftance wtih a ftrong Fence, being a double Hedge,
as high as 1 could reach, well ftak'd and fill'd between
with Brufiwicd ; and here I lay very feeure, foinetini-s
two or three Nights together, always going over it with
a Ladder, as berore ; ib that 1 fancy'd now i had my
Country-Hcufe, and my Sea-Coait-Hcuie : And this
Work took me up to the Beginning of AuguiU
I had but newly flnihVd m> Fence, and began to en-
py my Labour, but the Rains came on, and made me
iHck cloie to my firft Habitation •, for tho' I had made
me aTent like the other, with aPiece of aSail, and fpread
it very well ; yet I had not the Shelter of a Hill to keep
me from Storms, nor a Cave behind me to retreat into,
when the Rains were extraordinary.
About the Beginning of Augufi as Ifald, 1 had fmifh'i
my Bower, and began to enjoy my felt. The third of
Augufi, 1 found the Grapes I had hung up were perfe&ly
dry'd, and indeed, were excellent good Raiiins of the
Sun ; fo I began to take them down from the Trees,
and it was very happy that I did ib ; for the Rains
which followed would have fpoil'd them, and I had loll
the bell: Part of. my Winter Food ; for I had above
two hundred large Bunc *es of them. No fooner had I
taken them all down and carry3d mod: of them Home
to my Cave, but it began to rain; and from thence,
which was the fourteenth of Axguft> it rain'd more or
leis every Day, till the middle of 03:-bzr\ and forne-
timesfo violently, that I could not flir out of my Cave
for leveral Da>s.
In this Sealbn I was much furpriz'd with the In-
creafe of my Family : I had been concerned for the Lofs
of one of my Cats, who run away from me, or as I
thought had been dead, and I heard no more Tale or
Tidings of her, till to my Aftonifhment ihe came home
about the End of Aupuft^ with three Kittens* This
was the more flrange to me, becaufe tho3 f had kill'd
a wild Cat, as I calfd it, with my Gun ; yet I thought
it was a quite different Rind from our European Cats ;
yet the } oung Cats were the fame kind of Houfe breed
like the old one \ and both my Cats being Females, I
F thought
thought it very flrange : But from thefe three Cats, I
^aiterwards came to be lb pefter'd with Cats, that I was
forced to kill them like Vermin,- or wild Beads, and to
'drive them from my Houfe as much as poffibie.
' From the fourteenth of Augufl to the twenty fixth,
inceflant Rain, fo that I could not ftir, and was now ve-
ry careful not to be much wet. In this Confinement
1 began to be ftraitned for Food, but venturing out
• twice, I one Day kilfd a Goat; and the laft Day, which
was the twenty-fixth found a very large Tortoiie which
was a Treat to me, and my Food was regulated thus ;
1 eat a Bunch of Railins ior my Breakfall, a Piece of
the Goat's Flelli, or of the Turtle, for my Dinner
broil'd ; f for to my great Misfortune, I had no Veftel
to boil or (lew any thing) and two or three of the Tur-
tle's Eggs for my Supper.
During this Confinement in my Cover by the Rain,
T work'd daily two or three Hours at enlarging my
Cave, and by Degrees work'd it on towards one Side,
till I came to the Outfide of the Hill, and made a Door
or Way out, which came beyond my Fence or Wall,
find fo I came in and out this Way : But I was not per-
fectly eafy at lying fo open \ for as I had managed my.
felf before, I was in a perfeft Enclosure, whereas now
1 thought I lay expos'd, and yet I could not perceive
that there was any living thing to fear, the biggeil
Creature that I had yet ieen upon the Iflandbeinga
Goat.
September the thirtieth, I was now come to the un-
happy Anniverfary of my Landing. I caft up the Not-
ches on my Pod, and found I had been on Shore three
hundred andfucty five Davs. I kept this Day as a fo-
lemn fad, letting it apart to Religious Exercife, pro-
ftrating my felt on the Ground with the moft ferious
Humiliation, con felling my Sins to God, acknowledg-
ing his Righteous Judgments upon me, and praying to
him to have Mercy on me, thro' Jefus Chrifl: *, and
having not tailed the lead Refreflimcnt for twelve
Hours, even till the going down of the Sun, I then eat.
a Bisket-Cake, and a Bunch of Grapes, and went to Bed,
iinifliing the Day as I began it.
I had all this time obierv'd no Sabbath-Day \ for
as
as at firfl I had no Senfe of Religion upon myMind, and I
had after ibme time omitted to diftinguiih the Weeks,
by making a longer Notch than ordinary for the Sab-
bath-Day, and i'o did not really know what any cf the
Days were •, but now having call up the Da}$, as above,
I found I had been there a Y/ear j lb I divided it into
Weeks, and let apart every feventh Pay for a Sabbath j
tho11 lound at the End or my Account I had loft a Day
or two in my Reckoning.
A little at-ter this my ink began to fail me, and {o I
contented my fell*to ufe it more fparingly, and to write
down only the moil remarkable Events of my Lire, with-
out continuing a daily Memorandum ot other Things.
The rainy seafon, and the dry Seafon, began now to
appear regular to me, and I learnt to divide them lb>
-as to provide for them accordingly. But I bought all
my Experience before I had it; and this I am going
to relate, was one of the moil difcouraging Experi-
ments that I made at all. I have mention'd that I had
fav'd the lew Ears of Barley and Rice which I had ib
furprixingly found fpring up, as I thought, of them-
selves, and believe there were about thirty Stalks ol
Rice and about twenty of Barly ; and now I thought it
•a proper time to low it after the Rains, the Sun being in
its Southern Voiltion going from me.
Accordingly I dug up a Piece of Ground, as well as
I could with my wooden Spade, and dividing it into
two Parts, 1 Ibw'd my Grain ; but as I was lowing,
it cafually occur'd to my Thoughts, that I would not
low it all at firft, becaufe I. did not know when was
the proper time for it; ib I fowM about two thirds
of the Seed, leaving about a Handful of each.
It was a great Comfort to me afterwards, that I did
fo, for not one Grain of that I fow'd this time came to
•any thing ; for the dry Months following, the Earth ha-
ving had no Rain after the Seed was town, it had no
Moifture to afliir. its Growth, and never came up at all,
till the wet Seafon had come again, and then it grew as
if it had been but newly fown.
Finding my firft Seed did not grow, which I eafUy
imagined was by the Drought, I fought for a moifter
Piece of Ground to make another Trial in, and I dug
F 2 up
up a Piece of Ground near my new Bower, and fow'd
the reft of my Seed in February, a little before the Ver-
nal Equinox \ and this having the rainy Months of March
and jipril to water it, fprung up very pleafantly, and
yielded a very good Crop ; but having Part of the Seed
left only, and not daring to fow all that I had yet, I
had but a fniall Quantity at lad, my whole Crop not
amounting to above haU a Peck of each kind.
But by this Experiment I was made Mailer of my
Buiinefs, and knew exaftly when the proper Seaibn was
to low ; and that I might expeft two Seed-times, and
two Harvefts every Year,
While this Corn was growing, I made a little Difco-
very, which was of Ufe to me afterwards: As foon as
the Rains were over, and the Weather began to fettle,
which was about the Month of November, I made a
Vilit up the Country to my Bower, where tho' 1 had
not been lb me Months, yet I found all things juft as I
left them. The Circle or double Hedge that I had
made, was not only firm and entire, but the Stakes
which 1 had cut off of fomeTrees that grew thereabouts,
were all ihot out, and grown with long Branches, as
much as a Willow-Tree ufually ihoots the firft Year af-
ter lopping its Head. I could not tell what Tree to
call it, that thefe Stakes were cut from. I was fur-
priz'd, and yet very well pleas'd, to fee the young
Trees grow \ and I prun'd them, and led them up to
grow as much alike as 1 could, and it is fcarce credible
how beautiful a Figure they grew into in three Years;
to that tho* the Hedge made a Circle of about twenty
five Yards in Diameter, yet the Trees, for fuch I might
now call them, foon covcr'd it; and it was a compleat
Shade, fufficient to lodge under all the dry Seafon.
This made me reiblve to cut fome more Stakes, and
make me a Hedge like this in a Semicircle round my
Wall, I mean that of my fir ft Dwelling, which I did ;
and placing the Trees or Stakes in a double Row,
at about eight Yards diftance from my firft Fence, they
grew prefently, ar.d were at firft a fine Cover to my
Habitation, and afterward ferv'd for a Defence alfo, as
I fliall obierve in its Order.
I found now, that the Seafons of the Year might ge-
nerally be divided, not into Summer and Winter as in
Europe ; but into the rainy Seafons, and the dry Seafons,
which were generally thus:
Half February,'*
March,.
Halr'^r//,*
Half Jpril,
May, I
Half >%«/?,
Half^r</?J
September*,
Half Ofcfer',:
HalfOffpkr,
Novembery <
Deczmbtt)
January,j
Half Februaryy
Rainy, the &*» being then on, or near
the Equimx»
Dry, the »SV/« being then to the A?rf 5
of the Line.
Rain, the «$fr# being then come back,
Dry, the Sun being then to the
South of the Line.
The rainy Seafon fometimes held longer or fhorter,
as the Winds happen5 d to blow *, but this was the ge-
neral Obiervation I made. After I had found, by Ex-
perience, the ill Confequence of being abroad in the
Rain, I took Care to furnilh my felf with Provifions be-
fore-hand, that I might notJbe oblig'd to go out; and
I fat within Doors as much as poifible during the wet
Months.
In this Time I found much Employment, (and very
fuitable alfo to the Time J for I found great Occafion
of many things which I had no way to furnilh my
felf with, but by hard Labour and conftant Applica-
tion ; particularly, I tried many Ways to make my fett
a Basket, but all the Twigs I could get for the Pur pole
prov'd fo brittle, that they would do nothing. Jt
prbv'd of excellent Advantage to me now, that when
I was a Boy, I ufed to take great Delight in (landing at
E 3 *
(i°o
a Basket-mah^s in the Town where my Father HVd,&>
iee them make their Wnker-ipoare j and being, as Boys
ufually are, very officious to help, and a great Ob-
it rver of the Manner how they work'd thole things,
and fomeiimes lending a Hand, I had by this means
full Knowledge of the Methods of it, that I wanted no-
thing but the Materials', when it came into my Mind,
mat the Twigs of that Tree from whence I cut my
Stakes that grew, might pofllbly be as tough as the
SallcRs, and WlUovos, and Ofiers in England, and I re-
iolv'd to try.
Accordingly the next Day I went to my Country-
Houfe, as I call'd it, and cutting fome of the fmaller
Twigs, I found them to my Purpofe as much as I could
defire; whereupon I came the next time prepared with
a Hatchet to cut dcwn a Quantity, which I foon found,
ior there was great Plenty of them: Thefe I Let up to-
dry within my Circle or Hedge, and when they were
lit tor Ufe, I carried them to my Cave; and here dur-
ing the next Seafon, I employed my felf in making, as
vjtli as I could, a great many Easkets, both to carry
F,arth, or to carry or lay up any thing as I had occafion;
and tho' I did not finifli them very handlbmely, yet I
made them fufKciently ferviceable for my Purpofe 5 and
thus afterwards I took Care never to be without them 5
and as my Wricker-ware decayM, I made more, efpecially
I made ftrong deep Baskets to place my Corn in, in-
ilead of Sacks, when I fhould come to have any Quan-
tity of it.
Having mailer'd this Difficulty, and employ'd a
world of Time about it, I befbirr'd my felf to fee, if pof-
iible, how to fupply two Wants. I had no VefTels to-
bold any thing that was Liquid, except two Runlets
which were almcft full of Rum, and fome Glafs Bottles,
fome of the common Size, and others which were Cafe-
Bottles fquare, for the holding of Waters, Spirits, £5V.
I had not fo mu:h as a Pot to boil any thing in, except a
great Kettle which I fav'd out of the Ship, and which
was too big for fuch Ufes as I defir'd it for, vi%. to make
Broth, and (lew a Bit of Meat by it felf. The fecond
Thing I would fain have had, was a Tobacco-Pipe ; but
U
it was impofllble to me to make one ; however I found
a Contrivance for chat too at lall.
I employ'd my felf in planting my fecond Rows of
Stakes or Piles, and in this Wicker working all the ^-um-
mer, or dry Scafon, when another Budneis took me up
more Time than it could be imagin'd I could fpare.
I mentioned before, that I had a great Mind to fee
the whole Iiknd, and that I had travelled up the Brook,
and io on to where I built my Bower, and where I had
an Opening quite to the Sea on the other Side of the
Wand. 1 now refjlved to travel quite crofs to the Sea-
iliore on fchat Side: So taking my Gun, a Hatchet, and.
my Db& and a largo? Quantity of powder and Shot than
ufual, with two Bisket-Cakes, and a great Bunch of
Raiiins in my Pouch for my Store, I began my jour-
ney. When I had paiVd the Vale where my Bower
ftood, as above, I came within View of the Sea, to the
Waft, and it being a very clear Day, I fairly defjried
Land, whether an IQand or a Continent, 1 could not
tell j but it lay very high, extending from the Weft to
the W. S. W. at a very great Diftance \ by my Gucis it
could not be lefs than fifteen or twenty Leagues orF.
I could not tell what Part of the World this might
be, otherwife than that I knew it mud be Fart of Ame- :
rica \ and as I concluded by all my Obfervations, muil-^p
be near the Spanifi Dominions, and perhaps was all in- *
habited by Savages,, where if I fhould have landed, I
had been in a worfe Condition than I was now; and
therefore I acquiefced m the Difpofitions of Providence,
which I began now to- own, and to believe, orderd eve-
ry thing for the beft j I fay, I quieted my Mind with
this, and left affli&ing my felt' with fruithleis Wifhcs
of being there.
Befides, after fome Paufe upon this Affair, I confl-
defd, that if this Land was the Spanifl) Coafl, 1 fhould
certainly, one Time or other, fee fome Veftel pals or
re-pafs one Way or other; but if not> then it was the
Savage Coaft between the Spanijh Country and Brafi-is,
which we re indeed the worft o£ Savages $ for they are
Cannibals, or Men-Eaters* and fail not to muither and
devour all the human Bodies that fall into their Hands*'
,.. k Ei With'
With thefe Confederations I walk'd very leifurely
forward. I found that Side of the Ifland where I now
was, much pleafanter than mine, the open ot Savanna
Fields iweet, adorn'd with Flowers and Grafs, and full
of very fine Woods. I law Abundance of Parrots, and
fain I would have caught one, it pofftble, to have kept
it to be tame, and taught it to fpeak to me. I did, af-
ter iome Pains taking, catch a young Parrot, for I
knockM it down with a Stick, and having recover'd it,
I brought it home ; but it was fome Years before I
could make him fpeak: However, at laft I taught him
to call me by my Name very familiarly: But*the Ac-
cident that followed, tho' it be a Trifle, will be \^ry
diverting in its Place.
I was exceedingly diverted with this Journey .- I
found in the low Grounds, Hares, as I thought them
to be, and Foxes, but they differed greatly from all the
other Kinds I had met with; nor could I fatisfy my (elf
to eat them, tho' I kilPd feveral: But I bad no need to
be venturous; for I had no Want of Food, and of that
which was very good too ; efpecially thefe three Sorts,
viz. Goats, Pidgeons, and Turtle or Tortoife; which,
added to my Grapes, Leaden-Hall Market could not
have furnifb/d a Table better than I, in Proportion to
the Company ; and tho5 my Cafe was deplorable enough,
yet i had great Caule for Thankfulnefs, that I was not
driven to any Extremities for Food; but rather Plenty,
even to Dainties. ^
I never travelled in this Journey above two Miles
outright in a Day, or thereabouts ; but I took {o many
Turns and Returns to fee what Difcoveries I could
make, that I came weary enough to the Place where
I refolv'd to fit down ibr all Night ; and then I either
repos*d my ielfin a Tree, or furrounded my felf with
a Row of Stakes fet upright in the Ground, either from
one Tree to another, or ib as no wild Creature could
come at me, without waking me.
As foon as I came to the Sea-Shore, I was furprized
to fee that I had taken up my Lot on the worft Side of
the Ifland ; for here indeed the Shore was cover'd with
innumerable Turtles, whereas on the other Side I had
iound but three in a Year and half. Here was alfo an
infinite
infinite Number of Fowls of many Kinds, fonie of which
I had not feen before, and many of them very good
Meat ; but fuch as I knew not the Names ofy except
thofe call'd Penguins*
I could have fhot as many as I p leafed, but was very
fparing of my Powder and Shot; and therefore had
more Mind to kill a She-Goat, if I could, which I
could better feed on : And tho* there were many Goats
here more than on the other Side the Ifland, yet it was
with much more Difficulty that I could come near
them, the Country being flat and even, and they law
me much fooner than when I was on the Hills.
I confefs this Side of the Country was much plea-
fa nter than mine, but yet I had not the lead Inclination
to remove; for as I was fixed in my Habitation, it be-
came natural to me, and I feem'd all the while I was
here, to be as it were upon a Journey, and from Home;
However, I travell'd along the Shore of the Sea, to-
wards the Eaft, I fuppofe about twelve Miles; and then
letting up a great Pole upon the Shore for a Mark, I
concluded I would go Home again ; and that the next
Journey I took, fhould be on the other Side of the I (land,
Eafl from my Dwelling, and ib round, till I came to my
Pod again. Of which in its Place.
I took another Way to come back than that I went,
thinking I could eafily keep all the Ifland fo much in.
my View, that I could not mil's finding my firft Dwel-
ling by viewing the Country ; but I found my felf mis-
taken ; for being come about two or three Miles, I found
my felf defcended into a very large Valley; but fo fur-
rounded with Hills, and thofe Hills covered with.
Woods, that I could not fee which was my Way by any
Direction but that of the Sun, nor even then, unlefs I
knew very well the Poiition of the Sun at that Time oi
the Day.
It happened, to my farther Misfortune, that the
Weather prov'd hazey for three or four Days, while I
was in this Valley; and not being able to fee the Sun, I
wander'd about very uncomfortably, and at laft wa$
obliged to find out the Sea-Side, look for my pod, ancl
comeback the fame Way I went; and then by eafy
Journeys \ turn'd homeward, the Wuthtr being ex-
F 5 ceeding
ceeding hot, and my Gun, Ammunition, Hatchet, and
other Things very heavy.
In this Jouriuy my Dog. furpriz'd a young Kid, and
feiz'd upon it, and I running in to take hold of it,
caught it, and i'av'd it alive from the Dog; I had a
great Mind to bring it home; if I could ;for I had often
been mufing, whether it might not be poiUble to get
a Rid or two, and Jo raife a Breed of tame Goats, which
might iupply me when my Powder and Shot fhould be
(pent.
I made a Collar to this little Creature, and \Aitb a
String which I made of fome Rope-Yarn which I al-
ways carried about me, I led him along, tho1 with fome
Difficulty, till I came to my Bower, and there I enclos'd
him, and left him ; for I was very impatient to be at
Home, from whence I had been ablent above a Month,
I cannot exprefs what a Satisfa&ion it was to me, to
come into my old Hutch, and lie down in my Ham-
mock-Bed : This little wandring Journey, without fet-
tled Place of Abode, had been lb unpleafant to me, that
my own Houfe, as I calPd it to my felf, was a perfeft
Settlement to me, compar'd to that ] and it render'd
every thing about me fo comfortable, that I refolv'd I
would never go a great Way from it again, while it
jQlould be my Lot to {lay on the Ifland.
I repos'd my felf here a Week, to reft and regale my
&lf after my long Journey ; during which, moft of ther
Time was taken up in the weighty Affair of making a
Cage for my PoH, who began now to be a meer Do-
Kieflick, and to be mighty well acquainted with me-
Then I began to think of the poor Kid, which I had
pent in within my little Circle, and refolv'd to go and
fetch it Home, or give it fome Food ; accordingly I
went, and found it where I left it; for indeed it could
not get out, but was almoft ftarVd for want of Food t
J went and cut Boughs of Trees, and Branches, ©f fuch
Shrubs-as I Could find, and threw it. over, and having,
ted it, I ty'd it as I did before, to lead it away; but ic
was fo tame with, befog, hungry, that I bad no need to
have ty'd it; for it foliow'd me like a Dog; and as I
continually fed it, the Creature became fo loving, fo<
gentle,, and fo fond, that it became from, that time one
( ™7J
of my Domefticks alfo, and would neVer leave me af-
terwards.
The rainy Seafon of the Autumal Equinox was now-
come, and I kept the 30th of September in the fame ib-
lemn manner as before, being the Anniverfary of my
Landing on the Ifland, having now been there two-
Years, and no more Profpeft of being deliver'd than the
iirft Day I came there. I ipent the whole Day in hum-
ble and thankful Acknowledgments of the many won-
derful Mercies which my folitary Condition was attend-
ed with, and without which it might have been infinite-
ly more miferable. I gave humble and hearty Thanks-
that God had been pleaied todifcover to me, even that
it was poflible I might be more happy in this folitary
Condition, than I ihould have been in a Liberty of
Society, and in all the Pleafures of the World. That
He could fully make up to me the Deficiences of my
folitary State, and the wane of Human Society, by his
Prefence, and the Communication of his Grace to my*
Soul, fupporting, comforting, and encouraging, me io«
depend upon his Providence here, and hope for his
Eternal Prefence hereafter.
It was now that I began fenflbly to feel how much
more happy the Life I now led was, with all its mifera--
bleCircumfiances, than the wicked, curfed abominably
Life I led all the pad Part of my Days j and now hav-
ing changed both my Sorrows and my Joas; my very
Defires alcer'd, my A fFe&ions changed their Gufts, and
my Delights were perfe^ly new, from what they
were at tirfi coming, or indeed for the two Years
pail, ^
Before, as I walk'd about, either on my Hunting, or
for viewing the Country, the AnguUhof my Soul at my
Condition wfuld break out upon me on a fodden, and'
my very He4art would die within me, to t'hijt|fc.jof th<$
W oocis, the Mountains, theDefarts- I was.in; ^rid hovr
1 was a Prifoner lock'i ax$ wkh the Eternal Bars/a^
Bolts of the Ocean, in an uninhabited W-Ud<?rnef$A with-
out Redemption. In the midfl of the gveateft* Comps^
fures of my Mind^ this would break out upon me like-a-
^Storm, and make me wring my Hands^ and weep like
a. Child, Soin&timcs it would take me in the J&id^ks
of my Work, and I would immediately fit down and
iigb, and look upon the Ground for an Hour or two to-
gether j and this w*s ftil] worfe to to me ; for if I could
Uirit out into Tears, or vent my felr by Words, it
woudgo off, and the Grief having exhaufted it felt
would abate. *
But now I began to exercife my felf with new
i noughts > I daily read the Word of God, and apply'd
ail the Comforts of it to my prefent State. One Morn-
»ng being very fad, I opened the Bible upon thefe Words,
J will never, never leave tbee, nor forfake thee ; immedi-
ately it occur'd, that thefe Words were tome, why
ehe ihould they be direAed in fuch a?-Manner, juft at
the Moment when I was mourning over my Condition
as one forftken of God and Man ? Well then, faid I,'
it God does not forfake me, of what ill Confequence
can it be, or what matters it, tho' the World ihould
ail arfake me ; feeing on the other Hand, if I had all
the World, and fhould lofc the Favour and Blefling of
God, there would !>e no Companion in the Lofs.
From this Moment I began to conclude in my Mind,
that it was pofTible for me to be more happy in this for-
feken, iblitary Condition, than it was probable I fhould
have eVer been in any other particularState in theWorld;
^nd with this Thought I was going to give Thanks
to God for bringing me to this Place.
I know not what it was, but fomething fhockM my
Mind at that Thought, and I durft not fpeak the Words :
How canft thou be fuch an Hypocrite (faid F, even audi-
bly; to pretend to be thankful for a Condition, which
however thou may'fl endeavour to - be contented with,
thou wouldft rather pray heartily to be delivered from ;
io I ftopt there: But tho11 could not fay, 1 thank'd God
for being there ; yet I fmcerely gave Thanks to God
for- opening my Eyes, by whatever affti&ing Providences-,
to fee the former Condition of my Life, and to mourn
for my Wickednefs, and repent. I never openM the
Bible or ifmt it, by my very Soul within me blefs'd God
ior directing my Friend in England, without any Or-
der of mine, to pack it up among my Goods; and for
affilling me afterwards to lave it out of the Wreck of
the Skip.
Thu%
Thus, and in this Difpofition o? Mind, I began my
third Year \ and tho' I have not given.the Reader the
Trouble of fo particular an Account or' my Works this
Year as the firft ', yet in general it may be obferv'd, that
I was very feldom idle } but having regularly divided
my Time according to the feveral daily Employments
that were before me ; fuch as, Firfly my Duty to God,
and the reading Scriptures, which I conftantly fet apart
ibme time for, thrice every Day. Secondly, The going
Abroad with my Gun for Food, which generally took
me up three Hours in every Morning, when it did not
Rain. Thirdly y The ordering, curing, preierving and
cooking what I had kill'd or catch'd for my Supply ;
theie took up great Part of the Day : Alio it is to be
coniidered, that the Middle of the Day when the Sun
was in the Zenith, the Violence of the Heat was too
great to ftir out ; ib that about four Hours in the Eve-
ning was all the time I could be fuppofed to work in ;
with this Exception, that fometimes I changed myHours
of Hunting and Working, and went to Work in the
Morning, and Abroad with my Gun in the After-
noon.
To this fhort time allowed for Labour, I deiire may
be added the exceeding Laborioufnefs of my Work, the
mr.ny Hours which for want of Tools, want of Help,
and want of Skill, every thing I did, took up out of my
Time : For Example, I was full two and forty Days
making me a Board for a long Shelf, which I wanted in
my Cave ; whereas two Sawyers with their Tools, and
Saw-Pit, would have cut fix of them out of the fame
Tree in half a Day.
My Cafe wras this ; it was to be a large Tree which
was to be cut down, becaufe icy Board was to" be a
broad one. This Tree I was three Days a cutting
down, and two more cutting ofFthe Boughs, and reduc-
ing it to a Log, or Piece of Timber. With inexpreflt*
ble hacking and hewing I reduced both the Sides of it
into Chips, till it begun to be light enough to move;
then I turn'd it, and made one Side of it imooth, and
£at, as a Board from End to End ; then turning that
fide downward, cut the other fide, till I brought the
Plank to be about three Inches thick, and fmooth on both
Sides.
Sides. Any one may judge the Labour of my Hands m
fiich a Vicce of Work ; but Labour and Patience carry'd
me thro' that, and many other things : I only obferve
this in particular, to {hew the Reafon why fo much of
my Time went away with (o little Work, vi^ that
what might be a little to be done with Help and Tools,
was avail Labour, and requir'd a prodigious tinae to do
alone, and by Hand.
But notwithftanding this, with Patience and Labour
I went thro* many things, and indeed every thing that
my Circumfhnces mad« necefTary to me to do, as will
appear by what follows.
i was now in the Months of November and December,
expecting my Crop of Barley and Rice. The Ground
I had manur'd or dug up for them was not great \ for
as I obferv'd, my Seed of each was not above the Quan-
tity of halt a Peck \ for I had loft one whole Crop by
fowingin the dry Seafon; but now my Crop promis'd
very well, when on a fudden I found I was in Danger
of lofmgit all again by Enemies of leveral Sorts, which
it was fcarce poifible to keep from it', as fir ft, the Goats,
and wild Creatures which i calf d Hares, who tailing
the Sweetnefs of the Blade, lay in it Night and Day,
as ibon as it came up, and eat it fo clofe, that it could
get no time to fhoot up into Stalk.
This i faw no Remedy for, but by making an Enclo-
fure about it with a Hedge, which I did with a great
deal of Toil • and the more, becaufe it requir'd a greafc
deal of Speed; the Creatures daily fpoiling my Corn,
However, as my Arable Land was but fmall,. fuited to
my Crop, I got it totally well fenced in about three
Weeks time ; and {hooting (omeof the Creatures in the
Day-time, I kt my Dog to guard it in the Night, ty-
ing him up to a Stake at the Gate, wjierehe would (land
and bark all Night long ; fo in a htfle time the Enemies
fprlook the place,, and the Corn grew very ft-rong and
*yel], and began to ripen apace.
But asthe Beafts ruined me before, while my Corn
%yas in the 'Blade, fo the Birds were as likely, to ruin
me*now, when it was in the Ear ; for going along by
the Place to fee how it throve, I faw my little Crop
Surrounded with -Fowl* :of J ;know. not bow many
Sorts^
Sorts, who flood as it were watching till I fhoirld be
gone. I immediately let fly among them (for I always
had my Gun with me.) i had no fboner {hot, but there
role up a little Cloud of Fowls, which I had not feen
at all, from among the Corn it ielT.
This touch'd me feniibly, for I forefaw, that in a
few Days they would devour all my Hopes, that I
fhould beflarv'd, and never be able to raiie a Crop
at all, and what to do I could not tell: However, Ire-
folv'd not to lole my Com, if poilible, tho' I ihould
watch it Night and Day, In the firft Place, I went a-
mong it to lee what Damage was already done, and
found they had fpoil'd a good deal u^ it; but that as it
was yet too green for them, the lois was not fo great,
but that the remainder was like to be a good Crop if
it could be fav'd.
I ftaid by it to load my Gun, and then coming away
I could eafily fee the Thieves fitting upon all the Trees
about me, as if they only waited till I was gone away,
and the Event proved it to be fo ; for as I walk'd off as-
if I was gone, I was no {boner out of their Sight, but
they dropt down one by one into the Corn again. I
was lb provok'd, that I could not have^ Patience to (lay
till more came on, knowing that eaa^l8*a4|yjhat they
eat now, was, as it might " * ^Fj^tj^^ ^* ^^HSwL
in the Confequenre ; but comin^pm^Hhe v Hedge, j£jF*
fired again, and kilfd three ofthenn This w$s.*$%£ I
vviiVd for; fo I took them up, and ferv'd'"fhem as wf£
fcrve notorious Thieves in England, ( v\\ ) Hanged
them in Chains for a Terror to others. It is impoilihle
to imagine almoft, that this fhould have fuch an £fFe<5t
as it had ; for the Fowls would not only not come at.
the Corn, but in lliort they for look all that Part of the
Ifland, and I could never fee a Bird near the Place a$>
long as my Scare-Crows hung there.
This I was very glad of, yoa may before; and about
the latter End of December, which was out fecond Hal-
ved: of the Year, I reaped my Crop.
I was fadly put to it for a Scythe or. a Sickle to cut
k down, and all I could do was no make one as well
as I could out of ore of the broad Swords or Cutlafles,
which 1 fay 'd among the Arms out of the Ship. How-
ever*
 ever, as my firfl Crop was but fmall, I had no great
Difficulty to cut it; down: In fhort, I reap'd it my
way, for 1 cut nothing off but the Ears, and carry'd it
away in a great Basket which 1 had made, and lb- rubb'd
it out with my Hands : And at the End of all my Har-
vefting, I found that out of my halfPeck of Seed, I had
near two Bufhels of Rice, and above two Bufhels and a
half of Barley, that is to faj> by my Guefs, for I had no
Meafure at that time.
However, this was a great Encouragement to me ;
and I fore law that in time, it would pleafe God to fup-
ply me with Bread : And yet here I was perplex'd a-
gain, for I neither knew how to grind or make Meal of
my Corn, or indeed how to clean it and part it; nor
if made into Meal, how to make Bread of- it j and if
how to make it, yet I knew not how to bake it. Thefe
things being added to my Defire of having a good
Quantity for Store, and to fecure a conftant Supply, 1
relolv'd not to tafteany of this Crop, but to preferve it
all for Seed againft the next Seafon, and in the mean time
to employ all my Study and Hours of working to ac-
complifh this great Work of providing my felf with Corn
and Bre: ^ ^^
It mJifcair."" ^'nBaifiiid, that now I work'd for my
rider ful, and what I believe few
ffch upon, (v/^.)the llrange Mui-
fc^'-itti^v thTngs neceflfari in the Providing,Produc-
Ffg^ Curing, TDreiTing, Making and Finifhing this one
Article of Bread.
I that was reduced to a meer State of Nature, found
this to be my daily Difccuragement, and was made
more and more fenfible of it every Hour, even after
I got the firft handful o(* Seed-Corn, which, as I
have laid, came up unexpectedly, and indeed to a Sur-
prize.
Firft, I had no Plow to turn up the Earth, no Spade
or Shovel to dig it. Well this I conquei'd, by making
a wooden Spade, as I obferved before ; but this did my
Work but in a wooden Manner ; and tho* it coft me a
great many Days to make it, yet for want of Iron it not
only wore out the fooner, but made my Work the har-
der, and made it be performed much worie,
How
 i«ffc
However, this I bore with too, and wascontent to work
ic out with Patience, and bear with the Badnefs of the
Performance. When the Corn was (bw'd, 1 had no
Harrow, but was forced to go over it my felrj and drag a
great heavy Bough of li Tree over it, toicratch the Earth
as it may be call d, rather than Rake or Harrow it.
W hen it was growing and grown, 1 have obi'erv'd al-
ready how many things 1 wanted, to fence it, iecure it,
mow or reap it, cure and scarry it Home, thrafh, part
it rrom the Chaff, and lave it. Then I wanted a Mill
to grind it, Sieves to dreis it, Yeaft and Salt to make it
into Bread, and an Oven to bake it ; and all theie
things I did without, as ftra'tl be obferved ; and yet
the Corn was an ineftiiuable Comfort and Advantage to
me too. But all this as I laid, made every thing laborious
and tedious to me, but that there was no Help for ; nei-
ther was my time lb much Lois to me, becaufe I had
divided it, a certain Part of it was every Day appoint-
ed to theie Works > and as I refohrd to ule none of the
Corn for Bread till I had a greater Quantity by me, I
had the next fix Months to apply my felf wholly by La-
bour and Invention to furniih my felf with Utenfils
proper for the performing all the Operations neceffary
for the making the Corn (when I liasU^
Ufe. J^:f ^'
But firft, I was to prepare moripv:
Seed enough to fow above an Acfew-Gsss^^
I did this, i had a W7eek's Work at leafl tS^malt
Spade, which when it was done, was but a forry one
indeed, and very heavy, and required double Labour to
work with it; however 1 went thro* that, and fow'd
my Seed in two large flat Pieces of Ground, as near
my Houfe as I could hnd them to my Mind, and fene'd
tkemin with a good Hedge, the -Stakes of which were
all cut of that Vv ood which I had fet before, which I
knew would grow, ib that in one Year's time .1 knew I
iliould have a Quick or Living Hedge, that would want
but little Repair. This work was not ib little as to
take me up lei's than three Months, becaufe great Part
of that time was of the wet Seaibn, when I could not
go abroad.
Within
 Within Door, that is, when it rained, andlcouTd
not go out, I found Employment on th® following Oc-
cafions, always obferving, that all the while I was at
Work, I diverted my felf with talking, to my Parrot,
and teaching him to Speak; and I quickly learned him
to know his own Name., and at laft to fpeak it out
pretty loud, POLL, which was the firft Word I ever
heard fpokerrin the iftand by any Mouth but my own.
This therefore was not my Work, but an Affiitant to
my Work ; for now, as I faid, I had a great Employment
upon my Hanfis, as follows, (vi^O I had long ftudy'd, by
fome Mieans or other, to make my felf fom; EarthenVei-
fcls, which indeed I wanted forely, but knew not where
to come at them : However, confidering the Heat of the
Climate, I did not doubt but if I could find out any
fucb Clay, I might botch, up fome fuch Pot, as might,
being dry'd in the Sun, be hard enough, and ftrong
enough to bear handling, and to hold any Thing that
was dry, and required to be kept fo ; and as this was
neceflary in the preparing Corn, Meal, &c. which was
the Thing I was upon, I refolved to make fome as large
as I could, and fit only to ftand like Jars to hold what
ihould be put into them,
It would nrt&^he Reader pity me, or rather laugh
at mflBBaflTOR howjS^iiy aukward Ways I took to raife
(HfiTSfte,, what^adtWmiiliapeii ugly Things I made,
liow many of them fell in, and how many fell out, the
Q»^^tn'6eing ftifF enough to bear its own Weight \
how many craek'd by the over violent Heat of theSuny
being let out too ha'fHly; and how many fell in Pieces-
xvith only removing, as well before as after they were
dry'd; and in a Word, how after having, laboured hard
to find the Clay, to dig it, to temper it, to bring it
home and work it, I could not make above two large>
Earthen ugly things, I cannot call them Jars, in about,
two Months Labour.
However, as the Sun baked thefe two very dry and
hard, I lifted them very gently up, and fet them down,
again in two great Wicker-Baskets, which I had made
on purpofe for them, that they might not break ; and
as between the Pot and the Basket there was a little
rooi»;
  room to fpare, I ftufPd it full of the Rice and Barley
Straw, and thefe two Pots being to ftand always dry, 1
thought would hold my dry Corn, and perhaps tho-
Meal when the Corn was bruited.
Tho' I mifcarried fo much in my Deflgn for large
Pots, yet I made feveral imailer things with better Sue-
cefs ; iuch as little round Pots, flat Difh.es, Pitchers,
and Pipkins, and any thing my Hand turn'd to, and
the Heat "of the Sun bak'd them ftran^ely hard.
But all this would not anfwer my End, which was
to get an Earthen Pot to hold what was Liquid, and
bear the Fire, which none of thefe could do. It hap-
pened after fome time, making a pretty large Fire for
cooking my Meat, when I went to put it out after I
had done with it, I found a broken Piece of one of my
Earthen-ware Veffels in the Fire, burnt as hard as a
Stone, and red as a Tile. I was agreeably furpriz'd to
fee it, and laid to my felf, that certainly they might
be made to burn whole, if they would burn bro-
ken.
This fee me to ftudying how to order my Fire, fo as
to make it burn rue fome Pots. I had no Notion of a
Kiln, fuch as the Potters burn in, or of glazing them
with Lead, thoJ I had fome Lead to doit with ; but I
placM three large Pipkins, and two or three Pots in a
Pile one upon another, and plac'd my Fire-wood all
round it with a great Heap of Embers under them ;
I ply'd the Fire with freih Fuel round the Outfide, and
upon the Top, till I faw the Pots in the Infide red hot
quite thro1, and obferved that they did not crack at all ;
when I law them clear red, I let them ftand in that
Heat about ^ or 6 Hours, till I found one of them, tho*
it did not crack, did melt or run, for the Sand which?
was mix'd with the Clay melted by the Violence of the
Heat, and would have run into GlaO if I had gone on ;.
fo 1 flack'd my Fire gradually, till the Pots began to a-
bate of the red Colour, and watching them all Night,
that I might not let the Fire abate to fail:, in the Morn-
ing I had three very good, I will not fay handibme Pip-
kins, and two other Earthen Pots, as hard burnt as
could be deiir'd •, and one of them perfeftly glaz'd
with the Running of the Sand*
And
After this Experiment, I need not fay that I wanted
no fort of Earthen Ware for my Vie; but I muft needs
fry, as to the Shapes of them, they were very indiffe-
rent, as any one may fuppofe, when I had no Way of
making them, but as the Children make Dirt-Pies, or as
a Woman would make Pies that never learnt to raife
Pafle.
No Joy at a Thing of fo mean a Nature was ever
equal to mine, when 1 found I had made an Earthen
Pot that would bear the Fire; and I had hardly Pa-
tience to (lay till they were cold, before I fct one upon
the Fire again, with fome Water in it, to boil me fome
Meat, which I did admirably well; and with a Piece
of a Kid 1 made fome very good Broth, tho' i wanted
Oatmeal, and feveral other ingredients requifite to make
it fo good as I would have had it been.
My next Concern was, to get me a Stone-Mortar
to (lamp or beat fome Corn in ; for as to the Mill, there
was no Thought at arriving to that Perfection of Art,
with one Pair of Hands. To fupply this Want I was
at a great Lofs ; for of all Trades in the World 1 was as
perfectly unqualified for a Stone-Cutter, as for any
whatever; neither had I any Tools to go about it with.
I fpent many a Day to find out a great btone big enough
to cut hollow, and make fit for a Mortar, and could
find none at all, except what was in the folid Rock, and
which I had no Way to dig or cut out} nor indeed
were the Rocks in the Ml and of Hardnefs fufficient, but
were all of a fandy crumbling Stone, which would nei-
ther bear the Weight of a heavy Peftle, or would break
the Corn without filling it with Sand : So after a great
deal of Time loll in fearching for a Stone, I gave it
over, and refolv'd too look out a great Block of hard
Wood, which I found indeed much eafler ; and getting
one as big as I had Strength to flir, I rounded it, and
fbrm'd it on the Outiide with my Axe and Hatchet, and
then with the Help of Fire and infinite Labour, made
a hollow Place in it, as the Indians in Brafil make their
Cannes. After this, I made a great heavy Peftle or
Beater, oi the Wood calfd the Iron-Wood, and this I
prepared and laid by againft I had my next Crop of
Com,
Corn, when I propos'd to my felf to grind, or rather
pound my Corn into Meal to make my Bread.
My next Difficulty was to make a Sieve, or Searfe, to
dreis my Meal, and to part it from the Bran and the
Husk, without wrhich I did not fee it pofllble I could
have any Bread. This was a moft difficult Thing, lb
much as but to think on ; for to be fure I had nothing
like the neceiTary Thing to make it with ; I mean £ne
thin Canvas, or Stuff to fearch the Meal through. And
here I was at a full Stop for many Months; nor did I
really know what to do; Linnen I had none left, but
what was meer Rags *, I had Goats Hair, but neither
knew I how to weave it or fpin it; and had I known
how, here was no Tools to'work it with; all the Re-
medy that I found for this, was, That at laffc I did re-
member I had among the Seamens Cloaths which were
fav'd out of the Ship, ibmeNeckcloaths of Callicoe or
Muflin; and with fome Pieces of theie I made three
fmall Sieves, but proper enough for the Work; and thus
I made fhift for fome Years; how I did afterwards, I
{hall fhew in its Place.
The. baking Part was the next thing to be confider'd,
an<f1iW I ihould make Bread when I came to have
Corn ; for firlt I had no Yeafl: As to that Part, as
there ;was no fupplying the Want, lb I did not concern
rnyfelf much about it: But for an Oven, I was indeed
in great Pain. At length I found out an Experiment
for that alio, which was this; I made fome Earthen
VcfTels very broad, but not deep ; that is to fay, about
two Foot Diameter, and not above nine Inches deep;
thefe I burnt in the Fire, as I had done the other, and
laid them by; and when I wanted to bake, I made a
great Fire upon my Hearth, which I had pav'd with
fome fquare Tiles of my own making and burning alio;
but I fhould not call them fquare.
When the Fire-wood was burnt pretty much into
Embers, or live Coals, I drew them forward upon this
Hearth, (6 as to cover it all over, and there I let them
lye, till the Hearth was very hot; then fweeping away
all the Embers, I fet down my Loaf^ or Loaves, and
whelming down the Earthen Pot upon them, drew the
Embers all round the Outiide of the Pot, to keep in,
and
$n<l add to the Heat; and thus, as well as in the Bed
Oven in the World, I bak'd my Barley-Loaves, and be-
came in little time a meer Paltry-Cook into the-Bar-
gain ; for I made my felf feveral Cakes of the Rice, and
Puddings ; indeed 1 made no Pies, neither had I any
thing to put into them, fuppofing I had, except the
Flefh either of Fowls or Goals.
It need not be wondered at, it all thefe things took
me up moft Part or the third Year of my Aboad here ;
for it is to be obferv'd, that in the Intervals of thefe
Things, I had my new Harvefl: and Husbandry to ma-
nage ^ for I reap'd my Corn in its Sealbn, and carried it
Home as well as I could, and laid it up in the Ear, in
my large Baskets, till I had Time to ruo it out; for I
had no Floor to thrafli it on, or Inflrument to thraih it
with.
And now indeed my Stock of Corn encreafing, I
really wanted to build my Barns bigger : I wanted a
Place to lay it up in; for the Increafe of the Corn now
yielded me Co much, that I had of the Barley about
twenty Bufhels, and of the Rice as much, or more ; in-
•fcirmeh, that now I refolved to begin to ufe it|&gely,
for my Bread had been quite gone a great whilogj " **
refolved to fee what Quantity would be fuffi|«L
me a whole Year, and to low but once a. Year. ^fk/
Opori the whole, 1 found that the forty Bufbels of
Barley and Rice wss much more than I could con fume
in a Year ; fo I refolved to low juffc the fame Quantity
-every Year that I ibw'd the lait, in hopes that fuch a,
Quantity would fully provide me with Bread, S3V.
All the while thefe things were doing, you may be
fure my Thoughts run many times upon the Profpeft of
Land which 1 had feen irom the other Side of the
JOand, and I was not without fecret Wiih.es that I was
on Shore there, fancying that feeing the main Land, and
art inhabited Country, L might find fome Way or other
to convey my felf farther, and perhaps at laft iindfome
Means of E(cape.
But all this while I made no Allowance for the Dan-
gers of fuch a Condition, and how I might fall into the
Hands of Savages, and perhaps fuch as I might have
Reafon to think far worie than the Lions and Tigers of
Africa. That if I once came into their Power, I ihould
run a Hazard more than a thouiand to one of being
kiifd, and perhaps of being eaten; for I had heard,
that the People of the CarribeanCozfts were Cannibals,
or Men-eaters; and I knew by the Latitude, that I could
not be far oiF from that Shore. That fuppoie they were
not Cannibals, yet that they might kill me, as many
Europeans who had fallen into their Hand had been icr-
ved, even when they had been ten or twenty together;
much more I that-was but one, and could make little
or no Defence. All theie things, I lay, which I ought
to have confjder'd well of, and I did cad up in my
Thoughts afterwards, yet took up none of- my Appre-
henlions at firft; and my Head run mightily upon the
Thoughts of getting over to that Shore.
Now I with'd for my Boy Xury, and the Long-Boat
with the Shoulder of Mutton Sail, with which I fail'd
above a Thouiand Miles on the CoaQ: of Jfrnk\ but
this was in vain. Then I thought I wrould go and look
on our Ship's Boat, which, as I have laid, was blown
up upon the Shore a great Way in the Storm, when we
were iirffc cafb away. She lay almoit where ilie did at
^",!|fat not quite ; and was turn'd by the force of the
almoft: Bottom upwa: 1, ^j/.'-nft
BMfi&Qd; but*- 3 Water about
lieras before..
If I had had Hands to haveVSfltteS her, and to have
launch'd her into the W^ater, the Boat would have d Jne
well enough, and I might have gone back into t\\e*jPrji~
fits with her eafily enough \ but I might ha^e^eafily Td*&j$
feen, that I could no more turn her, and fej: her up*^1
right upon her Bottom, than 1 could remove the liland.
However, I went to the W7ood and cut Levers and Rol-
lers, and brought them to the Boat, relblv'd to try
what I could do; fuggefting to my ielf] that if I could
but turn her down, 1 might eafily repair the Damage
ilie had received, and fhe would be a very good Boat,
and I might go to Sea in her very eafily.
I (pared no Pains indeed in this Piece of fruitlefs
Toil, and fpent, I think, three or four Weeks about
it; at laft finding it impofTible to heave it up with my
little Strength, I fell to»digging away the Sand to un-
dermine
 dtermlne it, and fo to make it fall down, fetting Pieces
of Wood to thruft and guide it right in the Fall.
But when I had done this, I was unable to ftir it up
again, or to get under it, much lefs to move it forwards
towards the Water ; fo I was forc'd to give it over ;
and yet, tho* I gave over the Hopes of the Boat, my
Defire to venture over for the Main increafed, rather
than decreafed, as the Means for it feem'd import!hie.
This at length put me upon thinking, whether it was
not poflible to make my felf a Can.t or Periagua, fuch as
the Natives of thofe Climates make, even without Tools,
or, as I might fay, without Hands, vi\. of the Trunk
of a great Tree. This I not only thought poflible, but
ea(y, and pleas'd my felf extreamly with the Thoughts
of making it, and with my having much more Conve-
nience for it than any of the Ntgrus or Indians \ hut not
at all confldering the particular Inconveniences which I
lay under, more than the Indians did, 17?. Want of
Hands to move it into the Water, when it was made;
a Difficulty much harder for me to fur mount, than all
the Confequences of Want of Tools could be to them:
For what was it to m^, that when I had chofen a vait
Tree in the Woods, I might with great Trouble cut it
down, if after I might be able with m^.-Tools to hew
and dub the Outfide int0^^^K^ Shape, ©fl-a Boat, and
burn or cut out the InfidejpHtKe it hollow, fo to make
a Boat of it, if after all this, I mufl leave it juft there
where I found it, and was not able to launch it into the
Water.
One would have thought, I could not have had the
ieail Reflexion upon my Mir.d of my Cireumftance,
while 1 was making this Boat, but I fhould have im-
mediately thought how I fhould get it into the Sea;
but my Thoughts were Co intent upon my Voyage over
the Sea in it, that I never once confider'd how I
fhould get it off of the Land ; and it was really in its
own Nature more eafy for me to guide it over forty five
Miles of Sea, than about Forty five Fathom of Land,
where it lay, to fct it a-float in the Water.
I went to work upon this Boat the mold like a Fool
that ever Man did, who had any of his Senfes awake.
I pleas'd my felf with the Defign, without determin-
ing
tng whether t was ever able to undertake it; not hut
that the Difficulty of launching my Boat, came often
into my Head; but I put a {lop to my own Enquiries
into it, by this foolifh Anfwer which I gave my (elfi
Letmefirft make it, PU warrant P U find fowe Way or ether
to get it along, when 'tis done*
This was a mod prepofierous Method ; but the £a-
gernefs of my Fancy prevail'd, and to work 1 went, and
fel?d a Cedar-Tree: I queilion much whether Solomon
ever had fuch a one for the Building the Temple at
Jerusalem \ It was £ve Foot ten Inches Diameter at
the lower Part next the Stump, and four Foot eleven
Inches Diameter at the End of twenty two Foot, after
which it leiTen'd for a while, and then parted into
Branches: It was not without infinite Labour that I
fell'd this Tree: I was twenty Days hacking and hew-
ing at it at the Bottom; I was fourteen more getting
the Branches and Limbs, and the vaft fpreading Head
of it cut off, which I hack'd and hew'd through with
Axe and Hatchet, and inexpreflible Labour: After this,
it cofl me a Month to lhape it, and dub it to a Pro-
portion^ and to fomething like the Bottom oC a Boat,
that it might fwim upright as it ought to do. It cofk
me near three Months more to clear the Infide, and
vtork it out- fo, as to rnake an exacl: Boat of it: This I
did indeed without Fir%^by mere Mallet and Chiffel,
and by the dint of hard Lafkur, till I had brought it
to be a very handfome Periagua^ and big enough to
have carried fix and twenty Men, and confecmencly big
enough to have carried me and all my Cargo.
W hen I had gone through this Work, I was extreme*
ly delighted with it; The Boat was really much big-
ger than I ever faw a Ganoe> or Periagua, that was made
of one Tree, in my Life4 Many a weary Stroke it had
coil, you may be fure, for there remained nothing but
to get it into the Water ; and had I gotten it into the
Water, I make no queftion, but I fhould have began
the maddefl Voyage and the moll unlikely to be per-
form'd, that ever was undertaken.
But all my Devices to get it into the Water fail'd me,
though they coft me infinite Labour too ; It lay about
one hundred Yards from the Water, and not more, but
G ' the
flie firfl Inconvenience was, it was up Hill towards the
Creek : Well, to take away this Diicouragement, I re-
folv'd to dig into the Surface of the Earth, and fo make
a Declivity : This I begun, and it cq& me a prodigious
deal of Pains ; But who grudges Pains, that have their
Deliverance in View? But when this was worked
through, and this Difficulty manag'd, it was (till much
at one ; for I could no more (tir the Canoe than I could
the other Boat.
Then I meafur'd theDiftance of Gr(3und,andrefohr>d
to cut a Dock, or Canal, to bring the Water up to the
Canoe, feeing I could not bring the Canoe down to the
Water: Well, I began this Work, and when I began to
enter into it, and calculated how deep it was to be dug,
how broad, how the Stuff to be thrown out, I found,
that by the Number of Hands I had, feeing none but my
own, it mud have been ten or twelve Years before I
fliould have gone through with it; for the Shore lay
high, fo that at the upper End it mud have been at leaft
twenty Foot deep •, fo at length, tho' with great Re-
lu#ancy, I gave this Attempt over alio.
This griev'd me heartily, and now I faw, tho' too
late, the Folly of beginning a Work before we~count the
Cofl, and before we judge rightly of our own Strength
to go through with it. 1 ...
In the middle of this V^c^fc, I firiifh'd my fourth
Year in this Place, and kept my Anniverfary with the
fame Devotion, and with as much Comfort as ever be-
fore; for by a confrant Study, and ferious Application
.of the Word of God, and by the AfTiftance of his
Grace, I gain'd a different Knowledge from what I had
before : 1 entertained different Notions of things ; I
looked now upon the World as a thing remote, which I
had nothing to do with, no Expe&ation from, and in-
deed no Defires about; In a Word, I had nothing in-
deed to do with it, nor was ever like to have ; fo I
thought it look'd as we may .perhaps look upon it here-
after, vi%. as a Place I had lived in, but was come out
of it > and well might I fay, as Father Abraham to Dlves%
Between me and thee isagreal Gulphfixed.
In the firft Place, T was removed from all the Wfc-
Jrednefs of the World hm: I had neither the Luft of the
FJeJb,
J?lejby the Lt$ of the Eye, or the Pride of Life-: I had
nothing to covet; for I had all that I was now capable
of enjoying: I was Lord of the whole Manor, or if I
pleas1 d I might call my feif King, or Emperor over the
whole Country which I had PoffriEon ot : There were
no Rivals: I had no Competitor, none to difpute So-
vereignty or Command with me : I might have rais'd
Ship-Loadings of Corn, but I had no Ufe for it\ to I
let as little grow as I thought enough for my Occafion;
I had Tortoife or Turtles enough; but now and then
one was as much as I could put to any Uie .• I had
Timber enough to have built a Fleet of Ships: I had
Grapes enough to have made Wine, or to have car'd
into Raifins, to have loaded that Fleet when they had
been built.
But all I could make Ufe of, was AH that was vt>
-luable : I had enough to eat, and to fupply my Wants,
.and what was all the reft to me? If I kill'd more Flcfh
than I could eat, the Dog muft eat it, or the Vermin ;
if I fow'd more Corn than I could eat, it muft be^fpoil'd^
The Trees that I cut down were lying to rot on the
Ground, I could make no more Uie of them than for
Fewel, and.that I had no Occaiion for, but :to drels my
Food. ^
In-a-Word, the Nature and Experience of Things
dilated to me upon juft Reflection, that all the good
Things of this World, are no farther good to us, than
they are for our Uie; and that whatever we may heap
up indeed to give others, we enjoy as much as we can
ufe, and no more. The moft covetous griping Miler
in the World would have been cured of the Vice of Co-
vetoufnefs, if he had been in my Cafe; for I pofife$ed
infinitely more than 1 knew what to do with. I had no
room for Deilre, except it was of things which I had
not, and they were but Trifles, thoJ indeed of great Ufe
to me. I had, as I hinted before, a Parcel of Money,
as well Gold as Silver, above thirty fix Pounds Sterling:
Alas! there the naftv forry afeleis Stuff lay; I had no
planner of Bufinefe for it; and I often thought with my
ielf, that I would have given a Handful of it for aGrois
of Tobacco-Pipes, or for aHand-Mill to grind my Corn;
. siay, I would have given it all for Sispenfiy-worth dF
G 2 Turn*
Turnip and Carrot Seed out of England, or for a Handful
0 fPeafe and Beans9 and a Bottle of Ink: As it was> I
had not the leaft Advantage by it, or Benefit from it;
but there it lay in a Drawer, and grew mouldy with
the Damp of the Cave, in the wet Seafon; and if I had
had the Drawer full of Diamonds, it had been the fame
Cafe •, and they had been of no manner of Value to me,
becaufe of no UCq,
I had now brought my State of Life to be much eafier
In it ielf than it was at firft, and much eafier to my
Mind, as well as to my Body: I frequently fat dowti
to my Meat with Thankfulnefs, and admired the Hand
of God's Providence, which had thus fpread my Table
in the Wildernefs : I learned to look more upon the
bright Side of my Condition, and lefs upon the dark
Side ; and to coniider what I enjoy'd, rather than what
1 wanted ; and this gave me fometimes fuch fecret Com-
forts, that I cannot exprefs them; and which I take
Notice of here, to put thole difcontented People in
Mind of it, who cannot enjoy comfortably what God
has given them, becaufe they fee and covet fomething
that he has not given them : All our Difcontents about
what we want, appeared to me to fpring from theWant
of Thankfulnefs tor what we have.
Another Reflexion was of great Ufe to me,Vnl doubt-,
lefs would be fo to any one that fhould fall into fuch
Diftrefs as mine was *, and this was to compare my pre-
fent Condition with what I at firfl expe&ed it fhould
be ; nay, with what it would certainly have been, if
the good Providence of God had not wonderfully or-
der'd the Ship to be cad up nearer to the Shore, where
I not only could come at her, but could bring what I
got out of her to the Shore, for my Relief and Comfort;
without which, I had wanted Tools to work, Wea-
pons for Defence, or Gun-powder and Shot for getting
my Food.
I fpent whole Hours, I may fay whole Days, in re-
$>refenting to my felf in the mod lively Colours, how I
m\xd have a&ed, if I had got nothing out of the Ship;
how I could not have fo much as got any Food, except
Fifh and Turtles; and that as it was long before I found
any of them, I mud have perilled firft : That I fliould
have
have liv'd, if I had not perifh'd, like a meer Savage;
That if I had kill'd a Goat, or a Fowl, by any Con-
trivance, I had no way to ilea or open them, or part
the Fleih from the Skin and the Bowels, or to cut it
up ; but mud gnaw it with my Teeth, and pull it with
my Claws like a Beaffc.
Thefe Refle&ions made me very fenfible of the Good-
nefs of Providence to me, and very thankful for my
prefent Condition, with all its Hardfhips and Misfor-
tunes: And this Part alfo I cannot but recommend to
the Reflection of thofe who are apt in their Mifery to
fay, Is any Afflittion like mine ? L^t them confider, how
much worfe the Cafes offome People are, and what their
Cafe might have been, if Providence had thought fit.
I had another Refle&ion which aflifced me alio to
comfort my Mind with Hopes ; and this was compar-
ing my pre lent Condition with what I had deferv'd, and
had therefore Reafon to expe& from the Hand of Pro*
vidence : I had liv'd a dreadful Life, perfectly deftitute
of the Knowledge and Fear of God ; I had been well
inftru&ed by Father and Mother; neither had they been
wanting to me in their early Endeavours, to infufe a
religious Awe of God into my Mind, a Senfe of my
Duty, and of what the Nature and End of my Being
requir'd of me ; but alas! falling early into the Sea-
faring Life, which of all the Lives is the moil deftitute
of the Fear of God, tho' his Terrors are always before
them \ I fay, falling early into the Sea-faring life, and
into Sea-faring Company, all that litfle Senfe of Reli»
gion which I had entertain'd, was laught out of me by
my Mefs-Mates, by a harden'd defpiiing of Dangers,
and the Views of Death, which grew habitual to me,
by my long Abfence from all manner of Opportunities
to converfe with any thing but what was like my felf,
or to hear any thing that was good, or tended to-
wards it.
So void was I of every thing that was good, or of the
leaft $enfe of what I was, or was to be, that in the
greateft Deliverances I enjoy'd, fuch as my Efcape from
SaUees my being taken up by the Portuguese Mafter of
the Ship, my being planted fo well in Braftls, my re*
ceiving the Cargo from England, and the like, I never
G 3 onc&
once had the ^otAThank Gody fo much as on my Mini,
or in my Mouth ; nor in the greateft Diftrefs had I fo
much as a Thought to pray to him 5 or fo much as to
fay, Lord have mercy upon me ! no not to mention the
Name of God, unleis it was to fwear by, and blafpheme
if.
I had terrible Reflections upon my Mind for many
Months, as 1 have already obferv'd, on the Account of
my wicked and harden'd Life pall 5 and when I look'd
about me, and confider'd what particular Providences.
bad attended me lince my coming into this Place, and
bow God had dealt bountifully with me *, had not only
punifhed me left than my Iniquity had deferved, but
had to plentifully provided for me ; this gave me great
Hopes that my Repentance was accepted, and that
GOD had yetMercies in Store for me.
With thefe Reflections I work'd my Mind up, not
©nly to Resignation to the Will of God in the prefent
Dilpofition or" my Circumftances, but even to a fincere
Thanktulnefs for my Condition j and that 1 who was-
yet a living Man> ought not to complain*, feeing I had
not the due J*u>,ijhment of mj Sim \ that I enjpy'd fo
many Mercies which I had no Reafon to have expected
in that Place, that I ought never more to repine at
my Condition, but to rejpice, and to give daily Thanks
for that daily Iread which nothing but a Cloud of
Wonders-could have brought. That I ought to confi-
der; I had been fed even by a Miracle, even as great as
that of feeding. Elijah by Ravens ; nay, by a long Series
©f Miracles, and that 1 could hardly have.nam'da Place
in the uninhabited Part of the World, where I could
have been call more to my Advantage: A Flace, where
as I had no Society, which was my Affliction on one
Hand, fo I found no ravenous Beads, no furious Wolves,
©r*Tygers to threaten my Life \ no venomous Creatures-
or poiionous, which I mighr feed onto my Hurt,^no Sa?
vages to murder and devour ine.
In a Word, as my Life was a Life of Sorrow one
Way, fo it was a Life of Mercy another ; and I wanted
nothing to nuke it a Life of Comfort, - but to be able
to make my Senfe of God's Goodnefs to me, and Care
over me in this Condition, be my daily Confolation ;
and
and after I made a juft Improvement of tliefe Things,
I went away and was no more fad.
I had now been here fo long, that many Things which
I brought on Shore for my Help, were either quite
gone, or very much waited and near fpent.
My Ink, asl obferv'dj. had been gone for fome Time^
all but a very little, which I eek'd out with Water a lit-
tle and a little, till it was fo pale it fcarce left any Ap-
pearance of Black upon the Paper : As long as it lafled
I made ule of it to Minute down the Days of the
Month on which any remarkable Thing happen'd to
me j and firft by cafting up Times pad, I remember
that there was a ftrange Concurrence of Days, in the va-
rious Providences which befel me, and which, if I had
been fuperftitioufly inclin'd to obferve Days as Fatal or
Fortunate, I might have had Reafon to have look'd up*
on with a great deal of Curiofity.
F irft, I had obferv'd, that the fame Day that I broke
away from my Father and my Friends, and run a-
way to Had in order to go to Sea, the fame Day after-
wards I was taken by the Salleg Man of War, and made
a Slave,
The fame Day of the Year that I efcap'd out of the
Wreck of that Ship inTarmoutb Roads, that fame Day
of the Year afterwards I made my Efcape from Salkein
the Boat.
The fame Day of the Year I was born on, (vt^.) the
aoth of September, the fame Day I had my Life fo mi-
raculoufly faved 26 Years after, when I was call on
Shore in this I Hand ; fo that my wicked Life and foli-
tary Life began both on a Day.
The next Thing to my Ink's being wafted, was that
€>f my Bread, I mean the Bisket which I brought out of
the Ship; This I had husbanded to the lad Degree,allow-
ing my felf but one Cake of Bread a Day, for above a
Year; and yet I wras quite without Bread for a Year be-
fore I got any Corn or my own; and great Reafon I had
to be thankful that I had any at all, the getting it be-
ing, as has been already obferved, next to miraculous*
My Clothes began to decay too mightily: As to Lin-
nen, I had none a good while, except fome checquer'd
Shirts which I found in the Chefts ot the other Sea-
G 4* men,:
men, and which I carefully preferv'd, becaufe many
Times I could bear no other Clothes on but a Shirt;
and it was a very great Help to me that I had among
all the Mens Clothes of the Ship almoft three Dozen or'
Shim. There were alfo feveral thick Watch Coats of
the Sea mens., which were left indeed, but they were too
hot to wear ; and tho' it is true, that the Weather
was fo violent hot, that there was no need of Clothes,
yet I could not go quite naked ; no, tho' I had been
inclined to it, which I was not, nor could I abide the
Thoughts of it, tho51 was all alone.
One Reafon why I could not go quite naked, was,
I could not bear the Heat of the Sun fo well when
quite naked, as with fome Clothes on ; nay, the very
Heat frequently blifter'd my Skin ; whereas with a
Shirt on, the Air it felf made fome Motion, and whitt-
ling under that Shirt, was twofold cooler than without
it: No more could I ever bring my felf to go out in the
Heat of the Sun without a Cap or Hat; the Heat of
the Sun beating with fuch Violence as it does in that
Place, would give me the Head-Ach prefently,' by dart-
ing fo dire&ly on my Head, without a Cap or Hat on 5
ib that I could not bear it; whereas if I put on my Hat,
it would prefently go away.
Upon thofe Views I began to consider about putting
the few Rags I had, which I call'd Clothes, into fome
Order: I had worn out all the Wafte-coats I had, and
my Bufmefs was now to try if I could not make Jackets
out of the great Watch-Coats which I had by me, and
with fuch other Materials as I had ; £o I fet to work a
Tayloring, or rather indeed a Botching •, for .»I made
mod piteous Work of it. However, I made fhift to make
two or three new Waftecoats, which I hoped would ferve
me a great while; as for Breeches or Drawers, 1 made
but very forry fhift indeed, till afterward.
I have mentioned, that I faved the Skins of all the
Creatures that I kill'd, I mean four-footed ones, and I
had hung them up flretch'd out with Sticks in the Sun,
by which means ibme of them were fo dry and hard
that they were fit for little, but others it feems were
very ufeful. The firil thing I made of thefe was a
great Cap for my Head, with the Hair on the Outfide
to
to flioot oif the Rain $ and this I perform'd (o well, that
after this I made a Suit of Clothes wholly of thofe
Skins \ that is to fay, a Waftecoat, and Breeches open at
Knees, and both loofe, for they were rather wanting
to keep me cool, than to keep me warm^ I mud not
omit to acknowledge that they were wretchedly made ;
for if I was a bad Carpenter, I was a worfe Taylor :
However, they were fuch as I made very good fhift
with; and when I was abroad, if it happened to Rain,
the Hair of of the Waftecoat and Cap-being outermoft,
I was kept very dry.
After this-1 fpent a great deal of Time and Pains to*
make me an Umbrella. I was indeed in great Want ofT
one, and had a great Mind to make one ; I had feen>
them made in the Brafilsy where they are very ufeful
in the great Heats which are there: And I felt the
Heats every Jot as great here, and greater too, being,
nearer the Equinox 5 befides, as I was obliged to be-
much abroad, it was a mod ufeful thing to me, as^welfc
for the Rains as the Heats. I took a world of Pains
at it, and. was a great while before I could make any-
thing likely to hold; nay, after I thought I had hit
the Way, L fpoilt 2 or 3 before I made one to my Mind ^
but at lail I made one that anfwer'd indifferently well f
the main Difficulty I found was to make it to let down*
I could make it to fpread, but if it did not let down too^
and draw in \ it would not be portable for me any Way
but juft over nmHead, which would not do: However^
zt lad, as I faid, I made one to anfwer, I cover'd it;
with Skins, the Hair upwards, fo that it cad off the?
Rain like a Pent-houfe, and kept off the Sun fo effec-
tually, that Icauldwalk out in the hotted' of the Wear*
ther, with, greater. Advantage than I could before in ther
cooleft,and when I had no Need of it^ I could clofe it
and carry it under my Arm.
Thus I lived mighty comfortably, my Mind being,
entirely compofed by religningto the Will of God, and
throwingmy felf wholly upon the Difpofal of his Provi-
dence : This made my Life better then fociable; for:
when I began to regret the want ot Conversation, 1
would ask my felf, whether thus conferfing, mutually.
with my own Thoughts, and as I hope I may* fay,. witB*
even my Maker by Ejaculations and Petitions, was not
better than the ufcmoll Enjpyment of human Society in
the World ?
, I cannot fay, that after this, for five Years, any ex-
traordinary Thing happen'd to me, but I liv'd on in the
fame Courfe, in the fame Poftureand Place, juft asbe*
fore: Tlie chief Thing I was employ'd in, befidesmy
yearly Labour of planting my Barley and Rice, and
curing my Railing of both which I always kept up juft
enough to have fufficient Stock of. one Year's Provifi-
ons beforehand ; I fay, befides this yearly Labour, and
my daily Labour of going,out with my Gun, I had one
Labour to make me a Canoe, which at lafl I iinifhed :
So that by diginga Canal to it of fix, Foot wide, and
four Foot deep, 1 brought it into the Creek, almoft half
a Mile. As for the iirft, which was fo ,vaftly big, as
I made it without confidering before-hand, as 1 ought
to do, how I ihould be able to launch it; fo never being
able to bring it to the Water, or bring the Water to
it, I \vas obliged to let it lie where it was, as aMe*
m randum to teach me to be wifer next Time. Indeed
the next Time, tho' I could not get a Tree proper for
it, and was in a Place where I could not get the Water
to it, at any lefs Diftance than as I have faid, of near half,
a Mile ; yet as I faw it was pra&ible at laft, I never
gave it over ; and though I was near two Years about
it, yet I never grudged my Labour, in Hopes of hav-
ing a Boat to go off to Sea in at laft, m
However, tho5 my little Periagua> was. finifli'd, yet
the Size of it was not at aH anfwerable to the Defign
which I had in View, when I made the firil; I mean,
of venturing, over to the Term Fir ma, where it was
above forty Miles broad; accordingly, the fmallnefs of
my BoafcafTifted to putan End to that Defign, and now
I thought no more of it: But as I had a Boat, my next
©efign was to^make a Tour round the Ifland 5 for as
I had been on the other Side, in one Place, croffing,
stsl have already defcribed it, over the Land; fo the
Difcoveries-1 made in that Journey, made me very
eager to fee the ether "Parts of the Coaft ; and now I
had a Boat> I thought of nothing but- failing round
the Ifland.
lor
c 13* y
For this Purpofe, and that I might do every thing, with
Difcretion and Confideration, 1 fitted up a little Maffc
to my Boat, and made a Sail to it out of fome of
the Pieces of the Ship's Sails, which lay in Store^ and of
which I had a great Stock by me.
Having fitted my Maft and Sail, and tried the Boat,
1 found ihe would fail very well: Then I made little
Lockers or Boxes, at either End of my Boat, to put
Provifions, Necelfaries, and Ammunition, C5V. into, to
be kept dry, either from Rain, or the Sprye of the Sea;
and a little long hollow Place I cut in the Infide of the
Boat, where I could lay my Gun, making a Flap to
hang down over it to keep it dry.
I tix'd my Umbrella alio in a Step at the Stern, like
a Mafl, to ftand over my Head, and keep the Heat of
the Sun off of me like an Auning.; and thus I every
now and then took a little Voyage upon the Sea, but
never went far out, nor far from the little Creek^ but
at lall being eager to view^ the Circumference of my
little Kingdom, I refolv'd upon my Tour, and accor-
dingly i vi&uairdmy Ship for the Voyage -, putting in
two Dozen of my Loaves, ( Cakes I ihould rather call
chem) of Barley-Bread ; an Earthern Pot full of parchM'
Rice, a Food I eat a great deal of; a little Bottle of
Rum, half a Goat,and Powder with Shot ft* killing,
more, and two large Watch-coats, of thofe which, asl
mention'd before, I had fav'd out of the Seamens Cheftev;
thefe I took, one to lie upon, and the other to cover
me in the Night.
It was the fixth of November^ in the fixth Year of my
Reign, or my Captivity, which you pleafe, that I fet
out on this-Voyage, and I found it much longer than I
expe&ed •, for tho5 the Ifland itfelf was not very large,
.yet when 1 carae to the Eaft Side of it, I found a great
Ledge of Rocks lie out about two Leagues into the Sea,
fome above Water, lome under it \ and beyond that, a
iShoal of Sand, lying dry half a League more \ fo that I
was-oblig'd to go a greatWay out to Sea to double that
Paint*
When firftl difcover'd them, I was. going to give over
iny Enterprize, and come back again, not knowing
bow far it might oblige me to go out to Sea y and above
. all,
all, doubting how I flipuld get back again; Co I came
to an Anchor, for I had made me a kipd of an Anchor
with a Piece of a broken Graplini which I got out of
the Ship, •J
Having fecur'd my Boat, I took my Gun, antt went
on Shore, climbing up upon a Hill, which feem'd to
overlook that Point, where I faw the full Extent of it,
and refolv'd to venture. -,
In my viewing the Sea from that Hill where I {food,
I perceiv'd a ftrong, and indeed, a moft furious Cur-
rent, which run to the Eafty and even came clofe to the
Point; and I took the more Notice of it, becaufe I faw
there might be fome Danger, that when I came into it,
I might be carried out to Sea by the Strength of it^
and not be able to make the Ifland again ; And indeed,
had I not gotten firft up upon this Hill, I believe it
would have bqen Co; for there was the fame Current on
the other Side the Ifland, only that it fet off at a far-
ther Diftance; and I faw there was a ftrong Eddy un-
der the Shore \ fo I had nothing to do but to get in
out of the firft Current^ and 1 Ihould prefently be in
an Eddy.
I lay here, however, two Days; becaufe the Wind
blowing pretty frefh at E.S.E. (and that being juft con-
trary to the faid Current) made a great Breach of the
Sea upon the Points fo that it was not fafe for me to
keep too cloie to the Shore for the Breach, nor to go
too far off becaufe of the Stream.
The third Day in the Morning, the Wind having
abated over Nighty the Sea was calm, and I ventured.;
but I am a Warning,-Piece again to all rafh and igno-
rant Pilots \ for no iboner was I come to the Point, when
even I was not my Boat's Length from the Shore, but. I
found my felf in a great Depth of Water, and a Current
like the Sluice of a Mill: It carried my Boat along with
it with fuch Violence, that all I could do, could not
keep her fo much as on the Edge of it; but I found
it hurried me farther and farther out from the Eddy,
which was on my Left Hand. There was no Wind
ftirring to help me, and all I could do with my Pad-
dles iigniiied nothing ; and now I began to give my
felf over for loft; for as the Current was on both Sides
the
tse Wand, I knew in a few Leagues Diftance they
mud join again, and then I was irrecoverably gone;
nor did I fee any PofTibility of avoiding ir, fo that I
had no Profpeft before me but of perilling ; not by the
Sea, for that was calm enough, but of (carving for Hun-
ger. 1 had indeed found a Tortoife on the Shore, as
big almoft as I could lift, and had tofs'd it into the
Boat; and I had a great Jar of frefli Water, that is
to fay, one of my Earthen Pots ; but what was all this
to being driven into the vaft Ocean, where, to be fure,
there was no Shore, no main Land, or Wand, for a
thoufand Leagues at lead ?
Andnow I Taw how eafy it was for the Providence of
God to make the moil mferableCondition that Mankind
could be in, worfe. Now I look'd back upon my de-
folate folitary 111 and, as the moft pleafont Place in the
World, and all the Happinefe my Heart could wifli fory
was to be but there again : I ftretch'd out my Hands
to it with eager Wifhes > O happy Defart, laid I, I
fliall never fee thee more y O miferable Creature, faid
I, whether am I going! Then I reproach'd my felf
with my unthankful Temper, and how I had repin'd at
my folitary Condition; and now what would I give to
be on Shore there again ? Thus we never fee the true
State of our Condition, till it is illustrated to us by its
Contraries; nor know how to value what we enjoy, but
by the Want of it : It is fcarce poffible to imagine the
Confternation I was now in, being driven from my be-
loved Ifland (for fo it appeared to me now to be ) into
the wide Ocean, almoft two Leagues, and in the ut-
moft Defpair of ever recovering it again .* However I
work'd hard till indeed my Strength was almoft ex-
haufted, and kept my Boat as much to the No?tbwarJ9
that is, towards the Side of the Current which the Ed-
dy lay on, as poflibly I could; when about Noon, as
the Sun pafs'd the Meridian, I thought I felt a little
Breeze of Wind in my Face, fpringing up from the
S> $. £. This chear'd my Heart a little, and efpecially
when in about half an Hour more it blew a pretty
fmall gentle Gale: By this Time I was gotten at a
frightriil Diftance from the Ifland, and had the leaft
Cloud or hazy Weather intervened, I had been undone,
another
another Way too; for I had no Compafs on BoaroT, and:
Ihould never have known how to have fteer'd towards
the Ifland, if 1 had but once loft Sight of it; but the
Weather continuing clear, 1 applied my felf to get up
my Maft again, fpread my Sail, (landing away to the
North as much aspofftble, to get out of the Current.
Juft as I had fet my Maft and Sail, and the Boat be-
gan to ftretch away, I faw even by the Clearnefs of the
Water, fome Alteration of the Current was near; for
where the Current was fo ftrong, the Water was foul;
but perceiving the Water clear, I found the Current
abate, and prefently I found to the Eafiy at about half
a Mile, a Breach of the Sea upon fome Rocks; thefe
Rocks I found caused the Current to part again ; and as
the main Strefsofit ran away more Southerlyy leaving
the Rocks to the North-Eaft^o the other return'd by the
Repulie of the Rocks, and made a ftrong Eddy, which
ran back again to the North-Wefl with a very fharp
Stream.
They who know what it is to have a Reprieve
brought to them upon the Ladder, or to be refcued
from Thieves juft going to murder them, or who have
been in (Uch like Extremities, may guefs what my pre-
fent Surprize of Joy was, and how gladly I put my
Boat into the Stream of this Eddy, and the Wind alfo
frefhening, how gladly I fpread my Sail to it, running
chearfully before the Wind, and with a ftrong Tide or
Eddy under Foot*-
This Eddy carried me about a League in my Way
Back again dire&ly towards the I (land, but about two-
Leagues more to the Northward than the Current lay,
which carry'd me away at firft;fo that when I came near
the Ifland, I found my felf open to the Northern Shore
tjfit, that is to fay, the other End of the Ifland, op-
jpoiite to that which I went out from.
When I had made fomething more than a League of
Way by the Help of this Current or Eddy, I found it
was fpent and ferv'd me no farther. However, I found
that being between the two great Currents, ( vi^ ) that
on the South Side, which had hurried me away, and
that on the North, which lay about a League on the
otljer- Side:-1 fay, between thefe two, in the Wake af
the-
the Ifland, I found the Water at leaft ftill, and running:
no Way•, and having ftill a Breeze of Wind fair for*
me, I kept on (leering,dire&ly for the Ifland, tho5 not
making, fuchireih Way as-1 did before.
About, four a-Clock in the Evening, being.then with-
in about a. League of the Ifland, I found the Point of
the Rocks which occafloned thisDifefter, ftretching out,
as is deferiped before, to the Southward, and calling,
off the Current more Southwardly, had of courfe made
another Eddy t$ the North, and this I found very
ftrong, but not dke&ly fetting the Way mj Courfe lay,,
which was due Weft, but almoft full North. How-
ever, having a frefh Gale, I ftretch'd a-crofs this Eddy
flanting. North-Weft, and in about an Hour came with-
in about a Mile of the Shore, where it being, fmooth
Water,, I foon got to Land.
When I was on Shore I fell on my Kneesj and gave
God Thanks for my Deliverance, refolving to lay aflde
all Thoughts of my, Deliverance by my Boat; and re*
frefhing my felf witl^ fuch Things as I had, I brought
my Boat clofe to the Shore in a little Cove that I had
fpy'd under fome Trees, and laid me down to fleep, be-
ing quite ipent with the Labour and Fatigue of the
Voyage.
I was npw at a great Lofs which Way to get Home
with my Boat: I had run fo much Hazard, and knew
too much the Cafe to think of attempting it by the
Way I went out; and what might.be at the other Side,
{I mean the Weft~Side) I knew not, nor had I any
Mind to run any more Ventures,, fo I only refolved in
the Morning to make my Way Weftward along, the
Shore, and to fee if there was no Creek where I might
lay up my Fregate in Safety, fo as to have her again if
I wanted her. In about three Miles> or thereabout^
coafting the Shore, I came to a very good Inlet, or
Bay, about a Mile over, which narrowed till it came
to a very little Rivulet or Brook, where I found a
convenient Harbour for my Boat, and where fhe lay as
if fhe had been in a little Dock made on purpofe for
her; Here I put in, and having ftow'd my Boat verj*
fafe, I went on Shore to look about me> and fee whe*e.
I was*
I
I foon found I had but a little pafs*d by the Place
where I had been before, when I travell'd on Foot to
that Shore; fo taking nothing out of my Boat, but my
Gun and my Umbrella, for it was exceeding hot, I
began my March : The Way was comfortable enough
after fuch a Voyage as I had been upon, and I reached
my old Bower in the Evening, where I found every
thing (landing as I left it; for I always kept it in good
Order, being, as I faid before, my Country*houfe.
I got over the Fence, and laid me down in the Shade
to reil my Limbs,'for I was very weary, and fell afleep :
But judge you, if you can, f that read my Story what a
Surprize I muft be in, when I was wak 'd out of my
Sleep by a Voice calling me by my Name feveral
times, Robin, Robin,' Robin, Crufoe, poor Robin Crufoe /
where are you Robin Crujoe? Where are you? Where
have you been ?
I was fo dead afleep at firft, being fatigu'd with Row-
ing, or Paddling, as it is call'd, the ftrft Part of the Day,
and Walking the latter Part, that I did not wake
thoroughly ; but dozing between keeping and waking,
thought I dream'd that fome Body fpoke to me; But
as the Voice continued to repeat Robin Crufoe, Robin
Crufce, at laft I began to awake more perfe&ly, and was
at firfl dreadfully frighted, and darted up in the utmoil
Confirmation : But no fbpner were my Eyes open, but
I faw my Poll fitting on the Top of the Hedge, and im-
mediately knew that it was he that fpoke to me; for
juft in fuch bemoaning Language I had ukd to talk to
him, and teach him; and he had learned it fo perfe&ly,
that he would fit upon my Finger, and lay his BilJ
clofe to my Face, and cry, Poor Robin Crufoe, Where
are you ? Where have you been ? H'ovo come you here ? and
fuch Things as I had taught him.
However, even though I knew it was the Parrot, and
that indeed it could be no body elfe, it was a good
ivhile before I could compote my felf. Firft, I was sr
maz'd how the Creature got thither, and then how he
ihould juft keep about the Place, and no where elfe :
But as T was well fatisiied it could be no Body but ho-
ned Poll, I got k over ; and holding-out my Hand, and
-calling him by his Name PpP, the fociable Creature
cam«>-
came to me, and 'fat upon my Thumb, as he _ufed to
do, and continued talking to me, Poor Robin Crufoe,
and bow did I come here ? And where had I been .? Juft
as if he had been overjoy'd to fee me again; and ib I
carried him Home along with me.
I had now had enough of rambling to?Sea forfome
time, and had enough to do for many Days to fit (till,
a nd reflet upon the Danger I had been in; I would
have been very glad to have had my Boat again on
my Side of the lfland ; but I knew not how it was
pra&icable to get it about: As to the Eaft Side of the
Ifland, which 1 had gone round, I knew well enough
there was no venturing that Way; my very Heart
would fhrink, and my very Blood run chill but to
think of it: And as to the other Side of the Ifland, I
did not know how it might be there; but fuppofing
the Currant ran wich the fame Force againft the Shore
at the Eaft, as it pafs'd by it on the other, I might
run the fame Risk of being driven down the Stream,
and carry'd by the Ifland, as I had been before, of be-
ing carry'd away from it; fo with thefe Thoughts I
contended my felf to be without any Boat, tho' it had
been the Produ<& of fo many Months Labour to make
it, and of fo many more to get it unto the Sea.
In this Government of my Temper I remain*d near a
Year, liv'd a very fedate retired Life, as you may well
fuppofe-, and my Thoughts being very much compos'd
as to my Condition, and fully comforted in refigning my
felf to the Difpoiitions of Providence, I thought I liv'd
really very happily in all things, except that of So-
ciety,
I improved my felf in this Time in all the mechanick
Exercifes which my Neceflities put me upon applying
my felf to, and I believe could, upon Occaiion, have
made a very good Carpenter, efpecially confidering how
few Tools I had.
Befides this, I arriv'd at an unexpected Perfe<5Kon in
my Earthen Ware, and contrived well enough to make
them with a Wheel, which I found infinitely eafier and
better ; becaufe I made Things round and fhapeable;
which before were filthy Things indeed to look on ,
But I think I was never more vain of my own Perfor-
mance,
mzncey ox more joyful for any Thing I found out, than
for my being able to make a Tobacco-Pipe; and tho'
It was a very ugly clumfy Thing, when it was done,
and only burnt red like other Earthen Ware, yet as it
was hard and firm, and would draw- the Smoak, I was
exceedingly comforted with it; for I had been always
ufed to Smoak, and there were Pipes in the Ship, but
I forgot them at firft, not knowing that there was
Tobacco in the I (land; and afterward when I iearch'd
the Ship again, I could not come at any Pipes at all.
In my Wicker-ware alfb I improved much, and made
Abundance of neceiTary Baskets, as well as my Invention
fhew'd me, thoughout very handfom, yet convenient for
my laying. Things up in, or fetching Things home in*
For Example, if I kilPd a Goat abroad, I could hang
it up in a Tree, ilea it, and drefs it, and cut it in Pie-
ces, and bring it home in a Basket*, and the like by a
Turtle, I could cut it up, take out the Eggs, and a
Piece or two of the Flefli, which was enough for me,
and^ bring, them home in a Basket, and leave the refi
behind me : Alfo large deep Baskets were my Recei-
vers for my Corn, which I always rubb'd out as foon
as it was dry, and cured, and kept it in great Bas-
kets inftead of* a Granary.
. I began now to perceive my Powder abated confix
derably, and this was a Want which it was impoflible
for me to fupply, and I began ferioufly to confider what
I mud do when I fhould have no more Powder ; that
is to fay, how I fhould do to kill any Goats* I had,
as is obferv'd in the third Year of my being here, kept
a young Kid, and bred her up tame, I was in hopes of
getting a He-Goat, but I could not by any means bring,
it to pafs-, till my Kid grew an old Goat; and I could
tiever find in my Heart to kill her, till ihe dy'd at lad
of meer Age.
But being now in the eleventh Year of my Refidence,
and, as I have faid, my Ammunition growing low, I
fet my felf to (ludy fome Art to trap-and mare the
Goats, to fee whether I could not catch fome of them
alive, and particularly I wanted a She.Goat great with
Xoung,.
To
To thisPutpofel made Snares to hamper them, araet
I do believe they were more than once taken in them ;
But my Tackle was not good, for I had no Wire, and
I always found them broken and my Bait devour-
ed.
At length I reiblv'd to try a Pit-fall, fo I dug fevera!
large Pits in the Earth, in Places where I had obferv'd
the Goats ufed to feed, and over thefe Pits I placed
Hurdles of my own making too, with a great Weight
upon them j and feveral times I put Ears of Barley and
dry Rice, without fetting the Trap, and I could eaiily
perceive that the Goats had gone in and eaten up the
Corn, for I could fee the Mark of their Feet: At
length 1 fet three Traps in one Night,, and going the
next Morning I found them all (landing, andyetthe
Bait eaten and gone; this was very difcouraging,
However, I alter'd nty Traps, and not to trouble you
with Particulars, going one M<*rning to fee my Traps,
1 found in one of them a large old He-Goat, and in
one of the other three Kids, a Male and two Fe-
males.
As to the old oner I knew not what to do with him^
The was fo fierce I durft not go into the Pit to him; that
is to fay, to go about to bring him away alive, which
was what I wanted: I could have kill'd him, but that
was not my Bufinefs, nor would it anfwer my End,,
So I e'en let.him out, and he ran away as if he had been
frighted out or his Wits; But I had forgot then what
I had learned afterwards, that Hunger will tame a Li-
en : If I had let him (lay there three or four Days
•without Food, and then have carry'd him fome Water
to drink, and then a little Corn, he would have been as:
tame as one of the Kids, for they are mighty fagacious
tradable- Creatures where they are well ufed.
However, for the preient I let him go, knowing no*
better at that time ; then I went to three the Kids, and
taking them one by one, I ty'd them with Strings to-
gether, and with fome Difficulty brought them all
home.
It was a good while before they would feed, but
throwing them fome fweet Corn, it tempted them, and
iliey began to be tame : And-now 1 found that if I ex-
pected
pe&ed to fupply my felf with Goat Flelh, when I had
no Powder or Shot left, breeding fome up tame was my
only Way, when perhaps I might have them about my
Houfe like a Flock of Sheep,
But then it presently occur'd to me, that I mud keep
the Tame from the Wild, or elfe they would always
run wild when they grew up 5 and the only Way for
this was to have fome encloied Piece of Ground, well
fenc'd either with Hedge or Pale, to keep them up
fo efFe&ually, that thofe within might not break out,
or thofe without break in.
This was a great Undertaking for one Pair of Hands $
yet as I faw there was an abfolute Neceflity of doing it,
my £rft Piece of Work was to find out a proper Piece of
Ground, vi\. where there was likely to be Herbage for
them to eat, Water for them to drink, and Cover to
keep them from the Sun.
Thofe who underftand fuch fenclofures will think I
had very little Contrivance, when I pitched upon a
Place very proper for all thefe, being a plain open Piece
of Meadow-Land or Savanna^ (as our People call it in
the Wefiern Colonies,) which had two or three little
Drills of frefh Water in it, and at one end was very
woody ; I fay they will finile at my Forecaft, when I
ihall tell them I began my enclofing of this Piece of
Ground in fuch a Manner, that my Hedge or Pale muit
have been at leafl two Mile about; Nor was the Mad*
nefs of it fo great as to the Compafs, for if it was ten
Mile about I was like to have time enough to do it in 5
But I did not confider that my Goats would be as wild
in fo much Compafs, as if they had had the whole I*
(land, and I fhould have fo much Room to chafe them
in, that I fhould never catch them.
My Hedge was begun and carry'd on, I believe about
fifty Yards, when this Thought occur'd to me ; fo I
prefently ftopt ftort, and for the firft Beginning I re-
folv'd to inclofe a Piece of about 150 Yards in Length,
and 100 Yards in Breadth, which as it would maintain
as many as I fhould have in any reafonable Time, fo as
my Flock enereafed, I could add more Ground to my
Enclofure.
Thi$
This was a&ing with fome Prudence, and I went t<ir
work with Courage ) I was about three Months hedg-
ing in the iirft Piece, and till I had done it I tether'd
the three Kids in the befl Part of it, and ufed them to
feed as near me as poffible to make them familiar; and
very often I would go and carry them fome Ears of Bar-
ley, or a Handful of Rice, and feed them out of my
Hand • fo that after my Inclofure was finifh'd, and I
let them loofe, they would follow me up and down,
bleating after me for a Handful of Corn.
This anfwer'd my End, and in about a Year and half
I had a Flock of about twelve Goats, Rids, and all;
and in two Years more I had three and fort}', befides
feveral that I took and kill'd for my Food ; And after
that I inclofed iive feveral Pieces of Ground to feed
them in, with little Penns to drive tbem into, to take
them as I wanted them, and Gates out of one Piece of
Ground into another.
But this was not all; for now I not only had Goats-
Fleih to feed on when I pleas'd, but Milk too, a thing
which indeed in my Beginning I did not lb much as
think ofy and which, when it came into my Thoughts,
was really an agreeable Surprize ; For now T fet up my
Dairy, and had fometimes a Gallon or two of Milk in
a Day. And as Nature, who gives Supplies of Food to
every Creature, di&ates even naturally how to make
ufe of it; fo I that had never milk'd a Cow, much lefs
a Goat, or feen Butter or Cheefe made, very readily
and handily, tho' after a great many EfTays and Mis-
carriages, made me both Butter and Cheefe at laft, and
never wanted it afterwards*
How mercifully can our great Creator treat his Crea-
tures, even in thofe Conditions in which they feem'd to
be over-whelm'd in Deftru&ion ! How can he fweeten
the bittereft Providences, and give us Caufe to praife
him for Dungeons and Prifons! What a Table was here
fpread for me in a Wildernefs, where I faw nothing at
firfl but to perifh for Hunger!
It would have made a Stoick Smile to have feen me
and my Httle Family fit down to Dinner; there was
my Majefly, the Prince and Lord of the whole Ifland:
I had "the Lives of all my Subjects at my abfolute
Com-
Comimnd. I could hang, draw, give Life and Liberty,;
and take it away, and no Rebels among all my Subjects,
Then to fee how like a King I din'd too, all alone,
attended by my Servants j Poll, as if he had been my
Favourite, was the only Perfon permitted to talk ta
me; my Dog, who was now grown very old and
crazy, and found no Species to multiply his Kind up-
-on, fat always at my Right Hand; and two Cats, one
on one Side the Table> and one on the other, expell-
ing now and then a Bit from my Hand, as a Mark of
fpecial Favour.
But thefe were not the two Cats which I brought on
Shore at £rft, for they were both of them dead, and
-had been interr'd near my Habitation by my own
Hands; but one of them having multiply'd by I know
not what Kind of Creature, thefe were two which I
bad preferv'd tame, whereas the reft: run wild in the
Woods, and became indeed troublefome to meat laft$
for they would often come into my Houfe, and plunder
me too, till at lad I was obliged to fhoot them, and did
.kill a great many ; at length they left me with this At^
tendance ; and in this plentiful Manner I liv'd ; neither
.could I be faid to want any Thing but Society., and of
that in fome time after this I was like to have too much.
I was fomething impatient, as I have obferv'd, t&
have the Ufe of my Boat, tho' very loath to run any
-more Hazards ; and therefore fometimes I fat contriv-
ing Ways to get her about the I (land, and at other times
I fat my ielf down contented enough without her. But I
had a urange Uneafineis in my Mind to go down to
.the Point of the Ifland, where, as I have laid, in my
laft Ramble, I went up the Hill to fee how the Shore
lay, and how the Current fet, that I might fee what I
had to do ,• This Inclination increafed upon me every
Day, and at length 1 refolved to travel thither by
Land; and following the Edge of the Shore I did fb :But
had any one in England been to meet fuch a Man as I
was, it mufl either have frighted them, or railed a grea£
deal of Laughter; and as I frequently £ood ftill to
look at my ielf, I could not but fmile at the Notion of
my travelling thro' Torhfhire with fuch an Equipage,, and
in
< m)
in fuch a Drefs. Be pleafed to take a Sketch of mj*
Figure as follows. *
I had a great high fhapelefs Cap, made of a Goat's
Skin, with a Flap hanging down behind, as well to
.keep the Sun from me, as to fhoot the Rain o# from
running into my Neck; nothing being fo hurtful in
thefe Climates, as the Rain upon the Fleih under the
Clothes.
I had a ftiort Jacket of Goat-Skin, the Skirts coming
down to about the Middle of my Thighs; and a Pair
of open-kneed Breeches of the fame ; the Breeches were
made of the Skin of an old He-goat, whofe Hair hung
•down fuch a Length on either Side, that like Pantaloons
it reach'd to the Middle of my Legs. Stockings and
Shoes I had none, but I had made me a Pair of fome-
thing> I fcarce know what to call them, like Buskins,
to £ap over my Legs, and lace on either Side like Spat-
terda/hers; but of a mod barbarous Shape, as indeed
were all the reft of my Cloaths.
I had on, a broad Belt of Goat's Skin dry'd, which
I .drew together with two Thongs of the fame, inftead
of Buckles, and in a kind of a Frog on either Side of
this, inftead of a Sword and a Dagger, hung a little Saw
and a Hatchet, one on one Side, one on the other : I
had another Belt not fo broad, and faften'd in the fame
manner, which hung over my Shoulder ; and at the
End of it, under my left Arm hung two Pouches, both
made of Goat's Skin too; in one of which hung my
Powder, in the other my Shot: At my Back I carried
•my Basket, on my Shoulder my Gun, and over my
Plead a great clumly ugly Goat-Skin Umbrello3 bat
which, alter all, was the mofb necetfary thing I had
about me, next to my Gun: As for my Face, the Co-
lour of it was really not fo Moletta like, as one might ex-
pe£ from a Man not at all careful of it, and living with-
in 9 or 10 Degrees of the Equinox. My Beard I had
once uifFer'd to grow till it was about a Quarter of a
Yard long; but as I Jiad both ScifTars and Razors fuffi-
cient, I had cut it pretty fhort, except what grew oa
my upper Lip, which I had trimm'd into a large Pair of
Mahometan Whiskers, fuch as I had feen worn by ibme
Turfo) whom I faw at Satte^ for the Moors did not wear
fuch
fuch, tho' the Turh did; of thefe Muftachioes, or Whis^
kers, I will not fay they were long enough to hang my
Hat upon them, but they were of a Length and Shape
ttionftrous enough, and fuch as in England would have
patted for frightful.
But all this is by the by ; for as to my Figure, I had
{"o few to obferve me, that is was of no manner of Con*
fequence; Co I fay no more to that Part : In this kind
of Figure I went my new Journey, and was out five or
fix Days. I traveled firft along the Sea-Shore, dire&-
ly to the Place where I firfl brought my Boat to an An-
chor, to get up upon the Rocks j and having no Boat
now to take care of^ I went over the Land a nearer
Way, to the fame Height that I was upon before; when
looking forward to the Point of the Rocks which lay
out, and which I was obliged to double with my Boat,
as I faid above, I was furpriz'd to fee the Sea all fniooth
and quiet, no Rippling, no Motion, no Current, any
more there than in other Places.
I was at a ftrange Lois to underfland this, and refolv'd
to fpend fome Time in the obferving it, to fee if nothing
from the Sets of the Tide had occafion'd it; but I was
prefently convinc'd how it was, vi^. That the Tide of
Ebb fetting from the WtjU and joyning with the Cur-
rent of Waters from fome great River on the Shore, mull
be the Occafion of this Current; and that according as
the Wind blew more forcible from the Weft, or from
the North, this Current came near, or went farther
from the Shore) for waiting thereabouts till Evening,
I went up to the Rock again, and then the Tide of Ebb
being made, I plainly faw the Current again as before,
only, that it ran farther off, being near half a League
from the Shore; whereas in my Cafe, it fet clofe upon
the Shore, and hurried me and my Canoe along with it,
which at another Time it would not have done.
This Obfervation convinc'd me, That I had nothing
to do but to obferve the Ebbing and the Flowing of the
j. ide, and I might very eafily bring my Boat about the
Ifland again .* but when I began to think of putting it
in Practice, I had fuch a Terror upon my Spirits at
the Remembrance of the Danger I had been in, that I
could not think of it again with any Patience j but on
the
To 6
 &e contrary, I "took Up another Refolut!&n5 Which Was
more fafe, though more laborious; and this was,' That
I Would build, or rather make me another Feriagut, or
Canoe ; and to have one for one Side of the Ifland, anl
o)ie for" the other.
Ydti are to underftand, that now! had, as I may catl
it, two Plantations in the IHand; one.my little fiorti-
-fication or Tent, with the Wall about it under the
Rock, with the Cave behind me, which by-this Time
I liaol enlarg'd into feveralApartments or Caves, one
, within another. One of thefe, which was the dryeft, .
andlargell, and had a Door out beyond rhy Wall or
Fortification ; that is 'to fay, beyond where my Wall
-joined to the Rock, was all fill'd up .-with*the large Ear-
then Pots, of which I have given an Account, and with
fourteen or fiteen great Baskets, which would hold five
or fix: Bulhels each, where I laid Up my Scores of Pro-
vlflon, efpecially rliv Com, fome in the Ear cut off
fhort from the Straw, and the other rubbed out with'
thy Hand,
As for my Wall made, as before, with long 'Stakes
<5v Piles, thofe Piles grew all like Trees, and were by
this Time grown fo big, and fpread fo very much.
that there was not the leail: Appearance to any one's
View of any Habitation behind them.
Near this Dwelling of niine, but a little farther With^
in the Land, and upon loWei* Ground, lay my two Pie-
ces of Corn-Ground, which I "kept duly cukiVateA.
and fow'd, and which duly .yielded me their Harveil ia
its Seafon ; and wheneyer 1 hadOccafion for -liiore Con^
I had "more Land adjoining as fit asTthat.
BeftdeVthis, .1 had my Country Seat, and I had now
tolerable Plantation there alfo; for -firfl, I bad ib&
little Bower, as I c'&U'd it, which I kept in Repair 5
that "is % fcy> I kept the Hedge which circled it in*
confta-ntly fitted up to itfsufual Height, the Ladder
(landing always in the'infide *, I kept the Tr£es which
at fir ft were no more than my Stakes, bat were now
grown very firm and tall; I kept them always fo cistt*
that they might fpread and grow thick afid Wild; and"
make the more agreeable Shade, which they did ef&o-
4fca1ty to my Mind* In the middle of this I had my
H T^it
Tent always {landing, being a piece of a Sail fpread over
Poles let up for that Purpoie, and which never wanted
any repair or renewing \ and under this I had made me
a Squab or Couch, with the Skins of the Creatures I had
kill'd, and with:other lb ft Things, and a Blanket laid
on them, fu?h as belong'd to our :>ea-Bedding, which I
had faved, and a great Watch-Coat to cover me ; and
here, whenever 1 had occadon to be abfent from my
chief Seat, I took up my Country Habitation.
Adjoyning to this 1 had my Enclofures tor my Cattle,
that is to lay, my Goats: And as I had taken an incon-
ceivable deal of pains to fence and enclofe this Ground >
fo I was fo uneafv to iee it kept entire, left the Goats
fliould break thro', that I never left off, till with infi-
nite Labour I had ftuck treOutfide of the Hedge lb full
of fmall Stakes, and fo near to one an another, that it was
rather a Pale than aHedge, and there was fcarce room to
put a Hand thro' between them, which afterwards when
thofe Stakes grew, as they all did in the next rainy
Seafon, made the Enclofure ftrong, like a Wall, indeed
ftrongerthan any Wall.
This will teftify for me that I was not idle, "and
that 1 fpared no Pains to bring to pais whatever ap-
pear'd neceflary for my comfortable Support; for I con-
sider'd the keeping up a Breed of tame Creatures thus
at my Hand, would be a living Magazine of Flefh,
Milk, Butter and Cheefe, for me, as long as I liv'd in the
Place, if it were to be forty Years; and that keeping
them in my Reach, depended entirely upon my perfec-
ting my Enclofures to fuch a degree, that I might be
fure of keeping them together ; which by this Method
indeed I fo effectually iecured, that when thefe little
Stakes began to grow, I had planted them fo very thick,
I was forced to pull fome of them up again.
In this Place alio I had my Grapes growing, which I
principally depended on for my Winter Store of Raiiins,
and which I never faifd to prefer ve very car fully, as the
heft and mod agreeable Dainty of my whole Diet; and
indeed they were not agreeable only, but phyfical, whole-
ibme, nourifhing and refrefhing to the laft degree.
As
As this was alfo about half way between my other
Habitation and the Place where I had laid up my Boat,
I generally flay'd and lay here in my Way thither ;
for I ufed frequently to viiit my Boat, and I kept ail
things about or belonging to her in very good Order ;
fometimes I went out in her to divert my felf, but no
more hazardous Voyages would I go, nor fcarce ever
above a Stone's Cad or two from the Shore, I was To ap-
prehenflve of being hurried out of my Knowledge a-
gain by the Currents, or Winds, or any other Accident:
But now I come to a new Scene of my Life.
It happen'd one Day about Noon, going towards my
Boat, I was exceedingly furpii1d with the Print of a
Man's naked Foot on the Shore, which was very plain
to be ieen in the Sand: 1 ftood like one Thundcr-ilcu:^
or as it I had ieen an Apparition*, I litlen'd, I look'd round
me, I could hear nothing, nor fee any thing ; I went
up to a rifing Ground to look farther : I went up the
Shore, and down the Shore, but it was all one, I could
fee no other Impreffion but that one, I went to it again
to fee if there were any more, and to obferveif it might
not be my Fancy ; but there was no Room for that, for
there was exa&ly the very Print of a Foot, Toes,
Heel, and every Part of a Foot; how it came thither
I knew not, nor could irr the leafl imagine, But after
innumerable fluttering Thoughts, like a Man perfe&ly
confuted and out of my felf, i came home to my Forti-
fication, not feeling 5 as we fay, the Ground I went on,
but terrify'd to the lad - degree, looking behind me at
every two or three Steps, mistaking every Bulh and
Tree, and fancying every Stump- at a diitance to be a
Man; nor is it poiUble to defcribe how many varous
Shapes afrighted Imagination reprefented things to me
in ; how many wild ideas were rorm'd every Moment
in my Fancy, and what Grange unaccountable Whimfies
came into my Thoughts by the Way*
When 1 came to my Cattle, for fo I think I callM £t
ever after this, I fled into it like one perfued; whe-
ther I went over by the Ladder, as flrft contriv'd, ox-
went in at the Hole in the Rock, which I caJPd a Door,
I cannot remember *, for never frighted Hare fled to
H 2 Cover,
Cover, or Fox to Earth, with more Terror cf M:nd
,than i to this Retreat.
I flept none that Night ; the farther I was from th?
•Occa/ion of my Fright, the greater my Apprehcnlions
were *, which is ibmething contrary to the nature of
iiich things, and efpecially to the utual Pra<5Hce of all
Creatures in Fear : Put I was lb emharraiVd with my
own frightful Ideas of the Thing, that I form'd nothing
butdil'mal Imaginarions to my felf, even tho1 I was now
.a great way offit. Sometimes Tfancy'd it mud be the
Devil; and Reafon join'd in with me upon this Suppo-
iition : For how fhculd any other thing in human Shape
come into the Place? Where was the "Veflel that brought
.them ? What Marks was there of any other Footfteps P
And how was it poflible a Man iliould come there ?
But then to think that Satan mould take human Shape
• fcpon him in iiich a Place where there could be no man-
ner of Occafion for it, but to leave the Print of his
Foot behind him, and that even for no Turpofe too
( fcr he could not be lure I iliould fee it ) this was an
Amufement the other Way : I confider'd that the Devil
.might have fcund out Abundance of other Ways to have
terrify'd me, than this of the iingle Print of a Foot.
That as I lived quite on the otherfide of the I (land,
he would never have been lb iimple to leave a Mark in
a Place where it was ten Thou land to One whether
1 fhould ever fee it or not, and in the Sand too, which
/the iiril Surge of the Sea upon a high Wind would have
-defae'd entirely : All this ieeni'd inconfillent with the
Thing it (elf, and with all Notions we ulually entertain
..of the Subtiky of the Devil.
Abundance of luch Things as thefe affifled to argue
j<ne out of all Apprehenfions of its b ing the Devil ;
And I prefently concluded then, that it mud be lome
more dangerous Creature, vi%. That it mull be ibme
.of the Savages of the main Land over-againft me, who
had wandered cut 'to Sea in their Carwts, and either
.-driven by the Currents, or by contrary Winds, had
made the ifland ; and had been on Shore, but were gone
a,way,again to Sea, being as loth, perhaps, to have {laid
>in this defolate IQand, as I would have'been to have
;had .them.
While
( M£ } ' -
• While thefe Reflections were rolling upon myKuii3^»
I was very thankful in my Thoughts, that I was io hap-
py as not to be thereabouts at that Time, or that they
did not fee my Boat, by which they would have con-
cluded that fome Inhabitants had been in the Place, and*
perhaps have feareh'd farther for me : Then. terrible-
Thoughts rackTd my Imagination about their-having*
found my Boat, and that taere were People here ; and
that U ib, I fhould certainly have them come again in-
greater Numbers, and devour me ; that if it fhould hap*
pen fo tint they ihould not find mr, yet they would
tind my Enclofure, deitroy all my Corn, carry away all
my Flock of tame Goats, and i fhould peri-fh at lail for*
meer Want.
Thus my Fear baniiVd all my Religious Hope, a\Y
that former Confidence in God, which was founded'tip-
on fir?h-wonderful Experience as 1 had had-of his Good-
neis, now vaniflfd ; as iF he that had ihd me by Mira-
cle hitherto,* could not prefer ve by his Power the Pro-
vision which he liad nude for me by his Goodnefs. t
reproach'd my fell with my Eafinefs, that would not*
fow any more Corn one Year thanjvould jiut ferye are
till the next Seafon, as if no Accident could intervene;
to prevent my enjoying the Crop that was upon the
Ground ; and this I thought fo juft a Reproof, that I
reiblv'd for the future to have two-or three Years Corn,
before-hand, fo that whatever iriight come, I might-
not Perifh-ior Want of Bread. °*
How ftrange a Chequer-Work- of Providence is the'
Life of Man ! and by .what fecret differing Springs are
the Affe&ions hurried about, as differing .Qircum{lances>
prefent J To Day we love what to Morrow we hate ; to
Day* we feek what to Morrow we fhun } to Day we de~-
fire what to Morrow we fear } >pay, even tremble at the-
Apprehe^ions oC This was exemplified in me at this- *
Time in the mofl lively Manner imaginable ; for J,
whofe only'AfRL&ton was, that I feem'd baniih'd from*
human Society, that I was alone, circumfcrib'd by the
boundlefs Ocean* cut off from Mankind, and condemned
to what I call filent Lite; that I was as one whom Hea-
ven thought not worthy to be numbered among the Liv-
*"&. or t0 appear among the'reft, of his Creatures-j-tkat,
H 5 to
to have feen one of my own Species, would have feemM
tome a Railing me from Death to Life, and the greatest
BleiTing that Heaven itfelf, next to the fupreme blefling
of Salvation, could beftow ; I fay, that I fhould now
tremble at the very Apprehenfions of feeing a Man, and
was ready to fink into the Ground at but the Shadow, or
iilent Appearance of a Man's having fet his Foot on
the Wand.
Such is the uneven State of Human Life ; and it af-
forded me a great many curious Speculations afterwards,
when I had a little recovered my firlr. Surprize ; I
coniidered that this was the Station of Life, the infi-
nitely wife and good Providence of God had determin'd
for me; that as I could not forefee what the Ends of
Divine Wifdom might be in all this, fo I was not to
difpute his Sovereignty, who, as I was his Creature, had
an undoubted Right by Creation, to govern and dif-
pofe of me abfolutely as he thought fit j and who, as I
was a Creatu/e who had offended him, had likewife
a judicial Right to condemn me to what Tunifli-
ment he thought fit; and that it was my Part to Jubmit
to bear his Indignation, becaufe I had iinn'd againfl
lum.
I then reile&ed, that God, who was not only Righ-
teous but Omnipotent, as he had thought fit thus to
puniih and afBi& me, i^o he was able to deliver me;
that if he did not think fit to do it, 'twas my unquefti-
on'd Duty to refign myfelf abfolute and entirely to his
Will; And on the other hand, it was my Dutyalfoto
hope in him, pray to him, and quietly to attend the
Di&ates and Directions of his daily Providence.
Thefe Thoughts took me up many Hours, Days,
nay, I may fay, Weeks and Months *, and one particu-
lar EfFe& of my Cogitations on this Occafion, I cannot
omit, vt\. One Morning early, lying in my Bed, and
fill'd with Thoughts about my Danger from the Ap-
pearance of Savages, I found it difcompos'd me very
much ; upon which thofe Words of the Scripture came
into my Thoughts, Call upon we in the Day of Trouble,
and 1 mU deliver, and thou Jhalt ghrify me.
Upon this, rifmg chearfully out of my Bed, my
Heart was not only comforted, but I was guided and
encourage
encouraged to pray earneftly to God for Deliverance:
When 1 had done praying,' I took up my Bible, and
opening it to read, the firit Wofds that preferred to
me, were, Wait on the Lord, and be of g$jd Cheer, and
hg Jkall fir en? then thy Heart \ wait, I fayy en the Lord.
It is impoflible to exprefs the Comfort this gave me.
and in return, I thankfully laid down the Book, and was
no more fad, at lead, not on that Occaflon.
In the Middle ofthefe Cogitations, Apprehendons,
and Refie&ions, it came into my Thoughts one Day.
that all this might be a meer Chimerea of my own,
and that this Foot, might be the Print of my own
Foot, whe# I came on Shore from my Boat; This
chear'd me up a little too, and I began to perfwade my
lei fit was all a Delufion ; that it was nothing elfe but
my own Foot; and why might not t come that Way
from the Boat, as well as I was going that Way to
the Boat P Again, I confider'd alfo that I could by no>
Means tell (or certain where I had trod, and where I
had not; and that h% at lad this was only the Print of
my own Foot, 1 had playM the Part of thofe Fools,
who drive to make Stories of Spe&res and Appari-
tions, and then are themfelyes frighted at them more
than any Body elfe.
Now I began to take Courage, and to peep abroad
again ; for I had not ftirr'd out of my Cattle for three
Days and Nights \ fo that I began to ftarve for Provi-
llon; for I had little or nothing within Doors, but fome
Barley Cakes and Water. Then I knew that my Goats
wanted to be milk'd too, which ufually was my Even-
ing Diverfion; and the poor Creatures were in great
Pain and Inconvenience for want of it ; and indeed it
almofl fpoiFd lb me of them, and almoft dry'd up their
Milk.
Heartning my felf therefore with the Belief that this
was nothing but the Print of one of my own Feet,
(and fo I might be truly faid to ftart at my own Sha-
dow) I began to go abroad again, and went to my Coun-
try-Houfe to milk my Flock;, but to fee with what Fear
I went forward, how often I look'd behind me, how t
was ready every now and then, to lay down my Baf-
feet, and run* for my Life, it would have ma<ie any ons
H. 4. ha^e>
ftave thought Ij;was haunted with an evil Confcience, or.
that I had JbeepTapely mofl terribly frighted^ aijd.fi)
indeed I had. : ¥ ,
However, as! went down thus two or,-three Days,
and havingjeen nothing, I began to be a little bolder,
" and to think there was really nothing in it but my own
Imagination \ but I could not perfwade my (elf*fully,of
this, 'till I ihould go down tq,the Shore again, and Tee.
this Print of a Foot, and meafure it by my own, and
fee if there was any Similitude or Fitnefs, that I mij>ht
ibe allured it was my own Foot: But, when I came to.
the Place £rfl, it appear'd evidently to me, that when
I laid up my Boat, I could not goiTibly be on Shore.any.
where thereabout.* Secondly, when I came to mealuje
the Mark with my own foot, I found my Foot, not.fo-,
h>rge by a.great deal; both thefe. things filfd my Head
U'itji new Imaginations, and gave me the Vapoury a,*
gain to, the higheil degree ; lb that 1 ihook with Cold?,
like one in an Ague, ancll went Home again, hll'd with
the belief that fofne Man or Men had been on Shore.-
there; or,, in fliort, that the Xfland was inhabited, and,
} might be furpnz'd before I was aware; and what
Courle to take for my Securityj I.knew,not*
O what ridiculous Refolutipns Men take, when pofr
fefs'd -with Fear ! it deprives.them, of the Ufe of thofe
Means which Reafon offers for their Relief The firft
tiling I propofed to my felf was,v to throw down my
Enclofures, and turn all my tame Cattel wild into the.
. Woods, that the Enemy might not find them,, and then
frequent thelfland in Profpe& of the fame, or the like.
Booty ; then to the fhnpje thing^of digging up my two
Corn-Fields, tjiat they'might not find fuch a Grain -
there, andftill be prompted to frequent the Ifland^.
then todemolifh my Bower and Tent, that they might
not fee any Veftigesof Habitation, and be prompted to
look further, in order to. ftnd out the' Per ions inha,-
Iriting.., ^ - *
' Thefe were the Subje&.of the firft Night's Cogitation
ajfter I was come home again, while the Apprehend
ons which had fo over run my Mind were frelh upon,
ine, and my Head was full oi Vapours, as above.,
Thi^s Fear oi% Danger is ten thoufand t'imesmore terrify?*
ing than Danger it felf, when apparent to the Eyes; a-ncfc
we find the Burden of Anxiety greater by mu:b, than
the Evil which we are anxious about; but, which was
worie than all this, I had not that Kelier in this Trouble
from the Reiignation I ufed to pra&ife, that I hoped to
have. I look'd, I thought, like S&iil^ who complained
not only that the Vhilijtincs were upon him, but that
God had forfaken him ; for I did not now take due wass
to compote my Mind, by crying to God in my Didrefs*
and reding upon his Providence, as I had done before^
for my Drfence and Deliverance; which if I had done,-
I had, at lead, been more cheer ully fupported under
this new Surprize, and perhaps carried through it with-
more Refolution.
This Con fu (ion of my-Thoughts kept me waking all
Night; but in the Morning I tell afleep, and having,
by the Amufement of my Mind, been as it were tired «>
and my Spit its exfnuded, I ilept very foundlv, and
wak\i much better compos'd than I had ever been be-
fore : And.~now I began to think iedatdy \ and upon-
the utmod Debate with my felf, 1 concluded, That this
Ifland, which was fo exceeding pleafant, fruitful, and
no farther from the main Land than as I had feen, was
not fo entirely abandon'd as I might imagine : That al-
tho' there were no dated Inhabitants who HVd on the
Spot; yet that there might fometimes come Boaty ofF"
from the Shore, who either with Dcfign, or perhaps
never,but when they were driven by crofs Winds, might
come to this -Place.
That I had Hv'd here 1$ Years now, and had not mes
with the lead Shadow or Figure of any People before*,
and that if at any Time they ihould be driven here, it
was probable they went away again as foon as ever they
could, feeing they had never thought fit to fi>c there
upon anv Occafion, to this Time.
That the mod I could fugged any Danger from, was,
from any fuch cafual accidental Landing of draggling,
People from the Main, who,, as it was likely if'they
were driven hither, were here againd their Wills *, fo
they made no day here, but went oif again with all
poifible Speed, ieldom daying one Night on Shore, led
the.y ihould not have the Help of the. Tides* a^d Day.
H 5 %>-.
light back again; and that therefore I had nothing to
do but to coniider of fome fafe Retreat, in Caiel fhould
fee any Savages land upon the Spot.
Now I began forely to repent, that I had dug my
Cave ib large, as to bring a Door through again, which
Door, as I iaid, came out beyond where my Fortifica-
tion joy n'd to the Rock: Upon maturely conlidering
this therefore, I refol/d to draw me a fecond Fortifica-
tion, in the fame Manner of a Semicircle, at a Diftance
from my Wall, juil where I had planted a double Row
of Trees about twelve Years before, of which I made
mention : Theie Trees having been planted fo thick be-
fore, there wanted but a few Hies to be driven between
them, that they fhould be thicker, and ftronger, and
my Wall would be foon finifh'd.
So that I had now a double Wall, and my outer Wall
-was thickned with Pieces of Timber, old Cables, and
every thing I could think of to make it ftrong ) having
in it feven little Holes, about as big as I might put my
Arm cut at. In the Infide of this L thickned my Wall
to abcut ten Foot thick, with continually bringing
Earth out of my Cave., and laying it at the Foot of the
Wall, and walking upon it; and through the feven
Holes, T contriv'd to plant the Mufquets, of which I
took Notice, that I got feven on Shore out of the Ship;
thefe, I fay, I planted like my Cannon, and fitted them
into Frames that held them like a Carriage, that fo I
could fire all the feven Guns in two Minutes time:
This Wall I was many a weary Month a finifhing, and
yet never thought my felf fafe till it was done.
When this was done, I ftuck all the Ground without
my Wall, for a great way every way, as full with Stakes
or Sticks of the O/ier- like Wood, which I found fo apt
to grow, as they could well ftand; infomuch, that I be*
lieve I might fet in near twenty thoufand of them, leav-
ing a pretty large Space between them and my Wall,
that I might have Room to fee an Enemy, and they
might have no Shelter from the young Trees, if they at*
tempted to approach my outer Wall.
Thiis in two Years time I had a thick Grove; and in
five or fix: Years time I had a Wood before my Dwel-
ling, grown fo monftrous thick and ftrong, that it was
indeed
indeed perfe&ly impaflable; and no Man, of what kind
foever, would ever imagine that there was any thing,
beyond it, much lefs a Habitation: As for the Way"
which I propofed to my felf to go in and out, (for I left-
no Avenue) it was by fetting two Ladders; one to a Part
of the Rock which was low, and then broke in, and left
room to place another Ladder upon that; {'a when the
two Ladders were taken down, no Man living could
come down to me without mifchieving trim felf; and if
they had come down, they were dill on the Outfide of
my outer Wall.
Thus I took all the Meafures human Prudence could
fugged for my own Preformation; and it will bee feen at
length, that they were not altogether without juft Rea-
fen ; though I ibreiaw nothing at that time, more tharr
my meer Fear fuggefted to me.
While this was doing, I was no.t altogether carelefc
of my other Affairs ; for I had a great Concern uport
me for my little Herd of Goats ; they were not only a
prefent Supply to me upon every Occasion, and began
to be fuflicient to me, without the Expence of Powder
and Shot, but alfo abated the Fatigue of my Hunting af-
ter the wild ones; and I was loth to lofe the Advan-
tage of them, and to have them all to nurle up over
again.
To this Purpofe, after long Confederation, I could
think of but two Ways to prelerve them; one was to*
iind another convenient Place to dig* a Cave under
Ground, and to drive them into it every Night; and
the othsr was to enclofe two or three little Bits of
Land, remote from one another, and as much conceaPd
as I could, where I might keep about half a dozen young
Goats in each Place ; fo that if any Di&fter happened
to the Flock in general, I might be able to raife then*
again with little Trouble and Time: And this, tho' it
would require a great deal of Time and Labour, I
thought was the moil rational Defign.
Accordingly, I fpent fome Time to find out the rnoft
retired Parts or the I (land; and I pitched upon one which
was as private indeed as my Heart could wiili; for it
was a little damp Piece of Ground in the middle of the
hollow and thick Woods, where^ as is obfcrv'd, I aP
moil
mod loft my felf once before, endeavouring to coma
back that way from the Eaftern Part o\ the Ifland :
Here I found a clear Piece of Land near three Acres*
fo furrounded with Woods, that it was almoft an En-
closure by Nature, at lead it did not want, near fo much
Labour to make it fo, as the other Pieces of Ground I
had work'd fo hard at.
I immediately went to work with this Piece of
Ground, and in lels than a Month's time, I had lb
fenced it round, that my Flock or Herd, call it which
you pleafe, who were not fo wild now as at tirft they
might be fuppofed to be, were well enough fecured in
i(. So without any farther Delay, I removed ten She-
Goats and two He Goats to this Piece ; and when they
were there, I continued to per!e<5fc the Fence till I had
made it as fecure as the other, which, however, I did
at more Leiiure, and it took me up more Time by a
great deal.
All this Labour I was at the Expence of, purely fron?
my Apprehenii- ns on the Account of the Print of a
Man's Foot which I had feen ; for as yet I never law
any human Creature come near the Ifland., and I had
sipw liv'd two Years under thefe Uneafineiles, which
Indeed made fhy Life much lels .comfortable than it was
before; as may well be imagin'd by any who know
T?vhat it is to live in the conftant Snare of the Fear of
Man ; and this I rnuffc obferve. with Grief too, that the
Ditcompofure-of my Mind had too great Impreffions
alio upon the religious Part of my Thoughts; for the
Dread and Terror of falling into the Hands of Savages
and Canibals lay fo upon my Spirits, that I feldom found
my felf in a due Temper for Application to my Maker,
at kail not »with the fedate Calmnefs and Refignatiorx
©f boul which I was, wont to do: I father pray'd to
God as under great AfRi&ion and PreflTure of Mind, fur:
rounded with Danger, and in Expectation every Night
of being murther'd and devcur'd before Morning; and
I muft teftify from my Experience, that a Temper of
Peace, Thankfulnefs, I«pve and Aflediion, is much the
more proper Frame for Prayer than that of Terror and
Difcompofure ; and that under the Dread of Mifchief
impending, a Man is no more fit fox a comforting Per-
, ' w formance
fbrmance of the Duty of praying to God, than he is for
Repentance on a Sick-Bed : For thefe Difcompofures
affect the Mind as the others do the Body.; and the-Dif-
compofure of the Mind mult neceiThrily be as great.a
Difability as that of the Body, and much greater, pray-
ing to God being properly an Act of the Mind, not of
the Body.
Bu-t to go on ; After I had thus fecur'd one Part of
my little living Stock, I went about the whole lfland,
iearching for another private Place, to make fuch an-
other Depofit; when wandring more to the Weft Point
of the lfland than I had ever done yet, and looking out"
to Sea, I thought I law a Boat upon the Sea> at a great
Diilance^I had found a Perfpe&ive-Glafs^ or two, in
one of the Seamen's Chefts, which I fav*d out of our
Ship ; but I had it not about me, and this was fb re-
mote, that I could not tell what to make of it, though
I look'd at it till my Eyes were notable to hold to look
any longer; whether it was a Boat, or not, I do not
know ; but as I defcended from the Hill, I could fee po
more of it, fo I gave it over; only I refolv'd to go no
more out without a Perfpective-Glafs in my Pocket.
When I was come down the Hill, to the End of the
lfland, where indeed I had neyer been before, I was
prefently convine'd, that the feeing the Print-of a.Man~s
Foot, was not fuch a flrange thing in the lfland, as I
iipagin'd ; and but that it was a ipecial Providence,
that [ was caft upon the Side oC the lfland, where the
Savages never came, I fhpuld eaflly ha^e known, that
nothing was more frequent than for the Canoes from the
Main, when they happen'd to be a little too far out at
Sea, to fhoot over to that Side o^ the lfland for Har-
bour; likewife as they often met, and fought in their
Canoes, the Victors having taken any Prilbners, would
bring them over to this Shore, where, according to their
dreadful Cuftoms, being all Canibals, they would kilT
and eat them: Of which hereafter.
When I was come down the Hill to the Shore, as t
Cud above, being the S. W. Point, of the [fland, I was
perfectly confounded and amaz'd ; nor is it poffible for.
me to exprefs the Horror of my Mind, at feeing the
Shore fpread with Skulls, Hands,. Feet, and other Bones
of
€>f human Bodies; and particularly I obferv'd a Place
•where there had been a Fire made, and a Circle dug in
the Earth, like a Cock-pit, where it is fuppofed the
Savage Wretches had fat down to their inhuman Feafl-
ings upon the Bodies of their Fellow-Creatures.
I was fb aftonifh'd with the Sight of thefe Things,
that I entertained no Notions of any Danger to my lelf
from it, for a longe while; all my Apprehenfions were
buried in the 1 noughts of fuch a Fitch of inhuman,
hellifh Brutality, and the Horror of the Degeneracy of
human Nature ; which tho' 1 had heard of often, yet I
never had lb near a View of before ; in fhort, I turned
away my Face from the horrid Spe&acle; my Stomach
grew fick, and I was jufl: at the Point of Fainting, when
Nature difcharg'd the Diforder from my Stomach ;
and having vomited with an uncommon Violence, I
was a little relieved ; but could not bear to (lay in the
Place a Moment; fo I got me up the Hill again, with
all the Speed I could, and walk'd on towards my own
Habitation. x
When I came a little out o] that Part of the Ifland,
I flood fHll a while as amai'd; and then recovering
my felf, I look'd up with the utmofl AfFe&ion of my
Soul, and with a Flood of Tears in my Eyes, gave
God Thanks that had cafl my iirft Lot in a Part ol the
World, where I was diflinguifhed from fuch dreadful
Creatures as thefe ; and that tho' I had efleem'd my
prefent Condition very miferable, had yet given me ib
many Comforts in it, that I had flill more to give
Thanks for, than to complain of; and this above all,
that I had, even in this miferable Condition, been
comforted with the Knowledge of himfelf, and the
Hope of his Bleffing, which was a Felicity more than
fufEciently equivalent to all the Mifery which I had
furrerM, or could fufFer.
In this Frame of Thankfulnefs, I went Home to my
Gaftle, and began to be much eafier now, as to the Safe-
ty of my Circumftances, than ever I was before ; for
I obferv'd that thefe Wretches never came to this
I (land in fearch of what they could get; perhaps not
feeking, not wanting, or not expe<5Hng any thing here ;
and having often, no doubt, been up in the cover'd
woody
Woody Part of it, without finding any thing to their
Purpofe : I knew 1 had been here now almoft eighteen
Years, and never faw the leafl Footfteps of human
Creature there before; and 1 might be here eighteen
more as entirely conceal'd as I was now, if I did not
difcover my felf to them, which I had no manner of
Occafion to do, it being my only Bulinels to keep my
felf entirely conceal'd where I was, unlefs I found a
better fort of Creatures than Cambah to make my felf
known to.
Yet I entertain'd fuch an Abhorrence of the favag«
Wretches that I have been fpeaking of, and of the
wretched inhuman Cuftom of their devouring and eat-
ing one another up, that I continued penfive and fadf
and kept clofe within my own Circle for almoft two
Years after this: When I fay my own Circle, I mean
by it, my three Plantations, vi%. my Caftle, my Coun-
try-Seat, which I caird my Bower, and my Enclofurc
in the Woods $ nor did I look after this for any other
Ufe than as an Inclofure for my Goats; for the Aver-
fion which Nature gave me to thefe hellilh Wretches,
was fuch, that I was fearful of feeing them, as of feeing
the Devil himfelf; nor did I fo much as go to look ar-
ter my Boat in all this Time; but began rather to think
of making nie another ; tor I could not think of ever
making any more Attempts to bring the ether Boat
round the lfland to me, left I fhould meet with fome
of thefe Creatures at Sea, in which, if I had happen*d
to have fallen into then* Hands, I knew what would
have been my Lot,
Time however, and the Satisfaction I had, that I
was in no Danger of being difcover'd by thefe People,
began to wear off my Uneafinefs about them; and I be*
gin to live juft in the fame compos* d Manner as be*
tore; onty with this Difference, that I us'd more Cau-
tion, and kept my Eyes more about me than I did be-
fore, left I fhould happen to be teen by any- of them;
and particularly I was more cautious of firing my Gun,
left any of them on the lfland, fhould happen to hear
it; and it was therefore a very good Providence to
me, that I had furniih'd my felf with a tame Breed
of GoatSj that I needed not, hunt any more about the
Woods,
Woods, or fhoot at 'em ; and if I did catch any of'cm
after this, it was by Traps and Snares, as I had done
before; lb that for two Years after this, I believe I ne-
ver fir'd my Gun once off; tho' I never went out with-
out it; and which was more, as I had fav'd three Piftols
out of the Ship, I always carried 'em out with me, or
at leaft two of them, kicking them in my Goat-bkin
Belt; I alio furbifh'd up one of the great Cutlaihes, that
I had out of the Ship, and made me a Belt to put it on
alfo ; fo that I was now a moft formidable Fellow to
look at, when I went abroad if you add to the former
Defcription of my fel£ the Particular of two Piftols,
and a great broad Sword hanging at my Side in a Belt,
but without a Scabbard.
Things going on thus, as I have faid, for fome Tim?,
I feem'd, excepting thele Cautions, to be redue'd to my
former calm fedate way of Living, all thefe Things
tended to fhewing me more and more how far my Con-
dition was from being miferable, compared to fume o-
rbers; nay, to many other Particulars ol Life, which it
might have plea fed God-to have made my Lot. It put
me upon refle&ing, how little repining there would be
among Mankind, at any Condition of Life, if People
would rather compare their Condition with thofe that
are worfe, in order to be thankful, than be always com-
paring them with thofe which are better to alliit their
Murmurings and Complainings.
As in my prefent. Condition there were not really
many Things which I wanted ; fo. indeed I thought that
the Frights f had been in about thefe Savage. Wretches
and the Concern I had been in for my own Prelervati-
op, had taken off the Edge of my Invention for my
own Conveniences '7 and I had dropt a good Deiign,
which I had once bent my Thoughts upon \ and that
was to try if \ could not make fome of my Barley
into Malt, and then try to brew my fe If fome Beer :
This was really a whimiical Thought, and I reproved
my fell' often for the Simplicity of it; for I prefently
taw there would b: tho Want.of feveral Things iv^ceila^
ry to the making my Beer, that it would be impoflibls
for me to fupply : As Firil, Casks to preferve it in,
•which was a Thing that, as I have obicrv'd already,
I could never compafs : no, tho5 I fpentlnotmany Days£
but Weeks, nay Months, in attempting it, but to no
purpoie,. In the next place, I had no Hops to make-it
keep, no Yeafl to make it work, no Copper or Kettle
to make- it boil; and yet all theie Things inter ven'd,
I mean the Frights and Terrors I was in about the Sa-
vages, I had undertaken it, and perhaps brought it to
pais too ; for I feldom gave any Thing over without
accomplifhing it, when I once had it in my Head enougti
to begin it.
But my Invention now run quite another Way ; for
Night and Day I could think of nothing but how I
might deftroy tome of thefe Monfters in their cruel
bloody Entertainment, and if poiTible, lave the Vi&im
they ihould bring hither to deftroy. It would take up
a larger Volume than this whole Work is intended to
be, to let down ail the Contrivances I hatched, or ra.?
ther brooded upon in my Thoughts, for the deitroying
tbele Creatures, or at leait frighting 'em, lb as to pre-
vent their coming hither, any more ; but all was abor-
tive, nothing could be poflible to take Effect, unleis I
was to be there to do it my felf j, and what could one
Man.do among, them, when perhaps there might be
twenty or thirty of them together, with their Darts,
or their Bows aad Arrows, with, which they, could fhoot
as true to a Mark, as I could with my Gun ?
Sometimes I contrived to dig a Hole under the Place
"where they made their Fire, and put in five or fix Pounds
of Gun-powder,, which when they kindled tneir Fire-,
would confequently take Fire, and blow up all that
was near it; but as in the firft place I fliould be very,
loth to waite fo much Powder upon 5em, my Store be-
ing now within the Quantity of a Barrel ; fo neither
could I be lure of its going off, at any certain time,.
when it might fur prize them, and at heft, that it would
do little more than ju(l blow the Fire about their Ears
and fright them, but not fuflicient to make them for.-
fa,ke the Place ; fo I laid it afide, and then propos'd,
that 1 would place my felf in Ambufh, in lb me conveni-.
ent Place, with my three Guns, all double loaded ; and
in the middle of their bloody Ceremony let fly at 5em,
when I fl;ould be lure to kill or wound perhaps two or
three
three at every (hoot; and then falling in upon them
With my three Pillols, and my Sword, I made no doubt
but that if there were twenty I fftould kill them all ;
Xhts Fancy pleased my Thoughts for fome Weeks,
and I was (b full of it, that i often dreamt of it;
and fotnetim.es, that I was juft going to let fiy at them
in my Sleep.
I went lo far with it in my Imagination, that I em-
ployed my felfieveral Days to find out proper Places to
put my ielf in Ambufcade, as I laid, to watch for them ;
and I went frequently to the Place itfelf, which was
now grown more familiar to me ; and efpecially while
my Mind was thus fill'd with Thoughts of Revenge,
and of a bloody putting twenty or thirty of them to
the Swordy as I may calljt; but the Horror I had at the
Place, and at the Signals of the barbarous Wretches
devouring one another, abated my Malice.
Well, at length I found a Place in the Side of the
Irlilly where i was fatisfy'd I might fecurely wait, till
I faw any of their Boats coming, and might then,
even before they would be ready to come on Shore,
convey myCelf unfeen into Thickets of Trees, in one
of which there was a Hollow large enough to conceal
me entirely; and where I might iit, and obferve all
their bloody Doings, and take my full Aim at their
Heads, when they were lb clofe together, as that it
would be next to impoflible that I ihould mils my
Shoot, or that I could fail wounding three or four of
them at the iirfl Shoot.
In this Place then I refolv'd to fix my Deiign, and
accordingly I prepared two Muskets, and my ordinary
Fowling-Piece. The two Muskets I loaded with a
Brace of Slugs each, and four or five fm&ller Bullets,
about the Size of Piftol-Bullets ; and the Fowling-Piece
I loaded with near a Handful of Swan-Shot, of the
largeft Size \ I alfo loaded my Piftols with about four
Bullets each, and in this Pofture, well provided with
Ammunition for a fecond and third Charge, I prepared
my felf for my Expedition.
« After I had thus laid the Scheme for my Defign, and
in my Imagination put it in Pradtice, I continually
made my Tour every Morning up to the Top of the
Hill,
Hill, which was from my Caflle, as I call'd it, about
three Miles, or more, to fee it' I could obferve any
Boats upon the Sea, coming near the Ifland, or (landing
over towards it; but I began to tire of this hard Du-
ty, after I had for two or three Months conflantly
kept my Watch \ but came always back without an/
Difcovery, there having not in all that Time been the
leall Appearance, not only on, or near the Shore,
but not on the whole Ocean, fo far as my Eyes or Glaf-
fes could reach every Way.
As long as I kept up my daily Tour to the Hill to
look out, fo long alio I kept up the Vigour of my De-
sign, and my Spirits feem'd to be all the while in a Ra-
table Frame, fur fo outrageous an Execution as the kil-
ling twenty or thirty naked Savages for an Offence
which I had not at all enter* d into a Difcuiion of in my
Thoughts, any further than my Paflions were at fird
fird by the Horror I conceiv'd at the unnatural Cuf-
tom of the People of that Country, who it feems had
been iuflfer'd by Providence, in his wife Difpofition of
the World, to have no other Guide than that of their
own abominable and vitiated Paflions ; and confeijuent-
ly were left, and perhaps had been fo for fome Ages, to
a& fuch horrid T hings, and receive fuch dreadful Cus-
toms, as nothing but Nature entirely abandon'd of Hea-
ven, and a&ed by fome hellifh Degeneracy, could have
run them into: But now when, as 1 have laid, I began
to be weary ot the fruitlefs Excurfion which I had made
fo long, and fo far, every Morning in vain ; fo my Opi-
nion of the A&ionit felf began to alter, and I began
with cooler and calmer Thoughts to consider what it
was I was going to engage in; what Authority or Call I
had, to pretend to be Judge and Executioner upon
thefe Men as Criminals, whom Heaven had thought fit
for lb many Ages to fuffer, unpunifh'd, to go on, and
to be as it were, the Executioners of his Judgments
upon another : Alio how far thefe People were Offen-
ders againfl me, and what Right had I to engage in the
Quarrel of that Blood, which they ibed promifcuoufly
one upon another : I debated this very orten with my
ieifthus, How do I know what God him felf Judges in
this
< r72 >
this particular Cafe? It is certain thefe People do no$
commit this as a Crime, it is not againuY their ow-n
Confciejices reproving, or their Light reproaching them*
They do not know it to be an Oiience, and then com-
mit it in defiance of divine JulHce, as we do in almolt
ail the Sins we commit. They think it no more a Crime
to kill a Captive taken in War, than we do to kill an
Ox; nor to eat human Fieih, than we do to eat Mut-
ton.
When I lrad confider'd this a little, it followed nectfTa-
rily, that I was-certainly in the Wrong in it *, that th-ie
People were not Murderers in the Senfe that I had be-
fore condemn'd them in my Thoughts j any more than
thoi'e Chriitians were Murderers, who oiten put to
Death the Priioners taken in Battle, or more frequently,
upon many Occasions, put whole Troops or' Mentu lbs
Sword, without giving Quarter, tho' the}' threw down
their Arms and fubmitted.
In the next place it occur'd to me, that albeit the
Ulage they gave one another was thus bruitiih and in-
human ; yet it was really nothing to me : Thefe People-
had done me no Injury : That if they attempted me, or
I faw it neceifary for my immediate 1'refervation to fall
upon them, fometbing might be laid for if, but that
I was yet out of their Power, and they had really no
Knowledg of me, and conlequently no Delign upon me ;
and therefore it could not be jufl for me to fall upon
them. That this would juftify the Conduft of the Spa-
niards in all their Barbarities pra&is'd in America^ where
they deflroy'd Millions of thefe People, who, however
they were Idolaters and Barbarians, and had feveral
bloody and barbarous Rites in their Cuiloms, fuch as
facrificing human Bodies to their Idols, were yet, as to
the Spaniards, very innocent People \ and that the
rooting'em out of the Country, is fpoken of with the
utmoft Abhoranceand Deteflation, by even die Spani-
ards thcm[h\vese at this-Time, and by all other Chriili-
an Nations of Europe, as a mere Butchery, a bloody
and unnatural piece of Cruelty, unjufHfiable either to
God or Man ; and fuch, as for which the very Name
of a Spaniard is reckon'd to be frightful and terrible ta
all People of Humanity, or of Chriftian CompafHon :
As
Aslf the Kingdom of Spain were particularly eminent
for the Produft of a Race of Men, who were without
Principles of Tendernefs, or the common Bowels o{
Pity to the Miferable, which is reckoned to be a Mark
of a -generous Temper in the Mind.
Thefe Confklerations really put me to a Paufe, and
to a kind of a full Stop ; and I began by little and little
to be off of my Defign, and to conclude, I had taken
wrong Meafares in my Refolutions to attack the Sava-
ges ; that it was not my Bufinefs to meddle with 'em,
unlefs they firll attack'd me, and this it was my Bufl-
njfs, if poifible, to prevent; but that if I were diico
ver'd, and attack'd, then I knew mv Duty.
On the other hand, I argu'd with my felf, That this
really was the Way not to deliver my felf, but entirely
to ruin and deftroy my felf \ for unlefs I was fare to
kill every one that not only fhould be on Shore at that
Time, but that fhould ever come on Shore afterwards,
if but one of them efcap'd, to tell their Country-Peo-
ple what had happen1 d, they would come over again by
Thoufands to revenge the Death of their Fellows and
I fhould only bring upon my felf a certain Deitruc-
tion, which at preient I had no manner of Occafion
for.
Upon the Whole I concluded, that neither in Princi-
ples nor in Policy I ought one Way or other to concern
my felf in this Affair. That my Bufinefs was by all
poflihle means to conceal my felf from them, and not
to leave the Waft Signal to them to guefs by, that there
were any living Creatures upon the Ifland ; I mean of
human Shape
. Religion joined in with this Prudential, and I was
convinced now many Ways, that I was perfectly out of
my Duty, when I was la>ing all my bloody Schemes
for the Deftru<5Hon of innocent Creatures, I mean inno-
cent asrme: As to the Crimes they were guilty of to-
wards one another, I had. nothing to with them ; they
were National Punifhments to make a juft Retribution
for National Offences; and to bringpubiick judgments
upon thole who offend in a pubiick Manner, by fuch
Ways as befi; pleafe him.
This
This appeared to clear to me now, that nothing was
a greater Satisfaction to me, than that I had not been
fuffer'd to do a Thing which I now law Co much Reafon
to believe would have been no leis a Sin, than that of
wilful Murther, if I had committed it; and I gave moffc
humble Thanks on my Knees to God, that had thus
deliver'd me from Blood-guiltinefs ; befeeching him to
grant me the Prote&ion of his Providence, that I
might not fall into the Hands of Barbarians; or that I
might not lay my Hands upon them, unlefs I had a
more clear Call from Heaven to do it, in Defence of
my own Life.
In this Difpofltion 1 continu'd for near a Year after
this; and fo tar was I from defiring an Occafion for
falling upon thefe Wretches, that in all that Time I ne-
ver once went up the Hill to fee whether there were
any of them in Sight, or to know whether any of them
had been on Shore there, or not, that I might not be
tempted to renew any of my Contrivances againft them,
or be provoked by any Advantage which might pre lent
itfelfto fall upon them; only this I did, 1 went and
removed my Boat, which I had on the other Side the
Ifland, and carried it down to the Eaffc End of the
whole Ifland, where I ran it into a little Cove, which
I found under fome high Rocks, and where I knew, by
reafon of the Currents, the Savages durft not, at leaifc .
would not come with their Boats, upon any Account
what foe ver.
With my Boat I carried away every Thing that I
had left there belonging to her, tho' not necelfary for
the bare going thither, vi%. A Mail and Sail, which I
had made for her, and a Thing like an Anchor, but in-
deed which could not be calfd either Anchor or Grap-
ling; however, it was the beffc I could make of its kind:
All thefe I remov'd, that there might not be the lead
Shadow of any Difcovery, or any Appearance of any
Boat, or of any human Habitation upon the Ifland.
Befides this, I kept my felf, as I faid, more retired
than ever, and feldom went from my Cell, other than
upon my conftant Employment, vi%. to mik my She-
Goats, and manage my little Flock in the Wood ; which,
as it was quite on the other Part of the Ifland, was
quite
quite out of Danger :• For certain it is, that thefe fa-
vage People, who fometimes haunted this IHand, never
came with any Thoughts of finding any thing here,
and confequently never wandred off from the Coaft;
and I doubt not, but - they might have been feveral
times on Shore> after my Apprehenfions of them had
made me cautious, as well as before; and, indeed, I
look'd back with fame Horror upon the Thoughts of
what my Condition would have been, if I had cbop'd
upon them, and been diicover'd before that, when naked
and unarm'd, except with one Gun, and that loaded
often only with fmall Shot. I walked every where
peeping, and peiring about the I (land, to fee what I
could get; what a Surprize fhould I have been in, if,
when i difcover'd the Print of a Man's Foot, I had in-
Head of that feen fifteen or twenty Savages, and found
them purfuing me, and by the Swiftnefs of their Run*
ning, no Poffibility of my efcaping them P
The Thoughts of this fometimes funk my very Soul
within me, and diftrefs'd my Mind fo much, that I
could not foon recover it; to think what I ihould have
done, and how I not only fliould not have been able to
reM them, but even ihould not have had Prefence of
Mind enough to do what I might have done; much
lefs, what now after Co much Confideration and Prepa-
ration I might be able to do: Indeed, after ferious
thinking of thefe Things, I would be very melancholy,
and fometimes it would lail a great while ; but I re-
folv'd it at laft all into Thankfulnefs to that Providence
w'.ich had delivered me from fo many unfeen Dangers,
and had kept me from thofe Mifchiefs which I cculd
no way have been the Agent in delivering my felf from ;
becaule I had not the leaft Notion of any fuch Thing
depending, or the leaft Suppofition of its being poP
iible.
This renewed a Contemplation, which often had
come to my Thoughts in former Time, when firft I
began to fee the merciful Difpofitions of Heaven, in the
Dangers we run thro' in this Life: How wonderfully
we are deliver'd, when we know nothing of it. How
when we are in ( a Quandary y as we call it) a Doubt or
Hefitation3 whether to go this Way, or that Way, a
fecret
tbcretHint fhall direct us this Way, when we intended
to go that Way ; nay, when Seni'e, our own Inclina-
tion, and perhaps Bufinels has calfd to go the other
Way, yet a ftrange Impreffton upon the Mind, from we
know nut what Springs, and by wc know not what
Power, fhall over-rule us to go this Way; and it- fhall
afterwards appear, that had we gone that Way which
we fhould have gone, and even to our Imagination
ought to have gone, wc ihould. have been ruin'd and
lo(l: Upon thefe, and ma*ny like Rejections, I after-
wards made it a certain Rule with me, I hat whenever
I found thofe iecret Hints, or Preflings of my Mind, to
doing, or not doing any thing that preferred, or to
going this Way, or that Way, 1 never faifd to obey
the Iecret Di<5f ate; tho' I knew no other Reafon for it,
than that llich a PrefTure, or fuch a Hint hung upon my
Mind: I could give many Examples of the Miccefs of
this Conduct in the Courfe of my Life •, but more efp?-
cially in the latter Part of my inhabiting this unhappy
Ifland ; befides many Occaiions which it is very likely
I might have taken notice of, if I had [cen with the
fame Eyes then, that I faw with now : But 'tis never
too late to bs wife; and I cannot but advife all conii-
dering Men, whole Lives are mended with fuch extra,
ordinary Incidents as mine, or even tho1 not ib extra-*
•ordinary, not to flight fuch iecret Intimations of Pro-
vidence, let them come from what invifible Intelligence
they will, that I fhall not difcufs, and perhaps cannot
account for ; but certainly they are a Proof or the Con-
verfe of Spirits, and the iecret Communication between
thofe embod>Jd, and thofe un em bod) 'd ; and fuch a
Proof as can never be withitood: Of which I fhalrhave •
Occafion to give fome very remarkable Inftances in the
Remainder of my folitary Llciidence in this difmal
Place.
I believe the Reader x>f this will not think flrange,
if I confefs that thefe Anxieties, thefe conftant Dangers
I ]iv*& in, and the Concern that was now upon me,
put an End to all Invention, and to all the Contriv-
ances-that I had laid for my future Accommodations
and Conveniences. I had the Care of mv Safety more
now upon my Hands, than that of my Food* I car'd
not
not to drive a Nail, or chop a Stick of Wood now, for
fear the Noife I fhould make ilxould be heard \ much
lei's would I fire a Gun, for the fame Reafon ; and above
all, I was intolerably uneafy at making any Fire, left
the Snk>ak, which is viiible at a great Diftance in the
Day, fhould betray me *, and for this Reafon I remov'd
that Part of my Buiinels which required Fire, fuch as
•burning of Pots and Pipes, &V. into my new Apart-
ment in the Woods ; where, after I had been feme
Time, I found, to my unfpeakahle Confolation, a mere
natural Cave in the Earth, which went in a vail way,
and where, I dare fay, no Savage, had he been at the
Mouth of it, would be fo hardy as to venture in, nor
indeed would any Man elfe, but one who, like me, want-
ed nothing lo much as a fare Retreat.
The Mouth of this Hollow was at the Bottom of a
great Rock, where, by mere Accident ( I \vould fay,
it I did not fee abundant Reafon to afcribe all fuch things
now to Providence ) t was cutting down lome thick
Branches of Trees, to make Charcoal ; And beibre I go
on, I mufl: obferve the Reafon of my making this Char-
coal, which was thus :
I was afraid of making a Smoak about my Habita-
tion, as I faid before; and yet I could not live there
without baking my Bread., cooking my Meat, CSV. fo I
contrived to hum fome Wood here, as I had feen done
in England under Turf, till it became Chark, or dry
Coal; and then putting the Fire out, I preferv'd the
Coal to carry home, and- perform the other Services,
which Fire was wanting for, at home, without Danger
of Smoak.
But this by the by : W7hile I was cutting down fome
Wood here, I perceived that behind a very thick
Branch of low Bnifh-wood, or Under-wood, there was
a kind of hollow Place: I was curious to look into it,
and getting with Difficulty into the Mouth of it, I
found it was pretty large, that is to fay, fufficient for
me to (land upright in it, and perhaps another with
me ; but I mull confefs to you, 1 made more hade out
than I did in, when looking further into the Place,
which was perfe&ly dark, I law two broad ihining Eyes
of feme Creature, whether Devil or Man, I knew not,
I which
.which twinkled like two Stars, the dim Light from the
Cave's Mouth fhining dire&ly in, and making the Re-
flection.
However, after fome Paufe, I recovered my felf, and
fcegan to call my felf a thouiand Fools, and tell my
felt, that he that was afraid to fee the Devil, was not
tit to live twenty Years in an liland all alone; and
that I duril to believe there was nothing in this Cave
that was more irightful than my ielf: Upon this, pluc-
king up my Courage, I took up a great Firebrand, and
in 1 rufh'd again, with the Stick ilaming in my
Hand : I had not gone three Steps in, but I was almofl
as much frighted a-s I was before ; for I heard a very
loud Sigh, like that of a Man in ibme Pain, and it was
followed by a broken Noife, as if of Words half ex-
prefs'd, and then a deep Sigh again : I ftep'd back, and
was indeed (truck with fuch a Surprize, that it put me
into a cold Sweat; and if I had had a Hat on my Head,
1 will not anfwer for it, that my Hair might not have
Jiftcd it off. But {till plucking up my Spirits as well
-as I could, and encouraging my ielf a little, with con*
ildering that the Power and Pre fence of God was e-
very where, and was able to prote& me ; upon this I
ilep'd forward again, and by the Light of the Fire-
brand, holding it up a little over my Head, I law ly-
ing on the Ground a moil: monitrous frightful old He-
Goat, juft making his Will, as we lay, gafping for Life,
.and dying indeed of meer old Age,
I flir'd him a little, to fee,if I could get him out,
and he eday'd to get up, but was not able to raife him-
felf; and I thought with my ielf, he might e'en lie
there ; for if he had frighted me fo, he would certainly
fright any of the Savages, it any of them fhould be
fj hardy as to come in there, while he had any Life
in him.
I was now recovered from my Surprize, and began
.to look round me, when I found the Cave was but
very fmall, that is to fay, it might he about twelve
Foot over, but in no manner of Shape, either round or
fcjuare, no Hands having ever been employed in mak-
ing it, but thole of meer Nature.; I obferv'd alfo, that
there was a Place at the further Side of it that went in
further,
further, but was fo low, that it required me to creep
upon my Hands and Knees to go into i£ and whether
it went I knew not; \o having no Candle, I gave it
over for fbme time, but reiblved to come again the-
next Day, provided with Candles, and a Tinder-Box>
which I had made of the Lock of- one. of the Muskets,
with fome Wild-^ire in the Pan.
Accordingly, the next Day I came provided with
fix large Candles of my own making, for L made very
good Candles now of Govt's Tallow ; and going into
this low Place, I was obliged to creep upon all Fours,
as I have (aid, almoft ten Yards; which, by the way,
I thought was a Venture bold enough, considering
that I knew not how far it might go, or what was be-
yond it: When I was get thro' the Strait, I found the
Roof rofe higher up, I believe near twenty Foot; but
never was fuch a glorious Sight feen in the Ifland, f
dare fay, as it was, to look round the Sides and Roof
of this Vault or Cave : 1 he W alls reflected a hundred
thoufand Lights to me from my two Candles ; what it
was in the Rock, whether Diamonds, or any other pre-
cious Stones, or Gold, which I rather iappoicd it to
be, I knew not.
The Place I was in, was a mod delightful Cavity, or
Grotto, of its kind, as could be expected, tho* perfe&-
ly dark ; the Floor was dry and level, and had a fort
offmall loofe Gravel upon it; Co that there was no
naufeous or venomons Creature to be feen, neither Avas
there any Damp or Wet on the Sides or Roof: The
only Difficulty in it was the Entrance, which, however*
as it was a Place of Security, and fuch a Retreat as I
wanted, I thought that was a 'Convenience; fo that I
was really rejoiced at the Diicovery,' and refolved,
without any Delay, to bring fome of thofe things which
I was moil anxious about, to this Place; particularly,
I refolvM to bring hither my Magazine of Powder, and
all my fpajre Arms, vi^. Two Fowling-Pieces, ( for I
had three in all) and three Muskets, (for of them I had
eight in all) lb I kept at my Caftle only five, which
ilood ready mounted, like Pieces o\ Cannon, on my
outmoft Fence ; and were ready alio to take out upon
any Expedition
I 2 Upon
Upon tliis Occafion of removing my Ammunition^
I was obliged to open the Ban el of Powder which I
took up out of the Sea, and which had been wet \ and
I found that the Water had penetrated about three or
four Inches into the Powder on every fide, which ca-
king and growing hard, had preferved the Infide like a
Kernel in a Shell; ib that I had near fixty Pounds of
very good Powder in the Centre of the Cask ', and this
was an agreeable Difcovery to me at that time ; {o I
carried all away thither, never keeping above two or
three Pounds of Powder with me in my Cattle, for
fear of a Surprize of any kind : I alio carried thither all
the Lead I had left for Bullets.
I fancied my felf now like one of the ancient Giants,
which were laid to live in Caves and Holes in the
Rocks, where none could come at them ; for I per-
iwaded my felf, while 1 was here, if five hundred
Savages were to hunt me, they could never find me
out; or it they did, they would not venture to attack
me here.
The old Goat, who I found expiring, died in the
Mouth of the Cave, the next Day alter I made this
Difcovery *, and I found it much eafier to dig a great
Hole there, and throw him in, and cover him with
Earth, than to drag him out: So I interred him there,
to prevent Offence to my Nofe.
I was now in my twenty-third Year of Refidence in
this I Hand, and was ib naturalized to the Place, and
to the Manner of living, that could I have but enjoyed
the Certainty, that no Savages would come to the
Place to dilUirb me, I could have been content to
have capitulated for fpending the reft of myTime there,
even to the lail Moment, till I had laid me down and
died, like the old Goat in the Cave: I had alio ar-
rived to ibme little Diverfions and Amufements, which
made the Time pals more pleafantly with me a great
deal than it did before ; at firft, I had taught my Poll,
as I noted before, to fpeak; and he did it lb familiar-
ly, and talk'd fo articulately and plain, that it was
very pleaiant to me; and he lived with me no lefs
than fix and twenty Years: How long he might live
afterwards, I know not", tho* I know they have a No-
tion
tiori In the Brafihy that they live a hundred Years;
perhaps fame of my Pells may be alive there llill, calling
after P..or Robin Oufie to this Day ; I wiih no Etip/Jb-
n?an the ill Lu:kto come there and hear them, hut if he
did, he would certainly believe it was the Devil. My
Dog was a very pleafant and loving Companion to me
for no Ids than fixteen Years ofc my Tim*, and then
died of meer old Age •, as for my Cats, they multiply-
ed, as I have obierved, to that degree, that I was obliged
to lhoot feveral of them at £ril, to keep them from de-
vouring me and all I had \ but at length, when the
two old ones I brought with me were gone, and after
iome time continually driving them from me, and let-
ting them have no Provifion with me, they all ran
wild into the Woods, except two or three Favourites,
which I kept tame, and whole Young> when they had
any, I always drown'd, and thefe were part of my
Family : Befldes thefe, I always kept two or three
Houfhold Kids about me, which I taught to feed out
of my Hand; and I had alio more Parrots, which
talk'd pretty well, and would all call Robin Cntfiey but
none like my firfl \ nor indeed, did I take the Pains
with any of them that I had done with him : I had alio
feveral tame Sea-Fowls, whofe Names I know not,
which I caught upon the Shore, and cut their'Wings;
and the little Stakes which I had planted before my Ca-
ttle-Wall, being now grown up to a good thick Grove,
thefe Fowls all lived among thefe low Trees, and bred
there, which was very agreeable to me ; lb that, as I
faid above, I began to be very well contented with the
Life 1 led, if it might but have been fecured from the
Dread of the Savages*
But it was other wife dire&ed; and it may not be a-
mifs for all People who fhall meet with my Story, to
make this jufi: Obfervation from it, vi%. How frequently,
in the Courfe of our Lives, the Evil which in it felf
we feek mod to fhun, and which, when we are fallen
into, is the moft dreadful to us, is oftentimes the very
means or door of our Deliverance, by which alone we
can be rais'd again from the AfHiftion we are fallen into;
I could give many Examples of this in the Courfe of my
unaccountable Life \ but in nothing was it more parti-.
I 3 cularly
''c\i1arly renwk;ib!e than in the Clrcuniilances of nry
Tail Years of iolitary Residence in this I (land.
It was now the Month of December^ as I faid above,
in my twenty-third Year ; and this being, the fouthern
Solftice, for Winter I cannot call it, was the particular
Time of my Harvefl, and required my being pretty
much abroad in the Fields \ when going out pretty
early in the Morning, even before it was thorow Day-
light;, I was furpriz'd with feeing a Light offome Fire
upon the Shore, at a diflance from me, of about two
Miles, towards the end of'the llland, where I had ol>
ierved fame Savages had been, as before; but not on the
ether Side, but to my greatAfHi&ion, it was on my
Side of the I (land,
, I was indeed terribly furpriz'd at the Sight, and ffcopt
fliort within my Grove, not daring to gp out left I
might be furpri'z'd $ and yet I had no more Peace with-
in, trom my Apprehenfions I had, that if thefe Savages,
• in rambling over the Ifland, ihotvld find my Corn
Handing, or cut, or any of my Works and Improve-
ments, they would immediately conclude, that there
were People in the Place, and would then never give
over till the}; found me out: In this Extremity I went
"back directly to my Caftie, pull'dup the Ladder after
me, having made all things without look as wild and-
natural as i could.
Then I prepared my felf within, putting my {"elf in
a Poflure of Defence ; I loaded all my Cannon, as I
call'd them ; that is to fay, my Muskets, which were
mounted upon my new Fortification, and all my Piftols-
and refolv'd to defend my felf to the la ft Gafp ; not
forgetting, ferioufly to commend my felf to the divine
Protection, and earneftly to pray to God to deliver me-
out of the Hands of the Barbarians ; and'in this Pof-
ture I continued about two Hours, but began to be migh-
ty impatient for Intelligence abroad, for 1 had no Spies-
to fend out.
After fitting a while longer, and mufing what t
fhoulddo in this Cafe, I was not able to bear fitting in
Ignorance any longer ; ib letting up my Ladder to the
ilde of the Hill, where there was a flat Place, as I ob-
served before, and then palling the Ladder up after-
me>
nie, I let itup again, and mounted to theTop'of the FJill^
and pulling out my Perfpe<5Kve-Ghfs, which I had ta-
ken on purpofe, I laid me down flat on my Belly on
the Ground, and began to look tor the Place: I pre-
sently found there were no leis than nine naked Savages
fitting round a fmall Fire, they had made ; not to wajrm
them, lor they had no need of that, the Weather being,
extreamhot; but, as I fuppos'd, to drefs fome of t^eir
barbarous Diet of human Flefh, which they had
brought with them, whether alive or dead, I could not
know.
They had two Canoes with them, which they ha<l
haled up upon the Shore ; and as it was then Tide of
Ebb, they i'eem'd to me to wait for the Return of the
Flood, to go away again ; it is no: eafy to imagine
what Coniuiion this Sight put me into, efpectally fee-
ing them come on my iide the Ifland, and fb near me
too ; but when I obferv'd their coming mud be al-
ways with the Current of the Ebb, I began afterwards
to be more fedate in my Mind, being fatisfy'd that I
might go abroad with Safety all the Time of the Tide
of Flood, if they were not on Shore before; And ha*
ving made this Oblervation, I went abroad about my
Harveft-Work with the more Compofure.
As I expe&sd, lb it proved, for as Soon as the Tide
made to the Weft ward, I law them all take Boat, and
row Cor paddle, as we call itj all away : I fhould have
obferv'd, that for an Hour and more before they went
off, they went to dancing, and I could eaiily dilcern
their Poftures and Geftures by my GlalTes : I could not
perceive, by my niceft: Obfervation, but that they were
(lark naked, and had-not the lead Covering upon them;
but whether they were Men or Women, that I could
not diflinguifh.
As Soon as I Saw them fhip'd and gone, I took two
Guns upon my Shoulders, and two Fiftols at my Gir-
dle, and my great Sword by my Side, without a Scab-
bard, and with all the Speed 1 was able to make, I
went away to the Hill, where I had difcover'd the firfl
Appearance of all •, As foon as I got thither, which
was not lets than two Hours5 (for I could not go apace
being fo loaden with Arms as I was) I perceiv'd there
I 4 had
had been three Canoes more of Savages on that Place 5
and locking out further, I faw they were all at Sea^to-
gcther, making over for the Main.
This was a dreadful Sight to me, efpecially when
going down to the Shore, I could fee the Marks of
Horror which thedifmal Work they had been about had
left behind it, vi\. the Blood, the Bones, and Part of
the Fleili of human Bodies, eaten and devoured by
thofe Wret:hes, with Merriment and Sport; 1 was fo
iilTdwith Indignation at the ^ight, that I began now
to premeditate the Deifrudtion of the next that I law
there, let them be who or how many ibever.
Jt feem'd evident to me, that the Vifits which they
thus made to this llland, were not very frequent \ for it
was above fifteen Months before any more of them
came on Shore there again ; that is tofayy I never law
them, or any Footfteps, or Signals of them, in all that
Time; for as to the rainy Seaibns, then they are fure
not to come abroad, at lead not ib far; yet all tins
while I lived uncomfortably, by leafon of the conftant
.A pprehenfions 1 was in of their coining upon me by
furprize ; from whence I obferve, that the Expe&ation
of Evil is more bitter than the Suffering, efpecially
if there is no room to fhake off that Expe&ation, or
thofe Apprehenflons.
During all this time, I was in the murthering Hu-
mour ; and took up moil of my Hours, which ihould
have been better employed,in contriving how to circum-
vent and fall upon them the very next time I fhould iee
them ; efpecially if they fhould be divided, as they
were the lafl time, into two Parties ; nor did I confi-
der at all, that if I kill'd one Party, fuppofe ten or a
dozen, I was dill the next Day, or Week, or Month,
to kill another, and fo, another, even ad infinitum, till
I fhould be at length no lefs a Murtherer than they
were in being Man-eaters, and perhaps much more
fo.
I fpent my Days now in great Perplexity and An-
xiety of Mind, expe&ing that I fhould one Day or o-
ther fall into the Hands of thefe mercilefs Creatures;
if I did at any time venture abroad, it was not
without looking round me with the greateft Care and
Caution
Caution imaginable ; and now I found to my great
Comfort, bow happy it was that I had provided tor a
tame Flock or Herd ot Goars; for I durft not upon any
account fire my Gun, efpecially near that fide of the
Iiland where they uiually came, left I fhould alarm the
Savages ; and if they had fled from me now, I was fure
to have them come back again, with perhaps two or
three hundred Canoes with them in a few Days, and
then I knew what to expert.
However, I wore out a Year and three Months more,
before I ever law any more of the Savages, and then
I found them again, as I fhall loon obferve : It is true,
they might have been there once or twice ; but either
they made no Stay, or at leaft, I did not hear them ;
but in the Month of May, as near as I could calculate,
and in my four and twentieth Year, I had a very ftrange
Encounter with them, of which in its Place.
The Perturbation of my Mind, during this fifteen or
flxteen Months Interval, was very great; I flept un-
quiet, dreamt always frightful Dreams, and often dart-
ed out of my Sleep in the Night: In the Day great
Troubles overwhelmed my Mind, in the Night I dreamt
often of killing the Savages, and the Reaibns why I
might juftify the doing of it: But to wave all this for a
while; it was in the middle of May, on the fifteenth
Day I think, as well as my poor wooden Calendar
would reckon; for I mark'd all upon the Pod dill; I
fay, it was on the fixteenth of May, that it blew a very
great Storm of Wind, all Day, with a great deal of
Lightning and Thunder, and a very foul Night it was
after it : 1 know not what was the particular occafion
ot it; but as I was reading in the Bible, and taken up
with ferious Thoughts about my prefent Condition, £
was furpri2'd with the Noife of a Gun, as I thought,
jir'd at Sea.
This was to be fure a Surprize of a quite different
Nature from any I had met with before ; for the No-
tions this put into my Thoughts were quite of another
kind ; I darted up in the greateft Hade imaginable,
a-nd in a trice clapt my Ladder to the middle Place of
the Rock, and pulled it after me, and mounting it the
fecond Time, got to the Top of the Hill •, that very Mo.
I $ ment
ment a Flafii of Fire bid me liften' for a fecond Gutt,
which accordingly, in about halt' a Minute, I heard,
and by, the Sound knew that it was from that Part of
the Sea wheie I was driven out with the Current in
Beat.
I immediately confider'd that this muft be foine Ship-
in Diftrefs, and that they had fome Comrade, o-r fome
other Ship in Company, and fir'd thefe Guns for Sig-
nals of Diftrefs, and to obtain Help: I had this Pre-
fence of Mind at that Minute, as to think, that tho'
I could not help them, it may be they might help me;
fo I brought together all the dry Wood 1 could get at
hand, and making a good handfome Pile, I let it or*
Tire upon the Hill ; the Wood was dry, and blaz'd free-
ly, and tho5 the Wind blew very hard, yet it burnC
fairly out, fo that I was certain, if there was any fuch
Thing as a Ship, they muft needs fee it, and no doubt
they did, for as foon as ever my Fire blaz'd up, I heard '
another Gun, and after that feveral others, all from the
lame Quarter : I ply'd my Fire all Night long, till
Day broke ; and when it was broad Day, and the Air
cle&r'd up, I faw fomething at a great Diftance at Sea,
full Eaft of the I (land, whether a Sail, or a Hull, I
could not diftinguifh, no not with my Glaffes, the
Diftance was fo great, and the Weather ftill fomething.
hazy alio *, at Jeailit was lb out at Sea.
I look'd frequently at it all that Day, and foon per-
ceiv'd that it did not move ; fo I preiently concluded
that it was a Ship at an Anchor \ and being eager, you
may be fure, to be fatisfy'd, I took my Gun in my
Hand, and ran toward the Sottth-Eaft Side of the Ifland,
to the Rocks where I had formerly been ca ry'd away
•with the Current, and getting up there, the'Weather
by this Time being perfectly clear, I could plainly fee,
to my great Sorrow, the Wreck of a Ship cafl away
in the Might upon thofe concealed Rocks which I found
when I was out in my Boat j and which Rocks, as they
checked the Violence of the Stream, and made a kind
of Counter-Stream or Eddy, were the Occafion of my
recovering then from the moil defperate hopelefs Condi-
tion that ever I had been in in all my Life.
Thus*
Thus, what is one Man's Safety, is another Man's
Deftru<ftion \ for it feems thefe Men, whoever they
were, bring out of their Knowledge, and the Rocks be-
ing wholly under Water, had been driven upon them
in the Night, the Wind blowing bird at £. and E.N.E.
Had they feen the I (land, as I mud necefTarily fuppofe
they did not, they muft, as 1 thought, have endea-
vour Jd to have fav'd themfelves on Shore by the Help
of their Boat; but their firing off Guns for Help, espe-
cially when they law, as I imagined, my Fire," filled
mc with many Thoughts : Fir ft 1 imagin'd, that upon
feeing my Light, they might have put themfelves into
their Boat, and have endeavoured to make the Shore,
but that the Sea going very high, they might have
been caft away ; other times I imagined, that they
might have loft their Boat before, as might be the
Cafe many ways; as particularly, by the breaking of
the Sea upon their Ship, which many times obliges
Men to ftave, or take in pieces their boat -, and fome-
times to throw it over Board with their own. Hands;
Other times I imagin'd, they had fotrkj other Ship or
Ships in Company, who, upon the Signals of Diftrefs
they had made, had taken them up and carried them
off: Other whiles I fancied, they were all gone on? to
Sea in their Boat, and being hurried away by the
Current that I had been formerly in, were carry'd out
into the great Ocean where there was nothing but Mi-
fery and Fer,ifhing *, and that perhaps they might by
this Time think of ftarving, and of being in a Condi-
tion to eat one another.
As all thefe were but Conjertures at beft, Co in the
Condition I was in, I could do no more than look on
upon the Miiery oi the poor Men, and pity them ;
which had ftill this good EfFe& on my Side, that it
gaye me more and more Caufe to give Thanks to
God, who had fo happily and comfortably provided
ior me in my defolate Condition ^and that of two Ships
Cqinpanies who were now caft away upon this Pan
of the World, not one Life fliould be fpar'd but mine;:
1 learnt here again to obferve, that it is very rare that
the Providence of God cafts us into any Condition of
•life fo low, or any Miiery fo grea% but we may fe
j . " . ibmc-
Something or other to be thankful for ; and may fee o-
rhers in worfe Circumitances than our own.
Such certainly was the Cafe of thefe Men, of whom
I could not fo much as fee Room to fuppofe any of
them were fav'dj nothing could make it rational, fo
much as to wifh or expe& that they did not all periilx
there, except the Poifibility only of their being taken
up by another Ship in Company. And this was but
mere Poifibility indeed ; for 1 faw not the lead Signal
or Appearance of any fuch Thing.
I cannot explain, by any pofllble Energy of Words,
what a urange Longing or Hankering of Defires I felt
in my Soul upon this Sight ; breaking out fomettmes
thus: O that there had baen but one or two, nay, or
"but one Soul fav'd out of the Ship, to have efcap'd to
me, that I might but have had one Companion, one
3?ellow-Creature to have fpoken to me, and to have
cjnvers'd with! Jn all the Time of my iblitary Life,
I never felt Co earneft, Co flrong a Defire after the So-
ciety of my Fellow-Creatures, or ib deep a Regret at
the Want of it.
There are fome fecret moving Springs in the Affec-
tions, which, when they are let a-going by fome Ob-
jefl in View, or be it fome Object, though not in View,
yet rendered prefent to tbe Mind by the Power oflma-
gination, that Motion carries out the Soul by its Tm-
p-tuofity to fuch violent, eager Embractngs oi the Ob-
ject, that the Abfenee of it is infupportable.
Such were thefe earneft Wifhings, That but one Man
had b-en fav'd ! 0 that it bad been but One I I believe
I repeated the Words, 0 that it had been but One ! a
thouland times \ and the Defires were £o mov'd by it,
that when I fpoke the Words, my Hands would clinch
together, and my Fingers prefs the Palms of my Hands,
that if I had had any loft Thing in my Hand, it would
have crulh'd it involuntary ; and my Teeth in my Head
would ftrike together, and let againfl one another fo
ftrong, that ror fome time I could not part them
again.
Let the Naturalifts explain thefe Things, and the
Reafon and Manner of them; all I can fay of them, is,
to defcribe the Fa&, which was eye& furprizing to me
when
when I found it, tho' I knew not from what it fhould
proceed ; it was doubtlefs the Ef?e61 of ardent Wifhes,
and of ilrong Ideas form'd in my Mind, realizing the
Comfort which the Converfation of one of my Fellow-
Chriflians would have been to me.
But it was not to be; either their Fate, or mine, or
both, forbid it; for till the lafl Year of my being on
this 1 (land, I never knew, whether any were fav'd out
of that Ship or no ; and had only the Affli&ion foine
Days after, to fee the Corps of a drown'd Boy come
on Shore, at the End of the I (land, which was next
the Shipwreck : He had on no Cloatbs, but a Seaman's
Wailcoat, a Pair of open knee'd Linnen Drawers, and
a blue Linnen Shirt; but nothing to dire& me fo much
as to gueis what Nation he was of: He had nothing in
his Pocket but two Pieces of Eight and a Tobacco-
Pipe ; the lafl was to me oi: ten times more Value than
the firft.
It was now calm, and 1 had a great Mind to venture
out in my Boat to this Wreck ; not doubting but I
might find fomething on Board, that might be ufetul
to me ; but that did not altogether prefs me fo much,
as the Poffibility that there might be yet fome living
Creature on Board, whole Life 1 might not only fave,
but might, by laving that Life, comfort my own' to
the lall Degree \ and this Thought clung ^o to my
Heart, that I could not be quiet, Night or Day, but
I mull venture out in my Boat on Board this Wreck ;
and committing the reft to God's Providence, I thought
the Impreflion was fo ftrong upon my Mind, that it
could not be refilled, that it mull come from fome.vi-
sible Dire&ion, and that I fhould be wanting to my
Jelf, if I did not go.
Under the Power of this Impreflion, I haflen'd back
to my Caflle, prepared every Thing for my Voyage,
took a Quantity of Bread, a great Pot for frefh Wa-
ter, a Com pals to fleer by, a Bottle of Rum, ( for I had
{till a great deal of that left) a Basket full of Raiflns :
And thus loading my felf with every thing neceflary, I
went down to my Boat, got the Water out of her, and
got her afloat, loaded all my Cargo in her, and then
went Home again for mare; My fecond Cargo was a
great
great Bag full ol Rice, the Umbrella to fet up over my
Head for Shade, another large Pot full of frefh Water,
and about two Dozen ofmy fmall Loaves, or Barley
Cakes, more than before, with a Bottle of Goat's Milk,
and a Cheeie \ all which, with great Labour and Sweat,
I brought to my Boat, and praying to God to direft
my Voyage, I put out, and rowing or paddling the
Canoe along the Shore, I came at lall to the utmoft
Point of the ifland, on that Side, ( vi\, ) N. E. And
now 1 was to launch out into the Ocean, and either
to venture, or not to venture ; I look'd on the rapid
Currents which ran conflantly on both Sides of the
Ifland, at a Diftance, and which were very terrible to
me, from the Remembrance of the Hazard I had been
in before, and my Heart began to fail me; for I fore-
fa w that if 1 was driven into either of thole Currents,
I ihould be carried a vafl: Way out to Sea, and perhaps
out of my Reach, or Sight of the Ifland again *, and that
then, as my Boat was but fmall, if any little Gale of
Wnind fhould rife, I ihould be inevitably loil.
Theie Thoughts io opprefs'd my Mind, that I be-
gan to give over my Enterprize, and having haled my
Boat into a little Creek on the Shore, I ftept out, and
fat me down upon a little riling bit o[ Ground, very
penfive and anxious, between Fear and Ddlre about
my Voyage *, when, as I was mufing, I could perceive
that the Tide was turn'd and the Flood came on, upon
which my going was for fb many Hours impracti-
cable: Upon this prefently it occur'd to me, that I
ihould go up to the highefl Piece of Ground I could
" find, and obferve, if i could, how the Sets of the Tide
or Currents lay, when the Flood came in, that I might
judge whether, if I was driven one W7ay out, I might
not cxpe& to be driven another Way home, with the
fame Rapidnefs of the Currents: This Thought was no
fooner in my Head, but I cad my Eye upon a little
Hill, which fufficiently overlook'd the Sea both ways*
and from whence I had a clear View of the .Currents,
or Sets of the Tide, and which Way I was to guide
my felf in my Return : Here I found, that as the Cur-
rent of the Ebb fet cut clofe by the South Point of the
Ifland, fo the Current of the Flood fet in clofe by tile
Shore
Tore of the North Side, and that I had nothing, to do
put to keep to the North of the Ifland in my Return,
and i ihould do well enough.
Encourag'd with this Obiervation, I refolv'd the next
Morning to fet out with the firft of the Tide ; and re-
poiing m> felf for that Night in the Canoe> under the
great Watch-Coat I mention'd, I launch'd out: I made
tirfl a little out to Sea full North, till I began to feel
the Benefit of the Current, which fet Eaftward, and
which carried me at a great Rate, and yet did not Co
hurry me as the Southern Side Current had done before,
and fo as to take from me all Government of the Boat;
but having a (Irong Steerage with my Paddle, I went,
1 fay, at a great Rate, diredtly for the Wreck, and in Ids
than two Hours I came up to it.
It was a difmal Sight to look at: The Ship, which
by its Building was Spa?iijhy (luck faft, jaum'd in be-
tween two Rocks; all the Stern and Quarter of her was
beaten to Pieces with the Sea ; and as her ForecafHe,
which ftuck in the Rocks, had run on with great Vio-
lence, her Mainmaft and Foremail were brought by the
Board, that is to fay, broken fhort off; but her Bolt-
fprit was found, and' the Head and Bow appeared firm:
When I came clofe to her, a Dog appeared upon her,
who feeing me coming, yelp'd and cry'd, and as foon
as I cali'd him, jump'd into the Sea, to come to me,
and I took him into the Boat, but found him alrnoft
dead for Hunger and Thirft: I gave him a Cake of
my Bread, and he eat it like a ravenous Wolf, that had
been ftarving a Fortnight in the Snow: I then gave the
poor Creature fome freih Water, with which, if I would
have let him, he would have burft himfelf.
After this I went on Board; The firfl Sight I
met with, was two Men drown'd y& the Cook-Room,
or Forecaille of the Ship, with their Arms fad about
one another : I concluded, as is indeed probable, that
when the Ship ftruck, it being in a Storm, the Sea
broke lb high, and fo continually over her, that the
Men were not able to bear it, and were ftrangled with
the conftant rufhing in of the Water, as much as if they
had been under Water: Befides the Dog, there was
nothing left in the Ship that had Life, nor any Goods
that
that I could fee, but what were fpoil'd by the Water :
There were fome Casks of Liquor, whether Wine or
Brandy, I knew not, which lay lower in the Hold, and
which, the Water being ebb'd out, I could fee, but
they were too big to meddle with : I faw feveral Chefts,
which I believ'd belong5 d to fome of the Seamen, and
I got two of them into the Boat, without examining
what was in them.
Had the Stern of the Ship been fix'd, and the Fore-
part broken off, I am perfwaded I might have made a
good Voyage*, for by what I found in thefe two Chefts,
1 had room to fuppofe the Ship had a great deal of
Wealth on Board; and if I may guefs by the Courfe
fhe fleer'd, flie mull have been bound from the Buenos
Aires, or the Rio de la Plata, in the South-Part of Ame-
rica^ beyond the Brafils, to the Havana, in the Gulph
of Mexico, and \o perhaps to Spain : She had, no doubt,
a great Treaiure in her, but of no Ufe at that time to
any Body ; and what became of the reft of her People,
I then knew not.
I found, befides thefc Chefts, a little Cask full of
Liquor, of about twenty Gallons, which I got into my
Boat, with much Difficulty: There were feveral Mus-
kets in a Cabbin, and a great Powder-Horn, with a-
bout four Pounds of Powder in it; as for the Muskets, I
had no occafion for them, fo I left them, but took the
Powder-Horn : I took a Fire-ihovel and Tongs, which
I wanted extremely ; as alfo two little Brafs-Kettles, a
Copper-Potto make Chocolate, and a Gridiron; and
with this Cargo, and the Dog, I came away, the Tide
beginning to make home again; and the fame Eve»
ning. about an Hour within Night, I reach'd the Ifland
again, weary and fatlgu'd to the laft Degree.
I repos'd that Night in the Boat, and in the Morn-
ing I refolv'd to harbour what I had gotten in my new
Cave, not to carry it home to my Caftle : After re-
freihing my felf, I got all my Cargo on Shore, and be-
gan to examine the Particulars : The Cask of Liquor I
found to be a kind of Rum, but not fuch as we had at
the Brafils ; and in a Word, not at all good ; but when
I came to open the Chefts, I found feveral things of
great Ufe to me; For Example, i found in one a £ne
Cafe
Cafe of Bottles, of an extraordinary kind, and iiWi
with. Cordial Waters, fine, and very good ; the Bot-
tles held about three Pints each, and were tip'd with
Silver: I found two Pots of very good Succades, or
Sweetmeats, fo faftea'd alio on Top, that the fait Wa-
ter had not hurt them; and two more of the fame*
which the Water had fpoil'd: I found fome very good
Shirts, which were very welcome to me, and about a
dozen and a halt'of Linnen white Handkerchiefs, and
coloured Neckcloths *, the former were alfo very wel-
come, being exceeding refrefhing to wipe my Pace in a
hot Day •, befides this, when I came to the Fill in the
Chefls, I found there three great Bags of Pieces of Eight,
which held about eleven hundred Pieces in all ; and in
one of them, wrapt up in a Paper, fix Doubloons of
Gold, and fome imall Bars or "Wedges of Gold j 1 fup-
pofe they might all weigh near a Pound.
The other Cheft I found had fome Cloaths in it, but
of little Value ; but by the Circumftances it mull have
belong'd to the Gunner's Mate, tho' there was no Pow-
der in it, but about two Pounds of fine glaz'd Powder,
in the three imall Flasks, kept, I fuppofe, for charg-
ing their Fowling-pieces on occafion : Upon the whole,
I got very little by this Voyage, that was of any u(e
to me ; for as to the Money, I had no manner of occa-
fion for it; 'twas to me as the Dirt under my Feet •, and
I would have given it all for three or four Pair of
Englijh Shoes and Stockings, which were things I great*
ly wanted, but had not had on my Feet now lor many
Years: I had, indeed, gotten two Pair of Shoes now,
which I took off of the Feet of the two drownM Men,
who I faw in the Wreck; and I found two Pair more
in one of the Chefts, which were very welcome to me j
but they were not like our Englrjh Shoes, either for
Eafe or Service, being rather what we call Pumps than
Shoes: I found in this Seaman's Cheft about fifty
Pieces of Eight in Royals, but no Gold -7 I fuppofe this
belonged to a poorer Man than the other, which ieem'd
to belong to fome Officer.
Well, however, I lugged this Money home to my
Cave, and laid it up, as I had done that before, which
I brought from our own Ship j hut it. was great Pity,
%sl faid, that the other Part of.this Ship had not corn's
to my Share, for I am fatisfied I might have loaded my
Canoe feveral times over with Money, which, if I had
ever efcap'd to England, would have lain^ here fare
enough till I might have come again and fetched it.
Having now brought all my Things on Shore, and
fecur7d,them, I went back to my Boat, and row'd or
paddled her along the Shore to her old Harbour, where
I laid her up, and made the bed of my Way to my
old Habitation, where I found every Thing fafe and
quiet \ £o I began to repofe myfelf, live after my old
Fafhion, and take care of my Family Affairs ; and for
a while I lived eafy enough ; only that I .was more vi-
gilant than I us'd to be, look'd out oftner, and did not
go abroad fo much ; and if at any time I did ftir with
any Freedom, it was always to the Eaft Part of the
I Hand, where I was pretty well latisfy'd the Savages
never came, and where I could go without (o many
Precautions, and fuch a Load of Arms and Ammunition,
as I always carry'd with me, if I went tbe other Way.
Iliv'd in this Condition near two Years more ; but
my unlucky Head, that was always to let me know it
"was born to make my Body milerable, was all thofe two
Years fill'd with Proje&s and Deiigns how, if it were
poilible, 1 might get away from this Ifland ; forfoinej
times I was for making another Voyage to the Wreck,
tho' my Reafon told me that there was nothing left there
worth the Hazard of" my Voyage: Sometimes for a
Ramble one way, fometimes another; and I believe ve-
rily, if I had had the Boat that I went from Sallee in,
I fhould have ventur'd to Sea, bound any where, I
knew not whether.
I have been, in all my Circumftances, a- Memenfa
to thofe who are touch'd with that general Plague of
Mankind, whence, for ought I know, one half of their
Miferies flow ; i mean, that of not being fatisfy'd with
the Station wherein God and Nature hath plac'd them;
for not to look back upon my primitive Condition, and
the excellent Advice of my Father, the Oppofition to
which was, as I may call it, my Original Siny my fubfe-
quent Miftakes of the fame kind had been the means of
my coming into this miferable Condition \ forbad that
Pro^
Providence, which to happily had feated me at the Bra*
[\ls, as a Planter, blefs'd me with confin'd Deflres, and I
could have been contented to have gone on gradually,
I might have been by this Time, 1 mean in the Time
of my being in this Jfland, one of the mod confiderable
Planters in the Bra[:ls\ nay, I am perfuaded, that by
the Improvements I had made in that little time I liv'd
there, and the Encreafe I fhould probably have made,
it' I had ftay'd, I might have been worth an hundred
tbcufand Alojdores ; and what Bufinefs had I to leave
a fettled Fortune, a vvell-ftock'd Plantation, improv- -
ing and inereafing, to turn Supra Cargo to Guinea, to
letch Negroes, when Patience and Time would have
Co encreas'd our Stock at Home, that we could have
bought them at our own Door, from thofe whofe Bu-
finetsit was to ietch them ? And though it hadcoftus
fomething more, yet the Difference of that Price was
by no Means worth faying at Co great a Hazard.
But as this is ordinarily the Fate of young Heads,
Co ReileiHon upon the Folly of it, is as ordinarily the
Exercilc of more Years, or of the dear-beught Expe*
rience of Time; and fo it was with me now j and yet
Co deep had the Miftake taken Root in my Temper,
that I could not fatisfy my felf in my Station, but was
continually poring upon the Means and Poflibility of
my Efcape from this Place; and that I may with the
greater P leal lire to the Reader bring on the remaining.
1'art of my Story, it may not be improper to give fome
Account of my fir ft Conceptions on the Subjeft of this
fooliih Scheme for my Efcape ; and how, and upon what
Foundation I a&ed.
I am now to be fuppos'd retir'd into my Caflle,
after my late Voyage to the Wreck, my Frigate laid
up, and fecur'd under Water asufua], and my Conditi-
on reftor'd to what it was before : I had more Wealth,
indeed, than 1 had before, but was not at all the richer,
for I had no more Ufe for it, than the Indians oCPeru
had before the Spaniards came there.
It was* one of the Nights, in the rainy Seafon in
March, the four and twentieth Year of my firfl: letting.
Foot in this I Hand of Solttarinefs, I was lying in my
Bed, or Hammock, awake, very well in Health, had
no Pain, no Diflemper, no Uneaflnefs of Body, no, nor a-
nyiJneafinefs of Mind,more than ordinary; but could by
no means clofe my Eyes \ that is, lb as to ileep *, no,
not a Wink all Night long, otherwife than as follows*:
it is as impolTible as needlefs, to let down the innu-
merable Crovvd of Thoughts that whirl'd through that
great Thorowfair of the Brain, the Memory, in this
Night's Time : I run over the whole Hiftory of my
Lite in Miniature, or by Abridgment, as I may call it,
to my coming to this I (land ; and alio of that Part of
my Life fince I came to this I Hand; in my Reflexions
upon the State of my Cafe, fince I came on Shore on
this Ifland, I was comparing the happy Pofture of my
Affairs, in the firil Years of my Habitation here, com-
pared to the Life of Anxiety, Fear, and Care, which I
had liv'd in ever fince I had feen the Print of a Foot
in the Sand ; not that I did not believe the Savages
had frequented the Ifland even all the while, and might
have beenfeveral Hundreds of them at Times on Shore
there ; but as I had never known it, and was incapable
of any Apprehenfions about it; my Satisfa&ion was per-
fe&, tho* my Danger was the fame ; and I was as happy
in not knowing my Danger, as if I had never really been
expos'd to it ; this furniiVd my Thoughts with many
very profitable RefledHons, and particularly this one,
how infinitely good that Providence is, which has pro-
vided in its Government of Mankind fuch narrow
Bounds to his Sight and Knowledge of Things ; and tho*
he walks in the midft of fo many thoufand Dangers,
the Sight of which, if difcover'd to him, would di-
ftraft his Mind, and fink his Spirits, he is kept ferene
and calm, by having the Events of Things hid from
his Eyes, and knowing nothing of the Dangers, which
fur round him.
After thefe Thoughts had for fome Time entertained
me, I came to refleft leriouQy upon the real Danger I
had been in for fo many Years in this very Ifland; and
how T had walk'd about in the greateft Security, and
with all poffible Tranquillity, even when perhaps no-
thing but a Brow of a Hill, a great Tree, or the cafual
Approach of Night, had been between me and the word
kind of Deftru&ion, vl\% That of falling into the Hands
of
of Canitjals and Savages, who would have feiz'd on me
with the fame View, as I did of a Goat or a Turtle,
and have thought it no more a Crime to kill and de-
vour me, than I did of a Pidgeon or a Cur lieu; I
fhould unjuilly Harder my felt, if I fhould fay I was
not fincerely thankful to my great Preferver, to whole
lingular Protection I acknowledged, with great Humi-
lity, that all thefe unknown Deliverances were due 5
and without which I ihould inevitably have fallen into
their mercileis Hands.
* When thefe Thoughts were over, my Head was for
fome time taken up in confidering the Nature of thefe
wretched Creatures, I mean, the Savages ; and how it
came to pais in the World, that the wife Governour of
all Things Ihould give up any of his Creatures to fuch
Inhumanity; nay, to fomething fo much below even
Brufality it felf, as to devour its own Kind: But as
this ended in foment that Time fruitlels) Specula-
lions, it occur'd to me to enquire, what Part of the
World thefe Wretches liv'd in; how far off the Coaft
was from whence they came ; what they ventur'd over
fo far from Home for ; what kind of Boats they had ;
and why I might not order my felf, and my Bufinefs
fo, that I might be as able to go over thither, as they
were to come to me.
I never fo much as troubled my felf to confider what
I Ihould do with my felf when I came thither ; what
Ihould become of me, if I fell into the Hauds of the
Savages; or howl ihould cfcape from them, if they
attempted me ; no, nor fo much, as how it was poili-.
ble for me to reach the Coail:, and not be attempted by
fome or other of them, without any Poffibility of
delivering my felf; and if I ihould not fall into their
Hands, what I ihould do for Proviiion, or whither
I fhould bend my Courfe; none of thefe Thoughts,
I fay, 'fo much as came in my Way; but my Mind
was wholly bent upon the Notion of my pafling
over in my Boat to the main Land: I look'd back
upon my prefent Condition, as the mod miferable that
could poflibly be; that I was not able to throw myfelf
into any thing but Death that could be call'd worfe ;
that
that if I reach'd the Shore of the Main, I mighty
perhaps, meet with Relief or T might coaft along, as
I did on the Shore of Ajricky 'till I came to fome inha-
bited Country, and where I might find .fome Relief;
and after all, perhaps I might La 11 in with fome Chri-
stian Ship that might take mein^ and if the word
came to the worft, 1 could but die, which would put
an End to all thefe Miferiesat once : Pray Note, All
this was the Frtiit of a difturb'd Mind, an impatient
Temper, made as it were defperate by the long Conti-
nuance of my Troubles, and the Difappcintments I had
met in the Wreck I had been on board of, and where
I had been fo near the obtaining what I fo earndlly
long'd for, vi^. fome Body to (peak to, and to learn
fome Knowledg from, of the Place where -I was, and
of the probable Means of my Deliverance; I fry, I
was agitated wholly by thefe Thoughts: All my Calm
of Mind in my Resignation to Providence, and wait-
ing the Iilue of the Difpofitions of Heaven, feeni'd to
be fufpended, and I had, as it were, no Power to
turn my Thoughts to any Thing, but the Proje& of a
Voyage to the Main, which came upon me with fuch
Force, and fuch an Impetuoflty ofDeiire, that it was
not to be refitted.
When this had agitated my Thoughts for two Hours,
or more, with fuch Violence, that it let my very Blood
into a Ferment, and my Pulfe beat as high as if I had
been in a Fever, merely with the extraordinary Fer-
vour of my Mind about it f Nature, as if I had been
fatigu'd and exhaulled with the very Thought of it,
threw me into a found Sleep: One would have thought
I iliould have dreamt of it; but I did not, nor of any
thing relating to it; but I dreamt, that as I was going
out in the Morning, as ufual, from my Caftle, I law
upon the Shore two Canoes, and eleven Savages coming
to Land, and that they brought with them another Sa-
vage, who they were going to kill, in order to eat him ;
tvhen, on a iudden, the Savage, that they were going
to kill, jump'd away, and ran for his Life; then I
thought in my Sleep, that he came running into my
little thick Grove, before my Fortification, to hide
hiraielf and -that I feeing him alone, and not perceiv-
ing
( w >
.fag that.the other fought him that way, fliewM my felf
to him, and fmiling upon him, encourag'd him: That
he kneel'd down to me, feeming to pray me to afllffc
him; upon which I fhew'd my Ladder, made him go
up, and carried him into my Cave, and he became
my Servant *7 and that as foon as I had gotten this Man,
I laid to my felf, Now I may certainly venture to the
Main Land; for this Fellow will ferve me as a Pilot,
and will tell me what to do, and whither to go ibr
Proviiions; and whether not to go for fear of being
devoured, what Places to venture into, and what to
efcape. I wak'd with this Thought, and was under
fuch inexpreffible Impre&orjs of Joy at the Profpe& of
my Eicape in my Dream, that the Difappointments
which I felt upon coming to my felt] and finding it
was no more than a Dream, were equally extravagant
the other way, and threw me into a very great Dejec-
tion of Spirit,
Upon this, however, I made this Concludon, That
my only way to go about an Attempt for an Efcape,
was, if pofftble, to get a Savage into my PofFelTIon 5
and, if pofiible, it ihould be one of their Priibners,.
whom they had condemn'd to be eaten, and ihould
bring thither to kill; but thefe Thoughts ft ill were
attended with this Difficulty, that it was impoffible
.to effe& this, without attacking a whole Caravan of
them, and killing them all; and this was not only a
very defperate Attempt, and might mil carry ; but, on
the other hand> I had jgreatly fcrupl'd the Lawtulnefs of
it to me, and my Heart trembled at the Thoughts of
fhedding fo much Blood, tho5 it was for my Delive-
rance : J need not repeat the Arguments which occur'd
to me againft this, they being the fame mention'd be-
fore : But tho' I had other Reafons to offer now, vz^*
That thole Men were Enemies to my Life, and would
devour me, if they could, that it was Self-prefervati-
on in the higheft Degree, to deliver my felf from this
Death of a Life, and was a&ing in my own Defence, as
much as if they were a&ually afiaulting me, and the
like : I fay, tho' thefe things argued for it, yet the
Thoughts of ihedding human Blood for my Delive-
rance, were very terrible to me, and fuch as I could by
110 Means reconcile my felf to a great while. How-
However;, at lad, after many feeret Difputes wltri
tnyfel^ and after great Perplexities about it, (for all
thefe Arguments, one way and another, ftruggled in
my Head a long time) the eager prevailing Deiire
of Deliverance at length mafter'd all the reft, and I re-
folv'd, ifpoifible, to get one of theie Savages into my
Hands, coll; what it would : My next thing then was
to contrive how to do it; and this indeed was very
difficult to retblve on ; But as I could pitch upon no
probable Means for it, fo I refolv'd to put myfelfupon
the Watch, to fee them when they came on Shore, and
leave the reft to the Event, taking fuch Meafures as the
Opportunity fhould prefent, let be what would be.
With theie Refolutions in my Thoughts, I let myfelf
upon the Scout, as often as poifible, and indeed fo often
till I was heartily tired of it •, for it was above a Year
and a half that I waited, and for great Part of that Time
went out to the Weft-End, and to the South-Weft Cor-
ner of the I (land almoft every Day, to fee for Canoes,
but none appeared: This was very difcouraging, and
began to trouble me much ; tho'1 can't fay that it did
in this Cafe as it had clone fome time before that, v?%,
wear off the Edge of my Defire to the thing, . but the
longer it feem'd to be delay Jd, the more eager I was for.
it: In a Word, I was not at iirft more careful to fhun the
Sight of thefe Savages, and avoid being leen by thern,
than I was now eager to be upon them.
Befides, I fancied myielf able to manage one, nay,
two or three Savages, if I had them, fo as to make them
entirely Slaves to me, to do whatever 1 ihould dire£fc
them, and to prevent their being able at any time to do
me any Hurt : It was a great while that 1 pleas.'dmy-
ielf with this Affair ; but nothing ftill prefented ; all
my Fancies and Schemes came to nothing, for no Sava-
ges came near me for a great while.
About a Year and half after I had entertain'd theie
Notions, and, by long mufing, had as it were refolv'd
them all into nothing, for want of an Occafion to put
them in Execution, 1 was furprii'd one Morning early,
with feeing no lefs than five Canoes all on Shore toge-
ther on my Side the I (land, and the People who be-
long'd to them all landed, and out of my Sight .• The
Num-
Number of.them broke all my Meafures } for feeing fb "
many, and knowing that they always came four, or iix,
or ibmetimes more, in a Bqat, I could not tell what to
think of it, or -how to take my Meafures, to attack
twenty or thirty Men fingle-handed *, [o I lay ftill in
my Cattle, perplexed and aifcomforted > however I put
rny felf into all the fame Poftures for an Attack, that
I had formerly provided, and was juft ready for A£ion,
if any thing had prefented : Having waited a g}od
%vhile, liftening to hear if they made anyNoile, at length
being very impatient, I let my Guns at the Foot of my
Ladder, and clamber'd up to the Top of the Hill by
my two Stages, as ufual j {landing ib however, that
my Head did not appear above the Hill ; fo that they
could not perceive me by any Means : Here I obferv'd,
by the help of my Perfpe£ive-Glafs, that they were
no lefs than thirty in Number, that they had a Fire had
kindled, and that the)- had had Meat drefs'd ; how they
cooked it, that i knew not, or what it was, but they
were all dancing, in I know not how many barbarous
Geftures and Figures, their own Way, round the Fire.
While I was thus looking on them, I perceiv'd by my
Perfpefttve two miferable Wretches drag'd from the
Boat-s, where, it feems, they were laid by, and were
now brought -out for the Slaughter ,• I perceived one of
them immediately fell, beingknock'd down, I fuppofe
with a Club or wooden Sword, for that was their Way,
and two or three others were at work immediately, cut-
ting him open for their Cookery, while the other Vi-
<5Hm was lett ftanding by himfeltj till they fhould be
ready for him : In that veryMoment this poor Wretch fee-
ing himfelfa little at Liberty, Nature infpir'd him with
Hopes of Life, and he ftarted away from them, and
ran with incredible Swiftnefs along the Sands dire&ly
towards me, I mean, towards that Part of the Coall
where my Habitation was.
I was dreadfully frighted (that I mud acknowledge)
when I perceiv'd him to run my Way •, and efpecially>
when, as ( thought, I law him purfued by the whole
Body ; and now 1 expe&ed that Part of my Dream was
coming to pafs, and that he would certainly take ihelter
in my Grove j but I could not depend by any means
K upon
ifpon my Dream for the reft of it, vi%. that the other
lavages would not purfue him thither, and find him
there : However, I kept my Station, and my Spirits be-
gan to recover, when 1 found that there was not above
three Men that tollow'd him ; and (till more was I en-
couraged, when I found that he outftript them exceed-
ing!)' in running, and gain'd Ground of them, lb that if
he could but hold it for hall an Hour, I faw eafily he
would fairly get away from them all.
There was between them and my Caflle the Creek
which 1 mentioned often at the firft Part of my Story,
when i landed my Cargoes out of the Ship *, and this I
knew, he mud neceilarily fwim over, or the poor
Wretch would be taken there ; But when the Savage es-
caping came thither, he made .nothing of it, tho' the
Tide was then up ; but plunging in, {'warn thro' in a-
bout thirty Strokes, or thereabouts, landed, and ran on
with exceeding Strength and Swiftnefs; when the three
Purfuers came to the Creek, I found that two of them
could fwim, but the third could not, and that he (landing
on the other Side, look'd at the other, but went no
(urther } and fbon after went foftly back again, which,
as it happen'd, was very well for him in the Main.
I obierv'd, that the two who fwam, were yet more
than twice as long fwimming over the Creek, than the
jFellow was that fled from them : It came now very
warmly upon my Thoughts, and indeed irreiilHbly,
that now was my Time to get me a Servant, and per-
haps a Companion, or Affiftant, and that I was calPd
plainly by Providence to fave this poor Creature's
"Life ; I immediately gat down the Ladders with all poi-
fible Expedition^ fetch'd my two Guns, for they were
both at the Foot of the Ladders, as I obferv'd above;
and getting up again with the fame hade, to the Top
of the Hill, I crofs'd toward the Sea ; and having a ve-
ry Ihort cut, and all down Hill, clap'd my felf in the
Way between the Purfuers and the purfued, hallowing
aloud to him that fled, who looking back, was at firli
perhaps as much/ frighted at me, as at them ; but I bee-
kon'd with my Hand to* him to come back, and in the
mean time, I (lowly advanced towards the two that fol-
lowed } then ruining at once upon the foremoft, I knock'd
him
 Jfc >'i * *"«*'*' -.Mir- fi
*»"&% ; j fiiK'i
  Bhftdown with the Stock-of my Pizce ; I was loth ta
jfire, becaufe-A would riot havethc reft hear ; tho' at that
Pittance it would not have been eafily heard) and be-
ing out of bight of the Snioak too, they would not have
eaiilv known what to. make of it: Having knock'd this
Fellow down, the other who purfu'd him ltopt, as it he
had been frighted, and I advanced a pace towards him ;
but as I came nearer,,I perceiv'd prefently, he .had a Bow
and Arrow, and.was fitting it to fhoot at me; lb I was
then neceilUated to fhoot at him iarft ; which i did, and
kilPd him at the firil Shot; I he poor bay age who iled^
but had ftop'd, tho' he law both his Enemies fallen,
and kilfd, (as he thought,; yet was fo frighted with the
fire, and Noifeofmy Piece, that he Hood flock ft ill,
and neither came forward or went backward, tho' he
ieern'd rather inclined to Ry ftill, than to come on ; I
hollow d again to him, and. made Signs, to come fbrT
ward, which he eafily understood, and came a little waji
then flop'd again, and then a little farther, andiftop-d a-
gain \ and j could then perceive that heilood trembling*
as if Jie had been taken IMfoner, and had juft been ta be
kill'd, as his two Enemies were ; i beckon'd him again
to come to me, and gave him all the Signs of Encou-
ragement that i could think of; and he came nearer and
nearer, kneeling down every ten or twelve Steps, in to-
ken of Acknowledgment for faying his Life; i fmiVd
at him, and look'd pleaiantly, and beckon'd to him to
come ftill nearer ; at length he came clofe to me, .and
then he kneeFd down again, kils'd the Ground, and laid
his Head upon the Ground, and taking me by the Foot,
fetm> Foot upon his Head; This, it feerrts, was in to-
ken of fwearing to be my Slave for ever : 1 took him
up,,and made much of him, and encouraged him all \
could.:.But there was more Woric to do yet, for I per?
ceiv'd the Savage whom I knocked down, was not kill'd,
"but ftun'd with the Blow, and began to come to himfelf;
lb I pointed to him, and fbowing him the Savage, that
he was not dead \ upon this he fpoke, fome W ords to
me, and tho' I could not underftand them, yet I thought
they were pleafant to hear, for<hey were the m*ft Sound
of aMvIan's Voice that I had heard, my own excepted^ for
above five and twenty Years.;; But there .was no time for
^ , I K 2 fuch
( ipO
fazh Reile&ions now ; the Savage, who was knock*d
down, recover'd himfelf To far, as to fit up upon the
Ground, and I perceiv'd that my Savage began to be
afraid ; but when I law that, Iprefented my other Piece
at the Man, as if I would llicot him ; upon this my Sa-
vage, frfo I call him n;w, made a Motion to me to
lend him my Sword, which hung naked in a Belt by
my Side \ fo I did : He no fooner had it, but he runs to
his Enemy, and at one Blow cut off his Head as cleverly,
no Executioner in Germany could have done it fooner
or better *, which I thought very ftrange, for one, who
I had realbn to believe, never faw a Sword in his Life
before, except their own wuoden Swords ; however, it
feems, as I learn'd afterwards, they make their wooden
Swords lb fharp, fo heavy, and the Wood is fo hard,
that they will cutoff Heads even with them, ay and
Arms, and that at one Blow too: When he had done
this, he comes laughing to me in Sign of Triumph, and
brought me the Sword again, and with abundance of
Geftures, which I did not underhand, laid it down
with the Head of the Savage that he had kill'd, juft be-
fore me.
But that which aftonifh'd him mod wss, to know how
I had kill'd the other Indian lb far ofF; {oy pointing to
him, he made Signs to me to let him go to him ; Sol
bad him go, as well as I could ; when he came to him,
he flood like one amaz/d, looking at him, turn'd him firft
on one fide ; then on t'other, look'd at the Wound the
Bullet had made, which it Teems was juft in his Breaft,
where it bad made a Hole, and no great Quantity of
Blood had follow'dvbuthe had bled inwardly, for he was
quite dead : Then he took up his Bow and Arrows, and
cf.me back ; fo I turn'd to go away, and beckon'd to
him to follow me, making Signs to him that more might
come after them.
Upon this he fign'd to me, that he fhould bury them
with Sand, that they might not be feen by the reft i^
they followed ; and lb I made Signs again to him to do
fo *, he fell to work, and in an Inftant he had fcrap'd a
Hole in the Sand with his Hands, big enough to bury
the firfl: in, and then drag'd him into it, and covered
i)im, and did fo alio by the other j I believe he had
bury'd
bury'd them both in a Quarter of an Hour ; then cal-
ling him away, I carryM him not to my Cattle, but
quite away to my Cave, on the further Part of the h
iland; ib I did not let my Dream come to pais in thot
Part, vi%. That he came into my Grove for Shelter-
Here I gave him Bread, and a Bunch of Raifins to
eat, and a Draught of Water, which I found he was in-
deed in great Diilreis for, by his running; and Laving
refrefrf d him, I made Signs tor him to go lie down and
ilcep> pointing to a Place where I had laid a great Par-
cel of Rice Straw, and a Blanket upon it, which I ufcd
to lleep upon my felf fometimes j ib the poor Creature
Lid down and went to lleep.
He was a comely handibme Fellow, perfectly well
made, with {trait long Limbs, not too large, tall, and
well fhap'd j and, as I reckon, about twenty-fix Years
ot Age. He had a very good Countenance, not a fierce
and iiirly AfpcA, but ieem'd to have ibmething very
manly in his Face, and yet he had all the Sweetnefsand
Softnefs of an Eunpean in his Countenance too, efpe*
cially when he fmifd : His Hair was long and black,
not curi'd like Wool j his Forehead very high, and large,
and a great Vivacity and fparkling Sharpnefs in his Eyes..
The Colour of his Skin was not quite black, but very
tawny, and yet not of an ugly yellow nauieous Tawnyr
as the Brafiliansy and Virginians, and other Natives of
America are, but of a bright kind of a dun Olive Co*
lour, that had in it fomething very agreeable, tho* not
very eafy to defcribe. His Face was round and plump,
his Note fmall, not flat like the Negroes, a.very good
Mouth, thin Lips, and his Teeth iine^ well fet, and
white as Ivory: After he had (lumber" d, rather than
flept, about half an Hour, he wak'd again, and conies
out of the Cave to me, for I had been milking my Goats,
which I had in the Enclofure juil by; When he efpy'd
me, he came running to me, laying himfelf down again
upon the Ground, with all the poiUble Signs of an hum-
ble thankful Difpoiition, making a many antick Geftures
to fhow it: At lad he lays his-Head flat upon theGround,
clofe to my Foot, and fets my other Foot upon his Head,
as he had done before j and after this, made all the
K J Sign*
Signs to me of Subje&ion, Servitude, and Sttbmifliofl
imaginable, to let me know how he would ferve me as
long as he- liv'd: I underilood him in many things, and
let nim know I was very well pleased with him j in a
little time I began to i'peak to him, and teach him to
ijpeak to me ; and mil, I made him know his Name
ihould be Friday, which was the Day I iav'd his Life ;
and { caird him fo for the Memory or the time \ 1 like*
wife taught him to Try Alajhr, and then let him know
that was to be my Name } 1 likewiie taught him to lay
Tljs and iVj, and to know the Meaning or' them*, I gave
him lb me Milk in an earthen Pot, ana let him fee me
drink it before him, and lop my Bread in it; and £
gave him a Cake of bread to do the like, which he
quickly cbmply'd with, and made Signs that it was ve-
ry good for him.
i kept there with him all that Night, but as fcon as
it was Day, I beckon'd to him to come with me, and
let him know 1 would give him fome Cloaths, at which
he feem'd very glad, lor he was {lark-naked : As we
went by the Place where he had bury'd the two Men^
he pointed eka&ly to the Spot, and ibew'd me the
Marks that he had made to rind them again> making
Signs to me that? we fhould dig them up again, and eat
them ; at this I appear'd<very angry, exprefs'd my Ab-
horrence of it> made as if I would vomit at the Thought*
of it, and beckon'd with my Hand to him to come a*
way, which he did immediately, with great Stibmiflion :
I then led him up to the Top of the Hill, to fee if hi*
Enemies were gone; and' pulling out my- Glafs, I
look'd, and faw plainly the Place where they had been*
but no Appearance of them, or of their Canoes *, fo that it
was plain that they were gone, and had left their-two
^Comrades behind them, without any Search after them.
But I was not content with this- Difcovery, but ha*
ving now more Courage, and confequenrly more Curio*
iity, I took my Man Friday with me, giving him the
Sword in his Hand, with the Bow and Arrow* af his
Backj which''I found he could ufe very -dextroufly,
making bini'ca'rry one Gun for:me, and p two for rhy-
ielf* and-away we-march'A to the Place where 'thele
Creatures had been \ for I had a mind now to get fome
fuller.
fuller Intelligence of them: When I came to the Place,
my very Blood ran chill in my Veins, and my Heart
funk within me at the Horror of the Spe&acle : Indeed
it was a dreadful Sight, at leaft it was lo to me, tho'
Friday made nothing ot it: The Place was cover'd with
human Bones, the Ground dv'd with their Blood,
great Pieces of Fleih left here and there, half eaten,
mangled and fcorch'd; and, in fhort, all the Tokens of
the triumphant Feaft they had been making there, af-
ter a Vi&ory over their Enemies : I faw three bkulls,
five Hands, and the Bones of three or four Legs and
Feet, and abundance of other Parts of the Bodies ; and
Friday, by his Signs, made me underftand, that they
brought over four Priloners to feait upon \ that three of
them were eaten up, and that he, pointing to liimfett,
was the fourth : That there had been a great Battel be-
tween them and. their next King, whole Subject it
feems he had been one of *, and that they had taken a,
great Number of Prifoners, all which were carried to
feveral Places by thofe that had taken them in the
Fight, in order to feafr, upon them, as was done here by
theie Wretches upon thofe they brought hither.
I caused Friday to gather all the Skulls, Bones, Flefh,
and whatever remain'd, and lay them together on a
Heap, and make a great Fire upon it, and burn them
all to Allies : I found Friday had flill a hankering Sto-
mach after Come of the Flefh, and was {till a Cannibal in
his Nature \ but I difcover'd fo much Abhorrence at
the very Thoughts of it, and at the lead Appearance c£
it, that he durft not difcover it} for I had, by fome
means, let him know that I would kill him if he cf-
ftr'd it.
When we had done this, we came back to our Caftle,
and there I fell to work for my Man Friday \ and firfb
of all I gave him a Pair of Linen Drawers, which I lud
out of the poor Gunner's Cheft I mention5d3 and which
I found in the Wreck •, and which, with a little Alte-
ration, fitted him very well; then I made him a* Jer*
kin of GoatVSkin, as well as my Skill would allow ,
and I was now grown a tolerable good Taylor; and I
gave iiim a Cap, which I had made of a Hare-Skin,
very convenient and fafhionable enough •, and thus he
K. 4 was
•was drefs'd, for the pre fen t, tolerably wel^and mighty
well was he plcas'd to fee himfelt almofl as well cloattf d
as his Matter: It's true, he went aukwavdly in thefe
things at firft; wearing the Drawers was very aukward
to him, and the Sleevts of" the Waiftcoat galPd his
Miculders, and the infide of his Arms; but a little
.caling them, where he complain'd they hurt him, and
uimg hinileif to them, at length he took to them very
well.
The next Day after I came Home to my Hutch with
him, 1 began to confider where I fhould lodge him ; and
that I might do well for him, and >et be perfe&ly eaiy
my felt: 1 made a little Tent for him in the vacant
Place between my two Fortifications, in the Infide of
the laft, and in the Outfide of the firft; And as there
was a Door or Entrance there into my Cave, I made
a formal frarrfd Door-Caie, and a Duor to it of Boards,
and let it up in the Paflage, a little within the Entrance;
and cauiing the Door to open on the Infide, 1 barr'd it
up in the Night, taking in my Ladders too; fo that
T'r'ulay could no way come at me in the Infide of my
innermoft Wall, without making fo much Noife in get-
ling over, that it muil needs awaken me; for my firft
Vv all had now a compleat Root over it of long Poles,
covering all my Tent, and leaning up to the bide of
the Hill, which was again laid crois with fmall Sticks
inftead of Laths, and then thatch'd over a great Thick-
nefs with the Rice-Straw, which wasftrong like Reeds;
and at the Hole or Place which was left to go in or out
by the Ladder, I had phe'd a kind or' Trap-Door, which
it it had been attempted on the Out-lide, would net
have open'd at all, Lut would have fallen down, and
made a great Noife ; and as to Weapons, I took them
all into my Side every Night,
But I needed none of all this Precaution ; for never
Man had a more faithful, loving, fincere Servant than
'Friday was to me; without PafTions, Sullen-efs, or De-
iigns ; perfectly oblig'd and engag'd; his very AfTe&ions
were ty'd to me, like thofe ot a Child to a Father ; and
I dare lay, he would have facrifie'd his Lite for the fav-
ing mine, upon any Occafion whatfoever: The <many
leftimonies he gave me -of this, put it outx>f doubt,
and
and foon convinced me, that I needed to ufe no Precau-
tions as to my Safety on his account.
This frequently gave me occafion to obferve, and that
with wonder, that however it had pleas'd God in his
Providence, and in the Government of the Works of
his Hands, to take from fo great a Part of the World of
his Creatures, the beft U fes to which their Faculties,
and the Powers of their Souls are adapted; yet that he
has beftow'd upon them the fame Powers, the fame
Reafon, the fame Ajfe&ions, the fame Sentiments of
Kindnets and Obligation, the lame Paiuons and Refent-
ments of Wrongs, the fame Senfe of Gratitude, Since-
rity, Fidelity, and all the Capacities of doing Good,
and receiving Good, that he has given to us ; and th:tC
when he pieafes to offer them Occifions of exerting
thefe, they are as ready, nay, more ready to apply tbem
to the right Ufes for which they were beflrow'd, than
we are 5 And this'made me very melancholy ibmetmres,
in refle&ing, as the feveral Occafions prefented, • how
mean a Ule we make of all thefe, even though we'have
thefe Powers enlightened by the great Lamp of Infrruc-
tton, the Spirit ot God, and by the Knowledge- of his
Word, added to our Und'erftanding y and why it has
pleafed God to hide the like laving Knowledge from fb =
many Millions of Souls, who (if I might judge by this
poor Savagp) would make a much better Ufe of it than.-
we did.
From hence I fometimes was led too far to invade
the Sovereignty of Providence; and-, as it were, arraign
the JuiKce pf io arbitrary a<Difpofrtton of Things, that
fhouldhide that Light from fome, and reveal it to
others, and yet expedt a like Duty from both: But I
ihut it ap and check'd-my Thoughts with this Conclu-
fion, Ftrfi, That we did not know by what Light and*
Law thefe, Ihould be cond'emn'd-r but thar, as. God w?s-
neceflarily,- and, by the Nature of his Being, infinitely
holy and juu\ fo it could hot bey but thatlf thefe Cre«u
Jtures* were all fentene'd to abfence from himfelf, it was
on account of fmning againit that-Light, which, as the
Scripture fays, was a Law to themielves, and by fitch
Rules as^their Confciences would acknowledge to beju t
t&o* the foundation vvasnot djfcoverM to us: And, St-
& 5 (m<ttyx.
€onAly> That ftijl as we are all the Clay in the Hand of
the Potter, no Veffel could fay to him, Why haft thou
iorm'd me thus,? 
But to return to my new Companion: I was greatly
delighted with him, and made it my Buiinefs to teach
him every thing that was proper to make him ufehil,
handy and helpful; but efpecially to make him fpeik*
and underftand me when I fpake; and he was theapteit
Scholar that ever was, and particularly was £o merry,
fo conftantly diligent, and fo pleas'd when he could but
underftand me, or make me underftand him, that it
was very pleafant to me toitalk to him*, and now my
Life began to be fo eafy, that I began to fay to my fell',
that could I but have been fafe from more Savages, I
cared not if 1 was never to remove from the Place while
IlivM. .
After I had been two or three Days return'd to my
Caflle, I thought, that, in order to bring Friday off from
his horrid way of feeding, and from the ReJifh of a
Cannibal's Stomach, I ought to Jet him tafte other Fleih;
io I took him out with me one Morning to jthe Woods:
I wentj indeed, intending to kill a Kid out of my owu
Flock, and bring it home andidrefs it: But.aslwas
going? I law.a She-Goat lying,down in the Shade, and
two young Rids fitting by her : I catcffd hold, of iri-
day, hold, fays; I, ibnd 1K11 j and made- Signs to him
not to ftir ; immediately 1 prefented my Piece,,ihat
and kill'd one of jthe 'Rids. • IJae ,-poofi Creature, who
had at a Di{iances indeed, feen. me kill the Savage, Ms
Enemy, but 4M ,I*0*» ^rjow, *** CGU^ imagine how it
was done, was fenfibjy furpriz.'d? trembled and ihook,
and look'd fo amaz'd, that f thought he would have
funk down : He did not fee the Kiid I had fhot at, or
perceive I had kill'd it,, but rip'd up.his' Waiflcoat to
feel if he was not wounded; and as I found, prefently
thought 1 was refolv'd to kill him; for he came and
kneerd down/to niej, and embracing my &nees, faid a
great rriany Things I did : not underftand, but I could
eafily fee that the Meaning was to pray me not to kill
him.
I foon found a Way to convince him tba* I would do
him no Harm> and taking him up by the Hand, laugh'd
at
at him, and pointing to the Kid which I had kill)d>
beckon'd to him, to run and fetch it, which he did;
and while he was wondering and looking to fee how
the Creature was kill'd, I loaded my Gun again, and
by-and~by f law a great Fowl, like a Hawk, fit upon
a 1 ree within ihot ; fo, to let Friday underftand a little
what i would do, I caird him to me again, pointing at
thes Fowl, which was indeed a Parrot, tho* I thought it
nad been a Hawk j I fay, pointing to,the Parrot, and
to my Gun, and to the Ground under the Parrot* to let
him lee I would make it fall, I made him underftand
that I would fhoot and kill that Bird ; accordingly I
hr'd, and bad him look, and immediately he faw die-
Parrot fall: He ftood like one frighted again, notwith-
standing all I had laid to him ; and I found he was the
moreamaz'd, becaufe he did not1 fee me put any things
into the Gu,n; but thought that there mull be fome
wonderful Fund of Death and Deftru&ion in that
1 hmg, able to kill Man, Bead, Bird, or any thing near
or /ar oif ; for the Aftoniftiment this created in him,
was fuch, as could not wear off for a long time; and t
believe, if I would have let him, he would have wor-
ilup'd me and my Gun : As for the Gun it fell; be
would not Co much as touch it for feveral Days after *
but wou4d ipeak to it, and talk to it, as if k had an^
fwer'd him, when he was by hitwfelf j whic.h as I af-
terwards leaned of him, was to defire it not to kill himu
Well; After his Aftoniihment was a little over at
this, I poised to him to mn and fetch the Bird I had
ihot, which he did, but flay'd fame.Time; for the Par-
rot not being quite dead,, was ,flvttter*d a good way oiF
from the Place where ihe fell; however, he found her
took her up, and brought her to me y and, as I had
perceived his Ignorance about the Gun before, I took
this Advantage to charge the Gun again, and not let
him fee me do it, that I might be ready for any othet*
Mark that might prefent; but nothing more offer'd at
that Time 5 lb I brought home the JLid; and the fame-
Evening I took the Skin off, and cut it out as well as I
could, and having a Pot for that Purpofe, I boiPd m-
ftew'd fome of the Flelh, and > made fome very good
Broth i afte* I had hegpn to, sat fume, J &aye ibme:
to>
to my Man, who feenfi. very glad of it, and Kk'd ^t
very well; but that which was ftrangeft to him, was
to fee me ?at ^alt with it: He made a Sign to me, that
the Salt was net good to eat, and putting a little into
his own Mouth, he feerrfd to nauleate it, and would
J pit and fputter at it, wafhing his Mouth with frefh.
Water after it ; on the other hand, I took fome Meat
in my Mouth without Salt, and I pretended to fpit and
fputter for want of Salt, asfaft: as he had done at the
xSalr; hut it would not do, he would never care for
Salt with Meat, or in his Broth ; at leaft, not a great
while, and then but a very little.
Having thus fed him with boiFd Meat and Broth, I
was refolv'd to feaft him the next Day with roafting, a
Piece of the Kid ; this I did by hanging it before the
Fire in a String, as F had feen many People do in Eng-
land, fetting two Poles up, one on each fide the Fire,
and one crois on the top, a-nd tying the String to the
crofs Stick, letting the Meat turn continually; This
Friday admir'd very much ; but when he came to tafle
the Flefh, he took fo many ways to tell me how well he
lik'd it, that I could not but understand him; and at
Jaft he told me he would never eat Man's Flefh any
more, which I was very glad to hear.
The next Day I iet him to work to beating Come Corn
out, and fifting it in the manner I ufed to do, as I ob-
ferv'd before ; and he foon underfto@d how to do it as.
well as I, efpecially, after he had feen what the Mean-
ing of it was, and that it was to make Bread of; for
after that I let him fee me make my Bread, and ba-ke it
too; and in a little Time Friday was able to da all the
Work for me, as well as I could do it my felf.
I began now to confider, that having two Mouths to
feed inifcead of one, I muft provide more Ground for
my Harveft, and plant a larger Quantity of Corn than
I ufed to do; fo I markM out a larger Piece of Land,
and began the Fence in the fame manner as before, it*
which Friday not only worked very willingly and very
hard, but did it very chearfully; and I. told him what
it was for, that it was for Corn to make more Bread,
beeaufe he was now with me, and that I might have
enough, for him arid my felf too: He appear'd very fen-
fible
fible of that Part, and let me know, that he thought I
had much more Labour upon me on his Account, than
I had tor my felf; and that he would work the harder
for me, if* I would tell him what to do.
This was the pleafanteft Year of all the Life I led in
this Place : Friday began to talk pretty well, and un-
derftand the Names of almofr. every Thing I had Occa-
iion to call for, and of every Place I had to fend him toy
and talk a great deal to me; fo that, in fhort, I began
now to have fome ufe for my Tongue again, which iru
deed I had very little Occaiion for before ; thai is to
fayy about Speech: Befides the Pleafure of talking to
him, I had a fingular Satisfa£Hon in the Fellow himfelf;
his fimple un feign'd Honefty appear'd to me more and
more every Day, and I began really to love the Crea-
ture ; and on his Side, I believe he lov'd me more
than it was poflible for him ever to love any thing be-
fore.
I had a mind once to try if he had any hankering In-
clination to his own Country again ; and having learn'd
him Englijkfo well, that he could anfwer me almoft a-
ny (jueftions, I ask'd him whether the Nation that he
belong'd to never conquered in Battle ? At which he
fmil'd and faid, Yes, yes, we always fight the better ;
that is, he meant always get the better in Fight, and fo we
began the following Diicourfe. You always fight the bet-
ter, faid I, How came you to be taken Prifoner then
Friday ?
Friday. My Nation beat much, for all that.
Mafter. How beat; if your Nation beat them, how
came you to be taken ?
Friday. They more than my Nation in the Place
where me was \ they take one, two, three, and me : My
Nation over-beat them in the yonder Place, where me
no was j there myNation take one, two, great Th jufand.
Mafler. But why did not your Side recover you fr6m
the Hands of your Enemies then ?
Friday. They run one, two, three, and me, and make
go in the Canoe *, my Nation have no Came that Time.
Mafler. Well, Friday, and what does your Nation do
with the Men they take ? Do they carry them awa)f,
and ^eat them, as thefe did ? .  *:
Friday. Yes, my Nation eat Man's too, eat all up*
Mafier, Where do they carry them ?
Friday. Go to other Place where they think.
Alafter. Do they come hither ?
. Friday. Yes, yes, they come hither; come other elib
Place.
Mafler* Haye you been here with them ?
Friday. Yes, I been here : "[Points h tbs N. W, Side
of the IJJandy whkb, it feemsy was their Side^j
By this I understood, that my Man Friday had former*
\y been among the Savages, who uied to come on Shore
on the farther Part of the IQaud, on the laid Man-eat-
ing Occafions that he was now brought for \ and tome
time after, when I took the Courage to coxry him to
that Side, being the fame L formerly mention'd, he pre-
fently knew the Place, and told me, he was there once
when they eat up Twenty Men, two Women, and one
Child: He could not tell twenty in Englijb, but he
number5 d them hy laying ib many Stones in a Row, and
pointing to me to tell them over.
I have told this PafTage, becaufe it introduces what
follows ; that after I had had this Difcourfe with him,,
I askM him how far it was from our I (land to the Shore,
and whether the Canoes were not often loll; He told me
there was no Danger, no Canoes ever loft ; but that af-
ter a little way out to Sea, there was a Current, and a
Wind always one .Way in the Morning, the other in
the Afternoon.
This I itnderftood to he no mpre than the Sets of the
,T.£de, as going out, or coming m'7 hut I afterwards un-
'derftood it was occaiion'd by the great Draft and Re-
£ux ofthe mighty River Qroonoque \ in the Mouth, of
wbich.River. as I thought afterwards, our I (land lay;
and that this Land^ which I perceived to the W. and
"N. ;W. was the great JUJand Trinidady on the North
ybint of the Mouth ofrthe Rirer: I ask* a Friday a thou-
fand QuefKons about the, Coimtry, the Inhabitants,, the
Sea, the Coaft, and what Nations were near 5 he told
jne all he knew, with the greateft Qpenneis imaginable ;
I ask'd him the. Names of the. fevera! Nations of his
fort of People, feut could get no other Name than Carihs ;
from whence I eafily underftoodj that tj^fefe were the
LarihbieS) which our Maps place on that Part of Ami*
rica, which readies from the Mouth of the River Oroo-
ncqus to Guidmay and onwards to St, Martha : He told
me that up a great way beyond the Moon, that was,
beyond the letting of the Moon, which muft be W*
from their Country, there dwelt white-bearded Men,,
like me ; and pointed to my great Whiskers, which 1
mentioned before ; and that they had kill'd much Mans*
that was bis Word : By all which I underftood he
meant the Spaniards, wbofe Cruelties in Amertca had
been fpread over the whole Countries, and were re-
member'd by all the Nations from Father to Son.
I enquired if lie could tell me how I might come from
this I (land, and get among thole white Men^ he told
me5 Yes, yes, I might go in two Came ; I could not
underftand what he meant by two Canoey till at laft, with
freat Difficulty, I found he meant, that it mud be in a
arge great Boat, as big as two Canoes*
This Part of Fridays Difcourfe began to reliih with
me very well; and from this -time l entertain'd iome
Hopes, that one time or other I might Jind an Oppor-
tunity to make my • Efcape from this Place, and that
this poor Savage might. be a means- to help use to
do it.
During the long time that Friday had rjew been with
me, and that be began to 1-peak to me, and underftand
me, I was i>otcwanting to lay a Foundation of religious
Knowledge in hi^^iind i particularly, I askM him one
time who made .him ? The poor Creature: did not; un-
derftand me at' all, but thought I had ask?d who was
his Father : But I took it by another Handle, and
ask'd him who made the Sea, the Ground he walk'd
•on, and the Hills and Woods ? He told me, it was
one old Bdttafauckdft; that lived beyond* all: He , could
deicribfe nothing cof this grejafc; Perfcn, but that lie was
very old; much older, he laid, than, the Sea or the
^JLarjd, than the Moon or tks Stars : I ask'd lam then* if
this, old Perfonhad. made all things, why did not all
thingjs worfhip him ? He look'd very grave, and with
a perfect Look, of is&ocence, faid, M things Jaid O to
him i I ask?d him, if the People who die in his Country,
wnt»way,ajpy£;whers? pfc faid^.Yes, theyallw«nt;tx>
* i Bena«
jBendtfturtee: Then I ask'd him, whether thefe they
eat up went thither too ? He laid, Yes.
From thefe Things I began to inftru£fc him in the
Knowledge of the true God. I told him, that the great
Maker oi all Things lived up there, pointing up to-
wards Heaven : That he governs the World by the
fame Power and Providence by which he had made it:
That he was Omnipotent, could do every thing for us,
give every thing to us, take every thing from us ; and
thus, by Degrees, I open'd his Eyes: He lulen'd with
great Attention, and received with Pleafure the Noti-
on of Jefus Cbyifl being lent to redeem us, and of the
manner of making our Prayers to God, and his being
able to hear us, even into Heaven .* He told me one
Day, that if our God could hear us up beyond the Sun,
he mufl needs be a greater God than their Benamu(keey
who hVd but a little way off, and yet could not hear,
till they went up to the great Mountains where he
dwelt, to fpeak to him: I ask'd him, if ever he went
thither to fpeak to him : He laid, No, they never went
that were young Men ; none went thither but the old
Men, who he calFd their Oev>olakcy that is, as I made
him explain it-to me, their Religious, or Clergy ; and
that they went to fay 0, (Co he caird faying Prayers)
and then came back, and told them what Benawuchee
faid : By this I obferv'd, that' there is Prkflcrajt even
amongfl the moil blinded ignorant Pagans in the Workfc,
and the Policy of making a fecret Religion, in order to
preferve the Veneration of the People to the Clergy,
is not only to be found in the Roman, "but perhaps a-
mongall Religions in the World, even among the moil
brutilh and barbarous Savages.
I endeavour'd to clear up this Fraud to my Man Frt*
*foy, and told him, that the Pretence of their old Mea
going up to the Mountains to fay 0 to their God Bena*
muckee^ was a Cheat^ and their -bringing- Wor-d frorrt
thence what he faid, was much» more t fef; that iff hey
met with any Anlvver, or fpoke with any one therc^ it
muft be with an evil Spirit; And then I cnte'r*d into a
long EHfcourfe with him about the Dev&, the Original
. of him, his Rebellion againft God, his Enmity to Man,
the Reaicm o£it3 bis fetting himfclf \ipAi\Xk&d&tk Fwfc
of the World to be worfhip'd inftead of God, and as Gcd>
and the many Stratagems he made ufe of, to delude
Mankind to their Ruin y how he had a fecret Acceis to
our Pailions, and to our AfFc&ions, to adapt his Snares
fo to cur Inclinations, as to caufe us even to be our own
Tempters, and to run upon our own Deftru&ion by our
own Choice.
I found it was not fo eafy to imprint right Notions in
his Mind about the Devil, as it was about the Being of
a God : Nature afllfted all my Arguments to evidence
to him even the Neceffity of a great firft Caufe, and
over-ruling governing Power, a iecret, dire&ing Pro-
vidence, and of the Equity and Juftice of paying Ho-
mage to him that made us, and the like : But there ap-
pear'd nothing of all this in the Notion of an evil Spi-
rit, of his Original, his Being, his Nature, and above
all, of his Inclination to do Evil, and to draw us into
do fo too : And the poor Creature puxxled me once in
fuch a manner, by a Queftion merely natural and inno-
cent, that I fcarce knew what to fay to him : I had
been talking a great deal to him of the Power of God,
his Omnipotence, his dreadful Averiion to Sin, his be-
ing a confuming Fire to the Workers of Iniquity; how,
as he had made us all, he could deftroy us and all the
World in a Moment; and he liften'd with great Seri-
oufnefs to me all the while.
After this, I had been telling him how the Devil
was God*s Enemy in the Hearts of MeD, and usJd all
his Malice and Skill to defeat the good Deiigns of Pro-
vidence, and to ruin the Kingdom of Chrill in the
WTorld, and the like ; Well, fays Friday, but you fay,
God is fo ftrong, fo great, is he not much ftrong, much
might as the Devil ? Yes, yes, fays I, Friday, God is.
ftronger than the Devil,God is above theDevil,and there
fore we pray to God to tread him under our Feet, and
enable us to refift his Temptations, and quench his fie*
ry Darts. But, fays he again, ifGod much ftrong, much
might as the Devil, why Gid no kill the Dzvil> fo maks
him m mere wicked ?
I w^sftrangely furpriz'd at his Queftion, and after all,
tho* I was now an old Man, yet 1 was but a young
Do&or, and iU enough qualified for a Cafiiift, or a Sol-
ver
vor of Difficulties: And, at firft, I could not tell what
to lay ; fo I pretended not to hear him, and ask'd him
what he laid : But he was too'earneft for an Anfwer to
forget his Qiieftion ; fo that he repeated it in the very
lame broken Words, as above. By this time I had re-
cover'd myfelf a little, and I laid, God will at lafi prmijb
him Jeverely, he is refervd for the Judgment, and is to
be caff into the bottomless Pit9 to dwell with everlafting
Fire : This did not fatisfy Friday', but he returns upon
me, repeating my Words, Referve at Lafl, me no wi-
derfiand *, But why not kill the Devil now, not bill great a-
go ? Ycu may as well ask me, faid I, why God does not
kill you and I, when we do wicked things here that of-
fend him : We are prefer-ved to repent and be pardon'd.
Hemufes a while at this ; Well, well, fays he, mighty
aflfe&ionately, that well; foyou, A Devil, all wicked, all
preferve, repent, God pardon all : Here I was run down
again by him to the lad degree, and it was a Teftimo-
ny to me, how the mere Notions of Nature, tho1 they
will guide reafonable Creatures to the Knowledge of a
God, and of a Worship or Homage due to the Supreme
Being of God, as the Conftquence of our Nature ; yet
nothing but Divine Revelation can form the Knowledge
of ftfus Chrift, and of a Redemption purchas'd for us ;
of a Mediator of a new Covenant, and of an Intercef-
for, at the Footftopl of God's Throne ; I fay, nothing
but a Revelation from Heaven can form thefe in the
Soul; and that therefore the Gofpel of our Lord and
Saviour Jefus Chrifi, I mean, the Word of God, and
the Spirit of God, promiied for the Guide and SanfMfi-
er of his People, are the abfolutely necellary Inftru&ors
of the Souls of Men in the laving Knowledge of Ciod,
and the means of Salvation.
I therefore diverted the prefent Difcourfe between me
and my Man, riftng up nattily, as upon i'ome fudden
Occalion of going out ; then lending him for fomething
a good way- of£ I ferioufly pray'd to God, that he
would enable me to inftruft favingly this poor Savage,
afufting by his Spirit the Heart of the poor ignorant
Creature, to receive the Light of the Knowledge of Goct
in Cbrift, reconciling him to himfelf, and would guide
me to fpeak fo to him from the Word of God, as his
Con-
Confcience might be convinced, bis Eves open*d, and
his Soul fav'd : Wh«n he came again to me, I enter'd
into a long Difcourfe with him upon the Subje& of
the Redemption of* Man by the Saviour of the World,
and of the Do&rine of the Gcfpel preached from Hea-
ven, vi%. of Repentance towards God, and Faith in our
blefled Lord Jefus : I then explained to him, as well as
I could, why our bleffed Redeemer took not on hinV
the Nature'of Angels, but the Seed of AbraJjan?, and
how for that Realon the fallen Angels had no Share in
the Redemption •, that be came only to the loll Sheep
of the Houie of lj}aely and the like.
I had, God knows, more Sincerity than Knowledge,
in all the Methods I took for this poor Creatures In-
ftrutfUon, and muft acknowledge what I believe all
that g& upon the fame Principle will iind, that in
laying Things open to him, 1 really inform5 d and
inftru&ed my felf in many Things that either I did not
know, or had not fully conflder'd before ; but which
t>ccurr'd naturaly to my mind, upon my fearching into
them, for the Information of this poor Savage; and I
had more AfFe&ion in' my Enquiry after Things upon
this Occafion, then ever I felt before; Co that whether
this poor wild Wretch was the better for me or no, I
had great &eafon to be thankful that ever he came to
me j My Grief fet lighter upon me, my Habitation
grew comfortable to me beyond meafure, and when I
receded that in this folitary Life which I had been con-
iin'd too, J'had not only been movM my ielf to look up
to Heaven, and ttf feek to the Hand that brought me
there, but was now to be made an Inftrument, under
Providence,, to fave the Life, and, for ought I knerv> the
Soul of a poor Savage, and bring him to the true Know-
ledge of Religion, and of the Chriftian Doctrine, that
he might know Chriftjefus, to know whom is Life eternal.
I fay, when I refle&ed upon all thefe things, a iecret
Joy run thro5 every Part of my Soul, and I frequently
rejoiced that ever I was brpught to this Place, which
I had fo often thought the molt dreadful of all Afflicti-
ons^ that could poifi bly have befallen me.
In tins thankful Frame I continued all the Remainder
of rny Time, and the Converfation which employ'd the
Hours between Friday and I, was {itch, as made the
three Years which we liy'd there together, perfe&lv
and compleatly happy, if any fucb Tbtng as ccwphat
Happinefs can be formed in a fublunary State : T he Sa-
vage was now a good Chriftian, a much better than I;
tho' I have Reaion to hope, and bleis God for it, that
we were equally penitent, and comforted reftored Pe-
nitents; We had here the Word of God to read, and no
farther off from his Spirit to inftrud, than if we had
been in England.
I always apply'd me felf to reading the Scripture, and
to let him know, as well as I could, the Meaning of what
I read; and he again, by his ferious Enquiries and
Queftions, made me, as 1 /aid bejlre^ a much better
Scholar in the Scripture-Knowledge, than I ihould ever
have been by my own private meer reading : Another
thing I cannot refrain from obfervinghere alio from Ex-
perience, in this retired part of my Life, vi%. How in-
finite and inexpreffible a BlefTingit is, that the Know-
ledge of God, and or the Doctrine of Salvation hyCbriJi
Jejxs, is lb plainly laid down in the W ord of God, ib
eafy to be rcceiv'd and underfbood, that as the bare
reading the Scripture made me capable of undemand-
ing enough of my Duty to carry me dire&ly on to the
great Work of fincere Repentance for my Sins, and lay-
ing hold of a Saviour for Life and Salvation, to aftated
Reformation in Practice, and Obedience to all God's
Commands, and this without any Teacher or Inftru£or,
(I mean, human ) ib the fame plain Infiruition iuffici-
ently ferv'd to the enlightning this lavage Creature,
and bringing him to be iiich a Chriftian, as I have
known few equal to him in my Life.
As to the Difputes, Wranglings, Strife, and Conten-
tion, which has happen'd in the World about Religion,
whether Niceties in Do&rines, or Schemes of Church-
Government, they were all perfectly ufelefs to us, as for
ought I can yet fee, they have been to all the reft in
the World ; We had the/are Guide to Heaven, vi^, the
Word of God j and we had, bleffed be Gcd, comfortable
yiews of the Spirit of Godj teaching and inftru&ing us
by
by his Word, leading us into all Truth, and making tis
both willing and obedient to the Inftru&ion ot his
Word ; and I cannot fee the leaft Ui'e that the greateft
Knowledge of the disputed Points in Religion, which
have made fuch Confusions in the World, would have
been to us, if we could have obtained it: But I muffc
go on with the'Hiftorial Part of Things, and take every
Kirt in its Order.
After Friday and I became more intimately acquaint-
ed, and that he cculd underftand iilmoft all 1 laid to
him, and fpeak fluently, tho' in broken Englifa to me;
I acquainted him with my own Story, or at leaft fo
much of it as related to my coming into the Place, how
I had liv'd there, and how long : I let him into the
Myftery ( for fuch it was to him ) of Gunpowder and
Bullet, and taught him how toihoot: I gave him a
Knife, which he was wonderfully delighted with, and
I made him a Belt, with a Frog hanging to it, fuch as
in England we wear Hangers in; and in the Frog, in*
Head of a Hanger, I gave him a Hatchet, which was
not only as good a Weapon in lb me Cafes, but much
more ufeful upon many Occasions.
I defcrib'd to him the Countrys of Europe, and parti-
cularly England, which I came from; how we livM,
how we worihip'd God, howwebehav'd to one ano-
ther; and how we traded in Ships to all the Parts of
the World : I gave him an Account of the Wreck which
1 had been on board of, and ihew'd him as near as I
could the Place where fhe lay; but fhe was all beaten
in Pieces long before, and quite gone.
I fhew'd him the Ruins of our Boat, which we 1-oil
when-we-ifcap'd, and which I could not ftir with my
whole Strength then, but was now fallen almoft all to
Pieces: Upon feeing this Boat, Friday flood mufing a
great while, and faid nothing; I ask'd him what it
was he ftudied upon; at kit, lays he, me fee fuch Beat
like come U Place at my Naticn*
I did not underftand him a good while; but at lad,
when I had examin'd further into it, I underftood by
him, that a Boat, fuch as that had been, came on fhore
upon the Country where he liv'd, that is, as he ex-
plained it, was driven thither by Strefs of Weather: I
prefent-
prefently imaging that fome' Eurcpetn Ship mvJk bare
been cart: away upon their Coaft, and the Boat might
get loofe, and drire a-ihore, but was ib dull, that I ne-
ver once thought of Men making efcape from a Wreck
thither, much le(s whence they might come; fo I only
enquir'd after a Description of the Boat.
Friday deferib'd the Boat to me well enough ; but *
brought me letter to underhand him, when he added,
with fome Warmth, Wefave the whits Mans from drown :
Then I prefently ask'd him, if there were any white
Mans, as he call'd them, in the Boat? Tes, he laid,
the Beat full cj white A^am i I ask'd him how many?
He told upon his Fingers. Seventeen. I ask'd him then
what became of 'em ? He told me, They live, they dwell
at my Nation*
This put new Thoughts into my Head again ; for I
prefently imagined, that tbefe mi^ht be the >j«n belong-
£»g to the Ship that was cart away in fight of .my Ifland,
as f now call it; and who, after the ^hip was ftruck
en the Rock, and they law her inevitably loft, had fav'd
themfelyes in their Boat, and were landed upon that
wild Shore, among the Savages.
Upon this, I enquir'd of him more critically, what
was become of them ; he affixed me they )iv3d ftill there?
that they had been there about four Years; that the Sa-
vages let them alone, and gave them Vi&uds to live:
I-ask'd him, how it came to pafs they did not kill them
and eat them ? He faid, No, they mqU Brother rcitb
them\ that is, as I underftood him, a Truce: And then
he added, They no eat Mans but rchen make the War
fghti That is to fay, they never eat any Men, but uxch
as come to fight with them, and are taken in Battel.
It was after this, fome conflderable Time, that being
on the Top of the Hill, at the Eaft Me of the Ifland,
from whence, as I have faid, I had in a clear Day &ii-
cover'4 the Main or Continent o$ America^ fridaf, the
Weather being very ferene, looks very earnefUy to-
wards the main Land, and in a kind of Surprize falls
a jumping and dancing, and calls out tome, for I was
at fome Diftance from him: I ask'd him what was the
Matter; 0 Joy! fcys he, 0 Glad J There fee, m$ Coun-
*rf> there tny Nation J
lob-
I ob&rv'd an extraordinary Senie or Pleafure appear*^
in his Face, and his Eyes fparkled, and his Countenance
difcover'd a ilrange Eagernefs,. as if he had a Mind to
be in his own Country again; and this Observation of
mine put a great many Thoughts into me, which made
me at ririt not lb eafy about my new Man Fridayy as I
was before; and I made no doubt, but that if Friday
could get back to his own Nation again, he would not
only iorget all his Religion, but all his Obligation to
me ', and would be forward enough to give his Coun-
trymen an Account of me, and come back perhaps,
with a Hundred or two of them, and make a Feail upon
me, at which he might be as merry as he ufed to be
with thofe of his Enemies, when they were taken in
War,
But I wrong'd the poor honed Creature very much,
for which 1 was very forry afterwards : However as
my Jealoufy increased, and held me fome VY^eeks, I was
a little more circumfpe&, and not fo familiar and kind
to him as before \ in which I was certainly in the w rong
too, the honeft grateful Creature having no Thought
about it, but what confifled with the belt Principles,
both as a religious Chriilian, and as a grateful Friend,
as appear'd aiterwards to my full SatisraAion.
While my Jealoufy of him lailed, you may*be fure I
was every Day pumping him to fee ir he would difco-
yerany of the new Thoughts, which I fufpe&ed were
in him \ but I found every thing he laid was fo honeit,
and io innocent, that I could hnd nothing to nouriih
my Sufpicion 5 and, in fpite of all my Dneadnefs, be
made me at lail entirely las own again ; nor did he
in the kail perceive < that I was uneafy, and therefore
I could not fufpe& him of Deceit.
One Day, walking up the fame Hill, but the Wea-
ther being hazy at bea, ih that we could not fee- the
Continent, I call'd to him, and faid, Friday, do not
you wiih your ielf in your own Country, your own
Nation ? Tes, he faid, / be much Q glad to be at my wj
Natiw: What would you do there, feid I3 would you
turn wild again, eat Mens Flefh again, and be a "Sa-
vage as you were before? He look'd full of Concern,
and fliaking his Head, faid, 2% &p Friday teU them to
live
the good, tell them to pray God> tell them to eat Corfu
breads Cattle-flejh, Milk ; no eat Man again: Why then,
faid I to him, £hey will kill you : He look'd grave at
that, and then faid, No, they no kill me, they willing
love learn : He meant by this, they would be willing to
learn ; He added, they learrf d much of the bearded
Mans that came in the Boat: Then I ask'd him, if he
would go back to them ? He ImiTd at that, and -told
me he could not fwim fo far j I told him I would
make a Canoe for him ; He told me, he would go, if I
would go with him. I go ! fays I, why, they will eat
me if I come there; No, no, faj s he, me make they no
eat ycu, me make they much love you: He meant, he
would tell them how I had killed his Enemies, and fav'd
his Life, and fo he would make them love me: Then
lie told me, as well as he could, how kind they were to
fcventeen white Men, or bearded Men, as he oalfd
them, who came on Shore there in Diflrefs.
From this Time, I confefs, I had a mind to venture
over, and fee if I could poffibly join with thefe beard-
ed Men, who, I made no doubt, were Spaniards or Per-
fugue fe *, not doubting but, if I could, we might find
fome Method to efcape from thence, being upon the
Continent, and a good Company together, better than
I could from an 1'fland forty Miles off the Shore, and a-
lone without help : So, -after Come Days, I took Friday
to work again, by way of Dilcourfe ; and told him, I
would give him a Boat to go back to his own Nation ;
and accordingly I carry'd him to my Frigate, which
lay on the other Side of the I (land, and having clear'd
it of Water (fori always kept it funk in the Water) I
brought it cut, fhew'd it him, and we both went into it.
I found he was a moil dextrous Fellow at managing
it, would make it go almoft- as fwift and fad again as I
could; fo when he was in, I faid to him, Well, now,
Friday, fhall we go to your Nation ? He look'd very
dull at my faying Cc, which, it feems, was becaufe he
thought the Boat too fmall to go io far : I told him then
I had a bigger ; fo the next Day \ went to the Place
where the fir ft: Boat lay which I had made, but which
I could not get into the Water j he faid that was big
enough j but then, as I had taken no Care of it, and it
had
had lain two or three and twenty Years there, the Sun
had fplit and dry'd it, that it was in a manner rotten.
Friday told me, luch a Boat would do very well, and
^vould carry much encugh Vhtle, Drink) Bread, that
was his way of Talking.
Upon the Whole, I was by this Time fo fixMupon
my Defign of going over with him to the Continent,
that I told him we would go and make one as big as
that, and he fhould .go home in it. He aniwer'd not
one Word, but look'd very grave and fad,- I ask'd him
-what was the Matter with him ; he ask'd me again '
thus, IVby ycu angry mad with Friday, what me d ne ?
I ask'd him what he meant; I told him I was not an-
gry with him at all : No angry 1 No angry! lays he, re-
peating the Words feveral times, Why fend Friday borne
away to my Nation ? W hy, fays I, Friday, did you not
iay you wiftYd you were there ? Tes, yes, favs he,
rvijh be both there, no will Friday there, no Mafle'r there'.
In a word, he would-not think of going there without
me : I go there, Friday, fays I, what iliall I do there ?
He turn'd very quick upon me at this-: Tcu do great
deal much Good, fays he, ycu teach wild Mans be good
jober tame Mans \ you tell them knew Gcd, pray Gcd,'and
live new Life : Alas, Friday, fays I, thou knoweft not
what thou fay'ft, I am but an ignorant Man my ielf.
Tes,yes, lays he, you teach :e me Good, you tcachee them
Gocd. No, no, Friday, fays I, you iliall go without
xne, leave me here to live by my feif, as I did before:
He look'd-confus'd again at that Word, and running to
one of the Hatchets, which he us'd to wear, he takes
it up hailily, and gives it me ; what rouft I do with
tins' lays 1 to him: Tcu tale kill Fridav, fays he •
What muft I kill you for > laid I again; He returns
very quick, What you fend Friday away for ? take kill
Friday, no fend Friday away : This he (poke lb ear-
nellly, that I law Tears ftand in his Eves : In a word
I to plainly dilcover'd the utmoft Affection in him to
me, and a firm Etefolution in him, that I told him
then, and often after, that I .would never fend him away
from me, if he was willing to (lay with me.
Upon the whole, as 1 found by all his Difcourfe a
fettled Affe&ion to me, and that nothing fhould part ^
L him *
him from me, Co I< found all the Foundation of his De-
iire to go to his own Country, was laid in his ardent
Affection to the People, and his Hopes of my doing
them good 5 a Thing, which as I had no Notion ot'
my felt, Co I had not the leall Thought, or Intention, or
Defire of undertaking it: But ftill \ found a ftrong
Inclination to my attempting an El cape, as above,
founded on the Suppofition gathered from the formerDif-
courie, vi%. That there were feventeen bearded Men
there, and therefore, without any Delay, I went to work
with Friday, to find out a great Tree proper to fell,
and make a large Periagua or Canoe to undertake the
Voyage : There were i rees enough in the I (land to
have built a little Fleet, not of Periagua's and Canoes
only, but even of good largeVeftels: But the mainlhing
1 look'd at, was to get one Co near the Water that we
might launch it when it was made, to avoid the Mifhke
1 committed at firft.
At laft, Friday pitch'd upon a Tree ; for I found he
knew much better than I, what kind ot' Wood was fit-
ted: for it; nor can I tell, to this Day, what Wood to
call the Tree we cut down, except that it was very like
the Tree we call Fufth\ or between that and the Nica-
ragua Wood, for it was much of the fame Colour and
Smell: Friday was for burning the Hollow or Cavity
of this Tree out, to make it into a Boat; But I fhew5d
him how rather to cut it out with Tools, which after I
fhew-'d .him how to ule, he did very handily, and in
about a Month's hard Labour we finiib/d it, and made
it very handfdme, efpecially when with our Axes,
•which Ifhew'd him how to handle, we cut and hew'd
the Out-fide into the true Shape of a Boat; after this,
however, it coft us near a Fortnights Tfme to get
her along, as it were, Inch-.by Inch upon great Row!-
€rs into the Water •, But when the was in, fne would
have carried twenty Men with great Eafe.
When ihe was in the Water, and tho1 ilie wasiib big,
it atnaz'd me to fee with what Dexterity and how fwift
my Man Friday would manage-her, turn her, and pad-
dle her along; Co I ask'd him if he would, and' if we
might venture over in her ; Tes> he faid^e venter over in
her very well, though great him Wmd \ However, I had
a farther Defign that'he knew nothing of, and that
was to make a Mad and Sail, and to fit her with an
Anchor and Cable : As to a Mad, that was eafy enough
to get *, ib I pitclfd upon a {trait young Cedar-Tree,
which I found near the Place, and which there was
great Plenty of in the [Hand *, and I fet Friday to work
to cut it down, and gave him Dire&ions how to ihafe
and order it: But as to the Sail, that was my particu-
lar Care ; I knew I had old Sails, or rather Heces of
old Sails enough ; but as I had them now 26 Years by
me, and had not been very careful to preferve them,
not imagining that I fhould ever have this kind of ufe
for them, I did not doubt but they were all rotten ; and
indeed mo ft of them were ib j however, J found two
Pieces which appear'd pretty good, and with thefe I
went to work, and with a great deal of Pains, and auk-
ward tedious ditching ( you may be Aire ) for Want of
Needles, I at length made a thre^cornerNd ugly Thing,
like what we call in England^ a Shoulder.of-Mutton-
Sail to go with a Boom at Bottom, and a little ihort
Sprit at the Top, fuch as ufually our Ships Long-Boats
iail with, and fuch as I bed knew how to.manage ; be-
caule it was fuch a one as I had to the Boat in which I
made my Elcape from Barbary, as related in the firft
Part of my Story.
I was near two Months performing this lad Work,
vi%, rigging and fitting my Mad and Sails *, for I fi-
lunVd them very compleat, making a fmall Stay^ and a
Sail, or Forefail to it, to aifid, if we fhould turn to
Windward; and which was more than all, I fix'd a
Rudder to the Stern of her, to deer with ; and tho'
I was but a bungling Shipwright, yet as 1 knew the
Uiefulnefs, and even Nectflity offuehaThing, I applied
niy ielf with io much .Pains to do it, that at lad i
brought it to pais, tho* confidering the many dull Con-
trivances I had for it that fail'd, I think it cod me al-
mod as much Labour as making the Boat.
After all this was done, 1 had my Man Friday to
teach as to what belong'd to the Navigation of my Boatj
for tho* he knew very well how to paddle the Canoe,
he knew nothing what belonged to a Sail and a Rudder,
4nd was the mod amaz'd when he law me work the
U Boat
Beat too and.again in the Sea by the Rudde:-, and h<nv
the Sail gyb'd, and 6U'd this Way or that Way, as the
Courle, we fail'd, chang'd ; I fay, when he law this,
he Hood like one aftoniih'd and amaz'd : However,
with-a little Uie, I made all thefe Things familiar to
him, and he became an expert Sailor, except that as to
the Compais, I could make him underhand very lit-
tle of that : On the other Hand, as there was very
little cloudy Weather, and feldom or never any Fogs in
thole Parts, there was the lefs Occaiion for a Com-
pals, feeing the Stars were always to be leen by Night,
and the Shore by Day, except in the rainy Seaions,
and then no Body cared to flir abroad, either by Land
or Sea.
I was now enter'd on the feven and twentieth Year
of my Captivity in this Place ; though the three laft
Years that I had this Creature with me, ought rather
to be left out of the Account, my Habitation being
quite of another kind than in all the reft of the Time.
1 kept the Anniverfary of my landing here with the
fame Thankrulnefs to God for his Mercies, as at firft ;
and if I had fuch Caule of Acknowledgment at firft,
I had much more lb now, having fuch additional Te-
teimonies of the Care of Providence over me, and the
great Hopes I had of being ehTc&uallv and fpeedily de-
li ver'd ; for I had an invincible Impreifion upon my
Thoughts, that my Deliverance was at hand, and that
I ihouid not be another Year in this Place: However,
I went on with my Husbandry, digging, planting,
fencing, as uikal; I gather'd and cur'd my Grapes, and
did every neceffary Thing, as before.
The rainy Seafon was in the mean time upon me,
when I kept more within Doors than at other Times;
\'o [ had ftow'd our new Veffel as fecure as we could,
"bringing her up into the Creek, where, as I faid in
$he beginning, I landed my Rafts from the Ship, and
haling her up to the Shore, at high Water Mark, £
made my Man Friday dig a little Dock, juft big enough
to hold her, and juft deep enough to give her Water
enough to float in ; and then, when the Tide was out,
we made a ftrong Dam crofs the End of it, to keep
the Wrater out; and ib flie lay dry, as to the Tide,
from
from the Sea;and to keep theRain off,we laid a great ma-
ny Boughs of Trees lo thick, that fhe was as well thatch-
ed as a Houfe ; and thus- we waited for the Month of
November and December, in which I deiign'd to make
my Adventure.
When the fettled Seafon began to come in, as the
Thought of rm Ddign returned with the fair Weather,
J? was preparing daily for the Voyage ; and the £rft
Thing L did, was to lay by a certain Quantity of Pro-
viiions, being the Stores for our Voyage ; and intended,
in a Week or a Fortnight's Time, to open the Dock,
and launch out our Boat : I was bufy one Morning up-
on fomething of this kind, when I cilfd to Friday, and
bid him go to the Sea-fhore, and fee if he could rind a
Turtle, or Tortoife, a Thing which we generally got
once a Week, for the fake of the Eggs, as well a? the
Ffclh,; Friday had not been long gone, when he came
running back, and flew over my outer Wall, or Fence,
like one that felt not the Ground, or- the Steps he let his
Feet on ; and before I had Time to fpeak to him, he crbs
out to me, 0 Mafterl 0 Aloft er! OS mrol a bad! Whac^s
the Matter, Friday? fays I ; 0 yonder there, lays he, cxey
two, three Canoe ! one, two, three ! By this-way of fpeak*
ing I concluded there were fix ; but on Enquiry I tbund
it was but three : Well, Friday'fays I, do not be fright-
ed ; Jo I heartned him up as well as I could : However,
I faw the poor Fellow was moil terribly feared ; for no-
thing ran in his Head but that they were come to look
for him, and would cut him in Pieces, and eat him ;
and the poor Fellow trembled fo, that I fcarce knew
what to do with him : 1 comforted him as- well as I
could, and told him I was in as much Danger as- he,
and that they would eat* me as well as him ; buty fays
I, Ftidayrve tmtfl tefolve to fyb< them\ Can yat fight,
Friday P Me flood, fays he, but there come many %reat
Number, No matter for that, (aid I again, our Guns
will fright them that we do not kill; Co 1 ask'd him,
Whether if I refolv'd to defend him, he would defend
me, and (land by me, and do juffc as I bid him ? He laid,
Me die, vohenyou biddiey Ma\ier\ fo I went and fetch'd
a. good Dram of Rum, and gave him; for I had teen Ca
good a Husband ofmy Rum, that I had a great-deal left;
L 3 Whea
When he had drank it, I made him take the two Fow*
ling-i-iters which we always carry'd, and load them
with large Swan-Shot, as big as fmall Piftol Bullets ;
tuen 1 tuck fcur Muskets, and loaded them with two
Slugs, and five fmall Bullets each ; and my two Piflols
1 loaded with a brace of Bullets each : I hung my great
Sword as ufual, naked by my fide, and gave Friday his
Hatchet.
V\ h-n I had thus prepar'd my felf, I took my Per-
fpe&ive Glafs, and went up to the fide of the Hill, to
fee what I could difcover *, and I found quickly, by my
Glafs, that there were one and twenty Savages, three
Prhbncrs, and thrteCa/jces ;and that their whole Bufinefs
iecmed to be the triumphant Banquet upon thefe three
human Bodies, (a barbarous Feaft indeed) but nothing
raore than as I had obierv'd was ufual with them.
I obierved alio, that they were landed not where they
Ijad done when Friday made his Elcape, but nearer to
my Creek, where the Shore was low, and where a thick
Wood came clofe almofl down to the Sea : This, with
the Abhorrence of the inhuman Errand thefe Wretches »
c^me about, fill'd me with fuch Indignation, that I came •
clown again to Friday and told him, I .was refolved,to r
$o dowo to them, and kill them all; and ask'd him if :
he would (land by me ? He was now gotten over his
fright, and his Spirits being a little rais'd with the
Dram I had given him, he was very chearful, and told
me, as beiore, be would die, rohen I bid die.
In this fit of Fury, I took firfr. and divided the
Arms which I had charg'd, as before, between us : 1
gave Friday one Fiftol to ftick in his Girdle, and three
Guns upon his Shoulder ; and I took one Piftol, and
the other three my felf; and in this Pofture we march'd
out: I took a fmall Bottle of Rum in my Pocket, and
gave Friday a large Bag with more Powder and Bullet;
and as to Orders, I charg'd him to keep clofe behind me,
and not to flir,or ihoot, or do any thing, till I bid him; and
in the mean time, not to fpeak a Word: In this Pofture
I fetched a Compafsto my Right Hand of near a Mile,
as well to get over the Creek, as to get into the Wood ;
io that I might come within fhot of them before I ihould
be difcover'd, which I had fcen by my Glafs it was eafy
to do. While
While I was making this March, my former Thoughts
returning, I began to abate my Reiblution; I do not
mean, that I entertained any Fear of their Number ; for
as they were naked, unarm'd Wretches, 'tis certain I
was fuperior to them ; nay, though i had been alone ;
but it occur'd to my Thoughts, What Call? What Oc-
casion ? much leis, What NeceiTity, i was in to go and
dip my Hands in Blood, to attack People, who had
neither done or intended me any Wrong ? Who, as to
me were innonent, and whole barbarous Cuftoms were
their own Difafter, being in them a Token indeed of
God's having left them, with the other Nations of that
part of the World, to fuch Stupidity, and to iu:h inhu-
man Couvtes ; but did not call me to take upon me to
be a Judge of their Anions, much lets an Executioner
of his Juitice ; that whenever he thought fit, he would
take the Cauie into his own Hands, and by National
Vengeance pumih them for National Crimes; but
that, in the mean Time, it was none of my Buiineis;
that it was true, Friday might juftify it, becaule he was
a declared Enemy, and in a (late of War with thofe ve-
ry particular People, and it was lawful for him to at-
tack them ; but I could net fay the fame with relpeft
to me*: Thefe Things were lb warmly preisM upon
my Thoughts all the Way as I went, that I relblv^d I
would only go place my felf near them, that I might
obferve their barbarous Feaft, and that I would aft
then as God fliould dire& ; but that unlefs fomething
cfler'd that was more a Call to me than yet I knew ot>
1 would not meddle with them.
With this Refolution I entered the WTood, and
* with all poflible Warynefs and Silence (Friday following
clofe at my Heels) i march'd till I came to the Skirt
of the Wood, on the Side which was next to them; only
that one Corner of the Wood lay between me and them :
Here I calFd foftly to Friday, and (hewing him a grea$
Tree, which was jud at the Corner of the Wood, i bad
him go to the Tree, and bring me word if he could fes
there plainly what they were doing; he did fo, and
came immediately back to me, and told me they might;
be plainly view'd there \ that they were all about the
L 4 Fire*
Fire, eating the Fleih of one of their Prifonersr and
that another lay bound upon the Sand, a little from
them, which he laid they would kill next, and which
frYd all the very Soul within me : He told me it was
not one of their Nation, but one of the bearded Men,
who he had told me ot] that came to their Country in
t\ic Boat ; I was fill'd with Horror at the very naming
the white-bearded Man, and, going to the Tree, I faw
plainly, by my Glafs, a white Man, who lay upon the
Beach of the sea, with his Hands and his Feet ty'd with
Flags, or Things likeRitihes, and that he was an Euro-
pean? and had Cloaths on.
There was another Tree, and a little Thicket beyond
it, about fifty Yards nearer to them than the Vlace
where I was, which, by going a little way about, I faw
I might come at undifcover'd, and that then I fhould be
within half Shot of them ; fo I with-held m> Paifion,
though I was indeed enrag'd to the higheft Degree, and
going back about twenty 1-aces, I got behind fome Bufhes,
which held all the way, till I came to the other Tree, and
then I came to a little rifing Ground, which gave me a
full View of them, at the Diltance ol about eighty Yards.
I had now not a Moment to lofe 5 for nineteen of
the dreadful Wretches fate upon the Ground all clofe
huddled together, and had juft lent the other two to
butcher the poor Cbriftian^ and bring him perhaps Limb
by Limb to their Fire; and they were ftoop'd down to
untie the Bands at his Feet; I turn'd to Friday, now,
triday^ (aid I, do as I hi 1 thee ; Friday laid he would ;
then, Fiday, fays T, do exa<5tly as you fee me do, fail
in nothing ; lb 1 fet down one of the Muskets and the
Fowling. JJiece upon the Ground, and Friday did the
Jike by his; and with the other Musket \ took my Aim-,
at the Savages, bidding him do the like ; then asking
him, if he was ready? he (aid, Yes ; then fire at them,
laid I 5 and the fame Moment I hYd alfo.
Friday took his Aim fo much better than I, that on
the fide that he fhot, he kill'd two of them, and wound-
ed three more ; and on my fide, I kill'd one, and wound-
ed two : They were, you may be fure, in a dreadful Con-
firmation ; and all of 'em who were not hurt, jump'd up
upon their Feet immediately, but did not know which
Way
Way to run, or which Way to look ; for they knew not
from whence their Deftru&ion came ; Friday kept his
Eyes dole upon me, that as I had bid him, fie might
obferve what I did ; lb, as loon as the firll Shot was
made, I threw down the Piece, and took up the Fowl-
ing-Piece, and Friday did the like ; he fee me cock, and
prelent, he did the lame again ; Are you ready ? Friday^
laid I y yes, fays he ; let Ay then, lays I, in the Name
of God, and with that I fired again among the amazM
Wretches, and fo did Friday -, and as our Pieces were now
loaden with what I call'd Swan-Shot, or fmall Piftoi
Bullets, we found only two drop 7 but (o many were
wounded, that they ran about yelling and skreaming
like mad Creatures, all bloody, and milerably wounded,
mod of them ; whereof three more fell quickly after, .
though not quite dead.
Now, Friday, fays I, laying down the difcharg'd Pie-
ccs, and taking up the Musket, which was yet-loaden,•
follow me, fays I \ which he did, with a deal of Cou*.
rage *, upon which I rufh'd out of the Wood, and ihew'-J •
my felf, and Friday clofe at my Foot: As foon as I per-
ceiv'd they faw me, I ihouted as loud as. I could, and
bad Friday do fo too ; and running as fad as I could,
which by the way was not very faff, being leadtn with Arms-
as 1 wasy I made dire&ly towards the poor Vi&im,
who, was, as I faid, lying upon the Beach, or Shore,
between the Place where they fat and the Sea ; the two
Butchers, who were juft going to work witlr him, had
left him, at the Surprize of our firfl: Fire, and fled in
a terrible Fright to the Sea-fide, and had jump'd into a -
Carve, and three more of the reiV made the fame Way : -
I turn*d to Friday, and bid him (lep forwards, and fire
at them; he underload me immediately, and running
about forty Yards to be near them, he fhot at them,
and I thought he had kill'd them-all : for I faw them all
fall of a Heap into the Boat; though I faw two of them
up agiin quickly : However, hekill'd two of them, and
wounded the third, fo that he lay down in the Bottom
of the Boat, as if he had been dead.
While my Man Friday ftYd at them, I pultd out my
Knife, and cut the Flags that bound the poor Viftinv;
and Idofing his Hands and Feet, I lifted him upa and
L 5 ask'd
ask'd him in the Vcrtuguefe Tongue, What he was ? He
anfwer'd in Latin, Cbnjtianus ; but was l'o weak and
faint, that he could fcarce (land, or fpeak ; I tock my
Buttle out of my Pocket, and gave it him, making figns
that he ihould drink, which he did ; and I gave him a
Piece of Bread, which he eat; then I ask'd him, What
Countryman he was ? And he (aid, E]pa$nele\ and be-
ing a little recover'd, let me know by all the iigns he
could polfibly make, how much he was in my Debt For
liis Deliverance : Stignhr^ (aid f, with as much Spawjb
as I could make up, we will talk afterwards, but we
mud fight now ; if you have any Strength left, take
this Piitol and Sword., and lay about you : He took
them very thankfully, and no fooner had he the Arms
in his Hands, but as if they had put new Vigour into
him, he flew upon his Murderers like a Fury, and had
cut two oi^ them in Pieces in an Inftant; for the Truth
is, as the whole was a Surprize to them, fo the poor
Creatures were Ibmuch frighted with the Noi e of our
Pieces, that they fell down for meer Amazement and
Pear5 and had no more Power to attempt their own Ef~
cape, than their Flefh had to refill our Shot ; and that
was the Cafe of thofe five that Friday (hot in the Boat;
for as three of them fell with the Hurt they received,
jb the other two fell with the Fright.
Ikept my Piece in my Hand ftill, without iiring^ be-
ing willing to keep my Charge ready, becaufe I had given
the Spaniard my Piitol and Sword; fo I call'd to Friday,
and bad him run up to the Tree from whence we firfl
fir'd, and fetch the Arms which lay there, that had
been difcharg'd, which he did with great Swiftnefs;
and then giving him my Musket, I fat down my felf
to load all the reft again, and bad them come to me
when they wanted: While I was loading theie Pieces,
there happened a Jierce Engagement between the Spani-
ard and of one the Savages>who made at him with one of
their great wooden Swords, the fame Weapon that was
to have kill'd him liefore, if I had not prevented it:
The Spaniard, who was as bold and as brave as could
be imagined, tho5 weak, had fought this Indian a good
while, and had cut him two great Wounds on his
Head ; but the $ayage being a ftout lufty Fellow, clo-
sing
fing in with him, had thrown him down fbeing faint)
and was wringing my Sword out of his Hand^ when
the Spatiiard^ tho* undermoft, wifely quitting his Sword, '
drew the r idol from his Girdle, fliot the Savage through
the Body, and kill'd him upon the Spot, before I, wno
was running to help him, could come near him.
Friday being now left at his Liberty, purfu'd the fly-
ing Wretches with no Weapon in his Hand, but his
Hatchet ; and with that he difpatch'd thofe three, who
as 1 faid before, were wounded at firffc and fallen, and
all the reft: he could come up with ; and the Spaniard
coming to me for a Gun, I gave him one of the Fowl-
ing-Pieces, with which he purfu'd two of the Savages,
and wounded them both ; but as he was not able to run,
they both got from him into the W7ood, where Friday
purfu'd them, and kill'd one of them \ but the other was
too nimble for him ; and tho' he was wounded, yet had
plung'd into the Sea, and fvvam with all his Might off
to thofe two who were left in the Cance* which three
in the Came, with one wounded, who we know not
whether he dy'd or no, were all that efcap'd our Hands
ot one and twenty. The Account oi the red is as
follows;
3 Kill'd at our firfl Shot from the Tree*
2 Kill'd at the next Shot.
2 Kill'd by Friday in the Boat.
2 Kill'd by Ditto, of thofe at firft wounded.
l Kill'd by Ditto, in the Wood.
3 Kill'd by the Spaniard.
4 Kill'd, being, found dropt here and there of their
Wounds, or kill'd by Friday in his Chace of them*
4 Efcap'd in the Boat, whereof one wounded, if
not dead..
2i In all.
Thofe that were in the Canoe > work'd hard to get out
of Gun-(hot; and tho5 Friday made two or three ihofc
at them, I did not find that he hit any of themi Fri~
day would fain have had me taken one of their Canoes*
and
and purfued them *, and indeed I was very anxious about
their Ei'cape, left, carrying the News Home to their
People, they Ihould come back, perhaps, with two or
three hundred of their Can:esy and devour us by rneer
Multitude \ fo I contented to purfue them by Sea-; and
running to one of their Can:es> 1 jump'd in, and bad
Friday rollow me ; but when I was in the Can:e, I was
furpriz'd to find another poor Creature lie there alive,
bound Hand and Foot, as the Spaniard was, for the
Slaughter, and almofl dead with Fear, not knowing
what the matter was; lor he had not been able to look
up over the Side of the Boat, he was tied fo hard,
Neck and Heels, and had been tied fo long, that he
had really little Life in him.
I immediately cut the twitted Flags, or Ruihes,
which they had bound him with, and would have help'd
him up; but he could not {land, or (peak, but groan'd
mod: piteouily, believing, it feems, ftill that he was only
unbound in order to be kilPd.
When Friday came to him, I bad him fpeak to him,
and tell him of his Deliverance, and pulling out my
Bottle, made him give the poor Wretch a Dram,
which, with the News of his being deliver'd, revived
him, and he fat up in the Boat; but when Friday came
to hear him fpeak, and look'd in bis Face, it would
have moved any one to Tears, to have feen how Friday
Jcifs'd him, embraced him, bugg'd him, cry'd, laugh'd,
hollow'd, jump'd about, danced, fung, then ciy'd a-
gain, wrung his Hands, beat his own Face and Head,
and then fung, and jump'd about again, like a diftra&ed
Creature: U was a good while, before I could make
him fpeak to me, or tell me what was the matter ; but
when he came a little to himfelf, he told me that it was
his Father.
It is not eafy for me to exprefs how it moved me
to fee what Extafy and filial Afredion had work'd in
this poor Savage, at the Sight of his Father, and of his
being deliver^ from Death ; nor indeed can I defcribe
half the Extravagances of his Afte&ion after this; tor
he went into the Boat and out of the Boat a great many
times : When he went in to him, he would fit down by
Lim, open his Breaft, and hold his Father's Head dole
tp
to bis Bofom, half an Hour together, to nouriili it y
then he took his Arms and Ankles, which were numb'd
arid ilifFwith the binding, and chafed and rubbed them
with his Hands; and I perceiving what the Cafe was,
gave him fome Rum out of my Bottle, to rub them
with, which did them a great deal of good.
This A&ion put an End to our Furfuit of the Canoe,
with the other Savages, who were now gotten almoii
out of Sight j and it was happy for us that we did not;
for it blew fo hard within two Hours after, and before,
they could be gotten a Quarter of their Way, and con-
tinued blowing fo hard all Night, and that from the
N^rth-Weft, which was againft them, that I could not
fuppofe their Boat could live, or that they ever reached
to their own Coaft.
But to return to Friday, he was fo bixfy about his Fa-
ther, that I could not find in my Heart to take him off
for fome time : But after.I thought he could4eave him
a little, I calfd him to me, and he earns jumping and
laughing, and pleas'd to the higheft Extream : Then I
ask'd him, If he had given his Father any Bread ? He
ihook his Head, and faid, None: Ugly Dog eat all up
felf ; fo I gave him a Cake of Bread out of a little
.Pouch I carried on purpofe; I alio gave him a Dram
for himfelf, but he would not tafte it, but carried it to
his Father: I had in my Pocket alfo two or three
Bunches of my Raifins, fo I gave him a Handful of
them for his bather : He had no fooner given his Fa-
ther thefe Raifins, but I faw him come out of the Boat,
and run away as if he had been bewitched; he run at
fuch a rate ; for he was the fwifteft Fellow of his Foot
that ever I faw ; I fay, he run at fuch a rate, that he
was out of fight, as it were, in an inurant; and tho' I
call'd and hollowed too after him, it was all one, away
he went, and in a Quarter of an Hour I law him come
back again, tho* not fo faft as he went \ and as he came
nearer, I found his Pace was (lacker, becaufe he had
fbmerhing in his Hand.
When he came up to me, I found he had been quite
Home for an Earthen Jugg, or Pot, to bring his Fathe*
fome freih Wrater, and that he had got two more Cakes
or Loaves of Bread: The Bread he &ave me, but the
Water
Water he carried to his Father : However, as I was
very thirfty too, I took a little Sup of it: This Water
revived his Father more than all the Rum or Spirits X
had given him ; tor he was juft fainting with Third.
When his Father had drank, I call'd to him-to know
if there was any V\ ater left; he faid, Yes; and I bad
him give it to the poor Spaniard, who was in as much
Want of it as his Father; and I fent one of the Cakes,
that Friday brought, to the Spaniard too, who was in-
deed very weak, and was repofing himfelf upon a green
Place, under the Shade ok a Tree, and whofe Limbs
were alio very fti/F, and very much fwell'd with the
rude Bandage he had been tied with : When I faw that
upon Fridays coming to him with the Water, he fat
up and drank, and took the Bread, and began to eat, I
went to him, and gave him a Handful of Raifins ; he
look'd up in mv Face with all the Tokens of Gratitude
and Thankiiilnefs that' could appear in any Counten-
ance; but was Co weak, notwithstanding he had lb ex-
erted himfelf in the Fight,' thafc he could not {land up
upon his Feet;, he tried to do it two or three times,
but was really not able; his Ankles were fo fwell'd and
fo painful to him ; fo I bad him fit dill, and cauied
Friday to lub his Ankles, and bathe them with Rum, as
he had done his Father's. ,
- I obferv'd the ppor afft&ionate Creature every two?
Minutes, or perhaps lefsp all the while he was here,
tulrrM his Head about, to fee if his Father was in the .
faerie Place; and Pofture as he left him fitting; and at
l|fb he found he was not to be feen ; at which he dart-
ed up, and without fpeaking a Word, £ew with that
Swiftnefs to him, that one could fcarce perceive his
feet to touch the Ground as he went: But when he
came, he only found he had laid himfelf down to eafe
his Limbs; Co Friday came back to me prefently, and
I then fpoke to the Spaniard to let Friday help him up if
lie coula, and lead him to the Boat, and then he fliould
carry him to our Dwelling, where I would tajce care of
him : But Friday', a lufty ftrong Fellow, took the Spa*
niard quite up upon his Back, and carried him away to
the Boat, ana fet him down foftly upon the Side or
Cunijel of the Canoe, with his Feet in the Infide of it,
and
and then lifted him quite in, and fet him clofe to his
Jbather, and presently ftepping out again, launch'd the
Boat off, and paddled it along the Sh.re falter than I
could walk, tho' the Wind blew pretty hard too; fo
he brought them both fafe into our Creek; and leaving
tbem in the Boat, runs away to fetch the other Canoe :
As he pals'd me, i fpoke to him, and ask'd him,
whither he went? He told me, Go fetch mere Boat \ fo
away he went, like the W ind; for liire never Man or
Horle run like him, and he had the other Canoe in
the Creek, alnioft as foon as 1 got to it by Land ; {o he
wafted me over, and then went to help our new Guefls
out of the Boat, which he did*, but they were neither
of them able to walk} fo that poor Friaay knew not
what to do.
To remedy this, I went to /work in my Thought,
and calling to Friday to bid them fit down on the Bank
while he came to me, I foon made a kind of Hand-Bar-
row to lay them on, and Friday and 1 carried them up
both together upon it between us: But when we got
them to the Out fide of our Wall, or Fortification, we
were at a worfe Lois than before; for it was impofEble
to get them over *, and I was refolv'd not to break it
down : So I fet to "Work again*, and Friday and I, in
about two Hours Time, made a very handfome Tent,
cover'd with old Sails, and above that with Boughs of
Trees, being in the Space without our outward Fence^
and between that and the Grove of young Wood which.
I. had planted: And here we made them two Beds of.
fuch Things as I had, vi^* of good Rice-Straw, with
Blankets laid upon it to lie on, and another to cover
them on each Bed,
My IQand was now peopled, and I thought my felf
very rich in Subje&s; and it wras a merry Reile£Uoiv
Which I frequently made, How like a King Ilaok'dtj
Fir ft of all, the whole Country was my own meer!
Property •, fo that I had an undoubted Right of Domir
nion. 2dlyy My People were perfe&ly iubje&ed: I
was abfolute Lord and Lawgiver *, they all ow'd their.
Lives to me, and were ready to lay down their Lives^
if there had been Occafion of ity for me: It was remar-
kable too, I had but three Subje&s, and they were of
three
C »3*- >
three different Religions. My Man Friday was a Pro-
teftant ; his Father was a Ptf£*M and a Cannibal; and
tbzSpanra>d was- a Papift: However, I allow'd Liber-
ty of Confcienee throughout my Dominions: But this
is by the way.
As foon as I liad fecur'd my two weak refcued Prifo-
ncrs, and given them Shelter, and a Place to reft them
upon, I began to think of making ibnie Provifion for
them : And the firfl: Thing I did, I order'd Friday to
take a yearling Goat, betwixt a Kid and a Goat, out of
my particular Flock, to be kill'd : Then I cut off the
hinder Quarter, and chopping it into fmall Pieces, t
fet Friday to Work, to boiling and ftewing, and made
them a. very good Difh, I aflfure you, or' Flefh and
Broth, having put fome Barley, and Rice alfo, into the
Broth ; and as L cook'd it without Doors, ( for 1 made
no Fire within my inner Wall, fo I carried it all into
the new Tent; and having fet a Table there for them,
I fat down and eat my own Dinner alfo with them,, and,
as well as I could, chear'd them and encourag'd them :
Friday being my Interpreter, efpecially to his Father,
and, indeed, to the Spaniard too ; for the Spaniard ipoke "
the Language of the Savages pretty well.
After we had dinedr or rather flipped, I order'd'
Friday to take one of the Canoes, and go and fetch our
Muskets and other Fire-Arms, which for want of Time
we had left upon the Place of Battle; and <the next
Day I order'd him to go and bury the dead Bodies of
the Savages, which lay open to the Sun, and would
prefently be offenfive ; and I alio order'd him to bury
the horrid Remains of their barbarous Feaft, which I
knew were pretty much, and which I could not think
of doing my felf; nay, I could not bear to fee them, if
I went that Way : A1J which he pun&ually perfonrfd,
and defae'd the very Appearance of the Savages being
there ; Co that when I went again, t could fcarce know
where it was, other wife than by the Corner of the
Wood pointing to the Place.
I then began to enter into a little Converfation with
my two new Subje&s; and firfl: I fet Friday to enquire
of his Father, what he thought of the Efcape of the
Savages in that Canoe, and whether we might expe& a
Return
Return of them with a Power too greaffbr us to refifF ?'
His nrft Opinion was, that the Savages in the Boat ne-
ver could live out the Storm which blew that Night
they went off, hut mud of Necefllty be drown'd or
driven South to thofe other Shores, where they were as
fure to be devour'd as they were to he drowned if they
were cad away; hut as to what they would do if they
came fafe on Shore, he laid he knew not; but it was
his Opinion that they were fo dreadfully frighted with
the manner of their being attack'd, the Noife and the
Fire, that he believ'd they would tell their People, they
were all kill'd by Thunder and Lightning, not by the
Hand of Man, and that the two which appear'd, (yi\.)
Friday and me, were two Heavenly Spirits or Furies
come down to deftroy them, and not Men with Wea-
pons: This he faid he knew, becaufe he beard them all
cry cut fo in their Language to one another \ for it was
impoiTible to them to conceive that a Man could dart
Fire, and fpeak Thunder, and kill at a Diftance, with-
out lifting up the Hand, as was done now : And this old
Savage was in the right; for, as I underftood iince by
other hands, the Savages of that Part never attempted to
go over to the I (land afterwards ; they were fo terrified'
with theAccounts given by thole fourMen, (for it feems
they did efcape the Sea ) that they believM whoever
went to that enchanted Ifland, would be deftroy'd with
Fire from the Gods.
This however I knew not, and therefore was under
continual Apprehenfions for a good while, and kept
always upon my Guard, me and all my Army ; foras
we were now four of us, I would have ventur'd upon a
hundred of them fairly in the open Field at any time.
In a little time, however, no more Canoes appear-
ing, the Fear of their coming wore off, and I began to
take my former Thoughts of a Voyage to the Main into
Confideration, heing likewife aflur'd by Fridays Fa-
ther, that 1 might depend upon good Ufage fronu their
Nation on his Account, if I would go.
But my Thoughts were a Httle fufpended, when I
had a ferious Difcourfe with the Spaniard, and when I
Underftood that there were fixteen more of his Coun-
trymen and PortugefC} who having been caft away, and
made
made their Efcape to that fide, liv'd there at T?eace in-
deed with the Savages, but were very tore put to it for
NecefTaries, and indeed for Life : ] ask'd him all the
Particulars, of their Voyage, and found they were a
Spanijh Ship, bound from the Rio dc la PUta, to the Ha-
vana^ being diredted to leave their Loading there, which
was chiefly Hides and Silver, and to bring back what
European Goods they could meet with there ; that they
had five Portuguffe Seamen on Board, whom they took
out of another Wreckj that five of their own Men were
drcnvn'd when firft the Ship was loft, and that theie ef-
cap'd thro' infinite Dangers and Hazards, and arrived al-
moft flarv'd on the Cannibal Coaft, where they expe&ed
to have been devour'd every Moment.
He told me, they'.had Tome Arms with them, but they
were perfe&ly ufelefs, for that they had neither Pow-
der or Ball, the Wafhing of the Sea having fpoil'd all
their Powder, but a little, which they ufed at their firffc
Landing to provide themfelves fomeFood.
I ask'd him what he thought would become of them
there, and if they had form'd no Defign o? making any
Efcape : He faid, They had many Confultations about
it, but that having neither VeiTel, nor Tools to build
one, or Provisions of any Rind, their Counfels always
ended in Tears and Defpair*
I ask'd him how he thought they would receive a
Propofal from me, which might tend towards an Efcape:
And whether, if they-were all here, it might not be
done ? I told him with Freedom, I fear'd moftly their
Treachery and ill LJiage of me, iff put my Life in their
Hands ; for that Gratitude was no inherent Virtue in
the Nature of Man ; nor did Men always fquare their
dealings by the Obligations they had receiv'd, Co much
as they did by the Advantages they expe&ed : I told*
him, it would be very hard, that I fhould be the In-
ftrument of their Deliverance, and that they ihould af-
terwards make me their Prifoner in New-Spain^ where
an Englijhman was certain to be made a Sacrifice, what
NecefHty, or what Accident ibever, brought him thi-
ther : And that I had rather be dejiver'd up to the Sa~
vq%es9 and- be devoured alive, than fall into the merci*
left Claws .of the Priefls, and be carry'd into; the Inft*h+
fition. I added, That otherwiie I was perfwaded, if
they were all here, we might, with fo many Hands,
build a Bark large enough to carry us all away, either to
the Brajils Southward, or to the Iflands or Spamjb Coafl
Northward : But that if in Requital they ihould, when
1 h?d put Weapons into their Hands, carry me by Force
among their own People, I might be ill ufed for my
Kind nets to them, and make my Cafe worfe than it was
before.
He anfwer'd with a great deal of Candor and Inge-
nuity, That their Condition was fo miferable, and they
wereio fenilhle of it, that he believed they would abhor
the Thought of uling any Man unkindly that Ihould
contribute to their Deliverance; and that, if I pleated,
he would go to them with the old Man, and difcourfc
with them about it, and return again, and bring me
their AnIwer: That he would make Conditions with -
them upon their folemn Oath, That they would be ab«
lolutely under my Leading, as their Commander and
Captain; and that they Ihould fwear upon the Holy
Sacraments and Gofpel^ to be true to me^ and to go to
fuch Cbriflian Country as I Ihould agree to, and '
no other ; and to be'dire&ed wholly and absolutely by
my Orders, till they were landed fafely in fuch Country
as I intended ; and that he would bring a Contract from
them under their Hands for that Purpofe.
Then he told me, he would firft fwear to me himfelf,
That he would never ftir from me as long as he liv'd,
till I gave him Orders; and that he would take my
Side to the lail Drop of his Blood, if there fhould hap-
pen the lead Breach of Faith among his Countrymen.
He told me, they were all of them very civil honed
Men, and they were under the greateft Diftrefs imagina-
ble, having neither Weapons or Cloths, nor any Food,
but at the Mercy and Discretion of the Savages ; out of
all Hopes of ever returning to their own Country ; and
that he was fure, if I would undertake their Relief, they
wou'd live and die by me.
Upon thefe AfTurances, I refolv'd to venture to re-
lieve them, if poflible, and to fend the old Savage and
this Spaniard over to them to treat: But when he had
gotten all Things in a Readinefs to go, the Spaniard him-
feif
ftlf flarted an Objection, which had fo much Prudence
in it. on one Hand, and fo much Sincerity on the other
Hand,, that I could not but be very well fatisfy 'd in it;
and, by his Advice, put off the Deliverance of his Com-
rades for at lead half a Year. The Cafe was thus.
He had been with us now about a Month j during
tvhich.Time I had let him lee in what Manner I had
provided, with the Ailiftance of Providence, for my
Support; and he law evidently what ftock of Corn and
Rice I had laid up ; which, as it was more than fuffi-
cient for myfelfj lb it was not furficient, at leaft with-
out good Husbandry, for my Family, now it was en*
creas'd to Number lour: But much lefs would it be fuf-
ficient, if his Countryman, who were, as he laid, four-
teen Hill alive, fhoul'd come over ; and lead of all would
it be fufRcient to visual our VefTel, if Ave fliould build
one, Jbr a Voyage to any of the Chriflian Colonies of
America. So he told me, he thought it would be more
advliable, to let him and the two other dig and culti-
vate fume more Land, as much as I could ipare Seed to
fow ; and that we ihculd wait another Harveft, that
we might have a Supply of Corn for his Country-men
when they ihould conae • for Want might be a Tempta-
tion to them to disagree, or not to think themfelves de-.
liver'd, otherwiie than out of one Difficulty into ano-
ther : You know, lays he, the Children of Ijrael, though
they rejbie'd at nrir. at their being deliver'd out of Egypt,
yet rebell'd even a gain ft God himfelf that deliver'd
them, when they came to want Brrad in the Wildemefs.
His Caution was lb feafonable, and his Advice fo good,
that I coiUd not but be very well pleas'd with this Pro-
pafal, as well as I was fatisfy'd with his.Fidelity ; So
W£ (ell to digging all four of us, as well as the wooden
Tools.we were furnifhed with permitted ; and in about
a Month's Time, by the End of which it was Seed-time,
we had gotten as rnuelvLand cur'd and trinim'd up,, as
we fb.w'd 22 Bufhels of Barley on, and 16 JarrsofRice,
which was, in fhort, all the Seed we had to fpare ; nor
indeed^ did we lea*re our felves Barley fufficient for our
own Food, for the fix Months that we had to expe£ our
Crop, thafcis-to. fay, reckoning from'the Time we let
our
our Seed aflde for fowing ; for it is not to be fuppos'd ft
is iix Months in the Ground in the Country.
Having now Society enough, and our Number being
fufficient to put us out of tear of the Savage^ it" they
had come, unlets their Number had been very great,
we went freely all over the liland, where-cver we round
Occaiion \ and as here we had our Efcape or Delive-
rance upon our Thoughts, it was impoflible, atleaft for
•me, to have the Means of it out of mine ; to this Pur-
pofe, I marked out ieveral Trees, which I thought fie
tor our Work, and I let Friday and his Father to cutting
them down ; and then [ caused the Spaniard, to whom I
imparted my Thought on that Affair, to overfee and di-
rect their Work : 1 ihew'd them with what indefatiga-
ble Fains I had hew'd a large Tree into fmgle Planks,
and I caus'd them to do the like, till they had madt; a-
bout a Dozen large Planks of good Oak, near two Foot
broad, 35 Foot long, and from two Inches to four In-
ches thick : what prodigious Labour it took up, any
one may imagine.
At the fame Time I contrived to encreafe my little
Flock of tame Goats as much as I could , and to this Pur-
pole I made Friday and the Spaniard go out one Dav,
and my felt, with Friday, the next Day, for we took'
cur turns : And by tbis Means we got about 20 young
Kids to breed up with the reft ; for when-ever weihot
the Dam, we fav'd the Kids, and added them to our
Flock: But above all, the Seafon for curing the Grapes
coming on, I caus'd liich a prodigious Quantity to be
hung up in the isun, that I believe, had we been at A*
Itcant, where the Raifins of the Sun are cured, we could
have fill'd 60 or So Barrels ; and thefe, with our Bread,
was a great Part of our Food, and very good Living too,
I allure you \ for it is an exceeding nourifhtng Food'
It was now Barveft, and our Crop in good Order ;
it was not the molt plentiful Encreafe I had feen in the
I Hand, but however it was enough to anfwer our End ;
tor from our 22 Builiels of Barley, we brought in and
threihed out above 220 Buibels, and the like in Propor-
tion ot the Rice, which was Store enough tor our Food
to the next Harvelt, tho' all the 16 Spaniards had been
en Shore with me j or it we had been ready tor a Voy-
age,
•mgc> it would -very plentifully have vi&ualVd our Ship,
to have carry'd us to any Part of the World, that is to
Jay, of America. When we had thus hcus'd and fccurM!
our Magazine of Corn, we fell to Work to make more
Wicker-Work, U£. Great Baskets in which we kept
it, and the Spaniard was very handy and dexterous at
this Part, and often blam'd me that I did not make
fome Things for Defence,of this Kind of Work; but 1^
faw no Need of it: And now having a full Supply of
-Food for all the Guefts. expe&ed, 1 gave the the Spa-
niard Leave to go over to the.Main,to fee what he could
do with thofe he had left behind him there : I gave
bim a lh*i& Charge in Writing, not to bring any Man
with him, who would not firit fwear in the i-'rtfence of
himleli and of the old Savage,"!hat he would no Way in-
jure, fight with, or attack the Perfon he fhculd find-in
the liland, who was fo kind to fend for them in Order
to their Deliverance ; but that they would {land by-and
defend him againft aft fuch Attemps, and where-cver
they'went, would be entirely under, and fubje&ed to* his
Command ', and that this fhculd be put in V\ riting, and
£gn'd with their Hands : How we were to have this
done, when 1 knew they had neither Fen or Ink, that,
indeed, was a Quefcion which we never ask'd.
Under thefe inuru&ions, the Spaniard, and the old
Savage (the Father of Friday) went away iu one of the
Canoes, which they might be (aid to ceme in, or rather
were brought in, when they came as Prisoners to be de-
voured by the Savages.
I gave each of them a Musket with a Firelock on it
and about eight Charges of Powder and Ball, charg-
ing them to be very good Husbands of both, and not to
ufe either of them but upon urgent Occafion.
This was a cbeariul Work, being the firft Mealures
ufed by me in "View of my Deliverance for now 27
Years and fome Days : 1 gave them Provifions of Bread,
and-of dryM Grapes, fuiiicient for themfelves for many
Days, and.-fuflicient tor all their Country-men for about
„.eight Days time ; and wilhing them a good "Voyage, I
fee them go,- agreeing with them about a Signal they
ikould hang out at. their Return by which 1 fhould know
them,again, when they came back, at a; Diftance^before
, Chey came on Shore. They
They went away with a fair Gale on the1 Day .that
the Moon was at Full; by my Account in the Month
of October ; but as for an exad Reckoning of Days, af-
ter I had once loft it, I could never recover it again";
nor-had I kept even the Number of Years fo punctual-
ly \ as to be fure that I was right, tho', as^ it prov'd,
when I afterwards examin'd my Account, I found I had
kept a true Reckoning of Years.
It was no lefs than eight Days I had waited for them,
when a ftrange and untorefeen Accident interven'd, of
which the like has not, perhaps, been heard of in Hi-
ftory. 1 was fail afleep in my Hutch one Morning,
when my Man Friday came running in to me, and call'd
aloud, mafler^Mafler^ they are come^ they are come*
I jump'd up, and, regardlefs of Danger, I went out
as loon as I could get my Clothes on, thro' my little
Grove, which ( by the Way ) was by this Time grown
to be a very thick Wood : I fay, regardlefs of Danger,
I went without my Arms, which was not my Cuiloni
to do ; but I was furpriz'd, when turning my Eyes to
the Sea, I prefently law a Boat at about a League and
Half's Diftance, Handing in for the Shore, with a
Shuilder-of-Mutton-Sailr, as they call it, and the Wind
blowing pretty fair to bring them in: Alfo I obferv'd
prelently, that they did not come from that Side which
the Shore lay on, but from the Southermoft End of the
Ifland ;. Upon this I call'd Friday in, and bid him lye
clofe, for thefe were not the Feople we look'd for, and
that we might not know yet whether they were Friends
or Enemies.
In the nexrPlace, I went in to fetch my PerfpetfUve-
Glafs, to fee what I could make of them •, and having
tak;en the Ladder out, I climbed up to the Top of the
Hill, as I ufed to do when I was apprehenilve of any
Thing, and to take my View the plainer without be-
ing di {covered.
- I had fcarcefet my Foot on the Hill, when my-Eye
plainly,difcoveVd a Ship lying'at art Anchor, at.about
twq,Li?ctgueVahd an Half's Dift#hce from me $*S,lE,
fcut!not above a* League and an half from the Shofe/By
my Obfervation it appear'd plainly to be an Efytilh
Ship, -arid the 'Boat appeat'd to be an £nglzjh Long-Boat.
I cannot exprefs the Confuiion I was in, tho* the. Joy
of feeing a Ship, and-one whom I had Reafon to believe
was Mann'd by my own Country-men, and confequent-
\y Friends, was fuck as I cannot deicribe \ but yet I
had fome 'fecret Doubts hung about me, I cannot tell
from whence they came, bidding me keep upon my
Guard : In the firft Place, it occur'd to me, to con-
sider what Bufinefs an Eng ijb Ship could have in that
Part of the World, fince it was not the Way to, or
from any Part of the World, where the EiigHJh had any
Traffick ; and I knew there had been no Storms to drive
them in there, as in Diflrefs \ and that if they were
E/igliJI) really, it was mod probable that they were here
upon no good Defign ; and that I had better continue
as I was, than fall into the Hands of Thieves and Mur-
therers.
Let no Man defpife the fecret Hints and Notices of
Danger, which fometimes are given him when he may
think there is no Poflibility of its being real : That
fuch Hints and Notices are given us, I believe few that
have made any Obfervations of Things can deny ; that
they are certain Difcoveries of an invifible World, and
a Converfe of Spirits, we cannot doubt \ and if the
Tendency of them Teems to be to warn us of Danger,
-why fhould we not fuppofe they are from fome friend-
ly Agent, ( whether fupreme, or inferior and fuburdi-
nate, is not the Queftion) and that they nre given for
our Good ?
The prefent Queftion abundantly confirms me in the
Juftice of" this Reafoning; for had I not been made
cautious by this fecret Admonition, come it from whence
it will, I had been undone inevitably, and in a far
worfe Condition than before, as you will fee prefently.
I had not kept my felflong in this Pofture, but I
faw the Boat draw near the Shore, as if they look'd for
a Creek to thruft in at for the Convenience of Land-
ing \ however, as they did not come quite far enough,
they did not fee the little Inlet where I formerly landed
my Rafts ; but run their Boat on Shore upon the Beach,
at about half a Mile from me, which was very happy
for me \ for otherwife they would have landed juft, as
I may fay> at my Door, and would foon have beaten
me
m- out -of my Cattle, and, perhaps, have plunder'd ms
ot'all'Ihad.
When they were on Shore, I was fully fatis-fied they
were Engiijb Men, at leait mod: of them •, one or two I
thought were Dutch, but it did not prove fo: There
were in all eleven Men, whereof three of them 1 found
were unarrrfd, and (as I thought) bound, and when
the firtt four'or five ot them were jump'd on Shore, they
took thofe three out of the Boat as Prifoners: On? of
the three I. could perceive uting the mod paiTionate Ges-
tures of Entreaty, ArBitfUon. and Ddpair, even to a
kind of Extravagance ; -the other two, 1 could perceive,
lifted up their Hands lb me times, and appeared concerned
indeed, hut not to fuch a Degree as the firtt.
1 was perfe&ly confuunded at the Mght, and fcaew
not what the Meaning of it fhould be: Friday caiPd out
^ me in EngU]\ as well as he could, 0 Majisr I T,ufec
t>\glifti Mam eat Prifcncr as wdll Savage Mans : Why^
.>**[, Friday, do you think they are a .going to cat them
*'\j&/> %s Friday, Thrift eat tb:m : No, no,
Mn-da?i * am afraid they will murther them, in-
3p you may be fufe they will not eat them.
itd'ais while I had no Thought of what the Matter
' j#was, but ftood trebling with the Horror of the
ijgft, expe&ing every Moment when the three Prifo-
4Wll0Uldbe kill'd ' aay/once I law one of the Vil-
%liftup his Arm with a 'great Cutlafh, (as the Sea-
wall it) or Sword, to fb'ike one of the poor Men ;
Tfl expeded to fee him fall every Moment, at which
|he Blood in my Body feem'd to run chill in my
'"fli'd heartily now for my Spaniard, and the Sa-
%jjhat was gone with him ; or that I had any Way
$re come undifcpver'd within Shot of them, that £
r --nave refcird the three Men ; for I {aw no Fire-
fpy had among them, but it fell out to,my Mind
- wi lM°£ff rv^ the outrageous Utage of the three
Me^by the info-lent beamen, I olpfeiVd the.Fellows
.«~<c*grlng about the Land, as if they wanted to fee
\"^ £*^ry : oblerv d *lio tlwtthe three other Men
hid LTCertv to go where they pleas'd ; but thej fat down
M
all
all three upon the ground very penfive, and lookM like
.Men in Defpair.
This put me in Mind of the firft Time when I came
on Shore, and began to look about me ; how I gave my
jfelf over tor loft, how wildly 1 ,'look'd round me, what
dreadiul Apprehenfions I had, and how I lodged in the
Tree all Night for fear of being devour* d by wild Beads.
As I knew nothing that Night of the Supply I was to
receive byjthe providential Driving of the bhip nearer
the Land, by the Storms and Tide, by which I have
..fince been lb long nouriuYd and fupported; fo thefe
three poor defolate Men knew nothing how certain of
.Deliverance and Supply they were, how near it was to
.them, and how effectually and really they were in*a Con-
dition of Safety, at the fame Time that they thought
jjthemfelves loft, and their Cafe defperate.
So little do we fee before us in the World, and fo
much Reafon have we to depend chearfully upon the
great Maker of the World, .that he does not leave his
Creatures fo absolutely deilitute, but that in the worft
Circumfti-mces they have always fomcthing to be thank-
ful for, and fometimes are nearer their Deliverance than
tthey imagine ; nay, are even brought to their Deliver-
ance by the Means by which they feem to be brought te
.their Deftru&ion.
It was juft at the Top of High-water when thefe Peo-
ple came on Shore, and while partly they ftood partying
.with the Prifoners they brought, and partly while they
rambled,about to fee what kind of Place they were in#
they had carlefsly ftaid till the Tide was fpent, and the
Water was ebb'd considerably away, leaving their Boat
. a-ground.
They had left two Men in the Boat, who as I found
afterwards, having drank a little too much Brandy, fell
a ileep ; however, one of them waking fooner than the
other, and.£nding the Boat too faft a-ground for him to
,ftir it, hallo wM for the reft who were ftraggling about,
•upon which they all foon came to the Boatj but it was
paft all their Strength Co launch her, the Boat being ve-
ay heavy, lahd the Shore on that fide being a foft oozy
:Sand> almoft like a 0uick-Sand«
In
In this Condition, like true Seamen, who are, per-
haps, the leaft of all Mankind given to Fore-thought*
they gave ic over, and away they itroiVd about trie
Country again *, and I heard one of them fay aloud to
another; (calling them off from the Boat) Why let her
done, Jack, can't ye, Jhe'll float next Tide ; by which I
was fully confirmed in the main Enquiry, of what
Countrymen they were ?
All this while 1 kept my,felf very clofe, not once dar-
ing toftir out of my Caftle, any farther than to my
Place of Obfervation, near the Top of the Hill ; and
very glad I was, to think how well k was fortify* d ^
I knew it was no lefe than ten Hours be fore the Boat
could be on float again, and by that Time it would be
dark, and I might be at more Liberty to fee their Mo*
tions, and to hear their Difcourfe, if they had any.
In the mean Time 1 fitted my felf up for a Battle, as
before ; tho' with more Caution, knowing I had to do
with another kind of Enemy than I had at firft: I or-
der'd Fi Ulay alio, whom I had m-ade an excellent Markf-
man with his Gun, to load himfelfwith Arms: I took
my felf two Fowling-Pieces, and I gave him three Muf-
-kets : My Figure, indeed, was very fierce ; I had my
formidable Goat-skin Coat on, with the great Cap I
mentioned, a naked Sword, two Piilols in my Belt, and
a Gun upon each Shoulder.
It was my Defign, as I-{aid above, not to have made
any Attempt 'till it was dark*. But about two aClock, be-
ing the Heat of the Day, I found that in fhort they were
all gone draggling into theWoods, and, as I thought were
all laid down to fteep : The three pot>r diftreffed Men,
^too anxious for their Condition to get any Sleep, were>
however, fet down under the Sheker of a great Tree, at
about a quarter of a Mile from me, and, as I thought,
-eutof Sight of any of the reft.
Upon this I refolv'd to difcover my felf to them, and
learn fomething of their Condition: Immedately I
marchM in the Figure above, my Man Friday zt a good
Diftance behind me, as formidable for his Arms, as I,
<hut not making <juite ib flaring a Sfe&rc-ltks Figure as
I did.
Ml I
"1 came as near them undifcover'd as I could, and then
before any ot them law me, I call'd aloud to them in
Spanjjk) What are ye Gentlemen?
They darted up at the Noife, but were ten times
•more confounded when they law me, and the uncouth
figure that I made: They made no Anlwer at all,
but i thought I perceiv'd them juft going to fly from
me, when 1 fpoke to them in Englijh : Gentlemen, laid
I, do not be furpriz'd at me ; perhaps you may have
-a Friend near you, when you did not expect it :_ He
jnufb be lent dire&ly from Heaven then, J aid one tj them
very gravely to me, and $ idling iff bis Hat at the fame
Ttme, fir our Cmditicn is pa/} the Help of Man. All
Help is from Heaven, Sir, faid I ; But can you put
<i Stranger in the Way how to help you, for you iecm
to me, to be in lbme great Diitrds ? I law you when
you landed, and when you ieem'd to make Application
to the Brutes that came with you, I law one of them
liit up his Sword to kill you.
The poor Man, with Tears running down his Face,
and trembling, looking like one aftoniJVd, return'd,
Sim J tailing to Gody cr Man I Is it a real Many or an
jingell Be in no fear about that, Sir, faid /, if God
had lent an Angel to relieve you, he would have come
-better cloth'd, and arm'd after another Manner than
you fee me in; pray lay afide your Fears, I am a Man,
an Englifiman, and diipos'd to aflift you, you fee •, I
have one Servant only ) we have Arms and Ammuni-
tion ; tell us freely, Can we ferve you?——What is
your Cafe?
Our Cafe, faid he, Sir, is too long to tell you, while
our Murtherers are io near \ but, in fhort, Sir, 1 was
Commander of that Ship, my Men have mutiny'd a-
gainfl: me, they have been hardly prevailed on not to
murther me, and at lafl have fet me on Shore in this
-defolate Place, with *hefe two Men with me, one my
Mate, the other a Paflenger, where we expe&ed to
perifh, believing the Place to be uninhabited, and know
not yet what to think of it.
Where are.thofe Brutes, your Enemies, faid I, -do
vou know-where they are gone? There they tyt9 "Sir,
f.ud he, pointing to a Thicket of Trees, my Heart trem-
bles
hies for fear they have feen us> and heard yen fpeafy if tbef
have, they will certainly murder us all.
Have they any Fire-Arms, laid I? He anfwer'd,
they had only two Pieces, and one which they left in
the'Boat. Well then, laid i, leave the red to me*, I
ice they are all afleep, it* is an eafy thing to kill them
all ; but lhall we rather take them Prifoners ? He told-
me there were two defperate Villains among them, thac
it was icarce fafe to ihew any Mercy to; but if they
were fecur'd, he believ'd all the reft would return to-
their Duty : I asked him, which they were ? He told,
me, he could not at that Diftance defcrihe them ; but
he would obey my Orders in any thing I would dired:
Weil, fays I, let us retreat cut of their View or Hear-
ing, left they awake, and we will refolve farther *, fe>
they willingly went back with me, till the Woods co-
ver'd us from them.
Look you, Sir, laid I, if I venture upon ycur De-
liverance, are you willing to make two Conditions with
me ; he anticipated my Propolals, by telling me, thac
both he and the Ship, if recover'd, mould be wholly
directed and commanded by me in every thing-*, and if
the Ship was not recover'd, he would live and die with,
me in what Part or' the World fosver 1 would lend
him ; and the two other Men laid the fame.
WeUy fays I, /»/ Conditions are but two* I. That
while you ftay on this Iuand with me, you will not pre-
tend to any Authority here; and it I put Arms into*
your Hands, you will upon all Occafions give them up
to me, and do no Prejudice to me or mine, upon this
lfland, and in the mean time be governed by my
Orders.
2. That if the Ship is, or may be recover'd, you will
carry me and my Man to England Pafiage-free.
He gave me all the Aifurances that the Invention
and Faith of Man could devife, that he would comply
with thefe moll reaibnable Demands*and befides would
owe his Life to me, and acknowledge it upon all Occa-
fions as long as he liv'd.
Well then, faid I, here are three Muskets for you*
with Powder and Ball; tell me next what you think is
proper to be done: He fliew'd all the Teftimony of his
M 3 * Grati-
Gratitude that he was able ; bat offer'd to be wholly
guided by me : I told him, I thought it was hard ven-
turing any Thing, but the lr.il: Method I could think
o^ was to fire upon them at oncer as they lay ; and if
any was not kilfd at the fir ft Volley, and offered to
i'ubmit, we might lave them,, and fo put it wholly upon.
God's Providence to direft the Shot.
He (aid very modeflly, That he was loth to kill
them, if he could help it; but that thofe two were in-
corrigible Villains, and had been the Authors of all the
"Mutiny in the Ship> and if they efcaped, we fhould be
undone flill; for they would go on Board, and bring,
the whole Ship's Company, and deftroy us all : Well
then, laid I, Neceffity le^iiimalrs try Advice ; for it is th?
tn]y Way to fave our Lives : However, feeing him (till
cautious of fliedding Blood, 1 told him they ibould go
themielves, and manage as they found convenient.
In the Middle of this Difcourfe we heard i'ome of them
*-wake, and f'oon after we law two of them on their
Peet: I ask'd him, if either of them were the Men
whom he had (aid were the Heads of the Mutiny ? He
laid, Nj : Well then, laid I, you may kt them eicape,
and Providence feems to have waken'd them on Pur-
pofe to fave themielves: Now, fays I3 if the reftefcaps-
you, it is your Fault*
Animated with this, he took the Musket I had given
him in his Hand, and a Piitol in his Belt, and his two
Comrades with him, with each Man a Piece in his.
Hand : The two Men, who were with him going firQ:>
made fome Noife, at which one of the Seamen, who
was awake, turn'cl about, and feeing them coming,
cry'd out to the reft, but it was too late then, for the
Moment he cry'd out, they fir'd, J mean the two Men,
the Captain wifely referving his own Piece: They had
lb well aim'd their Shot at the Men they knew, that,
one of them was kilPd on the Spot, and the other very
much wounded ; but not being dead, he ftarted up
upon his Feet, and call'd eagerly for Help to the other j-
but the Captain ftepping to him, told him, 'twas too
late to cry tor Help, he lliould call upon God to forgive
his Villainy, and with that Word knock'd him down
TKith the Stock of his Musket 5 fo that he never fpok$
more
more: There were three more in the Company, and
one of them was alio (lightly wounded : By this time [
was come -, and when they law their Danger, and th«t
it was in vain to refill, they begg'd for Mercy : The
Captain told them., he would fpare their Lives, U they
would give him any A durance or their Abhorrence of
the Treachery they had been guilty of, and would, fwear
to be faithful to him in recovering the Ship, and after-
wards in carr)ing her back to 'Jamaica^ from whence
they came *. 1 hey gave him ail the Protections ot their
Sincerity that could be detirM, and he was willing to
btlieve them, and fpare their Lives, which ! was not
againll; only I oblig'd him to keep them bound Hand-
ed Foot while they were upon the Ifb.nd.
While this was doing, I lent Friday with the Cap*
tain's Mate to the Boat, with Orders to fecure her, and
bring away the Oars and Sail, which, they did ; and
by-and-by, three uraglin^ Men thai were ( happily lor
them ) parted from the reft, came back upon hearing
the Guns hYd, and feeing thtir Captain, who before
was their PriConer, now their Conqueror, they fub-
mitted to be bound alfo, andfo our Yi&ory was com-
pleat.
It now remain'd, that the Captain and I fhould en*
quire into one another's Circumftances: I began firft,
and told him my whole Hiftory, which he heard with
an Attention even to Amazement, and particularly at
the wonderful Manner of my being furnifh'd with Pro*
viiions and Ammunition; and indeed, as iny Story is
a whole Collection of Wonders, it afife&ed him deeply ;
but when he reile&ed from thence upon himfelf, and
how 1 feem'd to have been preferv'd there on purpofe
to fave his Life, the Tears ran down his Face, and he
could not fpeak a Word more,
^ After this Communication was at an End, T carry'd
him and his two Men into my Apartment, leading them
m jufl where I came out, vi%. at the Top of the Houfe*
where I refrefh'd them with fuch Provisions as I had,
and fhew'd them all the Contrivances I had made, dur-
ing my,long, long, inhabiting that Place.
All I fhew'd them, all I faid to them, was perfe&ly
amazing^ but above all, the Captain admired my For-
M 4 tifica-
(248) v,-
tificaticn, and how perfectly I had conceaFd my Re-
treat with a Grove of Trees, which having been now
planted near twenty Years, and the Trees growing
much failcr than in Ezg'.and, was become a little Wood,
and ib thick, that it was unpayable in any Part of it;
but at that one Side, where I had reierv'd my little
%vinding Pailage into it: This, I told him, was my Caille
2nd my Reiidence ; but that 1 had a beat in the Coun-
t-y, as moll Princes have, whither 1 could retreat upon
Occafion, and I would fhew him that too another Time ;
bjt at prefent our Bufinefs was to confider, how to re-
cover the whip : He agreed with me as to that; but
told me, he was perfe&ly at a Lofs what Meafures to
take j for that there were Hill fix and twenty Hands on
Board, who having entered into a curled Confpiracy,
by which they had all forfeited their Lives to the Law,
would be harden'd in it now by Defperation; and would
carry it on, knowing that if they were redue'd, they
fhould be brought to the Gallows as foon as they came
to tnzland) or to any of the EniUJb Colonies ; and that
thertfcie there would be no attacking them with lb
imall a Number as we were.
I muted for ibme time upon what he had faid, and
found it was a very rational Concluiion, and that
therefore fomething was to be refolved on very fpeedily,
as well to draw the Men on Board into fome Snare for
their Surprize, as to prevent their Landing upon us*
and deftroying us: Upon this it prefently occur'd to
me, that in a little while, the Ship's Crew wondering
what was become of their Comrades, and of the Boat,
would certainly come on Shore in their other Boat, to
iee for them, and that then perhaps they might come
arirfd, and be too ftrong for us: This he allow'd was
rational.
Upon this I told him, the Hrfl: Thing we had to do,
was to Have-the Boat, which lay upon the Beach, fo
that they might not carry her ofr; and taking every
thing out of her, leave her fo far ufelefs as not to be fit
to fwim ; accordingly we went on Board, took the Arms
which .were left on Board, out of her, and wjhateven.
die we found there, which was a Bottle of Brandy, and
another of Rurri, a few Bisket Cakes, a Horri of Pow^
derA
fays Rcbinfon ; fo he asked the Captain, and the Cap-
tain himfelf then calls out, You Smithy you know my
Voice, if you lav down your Arms immediately, and
iubmit, you iha.ll have your Lives, all but Will. At*
kins.
Upon this, Will. Atkins cry'd out, For God's fake,
Captain, give me Quarter, What have I dene ? Tbey have
been all as bad as I, which by the Way was not true
neither ; for it feems thisWill. Atkins was the firft Man
that laid hold of the Captain, when they firit mutin)'d,
and uied him barbaroufly, in tying his Hands, and giv-
ing him injurious Language : However, the Captain
told him he muft lay down his Arms at Difcretion5
anc^ruft to the Governors Mercy, by which he meant
me ; for they all calPd me Governour.
In a Word, they all laid down their Arms, and beg*
ged their Lives; and I lent the Man that had parleyed
with them, and tw7o more, who bound them all j and
then my great Army of 50 Men, which particularly
with thole three, were all but eight, came up and feiz'd
upon them all, and upon their Boat, only that I kept
my leif and one more out of Sight, for Reafons of State.
Our next Work was to repaiv the Boat, and to think
of feixing the Ship ; anda& for the Captain, now he had
Leif lire to parley with them, he expoftulated with them
upon the Villany of their Practices with him, and at
length, upon the farther Wickednefs of their Defign ;
and how certainly it mufb bring them to Miiery and
Diffcrefs in the End, and perhaps to the Gallows.
They all appeared very penitent, and begg'd hard:
for their Lives: As for that, he told them they were
none of his Prifoners, but the Commander's of the
Ifland; that they thought they had let him on Shore ir*
a barren uninhabited luand, but it had pleas'd God fo
to dire& them, that the lftand was inhabited, and that
the Governour was an Englijh Man 5 that he might
hang them all there, if he pleas'd 5 but as he had given
them all Quarter, he fuppos'd he would fend them to
England^ to be dealt with there, as Juftice requir'd,.ex-
cept Atkins^ who he was commanded by the Governour
to advife to prepare for Death j for that he would be
hang'd ia the Morning,.
; . „ Though •
Though this was all a Fi&ion of his own, yet it kacf
its dejired Effe&; Atkins fell upon his Knees to beg the
Captain to intercede with the Governour for his Life,
and all the reft begged of him for God's faker that they,
might not be fent to England.
It now occurr'd to me,, that the Time of oik* Deli-
verance was come, and that it would be a moil: eafy
Thing to bring tbefe Fellows in, to be hearty in getting
Pofleffion of the ihip \ Co \ retir'd in the Dark from
them, that they might not fee what Kind of a Gover-
nour they had, and call'd the Captain to me; when [
call'd, as at a good Diilan:e, one of the Men was or-
<kr~d to fpeak again, and fay to the Captain, Captain,
the Commander calls f:r ym ; and prefently the Caajpin
reply'd, Tell bis Excellency^ J am ]ufl a coming : This,
more perfe&ly amus'd them ; and they all believ'd, that
the Commander was juffc by with his- fifty Men,
Upon the Captain's coming to me, I told him my
Projoft for fcizing the Ship, which he lik'd of wonder-
fully well, and retblv'd to put it in Execution the next
Morning.
. But in Order to execute it with more Art, and to be
fecure of Succefs, I told him we muft divide the Pri-
soners, and that he Ihould go and take Jbkins and iwo>
aaore of the word of them, and fend them ptnion'd ta
the Cave where the others lay : This, was committed to
Friday and the two Men who came on Shore with the
Captain.
They convey'd them to the Cave,, as to & Prifon,;.
and it was, indeed, a dilmal Place, efpecially to Men
in their Condition.
The other I ordered to my Bower, as I call'd it, of
which I have given a full Defcription ; and as it was
fene'd in, and they pinion'd, the Place was fecure enough^
coniidering the^ were upon their Behaviour.
To theie in the Morning I lent the Captain, who
was to enter into a Parley with them ; in a Word, to try
them, and tell me, whether he thought they might
be trulted or no, to go on Board and fur prize the SWpi
He talk'd to them of the Injury done him, of the Con-
dition they were brought to ;. and that tho' the Gover-
oour had given them Quarter for their Lives, as to the
pre&nfc
prefent A&ion, yet that if they were fene to EngJ<znrfr
they would all be hang'd in Chains, to be fare ; btec
that if they would join, in foch an Attempt, as to re-
cover the Ship, he would have the Governour's En-
gagement for their Pardon.
Anyone may guefs how readily furh a Propofal would
be accepted by Men in their Condition ; they fell down
on their Knees to the Captain, and promiied with the
deepeit Imprecations, that they would be faithful ta
him to the laft Drop, and that they fliould owe their
Lives to him, and would go with him all over the
World ; that they would own him for a Father to them
as long as they liv'd.
Well, fays the Captain, I mull go and tell the Go*
vernour what you fay, and fee what I can do to bring,
him to content to it: So he brought me an Account of
the Temper he found them in ^ and that he verily be-
lieved they would be faithful.
However, that we might be very fecure, I told him
be ihould go back again, and chuie out five of their^ and
tell them, they Ihould fee that he did not want Men y
but he would take out thofe five to be his Afliilants,
and that the Governour would keep the other two, and
the three that were {ent Prifonersto the CalUe (myCavey
asHoftages, for the Fidelity of thofe five; and that i£
they prov'd unfaithful in the Execution, the five Hos-
tages fhould be hang'd in Chains alive upon the Shore.,
'1 his look'd fevere, and convinced them that the Go*
vernour was in Earned^ however, they had no Way
left them but to accept if, and it was now the Bufinefs
of the Prifuners, as much as of the Captain, to per-
fwade the other five to do their Duty.
Our Strength was now thus order'd for the Expedi-
tion, i. The Captain, his Mate> and PafTenger. 2^
Then the two Prisoners, of the firil Gang, to whom*
having their Chara&ers from the Captain* 1 had given.
their Liberty, and trufted them with Arms. 3. The
other two, whom I had kept till now in my. Bower
pinion'd, but, upon the Captain's Motion, had now
released. 4. Thefe five releas'd at lad \ fo that they-
were twelve in all, befides five we kept Prifoners in the
Caxe for Hoftages,
I ask'd the Captain, If he was willing to venture
with thefe Hands on board the Ship ? For, as for me
and my Man Friday^ I did not think it was proper for '
us to ftir, having feven Men left behind ; and it was
Employment enough for us to keep them afunder, and
fupply them with Vi&uals.
As to the five in the Cave, I refblv'd to keep them
faft; but Friday went twice" a Day to them, to fup*
ply them with Neceftaries; and I made the other two-
carry Proviiions to a certain Diftance, where Friday
was to take it.
When I ihew'd my felf to the two Hottages, it was
with the Captain, who told them, I was the Perfon
the Governcur had ^rder'd to look alter them, and that
it was the Governour's Pleafure they ihould not ftir any
where but by my Direction •, that if they did, they
ihould be fetch'd into the Cattle, and be laid in Irons ;
{o that as we never iurTer'd them to fee me as Gover-
nour, fo I now appear'd as another Perfon, and fpoke of
the Governour, the Garriibn, the Cattle, and the like,
upon all Occaiions,
The Captain now had no Difficulty before him, but
to fumi/h his two Boats, flop the Breach of one, and
Man them ; He made his Paflenger Captain of one,
with four other Men ; and himielf, and his Mate, and
£ve more, went in the other: And they contriv'd their
Bufinefs very well ; for they came up to the Ship about
Midnight ; As foon as they came within Call of the
Ship, he made Rvbinfon hale them, and tell them he had
brought off the Men and the Boat, but that it was a
long Time before they had round them, and the like;
holding them in a Chat, till they came to the'Ship's
Side; when the Captain and the Mate, entering firit
with their Arms, immediately knock'd down the Se-
cond Mate and Carpenter with the But-end of their
Muskets, being very faithfully feconded by their Men ;
they fecur'd all the rett that wete upon the Main and
Quarter-Decks, and began to fatten the Hatches to keep
them down who were below, when the other Boat and
their Men entering at the Fore Chains, fecur'd the
Fore-Cattle of the Ship, and the Skuttle which went
down §
 5™5wtrs ilu- Miip tor the ('apt? ancK'ouqiii'rs the grates./'/:/'. zo.
down into the Cook-Room, making three Men they
found there Priibners.
When this was done, and all fafe upon Deck, the
Captain order'd the Mate with three Men to break into
the Round-Houfe, where the new Rebel Capuin lay,
and, having taken the Alarm, was gotten up, and with
two Men and a Boy had gotten Eire-Arms in their
Hands; and when the Mate with a Crow ipht open
the Door, the new Captain and his Men fir'd boldly
among them, and wounded the Mate with a Musket-
Ball, which broke his Arm, and wounded two more of
the Men, but kilfd no body.
The Mate calling for Help, rufh'd however into the
Round-Houfe, wounded as he was, and with his Tiftol
ihot the new Captain though the Head, the Bullet en-
tering at his Mouth, and came out again behind one of
his Ears; ib that he never fpoke a Word; upon which
the reft yielded, and the Ship was taken efFe&ually,
without any more Lives loft.
As foon as the Ship was thus fecur'd, the Captain or-
der'd feven Guns to be £r'd, which was the Signal agreed
upon with me, to give me Notice of his Succefs, which
you may be fure 1 was very glad to hear, having fat
.watching upon the Shore for it, till near two ot the
Clock in the Morning.
Having thus heard the Signal plainly, I laid me down;
and it having been a Day of great Fatigue to me, I llept
veiy found, till I was fomething furpriz'd with the
Noife of a Gun; and prefently ftarting up, I heard a
Man call me by the Name ot Governour, Governour,
and presently I knew the Captain's Voice, when climb-
ing up to the Top of the Hill, there he ftood, and point-
ing to the Sh;p, he embraced me in his Arms, My dtar
Friend and Dtlieverer, fays he, there*s your Sbif, forjhe
is allysurS) and fo are we and all that belong to .her : I
caft my Eyes to the Ship, and there fhe rode within
little more than half a Mile of the Shore ; for they had
weighed her Anchor as foon as they were Matters of her;
and the Weather being fair, -had brought her to an An-
chor juft againft the Mouth of the little Creek; and
the Tide being up^ the Captain had brought the Pin-
nace
tiace in -near the Place where I firft landed my Rafts, a&i
4b landed juft at my Door.
I was at ftrfl ready to fink down with the Surprize:
For I faw my Deliverance indeed viilbly put into my
Hands, all Things ealy, and a large Ship juft ready to
carry me away whither I plea fed to go,* At £rft, for
fome Time, i was not able to anfwer him one Word ;
but as he had taken me in his Arms, \ held faft by him,
or I iliould have Fallen to the Ground.
He perceiv'd the Surprize, and immediately pulls a
Bottle out of his Pocket, and gave mc a Dram of Cor-
dial, which he had brought on purpoie tor me •, after I
drank it, I fat down upon the Ground, and though it
Brought me to my felf, yet it was a good while before
I could fpeak a Word to him.
All this while the poor Man was in as great an Extafy
asT, only not under any Surprize, as 1 was; and he
laid a thoufand kind tender 1 hings to me, to compote
and bring me to my felf; but fuch was the Flood of Joy
in my Bread, that it put all my Spirirs into Confufion;
at lall it broke out into Tears, and in a little while after
I recover'd my Speech.
Then I took my Turn, and embraced him as my De-
liverer ; and we rejoyc'd together : I told him, 1 looked
•upon him as a Man fent from Heaven t$ deliver me,
and that the whole Tranfa&ion feem'd to be a Chain of
Wonders; that fuch Things as thefe were the Tefti-
monies we had of a fecret Hand of Providence govern,
ing the World, and an Evidence, that the Eyes of an
infinite Power could fearch into the remoteft Corner of
the World, and fend Help to the Miferable whenever
he pleafed.
I forgot not to lift up my Heart in Thankfulnefs to
Heaven; and what Heart could forbear to blefs him,
who had not only in a miraculous Manner provided for
one in fuch a Wildernefs, and in fuch a defolate Condi-
tion, but from whom every Deliverance muffc always be
-acknowledged to proceed !
When we had talk'd a while, the Captain told me,
lie had brought me foine little Refreihments, fuch as the
Ship afforded,and fuch as the Wretches who had been Co
long his Matters had not plunder'dhim of: -Upon this
he
he calPd aloud to the Boat, and bid his Men "bring the
Things a-ihore that were for the Governour ; and in-
deed it was a Prelent, as if I had been one, not that was
.to be carry*d along with them, but as if I had been
to dwell upon the Illand ftill, and they were to go with-
out me.
Firft he had brought me a Cafe of Bottles full of ex-
cellent Cordial Waters, fix: large Bottles of Made) a Wine;
the Bottles held two Quarts a-piece ; two Pound of
excellent good Tobacco, twelve good Pieces of the Ship's
Bcefy and fix Pieces of Pork, with aBagofPeafe, and
about a hundred Weight of Bisket.
He brought me alio a Box of Sugar, a Box of Flow-
er, a Bag full of Lemons, and two Bottles of Lime-juice,
and abundanceof other Things; But beildes theie, and
what was a thoufand times more ufeful to me, he brought
me fix clean new Shirts, fix very good Neckcloths,
two Pair of Gloves, one Pair of Shoes, a Hat, and one
Pair of Stockings, and a very good Suit of Cloaths of
his own, which had been worn but very little: In a
Word, he cloathed me from Head to Foot,
It was a very kind and agreeable Prefent, as any one
.may imagine, to one in my Circumftances : But n?ver
.was any thing in the World of that Kind fo unplealant,
.awkard, and uneafy as it was to me to wear fuch Cloaths
^t their firft putting on.
After thefe Ceremonies pafi, and after all his good
Things were brought into my little Apartment, we be-
gan to confult what was to be done with the Priloners
<we had ; for it was worth coniidering, whether we
might venture to take them away -with us or no, efpe-
cially two of them, whom we knew to be incorrigible
and refa&ory to the laft Degree; and the Captain laid, lie
.knew they were fuch Rogues, that there was no oblig-
ing them, and if he did carry them away, it mutl-be in
Irons, as Malefa&ors, to be deliver'd over to JufHceat
;the hril Eqglijh Colony he could come at *, and I found
that the Captain himlelf -was very anxious about it.
Upon this, I told him, that if he defir'd it, I durft
^undertake to bring the two Men he fpoke of, to make
it their own Requefl that he fhould leave them upon the
I (land : I foould be very glad of that, fays the Captain,
mth all my Mwrl* Well,
Well, fays I, I will fend for them up, and talk with
-them for you: Sol caus'd Friday and the two Hoilages,
for they were now difcharg'd, their Comrades having
.perform'd their Promile •. I lay, i caus'd them to go to
-the Cave, and bring up the five Men, pinion'd as they
were, to the Bower, and keep them there till I came. 
After fome Time, I came thither drefs'd in my new;
Habit, and now I was call'd Governour again \ being'
all met, and the Captain with me, I caus'd the Men tp
be brought before me, and I told them, I had had a lull
Account of their villainous Behaviour to the Captaifl,
and how they had run away with the Ship, and wek
-preparing to commit farther Robberies, but that Pro.
vidence had enfnar'd them in their own Ways, and that
they were fallen into the Pit which they had digged
for others.
I let them know, that by my Direftion the Ship had
•.been feiz'd, that fee lay now in the Road, and they might
fee by-and-by, that their new Captain had received the
Reward of his Villainy ; for that they might fee him
hanging at the Yard-Arm.
That as to them, I wanted to know what they had to
iay, why I fhould not execute^them as Pirates taken in
the Fa&, as by my Commiflion they could not doubt I
had Authority to do.
One of them anfwer'd in the Name of the reft, That
they had nothing to [ay but this, That when they were
taken, the Captain promis'dthem their Lives, and they
-humbly implor'd my Mercy : But I told them 1 knew
not what Mercy to fhew them ; for, as for my Cdf^ I
hadrefolv'd to quit the Ifland with all my Men, and
had taken Paffage with the Captain to go for England: \
And as for the Captain, he could not carry them to
England^ other than as Prifoners in Irons to be try'd fox
Mutiny and running away with the Ship ; the Confe-
•quence of which, they mud needs know, would be the
Gallows; fo that I could not tell which washed far*
them, unlefs they had a Mind to take their Fate in the!
Ifland j if they defir'd that, I did not care, as I had
Liberty to leave ity I had fome Inclination to give them
itheir Lives, if they thought they could fkifton Shore.
- • They
They feem'd very thankful for it, -fa id they would
much rather venture to ftay there, than to be carry'd to
England to be hang'd ; fo 1 left it on that I Hue.
However, the Captain feem'd to make ibine Difficul-
ty of it, as if he durll not leave them there : Upon this
1 feem'd a little angry with the Captain, and told him,
That they were my i'rifoners not his; and that feeing
I had offer'd them lb mu:h Favour, I would be as good
as my Word ; and that if he did not think fit to content
to it, I would let them at Liberty as I found them^
and if he did not like that,-he might take them again if
he could catch them.
Upon this they appeared very thankful, and I aceord-
\y fet them at Liberty, and bad thtm retire into the
Woods, to the Place whence they came, and I would
leave them ibme Fire Arms, lb me Ammunition, and
fome Directions how they fhould live very well, if they
thought fit.
Upon this, I prepar'd to go on Board the Ship, but
told the Captain, that I would flay that Night to pre-
pare my Things, and defir'd him to go on Board in the
mean Time, and keep all right in the ShiJ>, and fend
the Boat on Shore the next Day for me ; ordering him,
in the mean time, to caufe the new Captain who was
kilfd, to be hang'd at the Yard-Arm, that thefe Men
might fee him.
When the Captain was gone, I fent for the Men up
to me to my Apartment, and entered feriouQy into Dil-
courfe with them of their Circumftances: I told them,
I thought they had made a -right Choice \ that if the
Captain carry'd them away they would certainly be
hang'd : I fliewed them the new Captain hanging at the
Yard-Arm of the Ship, a-nd told them they had nothing
lefs to expeft.
When they had all declared their willingnefs to flay,
I then told them, I would let them into the Story of
my living there, and put them into the Way of making
it eafy to them : Accordingly I gave them the whole
Hiftory of the Place, and of my coming to it; fliew'd
them my Fortifications, the way! made my Bread, plant-
ed my Corn, cured my Grapes ; and in a Word, all that
was neceflary to make them eafy: I told them the Sto-
N ry
ry alfo of the fixteen Spaniards that were to be expe&ed;
for whom I left a Letter, and made them promife to
.treat them in common with themfeves.
I left them my Fire-Arms, v?%. Five Muskets, three
Fowling-Pieces, and three Swords : I had about a
Barrel of Powder left; for after the fir ft Year or
two, I ufed but little, and wafted none : 1 gave them a
Defcription of the Way I managed the Goats, and Di-
rections to milk and fatten them, and to make both But-
ter and Cheefe.
In a Word, I gave them every Part of my own Story;
and I told them, I would prevail with the Captain to
leave them two Barrels of Gun-Powder more, and fome
Garden-Seeds, which I told them I would have been
very glad of; alio I gave them the Bag of Peafe which
the Captain had brought me to eat, and bad them be
lure to low and encrealc them.
Having done all this, I left them the next Day, and
went on Board the Ship .* We prepar'd immediately to
fail, but did not weigh that Night: The next Morn-
ing early, two of the five Men came fwimming to the
Ship's Side, and making a moil lamentable Complaint of
the other three, begg'd to be taken into the Ship, for
God's Sake, for they fhould be murder'd and begg'd the
•Captain to take them on Board, xho5 he hang'd them
immediately.
Upon this, the Captain pretended to Inve no Power
without me; but.after fome Difficulty, and after their
iblemn Promifes o^" Amendment, they were taken 041
Board, and were {oim time after foundly whipp'd and
pickled ; after which they prov'd very honeft and quiet
Fellows.
Some time after this, I went with the Boat on Shore,
the Tide being up, with the Things promifed to the
Men, to which the Captain, at my interceffion, caus'd
their Cherts and Cloaths to be added, which they took,
and were very thankful for: I alfo eneourag'd them,
by telling them, that if it lay in my Way to (end any
Veflel to take them in, I would not forget them. .
When I took Leave of this llland, I carry'd on Board
for Reliques the great Goat's Skin Cap I had made, my
Umbrella, and one of my Parrots 5 alfo I forgot nojt;
to
to take the Money I formerly menti m'd, which had lain
by me fo long ufelefs, that it was grown rufty, or tar-
niih'd, and could hardly pals for Silver, till It had been
a little rubb*d and handl'd ; as alio the Money 1 found
in the Wreck of the Spanijh Ship.
And thus I left the Ifland the Nineteenth of Deczm-
htr> as I found by the Ship's Account, in the Year i^'oty
after I had been upon it eight and twenty Years, t>vo
Months, and nineteen Da)s \ being deliver'd from the
-fecond Captivity the fame Day of the Month that I fir ft
made my Efcape in the Barco-Longc, from among the
ftiocrs of SaUee.
In this Veilel, after a long Voyage, I arriv'd in Eng-
land, the Eleventh of June, in the Year 1687, having
been thirty and five Years abfent.
When I came to England, I was a perfe& Stranger to
all the World, as if 1 had never been known there :
My Benefa&or and faithful Steward, whom I had left
in Truft with my Money, was alive, but had had great
Misfortunes in the W7orld, was become a Widow the
fecpnd Time, and very low in the World : I lmde her
eafy as to what ilie ow'd me, alluring her, I would give
her no. Trouble; lw.it on the contrary, in gratitude t$
her former Care and Faithfulnels to me, I relieved her
as my little Stock would afford, which at that Tims
would indeed allow me to do but little for her ; but I
afTur'd her, I would never forget her former Rindnefs to
me ; nor did I forget her, when I had fufHcieat to help
her ; as ilia 11 be obferv'd in its Place.
I went down aftenvards into Ycrkfihe ; but my Fa-
ther was dead, and my Mother, and all the Family ex-
tin& i except that I found two Sifters, and two of the
Children of one of my Brothers *, and as I had been long
ago given over for dead, there had been no Froviiion
made for me, fo that, in a Wrord, I found nothing to
relieve orafllft me ; and that little Money I had, would
not do (o much ibr me, as to fettling in the World.
I met with one Piece of Gratitude indeed, which I
did not expeft ; and this was, That the Matter of the
Ship, whom I had fo happily deliver'd, and by the fame
Means lav'd the Ship and Cargo, having given a very,
liandfome Account to the Owners, of the Manner how'l
N 2 had
had fav'd the Lives of the Men, and the Ship, they in-
vited me tu meet them, and fome other Merchants con-
cern'd, and all together made me a very handfome
Complement upon the Subject, and a Prefent ofalmoft
two hundred Founds Sterling.
But after making feveral Reflexions upon the Cir-
cumllancts of my Lii'e, and how little V* ay this wculd
go towards fettling me in the World, I refolv'd to go to
-Lisbui, and fee it i might not come by fome Informa-
tion of the Hate of my plantation in the Brafih^ and
of what was become of my Partner, who I had Reafon
to fuppofe had fome Years now, given me over for dead*
With tins View I took Shipping for Lhbcn, where I
arrived in ^/////following; my Man Friday accom pa-
ri) ing me very handily in all theleRamblings.and prov-
ing a moil faithful Servant upon all Occafions.
v\ he n I came to Lisbon^ I found out, by Enquiry, and
to my particular Satisfaction, my old Friend the Cap-
tain of the Ship, who full; took me up at Sea, ofFof the
5hore of' A^icl : Pie was now grown old, and had left
ciF the Sea, having put his Son, who was far from a
young Man, into his Ship \ and who (lift ufed the Bfa-
fil Trade. The old Man did not know me, and, in-
deed, I hardly knew him ; but I foon brought my felf
to Ins Remembrance, when I told him who 1 was.
After Jbmc paflionate Expreilions of our old Acquaint-
ance, 1 enquir'-d, you may be litre, after my Plantation
irnd my Partner: The old Man told me, he had not
"been in the Brafils for about nine Years*, but that he
could allure me, that when he came away, my Partner
was living, but the Truilees who I had join'd with him
to take Cognizance of my Part, were both dead ; that
however, he believ'd that I would have a very good
-Account of the Improvement of the Plantation •, for
that upon the general Belief of my being cad away and
drown'd, my Truilees had given in the Account of the
Produce of my Part of the Plantation, to the Procurator
Fifcal ; who had appropriated it, in Cafe I never came
to claim it, one Third to the King, and two Thirds to
the Monaflery of St, Augufim^ to be expended for the
Benefit of the Poor, and for the Converflon of the In-
dians to the Catholi.ck Faith} but that if I appear'd,
or
or any one for me, to claim the Inheritance, it fhould
be reftor'd ; only that the Improvement, or annual Pro-
duction, being diftributed to charitable Ufes, could not
be reftor'd ; but he allured me, that the Steward o$
the Ring's Revenue (from Lands) and the Provedore,
or Steward of the Monaftery, had taken great Care all
along, that the Incumbent, that is to fay, my Partner,
gave every Year a faithful Account ot the Produce, of
which the)' received duly my Moiety.
I ask'd him, (f he knew to what Height of Improve-
ment he had brought the Plantation ? And, whether
he thought it might be worth looking after ? or whe-
ther, on my going thither, I fhould meet with no Ob-
{Iru&ion to my poileffing my juft Right in the Moiety ?
He told me, he could not tell exa&ly to what De-
gree the Plantation was improved; but this he knew,
that my Partner was grown exceeding rich upon the
enjoung but one Half of it; and that, to the beft of
his Remembrance, he had heard, that the King's Third
of my Part, which was, it feems, granted away to
fome other Monaftery, or Religious Houle, amounted
to above two hundred Moidores a Year; that as to my
being reftor'd to a quiet PofTeiTion of it, there was no
QueiHon to be made of that, my Partner being alive to
witnefs my Title, and my Name being alfo enrolPd m
the Regifter of the Country : Alio he told me, that the
Survivors of my two Truftees, were very fair honeffc
People, and very Wealthy"; and he believ'd I would not
only have their A Hi (la nee for putting me in PofTeflion,
but would find a very confiderable Sum of Money in
their Hands, for my Account; being the Produce of
the Farm, while their Fathers held the Truft, and be-
fore it was given up, as above, which, as he re mem*
ber'd, was for about twelve Years.
I ihew'd my felf a little concerned, and uneafy at this
Account, and enquired of the olo\ Captain, how it came
to pafs, that the Truftes fhould thus difpofe of my
EffedK, when he knew that I had made my Will, and
had made him, the Pcrtuguefe Captain, my univerfal
Heir, CSV.
• He told me, that was true ; but that as there was no-
Proof of my being dead, he cpuld not ad as Executor,
"N 3 until-
until ibme certain Account fhould come of my Death ;
and that be fides, he was not willing to intermeddle
"with a Thing fo remote : That it was true, be had Re-
giiter'd my Will, and put in his Claimy and could he
have given any Account of my being dead or alive, be
would have a&ed by Procuration, and taken. Poflei-
ilon of the Ingtnh ( ib they calPd the Sugar-Houfe) and
had given his Son, who was now at the Bralih; Or-
der to do it.
But, fays the old Man, I have one piece of News to
tell you, which, perhaps, may not be fo acceptable to
you as the reft, and that is, That believing you were
loilj and all the World believing fo alio, your Partner
and Truftees did offer to accompt to me in your Name,
for fix or eight of the firft Years of Profits, which I
receiv'd } but there being at that Time, fa\s he, great
Disbursements for incrcafing the Works, building an
JugemO) and buying Slaves, it did not amount to near
io much as afterwards it produced : However, fays the
old Man, I Hull give you a true Account of what I
have receiv'd in all, and how I have difpos'd of it.
After a few Days farther Conference with this an-
cient Friend, he brought me an Account of the £x firft;
Years Income of my Plantation, fign'd by my Partner,
and the Merchant's Truftees, being always deliver'd in
Goods, vl\. Tobacco in Roll, and Sugar in Chefts, be-
sides Rum, MolofTes, £2r. which is the Confluence of
a Sugar-Work; and I found, by this Account, that e-
very Year the Income confiderably increased : But, as
above, the Disburfement being large, the Sum at firft
was frrall: However, the old Man let me fee, that he
was Debtor to me 470 Moidores of Gold, befides 60
Chefts of Sugar, and 15 double Rolls of Tobacco, which
were loft in his Ship*, he having been ilrip-wreck'd
coming Home to Lisbon^ about 11 Years after my leav-
ing the Place.
The good Man then begun to complain of his Mis-
fortunes, and how he had been oblig'd to make Ufe of
my Money to recover his LofTes, and buy him a Share
in a new "Ship: However, my old Friend, fays he, you
fhall not want a Supply in your NecefTity \ and as loon
as my Son returns, you fhall be fully fatisfy'd.
Upon
Upon this, he pulls out an old Pouch, and gives me
160 Portugal Moidores in Gold; and giving me the
Writings of his Tide to the Ship., which his Son was-
gone to the Brafils in, of which he was a Quarter-Part-
Owner, and his Son another, he puts them both into
my Hands for Security of the reft.
I was too much mov'd with the Honefly and Kindnefs
of the poor Man, to he able to bear this-, and re mem -
bring what he had done for me, how he had taken me
up at Sea, and how generouily he had ufed me on all
Occasions j and, particularly, how iincere a Friend he
was now to me, i could hardly refrain weeping at what
he laid to me : Therefore, fir ft I ask'd him,, ir hisCir-
cumfiances admitted him to fpare io much Money at
that Time, and if it would nut llraiten him ? He told
me, be could not fay but it might llraiten him a lit-
tle ; but however, it was my Mony, and I might
want it more than he.
^ Every thing the good Man faid, was full of Affec-
tion, and I could hardly refrain from Tears while he
ipoke : In fhort, I took len of the Moidores,and call'd
for a Pen and Ink to give him a Receipt for them*, then
I returned lum the reft, and told him, if ever I had
TofTeflion of the Plantation, I would return the other
to him alfo, as iudeedj afterwards did ; and that as to
the Bill of Sale of his Part in his Sons Ship, 1 would
not take it by any Means ; but that it 1 wanted the Mo-
rey} I found he was honell enough to pay me ; and if I .
did not, but came to receive what he gave me Reafan
to expe&, I would never have a Penny more from him.
When this was pafs-'d, the old Man began to ask me,
if he fhould put me in a Method to make rriy Claim to
my Plantation ? I told him, I thought to go over to it
my felf; He faid, I might do fo if 1 pleas'd; but that
ii I did not, there were Ways enough to fecure my
Right, and immediately to appropriate the Profits to
my Ufe ; and as there were Ships in the River of lis-
ten, juft ready to go away to Brajil, he made me enter
my Name in a publick Regifter, with his Affidavit, af-
firming upon Oath that I was alive, and that I was the
fame Perfon who took up the Land for the Planting the
faid Plantation at firfl.
N 4 This
This being regularly attefted by a Notary, and a Pro-*
curation afhx'd, he directed me to fend it with a Letter
of his Writing, to a Merchant of his Acquaintance at
the Place, and then propos'd my {laying with him'till
an Account came ot the Return.
Never any thing was more honourable than the Pro-
ceedings upon this Procuration ; for in Ids than feven
Months I received a large Packet from theiurvivors of
my Truflecs, the Merchants, for whole Account I went
to Sea, in which were the following particular Letters
and Papers encloftd.
Tirjj, 1 here was the Account Current of the Produce
of my Farm, or Plantation, from the Year when their
Fathers had balanced with my old Portugal Captain, be-
ing for fix Years; the Balance appeared to be 1174
Moidores in my Favour.
Secondly, There was the Account of four Years more,
while they kept the Erie As in their Hands, before the
Government claimed the Administration, as being the
Efft&s of a Perfon not to be found, which they call
Civil Death \ and the Ballance of this, the Value of the
Plantation encreafing, amounted to Cruifadoes,
which made 3241 Moidores.
Thirdly, There was the Prior of the Auguflhfs Ac-
count, who had received the Profits for above fourteen
Years \ but not being to account'for what was difpos'd
to the Hofpital, very honeitly declar'd he had 872
Moidores not diftributed, which he acknowledgd to
my Account: As to the King's Parta that refunded
nothing.
There wasalfo a Letter of my Partner%congratulating
me very affectionately upon my being alive ; giving me
an Account how the Eftate was improv'd, and what it
produced a Year, with a Particular of the Number of
Squares or Acres that it contained; how planted, how
many Slaves there were upon it; and making two and
twenty Croiles for Bleffings, told me, he had faid ib
many'dve Maria's to thank the BlefTed Virgin that I
was alive ; inviting me very paffionately to come over
and take Poflelhon of my own, and in the mean time to
give him Orders to whom he fhould deliver my Ef-
ie&s, if I did not come myielfj concluding with a
hearty
hearty Tender of his Friendfhip, and that of his Fa-
mily, and Cent me, as a Prelent, icven fine Leopards
Skins, which he had, it feems, received from A}rtity by
ibme other Slip which he had Cent thither, and who,
it Teems, had made a better Voyage than I: He tent
me alio five Chefts of excellent Sweetmeats, and an.
Hundred Pieces of Gold uncoin'd, not quite fo large as
Moidores.
By the fame Fleet, my two Merchant-Truftees ihipp d
me 1200 Chefts of Sugar, 8co Rolls of Tobacco, and
the reft of the whole Accompt in Gold.
I might.well fay now, indeed, That the latter End of
Jcb was better than the Beginning : It is impoffiblc to-
exprefs the Flutterihgs ol' my very Heart, when I
Iook'd over thefe Letters, and efpecially when I found
all my Wealth about me; for as the Brafit Ships' come
all in Fleets, the fame Ships which brought my Let-
ters, brought my Goods; and the Effects were fate in
the Tagwi before'the Letter came to my Hand : In a
Word, I turn'd pale, and grew Tick ; and had not the
old Man run and fetch'd me a Cordial, I believe the
iudden Surprize of Joy had overfet Nature, and I had
dv'd upon the Spot.
'Nay, after that I continued very ill, and was,Jome-
Hours, 'till a Fhyfician being lent for, and fomething,
of the real Caufe of my Illnefs being known, he order'd
me to,let Blood ; After which I had Relief, and grew
well;'but I verily believe, it*it had net been cas'd by
the Vent given in that Manner to the Spirits, i ihould.
have dy'd.
I was now M after, all on a iudden, of above <$eoo/~
Sterling in Money, and had an Eftate, as I might well
call it, m the Brafih, of above a thouiand Founds &
Year, as fure as an Eftate of "Lands in England \ and, irr
a Word, I was in a Condition which I fcarce knew how
to underftand, or how to compofe my felf for the En?
joy merit of.
The firft Thing I did, was to recompence my original
Benefa&or, my good old Captain, who had been firft
Charitable to me in my Diftrefs, Kind to me in the Be-
ginning, and Honeft to me at the End : 1 fhew'd him.
all that was lent me \ I trjid him, that next' to die;
N % Fro*
Providence of Heaven, which difpofes all Things, it
was owing to him', and that it now lay ron me to re-
ward him, which 1 would do a hundred told: So I
iiril returned to him the hundred Moidores I had re-
ceived of him, then I lent for a Notary, and caufed
him to draw up a General Releafe or Difcharge for the
470 Moidores, which he had acknowledg'd he ow'd me,
in the fulleit and firmed manner poffible; alter which,
I caus'd a Procuration to be drawn, impowering him to
be my Receiver of the Annual Profits of my Plantation,
and appointing my Paitner to Accompt to him, and
make the Returns by the ufual Fleets to him in my
Name: And a Clauie in the End, being a Grant of ico
Moidores a Year to him, during his Liie, out of the Ef-
ihctSy and 50 Moidores a Year to his Son after him, for
Iris Life : And thus t requited my old Man.
I was now to collider which Way to fteer my Ccurfs
next, and what to do with the Eftate that Providence
had thus put into my Hands ; and, indeed, I had more
Care upon my Head now, than I had in my filent State
of Life in the I (land, where I wanted nothing but what
I had, and had nothing but what I wanted ; whereas I
had now a great Charge upon me, and my Bufinefs
was how to lecure it: 1 had ne'er a Cave now to hide
my Money in, or a Place where it might lye without
Lock or Key, 'till it grew mouldy and tarnilh'd before
any Body would meddle with it: On the contrary, t
knew not where to put it, or who to truft: with it \ my
old Patron, the Captain, indeed was honeft, and that
was the only Refuge 1 had.
In the next Place, my Intereft in the Brafih feem'd
to fummon me thither *, but now I could not tell how
to think of going thither, 'till I had fettled my Affairs,
and left my Effe&s in fome fafe Hands behind me : At
£r(l I thought of my old Friend the Widow, who I
knew was honed, and would be juft to me; but then
Hie was in Years, and but poor, and, for ought I knew,
Blight be in Debt; lb that, in a Word, I had no Way
but to go back to England my felf, and take my EfFe&s
with me.
It was fome Months however before I refolv'd upon
this; and therefore, as 1 had rewarded the old Captain
full/,
folly, and to Satisfa£ion, who had been" my former Be-
uera&or, fo I began to think of my poor Widow, whofe
Husband had been my firft Beneia&or, and fhe, whi 6
it was in her Power, my faithful Steward and Inftru?-
tor : So the firil Thing I did, 1 got a Merchant in
Bhbjn to write to hisCorrefpondent in Lcndcn^ not only
to pay a Bill, but to go find her out, and carry her in
Money an hundred Pounds from me, and to talk with
her, and comiort her in her Poverty, by telling her>ihe
fhould, if I liv'd, have a further Supply: At the fame
time i fent my two Sifters in the Country, each of them
an hundred Pounds, they being, thV not in Want, yet
not in very good Circumftances; one having been mar-
ried, and left a Widow, and the other having a Hu$*
band not fo kind to her as he fhould be.
But among all my Relations or Acquaintances I could -
not yet pitch upon one, to whom I durft commit the
Grofs oi my Stock, that 1 might go away to the Bra-
Jils, and leave Things fafe behind me ; and this greatly
perplexed me, '
1 had once a Mind to have gone to the Brafih, and
have fettled my felf there; lor I was, as it were, na-
turalise! to the Place; but I had fome little Scruple in
my Mind about Religion, which infenilbly drew me
back, of which I iliall fay more prefently. However,
It was not Religion that kept me from going there for
the prefent; and as I had made no Scruple, of beins
openly of die Religion of the Country, all the while 1
was among them, fo neither did I yet; only that now
and then having of late thought more oF it, ( than for-
merly } when £ began to think of living and dyfng a-
inong them, I began to regret my having profefs'd my-
felf a Papiil, and thought it might not be the beft Re-
ligion to die with.
. But, as I have (aid, tins was not the main Thing that -
kept me from going to the Brafih ; but that really I did
not know with whom to leave my ErTetfs behind me-
io i re(blv'd a&laft to go to England with it, where if
I arriv'd, I concluded I fhould make fome Acquaint-
ance, or find fome Relations that would be faithful to
me ; and accordingly I prepared to go. for England with
aft my Wealth.
In order to prepare Things For my. going Home, t
firil: ( the Brajil Fleet being juft going away ) refolv'd
to give Anfwers iiiitable to the juft and faithful Ac*
count of Things I had from thence; and firil to the
Prior of St. Augufi'vne I wrote a Letter full of Thanks
for their juft Dealings, and the Offer of the 872 Moi-
dores, which was undifpofed off, which-1 defVd might
be given, 500 to the Monaftery, and 372 to the Poor,
as the Prior lhould dire&, deiiring the good Padres
Prayers for me, and the like.
I wrote next a Letter of thanks to my two Tiuftees,
with all the Acknowledgment that fomuch Juftice and
Honefty call'd lor ; as for fending them any Prefent,
they were far above having any Occalion of it.
Laftly, I wrote to my Partner, acknowledging his Irr-
duftry in the Improving the Plantation, and his Integri-
ty in encreafing the Stock of the Works, giving him in-
structions lor his future Government o? my Part, ac-
cording to the Powers 1 had left with my old Patron, to
whom I defired him to fend whatever became due to
me, 'till hefhould hear from me more particularly ; al-
luring him, that it was my In tension, not only to come
to him, but to fettle my fel ft he re for the Remainder of
my Life : To this I added a. very handfome Prefent of
ibme Italian Silks for his Wife and two Daughters; for
fuchthe Captain's Son inform'd me he had \ with two
Pieces of fine Exgtijh Broad-Cloath, the beft I could get
in Lisbon, five Pieces of black Bays, and fome Flanders
iace of a good Value.
Having thus fettled my Amairs, fold my Cargo, and
turn'dall my EfFe&s into good Bills of Exchange, my
next Difficulty was, which. Way to go to England: I
had been accuftom'd enough to the Sea, and yet I had a
ftrange Averfion to go to Englandby Sea at that Time ;
and though I could give no Reafon for it, yet the- Dif-
ficulty encreas'd upon me Co much, that though I had
once fhipp-d my Baggage in order to go, yet 1 altered
my Mind, and that not once, but two er three times.
ft is true, I had been very unfortunate by Sea, and
this might be fome of the^ Reafons : But let no Man
(light the.ftrong Irupulfesof his own Thoughts in Ca*
fesof fuch Moment: Two of the Ships which I had fin-
fijed
gled out to go in, I mean, more particularly fingled oat
than any other, that is to lay, fo as in one oi them to
'put my Things on Board, and in the other to have a-
greed with the Captain *, I fay, two oi thefe Ships mil-
carry'd, vi\. one was taken by the Algerines, and the
other was caft away on the Start near Tor bay 9 and all
the People drown'd except three ; {o that in either of
thole VelTels I had been made milerable, and in which
moil, it was hard to lay.
Having been thus harrafs'd in my Thoughts, my old
Pilot, to whom I communicated every thing, prefVd
me earneftly not ro go by Sea ; hut either to go by
Land to the Griyaz, and crois over the Bay of Bajcay to
Rocbell, from whence it was but an eafy and fafe Jour-
ney by Land to Paris, and fo to Calais and ^Droer • or
to go up to Madrid^ and fo all the Way by Land through
Ft ante.
in a Word, I was Co prepoffefs'd againft my going hy
Sea at all, except from Calais to V„very that I refclvM
to travel all the Way by Land ; which, as I was not in
Hafle, and did not value the Charge, was by much the
pleafanterW7 ay ;and to make it more fo, my old Captain
brought an Englifh Gentleman, the Son of a Merchant
in Lisbon, who was willing to Travel with me ; After
which, we pick'd up two who were Englijb and Mer-
chants alio, and two yomigVortuguefe Gentleman, the lafl
going to Paris only ; io that we were in all fix oJ^us, and
five Servants ; the two Merchants,, and the two Portu-
guese contenting themfelves with one Servant between
two, to lave the Charge ; and as for me, I got an Eng-
Jijh Sailor to travel with me as a Servant, befldes my
Man Friday, who was too much a Stranger, to be capa-
ble of fupplyingthe Place of a Servant upon the Road.
In this Manner I Cet out from Lisbon : And our Com-
pany being all very well mount'd and arm'd, we made a
little Troop, whereof they did me the Honour to call
me Captain, as well becaufe I was the oldeft Man, as
became I had two Servants, and, indeed, was die Ori-
ginal of the whole Journey.
As I have troubled you with none of my Sea Jour-
nals, fo I fiiall trouble you now with none of my Land
j€lU>
Journal: But Tome Adventures that happen'd to us in
this tedious and difficult Journey, I mull not omit.
When wecarne to Maaudj we being all of us Strangers
to Spain, were willing to (lay iome Tima to fee the
Court of Spain, and to lee what was worth obferving;
but it being the latter Part of the Summer, we halten'd
away, and let out from Madrid about the Middle of
O'duber : But when wecarne to the Edge of Navarre, we
were alarm'd at feveral Towns on the W^y, with an
Account, that fo much Snow was fallen on the French
Side of tire Mountains, that feveral Travellers were o-
blig'd to comeback to Pampekna, after having attempt
ted at an extreme Hazard, to pafs on.
When we came to Pampeluna it fel£ we found it fo
indeed; and to me that had been always ufed to a hot
Climate, and indeed to Countries where we could fcarce
bear any Cloaths on, the Cold was unfurTerable \ nor,
indeed, was it more painful than it was fur prizing, to
come but ten Days before out of the Old Cajtile, where
the Weather was not only warm, but very hot; and
immediately to feel a Wind from the,Pyrenntan Moun-
tains, ib very keen, fo feverely cold, as to be intollerable,
and to endanger benumming and perifhing of our lun-
gers and Toes was very itrange.
PoorFriday was really frighted wheirhe faw the Moun-
tains all cover'd with Snow, and felt coldWeather, which
he had never feen qr felt before in his Life.
To mend the Matter, after we came to Pawpelumy
it continu'd Snowing with fo much Violence, and fo
long, that the People laid, Winter was come before its
Time, and the Roads, which were difficult before, were
now quite impaffable ; in a Word, the Snow lay in
fome Places too thick for us to Travel \ and being not
bard frozen as is the Cafe in Northern Countries, there
was no going without being in Danger of being bur>'d
£live every Step : W7e (laid no lels than twenty Days
kt Pampeluw'y when (feeing'the Winter coming on, and
no likelyhood of its being better, for it was the fevered
"Winter all over Eunpe that had been known in many
Years) I propofed that we.ihould all go away to i'o ie~-
rahia, and there take Shipping for BourdeauX) which
toas a very little Voyage,
Bug
But while we were confidering this, there came in
four French Gentlemen, who having been flopped on the
French fide of tha Pailes, as we were on the Spanijh, had
fcuni out a Guide, who traverfing the Country near the
Head, ot Languedec, had brought them over the Moun-
tains by fuch Ways, that they were not much incom-
moded with the Snow *, and where they met with Snow
in any Quantity, they faid it was frozen hard enough
to bear them and theirHorfes.
We lent for this Guide, who told us, he would under-
take to carry us the fame Way, with no Hazard from
the Snow, provided we were arnf d fufficiently to pro-
tect us from wild Beads', lor, he faid, upon thefe great
Snows, it was frequent for ibme Wolves to fhow them-
felves at the Foot of the Mountains, being made raven-
ous for want of Food, the Ground being cjver'd with
Snow : We told him we were well enough prepared for
fuch Creatures as they were, if he would erfure us
from a Rind of two legged Wolves, which we were told
we were in moft Danger from, efpecially on the French
Side of the Mountains.
He fatisfy'd us there was no Danger of that Rind in
the WTay that we were to go : So we readily agreed to
follow him, as did alio twelve other Gentlemen, with
their Servants, ibme French, fome Spamjb^ who, as I
laid, had attempted to go, and were oblig'd to come
bick again.
' Accordingly we all fet out for Pampelum, with our
Gi^ide, on the fifteenth of November \ and indeed, I
was furpriz'd, when inftead of going forward, he. came
directly back with us, on the fame Lvoad. that we came
from Madrid, above twenty Miles ; when being pafs'd
two Rivers, and come into the plain Country, weiound
ourfelves in a warni Climate again, where the Country
was pleafant, and no Snow to be feen ; but on a fudden,
turning to the Left, he approach'd the Mountains ano-
ther Way ; and tho' it is true, the Hills and Precipices
look'd dreadful, yet he made lb many Tours, fuch Mean-
ders, and led us by fuch winding Ways, we wereinfen-
fibly pals'd the Height of the Mountains, without being
much incumbered with the Snow ; and all on a fudden
he iliew'd us the £leafant fruitful Provinces of Langut-
doc
dec and Gafccign-, all green and flourifhing ; tho' indeed
they were at a great Diftance, and we had fome rough
W ay to pais yet.
We were a little uneafy however, when we found It
fnow'd one whole Day, and at Night, ib fail;, that we
could not travel * but he bids us be ealy, we fhould i'oon
be pad it all : We found, indeed, that we began to de-
fcend every Day, and to come more North than before,
and to depending upon our Guide, we went on.
It was about two Hours before Night, when our
Guide being fbmething before us, and not juft in Sight,
out rufh'd three nionilrous Wolves, and after them a
Bear, out of a hollow Way, adjoining to a thick Wood';
two of the Wolves flew upon the Guide., and had he
been half a Mile before us, he had been devoured indeed,
before we could have help'd him : One of them faften'd
upon his Horfe, and the other attacked the Man with
that Violence, that he had not Time, or not Pre fence of
Mind enough to draw his Piftol, but hollowed andcry'd
out to us moil luftily ; my Man Friday being next to me,
I bid him ride up, and fee what was the Matter: As
fbon as Friday came in Sight of the Man, he hollow'd as
loud as t'other, 0 Mafter! 0 toafter ! But like a bold
Fellow, rode direftly up to the poor Man, and with his
Piftol fhot the Wolf that attacked him into the Head.
It was happy for the poor Man, that it was my Man
Friday ; for he having been uied to that kind of Creature
in his Country, had no Fear upon him \ but went clofe
up to him, and fhot him, as above ; whereas any ot us
would have flr'd at a farther Diflance, and have per-
haps either mifs'd the Wolf; or endanger'd fhooting the
Man.
But it was enough to have terrify'd a bolder Man than
I, and indeed it alarm'd all our Company, when with,
the Noife of Fr/^'sPiftol, we heard en both Sides the
difmalleft howling of Wolves, and the Nolle redoubled
by the Eccho of the Mountains, that it was to us as if
there had been a prodigious Multitude of them ; and
"perhaps indeed, there was not fuch a fe.w, as that we had
no Caufe of Apprehenflons.
However, as Friday had killed this Wolf, the other,
that had faften'd upon the Horfe lelt him inimediatety,
and
and fled, having happily fatten1 d upon his Head, where
the Boffes of the Bridle had ftuck in his Teeth, fo that
he had not done him much Hurt: The Man, indeed,
was motl hurt; for the raging Creature had bit hicn
twice, once on the Arm, and theotlrer Time a little a-
bove his Knee; and he was jutt as it were tumbling
down by the Dilorder oftheHorie, when Friday came
up and ihot the Wolf.
It is eafy to fuppofe, that at the Noifc of Friday's Pif-
tol, we all mended our Pace, and rid up as fail as the
V\'a) (which was very difficult) would give us Leave,
to fee what was the Matter } as foon as we came clear
of the Trees, which blinded us before, we fuv plainly
what had been the Caie, and how Friday had difengaged
the poor Guide ; though we did not prefently diicern
what Rind of Creature it was he had killed.
But never was a Fight managed fo hardily, and in iuch
a fur prizing Manner, as that which iollow'd between
Friday and the Bear, which gave us all (though at iirit
we were furpriz'd and afraid for him} the greatett Di-
veriion imaginable : As the Bear is a heavy, clumley
Creature, and does not gallop as the Wolf does, who is
fwift and light t,[o he has two particular Qualities, which
generally are the Rule of his Anions \ Fir]i> As to Men,
who are not his proper Prey, I fay, not his proper Prey,
becaufe, tho51 can't fay what exceifive hunger might do,
which was now their Cafe, the Ground being all co-
vered with Snow ; yet as to Men, he does not ulually
attempt them unleis they firtt attack him : On the con-
trary,if you meet him in theWoodSjtho'if you don't med-
dle with him, he won't meddle with you ; yet then you
mutt take care to be very civil to him, and give him the
Road, for he is a very nice Gentleman, he won't go a
ftep out of the Way for a Prince *, nay, if you are really
afraid, your bell way is to look another Way, and keep
going on ; for fometimes, if you ftop, and ftand ttill
and look ftedfattly at him, he takes it for an Affront ^
but if you throw or tois any thing at him, and it hits
him, though it were but a Bit ot Stick as big as your
Tinger, he takes it for an Affront, and lets all his other
Buiinels aiide to puriue his Revenge, for he will have
Satisfaction in Point oi Honour, that is his firtt Qua-
lit/ :
The next is, That if he be once affronted, lie will never
leave you, Night or Day, till he has his Revenge, but
follow, at a good round Rate, till he overtakes you.
My Man Friday had deliver'd our Guide, and when
we came up to him; he was helping him oh? from his
Hone, for the Man was both hurt and frighted, and in-
deed the laft more than the firft; when'on the fudden,
we fpy'd the Bear come out of the Wood, and a va(l
monftrous one it was, the biggell: by far]that ever I faw;
We were all a little furprized when we law him,, but
when Friday faw him, it was eafyrto fee Joy and Courage
in the Fellow's Countenance: 6 ! 0! 0 ! fays Friday,
three Times pointing to him, 0 Mafler ! Tou give me
te Leavef, me Jhakee U Hand with bim, me maksey.u
good Laugb.
I was furpriz'd to fee the Fellow fo pleas'd ; 7ou Foci
you, fajs I, be will eat you up: Eatee me up! Eatee me
up ! fays Friday, twice over again *, Me eatee him up :
-Me make you good Laugh : Tat all flay here, me fiowyczi
good Laugh: So down he fits* and gets his Boots off in
a Moment, and put on a Pair of Pumps, Cas we call the
$at Shoes they wear) and which he had in his Pocket,
gives my other Servant his Horfe, and, with his Gun,
away he flew, fwift like the Wind.
The Bear was walking- foftly on, and offered to med-
dle with no Body, till kriday coming pretty near, calls-
to him, as if the Bear could underftand him, Harlye,
hark ye, fays Friday^ me jpeakee wit you : We follow5 d at
a Diftance ; for now being come down on the G of coign-
Side of the Mountains-, we were enter'd a vafl: great
Foreft, where the Country was plain, and pretty open,
tho5 many Trees in itica'tter'd here and there.
Fridayi who had, as we fay, the Heels of the Bear,
came up widi him quickly, and takes up a great Stone
and throws at him, and hit him jufl: on the Head; but
did him no mure Harm, than it he had thrown it againit
a Wail; but it anfwer'd Friday's End ; for the Rogue
was fo void of Fear, that he did it purely to make
the Bear follow him, and ihow us fome Laugh, as he
call'dit.
r As foon as the Bear felt the Stone, and faw him, he
turns about, and comes after him, taking, deviliih long
Strides,
Strides, and ihuffling along at a ftrange Rate, fo as would
put a Horfe to a middling Gallop; away runs Friday,
and takes his Courfe, as if he run towards us for Help ;
fo we all reiblv'd to lire at once upon the Bear, and de-
liver my Man ^ tho' I was angry at him heartily for
bringing the Bear back upon us, when he was going a-
bouthisown Bufmeis another Way;, and efpecially I
was angry that he had turned the Bear upon us, and
then run away ; and I calPd out Tou D.g, faid I, is this
year making as laugh ? Come awayy and take pur Hsrfe,
that vet may jhoct the Creature \ he hears me, and cries
out, Kjhcty w>Jhootyftandflzll,ycu get much Laugh:
And as the nimble Creature run two Foot for the Bead's
one, he turnM on a fudden, on one Side of us, and See-
ing a greac Oak-Tree, fit for his Purpofe, he beckoned
us to follow, and doubling his Pace, he gets nimbly up
the Tree, laying his Gun down upon the Ground, at
about five or fLc Yards from the Bottom of the Tree.
1 he Bear foon came to the Tree, and we followed at
aDiihmce; the £rft Thing he did, he ftopp'd at the
Gun, imelt to it, but let it lie, and up he fcrambles in-
to the Tree, climbing like a Cat, tho' fo monftroufty
heavy : I was amai'd at die Folly, as I thought it, of
my Man, and could .not for my Life fee any Thing to
laugh at yet, till ieeing the Bear get up the Tree, we all
rode nearer to him.
When wc came to the Tree, there was Friday got out
to the fmall of a large Limb of the Tree, and the Bear
got about half Way to him; as foon as the Bear got out
to that Part where the Limb of the Tree was weaker,
Ha, fa) s be to us, new you fee me teacbee the Bear dance $
fo he tails a jumping and lhaking the Bough, at which
the Bear began to totter, but flood dill, and began to
look behind him, to fee how he fhould get back ; then
indeed we did laugh heartily : But Friday had not done
with him by a great deal; when he fees him ftand dill,
he calls out to him again, as if he had fuppos'd the Bear "
could fpeak Englijh \ What, you m come farther ? Pray
youccme farther; fo he left "jumping and lhaking the
Bough ; and the Bear, jud as if he had underdood what
he faid, did come a little farther, then he fell a-jumping
again, and the Beariloppel again.
We
We thought now was a good Time to knock him on
the Head, and called to Friday to ftand ftill, and we
would ihoot the Bear j but he cry'd out earneftly, O
pray ! 0 pray! ncfhcct, me fboot by and then] he would
have laid, by-and-hy. However, to ihorten the Story,
Friday danc'd fo much, and the Bear flood lb ticklifh,
that we had laughing enough indeed, but flill could not
imagine what the Fellow would do ; for firft we thought
he depended upon ihaking the Bear off] and we found
the Bear was too cunning for that tooj for he would
not go out far enough to be thrown down, but clings
fad with his great broad Claws and Feet, io that we
could not imagine what would be the End of it, and
where the Jeft would be at laft.
But Friday put us out of Doubt quickly *, for feeing
the Bear cling fa ft to the Bough, and that he would not
be perfwaded to come any farther; Well, well, laid Fri-
day, you no come farther, me go, me go ; you no come to
we, me come toy-u ; and upon this, he goes out to the
fmalleft End of the Bough, where it would bend with
his Weight, and gently lets himfelf down by it, Aiding
down the Bough, till he came near enough to jump
down on his Feet, and away he run to his Gun, takes it
up, and ftands ftill.
Well, faid I to him, Friday, What will you do now?
Why don't you ihoot him P Nofljoot, fays Friday, no yet\
tne fljoot new, me no kill $ me flay, give you one mre
Xaugh : And indeed {o he did, as you will fee prelent-
ly; for when the Bear fee his Enemy gone, he comes
back from the Bough where he flood ; but did it mighty
leifurely, looking behind him every Step, and coming
backward till he got into the Body oftheTree : Then
with the fame hinder-End foremoft, he came down the
Tree, grafping it with hisClaws, and moving one Foot
at a Time, very leifurely ; at this Juncture, and juft
before he could let his hind-Feet upon the Ground,
Friday ftepp'd clofe to bimj clapp'd the Muzxel of his
Piece into his Ear, and fhot him dead as a Stone.
Then the Rogue turn'd about, to fee if we did not
laugh, and when he law we were pleas'd by our Looks,
vhe fails a-laughing himfelf very loud; S) we kill Bea*
'&# my Country, fays Friday *7 fo you kill them, fays f,
I why
why you have no Guns: K?9 fays he, no Gun> but fiool
great much I'.ng Arrow*
This was, indeed, a good Diverfion to us; but we
were ftill in a wild Place, and our Guide very much
hurt, and what to do we hardly knew; the Howling
of Wolves run much in my Head ; and indeed, except
the Noife I once heard on the Shore of Africa, of which
I have laid fbmething already, I never heard any thing
that filPd me with fo much Horror.
Thefe things, and the Approach of Night, called us
off, or elfe, as Friday would have had us, we ihould
certainly have taken the Skin of this monftrous Crea-'
ture off, which was worth laving j but we had three
Leagues to go, and our Guide haften'd us, fo we left
him and went forward on our Journey.
The Ground was ft ill cover'd with Snow, tho* not
ib deep and dangerous as on the Mountains, and the
ravenous Creatures, as we heard afterwards, were come
down into the Foreft and plain Country, preiVd by
Hunger to feek for Food; and had done a great deal of
Milchief in the Villages, where they furpriz'd the Coun-
try-People, kilfd a great many of their Sheep and
Horfes, and fome People too.
We had one dangerous Place to pals, which our
Guide told us, if there were any more Wolves in the
Country, we ihould find them there ; and this was a
foiall Plain, furrounded with Woods on every Side,
and a long narrow Defile or feane, which we were to
pais to get through the WTood, and then we ihould come
to the Village where we were to lodge.
It was within half an Hour of Sun-fet when wre en-
tered the flrft Wood ; and a little after Sun-fet, when
we came into the Plain, we met with nothing in the
firft Wood, except that in a little Plain within the
W"ood, which was not above two Furlongs over, we
faw five great Wolves crols the Road, full Speed one
after another, as if they had been in Chafe of fome
Prey, and had it in View, they took no Notice of us,
and were gone, and out of our Sight in a few Moments.
Upon -this our Guide, who by the W7ay was a
wretched faint-hearted Fellow* bid us keep in a ready
Pofture j
"Pofture \ for he believ'd there were more Wolves a
coming.
We kept our Arms ready, and our Eyes about us,
hut we law no more Wolves, 'till we came thro' that
Wood, which was near half a League, and enter'd the
Plain ; as foon as we came into the Plain, we had Oc
cafion enough to look about us ; the firft Obje£ we met
•with, was a dead Horfe ; that is to fay, a poor Horfe,
which the Wolves had kill'd, and at lead a Dozen of
them at WTork ; we could not fay eating of him, but
picking of his Bones rather; for they had eaten up all
the Fie ih be (ore.
WTe did not think fit to diflurb them at their Feaft,
neither did they take much Notice or us : Friday would
have let fly at them, but 1 would not fufFer him by
any Means; for I found we were like to have more Bu-
ilnefs upon our Hands than we were aware of. We
were not gone half over the Plain, but we began to
hear the Wolves houl in the Wood on our Lett, in a
frightful Manner ; and prelently after we law about a
hundred coming on dire&ly towards us, all in a Body,
and mod of them in a Line, as regularly as an Army
drawn up by experiene'd Officers : I fcarce knew in
what Manner to receive them; but found to draw our-
felvesin a clofe Line, was the only way : So we formed
in a Moment : But that we might not have too much
Interval, I order'd, that only every other Man fhould
fire, and that the others who had not frYd, would (land
ready to give them a fecond Volley immediately, if
they continu'd to advance upon us, and that then thofe
who had iir'd at £r(l, fhould not pretend to load their
Fuzees again, but (land ready with every one a Piftol,
for we were all arm'd with a Fuzee, and a Pair of Pi-
ftols each Man ; i'o we were by this Method able to fire
fix Volleys, half of us at a time; however, at prefent
'we had no Neceffity, for upon firing the firft Volley,
the Enemy made a full Stop, being terrified as well
with theNoife, as with the Fire ; four of them being
ihot into the Head, dropp'd; feveral others were wound-
ed, and went bleeding off, as we could fee by the Snow:
I found they ftopp'd, but did not immediately retreat;
^hereupon -reaiernhring -that I had been told, that the
-fierceft
fierceft Creatures were terrify'd at the Voice of a Man,'
I caus'd all our Company to hollow as loud as we could -
and I found the Notion not altogether miftaken, for
upon our ihout, they began to retire, and turn about ;
then I order'da fecond Volley to be fir'd, in their Rear*
which put them to the Gallop, and away they went to
-the Woods.
This gave us leifure to charge our Pieces again, and
that we might lole no Time, we kept.going; but we
had but little more than loaded our Fuzees, and put
our ferves into a Readinefs, when we heard a terrible
Nolle m the lame Wood, on our Left, only that it was
farther onward the fame Way we were to go.
The Night was coming on, and the Light began to
be dusky, which made it the worle on cur Side; but the
Nolle encreafing, we could eafily perceive that it was
the howling and yelling of thole helliih Creatures ; and
on a hidden, we perceiv'd two or three Troops of
Wolves one on our left, qne behind us, and one on cur
*ront; fo that we feem'd to be furrounded wiih them •
however, as they did not fall upon «s, we kept our'
wl%l T4w' "£* 3S We °°uld make owHorfes go,
which the Way being very rough, was only a g<fod
large i rot; and in this manner we came in View of
the Entrance of a Wood, thro" which we were to pais,
at the farther Side ol the Plain; but we were greatly
iurpnz d when coming near the Lane, or Pals, we law
a oonfusd Number of Wolves Handing juft at the En-
) °? a, fUxTdc-n,' a,' another 0Pening of the Wood, vre
heard the Noife of. a Gun ; and looking that Way, ou>
rufhdaHorle uith a Saddle, and a° Bridle on hXT
iW ike the Wind, and fateen or feventeen Wolves
after him lull Speed; indeed, the Horfe had the Hee s
o them ; but as we fupposM that he could not hold it
at that rate, we doubted not but they would get u»
%vith htm at kit, and no queftion but they did & P
-Here we had a molt horrible Sight; fbr'ridineun
to the Entrance where the Horfe came out, we found
t\ %T\°l another^Hor,e> and °f two'Men, £
vour d by the ravenous Creatures, and one of the Men
« "° d^bt the iame who we heard fire. the. Gauffer
there
there lay a Gun jufl by him fir'd off; but as to the Man,
bis Head, and the upper Part of his Body, was eaten up.
This filPd us with Horror, and we knew not what
Courle to take, but the Creatures refolv'd us foonj
for they gathered aboutus prefently, in hopes of Prey;
and I verily believe there were three hundred of them:
It happen'd very much to our Advantage, that at the
Entrance into the Wood, but a little Way from it,
there lay fome large Timber Trees, which had been
cut down the Summer before, and 1 fuppofe, lay there
for Carriage : I drew my little Troop in among thofe
Trees, and placing our felves in a Line, behind one long
Tree, I advis'd them all to Light, and keeping that
Tree before us, for a Bread-Work, to (land in a Tri-
angle, or three Fronts, enclosing our Hories in the
Center.
We did fo, and it was well we did ; for never was a
more furious Charge than the Creatures made upon us
in this Place ; they came on us with a growling kind of
a Noile and mounted the Piece of Timber, (which as t
faid, was our Break-W7ork, as if they were only milling
upon their Prey ; and this Fury ot theirs, it feems, was
principally occafion'd by their feeing our Horfes behind
us, which was the Prey they aimed at : I ordered our
Men to fire as before, every other Man', and they took
their Aim lb lure, that indeed they kill'd feveral of the
Wolves at the firft Volley ; but there was a Neceffity to
keep a continual Firing ; for they came on like Devils,
thole behind, pufhing on thofe before.
W7hen we had fir'd our lecond Volley of our Fuxees,
we thought they (lopped, a little, and I hopM they
would have gone off, but it was but a Moment, for
others came iorward again ; Co we fir'd. two Volleys of
our Piflols, and I believe in thefe four Firings, we kil-
led feventeen or eighteen of them, and lam'd twice as
many; yet they came on again.
I was loath to fpend our lad Shot too haflily ; fo I cal-
led my Servant, not my Man Triday, for he was better
eznploy'd; for with the greatefb Dexterity imaginable,
he had charg'd my Fuz.ee, and his own, while we were
engagsd, hut as I laid, I callM my other Man, and giv-
ing him a Horn of Powder, I bad him lay a Train, all
along
along the Piece of Timber, and let it be a large Train ;
he did fo> and had but juft Time to get away, when the
Wolves came up to it, and fome were got up upon it ;
when I inapping an uncharged Piftol, clofe to the Pow-
der, let it on lire *, thole that were upon the Timber
were fcorctid with it, and fix or feven of them fell, or
rather jump'd inamOng us, with the Force and Fright
of the fire, we difpatch'd thefe in an Inftant, and the
reft were fo frighted with the Light, which the Night,
for it was now very near dark, made more terrible, that"
they drew back a little.
Upon which I order'd our laft Piftolstobe iird off
in one Volley, and after that we gave a Shout ; upon
this, the Wolves turn'd Tail, and we fally'd immediate-
ly upon near twenty lame Ones, who we found ft rug-
ling on the Ground, and fell a cutting them with our
Swords, which anfwer'd our Expe&ation; for the Cry-
ing and Howling they made was better underftood by
their Fellows, fo that they all fled and left us.
We had, firft and laft, kill'd about threefcore of them ;
and had it been Day-light, we had kill'd many more :
The Field of Battle being thus clear'd, we made for-
ward again } for we had ftill near a League to go: We
heard the ravenous Creatures howl and yell in the Woods
as we went, feveral times; and fometimes we fency'd
we fa vy fome of them, but the Snow dazling our Eyes,
we were not certain i fo in about an Hour more, we
came to- the Town, where we were to lodge, which we
found in a terrible Fright; and all in Arms; foritfeems,
that the Night before, the Wolves and fame Bears had
broke jnto that Village, and put them in a terrible
Fright j and they were oblig'd to keep Guard Night and
Day, but elpecially in the Night, to preferve their Cat-
tle, and indeed their People.
.The next Morning our Guide was fp ill, and his
Limbs [q fwelP-d with the rankling of his two Wounds
that he could go no farther; fo we were oblig'd to take a
new Guide there, and go to Tbrfoufey where we found a
warm Climate, a fruitful pleaiant Country and no Snow,
no Wolves, or any Thing like them ; but when we told
our Story at Tboloufe^ they told us it was nothing but
what was ordinary in the great Eoreft at the Foot of
O the
the Mountains, efpecially when the Snow lay on the
Ground : But they enquir'd much what kind of-a Guide -
we had gotten, that would venture to bring us that
Way in iiich a fevere Seafon, and told us, it was very
much we were not all devoured: When we told them
how we plac'd our felves, and the Hories in the middle,
they blam'd us exceedingly, and told us it was fifty to
one but we had been all deilroy'd ; for it was the Sight
of the Hories. which nude the Wolves fo furious, feeing
their Prey/, and that at other Times they are really a-
fraidofaGun: but they being exceflive hungry, and
raging on that Account, the Eagernefs to come at the
Horfes had made them fenfeleis of danger •, and that
if we had not by the continued Fire, and at lad by the
Stratagem of the Train of Powder, mafter'd them, it
had been great Odds but that we had been torn to'Pie-
ces ; whereas had we been content to have fat Hill on
Korfe-back, and fired asHoriemen, they would not have
taken the Hories fo much for their own whenMen where
on their Backs, as otherwife *7 and withal they toldus,
that at laft, if we had flood altogether, and left our Hor-
ies, they would have been fo*eager to have devour'd
them, that we might have come off lafe, efpecially
having our Fire Arms in our Hands, and being fo many
In Number.
For my Part, I was never fo fenfible of Dagger in my
Life ; for feeing above three hundred Devils come roar-
ing and open-mouthed to devour us, and have nothing
to fhelter us, or retreat to, I gave my felf over for loft ;
;und as it was, I believe, I (hall never care to crofs thole
fountains again ; I think I would much rather go a
thcufand Leagues by Sea, though I were lure to 'meet
with a Storm once a Week. • " ": ': * ' '
I have nothing uncommon to take Notice of, in my
PafTage through France ', nothing1 but what other Travel-
lers have given -an Account of, with much more Ad-
vantage than I can ; I traveled from Tbouloufe to Parh,
and without any confiderable Stay, came to CaUisy and
and landed fafe at Dover, the fourteenth of January^ af-
ter having had a fevere cold Seafon to travel in.
I was now come to the Center of my Travels", arxd
had in a little Time nil my new difcover'd Eftate fafe
about
about me,, the Bills of Exchange which I brought w-idi
me having been very currently paid. .
My principal Guide, and Privy-Counfellor, was my
good ancient Widow, who in Gratitude for the Money
1 had Tent her, thought no Pains too much, or Care
^ too great, to employ ibr me \ and 1 trufled her \o entire*
ly with every Thingv that 1 was perfe&ly eaiy as to the
-iSecurityof my Erfc&s; and indeed, I was very happy
from my Beginning, and now to the End, in the unipot-
ted Integrity of this good .Gentlewoman.
And "now I began to think ofleaving my Effe&s with
this Woman, and letting out for Lisbon^ and ib to the
Brajjls; But now another Scruple came in my W7ay, and
that was Religion} for as I had entertain'd fome Doubts
about the Roman Religion, even while I was abroad,
efpeciall) in my State of Solitude } ib I knsw there was
nq going to the Brafih for me, much lefs going to fettle
there, unlefs I refolv'd to embrace the Rman Catho-
lick Religion, without any Refer ve; except on the othsr
hand, I refolv'd to be a Sacrifice to my Principles, be
a Martyr for Religion, and die in the Inquifition ; fo
I refolv'd to (lay at^ Home, and if I could find Means
"for it, to difpofe of my Plantation.
To this Purpofe I wrote to my old Friend at Lisbon^
•who in Return gave me Notice, that he could ealiiy
.dflpofe of it there : But that, if I thought fit to give
him Leave to offer it in my Name to the two Merchants,
the Survivors of my Truftees who liv'd in. the Brafih >
who mud: fully underftand the Value of it, Avho liv'd
juft upon the Spot, and who I knew were very rich.,
ib that he believ'd they would be fond of buying'it, he
did not doubt, but I Ihould make 4 or 5000 Pieces of
1 Eight the more of it.
Accordingly I agreed, gave him Order to offer it to
them,, and he did fo j and in about eight Months more,
the Ship being then return'd, he fent me an Account,
that they had accepted the Offer, and had remitted
33003 Pieces of Eight, to a Correfpondent of theirs at
Lishn, to pay for it.
In Return, I iigned the Inftrument of Sale in the
Form, which they fent from Lisbon, and fent it to my
old Man, who fent me Bills of Exchange for 32800
O 2 Pieces
Pieces of Eight for the Eftate ; refer vrrig the Pay-
ment of ico Moidores a Year to him, the old Man,
during his Life, and 50 Moidores afterwards to his
Son for his Life, which I had promis'd them *, and which
the Plantation was to make good as a Rent-Charge.
And thus I have given the iirft Part of a Life of
Fortune and Adventure, a Life of Providence's Chec-
cjuer-Work, and of a Variety which the World, will
ieldom be able to fhew the like of: Beginning foolilh-
ly, but doling much more happily than any Part of it
ever gave me Leave lb much as to hope for.
Any one would think, that in this State of compli-
cated good Fortune, I was paft running any more Ha-
zards \ and Co indeed I had been, if other Circumflances
had concurred, but I was innured to a wandering Life,
had no Family, nor many Relations, nor, however rich
had I concra&ed much Acquaintance; and though I had
fold my Effcate in the Brafils, yet I could not keep that
Country out of my Head, and had a great Mind to be
upon the Wing again, efpecially I could not relift the
itrong Inclination L had to fee my I Hand, and to know
if the poor Spaniards were in Being there, and how the
Rogues I left there, had uied them.
My true Friend the Widow, earneftly difwaded me
from it, andfo far prevailed with me, that for almoft
feven Years fhe prevented my running abroad'; during
which Time, I took my two Nephews, the Children of
one of my Brothers, into my Care* The eldeft: having
fomething of his own I bred up as a Gentleman, and
gave him a Settlement of fome Addition to his Eftate,
after my Deceafe; the other I put out to a Captain of-
a Ship ; and after five- Years, finding him a fenflble,
bold, enterprising young Fellow, I put hirri into a good
Ship, and lent him to Sea : And this young Fellow af-
terwards drew me in, as old as I was, to farther. Adven.
tures my fclf.
In the mean time, I in part fettled my felf here; for
£rft of all I marry'd, and that not either to my Difad-
vantage or Diifatisla&ion, and had three Children, two
Sons and one Daughter: But my Wife dying, and my
Nephew coming Home with good Succefs from a Voy-
age to Spaify my Inclination to go abroad^ and his Im-
portunity,
.. ( *S>3 )
portunity, prevailed and engag'dme to go in hisSnip*
as a private Trader to the Eaft-Indies: This was in the
Year 1694.
In this Voyage I vifited my new Colony in the Wand,
faw my SucceiTors the Spaniards, had the whole Story
of their Lives, and of the Villains I left there, how at
firft they infulted the poor Spaniards, how they after-
wards agreed, difagreed, united, feparated? and how at
lad the Spaniards were oblig'd to ufe Violence with
them ; how they were fubjected to the Spaniards ; how
honeflly the Spaniards us'd them; a Hiftory, if it were
enter'd into, as full of Variety and wonderful^ Acci-
dents, as my own Part, particularly alio as to their Bat-
tles with the Carribeans, who landed feveral times upon
the Ifland, and as to the Improvement they made upon
the Ifland itielf, and how five oT them made an Attempt
upon the main Land, and brought away eleyenMen and
five Women Priibners, by which, at my coming, I found
about twenty young Children on the I (land.
Here I (lay *d about 20 Days, left them Supplies of all
neceflary Things, and particularly of Arms, Powder,
Shot, Cloaths, Tools, and two Workmen, which I
brought from England with me, vi\. a Carpenter and a
Smith.
Befides this, I fhar'd the Ifland into Parts with 'em,
referv'd to myfelf the Property of the whole, but gave
them fuch Parts, refpe&ively as they agreed on \ and
having fettled all Things with them, and engaged them
not to leave the Place, I left them there.
From thence I touch'd at the Brafils, from whence I
fent a Bark, -which I bought there, with more People,
to the Ifland, and in it, befides other Supplies, I fent
feven Women, being fuch as I found proper for Ser-
vice, or for Wives to liich as would take them : As to
the Englijb Men, I promis-'d them to fend them foitie
Women from EngUnd, with a good Cargo of NecefTa-
ries,if they would apply themfelves to Planting, which I
afterwards could not perform : The Fellows prov'd very
honeft and diligent, after they were mafter'd, and had
their Properties let apart for them. I fent them alfo
from the Brafils five Cows, three of them being big
with
with Calf, fome, Sheep, and fome Hogs, which*, when
1 came again, were conflderably encreas'd.
^ But all thefe Things, with an Account how 300 Ca*
nbbes came and invaded them, and ruin'd their Planta-
tions, and how. they fought with that whole Number
twice, and were at firil defeated, and one of them
\ kill'd 5 but at laft a Storm destroying their Enemies Ca-
noes, they farmfh'd or deftroy'd almoil all the reft, and.
renew'd and recover'd the Poileflion of their Plantation,
and dill liv'd upon the Ifland.
AW thele Things, with fome very furprizing Inci-
dents in fome new Adventures of my own, for ten Years
more, I may perhaps give a farther Account of here-
after.
F I N I S.
THE Life and'ftrange furprifmg Ad-
ventures of Robinfon Cmfoe, printed
in a large Character, in 2 Vol. 8^ a-
dorned with Cuts. His ferious Reflec-
tions on his Life and Adventures.^ with
his Vi/ion of the Angelick World ; writ-
ten during his Solitude in the Ifland, in
%vo. Printed for JV. Taylor, at the Shif
and Black-Swan, in Pater-Nofter-Row*
 BOOKS Printed for W.Taylor
• -at the Ship and Black Swan in Pater-
Nofter-Row.
i . . . - .
BISHOP Beverage's Sermons, 2 Vol. Fo!.
— His Tbefaurus Tbechgicus, 4 Vol. §vo.
His Private Thoughts, in 2 Vol. with Cuts*
 The fame in one Vol. I2/#j>. without Cuts.
. His great Neceflity of Publick Prayer, and fre-
quent Communion, in *6vo and 1 2wj.
Wbiftons Euclid 3vr. ,;; ' ^ '
- . Agronomical LefHires; %vci ' .
. Agronomical Principles, %vo*
. Sir IfaacNewto?t,s Philoiopliy demonflrated, Svc*
ZovSs whole Art of Surveying, ovV.
Mawksbee's Phyfico-Mechanical Experiments with
Cuts.
Religious Philosopher, 3 Vol. with Cuts, 8^.
GraveJend's Mathematical Elements, in 2 Vol. with
Out's.
Dr. Uefagulier's Tranflation of Marriofs Hydrofta-
ticks; %v&* 'with Cuts.
f * Gibfotfs Farrier's new Guide, $vo. ' with Cuts.
 —'— His farrier's Difpenfatory, ©V. Svo.
— His new Method of Dieting Horfes, Sw«
• General Atlas in Fclic.
 Sacred Geography in Six Maps.
- Mdfp)alPs Chronological Tables, Reviled by, the late
Biihop of Worccfler. ' ' ; n ' ,"
•. Wbiflcrfs Chronological Tables, being a Supplement
to Mr. Marjhall. * , , >
—— His f wo Letters to the Bifliop of* London*
' His Letter to the Earl of N;ttmgb'aj#.
His Origin of the Sabellian and Jtbanaftan
Do&rine, 8vr<
DugdaWs
Dugdaie*s Monafticon in EngUjb> with above 106,
Copper Plates, Foh
.. Supplement to the fame, with Copper-Plates, Foh
guincy\ Difpenfatory, S1/0.
. His Phyfical Dictionary, 2vo.
. His Tranflation of Sanftcrioufs Aphorifms, 8v<?«
PJutracJfs Morals in $ Vol. 12mo. >
Adventuresof Telemacbus, in 2 Vol. itmo* 4
The Arabian Nights Entertainments compleat, in 6
yol. izmo. V
Wilfotfs London's Accornptanr, \2mq. ^
- His Trigonometry made eafy, 12m0.
Colle&ion of Divine Poems. By Mrs. Singer. I2mc.
Art of Thinking, \2mo.
New General Atlas, printed on a fine Elephant Pa*>
per, adorn'd with Cuts, FcU
Oglebf's Survey of the .Roads, improved by Mr*
Sine**
Cambray of the Exigence of God, i2mo*
• His Dialogues of the Dead, i2mo*
Compleat Sportfman, with all the Laws relating to
the Game, ii#7o.
Lavorence\ Clergymen's Recreation^ §mo.
—~—Gentlemen^ Recreation, 8mo*
Ladies Recreation : Being "a farther Improvement of
the Art of Gardening \ containing the beft Way of pro-
pagating all Sorts of Flgwers, Flower-Tree and Shrubs;;
the moil commodious Methods, for, ere&ing/Green
Houfes, &c. Of Plantations in Avenues,. Walks, Wil-
derneffes, £5V. with the Gardiner's Compleat Kaiender;
or the" Art of ^Managing hoth the Fruit Garden and Kit-
chen Garden, every Month in the Year, By Charles
Bvelyn9 Efq;. .To which is added a Letter to the Au-
thor, containing fome curious Obfervations concerning
Variegated Greens. Byvjf. Lawrence^ M. A. Re&or
efTelverofi in Northamptonshire* <\
Eiihop Taylor's Holy Living and Dying, 8tw«
——*• His Golden Grove, 12wr,
His Liberty of Prophecying, Sw.
-—* Hi* Treatife of Repentance, 81/0.
Dr. Boston's Sennon of Obedience to the Higher
Powers^ %vq*
; **^N
