^^^4^m°^^ "-
- *r; .- .. ~-f .-iw»J«lfE!Vf.^|^?Bp,,j \;;. v ;^H, "*
firii^e^E^iBi

FRONTISPIECE.

«* In one of my excursions, I was surprised with the print of a
man's foot on the sand. I stood like one thunderstruck ;—1 listen-
ed,—! looked around, but I could hear nothing, nor see any
thing."—-See page 21.
THE LIFE
AND
WONDERFUL ADVENTURES
OF
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
EMBELLISHED WITH BEAUTIFUL ENGRAVINGS.

EDINBURGH:
JAMES CLARKE & CO. 221^ KIGH STREET.
THE
ADVENTURES
OF
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
This person, whose life and adventures
have been made immortal by Daniel Defoe,
an author not so well known as Shakspeare
or Scott, but whose name will descend to
posterity with theirs, was born in the city of
York, where his father, who was a native
of Bremen, settled, after having gained an
estate by merchandise. His head was early
filled with rambling thoughts, and though,
when he grew up, his father was anxious to
settle him in business, while his mother used
the tenderest entreaties, yet nothing could
prevail upon him to lay aside his desire of
going to sea. He at length resolved to
gratify his roving disposition, notwithstand-
ing the uneasiness and distress which Mi
father and mother shewed at his leaving
them.
Robinson relates, that—On the 1st of
September, 1651,1 went on board a ship for
London; but no sooner was the ship out of
the Humber, than the wind began to blow,
and the sea to rise in a terrible manner.
Having never been at sea before, I was very
sick, and very much frightened. Next day
the wind abated, and my companions laugh-
ed at my fears, and made me half drunk, and
thus drowned my repentance and reflec-
tions. The weather continued calm several
days, and we went into Yarmouth Koads,
where we cast anchor. After riding there
four or five days, the wind blew very hard
for eight days, when it still increased, and
all hands were called to work to strike our
topmasts, and at last cast our sheet anchor.
It now blew a terrible storm. I began to
see terror in the faces even of the seamen;
and as my master passed by me, I heard
him say to himself, "Lord, be merciful to
us, we shall be all lost!"
I cannot express the horror with which
I was seized. The storm still increased,
and I saw the master, the boatswain, and
several others, at prayers, thinking that
$very moment the ship would go to the
bottom. One of the men cried out that we
had sprung a leak, upon which all hands
were called to the pump, but the water
gained upon us, and the ship was likely to
founder. The storm, however, beginning
to abate, the master fired guns for help,
and a ship which had rode out the storm
approached us, the crew venturing their
lives to save ours; our men casting a rope
over the stern, they, after much hazard,
got hold of it, and we with great difficulty
got to land, and walked to Yarmouth.

On my arrival, I contracted an acquaint-
ance with the master of a ship, who was
upon the point of sailing to Africa to sell
our coarse woollen and linen goods, (there
being no cotton-mills in those days,) for
slaves, ivory, and gold dust; he taking a
fancy to me, told me I should have liberty
of trading for myself. Encouraged by this
offer, and the assistance of some of my re-
lations, I raised i?40, which I laid out in
such toys and trifles as the captain directed
me. I got some knowledge of mathematics,
navigation, and how to take an observation.
In a word, this voyage made me both a
sailor and a merchant, for my adventure
yielded me, in London, at my return,
<£>300.
I now set up for a slave trader; and per-
haps this trade may have been the occasion,
in the ways of Providence, of my misfor-
tunes. My friend dying soon after his ar-
rival, 1 resolved to go the same voyage
again in the same vessel, with one who was
his mate in the former voyage, and had now
the command of the ship. This was one
of the most unhappy voyages ever made:
for as we were steering about the Canary
Islands and the African shore, we were sur-
prised by a rover of Salee, usually now cal-
led a reiver or pirate, who gave chase to
us. We, finding that the pirate gained
upon us, prepared to fight, our ship hav-
ing twelvejguns, and the pirate eighteen.
After a. chase of nine hours* she came up
with us, and a very smart engagement en-
sued; but we were obliged to submit, and
were all carried prisoners into Salee, a port
belonging to the Moors.
My master, the Moor, having got, in
part of his share of the prize, the long-boat of
our ship, had a little cabin built in the mid-
dle of it, like a barge. In this pleasure-boat
he frequently went a-flshing; and as 1 was
dexterous at catching fish, he never went
without me. One day, he appointed to go
out with two or three Moors of distinction,
and he had set over-night a larger store of
provisions than usual, and ordered me to get
ready two or three fusils, with powder and
shot, as they designedtohave sport at fowling
as well as fishing. At this moment the hopes
of deliverance darted into my thoughts, and
I resolved to furnish myself for a voyage.
Every thing being prepared, I sailed out
as if to fish, but purposely catching none, I
told Muley, (one of the Moors,) that we
must stand farther off. Having the helm,
I ran the boat a league farther out, and then
brought to, as if I would fish, when, giving
the boy the helm, I stepped forward, and
stooping behind the Moor, took him by sur*
prise, and tossed him overboard. He rose
immediately, and called to me to take him
in; but fetching one of the fowling-pieces,
I presented it, and told him that if he came
near, I would shoot him; and as the sea
was calm, he might easily reach the shore.
So he turned about, and I have no doubt
that he reached it easily.

I turned to the boy, whom they called
Xury, and said to him, " Xury, if you will
be faithful to me, I will make you a great
man; but if you will not, I must throw you
into the sea too." The boy smiled and spoke
so innocently, that I could not mistrust
him.
About ten days after, as I was steering
out to sea, on a sudden Xury called out in
a fright, " Master, master, a ship !" I jump-
ed out of the cabin, and saw that it was a
Portuguese vessel. On my coming near,
they asked me what I was, in Portuguese,
Spanish, and French; but I understood
none of them. At last a Scotch sailor call-
ed to me, and I answered, I was an Eng-
lishman, and had made my escape from
slavery in Salee. I offered all that I pos-
sessed to the captain of the ship, but he
would take nothing from me, and said that
all that I had should be delivered to me
when we came to the Brazils. We had a
good voyage to the Brazils, and the captain
recommended me to an honest man, who
had a plantation and a sugar-house, with
whom I lived, and learned the planting and
making of sugar; after which I took a
piece of land, and became a planter myself.
Had I continued in the station I was now
in, I might have been happy, but my fel-
low-planters prevailed on me to go to sea
again, and make a trial of purchasing ne-
groes on the coast of Guinea. We fitted
out a ship, and made sail, with the hopes
of purchasing slaves, and had very good
weather for twelve days, but after we had
crossed the line, a violent hurricane drove
us quite out of our reckoning. In this dis-
tress, one of our men called out "land!" but
the ship struck against a sand bank. We
took to the boat, and after we had rowed
a league and a half, a wave came rolling
astern of us, and overset the boat at once,
so that out of fifteen, none escaped but my-
self. I got upon my feet and made towards
the shore, and got to land, clambering up
the cliffs of the shore, and sat down upon
the grass.

Being much fatigued, I slept till morning.
When I awoke it was broad day, and
the storm abated; but what surprised me
most was, that in the night the ship had
been lifted from the land by the swelling of
the tide, and driven almost as far as the
place where I landed, and I saw, that if
we had all staid on board, we would have
been safe. I swam to the ship, and found
she had much water in the hold; but, to
my great joy, saw that all the provisions
were dry; and being well disposed to eat, I
filled my pockets, and ate as I went about
other things. I found several spare yards
and planks, with which 1 made a raft. I
emptied three of the seamen's chests, and let
them down upon the raft, and filled them
with bread, some dried goat's flesh, and
three Dutch cheeses. I also let down the
carpenter's chest, two fowling-pieces, two
pistols, with some powder, and two rusty
swords, all which I placed on my raft, and
after much labour got it safely landed. My
first raft being too unwieldy, I swam to the
ship and made another; on which I placed
three bags of nails and spikes, some hatch-
ets, a grindstone, two iron crows, several
muskets, and another fowling-piece, two
barrels of musket bullets, a large bag of
small shot, all the men's clothes I could
find, a hammock and some bedding, and
brought all to land. After I had made
five or six of these voyages, and thought I
had nothing more to expect from the ship
worth taking, I found a hogshead of bread,
three ankers of rum, a box of sugar, a bar-
rel of flour, and three dozen of knives and
forks. I then went iu search of a place
where to fix my dwelling.
Before I set up my tent, I drew a half cir-
cle before a hollow place, which extended

about twenty yards, and drove large piles
rnto the ground, sharpened at the top, and
I made the entrance by a short ladder to
go over the top, and when I was in, I lift-
ed it over me, so that I was perfectly se-
cure.
In the midst of my labours I found a lit-
tle bag with a few husks of corn in it, and
shook it by the side of my fortification; but
how joyful was I when I saw ten or twelve
ears of barley springing up! With this
barley there came up a few stalks of rice,
and these were of more worth to me than
all the gold in the world.
I then took a view of the island, and at
about two miles distant from my habitation,
found some fine meadows, and a variety of
fruit, melons upon the ground, and the trees
spread over with vines loaded with clusters
of grapes. Here I built a bower, fenced
by a double hedge; and this country house,
as I called it, cost me two months' labour;
but the rainy season coming on, I was ob-
liged to retreat to my old one, taking with
me a sufficient store of dried grapes.
When my corn was ripe, I made a scythe
of an old sword, and cut off the ears, which
I rubbed out with my hands. At the end
of the harvest, I had about a bushel of rice
and two bushels of barley. I kept all this
for seed, my hogshead of bread not being
yet exhausted.
But when I was obliged to make bread,
I had innumerable wants. I wanted a mill
to grind it, sieves to dress it, yeast and salt
to make it into bread, and an oven to bake
it. However, I had six months to contrive
all these things. I made some misshapen
pots of clay, that all broke in the sun ex-
cept two, which I cased in wicker work;
but I succeeded better in little pans, flat
dishes, and pitchers, which the sun baked
surprisingly hard: but they would not bear
the fire so as to boil any liquid, and I want-
ed one to boil my meat.
At dinner, there was my royal majesty,
absolute prince and ruler of my kingdom,
attended by my dutiful subjects, whom, if
I pleased, I could either hang, draw, quar-
ter, or give liberty to. When I dined I
seemed a king, eating alone, none daring to
presume to do so till I had done. My pret-
ty poll, my parrot, which I had tamed, was
the only creature capable of talking with
me. My faithful dog, which I had brought
from the ship, and now grown exceeding
old, continually sat at my right hand ; while
my two cats sat on each side of the table,
expecting a bit from my hand as a prin-
cipal mark of my royal favour.
Yet these were not the cats I had brought
from the ship; they had died long before,
and had been buried near my habitation by
my own hands ; but one of them had kittens,
which I took great pains in taming, just as
I have been told that showmen have done
with lions and tigers; but the experiment
is a dangerous one, and I would not advise
any of my readers to be too familiar with any
animal of that tribe, they being all capri-
cious, ungrateful, and cruel. Only two of
the kittens remained with me, the rest hav-
ing run wild into the woods. They grew bo
impudent, as to return and plunder me of
my stores, till such time as I shot many of
them, and the rest left me. One thing more,
indeed, concerned me,—the want of my
boat. I knew not which way to get round the
island. I resolved one time to go along the
shore by land to her; but, had any one in
England met such a figure, it would either
have affrighted him, or made him burst in-
to laughter.
One day after I had dressed my dinner,
I went to put out my fire, and found a
piece of one of my earthen-ware vessels
burnt as hard as a stone, and as red as a
tile; this taught me to burn my pipkins,
and I soon wanted for no sort of earthen-
ware; but, when I found that I had made
a pot which would bear the fire, I had
hardly patience to stay till it was cold
before I set it on with a piece of kid, which
was tolerably well cooked.
I used to burn my earthen-ware in a
cave which I found in the wood, and which
I made convenient for that purpose; but
the principal cause that first brought me
there was to make charcoal, so that I
might bake and dress my victuals without
danger. While I was cutting down soms
wood for that purpose, I perceived a cave
behind a very thick branch of underwood.
Curious to look into it, I got to its mouth,
and found it sufficient for me to stand up-
right in it. But, when I entered, and took
a further view, two rolling shining eyes,
like flaming stars, seemed to|dart themselves
at me, so that I made all the haste out
that I could, not knowing whether it was
a savage or a monster that had taken up

his residence in that place. On recovering
from my surprise, I resumed all the cour-
age I had, and taking up a firebrand, in I
rushed again; when, not having proceeded
above three steps, I was more affrighted
than before, for I heard a very loud sigh,
like that of a human creature in great
agony, succeeded by a noise, resembling
words half expressed, and then a broken
sigh again. Stepping back, thought I to
myself, have I got into one of those en-
chanted places which are reported to contain
miserable captives, till death puts an end
to their sorrow? It struck me with a cold
sweat; but again, mustering all my cour-
age, I proceeded forward, and, by the
light of my firebrand, perceived it to be a
he-goat lying on the ground, gasping for
life and dying of old age. When at first
I stirred him, thinking to drive him out,
he strove to get upon his feet, but was not
able; so I left him there, to fright any one
from venturing into the cave.
At the furthermost part of the cave I
observed an entrance, but so low as to
oblige me to creep to get through; but, on
advancing, I found that it rose in height
about twenty feet, and appeared to be a
grotto, adorned with diamonds and other
precious stones. I found it dry and com-
fortable, and therefore determined to make
it my principal magazine.
Still my thoughts ran many times upon
the land I had seen, and I began to make
a canoe, the strangest enterprise that ever
man in his senses undertook. I felled a
great cedar, about five feet diameter next
the root; but when I saw the impossibility
of launching the canoe which I had made,
says I to myself, I have made a very fine
sea-boat, but I can no more stir it than
I can stir the island. I had made it big
enough to carry twenty-five men, but all
my devices to get it into the water failed
me. I determined, since I could not bring
my canoe to the water, that I should bring
the water to the canoe, and began to dig;
but when I calculated the time this canal
would take in making, I found that I could
not accomplish it in less than twelve years,
and therefore gave it over, determining to
enjoy what I had, without repining for what
I could not get.
I had at length a great mind to go to
the point of the island to see how the shore
lay, and resolved to travel thither by land.
And now, reader, I will give you a short
sketch of the figure I made. I had a great
high shapeless cap, made of goat's skin; a
jacket with skirts coming down to the mid-
dle of my thighs, and a pair of open-knee'd
breeches of the same, with the goat's hair
hanging to the middle of my leg. Stock-
, ings and shoes I had none; but I had a
pair of somethings, I scarce know what to
call them, to slip over my legs like spat-
terdashes. Under my arm hung two pouches
for shot and powder; on my back I car-
ried a basket, on my shoulder a gun, and
over my head a great clumsy goat's skin
cover. My beard was cut short, ex-
cept what grew upon my upper lip; but
as for my figure, as there was no one to
observe me, it was a matter of no conse-
quence.
In this dress, I went on my new journey,
and was out five or six days. In one of
my excursions I was surprised with the
print of a man's foot on the sand. I stood
like one thunderstruck; I listened and
looked around, but I could hear nothing,
nor see anything. I went upon a rising
ground to see farther; I walked backward
and forward on the shore, but I could only-
see that one impression. I went to look at
it again; how it came there I knew not,
but I hurried home to my fortifications,
looking behind me every two or three steps,
and fancied every tree, bush, and stump
to be a man. I had no sleep that night;
but my terror wore off, and I ventured to
take measure of the foot by my own, but
found it much larger. This filled me again
with ridiculous whimsies, and when I went
home, I began to double my fortifications,
purely from my apprehensions of this print
of a foot.
Rambling more to the western point one
day than ever I had done before, 1 was
convinced that the sight of the print of a
man's foot was not such a strange thing
in the island as I had imagined; for, on
approaching the shore, it is impossible to
express the horror I felt at seeing the
shore spread with sculls, hands, feet, and
other bones of human bodies, and particu-
larly a place, where, as I supposed, there
had been a fire made, and a circle dug in
the earth for the savages to sit down to
their inhuman feasts on the bodies of their
fellow creatures.
I had now been twenty-two years in the
island, and fancied I could have been con-
tented to have staid in it till I had died of
mere old age.
One morning very early I saw five ca-
noes of savages on shore. I clambered up
the hill, and discovered no less than thirty
dancing round a fire. I soon after saw
two dragged out of the canoes, one of
whom was immediately knocked down,
but the other, starting from them, ran
with amazing swiftness along the sands
towards me. I was frightened when I
saw him coming my way, imagining he
would be pursued by the whole body;
however, I kept my station, and only three
followed him. He greatly outran them,
and was in a fair way of escaping them all,
when, coming to a creek, he plunged into
it, landed and ran as swift as before. I
screwed my courage to the sticking point,

when I found that of the three that follow-
ed, but two entered the water, the other re-
turning. I hastily fetched my guns from
the foot of my ladder, and running down
the hill, in a few minutes I stood between
the savages and their victim. The poor
savage who had fled was so terrified at the
noise of my gun, that, though he saw his
enemies fallen, he stood stock-still, but seem-
ed rather inclined to fly than come forward.
However, when I gave him signs of encou-
ragement, he came nearer, kneeling down
every ten or twelve steps. I then took
him away to my cave at the farther part of
the island. Here I gave him bread and
raisins and water, which he wanted much;
and, having refreshed him, I made signs for
him to lie down on some rice-straw, which
he did and soon went to sleep. After he
had slept about half an hour, he waked
again, and came running to me in the inci-
sure just by; then kneeling again, he made
all possible signs of thankfulness, subjection,
and submission. I began to speak to him
and to teach him to speak to me ; and first
made him know that his name should be
Friday, which was the day on which I had
saved his life. I taught him to say, " Mas-
ter," and let him know that was to be my
name. The next day I gave him clothes, at
which he seemed pleased.
Having now more courage, and conse-
quently more curiosity, I took my man
Friday with me, and marched to the place
where his enemies had been. When we.
came there my blood ran cold, for the
ground bore dreadful evidence of the mas-
sacre. We saw three skulls, five hands, and
the bones of three or four legs and feet; and
Friday, by his signs, made me understand
that they brought over four prisoners to feast*
upon, and that three of them were eaten up;
that he, pointing to himself, was the fourth,
and that they had been conquered and taken
in war. I caused Friday to collect the re-
mains of this horrid canrage, then to light a
fire and burn them toashes. When this
was done we returned to our castle.
I took Friday once to that part of the
island where there still remained some pieces
of the long boat; but he no sooner saw it
then he exclaimed, "O, Master! I have
saved white mans from being drowned, in
such a boat as that." Thinking that he
spoke of some European boat which had
been driven on his coast by stress of wea-
ther, I asked how many were in it. He count-
ed on his fingers as far as seventeen; and
on my asking if his people had eaten them,
he replied, "No, no; my nation no eat
men, but what they take in fight; they
make poor distressed men like brothers." I
was glad to hear that some Europeans were
near me, hoping soon to meet with them.
Several weeks now elapsed, during which
I received many proofs of Friday's affection
for me^ and so very diligent was hef that I
was sure of having any thing done I set him
about. One day I put a piece of kid into
a kettle to make some broth, and set him to
watch it while I went about some other
business. I had not been long gone when I
heard Friday roar out so loud, that I thought
the savages had attacked our hut. I instantly
seized my gun, and rushed in, when I found
no one there but Friday, in as great despe-
ration as when he was chased by the canni-
bals. It appeared that poor Friday had
never seen boiling water, and seeing it move,
he thought that some living creature was at
the bottom, and, being fearful it might make
its escape, he had put his hand in to seize
it, but felt such pain as made him cry out.
I was now entered into the 27th year of
my captivity, when, one morning, I bid
Friday go to the sea-shore, to see if he
could find a turtle. He had not been gone
long, when he came running back, and be-
fore I had time to speak, cried, " O, mas-
ter! master! yonder there be one, two,
three canoe."
Having hung my great sword naked by
my side, and made Friday assist in loading
what fire arms we had, which consisted of
four guns and two pistols, I took my per-
spective-glass, and went up to the side of
the hill, when I saw twenty-one savages,
three prisoners, and three canoes. Having
by this means learned their force, I came
down from the hill, determined to put the
savages to flight, and, if possible, to rescue
the prisoners. I sallied forth, and entered
the wood, with Friday beside me, till we

came near them. They were about the
fire eating one of their prisoners. This
filled me with horror; and we both fired,
and killed four, and wounded three at the
first volley, while the cannibals were panic-
struck at receiving so unexpected a salute.
We poured in a second volley with such
effect, that we killed two more, and wound-
ed several, while the air re-echoed with
their yells. Hitherto we fired on them
from a wood; but now giving Friday a
loaded musket, I ordered him to follow me,
and we rushed upon them with a shout,
which so dismayed the cannibals, that they
fled in great terror. We pursued them to
the beach, and did such execution among
them, that out of twenty-one only four es-
caped; and even these I should have de-
stroyed, but, on jumping into one of their
canoes, which I made Friday also do, in
order to pursue them, our attention was ar-
rested by the discovery of a man lying
bound in the canoe. I ordered Friday to
speak to him ; but when the poor fellow
looked him in the face, and heard him speak,
a scene ensued that would have touched
the hardest heart! Uttering a wild and
discordant scream, he embraced him, then
cried—put his head in his bosom, danced,
sung, and cried, again !—Then feeling in
his pocket for some biscuit, he exclaimed,
*•* Ah, no ! hungry dog eat all up.*" It
was some time before I could learn the cause
of his emotion; but at length becoming
more calm, he informed me that it was his
father.
To my horror I now discovered a white
man lying bound to the ground, whom I
found to be a Spaniard, and immediately
released him, giving him a dram and some
bread to- refresh him. With much difficul-
ty I got my new guests to my hut, where
I accommodated them in the best manner
I was able, and after dinner, I made Fri-
day go to the scene of action, and fetch
home the fire-arms we had left in the wood.
During his absence, the Spaniard told
his tale in nearly the following words :—
** I was the captain of a merchantman,
bound to Africa to purchase slaves, whither
we arrived in safety, and took in our cargo;
but on our return home, we were overtak-
en by a violent storm, and wrecked on an
island, where the inhabitants treated us
hospitably. We continued to live comfort-
ably, till the island being invaded by a
neighbouring nation, gratitude compelled
us to take up arms in their defence. I
fought by the side of this brave old man,"
continued the Spaniard, pointing to Friday's
father, " and had the misfortune to be taken
prisoneralong with him, where, but for your
aid, we had fallen victims to our enemies."
Here the Spaniard ended his story.
Some days after, Friday ran into the but,
almost breathless, exclaiming, " O, master!
master! a ship! a ship!" Overjoyed at
this news, I took my gh$s9 and ascended
30
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
the hill, when I beheld an English ship ly-
ing at anchor some distance from the shore.
The joy I felt on this occasion I shall
not describe. I flung my arihs round Fri-
day's neck, and bathed his faithful bosom
with my tears. We made a large fire at
night, to convince the crew that there were

people on the island. They let us know
they perceived us by firing a gun; and the
next morning, the captain and some sailors
came on shore, at the sight of whom my
joy was so great, that I fell down on the
ground speechless.
The captain and Friday assisted in rais-
ing me from the ground; and when I was
recovered, I entreated the captain to take
me on board, to which he readily consent-
ed, and gave me a suit of his clothes. I
packed up my goat-skin dress, and the mo-
ney I had found in my ship that was wreck-
ed, and went on hoard; Friday and the rest
followed, bringing my dog and parrot with
them.
After a prosperous voyage we landed in
Old England, after I had been absent from
it thirty-seven years! On my arrival at
York, I was very much shocked to hear
that both of my parents were dead; but
was somewhat consoled when I found they
had forgiven me, and left me all their pro-
perty.
THE END.
James Clarfce & Co. Printers, 223, High Street,
JLdinburgh.
JUVENILE BOOKS, <&c.
ON SALE BY JAMES CLARKE & CO.
AT SIXPENCE EACH.
In Great Variety, and Elegantly Coloured.
AT FOURPENCE.
New Edition.^-W ith Beautiful Engravings on Wood.
AT TWOPENCE.
Enlarged Edition New and Numerous Sorts.
AT ONE PENNY.
Large Size.—With Excellent Engravings on Wood.
AT ONE HALFPENNY.
New Edition.—Enlarged Size, 40 Sorts.
Lotteries.—At One Halfpenny, and One Penny,
Coloured,
Song Books Containing all the New and Fashionable
Songs, at One Penny and Twopence each.
g©2S©@S ®©®IE^o
Barrte's Collection, 12mo
.  Tyro's Guide, J2mo
(.-"hiId's Assistant
Gray's Arithmetic, 18mo
Key to Do. by Stewart, 18mo
Gray's Spelling, ]8mo
Ready Reckoner, 5>4mo
Cooke's Letter Writer, 24mo
Uie of Bonaparte, l8rao, sewed
Brown's Catechism, 32mo
Watts' Catechism, 32mo
.... Divine Songs, 32mo
Mother's Catechism, 12mo
Arithmetical Tables, on Cards
and Paper
Copy Covers, New Engravings,
in Great Variety.
13
