
-UiK
THE ADVENTURES
OF
ROBINSON CRUSOE
FOR YOUNG FOLKS
EDITED BY
WILLIAM T. ADAMS
BOSTON
LOTHROP PUBLISHING COMPANY
F/Vl
COPTBIOHT, 1881, 189",
BY LEE AND SHEPARD.
CONTENTS.
r»oc
ADDRESS .TO. PARENTS 1
NOTE BY THE EDITOR 3
CHAPTER I. — EARLY LIFE OP ROBINSON 5
II. — THE WRECK OF THE SANTA MARIA 17
III. — ALONE ON THE ISLAND 29
IV.— A HOME IN THE CAVE 36
V. — AN EXCURSION INLAND . .' 44
VI. —THE CAPTURE OF THE LLAMA 51
VII. — A DINNER OF ROAST MEAT 57
VIII. — A TOUR OF OBSERVATION AND DISCOVERY 64
IX.—THE PRODUCTIONS OF THE ISLAND 69
X. — THE RAINY SEASON 74
XI.—ROBINSON'S SEVERE SICKNESS 80
XII. — EXPERIMENTS IN SALT-MARINO AND POTTERY .... 87
XIII. — A GREAT CALAMITY AND A NEW HOME 94
XIV. — THE WRECK AND ITS TREASURES 103
XV. — A SECOND VISIT TO THE WRECK 110
XVI. — THE TREASURES TAKEN FROM THE WRECK 114
XVII. — ROBINSON OBSERVES HIS SECOND ANNIVERSARY . . . . 118
XVIII.- -BUILDING THE STORE-HOUSE 124
. - BUILDING A PYRAMID 128
FACE
CHAPTER XX. — ROBINSON'S VARIOUS OCCUPATIONS 131
XXI. — THE BUILDING OF THE BOAT 138
XXII. — THE FOOTPRINTS IN THE SAND 150
XXIII. — THE CAPTURE OF THE STRANGER 159
XXIV.— FRIDAY LEARNS SOME OF THE WAYS OP CIVILIZATION . 169
XXV. — SOME LANGUAGE LESSONS 175
XXVI. — CIVILIZED AND SAVAGE ARTS 182
XXVII. — VISITORS ON THE ISLAND 189
XXVIII. —THE BEAUTIFUL GROTTO 198
XXIX.—THE WORK DURING THE WINTER 206
XXX.—A TERRIBLE EARTHQUAKE 21.3
XXXI. — THE EFFECTS OF THE EARTHQUAKE 219
XXXII. — THE COTTAGE BY THE BROOK 223
XXXIII. —THE FIFTH WINTER 228
XXXIV. — THE STRANGERS ON THE ISLAND 233
XXXV. —THE BUILDING OF THE VESSEL 243
XXXVI. — FAREWELL TO THE ISLAND 251
XXXVII. — CRUSOE AT HOME 259
ILLUSTRATIONS.
PARE
Robinson Crusoe's Home Frontispiece
I must make choice of some business 7
I felt miserably sick 9
We rowed away from her as fast as we were able 15
We spent two days at anchor in the sound 21
We were close in with the land on the starboard side 23
The vessel must soon go to pieces 26
I held on by the rock 28
In it I fixed myself 31
I found some fragments of the boat 34
I wandered about for several hours 37
I soon saw a troop of four-legged creatures 46
I found it to be a kind of turtle 55
It was no trouble to me to weave the panniers 59
I added another column to my calendar 62
I went on very patiently with my clumsy tailoring 85
I used the limbs and branches 91
It was long before I could teach her 98
I climbed to the deck . . .104
I pushed off from the side of the ship 107
I devoted most of the day to writing 122
I made several excursions 132
A bay on the northeast side 135
PAGE
I had abundant reason to be grateful to God 140
The barley planted in the autumn made its appearance 142
I sailed down the creek 145
I beheld the print of a human foot 153
I lost myself in troubled sleep 155
The poor creature threw himself on his knees 163
I directed Friday's eyes toward it 185
I had cause to rejoice that it was done 190
They were engaged in tearing down the timbers 194
I crossed the bay and landed 199
1 found an old llama 202
Building a new shed for the llamas 208
Showing the island to the strangers 245
Cape Verde Islands 261
Robinson Crusoe at Home 265
PART OF THE AUTHOR'S ORIGINAL
ADDRESS TO PARENTS.
IT will very naturally be asked, why another is added to
the numerous stories, already in circulation, founded on
De Foe's interesting fiction, for the use of children. To
this it may be replied that the abridgments lose much of
the spirit and graphic manner of the original, while they
retain certain parts that are ill adapted to the perusal of
children of the present day.
The great merit of De Foe's work is its naturalness; it
seems to be exactly what it purports to be, — the narrative
of a profane, ill-educated, runaway apprentice of the sev-
enteenth century; and with perfect consistency of character
even his better feelings have a stamp of vulgarity and super-
stition. But can such a tale, though perfect in itself, be
suited to children who have been carefully guarded from
all profaneness, vulgarity, and superstition? It was written
for grown persons, particularly that class to which the hero
is supposed to belong; and the very skilful manner in which
it was adapted to them makes it unfit for the perusal of
children.
The best modern writers for children have considered it
important that characters which excite in them a deep in-
2 YOUNG FOLKS' ROBINSON CRUSOE.
terest should be represented as models of those qualities
which we wish them to admire and cultivate; and it oc-
curred to the writer of the following story that the fasci-
nation of De Foe's hero might be enlisted on the side of
industry, perseverance, resignation to the will of God, and
numerous other good qualities of which he might be sup-
posed to be an example.
With this view, the Young Folks' Robinson Crusoe is here
represented as an amiable and well-educated youth, early
trained to habits of observation and reflection, and capable
of pure and exalted feelings of religion, — a hero, in short,
whom children may safely love and admire, yet not faultless,
or they could not sympathize with him.
The religious sentiments here inculcated are not those of
any particular creed; nothing has been admitted which is
not common to all Christians.
The author thinks, with Rousseau, that Robinson Crusoe
might be made a great instrument in the education of chil-
dren, leading their minds to a philosophical investigation
of man's social nature, and introducing them to trains of
thought which no other story could so well suggest; and
the only considerations which induce the writer of this vol-
ume to offer it to the public are founded in the belief that
it comes nearer what is wanted than those which have pre-
ceded it; that its influence will be favorable to the cause of
truth, social order, and religion; and that it contains nothing
incompatible with that love and respect for childhood in
which it was written.
1
THE YOUNG FOLKS'
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
CHAPTER I.
EARLY LIFE OF ROBINSON.
WAS born in
the city of York,
in England, in
the year 1632.
My father was
a respectable bro-
ker, and took great
pains with my edu-
cation. He sent
me to the best
schools in York,
and supplied me
with entertaining
and instructive
books to read at
home. All my
brothers were much older than I was, so that there were no play-
mates for me in the family. Perhaps for this reason I was more
studious than most boys of my age.
s

When I was nine years old my father gave me a set of carpen-
ter's tools and a little room for a workshop. I could make boxes,
stools, and benches; and, though the boxes were not always very
neatly put together, and sometimes one leg of a stool would be
shorter than the rest, my parents encouraged me to persevere. In
basket-making I was very successful. I learned the art of an old
blind man, who lived near my father's house and maintained himself
by weaving baskets and mats.
I was very fond of studying natural history, and whenever there
was an exhibition of wild beasts in the city my father allowed me to
go and see them. I used to spend hours in reading and comparing
the description and the plates in my books with the real animals.
In this way I became acquainted with each specimen.
I took great pleasure in reading about the manners and customs
of different countries; and every book of voyages and travels I could
get hold of I read through with delight. When I grew older, my
fondness for this kind of reading increased; and as I could not
understand all the hardships and sufferings which travellers and
navigators are obliged to bear, I thought their life must be the
pleasantest in the world.
About this time, there was a great deal said about sailing around
the globe. Some very enterprising voyages were made, and the news-
papers and journals were full of accounts of newly found islands in
the Pacific Ocean. My head was filled with these things. Much
was then believed which has since been contradicted, and voyages
of discovery were the fashion of the day.
When I was fifteen years old my father told me I must make
choice of some business I would like to follow, and learn to provide
for myself, as my brothers had done.
From ten years of age I was possessed with the idea that a sailor's
life was the best in the world. I set my heart so firmly on follow-
ing the seas that nothing my parents and friends said could dissuade
EARLY LIFE OF ROBINSON. 7
me from it. I left a comfortable home and good prospects on shore
to seek my fortune in sailing over the world, and to gratify my curi-
osity in seeing different countries. I little thought how soon all
my voyages would end, or that my knowledge of foreign parts would
be confined to an uninhabited island of a few miles in extent.
I well remember how much my heart misgave me, as the time drew
near for me to sail, and how sorrowful all my friends were. Every-

"I must make choice of some business."
body made discouraging speeches about my going to sea, and I found
it much harder than I expected to leave my happy home and part
from my dear father and mother.
The last evening before I left home, I felt wretchedly. Again and
again it came into my head that I had better give it all up, and stay
quietly where I was. All that my friends had said to me, without
making the least impression upon me, now rushed into my mind
with great force. I saw how reasonable it was, and, at the bottom
of my heart, I wished I was not going, though I had not the courage
to say so. I was afraid of being laughed at, and ashamed to ac-
knowledge that I had changed my mind. Like a fool as I was, I
hid what was passing within me, kept to my determination, and thus
brought on myself all the misery I have since endured.
I passed a wretched night; and the next morning, when I em-
braced my weeping mother for the last time, I could hardly help say-
ing, "I will not go"; but I shut my lips tight, and forced myself
away, in an agony of mind I cannot describe. If I had then known
all that was to happen to me, I could not have felt worse; and I
now think that I had those painful feelings because it was not right
for me to go.
I reached Hull just in time to join the good ship Neptune, Captain
Gordon. The crew were weighing anchor, and the bustle and novelty
of all around me turned my thoughts from home and the dear friends
I had left. I had now lost all the good opportunities of changing
my plan of life, and I resolved to bear its hardships as well as I
could, and make the best of everything. If I did not like the sea,
after one voyage, I could give it up, and spend the rest of my life
with my friends in England.
The weather was fine and the waters of the Humber were smooth.
I recovered my spirits, as the ship, under full sail, glided down that
fine, broad river, which serves as a mouth for the Trent, the Ouse,
the Derwent, and several other streams.
I soon began talking with the sailors, and one of them, perceiving
my love of adventures, gave me a marvellous account of something
that I now believe never happened. I was taking it all for true,
when I suddenly felt so giddy that I could not stand without hold-
ing fast to something. Then I felt miserably sick, and, not knowing
what ailed me, I cried out, "Oh dear! what is the matter with me?"
This made the sailors burst out in a loud laugh. They told me I
9
was sea-sick, and made such sport of my sufferings that I was glad
to get away, and creep into my berth, in the forecastle. I was
too sick to be of any use on deck, and I was allowed to lie there
all night.

"I felt miserably sick."
I could not sleep much, on account of the various noises all around
me. The dashing of the waves against the sides and bows of the
vessel sounded so loud, and seemed so near my ear, that I could
hardly believe the water was not coming into my berth. Then the
rattling of the ropes on the deck, the heavy tread of the sailors, the
singing noise they made in hoisting, with the whistling and rushing
of the wind through the rigging, were all sounds so new to me that
I could not help listening to them instead of sleeping.
When I came on deck, in the morning, I was extremely surprised
to find the ship so far from land; and I made the sailors laugh by
asking where the river was that we were sailing down the night
before. I was told that we were now on the North Sea, or German
Ocean, many leagues from the Humber; and that we were off Spurn
Head when I grew sick with the ocean swell, which we came into
just there. I was surprised to find so much motion in the water,
when there was so little wind; but I soon found that the waves of
the ocean never cease to roll, even in a dead calm.
For three days I continued very sick, but after that I began to get
better. When I had anything to do that I could not leave, it would
keep off the sickness for a while. As I was inclined to be indus-
trious, I learned my duty as a sailor very quickly, and often sur-
prised the old hands on board by imitating them so exactly. A
person who goes to sea for the first time is always laughed at and
called a "land-lubber"; but I bore all the sailors' jokes good-hu-
moredly. By being civil and obliging to everybody, I soon became a
general favorite, and instead of faring the worse for being a "green-
hand," every one seemed disposed to make my situation as agreeable
as possible, and to save me from any very hard duty.
The weather was remarkably fine, and the winds favorable. We
soon reached the Straits of Dover, and passed through the British
Channel. During this part of our voyage we could see the coast,
at a distance, all the time; but when we had passed Land's End
and the Scilly Isles, a brisk wind soon carried us entirely out of
sight of all land. Then there was nothing to be seen but the wide
waters all around, and the sky and clouds above.
A few days after we lost sight of land, I was surprised to hear the
captain give orders to take in most of the sails. It appeared to me
that we were sailing along very pleasantly, and I could see no reason
why we should shorten sail and go more slowly. I was surprised,
too, to observe with what activity the sailors sprung to their work,
and what haste everybody was in. I did not know, then, how
quickly sailors can see when it is going to blow very hard. They
are constantly looking at the water and the clouds, and observing
every little change in their appearance. They can perceive that the
wind is blowing very fresh, at a distance of several miles, some
minutes before it reaches them; then they take in most of the sails,
and prepare for the storm as well as they can.
They had just got everything snug on board the Neptune when
the squall struck her with such force that she was thrown on her
beam ends, or laid down on one side, so that her lower yards1 almost
touched the water. I was thrown down by the suddenness of the
motion, and slid to the lower side of the deck. But I had presence
of mind enough to catch hold of something as I went, or I might
have gone overboard. In a few moments the vessel righted,
and I was able to get upon my feet. The ship pitched and tossed
about so violently that I was obliged to hold on to something all the
time, or I should have fallen again. One of the sailors told me that
if they had not seen the squall before it came, and prepared for it,
it would most likely have upset the vessel
.
In half an hour the wind abated, and they set a little more sail
.
I asked why they did that, when the sea was still so rough, and the
vessel tossed about as much as ever. I was told that the ship would
be much steadier under more sail, and, as the wind had gone down,
there was no risk in doing it. I was pleased to observe what com-
mand the captain's knowledge gave him over the vessel. Though I
1 Spars that cross the masts, to which the topsails are fastened.
was becoming more acquainted with the danger of the sea, I felt in-
creased confidence in the skill that could provide against it.
The sailors watched the weather very closely all the afternoon,
and before night closed in there was every sign of a heavy gale
coming on. The captain gave orders to prepare for it accordingly.
Seeing me look very serious, one of the sailors told me not to be
frightened, for with a good ship under them, like the Neptune, and
plenty of sea-room, there was very little danger, even in a storm.
I was glad to hear this; for though I was not frightened, I liked
to know how much danger they expected to be in. I resolved to
attend to everything that passed, and try to be as quiet and collected
as the most experienced sailors.
I had always felt a great curiosity to know what a storm at sea
really was. I was now about to be gratified, but I felt more serious
than I expected to be; and I could not help thinking of my pleasant
home and dear parents, and comparing their situation with my own.
My attention was, however, soon called away from these thoughts,
by the duty I had to do. I was afterwards so occupied in watching
the vessel, listening to the wind, and observing the enormous waves,
that I thought no more of anything but the present scene. It blew
very hard all night, and I could not be persuaded to take my turn
below. I could not make up my mind to go to sleep in the midst
of such a gale, as some of the sailors did.
By daybreak the next morning, the wind had abated a little.
As it became fair for us to steer our course, we ran before it all day,
and went very fast, though we had only a foresail and close-reefed
main-topsail set. At last I was tired out with watching the vessel
and the weather. I went below, and slept most of the forenoon.
When I came on deck again, I was surprised to find no change
in the weather. I had no idea of a gale lasting so long, and
asked the sailors if it was not likely soon to be over. They shook
their heads, and said they thought it would blow harder before it
blew less. And sure enough, that afternoon the wind increased,
the clouds thickened, it suddenly became unusually dark, and thun-
dered and lightened terribly. I knew by the flashes of lightning
being followed so quickly by the thunder that the clouds, full of
electricity, must be very near us. As I had never before heard
such long and loud peals of thunder, or seen such very bright flashes
of lightning, I thought there must be great danger of the vessel being
struck by the lightning and shivered to pieces. But as I could not
discover any appearance of alarm in the countenances of those about
me, I kept my fears to myself, and stood ready to do as others did,
if anything should happen.
I now suppose that all on board the ship knew the danger they
were in from the lightning as well as I did; but they had been in
such storms before, and had escaped unhurt. They had besides
great confidence in their captain, who seemed to be as perfectly calm
and self-possessed as if it were fine weather. Every flash of light-
ning showed me the monstrous size of the waves, which looked, each
time they broke near the vessel, as if they would overwhelm her.
Sometimes we actually shipped a sea that swept the deck fore and
aft, and obliged every one to hold fast to avoid being carried over-
board.
When the vessel rose on the top of a great wave, she seemed to be
on a pinnacle, with a deep gulf on every side of her. When she
sank down again into the trough of the sea, she appeared to be in a
deep pit, ready to be buried under the waters that rose on every side
of her, almost as high as her lower yards. But when I saw her
descend safely from the pinnacle, and rise as safely out of the deep
pit, a great many times, I became accustomed to the size of the
waves, and was not alarmed by them.
The storm lasted several hours. At length a flash of lightning,
more vivid than any before, struck the main-mastJ and mizzen-mast,2
1 Middle and highest mast. 2 The hindermost mast
.
and shivered both. When the lightning struck the masts, and the
cracking of the wood was heard with the thunder, I thought the
whole vessel was split to pieces, and I expected to find myself in
the water the next minute. I was therefore astonished to hear
Captain Gordon give his orders to cut away the rigging, and clear
the deck of the broken masts, in the same calm voice he always used.
The behavior of the captain gave me fresh courage, and I helped
to execute the commands so coolly and distinctly given. The mate
was sent to ascertain whether the hull of the vessel had been injured
by the lightning. He returned with a face full of alarm, and told
the captain that the vessel had sprung a leak, and there was already
considerable water in her hold. This made our danger very great;
but the captain preserved his presence of mind, and quietly said,—
"Man the pumps, and fire signal-guns! There may be some
vessel within hearing, though there is none in sight."
While some of the sailors were doing this, the captain ordered others
to throw overboard everything movable, in order to lighten the ship
as much as possible, and keep her from sinking as long as we could,
in hopes some other vessel would come to our assistance. Though
the men pumped as fast as they could, the water in the hold became
deeper and deeper. The captain was convinced the ship must
soon sink, and he consulted with the mates as to what they had
better do.
The last flash of lightning had been followed by a torrent of rain,
which, though it appeared to me to increase the difficulties of our
situation, was, I found, of great use, in quieting the waters and
lessening the waves. The captain observed this, and as the wind
began to abate, he proposed that we should all take to the boats,
and, with some bread and water and a compass in each, row away
from the vessel before she sank under us. Whilst the rest were
lowering the boats and getting the provisions into them, the captain
and I continued to fire signal-guns as long as we could. My cour-
15
age was Tcept up by that of Captain Gordon, who was the last to
leave the vessel.
We rowed away from her as fast as we were able, and when we
were far enough off to escape being drawn in by the vortex she

"We rowed away from her as fast as we were able."
would make in going down, we lay upon our oars to see her sink.
After settling down lower and lower in the water, she suddenly
made a plunge, and went down stern foremost. There was some-
thing grand in that plunge, which made me shiver all over. Some
of the sailors looked very solemn, and spoke of the vessel as if it was
a living creature. We were all glad that we had left the ship in
time to avoid sinking with her. But what would become of us in
the midst of the ocean, in small boats, and with only a few days'
provision, was still very uncertain. We were considering the danger
of our situation, when, to our great relief, we heard a gun fired in
answer to our signals of distress.
When it stopped raining and the clouds cleared away, we could
see a large vessel coming directly towards us. The captain took off
his shirt, which was white, and, tying it by the sleeves to one of the
oars, stuck it up in the boat for a flag. He knew how much more
difficult it would be for the people on board the ship to see so low
an object as a boat than for those in the boats to see the ship. The
mate in the other boat did the same with his checked shirt. We
soon had the pleasure of observing a flag hoisted on board the ship,
which was to let us know that we were seen, and should be relieved.
In half an hour more we were all on board of a large Spanish
ship, bound to the west coast of South America. Being extremely
fatigued, as well as wet, cold, and hungry, we were very glad to
accept the kindness of strangers, and be where we could get shelter,
food, and dry clothes. All of these were freely offered us by the
Spaniards, who, though they could not speak or understand English,
made themselves intelligible by signs.
CHAPTER II.
THE WRECK OF THE SANTA MARIA.
AFTER a sound and refreshing sleep, I went on deck. I found my
shipmates looking very dejected, and talking over the loss of the
Neptune. They regretted that the ship which had picked them up
was bound to South America. I had been so rejoiced that I never
once thought of the loss of my clothes and everything I had on
board the Neptune, till I heard the sailors talking of what they had
lost. Then I remembered that I now had nothing in the world but
one suit of clothes, and no money. I wondered what I should do;
but all my companions were in a like situation: I could do as they
did, and manage as well as they.
As soon as South America was mentioned, I inquired to what part
of it the ship was bound. Hearing that it was to Callao, in Peru,
I asked what they knew about that country. All they could tell
me was that the Spaniards would not suffer any other nation to
trade with them. They had plenty of gold and silver, but it would
cost an Englishman his life to pick any of it up, though he trod it
under foot at every step. As I could get no further information about
the state of Peru, I called to mind all I had r:ad about it in the his-
tory of America. I felt a strong desire to see the places where the
events I had read about happened. On the whole, I considered the
change in our prospects, occasioned by the loss of the Neptune, as
favorable to my seeing the world. I could not help rejoicing on my
own account. I had neither money nor clothes; but I knew many
kinds of work by which I could earn a living.
•'
2
Pleased as I was with my new prospects, I found a great many
disagreeable things in my present situation. The Spanish ship,
called the Santa Maria, and commanded by Captain Manegro, was
very different from the Neptune. She was ill-shaped, and a dull
sailer. She was besides extremely filthy and full of vermin. The
berths were the worst that ever any decent person was obliged to
sleep in. The provisions also were so bad that I could hardly eat
them.
The captain and crew of this ship were very much inferior to
those of the Neptune. Though I could not understand a word they
said, I found that the captain was a passionate man, neither respected
nor beloved by his crew. The sailors were lazy and disobedient,
fond of playing cards, smoking, and swearing. The Santa Maria
had lost several of her hands since she left Old Spain; and the
captain was very glad of the assistance of our mariners in working
the vessel.
The voyage now became extremely tedious to me. When we got
into the trade winds, which I longed for so much, the days were
more tedious than ever, for there was nothing at all to be done.
The sails remained in the same position from one week's end to an-
other. Even the variety of climate, on approaching the equator, was
less agreeable to me than I expected. I found the heat of the sun
so great that I wished myself again in a temperate zone.
The want of occupation very much increased my restless feelings.
Though I gladly joined my countrymen in doing all the work they
could find to do about the ship, there were many hours, each day,
that I was obliged to spend in idleness. 0, how I longed for some
book to read! The most uninteresting one would have been a
treasure to me. But no book could I get. Having lost all my
things, I had no pens, ink, or paper, that I might use in writing.
When we approached Cape Horn, the weather was tempestuous. We became anxious, for our water and provisions were very short
.
WRECK OF THE SANTA MARIA. 19
It was the intention of the Spanish captain to touch at the Falkland
Islands to get water and wild fowl; but the English sailors feared
that we had missed those islands altogether. Westerly winds had
prevailed for a long time, and had set us so far east that we might
run by them without being near enough to see them. We had no
confidence in the captain's navigation. There was no quadrant on
board, and the charts were very poor. The ship was badly worked,
and the voyage made longer than necessary by the bad seamanship of
the master. Yet he was so obstinate and passionate that no one
dared to advise him. According to his reckoning we ought to have
seen the islands three days before they actually appeared. At last,
when the only salt meat on board was cooking and the last cask
of water was on tap, we were relieved from the worst apprehen-
sions by the thrilling sound of "Land 0!" O, what a welcome
sight was that group of uninhabited islands, after such a tedious
voyage!
We entered a sound between the two largest of them, and found
good anchorage opposite a fine beach of hard sand. I was impa-
tient to set foot on the land, and, fortunately for me, the captain
ordered me into the boat that took him, the mate, and Captain
Gordon ashore.
When we ran the boat aground and jumped out on dry land, I was
almost wild with delight. I threw off my shoes and ran barefoot on
the sand for a mile. After being confined so long to the narrow
bounds of a vessel's deck the sensation of freedom was enchanting.
When I returned I found my comrades drinking largely at a rivulet
of pure water, that was running and sparkling over the beach to the
sea. I could not help throwing myself down by it and drinking of
it. After the bad water we had been using, the taste of this was
delicious; I could hardly drink enough of it. And so it was
with every one present; they drank as though they would never be
satisfied.
There were no trees to be seen; but the land was covered with
tall, rank grass. The beach was bordered with numerous little
hillocks, that seemed to be formed by the decay of the coarse grass
that grew upon them and hid the sand. I was amusing myself with
stepping, or jumping, from one of these hillocks to another, when
my bare foot slipped off the little eminence and rested on something
cold, wet, and slippery, and full of muscular motion. A sound
between a squeak and a grunt followed, and then a most hideous
roar. I lost my balance as a creature moved under my feet, and
fell down upon him. There I rolled about in the grass between two
hillocks that hindered my rising, with this roaring monster creeping
out from under me. I expected to be torn in pieces every instant.
At last I made out to rise and run to my companions, who looked
almost as much alarmed as I was. Turning around to face the
enemy at a distance, I saw seven great, shaggy animals issuing from
the border of the beach, and making towards us.
Captain Gordon exclaimed, "Kill all you can; they are very
good eating." Being near our boat we armed ourselves, some with
muskets, others with oars, and began our attack. The animals were
endeavoring to reach the water, but having only tails and fins they
advanced but slowly. We beat them over the back as hard as we
could, but without making any impression on them. We fired at
them, and several balls took effect; yet the creatures proceeded
toward the sea, upsetting every one who came in their way. At
last we discovered their noses to be the most vulnerable part. A
few blows there stopped their progress, and we made five of them
prisoners.
When we rested from our labors, I asked what these terrible-
looking creatures were, and was told they were sea-lions. Captain
Gordon called them shaggy seals, and said that their skins were
very valuable. They contained a great deal of blubber, which
made very good oil; and their flesh was palatable food. We
21
secured them in the boat, and then proceeded to explore the island
further.
We found large flocks of ducks and other sea-fowl, so tame that
we could drive them before us and fire into them before they at-
tempted to fly. In this way great slaughter was made among them.

'' We spent hvo days at anchor in the sound."
On advancing into the island our attention was suddenly fixed upon
a ridge of land just above us, on which were ranged, in the most
regular order, what appeared to me a number of little children of
the same age and size, and dressed alike, with their arms extended.
I could think of nothing but a school, the scholars wearing brown
frocks and white aprons. After gazing a moment in silent amaze-
ment, I perceived the heads to be those of birds, and recognized the
shape and position of the penguin.
We next had a battle with the penguins, but were not so success-
ful as with the seals. They bit so hard we could not hold them, and
we managed to carry only one on board the vessel. That one we
took alive, and kept him safe during the night. The captain ordered
us to put him in the pen with a pig, the last of our live-stock. We
did so, and left the two strangers to make each other's acquaintance.
In the morning we found there had been a combat between them,
which had ended in the death of the pig.
We spent two days at anchor in the sound, and all the ship's
company were allowed to go on shore and refresh themselves; but
there were no more adventures. We took in a good supply of ex-
cellent water; and on the third day after we made the land we pro-
ceeded on our voyage.
There were some deliberations as to the course we had best take:
we could leave the inlet the way we entered it, or find a passage
through the sound. Captain Gordon advised the former course, as
he found that no one on board had ever passed through the sound,
and they had no chart of it. This determined the obstinate Manegro
to try the passage through the islands. By keeping a boat out
ahead, to sound the way, we got safely through; but there were, in
some places, such quantities of sea-weed, that this of itself threat-
ened wholly to obstruct our passage; we could but just force the
ship through it.
After we got safely through the islands, we were glad we had
taken that course, as it would be easier to get round the cape. I
saw that Captain Gordon was anxious, and the English sailors were
very watchful. The third night after we left the Falkland Islands,
we were all startled by the cry of "Land 0! close aboard, over the
portl bow." Captain Gordon was on deck in a moment, and gave
the necessary orders for altering the vessel's course; for there was
not a moment to be lost, and the master of the vessel was below.
1 Left side looking ahead.
Every one was astonished at seeing land on our left; if it had been
on the right, we should have thought all was well. In a few min-

"We were close in with the land on the starboard side."
utes we were close in with the land on the starboard1 side. It looked
like a high wall; it was a bold shore, and we had only just time
1 Right side.
to tack and keep clear of the steep rocks that rose on either side
of us.
The Spaniards were very much alarmed. The captain admitted
that he did not know where we were. After consulting the miserable
charts on board, Captain Gordon came to the conclusion that we were
in the channel between Staten Island and the main land. Daylight
soon appeared, and we could see our way very well. The current was
so strong, and the eddies so numerous, that we were strangely whirled
about. By the good sense of Captain Gordon, and the good conduct
of the English sailors, we got safely through the strait, and reached
the open sea near the cape.
As soon as we were out of danger, Captain Gordon gave up his
command, and treated the master of the ship as though nothing had
happened. But Captain Manegro had one of those little minds that
cannot bear the superiority of others. He was shy and jealous of
Captain Gordon on account of the services he had rendered.
I was often provoked to see how uncivilly Manegro treated Cap-
tain Gordon, whom I loved and admired more and more every day for
his mildness and forbearance toward our ignorant commander.
We had a great deal of tempestuous weather in doubling Cape
Horn. The currents were very strong, and the sea rough. The
reckoning was poorly kept, and we hardly knew when we really
had doubled it. We continued to have heavy gales of wind, after
we were several hundred miles from the cape, and our voyage be-
came every day more unpleasant. Our provisions were scanty and
poor; we had been put on short allowance, and were heartily tired of
our voyage.
About three weeks after we left Cape Horn, we were sailing along
under close-reefed topsails, when we were all alarmed by the cry of
"Land dead ahead!" That which is so cheering a sound when ex-
pected, is an alarming one when not expected.
Manegro pretended to be very knowing. He said he knew very
well what land it was, and he meant to go ashore there, and get
some fresh provisions. Captain Gordon advised keeping off till the
wind abated, or sailing round the island, and entering a port to the
leeward.
Our obstinate commander insisted upon keeping on just as we
were. The wind was increasing every moment. We were expect-
ing orders to shorten sail, or alter our course, when a gust came that
nearly capsized us, and carried away several sails. All was dismay
and confusion. Captain Manegro refused all aid from Captain Gor-
don, while he gave contradictory orders to his men. We suddenly
perceived breakers very near us. The wind was blowing us directly
upon a reef of rocks, and the vessel was unmanageable.
When it was too late, Captain Gordon's voice was heard, amid the
roar of the waves, the whistling of the wind, and the cracking of
spars. Anchors were let go; but the breakers were all around us,
and nothing could save the vessel from destruction. She was driven
upon the rocks with such force that no one could keep his feet; after
striking three times the ship was fixed upon the reef, and the sea
broke over her. The force of the waves filled me with fear and
amazement. I was convinced, from all I saw, that we were in the
greatest possible danger. The Spaniards gave themselves up to cries
and lamentations; but the Englishmen gathered around their captain
to consider what they had better do.
He said the vessel must soon go to pieces. Though the sea was so
rough, he thought they had better take to the boats, and see what
could be done in them. They might be carried towards the land,
without capsizing, and get into some sheltered bay or creek. Just
as they came to this determination, a great wave broke away part of
the stern, and carried off a boat that was hanging there. There was
then but one boat left, and that was only large enough to hold a part
of those on board. So one of the English sailors proposed that they
should go off in her and leave the Spaniards behind, as their obsti-
nacy and ignorance had brought us into this situation. Our good
captain would not listen to such selfish advice. He said, "They
saved our lives once, and we will try to save theirs now; at least
we will give them a chance with ourselves." So, while his men
were getting ready to launch the long boat, Captain Gordon called
the Spaniards. As he had before saved them from shipwreck, they
came upon deck when they heard his voice. With his direction and
assistance the boat was launched, and all on deck got into her,
though not without great danger. The boat was so tossed about by
the waves that we feared she would be broken in pieces against the
side of the ship.
We rowed as well as we could towards the land, and as the boat
drew very little water, we passed over the reef on which the vessel
had stuck fast, and proceeded in safety about half a league. As we
approached the land, we saw nothing like a bay or inlet, and the
breaking of the waves on the beach made it impossible to land. We
could but just keep the boat from filling with water, where we were;
and nearer the shore, it would be entirely out of our power.
In this situation there was nothing more to be done. Those in
the boat were making up their minds to be drowned in a few min-
utes, when a monstrous wave overturned the frail craft, and covered
us all with its mighty waters.
As I was a good swimmer, I did not lose my presence of mind,
when I found myself under water. I tried to rise to the surface, that
I might take breath. This, however, I could not do. I must have
suffocated if I had not been carried on the beach. The wave went
back and left me upon the sand in shallow water. Though much
exhausted with the exertions I had made, and the want of breath,
I advanced towards the land. I had not proceeded far before I saw
the sea coming after me like a high wall . I knew it would carry
me towards the shore, so I gave myself up to its power. In this
way I approached nearer and nearer to the land with every wave,
28
TO UNG FOLKS' ROBINSON CRUSOE.
till at last I felt ground with my feet. The next moment my head
was out of water, and I could breathe freely.
I stood still a
moment to recover
my breath, and
then ran forward
as hard as I could.
Again I was cov-
ered many feet
deep with water,
and borne along
with the breaker.
As the sea was
carrying me along
very swiftly, I
struck against a
ledge, which dis-
abled me from
struggling against
the waves; but,
happily for me, I held on by the rock. There
I remained, supporting myself till I recovered
from the blow, while several waves passed over
me. A few more runs between the breakers
brought me quite out of the water. I had
just strength enough left to walk up the beach,
beyond the reach of the breakers, when my
knees bent under me, and I sank down on
the dry sand. Exhausted by the great exertions I had made, I
fainted away.

ALONE ON THE ISLAND.
How long my swoon lasted, it is impossible for me to say. On
recovering from it, it was some time before I could recollect what
had happened to me. By degrees the wreck, the wind, and the
dashing waves helped me to recall the disaster which occasioned
my being where I now found myself. The dreadful certainty that
I alone, of all that were on board, had reached the shore alive, burst
upon me, and made me miserable.
I was cold, wet, hungry, and thirsty, without anything in the
world but the wet clothes I had on. I was alone, in an unknown
country. It might be full of savages and wild beasts. I could see
no traces of cultivation. I had no fishing-tackle to get fish; no gun
to shoot birds; no means of lighting a fire. I was far from my
pleasant home and dear parents, and could not hope ever to see them
again. In this dismal situation, I could not rejoice in having saved
myself from drowning, for I expected a worse death. I walked up
and down the beach in a state of agitation not to be described. I
wrung my hands, sobbed aloud, and reproached myself for the folly
and obstinacy which had brought me to this wretched condition.
Quite exhausted, I sat down on a large stone; and, resting my head
on my knee, I fell into a silent agony of despair.
How long I sat there, I cannot tell; but I was roused from that
fit of dejection by a sensation of thirst. I bore this for some time.
At last it overcame my reluctance to move, and I went in search of
water.
I looked fearfully around to see if any savage man or wild beast
was near me. Seeing no living creature, I walked slowly up the
beach, and made my way over long grass and through shrubs in
search of a valley with a stream of fresh water in it. After wan-
dering about for some time, I came to a narrow vale, the sides of
which were clothed with flowering shrubs and trees; and there I
heard the pleasant sound of a brook. Winding among rocks, I
found a clear, sparkling stream, of which I drank plentifully.
Greatly refreshed, I seated myself on the grass, at the foot of a
large tree, and began to reflect more calmly on my sad condition.
My anguish subsided when I remembered that my Heavenly
Father was as near me there as in my own happy home. By
thinking of his power and goodness, my courage and strength re-
vived, and my soul was comforted. I resolved to trust in God en-
tirely, and do the best I could to continue the life that had been so
remarkably preserved.
Just as I had formed this good resolution, I heard the most
melodious warbling of birds, in the bushes near me, and the sound
cheered my heart. "Those birds are happy here," said I to myself,
"and why may not I be happy too?" The thought that they had
companions, while I had none, again filled my heart with sorrow.
The birds were not afraid of me, but flew about so near me that
I could observe them getting their food. I said to myself, "Will
not the same Power that directs them to their proper nourishment
also supply me?" I felt an assurance in my heart that it would;
and being very hungry, I returned to the beach for something to eat. I had not walked far when I found some oysters. As I had been
accustomed to eat such shell-fish raw, I satisfied my appetite pretty
well. I had great difficulty in opening some of the oysters, for I had
no knife.
When I had finished my meal it was about sunset. The wind
had abated, but it began to rain very fast, and I returned to the
ALONE ON THE ISLAND.
31
little valley to seek a shelter for the night. I could have found a
dry spot under the dense foliage, but I was afraid of wild beasts.
1 knew that such animals keep very quiet during the day, and roam
about at night in search of their prey. Therefore it would not be safe
to lie on the grass. I had no means of making any defence; so I
thought my best plan would be to follow the example of the birds,
and sleep in a tree. I found one whose thick foliage would screen
me from rain, and whose numerous crooked branches made it easy
to climb. I fixed myself in it as securely as I could, and being very
tired I soon fell asleep.

"In it I fixed myself."
I awoke refreshed, and with a keen appetite for my breakfast.
Leaving my airy bed, I washed my hands and face in the brook,
and walked to the shore to look for shell-fish for my breakfast.
To my great disappointment the tide was high, and there were no
oysters to be found. The water was full of fishes, but I had not
the means of catching them.
It occurred to me that, as I had failed of getting oysters for my
breakfast, there might be wild fruits inland, that would satisfy my
appetite. I walked away from the shore towards a high hill about
a mile from the beach. I determined to ascend it, take a survey
of the country, and look for something eatable as I went along. I
walked for some distance till I came to rocks and bushes; but I
looked in vain for any berries. Everything was growing luxuri-
antly, and beautiful flowers met my eye, but no fruits were to be
seen. All the productions of the earth were those of spring. When
I reflected that I must be at least thirty degrees south of the equa-
tor, I was satisfied that it must be spring-time in this region. In
due season these beautiful blossoms would give place to berries and
fruits, that might prove to be wholesome food.
With this hope, I pursued my way, and began to ascend the hill
I had seen. I found it more difficult to climb than I had antici-
pated; and I was often obliged to go a great way around, in order
to avoid perpendicular cliffs or impassable woods. But my desire
to obtain a good view of the country, and ascertain whether I was
on an island or on the main land, and the hope of finding some ripe
fruit, urged me on. After a long and toilsome ascent, I found myself
on the bare summit of a high hill. I discovered that I was on a small
island, and could see nothing but the wide ocean all around me. I
looked for the wrecked vessel, but it had disappeared. The loss of
that last vestige of civilization made me feel more lonely than ever.
I looked in every direction to ascertain if the island was inhabited,
but could discover nothing. I felt very melancholy when convinced
that I was alone on an uninhabited island. "I must pass the re-
mainder of my life in this lonely place, far from my friends, who
will never know what has become of me. I shall never see the face
of any human being again. Here I must live and die alone," I said
to myself.
Almost exhausted by fasting and sorrow, I began to descend the
hill, intending to reach the shore by the time the tide left it, and
look for shell-fish to allay the pangs of hunger, which began to be
very severe.
My feet had become very sore and tender, with so much walking
on rough ground, and in thin, old shoes; and to favor them I took
the smoothest paths. In doing so I wandered away from the side of
the hill by which I went up. When I arrived at the bottom of it I
found myself still very far from the shore, where I expected to get
the food I so much needed. I feared my strength would hardly last
to carry me back to that part of the coast where I had found the
oysters. The trees were so thick I could not see which way to go.
By observing the sun, I could direct my steps; for I remembered
that the beach on which I landed was on the south side of the
island, and ran east and west.
As I walked along, frequently casting my eyes upward, to see that
I kept the right course, I observed some very curious-looking trees,
with tall, naked stems, and a great tuft of leaves on the top. I had
seen such in paintings, but could not recall what they were. As I
approached them I saw, among the long, drooping leaves, some very
large three-sided things. Thinking they might be good to eat, I
threw stones at them, till I knocked one down. It was nearly as
large as my head, covered with a husk that was tough and full of
fibres, which came off with difficulty. What was my joy and delight
when I ascertained by the inside shell that it was a cocoanut! I
had often eaten cocoanuts in England. I had never seen one with
the husk on, which was the reason I did not know what it was as
soon as I saw it.
I broke the shell on a stone, drank off the delicious milk it con-
tamed, and then devoured the fruit. One did not satisfy me, half-
starved as I was; so I knocked down a second, and ate that as
voraciously as the first. While I was thus satisfying my appetite,
my eyes filled with tears of joy and gratitude for this new relief in
3
34
YO UNG FOLKS' ROBINSON CRUSOE.I felt more sensibly than ever that I ought not to
my distress.
despair.
I had seen sketches of trees like these in books of travel. They
were called palm-trees. But the pictures gave me a poor idea of
them. I was now very much struck with their grand appearance.
Though I thought it likely there were more cocoanut palms on the

"I found some fragments of the boat."
island, I marked the spot where this cluster of them stood. Taking
with me one of the broken nut-shells for a drinking-cup, I continued
on my way to the beach.
The tide had receded a considerable distance; but I could find
only a few oysters, not enough to make a meal, which made me glad
that I had eaten the cocoanuts. I did not eat the oysters I picked
"p, but saved them for my next meal
.
I found some fragments of the boat which had been dashed to
pieces on the rocks the day before, and a couple of oars that had
been washed ashore. The oars and fragments of the boat I carefully
collected, and carried them with my oysters to the shady valley of
the brook, where I meant to pass the night.
Believed from the fear of danger from savages or wild beasts, as I
had seen no traces of either during my day's journey, I began to feel
something like security in this pleasant retreat. Seating myself on a
grassy bank, I tried to plan some kind of a habitation; but the want
of tools seemed to render it impossible for me to do anything. If I
had had any iron tool, I could have contrived many things for my
comfort and security; but without any implement, what could be
done! I had lost my jackknife just after the wreck of the Neptune.
I had two more knives in my chest, but that went down with the ship.
I had reason to regret the loss of my knife more than I can express.
Every plan that came into my head for bettering my situation failed
for want of it . I went to my tree for the night, very much depressed
in spirits.
A HOME IN THE CAVE.
MY position in the tree, though improved by placing a piece of
plank among the branches, was not comfortable enough to make
me sleep after daylight. I made an early breakfast of the oysters I had collected the evening before, and set off on a long walk, re-
solved to see as much as I could of the island before the noon-day
sun made it oppressively warm. I found the country beautifully
undulated, plentifully watered, and filled with a great variety of
vegetable productions. I looked at every plant and tree as I went
along, in hopes of discovering something that I might safely eat.
Everything looked strange to me, except a water-plant, which so
resembled the water-cress of England that I ventured to taste it
.
Finding the flavor the same, I ate a good deal of it, and relished it
well . I regretted that I knew nothing of botany, and remembered
with shame and sorrow that I used to laugh at a boy of my acquain-
tance for studying it. "Oh that I had done the same!" exclaimed
I, "and then I might find some wholesome food among these weeds,
and distinguish those which are poisonous." Though I knew noth-
ing of botany, my habit of observing everything I saw done enabled
me to make one valuable discovery during my walk.
I pulled up some long stalks of a plant, resembling a nettle, that
grew in my way. I observed that they were composed of fibres, so
tough that I could hardly break them. I had seen hemp dressed,
and this looked a good deal like it, only the plant was smaller. I
gathered a large bundle of it, and tied it up with some of the stalks,
that I might see, at my leisure, if it could be made into cordage.
A HOME IN THE CAVE.
37
The chief object of my excursion was to look for some natural
cave in the rocks, where I might sleep in safety, instead of perching
like a bird in a tree. I wished to find a spot, which should be

"I wandered about for several hours."
shaded from the noon-day sun, and yet high enough to command a
view of the ocean; for I looked continually for a vessel with which
I could communicate by signal.
I wandered about for several hours among the wood and hills on
the side of the island where I first landed. I found a smooth, grassy
terrace on the south side of a steep, rocky hill. It looked as if a
piece of the hill had been cut out to make this level spot. The
rocks rose behind it, as steep as the side of a house, so that it was
perfectly protected on the north. This terrace was about two hun-
dred paces long and twenty broad. From the edge of it, the land
sloped gently down to the low ground near the beach. Large frag-
ments of rock were scattered over it, as if by some great convulsion
of the earth. Small clusters of trees adorned the terrace. Numer-
ous shrubs and plants grew among the rocks that bounded it on the
north, and it looked as if it were made for the site of a cottage.
No situation could have suited me better; but as I could not
make a shelter for myself without tools, I was obliged to look for
one ready made, in the earth or among the rocks, as wild animals
do. Being very warm and thirsty from my walk, I searched about
for a spring of water; and in so doing discovered a small, hollow
place in the steep side of the hill. This, enlarged a little, would be
exactly what I wanted; but how to make it big enough to sleep in
without any tools was the grand difficulty. I determined, however,
not to give up so fine a situation without exerting all my ingenuity
to adapt it to my purpose. I was still more encouraged to under-
take it when I perceived, at a short distance, a clear stream of water,
trickling out of a crevice in the rock. The more I observed the ad-
vantages of this spot, the more determined I was to make it my
residence. Though I had nothing but my hands to work with, I
resolved to scoop out the earth with them rather than give up
sleeping in the cave.
Having refreshed myself with a good draught of water, I made the
best of my way back to the sea-side. I reached it by a much
shorter route than I had taken in discovering the terrace. I has-
tened to gather shell-fish while the tide was low; and I was more
successful than before. While wandering over the beach, I found
a very large, strong shell, which I thought would serve me instead
of a spade to scoop out the earth from the little cave. With
the aid of this tool I hoped to make it large enough to sleep in
that night.
When I had satisfied my appetite, I carried my bundle of nettles
and the large shell to the side of the brook. There I tied up the
plant in small bunches, and put it in the water to rot the woody part
of the stalk, a process I had seen adopted with hemp. By the time
that was done, I was so tired that I lay down on the green bank to
rest myself; and before I was aware of it I fell fast asleep. My
position was much more comfortable than when perched in the tree.
I was more refreshed by that hour's nap than by any sleep I had
had for many nights. As wild beasts generally sleep during the
heat of the day, I thought it would be advisable for me to take a
nap every day on the grass at noon.
When I awoke I hastened to the terrace, carrying the great shell
with me. I began to work most industriously at enlarging the cave.
By patiently removing a little earth and a few stones at a time, I
made some progress; but it was much slower than I expected, and
I was obliged to give up all thought of sleeping there that night.
It also occurred to me that it would not be safe to lodge there with-
out some means of defending the entrance. Though it was well
guarded by the high rock at the back, there was nothing in front of
the terrace to keep off savages or wild beasts.
The cave, when made large enough to sleep in, would be too small
if the entrance were closed up entirely. It was therefore necessary
to contrive some barrier that would protect me, while the mouth of
the cave was left open. I was greatly puzzled to think of any kind
of defence which it was in my power to make; but, by reflecting
upon it while I was digging out the cave, a way of doing it came
into my head.
I had seen many young willow-trees at the foot of the hill which
I knew could be easily transplanted, as their roots do not grow deep
in the earth. I therefore resolved to pull up a number of them and
set them out close together in a semicircle around the entrance of
the cave. They would be some protection at once, and when they
grew larger would make a very effectual barrier.
I lodged as before that night, after a hard day's work, more com-
forted and cheerful than I had been since my shipwreck. I longed
to stretch my tired limbs at full length on the grass; but the fear
of wild animals sent me to my tree for the night
.
For many days I continued to dig out my cave and transplant
trees. Though the want of proper tools made it very laborious, I
persevered, and succeeded beyond my expectations. While thus
occupied, I dined every day on shell-fish, and breakfasted and supped
on cocoanuts and water-cresses. I indulged myself with an after-
noon nap on the grassy bank by the side of the brook.
One day, thinking the nettles might have lain long enough in the
water, I took them out, and spread them in thin layers on the grass
to dry. I next pounded them with a large stick, as I had seen flax
pounded, and succeeded perfectly in freeing the fibres from the stem.
They were of good length and could be twisted into pack-thread.
Much pleased with the success of this experiment, I went on twisting
and doubling the string till I made some very strong cord. It was
not quite so even as that made by rope-makers, but it soon proved
of great service to me.
I worked diligently, and planted tree after tree until I formed a
complete semicircle around the cave. But as a single row of such
saplings did not seem sufficient, I planted a second row outside the
first . I then interwove the branches of the two rows together. I at
last hit upon the plan of filling up the space between with the earth
and stones from the cave. This made the barrier very strong. Every
morning and evening I watered my little hedge. This was a tedious
process, for I had nothing bigger than a cocoanut shell to carry
'water in. I was rewarded for all my labor by seeing the willows
alive and growing after their removal.
My plan was to make no opening in the hedge, lest I should not
be able to secure it firmly. When I had nearly completed it, I
spent a whole day in making a rope-ladder out of my cordage. The
rock behind the cave was about as high as the second story of a
house. On the top of it was a tree, to which I fastened one end of
the ladder, and fixed the other to the ground beside the cave, by
means of stakes firmly driven. I then tried to mount by it, and
finding I could go up and down safely, I completed the barrier, and
piled up, on the inside of it, the rest of the rubbish taken from the
cave.
When I had worked a little longer at enlarging my cave, I came
to hard points of rock that I could not possibly remove with my
hands or shell. 0, how I longed for an iron bar! I knew that
wishing was of no use, and I tried to think of something that might
answer the purpose. I had seen on the beach some hard green
stones. On examining them I found one, the sight of which made
my heart leap for joy. It was nearly in the form of a wedge, with
a very sharp edge to it. I found another that was equally well-
fitted for my purpose. It was very thick and heavy at one end,
while the other was small and easily grasped. I could use the latter
as a mallet or hammer.
I set to work with my new tools immediately. I applied the
sharp edge of the wedge to the rock, and striking it with the mallet
I broke off a large piece. In this way I cleared the cave of all the
sharp rocks inside of it, and made it large enough for me to lie at
ease and be at some distance from the mouth.
I had before gathered a quantity of grass and dried it in the sun.
This hay I threw down into the enclosure, and made a most com-
fortable bed at the back part of my new lodging-room.
From this time I was able to sleep on a dry, soft bed, sheltered
from wind, rain, and sun. Those who have always been able to
stretch their weary limbs on a good bed, in a secure place, can hardly
imagine how delighted I was with my rude accommodations. I
went to sleep that night, feeling happier than I could have thought
it possible for me to be on this uninhabited island.
The following day was Sunday. I remembered it as soon as I
awoke. I had always been in the habit of putting on clean linen
on the Sabbath; but now I had no clothes of any kind, except those
I had worn so long. I determined, however, to make myself as
clean as I could; so I bathed in the brook, and left my shirt to soak
in the stream, tied by its sleeves to a bush.
On my way back to my new habitation, I gathered cocoanuts enough
to last all day, and then rested from my labors. I spent the day in
serious meditation, devout prayer, and tender recollections of my
distant home and the dear friends whom I feared I should never see
again.
As I was counting over the number of days that I had been on
the island, and trying to remember on what day of the month I was
wrecked, it occurred to me that I should soon lose all knowledge of
time if I did not mark the days as they went by. The next morn-
ing I set to work to make myself an almanac by which I could
count the days regularly.
Having no paper, pens, ink, or anything on which I could write, I
chose one of several trees that stood close together and had very
smooth bark. On this I made a scratch with the edge of a shell, for
every day I had been on the island, with a long scratch for Sunday.
When this was done, I thought of a signal to give notice, if a
vessel should pass by, that there was somebody on the island who
needed assistance. I could easily find a tree for a flag-staff; but
what to use for a flag puzzled me. At last I made up my mind to
give up my only shirt for the purpose. I had but one, and when
in rags I must do without it. I had better give it up at once and
use it in the only way it could possibly do me any great service.
If it should make a vessel stop and take me off this desert island, it
would certainly be the best use I could put it to.
I washed my old shirt in the brook, made it look as white as I
could, and left it to dry in the sun. I explored the hills on the
south side of the island, searching for a tall tree that could be con-
verted into a flag-staff.
On a point of land, higher than the hill on which 1 lived, I found
a solitary tree with a straight trunk that would serve my purpose.
I must get the branches off, and make it look enough like the work
of man to attract the attention of a sailor; but without any iron
tools this seemed impossible. I resolved to try my wedge and mallet;
and by patience and perseverance I removed many of the upper
branches. Finding it slow work, I concluded to leave the larger
boughs below, and fasten my shirt to the top of the bare stem.
After two days' hard labor I had the satisfaction of seeing my flag
flying in the air, well secured, in sight from the sea.
The high point of land I called Signal Hill; it was in sight from
the ground above my cave, and commanded a more extensive pros-
pect than the hill where I lived, to which I gave the name of Fort
Hill, from my fortifications on its side.
AN EXCURSION INLAND.
I HAD now eaten up the most of the cocoanuts that grew on the
only trees of the kind I had yet seen. The shore furnished me with
such a scanty supply of shell-fish that I began to be uneasy about
getting food enough to keep me from starving.
I had been so constantly employed in making a safe retreat to
sleep in that I had explored only a small part of the island; but
now I determined to travel over it, and look for more cocoanuts and
other articles of food.
I found the noon-day sun very oppressive; and having no hat, I
spent half a day in making an umbrella to shade me on my intended
journey. I had neither silk nor whalebone; yet I contrived to
make something that answered the purpose of a large parasol.
With a kind of willow I wove a circular piece of wicker-work,
like the cover of a round basket. To the hollow side I fastened a
stick, and made it firm by tying it with pack-thread. From a young
palm-tree I gathered some large leaves, with which I covered the
outside of my wicker-work. I was as much pleased with this basket-
work umbrella as any little girl ever was with a new parasol.
The rest of the day I employed in making a bag to hold any pro-
visions I might find in my excursion. Having a good stock of pack-
thread by me, I thought I would knit one with that. I took a piece
of reed to form the meshes on, and fastened the end of the string to
a smooth twig, six inches in length, for a needle. Before night I
had a good-sized bag, with a string in the top, by which I could
hang it around my neck.
AN EXCURSION INLAND. 45
Having thus completed the preparations for my journey, I went
to bed, and slept well. I rose as soon as the first rays of light made
their way into my apartment. I tied a large cord around my waist,
into which I put my stone mallet; and with my bag and umbrella
I began my day's march. I went first to the beach, and breakfasted
on what I could find there; then to the cocoanut trees, to furnish
my bag with a nut, that I might be sure of something to eat at noon.
The morning was delightful; the sun was rising in all his glory
out of the sea. A variety of birds were singing their morning songs;
the air was pure and refreshing, and the flowering shrubs gave out
the sweetest scents. I walked cheerfully on my tour of discovery.
As I was not yet sure the island did not contain beasts of prey or
savages, I avoided forests and thickets, and kept on open ground.
Seeing some pretty flowers that resembled the convolvulus, I gathered
several; in pulling at the vine, I happened to pluck up the roots.
They looked a little like potatoes, and thinking they might be eata-
ble, I put a couple of them in my bag with the flowers.
After wandering about all the forenoon, I felt the need of food
and rest. On the banks of a pretty rivulet, I sat down under the
shade of a branching tree to eat the cocoanut I had brought with
me. I had just begun my repast, when I heard a noise like the
tramping of many animals. I started to my feet, and, seizing my
stone mallet, I prepared to defend myself against the attack of any
wild beasts. I soon saw a troop of four-legged creatures coming
towards me. My alarm was turned into joy when I found them
to be that harmless and useful animal, the llama, or Peruvian camel.
They trotted by without appearing to see me, on their way to the
rivulet, where I suppose they were accustomed to drink. I watched
their movements unobserved. I had once seen a llama, at York, and
had read of the Peruvians taming them and using them as beasts of
burden. I knew that warm, soft clothing was made from their hair
or wool, and that their flesh was excellent food. I had a strong desire
'I soon saw a troop of four-legged creatures."
to taste a piece of meat, and I determined to kill one of the llamas,
if I could. I placed myself close to the spot they had passed. With
my mallet in my hand I waited their return from the rivulet. A
young one came very near my place of concealment, and I gave it a
blow on the back of its neck that laid it dead at my feet.
It did not occur to me till I had killed the llama that I had not
the means of lighting a fire. I had no flint, steel, matches, or tinder.
Though I could strike fire with two hard stones, I could make no
use of the spark without some kind of tinder, and I was at a loss to
procure it . I had read of savages rubbing two dry sticks together
till they take fire. I was satisfied I could do the same, and therefore
promised myself a good meal of cooked meat that evening.
Having rested and eaten a cocoanut, I prepared to carry home
my game. I threw the carcass over my shoulder, and turned my
steps towards the cave.
On my way I discovered a group of lemon-trees. They had fruit
and blossoms on them, and some ripe lemons had fallen to the
ground, which I picked up and put in my bag. After a long and
warm walk, I reached the terrace with my load. My eagerness to
eat a bit of meat made me set to work directly to skin the llama.
This I found to be impossible, with a stone wedge. After pulling
and hacking away at it for some time, 1 was obliged to content
myself with the tongue, which I succeeded in pulling out whole.
I could not help smacking my lips at the thought of eating such a
delicate morsel as I knew it would be when cooked.
I next set to work to kindle a fire by rubbing two pieces of dry
wood together, and expected to see them light at once. I rubbed so
briskly that the sweat ran down my face in large drops, but I could
not raise a spark. When the wood was heated enough to smoke, I
was so tired I could not rub a moment longer. While I stopped to
rest and recover my breath, the wood cooled, and all my labor was
lost . I worked away in this manner a long time, and tried many
different kinds of wood, but all to no purpose. I could never do
more than make the wood smoke a little. At last I gave up in de-
spair, threw away my sticks, and lay down on the grass, exhausted
and disappointed. .
After some time spent in these mournful reflections, hunger made
me think of eating the meat raw; but on trying it I found it so
tough, I could hardly bite it. The taste was so unlike that of
cooked meat that I could not relish it at all; and I went to my
cave for the night, feeling very hungry, tired, and melancholy.
Sleep, however, soon came to my relief, and I forgot my troubles
for a while.
The first thing I thought of, on awaking the next morning, was
the flesh of the llama, which only wanted a fire to make it deli-
cious food. As I lay trying to remember how savage nations cook
their meat, I recollected an account of the Tartars putting the meat
they mean to eat under their saddles, and cooking it by the heat of
the horse's body, as they ride along. This heat, I thought, might be
given to the meat in another way, and up I jumped to begin a new
experiment in cookery.
I found two thin, flat stones. Between them I placed the llama's
tongue, and began to strike upon the upper stone with my mallet.
These blows I continued for eight or ten minutes; and feeling the
stone grow hot, I went on striking it with redoubled activity for half
an hour or more.
By that time the meat had become, partly by the heat and partly
by the blows, quite tender and fit to eat. To one who had not eaten
any meat for such a length of time, it tasted very well . I was so
hungry that the llama's tongue did not half satisfy me. I made
great exertions to pull off a part of the skin, and get a piece of the
flesh to cook in the same manner; and at last I succeeded. I made
this still more palatable by squeezing a little lemon juice over
it; and an excellent meal repaid me for all my labor. I ate it
with a thankful heart, and was greatly refreshed and strengthened
by it.
I could not help feeling sad, when I reflected on the want of a
common pocket-knife. With that I could have skinned the llama,
and saved the skin whole for various purposes. I could have eaten
my meat, too, much more comfortably, with a knife to cut it. I
recalled what I had read about the llama, and then a happy thought
occurred to me. As the llamas suckle their young, they must have
milk; and if I could obtain one of the mothers alive, I could use
her milk as food. I was considering the best way to catch one
when a violent shower of rain obliged me to shelter myself in the
cave. It was the first shower that had fallen since I was cast upon
the island, though heavy dews and fogs had partly supplied the
place of rain.
The rain became heavier every moment, till it seemed to run in
streams from the clouds. I had never seen such rain before, but I
had read of it as common in the West Indies. Presently it began
to thunder and lighten violently. After each flash of lightning
there came such loud claps of thunder as I had never before heard.
I rejoiced that I had a cave to shelter me from the rain, and only
feared that my barrier might be undermined by the floods of water
that came down on all sides. I kept my eyes fixed upon it with
some anxiety, and saw some of the earth and stones washed away.
It happened very fortunately that there was one weak place in this
barrier, at which the rain found a passage. Otherwise it would have
collected inside, till the quantity of water would have carried away
all my works of defence. As it was, it made an opening for itself
and ran off harmlessly.
The rain continued so long that I was obliged to give up making
any excursion that day. As I sat in my cave, looking at the breach
made in my barrier by the rain, I resolved not to close it up again,
but to leave a space by which to pass in and out, and secure it at
4
night as well as I could. Having never had any alarm, from man or
beast, since I came on the island, I began to think my precaution
unnecessary. The convenience of a passage in and out would be
very great, and save my climbing the ladder so often.
In the evening I made my gateway, and secured it with the two
oars I had till I could get something better. I went to bed, full of
schemes for catching llamas with nooses, as the Peruvians do wild
horses, and dreamed all night that I was in the midst of llamas,
horses, and Peruvians.
THE CAPTURE OF THE LLAMA.
FULL of my new schemes for catching llamas alive, I rose with
the sun, and began my preparations for breakfasting on another piece
of meat. But the remaining flesh of the llama was spoiled, the
weather being extremely sultry when I killed it. I buried it at a
distance from my cave, and went to the beach in search of other
food. There I found, in the crevices of the rocks, some large,
round balls, that looked like eggs. Supposing them to be the pro-
duction of some large sea-fowl, I sucked one of them. I found it
palatable food, and made a very good breakfast in spite of my dis-
appointment about the meat.
I then prepared a noose so that it should not choke the llama, but
only draw up to the size of its neck. Throwing the rope over my
shoulder, I inarched off. The country was greatly improved by the
rain; all the vegetable world seemed clad in new beauty, and the
birds sang over my head more merrily than ever. I followed new
paths, much more beautiful than I had before seen. I crossed some
pretty valleys, abounding in shrubs and flowers, berries and other
fruits. Some of these slightly resembled the fruits of my own coun-
try, but most of them were entirely new to me. The fear of being
poisoned did not restrain me from the tempting banquet, and I ate
without injury of several of the fruits.
Before noon I had crossed the range of hills that ran nearly east
and west, on the south side of which I lived. I went several miles
into the country without seeing any living creature except birds, or
discovering the least trace of any human being. I began to fear that,
in changing my course, I should miss the llamas altogether. See-
ing a winding river at a little distance, I walked that way, and pres-
ently came to a beautiful, wooded spot on its banks. I laid myself
down on a smooth, grassy bank, and forgot for a while my unhappy
situation, in contemplating the beauties of nature around me. Sud-
denly the well-remembered sound of the llamas' footsteps roused me
to action.
I jumped up, and had just time to place myself behind a large
tree, and adjust my noose properly, before they appeared. I fixed
my eye upon a mother with two young ones following her. As she
moved gently by my place of concealment, I had no difficulty in
throwing the loop over her head. The bound she gave on feeling
the rope drew it close round her throat, and had well-nigh pulled
the end of it out of my hand. Fearing that her struggles would
soon free her I made the end of the rope fast to the trunk of a small
tree. Thus secured, she jumped and pulled till she tired herself
out. The young ones played many pranks about her, wondering,
no doubt, what ailed their poor mother. I sympathized so much
with her unwillingness to be made a captive that I had serious
thoughts of letting her go. Knowing how useful she would be to
me, and that she would, in time, be reconciled to captivity, I re-
solved to lead her home if I could.
I might have caught as many as I pleased, for my presence did
not alarm them in the least. They passed by me as if I were a tree
or a stone. This should have satisfied me that the island was unin-
habited; for wherever the power of man is felt, his approach is
feared by all inferior animals.
The flock of llamas drank at the river, and then trotted off into
the woods. When I thought my prisoner was sufficiently exhausted
to be manageable, I began to lead her to her future home, her kids
following close after us.
At first she stepped along very quietly, and I began to think I
THE CAPTURE OF THE LLAMA. 53
should have no more trouble with her. She soon undeceived me,
and began such capers that I was obliged to throw away my um-
brella, and then, with both hands, I could but just hold her.
Occasionally she would allow me to lead her along for some dis-
tance; but at times she was very refractory. I was so worn out
with the exertions I had made that when I reached my terrace, I
could only tie her to a tree. I went at once to my soft bed of hay,
and falling asleep directly, my whole night's rest seemed like one
short nap.
My first sensation on awaking was hunger, for I had eaten nothing
for twenty-four hours but the eggs I found on the rocks, and some
wild fruits gathered on my long walk. This was a spare diet for
one who had taken so much exercise. I rose, determined to kill one
kid for present use, and secure to myself a part of the mother's milk.
When I joined my new companions, and saw the pretty gambols and
joyous faces of the young ones, and the subdued appearance of their
captive mother, I could not bring myself to take the life of either.
I went to the beach for a breakfast, and found more of the same
kind of eggs and plenty of oysters. I was now convinced that there
was no danger of my starving to death. But I foresaw many acci-
dents that might happen to cut off these resources. I strongly desired
to have a stock of vegetables and fruits near my cave, together with
a flock of llamas, and a fire to cook with. I had already done more
towards making my situation tolerable than I had at first thought
possible, and I intended to do a great deal more.
Again I turned my thoughts to the means of obtaining a fire. I
tried to make tinder of dried leaves, decayed wood, and the ravellings
of my cotton stockings; but none of these would take fire from the
sparks produced by striking together two pieces of quartz. I la-
mented my ignorance of the substance called punk, used as tinder.
I remembered how it looked. I spent many hours looking for it
among the rocks and seaweed, but all in vain. As I was one day in
a thick wood, looking for cocoanuts, I seated myself under the shade
of a tree of a kind unknown to me. Examining its bark, I saw,
growing out of it, a fungus I could not doubt was the very thing I
had been in search of. I always carried two stones in my pocket
that would strike fire, and I made the experiment at once, but
without success: every spark fell lifeless on the fungus. I was
not discouraged.
It might require to be dried before it was used. I looked about
to find some that was dry, or for a dead tree, on which the fungus
might have grown and died with its parent stem. The latter was
soon found. I struck the stones together over this dry fungus, and
found to my great joy that it kindled immediately. With the lighted
punk I set fire to some dry leaves and broken twigs, and delighted
my eyes with the sight of a blaze, in order to realize that I possessed
the "best of servants, and worst of masters," — a fire.
I had nothing with me to cook, and I let the fire burn out; but I
collected all the punk I could find, and carried it home. Having
no meat, I went to the beach for something to cook, intending, if I
found nothing else, to gather some oysters and roast them.
As I reached the sands, I saw something like a large, roundish stone,
where I had never observed one before. I perceived that it moved
on four legs. When I overtook it, I found it to be a kind of turtle,
though not exactly like the green turtles from the West Indies.
I stopped its march towards the sea by turning it on its back,
which made it quite helpless. Following its track, on the sands, to
the place it had just come from, I found, lightly covered, a large
deposit of the soft eggs, which I had taken for birds' eggs. I was
now convinced that they belonged to this creature.
I put several of them in my bag with sea-weed, to prevent their
breaking. With the turtle on my shoulder, I walked back to my
terrace. I thought he weighed a good many pounds when I first
lifted him up; and before I reached home his weight seemed to be
55
doubled. I had scarcely strength to ascend the terrace, so much
was I weakened by the want of nourishing food.
From descriptions I had read of a terrapin, I knew this must be
of the same kind, and very good to eat. I determined to kill him at
once, and dress some of the meat. This was easier said than done;

"I found it to be a kind of turtle."
and, disliking to mangle the poor creature without killing him at
once, I determined to make a fire and roast my eggs, and let him
alone a while longer.
In looking for materials to light a fire, I found the roots I had
gathered long before, belonging to a vine like the convolvulus. These
I also thought of roasting; and having made a large fire, and got a
good bed of ashes, I put them and the eggs into it.
The eggs were done long before the roots; and as my appetite was
very keen, I could not wait for the whole dinner, but began on the
first dish. Never did anything taste so well to me. No one can
imagine the luxury of eating cooked victuals who has not lived for
months on raw provisions, as I had done. To me these eggs, though
of a coarse kind, and eaten without salt, which they very much
needed, tasted deliciously.
When I had done my dinner, I found the terrapin had walked off
to a considerable distance. As soon as I came near him, he shut
himself up as before. I put him on his back, within my enclosure,
and left him.
I now set to work to make a fishing-net of the string I had amused
myself with spinning from the fibres of the nettle. I could catch a
variety of fish, which, with the help of fire, would be excellent eating,
though quite useless to me without. I lived near the sea, in which
they abounded, and they would be a very convenient article of food.
I let my fire burn out, and withdrew the roots from the warm
ashes. I found them a most excellent vegetable, like a potato, but
much sweeter. Of these and a drink of llama's milk, obtained for
the first time, I made a luxurious supper; and went to bed in ex-
cellent spirits, full of schemes for the future.
A DINNER OF ROAST MEAT.
NOT knowing that llamas have stomachs somewhat like camels,
and do not drink often, I thought it important to have a watering-
place for them. I put a large shell under the little stream that
flowed out of the rock near my cave. This shell was two feet long,
and sixteen inches broad, of oval shape, with scalloped edges, of a
pink color inside, and highly polished. The flow of the stream kept
it full of water, and made it run over at all the scallops. It had a
very pretty appearance, and doubly repaid me, by its beauty and
usefulness, for bringing it from the beach to my terrace.
I made myself a comfortable seat, under the shade of a tree near
my fountain, by placing a piece of the plank, washed ashore from the
wreck, on some stones. There I frequently sat to enjoy the company
of my dumb companions, the llamas, which had become quite tame.
The young ones followed me about, and put their noses into my
hand to find if I had any berries for them, for I often brought home
such as they liked from the woods. They soon learned to get their
own living, and I had the full benefit of the old one's milk. I kept
it in cocoanut-shells, which I also used as drinking-cups.
I was very desirous of eating some roast meat, not only for the sake
of its taste, but because it would restore my strength. So I went into
the country behind the hills, killed a young llama, and brought it
home on my back. I thought the load would tire me less than lead-
ing it home; and if I brought it home alive, I should be unwilling
to kill it at all.
Great was the trouble it cost me to tear off a part of the skin,
divide the limbs, and get off a piece of the flesh, without an edge
tool of any sort, unless the stone wedge might be so called.
When I had obtained a proper piece to roast, I made a good fire,
in a sheltered nook of the rocks, near my cave. I took for a spit a
slender branch, and, having run it through the meat, I rested the
ends on two forked sticks, stuck into the ground before the fire.
Having seen my mother's cook use salt and water for this purpose,
I put my meat a little way back from the fire, while I ran to the
sea-side, with two cocoanut-shells, for some salt water, to be used in
basting the meat. For a dripping-pan I took my shell-shovel,
washed it clean, and placed it under the meat, while I poured on
the salt water. It soon mixed, in the shell, with the juices that
dropped from the meat, and made very good gravy.
I made a basting-ladle by sticking a shell into a slit in the end
of a twig; and I basted the meat well, all the time it was roasting.
Considering my slender preparations, I performed the duties of a
cook entirely to my own satisfaction.
At last the meat was thoroughly done; and for want of a dish,
I took it up in the dripping-pan or shell-shovel, and placed it on a
large flat rock, for a table. Without a knife, fork, or plate, I was
obliged to use my fingers and eat out of the dish; but hunger and
necessity will reconcile one to many things. The meat certainly
tasted better than the best-dressed dish ever served up to me before.
All that was wanting to make the meal delicious was bread and
salt . The dryest crust, the blackest rye-bread, I ever saw, would
have been a treat to me. I regretted that I had not procured more
of the roots resembling potatoes sweetened, and roasted them to qat
with my meat; but that was a luxury reserved for another time.
Soon afterwards I made a business of gathering those roots; but, as
the vine was out of blossom, and I was not well acquainted with the
leaf, I had at first some difficulty in finding it.
A DINNER OF ROAST MEAT.
59
The Peruvians use the llama as a beast of burthen. I determined
to make mine useful in that way. It was necessary to have some
contrivance for holding the load on the back of the llama; so I
thought I would make some panniers, such as are slung over the
backs of mules and other animals.

"It was no trouble to me to weave the panniers."
I found enough of the proper kind of willow for basket-work;
but I had great difficulty in getting off twigs enough for my purpose,
for I had nothing to cut it with. When once I had procured my
stock, it was no trouble to me to weave the panniers; for I learned
the art of basket-making when a boy, and had not forgotten how to
set to work. I succeeded tolerably well, and made a pair of pan-
niers, that were pretty good mates, and sufficiently large and strong.
I slung them over the back of the llama with a stout cord; and,
that this might not hurt her, I put it over a saddle of bark, stuffed
with grass.
I had for some time trained the old llama to be led about; and as
I often took her to graze on the herbs she liked best, she was always
willing to accompany me. But when I fastened the empty panniers
on her back, she was frightened, and tried to run away. To prevent
this, I made blinders of bark for her, and fastened them on with my
cordage. Though she was a little uneasy at first, on feeling some-
thing on her back, she did not attempt to run away. I accustomed
her first to a small load, and then to a heavier one, until by degrees
she did all the work I needed of her.
With the llama's help, I brought to my cave a good stock of the
sweet potatoes, as I called them, berries, fruits, and various kinds of
nuts, besides cocoanuts, that I found to be palatable food. I even
made her bear one of her own species on her back, when I had killed
it for eating.
I became very fond of this useful creature. On the journeys we
now made, the kids generally followed in our train, but were not old
enough to share our toils. Wild llamas would sometimes approach
us, and show some astonishment at seeing their sister in harness;
but she took little notice of them, and seemed perfectly contented
with her lot. The kids would join the herd and sport with them
awhile, but soon left them again, to return to my side, — a proof of
attachment that pleased me very much.
The affection of these animals was a great comfort to me in my
solitude. I used to talk to them just as if they could understand
me. I feared I might forget how to speak, if I did not practise; and
as I always hoped to be taken off the island by a passing vessel, I
wished to be able to speak intelligibly. Every Sunday I used to
recite aloud all the hymns and chapters that I could remember. At
other time I would repeat songs, tell stories, and narrate my own
adventures, for the sake of practice.
My terrapin became one of my family, and finding I no longer
tried to injure him, he walked about at his ease within my barrier.
Occasionally I let him out on the terrace, when the kids would try
to play with him; but his grave demeanor baffled them.
The difficulty of preparing meat for eating made me live a great
deal on fish. I succeeded very well in contriving some fishing-tackle.
I knitted a bag and then fastened it to a hoop made of a twig. I got
a straight branch of a tree with a small fork at the end, to which I
secured the hoop. With this instrument I often scooped up three
or four fine fish at once, besides crabs, which I could roast in the
shell and eat them out of it. As I had no pot to boil anything in,
I was obliged to roast all my fish, or cook them in the ashes.
Procuring and preparing food, with such small means as I had,
took up a great deal of time. Everything spoiled so quickly, in this
warm climate, that I could do little more than provide for each day
as it came. It was fortunate for me that I had this constant em-
ployment; for when I was not obliged to exert myself, I spent hours
in melancholy reverie, with my eyes fixed on the ocean, hoping to
see a sail
.
When I had been on the island six months, by my reckoning, I
found it would be inconvenient to count the weeks as they became
more numerous. Therefore I added another column to my calendar
by taking another tree and making a notch on that for every four
weeks. But as I hoped to get away before it would be necessary to
count years, I made no arrangements for such a long period.
On first coming here, I found everything in the beauty of spring;
the vegetable world was putting forth buds and blossoms in October,
just as it does in April and May, in England. The seasons were re-
YO UNG FOLKS' ROBINSON CRUSOE.
versed, and I considered that I had a long summer before me. For
many months the weather was fine, though oppressively warm, with
occasional thunder-storms and squalls. When I had enjoyed this

"I added another column tx) ray calendar."
fine weather for six months, I began to think what sort of change
I might expect. The few cocoanut and lemon trees I had found
convinced me that I need not fear any cold weather; but I had
read of mild climates subject to long-continued rains. I determined
to provide against a rainy time as well as I could.
I had not yet explored much of the island, or found out half its
resources, and I resolved on making an extensive tour while the fine
weather lasted; but, my shoes being soon worn out, my feet blistered,
and continued very tender for a long while. Besides, I always liked
to be in sight of the ocean from the south side of the island. Now
my feet were hardened by use, my fears were allayed by long-con-
tinued safety, and I prepared for an excursion of several days.
My umbrella was often inconvenient, and I made a cap of wicker-
work, covering it with leaves to defend my head from the sun. I
made a pair of smaller panniers and blinders for the young llamas,
and put halters about their necks, and pack-saddles, of bark and hay,
on their backs. Having trained them for a few days, and found them
very tractable, I thought I could make them carry the panniers al-
ternately. I could lead the one that was loaded, leaving the other
at liberty to follow till her turn came.
I took with me spare ropes and string, my stone wedge and mallet,
a cocoanut-shell for a drinking-cup, some punk and stones to strike
fire with, my fishing-net, and the bag I wore suspended around my
neck. These were all the implements I had, except my shell-shovel,
and I resolved not to leave that behind. I took a few baked pota-
toes with me, trusting to obtain a further supply of eatables on the
way. Thus prepared I set forward.
A TOUR OF OBSERVATION AND DISCOVERT.
I SET off in excellent spirits on my tour of observation and dis-
covery. I kept as near the coast on my right hand as the rocks
would permit, for I wished to learn the shape of the island and know
all its bays and coves. The range of hills on my left was a general
guide.
After walking slowly about three hours, as I judged by the sun,
the hills gradually disappeared. I came to a smooth, grassy cape, or
ridge of land, that sloped down to the coast on each side. The her-
bage here was short and sweet, and I let the llamas graze, while I
walked forward far enough to observe this point of land. The waves
washed the shore on each side, and the stillness of the water showed
that it was justly named the Pacific Ocean. There was not a cloud
in the sky, or a breath of air, and the heat was oppressive. Satisfied
that the cape terminated in a rocky point, I named it Land's End,
after the last corner I saw of old England. I hastened back to my
llamas to seek a shady spot, in which to rest myself and them.
I now followed the coast beyond the cape, and soon found myself
on the northern side of the range of hills. I then struck inland, and
came to a valley, that appeared to extend from the hills to the coast,
and to be full of trees. I did not doubt that I should there find
water as well as shade.
The sound of a mountain stream saluted my ear as soon as I began
to descend into this valley. From a rock, a few yards lower down, I
beheld the prettiest waterfall I ever saw.
A TOUR OF OBSERVATION. 65
Aconsiderable stream leaped from a perpendicular cliff, at the
head of this valley, into a large basin, many yards below; and then
found its way by various windings to the sea.
The groves were free from underbrush and perfumed the air with
their sweet odors. I was lost in admiration at the great variety and
beauty of the trees around me. I had read a particular description
of the pimento, by which I knew it as soon as I saw and smelt it.
Its seeds are called allspice. I determined to return here when the
time came for gathering the berries, and supply myself with a stock
of spice, to season my food with, instead of salt.
The impatience of my dumb companions to reach a particular
kind of herbage that grew near the water aroused me from my reve-
rie. I followed them to a part of the stream, where its glassy sur-
face was unbroken by a ripple. Here I unloaded the llamas, and
gave them their liberty, while I refreshed myself with some milk
and the roasted potatoes I had brought with me.
At first, I thought I should be happier if living in this delightful
valley; but, on further consideration, I knew I could not bear to be
out of sight of the sea by which I looked for deliverance from my
solitude. My first and last act, every day, was to climb to the high
land above the cave, and look out for a vessel. I resolved to con-
tinue my residence at the cave, but to make frequent visits to this
beautiful spot. I called this Gordon Vale, in remembrance of my
late friend and commander.
Having eaten my dinner, I fell asleep, and so passed away the
warmest part of the day. On awaking, I found my faithful animals
sleeping close by me, the head of one resting on my leg. As soon
as I moved, the llamas started up and seemed as ready as I was to
continue the journey. I reloaded them, and went down the vale to
the coast, where the mountain stream emptied itself into a pretty
little sheltered bay, so shallow we could easily ford it.
I followed the Ver d of the bay, and was examining some curious
£
seaweed, such as I had not before seen, when a most unexpected
sight fixed my eyes, — fragments of sailors' clothes, like those I wore.
I could not account for the clothes being so torn; but I supposed
it to be done by birds of prey. The pieces which had buttons on
them, I picked up and threw into my panniers, and also the shoes,
though much injured by salt water and the sun.
While at this place I made a most valuable discovery, — nothing
less than a jackknife! I found it tied to a button-hole of a jacket.
My joy seemed too much for me, and I cried and laughed by turns.
Finding this treasure induced me to look for other articles that
might be in the pockets, or fallen out from them. I was happy
enough to pick up another knife, a better one than the first, three
tobacco-boxes, and a broken watch, with chain, key, and seal, which
I knew to be Captain Gordon's. This made my tears flow afresh.
I also found some Spanish dollars and half-dollars; but they were
so perfectly useless to me that I hardly thought it worth while to
pick them up. I could not help saying aloud, as I compared the
real value of silver and iron, "I would not exchange one of my
rusty iron knives for a hundred pounds of silver, or of gold either."
When I had collected all these articles, and secured my precious
knives and the watch, I threw the rest into my panniers, putting
the money into the tobacco-boxes. I then marched from Gordon
Vale and Gordon Bay, feeling very rich in my new acquisitions.
Finding these things on this side of the island, made me think
it likely I might discover parts of the wrecked boat, and perhaps
of the Santa Maria. She disappeared the night after I reached
the island, and was probably dashed to pieces. I followed the coast
closer than ever; and visited every part where anything might have
washed on shore. I found nothing but some pieces of plank, too
heavy for me to carry away. I dragged them a little farther from
the water that they might not float off. I drew out all I could of
the rusty nails in them, and tied them up in a piece of cloth so as not
to lose one of them, knowing the value of any sharp-pointed iron,
like a nail.
I thought it was time now to look for a sheltered spot to spend
the night in, as well as for provisions for my supper. My fishing-
net soon procured me a crab and two or three fishes, which I put
in my panniers, lest the land productions should not serve me for
food. Calling this bay Nail Cove, I turned my steps inland, and
left the seashore for that day.
A beautiful wood, illumined by the red glow of the setting sun,
looked very inviting. I made my way to it over a plain covered
with grass as high as my shoulders, which made it very tiresome
walking. The llamas would not go first, to beat a path for me;
they knew better, and chose to follow me.
After walking at least three quarters of a mile through this high
grass, I came to a little sluggish stream, which separated me from
the wood where I intended to sleep. As the banks of it afforded
some sweet herbage for my llamas, I altered my mind, and resolved
to pass the night on this side of it
.
I was glad I had brought my supper with me from the seashore,
for here I saw nothing eatable, except some cresses that grew in the
brook. I unloaded my llamas, and let them get their own meal,
while I cooked mine. But I soon found that this would prove no
place of rest for me, for I was beset by mosquitoes on every side;
the first I had met with on the island. I hastened to kindle a fire,
that I might save myself from the attacks of these tormenting in-
sects by getting into the smoke.
I roasted my crab, and tried to eat it, but could not enjoy my
supper on account of the mosquitoes. I determined to quit the
spot before I attempted to sleep. The moon had risen, and by her
light I found my way, with my reloaded llamas, across the stream,
which I called Mosquito River. A cloud of mosquitoes followed me,
and I feared I should not get rid of them by changing my camp.
But, as I ascended the high ground opposite, a brisk wind suddenly
delivered me from my tormentors. A long, barren slope led from
the river to the wood, which clothed the side of the hill. On reach-
ing the skirts of it, I turned to see the prospect, and had a very fine
view of the country below. I now saw that in crossing the plain of
high grass, I had had the mouth of a large river on my right, into
which emptied the small stream I had just crossed.
Being very much fatigued by my day's march, I threw myself
down on the first dry and sheltered spot I could find; and my
llamas were no sooner unloaded, than they did the same. They
never feed at night, but only sleep and ruminate, like the domestic
cow.
I was soon lost in a deep slumber. How long it continued, or what
awaked me, I know not; but on opening my eyes I beheld a most
appalling sight . Vast clouds of smoke and sheets of flame were
rolling over the plain below. I gazed in silent amazement at the
widespreading conflagration, so suddenly and unaccountably kindled.
A gentle breeze fanned the flame, and carried it over the plain at a
rapid rate. It was a grand sight . As I gazed upon it, I felt grate-
ful for my own safety, which I might possibly owe to those torment-
ing mosquitoes that drove me across the river.
I watched the progress of the fire, till it began to diminish for
want of dry fuel . When it was almost extinct, I dropped asleep
again, from exhaustion of mind and body.
THE PRODUCTIONS OF THE ISLAND.
MY second day's journey was much less remarkable than the first,
and I do not remember half so much about it. In the morning, the
plain presented a dismal appearance, blackened all over by the burnt
stalks of plants. As I gazed at it, I observed that this black appear-
ance extended, in one place, to the gravelly bank, by the side of which
I lighted my fire. The truth flashed on my mind. The fire had been
communicated by dry leaves and sticks to the grass on the plain,
and I was the cause of the destruction I had witnessed. I resolved
to take a lesson of caution, for the future, from this accident, and
never again to leave a large, blazing fire to burn out unheeded.
On crossing the top of the wooded hill, I saw the large river, the
mouth of which I had discovered by moonlight. It was flowing
majestically through a wide valley, bounded on each side by woody
mountains. I spent the whole day in travelling, sometimes in a
forest, sometimes on open ground, till I came to a height, from
which I could see the river, the course of which I was trying to
pursue. At night-fall, I found myself in that part of the vale
where a sudden bend of the river to the west seemed to enclose it
entirely. A dry nook, among some sheltering rocks, with a bed of
fern-leaves, received my weary limbs, after a light supper of milk
and berries; and undisturbed repose restored my vigor for the
morrow.
My third day's journey was entirely among the mountains. As I
could not cross the river with my loaded llamas, I followed its course
among the hills; and was rewarded for my pains by discovering
new and beautiful productions.
Of various trees entirely new to me, one kind particularly attracted
my attention. It was as large as a middling-sized oak, but with a
straight trunk. The leaves were about a foot and a half long, and
the fruit was as remarkable as the foliage. Large, pale-green balls
hung from every part of it, heart-shaped, and of the size of a child's
head. I threw the end of a rope over one of the long horizontal
branches, and having pulled it down within my reach, gathered
several specimens of it. On breaking one open, I found a substance
more like new bread than anything else. It had very little taste,
and that was sweetish. While thinking about it, it came to my
mind that I had heard or read of a tree called the bread-fruit tree;
and that this might be it. As the fruit was not very palatable when
raw, I resolved to try it cooked; for it looked so good, I thought it
must be eatable.
Being about the time that I usually dined and rested, I unloaded
my llamas, and kindled a fire. This fruit seemed to be too tender to
bear baking in the ashes. As I had no utensil for boiling, I tried
roasting it. Every few minutes I tasted it, to find out what effect
the fire had on it. Every tune it improved, till at last it was so like
bread that I could no longer doubt it was the true bread-fruit. I
had made another valuable discovery. With this bread and the
llama's milk I made an excellent meal; and before leaving the
spot, I gathered enough to load my llamas, with what was already
in their panniers.
I slept the third night in a pretty grove of trees, on the side of
a hill, surrounded by mountains. I did not fall asleep immediately,
but lay on a bed of dry leaves, looking at the moon and stars.
I was awakened the next morning by strange noises, that mingled
in my dreams before they roused me entirely. When quite awake,
I could not tell what to make of these sounds, until I discovered a
tree at some little distance, covered with parrots. They seemed to be
holding a council, in which all were talkers and none hearers.
THE PRODUCTIONS OF THE ISLAND. 71
I wished to catch one of these parrots alive, and carry it home
with me, that I might teach it to talk, and have the pleasure of
hearing a few words uttered by a different voice from my own. I
hastily made some loops of twine, with slip-knots, and fastened
them to the ground by stakes, cut with my jackknife. I strewed
some crumbs of bread-fruit over them for bait, and withdrew to
eat my breakfast and watch my snares from a distance. The
saucy creatures came and ate up the crumbs, and looked very
knowingly at the loops and sticks. They walked over the string,
without catching their feet in one of the loops. I was too anxious
to reach the seashore to spend any more time in ensnaring parrots.
I named the grove after them; and resumed my walk as soon as I
had finished my breakfast and loaded my llamas.
I kept the rising sun on my left hand, and moved directly south.
I had been travelling in a northwesterly course since I left the Land's
End, and I thought it would be but a short cut, across the country,
to my abode on the terrace. I found it, however, a much longer
journey than I expected; for, though the distance was not great,
the nature of the ground was such that I was three days in accom-
plishing it.
At the end of the first day I stretched my weary limbs on a grassy
bank. I had not fallen asleep when every nerve in me was shaken
by a loud, crashing noise, such as I had never before heard. It
reverberated among the mountains in the most solemn manner, and
then died away, making the stillness most striking and appalling.
The loud noise was new to me. I could not understand it; but I
came to the conclusion that it must be either a falling rock or a
falling tree. After asking the protection of God for the night, I fell
asleep and rested well.
In the morning, I surveyed the right bank of the river for some
place shallow enough to be forded. The stream was deep and rapid,
there was no possibility of crossing it in that place. I was
forced to turn my face eastward, and go up the valley by the side
of the river. I soon found that it took a bend to the south, and by
going over a high hill, I saw no more of it. But the precipices and
chasms that I met with frequently turned me out of my way, and
prevented my getting much nearer the coast. The third day I was
allured from my course by a fertile-looking plain to the west. There
I met with a rich reward for all my toilsome journey over the moun-
tains, — an abundance of fine ripe grapes, on which I feasted both
my eyes and palate. The vines hung in beautiful festoons from tree
to tree, and covered with their rich foliage and fruit the smaller
bushes and shrubs. I was very desirous of taking away with me
some of these delicious grapes. Tying some bunches to the edges of
the panniers on the inside, I brought off a small supply, resolving
to go there again very soon and procure more.
I also gathered some ripe lemons on this luxuriant spot, which I
called my vineyard. The river that lay to the south of this plain
intercepted my course homeward, and obliged me to go up its banks
till I found a shallow place at which to ford it. I now approached
the range of hills on the south side of which I lived, and saw a flock
of llamas sporting on their sides. Being now possessed of a knife, I
longed to eat some roast meat, properly dressed and carved. I had
neither time nor strength to go out of my way in search of them.
Attracted by the tame llamas, they came very near us. I had no
difficulty in knocking down a young one with my stone mallet. On
seeing their comrade fall, they all took to their heels and scampered
off to the hills.
I shall never forget the satisfaction I felt in having a sharp instru-
ment with which to dress the llama. I put the carcass across the
back of the unloaded kid, and tied the feet under her. Soon after-
wards I reached a part of the hill where I had frequently been
before, and felt something of the pleasure of travellers on approach-
ing their homes.
The sight of my flourishing hedge, pretty fountain, and comforta-
ble retreat made me glad to get back to my accustomed abode.
When I had reflected on the treasures I had acquired in my excur-
sion, I became quite cheerful. Being very hungry and in need of
nourishing food, I resolved to have a meat supper. I set about
skinning the dead llama with my jackknife. I cut off a good slice
of the haunch, and roasted it as well as I could. Having seasoned
it with lemon-juice, I ate it with a good relish, —all the better too
for having a knife to cut it with, and some roasted bread-fruit to
eat with it. This was the best meal I had yet made on the island.
With a thankful heart I went to bed composed and happy.
When I lay down on my bed, I felt a great lump under me; and
on thrusting my hand through the hay to feel what it could be, I
discovered my old friend, the terrapin. He had probably taken pos-
session of my bed for one of his long naps of two or three months.
I soon showed him the way out of my sleeping apartment, and cov-
ered him up with hay in a nook outside of the cave.
THE RAINY SEASON.
THE morning after my return from my journey, I spent in over-
hauling the treasure I had brought home with me. Rocks in my cave
served for shelves, on which I arranged my stores. The bunches of
grapes I hung up in the sun to dry. My precious jackknives I kept
always about me, well secured to button-holes, that I might not lose
them in any of my walks. I cut some small stakes, and stretched
out the llama's skin on the grass, that it might dry in the sun, and
be of some service to me afterwards.
It took up so much time to cook victuals three times a day that
I now prepared enough at once for several meals, and ate it cold.
As long as the llama's flesh lasted, I desired nothing but that and
the bread-fruit. A large portion of the meat spoiled before I could
eat it, and I tried to invent some way of preserving it. As I had no
salt, it was a very difficult task.
The Peruvians cut up their meat in long strips, and hang it in the
sun to dry. I tried this experiment; but it did not succeed, owing,
I suppose, to the air being moister here than in Peru, where it is
remarkably dry. I next tried to make the water of the ocean an-
swer instead of brine. The meat kept longer in the salt water than
in the open air, but not long enough for me to depend on a stock of
provisions so cured.
One day I found on the shore a fine, large terrapin. Happening
to have a stick in my hand with a fork at the end of it, I went softly
behind the creature, and pinned his head to the sand, in such a man-
THE RAINY SEASON. 75
ner that he could not draw it into his shell. Then I easily severed
it from his body with my jackknife. The nourishing food I had
been eating had so restored my strength that I easily shouldered
this heavy terrapin, and carried him to my terrace. I cut the body
from the shell and cooked some of the flesh. I found it to be deli-
cious food, of a much finer flavor than that of the llama. It was so
much fatter that I was at no loss for anything to baste it with. I
had found a deep recess in the rock, near my cave, where I made my
fire. Being sheltered from the wind, it burned pretty steadily. A
good quantity of ashes retained the heat, and enabled me to roast
and bake very well. Still I was greatly in want of cooking utensils,
and, next to a knife, an iron pot would have been the greatest gain
to me.
Having cooked as much of the terrapin as I could eat, I regretted
very much that the rest should spoil. While I was thinking what
I could possibly do with it, it suddenly came into my head that I
might preserve meat by smoking it. I wondered it had not occurred
to me before, for I had seen bacon smoked in the chimney of my
father's kitchen. Though the meat was salted first at home, I trusted
that the smoke might do without the salt.
As I could not drive nails into the rock, I set two poles, and
suspended the meat between them in the thickest of the smoke. I
selected the leanest part of the terrapin to dry; and having hung it
up, and made a good fire under it, I preserved the fat, by melting
it in my shovel and pouring it while hot into a cocoanut-shell. This
would do to baste lean llama meat, or might be used as butter with
the bread-fruit or sweet potato, when I was too busy to prepare a dish
of meat. The upper shell of the terrapin I scraped out clean, and set in the sun to dry. It made me an excellent vessel, fit for various
uses. The under shell I prepared in the same way, and used it as
a plate.
My plan of smoking meat succeeded so well that I made several
excursions after llamas, in order to prepare a stock of provisions for the winter. I found the animals had become shy of me and my tame
companions. I was obliged to spend hours in ambush, in order to
get a chance of killing one. I attempted to run down a young one;
and as my dexterity and speed increased much with practice, I was
soon able to catch them in this way. I kept some alive and in-
creased my flock of tame ones, and added to my store of smoked
meat. I occupied myself in digging up a fresh stock of sweet pota-
toes; and with the help of my llamas I brought home a large supply
of that excellent vegetable.
The grapes I hung up in the sun dried so well that I determined to
have a good store of them. I went to the rich plain I called my
vineyard, before the grapes were over-ripe. As I could not carry
home many in a fresh state, I resolved to gather a large quantity,
and leave them there to dry. I intended to go for them when they
had become raisins, and could bear transportation.
I brought home with me several dozens of limes and lemons from
the vineyard. As the best means of keeping them, I packed each
one in soft, dry hay, and stacked them up in a corner of my cave.
The dried grapes proved to be excellent . I brought home two large
panniers nearly full of them. Expecting a very rainy season when
the winter set in, I was anxious to have all my provisions within
the shelter of my cave; and that being only eleven feet deep by
nine wide, my bed and stores nearly filled it. As fast as the meat
which I hung in the smoke was sufficiently dried to keep, I re-
moved it to the cave. The llamas' tongues kept perfectly well for
months.
When I had secured a good stock of these provisions, I determined
to make an excursion to Gordon Vale, and gather some of the all-
spice, which must be ripe by that time. I thought I would try to
make my old llama perform the duty of a saddle-horse. As I
mounted her very gently, while she wore blinders, she made no
opposition. But when I was seated on her back, I could not make
her go forward; she waited for me to be at her side. By degrees
I coaxed her to proceed; and by the time we were a mile from
home, she trotted off at a brisk pace. Her soft wool made a good
saddle, and I enjoyed my ride to Gordon Vale exceedingly.
The spot charmed me as much on my second visit as before; and,
had not the weather warned me to lose no time, I should have lin-
gered about the groves and waterfall for hours. As it was, however,
I hastened to fill the small panniers with the green berries that con-
tain the spice, and made the best of my way home again. I arrived
just in time to avoid a drenching shower. I only regretted that my
cave was not large enough to hold my llamas. A clump of trees
which grew on my terrace was their shelter. By feeding them every
evening, and keeping one tied, I easily prevented the others from
straying away.
It was the beginning of winter, and I was tolerably well prepared
for it. There were still many things left undone that would have
added greatly to my comfort, by giving me employment when con-
fined to my cave. I regretted that I had not laid in a stock of the
fibrous nettle, ready for twisting into pack-thread and cordage. That
would have been an excellent occupation for me during the many
hours I sat with nothing to do for several weeks.
A difficulty now presented itself which I had not thought of
before the rainy season set in; and that was, how to make a fire,
in the midst of so much rain. My cave was too small, and too
much crowded with combustible matter, for me to light one inside
of it; and without, everything was so wet that it was scarcely pos-
sible to make the wood burn. I was obliged, whenever I did make
a fire, to rob myself of some of the hay in my bed for kindling-stuff.
I ate my smoked meat. Cutting it in very thin shavings, I learned
by degrees to like it tolerably well. Whenever the rain ceased long
enough for me to make a fire, I baked as much provision as I could
consume while it was good. In these intervals I visited the shore,
and picked up oysters and crabs to vary my diet.
I had to be very careful not to wet my clothes at this time, for if
I did I could not dry them again for a great while, having no fire
under cover, and no sunshine. The air was chilly, and as I had
no room to exercise in my cave, it would certainly make me ill,
if I sat still in wet clothes. I missed my accustomed exercise, and
felt the want of useful occupation so much that my time passed
very heavily. My food did not taste good to me as when I returned
to the cave after a day's hard work in the open air. During the
nights, which were now so long that I could not sleep through them,
I used to lie in the dark, thinking of my parents and friends, and
lamenting my unhappy condition.
One of my few amusements at this time was feeding my flock of
llamas on a kind of berry they liked, and of which I had laid in a
good stock for their use. After wandering about all day, sheltering
themselves from the rain among the trees and rocks, they would
come to the enclosure before my cave. When I let them in, they
eagerly devoured all I gave them. Sometimes they tried hard to
get into my cave, and it was as much as I could do to keep them
from helping themselves to my provisions. But as soon as they had
taken their allowance of berries, and I had patted them a while,
I drove them out of my enclosure, and barricaded the entrance with
branches.
One night, after doing this, I seated myself on a pannier, turned
upside down, at the entrance of my cave, to watch the last rays of
the sun. I was deep in thought, when I heard a sound behind me
like a person sighing deeply. It went through me like an electric
shock, and so amazed and startled me that my knees trembled under
me. I jumped up and stepped into the cave to learn whence the
sound proceeded. It was so dark I saw nothing, and so still I heard
nothing. I felt about, but could discover nothing, and concluded at
last that I must have been mistaken. Perhaps I had sighed myself,
and some part of the cave had returned the sound to my ear. I was
not satisfied, and I earnestly wished I had a light, to see if any living
thing was in the cave besides myself.
I then recollected the cocoanut shells I had filled with the fat of
the terrapin, which had soon become too rancid to eat. I knew it
would burn if I could contrive a wick for it. After trying several
things that would not do, I put my hand on the ravellings of my
cotton stockings, which I had attempted to use for tinder; doubling
up a short piece and twisting it slightly, I made a wick about as large
as that of a tallow candle. I stuck it into the grease, and having
struck fire on my punk, I blew it till it lighted the cotton wick.
This interesting occupation made me forget all about the sigh I
had heard. Looking around my cave, with my new lamp, I was
surprised and amused to perceive that I had an uninvited guest,
sleeping very quietly in the furthest corner. A young llama, which
had escaped my observation when I drove out the flock, had pre-
ferred good quarters to good company, and the sigh was a long breath
of hers.
I could not bear to turn her out that night in the rain; so after
amusing myself some time with my lamp, I put it out and went to
bed.
ROBINSON'S SEVERE SICKNESS.
MY unavoidable idleness was a great trial to my patience. I did
not indulge in melancholy, but had many delightful meditations
upon the great Creator and his works. I still wished to find some-
thing for my hands to do, as I sat in my cave from morning till
night.
At last, I thought of making some bows and arrows, and learn-
ing to shoot at a mark, which would prepare me for a new kind
of sport when the fine weather returned. I made several excursions
between the showers, or rather torrents, before I found anything
suitable for a bow. After much labor, I discovered a kind of wood
that was elastic enough for the purpose. It was so tough that I
had great difficulty in severing the branch with my jackknife. I
had much satisfaction in shaping it into a bow. I made a great
number of arrows, and winged them with the feathers of a large
bird I found dead on the shore. I knew they would not fly steadily
unless they were loaded with something heavy, nor do much execu-
tion without being sharp pointed. I had read that savages fix fish-
bones and sharp stones to the end of their arrows. I tried both, but
the bones were too light, and the stones were not sharp enough. I
made but a clumsy piece of work of it at that time.
In looking for wood to make my bow and arrows of, I came across
a large bed of that kind of nettle which furnished the fibres for my
twine and cordage. The rain had so completely soaked the stalks
that the fibres separated very easily. I carried home a good supply
ROBINSON'S SEVERE SICKNESS. 81
of it, and had ample employment in spinning and twisting it for
future use. I made new fishing-nets, and a stock of strings for my
bow, which I took particular care to have smooth and strong.
I was so much occupied now that the dark, rainy days did not
give me daylight enough for all I wanted to do, and I found my
cocoanut lamp very convenient. As the fat was consumed, I cut
away the sides of the shell, that I might have all the advantage of
the light. By its decrease in height I judged how time passed, and
avoided sitting up too late.
I made myself a high bench for a table, and a three-legged stool,
out of the pieces of plank I picked up on the shore, after my ship-
wreck. With my jackknife I cut holes in the corners, and put in
legs, and wedged them very tight. These two articles added greatly
to my comfort, and could not have been procured without the use of
a knife.
I have related all that happened to me before I was taken sick.
This was a new and unexpected trial that came to me towards the
close of the rainy season.
I was seized with shivering fits, pains in my head and limbs, and
a burning thirst. All these symptoms came on so quickly that I had
only time to fill some cocoanut shells with water, and set them by
the side of my bed, before I was obliged to throw myself upon it, in
utter helplessness. I had often thought how miserable my condition
would be in case of sickness, but I had always hoped my active life
would preserve me from it . As I lived almost like wild animals, I
hoped to escape sickness, and die suddenly, as they generally do. I
now perceived that I was not to be so favored; I was to experience
the miseries of that situation in which we are most dependent on the
kindness of our friends, without the aid of any human being.
My heart sunk within me at the thought; and, overcome by
bodily and mental suffering, I wept aloud. This emotion increased the pain in my head, and I soon found myself in a burning fever. I
6
felt so badly that I had no doubt death was near at hand. This idea
comforted and calmed me; for I had for some time past regarded
death as a friend that would deliver me from all my present trials,
and unite me forever to that Good Great Spirit, who had been my
support in this solitude. I dreaded a long fit of sickness, without
any one to assist me.
I was surprised to find how much less I felt the pain of my body
when my thoughts were fixed on God. How long I was sick I know
not. I suffered much from thirst after I had drained my nut-shells
dry, and I have an indistinct recollection of going to the fountain
and drinking plentifully of its crystal water. Whether I did so, or
only dreamed it, I cannot say; though it is probable that in the de-
lirium of fever, I went there and drank, and that it produced a favor-
able effect. I remember being in a profuse perspiration, and very
sleepy; and when I came to my reason, the fever had left me, and
all my pain was gone.
On trying to get up, I found myself so helpless that I could not
doubt I had been ill and delirious. I had hardly strength enough
to turn myself on my bed of hay, and I could not sit up five minutes,
or stand at all. What was to become of me? There was no human
being to bring me the little nourishment I so much needed, and I ex-
pected nothing but to starve to death. I soon became resigned even
to this fate. My heart was full of love to God, and I felt willing to
submit to anything. It was nearly sunset one day, when I heard the
sound of a llama's footsteps, and the next instant my old friend was
at my side. She seemed surprised to see me lying there, instead of
being ready to feed her. While she was surveying me I took an
empty cocoanut shell and tried to milk her. She no sooner per-
ceived my intention than she placed herself so that I easily drew
from her the milk I required and drank it off. Never was there a
more acceptable draught, or more seasonable relief; it gave new vigor
to my exhausted body.
I was very much puzzled to know how the llama found her way
into my enclosure. I have since concluded that I went to the foun-
tain in my delirium, and left the pass open on my return, thus en-
abling the faithful creature to render me this kind service. She
rewarded herself by eating heartily of the berries she was so fond of,
and then went away.
Revived by the milk, I contrived to crawl to that corner of my
cave where I kept my raisins. By eating a few of them, at several
different times the next day, I did very well till the llama came again,
and supplied me with another draught of milk. She was now
accompanied by the rest of the llamas, and they made an end of
their berries very quickly. If my raisins had not been well secured
they would have eaten them too; for I had no power to prevent their
doing as they pleased.
The rains had abated and the weather was very fine, or I suppose
I should have had the whole flock to sleep in my cave. As it was,
they preferred another lodging, much to my comfort and satisfaction.
In a few days I was able to walk about a little, and to enjoy the beau-
tiful appearance that everything was putting on since the rains had
ceased. The fineness of the weather aided much in my recovery; and
as soon as I was well enough to venture on a long walk, I went into
the woods with my bow and arrows to try my skill in shooting birds.
Considering the clumsiness of my arrows, I succeeded tolerably well,
for I killed two birds in twenty shots. Though it cost me a great
deal of fatigue and the loss of many arrows, I was well satisfied with
my day's sport. I had a good meal of the birds, which I roasted, and
ate with an excellent appetite.
I found the pimento very useful in seasoning my food, instead of
salt, the want of which was for several months a serious incon-
venience to me. I often considered the possibility of obtaining some,
not only to render my food more palatable, but as a means of pre-
serving meat; but all my schemes failed for want of proper tools.
The weather was now that of a mild spring, but vegetation was
more tardy than I had ever seen it in England. Nature seemed to
be taking advantage of the long summer before her, to do her work as
slowly as possibly. The singing of birds, however, and the agreeable
temperature, rendered my walks delightful.
About this time my clothes became so ragged and worn that at
every leap or run I took, they would give way in some new place. I
found it necessary to invent some kind of covering for my body.
I set about contriving some clothing out of the skins of the llamas
which I had killed for my stock of smoked meat. These skins I had
stretched and dried in the sun, but had not tanned them. They were
stiff and brittle, and proved very difficult materials to work into any
shape that could be worn. They were much too warm a covering for
the climate, but as I had nothing else I resolved to use these for the
present, and to tan some skins for future use.
I cut out a jacket and a pair of trowsers, as well as I could, using
my old clothes for a pattern, and making my new ones a good deal
larger. I sewed up the seams by making holes in the skin with a
sharp-pointed nail, and then pushing the thread through with my
fingers. This was very slow work, but still the edges were fastened
together, and I went on very patiently with my clumsy tailoring.
I had seen shoemakers fix a bristle to the end of their thread to
make it go through more easily. I could not get any bristles or
shoemakers' wax, but I thought I might find something that would
answer as well. After trying several things I found that a fish-bone
would do pretty well. A row of fine notches on one end enabled me
to tie the thread to it so that it would not slip off; and with this
contrivance I got on a little faster. The buttons on my old clothes,
being made of horn or metal, were not worn out; and I transferred
them to the new ones, making slits serve for button-holes.
After working very industriously, I completed my suit of clothes;
and, though they were shapeless things, they served to cover my
85
bocty without impeding its movements. As soon as I was equipped,
I took my bow and arrows, and went into the woods to shoot birds.
On my way I passed a little pond of water made by the late rains;
it was as smooth as glass, and reflected my image like a mirror.

"I went on very patiently with my clumsy tailoring."
When I saw it, I was so astonished at my wild and savage appeal,
ance that I hardly knew myself.
My hair had grown very long and thick, and fell over my neck
and shoulders, while in front I parted it and kept it behind my ears.
My beard covered my upper lip and chin. This hairy appearance,
added to the fur of the llama-skins in which I was dressed, gave me
a wild look. My wicker hat, covered with leaves, was not the most
becoming head-dress in the world, and with my bow and arrows in
my hand, I might have passed for an Indian warrior among my
friends; for none of them could possibly have recognized in the fig-
ure I then cut the smooth-faced and blooming youth from whom
they parted in York.
EXPERIMENTS IN SALT-MAKING AND POTTERY.
WHEN equipped in my new suit of clothes I spent most of my
time in the open air, and made up for my long confinement to the
cave by wandering about the island a great deal. After I had re-
covered from my sickness my appetite became very keen. Having
plenty of animal food, and fire to cook it by, I soon regained my
strength, and became broader and stouter in my figure than ever
before. My chief amusement was chasing llamas, and I became
very swift of foot, and an expert climber among the crags and pre-
cipices.
My greatest wants were salt, bread, and a kettle. For the first I
had used pimento, but it was a poor substitute; for the second I had
bread-fruit, when in season, but that was only a small part of the
year; as for the last, I could find nothing to supply its place.
The mealy roots which I called sweet potatoes were a very valu-
able article of food, and I determined to keep a good stock of them
always by me. It was no objection to me that the place where the
sweet potatoes grew wild was a good way from my cave. I had
nothing better to do than to go after them with my llama.
Two projects ran in my head, on which I dwelt a great deal; one
was for enlarging my cave, the other for making salt. The former
only required industry and perseverance in removing a loose, rocky
ledge; but the latter puzzled me extremely. I knew that sea-water
contained salt, in solution, but how to come at it I could not tell.
For making salt from salt springs or sea-water the process con-
sisted in boiling, and I had no utensil in which to boil anything.
Still I was not discouraged. I knew that the sun produced evapo-
ration; that the clouds were formed by the small particles of water
which his heat caused to rise from rivers, lakes, and oceans. I re-
solved to try whether the heat of the sun, which was very great here
in the middle of the day, would not evaporate the water and leave
the salt.
I formed a shallow vat of earth, and undertook to fill it with
sea-water; but the water would sink into the earth and disappear.
My next attempt was to form a vat of clay, and I made an excur-
sion with my llamas to a narrow valley where I had observed some
appearance of clay. On approaching the spot I could not recognize
it; the valley seemed to be filled up and changed entirely. On
scrambling up a bank of loose earth and stones, I beheld what I
had read of, but never expected to see. It was a slide of earth.
Since I was last there a large tract of land had slid down from the
side of the mountain, and half filled the valley.
After gazing some time at the novel scene before me I led my
llamas to the nearest part of a large bed of clay exposed by the
slide. Having loaded them I made the best of my way home.
It cost me a good deal of labor to construct my clay vat and fill
it; but it held the water so well that I hoped now to succeed in my
important undertaking. But as evaporation is a slow process, I
made up my mind to wait patiently for a considerable time.
I completed my clay vat, and filled it with salt water. Having
fed my llamas and made my daily notch on the tree, I sat down by
the fountain to enjoy the moonlight scene, and meditate a little
before I went to bed.
While reflecting I recollected that when I last numbered the
notches for months in my calendar, it wanted but a few weeks of
the anniversary of my shipwreck, the memorable 14th of October.
I had resolved to keep the day in religious exercises.
EXPERIMENTS IN SALT-MAKING AND POTTERY. 89
Wishing to plan my work with some reference to this intended
day of solemn rest, I examined my reckoning. As I had counted
only four weeks to a month, I knew it would require thirteen such
months and one day to make a year. I made my calculations, and
found that the evening of the long-expected anniversary had come.
I had spent the day in a far different way from what I intended. I
felt vexed and provoked with myself for missing the occasion.
The next day I turned my attention from my salt-vat; and, leav-
ing it to the power of the sun, I began my experiment in tanning
leather. As there were no oak-trees here, I was obliged to search for
other barks, and soak them in water to find out which had most of
the tanning principle in it. I pulled off a good deal more bark than
I then wanted, and piled it up for future use. I broke up the bark
as well as I could with my hands and knife. With great labor I
dug a deep hole in the earth, and lined it with clay. I filled it with
bark and water, and suspended some llama-skins in the liquor.
Those which I first tried had the hair on; but I resolved, if I could
get any lime, to tan others without it, and make good leather if I
could. /
I knew lime could be made from shells. I collected a large
quantity, and put them in a dry and sheltered nook among the rocks.
Heaping up plenty of dry wood among them I set fire to the pile,
and tended it well to keep the shells in the hottest part of it.
When I thought, by their crumbling, that they were burnt enough,
I tried one of them by wetting it with fresh water. I was delighted
to find that it immediately hissed and smoked, and could be mixed
into a paste with water, just like burnt lime-stone.
The success of this experiment was very important to me on
another account besides that of removing the hair from the llama-
skins. I hoped it would enable me to build a chimney and fire-
place, and make something like a kitchen, in which I could have
a fire in rainy weather.
With all these schemes in my head, and experiments on my hands,
I was very busy and tolerably cheerful from morning till night.
The idea that I had now entered on the second year of my banish-
ment from human society would come across my mind occasionally,
and make me feel very sad.
I did not go near my salt-vat for some time. When I did visit it I
found the clay all cracked to pieces, and the water had leaked out. I
wondered why my vat had failed me so entirely. Perhaps I had not
worked the clay enough; so I began again. After kneading and
mixing it well, I made another vat, and heaped up the sand around
the outside to protect the edges from the sun. Having filled it with
sea-water, I tried the experiment again. This time the water did
not leak out; it evaporated; and every time I tasted it, I found it
more salt; and though it became bitter also, I felt almost sure of
success.
At last I was certain that my object was accomplished, for I saw
a white substance deposited in the bottom of the pan. Overjoyed at
this discovery, I let the water off, tasted the deposit, and found no
flavor of salt in it. I was never more surprised or more severely
disappointed. After some useless repining I thought I would try to
find out the reason of my failure.
The water had certainly been very salt and very bitter; yet here
was a substance that was neither, and the salt must still be in solu-
tion in the water. On tasting I found it excessively salt and some-
what bitter. I then saw the great mistake I had made in drawing
off and wasting the water when the salt in it was probably just
about to crystallize. To prove whether my supposition was correct
or not, I removed all the white deposit, which looked like lime, and
which I have since found to be such. I left the small remaining
quantity of salt water to crystallize if it would; and the result
showed I was right. In a few days I found some perfect crystals of
salt in the vat. The liquid that remained was still very bitter, but
had lost all taste of salt. The spoonful of salt thus obtained served
to season a few meals. It was so grateful to my palate that I sat to
work with fresh zeal in making more.
The clay vat was repaired and filled again; and while the water
was evaporating I pursued my other plans. I did not forget to
"make hay while the sun shone," for I pulled up a large quantity of
fine grass and made it into nice, sweet hay. I stacked it on my
terrace and covered it with bark.
As I had no way of cutting down trees, I used the limbs and

"I used the limbs and branches."
branches, that I found on the ground, for firewood. As this was
rather a scanty supply I often regretted that I had neither axe nor
saw to help myself with. Sometimes the lightning did me good
service by splitting and shivering trees on the hills, and then I used
to collect the fragments.
Being now sure that salt could be made by evaporation in the sun,
I constructed two more salt-vats like the first. I placed them on
different levels, one below the other, that I might draw off the water
into the second one when it had deposited the lime in the first, and
then clean that out and fill it afresh. While working and mixing
the clay for this purpose, it occurred to me that I could make some
useful utensils of it, and possibly some that would hold water and
stand fire.
I tried the experiment at once; but it would have set any one to
laughing, to see the awkward attempts I made at forming an earthen
pot. Such one-sided things, of such unequal thickness, were never
seen before. Sometimes the clay was so soft that it fell in or fell
out; and the vessels would not bear their own weight. Some dried
too suddenly in the sun, cracked, and fell to pieces; but at last, after
many disappointments and much patient labor, I made two tolerably
well-shaped vessels, and dried them very hard in the sun.
But, after all, they would not hold any liquid; it all filtered
through them. Then I remembered something about glazing earth-
enware, and mixing sand with the clay. I tried a fresh set of experi-
ments, using some finer clay, mixed with sand. I determined to burn
these vessels in the fire, as well as dry them in the sun, hoping the
heat would melt the sand and glaze the pots. I made several but
I tried the effect of burning only on one. I put it into the centre
of a very hot fire, and away it went, cracking all to pieces.
The next I heated gradually and it did not crack. I watched it
and tended the fire many hours, in hopes it would come out glazed
and fit for use. I was again disappointed, and entirely at a loss what
to do next. While considering the subject, and turning about the
utensil in my hand, I discovered one little spot on the bottom of it,
that was perfectly glazed. This gave me new energy to find out a
glazing, because it convinced me there was a substance within my
reach that would do it. I could not account for that one spot of
glazing, unless a few drops of salt water from my vats had remained
on the clay.
I did not think salt water would produce any such effect. I was
on the point of giving up without a trial; but to satisfy myself I
dipped another of my vessels into strong salt water, and baked it in
the fire. To my joy and surprise, it came out well glazed inside
and out. I had what I desired.
I lost no time in boiling a piece of meat and some sweet potatoes
in it. By adding a little pimento and salt I made very good broth
of the liquor, though I had no flour to thicken it with. Nothing
could have tasted better to me than this dinner of soup and boiled
meat, simple as it was. It was such a novelty that it relished highly,
and all the more because I had obtained the food by my own inge-
nuity and perseverance.
A GREAT CALAMITY AND A NEW HOME.
I NEXT turned my thoughts to building a sheltered fireplace and
chimney. I had made lime enough for the purpose, and carried it to my terrace, with sand and stones sufficient to enable me to begin. I
had not quite settled where to place it, or how to arrange it to the
best advantage, when an event occurred that made a great change in
my situation.
It was about noon on one of the hottest and stillest days I had
ever known. Not a breath of wind moved upon the face of the
waters, not a leaf stirred. The only cloud in the sky had been mo-
tionless for hours. I was reposing under the shade of some trees,
near my favorite brook, when I heard a low, rumbling sound, which
seemed to come from under the ground. I raised my head. The
sound grew louder, and then died away. The earth trembled, and I
was instantly filled with the idea that it was the report of cannon
and that a ship might be in sight.
I started to run to the nearest spot that commanded a view of the
coast. Before I had proceeded many steps, I was suddenly thrown
prostrate on the ground by a shock which I now know to be that of
an earthquake. I shall never forget what an awful thing it was to
feel this earth, so firm and solid, heave and shake under me. Not
knowing what would come next, I thought it best to lie where I was.
I was the more willing to do this on account of a sensation at
my stomach, like sea-sickness, which, with the alarm I felt, made
me unable to stand. I had read of islands in the ocean, that were
A GREAT CALAMITY AND A NEW HOME. 95
thrown up by earthquakes, and, after remaining above water a few
years, had suddenly disappeared. I thought this might be one of
that sort, and that the island was now going to be swallowed up in
the mighty deep.
I lay with my face downwards, my head resting on my arms,
my eyes shut, scarce daring to breathe while the vibration lasted.
Long after it had subsided, I remained motionless, expecting another
shock.
No other shock came, and I recovered. I returned to my work on
the terrace, but great was my consternation when I beheld stones
and earth and fragments of rock scattered about. On reaching my
cave, I found it was half filled with rubbish, and there was a rent in
the rock over it, which spoiled the roof of my habitation.
This new misfortune afflicted me greatly, for, rude as my dwelling
was, it was a comfortable home, endeared by many interesting associa-
tions. It had sheltered me from the heavy rains and sudden gales of
winter, and was of vast importance to me as a storehouse, as well as
a dwelling-place. It had cost me much hard labor; and to see it all
destroyed filled me with sadness. After the first shock to my feelings
was over, I found some comfort in the thought that I was not in the
cave at the time of the catastrophe. To provide another abode was
now my chief concern.
As I was about to enter my cave, I observed a new opening in
a rock on the left. It was just large enough for me to squeeze
through; but what was my wonder and delight, when I found myself
in another cave, larger and more regularly formed than the one I
had lived in! Here was a habitation, better than any I could build,
all ready to receive me and my stores! I walked around it, and held
my lamp up to the sides. I found them regular and smooth. I deter-
mined to fit it up for my habitation against the next rainy season.
I began the work of clearing my old cave, for, as it would be my
ante-chamber, I wished to have it in order. While removing the
earth, it occurred to me that I could make a very good kitchen of the
outer cave. The crack in the roof would serve a capital purpose, for
I could build a chimney up through it, to carry the smoke out of my
house.
I must say that I never was happier in my life than while I was
arranging these two caves for my kitchen and lodging-room. My
work prospered finely; I succeeded very well in building a chimney
and making a kind of fireplace with fragments of rock. I was
obliged to make my chimney pretty large, owing to the clumsiness of
my materials. I thought the rain, which falls perpendicularly in the
wet season, would certainly come down in sufficient quantity to put
out my fire. To obviate that difficulty I made a tunnel of clay, which
was so shaped as to protect the top of the chimney from rain, and
yet let out the smoke. I was so pleased with my fireplace that I
could hardly wait for the mortar to dry and the masonry to become
solid before I lighted a fire in it. When I thought it would do to try
the structure, I found it answered perfectly well.
As very little light could find its way into my new apartment, I
left the crack across my kitchen-roof open till I should be obliged to
close it on account of the rain. I meant to do this with bark laid
across, and loaded with stones to keep it in its place. The light that
came through this crack enabled me to do many things in the inner
cave without a lamp, though it did seem a very dark place when I
first entered it out of broad daylight.
It gave me great pleasure to arrange my stores in my new room,
and make up a nice bed of sweet, new hay. I easily cut shelves in
the sides of the cave to put my little utensils upon, for the rock was
almost as soft as chalk. Never was a little girl more happy in
arranging a new baby-house than I was in furnishing my rude apart-
ment with the goods I possessed.
The second summer passed swiftly away. I used my time among
my salt-works, pottery, tan-pits, and in hunting, shooting, and mak-
ing exploring excursions over the island. I found a short cut over
the hills to Gordon Vale, and I frequently spent the whole day in
that enchanting spot, carrying my dinner with me. I made a very
pretty bower there by planting young trees near together. I trained
creepers about their trunks, and the arbor became, by the end of the summer, a very shady retreat, and a shelter from moderate rains.
In it I placed upon stones a piece of plank, brought from Nail Cove,
which made a settee long enough for me to stretch myself upon at
full length. There I took many a noon-day nap and sometimes
spent the night.
In crossing Oat Plain this summer, I found it covered with a fresh
crop of grass of quite a different kind from what grew there before.
I was surprised that the fire had not destroyed every seed in the
earth. A botanist once told me that there are a great many more
seeds produced than are usually wanted. When a fire destroys all
vegetation to a certain depth, there are still seeds in the earth below
that are ready to start up and supply the loss.
In one of my excursions I went as far as Parrot Grove, and was
saluted as before with the notes of the gay birds there. I was
very desirous of procuring a young parrot that I could teach; and,
after many fruitless attempts, I succeeded in making one prisoner.
The poor little creature could not fly. I found it on the ground, and
it must have fallen out of its nest. I carried it home in a pannier,
covered so that it could not escape.
This addition to my family pleased me much, and I determined as
soon as I had more leisure to make her a cage of wicker-work. I
tied a small weight to her foot, which prevented her flying, but
allowed her to walk about. She soon became tame and familiar,
but it was long before I could teach her to pronounce even her own
name, Poll.
My tan-pit gave me a great deal of trouble. Changing the water
and tan was quite a job with such poor tools as I had; but the
7
YOUNG FOLKS' ROBWSON CRUSOE.
skins appeared to be doing very well, their texture approaching
nearer every day to that of leather. I had just time enough to
complete the process and dry the skins before the rains came on.

"It was long before 1 could teach her."
My salt-vats worked very well when there was no rain. Even
in the driest weather, and with every attention on my part, I could
not hasten the process. That must go on in its own slow way. As
my vats were small, I could not make salt enough to cure any meat
for the winter. I could only get as much as I should want to sea-
son my food.
Encouraged by my success in making, baking, and glazing one
earthen vessel, I made a great many more of various sizes. Their
shapes were not very regular, but they answered my purpose as well
as the most beautifully moulded china vases and cups could have
done. I valued things now according to their usefulness, not their
beauty.
I found the chimney very convenient to smoke my meat in for the
winter; but as I was not now obliged to eat it raw, I dried it less
than before. I found it, when soaked and boiled, quite palatable.
I laid in a good stock of vegetables and fruits, and dried so many
grapes that any one would have thought I meant to live on them
altogether. I also provided large bundles of willow wands for bas-
ket-stuff, soaked nettle-stalks for cordage, and dried wood for fuel
.
I had plenty of room to stow everything under cover in my two
caves.
I was so well prepared for the rainy season that I dreaded only
its injurious effects upon my health. It occurred to me that, with
my present hairy garments, I might perhaps set the rains at defiance,
and exercise in the open air during the wet season. To render it
safe to do so, I made a second suit of clothes from skins dressed
with the hair on; and then, when I came in wet, I could change my
garments for others that were dry and equally warm.
My second attempt at tailoring was a greater success than the
first. The skins used this time had been tanned, and were so much
more soft and agreeable that I always put them on to exercise in.
At last the serene sky, which had been obscured only by a
passing cloud or a welcome thunder-storm for several months, be-
came overcast. The wind whistled ominously through the trees;
the ocean became dark and rough; and the rainy season was ushered
in by a gale of wind that blew violently for a few hours. When it
subsided the rain began to pour down in floods, and I gladly sought
the shelter of my inner cave. Among other earthen vessels I had
made some for lamps; and having saved a great deal of oil and
fat from turtles and llamas, I hoped to be well provided with light
during the dark days I was to spend in my new parlor. But my
ravelled cotton stocking would not last through the season, so I
was obliged to think what I should do for wicks when that was
gone.
My llamas continued to be as useful and as dear to me as ever.
The old one had a kid during the fine weather; and, as I now had
room enough, I allowed her and her young one to shelter themselves
in my kitchen. I fastened the mother by a halter, and fed her
with the plant she was most fond of. I shared her milk with the
kid, that was suffered to go at large, and often got punished for his
imprudence. Once he put his nose into some hot broth, which
scalded him. Another time he offended Poll, and she made him feel
her sharp bill in a way that taught him to keep his distance in
future.
I found my parrot a very entertaining companion, and very
affectionate too. She liked to be caressed and talked to, and was
always delighted to sit on my hand, to be fed by me, and have
her head rubbed. Though I talked to her a great deal, she did
not learn to speak that winter. I made her a wicker cage with
a swing in it, in which she took great pleasure when shut up;
but she loved so well to be at liberty that I put her in the cage
only occasionally.
The second winter was far less tedious to me than the former. I
was better prepared for it. I found that I could expose myself in
my shaggy coat to the hardest rain without any inconvenience. In
my wet walks I needed a hat different from that I had worn in sum-
mer. I accordingly made a frame of wicker-work as near like a
broad-brimmed hat as I could, and covered it with llama skin, put-
ting the hair outside, that it might shed the rain. Though much
heavier than my leafy head-dress, it was better suited to the weather,
and kept my head and neck perfectly dry.
Though I took frequent runs in the open air, for the sake of exer-
cise, my chief occupations were within my dwelling; and, during
the latter part of the winter, I found work enough within doors both
for exercise and pleasure.
From the form and position of my inner apartment, I felt sure
that it approached very near the outer cave at one point. It would
be convenient to have a passage from one to the other, and I resolved
to see what could be done.
To work I went with my stone wedge and mallet, and soon con-
vinced myself it was practicable. After laboring very diligently
many days, a good opening was made between the two caves. It
was large enough for me to walk through erect, with elbow-room on
each side. As the former entrance from the narrow passage was now
of no use, I shut it up with a piece of plank.
Towards the end of the rainy season all my cotton wicks were
used up. I spent several evenings in the dark before I could think
of a substitute. At last I remembered seeing candles, used in cot-
tages, that were called "rush-lights." The name led me to the con-
clusion that the wicks were made of rushes. I looked in vain on the
marshy grounds near the terrace for anything like the English rush.
I found other plants with pithy stems; and after several experi-
ments, I succeeded in making very good wicks of pith, and was
never afterwards at a loss for a light.
When it had rained with little interruption for two months, the
return of fine weather was preceded by a violent storm of thunder
and lightning, accompanied by a heavy gale of wind. I never be-
fore heard such loud, crackling thunder, or saw such vivid lightning.
The wind blew a perfect hurricane for a few hours. This storm
came on about sunset, and lasted all the first part of the night
.
After listening to it till I was tired I fell asleep, and did not awake
again till the morning was far advanced.
It rained hard all the next day, and I hardly stirred out of the
cave; but the morning after, the sky was clear and there was every
appearance of settled weather. I was impatient to go forth and
view the island after the storm.
THE WRECK AND ITS TREASURES.
HAVING hastily despatched my breakfast, I mounted my ladder to
take a general survey of the scene from the top of Fort HilL Instantly
my eyes were fixed upon a sight so new, so strange, and so full of in-
terest that I remained in one attitude for I know not how long. The
object I was so eagerly looking at was a wrecked vessel, aground on a
shoal not far from the reef on which the Santa Maria was lost
.
I ran towards the shore with the idea that some one or more of
the crew might have reached land in safety. The hope of finding a
fellow-being, a companion for my solitude, gave new strength and
fleetness to my limbs. I ran about the beach, examined every nook
among the rocks, and made the air resound with my shouts; but no
human voice responded to mine, and my heart sank within me. I
turned my eyes to the wreck, but there was no appearance of any
human being on the deck. It was cleared of everything that could
be carried away by the force of the waves.
It was not till I had given up all hope of finding any living
being that I thought of visiting the wreck in search of things that
would be useful to me. I knew that at low water it would be easy
for me to reach the wreck by wading and swimming, and I impa-
tiently awaited the ebbing of the tide.
At last I thought it would do to set out; so I stripped off my
leathern suit and waded off towards the ship. With some swimming
I reached the shoal on which the vessel lay. As I approached her
I heard a sound which, to my excited imagination, seemed nothing
less than a human voice. I pressed forward to find the sufferer
104
YOUNG FOLKS' ROBINSON CRUSOE.
and relieve him. Breathless with hope I reached the side of the
wreck.
As the vessel lay aground, she was so high out of water that
I saw no means of climbing up her slippery sides. Twice I

"I climbed to the deck."
waded around her, to see if I could discover any way of getting
into her. The second time I saw a small piece of rope, hanging
down from the fore-chains.1 I reached this with some difficulty,
1 Irons, bolted to the sides of the ship, to which the shrouds are fastened.
THE WRECK AND ITS TREASURES. 105
and finding it fast at one end, I climbed to the deck, and hur-
ried to the cabin. It was so dark I could hardly see anything.
I spoke, but no one answered. I felt in the berths, but found
nobody.
By degrees my sight became clearer, and by the feeble light which
came down the companion-way * I saw signs of the recent departure
of the former occupants of the cabin. On the table stood an open
writing-desk which appeared to have been hastily emptied of its con-
tents. The owner had hopes of saving his life when he abandoned
the vessel; otherwise he would not have taken those things with him.
A repetition of the sound I had before heard now hurried me forward
in my search for some living being. I approached the spot whence
it proceeded and heard it more distinctly. I pushed open a sliding
door, and out leaped a large, black dog! My disappointment was
great. I felt provoked with myself for mistaking the whining of a
dog for a human voice.
Convinced now that there was no probability of finding any human
being on board, I pursued my examination more calmly. I found
that the ship was stove in, and had a great deal of water in her hold.
She had drifted stern foremost on the sand-bank, and the after-part of
her was lifted up so that the cabin and the run 2 of the ship were
dry.
I saw by the papers in the desk that the ship's name was the
Thames, and that she was a London whaler. It was very affecting to
me to see the traces of human beings all around me.
I was exhausted by my exertions, and needed some nourishment.
I went in search of bread, and soon found some in the steward's
pantry. I might have considered it rather uninviting when I lived
at home; but having been nearly two years without a mouthful of
bread of any kind, this hard, brown biscuit was most delicious. I
1 The stair-case leading from the deck to the cabin.
3 That part of a vessel under the cabin floor.
refreshed myself with it, and began to see that, though disappointed
in finding no person on board, I might derive great advantage from
the vessel's being driven on this shore. I resolved to make the best
use I could of it.
Experience had taught me that tools were the greatest treasure I
could possess. While I was still eating, I looked about for the car-
penter's chest. I found an excellent assortment of the most useful
tools. How pleased I was to see and handle an axe, a saw, chisels, gim-
lets, hammers, and planes! I could not refrain from examining and
trying them all, anticipating the pleasure I should have in using them;
but I had no boat to carry anything ashore. I had accomplished so
many things which had at first appeared impossible, that I did not
despair of getting all these tools safe on shore in some way or
other.
My first plan was to get an empty half-barrel, head up the tools in
it, and float them ashore in that. I was trying to find a cask for this
purpose, when, seeing some spare spars between decks, it occurred to
me that I could make a raft, and carry the chest of tools ashore, dry
and safe. I went to work with great spirit, and carried four small
spars upon deck. Having fastened a rope to one end of each, I threw
them overboard, and tied them to the side of the ship to keep them
from floating away. I lowered myself down into the water, and
lashed the ends of these spars together in the form of a square, and
on this frame I placed some short pieces of plank I found between
decks.
I saw that my weight alone brought it down to the water, and
an additional load would sink it below the surface. I sawed up spars
and planks, and increased the body of the raft till it was well out of
water. The tide had risen so much that the height of the ship's
deck from the water was not nearly so great as when I first climbed
on board. By the help of ropes I lowered the precious chest down
to the raft.
107
As I had now done working in the water, I dressed myself in a
suit of sailor's clothes, of which I found a good many in the officers'
cabin. Having collected the articles I needed most, I packed one
chest full of them and lowered it to the raft, as I had the other. I
met with many more things that would be useful to me, and was

I pushed off from the side of the ship."
puzzled what to take first; but I real-
ized the danger of losing all if I at-
tempted too much. Fearing a change of
weather, I hurried away, taking, besides the two chests, an iron pot,
two guns, some powder and shot, and other articles.
One oar was all I could find, but that would be useful to steer
with. The tide was rising and the current setting towards the west
end of the island. What little wind there was blew directly on shore
and the water was remarkably smooth. With every prospect of a
safe passage, I pushed off from the side of the ship, and while I could
feel bottom shoved the raft along with my oar. When I was beyond
the sand-bank the wind and tide carried me along in the direction I
wished to go.
When I had got about half way, I perceived that my raft drifted
more to the west, and as I approached the land, I could not steer it
straight for the beach and I let it float westward.
As soon as I had passed the rocks at the end of the beach on the
west, I found a strong current setting into the creek, and the raft was
carried in that direction. I tried to keep as near the middle of the
stream as I could; but the raft being difficult to steer, one end of it
ran aground upon a shoal. This raised it so much on one side that
all my precious cargo had nearly slipped off into the water. Seeing
the danger of losing my treasure, I set my back firmly against the
chests and kept them from sliding off, while I held the smaller things
with my hands. In this situation I could not push off the raft; but
the tide was rising, and I hoped the other end would soon rise as
high as that which rested on the ground.
The time appeared very long as I stood in this hard posture. I
almost despaired of the raft becoming level again, when the weight
on my back began to lessen, and soon after the raft was afloat and
drifting up the creek. I kept in the deepest water till I approached
a certain spot, where the bottom was level. I pushed my raft over
it, and then moved it with the oar, stuck into the mud, till I could
wade ashore and pull it after me. Securing it with a rope to a large
stone, I kept it there till the tide fell and left it high and dry.
It was not till I had secured my treasures that I thought anything
about the dog, which had raised my expectations so high and then
disappointed them. He had rushed by me when liberated, and dis-
appeared. I had entirely forgotten him from that time. I now
wondered what had become of him, and hoped to find him on the
island. In the cabin I found a cat. She was more sociable than
the dog, and I took her on shore with me. I labored hard at
my task all the rest of the afternoon, assisted by my llamas. When
I went to bed that night, I had my two chests, one of tools, the
other of clothing, secure in my sleeping apartment. My iron pot
graced my kitchen, and the powder and guns were put in a dry
spot . 0, how rich I felt, and how full my mind was of schemes for
the improvement of my condition! Tired as I was with such a day
of excitement and exertion, it was long before I closed my eyes in
sleep.
A SECOND VISIT TO THE WRECK.
As soon as I was up the next morning, I was impatient to be again
on board the wreck. The weather was as fine as the day before, and
I was greatly inclined to swim the whole way, rather than wait for
low tide. On second thought, I gave that up, for fear the currents
might be too strong for me. I thought of taking the raft off to the
ship; but the danger of not being able to steer it, and of being
carried out to sea, made me decide to build another at the ship.
While waiting for the tide to fall, I laid my plans.
Of all eatables, I most desired bread and salt. Of the latter I
had never made enough in my little salt-vats to season all the meat
I ate, and had none to cure provisions with.
As soon as it would do to set off, I started for the wreck, with no
other garments than a shirt and a pair of thin cotton trousers, in
which I thought I could swim without difficulty. As I approached
the vessel, I saw the dog looking earnestly at me. When I reached
the deck he smelt of me, then walked slowly away, and laid himself
down by the companion-way, with a countenance so expressive of
sorrow that it went to my heart. I spoke to him and attempted to
caress him, but he took no notice of me. He was of the Newfound-
land breed, very large, and with a fine, expressive face. His silent
grief was so touching that it would soon have made me melancholy
if the desire I felt to find some books had not hurried me away
to the cabin.
A SECOND VISIT TO THE WRECK. HI
On a little shelf in one of the state-rooms I found three or four
volumes, and hastened with them to the light, to see what they were.
The first one I opened was an old romance, and so was the second.
The third book looked more promising, and proved to be Moore's
Navigator. The fourth was, to my great joy, a New Testament.
This I pressed to my lips, resolving to study it well and never
to part with it . Valuable as my time was, I could not help sit-
ting down on the cabin stairs, and reading a few verses out of the
precious book.
Another raft was to be made, and there were no more spars to
make it of; but I had thought empty casks would do quite as well.
As the vessel was a whaler, and had not half her cargo of oil on board,
I found plenty of them. I had trouble enough in tying the barrels
together. When, after great pains and perseverance, I succeeded, I
had as much more trouble in fixing planks upon them; but when
all was made fast, I found my second raft much more buoyant than
the first. Having carried the carpenter's chest on shore, I should have
been at a loss for tools, had I not found several hatchets about the
vessel, and a keg of nails and spikes, which enabled me to make my
raft. These I also wanted to carry on shore, for iron had become so
important to me that I coveted all I saw; but I left one hatchet and
some nails, for future use on board the vessel.
I now went in search of salt, and soon found a cask nearly full of
it; but it was so heavy I could not move it. I placed an empty cask
on the raft, which floated close to the side of the vessel, and having
found two pails, I carried them full of salt up the cabin stairs, and
from the deck poured their contents into the cask on the raft. In this
way I soon removed all the salt. Then I carried up bread in the
same manner, and filled three casks with good hard biscuit. Finding
the raft so buoyant that these four barrels hardly sank it at all, I
packed on it a variety of other things, such as a barrel of salt beef,
and another of pork, a bag of coffee, and some sugar; a seaman's
chest, filled with crockery and tinware, knives, forks, and spoons.
On this I piled up the bedding I found in the cabin; and among it I
safely deposited a spy-glass and the captain's writing-desk, with a
store of pens, ink, and paper that I found in a locker. Some spare
sails that I found between decks, and some coils of rope called whale-
lines, I also brought away; besides many other articles that I need
not name. When I had loaded the raft I had no oar to steer it; for
I had taken ashore with me the only one I could find, and left it
there.
I looked about for something that would do for an oar. Finding a
number of long, narrow cedar boards, I tried to get one of them for a
rudder. In pulling at it I threw down the whole pile, and discov-
ered a number of new oars, — fine long ones such as whalemen use.
I hastily seized one, and having tried in vain to coax the dog to ac-
company me, I jumped on my raft. I fixed two spikes in one end,
just far enough apart to receive the oar as a rudder, and pushed off.
The wind and tide were favorable, and I arrived in the creek, where
I had found a fine, natural wharf of rock, the side of which I could
approach without running aground. I moored my raft, and unloaded
it with great ease; for, having headed up the casks of provisions, I
could now roll them on shore at once.
I worked very hard all the rest of the day, and carried a good
many of the things to the terrace. My llamas never were so loaded
before; but they were in excellent spirits, and bravely assisted me.
The barrels of provisions I left on the shore by the creek, above
high-water mark.
Looking out before I retired to rest, where the beautiful moonlight
made the long line of sandy beach visible, I perceived a small, dark
object come out of the water. It was my unsociable acquaintance,
the dog. I concluded that hunger had driven him from his lonely
watch on the deck of the vessel, and I determined, if possible, to win
his favor by giving him a good meal from my own hand.
He received it with some signs of pleasure and gratitude. He
licked my hand, and wagged his tail, and even followed me into my
kitchen. Happening to go rather nearer Poll's cage than she liked,
she made such a frightful noise that off he went to his melancholy
station on the wreck. He continued to come ashore for food every
night as long as the vessel lay there.
THE TREASURES TAKEN FROM THE WRECK.
FOR eight days the weather continued the same. During that pe-
riod I made ten more excursions to the wreck, bringing off each time
a large cargo of goods. Wanting one day some short pieces of board
to complete the floor of my raft, I was about to saw in two one of
the long, narrow cedar boards I had seen before. Struck with their
number, uniformity, and nice workmanship, I stopped to think for
what possible use they could have been intended. I did not then
find out, but thought it most prudent to carry them all on shore as
they were.
My greatest prize, this trip, was a grindstone, which I put my hand
on when groping about that part of the vessel which had the most
water in it. Had I not been very strong, I never could have lifted
it from where I found it; but I was resolved to possess myself, if
possible, of so important an article, and I succeeded in getting it
safely to land. Two brass lamps, a large ball of wick-yarn, and a
tinder-box, with a flint and steel, were valuable additions to my
household goods.
I lighted a lamp that I might better see and examine what was in
the dark cabin. I was very much struck with the manner in which
things were stowed away in the run, so as to take up the least possi-
ble room. Near the pile of cedar boards, packed away so snugly
that I had not seen them before, were a great many curiously-shaped
pieces of wood. Many of them were just alike, and of such neat
workmanship that I thought these and the boards might belong to-
THE TREASURES TAKEN FROM THE WRECK. 115
gether. After considering them for some time, I exclaimed aloud,
"A boat! These are materials to build a boat with! Here are the
knees and ribs! This must be meant for the keel, and this for the
stem!"
Overjoyed at finding these materials for boat-building, I hastened
to place them on the raft. I looked forward to the happy time when
I should put them together, with the hope that they might be the
means of my return to society. My next important discovery was a
cask of lime, a pair of blacksmith's bellows, and all the materials for
a forge. These I transported to the island, and I got the lime
ashore dry.
I brought off all the rigging and sails that I could find, and a
great quantity of stores of all kinds. I cut up the cables in pieces
as long as I could lift, and brought them on shore. I secured the
harpoons, lances, and spades used in cutting up whales, as well as
hoops and nail-rods, of which I found a great stock, and valued
them highly as iron that could be converted to other uses. I also
obtained a number of scythes without handles, a spade, two iron
shovels, and several large copper dippers.
All my voyages were prosperous except one, and that was the last,
when my raft was heavily laden with pieces of cable, harpoons, and
other iron implements. Constant success had made me less careful,
and as my cargo was not the most valuable I had brought off, I was
very easy about it, and did not steer as well as usual . My careless-
ness met with its just punishment, for all my goods were tumbled
into the creek, and I got a good ducking myself.
It was on Wednesday that I first boarded the wreck, and a week
from the following Friday I brought off my last cargo, having made
twelve trips, and carried away almost everything that one pair of
hands could move. I was obliged to carry everything upon deck by
hand; but by patient industry and perseverance I had secured a
large quantity of useful articles. I determined as long as the
weather would permit to go on board every day, for when I thought
there was nothing left worth taking, I still found some new treasure.
If the fine weather had continued, I suppose I should have brought
away the vessel itself piecemeal. As it was, I sawed out a part of
her side, and took out some things in that way that I could not
otherwise have obtained.
On Saturday morning there were indications of a change of
weather but during the day I ventured on board the wreck. In
searching about the cabin once more, I found a locker I had not be-
fore opened. In it were a large pair of scissors and a bag of dollars.
As money was wholly useless to a person living alone, I thought of
leaving it on board the ship to go to the bottom with her. The hope
of being taken off the island never left me, and as I might again
find use for money, I decided to save it. When I had worked some
time making another raft, a brisk wind sprung up from the north-
east, which would prevent my getting it to the shore. The water was
becoming rougher every minute, and the gathering clouds warned
me to leave the wreck as soon as possible.
I hastened to put the few things I wished to take with me into a
small keg, to which I fastened a rope I meant to tie round my waist.
I lowered it into the water, but it would not float. The keg was not
large enough to support the weight it contained, and I was obliged
to exchange it for a half-barrel, which was more buoyant. I re-
turned to the island, wading and swimming alternately, carrying the
half-barrel in shallow water, and pulling it after me when it floated.
In this manner I reached the shore, and landed my last load safely.
By the time I reached the terrace the wind had increased very
much, and the waves were dashing over the wreck. In the night it
blew very hard for two or three hours, and when I looked out the
next morning the ship had entirely disappeared. I immediately
thought of the faithful dog, and wondered what had become of him.
The food I had left for him was gone, though he was nowhere to be
seen.
As this was Sunday morning, I determined to rest, and keep the
day in the best way I could. I well remember the comfort I had in
washing and dressing myself that day, for I had the luxury of using
a towel, for the first time for two years, and of putting on clean linen
and well-made clothes. My breakfast, too, was an unusual one, for
I treated myself to some coffee and bread and butter from my new
stores. When I had done my morning's work, I took my Testament
to the shady seat by the fountain, and there I pored over the pre-
cious volume I had been so long deprived of. So deeply was I inter-
ested in it that the forenoon was gone before I was aware of it.
I made a light meal of cold victuals, and set out for a walk to the
seashore. In a sheltered nook of the rocks I found the faithful dog,
looking towards the spot where the vessel had been. I spoke to him
in an affectionate manner, and thinking Neptune would be a good name
for him, I so called him. He immediately came to me, wagging his
tail, and disposed to cultivate my acquaintance. From that time he
adopted me as his master, and became my faithful companion, never
leaving me by day or night except to execute my commands, and
always ready to exert his utmost powers in my service.
ROBINSON OBSERVES HIS SECOND ANNIVERSARY.
AFTER the disappearance of the wreck, I devoted all my time for
a week to examining, sorting, and arranging my goods. My caves
seemed to be already full; yet many things were still at the creek,
and the terrace was strewed with bulky articles.
I thought that, with good stowage, I might get all my things into
the two caves. I doubted whether that was desirable, for, in case of
another earthquake, they might all be buried under a load of earth I
could not remove. The possibility of such an event induced me to
build a temporary store-house, of spars and sails, near the landing-
place in the creek, and to carry thither all the stores which did not
require to be kept cool.
What a pleasure it was to use good tools! The mere driving of
a nail with an iron hammer was a treat. Having made my store-
house secure against summer showers, which were all I had to fear for
some months to come, I stowed a great variety of things in it. I
moored the empty casks in the water, so that they would not dry
up and become leaky. All the beef, pork, butter, cheese, and other
provisions that required to be kept cool, I deposited in my cave.
I had so much to do with casks that I became quite expert at
managing them. Those that were filled with provisions I rolled
all the way from the landing to the terrace, a distance of more
than a mile of rising ground. It took a good while, to be sure,
and made me very tired; but my time was of little value when I
had nothing to do but take care of myself, and rest was the sweeter
for toil.
ROBINSON'S SECOND ANNIVERSARY. 119
Between these heavy jobs, I indulged myself in the lighter and
more agreeable task of examining the contents of several seamen's
chests, which I had filled with small articles without looking at the
things already in them.
In one of these I found several letters addressed to "James Mc-
Intyre, second mate of the ship Thames." They were all in the
same handwriting, but only one had any post-mark, and I could
not make out the name of the place. The seals were all broken,
and the letters appeared to have been much read.
I had been taught to consider it a mean action to read any letter
not intended for my perusal. Though tempted to read them, I put
the letters out of sight and tried to forget them. I found a silver
watch in one of the chests. I had always wished for a watch, and I
rejoiced exceedingly in finding one. I applied the key to it, but, to
to my great disappointment, it unwound as fast as I tried to wind it.
I then looked at the works, and saw that the chain was broken. If
this was all the injury, I could mend it. I went to work directly,
and though I used only a needle and thread, I soon had the satisfac-
tion of winding and setting the watch and hearing it tick. There
seemed to me to be real company in the ticking of that watch, and I
hung it up in a conspicuous place.
As soon as I had looked and listened to it enough, my thoughts
returned to those letters, and I felt a strong desire to read them.
Cut off as I was from all social intercourse, I longed to share in
the thoughts of other minds; but I determined not to do it. I again
overhauled the mate's chest, and I will note down the principal
articles it contained: Two razors, one covered with rust; a boxwood
shaving-box with a brush beside it; a small looking-glass; a coarse
and a fine tooth comb; a small horn filled with grease, and stuck
full of sail-needles; a mounted palm, which is the kind of thimble
sail-makers use; two spare jackknives; a small marline-spike; a pair
of rusty scissors; a broken breast-pin in the shape of an anchor;
eleven horn buttons; and other trifles too numerous to men-
tion.
In the bottom of the chest I found four more books, — a volume of
"Anson's Voyages "; an old romance in two volumes, with the title-
page torn out of each; and "The Complete Letter-Writer." With
the first I was very familiar; the romance did not promise to be at
all instructive; and the last, being mere models of letters and not
the expression of real feeling, was uninteresting. I put them, how-
ever, on the shelf with my other books.
As I had a great many more useful articles than I needed, I
thought it prudent to pack up what I did not want in a chest, and
deposit them in my storehouse, lest another earthquake should
deprive me of my treasures. For the same reason I divided my
tools, and kept part of them at each place.
Among the articles brought from the wreck was a set of colors,
and I determined that one of them should grace my flag-staff on
Signal Hill, in place of the old shirt, a very small fragment of which
now remained.
As I was possessed of pulleys and ropes in plenty, I rigged the
staff so as to hoist and lower the flag at pleasure. I hoisted an Eng-
lish jack.1 It was quite an amusement to me, to climb the tree, pull
down the old rag, and then fix my little block firmly to the top of the
stem, and reeve the line through it. Having done this, I finished the
work of clearing the tree of its branches. When stripped, this tall,
straight tree made an excellent flag-staff. I tied the line to the flag,
one end to the top and the other to the bottom of the jack, and then
pulled away till it was up to the block. The loop was easily fastened
to the trunk of the tree. The flag made a fine show, and now I felt
sure that no English captain would come in sight of it without making
an inquiry into its meaning.
1 A flag composed of the upper left-hand corner of the British flag, containing the
cross, or, of the American flag, the stars. It is also called the Union, or Union-jack.
The rest of the Hag is called the Fly, and the whole the Ensign.
At the end of a week, devoted to assorting and arranging my
goods, I got my house and the tent at the creek into tolerable order.
I was now so well off for provisions and utensils that I had a
great deal of leisure. Not being obliged to hunt the llama, or fish
for my daily food, or provide for other wants, I became rather indo-
lent for a while. Time soon hung heavy on my hands. The week
after I completed my arrangements seemed longer to me than any
previous one. I did nothing but read, and lounge about, and shoot
a little in the woods, for mere amusement. My body was languid
and my mind sluggish. I saw there was danger of losing my health
and cheerfulness; and I firmly resolved not to be so ungrateful to
the Giver of all my treasures as to suffer them to become snares
instead of blessings.
I was convinced that active employment, both of body and mind,
was necessary to my health and happiness; and that even on a
desert island I had no right to waste my time in idleness. Large
as was my present supply of provisions, it would not keep good more
than two years. I might live here much longer than that. It was
prudent to keep up the habit of using such productions as the island
afforded. Then I should not miss my present luxuries so much
when they were gone. I wished there was something that I felt
obliged to do, for I always preferred necessary labor to what was
done for the mere sake of employment.
At length it occurred to me that I must have a storehouse, to
keep my goods secure from rain, before the wet season came; and
I resolved to set about building one directly. The more I thought
of it, the more necessary it seemed, and I rejoiced in being obliged
to set to work and in having tools to work with.
Thinking it best to divide my time between hard labor and study,
I was planning a course of exercises in writing and reading, when
the idea struck me that I could write a narrative of my own adven-
tures. The thought pleased me; for, next to the desire of seeing
122
YO UNG FOLKS' ROBINSON CRUSOE.
my distant friends, was the wish that they should be informed of
my fate. I resolved to put my manuscript, as fast as it was written,
in some safe and accessible place, so that if I should die here, it
might be found.
The second anniversary of my shipwreck was near, and I thought
the best way of keeping it would be to begin upon that day both

"I devoted most of the day to writing."
my great works, — the storehouse, and writing my history. The
memorable day returned before I had settled upon my plan for
building; but the day did not slip by unobserved. The moment I
awoke it came to my mind, and my thoughts turned to my distant
friends, and the trying scenes I had passed through since I parted
from them. My mind being full of the subject, it was just the time
to begin my narrative, and accordingly I devoted most of the day to
writing. In the evening, when tired of using my pen, I took a
walk to my favorite brook. A long train of thought followed, in
which, instead of reviewing my trials, I numbered my blessings,
and remembered how often all sense of loneliness had been removed
by drawing near in spirit to God. By meditating upon Him, by
loving Him, by trusting in Him, my sorrow had often been turned
to joy.
BUILDING- THE STORE-HOUSE.
I WAS resolved on building and writing, which would exercise both
body and mind, and I felt justified in living for a while on my sea-
stores, as it took less time to prepare them. I divided the day
between my domestic affairs, the erection of a store-house, and the
narrative. I used to work hard morning and afternoon, and write
in the middle of the day, when it was too warm to labor in the
sun. I returned from my work a little before noon, and ate my
dinner in the cool shade of the outer cave, with Poll on one side,
Neptune on the other, and my cat between them, each occasionally
fed by a nice bit from my plate. After dinner I washed my dishes,
and put everything away in its proper place. I slept half an hour,
and then seated myself at the portable writing-desk, placed on my
clumsy table.
I found writing my own history much slower work than I sup-
posed it would be. I loved to dwell on every minute particular,
in hope that it might be read by my parents. I was so out of
the habit of writing that I made a great many mistakes, which had
to be corrected, till the manuscript required to be written all over
again. This wasted my materials, of which I had not a very large
stock; and I became more careful, and considered better what I
was going to say before I put it down. It was very agreeable em-
ployment, and I seldom let a day pass without adding something
to my narrative.
I was a good while in deciding how to build my storehouse. My
first idea was to make a log cabin, as did the early settlers in the
BUILDING THE STORE-HOUSE. 125
woods of America, but I feared that I could not lift and manage
logs large enough for my purpose. I could not make up my mind
as to the building till one day I observed a smooth, perpendicular
cliff, about eighteen feet high, and I decided to use that for one
wall of the house. Some tall, straight trees grew at the foot of
it, and by cutting down three of them I could make a clear space
large enough for the building. A low front wall and a long sloping
roof seemed to me the easiest form to build.
I fitted a handle to one of the scythes I had found on board the
Thames, and cut some tall, rank grass, which I spread out to dry,
for use when I was ready to thatchl my house. The art of doing
this I had learned when a boy, by observing some laborers at work
on a cottage, who let me try my hand at it. I felt sure that I
could now thatch a roof.
I determined to turn mason, and build the front wall of stone
and mortar. The former abounded on the spot, and the latter I
could easily make, having plenty of quick-lime among my stores,
with sand and water close at hand. As the weight of the roof
would rest mostly on this front wall, it ought to be strong.
Trowels, plummet, leather apron, and everything necessary for a
mason, were found in the wreck. I went to work to dig the foun-
dation by line and measure, and then to build the wall as much
like a mason's work as I could. It was to be twenty-five feet long,
five feet high.
It was so agreeable to work with good tools that I had great pleas-
ure in building this wall, and I succeeded well. Turning the corners
of my masonry, I continued the wall across the ends, leaving spaces
for doorways. I persevered and built up the ends till they were
fifteen feet high where they joined the cliff, and sloped gradually
down to the front wall.
1 To cover a roof with straw or reeds, laid very thick over the timbers, and fastened
down with willow bands.
My next business was to cut down tall, straight saplings for raft-
ers, and make notches in the cliff, three feet from the top, to receive
one end of each, while the other rested on the front wall
.
I nailed pieces of wood across the rafters close enough together to
support the thatch, which I put on in a workmanlike manner. I
had the satisfaction of seeing a tight, even roof, sloping enough to
carry off a deluge of rain.
I had left a large doorway at each end of the building for the
admission of light and air to my goods. I found plenty of boards,
out of which I made two capital doors. What to do for hinges I did
not know. I could not find a pair among my stores; and when I
had made my doors, I was greatly disappointed at not being able
to hang them. I resolved, while my hand was in as a mason, to
set up the forge I had found in the wreck, and try to form a pair of
hinges.
I wanted some charcoal for the forge. I had no difficulty in mak-
ing it except that of selecting a spot near at hand which I was will-
ing to have burned over by a charcoal-pit; for I loved the little valley
of the brook so well I could not bear to disfigure it. At last I fixed
on a place, made a shallow pit, and arranged wood in it so as to
give it air enough to char without allowing it to blaze and consume
to ashes. When I had piled up wood enough, I covered it over with
turf and earth; and leaving a sufficient number of vent-holes, as I
thought, I set fire to it in several places. It did not burn well, and
soon went out. I made more openings, and kindled it again, and
then it burned freely, sending out columns of black smoke at every
vent-hole. In a sheltered nook among the rocks of my favorite val-
ley I set up the forge. To build the chimney, hang the bellows, and
set the anvil were mere amusement to me.
When it was time to look after my charcoal, I opened the pit, and
found plenty of ashes, but very little coal. It had burned too freely,
and consumed the wood instead of charring it. There was, however,
enough to fill a pair of panniers, and my llama brought it to the
forge for me.
I found I could heat iron, hold it, and hammer it into any shape I
pleased. My hinges were of the simple construction I had seen on
gates, — a sort of large iron eye, with a staple that hooked into it.
When these were made and put on, and the two doors hung, I was
greatly pleased. The work of a smith was so agreeable to me that I
afterwards amused myself very often in fashioning iron into various
shapes. Among other things, I made some arrow-heads, for I liked
shooting with a bow even when I had very clumsy arrows. Now
that I could make good ones, I liked it better than shooting with a
gun.
My new store-house had a pretty effect under the shade of the fine
trees that grew around it. It reminded me of the neatly thatched
cottage of the English peasant, and to make the resemblance still
stronger, I whitewashed the walls. It was complete now in all re-
spects but the floor. Though there could not be a prettier carpet
than the ground covered with greensward, it would be so damp in
the rainy season as to be unfit to set my goods on. I dug two nar-
row, deep trenches across it, and filled them with large stones put in
loosely. I felt confident they would keep the ground dry within
the building.
It cost me many weeks of hard labor to build this store-house; but
I had a great deal of satisfaction in doing it. All my goods and
chattels were safely removed from their temporary shelter to this
substantial place of deposit, and I saw them arranged in proper
order within its walls.
BTJTLDING A PYRAMID.
To make a safe and conspicuous place of deposit for my manu-
script was my next undertaking. A stone monument on Signal Hill
was resolved upon; and I busied myself in transporting my tools
and materials to the spot where it was to stand.
My old llama, called Judy, did me good service in carrying up
lime and sand. The mortar was made and the stones selected before
I could decide on the plan of the monument. After puzzling over
the subject a long time, I fixed upon a pyramid as the most endur-
ing form, and the one I could most easily build.
I dug a foundation eight feet square, and placed a pole upright in
the centre, so that the top of it was twelve feet from the ground,
and equally distant from each corner of the foundation. To this
pole I fastened four lines, and brought them down to the four cor-
ners of the base. These lines marked the exact shape of the pyra-
mid, and enabled me to build it very evenly.
To contain the manuscript I meant to have a chamber two feet
square, smoothly-plastered within, and closed by an iron door on the
sheltered side. All the rest of the pyramid was to be of solid
masonry.
The summit of Signal Hill was composed of ledges of rock with
natural seams; so that I was able to get out large slabs. If I had
had a fellow-laborer to help me lift and transport them, the work
would soon have been completed. I made all the use I could of
levers and rollers, and even rigged a tackle to a tree that I might
BUILDING A PYRAMID. 129
the better move large pieces of the rock. After a while I made a
wagon on which to carry the stones to the monument by taking the
large sheaves1 out of four blocks, using them as wheels, with axles
fastened to a broad piece of plank. I could easily draw this vehicle,
and it proved to be of great service.
I accidentally found out an easy way of splitting the rock. I had
driven some wooden wedges in, very hard and very close together,
without success, when I was obliged by a shower to quit my work
for that evening. On my return the next morning the rock was
split. The wedges were so swelled by the rain as to produce that
effect. Availing myself of this discovery, I was able to proceed
more rapidly.
I used to ride to and from Signal Hill upon Judy, and tie her,
while I was at work, by a long rope. One day she pulled up the
stake, and walked off among the hills. When she was gone, I
looked for her in every direction, but all to no purpose; and I gave
her up for that day. My watchful companion, Neptune, understood
what the matter was, and off he went at full speed in the track of
the llama. I did not believe he would be able to catch her if he
found where she was. At the end of an hour, however, I saw the
poor fellow, panting as if he were very tired, and holding the rope in
his mouth by which he led the llama back to me. I suppose she
gave him a long run; but when I saw them, she was very submis-
sive as he led her along.
Another day she broke loose as before, and I sent Neptune after
her; but to my surprise he returned without her. I looked gravely
at him, and immediately he set off again, but came back in half an
hour without the llama. He now jumped upon me, barked and
yelped, and ran a little way down the hill, and then back again to
me, as though he wanted me to follow him. I did so, and he ran
on delighted. After winding about among the hills for a considerable
1 The grooved wheels of a pulley.
9
distance, he brought me to my poor old llama, fastened by her rope
to a tree. She had run around it till the rope all wound up on the
trunk; and there she was, lying down close to the tree, looking quite
subdued and forlorn. I soon released her and led her back, with
Neptune for a guide, for I could not have found the shortest way to
my work.
There was no water nearer the top of Signal Hill than a quarter
of a mile; and I taught Neptune to bring me water in a cocoanut-
shell I fitted up for the purpose, with a bail like a bucket. I used
to put the handle in his mouth, and point to the spring. He would
scamper off, dip it in the stream, and bring it to me about half or a
third full.
After many days of constant labor the monument began to look as
I hoped it would. As I approached the top, I hammered the stones,
that the form might be regular and true. With the uppermost stone
I took great pains; and as it was a large piece, it cost me much exer-
tion to raise it to its place.
On the largest and smoothest stone in the pyramid I carved my
name, and the date of my shipwreck, with the words, "LOOK
WITHIN." I then made, out of a very hard wood that grew on the
island, a box to hold my manuscript, and only waited for the monu-
ment to be dry enough to deposit there what was already written.
By this time my tools needed sharpening. I must rig my grind-
stone so as to turn and grind at the same time. I had so often seen
scissor-grinders in the streets of York, and watched the motion of
their large wheel and treadle, that I was at no loss how to fit up the
stone.
I hung the stone on an axle, with a crank at one end of it, which
I made at the forge. I connected the crank to a treadle with an iron
rod. I found the stone worked very well, and I ground my knife
»nd other small tools upon it
.
ROBINSON'S VARIOUS OCCUPATIONS.
IN the next three or four weeks I made several excursions in the
woods and among the mountains. I visited the vineyard in search of
some ripe grapes, and Gordon Vale to enjoy its beauty and its per-
fumes. I had several fine llama hunts, and tried my new iron- headed arrows with very good success.
Besides this enjoyment of the fine weather, beautiful scenery, and
luxuriant vegetation, I busied myself in cutting down, and piling
up to dry, a stock of fuel for the winter. I was obliged to carry it
home on the backs of my llamas in a sort of cradle made for the
purpose.
In all my excursions I was accompanied by Neptune, except when
I hunted, and then I was obliged to tie him up at home, for he
made the llamas very wild by running after them. These animals
had become so shy that it was with difficulty I could get near
them. As they always ran for the highest land when pursued, I
used to have very fatiguing chases, and often returned without any
success.
When Neptune was first added to my family, he did not know how
to behave himself with the llamas. I was often obliged to interfere
in their gambols to prevent his playing too roughly with the kids.
After awhile, however, he came to understand our relations, and
when the llamas stayed away later than usual, he would search for
and drive them home.
YO UNG FOLKS' ROBINSON CRUSOE.
Neptune did not get on so well with Poll as with the other mem-
bers of my family. She received all his advances ungraciously, and
never let him approach her without pecking his nose with her sharp

bill. I was some-
times amused, and
sometimes provoked,
with the silly bird
for her continued
hostility to one that
never offended her;
but Neptune was
never disturbed by it, and always treated her as if she were of little
consequence. It was curious enough that the first attempt she made
at speaking should be to pronounce the name of the dog she so dis"I made several excursions."
ROBINSON'b VARIOUS OCCUPATIONS. 133
liked. She heard me say, "Nep, Nep, poor Nep," and learned to
repeat these words very distinctly before she tried her own name.
I never shall forget the sensation it gave me when I first heard a
word not uttered by myself.
During the hottest weather, after a long walk over swampy
ground, I was troubled by an inflammation in my ankle. Thinking
it was a boil, I poulticed it. One evening, I was changing the
poultice by the light of a lamp, and saw something project from it
in a curious way. It was white, round, and smooth, and about the
size of a large bristle. I took hold of it and pulled it gently; it
came out several inches. Amazed at this, and not knowing what
it might be, I stopped to consider.
With my eyes fixed upon this new object of wonder, I saw it
move a little. I satisfied myself that it was alive and ought to be
removed. I continued pulling gently, till I had drawn it out twelve
inches. By the time I had pulled it out eighteen inches, I was quite
faint and resolved to do no more at it that night. I wound up
what I had pulled out, on a stick, and bound up my ankle for the
night.
The next morning I went to work upon the worm again, pulling,
and winding as I pulled, till I was lost in astonishment at the
length of it. Fearing the slender creature would break in two, I
was careful to draw it out very gently. After several days I got
rid of this extraordinary worm,1 which measured several feet. The
wound healed very soon, and I preserved the worm in a bottle of
spirits.
I observed with pleasure that the llamas I had tamed became
more and more dependent. Losing their natural habits, they were
less capable of taking care of themselves, and I was rejoiced to find
these dumb creatures looking to me for food and shelter. They
liked to take refuge from the rain in my cave, and I determined to
1 The Guinea Worm, described in Wood's Natural History.
construct a shed for them on the terrace. As I had eight of them, it
required a good-sized building to hold them. I placed it against a
cliff, and made use of a thatched roof. I let the roof timbers rest
on the ground, instead of on a wall, and left both ends of the shed
open for air and light. A rough kind of manger held their pro-
vender; and when they were all ranged along in my rude stable,
fastened by their halters, they looked quite like the cattle in a barn.
I had not forgotten to gather a good stock of food for the llamas;
and as it grew only on the highest hills, I often devoted a whole
day at a time to collecting and bringing it home. I used to ride
Judy on these foraging expeditious; and she would carry me to the
places where the plant she liked was abundant.
All this summer I lived chiefly on bread and fruits. In my
hunting excursions, I used to put in my pocket three or four hard
biscuits, which, with the wild fruits of the island, made me a de-
licious repast. I dried a large quantity of fine grapes, and packed
them closely in a clean, dry half-barrel, where they kept as well as
those sold in boxes in England.
Though I lived without much animal food this summer, I did
not lose my strength, because I had the staff of life, as bread is
truly called. I even felt better with this diet in very warm
weather than when I ate meat. I saw, with concern, that my stock
of bread was rapidly diminishing. I dreaded being again without
that first and best of all kinds of food. Among all my stores
I found a bag of barley. I determined to sow some of it, and
get a crop of this inferior grain before my wheat bread was all
consumed. I had once tasted barley bread, and thought it very
tolerable.
I knew how many operations would be necessary before a crop of
barley could be converted into a loaf of bread; but I did not
despair of accomplishing the whole process, if the grain did but come
to perfection. I could not tell whether it would be better to sow
the seed in the autumn or the spring; so I concluded to try half
at one season, and half at the other. Selecting a piece of ground,
I dug it over with a spade, and then raked in the seed. This sort
of work was quite new to me. I liked it so much that I resolved
to have a garden in the spring, and cultivate vegetables and flowers,
although nature's gardening was carried on around me on a grand
scale.
I tried to be regular and methodical in the distribution of my time,
and generally made a point of writing and reading a little every
day. The various occupations of this summer made it pass away
very agreeably. I looked forward with pleasure to the approaching
winter, when there would be nothing to tempt me abroad, and I
could devote myself to writing my history.
In one of my llama hunts, during the latter part of the summer,
I made a discovery, which proved that I had not yet explored the
whole of the island. I found a bay on the northeast side, in a shel-
tered situation for vessels to lie at anchor. A merchantman or
whaleman might have put in there for wood or water, affording
me an opportunity of being taken off. After a careful examination
of the shore, about the nearest springs, I satisfied myself that no
one had been there lately. It was far more likely that a vessel
would approach the island on the north side, where this fine bay
would afford a shelter, than on the south, where there were so many
rocks and shoals.
I have now come to the last material circumstance that occurred
before the wet weather began in good earnest. There had been a
few showers, and the clouds were gathering; but I thought I
would have one more llama hunt before I gave up the sport for
the season.
I was chasing a young llama, and had followed her to a slanting
ledge of rock that led to the brow of a perpendicular cliff. Step-
ping along in a zig-zag course, to avoid the steepness of the ascent,
and secure a footing, I saw the llama directly over me, and her
hind legs within reach. In my eagerness to seize hold of her, I
threw my whole weight on one foot . It slipped from under me,
and I fell to a great depth below, dragging the llama with me.
My senses forsook me in falling; but when I opened my eyes, I
was lying upon a dead llama, much bruised, and my clothes stained
with blood. On trying to move, I found I had the use of all my
limbs. A sprain in my ankle and some severe bruises were all the
injuries I had received in the fall which had killed the llama. I did
not doubt that bringing the animal down with me had broken my
fall, and perhaps saved my life.
Thankful to have escaped so well, I made the best of my way
home. Walking was painful, and I was nearly exhausted by suffer-
ing and fatigue when I met one of my llamas, grazing at the foot
of Fort Hill. I gladly mounted her and rode home.
Neptune greeted me and seemed to understand that something
unusual was the matter. He looked on with a countenance that
expressed the greatest concern while I wrapped up my limbs with
a plaster of salt and tallow. When I retired for the night the good
dog took up his station at the foot of my bed, like a kind nurse.
Whenever I moved, he awoke and watched me till I fell asleep
again.
I was glad that the accident had occurred at the end of the pleas-
ant season, and that I should lose but little out-door exercise by
it. The application I used cured the soreness and stiffness in my
limbs, but it was several weeks before I recovered from the sprain
in my ankle.
THE BUILDING OF THE BOAT.
MY work was nearly completed before the accident; and as the
heavy rains came on I had few inducements to venture out. My
lame ankle therefore had time enough to get well. With so many
comforts and even luxuries around me, I did not feel the confine-
ment at all . I determined to be very industrious with my pen,
and bring my narrative up to the present time, before the fine
weather should return.
When Poll began to speak she improved very fast. I taught her
to say many things, just for the sake of hearing words spoken that I
did not utter myself. Though this "parrot talk" had no meaning
to her, yet it gave me great pleasure to hear her say, "Robin, poor
Robin," or "Poor Robinson Crusoe," which she did very distinctly.
She imitated my whistling for the dog so exactly that Neptune
would come running to me, thinking it was I who called him.
She added to her accomplishments a frightful noise, which she
meant for barking, but which I could well dispense with.
One member of my family ran away during the time I was so
busy on Signal Hill. My terrapin grew tired of solitude and made
his escape. To separate him from his fellows, and lessen the
number of his enjoyments, when I could give him nothing in ex-
change for liberty, was really cruel.
When called out in the rain, I was glad to put on my suit of
home-made clothes, which were more serviceable than broad-cloth.
The first time I dressed myself in these hairy garments, Neptune
THE BUILDING OF THE BOAT. 139
did not know me, and was frightened at my uncouth appearance.
It was some time before I could reconcile him to it. Whenever
I exchanged it for my European dress, he would wag his tail, and
show as much joy as if I had returned after an absence. My dog
was not wanting in courage; he always met danger bravely, but he
was surprised at new sights.
Much as I wished to get on with my narrative, I could not write
more than two or three hours at a time without cramping and tiring
my hand, and I was obliged to change my occupation. I found the
use of carpenter's tools the best relief. My few wants were well
supplied, and I did not always know what to make. I was apt
to say that such things as I had would do well enough for me.
This want of a motive for exertion was the reason I did not do
many things that occurred to me.
1 often taxed all my ingenuity to find sufficient inducement to
work. I made myself believe I could write better if I had a less
rickety support for my writing-desk. I went to work with great
zeal, and made a substantial table. Thinking to improve upon my
three-legged stool, I made a new one, with four well-shaped legs,
exactly of the same length. I found there was not a place on the
uneven floor of my dwelling where they could all rest on the rock
at once. Three would touch anywhere, and I had to return to that
number. I sawed off the legs of my table to suit my floor.
A higher and easier seat was desirable; and I undertook to make
a chair with a back to it, because I thought an easy posture of
the body would be favorable to composition. When it was nearly
finished, I seated myself in it; but instead of finding any comfort
in it, I never sat on so uneasy a chair. The back was too upright,
the seat too narrow, and I felt as if I was slipping out of it all
the while. I altered its shape, and after many trials I made a chair
that was tolerably comfortable, though not very good-looking.
It was well for me that my stock of quills were all made into
YOUNG FOLKS' ROBINSON CRUSOE.
pens; for I did not possess a penknife. I had written a great deal,
and been so careful of the points of my pens that I spoiled the
looks of a good part of my writing. I tried to mend a pen with

"I had abundant reason to be grateful to God."
a razor, and found it answered the purpose tolerably well. I was
not afraid of spoiling the edge of this instrument for its proper use,
for I preferred wearing my beard. It protected my chin from the
sun, and from the attacks of mosquitos, and was much less trouble-
some than shaving.
Considering the uncertainty of life and health, I used, whenever
a chapter was completed, to deposit it in the box, in the little cham-
ber of the monument. Making it my business to write as much as
I could every day and evening, I brought up my narrative to the
time of writing.
The winter passed away, but the weather continued unsettled
longer than usual. I spent the third anniversary of my shipwreck
in reading and meditation. By dwelling on the blessings which I
had enjoyed in this solitude, and thinking how much worse my con-
dition might have been, I felt that I had abundant reason to be
grateful to God for my lot on this lonely island.
When at last the clouds and vapors disappeared, and the sun
ohone forth in all his splendor, I began my rides and walks, rendered
doubly agreeable by my previous confinement. My store-house had
preserved my goods in excellent order; the thatched roof had kept
out the rain, and the drains had prevented the ground on the inside
from becoming moist enough to hurt anything.
The barley planted in the autumn made its appearance above
ground in the course of the winter, but grew very slowly; and I
sowed the rest of the grain in another patch by the side of it.
As my llamas roamed at large during the summer, it was neces-
sary to fence my barley-field. I cut down some small trees, of a
light, soft wood, and split them into long, narrow pieces. These
I piled up in a zig-zag form, by laying their ends together, in the
same way that we place the fingers when we lock our hands together.
I had never seen such a fence, but I had heard a traveller describe
one he had seen in some foreign country.
When I enclosed my barley-field, I took in twice as much ground
as the grain required, that I might make a garden of the rest. I
spent many hours preparing the land and transplanting a variety
of wild fruit-trees and vegetables, flowering shrubs and plants. Most
of them did pretty well. My farm and garden were situated on a
YO UNG FOLKS' ROBINSON CRUSOE.
gentle slope of rich land, very near the terrace; and I had great
pleasure in watching the growth of my crops. When the labors
required to be done early in the spring were completed, I de-
cided to build a boat of the materials I had found on board of the
ship.

"The barley planted in the autumn made its appearance."
Considering my inexperience in the business, I managed to make a
good beginning. I laid the ways l on the shore, down to low-water
mark, that the boat, in launching, might float as she left them. Then
I built a cradle2 that would slide easily on the ways, and yet be
1 A kind of railway, down which the cradle slides into the water.
a A wooden frame that supports the vessel on the ways.
kept firmly in its place by shores1 till the boat was ready to go
off. I found a keel, two stem-pieces, and a complete set of ribs
all ready for use. Some of the parts I had taken from the wreck
were numbered to show how they were to go together, which helped
me greatly. By the time I had all the frame shored up, and began
to nail on the long, narrow cedar boards, I thought boat-building
the pleasantest business I had yet attempted.
The smallness of the ribs, and the lightness of every part of this
boat, surprised me. The elegance of the form too delighted me, when
I had put on all the boards, and could see the beautiful outline of
her swelling sides and long, tapering ends. Fitting up the inside
with thwarts,2 a floor, and lockers8 at each end, occupied me many
days. I had much pleasure too in painting this boat with the ma-
terial I had brought from the wreck. I made the outside white,
with one green stripe near the top, and the inside I ornamented in
green and white.
I longed so much to see my boat floating in the water, I could
hardly wait for the paint to dry before I launched her. To
fill up the time, I occupied myself in making a small anchor for
the boat. This was the heaviest job of smith's work I had done.
It tried the strength of my arms, and required the greatest heat I
could produce to weld together the shank and flukes.4 My beauti-
ful boat was ready to be launched by the time I had finished the
anchor. The spring tide was prevailing, when the sun and moon
act together and cause the greatest rise of the sea, as distinguished
from neap tide when the sun acts against the moon, causing the
1 Pieces of wood that are placed in a slanting position from the ground to the side
of the vessel, as props.
2 The pieces across the inside of a boat, that make seats for the rowers.
* Closets in a ship or boat
4 The shank is the main part of the anchor, to which the iron or wooden stock of one
end, and the arms at the other, are attached. The flukes are the three-cornered plates at
the ends of the arms.
least rise. The ways were greased, the tide was high, the last shore
was to be removed. I struck it with a beating heart: it fell before
my axe, but the boat did not stir. Surprised and disappointed, I
looked about on every side to find any obstacle. The boat rested
in the cradle, the cradle on the ways, and I could see no reason
why she did not move. I gave her a push with my hand; that im-
pulse was all she wanted, and slowly she went, but with speed in-
creasing, till she dipped her stern in the water, and floated as lightly
as an egg-shell. I had fastened one end of a coil of rope to her,
and I checked her motion when she had reached the middle of the
creek.
This complete success elated me, and, though deprived of human
sympathy, there was one faithful friend present, whose noisy rejoic-
ings were some substitute for the cheers that always attend a good
launch. Neptune barked and jumped, almost frantic with excitement,
whe" the boat went off; then he fawned upon me, and licked my
face and hands; and finally he swam off to the boat. But with all
his strength and sagacity he could not get on board of it.
For several days after the launch, I rowed or sculled about the
creek. I ventured a little beyond the mouth of it, exploring the
coast on each side. But it was hard work to row so large a
boat, and I was very careful not to expose her to any strong cur-
rent.
I made some experiments in sailing as well as rowing. I set up a
mast, and made a sail of the main-royal of the Thames, rigged so as to
be easily hoisted and lowered. I pushed off from my natural wharf
of rock, and sailed down the creek with a side wind which would
be fair both ways. I enjoyed the motion, and it was quite a luxury
to be carried along without any muscular exertion. The wind,
though light, came in puffs off the land; and each time it struck
the boat, she leaned on one side in a fearful manner. At first I
thought she would upset, but I found she went so far and no farther.
145
In smooth water, there was no danger, though in anything of a sea
she would certainly have filled. I found the reason of this was

"I sailed down the creek."
that I had no ballast on board. I laughed at myself for forgetting
such an essential thing, when I had remembered so many of less
consequence.
I found the whaleman's mode of steering with a long oar very inconvenient. I must have a rudder before I made another voy-
age. I was now a practised workman, and I made much better
work than when I first attempted to put the doors on my store-
house.
My next sail was with a rudder, and a quantity of stones for bal-
last. The boat now worked much better. It did not toss about as
before, and I made a considerable voyage along the southern shore
towards the Land's End. I was able to avoid the shoals and rocks,
and keep in the deepest water. The weather was delightful, and
the soft south wind just strong enough to make the boat dance
gently over the waves. I reposed at my ease, steering her
by a touch of the long tiller. It seemed possible for me to trav-
erse the wide expanse of waters that divided me from my fellow-
beings.
I was soon convinced that a little want of skill would put my
boat in jeopardy, though I could swim well enough to reach the
shore from any part of the course I then steered. As I passed the
hilly land and approached Land's End, a puff of wind made the boat
heel overJ very much, and the ballast shifting to the lee side pre-
vented her rising again when the wind abated. The waves were a
little higher here, and every now and then one broke over the gun-
wale.2 Another such puff, and the boat would certainly have filled
and sunk. I lowered the sail as quickly as possible, and moved
the ballast to the weather side. When the boat righted3 I baled
her out with a copper dipper I had put on board for that pur-
pose.
I had seen a board placed lengthwise in the bottom of boats which
prevented the ballast from shifting, as mine had done. I resolved
to have such a board before I made another excursion; for the bare
1 Lean down on one side. a The upper edge of the boat.
8 Recovered her upright position.
idea of losing the boat I had taken so much pains to build greatly
disturbed me.
I doubled the cape I called Land's End, and reached Gordon Bay
without any further accident. There I anchored my little bark, and
paid a visit to the beautiful cascade and perfumed groves of the
valley. When I had made my dinner of some cold provision and
taken a short nap, it was four o'clock. I was awakened by my
good dog Neptune, who was licking my hands and uttering low
notes of delight at having found me. I left him tied up at home,
not wishing for his company in the boat, lest he might be in my
way in working her. After rewarding him for his affection with
the remains of my cold dinner, I re-embarked, leaving him to swim
after me, or return by land, as he pleased.
The wind had changed to west, and though fair for my run to
the Land's End, it was contrary the rest of the way. I thought I
understood sailing on a wind, and expected to make the passage
home in a few hours. Neptune looked after me till I passed the
point, and then wisely trotted off. I steered my boat as near the
wind as I could, and tacked from time to time; but my sail did
not work well. My sprit-sail1 was so " bagging" I could not keep
the boat close to the wind. After doing my best for three hours,
and tacking a great many times, I had not proceeded more than
half a mile from the point . I found that I was contending against
a strong current, as well as a head wind. I could not reach the
creek, or even the beach, that evening. I thought I would return
to Gordon Bay, for there was no place short of that where I could
leave my boat in safety. I could not bear to anchor her, where
she might knock a hole in her bottom before morning.
I sailed back to Land's End, and then headed the boat for Gordon
1 A sail fastened on one side to the mast, with the upper outer corner supported by a
stick, called a sprit, the lower end of which rests in a bracket or loop, near the foot of
the mast.
Bay; but I could no more reach it than I could the creek. The
wind and tide were still against me; and I was carried away from
the island, in an easterly direction, with night coming on. I retained
my presence of mind, and did the only thing that could be done.
I beat up to windward, as well as my awkward sail would permit,
and so kept as near the land as I could.
I was so ignorant of the management of a boat that I hardly
knew what to fear, though I felt myself to be in a most unpleasant
situation. If the wind should increase, and carry me out of sight
of land, I should not know which way to steer. Here I was, alone
in a boat upon the wide ocean, without compass or provision, and
carried off to sea by the wind and tide. I blamed myself for ven-
turing on the unstable element, and wished myself ashore on any
part of the island. The twilight had entirely disappeared, but the
stars made it light enough for me to discern the island. I kept
my eyes constantly turned towards it, fearing every moment to lose
sight of it
.
The wind changed a little and became more favorable, and I
knew the tide must turn in a short time. I was beginning to
feel more at ease, when a thick fog arose, which hid the island
entirely, and left' me without any means of knowing which way the
land lay.
All exertions on my part were now useless, so I lowered the sail,
giving myself up to my fate. By trusting in that Friend who never
faileth, I became calm enough to perceive that the wind was dying
away, though the island was hidden from me by the fog. The tide
must soon turn, and then I should be carried towards it. After
some time spent in meditation upon that Power which can calm
the troubled soul, as surely as it can still the raging sea, I became
reconciled to my situation. Wearied by the exertions of the day,
the gentle motion of the boat lulled me to sleep, and I enjoyed a
sound and refreshing nap.
When I awoke, the stars were shining brightly upon me. To my
great relief, I found myself much nearer the island than when the
fog came on. As the wind was fair, I hoisted sail immediately,
and was gently wafted towards home, which I reached in safety.
I resolved not to venture on the water again without a sail properly
rigged, and ballast that would not shift.
THE FOOTPRINTS IN THE SAND.
WHEN lost in the fog, I thought I should never venture again
on the ocean; but after enjoying the safety of land for a few
days, the sight of my boat made me long for another cruise. With
greater prudence and forethought I might have the pleasure of sail-
ing without the danger. I had brought off from the wreck a
boat-compass; but I did not think to take it with me in my first
cruise.
I now turned my attention to a new rig for my boat. I put two
masts in her, and made a couple of sprit-sails. In doing this, I
was glad to have the mounted palm found in the mate's chest,
and some sail-needles. Without them I should have been greatly
puzzled to sew such stiff cloth as sails are made of. I cut out a
portion of the sail I had used, so that I could "flatten it down," and
made another like it. I arranged the sheetsl of both sails so that I
could manage them without leaving the after-part of the boat, where
I was constantly needed at the helm.
While considering the best way to fix the ballast, it came into
my head that I might use, instead of stones, some buoyant sub-
stance, that would not sink the boat if she filled with water. I
first thought of a barrel of water, which would float if the boat
filled. But a barrel of oil seemed better still, for that was lighter
than water, and would help to keep her afloat if she filled. I had
1 Ropes fastened to the ends of a boom, or the after lower corner of a fore-and-aft
sail, by which the sail is kept in the right position.
two half-barrels, which I put on board, and lashed down
firmly.
I tried my new-rigged boat several times, and found that she
worked well to windward. I intended to imitate the great navigators
of old, on a small scale to be sure, by sailing round, not the world,
but my island. I should lay in provisions for a week, and carry
with me my compass, lantern, tinder-box, fishing-tackle, bows and
arrows, gun and ammunition, cooking utensils, and spy-glass.
Neptune and Puss and Poll were to go as company for me and for
each other. They had become the best of friends since Poll was
knocked off the gunwale of the boat with a chain fastened to her
foot. Neptune was generous enough to forgive all her bad treat-
ment, and plunge in after her. He took her up very carefully by
one wing, and brought her back to me. Poll now liked to sit on the
dog's back, or run after him as fast as her short legs and parrot toes
would permit. When he was beyond her reach, she kept on her
perch, and looked as if she were in the dumps till his return. Then
she showed her joy by dancing up and down before him, keeping
close to him, and saying over all the words she knew. When she
unconsciously called Neptune by name, he looked as pleased as she.
On the 13th of December, the weather being settled and fine, and
a gentle breeze blowing from the south, I set sail from the creek in
my good boat, called the Success. I steered about northwest, keep-
ing near the coast, which is formed of high rocks of a reddish color,
of the most irregular shapes, without any bay or shelter of any
kind for three or four miles. I followed the direction of the coast,
steering more northerly, my boat dancing over the waves, with
the wind on her quarter, and the sails drawing finely. In a very
short time I came up with a headland, and sailing around it, found
myself at the mouth of a river. I supposed it to be the same stream
that ran through the vineyard, which I called the Rhine. I went
up but a little way, fearing to get my boat aground where my
strength could not push her off again. I lowered my sails, ap-
proached a rock near enough to jump out, shoved off the boat into
deep water, and made her fast to the shore with a long rope.
With my shipmates, one on my shoulder, and the others trotting on
before me, I walked along the left bank of the river far enough to
ascertain that it was the one I supposed it to be. Seeing at a dis-
tance the plain covered with vines, I could no longer doubt. I did
not go all the way to the vineyard, but explored the country between
the river and the coast. It was undulating ground, covered with
rank grass, trees, and shrubs, among which various birds were sport-
ing. Having walked several miles, I returned to my boat. As it
was past my usual dinner-hour, and I had a good appetite, I dined
before I proceeded on my voyage.
I continued my cruise along the coast, looking out all the way for
a good landing-place where I could safely leave my boat; for I meant
to sleep on shore every night if I could. I had brought a spare sail
to make a shelter for me to sleep under, and a blanket to wrap my-
self in. I sailed five or six miles without seeing a spot where a
landing could be made. Overhanging cliffs and rugged points every-
where opposed themselves to the surge of the ocean.
After a very pleasant sail of two hours from my last departure,
I came to a small opening in the rocks, where a few rods of beach
promised me safe moorings for my boat. As I wished to explore this
part of the country, I resolved to spend the night here.
Leaving Puss and Poll, and taking Neptune with me I walked
in a southerly direction. A range of hills was before me, which I
hastened to ascend. After a scrambling walk I reached the brow of
one of them, and a new and pleasant landscape opened upon me.
At the distance of a mile was a beautiful little lake, surrounded by
fine trees and various flowering shrubs. Viewing with great satis-
faction the beauty of the island, I descended from the hill and
approached the lake.
153
The setting sun gilded the tops of the tall trees near it, and cast
long shadows on its glassy surface. Neptune hurried forward, and
was soon bathing himself in its pure waters. I sought another part

"I beheld the print of a human foot!"
of the lake, that I might drink where he had not disturbed it.
Forcing my way through the laurels and myrtles, I came upon a
part of the margin that was of fine white sand. Looking down to
observe the quality of it, I beheld a sight that fixed me to the
ground as motionless as a statue, and almost as breathless too. To
my great amazement, I beheld the print of a human foot! It was
so distinctly marked that it could not be mistaken, and was repeated
at the distance of a common step three times. I stood like one
transfixed. Then I sank down upon the sand, unable to bear my
own weight.
If I had ever been here before, I might have supposed it my own
track, but I never had. The marks, too, had every appearance of
being very fresh. There was therefore another human being besides
myself on the island. It might be one of my own shipmates whose
footprint I saw. I was about to raise my voice and halloo, when the
fear that it might be the track of a savage stopped my mouth. I
might be at that moment surrounded by a band of fierce natives,
ready to pierce me with their arrows, or make me their prisoner for
life. A cold shiver passed over me at the thought. I hid my face
in my hands as I lay prostrate on the ground. I soon raised myself
up, and. looked around. The same lovely scene was before me, but
the happy feeling of safety was gone. Much as I had longed for the
sight of a human being, I now dreaded it.
I retraced my steps to the little bay, intending to spend the night
afloat in my boat; but the tide had left her aground. While think-
ing how I could best provide for my safety, a delightful feeling of
confidence in God arose in my mind. I might lie down anywhere,
and be protected by Him who had sent peace into my troubled soul.
I did not want any supper myself, but I fed my dumb companions,
and arranged my sails so as to make myself a very comfortable bed
in the bottom of my boat. It was several hours before I could get
any sleep; for, though my fears were allayed, I could not help think-
ing of the footprint that had made such a change in my feelings.
I said to myself, "I am no longer the sole inhabitant of this island;
some fellow-being is here also. He either conceals himself from me
intentionally, or he is ignorant of my residence here. Perhaps ha
"I lost myself in troubled sleep."
does not dwell here; he may have been here lately, and have gone
away again. Whence does he come, and whither does he go?" Thus
conjecturing and wondering, I passed most of the night. Towards
morning I lost myself in a troubled sleep that did me little good.
When I awoke some one seemed to be speaking to me. I dis-
tinctly heard a voice saying, "Where are you, Robin Crusoe?
Where have you been?" Startled almost out of my wits, I jumped
up and looked around, expecting to see not only a human being, but
some well-known friend. Then I saw Poll on the gunwale of the
boat, and found it to be her senseless repetitions that had so deceived
me. Finding my boat afloat, I pushed off into deeper water, and
there anchored while I fed my dog, cat, and bird, and tried to eat
something myself; but I had no appetite, and felt perplexed as to
the course I ought to pursue.
The morning was very fine, but the quiet pleasure of my cruise
was gone. I cannot possibly describe the great change produced in
me by that footprint in the sand. I hesitated about proceeding on
my voyage, for fear there might be savages on the island. I thought
it best to know the worst, for I could never enjoy any comfort while
fearing some unknown danger. I could approach very warily, and
perhaps get a sight of them unperceived. I considered that with my
fast-sailing boat I could more securely approach them by water than
by land. I had my gun and some ammunition on board, and I could
frighten them by firing it if necessary. I determined to continue
my voyage to Safety Bay, as I called it when I visited it the autumn
before. The wind was contrary, but my boat beat to windward so
well that I did not mind that. In case of a retreat, chased by an
enemy, I should have a fair wind, so I rather preferred it. As the
sea was very calm, I determined to land on the rocks, outside the
bay, and climb up till I could get a sight of anything going on there
without exposing myself to observation.
Very cautiously did I raise my head high enough to look along the
shores of the bay. Instead of half a dozen canoes and fifty naked
savages, which my imagination had pictured, there was nothing at all
to be seen but the gentle Pacific. I returned to my boat, and made
all sail for the bay. I landed on the east side, and walked the whole
length of the beach, armed with a musket, and looking earnestly for
footprints, but I saw none. Warm and thirsty, I made my way to the
brook. I observed with dismay that a path led to it which had cer-
tainly been made in the grass since I was last there. With a beating
heart I approached it, and there I found proof enough that it had been
visited, not by savages, but by civilized men. Lying about were pieces
of iron hoop, one or two bungs, an old silk neckerchief, and a torn hat.
I was distracted now between the fear that I had missed an oppor-
tunity of returning to my friends, and the idea that I had avoided
falling into dangerous hands.
I knew not which to think, but, looking about me very attentively,
I perceived marks in the earth of the trampling of feet. The grass
was trodden down, and some of the roots were torn up. I thought
I could see faint traces of the heels of men's shoes. I suspected
that on this spot there had been a fierce encounter between some of
my fellow-creatures. The suspicion was abundantly confirmed by
my finding in a bush very near the spot a dirk that had evidently
been covered with blood. I was thankful that I had not met these
bloody-minded men, whoever they were.
I now found a few shoe-marks in the earth close to the brook, and
occasional tracks all the way by the side of the stream to the sea-
shore. I judged from all I could observe that these intruders had
left it for the present at least.
I left the scene of strife, too, as soon as I had learned all I could
from it. Leaving the bay, I doubled the cape that bounds it on the
east, and continued my voyage in a southerly direction. A range of
high hills was in sight, that run nearly parallel to the coast, which
I had often climbed to survey from their summits that part of the
coast. These hills gradually diminish as they approach the mouth
of Grand River, which I entered, and sailing across it reached the
well-known shelter of Gordon Bay.
Though still harassed by the idea that there was a human being
skulking about the island who might do me harm, I felt more safe
on reaching this familiar spot . After making fast my boat, I walked
up the valley. The lovely scene quite exhilarated me. I rather
hoped than feared to meet this unknown partner in the island.
"If I could be sure there was but one, I would search him out and
make him meet me," said I to myself; but the fear of being over-
come by numbers restrained me.
The pretty bower in Gordon Vale, which I began to make the sec-
ond spring, and beautified from time to time, was ready to receive me.
I had slept under it many summer nights, and taken many a noon-
day nap in it. I carried my supper and blanket, my musket and
ammunition to it; and accompanied by my family, I took up my
quarters for the night in very good spirits. Having had no dinner,
I had an early and hearty supper, and lay down to sleep soon after,
hoping to make up for the rest I lost the night before.
A long and dreamless sleep made the whole night seem but a mere
point of time. The dawn of day soon convinced me how long and
soundly I had slept, and I arose refreshed in mind and body.
As this part of the island was perfectly familiar to me, I made the
best of my way home. I had a head wind to Land's End, and then
sailed along before it till I reached the creek, having circumnavigated
my whole dominions in three days.
It was about the middle of the afternoon when I arrived at my
landing in the creek. I had plenty of time before dark to inspect
my store-house and forge to see if they had been visited during my
absence. Though I found one door open that I believed I left shut,
I could not be certain that any one had been there. I fastened
the doors more securely than usual before I left the creek for the
night.
THE CAPTURE OF THE STRANGER.
FOR three weeks after I saw the footprints in the sand my mind
was constantly occupied with thinking whether there was a man on
the island or not, and what sort of a person he was. My time was
chiefly devoted to walking about with my gun and dog in search of
him. I visited the little lake twice, but the tracks on the sand were
gone, and I could see no trace of a living being. I climbed the hills,
and gazed in every direction with my spy-glass, but saw no traces of
a soul on the island besides myself. I never could see the smoke of
a fire, or find the ashes where a fire had been made. I gave up the
search, and returned to my usual occupations.
My barley was ripe, and needed to be cut. I had but two barrels of
biscuit left, and it was important to me to make the best use of my
little crop by saving it all for seed next year. I went to that part of
my store-house where I had put all my edge-tools, to pick out a sharp
scythe. To my surprise I found the arrangement of my things dis-
turbed, and one large chisel missing. I picked out a sharp scythe,
and fixed it on a handle that I had already used. Having adjusted the
wedge that was to fasten them together, I looked about for my hatchet
to drive in the wedge, but could not find it. I hunted all around for
it, inside the building and out; it was nowhere to be found. I looked
about the forge and the grindstone for it, but in vain.
A few days after, on moving a cask in the store-house that I sup-
posed to be full of biscuit, I perceived by its lightness that it must
be almost empty. It was marked on the head "Bread" in my own
handwriting; it was the last cask but one of that valuable article,
and I knew it had been full some weeks before.
I knocked out the head, and found more than two-thirds of the
contents gone. There was no appearance of rats having made their
way into the cask, and I never was more puzzled in my life. While
gazing at the cask I perceived that the hoops had been started. I
turned it up, and found a part of the head slipped on one side. This
could not have been loosened without hands, for I knew the cask
was whole and tight when I last moved it. It was clear that there
was a man on the island, and that he had found his way into this
house. He had taken the chisel; he had stolen the hatchet; and he
had helped himself to my bread.
When I had recovered from this new surprise I looked about to
see what other traces I could find of my unbidden guest, and to dis-
cover how he had got into the house. I had bolted and barred one
door inside, and had put a padlock on the outside of the other.
There were no marks that either had been opened. I examined the
walls and the ground around the building to see if they had been
undermined, but there was no appearance of any such thing. I
looked at the roof, but the thatch on the outside seemed untouched.
On the inside it looked a little rough and loose at one of the front
corners, and on examination I was convinced that it had been re-
moved since I placed it there. Here then the intruder entered;
here he meant to enter again. It struck me that I might perhaps
catch him in his own trap.
If I only saw him enter, I could follow him, and make him my
prisoner. Let him be what he might, I longed to see him, and con-
vince him that he was welcome to share all my goods.
I found several other barrels he had opened like the bread cask.
That the poor, hungry creature should take my provisions did not
surprise me; but I feared from his taking the chisel and hatchet that
he meant to attack me, and make himself master of all my goods at
once. I determined to be on my guard, and, instead of looking about
the island after him, to catch him in the trap he had made for him-
self.
I replaced the things as they were before, with the exception of
the tools, which I removed to a safe distance. I shut the doors and
went on with my daily occupations, only taking a longer nap than
usual after dinner, that I might be ready to watch all night for the
stranger.
I went to the cave at my usual hour, but when it was dark I pre-
pared for my night's watch. I secured Neptune, and arming myself
with a gun and an axe, I walked silently down to the creek, where I
fixed myself in a nook among the rocks. I could plainly see the
front wall of the store-house, and observe the approach of any one
towards it. For the first hour I felt much agitated by the hope of
soon beholding a fellow-creature. Hour after hour passed away, and
the morning dawned without my seeing anything but the inanimate
objects around me.
Very much disappointed I left my post, and returned to the cave
for breakfast, and a good sleep if I could get it. I was not discour-
aged in my plan of watching, but repeated it for three successive
nights without any better success. As I slept as much as was neces-
sary in the daytime, I was wakeful all night. Knowing how softly a
savage can step, I did not expect my ears to be of much use, and I
kept a sharp lookout. Late on the fourth night a little splashing of
the water that was unusual attracted my attention. Looking towards
the brook, I saw something large enough for a man moving along in
the water. In breathless expectation I watched the approaching ob-
ject. In my anxiety to examine it, I had well-nigh forgotten to keep
out of sight myself. When I saw that it was really a man, I could
hardly restrain myself from running forward to meet him. This
would be the very way to miss him, for the moment he saw me he
would take to his heels.
11
I was very cautious, and watched him quietly while he waded
slowly up the brook. When he was opposite the store-house?
could see he was a man of a dark color and slender form, and thai
he was unarmed. He passed very near me, and I perceived that he
had a long leaf like that of the cocoanut tree, which he laid on the
ground before him, that he might leave no footmarks. In this way
he proceeded to the store-house. He went to the corner where I
had supposed he entered, pushed aside the thatch, and disappeared
through the roof.
The time was come for me to act. An axe was the better weapon
of the two for close quarters, and I threw aside my gun. Lighting a
lamp which I had with me for the purpose, I enlarged the opening
in the thatch, and jumped in after him. I looked around, confident
of finding the stranger, but saw no one. "Oh," I thought to my-
self, "you expect to deceive me by hiding, but I will soon find you."
To prevent his escaping, I fastened up the hole at which he had
entered very securely. I placed my lamp where it would best light
the whole building, and began in good earnest the most interesting
game of hide and seek I ever played. I hunted among my goods in
every hole and corner that I could think of, yet no signs of him were
to be seen. I felt sure he must be here.
I renewed my search among the goods; I moved almost every-
thing; I looked again and again in the same places. No one was to
be seen. While considering what to do next, my eyes happened
to rest on a sailor's large chest. The hasp was unfastened, and
swinging as if it had been lately removed. It occurred to me to
look inside of it, though I thought it too small to hold a man. I
lifted the lid, and out jumped a poor, trembling creature. He put
himself in a kneeling posture, and uttered two or three sentences in
a language unknown to me. By his clasped hands and imploring
looks, I supposed he was begging for mercy.
I laid my hand gently on his head, and looked him kindly in the
&&

163
face. My feelings were touched by his imploring countenance, and
at seeing a fellow-man for the first time in three years and a half.
Gazing fixedly at me, he took my hand very respectfully and pressed it

"The poor creature threw himself on his knees."
to his forehead. I made a sign for him to stand up before me. He
did so with a frightened look, and made gestures of submission. To
assure him of my kind feelings towards him, I pressed his hand to
my forehead. We went out, and the poor creature threw himself on
his knees again. I raised him and embraced him. Then he clapped
his hands, jumped for joy, and said a great deal that I could not
understand. All his words and gestures seemed expressive of respect
and gratitude to me.
I unbarred the door and led him out of the building, keeping fast
hold of him all the time. Though he seemed willing to accompany
me, I was afraid he was watching for an opportunity to escape. I
went towards the place where I had left my gun; but the moment
my companion saw the musket, he trembled all over, and used the
most imploring gestures. When I touched the gun he tried to get
away from me. To quiet his fears I left it behind, and took him
with me to the terrace.
At the entrance of my cave he started back with a look of horror,
and trembled violently. He begged me by his gestures not to put
him in there. I humored him, and sat under the trees with him. I
wanted to give him something good to eat, which I could not do with-
out leaving him a few minutes, or taking him with me to the cave.
As I sat on my bench, with the savage on the grass beside me, I
considered the course of conduct I ought to pursue towards him.
It was clear to my mind that, as he was ignorant and helpless, it was
as much for his good to obey me as it is for a child's good to obey his
parents. I must establish my authority by some act he could under-
stand. I resolved to make him go with me into the cave.
I made signs of eating, and of offering him victuals, which he
readily understood. I led him towards the cave as the place where
we should find something to eat, but he drew back, and shook his
head. I motioned to him in a gentle but firm way that he must go.
He implored again as he did before, but I insisted on his entering.
Finding his entreating actions vain, he ground his teeth together,
and fixed himself in an attitude of resistance. This seemed the mo-
ment for convincing him that he must submit to my authority. I
caught him up in my arms, and carried him into the inner cave.
He shrieked as he entered, and covered his face with his hands. I
put him gently on my bed, but he kept his face covered, and would
not move. I left him, to prepare an early breakfast for him and
myself, as it was about four o'clock in the morning.
I had not before had occasion to place two plates and two cups and
saucers on my table. Having some one to share my repast, though
he was an uncivilized being, was so much pleasanter than eating
alone that I was in great spirits. I cooked several dishes of meat
and fish, roasted some sweet potatoes, made coffee, and got together
as many good things as I could to welcome the stranger.
I lighted my two lamps, and placed my old stool and new chair
for us to sit on. When all things were ready, I went for the guest.
Thinking it best to accustom him to hear me speak, and to call him
by some name, I could think of nothing better than the name of the
day on which I found him. As this was Friday morning, I called
him Friday, and said, " Friday, come and eat," with actions to explain
my words.
He was sitting on the bed, looking around him; but when I ap-
proached him, he threw himself down at full length, and hid his face
from me. I took his hand, and pressed it as before to my forehead.
This reassured him of my friendly feelings. He embraced my knees
as I stood beside him, and looked affectionately in my face. He said
something in his own language, which he repeated several times, and
seemed very anxious to make me understand. Finding all his efforts
vain, he suffered me to lead him into the next room, though he
looked suspiciously around him. I encouraged him to examine the
place, and made signs to him that no one was near us. When the
table, covered with eatables, caught his eye, he seized a dish of fried
fish, and seated himself on the ground to eat it.
I wished to teach him better manners; but I considered it safer to
let him eat these good things in his own way first . When he knew
how well he liked them, I could make him behave as I did in order
to obtain them. He crammed his food into his mouth with both
hands in the most disgusting way. I gave him a part of everything
on the table. I offered him a knife to cut his meat, but he preferred
to tear it in pieces with his teeth, and I let him have his own way.
I gave him a mug full of weak coffee sweetened, and he drank it off as if he liked it. After eating an enormous meal, he jumped up and
began to dance and caper about, singing a sort of tune.
I was glad to see him so happy; but when I had cleared my table
and put away all the things, I wanted a nap before sunrise. I led
Friday to the bed in the inner cave, and made him understand he
was to lie down there and go to sleep. He obeyed instantly, and
I took a mattress and blanket, and having shut the door between the
caves, I lay down so close to it that it could not be opened without
waking me.
I slept soundly for two hours. On awaking I longed to see how
Friday would appear by daylight. I jumped up and entered his
sleeping apartment. I looked at the bed; he was not there. I
looked all around the cave, but he was nowhere to be seen. My
heart sank within me at the idea of his having escaped, and I said
to myself, " No sooner found than lost. Oh, it must not be! Fri-
day, you must not leave me!" I felt then how valuable his com-
pany was, though he was a savage; and I resolved to find him if he
was alive on the island.
Vexed with myself for not having guarded against his running
away, I turned to go out of the cave, when I heard a low moan like
some one in distress. I listened more attentively; it was certainly a
person sobbing and crying. Fearing the poor creature was half
killed, I lighted a lamp and hurried to his assistance. The real-
ity was not so bad as I feared. Friday had found his way out
of the cave into a passage, which being very much lumbered up,
he could hardly move along He had not gone far, I suppose,
before he lost himself, and could not tell how to get out. There
he was, between two barrels, crying and sobbing as if his heart
would break.
As soon as I appeared Friday clung to me for protection. I
comforted him, and tried to show him the nature of the place
he was in by walking to the end of it with my lamp. He was
unwilling to examine it, and only wanted to get away. So I led
him back to the cave, fixed the boards as they were before, and made
signs to him that he must not go there again. I then showed him
through the kitchen into the open air. When he saw the ocean and
the shores, the trees and the grass, he became very cheerful.
I was afraid of his darting off and leaving me, and yet I did not
appear to constrain him. Knowing that people often think a great
deal of what they eat, I determined to bribe Friday to stay with me
by giving him good things. I brought him a fine bunch of raisins,
which he ate with evident pleasure.
While he was thus occupied I went about my usual morning
work. The sun had been up some time, and my llamas were calling
me to milk them and turn them out to pasture. Neptune was
tied up in the barn and was impatient to be set at liberty. I feared
that he would frighten Friday. I led the dog out by the rope, fully
expecting that he would greet the stranger very roughly, and that
Friday would be afraid of him. To my surprise, the savage was not at
all alarmed at seeing him, or hearing him bark; but Neptune was so
frightened at the sight of Friday that he skulked away, with his tail
between his legs. This made the savage laugh and run after him,
when poor Neptune took to his heels, and was soon out of sight. I
was afraid Friday would follow, and I beckoned him to return. To
my great relief he obeyed, and I showed him by smiles and caresses
that I was pleased with him for doing so.
I next introduced him to the other members of my family. Puss
and Poll were ready for breakfast. I brought Poll out of the kitchen
on my arm, and fed her from a cup in my hand. Friday looked very
much surprised, as if he considered this a fresh proof of my wonder-
ful power. He wanted Poll to sit on his arm. I tried to make her
do so, but she would not leave me. Fearing he would get bitten if
he teased her, I gave him a ripe plum to feed her with. He did
not understand me, and put it in his own mouth. This disappointed
Poll of the treat she expected; and she flew at Friday, screaming
in her most discordant manner, and tried to peck open his lips to
get the plum. The savage gave her a blow that laid her on the
ground, and I was sadly afraid my favorite was killed. Friday was
pleased with what he had done until he saw my face, when he looked
more puzzled than ever.
After a while Poll opened her eyes, and seemed to be fast recov-
ering from the rude treatment she had received. I made signs to
Friday that he must never give her such a blow again. He showed
me his lip, which she had bitten quite through. I understood his
justification perfectly, but here my signs failed.
FRIDAY LEARNS SOME OF THE WAYS OF CIVILIZATION.
I LONGED to see Friday dressed in a suit of my clothes, as he wore
nothing but a piece of cloth fastened around him and hanging down
half way to his knees. Fearing to try his patience too much, I
waited for a good opportunity of proposing it. He soon gave me
one by pointing to my white skin, and then to his own dark color,
looking inquiringly at me. I could not answer his question, if he
meant to ask why we were of different colors. I brought out a white
linen shirt and a pair of thin trousers, inviting him to put them
on, and be so far like me. I believe the poor fellow thought he
should turn white, for he looked very much pleased while I put
the shirt and trousers on him. Though he hardly knew how to
move his free limbs, with the clothes on, he was delighted to wear
them. He looked much better now that he was dressed, and much
larger than before.
I placed him in a shady spot, where he could see me milk my
llamas, and do a great many little jobs which my search after him
had made me neglect. I thought it would amuse him to see me
at work, and so it did. He watched every movement, and often
made signs of delight when I did anything that showed strength.
He was a little afraid of a llama if it came very near him, and I
could not persuade him to taste the milk. He turned from it with
an expression of disgust, and shook his head when I drank some of
it. It was only by his actions and the expression of his countenance
that I could judge of his present feelings and wishes, or form any
idea of his former habits. By his disgust for milk, I knew he had
not been used to live where they had cows, goats, or llamas. By
his not being afraid of Neptune, I concluded he had been accustomed
to dogs.
In the course of the forenoon I went to my barley field to tie up
my grain in bundles or sheaves. Friday went with me, and I saw in
his face a wish to join in the work. I invited him to do as I did,
and soon found he was so expert that I could learn of him. He
made a straw band to bind the sheaf better and quicker than I could,
and seemed delighted to help me.
We got along well through the forenoon, and he gave no sign of
wishing to leave me. I was determined to begin his education that
first day by teaching him how to sit, and how to eat at table. He
was again unwilling to enter the cave, but followed me when I sternly
said, " Friday, come here!" He was soon much amused in looking at
my various utensils, and seeing me cook some pork and sweet potatoes
for our dinner. The hissing and bubbling of the pork in the frying-
pan diverted him, and he laughed and talked to it. He attempted
to touch it, but the hot fat burned him, and taught him better. He
watched me all the while I was setting the table. As soon as I
dished up the pork, I saw he was prepared to make a dash at it, and
bear off his hands full, as he had done at breakfast. I made signs
to him that he must not touch the food, saying at the same time very
impressively, "No, no, Friday." He seemed to understand me per-
fectly, for he looked quietly on while I placed the dinner on the
table.
I then made him sit as I did, and keep his hands still while I
helped him. To all this he submitted very willingly; but when I
tried to show him how to use the knife and fork, he made bad work.
He grew so impatient to eat the meat before him that I let him
nearly satisfy his appetite with his fingers first. Then I induced him
to use the knife and fork by giving him more on condition that he
FRIDAY LEARNS CIVILIZATION. 17J
should eat it properly. But such work as he made of it! I had
enough to do to keep from laughing at his awkward ways. He held
the knife and fork in every way but the right one. He tried to cut
with his fork, and put the meat into his mouth with his knife, at the
risk of cutting his lips; for he did not know which edge of the knife
was sharp, or which was blunt. When he had nearly finished his
meal, I began mine. Then he tried to imitate me, and improved
very much before dinner was over. I commended him by my looks
and gestures, and he seemed to know very well what I meant.
Oh, how I wished that we spoke the same language! How I
longed to tell him a hundred things that I could not express by
actions; and to hear from him the story of his life, and how he came
to be cast on this desert island. Here we were, both full of thoughts
and feelings, wanting to communicate with each other, and yet unable
to do so. How we should ever talk together, I could not imagine.
It seemed to me nearly impossible that Friday should ever learn to
speak English, without my understanding his language so as to
translate for him. But children learn to speak in the same way that
Friday must learn English. They generally speak by the time they
are two years old, and when removed to a foreign country they learn
a second language, by hearing it, much quicker than the first. I
hoped that, in less than a year, Friday and I should be able to
converse together. He seemed so much like a simple child that I
hoped he would learn like one.
While we were at dinner Neptune appeared and began to bark at
the stranger. The dog showed no signs of fear, but treated Friday as
an intruder, whom he meant to get rid of. This change I attributed
to Friday's clothes. The poor fellow was now afraid of Neptune, and
I was obliged to use all my influence to reconcile them to the pres-
ence of each other.
After dinner I made Friday wash his face and hands very
thoroughly. I tried to comb his hair, but it was so matted together
I could not pass the comb through it at all. I thought it best to cut
off a good deal of it; and to reconcile him to this, I trimmed my own
locks first. This amused him very much; and he seemed to be much
delighted with the execution the scissors did. He was a little fright-
ened when they were first brought near his own head; but as he felt
nothing unpleasant under the operation, he made no objection to
my ridding him of a large portion of his hair. I washed his head
till it was perfectly clean, and the hair could be combed quite
smooth. Everything that I did to Friday improved his looks, and
made him more like a civilized man; and that rewarded me for my
pains.
He was a youth of about sixteen, as near as I could judge, with a
slender figure, but perfectly well made, straight in his limbs, and
active in his movements. He had a very good countenance, particu-
larly when he smiled. His face was round and plump; his nose
small, with full nostrils, but not flat. His mouth was well shaped,
though the lips were rather thick, and his teeth as white as any I
ever saw. His color was a kind of light-brown ; his hair was black
and straight, and a great deal of vivacity sparkled in his black eyes.
His docility and reverence astonished me, and I could not help think-
ing he considered me a superior being, for he was as obedient as a good
child to a beloved parent.
In the afternoon I walked with him down to the creek. When we
approached the store-house, he tried to tell me a long story. I could
not understand him, and he looked much dejected for a few minutes.
We next walked down the valley till we came to the salt water,
and saw my boat afloat upon it. Friday wanted me to go on board
of her. I assented, and picked up the rope by which I could haul
her up to my natural wharf. Friday plunged, clothes and all, into
the water, and swam off to her. He sprang very nimbly into the
boat, and beckoned me to follow him.
I pulled in the boat towards the shore, and stepped into her from
the rock. Friday showed me how wet his clothes were; and fearing
he might take cold in them, I advised him to pull them off, and hang
them up in the sun to dry. He could not extricate himself from his
new trammels without my assistance. We took a very pleasant
sail, which Friday enjoyed as much as I did.
Neptune met us on our return. As soon as he saw Friday, he
scampered off again, which convinced me it was the clothes that
made the difference. As they were now dry, I made Friday put them
on again, and we returned to the terrace. I did my evening work,
while Friday looked on. Once in a while I gave him some little job
to do, which pleased him very much.
When it was time for the llamas to be fed, milked, and put in the
stable for the night, I sent Neptune to hasten them home, and he
soon appeared driving the flock before him. This subjection of dumb
animals to my power seemed to interest Friday much more than any
of my mechanical contrivances. I attributed this to his having
knowledge enough of wild animals to understand the change made
in them by domestication. He did not know enough about the arts
of civilized life to appreciate my boat-building, masonry, or forge.
I prepared a bowl of roasted potatoes and milk for Friday, as well
as one for myself, before I called him in. I thought he was playing
with Neptune, and making friends with him. What was my con-
sternation, on looking for him, to find him in the act of strangling
my good dog!
I seized Friday's hands, and loosed the cord in time to save Nep-
tune's life. When he recovered enough to see and know me, I
caressed him till he was quite restored. I wished to deal justly with
Friday. When I looked upon him, I saw that he was already self-
condemned. My actions towards the dog had convinced him of
his fault, and he looked like the picture of contrition. He threw
himself on his knees, and begged my pardon by his most intelligible
gestures. I then discovered that his shirt-collar was bloody, and
that he had been severely bitten in the neck. It was in self-defence
that he had used the dog so hardly, and I felt more kindly towards
him. I let him see that he was forgiven, at which he made the
most extravagant gestures of delight and gratitude.
We went to supper, and Friday's second lesson in the art of eating
decently was rather more easy than the first. I made him observe
and imitate me, and he got on better with a spoon than with a knife
and fork. He ate the milk with a great relish, not remembering,
I suppose, where it came from, and that he had shuddered at it in the
morning. I made up a second bed in my sleeping apartment for
Friday; for after watching him all day, I was convinced that he
would not intentionally do me any harm. I went to bed, and slept
in the same room with a savage whom I had known but one day. I
did not go to sleep on that remarkable Friday without pouring out
my heart in praise and thanksgiving to God for this new relief from
my solitary condition.
For ten days after finding Friday, I watched his every movement,
every change of countenance, with intense interest. He was modest,
affectionate, and obedient. He already began to understand several
short sentences, and to speak some words. The feud between him and
Neptune was at an end. As soon as the dog got used to his color,
and found that he was a part of my family, he ceased to quarrel with
him. The playfulness of Friday soon made him very good company
to Neptune.
SOME LANGUAGE LESSONS.
THE morning after that memorable Friday I slept later than usual
.
On opening my eyes I was startled to find my companion's face
close to mine. He was seated on the ground beside me, waiting for
me to awake, impatient to leave the cave for the open air. I soon
gave him his freedom, and went about my morning work. I saw him
suddenly take to his heels and run off into the woods. I feared that
he preferred his own wild life to mine, and meant to keep out of my
reach if he could. I tried to persuade myself he was only exercising
his limbs, and would soon return. I kept about my work, and pre-
pared breakfast for two; but though I delayed far beyond my usual
hour, I was obliged to eat my meal alone.
I had just finished my breakfast, and was putting away the things,
when Friday entered. He was out of breath with running, and had
the lost hatchet in one hand, and a large bundle of biscuits in the
other, curiously packed together, and tied up in leaves. These he
laid at my feet with many gestures, expressive of contrition for
having robbed me.
His bringing back these things pleased me much, for it showed
that there was a foundation in Friday's mind, on which good prin-
ciples might be built. It convinced me that he had no thought of
separating his interests from mine, but meant to live with me. He
tried very hard to tell me something about the hatchet and the bread,
but I could not understand his gestures. After giving him his break-
fast, I offered to go with him to the place from which he had brought
them. I was curious to know where he had hid himself, and find out
what he had done during his concealment.
He led me at a brisk pace, and by the shortest path, to the vine-
yard. He seemed to be better acquainted with the country than I
was, for he brought me to a part of the Rhine. I had never discovered.
The river was narrow, and the bank steep. Some projecting rocks
formed a natural bridge nearly over it, and with one good leap we
crossed it dry-shod. We then entered a very thick wood, and it was
hard to keep up with Friday, as he threaded his way through the
bushes. The foliage over our heads and all around us was so thick
we could see nothing; yet he pursued his way with as much cer-
tainty as if he had been walking through an open country. He
brought me suddenly into a little circular opening, enclosed by the
thickest foliage, —a sort of natural arbor. It was so completely sur-
rounded by trees and shrubs that I could not see where I had just
entered, and so shaded by leaves that the light within resembled
twilight.
I am sure I should have passed by this bower a dozen times
without discovering it. A natural carpet of dry leaves covered the
floor, and some fishing tackle, cocoanut-shells, and the remains of crabs
and other fish, showed that Friday had lived on something besides
my biscuit. His strong, smooth, even fishing lines were made of
the fibre of cocoanut husks; the hooks were of shell, and very
well shaped. I saw nothing that looked like a seat, or a bed. I
made signs to ask him where he slept. He threw himself on the
ground, and placed his head on a log of wood, which he used as a
pillow.
When I had sufficiently admired Friday's dwelling place, I made
signs to him to take his fishing tackle, and we would now return
home. He eagerly invited me to accompany him further, and I con-
sented. I wished to see all his contrivances, and learn all I could of
his way of life. I was now satisfied that he had made a proper use
SOME LANGUAGE LESSONS. 177
lit' the hatchet, but I could not account for his having taken the
chisel.
After following Friday half a mile, I found myself in a little open
spot, near the river, where he was making a canoe out of the trunk
of a tree. The outside was already shaped, and he had made some
progress in hollowing it out. His only tool appeared to be the lost
chisel. He had taken the steel part out of its proper handle, and
fixed it at right angles to a much longer one, making a sort of small
adze, which he skilfully used with one hand.
The canoe was a small one, and so placed as to be easily launched
into the river, yet quite concealed from it. I found it was near
the spot where I once landed and entered the wood. How astonished
I should have been, had I stumbled upon this half-made canoe!
Having now seen all Friday's handiwork, I returned home, leaving
him to catch some fish for our dinner. About noon he arrived at
the terrace with a number of small fish, which he assured me were
very good eating. I set him at work to dress them in his own way.
As he was to cook them, he collected a number of smooth stones,
which he put in the fire to heat. He dug a hole in the earth, and
gathered a bunch of green leaves. When the stones were hot he
laid a number of them in the bottom of the hole, on which he
scattered some leaves. Then he put in the fish, and covered them
over with more leaves. Over these he placed another layer of hot
stones, and covered it all up with earth, leaving the fish to be baked
by the heat of the stones. This mode of baking proved to be very
good. When the dinner was dressed after his fashion, I made him
eat it after mine. His desire to please me made him learn my cus-
toms very soon.
A few days after this, I was making some broth in a large iron pot
that hung over the fire. Friday wished to assist me, and I told him he might take the meat out of the pot. Of course I expected he
would do it with a fork; but instead of that, he plunged his hand
12
into the scalding broth. The first I knew, he was roaring and
hopping about with a scalded hand. I made him put it into a
pail of cold water, and hold it there till the pain was gone. I found
he had never seen anything boiled, and knew nothing of hot liquors;
for his people bake everything, as he did the fish.
Knowing that everybody is happier when employed, I planned
several little jobs of work for Friday. I was so fond of his com-
pany that I contrived to keep him near me most of the time. When
I let him work on his canoe, I went to the place with him, and sat
down in a shady spot, with a book in my hand. I hardly looked into
it, I was so occupied in observing him. He proceeded in hollowing
out the log differently from what he began. Having now the com-
mand of fire, he burned out the inside, and then finished it off with
the chisel he had so curiously mounted. I tried to teach him the use
of some of my tools, but he preferred his own instrument, and liked
nothing that required the use of two hands at once. To sit and chip
off a little bit at a time with one hand was his delight. But he did
the work much faster than any one would have supposed he could.
Long after I thought the canoe was done, he worked away with his
adze in finishing it off. He rubbed it down with the skin of a fish
that was as good as sand-paper, and ornamented it with a rude kind
of carved work. I grew tired of going so far, in warm weather, only
to watch him; and he went alone the latter part of the time. When
I asked if the canoe was done, I was so often answered in the nega-
tive that I left off inquiring. I was agreeably surprised one day,
when working in my garden, to see a canoe approach the beach. If
Friday had not been dressed in English clothes, I might have sup-
posed him to be a stranger, just arrived from some distant island.
He had made a paddle, with which he pushed the canoe along over
the waves. I was amused to see how dexterously he landed in the
surf, without filling his little bark, — drawing it up after him, high
and dry on the beach.
I was sitting one day under the trees, on my terrace, mending my
clothes, when Friday approached me, looking half pleased, half doubt-
ful. With some of his native gestures and bows, he presented me
a necklace and armlets, made of shells, very curiously strung together.
I signified my thanks, and admiration of his present, and allowed him
to decorate me with them. I had observed him employing every
spare minute in picking up shells on the beach, but I did not know
what they were designed for till he brought me the necklace and
armlets. I encouraged him to make another set for himself; for I
had not employment for him of a more useful kind, and even useless
work was better than idleness. A few days after he appeared before
me in such a savage-looking garb that he quite startled me. He was
ornamented with numerous necklaces, armlets, bracelets, and bands
round the knees, to which bones were suspended that rattled as he
moved. On his head was a most curious-looking cap or helmet,
with a high crest of green leaves.
In this savage trim he danced before me, throwing his arms and
legs about in the strangest manner. Every now and then he spoke
and made gestures, as if he were performing a part in some comic
play. It made me feel sad to see Friday look so like a savage, when
I wanted to civilize him and make him a fit companion for me.
He saw that I did not relish his performance, and looked so disap-
pointed that I was sorry I had shown my feelings so plainly. To
comfort him, I examined the helmet, and even put it on my head,
gomg through the broad-sword exercise with it on. This restored
Friday's cheerfulness.
We made various agreeable excursions together, and Friday found
a great many plants he was well acquainted with, which were un-
known to me. I encouraged him to collect them and show me their
several uses. I learned his names of them, as I had none of my own.
It delighted him to hear me pronounce a word of his language. It
was, at first, a great effort for me to talk to him at all, or to teach
him the English language. I knew that we should enjoy each other's
company much more when we both spoke one language; and Friday
learned English so fast that I was encouraged to take the necessary
pains in teaching him.
He learned the name of every object he saw, and every act he did,
as fast as I told it to him. Thus nouns and verbs were the first
words he understood, and he rarely forgot anything. I taught him
about adjectives by making him observe the same quality in a great
many things, and then giving him the word for it.
I saw him one day look first at Poll's green plumage, and then at
the grass, and I took that opportunity of explaining the adjective
"green." I showed him everything I could that was green, and made
him understand that those objects were all alike in that one particu-
lar. He was making wry faces at a very sour lime he had "been tast-
ing, and I said to him, "sour — sour lime." Then I gave him an
unripe plum, and called it "sour plum "; then some sour milk. He
soon understood it was that particular quality, which he tasted in all,
that I called "sour." I made him feel many things that were rough,
and many that were smooth, and gave him the different words that
expressed these qualities. In this way he learned a great many ad-
jectives, and could join them properly to the names of various objects
around him.
There was one kind of nouns which I found it impossible to ex-
plain to him; such, for example, as "strength," "heat," "greenness,"
"sourness," "goodness." These words stand for abstract ideas, and
Friday seemed to have none such in his head. He knew perfectly
well what I meant by a strong man; but the abstract idea, expressed
by our "strength," he could not understand at all. He used the
word "good" a great deal, but he never knew what I meant by "good-
ness"; and his own language must have been without such words.
I have come to the conclusion that it is very difficult to under-
stand the nature of some of our common little words like "to," "for,"
and "of." We learn them in childhood, and use them properly with-
out reasoning upon them at all; but when I wanted to teach Friday to
use them, I was greatly puzzled. I taught him "above," "below,"
"beside," "upon," by holding something above the table, or below it,
or on one side of it, or upon it; but the word "of" seemed to mean so
many things, I could not explain it in that way. I had to think about
it a good while before I made out that it stands for a relation of
some sort, between two nouns. Whether I spoke of the relation of
a myrtle tree to the woods in general, and said "the myrtle of the
woods," or of the relation of the woods in general to the myrtle, and
said "the wood of the myrtle," which is quite a different relation, I
still used the little preposition "of" to signify the connection be-
tween them.
I well remembered learning at school the definition of a pronoun;
but I never realized how much we are indebted to those little words
till I heard Friday talk, without using them. I grew quite tired of
hearing him begin every sentence with "Friday" or with "Father,"
instead of "I" and "you." These thoughts about language inter-
ested me very much, and I wished I could know more about that
particular study.
CIVILIZED AND SAVAGE ARTS.
THE first time I went out in my boat after Friday had finished his
canoe, he chose to go in his own craft rather than sail in mine. As
the breeze was very light, he paddled fast enough to make circles
around me, and yet kept up with me. He showed the greatest skill
in the management of his canoe, and highly enjoyed his superior
speed.
I was very desirous of visiting the Bay of Terror with Friday, and
finding out all he knew of the scenes that had been acted there. I
waited for him to speak more English, that I might better under-
stand his account. Meanwhile we traversed the island in various
directions. Friday often surprised me by his activity in climbing and
jumping, and by the quickness with which he decided what course
to take where I was most at a loss. I could beat him, however, in
running any great distance; and my feats in hunting gave Friday a
high respect for my bodily powers. In swimming he was greatly my
superior; he could swim five or six miles, and not appear at all
fatigued. He could support himself in the water in almost any posi-
tion, and was almost as much at his ease as on dry land.
When I asked him how he came to the island, he said he swam
there. It was a long time before I could make out how he got
within swimming distance of it. As he improved in talking, he
informed me that he came in a large ship, and swam from the ship
to the shore. He described the vessel as coming from a " great land,"
CIVILIZED AND SAVAGE ARTS. 183
far off to the eastward of this island, and said the sun rose and set
eight times while they were coming here. I inquired what sort of a
flag that ship had. Was it like mine on Signal Hill? He said it
was not, and tried to describe it, but I could not understand him.
I marked the flags of several different nations on boards. When
that of Spain was shown him, he made me understand that was the
right one. He made signs that the vessel sometimes carried a flag
that was all red, by which I knew she was a pirate. I had now no
doubt it was the same that had left traces of violence at the Bay
of Terror.
Friday expressed his horror of the Spaniards in various ways, and
showed me how cruelly he had been treated by them. I readily
agreed with him that we would conceal ourselves from any Spaniards.
I found that there had been a vessel, with English colors, at the isl-
and he came from. The people on board were white, and their talk
sounded like mine. This convinced me that Friday was a native of
some of the newly-discovered islands in the Pacific Ocean.
I often asked him why he was so afraid of me when he first lived
on this island; but until he had learned a good deal of English, he
could not explain the cause. He thought I had prisoners in my cave,
and he supposed I was trying to catch him, either to kill or make
him a captive. The ill-treatment he had received from the Spaniards
made him very timid and suspicious.
Not long after I went with him to the Bay of Terror, and was
confirmed in all my previous surmises. I made out from Friday's
account that there had been a mutiny on board the Spanish ship.
When two boats, full of men, were on shore watering, the discon-
tented sailors attacked the captain, mates, and two seamen who had
refused to join in the mutiny. After a violent struggle they suc-
ceeded in killing the officers, for the mutineers were two to one
against them. While this was going on, Friday and two seamen,
left on board to take care of the ship, saw the affray very plainly.
Friday showed me the place, near the brook, where the five men were
buried. Before I saw what he was about, he had scratched away
earth enough to prove the truth of his story.
One of the seamen, who had always used him very ill, was made
captain, and they had a grand carouse. Many of them got drunk,
and the ship's duty was neglected. Friday was able to escape in the
night by letting himself down, and swimming under water a good
way. When he thought himself out of sight and hearing, he rose to
the surface, and reached the little cove, where I lay the night after I
saw the footprints.
When I had learned all I could of what had passed in the Bay of
Terror, I took him to that cove, which I now named Friday's Cove.
He showed me where he concealed himself, how he lived for many
days, and where he was standing behind a tree when I saw his foot-
prints in the sand.
He was as much frightened as I was. My gun and beard, and my
being on an island where the Spaniards came to fill their water casks,
made him think me one of their number. He determined not to be
caught, but to conceal himself, make a canoe, and go off in it to any
vessel that had a different flag from that of the Spanish ship.
My kindness to him when I found him in the chest surprised him.
I treated him like one of my own family, and he loved me like a
son. Though I was but a few years older than Friday, he always
chose to look upon me as his father; and I gave him leave to call
me so.
I have already mentioned the alarm which my gun gave Friday
when I found him in the chest. His terror was not easily overcome.
He must have seen men kill each other with guns; for the first time
I fired at a bird he did not see, it made him tremble and turn pale.
He stripped off his clothes to see where he was wounded. Though
he found himself unhurt, he was still frightened, and made signs to
me not to kill him. I assured him I would not injure him, and
"I <lirect«l Friilay's ayes toward it."
pointing to the bird which had fallen to the ground, I sent him to
fetch it. While he was wondering and looking to see how the bird
was wounded, I reloaded my gun. Seeing a large hawk sitting on a
tree within shot, I directed Friday's eyes towards it. I pointed to the
muzzle of the fowling-piece, at the hawk, and to the ground, to make
him understand what I was going to do, and then fired. The bird
fell, and Friday stood like one frightened out of his wits, in spite of
all I had said to him. When I made a sign to him to go and fetch
the dead bird, he ran off, and would not come near me again while
I had the gun in my hand.
I afterwards found that he was the more amazed because he did
not see me put anything into the musket. He thought it had some
wonderful power in itself to kill any living creature. Several days
after this I saw him standing at a respectful distance from the gun,
talking to it as if it were a reasonable being. He added in the most
plaintive tone, " No kill poor Friday."
When he understood English better, I took the gun to pieces be-
fore him, and explained to him every part. I showed him how gun-
powder would explode by putting a little on the ground, and touching
it with a lighted stick. I made him understand that it was the gun-
powder exploding in the barrel which sent out the shot or ball so
swiftly that when it hit the bird it killed it. After this he gradually
overcame his fear of a gun, and enjoyed going out with me, seeing
me shoot, and picking up the game.
Friday was very fond of assisting me in my garden, and I some-
times allowed him to weed a little, though there was always danger
of his pulling up what I meant to preserve. He had no idea of cul-
tivating anything that was not good to eat, and I had a bed of wild-
flowers of which I was as fond as of any vegetables. I liked to observe
the change produced in them by cultivation. I gave Friday a piece
of ground to manage in his own way; and I vna really amused to
see his mode of proceeding.
The first thing he did was to find a spring on the side of a hill,
and conduct the water by a small trench to his garden. He dug ob-
long pits, about eighteen inches deep; and having stirred up the
earth a little deeper, he planted in them bunches of leaves belonging
to a plant that abounds on the island. It produces a very large root
which is excellent food, called by him taro. When his plants were
all set out, he turned the water into his pits, filling them full. I
thought he would certainly kill them, but he told me that this was
the way they always cultivated taro in his country. He was right;
the plants lived and grew finely, and his crop of large roots was a
valuable addition to our vegetables.
Seeing my garden was suffering from a long drought, Friday offered
to water it as he had done his own, though in a rather different way.
I consented; and having brought water to it from a spring at a dis-
tance, he dug little trenches across and connected them, so that the
water flowed from one to another, and moistened all equally.
Having occasion to repair some of the iron work about my boat, I
took him to my forge. He was much amazed to see me blow the
furnace, heat the iron red-hot, and then shape it as I wished. My
stock of charcoal being nearly out, I set about making some more. I
found Friday's assistance in chopping down trees, cutting and piling
the wood, very valuable.
When Friday first lived with me I felt a little concerned about
our future subsistence. Some of the stores from the wreck did not
keep very well, and I thought I must make greater exertions than
ever to secure food enough for us both. But in this I was quite
mistaken; for my companion's knowledge of the productions of the
island increased my resources. His cultivation of taro was so suc-
cessful that I was soon relieved of all anxiety on the subject.
Friday had been acquainted with the art of making salt in his
own country. With his assistance I increased the number of my
salt-vats, and by the end of the summer had as much as I needed
for all purposes. His expertness in fishing was such that he couid
supply the table constantly, and without its occupying much of his
time. There was one kind of fish that he was continually looking
out for, and disappointed at not finding. Happening to be fishing
one day on the north side of the island, he expressed great joy at
having caught the fish he had so long sought for in vain. After a
grand struggle with his prisoner, I was surprised to see him drag a
young shark into the boat. I now found it was for the sake of the
teeth that he had desired to catch one of this kind of fish. He
had been accustomed to use them as tools of various sorts.
His expertness in cutting hair and carving wood with a shark's
tooth astonished me. He carved his paddle, using a small, neat pat-
tern, and ornamented some cocoanut-shells in the same way. He
made a very light, convenient water-dipper of a gourd, and on this
he exercised his skill in a different manner. He drew a pattern all
over it with a hot wire, and made it look as if it were painted with a
delicate brown color. I admired this so much that I hung it up to
be looked at, and would not suffer it to be used as a dipper.
VISITORS ON THE ISLAND.
AT the end of six months my attentive pupil could talk broken
English well enough for me to understand everything he tried to say.
Friday's father was the chief of an island, far to the west of this place.
He ruled over a great many people, had music and dancing per-
formed before him, and wore a very handsome cloak and helmet
made of feathers. I supposed these articles of apparel to be marks
of great distinction in his country.
An English vessel visited the island. The captain and Friday's
father were friends. The captain gave the chief a great many things,
among which Friday described a set of large, bright, metal buttons,
some small looking-glasses, and old iron hoops. Friday was delighted
with the English ship, and all on board of her. He persuaded his
father to let him make a voyage in her, as the captain promised
to bring him back in a few weeks. He left his native island in
high spirits; but before they had been out a week, they were chased
by a Spanish pirate, and obliged to fight for their lives and liberty.
Friday showed how he fought by the side of the good English cap-
tain. But all was in vain; his friends were slain; the English ship
was so damaged that she sank. He and a few of the crew were
carried prisoners on board the piratical vessel, and put in irons.
After a few days he was relieved from his shackles, but it was only
to be tormented in every possible way. They arrived at last in some
port of South America, where the Englishmen were landed, and part
of the cargo discharged. Then they put to sea again, and after eight
YOUNG FOLKS' ROBINSON CRUSOE.

"I had coxae to rejoice that it was done."
days' sail touched at this island, where the crew mutinied, and Friday
made his escape as already described.
Friday's treatment on board the Spanish vessel confirmed me in
the necessity of hiding ourselves if any such should appear on th^
coast Believing I could distinguish an English vessel from a Span-
ish one by her general appearance, without seeing her colors, I
thought it prudent to take down my flag on Signal Hill . A few
days afterwards I had cause to rejoice that it was done; for a large
vessel that had every appearance of being Spanish was near the isl-
and before we perceived her approach.
When we first saw the vessel she was sailing before a fine south-
erly breeze, and coming towards the shoals very fast. Thinking the
people on board would be examining the coast through their spy-
glasses, we did not dare to show ourselves on the terrace. Presently
she altered her course, sailed around Land's End, and disappeared
behind the hills. We had no doubt she had gone to the Bay of
Terror. We began our preparations for concealment by carrying into
the cave everything that was lying about on the terrace that might
betray us. I pulled down my shell fountain, took away my rustic
seat, and removed all traces of myself that could be got rid of.
Then we sawed off some very thick-set shrubs close to the ground,
and placed them before the mouth of the cave, so as to hide it en-
tirely. When all this was done I hoped that if the strangers should
find their way to the terrace they would not discover my abode.
Our preparations being completed on the terrace, we took Neptune
and Poll to the creek, and fastened them up in the store-house, giv-
ing each a good allowance of food. We thought it would be dan-
gerous to keep them with us, lest their noises might betray us. By
putting them there, we hoped the strangers would suppose that the
store-house was our only dwelling-place. I had little doubt that our
visitors would break into this building, and destroy many of my
goods. I loaded Friday and myself with some of the most valuable
articles, and locked the doors. I left my dumb friends to their fate,
and set off on my return to the terrace. I cast a last look at my
boat, and sighed to think that she would probably be stolen, or so
injured as to be useless.
When we reached the terrace, I wished I knew if the vessel had
come to anchor in the bay. Friday insisted on going to the top of a
certain hill that commanded a view of the bay, to ascertain the fact
for me.
I tried to dissuade him, as it was a distance of several miles by
the shortest way. He would have to swim a river, climb precipices
by moonlight, and be absent many hours to accomplish his purpose.
He was so desirous of going that at last I consented. Friday pre-
pared for his journey by taking off his English clothes. This sur-
prised me, till he pointed out the advantage of his dark skin, as well
as the hindrance such garments would be to him in swimming or
running.
I settled it with Friday that if the vessel had not come to anchor,
he should return directly. If she had anchored, he was to remain
till he discovered preparations for coming on shore. Then he must
watch the motions of her people, and give me timely notice of their
approach. This mission suited him exactly. He begged me to be
quite easy during his absence. I found it impossible to sleep, though
I was perfectly composed. I spent the night in silence, in darkness,
and in safety.
With the morning light came the danger of discovery, and the
expectation of Friday's return. I ventured as far as the shed, milked
my llamas, and gave them their liberty. While I was doing this I
was very much startled by the report of a gun. I hastened back to
my cave, and began to wonder that Friday had not returned. It
flashed into my mind that the gun I had just heard might have been
aimed at him, and my heart sank within me at the idea. I re-
proached myself for letting the poor fellow leave me. If I had been
certain that he was killed by that shot, I should have given myself
up to the Spaniards.
I hoped that my companion was safe; and I determined to conceal
myself if I could. Presently I heard loud voices very near me.
The speakers were above my cave, close to the crack in the roof.
They spoke the Spanish language, and I recognized some of the
coarse expressions which I had so often heard on board the Santa
Maria. Having experienced kindness from the hands of Spaniards
once, I should certainly have discovered myself to these strangers,
and trusted to their generosity, if something had not restrained me.
While thinking of Friday's fate, I was startled by a shower of earth
and stones from the crack in the roof, occasioned, I supposed, by
some one's stumbling into it. I dreaded lest this might lead them
to examine the ground, and find my chimney, which would certainly
betray the habitation. An angry altercation followed, which diverted
their attention from the cause of the accident.
After quarrelling some time, they were silenced by an exclamation
from one of the party. After a short silence another burst of more
good-humored voices was heard, and they scampered off in various
directions. I had no doubt they had caught sight of the shed, and
were coming to the terrace to examine it. It proved exactly so, and
I began to tremble lest my retreat should be discovered.
A pause followed their arrival at the shed, and then they set to
work like crazy creatures to destroy it. They all fell upon the little
building with shouts expressive of a wild delight in destruction.
When they were engaged in tearing down the timbers I ventured on
my hands and knees as far as the willow fence to look at them.
Such a set of villains as they appeared to be I never saw before!
They were dark and fierce, with athletic forms, and were armed with
the most deadly weapons.
I gazed at them a few moments, and then retreated to my inner
cave, scarcely daring to breathe as I went, so fearful was I of falling
into their hands.
My anxiety to know what they would do next was so great that I
13
YOUNG FOLKS' ROBINSON CRUSOE.
could not remain so far off. I was just entering the kitchen, when a
new and appalling sight riveted me to the spot. I saw a man's legs
coming down through the crack in the roof! These wretches, I con-
cluded, had discovered my habitation. I retreated softly to my lodg-
ing-room, and shut the door after me. A hand was upon it on the
other side; and I pictured to myself the fierce Spaniard that was

"They were engaged in tearing down the timbers."
pulling against me; but what was the change in my feelings when
I heard Friday's voice! I opened the door, and received the poor
fellow in my arms.
My joy was soon interrupted by a fresh cause of alarm. Friday
suddenly fell senseless at my feet. I feared he was dead, and was so
agitated that I was entirely at a loss what to do. I made a strong
effort to compose myself; and then it occurred to me that he was in
a swoon. I carried him to the entrance of the outer cave, and laid
him down. Hearing no more sounds from the Spaniards, I ventured
to the spring for some water, with which I bathed his forehead and
wet his lips.
I then perceived that he was bleeding profusely, which was prob-
ably the reason of his fainting, and it might cause his death if not
stopped in time. I had seen various balsams used to stop bleeding,
but I had none of these things. I examined Friday's injury, and
ascertained that it was a simple flesh-wound in the thigh. I deter-
mined to bandage it before I attempted to restore his senses. From
all appearances it was a gun-shot wound; and I had no doubt that
Friday received it when I heard the report of the gun.
I neither probed the wound nor applied anything to stop the bleed-
ing. I simply bound it up, hoping it would heal by keeping the air
from it. When this was done I used every means in my power to
restore Friday to animation; but it was long before I could perceive
any signs of life. At last a short sob with a little motion gave some
relief to my anxiety. I persevered in the use of simple remedies till
he opened his eyes and drew a long breath. His thoughts came
back still more slowly than his pulse. The first words he spoke were
in his own language. When I called him by name he stared at me,
and repeated the word " Friday" as if he had never heard it before.
I feared he had been frightened out of his wits, and had forgotten all
the English he had learned.
I turned his attention to the wound; the moment he saw it he
thought of the Spaniards, and asked some question about them in
his own language. Supposing it was an inquiry as to where they
were, I told him they were all gone. This satisfied him, and he
looked again at his bandaged limb, and wanted to remove the linen
and examine it. I told him "his father" had put that on to cure his
wound, and that if he let it alone it would soon be well.
His pulse was very quick, and I feared fever if he were not kept
quiet. I persuaded him to drink a little milk, and told him he must
go to bed and get some sleep. At this he exclaimed, " No, no, no
sleep! Bad Friday, sleep too much." I now suspected what it was that moved him; he had fallen asleep on his watch. The Spaniards
had landed unknown to him, and he was distressed by his want of
faithfulness to me. I showed him I was not angry with him for
his neglect, but that he must keep quiet now. Having sat by him
and held his hand till he fell asleep, I left him to do my morning's
work. I then took a long nap myself to make up for my sleepless
night.
When I awoke in the afternoon no sound of the intruders was to
be heard. They had probably carried on their work of destruction at
the creek, and had perhaps ill-treated my dumb favorites. I could
not blame myself for putting them there, for if they had remained
in the cave they would certainly have betrayed me. I went to the
mouth of the cave and listened. All was as still as if there were no
living creature on the island besides myself. I thought of my valu-
able store-house with its contents, and of my forge, and feared they
were now reduced to a heap of ruins.
I resolved, as Friday was doing well, had taken some light food,
and gone to sleep again, to run over to the creek. I felt sure that
the Spaniards had left this part of the island, and I proceeded fear-
lessly. I approached the buildings under cover of some bushes, and
was soon relieved by seeing my storehouse standing. The forge was
unmolested, and my boat sat upon the water uninjured. I hastened
to unlock the door of the store-house, and was affectionately greeted
by my two favorites. I found them in good health and spirits,
though very anxious to leave their new dwelling-place for their old
one. I did not think it quite safe to indulge them in this at present,
and I returned to look after my patient. Neptune's whine went to
my heart, and I longed to have him at home with me. I found Fri-
day awake, and anxiously wishing for my return. When I told him
where I had been, he was delighted to hear that all was safe, and
Neptune and Poll well.
Keiresueu by tranquil sleep, he was now able to tell me his adven-
tures, and how he was wounded. When he arrived in sight of the
bay, the vessel was at anchor, and he concluded all hands were on
board. So he placed himself in a sheltered nook, intending to doze
and watch by turns; but he fell into a deep sleep, and did not wake
till near sunrise. As soon as he awoke he found a party of Span-
iards very near him; their voices warned him not to move, for his only
safety was in escaping observation. The strangers passed very near
him; and he trembled all over when he recognized them as his
former tormenters. As soon as they had gone from the mountain in
a southerly direction, Friday took a view of the bay. He saw a boat
going off to the vessel loaded with water-casks they had filled.
He then hastened to reach me before the Spaniards should arrive
at the terrace. In his anxiety to give me warning of their approach,
he ventured too near them. He was obliged to climb a large myrtle
tree, and trust to its thick foliage for concealment. The motion he
made among the branches attracted the attention of one of the party,
who immediately fired his musket into the tree. The bullet struck
poor Friday's thigh, but he had the fortitude and presence of mind not
to utter a sound, or make the least movement. The ruffians passed on,
supposing there was nothing there.
When they were out of sight, he came down from his hiding-place
with great difficulty on account of his wound. He was determined
to give me notice of the approach of the Spaniards if he possibly
could. He hobbled along as fast as his wound would permit, and
entered the cave by the crack in the roof as the shortest way of get-
ting to me. •
THE BEAUTIFUL GROTTO.
THE next day Friday's wound became very painful, and was much
inflamed. He was uneasy about it, and wanted me to get the leaves
of a certain plant, and let him chew and apply them to his leg. By
uniting his skill and mine the limb was treated very successfully.
I gathered a large quantity of the leaves he had pointed out, but in-
stead of chewing them, I boiled them in water. Having bathed the
wound well with this herb tea, I put on a warm poultice of the
leaves. Friday said that this felt very comfortable, though he pre-
ferred his own way of making the poultice.
Friday's wound went through the usual stages before it healed;
but my simple treatment answered very well, and it healed up rapidly.
A few days after the visit of the Spaniards I made an excursion in
my boat to the Bay of Terror to make sure that the vessel was gone.
I approached with caution, but all was still as if the foot of man
had never touched the shore. Sailing round the point, I crossed the
bay, and landed near the watering-place. A path was now made be-
tween the beach and the spring, and a silk handkerchief and some
tools had been left on the ground.
When I returned from this delightful excursion I brought my
dumb friends from their place of banishment. They were glad to be
in their old quarters again, and Friday was delighted to have their
company. Neptune saw that something was the matter with Friday,
and the expression of his countenance spoke plainly his sympathy
and pity. He was a cheerful companion to Friday whenever he had
THE BEAUTIFUL GROTTO.
199
no inducement to be abroad. He was more fond of me than of Fri-
day; he always chose to accompany me out of doors. When I was
working near home, he would run off and visit Friday from time to
time. I made him act as carrier between us, sending Friday flowers
and fruits tied around the dog's neck, and he sending me some trifle
in return.

"I crossed the bay and landed."
Caressing Neptune for his services as carrier, I told Friday we
could have much more pleasure in this way if he knew how to read.
I could send him words written on a board or shell or leaf that would
be as good as talking to him. This idea pleased him so much that
he begged me to teach him to read, and declared he would learn as
fast as possible.
Learning the alphabet and spelling syllables would be very tedious
work, and I thought I would try to teach him whole words at once.
To do this I made a number of wooden tablets, and on each I printed
the name of something he was familiar with, such as "water," "milk,"
or "raisins." I showed him what each one meant by putting the sub-
stance and the name together, and making him pronounce the word
very distinctly. By looking very attentively at these words, he
learned to distinguish them, and to know what substance each one
stood for when separated from it.
After he had thus learned his first lesson I took the tablets he had
been studying, and carried them with me when I went out to work.
I tied one of them around Neptune's neck, and sent him back to Fri-
day with it. The dog returned, bringing the article named, and my
pupil was delighted with thus proving his knowledge of the printed
word. When he had learned a great many nouns in this way, I
taught him other parts of speech in the same manner. Having once
interested him in learning to read by this easy method, I afterwards
continued his education more according to rule, and during the wet
season he made considerable progress.
Friday had lived with me some time before he saw me ride upon
Judy. I never shall forget his surprise when he first beheld me
approaching him on the llama. I was trotting home from Gordon
Vale, where I had been to get some young pimento trees to plant on
the terrace. When Friday caught sight of me he gazed at first in
stupid amazement, uncertain what it was he saw. On being con-
vinced it was I, he jumped and laughed, supposing I was only doing
it for fun, as he sometimes bestrode the dog without bearing his
weight on him. When I dismounted I invited him to get on, and
up he jumped. Judy was so anxious to get to her shed that she
made a spring, which left Friday far behind her, flat on his back.
He jumped up very quickly, and walked off to another part of the
terrace to conceal his mortification at being thrown.
It was long before I could persuade him to get on Judy's back
again; not till he was recovering from his wound, and wished very
much to accompany me into the woods. He was well enough to
ride, but not to walk so far. I told him he might go if he would
ride Judy. He mounted very timidly, though I assured him Judy
would not jump now as she had before done. When he found
she stood as still as a rock, he gained some confidence, and I
let him sit awhile before I led her forward. When she began to
move, though in the gentlest manner, he looked very much frightened,
held on with both hands by her soft hair, and begged to get off. I
encouraged him, and before he had proceeded a mile he got over his
alarm. I led Judy all the way, for fear a sudden movement of hers
should hurt Friday's lame leg.
We were picking our steps among loose stones and fragments of
rock, in a hollow on the side of a mountain, when a very unusual
sound startled us both, and made us stop. It seemed to me like the
groan of a man in bodily pain. Friday thought it was a Spaniard,
who had left the piratical ship. Having whispered his suspicions to
me, he begged me to go back to the cave on Judy, and leave him to
lie in wait for the stranger, with my hatchet. As he put his hand on
the weapon, which hung in my belt, I saw by the fire in his eye that
he meant to kill the Spaniard with it.
I told him that the sound we heard was one of distress, and that I
meant to find the person, and assist him, and make him our friend if
I could. Friday shook his head, and then he put his arm round my
neck as I stood by the llama. He did all in his power to keep me
from looking for the Spaniard. A second groan directed my eyes to
a small opening in the rocks, which looked as if it might be the
entrance to a cave. I disengaged myself from Friday, and pressed
cautiously into it. I saw nothing but a large cavity in the rocks. I
made my way into it, and, peering round its dark sides, was very
much startled by finding a pair of great, black eyes fixed upon me.
Here, thought I, is one of those fierce Spaniards, and I am in his
power if he is armed.
YOUNG FOLKS' ROBLVSOX CRUSOE.
Summoning up all my courage, I determined to speak to him. I
inquired who he was, and what was the matter, first in English, and
then in what little Spanish I had learned on board the Santa Maria.

"I found an old llama."
The stranger did not answer, but kept his eyes fixed upon me, and
gave another groan. The man is too ill to speak, thought I, and yet
he holds his head up wonderfully.
I maae a torch and lighted it. I crossed the cave to approach the
Spaniard, and found only an old llama, who had come here to die.
Deceived myself, I thought I would try the effect on Friday,
and prove his courage. I called to him for assistance, as if I were
engaged with an enemy, and needed help. The good fellow came
with all speed, armed with stones that he picked up as he entered;
and the moment he saw those great eyes in the back part of the cave,
he sent one of the stones full at the head of the llama. The poor
old creature rolled over and died. Friday found out his mistake, and
we came out into the fresh air to dig a grave for the llama, that he
need not spoil the air of the cave. It would be an excellent hiding-
place, if surprised by an enemy in this part of the island. The old
llama's coat was so fine and thick and long, that we did not like to
lose it, so we skinned him before we buried him. I told Friday I
should take particular pains in tanning and preserving that skin, and
keep it as a trophy of our false alarm and true courage.
The cave was about twelve paces deep, and of an irregular shape.
On the farther side of it we observed an opening that went in deeper.
It was so low that we could only enter it on our hands and knees. I
was determined to see where it led, and Friday followed me. I
carried the torch, and we crept along several yards without coming to
anything. The air was oppressive, and I had a great mind to turn
back; but knowing how unsatisfied I should feel if I did, I perse-
vered a little longer, and soon some fresher air reached my lungs.
This encouraged me. The passage became larger, and suddenly opened
into a vast grotto. Wherever the light of the torch fell the sides
and roof shone as if made of glass. The floor was very damp, and
drops of water were falling on it from the roof. I stood at the
entrance in silent wonder and admiration, for I had never seen any-
thing so beautiful of its kind.
From the roof hung down long points of a white and yellow sub-
stance, that glistened in the light; but with only one torch, I could
not see half the beauties of the place. I walked all round it to ascer-
tain if it communicated with any more caves. I was surprised that
Friday did not follow me. I invited him in, but he shook his head,
and remained at the entrance, with an expression of awe in his face.
He supposed the place to be sacred to some divinity of the island,
and was afraid of provoking the wrath of the unseen proprietor.
There was no other opening, and exploring as much as I could with
one torch, I prepared to return. Friday was so impatient to reach
the outer air that he begged leave to go first. I let him, though I
chose to keep the torch in my own hand. I could not creep so fast
as Friday, who was soon out of sight. On arriving at the first cave
we had entered, I expected to see him, but he was not there. I sup-
posed he was without, waiting for me in the open air; but on look-
ing there for him, he was nowhere to be seen. I shouted, but he did
not answer.
I called aloud several times, but I heard only the echoes of my
own voice, which were loud and startling. As I returned, I saw an
opening that forked off a little more to the left than the one which
led out into the open air. It was hardly wide enough for my shoul-
ders. I squeezed into it, however, and called to Friday again, but
heard nothing of him. After proceeding a few yards, I came to three
larger openings; which of these he had taken I could not tell. As
my torch was nearly burned out, I did not like to venture any further
without a fresh one.
While preparing another torch, it occurred to me that the surest
way of finding Friday would be to go home and get Neptune, who
could trace him by his scent. As soon as I thought of the dog I
jumped upon Judy, and rode home after him. I took some lamps to
assist in the search, and was back again as soon as possible.
When I arrived with Neptune at the first cave I tried to send him
into the narrow entrance alone, but he would not go. I lighted two
lamps, and taking one in each hand, I crept along first. Neptune
followed close at my heels, and when we came to the three openings
I had found I stopped and tried to make him go into the left-hand
passage. I succeeded in doing so by calling Friday several times, and
then saying to him, "Go, seek." I put down one lamp and followed
him with the other. When he came to the three openings he smelt
two of them and then ran down the third. I followed Neptune
many yards, and by several branching passages. The dog trotted by
them, guided by his unerring sense of smell. Two or three more
turns through wider and rougher openings brought us to a little
alcove, made of shining crystals. On the damp floor lay my poor
Friday, breathless and senseless.
I had heard of persons being frightened to death, and I feared this
was the case with my companion. He was weakened by his long
confinement and low diet, the air of these caves was oppressive; and
I hoped he had only fainted away. Even in that case his situation
was critical enough, for here was no cold water, no fresh air. I had
nothing about me to revive him; and how could I take him through
those long, narrow passages, which I could only pass on all fours my-
self? I was really at my wits' end; I knew not what to do. While
considering, I sat down and laid Friday's head and shoulders in my
lap. I rubbed his body and limbs, and had no doubt he would soon
be restored if I could but carry him to the open air.
I was puzzling myself to find a way of dragging him through those
narrow passages when a new sound met my ear. The neighing of a
flock of llamas sounded very near us, in a direction opposite to that
by which I had come. This gave me hope that there was a nearer
way out, and, sure enough, on examination, I found a short and easy
cut to the open air. I readily conveyed my patient out, and soon
had the satisfaction of seeing him fully restored. I went back for my
lamps, and then placing Friday on Judy, we returned home, much
exhausted by the various exertions and excitements of the day.
THE WORK DURING THE WINTER.
FRIDAY and his people believed there were various good and evil
spirits; they worshipped the good ones, and made offerings and
prayers to them. After our visit to the grotto he was firmly con-
vinced that an evil spirit had carried him away to the place where I
found him, and had tried to kill him, but could not. I did all I
could to convince him it was no such thing. I told him how he had
lost his way, and that it was his foolish fears, and his haste to get
out, which had occasioned all his trouble. I had great difficulty in
making him feel that it was all his own fault.
Friday had described to me the burying-places of the chiefs of his
people, which seemed to be places of worship as well as burial-
grounds. He said they were taboo, that is, sacred, and that none but
the priests were allowed to go into them. The grotto we had dis-
covered, he considered a burying-place, sacred to the gods and god-
desses of this island. He thought his being carried away by an evil
spirit was a punishment for having stood at its entrance.
I assured him no chiefs had ever been buried there, and that we
were probably the first human beings who had ever entered it. Still
he insisted that it was taboo, and refused to go near it again. I did
not press him to accompany me to the grotto again ; but I went alone,
and had such a very agreeable excursion that I wished he could have
shared it with me.
I took a dozen candles with me, made for the purpose of llama's
fat, and some clay to stick them up with to the sides of the grotto.
THE WORK DURING THE WINTER. 207
When my illumination was completed, it was the most brilliant
spectacle I ever beheld. A thousand crystals, as pure as diamonds,
reflected the light at various angles, and produced all the colors of
the rainbow. From the roof hung down glittering points of various
sizes. Some almost touched the floor, and looked like columns sup-
porting the ceiling of some fairy palace. Nothing that I ever read
of surpassed in beauty this real work of nature.
This was the last visit I made to the grotto this season. The
wet weather was approaching, and Friday and I were full of busi-
ness, collecting fruits, vegetables, and fuel for the winter.
Friday asked me if butter was not the fat of English pigs; and
was very much surprised when I told him it was made from milk.
This induced me to make some, and show him the process. I took for
a churn an earthen-ware jar, and made a neat little dasher for it. To
the top of the jar I fitted a wooden covei, with a hole in it for the
handle of the dasher. Having collected all the cream the llamas had
afforded for a week, I began to churn, and called Friday to witness
the operation. He could hardly believe I was in earnest when I told
him that I could beat the cream into butter. After churning away
nearly an hour, I showed Friday little grains of butter. When they
became large enough to appear like lumps of butter, he was con-
vinced that this was really the way it was made. He seemed as
much delighted with my success as if it had proved him to be right,
instead of me. When all the butter was collected into one lump it
was so bitter as to be hardly eatable. Finding it the same when I
churned again, I did not repeat the experiment during the summer.
Among other work done this autumn, Friday and I built a new
shed for the llamas. That it might escape the curious eyes of
strangers, we placed it among some thick shrubs and trees, which
grew in a recess of the terrace, about two hundred yards from our
habitation. I was sorry for this change, and so were my dumb
friends. We had much difficulty in reconciling them to their new
1
home. When driven in by Neptune, at sunset, they would always
run first to the spot where their shed once stood, and there remain
till we led them with halters to their new abode.
The winter found us well prepared for it, not only as regarded
provisions and fuel, but in having plenty of occupation, ready
planned. My chief business was to be writing up my narrative,
and teaching Friday to read. Many other agreeable employments
were thought of, and we spent the winter as happily as we had done
the summer.
Friday's improvement in reading surpassed my expectations. At
the beginning he learned more slowly than a child commonly does,
but his progress afterwards was much more rapid. After printing
with chalk on a board, till he was tolerably familiar with the forms
of the letters, I made reading lessons for him. Cutting words out of
the romance I found in the wreck I arranged them on some coarse
brown paper I had among my stores, sticking them on with gum.
When my pupil first tried to read these small printed letters he
was a good deal puzzled. He could hardly believe them to be shaped
like those I had made with chalk, and it tried his eyes to look at
them. By reading a little every day, he conquered this difficulty. I
interested him in the study by making up short sentences about him-
self and me, that he could fully understand.
As he improved, I set him to making words and sentences for me
to read. Before three months had passed he could read fluently in
Anson's Voyages, though he could not understand all he read, by
a great deal.
One of Friday's amusements during the rainy season was making
what he called musical instruments. They were such clumsy, rude
contrivances that I should as soon think of calling a child's rattle a
musical instrument. One was the shell of a dried gourd, fitted to a
handle, with something put inside of it that rattled when the gourd
was moved. With this rattle he accompanied himself in dancing.
14
Another musical instrument consisted of a hollow vessel of wood,
like a platter. He placed it on the ground with the hollow side
down, and beat upon it with a piece of wood, tied under his foot. At
the same time he held a stick about two feet long in one hand, and
beat upon that with a smaller stick. This drumming he accompanied
by a vocal sound, that was rather plaintive and agreeable.
Fencing was another of our amusements, and it afforded us excel-
lent exercise when the rain kept us from walking. I made a checker-
board and men, and taught Friday to play the game, which he soon did
very well, and sometimes beat me. All these exercises were good for
Friday's mind, and assisted me in his education. I began to teach him
arithmetic towards the end of winter, but I found it next to impos-
sible to make him understand the simplest operations with figures. I
gave that up in despair, and only taught him to count, to add, sub-
tract, and multiply, by doing the sums in his head when he had real
objects before him to practise on. All this he learned very quickly,
and grew so fond of it that I used to give him quite difficult calcula-
tions to perform in his head. He would generally come out right in
his answers; but I could not make him understand how a figure
stood for a certain number of articles. That was too abstract an idea
for Friday.
Once during the winter we saw a vessel pass the island from east
to west; but it blew rather fresh, and she did not come very near the
land. Several gales of wind, and two very heavy thunder-storms,
made this season the most tempestuous one I had passed here.
One death occurred in my family, which was a considerable trial
to my feelings. Judy, the first friend and companion in my solitude,
who refreshed me with her milk when I was too feeble to leave my
bed, and had served me so faithfully, terminated her useful life this
winter. Friday and I buried her in a deep grave, under a fine, tall
tree, and sodded a little mound over her. While doing this I told
Friday the whole of Judy's history, and I could not help shedding a
few tears over her grave.
In bringing up my narrative to the end of this winter, I used up
all my ink and all my paper, and was very much perplexed to think
of some substitute for these useful articles. A fall of soot in my
chimney put it into my head to make ink of that black substance. I
first mixed a little with water, but it settled again directly, and
hardly colored the water. It must be mixed with some gummy
liquid that would keep the fine, black particles suspended in it.
Having some gum dissolved in a tea-cup, I mixed a quantity of soot
with it, till it was quite a thick, smooth paste. I thinned it with
water till it would flow from the nib of a pen. I found I could write
very well with it.
Here, then, was one want supplied, which had seemed at first to
present the greatest difficulties. Something to write upon was next
to be thought of. There was one kind of tree on the island, the
outer bark of which was very fine, and peeled off in very thin layers;
and I had no doubt I could write on it. As soon as the weather
would permit I went in search of some, and found, on trial, that it
answered perfectly well. I could only procure it in small pieces, and
when perfectly dry it was apt to break. These objections kept me
on the lookout for something better.
Friday had described the manner in which his people make cloth
from the bark of trees. Thinking this cloth must be something like
paper, I proposed to Friday to make me some. He was delighted
with the idea of supplying any want of "his dear father's," so to work
he went in high spirits. Taking strips of bark from the roots of a
certain tree, he soaked and pounded them till they were a foot wide.
The material was like pulp, and he joined the pieces until he had a
sheet twelve feet long and one foot wide. He made "water lines"
on the fabric by tying threads around the club he used.
When he pronounced it done a most delicate fabric it was! I ad-
mired and praised it to his heart's content. If it had been designed
for wearing apparel, the fine lines upon it, which he thought added
to its beauty, were not objectionable; but they would be a disad-
vantage in writing, and I proposed to him to finish it off now with a
smooth club, that would take out those lines. He was willing to try,
and I planed off one side of his club. He went over it again, leav-
ing a fine, smooth surface that answered much better for writing on.
I then cut it into sheets, of the size of common letter-paper, and
polished the surface a little with a very smooth stone. Though the
sheets did not lie in so small a compass as a quire of fine letter-paper,
I was well satisfied with my loose pile. My gummy ink wrote pretty
well on it and I now had no fear of being obliged to leave my history
unfinished for want of writing materials.
A TERRIBLE EARTHQUAKE.
WITH the return of fine weather we resumed our outdoor employ-
ments. The garden and the barley-field were first attended to, and
then the usual round of work filled up the day, and sent us to our
mattresses weary enough to sleep soundly. I spent a good deal of
time in my boat. Having a compass, and being acquainted with the
tides, I ventured many miles from the island in various directions,
sometimes attended by Friday in his canoe, and sometimes with him
in the boat.
Fishing, hunting, and shooting were favorite employments. Friday
was so good a marksman with a bow and arrow that there was a con-
stant rivalry between us. But he never learned to shoot well with a
gun, and I did not encourage him to practise much. My stock of
gunpowder was small, and I thought it best to keep it in case of
some emergency. Friday was very expert in throwing stones with a
sling; he could hit a bird at rest in that way as certainly as I could
with a bow and arrow.
We had great pleasure in pruning and training the vines, creepers,
and shrubs, that grew around our arbors. The one in Gordon Vale
was the most delightful bower of leaves and flowers that can be im-
agined, and the view of the cascade from it was beautiful.
We carried our books and writing materials to this lovely spot, and
spent a day or two there every week. A rustic table in the centre,
and a long bench on each side, accommodated us in our waking and
sleeping hours. It was there that I generally gave Friday his lessons
in reading and writing; there I wrote the latter part of my narrative
My arbor at the brook I was also very fond of, and when engaged
in working at the forge, or the store-house, or on my boat, I used to
spend my noon-day in it.
One of our chief amusements this summer was riding llamas to-
gether. I broke and trained to the saddle Judy's son and daughter,
named Neddy and Jenny. They were in their prime, and very hand-
some animals. Friday profited so much by my lessons that he be-
came quite a graceful rider.
I found Friday's mode of watering the land very useful to the
garden and barley field this summer, for we had the longest drought
that I ever knew. We should have lost all our crops, but for the
supplies of water brought from the hillside in the little trenches.
In the hottest part of summer, which here is in February, this spring
of water failed, as did several others in the neighborhood. Even the
copious rill, that filled my shell fountain, dried up; and the water in
the brook was so much less than I had ever before known it that I
was alarmed.
On the 20th of February the weather was oppressively warm, and
I laid myself down in the arbor to take my afternoon nap. Though
languid and tired, I could not sleep. I missed the agreeable sound
and refreshing coolness of the cascade. I felt an anxiety about its
disappearance which banished all sleep from my eyes.
I had read some account of earthquakes, in which the drying up of
springs was mentioned as a forerunner. I had very strong apprehen-
sions, on finding the cascade so diminished, that the island was about
to suffer one of those awful convulsions. Before the former earth-
quake the air was uncommonly still and sultry for some hours. When
this occurred to me I ran out of the arbor to observe the weather.
Every leaf was motionless, and the air seemed too hot to breathe.
I called Friday, and without telling him my fears, we made the
best of our way back to the terrace. I resolved to collect some of
A TERRIBLE EARTHQUAKE. 215
my valuables, and take them to my boat with provision enough to last
a week, and there await the event. As I was frequently out sailing
two or three days together, my preparations did not excite any sur-
prise in Friday, though he thought my stock of eatables larger
than necessary. Having dispatched him with Neptune and a well-
loaded llama to the creek, I hastily threw into a large chest, a variety
of useful articles, and dragged it out on the terrace. My watch I
put into my pocket, and whatever I could lay my hand on readily
I brought out of the caves. I had every expectation that another
earthquake would disturb this part of the range of hills, already so
broken by hollows and fissures.
A tremendous noise, which sounded like the discharge of a hun-
dred cannons, appeared to come from under the ground on which
I stood, and warned me to depart. With my hands and pockets full
of little articles, my Testament under my arm, and Poll on my shoul-
der, I made as much haste as I could to reach the creek. I found
Friday had brought the boat to the wharf, and was stowing away the
provisions I had sent down. He and I went to the brook to fill
two half-barrels with water. When these were on board, we pushed
off. It was too calm to sail, so we rowed down the creek, and were
soon on the bosom of the ocean.
Here I felt safer than on shore, and determined to keep my mind
calm. Friday perceived that something more than usual was in my
countenance; but I avoided all explanation and quieted his sus-
picions. I wished to see the effect of an earthquake on him, and
judge by his manner of bearing it whether he was accustomed to
such things in his own country.
There was one kind of fishing that Friday was very fond of,
because more difficult than any other. He asked me to keep the
boat in deep water, and let him try his luck. I was glad of the op-
portunity of lying off the south shore and watching the land, and I
readily consented. Friday said the day was made on purpose for
this kind of fishing, for the water was unusually smooth. On hearing
him say this, I looked up towards the sun, and was struck with its
dark, fiery appearance. The state of the atmosphere was really ap-
palling, and if Friday had not been engaged in his favorite sport he
must have perceived it. He was always very silent when fishing,
and I had no inclination to speak. We sat in perfect stillness, and
never shall I forget that half hour.
The ocean was like a mirror, and had a dark, unusual tint all over
it, while the air seemed stagnant. The sea and land birds flew about
in evident fear, and the only sound that broke the awful silence was
the distant neighing of the frightened llamas, and the occasional
scream of some large sea-bird, as it whirled about in the air. At
last the very fishes seemed aware that something unusual was going
on, for they rose to the surface of the water in large shoals. Then
Friday looked up, and said very calmly that he supposed we should have rain very soon, and then father would be glad. At that mo-
ment the boat appeared to strike the bottom violently, and Friday
exclaimed, "We are aground, father. Push off!" The moment be-
fore Friday's fish-line showed that we were in deep water.
The water became violently agitated in long, deep swells, which
ran up on the shore for many yards, and then retired, leaving the
beach bare far below low-water mark. We were so tossed about, we
could only keep our seats by holding on. Friday looked very much
terrified, but said nothing. He only placed himself on the same
thwart with me, and put his arm around my waist. I encouraged him
in the best way I could; but I do not know what I said. A low,
rumbling noise filled my ears, and grew louder and louder. Then it
burst out in such an explosion as all the cannon in the world
could not make, if fired off at once. Friday threw himself down at
full length in the bottom of the boat, and covered his face with his
hands. Neptune whined most piteously, and Poll screamed in terror.
The rolling of the sea now carried the boat swiftly forward till she
nearly ran upon the rocks, and then hurried her off more than a mile
from the shore.
I found all attempts to manage the boat with oars useless, so I
took them in. Bracing myself so as to keep my seat, I gazed in
utter amazement at the wonderful agitation of the water. I looked
earnestly at the land, to see if I could discover any change there.
Another dreadful noise filled the air, but I listened to it with less
agitation, and kept my eyes fixed on the hills behind the terrace. I
distinctly saw them open and a column of fire issue from them.
Large masses of rock were loosened and rolled down upon the ter-
race. The earth heaved and gaped, and then closed up again.
Frightful as the agitation of the water had appeared, I was thank-
ful that I was on it, instead of being amidst the heavings of the
earth, and the falling of rocks, trees, and stones.
I watched with peculiar interest the fate of Signal Hill, well
knowing that my pyramid, solid as it was, could not resist these
tremendous heavings of the earth. It might be engulfed in a mo-
ment, in one of those openings. I could see the little monument that
contained the history of my residence on this desolate island. Next to
the preservation of Friday's life and my own, I most anxiously desired
the safety of my manuscript. The rocks fell around it, the earth
sank away on each side of it, but it stood unhurt. When the shocks
abated, it was quite safe, — a pyramid of masonry on the top of a
pyramid of solid rock. But the manuscript was safe, and I re-
joiced at that.
One hill near the east end of the terrace disappeared entirely.
There were five distinct and tremendous shocks, accompanied by a
loud roaring, or a sharp, crackling noise. Each time the boat trem-
bled, as if it had struck against something, though not so violently as
at first. All through the evening there were lesser shakings and
quakings, accompanied by lesser noises. My pretty terrace looked,
from a distance, like a heap of ruins; and I had no doubt that all
traces of my subterranean abode were destroyed.
The first words Friday spoke were, " What is it, father?" I bade
him get up, and sit by me. Then I showed him the change in the
appearance of the island, and told him all I could about it. He had
never seen or felt anything like it before. He was very anxious to
know if it was all over, and I told him I believed the worst of it was
passed. He beset me with questions, and I told him we would talk
more about it another time, for we had better take some refreshment
now.
Having supped in the boat, and fed our dumb friends, we took
advantage of a little southerly breeze that had sprung up. We sailed
around the east end of the island, to see all we could while it was yet
daylight. We ran aground several tunes on new shoals formed by
the earthquake, and all the way we saw traces of the terrible con-
vulsion.
THE EFFECTS OF THE EARTHQUAKE.
WE spent the night at anchor, and from the gathering of the
clouds, which hung very low, we expected every moment to be
drenched with rain. The sun rose before the rain began to fall.
The shaking of the earth and the unusual rolling of the sea had
ceased for some hours. I thought we might venture to land; and as
I was very desirous of seeing what damage the earthquake had done
in Gordon Vale, we carried our breakfast with us and ate it there.
As I ascended the valley from the bay I was gladdened by the
sound of the waterfall long before I saw it. When I arrived at my
arbor I found it uninjured, though fragments of rocks that were not
there before lay scattered around.
I was glad to find one of my homes still habitable. Having de-
posited our basket of provisions on the table, I went out to see what
changes the earthquake had made. The whole appearance of the
cascade was altered. From being very high and narrow, it had be-
come much lower and broader. The large rock, over which it once
bounded, had disappeared, and the whole form of the land at the
head of the valley was changed. The copious stream that once
leaped from so great a height was collected in a basin of half the
elevation, and discharged its more abundant waters in a long line of
falls. Then it found its way around fragments of rocks newly fallen,
which in many places changed the course of the stream.
It was a great disappointment to me, for when I heard it from
below I fully expected to see my favorite cascade unchanged.
Though some might think it a grander fall now it was so much
enlarged, it had lost much of its picturesque beauty. It was no
longer the familiar object I had gazed at so much as to become quite
attached to it.
I comforted myself at finding my arbor untouched; and when I
saw how the earth had slid about it in various directions, and huge
rocks had rolled down near it, I was astonished that it had
escaped.
Emboldened by finding the earth firm again under my feet, I deter-
mined to pass the day in coasting around the island, landing at vari-
ous places, to see the effects of the earthquake.
I dreaded the devastation which I knew it had made at the terrace,
and I shrunk from the idea of going there. I sailed along the east-
ern shore, and visited the Bay of Terror. We saw some new rents
among the high hills, but in the bay we found no traces of the late
convulsion of nature.
While we were wandering about the bay the clouds, which had
been gathering all the morning, began to pour down torrents of rain.
As there was no shelter on shore we took to our boat. The ocean
looked a little squally, and we anchored in the most sheltered part of
the bay. Several violent gusts of wind made us very glad of our
sheltered situation; and we spent the rest of that day and the next
night in the boat, under an awning made of the sails.
Friday had many questions to ask about the earthquake, and
wanted to know if I did not believe it was an evil spirit that had
made it. I said all I could to convince him it was no such thing.
When I told him God made the earthquake, he added, "Then God
must be angry with us." He wished to know how we had offended
him, that we might do so no more. I explained to him that God was
never angry, that he was a God of love, and everything he did was
for the general good of his creatures. I then gave Friday my way
of accounting for earthquakes.
THE EFFECTS OF THE EARTHQUAKE. 221
In the course of the night the rain ceased, the weather became
settled. The sun rose beautifully amidst piles of clouds that looked
like purple robes fringed with gold. The boat and the sails, as well
as ourselves, were soon dried in the sun's warm rays. Then we
breakfasted, and proceeded on our coasting voyage.
We could see no traces of the earthquake on the northern side of
the island; but, as we approached the Rhine, we saw fragments of
trees floating on the waters. In one place, where the land was flat
and covered with thick woods, several acres had sunk down into the
water, till nothing but the topmost branches of the trees were visible.
This was a kind of havoc such as I had not seen before. This sink-
ing of the land made a sort of bay where the mouth of the Rhine had
been. On entering this newly formed bay I could not see any river,
but only the dry bed of gravel and stones where it had once been.
This astonished me so much that I resolved to land, and walk up
the left bank of the Rhine to the vineyard, and see what had become
of the river. I presently came to a part of the bed which was quite
choked up with rocks, stones, earth, and fallen trees. These had
formed an embankment that dammed up the river, and had made it
overflow a great part of the vineyard and the low woods on the oppo-
site bank, forming a large lake. The whole appearance of the coun-
try was so altered that I could hardly believe I had ever seen it
before.
Friday and I were standing at one end of the newly made dam
when we heard a loud, crashing noise. In an instant the middle of
the embankment gave way, and a mighty torrent of water rushed
through the opening, roaring and widening as it went, and carrying
all before it in its course. It was a fine sight, and I rejoiced to see
the extended lake before the dam gave way, and to witness the emp-
tying of its waters into the bed of the river. The vineyard looked
again as it had been before, and I did not doubt that this inundation
would increase its fertility.
We returned, expecting to find our boat where we had left her;
but she had disappeared entirely. She had no doubt been set adrift
by the sudden rushing of such a great body of water, and Poll was
the only sailor on board to navigate her. Fearing some current
would carry her out of our reach, I proposed to Friday to get his
canoe, and paddle after the boat. But he said that as soon as he
could see her, he would swim off and bring her to me.
We looked a good while before we could discern our lost craft;
but at last Friday's sharp eyes discovered her, like a speck on the
water. I thought she was too far off for him to swim to her; but
my man laughed at the idea, and declared he could swim twice as far.
Away he went, only begging me to direct his course toward the boat,
as he might not be able to see her himself. * I did so whenever he looked back for guidance. He reached the
boat, and jumped into her as nimbly as if he was not in the least fa-
tigued. The wind was fair, and he brought her to me in a few minutes.
Poll looked as composed as if she had not been cruising alone, but
when we all got on board she seemed very glad of our company.
We now proceeded to the creek, and my imagination was very
busy as we approached, picturing the changes we might find. I
entered the creek with a beating heart, and sailed up as far as the
natural wharf. I landed, leaving Friday to discharge the cargo and
moor the vessel. I walked up the valley, and soon beheld the stone
wall and yellow thatch as perfect as ever. How it gladdened my
heart to find this favorite spot, and this valuable store-house of goods,
uninjured!
We found some of the ship's bedding in the store-house, and placed
it in our arbor near the brook. We determined to make that our
sleeping apartment for the present, and convert the forge into a
kitchen fireplace. I could not make up my mind to go to the terrace
this evening, and we retired early to our mattresses to make up for
our want of rest the night before.
THE COTTAGE BY THE BROOK.
MY first thought on awaking the next morning was of the llamas.
We had seen nothing of them in our tour the day before, and I
feared they had all been destroyed by the earthquake.
Hoping to recover many things by digging, Friday and I shoul-
dered our spades, and marched off in silence towards the terrace.
The earth was as firm as if it had never been moved; the air was
fresh and invigorating; the sky had lost its lurid hue and looked as
calm and serene as the waters; the birds sang, and the flowers per-
fumed the air. All nature seemed radiant with smiles, after drink-
ing in the plentiful rain so long needed, and which had fallen in
torrents after the earthquake.
We had not proceeded far before we found the way impeded by
slides of earth, loose stones, and fragments of rock, strewed pro-
fusely around. After a scrambling walk, we approached the place
once so familiar to our eyes. It was so changed we could not
tell where we were, or recognize the spot we had inhabited. The
grassy terrace was gone, a hill stood in the midst of it, and all
around were fresh earth and stones. Our gardens and barley-field
had moved; the whole side of the hill below the terrace had slid off
an eighth of a mile at least.
We passed around the newly shaped hill, hoping to trace the ter-
race beyond it. Here the formation of the ground was not so en-
tirely altered. We could conjecture where the llama-shed had been,
though it was now covered up with earth and stones. As wfc
there we heard something like the neighing of llamas. It sour-ded to
me a great way off, but Friday thought it proceeded from within the
earth near us. We surveyed the ground very carefully, and were
sure we were near the spot where the shed stood. We heard the
sound repeated several times, though very faintly, and were con-
vinced it proceeded from within the slide of earth before us, which
had covered up the shed without crushing it. We called aloud to
Neddy and Jenny; they neighed in reply; and we went to work te
dig them out.
Long and hard did we labor before we uncovered any part of the
shed. After about the hardest day's work I ever did, we had the
satisfaction of delivering Neddy and Jenny from their prison-house.
They had fasted many hours, and were delighted to regain their free-
dom. By turns they cropped the nearest food, and caressed us. I
could easily fancy that their large, dark eyes expressed gratitude to
their deliverers. These two living creatures were all we could rescue
of our former possessions on the terrace; everything else was buried
far below our power of reaching it.
I could not give up my pleasant dwelling-place, my familiar haunts
on the terrace, my pretty fountain and shady seat, without much
regret. No part of my caves remained habitable. We never saw
poor Puss again. I was forced to abandon the terrace altogether,
and live entirely at the creek, where I determined to build a con-
venient cottage before the rainy season came.
The earthquake deprived me of my most important article of food,
for the llamas were all destroyed by it. Except Neddy and Jenny, I
could not find one on the island. Always keeping together in herds,
and running to the highest land when frightened, they were probably
all swallowed up in the tremendous convulsions of the hills. This
was to me a great loss, both as regarded food and the chase, though of
less consequence now than before I had Friday. His knowledge of
THE COTTAGE BY THE BROOK. 225
esculent vegetables, and his expertness in fishing, would give us a
sufficiency of food at all times. If I should remain on this island
after all my European clothes were worn out, I should prefer garments
made of cloth manufactured from the bark of trees, or of mats woven
of the fibres of plants, to the use of llama-skins. I had enough of
the wool and hides, already dressed, to serve all my purposes for some
years to come. My books and writing materials were all saved by
being at the arbor in Gordon Vale.
The changes produced in various parts of the island by the earth-
quake gave a new interest to our rides. When we thought we had
seen them all, we were continually discovering something new that had
before escaped our observation. It was not till several weeks had
elapsed that we saw the change made in Grand River by the earth-
quake. The bed of the stream was, in one place, heaved up above
the water, altering the course of the stream considerably, and bring-
ing to light huge timbers and fragments of the Thames. I had often
wondered that so few remains of the wreck had ever come ashore.
Now it appeared, that the hull had drifted into the mouth of Grand
River and there settled in the sandy bed till all was upheaved by the
earthquake.
In the latter part of the dry season we built our cottage by the
brook. I made a low, one-story house, with two rooms in it, a fire-
place in one, and two windows in each. I put on a thatched roof and
had but one door, that I might the more easily secure it against the
attack of Spaniards. Our new habitation was in the midst of trees
and surrounded by high rocks, and we hoped it might escape obser-
vation.
I was puzzled about flooring my apartments. The one with a fire-
place, which I called my kitchen, had fine gravel for its natural floor.
I only cut a drain through it and left it as it was. The sleeping
room was covered with turf, and though nothing could be a prettier
carpet, the grass would die directly, and leave a very dirty floor. To
15
saw planks was too hard labor, as we had nothing but a hand-saw;
but trees were plenty, and instead of sawing them into planks, I
squared them with an axe, and laid them down whole all over the
bedroom floor. These made a clean, dry surface, though not half so
even and pleasant as the natural floor of my former bedroom.
When the heavy work was done it was very pleasant to fit up the
inside of the house. Friday and I sawed boards enough to make a
range of shelves in each room, and a good-sized table in the kitchen.
We had cooking utensils, crockery, mattresses, and bedding enough
at the store-house to supply the place of all we had lost by the earth-
quake. But on opening a chest that I thought was filled with
sailors' clothing, I was disappointed to find nothing but small blocks
and other things belonging to the rigging of a ship. I now realized
that I had lost most of my clothing. A little industry and ingenuity
would supply me with home-made articles of dress when those I had
were worn out. I set Friday to making cloth as soon as the house
was built and the boards sawed for the inside work. By the time I
had fitted up and furnished the two rooms Friday had made several
large pieces of cloth, of various thicknesses. He collected fibres, to
be spun and woven into mats, when we should be confined by the
rains. Thus prepared, we saw the clouds gathering without any fear
that the rainy months would seem tedious.
I had learned to make less, instead of greater, preparation for the
winter. Friday liked to fish in the rain as well as in dry weather,
and it never hurt him at all. There were enough vegetables in season,
all the year round, so that no great store was necessary. We gathered
our crop and put it under cover, and I made raisins as usual. These,
with fresh fish, were our chief food.
My most valuable possession was the large assortment of tools,
and they were all saved. My store-house, too, was full of rigging,
sails, casks, and various materials got out of the whale ship.
As my pyramid had endured through such mighty convulsions of
the earth, without giving way, it was still the safest place for my
manuscript. I found it much slower work to write on my new
paper, and with gummy ink, than when I had better materials, but
I managed to write several pages a day during the rainy season.
THE FIFTH WINTER.
I NOW entered upon the fifth winter of my sojourn in this island,
and I only wished it might be spent as agreeably as the last. Fri-
day made great progress in his education. I taught him to speak
more correctly than he had ever done before, and made him ac-
quainted with the rudiments of grammar. I set him copies in round
hand, and he learned to write, first with a burnt stick on wood.
When he was once persuaded to hold the stick properly in his fingers,
he learned to write very fast. He wanted to hold the stick anyhow,
provided he made the letters right; but I told him that hundreds
and thousands of persons had agreed that one particular way was the
best. Then I showed him the advantages of holding the pen, pencil,
or stick as I had been taught. I convinced him that it was best to
hold it in the right way from the beginning.
During this rainy season Friday learned the use of the ten figures,
and understood at last the difference made in their value by changing
their position.
Friday made some fine, soft mats for clothing, and I acted as tailor
in converting them into trousers for our future wear. I also turned
seamstress, and with the needle and thread, found in the mate's chest,
I made some garments, that partook of the nature of shirts and
jackets too. One of these garments and a pair of the matting trous-
ers, would be a complete suit for hot weather, and defend our bodies
from the sun and the mosquitoes.
THE FIFTH WINTER. 229
Friday wove, under my direction, some straw hats with broad
brims. As he made the second much better than the first, I en-
couraged him to try a third and a fourth, that he might perfect him-
self in the work. He completed six, and hung them up to the
rafters, in the order in which he had made them. We prepared a good
many fishing-lines, and plenty of new bow-strings. We brought the
grindstone into the kitchen and sharpened all our tools.
We had a great many sudden and short gales of wind, common in
this climate; and many fine trees were blown down. At night, the
noise startled us out of our sleep, and alarmed us a good deal; for we
thought it was the report of fire-arms close to us.
My new habitation was not so water-tight as my former one;
and we sometimes had the rain streaming down on our beds or drop-
ping on the table. I wondered that my second attempt at a thatched
roof was not as good as the first; but I found it was my peep-holes
that did all the mischief. The thatch over them was not so thick as
elsewhere and I therefore dispensed with them for the present, and
made the roof water-tight.
Towards the close of the rainy season we were one night startled
out of our sleep by a noise like that of a falling tree, but louder and
more prolonged. I jumped up in bed, with a beating heart, for I
thought it might be the beginning of another earthquake. Friday
was awake too, and he said, "A great many trees knocked down that
time, father." But I knew this was not the cause, as I could not
hear any wind. While listening, a sharp flash of lightning and a
loud clap of thunder relieved my mind from anxiety. These came
together, and I might reasonably fear the effects of lightning so near
me; a thunder-storm seemed to be a trifling danger, compared with
an earthquake. Concluding that the noise which awakened us was
only a thunder-clap, I lay down again.
We slept late the following morning. When we opened the door,
to go about our usual business, what was our astonishment at find-
ing our house surrounded by water! The little elevation on which
the cottage stood was converted into an island, and the waters of the
brook surrounded it on every side.
Friday used all the interjections he knew in English, and had re-
course to some in his native tongue, to express his astonishment.
Then he waded through the water to show me how shallow it was. I
followed him, and we both hastened to the channel of the brook,
below this collection of water. I was curious to know what had
made the stream overflow its banks in this way.
At the spot where the fall was made higher and narrower than
anywhere else by a natural dam of fallen trees, earth, and stones, we
beheld a large rock. It had fallen from a neighboring cliff, and must
have rolled along till it was lodged where it completely dammed up
the water, made it overflow the banks, and surround our cottage.
As I had no fancy for a wet floor in my house, and feared the
water might rise a good deal higher, I determined to make a vent for
this newly formed lake. Friday and I worked very hard all day, un-
dermining the old embankment. Before sunset we made it so weak
that it began to give way. We had just time to scramble out of
danger when the water from above carried all before it, and down
rushed a fine torrent! The sheet of still water disappeared rapidly;
the pretty banks of the brook were restored to sight, and our house
was no longer on an island.
I visited the cliff from which the rock had fallen. I found a large
tree, shivered by the lightning, on the very spot where that immense
fragment had been split off. I could no longer doubt that the noise
which awoke me in the night was made by the destruction I now
witnessed, and was partly the thunder and partly the falling and roll-
ing of the rock afterwards. Large splinters of wood, four or five feet
long, torn from the tree, were stuck slantingly in the earth. It re-
quired considerable effort to draw them out, so firmly had they been
driven in by the lightning
This change in the brook injured the picturesque view from my
cottage-door. The noisy little fall, which I liked to see and hear,
was gone; and the rock that had taken its place was but a poor sub-
stitute. The waters rolled down a more gentle slope, and though
they babbled as they went, the effect was less agreeable to the eye
and ear.
I was much struck by the numerc-i.-, changes in the island since I
had been living there. Kivers, brooks, rocks, shores and shoals, and
"the everlasting hills" themselves, had changed; my most familiar
haunts had disappeared, or were so altered as to lose all resemblance
to what they had once been.
From thinking of the changes around me, I was naturally led to
consider those that might have occurred at home. The friends whom I
so earnestly desired to see,— were they still living? If I ever reached
my native land, should I find my home as I left it? It was a pain-
ful thought that my parents and friends had given me up for dead;
and that, much as I thought of them, they never thought of me as an
inhabitant of the earth. When this thought came over me I felt as
though I were removed to another world, and worse than dead. If I
could only have sent a whisper into my mother's ear, and told her
that her son lived, her dear image continually present in his mind,
I could better have supported the pain of separation.
But this could not be; I was shut out from all communion with
the rest of the world. Though I looked upon the same sun and
moon my distant friends beheld, they knew it not. I was dead to
them; and why should I be troubled if they believed me really dead?
In general I was cheerful, and disposed to make the best of every-
thing around me. My old friend Poll cheered me with her parrot
sayings; Neptune's faithful services were a great pleasure to me; my
llamas loved me, and were loved in return. My adopted son and
valued companion, Friday, was a crowning blessing, for which I could
not be too thankful.
My occupations were various and agreeable, and instructing Friday
was a most delightful as well as improving one to me. My situation
was far better than I could once have supposed it possible to be. If
all my enjoyments were doubled, my heart would still have longed for
my dear, distant home, and the presence of my beloved father and
mother. With them, I could be happy anywhere; without them, I
could not call myself happy here.
THE STRANGERS ON THE ISLAND.
ABOUT two weeks after the fifth anniversary of my shipwreck,
Friday and I were out sailing in the Success. We were lured away
to a considerable distance from the island by the gambols of a huge
whale. I had never been so near one before, and we were much
interested in observing his movements, seeing him spout water from
his head, and make great waves with the stroke of his fins or tail.
We had watched and followed him a long while, when I said to Friday,
"It is time to go home. We are a great way from land, and the sun
is getting low." Receiving no reply, I looked at Friday, and saw
that he had not heard me.
He seemed to be wholly absorbed in looking at some far distant
object. My eyes followed his, and I saw something like a black
speck in the water, which I took to be another whale. I said,
"Come, Friday, we have had whaling enough for to-day. Let us go
home. Ready about there!" Friday begged me to stop one minute.
He did not believe that was a whale, for it looked more like a boat.
On hearing this, I hunted about for the spy-glass, and looking
through it ascertained that Friday was right. It was a boat with
some kind of lading in it, but there were no signs of any living being
on board. Nothing stirred in it; it only floated on the water.
I was as eager as Friday to see what this boat contained, and find
out where it came from. I made all sail and headed towards it, fre-
quently gazing at it through the glass. Once I thought I saw some-
thing like a man's head moving, but I was not sure. A hope sprang
up in my mind that it might contain some of my own race. It was
not a canoe, and as there was no vessel in sight, it could not be a
boat's crew coming to molest us. It might be some shipwrecked
countrymen of mine. My heart beat quickly at the idea; but I
said not a word about it to Friday.
As we neared it, I saw a movement on board. An oar was lifted
with a shirt tied to it. It did therefore contain living and civilized
beings! Oh, how my heart throbbed! Friday feared they were Span-
iards, and wanted to run away from them. They were in distress;
and if they were the worst of pirates, I would help them. When
we drew nearer still, several heads were raised, and their numbers
looked formidable, if they had the will and the power to harm us.
But I believed them to be in distress, and continued to run towards
them.
When within speaking distance I hailed them, but received no
answer. This alarmed Friday, and he begged me not to go any
nearer, for he thought they were lying in wait to shoot us. I did not
believe it, and ran alongside the boat.
Clasped hands, glazed eyes, and haggard faces were raised in si-
lence towards us. I saw at once that they were people perishing
with hunger and fatigue. Their deplorable condition required imme-
diate aid. We always carried food and water with us, for we were
often absent longer than we intended to be when we sailed. One
made signs for me to give him something to drink. Bidding Friday
lash the boats together, I poured out water in whatever would hold
it, and handed it to them as fast as I could. Eagerly did they all
stretch out their hands for the long-desired draught; and seven
thirsty men soon emptied the keg. I then took a large boiled root,
and divided it among them. The poor creatures devoured it, and
held out their hands for more. I had no more on board; and I was
glad of it, for I knew the danger of giving them too much at once.
I shook my head.
Not a word had been spoken till then, when one exclaimed,
"Thank God, you have saved our lives!" Then followed the most
moving scene I ever beheld. The strangers were filled with grati-
tude to God and to me for their unexpected deliverance. I was
deeply touched by their sad condition, especially when I found they
were my countrymen. When I recovered my composure enough to
observe the evening sky, I knew it was time to make all sail for the
land.
Speaking to one who looked as if he might be the captain, 1 told
him my name was Crusoe, and that I lived on the island in the dis-
tance; I would now conduct them there, and do all in my power to
make them comfortable. The stranger replied that his name was
Smith. He had lost his vessel by fire ten days before, since which
he and his companions had been on the ocean, in their open boat,
almost without food or water.
He was so exhausted in telling me this that I begged him to say
no more then, but to let me assist him into my boat . I placed him
by my side in the stern of the Success, and helped some others on
board of her also. With their boat in tow, containing the rest of
the crew, we sailed for the island.
Captain Smith was so weak and drowsy that but few words passed
between us, and we made our voyage to the creek in silence. Find-
ing a boat's crew at sea, and saving them from starvation, would be an affecting incident to the inhabitants of a crowded city, but no
one can fully realize what it was to me in my solitude. Besides the
pleasure of serving my fellow-beings in distress, and of being re-
stored to the society of men like myself, it was to me the hope of
deliverance from captivity. It seemed to open the door of return to
my native land. Fearing to be imprudent, as I did not yet know
what sort of men I had to deal with, I determined to lodge them all
for that night in the store-house under lock and key.
I ran the boat up the creek as far as I could, that I might land my
exhausted passengers as near as possible to their destination. It
almost dark when we arrived. The strangers felt the pains of hun-
ger on awaking, and I promised them more food as soon as they were
lodged in their quarters for the night. Having instructed Friday
what to do, I marched them up to the store-house, and he soon fur-
nished them with as hearty a supper of vegetables and fruits as it
was safe for them to eat. I shook hands with the captain, and took
leave of him for the night. I pointed to a bed Friday had prepared
for him in one corner of the building. He seemed quite satisfied
with his lodgings, and attempted to thank me; but his emotion over-
came him, and we parted in silence.
Friday and I now hastened to moor the boats, and bring ashore the
things we had left in them. I was truly glad to find in the strangers'
boat a mariner's compass; for the action of the needle of mine was
very feeble. I hoped to discover a quadrant there, but was disap-
pointed. Our llama was waiting impatiently to be milked. Late
as it was, we accomplished all our evening work, and made many
preparations for the next day before we went to bed.
Friday's head hardly touched his pillow before he was lost in
sleep; but I could not follow his example. I lay thinking over the
disasters of my poor countrymen, or making plans for our return to
England. The blessed anticipation seemed likely now to be realized.
The remains of the Thames, which the earthquake had brought to
view in Grand River, and nine stout men, promised a speedy deliver-
ance from exile. The idea was so exciting to me I was afraid of
dwelling upon it too much, lest it should turn my brain. I longed
for the morning to come, that I might again see and converse with
my countrymen. At length these busy thoughts were changed for
still more busy dreams, and the sun was up before I was again con-
scious.
I found Friday was already far advanced in his preparations for
breakfast, suited to the number of the company, but he had not
seen the guests. There was no sound from the store-house, and I
supposed the inmates were still asleep. Aware how much they
needed rest, I did not intrude upon them. I unlocked the door, and
assisted Friday in making a rough table, under a fine spreading tree,
on which to put the sailors' breakfast. We arranged our own table
in the best manner, as I meant to invite Captain Smith to join Fri-
day and me at our meals. Everything was ready, and we waited
some time for our guests to awake before we heard them stirring.
Presently one of the men came with a civil message from his cap-
tain asking me to lend him some clean linen, a towel, soap, and
razors. I furnished him as well as I could, and waited rather impa-
tiently for his toilet to be completed. Meanwhile I conversed a
little with the sailors, and saw them helped to their breakfast which
they very much needed.
When Captain Smith appeared I was struck with the change in
him. Relieved from the pressure of hunger, refreshed by a good
night's rest, washed, shaved, and dressed clean, he looked like a dif-
ferent man. His appearance now was very much in his favor, and
my heart warmed towards him at once. Having greeted him very
cordially, I led him to the table; but we were both so much moved
that we began our meal in silence. Little passed between us while
it lasted but common civilities. Though each was desirous of know-
ing something of the other, each seemed at a loss to begin his own
story, or make any inquiries.
When we had done our meal my guest opened the conversation
by asking me the name of the island we were upon. "I have some-
times called it the Island of Despair; but now I think it will deserve
a better name, and may be called the Island of Escape," I replied.
He then inquired under what government it was; and to this I
answered, "None but mine, I am sorry to say." Expecting these
expressions of mine would render it easy for me to explain my situa-
tion, I was disappointed to observe that he became more thoughtful
and serious. I broke a long silence by requesting him to give me
the particulars of his disaster.
He told me he had been master of a fine ship of three hundred tons,
called the Helen, engaged in the fur trade and bound from London
to the Northwest Coast. He was prosecuting his voyage safely as
he thought, when he was suddenly waked from his sleep by the cry
of " Fire!' The cabin was already full of smoke, and in five minutes
the whole ship was in flames.
"I found," said Captain Smith, "that no exertions could save the
vessel, and that we must make all haste to save our lives. I ordered
the boats to be lowered, seized a compass, my quadrant and the ship's
papers —"
"A quadrant!" I involuntarily exclaimed. "Have you a quad-
rant?" "No," he replied, "that fell overboard in the confusion and
was lost; but I rescued my papers, and hope they are still safe." I
assured him they were, and begged him to proceed.
"Bread and water were next thought of; but it was impossible to
obtain any bread except a small supply from the steward's pantry;
or any water but the cask that stood on deck half full. That was
all I could secure for my boat, and the mate's obtained less. We
pushed off. As we did so the flames burst out of the cabin windows
and the main hatchway. We pulled off to a safe distance, then lay
on our oars watching the rapid progress of the flames. In less than
ten minutes the ship was one mass of fire, fore and aft and aloft
.
"It was a grand sight, sir," continued Captain Smith, "and to
persons in our situation a most appalling one. There we were in the
midst of the Pacific Ocean, with no known land near. The only
prospect before us was starving or drowning. We determined to
keep near the Helen as long as she burned, thinking the light might
attract some passing vessel that would pick us up. When all chance
of aid was over, we steered a northerly course, in the forlorn hope of
meeting with a sail before we perished with hunger.
"In a very foggy night we lost sight of the other boat, and never
saw her afterwards. My brave companions behaved as well as men
could in such an extremity. When all hope and all courage had
forsaken us we prayed together that we might be saved from inhu-
manity, and bear our misfortune as became Christians. We then lay
down to die, seeing no help near, and our strength being nearly gone.
"How long we had remained prostrate and silent I know not, but
it must have been several hours. In that time the boat drifted, I
suppose, in sight of this island. Happening to lift my head, I saw
you coming towards us, and made a last effort to raise the signal
which had so often been raised in vain before.
"The rest you know, sir. We owe you our lives, and are willing
to show our gratitude in the best way we can. Though I conclude
from your appearance and your accent that you are a Spaniard, I
am encouraged by the kindness you have already shown me and my
companions, and by your acquaintance with our language, to hope
that you have friendly feelings towards British seamen. If we give
you our services on all lawful occasions while with you, I trust you
will not hinder our return to our own country whenever an opportu-
nity may offer."
I was so astonished to find myself mistaken for a Spanish pirate
that I heard him to the end without having the power to undeceive
him. When I told him that I was, like himself, a child of misfor-
tune and a British seaman, and said to him, with tears in my eyes,
that we would both return to dear, happy England together, all his
suspicions vanished. We embraced each other with the cordiality of
fellow-sufferers. Confidence was established between us, and I gave
him a very brief sketch of my unhappy lot. He listened to me as if
he would devour every word, and showed such a sympathy for me in
my trials that I was almost choked in the recital of them.
We had conversed a long time, and had forgotten that others
were waiting for us. Friday put his head into the room, and said in
j,n affected tone of servility that made me smile, " Master, the men
say you are a pirate. They are afraid to trust their good captain
with you any longer. If I don't let them see he is safe, they will
twist me. I don't know what twist is, but they look very fierce, and
frighten Friday." By the time this was said the men were crowding
around the door, but a few words from their captain sent them peace-
ably away.
We then consulted on the best means of promoting peace and hap-
piness in our little community. Captain Smith said his men were
six as fine fellows as ever stepped a deck, but, like other sailors, they
required discipline. He recommended me to begin strictly with
them, to call myself governor of the island, and exercise a whole-
some authority over all. I told him that as he was older and more
experienced than I was, he had better take the command and I
would obey his orders. This he positively refused, and spoke of
my success in collecting around me so many comforts, and said I
was entitled to rule. When I feared that I should not know how
to manage his sailors, he agreed to be captain still if I would be
governor.
We walked to a beautiful little knoll, crowded with trees. One
shout of the captain brought his faithful followers around him. He
desired them to arrange themselves in a semicircle opposite to us.
Friday took his stand at my elbow. In a very solemn manner Cap-
tain Smith conducted devotional exercises adapted to the occasion.
He was deeply affected himself, and every word he uttered seemed to
reach the hearts of his hearers. All our souls mingled in a deep and
solemn feeling of adoration and thanksgiving for past mercies, and
dependence upon God for present help. My guests then raised their
voices together in a hymn which closed the services.
I never shall forget that singing, nor any part of those morning
exercises. It was so long since I had joined in worship with a
congregation that it overcame my feelings. Captain Smith then
explained to his men that they were on a lonely island, the only
inhabitants of which were their deliverers, Governor Crusoe and his
adopted son.
"Governor Crusoe generously admits us to the shelter of his roof,"
said he, "and to the comforts which his ingenuity has contrived,
provided we acknowledge his authority and obey his orders. We
owe him our lives, and that is a great debt for which we ought to
render him our best services.
"The sufferings of the governor have taught him to pity the mis-
fortunes of others, and he bids me say that we are welcome to share
everything he possesses on fair and equal terms. We must give him
our faithful and willing service, and he will think and provide for all
our wants. We must be his loyal subjects, and he will be a good
governor."
He paused, and the men exclaimed with one accord, " Long live
the governor! God save the governor!"
Captain Smith then asked his men if they were willing, as he was
himself, to obey the governor. They all said "Yes," with hearty
good will.
By the time this ceremony was finished I was ready to address my
constituents. I promised them every accommodation in my power,
and observed that we had but one common interest. We all desired
to live peaceably and happily on the island as long as we were obliged
to continue here. We hoped to leave it as soon as possible, and
return to dear old England. I told them I had a plan in my head
by which I trusted we should all be speedily released from banish-
ment. It was to carry out this plan I should require their services.
I had no wish to interfere with the command of their excellent cap-
tarn, and that they should still consider themselves as his men. He
and I would consult together for their good. This pleased them
very much, and they shouted, "Long live the captain! Long live
the governor!" I(,
Captain Smith now wished me to set the men at work about some-
thing at once, for nothing was so bad as idleness for them. We
agreed that two should clean their boat, two should fish with Friday,
and the others dig vegetables and prepare them for dinner. These
orders the captain gave in my name, and they were about to dis-
perse. I stopped them, and having sent Friday away on an errand,
I took this early opportunity of telling them how much I esteemed
that colored youth. I told them he was the son of a king in his
own country. Though he waited upon me in my solitude, it was a
service of love, and I considered him as an adopted son. I then
described his excellent character, and faithful conduct towards me,
and dwelt upon his purity and innocence. I ended by commending
him to their good offices and respect, and earnestly desiring them
not to do or say anything that would hurt his feelings or corrupt
his morals. With this I dismissed them to their several tasks.
I then took Friday apart, and told him he must behave like a
chief's son to the men who had come among us. He must show
them what to do, and tell them what it was necessary for them to
know; but that he had better not talk much to them. He nodded
as if he understood me perfectly, and from that time I never had to
interfere between him and the sailors. He always treated them
kindly, but never let them take any undue liberties with him. They
always appeared very fond of him.
THE BUILDING OF THE VESSEL.
THE first day spent with my countrymen was full of interest. It
was delightful to have the company of Captain Smith, — a civilized
being, one of the same race as myself, and my own countryman too;
one who was ready in all things to do the will of God, and to give
him thanks; one who endeavored to do right in every action of his
life. We spent hours in conversation. He wished to hear all I
could tell him of the island, of the life I had led there, of Friday,
and how he came to be with me; and I listened eagerly to every-
thing he said of himself, his men, and the dear country from which
he had so lately come.
The fishing party were very successful, and returned well laden.
Friday baked the fish in his native way, to the great amusement of
the strangers. When it was done he and I and the captain took
our dinner together. Captain Smith proposed that one of his men
should wait upon us, but I much preferred waiting upon myself.
I employed one of the sailors, however, to gather up what we left,
and serve his comrades under the tree, where the table stood on
which they had breakfasted. We had plenty of pewter plates, and
these with their jack-knives were all they wanted. On the fish and
vegetables they made as hearty a meal as the aldermen in London.
A draught of water from the brook, with one of Friday's gourd dip-
pers for a drinking-cup, finished their repast.
As we sat by the cottage-door observing their movements, I told
Captain Smith I supposed they missed their allowance of liquor very
much; but I had none to give them. He was glad I had none. He
wished there never might be another drop of ardent spirits given to
a sailor. He never took anything of the kind himself, and no one
enjoyed better health, or could bear fatigue better than he did.
As we had spent the whole morning in-doors, I now proposed a
walk. The captain knew his men would wish to explore the island,
so he gave them leave to follow us. We went first to Fort Hill and
the Terrace, and to Signal Hill.
Several times in the course of the day I tried to talk with Captain
Smith about my plans of escape from the island. He was so de-
lighted with the place, and so interested in all he saw, that he was in
no haste to get away. He would change the subject by asking me
some question about my past life. We made up a third bed for the
captain in our lodging-room, and let the sailors sleep on hay in
the store-house.
Neptune soon made the acquaintance of the sailors, and they en-
joyed playing with him, and he was gratified with being noticed and
caressed; but Mistress Poll was not so sociably inclined. She was
troubled by the presence of strangers, and screamed and flut-
tered her wings when any of them went near her. While we
were at dinner she got under the table, and pecked with fury at
the captain's feet.
Several days were spent in showing the island to the strangers;
and I had great pleasure in pointing out its beauties and remarkable
features to Captain Smith. He and I rode the llamas, and were
accompanied by the sailors on foot. As they naturally wished to ex-
plore this new region, we thought it best for them to do it in company
with us. Friday willingly gave up his llama to Captain Smith, and
walked by my side. His skill in fishing, his mode of cooking, which
could be practised anywhere, independent of all utensils, and his
knowledge of the best vegetables, made him a very important per-
sonage to us all.
245
Our first ride was to Grand River, that I might show Captain Smith
the wreck of the Thames, and tell him my plans for returning to

"Showing the island to the strangers."
England. I proposed to dig out the hull, float her off with casks, and
then repair and rig her. This he assured me was impossible; she
was too much of a wreck to be floated off or repaired; but she
might be broken up where she was, and with the iron, timber, and
planks we might build a smaller and more manageable vessel.
I soon found that I was speaking with one who knew far more
about the matter than I did. He had learned the whole process of
ship-building in his father's yard, from the laying of the keel to
the finishing of the rail. Two of his men had actually worked as
ship-carpenters. All this made me feel very sure of succeeding
in the undertaking, and I expressed my hopes that we should soon
be afloat in a seaworthy vessel, and sailing away towards old Eng-
land.
I told Captain Smith that I had a complete set of tools, saved
from that wreck. With hands and tools, what should prevent our
building a vessel in which we could sail around the world ?" Well
done, Enterprise!" he exclaimed. "I admire your spirit, and if we
succeed in our ship-building we will call the vessel the Enterprise.
But what shall we do for provisions for so long a voyage?" "Oh,"
said I, "if you will build the vessel, I will engage to victual her for
a six months' voyage." "Very well," he replied, "I will begin as
soon as I have seen every part of your island, and heard all your
adventures."
From Grand River we proceeded to make the tour of the island;
and it was on the whole a very agreeable excursion.
When we had finished our land expedition Captain Smith was
desirous of sailing round the coast in the Success. None of my
work pleased him more than that boat, and when he found how well
she sailed he could not praise her enough. He wished to look for a
suitable place for a ship-yard, and to survey the coast, its har-
bors and inlets. The captain and Friday went with me in the Suc-
cess, and, by way of keeping the sailors employed, we let them row
after us in their boat. On reaching the bay formed by the earth-
quake, we found a place where the shores were steep and covered
with fine trees, such as we wanted for ship-timber, and we fixed upon
that for our building-yard. We dined in the Bay of Terror, slept in
Gordon Vale, and returned home the next day.
The curiosity of Captain Smith and his men, in regard to the
island and my adventures, being now pretty well satisfied, they began
their operations on the wreck. I carried them to the spot, in the
Success, with their tools and their dinner, and left them hard at
work.
When the wreck was broken up the materials were all towed
around to the spot fixed on for a building-yard. Captain Smith and
his men spent every day, from sunrise till dark, in the construction of
a vessel that was to bear us all away from the island. While they
were thus employed, Friday and I were equally busy in laying in a
stock of provisions for the voyage. The large quantity of salt we
made the preceding summer was of great use to us now; for we
cured with it a great deal of fish and terrapin. We cultivated a
large crop of sweet potatoes, and found where all the best vege-
tables grew on the island, that we might hoe the ground around them,
and improve upon nature's gardening. We felt the loss of our llamas
now very much. There were none on the island but Jenny and
Neddy and their kid, and we meant to carry these away alive.
After a hard day's work and a hearty supper the sailors were glad
to go directly to bed. The captain, who did not work quite so hard,
liked to sit up awhile with Friday and me, and we had a great deal
of improving conversation.
The maps and charts, saved from the wreck, were very valuable to
us, and we spent many hours over them. Sometimes we looked for
places which were the scenes of former adventures, sometimes traced
our own intended path upon the ocean, and sometimes endeavored to
discover whereabouts in the Pacific Ocean we actually were. We
satisfied ourselves that the island was not laid down in any of the
charts. Captain Smith's knowledge of his latitude and longitude,
when he lost his ship, did not avail him much after he had drifted
about so long in an open boat. We were therefore obliged to content
ourselves with knowing that we were not very far south of the
tropic of Capricorn, and that South America was to the east of
us. We determined that our best plan would be to steer due east
till we made the land, and then keep a southerly course, with the
land in sight, till we reached the Strait of Magellan. Captain Smith
thought it would be advisable to take this passage rather than attempt
to double the cape in our small vessel. We had no doubt of finding
our way so far without a quadrant. To cross the Atlantic Ocean, and
sail many thousand miles, without seeing land, and without any in-
strument for ascertaining our position, was an almost desperate un-
dertaking. I had, however, so much confidence in the experience
and good judgment of Captain Smith that I was entirely willing to
attempt it with him and his excellent crew.
The vessel on the stocks was to be a schooner of sixty tons. After
mature deliberation we decided that this was large enough for safety
and small enough for us to keep near the shore. The timbers of
the wreck proved very useful. Though larger than necessary, they diminished our labor and made the vessel very strong. The planks
saved a good deal of sawing, which was tedious work. The iron was
worth its weight in gold, for it was far more useful to us than gold
would have been.
I had nearly enough spars and sails and rigging, saved from the
Thames, to fit out our schooner. What rigging was wanted could
be made, under Friday's direction, of the fibrous plants he used for
cordage. My stock of blocks, large and small, was extremely useful.
Captain Smith was continually astonished at the variety of valuable
articles that I pulled out of my store-house. The forge was a most
essential thing. One of the sailors was so good a blacksmith that I
gave up the anvil and hammer to him.
When I asked Captain Smith, one night, how he expected to make
an anchor to hold the schooner, he said, "I mean to make such an
anchor as the Chinese always use, for that will exactly suit our
means, and answer every purpose. They make theirs of some heavy
wood, with only one arm, and that is shod with iron. Sometimes
they plate them all over with iron, but shoeing will be enough for
us."
He then asked me what we were to do for a cable, as he had seen
nothing but short pieces of rope among my stores. I told him there
was a hawser, cut in three pieces only, and asked him if he could do
anything with that. He seemed to think a spliced cable was but a
poor dependence. As we could do no better, and might not need
a cable at all during our whole voyage, he would try and join it
securely; and perhaps two pieces out of three would be long enough
for the schooner.
As the work advanced, the sailors became more and more earnest.
When the tall trees were felled for the masts of our vessel, the men
performed wonders in getting them down from where they grew to
the bay, and putting them in their places. Never was there a com-
munity in greater harmony, or more industrious. By the time the
island yielded its best fruits and most abundant harvest, we expected
to be ready to load our vessel and depart.
At last the hull was completed, the paint dry, the lower masts in,
and the time was fixed for launching. It was an important event with
us. If the captain felt all the responsibility of a master-builder, I
felt as owners sometimes do, and showed my interest in the vessel's
going off well.
As governor of the island, the captain insisted on my giving her a
suitable name. The sailors believed they could not have a pros-
perous voyage in a vessel whose bows were not sprinkled with
some kind of liquor at the time of launching. We prepared a glass
bottle full of colored water to break on her bow, and agreed to call
her the Enterprise.
She went off beautifully the moment the dog-shores were struck
away. I was so engrossed in watching her motion that I had well
nigh forgotten to throw the bottle. I dashed it in pieces against her
bows, exclaiming at the same time: "The Enterprise, God bless
her!" The air then rang with the huzzas of our little band, and the
schooner floated beautifully on the waters of the bay. We towed her
around to the creek that night, where it would be most convenient to
rig her. Captain Smith had her very carefully moored. This pre-
caution proved necessary, for it blew very fresh in the night. My
boat went adrift, and knocked a hole in her bottom, which caused her
to sink near the entrance of the creek. As the water was shallow, it
was well she did sink. We might otherwise have lost her, and my
good friend Smith intended to take her to England.
FAREWELL TO THE ISLAND.
I WAS pleased to observe how everything we possessed was turned
to account. Even the hats with broad brims, which Friday made
in the winter, were valuable presents to the sailors, when they
were working in a hot sun. Captain Smith, too, was very glad to
wear a pair of my matting trousers, to save his own, when engaged in
hard labor. I had kept one good suit of European clothes by me to
wear in case of my ever returning to civilized society; but as I lost
the chief part of my wardrobe when my residence on the terrace was
destroyed, I had but little to spare for Captain Smith; and all sum-
mer I had worn matting trousers and a garment that was both a
shirt and a jacket.
Our men would need some warmer garments than the thin ones
they now wore. After being accustomed to the climate of the island,
they would suffer from cold in the higher latitudes. Friday and I
began the necessary labors for supplying this deficiency. He wove
some thicker and coarser matting than any we had before used. We
made nine pairs of trousers of this material, and as we had not buttons
enough for all, we put on strings. Besides these, we made long pea-
jackets of llama-skins with the fur on. I was amused to think what
a spectacle we should be, when we were all dressed in our furs. The
very sight of a vessel, navigated by such hairy monsters, would be
enough to keep off pirates.
While Friday and I were busy tailoring for the whole community,
the rigging of the schooner prospered finely. At first Captain Smith
was always fearing that we should fall short of some indispensable
article. But as he never came to me for anything I did not imme-
diately supply from my store-house, or find a good substitute for,
he learned at last to have great confidence in my resources.
As the time for our departure approached I felt some regrets at
the idea of leaving all my familiar haunts in this beautiful island;
but my heart never once misgave me as to the propriety and safety
of the undertaking,
We had windows and berths in the cabin, and my household goods
furnished it nicely. A convenient pantry opened out of it, with
rough shelves, having holes in them to hold our crockery, and nails
to hang things on. Just forward of the cabin was a commodious
house, fitted up for my valued llamas, Jenny, Neddy, and the kid.
I laid in a good stock of proper food for them. The forecastle was
fitted up with berths for the sailors; but as we had only three mat-
tresses, we put clean, sweet hay, with a blanket and some rugs in
each.
When the schooner was completely rigged, but before her cabin was
done, Captain Smith made a trial of her sailing qualities. He found
that she minded her helm, and would sail quite fast; though on the
wind she was a heavy sailer, being rather short for her breadth of
beam. Several cruises in her around the island gave us all great
confidence in the good schooner Enterprise, and made us wish to be
on our long voyage.
I had provisions enough headed up in casks ready for the schooner
when her water should be on board, which we left to the last. I
cautioned Captain Smith against shifting ballast, for though he had
stones in the lowest part of the vessel, he had not taken any meas-
ures to prevent their rolling to one side.
A good sleeping-place for Neptune and a perch for Poll were not
forgotten. In place of hen-coops, we had pens for live terrapins,
that we might not be wholly without fresh meat. My partial friend,
Captain Smith, insisted on taking with us several specimens of the
ill-shaped earthen-ware vessels and lamps I had made, with every-
thing else that he thought creditable to my ingenuity. He could
hardly bear to leave anything behind.
Amidst all my active employments I found time to make a short
sketch of my life on the island, to be deposited in the pyramid. If
anything happened to us, or to the long narrative which I should take
with me, there might still be a memorial left of my adventures.
Now that I was about to return to civilized life, the money which
had so long been useless to me appeared to be of value. That found
in Gordon Bay was buried in the caves, but the bag of dollars
brought from on board the Thames was in my possession. It
amounted to twenty pounds sterling, — enough to pay our harbor
dues, and to carry us to our friends after we landed in England.
I felt some scruples as to the right I had to this money. Captain
Smith told me it was honestly mine, and that I had as much right to
it as to the provisions which I had not hesitated to use. To me
there appeared to be a difference between using the provisions and
materials I was in need of and spending this money. The former
could not benefit any one else if I did not use them; and I might do
without the latter, and could perhaps restore it to its former owner.
I secretly resolved to spend as little of the money as possible, and to
replace whatever I took as soon as I was able.
We converted the forge into a fire-place for our caboose.1 Having
done all we could think of for our comfort on so long a voyage, we
lived on board several days, in order to find out if we had omitted
anything which could be supplied before we left the island.
The day came for our final embarkation. We carried all our live
stock on board, with everything movable that was of any value. We
assembled for the last time within the walls of our cottage, and de-
voutly implored the blessing of God on our undertaking.
1 A house on deck, generally called " the galley," in which the cooking is done.
My joy at my deliverance, and sorrow at leaving my lonely
island, were so nearly balanced that I was perfectly calm. Poor
Friday wept aloud, and embraced the door-posts of the house and
one of his favorite trees. I exerted myself to comfort him; but his
grief would have its way for a while. I put my arm around him,
and supported his tottering steps to the place of embarkation. We
rowed towards the schooner in solemn silence, interrupted only by
the sobs of my poor boy.
At noon on the 15th of March we set sail from Crusoe's Island,
as the captain called it in his log-book, and with a fair wind steered
directly for the main land. We all felt very serious at undertaking a
long and perilous voyage in a small vessel so rudely built, but the
natural cheerfulness of the sailors soon returned. Friday's grief was
too violent to last; and after the first night spent at sea, we began
to feel at home, and tolerably safe in our little bark.
The captain kept his reckoning as well as he could, for we were
anxious to form a correct estimate of the distance of the island
from the continent of South America. The weather was delightful,
the wind fair for many days, and we proceeded on our voyage as
prosperously as we could wish. I never interfered in the command
of the vessel, though Captain Smith treated me as though I were
admiral of a fleet, and he only captain of the flag-ship.
We had our meals regularly cooked by a sailor, and served in the
cabin in very good style. I chose to be steward myself, so far as
dealing out the provisions went. This I did with my own hand
every day, giving strict injunctions to avoid waste, for we had none
to spare.
As six seamen were sufficient to navigate the schooner, Friday and
I were cabin passengers, only begging the captain to call upon us
whenever we could be useful. I employed myself every day in writ-
ing up my narrative, in teaching Friday, and in talking with him to
his heart's content. We enjoyed all the pleasures of a sea voyage
in fine weather. We watched the porpoises and dolphins sporting
around us; saw the gorgeous piles of clouds that accompanied the
rising and setting of the sun; we leaned by the hour over the sides
of the vessel, looking at the sparkles of liquid fire that marked her
way in a dark night.
We had been ten days out when land was seen from the mast-
head. Our hearts were made to throb by the welcome sound of
"Land ho!" some minutes before we could see it from the deck.
Never were any people made more happy by the sight of land than
we were. It set our minds at rest as to our being nearly where we
thought we were. We stood in very near the coast, and assured
ourselves it was the continent of America that we saw, and not
merely an island. When this was clearly ascertained, we altered
our course, and proceeded in a southerly direction. The schooner
did not sail quite so fast, but we had fine weather, and went along
very well.
As we got farther south we passed along the shores of islands that
Captain Smith recognized, and this was to me, who had been so long
in an unknown region, a very great pleasure. We kept a sharp
lookout for gathering storms as we got into higher latitudes. Though
we frequently came into a rough sea showing that the wind had been
very high there, we did not experience one heavy gale.
As we approached the straits we saw large flocks of what are
called cape-pigeons, flying in various directions. They looked just
like our tame pigeons, and did not seem at all shy. Sometimes they
surrounded the vessel in vast numbers, and fluttered about her in
order to pick up any eatable that might be thrown overboard. The
sailors threw out grease to them, which floated on the water, and
they picked it all up. Thinking they would be a valuable addition
to our sea-stores, I baited some hooks with fat pork, and fastened
them at intervals to a line that I threw out over the stern. Captain
Smith showed me a much more effectual way of catching them. He
took several fathoms of fine twine, which the wind would blow out
nearly straight, over the lee quarter, in the direction of these birds.
As they hovered over the tempting food, their wings would become
entangled in the string, and dozens of them were caught by this
simple contrivance. They were, however, so lean, fishy, and strong
in their flavor that we could not eat many of them.
The weather being uncommonly fine, the albatross, that magnifi-
cent bird of these high latitudes, flew very near us. Once, when we
were becalmed, a noble one lighted on the cross-trees. A sailor
crept up very softly, and made the end of a rope fast to one of his
legs. The other end being fastened to the vessel, when the albatross
tried to fly away, he was pulled down to the deck by the sailors. I
should have liked very much to carry this monstrous bird alive to
England. He proved to be an unruly prisoner, pecking at every one
with his strong bill, braying like a donkey, and flapping his great
wings, and I suffered the sailors to put him to death. His spread
wings measured from tip to tip twelve feet, and the length of his
body from his bill to his tail was five feet.
We had been twenty-seven days at sea when we made the Strait
of Magellan, and entered that labyrinth of islands, rocks, and
crooked coasts. The current set, as Captain Smith had supposed,
from west to east, which favored our progress, and the prevailing wind
was fair. On our right was Terra del Fuego, or the land of fire, as
it is called from the burning mountains which are on it. On our left
was Patagonia, or the land of giants. I had read accounts of these
people being ten or twelve feet high, and had a great curiosity to see
them. Friday and I kept a sharp lookout for the giants on one side,
and the burning mountains on the other.
We were subject to sudden changes of wind, which came in puffs
off the land, and were occasionally baffled by the eddies among the
islands. It was only by great care and constant sounding that we
avoided running aground. Captain Smith and all his men were such
excellent seamen, and so attentive to their business, that I felt very
easy about the working of the vessel. I desired only to see and
know all I could of the land on each side of us.
The winds and waters favored our wishes. Captain Smith was
obliged to run in under the shore of the main land, and we saw
through the spy-glass that we should pass very near a settlement of
the natives. We earnestly gazed at the huts, hoping to see some of
their inhabitants. Presently half a dozen men were seen approach-
ing the beach opposite their village. To our great disappointment
they looked no bigger than ourselves. Friday suggested that the
persons we saw might be only the young children of the giants; but
I knew by their looks and manner of moving that they were full-
grown men. I began to think that what I had read about them was
all a fable.
The natives gazed at us, and beckoned us to them. Some ap-
peared to be alarmed at our approach; others held up vegetables,
and invited us to land and get them, but we passed by without
stopping. It was only when becalmed once between two islands
that we had any further intercourse with them. On that occasion
several of them swam off to the schooner and came on board. They
were all well formed, of a dark copper color, with straight, black
hair, and had their faces frightfully painted. We entertained our
guests as well as we could afford; but they ate so voraciously that
they made great inroads on our stores. They only left off eating
because they had cleared the table of everything on it, even to a can
of lamp-oil that happened to be standing there. They emptied this
with every appearance of relishing the draught.
We dismissed these hungry visitors with some trifling presents,
and hoped to see no more of them. As we made no headway that
night, being becalmed among the islands, we had another visit from
them in the morning. They came loaded with presents of vegetables,
and of animals resembling hares recently killed, which were very
17
acceptable. As we did not wish for any further intercourse with
these people, and made them no presents in return, they soon left us.
They wore feather caps, and were dressed in skins with the fur on.
Soon after they went on shore a breeze sprang up which carried us
quickly out of sight of the Patagonian village. We never after-
wards saw any of the race except at a great distance. Once we saw
some on horseback, and either the horses were very small or the
riders very large, but they were so far off that we could not decide
which. We were well satisfied that the accounts which travellers
have given of the Patagonians were exaggerated. So much for the
land on our left. That on the right disappointed us also. We saw no
burning mountains, and nothing but dreary, uncultivated wastes.
CRUSOE AT HOME.
WE were ten days going through the Straits of Magellan, and a
most anxious time it was to our good commander. He hardly slept
at all, and was on deck almost the whole of every night. I offered
to relieve him, but he said my eyes were not sharp enough to keep a
good lookout. The habit of gazing at distant objects enables sailors
to see farther by day, and more clearly by night, than those who live
on land.
After leaving the straits we had some very rough weather, which
tried the strength of our vessel and rigging to the utmost. The
schooner proved to be tight and strong in every part. It was well
for us all that our commander was so experienced. He thought it
best to coast along the eastern shore of South America till we ap-
proached the equator, and then take advantage of the southwest
wind, which blows near the line, to waft us across those mighty
waters.
Two weeks after we left the straits we got into the trade winds,
which in this part of our voyage were favorable. Then we had fine weather, and had nothing to do but to spread all our canvas, and
glide along over the waves, without starting a sheet for days together.
I was reminded by this of my voyage in the Santa Maria; but how
different were all my feelings! I then desired nothing so much as to
see distant countries, and wander far away from home. Now my
roaming propensities were all gone, and the first wish of my heart
was to return to my happy home never more to leave it
During this part of our voyage we frequently saw vessels at a
great distance, but they were never near enough to be hailed till we
approached the most easterly part of Brazil. Then we saw a large
ship bearing down towards us as if determined to speak us. She
had a Portuguese flag, and looked like a man-of-war. We knew not
whether to hope or fear from intercourse with a stranger; but
as it was unavoidable, we answered the summons to declare what we
were by hoisting our English ensign. She then made signals for us
to lie to, and send a boat on board. We obeyed, and Captain Smith
went off in his own boat, rowed by four men, determined to tell the
truth whether he was believed or not
.
In an hour he returned, looking so animated and smiling that on
seeing his face through the spy-glass I was relieved from all anxiety.
Presently he was followed by a boat from the ship, and had just
time enough to tell me before it arrived that he had been well re-
ceived, and his story believed. The Portuguese commander was
coming on board to see the vessel and equipment, and pay his com-
pliments to me. Instructed in the etiquette of the matter by Cap-
tain Smith, I received Captain Roderiguez, his first lieutenant, and
secretary, as politely as I could. As Captain Smith spoke Portu-
guese, he showed the strangers over the vessel, and explained every-
thing to them. I talked with the secretary, and tried hard to under-
stand his broken English.
Grapes and cocoanuts were set out on the cabin-table as the best
refreshments we could offer our guests. They seemed well pleased
to taste any of the productions of the unknown island. They all
said many civil things about our schooner and its outfit. It was
plain that the object of their visit was to learn all they could about
the position of the island we had come from, with a view to finding
it and taking possession of it.
We gave them all the information we could, and they asked what
they could do for us in return besides supplying us with provisions.
CRUSOE AT HOlfE.
261
I asked for a quadrant, and was overjoyed to find that they had one
which they were willing to spare. When the Portuguese commander

Cape Verde Islands.
returned on board his vessel, he sent us a generous present of
beef, pork, bread, and various small stores. Wines and spirits Cap-
tain Smith declined, but gladly accepted a few casks of water. He
went himself for the quadrant, which he received with the warm,, .t
ack n o wledgmeuts.
This happy meeting put us all in the finest spirits, and we pro-
ceeded on our voyage in a more direct course. We were no longer
afraid of losing ourselves, or obliged to grope along in sight of land.
With a compass and quadrant we could cross the ocean in any direc-
tion, and take the shortest course to old England.
The hot weather of the low latitudes spoiled most of our vegeta-
bles and fresh provisions, and our hands began to droop on their salt
fare. Captain Smith thought it would be advisable to touch at the
Cape Verde Islands. He had frequently been there, was well ac-
quainted with the authorities, and knew nothing would refresh his
lads more than some of the fine vegetables and delicious fruits of
those islands.
The day that we expected to make St. Jago it did not come in
sight, and we listened in vain for that thrilling sound of " Land ho!"
But at dawn the next morning the wished-for speck appeared in the
horizon, and was announced to us from the mast-head. Favorable
breezes wafted us towards the group of isles, and in due time we
dropped our Chinese anchor in the harbor of Puerto Praya.
This first approach to the abodes of civilized man, after my long
banishment, was quite overpowering to my feelings. At Captain
Smith's request I had already taken off my beard as close as scissors
would cut it. Now he wished me to shave,1 and dress myself in my
European suit of clothes, and go ashore with him. We made the
best toilet we could; and leaving Friday and two veteran sailors on
board, we were pulled ashore in the captain's boat by the rest of his
crew.
As we had no regular ship's papers or custom-house clearance, we
were obliged to tell our story. It so interested all who heard it that
we were made welcome to whatever we wanted. What we were
1 Fifty years ago Englishmen and Americans seldom wore full beards.
most anxious to get was good water, and that was almost as scarce
with them as with us. These islands are subject to excessive
droughts between their periodical rains, and what water they have is
obtained only from ponds and wells.
Our remarkable history procured for us the privilege of filling sev-
eral water-casks, which was the greatest favor the inhabitants of this
parched soil could bestow. The boat-load of fine vegetables and
fruits which they gave us was of little value with them. They
brought us large supplies of rice, maize, salt, sweet potatoes, figs,
watermelons, bananas, papaws, grapes, and the finest oranges and
lemons that I ever saw anywhere.
The people, though originally Portuguese, have become very much
like Africans, and I thought that some of the men in authority were
negroes. Numbers came on board our little vessel to see what a few
hands had accomplished on a desert island. Every hour the interest
seemed to increase, and we saw that we should be subject to very
troublesome visitors if we stayed another day. Boats were thronging
round our vessel till a late hour in the evening; and every one
brought a contribution of fruit or vegetables.
When we were left alone, and most of the lights in the city were
extinguished, we took our departure from St. Jago, thankful for the
kind treatment we had received. We continued our voyage with
fresh spirit, and earnestly hoped that the next land we made might
be the coast of England. We had a great variety of weather, and
met with some accidents, such as carrying away a small spar and
splitting a sail to pieces; but the presence of mind of Captain Smith,
and the activity of his sailors, saved us from harm.
On the 10th of August we made the land! It was the coast
of England. My adventures were ended. The last voyage I ever
wished to make was nearly completed. I hastened to finish my
narrative before I was too much agitated by a nearer approach to
my home, or too much occupied by new scenes, to be able to write.
POSTSCRIPT.
SINCE closing the preceding narrative I have had the happiness of
embracing my beloved parents, of returning to the endeared home I
had so often thought of in my exile, and of finding all my family
alive.
My long banishment from the busy scenes of civilized life, with
the hopes and fears which filled my mind as I approached my native
place, rendered me very unfit to travel among strangers. Captain
Smith and I agreed that Hull should be the first port we made. Our
arrival there created a great sensation. The story of the strange-
looking schooner and her extraordinary passengers spread over the
city with astonishing rapidity. I should have become the gazing-
stock of the people if Captain Smith had not left one of his trusty fellows in command of the vessel, and taken me and Friday off post-
haste to York. There he left us in a private apartment of a hotel,
while he kindly undertook to prepare my parents for the return of a
son whom they had long since mourned as dead.
He began by communicating to them vague rumors of my being
alive in some distant country. By degrees he became more definite,
until he told them I was probably on my way home now. Before
he had told the whole my mother guessed the truth. Almost frantic
with joy, she would have run out into the streets to look for me;
but she was prevented from doing so by my father, who endeavored
to calm her feelings, while the good captain returned to the hotel
for me.
I almost flew to the well-remembered house. I entered the green
parlor, and clasped my mother in my arms! The scene which fol-
lowed I cannot attempt to describe.
I was so altered that my parents could not have recognized me;
and had my mother stopped to look at me, she would have hesitated
to take me in her arms as her lost son. Our affection for each other
was unaltered. She felt the bond, even while she looked in vain for
the image she had cherished in her memory as mine.

Robinson Crusoe nt Home.
If I was altered, so were my parents. They both looked twenty
years older than when I parted with them. I could not doubt that
it was grief for my untimely fate which had furrowed the cheek of
my mother and silvered the head of my father. I wept bitter tears
for the suffering I had occasioned them.
Many agitating meetings with other members of my family fol-
lowed; and for many days I was constantly receiving visits from all
who had the least claim to an acquaintance with the family.
Friday was early introduced to my father and mother as the valued
companion of my exile. When Captain Smith brought my live stock
and a cart-load of my baggage home, our yard was thronged from
morning till night, so eager were people to see whatever came from
the lonely island.
While this daily exhibition was going on we had large family
meetings at home every evening to hear my narrative read. The
interest all took in it far exceeded my expectations, and richly re-
warded me for the pains it had cost me.
If this description of my life on a lonely island serve to impress
the minds of the young with the value of a good education, and the
necessity of so turning our hearts to God as to become reconciled to
the worst misfortunes, I shall not regret that I have written it
.
