«t £
f^42JS:6ifilS^4$ffl
THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF
EOBINSON CRUSOE
BY
DANIEL DEFOE
WITH CHINESE NOTES X
BY
MA SHAO-LIANG, B.A.
TWELFTH EDITION
COMMERCIAL PRESS, LIMITED
SHANGHAI
1921
sec
ffif
a =
S'J iffi P S ffi
- » tfi) * fig
(Semi-colon |p;) ^ gil
IP.) « IB
m ft its
« x
The words in Italics refer to Chinese
notes in the back of the book
PREFACE
THB story of Robinson Crusoe is founded on fact. It
was written by an Englishman, Daniel Defot, who lived
from 1661 to 1731. During his lifetime reports were
common in England of castaways on the newly settled
continent of America and its outlying islands, and marvel-
ous stories were told of the shifts such men had made to
live. We have accounts of two men who, at different
times, lived alone for years on the island of Juan Fernandez,
off the coast of Chile. One was an Indian who was left there
from 1681 to 1684, and whose adventures were described by
Captain Dampier, the buccaneer, in his "New Voyage
Round the World." The other was the celebrated Alex-
ander Selkirk, a Scotchman, who was rescued in February,
1709, after a stay of four years and four months, according
to Captain Woodes Rogers. Defoe's work shows some
striking resemblances to both these accounts ; and there is
even a legend that our author once visited Selkirk at Bath.
The island which Defoe describes cannot, however, be in
any way identified with Juan Fernandez. He himself says
that it is near the mouth of the Orinoco. In this wise it
answers to the island now called Tobago, as well as in such
particulars as its distance from the mainland, its relation to
the island of Trinidad, and the indraft or current of the sea,
of which Defoe makes mention. This island is also not
wanting in a legend of a castaway, for there is an account
of the finding of a solitary Frenchman who said he had
lived there alone twenty-one years.
H PRKFACB
The storm which is described as striking Crusoe's ship
was a characteristic West Indian hurricane, the like of which
still sweep over those seas. Defoe had a large and exact
geographical knowledge of all the lands which at his time
had been explored and settled. He knew not only the
position and extent of each, but also the climate, the nature
of the soil, the products and their commercial values.
While the story of Robinson Crusoe is thus based on
actual events, it is none the less a product of Defoe's
creative genius. His imagination seized a few experiences
of Selkirk, or other castaways, and from them constructed
this narrative of the struggles made by an active, energetic
man forced to a lonely life. In writing of Crusoe's zeal,
Crusoe's religious fervor, and Crusoe's untiring industry,
Defoe wrote of himself and what he himself would have
been upon Crusoe's island and in his solitude. It is such
vigor, pluck, perseverance, and will as Crusoe's that have
carried the English nation and English tongue to every
part of the earth and given them practically the conquest
of the world.
In order to adapt this book to school purposes, the story
is divided into short chapters, long sentences are split up
into shorter ones,—by punctuation, for the most part,—
antiquated expressions are replaced by their modern
equivalents, difficult idioms and peculiar turns of expression
are explained in Chinese notes in the back of the book, and
a number of unessential passages are omitted, as well as
most of Crusoe's adventures after leaving the island.
Defoe's work, however, is otherwise unaltered, and retains
all the essential characteristics of the first edition of 1719.
THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES
OF
ROBINSON CRUSOE
CHAPTER I.
I was born in the year 1632, in the city of York. Being
the third son of the family, and not bred to any trade, my
head began to be filled very early with rambling thoughts.
My father, who was very old, had given me a competeni
share of learning, as far as house education and a country
free school generally go, and designed me for the law; but I
would be satisfied with nothing but going to sea. My
inclination to this led me so strongly against the will, nay,
the commands of my father, and against all the entreaties
and persuasions of my mother and other friends, that there
seemed to be something fatal in that propensity of nature,
tending directly to the life of misery which was to befall
me.
My father, a wise and grave man, gave me serious and
excellent counsel against what he foresaw was my design.
He called me one morning into his chamber, where he was
confined by the gout, and expostulated very warmly with me
upon this subject. He asked me what reasons, more than
a mere wandering inclination, I had for leaving my father's
house and my native country, where I might be well in-
2 ROBINSON CRUSOg
troduced, and had a prospect of raising my fortune by
application and industry, with a life of ease and pleasure.
After this he pressed me earnestly, and in the most
affectionate manner, not to play the young man, nor to has-
ten to miseries which nature, and the station of life I was
born in, seemed to have provided against. He told me
that I was under no necessity of seeking my bread, that he
would do well for me, and that if I was not very easy and
happy in the world, it must be my mere fate or fault that
must hinder it, and that he should have nothing to answer
for, having thus discharged his duty in warning me against
measures which he knew would be to my hurt; in a word,
that as he would do very kind things for me if I would stay
and settle at home as he directed, so he would not have so
much hand in my misfortunes as to give me any encourage-
ment to go away; and he would venture to say that if I did
take this foolish step, God would not bless me, and I should
have leisure hereafter to reflect upon having neglected his
counsel, when there might be none to assist in my recovery.
I observed in this last part of his discourse, which was
truly prophetic, though I suppose my father did not know
it to be so himself—I say, I observed the tears run down
his face very plentifully, and that when he spoke of my
having leisure to repent, and none to assist me, he was so
moved that he broke off the discourse, and told me his heart
was so full he could say no more to me.
I was sincerely affected with this discourse, and, indeed,
who could be otherwise? and I resolved not to think of going
abroad any more, but to settle at home according to my
father's desire. But alas! a few days wore it all off; and,
in short, te prevent any of my father's further importuni-
ties, In a few weeks after I resolved to run quite away from
him. However, I did not act quite so hastily as the first
heat of my resolution prompted; but I took my mother at
a time when I thought her a little more yielding than
ordinary, and told her that my thoughts were so entirely bent
upon seeing the world that I should never settle to anything
with resolution enough to go through with it, and my father
had better give me his consent than force me to go without'it;
that I was now eighteen years old, which was too late to go
apprentice to a trade or clerk to an attorney; that I was sure
if I did I should never serve out my time., but I should
certainly run away from my master before my time was
out, and go to sea; and if she would speak to my father to
let me go one voyage abroad, if I came home again, and did
not like it, I would go no more; and I would promise, by
a double diligence, to recover the time that I had lost.
Though my mother refused to speak thus to my father,
yet I heard afterwards that she reported all the discourse to
him, and that my father, after showing a great concern at
it, said to her, with a sigh: "That boy might be happy if
he would stay at home ; but if he goes abroad, he will be
the most miserable wretch that ever was born; I can give
no consent to it."
It was not till almost a year after this that I broke loose,
though, in the mean time, I continued obstinately deaf to
all proposals of settling to business. But being one day at
Hull, where I went without any purpose of making an
elopement at that time,—I say, being there, and one of my
companions being about to sail to London in his father's
ship, and prompting me to go with them with the common
allurement of seafaring men, that it should cost me nothing
for my passage, I consulted neither father nor mother any
more, nor so much as sent them word of it; but leaving them
to hear of it as they might, without asking God's blessing
or my father's, without any consideration of circumstances
or consequences, and in an ill hour, God knows, on the 1st
of September, 1651, I went on board a ship bound for
London. Never any young adventurer's misfortunes, I
believe, began sooner, or continued longer, than mine.
The ship was no sooner out of the Number than the wind
began to blow and the sea to rise in a most frightful man-
ner; and, as I had never been at sea before, I was most
inexpressibly sick in body, and terrified in mind. I began
now seriously to reflect upon what I had done, and how
justly I was overtaken by the judgment of Heaven for my
wicked leaving my father's house, and abandoning my duty.
All the good counsels of my parents, my father's tears and
my mother's entreaties, came now fresh into my mind ; and
my conscience, which was not yet come to the pitch of
hardness to which it has since, reproached me with the
contempt of advice, and the breach of my duty to God and
my father.
All this while the storm increased, and the sea wer ver^
high, though nothing like what I have seen mr.ny times
since; no, nor what I saw a few days after. But it was
enough to affect me then, who was but a young sailor, and
had never known anything of the m^^er. I expected every
wave would swallow us up, and that every time the ship
fell dowii, as I thought, in the trough or hollow of the sea,
we should never rise more. In this agony of mind I made
many vows and resolutions that if it would please God to
spare iny life in this one voyage, if ever I got once my foot
upon dry land again, I would go directly home to my father
and never set it into a ship again while I lived; that I
would take his advice, and never run myself into such
miseries as these any more.
These wise and sober thoughts continued all the while the
storm lasted, and indeed some time after. But the next
day the wind was abated, and the sea calmer, and I began to
be a little inured to it, although I was very grave for all
that day, being also a little seasick still. Towards night
the weather cleared up, the wind was quite over, and a
charming fine evening followed. The sun went down
perfectly clear, and rose so the next morning; and having
little or no wind, and a smooth sea, the sun shining upon
it, the sight was, as I thought, the most delightful that
ever I saw.
I had slept well in the night, and was now no more
seasick, but very cheerful, looking with wonder upon the
sea that was so rough and terrible the day before, and could
be so calm and so pleasant in so little a time after. And
now, lest my good resolutions should continue, my com-
panion, who had enticed me away, coraes to me: "Well,
Bob," says he, clapping me upon the shoulder, "how do
you do'after it? I warrant you were frighted, wer'n'tyou,
last night, when it blew but a capful of wind?" "A
capful d'you call it?" said I; "',twas a terrible storm."
"A storm, you fool you," replies he; "do you call that a
storm? why, it was nothing at all; give tis but a good ship
and sea room, and we think nothing of such a squall of wind
as that; but you're but a fresh-water sailor, Bob. Come,
let us make a bowl of punch, and we'll forget all that; d'ye
see what charming weather 'tis now?"
To make short this sad part of my story, we went the
way of all sailors; the punch was made, and I was made
half drunk with it, and in that one night's wickedness I
drowned all my repentance, all my reflections upon my
past conduct, all my resolutions for the future. In a word,
as the sea was returned to its smoothness of surface and
settled calmness by the abatement of that storm, so the
hurry of my thoughts being over, my fears and apprehen-
sions of being swallowed up by the sea being forgotten, and
the current of my former desires returned, I entirely forgot
the vows and promises that I made in my distress.
CHAPTER II.
THE sixth day of our being at sea we came into Yarmouth
Roads; the wind having been contrary and the weather
calm, we had made but little way since the storm. Here
we were obliged to'come to an anchor, and here we lay, the
wind continuing contrary—namely at southwest—for seven
or eight days, during which time a great many ships from
Newcastle came into the same Roads, as the common harbour
where the ships might wait for a wind for the river.
The wind blew fresh and, after we had lain four or five
days, blew very hard. However, the Roads being reckoned
as good as a harbour, the anchorage good, and our ground
tackle very strong, our men were unconcerned, and not in
the least apprehensive of danger, but spent the time in rest
and mirth, after the manner of the sea. But the eighth day,
in the morning, the wind increased, and we had all hands
at work to strike our topmasts, and make everything snug
and close, that the ship might ride as easy as possible. By
noon the sea went very high indeed, and we shipped several
seas, and thought once or twice our anchor had come home;
upon which our master ordered out the sheet anchor, so that
we rode with two anchors ahead, and the cables veered out
to the better en<*.
By this time It blew a terrible storm indeed ; and now I
began to see terror and amazement in the faces even of the
seamen themselves. The master, though vigilant in the
business of preserving the ship, yet as he went in and out
of his cabin by me, I could hear him softly to himself say,
several times, '' I/>rd, be merciful to us! we shall be all
lost; we shall be all undone/" and the like. During these
first hurries I was stupid, lying still in my cabin, which
was in the steerage, and cannot describe my state of mind.
I could ill resume the first penitence which I had so
apparently trampled upon, and hardened myself against.
I thought the bitterness of death had been past, and that
this would be nothing like the first; but when the master
himself came by me, as I said just now, and said we should
be all lost, I was dreadfully frighted. I got up out of my
cabin and looked out; but such a dismal sight I never saw.
The sea ran mountains high, and broke upon us every
three or four minutes; when I could look about I could see
nothing but distress round us. Two ships that rode near
us, we found, had cut their masts by the board, being deep
laden; and our men cried out that a ship which rode about
a mile ahead of us was foundered. Two more ships, being
driven from their anchors, were run out of the Roads to
sea, at all adventures, and that not with a mast standing.
The light ships fared the best, as not so much labouring iq
the sea ; bat two or three of them drove, and came close by
us, running away with only their spritsail out before the
wind.
Towards evening the mate and boatswain begged the
master of our ship to let them cut away the foremast, which
he was very unwilling to do. But the boatswain protesting
to him that if he did not the ship would founder, he con-
sented; and when they had cut away the foremast, the
mainmast stood loose, and shook the ship so much they
were obliged to cut that away also, and make a dear deck.
Any one may judge what a condition I must have been
in at all this, who was but a young sailor, and who had
been in such a fright before at but a little. But I was in
tenfold more horror of mind upon account of my former
convictions, and the having returned from them to the
resolutions I had wickedly taken at first, than I was at
death itself; but the worst was not come yet. The storm
continued with such fury that the seamen themselves
acknowledged they had never seen a worse. We had a good
ship, but she was deep laden, and wallowed in the sea, so
that the seamen every now and then cried out she would
founder. It was my advantage in one respect that I did not
know what they m;ant by "founder," till I inquired.
However, the storm was so violent that I saw, what is not
often seen, the master, the boatswain, and some others more
sensible than the rest, at their prayers, and expecting every
moment- when the ship would go to the bottom. In the
middle of the night, and under all the rest of our distresses,
one of the men that had been down to see, cried out we
had sprung a leak; another said there were four feet of
water in the kold. Then all hands were called to the pump.
At that word, my heart, as I thought, died within me, and
I fell backwards upon the side of my bed where I sat.
However, the men roused me, and told me that I that was
able to do nothing before, was as well able to pump as
another; at which I stirred up, and went to the pump, and
worked very heartily. While this was doing, the master
seeing some light colliers, who, not able to ride out the storm,
were obliged to slip, and run away to the sea, and would
come near us, ordered to fire a gun as a signal of distress.
I, who knew nothing what they meant, thought the ship
had broken, or some dreadful thing happened. In a word,
I was so surprised that I fell down in a swoon. As this
was a time when everybody had his own life to think of,
nobody minded me, or what was become of me; but another
man stepped up to the pump, and thrusting me aside with
his foot, let me lie, thinking I was dead; and it was a great
while before I came to myself.
We worked on; but the water increasing in the hold, it
was apparent that the ship would founder. It was not
possible she could swim till we might run into any port.
The master continued firing guns for help ; and a light ship,
that had ridden it out just ahead of us, ventured a boat out
to help us. It was with the utmost hazard the boat came
near us; but it was impossible for us to get on board, or
for the boat to lie near the ship's side. At last the men
rowing very heartily, and venturing their lives to save ours,
our men cast them a rope over the stern with a buoy to it,
and then veered it out a great length, which they, after
much labour and hazard took hold of, and we hauled them
close under our stern, and got all into their boat. It was
io HO purpose for them or us, after we were in the boat, to
think of reaching their own ship. All agreed to let her
drive, and only to pull her in towards short as much as we
could ; and our master promised them that if the boat was
staved upon shore, he would make it good to their master.
So partly rowing, and partly driving, our boat went away
to the northward, sloping towards the shore almost as far as
Winterton Ness.
We were not much more than a quarter of an hour out
of our ship till we saw her sink, and then I understood for
the first time what was meant by a ship foundering in the
sea. I must acknowledge I had hardly eyes to look up
when the seamen told me she was sinking; for from the
moment that they rather put me into the boat, than that I
might be said to go in, my heart was, as it were, dead within
me, partly with fright, partly with horror of mind and
the thoughts of what was yet before me.
While we were in this condition—the men yet labouring
at the oar to bring the boat near the shore—we could see,
(when, our boat mounting the waves, we were able to see
the shore,) a great many people running along the strand,
to assist us when we should come near; but we made but
slow way. At last we got in, and, though not without
much difficulty, got all safe on shore, and walked afterwards
on foot to Yarmouth, where, as unfortunate men, we were
used with great humanity, as well by the magistrates of the
town, who assigned us good quarters, as by particular mer-
chants and owners of ships, and had money given us
sufficient to carry us either to London or back to Hull, as
we thought fit.
Had I now had the sense to go back to Hull, and had
gone home, I had been happy, and my father, as in our
blessed Savior's parable, had even killed the fatted calf for
me; for, hearing the ship I went away in was cast away in
Yarmouth Roads, it was a great while before he had
any assurances that I was not drowned.
But my ill fate pushed me on now with an obstinacy that
nothing could resist; and though I had several times loud
calls from my reason and my more composed judgment to go
home, yet I had no power to do it. Certainly, nothing but
some decreed unavoidable misery, which it was impossible
for me to escape, could have pushed me forward against
the calm reasonings and persuasions of my most retired
thoughts.
Having some money in my pocket, I traveled to London
by land; and there, as well as on the road, had many
struggles with myself what course of life I should take, and
whether I should go home or go to sea.
As to going home, it immediately occurred to me how I
should be laughed at among the neighbours, and should be
ashamed to see, not my father and mother only, but even
everybody else. I remained some time, uncertain -what
measures to take, and what course of life to lead. An
irresistible reluctance continued to going home; and as I
staid awhile, the remembrance of the distress I had been
in wore off. As that abated, the little notion I had in my
desires to return wore off with it, till I quite laid aside the
thoughts of it, and looked out for a voyage; and at last I
went on board a vessel bound to the coast of Africa; or, as
our sailors vulgarly called it, a " voyage to Guinea."
CHAPTER III.
IT was my lot first of all to fall into pretty good
company in London, which does not always happen to such
loose and misguided young fellows as I then was. I first
got acquainted with the master of a ship who had been on
the coast of Guinea, and who, having had very good
success there, was resolved to go again. This captain
taking a fancy to my conversation, which was not at all
disagreeable at that time, and hearing me say I had a mind
to see the world, told me if I would go the voyage with
him I should be at no expense; I should be his messmate
and his companion; and if I could carry anything with me,
I should have all the advantage of it that the trade would
admit; and perhaps I might meet with some encouragement.
I embraced the offer; and entering into a strict friendship
with this captain, who was an honest, plain-dealing man, I
went the voyage with him, and carried a small adventure
with me, which, by the disinterested honesty of my friend
the captain, I increased very considerably; for I carried
about forty pounds in such toys and trifles as the captain
directed me to buy. These forty pounds I had mustered
together by the assistance of some of mv relations whom I
corresponded with; and who, I believe, got my father, or
at least my mother, to contribute so much as that to my
first adventure
This was the only voyage which I may say was successful
in all my adventures. This I owed to the integrity and
honesty of my friend the captain ; under whom also I got
a competent knowledge of the mathematics and the rules of
navigation, learned how to keep an account of the ship's
course, iake an observation, and, in short, to understand
some things that were needful to be understood by a sailor.
As he took delight to instruct me, I took delight to learn;
and, in a word, this voyage made me both a sailor and a
merchant. I brought home five pounds nine ounces of gold
dust, for my adventure, which yieIdsd me in L,ondon, at my
return, almost three hundred pounds; and this filled me
with those aspiring thoughts which have since so completed
my ruin.
Yet even in this voyage I had my. misfortunes too;
particularly, that I was continually sick, being thrown
into a violent fever by the excessive heat of the climate; our
principal trading being upon the coast, from the latitude of
fifteen degrees north even to the line [equator] itself.
I was now set up for a Guinea trader. My friend, to my
great misfortune, dying soon after his arrival, I resolved to
go the same voyage again, and I embarked in the same
vessel with one who was his mate in the former voyage,
and had now got the command of the ship. This was the
unhappiest voyage that ever man made. Though I did
not carry quite one hundred pounds of my new-gained
wealth, so that I had two hundred pounds left, which I had
lodged with my friend's widow, who was very just to me,
yet I fell into terrible misfortunes.
The first was this; our ship making her course towards
the Canary Islands, or rather between those islands and the
African shore, was surprised in the gray of the morning
by a Turkish rover of Sallee, who gave chase to us with all
the sail she could make. We crowded also as much canvas
as our yards would spread, or our masts carry to get clear,
but finding the pirate gained upon us, and would certainly
come up with us in a few hours, we prepared to fight,—our
ship having twelve guns and the rogue eighteen. About
three in the afternoon he came up with us, and bringing
to, by mistake, just athwart our quarter, instead of athwart
our stern, as he intended, we brought eight of our guns to
bear on that side, and poured in a broadside upon him,
which made him sheer off again, after returning our fire,
and pouring in also his small shot from near two hundred
men whom he had on board. However, we had not a man
touched, all our men keeping close. He prepared to attack
us again, and we to defend ourselves. But laying us on
board the next time upon our other quarter, he entered
sixty men upon our decks, who immediately fell to cutting
and hacking the sails and rigging. We plied them with
small shot, half-pikes, powder chests, and such like, and
cleared our deck of them twice. However, to cut short thjs
melancholy part of our story, our ship being disabled, and
three of our men killed and eight wounded, we were
obliged to yield', and were carried all prisoners into Sallee, a
port belonging to the Moors.
The usage I had there was not so dreadful as at first I
apprehended; nor was I carried up the country to the
emperor's court, as the rest of our men were, but was
kept by the captain of the rover as his proper prize and
made his slave, being young and nimble and fit for his
business. At this surprising change of my circumstances,
from a merchant to a miserable slave, I was perfectly
overwhelmed. Now I looked back upon my father's pro-
phetic discourse to me, that I should be miserable and
have none to relieve me, which I thought was so effectually
brought to pass that I could not be worse; for now tfo
of Heaven had overtaken me, and I was undone without
redemption. But, alas! this was but a taste of the misery I
was to go through, as will appear in the sequel of this story.
As my new patron, or master, had taken me home to his
house, so I was in hopes that he would take me with him
when he went to sea again, believing that it would some
time or other be his fate to be taken by a Spanish or Portugal
man-of-war, and that then I should be set at liberty. But
this hope of mine was soon taken away; for when he went
to sea, he left me on shore to look after his little garden,
and do the common drudgery of slaves about his house;
and when he came home again from his cruise, he ordered
me to lie in the cabin to look after the ship.
Here I meditated nothing but my escape, and what
method I might take to effect it, but found no way that had
the least probability in it. Nothing presented to make the
supposition of it rational; for I had nobody to communicate
it to that would embark with me,—no fellow-slave, no
Englishman, Irishman, or Scotchman, there but myself.
So for two years, though I often pleased myself with the
imagination, yet I never had the least encouraging prospect
of putting it in practice.
After about two years, an odd circumstance presented
itself, which put the old thought of making some attempt
for my liberty again in my head. My patron lying at home
longer than usual without fitting out his ship, which, as I
heard, was for want of money, he used, constantly, once or
twice a week, sometimes oftener, if the weather was fair,
to take the ship's pinnace, and go out into the road a-fish-
ing. As he always took me and young Maresco with him
to row the boat, we made him very merry, and I proved
very dexterous in catching fish; insomuch that sometimes
he would send me with a Moor, one of his kinsmen, and
the youth,—the Maresco, as they called him,—to catch a
dish of fish for him.
It happened one time that, going a-fishing in a calm
morning, a fog rose so thick that though we were not half
a league from the shore, we lost sight of it; and rowing we
knew not whither or which way, we labored all day, and
all the next night. When the morning came, we found we
had pulled off to sea instead of pulling in for the shore;
and that we were at least two leagues from the shore.
However, we got well in again, though with a great deal of
labor and some danger; for the wind began to blow pretty
fresh in the morning. But we were all very hungry.
Our patron, warned by this disaster, resolved to take
more care of himself for the future; and having lying by
him the longboat of our English ship that he had taken, he
resolved he would not go a-fishing any more without a
compass and some provision. So he ordered the carpenter
of his ship, who also was an English slave, to build a little
stateroom, or cabin, in the middle of the longboat, like that
of a bar?e, with a place to stand behind it to steer and haul
home the mainsheet; and room before for a hand or two to
stand and work the sails. She sailed with what we call a
shoulder-pf-mutton '' sail; and the boom gibed over the top of
the cabin, which lay very snug and low, and had in it room
for him to lie, with a slave or two, and a table to eat on,
with some small lockers to put in some bottles of such liquor
as he thought fit to drink : and his bread, rice, and coffee.
We went frequently out with this boat a-fishing; and as I
was most dexterous to catch fish for him, he never went
without me.
It happened one day that he had appointed to go out in
this boat, either for pleasure or for fish, with two or three
Moors -> some distinction in that place, and for whom he
had provided extraordinarily, and had therefore sent on
board the boat over night a larger store of provisions than
ordinary. And he had ordered me to get ready three fusees
[small muskets} with powder and shot, which were on board
his ship, for that they designed some sport of fowling as
well as fishing.
I got all things ready as he had directed, and waited the
next morning, with the boat washed clean, her flag and
pendants out, and everything to accommodate his guests.
When by and by my patron came on board alone, he told
me his guests had put off going from some business that/if//
oui, and ordered me, with the man and boy, as usual, to
go out with the boat and catch them some fish, for that his
frieii'ls were to sup at his house. And he commanded that
as soon as I got some fish I should bring it home to his
house. All which I prepared to do.
This moment, my former notions of deliverance darted into
my thoughts, for now I found I was likely to have a little
ship at my command. My master being gone, I prepared
to furnish myself, not for fishing business, but for a
voyage, though I knew not, neither did I so much as
consider, whither I should steer—anywhere to get out of
that place was my desire.
CHAPTER IV.
MY first contrivance was to make a pretense to speak to
this Moor, to get something for our subsistence on board:
for I told him we must not presume to eat of our patron's
dread. He said that was true; so he brought a large basket
of rusk or biscuit, and three jars of fresh water, into the boat.
I knew where my patron's case of bottles stood, which it
was evident by the make, were taken out of some English
prize, and I conveyed them into the boat while the Moor
was on shore, as if they had been there before for our
master. I conveyed also a great lump of beeswax into the
boat, which weighed above half a hundredweight, with a
parcel of twine or thread, a hatchet, a saw, and a hammer,
all of which were of great use to us afterwards, especially
the wax to make candles.
Another trick I tried upon him, which he innocently
came into also. His name was Ismael, which they call
"Muley," or " Moely;" so I called to him: "Moely,"
said I, "our patron's guns are on board the boat; can you
not get a little powder and shot? It may be we may kill
some alcamies (a fowl like our curlews) for ourselves, for I
know he keeps the gunner's stores in the ship." "Yes,"
says he, "I'll bring some; " and accordingly he brought
a great leather pouch, which held a pound and a half of
powder, or rather more; and another with shot, that had
five or six pounds, with some bullets and put all into the
boat. At the same time I had found some powder of my
master's in the great cabin, with which I filled one of the
large bottles in the case, which was almost empty, pouring
what was in it into another. Thus furnished with every-
thing needful, we sailed out of the port to fish. The castle,
which is at the entrance of the port, knew who we were,
and took no notice of us; and we were not above a mile out
of the port before we hauled in our sail, and set us down to
hsh. The wind blew from the north-northeast, which was
contrary to my desire, for, had it blown southerly, I had
been sure to have made the coast cf Spain, and at least
reached to the Bay <- Cadis. But my resolutions were,
blow which way it would, I would be gone from that horrid
place where I was, and leave the rest to t'ate.
After we had fished some time and caught nothing, for
when I had fish on my hook, I would not pull them up,
that he might not see them, I said to the Moor, '' This will
not do; our mastei will not be thus served; we must stand
farther off." He, thinking no harm, agreed, and, being
in the head of the boat, set the sails. As I had the helm, I
ran the boat out near a league farther, and then brought her
to, as if I would fish. Then, giving the boy the helm, I
stepped forward to where the Moor was, and making as if
I stoopea for something behind him, I took him by surprise
with my arm under his waist, and tossed him clear overboard
into the sea. He rose immediately, for he swam like a cork,
and called to me, begging to be taken in, telling me he
would go all over the world with me. He swam so strong
after the boat that he would have reached me very quickly,
there being but little wind. Upon this I stepped info the
cabin, and fetching one of the fowling pieces, I presented it
at him, and told him I had done him no hurt, and if he
would be quiet I would do him none. "But," said I,
"you swim well enough to reach to the shore, and the sea
is calm. Make the best ojryour way to shore, and I will do
you no harm ; but if you come near the boat I'll shoot you
through the head, for I am resolved to have my liberty."
So he turned himself about, and swam for the shore, and I
make no doubt but he reached it with ease, for he was an
excellent swimmer.
I could have been content to take this Moor with me,
and havp drowned the boy, but there was no venturing to
trust him. When he was gone, I turned to the boy,
whom they called Xury, and said to him, "Xury, if you
will be faithful to me, I'll make you a great man ; but if you
will not stroke your face to be true to me," that is, swear by
Mahomet and his father's beard, "I must throw you into
the sea too." The boy smiled in my face, and spoke so
innocently that I could not distrust him. He swore to be
faithful to me, and go all over the world with me.
While I was in view o, the Moor that was swimming, I
stood out directly to sea with the boat, rather stretching to
windward, that they might think me gone towards the
Strait's mouth (as indeed any one that had been in their
wits must have been supposed to do). For who would have
supposed we were sailed on to the southward, to the truly
barbarian coast, where whole nations of negroes were
sure to surround us with their canoes, and destroy us ; where
we could not go on shore but we should be devoured by
savage beasts, or more merciless savages of human kind!
But as soon as it grew dusk in the evening, I changed my
course, and steered directly south and by east, bending my
course a little towards the east, that I might keep in with the
shore. Having a fair, fresh gale of wind, and a smooth,
quiet sea, I made such 'iail that I believe by the next day
at three o'clock in the afternoon, when I first made the land,
I could not be less than one hundred and fifty miles south
of Bailee; quite beyond the Kmperor of Morocco's
dominions, or indeed of any other king thereabouts, for we
saw no people.
Yet such was the fright I had taken of the Moors, and
the dreadful apprehensions I had of falling into their hands,
that I would not stop, or go on shore, or come to an
anchor. The wind continued fair till I had sailed in that
manner five days; and then the wind shifting to the south-
ward, I concluded also that if any of our vessels were
in chase of me, they also would now give over. So I
ventured to make to the coast, and came to an anchor in the
mouth of a little river, I know not what, nor where,
neither what latitude, what country, what nation, or what
river. I neither saw, nor desired to see any people; the
principal thing I wanted was fresh water.
We came into this creek in the evening, resolving to
swim on shore as soon as it was dark, and discover the
country; but as soon as it was quite dark, we heard such
dreadful noises of the barking, roaring, and howling of wild
creatures, of we knew not what kinds, that the poor boy
was ready to die with fear, and begged of me not to go on
shore till day. "Well, Xury," said'I, "then I won't;
but it may be that we may see men by day, who will be as
bad to us as those lions." "Then we give them the shoot
gun," says Xury, laughing, "make them run way."
Such English Xury spoke by conversing among ns slaves.
However, I was glad to see the boy so cheerful.
After all, Xury's advice was good, and I took it. We
dropped our little anchor, and lay still all night. I say
still, for we slept none. In two or three hours we saw vast
great Creatures (we knew not what to call them) of many
sorts come down to the seashore, and run into the water,
wallowing and washing themselves for the pleasure of cool-
ing themselves; and they made such hideous howlings and
ytilings that I never indeed heard the like.
Xury was dreadfully frighted, and indeed so was I too;
but we were both more frighted when we heard one of these
mighty creatures come swimming towards our boat. We
could not see him, but we might hear him by his blowing
to be a monstrous huge and furious beast. Xury said it
was a lion, and it might be so for aught I know; but poor
Xury cried to me to weigh the anchor and row away. '' No,''
say I, "Xury; we can slip our cable, with the buoy to it,
and go off to sea ; they cannot follow us far." I had no
sooner said so, but I perceived the creature (whatever it
was) within two oars' length, which something surprised
me. However, I immediately stepped to the cabin door,
and taking up my gun, fired at him; upon which he
immediately turned about, and swam towards the shore
again.
But It is impossible to describe the horrid noises and
hideous cries and howlings that were raised, as well upon
the edge of the shore as higher within the country, upon
the noise or report of the gun,—a thing I have some reason
to believe those creatures had never heard before. This
convinced me f.hat there was no going on shore for us in
the night on that coast, and how to venture on shore in the
day was another question, too; for to have fallen into the
hands of any of the savages had been as bad as to have
fallen into the hands of the lions and tigers. At least we
were equally apprehensive oj the danger of it.
Be that as it would, we were obliged to go on shore some-
where or other for water, for we had not a pint left in the
boat. When and where to get to it was the point. Xury
said if I would let him go on shore with one of the jars, he
would find if there was any water, and bring some to me.
I asked him why he would go? Why I should not go, and
he stay in the boat? The boy answered with so much
affection, as made me love him ever after. Says he, "if
wild mans come, they eat me, you go way." "Well,
Xury," said I, "we will both go, and if the ' wild mans1
come, we will kill them; they shall eat neither of us."
We hauled the boat in as near the shore as we thought was
proper, and so waded on shore, carrying nothing but our
arms, and two jars for water.
I did not care to go out of sight of the boat, fearing the
coming of canoes with savages down the river ; but the
boy, seeing a low place about a mile up the country,
rambled to it, and by and by I saw him come running
towards me. I thought he was pursued by some savage,
or frighted with some wild beast, and I ran forward
towards him to help him. When I came nearer to him, 1
saw something hanging over his shoulders, which was a
creature that he had shot, like a hare, but different in
colour, and longer legs; however, we were very glad of it,
and it was very good meat. But the great joy that poor
Xury came with, was to tell me he had found good water,
and seen no "wild mans."
But we found afterwards that we need not take such pains
for water, for a little higher up the creek where we were
we found the water fresh when the tide was out, which
flowed but a little way up. So we filled our jars, and
feasted on the hare we had killed, and prepared to go on
our wjy, having seen no footsteps of any human creature
in that part of the country.
-
CHAPTER V.
As I had been one voyage to this coast before. I knew
very well that the islands of the Canaries, and the Cape
Verd Islands also, lay not far off from the coast. But as I
had no instruments to take an observation to know what
latitude we were in, and not exactly knowing, or at least
remembering, what latitude they were in, I knew not
where to look for them, or when to stand off to sea towards
them; otherwise I might now easily have found some of
these islands. But my hope was that if I stood along this
coast till I came to that part where the English traded, I
should find some of their vessels upon their usual design of
trade, that would relieve and take us in.
By the best of my calculation, that place where I now was
must be that country which, lying between the Emperor of
Morocco's dominions and negroes, lies waste and
uninhabited, except by wild beasts, the negroes having
abandoned it, and gone farther south, for fear of the
Moors, and the Moors not thinking it worth inhabiting, by
reason of its barrenness; and, indeed, both forsaking it be-
cause of the Prodigious number of tigers, lions, leopards
and other furious creatures which harbor there. So thai
the Moors use it for their hunting only, where they go like
an army, two or three thousand men at a time ; and. indeed,
for near a hundred miles together upon this coast we saw
nothing but a waste, uninhabited country by day, and heard
nothing but bowlings and roaring of wild beasts by night.
Once or twice in the daytime, I thought I saw the peak
of Tenerifle, being the high top of the mountain Teneriffe
in the Canaries, and had a great mind to venture out, in
hopes of reaching thither. But having tried twice, I was
forced in again by contrary winds, the sea also going too
high for my little vessel. So I resolved to pursue my first
design, and keep along the shore.
Several times I was obliged to land for fresh water, after
ye had left this place; and once in particular, being early
In the morning, we came to an anchor under a little point
of land, which was pretty high, and the tide beginning to
flow, we lay still to go farther in. Xury, whose eyes were
more about him than it seems mine were, calls softly to me,
and tells me that we had best go farther off the shore;
"for," says he, "look, yonder lies a dreadful monster on
the side of that hillock, fast asleep." I looked where he
pointed, and saw a dreadful monster indeed, for it was a
terrible great lion that lay on the side of the shore, under
the shade of a piece of the hill that hung as it were a little
over him. "Xury," says I, "you shall go on shore and
kill him." Xury looked frighted, and said, "Me kill! he
eat me at one mouth /" one mouthful he meant. However,
I said no more to the boy, but bade him lie still, and I took
our biggest gun, which was almost musket bore, and loaded
it with a good charge of powder and with two slugs, and
laid it down; then I loaded another gun with two bullets;
and the third (for we had three pieces) 1 loaded with five
smaller bullets. I took the best aim I could with the first
piece to have shot him in the head, but he lay so with his
leg raised a little above his nose that the slugs hit his leg
about the knee, and broke the bone. He started up,
growling at first, but, finding his leg broken, 'fell down
again, and then got up upon three legs, and gave the morft
hideous roar that ever I heard. I was a little surprised
that I had not hit him on the head; however, I took up
the second piece immediately, and though he began to
move off, fired again, and shot him in the head, and had
the pleasure to -see him drop and make but little noise, but
lie struggling for life. Then Xury took heart, and would
have me let him go on shore. "Well, go," said I. So
the boy jumped into the water, and. taking a little gun in
one hand, swam to shore with the other hand, and coming
close to the creature, put the muzzle of the piece to his ear,
and shot him in the head again, which dispatched him quite.
This was game indeed to us, but it was no food; and I
was very sorry to lose three charges of powder and shot
upon a creature that was good for nothing to us. However,
Xury said he would have some of him; so he came on
board, and asked me to give him the hatchet. '' For what,
Xury?" said I. "Me cut off his head," said he. How-
ever, Xury could not cut off his head, but he cut off a foot,
and brought it with him, and it was a monstrous great one.
/ bethought-myself, however, that perhaps the skin of
him might, one way or other, be of some value to us; and
I resolved to take off his skin if I could. So Xury and I
went to work with him; but Xury was much the better
workman at it, for I knew very ill how to do it. Indeed,
it took us both the whole day, but at last we got the hide
off, and spreading it on the top of our cabin, the sun
effectually dried it in two days' time, and it afterwards
served me to lie upon.
After this stop, we made on to the southward continually
for ten or twelve days, living very sparingly on our
provisions, which began to abate very much, and going no
oftener to the shore than we were obliged to for fresh
water. My design in this was to make the River Gambia
or Senegal, that is to say, anywhere about Cape Verd,
where I was in hopes to meet with some European ship. If
I did not I knew not what course I had to take but to seek
for the islands, or perish there among the negroes. I knew
that all the ships from Europe which sailed either to the
coast of Guinea, or to Brazil, or to the East Indies, made
this cape, or those islands. In a word, I put the whole of
my fortune upon this single point, either that I must meet
with some ship, or must perish.
When I had pursued this resolution about ten days
longer, as I have said, I began to see that Ihe land was
inhabited, and in two or three places, as'we sailed by, we
saw people stand upon the shore to look at us. We could
also perceive they were quite black, and naked. I was
once inclined to go on shore to them; but Xury was my
better counsellor, and said to me, "No go, no go."
However, I hauled in nearer the shore that I might talk to
them, and I found they ran along the share by me a good
way. I observed they had no weapons in their hands,
except one who had a long slender stick, which Xury said
was a lance, and that they could throw them a great way
with good aim. So I kepi at a distance, but talked with
them by signs as well as I could, and particularly made
signs for something to eat. They beckoned to me to stop
my boat, and they would fetch me some meat. Upon this
I lowered the top of my sail and lay by, and two of them ran
up into the country, and in less than half an hour came
back, and brought with them two pieces of dried flesh and
some corn, such as is the produce of their country, but we
neither knew what the one or the other was. However,
we were willing to accept it, but how to come at it was our
next dispute, for I would not venture on shore to them
and they were as much afraid of us. But they took a safe
way for us all, for they brought it to the shore and laid it
down, and went and stood a great way off till we fetched
it on board, and then came close to us again.
We made signs of thanks to them, for we had nothing A?
make them amends. But an opportunity offered that very
instant to oblige them wonderfully ; for while we were lying
by the shore, came two mighty creatures, one pursuing the
other (as we took it) with great fury from the mountains
towards the* sea. Whether they were in sport or in rage,
we could not tell, any more than we could tell whether it
was usual or strange; but I believe it was the latter, be-
cause, in the first place, those ravenous creatures seldom
appear but in the night; and, in the second place, we
found the people terribly frighted, especially the women.
The man that had the lance or dart did not fly from them,
but all the rest did. However, as the two creatures ran
directly into the water, they did not offer to fall upon any
of the negroes, but plunged themselves into the sea, and swam
about, as if they had come for their diversion. At last one
of them began to come nearer our boat than at first I ex-
pected; but I lay ready for him, for I had loaded my gun
with all possible expedition, and bade Xury load both the
others. As soon as he came/az>/y within my reach, I fired,
and shot him directly in the head. Immediately he sank
down into the water, but rose inst.mtly, and plunged up
and down, as if he was strugglingjor life; and so indeed he
was. He *mmediataly made to the shore; but between the
wound, which was his mortal hurt, and the sirangling of
the water, he died just before he reached the shore.
It is impossible to express the astonishment of these poor
creatures at the noise and fire of my gun. Some of them
were even ready to die for fear and fell down as dead with
the ver^' terror; but when they saw the creature dead, and
sunk in the water, and that I made signs to them to come
to the shore, they took heart and came, and began to
search >or the creature. 1 fauna him by his blood staining
the water. By the help of a rope, which I slung round him,
and gave the negroes to haul, they dragged him on shore,
and found that it was a most curious leopard, spotted, and
fine .J an aamirable degree; and the negroes hela up their
hands with admiration, to think what it was I had killed
him with.
The other creature, frighted with the flash ./ fire and the
noise of the gun, swam on shore, and ran up directly to the
mountains from whence they came , nor could I, at that
distance, know what it was. I found quickly the negroes
wished to eat the flesh of this creature, so I was willing to
have them take it as a favor from me. When I made signs
to them that they might take him, they were very thankful.
Immediately they fell to work with him ; and though they
had no knife, yet, with a sharpened piece of wood, they
took off his skin as readily, and much more readily,
than we could have done with a knife. They offered me
some of the flesh, which I declined, pointing out that I
would give it to them ; but I made signs for the skin,
which they gave me very freely, and brought me a great
deal more of their provisions, which, though I did not
understand, yet I accepted. I then "made signs to them
for some water, and held out one of my jars to them, turning:
it bottom upwdrd, to show that it was empty, and that I
wanted to have it filled. They called immediately to some
of their friends, and there came two women, and brought
a great vessel made of earth, and burnt, as I supposed, in
the sun. This they set down to uie, as before, and I sent
Xury on shore with my jars, and filled them all three.
CHAPTER VI.
I was now furnished with roots and corn, such as it was,
and water; and leaving my friendly negroes, I made for-
ward for about eleven days more, without offering to go
near the shore, till I saw the land run out a great length
into the sea, at about the distance of four or five leagues
before me. The sea being very calm, I kept a large offing
to make this point. At length, doubling the point, at about
two leagues from the land, I saw plainly land on' the
other side, to seaward. Then I concluded, as it was most
certain indeed, that this was Cape Verd, and those the
islands called, from thence, Cape Verd Islands. However,
they were at a great distance, and I could not well tell
what I had best do; for if I should be taken with a fresh
wind I might neither reach one or other.
In this dilemma, as I was very pensive, I stepped into the
cabin, and sat down, Xury having the helm; when, on a
sudden, the boy cried out, "Master, master, a ship with a
sail!" The foolish boy was frighted out of his wits, think-
ing it must needs be some of his master's ships sent to
pursue us; but I knew we were far enough out of their
reach. I jumped out of the cabin, and immediately saw,
not only the ship, but that it was a Portuguese ship; and,
as I thought, was bound to the coast of Guinea, for negroes.
But, when I observed the course she steered, 1 was soon
convinced they, were bound some other way and did not
design to come any nearer the shore; upon which I
stretched out to sea as much as I could, resolving to speak
with them if possible.
With all the sail i could make, I found I should not be
able to come in their way, but that they would be gone by
before I could make any signal to them. But after I had
crowded to the utmost, and began to despair, they, it seems,
saw, by the help of their glasses, that it was some European
boat, which they supposed must belong to some ship that
was lost; so they shortened sail to let me cpme up. I was
encouraged with this, and as I had my patron's flag on
board, I made a waft of it to them, for a signal of distress,
and fired a gun, both which they saw; for they told me
they saw the smoke, though they did not hear the gun.
Upon these signals they very kindly brought to, and lay by
>u. me; and in about three hours' time I came up with them.
They asked me what I was, in Portuguese, and in Span-
ish, and in French, but I understood none of them. At
last, a Sco'. :h sailor, who was on board, called to me; and
I answered him, and told him I was an Englishman, and
that I had made my escape out of slavery from the Moors, at
Sallee. They then bade me come on board, and very
kindly took me in, and all my goods.
It was an inexpressible /oy to me, which any one will
believe, that I was thus delivereL, as I esteemed it, from
such a miserable and almost hopeless condition as I was in.
1 immediately rfered all I had to the captain of the ship,
as a return for my deliverance. He generously told me he
would take nothing from me, but that all I had should be
delivered safe to me when I came to Brazil. "For," says
he, "I have saved your life on no other terms than I
would be glad to be saved myself; and it may, one time or
other, be my lot to be taken up in the same condition.
Besides," said he, "when I carry you to Brazil, so great
a way from your own country, if I should take from you
what you have, you will be starved there, and then I only
take away that life I have given. No, no," says he,
"Seignor Inglese [Mr. Englishman], I will carry you
thither in charity, and those things will help to buy your
subsistence there, and your passage home again."
As he was charitable in this proposal, so he was Just in
the performance to a tittle; for he ordered the seamen that
none should touch anything that I had ; then he took everv-
thing into his own possession, and gave me back an exact
inventory of them, that I might have them, even to my
three earthen jars.
As to my boat, it was a very good one; and that he saw,
and told me he would buy it of me for his ship's use, and
asked me what I would have for it. I told him he had
been so generous to me in everything that I could not offer
to make any price of the boat, but left it entirely to him.
Upon this he told me he would give me a note of hand to
pay me eighty pieces of eight for it at Brazil; and when it
came there, if any one offered to give more, he would make
it up. He offered me also sixty pieces of eight more tor
my boy Xury, which I was loath to take. Not that I was
unwilling to let the captain have him, but I was very loath
to sell the poor boy's liberty, who had assisted me so faith-
fully in procuring my own. However, when I let him know
my reason, downed it to be just, and offered me this medium,
that he would give the boy an obligation to set him free in
ten-years, if he turned Christian. Upon this, and Xury
saying he was willing to go to him, I let the captain have
him.
We had a very good voyage to Brazil, and I arrived in
the Bay de Todas los Santos, or All Saints' Bay, in about
twenty-two days after. And now I was once more deliver-
ed from the most miserable of all conditions of life; and
what to do next with myself I was' to consider.
The generous treatment the captain gave me I can never
enough remember. He would take nothing of me for my
passage, gave me twenty ducats for the leopard's skin, and
forty for the lion's skin, which I had in my boat, and
caused everything I had in the ship to be punctually delivered
to me. And what I was willing to sell, he bought of me,
such as the case of bottles, two of my guns, and a piece of
the lump of beeswax,—for I had made candles of the rest.
In a word, I made about two hundred and twenty pieces of
eight of all my cargo; and with this slock, I went on shore
in Brazil.
I had not been long here before I was recommended to
the bouse of a good, honest man, like himself, who had an
"ingenio," as they call it; that is, a plantation and a
sugar house. I lived with him some time, and acquainted
myself, by that means, with the manner of planting and
making of sugar. Seeing how well the planters lived, and
how they got rich suddenly, I resolved, if T could get a
license to settle there, I would turn planter among them;
resolving in the mean time, to find out some way to get my
money, which I had left in I,ondon, remitted to me. To
this purpose, getting a kind of letter of naturalization, I
purchased as much land that was uncultivated as my money
would reach, and formed a plan for my plantation . and
settlement; such a one as might be suitable to the stock
which I proposed to myself to receive from England.
I had a neighbor, a Portuguese of Lisbon, but born of
English parents, whose name was Wells, and in much such
circumstances as I was. I call him my neighbor, because
his plantation lay next to mine, and we went on very sociably
together. My stock was but low, as well as his; and we
rather planted for food "than for anything else, for about
two years. However, we began to increase, and our land
began to come into order; so that the third year we planted
some tobacco, and made each of us a large piece of ground
ready for planting canes in the year to come. But we both
wanted help ; and now I found, more than before, I had
done wrong in parting with my boy Xury.
But, alas! for me to do wrong that never did right, was
no great wonder. I had no remedy but to go on. I had
got into an employment quite remote to. my genius, and
directly contrary to the life I delighted in, and for which I
forsook my father's house and broke through all his good
advice. If I resolved to go on, I might as well have staid
at home, and never have fatigued myself va. the world as I
had done. And I used often to say to myself, I could have
done this as well in England, among my friends, as have
gone five thousand miles off to do it among strangers and
savages, in a wilderness, and at such a distance as never to
hear from any part of the world that had the least knowl-
edge of me.
In this manner I used to look upon my condition with the
utmost regrei. I had nobody to converse with, but now and
then this neighbor; no work to be done, but by the labor
of my hands; and I used to say I lived just like a man cast
away upon some desolate island, that had nobody there but
himself. But how just has it been, and how should all
men reflect that when they compare their present conditions
with others that are worse, Heaven may oblige them to
make the exchange, and be convinced of'their former felicity
by their experience /
I was, in some degree, settled in my measures for carrying
on the plantation, before my kind friend, the captain of the
ship that took me up at sea, went back; for the ship
remained there, in providing his lading, and preparing for
his voyage, nearly three months. When I told him what
little stock I had left behind me in London, he gave me
this friendly and sincere advice: "Seignor Inglese," said
he (for so he always called me), "if you will give me
letters and orders to the person who has your money in
London, to send your effects to Lisbon, I will bring you the
produce of them, God willing, at my return; but, since
human affairs are all subject to changes and disasters, I
would have you give orders but for one hundred pounds
sterling, which, you say, is half your stock, and let the
hazard be run for the first; so that, if it come safe, you may
order thenpest the same way; and, if it miscarry, you may
have the other half to have recourse to for your supply."
This was so wholesome advice, and looked so friendly,
that I did as he desired; and accordingly the gentlewoman
with whom I had left my money delivered a hundred
pounds to a merchant at London. The merchant, vesting
this money in English goods, such as the captain had
written for, sent them directly to him at Lisbon, and he
brought them all safe to me to Brazil; among which,
without my direction (for I was too young in my business
to think of them), he had taken care to have all sorts of
tools, ironwork, and utensils necessary for my plantation,
all which were of great use to me.
When this cargo arrived I thought my fortunes made, for
I was surprised with the joy of it; and my good steward,
the captain, had laid out five pounds to purchase and bring
me over a servant, under bond for six years' service, and
would not accept of any consideration, except a little tobacco,
which I would have him accept, being of my own produce.
Neither was this all; for my goods being all English
manufacture, such as cloths, stuff's, baize, and things
particularly valuable and desirable in the country, I found
means to sell them to a very great advantage; so that I
might say I had more than four times the value of my first
cargo, and was now infinitely beyond my poor neighbor,—I
mean in the advancement of my plantation; for the first
thing I did I bought me a negro slave, and a European
servant also,—-I mean another besides that which the
captain brought me from Lisbon.
CHAPTER VII. ^
You may suppose that after having lived almost four
years in Brazil, and beginning to thrive ana prosper very
well upon my plantation, I had not only learned the
language, but had contracted acquaintance and friendship
among my fellow-planters, as well as among the merchants
at St. Salvador, which was our port. In my discourses
among them I had frequently given them an account of my
two voyages to the coast of Guinea, the manner of trading
with the negroes there, and how easy it was to purchase
upon the coast for trifles—such as beads, toys, knives,
scissors, hatchets, bits of glass, and the like—not only gold
dust, Guinea grains, elephants' teeth, etc., but negroes, for
the service of Brazil, in great numbers.
They listened always very attentively to my discourses
on these heads, but especially to that part which related to
the buying negroes, which was a trade, at that time, not
only not far entered into, but, so far as it was, had been
carried on by permission of the kings of Spain and Portugal,
so that few negroes were bought, and those excessively dear.
It happened, being in company with some merchants and
planters of my acquaintance, and talking of those things
very earnestly, three of them came to me next morning,
and told me they had been musing very much upon what I
had discoursed with them of the last night, and they came
to make a secret proposal to me. After enjoining secrecy,
they told me that they had a mind to fit out a ship to go to
Guinea; that they all had plantations as well as I, and
were straitened for nothing so much as servants; that as it
was a trade that could not be carried on, because they
could not publicly sell the negroes when they came home,
so they desired to make but one voyage, to bring the negroes
on shore privately, and divide them among their own
plantations. In a word, the question was whether I would
go as their supercargo in the ship, to manage the trading
part upon the coast of Guinea. They offered me that I
should have my equal share of the negroes, without provid-
ing any part of the stock.
This was a fair proposal, it must be confessed, had it
been made to any one that had not had a settlement and a
plantation of his own to look after which was in a fair way
of coming to be very considerable, and with a good stock
upon it. But for me, that was thus entered and establish-
ed, and had nothing to do but to go on as I had begun,
for three or four years more, and to have sent for the other
hundred pounds from England, and who in that time, and
with that little addition, could scarce have failed of being
worth three or four thousand pounds sterling, and that
increasing too,—for me to think of such a voyage was the
most preposterous thing that ever man in such circumstances
could be guilty of.
But I, that was born to be my own destroyer, could no
more resist the offer than I could restrain my first rambling
designs when my father's good counsel was lost upon me.
In a word, I told them 1 would go with all my heart, if
they would undertake to look after my plantation in my
absence, and would dispose of it to such as I should direct,
if I miscarried. This they all engaged to do, and entered
into writings or covenants to do so. I made a formal will,
disposing of my plantation and effects in case of my death,
making the captain of the ship that had saved my life, as
before, my universal heir, but obliging him to dispose of
my effects as I had directed in my will; one half of the
produce being to himself, and the other to be shipped to
England.
In short, I took all possible caution to preserve my effects,
and to keep up my plantation. Had I used half as much
prudence to have looked into my own interest, and have made
a Judgment of what I ought to have done and not to have
done, I had certainly never gone away from so prosperous
an undertaking, leaving all the probable views of a thriving
circumstance, and gone upon a voyage to sea, attended with
all its common hazards, to say nothing /7/"the reasons I had
to expect particular misfortunes to myself.
But I was hurried on, and obeyed blindly the dictates of my
fancy rather than niy reason. Accordingly, the ship being
fitted out and the cargo furnished, and all things done, as
by agreement, by my partners in the voyage, I went on board
in an evil hour, the 1st of September, 1659, being the same
day eight years that I went from my father and mother at
Hull in order to act the rebel to their authority, and the fool
to my own interests.
Our ship was about one hundred and twenty tons burden,
and carried six guns and fourteen men, besides the master,
his boy, and myself. We had on board no large cargo of
goods, except of such toys as were fit for our trade with the
negroes, such as beads, bits of glass, shells, and other
trifles, especially little looking-glasses, knives, scissors,
hatchets, and the like.
The same day I went on board we set sail, standing away
to the northward upon our own coast, with design to stretch
over for the African coast when we had reached about ten
or twelve degrees of northern latitude, which, it. seems, was
the manner of course in those days. We had very good
weather, only excessively hot, all the way upon our own
coast, till we came to the height of Cape St. Augustine;
from whence, keeping further off at sea, we lost sight of
land, and steered as if we were bound for the isle Fernando
de Noronha, holding our coast northeast by north, and
leaving those isles on the east. In this course we passed
the line in about twelve days' time, and were, by our last
observation, in seven degrees twenty-two minutes northern
latitude, when a violent tornado or hurricane took us quite
out of our knowledge. It began from the southeast, came
about to the northwest, and then settled in the northeast,
from whence it blew in such a terrible manner that for
twelve days together we could do nothing but drive, and,
scudding away before it, let it carry us whither ever fate and
the fury of the winds directed. During these twelve days
I need not say that I expected every day to be swallowed
up; nor, indeed, did any in the ship expect to save their
lives.
In this distress we had, besides the terror of the storm,
one of our men die of fever, and one man and the boy
washed overboard. About the twelfth day, the weather
abating a little, the master made an observation as well as
he could, and found that he was in about eleven degrees
north latitude, but that he was twenty-two degrees of
longitude farther west from Cape St. Augustine; so that he
found he was upon the coast of Guiana, on the north part
of Brazil, beyond the river Amazon, towards that of the
river Orinoco, commonly called the Great River, and began
to consult with me what course he should take, for the ship
was leaky, and very much disabled, and he was going
directly back to the coast of Brazil.
I was positively against that; and looking over the charts
of the seacoast of America with him, we concluded there
was no inhabited country for us to have recourse to till we
came within the circle of the Caribbee Islands, and we
therefore resolved to stand away for Barbadoes; which, by
keeping off at sea, to avoid the indraft of the Bay or Gulf
o, Mexico, we might easily perform, as we hoped, in about
fifteen days' sail; whereas we could not possibly make our
voyage to the coast of Africa without some assistance both
to our ship and to ourselves.
With this design we changed our course, and steered
away northwest by west, in order to reach some of our
English islands, where I hoped for relief. But our voyage
was otherwise determined; for, being in the latitude of'
twelve degrees eighteen minutes, a second storm came
upon us, which carried us away with the same impetuosity
westward, and drove us so out of the way o) all human
commerce that, had all our lives been saved as to the sea, we
were rather in danger of being devoured by savages than
ever returning to our own country.
In this distress, the wind still blowing very hard, one of
our men early in the morning cried out, "Land!" We
had no sooner run out of the cabin to look out, in hopes of
seeing whereabouts in the world we were, than the ship
struck upon sand, and in a moment, her motion being so
stopped, the sea broke over her in such a manner that we
expected we should all have perished immediately, and we
were immediately driven into our close quarters, to shelter
us from the very foam and spray of the sea.
It is not easy for any one who has not been in the like
condition to describe or conceive the consternation of men
in such circumstances. We knew nothing where we were,
or upon what land it was we were driven,—whether an
island 01 the main, whether inhabited or not inhabited.
As the rage of the wind was still great, though rather less
than at first, we could not so much as hope to have the
ship hold many minutes without breaking into pieces,
unless the winds, by a kind of miracle, should turn
immediately about. In a word, we sat looking upon one
another, and expecting death every moment, and every
man, accordingly, preparing for another world; for there
was little or nothing more for us to do in this. That which
was our present comfort, and all the comfort we had was
that, contrary to our expectation, the ship did not break yet
- and that the master said the wind began to abate.
Now, though we thought that the wind did a little abate,
yet the ship having thus struck upon the sand, and sticking
too fast for us to expect her getting off, we were in a
dreadful condition indeed, and had nothing to do but to
think of saving our lives as well as we could. We had a
boat at our stern just before the storm, but she was first
staved by dashing against the ship's rudder, and in the next
place she broke away, and either sunk or was driven off to
sea; so there was no hope from her. We had another boat
on board, but how to get her off into the sea was a doubtful
thing. However, there was no time to debate, for we fancied
the ship would break in pieces every minute, and some told
us she was actually broken already.
In this distress, the mate of our vessel laid hold o, the
boat, and with the help of the rest of the men got her slung
ovet the ship's side. Then, getting all into her, we let go,
and committed ourselves, being eleven in number, to God's
mercy and the wild sea; for though the storm was abated
considerably, yet the sea ran dreadfully high upon the shore,
and might be well called "dtn wild zee,'" as the Dutch call
the sea in a storm.
And now our case was very dismal indeed ; for we all
saw plainly that the sea went so high that the boat could
not live, and that we should be inevitably drowned. As to
making sail, we had none, nor, if we had, could we have
done anything with it. So we worked at the oar towards
the land, though with heavy hearts, like men going to
execution; for we all knew that when the boat came nearer
the shore, she would be dashed in a thousand pieces by the
breach of the sea. However, we committed our souls to God
in the most earnest manner; and the wind driving us
towards the shore, we hastened our destruction with our own
hands, pulling as well as we could towards land.
What the shore was,—whether rock or sand, whether
steep or shoal,—we knew not. The only hope that could
rationally give us the least shadow of expectation was if we
might find some bay or gulf, or the mouth of some river,
where by great chance we might run our boat in, or get un-
der the lee of the land, and perhaps make smooth water. But
there was nothing like this appeared, but as we made nearer
and nearer the shore, the land looked more frightful than
the sea.
After we had rowed or rather driven, about a league
and a half, as we reckoned it, a raging wave, mountainlike,
came rolling astern of us, and plainly bade us expect the
COUP DE GRACE In a word, it took us with such a fury that
it overset the boat at once; and, separating us as well from
the boat as from one another, gave us not time to say,
'' O God 1'' for we were all swallowed up in a moment.
CHAPTER VIII.
Nothing can describe the confusion of thought which T felt
when I sank into the water. Though I swam very well,
yet I could not deliver myself from the waves so as to draw
breath, till that wave having driven me, or rather carried
me, a vast way on towards the shore, having spent itself,
went back, and left me upon the land, almost dry but. half
dead with the water I took in. I had so much presence of
mind as well as breath left, that, seeing myself nearer the
mainland than I expected, I got upon my feet and endeavored
to make on towards the land as fast as I could, before
another wave should return and take me up again. But I
soon found it was impossible to avoid it; for I saw the sea
come after me as high as a great hill, and as furious as an
enemy, which I had no means or strength to contend with.
My business was to hold my breath, and raise myself upon
the water, if I could; and so, by swimming, to preserve
my breathing and pilot myself towards the shore, if possible,
my greatest concern now being that ttte sea, as it would
carry me a great way towards the shore when it came on,
might not carry me back again with it when it gave back
towards the sea.
The wave that came upon me again buried me at once
twenty or thirty feet deep in its own body, and I could feel
myself carried with a mighty force and swiftness towards
the shore a very great way; but I held my breath, and
assisted myself to swim still forward with all my might. I
was ready to burst with holding my breath, when, as I felt
myself rising up, so, to my immediate relief, I found my
head and hands shoot out above the surface of the water.
It was not two seconds of time that I could keep myself so;
yet it relieved me greatly, gave me breath and new courage.
-1 was covered again with water a good while, but not so long
but I held it out; and, finding the water had spent itself and
begun to return, I struck forward against the return of the
waves, and felt ground again with my feet. \ stood still a
few moments to recover b? eath and till the waters went from
me, and then took to my heels and ran, with what strength
I had, further towards the shore. But neither would this
deliver me from the fury of the sea, which came pouring
in after me again; and twice more I was lifted up by the
waves and carried forward as before, the shore being very
flat.
The last time of these two had well-nigh been fatal to
me, for the sea, having hurried me along as before, landed
me, or rather dashed me, against a piece of a rock, and
that with such force that it left me senseless, and indeed
helpless as to my own deliverance. The blow taking my
tide and breast, beat the breath, as it were, quite out of my
body; and had it returned again immediately, I must have
been strangled in the water. But I recovered a little before
the return of the waves, and seeing I should be covered
again with the water, I resolved to holdfast by a piece of
the rock, and so to hold my breath, if possible, till the
wave went back. Now, as the waves were not so high as
at first, being nearer land, I held my hold till the wave
abated, and then fetched another run, which brought me so
near the shore that the next wave, though it went over me,
yet did not so swallow me up as to carry me away. The
next run I took, I got to the mainland, where, to my great
comfort, I clambered up the cliff's of the shore, and sat me
down upon the grass, free from danger and quite out of
the reach of the water.
•
I was now landed, and safe on shore, and began to look
up and thank God that my life was saved, in a case wherein
there was, some minutes before, scarce any room to hope.
I believe it is impossible to express, to the life, what the
ecstasies and transports of the-soul are when it is so saved,
as I may say, out of the very grave.
I walked about on the shore lifting up my hands, and
my whole being, as I may say, wrapt up in a contemplation
of my deliverance; making a thousand gestures and motions,
which I cannot describe; reflecting upon all my comrades
that were drowned, and that there should not be one soul
saved but myself. For, as for them, I never saw them after-
wards, or any sign of them, except three of their hats, one
cap, and two shoes that were not fellows.
I cast my eyes to the stranded vessel, when, the breach and
froth of the sea being so big, I could hardly see it, it lay so
far off; and I considered, I,ord! how was it possible I
could get on shore.
After I had solaced my mind with the comfortable part of
my condition, I began to look round me, to see what kind
of place I was in, and what was next to be done. I soon
found my comforts abate, and that, in a word, I had a
dreadful deliverance. I was wet, had no clothes to shift
me, nor anything either to eat or drink to comfort me;
neither did 1 see any prospect before me but that of perishing
with hunger or being devoured by wild beasts. And that
which was particularly afflicting to me was that I had no
weapon, either to hunt and kill any creature for my
sustenance, or to defend myself against any other creatures
that might desire to kill me for theirs. In a word, I had
nothing about me but a knife, a tobacco pipe, and a little
tobacco in a box. This was all' my provisions; and this
threw me into terrible agonies of mind, that for a while. I ran
about like a madman. Night coming upon me, I began,
with a heavy heart, to consider what would be my lot if
there were any ravenous beasts in that country, as at night
they always come abroad for their prey.
All the remedy that offered to my thoughts at that t;mi
was to get up into a thick, bushy tree like a fir, but thorny,
which grew near me, and where I resolved to sit all night,
and consider the next day what death I should die, for as
yet I saw no prospect of life. I walked about a furlong
from the shore, to see if I could find any fresh water to
drink, which I did, to my great joy; and having drank, and
put a little tobacco in my mouth to prevent hunger, I went
to the tree, and getting up into it, endeavored to place
myself so that if I should sleep I might not fall. And
having cut me a short stick, like a truncheon, for my
defence, I took my lodging; and being excessively fatigued,
I fell fast asleep, and slept as comfortably as, I believe, few
could have done in my condition.
CHAPTER IX.
WHEN I waked it was broad day, the weather clear, and
the storm abated, so that the sea did not rage and swell
as before. But tnat which surprised me most was, that
the ship was lifted off in the night from the sand where she
lay by the swelling of the tide, and was driven up almost as
far as the rock which I at first mentioned, where I had been
so bruised by the wave dashing me against it. This being
within about a mile from the shore where I was, and the
ship seeming to stand upright still, I wished myself on
board, that at least I might save some necessary things for
my use.
When I came down from my apartment in the tree, I
looked about me again, and the first thing I found was the
boat, which lay, as the wind and the sea had tossed her up,
upon the land, about two miles on my right hand. I
walked as far as I could upon the shore to get to her; but
found a neck or inlet of water between me and the boat,
which was about half a mile broad. So I came back for
the present, being more intent upon getting at the ship, where
I hoped to find something for my present subsistence.
A little after noon I found the sea very calm, and the tide
ebbed so far out that I could come within a quarter of a mile
of.the ship. And here I found a fresh renewing of my grief;
for I saw evidently that if we had kept on board we had
been all safe,—that is to say, we had all got safe on shore,
and I had not been so miserable as to be left entirely
destitute of all comfort and company as I now was. This
forced tears to my eyes again ; but as there was little relief
in that, I resolved, if possible, to get to the ship; so I
pulled off my clothes—for the weather was hot to extremity
—and took the water. But when I came to the ship my
difficulty was still greater to know how to get on board ; for,
as she lay aground, and high out of the water, there was noth-
ing within my reach to lay hold of. I swam round her
twice, and the second time I spied a small piece of rope,
which I wondered I did not see at first, hung down by the
fore chains so low as that with great difficulty I got hold
of it, and by the help of that rope I got up into the forecastle
of the ship. Here I found that the ship was bulged, and
had a great deal of water in her hold, but that she lay so
on the side of a bank of hard sand, or rather earth, that
her stern lay lifted up upon the bank, and her head low,
almost to the water. By this means all her quarter was
free, and all that was in that part was dry; for you may
be sure my first work was to search, and to see what was
spoiled and what was free. And, first, I found that all
the ship's provisions were dry and untouched by the water,
and being very well disposed to eat, I went to the bread-
room and filled my pockets with biscuit, and ate it as I
went about other things, for I had no time to lose. Now
I wanted nothing but a boat to furnish myself with many
things which I foresaw would be very necessary to me.
It was in vain to sit stilt and wish for what was not
to be had; and this extremity roused my application. We
had several spare yards, and two or three large spars of
wood, and a spare topmast or two in the ship. I resolved
to fall to work with these, and 1 flung as many of them
overboard as I could manage for their weight, tying every
one with a rope, that they might not drive away. When
this was done I went down the ship's side, and pulling
them to me, I tied four of them together at both ends, as
well as I could, in the form of a raft, and laying two or
three short pieces of plank upon them crossways, I found I
could walk upon it very well, but that it was not able to
bear any great weight, the pieces being too light. So I
went to work, and with a carpenter's saw I cut a spare top-
mast into three lengths, and added them to my raft, with
a great deal of labor and pains; but the hope of furnishing
50
ROBINSON CRUSOJJ
myself with necessaries encouraged me to go beyond what
I should have been able to do upon another occasion.

My raft was now strong enough to bear any reasonable
weight. My next care was what to load it with, and how
to preserve what I laid upon it from the surf of the sea.
But I was not long considering this. I first laid all the
plank or boards upon it that I could get, and having
considered well what I most wanted, I first got three of the
seamen's chests, which I had broken open and emptied, and
lowered them down upon my raft; the first of these I filled
with provisions; namely, bread, rice, three Dutch cheeses,
five pieces of dried goat's flesh (which we lived much upon),
and a little remainder of European corn, which had been laid
by for some fowls which we brought to sea with us. There
had been some barley and wheat together; but, to my great
disappointment, I found afterwards that the rats toad eaten
or spoiled it all. As for liquors, I found several cases of
bottles belonging to our skipper, in which were some
cordial waters, and, in all, about five or six gallons of rack.
These I stowed by themselves, there being no need to put
them into the chest, nor any room for them. While I was
doing this, I found the tide began to flow, though very
calm; and I had the mortification to see my coat, shirt, and
waistcoat, which I had left on the shore upon the sand,
swim away. As for my breeches, which were only linen,
and open-knee'd I swam on board in them and my stockings.
However, this set me on rummaging for clothes, of which I
found enough, but took no more than I wanted for present
use, for I had other things which my eye was more upon,—
as, first, tools to work with on shore. And it was after long
searching that I found out the carpenter's chest, which
was, indeed, a very useful prize to me, and much more
valuable than a shipload of gold would have been at that
time. I got it down to my raft, Whole as it was, without
losing time to look into if, for I knew in general what it
contained.
My next care was for some ammunition and arms.
There were two very good fowling pieces in the great cabin,
and two pistols. These I secured first, with some powder
horns and a small bag of shot, and two old rusty swords.
I knew there were three barrels of powder in the ship, but
knew not where our gunner had stowed them; but with
much search I found them, two of them dry and good; the
third had taken water. Those two I got to my raft, with
the arms. And now I thought myself pretty well freighted,
and began to think how I should get to shore with them,
having neither sail, oar, nor rudder; and the least capful of
wind would have overset all my navigation.
I had three encouragements: a smooth, calm sea; the
tide rising, and setting in to the shore; and what little
wind there was blew me townrds the land. And thus,
having found two or three broken oars belonging to the
boat, and, besides the tools which were in the chest, two
saws, an ax, and a hammer, with this cargo I put to sea.
For a mile, or thereabouts, my raft went very well, only
that I found it drive a little distant from the place where
I had landed before; by which I perceived that there was
some indraft of the water, and consequently I hoped to find
some creek or river there, which I might make use of as a
port to get to land with my cargo.
As I imagined, so it was. There appeared before me a
little opening of the land, and I found a strong ciirrent of
the tide setting into it; so I guided my raft, as well as I
could, to keep in the middle of the stream.
But here I had like to have suffered a second shipwreck,
which, if I had, I think, verily, would have broken my
heart. Knowing nothing of the coast, my raft ran aground
at one end of it upon a shoal, and not being aground at
the other end, it wanted but a little that all my cargo had
slipped off" towards the end that was afloat, and so fallen
into the water. I did my utmost, by setting my back
against the chests, to keep them in their places, but could
not thrust off the raft with all my strength; neither durst
I stir from the posture I was in; but holding up the chests
with all my might, I stood in that manner near half an
hour, in which time the rising of the water brought me a
little more upon a level. A little after, the water still
rising, my raft floated again, and I thrust her off with the
oar I had into the channel, and then driving up higher, I at
length found myself in the mouth of a little river, with
land on both sides, and a strong current, or tide, running
up. I looked on both sides for a proper place to get to
shore, for I was not willing to be driven too high up the
river; hoping, in time, to see some ship at sea, and there-
fore resolved to place myself as near the coast as I could.
At length I spied a little cove on the right shore of the
creek, to which, with great pain and difficulty, I guided
my raft, and at last got so near that, reaching ground with
my oar, I could thrust her directly in. But here I had like
to have dipped all my cargo into the sea again; for that
shore lying pretty steep—that is to say sloping—there was
no place to land but where one end of my float, if it ran
on shore, would lie so high, and the other sink so low, as
before, that it would endanger my cargo again. ^> All that I
could do was to wait till the tide was at the highest,
keeping the raft with my oar like an anchor, to hold the
side of it fast to the shore near a flat piece of ground,
which I expected the water would flow over. And so it
did. As soon as I found water enough—for my raft drew
about a foot of water-—!, thrust her upon that flat piece of
ground, and there fastened or moored her, by sticking my
two broken oars into the ground, one on one side, near
one end, and one on the other side, near the other end.
And thus I lay till the water ebbed away, and left my raft
and all my cargo safe on shore.
CHAPTER X.
MY next work was to view the country, and seek a
proper place for my habitation and where to stow my goods
to secure them from whatever might happen. Where I
was, I yet knew not; whether on the continent or on an
island, whether inhabited or not inhabited, whether in
danger of wild beasts or not. There was a hill not above
a mile from me, which rose up very steep and high, and
which seemed to overtop some other hills which lay as in a
ridge from it northward. I took out one of the fowling
pieces, and one of the pistols, and a horn of powder ; and
thus armed, I traveled for discovery up to the top of that
hill where, after I had with great labor and difficulty got
to the top, I saw my fate, to my great affliction; namely,
that I was in an island environed every way with the sea.
No land was to be seen except some rocks, which lay a
great way off, and two small islands, less than this, which
lay about three leagues to the west.
I found also that the island I was in was barren, and, as
I saw good reason to believe, uninhabited except by wild
beasts, of which, however, I saw none. Yet I saw
abundance of fowls, but knew not their kinds ; neither when
I had killed them could I tell what was fit for food and
what not. At my coming back, I shot at a great bird
which I saw sitting upon a tree on the side of a great wood.
I believe it was the first gun that had been fired there since
the creation of the world. I had no sooner fired than from
all parts of the wood there arose an innumerable number of
fowls, of many sorts, making a confused screaming and cry-
ing, and every one according to his usual note, but not one
of them of any kind that I knew. As for the creature I
killed, I took it to be a kind of hawk, its color and beak
resembling it, but it had no talons or claws more than
common. Its flesh was carrion, and fit for nothing.
Contented with this discovery, I came back to my raft,
and fell to work to bring my cargo on shore, which took
me the rest of that day. What to do with myself at night
I knew not, nor indeed where to rest, for I was afraid to
lie down on the ground, not knowing but some wild beast
might devour me, though, as I afterwards found, there was
really no need for those fears.
However, as well as I could, I barricaded myself round
with the chests and boards that I had brought on shore,
and made a kind of hut for that night's lodging. As for
food, I yet saw not which way to supply myself, except
that I had seen two or three creatures, like hares, run out
of the wood where I shot the fowl.
I now began to consider that I might yet get a great
many things out of the ship which would be useful to me,
and particularly some of the rigging and sails, and such
other things as might come to land ; and I resolved to make
another voyage on board the vessel, if possible And as I
knew the first storm that blew must necessarily break her
all in pieces, I resolved to set all other things apart till I
had got everything out of the ship that I could get. Then
I called a council—that is to say, in my thoughts—whether I
should take back the raft; but this appeared impracticable,
so I resolved to go, as before, when the tide was down. I
did so, only that I stripped before I went from my hut,
having nothing on but a checkered shirt, a pair of linen
drawers, and a pair of pumps on my feet.
I got on board the ship as before, and prepared a second
raft; and, having had experience of the first, I neither
made this so unwieldy, nor loaded it so hard, but yet I
brought away several things very useful to me. In the
carpenter's stores I found two or three bags full of nails and
spikes, a great screw jack, a dozen.or two of hatchets, and,
above all, that most useful thing called a grindstone. All
these I secured, together with several things belonging to the
gunner, particularly two or three iron crows, and two barrels
of musket bullets, seven muskets, another fowling piece,
with some small quantity of powder more, a large bagful o4
small shot, and a great roll of sheet lead. But this last waj
so heavy I could not hoist it up to get it over the ship's side
Besides these things, I took all the men's clothes that 1
could find, and a spare fore-topsail, a hammock, and som«
bedding. With this I loaded my second raft, and brought
them all safe on shore, to my very great comfort.
I was under some apprehension, during my absence from
the land, that at least my provisions might be devoured on
shore. But when I came back I found no sign of any
flft
visitor; only there sat a creature like a wild cat upon one
of the chests, which, when I came towards it, ran away a
little distance, and then stood still. She sat rery composed
and unconcerned, and looked full in my face, as if she had a
mind to be acquainted with me. I presented my gun at
her, but, as she did not understand it, she was perfectly
unconcerned at it, nor did she offer to stir away ; upon which
I tossed her a bit of biscuit, though, by the way, I was not
very free of it, for my store was not great However, I
spared her a bit, I say, and she went to it, smelled at it,
and ate it, and looked (as if pleased) for more; but I thanked
her, and could spare no more, so she marched off.
Having got my second cargo on shore,—though I was
fain to open the barrels of powder, and bring them by
parcels, for they were too heavy, being large casks,—I went
to work to make me a little tent with the sail and some
poles which I cut for that purpose. Into this tent I brought
everything that I knew would spoil either with rain or sun;
and I piled all the empty chests and casks up in a circle
round the tent, to fortify it from any sudden attempt, either
from man or beast.
When I had done this, I blocked up the door of the tent
with some boards within, and an empty chest set up »n
end without; and spreading one of the beds upon the
ground, laying my two pistols just at my head, and my
gun at length by me, I went to bed for tl.e first time, and
slept very quietly all night, for I was very weary and heavy;
for the night before I had slept little, and had labored very
hard all day to fetch all those things from the ship, and to
get them on shove.
I had the biggest magazine of all kinds now that ever
was laid up, I believe, for one man; but I was not satisfied
still, for while the ship sat upright in that posture, I
thought I ought to get everything out of her that I could.
So every day at low water I went on board, and brought away
something or other; but particularly the third time I went
I brought away as much of the rigging as I could, also all
the small ropes and rope twine I could get, with a piece of
spare canvas, which was to mend the sails upon occasion,
and the barrel of wet gunpowder. In a word, I brought
away all the sails, first and last; only that I was fain to cut
them in pieces, and bring as much at a time as I c«uld,
for they were no more useful to be sails, but as mere
canvas only.
But that which comforted me more still was that last of
all, after I had made five or six such voyages as these, and
thought I had nothing more to expect from the ship that
was worth my meddling with,—I say, after all this, I found
a great hogshead of bread, three large casks of rum, or
spirits, a box of sugar, and a barrel 'of fine flour. This
was surprising to me, because I had given over expecting
any more provisions, except what was spoiled by the water.
I soon emptied the hogshead of the bread, and wrapped it
up, parcel by parcel, in pieces of the sails, which I cut out;
and, in a word, I got all this safe on shore also.
The next day I made another voyage, and now, having
plundered the ship of what was portable and fit to hand out,
I began with the cables. Cutting the great cabie into
pieces such as I could move, I got two cables and a hawser
on shore, with all the ironwork I could get; and having
cut down the spritsail yard, and the mizzeti. yard, and
everything I could, to make a large raft. I loaded it with
all these heavy goods, and came away. But my good
luck began now to leave me; for this raft was so unwieldy
and so overladen that, after I had entered the little cove
whjre I had landed the rest of my goods, not being
able to guide it so handily as I did the other, it overset and
threw me and all my cargo into the water. As for myself
it was no great harm, for I was near the shore; but as to
my cargo, it was a great part of it lost, especially the iron,
which I expected would have been of great use to me.
However, when the tide was out, I got most of the pieces
of the cable ashore, and some of the iron, though with
infinite labor; for I was fain to dip for it into the water, a
work which fatigued me very much. After this I went
every day on board, and brought away what I could get.
I had been now thirteen days on shore, and had been
eleven times on board the ship, in which time I had
brought away all that one pair of hands could well be
supposed capable to bring; though I believe verily, had
the calm weather held, I should have brought away the
whole ship, piece by piece. But preparing the twelfth
time to go on board, I found the wind began to rise.
However, at low water I went on board, and though I
thought I had rummaged the cabin so effectually that
nothing more could be found, yet I discovered a locker with
drawers in it, in one of which I found two or three razors
and one pair of large scissors, with some ten or a dozen of
good knives and forks. In another I found about thirty-six
pounds value in money,—some European coin, some Brazil,
some pieces of eight, some gold, and some silver.
I smiled to myself at the sight of this money. '' O drug/"
said I, aloud, "what art thou good for* Thou art not
worth to me—no, not the taking off the ground. One of
those knives is worth all this heap. I have no manner of
use ftr thee; e'en remain where thou art, and go to the
bottom, as a creature whose life is not worth saving."
However, upon second thoughts, I t»ok it away; and,
wrapping all this in a piece of canvas, I began to think of
making another raft. But while I was preparing this, I
found the sky overcast, and the wind began to rise, and \n
a quarter of an hour it blew a fresh gale from the shore.
It presently occurred to me that it was in vain to pretend to
make a raft with the wind off shore, and that it was my
business to be gone before the flood of tide- began, other-
wise I might not be able to reach the shore at all. Accord-
ingly I let myself down into the water, and swam across
the channel which lay between the ship and the sands, and
even that with difficulty enough, partly with the weight of
the things I had about me, and partly the roughness of the
water; for the wind rose very hastily, and before it was
quite high water it blew a storm.
But I had got home to my little tent, where I lay, with
all my wealth about me, very secure. It blew very hard all
night, and in the morning, when I looked out, behold no
more ship was to be seen! I was a little surprised, but
recovered myself with the satisfactory reflection that I had
lost no time, nor abated any diligence, to get everything
out of her that could be useful to me; and that, indeed,
there was little left in her that I was able to bring away, if
I had had more time.
I now gave over any more thoughts of the ship, or of
anything ou* of her, except what might drive on shore
from her wreck; as, indeed, divers pieces of her afterwards
did. But those things were of small use to me.
CHAPTER XI.
MY thoughts were now wholly employed about securing
myself against either savages, if any should appear, or wild
beasts, if any were in the island. I had many thoughts of
the method how to do this, and what kind of dwelling to
make,—whether I should make me a cave in the earth, or
a tent upon the earth ; and, in short, I resolved upon both,
the manner and description of which it may not be improper
to give an account of.
I soon found the place I was in was not fit for my settle-
ment, because it was upon a low, moorish ground, near the
sea, and I believed it would not be wholesome, and more
particularly because there was no fresh water near it. So
I resolved to find a more healthy and more convenient spot
of ground.
I consulted several things in my situation which I found
would be proper for me : health and fresh water, I just now
mentioned; shelter from the heat of the sun ; security from
ravenous creatures, whether man or beast; and a view to
the sea, that if God sent any ship in sight, I might not lose
any advantage for my deliverance, of which / was not will-
ing to banish all my expectation yet.
In search of a place proper for this, I found a little plain
on the side of a rising hill, whose front towards this little
plain was steep as a house side, so that nothing could come
down upon me from the top. On the side of the rock there
was a hollow place, worn a little way in, like the entrance
or door of a cave; but there was not really any cave, or
way into the rock at all.
,
On the flat of the green, just before this hollow place, I
resolved to pitch my tent. This plain wa: not above a
hundred yards broad, and about twice as long, and lay
like a green before my door; and, at the end of it,
descended irregularly every way down into the low ground by
the seaside. It was on the north-northwest side of the hill,
so that it was sheltered from the heat every day, till it
came to a west and by south sun, or thereabouts, which, in
those countries, is near the setting.
Before I set up my tent I drew a half-circle before the
hollow place, which took in about ten yards in its semidia-
meter, from the rock, and twenty yards in its diameter,
from its beginning and ending.
In this half-circle I pitched two rows of strong stakes,
driving them into the ground till they stood firm like
piles, the biggest end being out of the ground above five
feet and a half, and sharpened on the top. The two rows
did not stand above six inches from one another.
Then I took the pieces of cable which I had cut in the
ship, and laid them in rows, one upon another, within the
circle, between these two rows of stakes, up to the top,
placing other stakes in the inside, leaning against them,
about two feet and a half high, like a spur to a post. This
fence was so strong that neither man nor beast could get
into it or over it. This cost me a great deal of tirat and
labor, especially to cut the piles in the woods, bring them
to the place, and drive them into the earth.
The entrance into this place I made to be, not by a door,
but by a short ladder to go over the top. This ladder, when
I was in, I lifted over after me, and so I was completely
fenced in, and consequently slept secure in the night.
which otherwise I could not have done; though, as it
appeared afterwards, there was no need of all this caution
from the enemies that I apprehended danger from.
Into this fence, or fortress, with infinite labor, I carried
all my riches, all my provisions, ammunition, &nd stores,
of which you have the account above. And I nule a large
tent, which, to preserve me from the rains that in one part
of the year are very violent there, I made double, one
smaller tent within, and one larger tent above it, and
covered the uppermost with a large tarpaulin, which I had
saved among the sails.
And now I lay no more for a while in the bed which I
had brought on shore, but in a hammock, which was
indeed a very good one, and belonged to the mate of the
ship.
Into this tent I brought all my provisions, and everything
that would spoil by the wet; and having thus inclosed
all my goods, I made up the entrance, which till now I had
left open, and so passed and repassed, as I said, by a short
ladder.
When I had done this, I began to work my way into the
rock, and bringing all the earth and stones that I dug down
out through my tent, I laid them up within my fence, in
the nature of a terrace, so that it raised the ground within
about a foot and a half; and thus I made me * cave, just
behind my tent, which served me like a cellar to my house.
It cost me much labor and many days before all these
things were brought to perfection; and, therefore, I must go
back to some other things which took up some of my
thoughts. At the same time it happened, after I had laid
my scheme for the setting up my tent, and making: the
cave, that a storm of rain falling from a thick, dark cloud,
a sudden flash of lightning happened, and after that, a great
clap of thunder, as is naturally the effect of it. I was not so
much surprised with the lightning as I was with a thought
which darted into my mind as swift as the lightning itself,—
'' O my powder !'' My very heart sank within me when
I thought that, at one blast, all my powder might be
destroyed; on which, not my defence only, but the
providing my food, as I thought, entirely depended. I
was nothing near so anxious about my own danger,
though, had the powder took fire, I should never have
known what had hurt me.
Such impression did this make upon me that, after the
storm was over, I laid aside all my works, my building and
fortifying, and applied myself to make bags and boxes, to
separate the powder, and to keep it a tittle and a little in a
parcel, in the hope that whatever might come it might not
all take fire at once; and to keep it so apart that it should
not be possible to make one part fire another. I finished
this work in about a fortnight; and I think my powder,
which in all was about two hundred and forty pounds
weight, was divided in not less than a hundred parcels.
As to the barrel that had been wet, I did not apprehend any
danger from that; so I placed it in my new cave, which, in
my fancy, I called my kitchen. The rest I hid up and
down in holes among the rocks, so that no wet might come
to it, marking very carefully where I laid it.
In the interval of time while this was doing, I went out
once at least every day with my gun, as well to divert myself
as to see if I could kill anything fit for food; and, as near
as I could, to acquaint myself with what the island
produced. '.The first time I went out, I presently discovered
that there were goats in the island, which was a great
satisfaction to me; but then it was attended with this mis-
fortune to me, namely, that they were so shy, BO subtle, and
so swift of foot that it was the most difficult thing in the
world to come at them. But I was not discouraged at this,
not doubting but I might now and then shoot one, as it soon
happened; for after I had found their haunts a little, I laid
wait in this manner for them: I observed if they saw me
in the valleys, though they were upon the rocks, they
would run away, as in a terrible fright; but if they were
feeding in the valleys, and I was upon the rocks, they took
no notice of me; from whence I concluded that by the
position of their optics their sight was so directed downward
that they did not readily see objects that were above them.
So afterwards I took this method,—I always climbed the
rocks first, to get above them, and then had frequently a
fair mark.
The first shot I made among these creatures, I killed a
she-goat, which had a little kid by her, which she gave suck
to. This grieved me heartily, for, when the old one fell,
the kid stood stock still \yy her, till I came and took her up.
And not only so, but when I carried the old one with me,
upon my shoulders, the kid followed me quite to my
indosure; upon which I laid down the dam, and took the
kid in my arms, and carried it over my pale, in hopes to
have bred it up tame. But it would not eat; so I was
forced to kill it, and eat it myself. These two supplied
me with flesh a great while, for I ate sparingly, and saved
my provisions, my bread especially, as much as possibly I
could.
Having now fixed my habitation, I found it absolutely
necessary to provide a place to make a fire in, and fuel to
burn. What I did for that, and also how I enlarged my
cave, and what conveniences I made, I shall give a full
account of in its place; but I must now give some little
account of myself, and of my thoughts about living,
which, it may well be supposed, were not a few.
CHAPTER XII.
I HAD a dismal prospect of my condition ; for as I was not
cast away upon that island without being driven, as is said,
by a violent storm, quite out of the course of our intended
voyage, and a great way, namely, some hundreds of
leagues, out of the ordinary course of the trade of mankind,
I had great reason to consider it as a determination «/
Heaven that in this desolate place, and in this desola.^
manner, I should end my life. The tears would run plenti-
fully down my face when I made these reflections; and
sometimes I would expostulate with myself why Providence
should thus completely ruin his creatures, and render them
so absolutely miserable, so without help, abandoned, so
entirely depressed, that it could hardly be rational to be
thankful for such a life.
But something always returned swift upon me to check
these thoughts, and to reprove me. Particularly one day,
walking witk my gun in my hand by the seaside, I was
very pensive upon the subject of my present condition, when
reason, as it were, expostulated with me the other way,
thus: " Well, you are in a desolate condition, it is true;
but, pray remember, where are the rest of you? Did not
you come eleven of you in the boat? Where are the ten?
Why were not they saved, and you lost? Why were you
singled out? Is it better to be here or there ?'' And then
I pointed to the sea. All evils are to be considered with the
good that is in them, and with what worse attends them.
Then it occurred to me again how well I was furnished
for my subsistence, and what would have been my case if
it had not happened (which was a hundred thousand to one)
that the ship floated from the place where she first struck,
and was driven so near to the shore that I had time to get
all these things out of her. What would have been my
case if I had been forced to live in the condition in which
I at first came on shore, without necessaries of life, or
necessaries to supply and procure them? "Particularly,"
said I aloud (though to myself), "what should I have
done without a gun, without ammunition, without any
tools to make anything, or to work with, without clothes,
bedding, a tent, or any manner of covering?" Now I had
all these to sufficient quantity, and was in a fair way to
provide myself in such a manner as to live without my gun
when my ammunition was spent. I had a tolerable view of
subsisting, without any want, as long as I lived; for I
considered from the beginning how I would provide for the
accidents that might happen, and for the time that was to
come, even not only after my ammunition should be spent,
but even after my health and strength should decay.
And now being to enter into a melancholy relation of a
scene of silent life such, perhaps, as was never heard sf in
the world before, I shall take it from its beginning, and
continue it in its order. It was, by my account, the 30th
of September, when, in the manner as above said, I first
set foot upon this horrid island; when the sun, being to us
in its autumnal equinox, was almost just over my head ; for
I reckoned myself, by observation, to be in the latitude of
nine degrees twenty-two minutes north of the line.
After I had been there about ten or twelve days, it came
into my thoughts that I should lose my reckoning of time
for want of books and pen and ink, and should even forget
the Sabbath days. To prevent this I cut with my knife
upon a large post, in capital letters, and making it into a
great cross, I set it up on the shore where I first landed:
"I came on shore here on the 30th of September, 1659."
Upon the sides of this square post I cut every day a
notch with my knife, and every seventh notch was as long
again as the rest, and every first day of the month, as long
again as that long one; and thus I kept my calendar, or
weekly, monthly, and yearly reckoning of time.
In the next place we are to observe that among the many
things which I brought out of the ship in the several
voyages which, as above mentioned, I made to it, I got
several things of less value, but not at all less useful to
me, which I omitted setting down before; as, in particular,
pens, ink, and paper; several parcels in the captain's,
mate's, gunner's, and carpenter's keeping; three or four
compasses, some mathematical instruments, dials, perspec-
tives, charts, and books of navigation, all which I huddled
together, whether I might want them or no. Also, I
found three very good Bibles, which came to me in my
cargo from England, and which I had packed up among
my things; some Portuguese books also; and, among
them, two or three prayer books, and several other books,
all which I carefully secured. And I miut not forget that
we had in the ship a dog and two cats, of whose eminent
history I may have occasion to say something in its place;
for I oarried both the cats with me, and as for the dog, he
jumped out of the ship of himself, and swam on shore to
me the day after I went on shore with my first cargo, and
was a trusty servant to me many years. I wanted nothing
that he could fetch me, nor any company that he could
make up to me. I only wanted to have him talk to me, but
that would not do. As I observed before, I found pens,
ink, and paper, and I husbanded them to the utmost; and
I shall show that while my ink lasted, I kept things very
exact, but after that was gone I could not, for I could not
make any ink by any means that I could devise.
And this put me in mind that I wanted many things,
notwithstanding all that I had amassed together. Of these,
ink was one; as also a spade, pickax, and shovel, to dig or
remove the earth; needles, pins, and thread. As for linen,
I soon learned to want that without much difficulty.
This want of tools made every work I did go on heavily;
and it was near a whole year before I had entirely finished
my little pale, or surrounded my habitation. The piles or
stakes, which were as heavy as I could well lift, were
a long time in cutting and preparing in the woods, and
more, by far, in bringing home. I spent sometimes two
days in cutting and bringing home one of those posts, and
a third day in driving it into the ground; for which
purpose I got a heavy piece of wood as first but at last
bethought myself of one of the iron crows; which, however,
though I found it, made driving those posts or piles very
laborious and tedious work. But what need I have been
concerned a' the tediousness of anything I had to do, seeing
ROBINSON CRUSO*
I had time enough to do it in? Nor had I any other
employment, if that had been over, at least t.hat I could
foresee, except the ranging the island to seek for food,
which I did, more or less, every day.
I now began to consider seriously my condition, and the
circumstances I was reduced to; and I drew up the state of
my affairs in writing, not so much to leave them to any
that were to come after me, as to deliver my thoughts from
daily poring over them, and afflicting my mind. As my
reason began now to master my despondency, I began to
comfort myself as well as I could, and to set the good against
the evil, that I might have something to distinguish my
case from worse; and I stated very impartially, like debtor
and creditor, the comforts I enjoyed agjainst the miseries
I suffered, thus:
Evn,.
I am cast upon a horrible,
desolate island, void .^f all
hope of recovery.
I am singled out and sepa-
rated, as it were, from all
the world, to he miserable.
I am divided from mankind
—a solitaire; one banished
from human society.
I have not clothes to cover
me.
oo*».
But I am alive, and not
drowned, as all my ship's
company were.
But I am singled out, too,
from all the ship's crew, to
be spared from death; and
He that miraculously saved
me from death, can deliver
me from this condition.
But I am not starved and
perishing on a barren place,
affording no sustenance.
But I am in a hot climate,
where, if I had clothes, I
could hardly wear them.
71
I am without any defence,
or means to resist any violence
of man or beast.
I have no soul to speak to
or relieve me.
But I am cast on an island
where I see no wild beasts
to hurt me, as I saw on the
coast of Africa ; and what if I
had been shipwrecked there?
But God wonderfully sent
the ship in near enough to
the shore that I have got out
as many necessary things as
will either supply my wants
or enable me to supply my-
self, even as long as I live.
Upon the whole, here was an undoubted testimony that
there was scarce any condition in the world so miserable
but there was something to be thankful for in it; and let
this stand as a direction, from the experience of the most
miserable of all conditions in this world, that we may
always find in it something to comfort ourselves from, and
to set, in the description of good and evil, on the credit side
of the account.
Having now brought my mind a little to relish my
condition, and given over looking out to sea to see if I
could spy a sbip,—I say, giving over these things, I began
to apply myself to arrange my way of living, and to make
things as easy to me as I could.
CHAPTER XIII.
I HAVE already described my habitation, which was a
tent under the side of a rock, surrounded with a strong
pale of posts and cables. But I might now rather call it a
wall, for I raised a kind of wall up against it of turfs, about
two feet thicK on the outside; and after some time (I think
it was a year and a half) I raised rafters from it, leaning to
the rock, and thatched or covered it with boughs of trees, and
such things as I could get, to keep out the rain, which I
found at some times of the year very violent.
I have already observed how I brought all my goods into
this pale, and into the cave which I had made behind me.
But I must observe, too, that at first this was a confused
heep of goods, which, as they lay in no order, so they took
up all my place. I had no room to turn myself. So I set
myself to enlarge my cave, and work farther into the earth;
for it was a loose, sandy rock, which yielded easily to the
labor I bestowed' on it. And when I found I was pretty
safe as to beasts of prey, I worked sideways, to the right
hand, into the rock; and then, turning to the right again,
worked quite out, and made me a door to come out on the
outside of my pale or fortification. This gave me not only
egress and regress, as it was a back way to my tent and t«
my storehouse, but gave me room to store my goods.
And now I began to apply myself to make such necessary
things as I found I most wanted, particularly a chair and
a table; for without these I was not able to enjoy the few
comforts I had in the world. I could not write, or eat, or
do several things with so much pleasure without a table.
So I went to work. And here I must needs observe that as
reason is the substance and origin' the mathematics so by
stating and squaring everything by reason, and by making
the most rational judgment of things, every maa may be, in
time, master of every mechani< art. I had never handled
a tool in my life; and yet, in time, by labor, application,
and contrivance, I found, at last, that I wanted nothing but
I could have made it, especially if I had had tools. How-
ever, I made abundance of things, even without tools ; and
some with no more tools than an adze and a hatchet, which
perhaps were never made that way before, and that with
infinite labor. For example, if I wanted a board, I had no
other way but to cut down a tree, set it on an edge before
me, and hew it flat on either side with my ax, till I had
brought it to be thin as a plank, and then dub it smooth
with my adze. It is true, by this method I could make
but one board out of a whole tree; but this I had no remedy
for but patience, any more than I had for the prodigious
deal of time and labor which it took me to make a plank or
board. But my time or labor was little worth, and so it
was as well employed one way as another.
However, I made me a table and a chair, as I observed
above, in the first place; and this I did out of the short
pieces of boards that I brought on my raft from the ship.
But when I had wrought out some boards as above, I made
large shelves, of the breadth of a foot and a half, one ovei
another all along one side of my cave to lay all my *ools,
nails, and ironwork on; and, in a word, to separate every-
thing at large into their places, that I might come easily at
them. I knocked pieces into the wall of the rock to hang
my guns and all things that would hang up. Had my
cave been to be seen, it looked like a general magazine of
all necessary things ; and I had everything so ready at my
hand that it was a great pleasure to me to see all my goods
in such order, and especially to find my stock of all
necessaries so great.
And now it was that I began to keep a journal of every
day's employment; for, indeed, at first, I was in too much
hurry, and not only hurry as to labor, but in too much
discomposure of mind; and my journal would have been full
of many dull things. I shall here give you the copy
(though in it will be told all these particulars over again)
as long as it lasted; for having no more ink, I was forced
to leave it off.
THE JOURNAL.
September30, 1659.—I, poor, miserable Robinson Crusoe,
being shipwrecked during a dreadful storm in the offing',
came on shore on this dismal, unfortunate island, which I
called " The Island of Despair y" all the rest of the ship's
company being drowned, and myself almost dead.
All the rest of the day I spent in afflicting myself at the
dismal circumstances I was brought to; namely, I had
neither food, house, clothes, weapon, nor place to fly to;
and, in despair of any relief, saw nothing but death before
me,—either that I should be devoured by wild beasts,
murdered by savages, or starved to death for want of food.
At the approach of night I slept in a tree, for fear of wild
creatures; but slept soundly, though It rained all night.
October 1.—In the morning I saw, to my great surprise,
the ship had floated with the high tide, and was driven on
shore again much nearer the island. This, as it was some
comfort, on one hand,—for, seeing her set upright, and not
broken to pieces, I hoped, if the wind abated, I might get
on board, and get some food and necessaries out of her for
my relief,—so, on the other hand, it renewed my grief at the
loss of my comrades, who, I imagined, if we had all staid
on board, might have saved the ship, or, at least, that they
would not have been all drowned, as they were; and that,
had the men been saved, we might perhaps have built us a
boat out of the ruins of the ship, to have carried us to some
other part of the world. I spent great part of this day in
perplexing myself on these things; but, at length, seeing
the ship almost dry, I went upon the sand as near as I could,
and then swam on board. This day also it continued
raining, though with no wind at all.
From the 1st of October to the 24th.—All these days
entirely spent in many several voyages to get all I could
out 0/'the ship, which I brought on shore every flood of tide
upon rafts. Much rain also in the days, though with some
intervals of fair weather: but it seems this was the rainy
season.
Oct. 20.—I overset my raft, and all the goods I had got
upon it; but, being in shoal water, and the things being
chiefly heavy, I recovered many of them when the tide was
out.
Oct. 25.—It rained all night and all day, with some gusts
of wind; during which time the ship broke in pieces, the
wind blowing a little harder than before, and was no more
to be seen, except the wreck of her, and that only at low
water. I spent this day in covering and securing the goods
which I had saved, that the rain might not spoil them.
Oct. 26.—I walked about the shore almost all day, to find
out a place to fix my habitation, greatly concerned to secure
myself from any attack in the night, either from wild beasts
or men. Towards night I fixed upon a proper place, under
a rock, and marked out a semicircle for my encampment,
which I resolved to strengthen with a work, wall, or
fortification, made of double piles, lined within with cables,
and without, with turf.
From the 26th to the 30th, I worked very hard in carrying
all my goods to my new habitation, though some part of
the time it rained exceedingly hard.
The 31st, in the morning, I went out into the island with
my gun, to seek for some food, and discover the country.
I killed a she-goat, and her kid followed me home, which
I afterwards killed also, because it would not feed.
November 1.—I set up my tent under a rock, and lay
there for the first night; making it as large as I could, with
stakes driven in to swing my hammock upon.
Nov. 2.—I set up all my chests and boards, and the
pieces of timber which made my rafts, and with them formed
a fence round me, a little within the place I had marked
out for my fortification.
Nov. 3.—I went out with my gun, and killed two fowls
like ducks which were very good food. In the afternoon
went to work to make me a table.
CHAPTER XIV.
Nov. 4.—This morning I began to order my times of
work, of going out with my gun, time of sleep, and time
of diversion. Every morning I walked out with my gun
for two 01 three hours, if it did not rain; then employed
myself to work till about eleven o'clock; then ate what I
had to live on; and from twelve till two I lay down to
sleep, the weather being excessively hot; and then, in the;
evening, to work again. The working part of this day and .
of the next was wholly employed in making my table, for
I was yet but a very sorry workman, though time and
necessity made me a complete natural mechanic soon after,
as I believe they would do any one else.
Nov. 5.—This day, went abroad with my gun and my
dog, and killed a wild cat; her skin pretty soft, but her
flesh good for nothing. Every creature that I killed I took
off the skins and preserved them. Coming back by the
seashore, I saw many sorts of sea fowls, which I did not
understand ; but was surprised, and almost frightened, with
two or three seals, which, while I was gazing at, not well
knowing what they were, got into the sea, and escaped me
for that time.
Nov. 6.—After my morning walk, I went to work with
my table again, and finished it, though not to my liking;
nor was it long before I learned to mend it.
Nov. 7.—Now it began to be settled rah weather. The
7th, 8th, 9th, 10th, and part of the 12th (for the llth was
Sunday), I took wholly up to make me a chair, and with
much ado brought it to a tolerable shape, but never to please
me; and even in the making I pulled it in pieces several
times.
Note.—I soon neglected my keeping Sundays; for,
omitting my mark for them on my post, I forgot which was
which.
Nov. 13.—This day it rained, which refreshed me exceed-
ingly, and cooled the earth ; but it was accompanied with
terrible thunder and lightning, which frightened me dread-
fully, for fear of my powder. As soon as it was over, I
resolved to separate my stock of powder into as many little
parcels as possible, that it might not be in danger.
Nov. 14, 15, 16.—These three days I spent in making
little square chests, or boxes, which might hold about a
pound, or two pounds at most, of powder; and so, putting
the powder in, I stowed it in places as secure and remote
from one another as possible. On one of these three days
I killed a large bird that was good to eat, ,but I knew not
what to call it.
Nov. 17.—This day I began to dig behind my tent Into
the rock, to make room for my further conveniency.
Note.—Three things I wanted exceedingly for this work;
namely, a pickax, a shovel, and a wheelbarrow, or basket;
so I desisted from my work, and began to consider how to
supply that want and make me some tools. As for the
pickax, I made use of the iron crows, which were proper
enough, though heavy. But the next thing was a shovel,
or spade. This was so absolutely necessary that, indeed, I
could do nothing effectually without it; but what kind of one
to make I knew not.
Nov. 18.—The next day, in searching the woods, I found
a tree of that wood, or like it, which, in Brazil, they call
the iron tree, for its exceeding hardness. Of this, with
great labor, and almost spoiling my ax, I cut a piece, and
brought it home, too, with difficulty enough, for it was
exceeding heavy. The excessive hardness of the wood, and
my having no other way, made me a long while upon this
machine, for I worked it effectually by little and little into
the form of a shovel or spade; the handle exactly shaped
like ours in England, only that the broad part having no
iron shod upon it at bottom, it would not last me so long.
However, it served well enough for the uses which I had
occasion to put it to; but never was a shovel, I believe, made
after that fashion, or so long in making.
I was still deficient, for I wanted a basket or a wheel-
barrow. A basket I could not make by any means, having
no such things as twigs that would bend to make wicker
ware,—at least, none yet found out. As to a wheelbarrow,
I fancied I could make all but the wheel, but that I had no
notion of, neither did I know how to go about it; besides, I
had no possible way to make the iron gudgeons for the
spindle or axis of the wheel to run in. So \gave it over, and
for carrying away the earth which I dug out of the cave I
made me a thing like a hod which the laborers carry mortar
in when they serve the bricklayers. This was not so diffi-
cult to me as the making the shovel; and yet this and the
shovel, and the attempt which I made in vain to make a
wheelbarrow, took me no less than four days,—I mean
always excepting my morning walk with rny gun, which I
seldom failed, and very seldom failed also bringing home
something 6t to eat.
Nov. 23.—My other work having now stood still, because
of my making these tools, when they were finished I went
on, and working every day, as my strength and time
allowed, I spent eighteen days entirely in widening
and deepening my cave, that it might hold my goods
commodiously.
Note.—During all this time I worked to make this room
or cave spacious enough to accommodate me as a warehouse,
or magazine, a kitchen, a dining room, and a cellar. As
for my lodging, I kept to the tent; except that sometimes,
in the wet season of the year, it rained so hard that I could
not keep myself dry, which caused me afterwards to cover
all my place within my pale with long poles, in the form
of rafters, leaning against the rock, and load them with
flags and large leaves of trees, like a thatch.
December 10.—I began now to think my cave or vault
finished, when on a sudden (it seems I had made it too
large) a great quantity of earth fell down from the top on
one side; so much that, in short, it frighted me, and not
without reason, too, for if I had been under it, I had never
wanted a gravedigger. I had now a great deal of work to
do over again, for I had the loose earth to carry out; and,
which was of more importance, I had the ceiling to prop
up, so that I might be sure no more would come down.
Dec. 11.—This day I went to work with it accordingly,
and got two shores or posts pitched upright to the top, with
two pieces of boards across over each post. This I finished
the next day; and setting more posts up with boards, in
about a week more I had the roof secured, and the posts,
standing in rows, served me for partitions to part off the
house.
Dec. 17.—From this day to the 20th I placed shelves, and
knocked up nails on the posts to hang everything up that
Could be hung up; and now I began to be in some order
within doors.
Dec. 20.—Now I carried everything into the cave, and
began to furnish my house, and set up some pieces of boards
like a dresser, to order my victuals upon; but boards began
to be very scarce with me. Also I made me another table.
Dec. 24.—Much rain all night and all day. No stirring
out.
Dec. 25.—Rain all day.
Dec. 26.—No rain, and the earth much cooler than
before and pleasanter.
Dec. 27.—Killed a young goat, and tamed another so that
I caught it and led it home on a string; when I had it at
home, I bound and splintered up its leg, which was broken.
N.B.—I took such care of it that it lived, and the leg grew
well and as strong as ever; but, by my nursing it so long,
it grew tame, and fed upon the little green at my door, and
would not go away. This was the first time that I
entertained a thought of breeding up some tame creatures,
that I might have food when my powder and shot was all
spent.
Dec. 28, 29, 30, 31.—Great heats, and no breeze so that
there was no stirring abroad, except in the evening, for
food. This time I spent in putting all my things in order
within doors.
CHAPTER XV.
January 1.—Very hot still; but I went abroad early and
late with my gun, and lay still in the middle of the day.
This evening, going farther into the valleys which lay to-
wards the center of the island, I found there were plenty
of goats, exceedingly shy, and hard to come at. However,
I resolved to try if I could not bring my dog to hunt them
down. •
Jan. 2.—Accordingly, the next day I went out with my
dog, and set him upon the goats; but I was mistaken, for
they all faced about upon the dog, and he knew his danger
too well, for he would not come near them.
Jan. 3.—I began my fence, or wall; which, being still
jealous of my being attacked by somebody, I resolved to
make very thick and strong.
N.B.—This wall being described before, I purposely omit
what was said in the journal. It is sufficient to observe
that I was no less time than from the 3rd of January to the
14th of April working, finishing, and perfecting this wall,
though it was no more than about twenty-four yards in
length, being a half-circle from one place in the rock to
another place about eight yards from it, the door of the cave
being in the center behind it.
All this time I worked very hard, the rains hindering me
many days, nay, sometimes weeks together; but I thought
I should never be perfectly secure till this wall was finished.
It is scarce credible what inexpressible labor everything was
done with, especially the bringing piles out of the woods,
and driving them into the ground; for I made them much
bigger than I needed.
When this wall was finished, and the outside double-
fenced, with a turf wall raised up close to it, I persuaded
myself that if any people were to come on shore there, they
would not perceive anything like a habitation; and it was
very well I did so, as may be observed hereafter upon a
very remarkable occasion.
During this time I made my rounds in the woods for game
every day when the rain permitted me, and made frequent
discoveries in these walks of something or other to my
advantage. Particularly, I found a kind of wild pigeons,
which build, not as wood pigeons in a tree, but rather as
house pigeons, in the holes of the rocks. Taking some
young ones, I endeavored to breed them up tame, and did
so; but when they grew older they flew away, which per-
haps was at first for want of feeding them, for I had noth-
ing to give them. However, I frequently found their nests,
and got their young ones, which were very good meat.
And now, in the managing my household affairs, I found
myself wanting in many things, which I thought at first it
was impossible for me to make; as, indeed, with some of
them it was. For instance, I could never make a cask to
be hooped. I had a small cask of'two, as I observed before;
but I could never arrive at the capacity of making one by
them, though I spent many weeks about it. I could neither
put in the heads, nor join the staves so true to one another
as to make them hold water; so I gave that also over. In
the next place, I was at a great loss for candles; so that as
soon as ever it -was dark, which was generally by seven
o'clock, I was obliged to go to bed. I remembered the lump
of beeswax with which I made candles in my African
adventure; but I had none of that nov The only remedy
I had was, that when I had killed a goat I saved the tallow,
and with a little dish made of clay, which I baked in the sun,
to which I added a wick of some oakum, I made me a lamp.
This gave me light, though not a clear, steady light like a
candle. In the middle of all my labors it happened that,
rummaging my things, I found a little bag, which, tts I
hinted before, had been filled with corn for the feeding of
poultry,—not for this voyage, but before, as I suppose,
when the ship came from Lisbon. The little remainder of
corn that had been in the bag was all devoured by the rats,
and I saw nothing in the bag but husks and dust; and being
willing to have the bag for some other use, (I think it was
to put powder in, when I divided it for fear of the lightning,
or some such use,) I shook the husks of corn out of it oil
one side of my fortification, under the rock.
It was a little before the great rains just now mentioned
that I threw this stuff away, taking no notice, and not so
much as remembering that I had thrown anything there.
About a month after, or thereabouts, I saw some few stalks
of something green shooting out oj the ground, which I
fancied might be some plant I had not seen; but I was
surprised, and perfectly astonished, when, after a little
longer time, I saw about ten or twelve ears come ooit, which
were perfect green barley, of the same kind as our
European--nay, as our English barley.
It is impossible to express the astonishment and confusion
of my thoughts on this occasion. I had hitherto acted upon
no religious foundation at all; indeed, I had very few
notions of religion in my head, nor had entertained any
sense of anything that had befallen me, otherwise than as
chance, or, as we lightly say, what pleases God, without
so much as inquiring into the end of Providence in these
things, or his order in governing even<s for the world.
But after I saw barley grow there, in a climate vhich 1
knew was not proper for corn, and especially that I knew
not how it came there, it startled me strangely, and I began
to suggest that God had miraculously caused his grain to
grow without any help of seed sown, and that if was so
directed purely for my sustenance on that wild, miserable
place.
This touched my heart a littlr, and brought tears out of
my eyes, and I began to bless myself that such a prodigy of
nature should happen upon my account. This was the more
strange to me, because I saw near it still, all along by the
side of the rock, some other straggling stalks, which proved
to be stalks of rice, and which I knew because I had
seen it grow in Africa when I was ashore there.
I not only thought these the pure productions of Providence
for my support, but, not doubting that there was more in
the place, I went all over that part of the island where 1
had been before, peering in every corner, and under every
rock, to seek for more of it; but I could not find any. At
last it occurred to my thoughts that I shook a bag of
chickens' meat out in that place. Then the wonder began to
cease; and, I'must confess, my religious thankfulness to
God's providence began to abate, too, upon the discovering
that all this was nothing but what was common. Yet I
ought to have been as thankful for so strange and unfore-
seen a providence, as if it had been miraculous; for it was
really the work of Providence to me, that should order or
appoint that ten or twelve grains of corn should remain
unspoiled, when the rats had destroyed all the rest, as if it
had been dropped from heaven ; as also that I should throw
it out in that particular place, where, it being in the shade
of a high rock, it sprang up immediately; whereas, if I had
thrown it anywhere else, at that time, it had been burnt up
and destroyed.
I carefully saved the ears of this corn, you may be sure,
in theii* season, which was about the and of June; and,
laying up every corn, I resolved to sow them all again,
hoping, in time, to have some quantity, sufficient to supply
me with bread. But it was not till the fourth year that I
could allow myself the least grain of this corn to eat, and
even then but sparingly, as I shall say afterwards, in its
order. I lost all. that I sowed the first season, by not
observing the proper time; for I sowed it just before the
dry season, so that it never came up at all, at least not as
it would have done; of which in its place.
Besides this barley, there were, as above, twenty or
thirty stalks of rice, which I preserved with the same care
and for the same use, or to the same purpose—to make me
bread or rather food; for I found ways to cook it without
baking, though I did that also after some time.
CHAPTER XVI.
BUT to return to my Journal:
I worked excessively hard these three or four months, to
get my wall done; and the 14th of April, I closed it up,
contriving to go into it, not by a door, but over the wall,
by a ladder, that there might be no sign on the outside of
my habitation.
April 16.—I finished the ladder; so I went up the ladder
to the top, and then pulled it up after me, and let it down
on the inside. This was a complete inclosure to me; for
within I had room enough, and nothing could come at me
from without, unless it could first mount my wall.
The very next day after this wall was finished, I had
almost had all my labor overthrown at once, and myself
killed. The case was thus:—As I was busy in the inside,
behind my tent, just at the entrance into my cave, I was
terribly frighted with a most dreadful surprising thing
indeed; for, all on a sudden, I found the earth come
crumbling down from the roof of my cave, and from the edge
of the hill over my head, and two of the posts I had set up
in the cave cracked in a frightful manner. I was heartily
scared; but thought nothing of what was really the cause,
only thinking that the top of my cave was fallen in, as some
of it had done before. For fear I should be buried in it, I
ran forward to my ladder, and not thinking myself safe
there either, I got over my wall for fear of the pieces of the
hill, which I expected might roll down upon me. I had
no sooner stepped down upon the firm ground, than I plainly
saw it was a terrible earthquake. The ground I stood on
shook three times at about eight minutes1 distance, with
three such shocks as would have overturned tha strongest
building that could be supposed to have stood on the earth;
and a great piece of the top of a rock which stood about
half a mile from me, next the sea, fell down with such a
terrible noise as I never heard in all my life. 1 perceived
also the very sea was put into violent motion by it; and I
believe the shocks were stronger under the water than on
the island,
I was so much amazed with the thing itself, having never
felt the like, nor discoursed with any one that had, that J
was like one dead or stupefie.i. The motion of the earth
made my stomach sick, like one that was tossed at sea; but
the noise of the falling of the rock awaked me, as it were,
and rousing me from the stupefied condition I was in, filled
me with horror. I thought of nothing then but the hill
falling upon my tent and all my household goods, and
burying all at once; and this sunk my very soul within mt
a second time.
After the third shock was over, and I felt no more for
some time, I began to take' courage. Yet I had not heart
enough to go over my wall again, for fear of being buried
alive, but sat still upon the ground, greatly cast down and
disconsolate, not knowing what to do. All this while, I had
not the least serious religious thought; nothing but the
common '' Lord have mercy upon me !'' and when it was
over that went away too.
While I sat thus, I found the air overcast and grow
cloudy, as if it would rain. Soon after that the wind arose
by little and little, so that in less than half an hour it blew
a most dreadful hurricane. The sea was all on a sudden
covered over with foam and froth; the shore was covered
with the breach of the water; the trees were torn up by the
roots; and a terrible storm it was. This held about three
hours, and then began to abate ; and in two hours more it
was quite calm, and began to rain very hard.
All this while I sat upon the ground, very much terrified
and dejected; when on a sudden it came into my thoughts
that these winds and rain being the consequences of the
earthquake, the earthquake itself was spent and over, and
I might venture into my cave again. With this thought my
spirits began to revive; and the rain also helping to persuade
me, I went in and set down in my tent. But the rain was
so violent that my tent was ready to be beaten down with
it; and I was forced to go into my cave, t lough very much
afraid and uneasy for fear it should fall on my head. This
violent rain forced me to a new work ; namely, to cuf. a hole
through my new fortification, like a sink, to let the water
go out, which would else have ftoodedmy cave. After I had
been in my cave for some time, and found still no more
shocks of the earthquake follow, I began to be more
composed; and now to support my spirits, which indeed
,wanted it very much, I went to my little store and took a
small sup of rum, which, however, I did then and always
very sparingly, knowing I coul I have no more when that
was gone.
It continued raining all that night, and great part of the
next day, so that I could not stir abroad. But my mind
being more composed, I began to think of what X had best
do; concluding that if the island was subject to these earth-
quakes, there would b no living for me in a cave, but I
must consider of building a little hut in an open place,
which I might surround with a wall, as I had done here,
and so make myself secure from wild beasts or men; for I
concluded if I staid where I was, I should certainly, one
time or other, be buried alive.
With these thoughts. I resolved to remove m^ tent from
the place where it stood, which was just under fas. hanging
precipice of the hill; and which, if it should be shaken
again, would certainly fall upon my tent. I spent the next
two days, being the 19th and 20th of April, in contriving
where and how to remove my habitation. The fear of
being swallowed up alive made me that I never slept in
quiet f and yet the apprehension of lying abroad without
any fence was almost equal to it. Still, when 1 looked
about, and saw how everything was pul in order, how
pleasantly concealed I was, and how safe from danger, it
made me very loath to remove. In the mean time, it
occurred to me that it would require a vast deal of time for
me to do this, and that I must be contented to venture
where I was till I had formed a camp for myself, and had
secured it so as to remove to it. So with this resolution
I composed myself for a time, and resolved that I would go
to work with all speed to build me a wall with piles and
cables, etc., in a circle, as before, and set my tent up in
it when it was finished; but that I would venture to stay
where I was till it was finished, and fit to remove to. This
was the 21st.
April 22.—The next morning I began to consider of
means to put this resolve into execution; but I was at a great
loss about my tools. I had three large axes, and abundance
of hatchets (for we carried the hatchets for traffic with the
Indians) ; but with much chopping and cutting knotty, hard
wood, they were all full of notches, and dull; and though I
had a grindstone, I could not turn it and grind my tools too.
This cost me as much thought as a statesman would have
bestowed upon a grand point of politics, or a judge upon the
life and death of a man. At length, I contrived a wheel
with a string, to turn it with my foot, that I might have
both my hands at liberty.
Note.—I had never seen any such thing in England, or
at least not to take notice how it was done, though since I
have observed it is very common there; besides that, my
grindstone was very large and heavy. This machine cost
me a full week's work to bring it to perfection.
April 28, 29.—These two whole days I took up in grind-
ing my tools, my machine for turning my grindstone
performing very well.
April 30.—Having perceived my bread had been tow a
great while, now I took a survey of it, and reduced myself
to one biscuit cake a day, which made my heart very heavy.
May 1.—In the morning, looking towards the seaside,
the tide being low, I saw something lie on the shore bigger
than ordinary, and it looked like a cask. When I came to
it, I found a small barrel, and two or three pieces of the
wreck of the ship, which were driven on shore by the late
hurricane ; and looking towards the wreck itself, I thought
it seemed to lie higher out of the water than it used to do.
I examined the barrel which was driven on shore, and soon
found it was a barrel of gunpowder; but it had taken water,
and the powder was caked as hard as a stone. However, I
rolled it farther on shore for the present, and went on
upon the sands, as near as I could to the wreck of the ship,
to look for more.
When I came down to the ship, I found it strangely
removed. The forecastle, which lay before buried in sand,
was heavec. up at least six feet, and the stern, which was
broken in pieces and parted from the rest by the force of
the sea, soon after I had left rummaging her, was tossed,
as it were, up, and cast on one side. The sand was thrown
so high on that side next her stern, that whereas there was
a great place of water before, so that I could not come
within a quarter of a mile of the wreck without swimming,
I could now walk quite up to her when the tide was out.
I was surprised with this at first, but soon concluded it
must be done by the earthquake. As by this violence the
ship was more broken open than formerly, so many things
came daily on shore, which the sea naa loosened, and which
the winds and water rolled by degrees to the land.
This wholly diverted my thoughts from the design of
removing my habitation, and I busied myself mightily, that
day especially, in searching whether I could make any way
into the ship; but I found nothing was to be expected of
that kind, for all the inside of the ship was choked up with
sand. However, as I had learned not to despair of any-
thing, I resolved to pull everything to pieces that I could
of the ship, concluding that everything I could get from
her would be of some use or other to me.
CHAPTER XVII.
May 3.—I began with my saw, and cut a piece of a beam
through, which I thought held some of the upper part, or
quarterdeck, together, and when I had cut it through, I
cleared away the sand as well as I could from the side which
lay highest. But the tide coming in, I was obliged to give
over for that time.
May 4.—I went a-fishing, but caught not one fish that I
durst eat of, til! I was weary of my sport; when, just going
to leave off, I caught a young dolphin. I had made me a
long line of some rope yarn, but I had no hooks; yet I
frequently caught fish enough, as much as I cared to eat;
all which I dried in the sun, and ate them dry.
May 5.—Worked on the wreck; cut another beam
asunder, and brought three great fir planks off from the
decks, which I tied together and made to float on shore
when the flood of tide came on.
May 6.—Worked on the wreck; got several iron bolts out
of her, and other pieces of ironwork. Worked very hard,
and came home very much tired, and had thoughts of
giving it over.
May 7.—Went to the wreck again, not with an intent to
work, but found the weight of the wreck had broken itself
down, the beams being cut. Several pieces of the ship
seemed to lie loose, and the inside of the hold lay so open
that •! could see into it; but it was almost full of water and
sand.
May 8.—Went to the wreck, and carried an iron crow to
wrench up the deck, which lay now quite clear of the watei
or sand. I wrenched open two planks, and brought them
on shore also with the tide. I left the iron crow in the
wreck for next day.
May 9.—Went to the wreck, and with the crow made
way into the body of the wreck, and felt several casks, and
loosened them with the crow, but could not break them up.
\felt also a roll of English lead, and could stir it, but it
was too heavy to remove.
May 10-14.—Went every day to the wreck, and got a
great many pieces of timber, and boards, or plank, and two
or three hundredweight of iron.
May 15.—I carried two hatchets, to try if I could not cut
a piece r*& the roll of lead, by placing the edge of one
hatchet, and driving it with the other; but as it lay about
a foot and a half in the water, I could not make any blow
to drive the hatchet.
May 16.—It had blown hard in the night, and the wreck
appeared more broken by the force of the water ; but I staid
so long in the woods, to get pigeons for food, that the tide
prevented my going to the wreck that day.
May 17.—I saw some pieces of the wreck blown on shore,
at a great distance, near two miles off. I resolved to see
what they were, and found it was a piece of the head, but
too heavy for me to bring away.
May 24.—Every day, to this day, 1 worked on the
wreck ; and with hard labor I loosened some things so much
with the crow that the first blowing tide several casks
floated out, and two of the seamen's chests. The wind
blowing from the shore, nothing came to land that day but
pieces of timber, and a hogshead which had some Brazil
pork in it; but the salt water and the sand had spoiled it.
I continued this work every day to the 15th otfune, except
the time necessary to get food, which I always appointed,
during this part of my employment, to be when the tide
was up, that I might be ready when it was ebbed out. By
this time I had got timber and plank and ironwork enough
to have built a good boat, if I had known how. I also got,
at several times and in several pieces, near one hundred-
weight of the sheet lead.
June 16.—Going down to the seaside, I found a large
tortoise, or turtle. This was the first I had seen, which, it
seems, was only my misfortune, not any defect of the place,
or scarcity. Had I happened to be on the other side of the
island, I might have had hundreds of them every day, as I
found afterwards; but perhaps had paid dear enough for
them.
June 17.—I spent in cooking the turtle. I found in her
three-score eggs; and her flesh was to me, at that time,
the most savory and pleasant that ever I tasted in my
life, having had no flesh, but of goats and fowls, since I
landed in this horrid place.
Jane 18.—Rained all day, and I staid within. I thought,
at this time, the rain felt cold, and I was something chilly,
which I knew was not usual in that latitude.
June 19.—Very ill, and shivering, as if the weather had
been cold.
fune 20.—No rest all night; violent pains in my head,
and feverish.
June 21.—Very 111; frighted almost to death with the
apprehensions of my sad condition—to be sick, and no help.
Prayed to God, for the first time since the storm off Hull,
but scarce knew what I said, or why, my thoughts being
all confused.
June 22.—A little better; but under dreadful apprehen-
sions of sickness.
June 23.—Very bad again; cold and shivering, and then
a violent headache.
June 24.—Much better.
June 25.—An ague very violent. The fit held me seven
hours; cold fit, and hot, with/ami sweats after it.
June 26.—letter; and having no victuals to eat, took my
gun, but found myself very weak. However, I killed a
she-goat, and with much difficulty got it home, and broiled
some of it, and ate. I would fain have stewed it, and made
some broth, but had no pot.
June 27.—The ague again so violent that I lay abed all
day, and neither ate nor drank. I was ready to perish for
thirst; but so weak I had not strength to stand up, or to
get myself any water to drink. Prayed to God again, but
was light-headed; and when I was not, I was so ignorant
that I knew not what to say; only I lay and cried, "Lord,
look upon me ! Lord, pity me ! Lord, have mercy upon me I"
I suppose I did nothing else for two or three hours; till,
the fit wearing off-, I fell asleep, and did not wake till far in
the night. When I awoke I found myself much refreshed,
but weak, and exceeding thirsty. However, as I had no
water in my habitation, I was forced to lie till morning,
and went to sleep again. In this second sleep I had this
terrible dream.
I thought that I was sitting on the ground, on the out-
side of my wall, where I sat when the storm blew after the
earthquake, and that I saw a man descend horn a great black
cloud, in a bright flame of fire, and light upon the ground.
He was all over as bright as a flame, so that I could
but just bear to look towards him. His countenance
was most inexpressibly dreadful, impossible for words to
describe. When he stepped upon the ground with his feet,
I thought the earth trembled, just as it had done before in
the earthquake, and all the air looked, to my apprehension,
as if it had been filled with flashes of fire. He was no
sooner landed upon the earth but he moved forward towards
me, with a long spear or weapon in his hand, to kill me;
and when he came to a rising ground, at some distance, he
spoke to me—or I heard a voice so terrible that it is im-
possible to express the terror of it. All that I can say I
understood was this: '' Seeing all these things have not
brought theeto repentance, now thou shalt die ;" at which
words I thought he lifted up the spear that was in his hand
to kill me.
No one that shall ever read this account will expect that
I should be able to describe the horrors of my soul at this
terrible vision. I mean, that even while it was a dream, I
even dreamed of those horrors. Nor is it any more possible
to describe the impression that remained upon my mind
when I awaked, and found it was but a dream.
I had, alas ! no knowledge of good. What I had received
by the good instruction of my father was then worn out by
an uninterrupted series, for eight years, of seafaring wicked-
ness, and ,» constant conversation with none but such as
were, like myself, wicked and profane to the last degree. I
do not remember that I had, in all that time, one thought
that so much as tended either to looking upwards towards
God, or inwards towards a reflection upon my own ways;
but a certain stupidity of soul, without desire of good, or
conscience of evil, had entirely overwhelmed me. I was all
that the most hardened, unthinking, wicked creature among
our common sailors can be supposed to be ; not having the
least sense, either of the fear of, or thankfulness to God.
But now I was brought to a just sense of the difficulties I
had to struggle with, too great for even nature itself to
support, and no assistance, no help, no comfort, no advice.
Then I cried out, "Lord, be my help, for I am in great
distress." This was the first prayer, if I may call it so,
that I had made for many years.
CHAPTER XVIII.
fune 28- — Having been somewhat refreshed with the sleep
I had had, and the fit being entirely off, I got up; and
though the fright and terror of my dream wa« very great,
yet I considered that the fit of the ague would return again
the next day, and now was my time to get something to
refresh and support myself when I should be ill. The first
thing I did, I filled a large, square case bottle with water,
and set it upon my table, in reach of my bed; and to take
off the chill or aguish disposition of the water, I put about
a quarter of a pint of rum into it, and mixed them together.
Then I got me a piece of the goat's flesh, and broiled it on
the coals, but could eat very little. I walked about, but
was very weak, and withal very sad and heavy-hearted under
the sense of my miserable condition, dreading the return of
my distemper the next day. At night I made my supper of
three of the turtle's eggs, which I roasted in the ashes, and
ate, as we call it, in the shell, and this was the first bit of
meat I had ever asked God's blessing to, that I could
remember, in my whole life.
After I had eaten I tried to walk, but found myself so
weak that I could hardly carry a gun, for I never went out
without that. So I went but a little way, and sat down
upon the ground, looking out upon the sea, which was just
before me, and very calm and smooth. As I sat here, some
such thoughts as these occurred to me: What is this earth
and sea, of which I have seen so much? Whence is it
produced? And what am I, and all the other creatures,
wild and tame, human and brutal? Whence are we? Sure
we are all made by some secret power, who formed the earth
and sea, the air and sky. And who is that? Then it
followed most naturally, it is God that has made all.
But why has God done this to me? What have I done
to be thus used? My conscience presently checked me in
that inquiry, as if I had blasphemed, and methought it spoke
to me like a voice: '' Wretch f dost THOU ask what thou
hast done? I^ook back upon a dreadful, misspent life, and
ask thyself what thou hast not done. Ask why is it that
thou wert not long ago destroyed; why wert thou not
drowned in Yarmouth Roads ; killed in the fight when the
ship was taken by the Sallee man-of-war; devoured by the
wild beasts on the coast of Africa; or drowned here, when
all the crew perished but thyself? Dost THOU ask, What
have I done?" I was struck dumb with these reflections,
as one astonished, and had not a word to say—no, not to
answer to myself, but rose up pensive and sad, walked
back to my retreat, and went up over my wall as if I had
been going to bed. But my thoughts were sadly disturbed,
and I had no inclination to sleep; so I sat down in my
chair, and lighted my lamp, for it began to be dark.
Now, as the apprehension of the return of my distemper
terrified me very much, it occurred to my thought that the
Brazilians take no physic but their tobacco for almost all
distempers, and I had a piece of a roll of tobacco in one of
the chests, which was quite cured, and some also that was
green, and not quite cured. I went, directed by Heaven
no doubt; for in this chest I found a cure both for soul and
body. I opened the chest, and found what I looked for,
the tobacco; and as the few books I had saved lay there
too, I took out one of the Bibles which I mentioned before,
and which to this tjme I had not found leisure 01 Inclina-
tion to look into. I say I took it out, and brought both
that and the tobacco with me to the table.
What use to make of the tobacco I knew not, in my dis-
temper, or whether it was good for it or no; but I tried
several experiments with it, as if I was resolved it should
hit one way or other. I first took a piece of a leaf and
chewed it in my mouth, which, indeed, at first almost
stupefied my brain, the tobacco being green and strong, and
that I had not been much used to. Then I took some and
steeped it for an hour or two in some rum, and resolved to
take a dose of it when I lay down. Lastly, I burnt some
upon a pan of coals, and held my nose close over the smoke
of it as long as I could bear it, as well tor the heat as
almost for suffocation. In the interval of this operation I
took up the Bible and began to read; but my head was
too much disturbed with the tobacco to bear reading, at
least at that time. Only, having opened the book casually,
the first words that occurred to me were these: '' Call on
me in the day of trouble, and I will deliver thee, and thou
shalt glorify me.''
These words were very apt to my case, and made some
impression upon my thoughts at the time of reading them,
though not so much as they did afterwards; for, as for
being " delivered," the word had no sound, as I may say, to
me; the thing was so remote, so impossible in my apprehen-
sion of things, that I began to say, as the Children of
Israel did when they were promised flesh to eat, "Can
God spread a table in the wilderness? " so I began to say,
Can God himself deliver me from this place ?'' And as
it was not for many years that any hopes appeared, this
prevailed very often upon my thoughts. But the words
made a great impression upon me, and I mused upon them
very often.
It now grew late, and the tobacco had, as I said, dozed
my head so much that I inclined to sleep; so I left my
lamp burning in the cave, lest I should want anything in
the night, and wem to bed. But before I lay down, I did
what I never had done in all my life,—I kneeled down,
and prayed to God to fulfil the promise to me that if I
called upon him in the day of trouble, he would deliver me.
After my broken and imperfect prayer was over, I drank
the rum in which I had steeped the tobacco, which was so
strong and rank of the tobacco that I could scarcely get it
down; immediately upon this I went to bed. I found
presently it flew up into my head violently; but I fell into
a sound sleep, and waked no more till, by the sun, it must
necessarily be near three o'clock in the afternoon the next
day—nay, to this hour I am partly of opinion that I slept
all the next day and night, and till almost three the day
after. Otherwise, I know not how I should lose a day out
of my reckoning in the days of the week, as it appeared
some years after I had done. If I had lost it by crossing
and recrossing the line, I should have lost more than one
day. But certainly I lost a day in my account, and never
knew which way.
Be that, however, one way or the other, when I waked
I found myself exceedingly refreshed, and my spirits lively
and cheerful. When I got up I was stronger than I was
the day before, and my stomach better, for I was hungry.
In short, I had no fit the next day, but continued much
altered for the better. This was the 29th.
The 30th was my well day, of course, and I went abroad
with my gun, but did not care to travel too far. I killed
a sea fowl or two, something like a brand goose, and
brought them home, but was not very forward to eat
them ; so I ate some more of the turtle's eggs, which were
very good. This evening I renewed the medicine which I
had supposed did me good the day before,—the tobacco
steeped in rum; only I did not take so much as before,
nor did I chew any of the leaf, or hold my head over the
smoke. However, I was not so well the next day, which
was the first of July, as I hoped I should have been; for I
had a little spice of the cold fit, but it was not much.
July 2.—I renewed the medicine all the three ways; and
dosed myself with it as at first, and doubled the quantity
which I drank.
July 3.—I missed the fit for good and all, though I did
not recover my full strength for some weeks after. While
I was thus gathering strength my thoughts ran exceedingly
upon this scripture, "I will deliver thee;" and the im-
possibility of my deliverance lay much upon my mind, in
bar of my ever expecting it. But as I was discouraging
myself with such thoughts, it occurred to my mind that I
pored so much upon my deliverance from the main afflic-
tion that I disregarded the deliverance I had received, and
I was as it were made to ask myself such questions as
these, namely: ' Have I not been delivered, and wonder-
fully too, from sickness—from the most distressed condition
that could be, and that was so frightful to me? and what
notice have I taken of it? Have I done my part? God
has delivered me, but I have not glorified him; that is to
say, I have not owned and been thankful for that as a
deliverance; and how can I expect greater deliverance?"
This touched my heart very much; and immediately I
knelt down, and gave God thanks aloud for my recovery
from my sickness.
fuly 4.—In the morning, I took the Bible; and, begin-
ning at the New Testament, I began seriously to read it, and
imposed upon myself to read awhile every morning and
every night; not tying myself to the number of chapters, but
long as my thoughts should engage me. It was not long
after I set seriously to this work, till I found my heart
more deeply and sincerely affected with the -wickedness of
my past life. The impression of my dream revived; and
the words, "All these things have not brought thee to
repentance,1' ran seriously in my thoughts.
Now I began to construe the words mentioned above,
"Call on me, and I will deliver thee," in a different sense
from what I had ever done before. Then I had no notion
of anything being called '' deliverance '' but my being
delivered from the captivity I was in; for though I was
indeed at large in the place, yet the island was certainly a
prison to me, and that in the worst sense in the world.
But now I learned to take it in another sense; now I
looked back upon my past life with such horror, and my
sins appeared so dreadful, that my soul sought nothing of
God but deliverance from the load of guilt that bore down all
my comfort. As for my solitary life, it was nothing. I
did not so much as pray to be delivered from it, or think
of it; it was all of no consideration in comparison to this.
And I add this part here, to hint to whoever shall read it
that whenever they come to a true sense of things, they
will find deliverance from sin a much greater blessing than
deliverance from affliction.
CHAPTER XIX.
BUT, leaving this part, I return to my Journal:
My condition now began to be, though not less miserable
as to my way of living, yet much easier to my mind. My
thoughts being directed, by a constant reading the scripture
and praying to God, to things of a higher nature, I had a
great deal of comfort within, which, till now, I knew
nothing of. Also, my health and strength returned, I
bestirred myself to furnish myself with everything that
I wanted, and make my way of living as regular as I
could.
From the 4th of July to the 14th, I was chiefly employed
in walking about with my gun in my hand, a little and a
little at a time, as a man that was gathering up his strength
after a fit of sickness; for it is hardly to be imagined how
low I was and to what weakness I was reduced. The
application which I made use of was perfectly new, and
perhaps -had never cured an ague before; neither can I
recommend it to any to practice, by this experiment.
Though it did carry off the fit, yet it rather contributed to
weakening me; for I had frequent convulsions in my nerves
and limbs for some time. I learned from it also this, in
particular, that being abroad in the rainy season was the
most pernicious thing to my health that could be, especially
in those rains which came attended with storms and
hurricanes of wind. As the rain which came in the dry
season was always accompanied with such storms, so I found
that rain was much more dangerous than the rain which
fell in September and October.
I had now been in this unhealthy island above ten
months. All possibility of deliverance from this condition
seemed to be entirely taken from me; and I firmly believe
that no human shape had ever set foot upon that place.
Having now secured my habitation, as I thought, fully to
my mind, I bad a great desire to make a more perfect
discovery of the island, and to see what other productions
I might find, which I yet knew nothing of.
It was on the 15th of July that I began to take a more
particular survey of the island itself. I went up the creek
first, where, as I hinted, I brought my rafts on shore. I
found, after I came about two miles up, that the tide did
not flow any higher, and that it was no more than a little
brook of running water, very fresh and good; but this
being the dry season, there was hardly any water in some
parts of it,—at least, not enough to run in any stream so
as it could be perceived.
On the banks of this brook I found many pleasant
savannahs, or meadows, plain, smooth, and covered with
grass; and on the rising parts of them, next to the higher
grounds, where the water, as might be supposed, never
overflowed, I found a great deal of tobacco, green, and
growing to a great and very strong stalk. There were divers
other plants, which I had no notion of or understanding
about, that might, perhaps, have virtues of their own, which
I could not find out.
I searched for the cassava ro 'i, which the Indians, in all
that climate, make their bread of, but I could find none.
I saw large plants of aloes, but did not understand them.
I saw several sugar canes, but wild, and, for want of
cultivation, imperfect. I contented myself with these dis-
coveries for this time, and came back, musing with myself
what course I might take to know the virtue and goodness
of any of the fruits or plants which I should discover, but
could bring it to no conclusion; for, in short, I had made so
little observation while I was in Brazil that 1 knew little of
the plants in the field; at least, very little that might serve
to any purpose now in my distress.
The next day, the 16th, I went up the same way again;
and, after going something further than I had gone the day
before, I found the brook and savannahs cease, and the
country became more woody than before. In this pan. L
found different fruits, and particularly I found melons upon
the ground, in great abundance, and grapes upon the trees.
The vines had spread, indeed, over the trees, and the
clusters of grapes were just now in their prime, very ripe
and rich. This was a surprising discovery, and I was
exceeding glad of them ; but I was warned by my experience
to eat sparingly of them; remembering that when I was
ashore in Barbary, the eating of grapes killed several of our
Englishmen, who were slaves there, by throwing them into
fluxes and fevers. But I found an excellent use for these
grapes; and that was to cure or dry them in the sun, and
keep them as dried grapes or raisins are kept, which I
thought would be, as indeed they were, wholesome and
agreeable to eat when no grapes could be had,
I spent all that evening there, and went not back to my
habitation; which, by the way, was the first night, as I
I might say, I had lain from home. In the night I took
my first contrivance, and got up in a tree, where I
slept well. The next morning I proceeded upon my dis-
covery, traveling nearly four miles, as I might judge by
the length of the valley, keeping still due north, with a ridge
of hills on the south and north sides of me. At the end of
this march I came to an opening, where the country seemed
to descend to the west, and a little spring of fresh water,
which issued out of the side of the hill by me, ran the other
way,—that is, due east. The country appeared so fresh, so
green, so flourishing, everything being in a constant verdure
or flourish of spring, that it looked like a planted garden.
I descended a little on the side of that delicious vale,
surveying it with a secret kind of pleasure, though mixed
with my other afflicting thoughts, to think that this was all
my own; that I was king and lord of all this country
indefcasibly, and had a right of possession. If I could convey
it, I might have it in inheritance as completely as any lord of
a manor in England. I saw here abundance of cocoa trees,
orange, and lemon, and citron trees, but all wild, and very
few bearing any fruit, at least not then. However, the
green limes that I gathered were not only pleasant to eat,
but very wholesome. I mixed their juice afterwards with
water, which made it very wholesome, and very cool and
refreshing. I found now I had business enough, to gather
and carry home; and I resolved to lay up a store, as well of
grapes as limes and lemons, to furnish myself for the wet
season, which I knew was approaching.
In order to do this, I gathered a great heap of grapes in
one place, a lesser heap in another place, and a great parcel
of limes and lemons in another place. Taking a few of
each with me, I traveled homewards, resolving to come
again, and bring a bag or sack, or what I could make, to
carry the rest home. Accordingly, having spent three days
in this journey, I came home (so I must now call my tent
and my cave); but before I got thither the grapes were
spoiled. The richness of the fruit and the weight of the
juice having broken them and bruised them, they were
good for little or nothing. As to the limes, the.» were good,
but I could bring but a few. fl
The next day, being the nineteenth, I went back, having
made me two small bags to bring home my harvest. But
I was surprised, when coming to my heap of grapes, which
were so rich and fine when I gathered them, to find them
all spread about, trod to pieces, and dragged about, some
here, some there, and abundance eaten and devoured. By
this I concluded there were some wild creatures there-
abouts, which had done this; but what they were I knew
not.
However, as I found there was no laying them up on
heaps, and no carrying them away in a sack, but that one
way they would be destroyed, and the other way they
would be crushed with their own weight, I took another
course. I gathered a large quantity of the grapes and
hung them upon the out branches of the trees, that they
might cure and dry in the sun. Of the limes and
lemons, I carried as many back as I could well stand
under.
When I came home from this journey, I contemplated
with great pleasure the fruWulness of that valley, and the
pleasantness of the situation, the security from storms on
that side the water, and the wood; and I concluded that I
had pitched upon a place to fix my abode which was by far
the worst part of the country. Upon the whole, I began to
consider of removing my habitation, and looking out for a
place equally safe as where now I was situate, if possible,
in that pleasant, fruitful part of the island.
This thought ran long in my head, and I was exceeding
fond of it for some time, the pleasantness of the place
tempting me. But when I came to a nearer view of it, I
considered that I was now by the seaside, where it was at
least possible that something might happen to my advant-
age; and, by the same ill fate that brought me hither,
might bring some other unhappy wretches to the same
place. Though it was scarce probable that any such thing
should ever happen, yet to inclose myself among the hills
and woods in the center of the island was to anticipate my
bondage, and to render such an affair not only improbable,
but impossible. Therefore I ought not by any means to
remove.
However, I was so enamored of this place that I spent
much of iE(r time there for the whole of the remaining part
of the moiita of July; and though, upon second thoughts,
I resolved not to remove, yet I built me a little kind of a
bower, and surrounded it at a distance with a strong fence,
being a double hedge, as high as I could reach, well staked,
and filled between with brushwood. Here I lay very secure,
sometimes two or three nights together, always going over
it with a ladder; so that I fancied now I had my country
house and my seacoast house. This work took me up to
the beginning of August.
I had but newly finished my fence, and begun to enjoy
my labor, when the rains came on, and made me stick close
to my first habitation; for though I had made me a tent
like the other, with a piece of a sail, and spread it very
well, yet I had not the shelter of a hill to keep me from
storms, nor a cave behind me to retreat into when the rains
were extroardinary.
CHAPTER XX.
ABOUT the beginning of August, as I said, I finished my
bower, and began to enjoy myself. On the 3rd of August,
I found the grapes I had hung up were perfectly dried, and
indeed were excellent good raisins of the sun. I hega«i to
take them down liom the trees, and it was very hapnj «hat
I did so, for the rains which followed would have .spoiled
them, and I had lost the best part of my winter food; for I
had above two hundred large bunches of them. No sooner
had I taken them all down, and carried most of them home
to my cave, than it began to rain; and from hence, which
was the 14th of August, it rained, more or less, every day
till the middle of October; and sometimes so violently that
I could not stir out of my cave for several days.
From the 14th of August to the 26th, incessant rain, so
that I could not stir, and was now very careful not to be
much wet. In this confinement I began to be straitened for
food; but, venturing out twice, I one day killed a goat,
and the last day, which was the 26th, I found a very large
tortoise, which was a treat to me. My food was regulated
thus: I ate a bunch of raisins for my breakfast; a piece of
the goat's flesh, or of the turtle, for my dinner, broiled,
(for, to my great misfortune, I had no vessel to boil or
stew anything,) and two or three of the turtle's eggs for
my supper.
During this confinement in my cover by the rain, I
worked, daily two or three hours at enlarging my cave, and
by degrees worked it on towards one side till I came to the
outside of the hill, and made a door or way out, which
came beyond my fence or wall. So I came in and out this
way. But I was not perfectly easy at lying so open; for,
as I had managed myself before, I was in a perfect
inclosure; whereas now I thought I lay exposed, and open
for anything to come in upon me. Yet I could not per-
ceive that there was any living thing to fear, the biggest
creature that I had yet seen upon the island being a goaf.
Sept. 30.—I was now come to the unhappy anniversary
of my landing. I cast up the notches on my post, and
found I had been on shore three hundred and sixty-five
days. I kept this day as a solemn fast, setting it apart for
religious exercise, prostrating myself on the ground with the
,most serious humiliation, confessing my sins to God, acknowl-
edging his righteous judgments upon me, and praying to
him to have mercy on me through Jesus Christ. Not having
tasted the least refreshment for twelve hours, even till the
going down of the sun, I then ate a biscuit cake and a
bunch of grapes, and went to bed, finishing the day as I
began it.
I had all this time observed no Sabbath day; for as at
first I had no sense of religion upon my mind, I had, after
some time, omitted to distinguish the weeks by making a
longer notch than ordinary for the Sabbath day, and so did
not really know what any of the days were. But now,
having cast up the days as before, I found I had been there
a year. So I divided it into weeks, and set apart every
seventh day for a Sabbath ; though I found at the end of
my account I had lost a day or two in my reckoning.
A little after this my ink began to fail me, and so I
contented myself to use it more sparingly, and to write
down only the most remarkable events of my life, without
continuing a daily memorandum of other things.
The rainy season and the dry season began now to
appear regular to me, and I learned to divide them so as to
Provide for them accordingly. But I bought all my ex-
perience before I had it, and this I am going to relate was
one of the most discouraging experiments that I made.
I have mentioned that I had saved the few ears of barley
and rice which I had so surprisingly found spring up, as
I thought, of themselves, I believe there ware about thirty
stalks of riee, and about twenty of barley; and now I
thought it a proper time to sow it, after the rains, the sun
being in its southern position,—going from me. Accord-
ingly, I dug up a piece of ground as well as I could with
my wooden spade, and, dividing it into two parts, I sowed
my grain. But as I was sowing, it casually occurred to
my thoughts that I would not sow it all at first, because I
did not know when was the proper time for it; so I
sowed about two thirds of the seed, leaving about a handful
of each. It was a great comfort to me afterwards that I
did so, for not one grain of what I sowed this time came to
anything. The dry months following, the earth having had
no rain after the seed was sown, it had no moisture to assist
its growth, and never came up at all till the wet season had
come again, and then it grew as if it had been but newly
sown.
Finding my first seed did not grow, which I easily
imagined was by the drought, I sought for a moister piece
of ground to make another trial in. I dug up a piece of
ground near my new bower, and sowed the rest of my seed
in February, a little before the vernal equinox. This
having the rainy months of March and April to water it,
sprung up very pleasantly, and yielded a very good crop;
but having part of the seed left only, and not daring to sow
all that I had, I had but a small quantity at last, my whole
crop not amounting to above half a. peck of each kind. But
by this experiment I was made master of my business, and
knew exactly when the proper season was to sow, and that
I might expect two seedtimes and two harvests every year.
While this corn was growing, I made a little discovery
which was of use to me afterwards. As soon as the rains
were over, and the weather began to settle, which was about
the month of November, I made a visit up the country to
my bower, where, though I had not been for some months,
yet I found all things just as I left them. The chcle or
double hedge that I had made was not only firm and entire,
but the stakes which I had cut out of some trees that grew
thereabouts were all shot out and grown with long branches,
as much as a willow tree usually shoots the first year after
topping its head.
I could not tell what tree to call it that these stakes were
cut from. I was surprised, and yet very well pleased, to
see the young trees grow. I pruned them, and led them
up to grow as much alike as I could; and it is scarce
credible how beautiful a figure they grew into in three
years; so that though the hedge made a circle of about
twenty-five yards in diameter, yet the trees—for such I
might now call them—soon covered it, and it was a
complete shade, sufficient to lodge under all the dry season.
This made me resolve to cut some more stakes, and make
me a hedge like this in a semicircle round my wall (I mean
that of my first dwelling) which I did. Placing the trees
or stakes in a double row, at about eight yards' distance
from my first fence, they grew presently, and were at first
a fine cover to my habitation, and afterwards served for a
defense also, as I shall observe in its order.
I found now that the seasons of the year might generally
be divided, not into summer and winter, as in Europe, but
into the rainy seasons and the dry seasons, which were
generally thus:—
The half of February, the whole of March, and the half
of April,—rainy, the sun being then on or near the equator.
The half of Apirl, the whole of May, June, and July,
and the half of August,—dry, the sun being then to the
north of the line.
The half of August, the whole of September, and the
half of October,—rainy, the sun being then come back.
The half of October, the whole of November, December,
and January, and the half of February,—dry, the sun being
then to the south of the line.
The rainy seasons sometimes held longer or shorter as
the winds happened to blow, but this was the general
observation I made. After I had found, by experience, the
ill consequences of being abroad in the rain, I took care to
furnish myself with provisions beforehand, that I might not
be obliged to go out, and I sat within doors as much as
possible during the wet months. This time I found much
employment, and very suitable also to the time, for I found
great occasion for many things which I had no way
to furnish myself with but by hard labor and constant
application. Particularly I tried many ways to make my-
self a basket, but all the twigs I could get for the purpose
proved so brittle that they would do nothing'.
It proved of excellent advantage to me now, that when
I was a boy I used to take great delight in standing at a
basket maker's, in the town where my father lived, to see
them make their wicker ware. Being, as boys usually are,
very officious to help, and a great observer of the manner in
which they worked those things, and sometimes lending a.
hand, I had by these means full knowledge of the methods of
it, and I wanted nothing but the materials. It came into
my mind that the twigs of that tree from whence I cut my
stakes that grew might possibly be as tough as the sallows,
willows, and osiers in England, and I resolved to try.
Accordingly, the next day I went to my country house,
as I called it, and cutting some of the smaller twigs, 1
found them to my purpose as much as I could desire;
whereupon I came the next time prepared with a hatchet to
cut down a quantity, which I soon found, for there was
great plenty of them. These I set up to dry within my
circle, or hedge, and when they were fit for use I carried
them to my cave. Here, during the next season, I em-
ployed myself in making, as well as I could, a great many
baskets., both to carry earth and to carry or lay up anything,
as I had occasion. Though I did not finish them very
handsomely, yet I made them sufficiently serviceable for my
purpose; and thus, afterwards, I took care never to be
without them. As my wicker ware decayed, I made more,
especially strong, deep baskets to place my corn in, instead
of sacks, when I should come to have any quantity of it.
Having mastered this difficulty, and employed a world of
time about it, I bestirred myself to see, if possible, how to
supply two wants. I had no vessel to hold anything that
was liquid, except two casks, which were almost full of
rum, and some glass bottles,—some of the common size, and
others which were case bottles, square, for the holding of
water, spirits, etc. I had not BO much as a pot to boil
anything, except a great kettle which I savec1 out of the
ship, and which was too big for such as I desired it, namely
to make broth, and stew a bit of meat oy itself. The
second thing I fain would have had was a tobacco pipe, but
it was impossible to me to make one; however, I found a
contrivance for that, too, at last.
I employed myself in planting my second rows of stakes
or piles, and in this wicker working, all the summer or dry
season, when another business took me up more time than
it could be imagined I could spare.
CHAPTER XXI.
I MENTIONED before that I had a great mind to see the
whole island, and that I had traveled up the brook, and so
on to where I built my bower, and where I had an opening
quite to the sea, on the other side of the island. I now
resolved to travel quite across to the seashore on that side.
Taking my gun, a hatchet, and my dog, and a larger
quantity of powder and shot than usual, with two biscuit
cakes and a great bunch of raisins in my pouch for my
store, I began my journey. When I had passed the vale
where my bower stood, as above, I came within view ^the
sea to the west. It being a very clear day, \fairly descried
land—whether an island or a continent I could not tell;
but it lay very high, extending from the west to the west-
southwest at a very great distance. By my guess it could
not be less than fifteen or twenty leagues off.
I could not tell what part of the world this might be,
otherwise than that I knew it must be part of America,
and, as I concluded by all my observations, must be near
the Spanish dominions, and perhaps was all inhabited by
savages, where, if I had landed, I had been in a worse
condition than I was now. Therefore I acquiesced in the
dispositions of Providence, which I began now to own and
to believe ordered every thing for the best. I say I quieted
my mind with this, and left off afflicting myself with
fruitless wishes of being there.
Besides, after some thought upon this afTa'r, I considered
that if this land was the Spanish coast, I should certainly,
one time or ot/ier, see some vessel pass or repass one way
01 other; but if not, then it was the savage coast between
the Spanish country and Brazil, where are found the worst
of savages; for they are cannibals, or men-eaters, and/aiY
not to murder and devour all the human bodies that fallinto
their hands.
With these considerations, I walked very leisurely for-
ward. I found that side of the island where I now was
much pleasanter than mine,—the open or savannah fields
sweet, adorned with flowers and grass, and full of very fine
woods. I saw abundance of parrots, and fain would have
caught one, if possible, to have kept it to be tame, and
taught it to speak to me. I did, after some painstaking,
catch a young parrot, for I knocked it down with a stick,
and having recovered it, I brought it home. It was some
years before I could make him speak; however, at last, I
taught him to call me by name very familiarly. But the
accident that followed, though it be a trifle, will be very
diverting in its place.
I was exceedingly diverted with this journey. I found
in the low grounds hares (as I thought them to be) and
foxes; but they differed greatly from all the other kinds I
had met with, nor could I satisfy myself to eat them,
though I killed several. But I had no need to be venturous,
for I had no want of food, and of that which was very
good, too, especially these three sorts, namely: goats,
pigeons, and turtle, or tortoise, which added to my grapes,
Leadenhall market in London could not have furnished a
table better than I, in proportion to the company. Though
my case was deplorable enough, yet I had great cause for
thankfulness that I was not driven to any extremities for food,
but had rather plenty, even to dainties.
I never traveled in this journey above two miles outright
in a day, or thereabouts; but I took so many turns and
returns to see what discoveries I could make, that I came
weary enough to the place where I resolved to sit down
for all night. Then I either reposed myself in a tree, or
surrounded myself with a row of stakes set upright in the
ground, either from one tree to another, or so that no wild
creature could come at me without waking me.
As soon as I came to the seashore, I was surprised to see
that I had taken up my lot on the worst side of the island,
for here, indeed, the shore was covered with innumerabl
turtles, whereas on the other side I had found but three in
a year and a half. Here also was an infinite number of
fowls of many kinds,—some which I had seen, and some
which I had not seen before,—and many of them very
good meat but such as I knew not the names of, except
those called penguins.
I could have shot as many as I pleased, but was very
sparing of my powder and shot, and therefore had more
mind to kill a she-goat, if I could, which I could better
feed on. Though there were many goats here, more than
on my side the island, yet it was with much more difficulty
that I could come near them, the country being flat and
even, and they saw me much sooner than when I was on
the hills.
I confess this side of the country was much pleasanter
than mine; but yet I had not the least inclination to
remove, for as 1 was fixed in my habitation it became
natural to me. I seemed all the while I was here to be as
it were upon a journey, and from home. However, I
traveled along the shore of the sea towards the east, I
suppose about twelve miles. Then, setting up a great
pole upon the shore for a mark, I concluded I would go
home again, and that the next journey I took should be
on the other side of the island, east from my dwelling,
and so round till I came to my post again.
I took another way to come back than that I went,
thinking I could easily keep all the island so much in my
view that I could not miss finding my first dwelling by
viewing the country. But I found myself mistaken, for,
being, come about two or three miles, I found myself
descended into a very large valley, but so surrounded with
hills, and those hills so covered with wood, that I could
not see which was my way by any direction but that of
the sun, nor even then, unless I knew very well the
position-of the sun at that time of the day. It happened,
to my further misfortune, that the weather proved hazy
for three or four days while I was in the valley, and not
being able to see the sun, I wandered about very uncom-
fortably. At last I was obliged to find the seaside, look
for my post, and come back the same way I went. Then,
by easy journeys, I turned homeward, the weather being
exceeding hot, and my gun, ammunition, hatchet, and
other things, very heavy.
In this journey my dog surprised a young kid, and
seized upon it; and I, running in to take hold of it, caught
it, and saved it alive from the dog. I had a great mind to
bring it home if I could, for I had often been musing
whether it might not be possible to get a kid or two, and
so raise a breed of tame goats, which might supply me
when my powder and shot should all be spent. I made a
collar for this little creature, and with a string, which I
made of some rope yarn, which I always carried about me,
I led him along, though with some difficulty, till I came
to my bower. There I inclosed him and left him, for I
was very impatient to be at home, from whence I had been
absent above a month.
I cannot express what a satisfaction it was to me to
come into my old hut, and lie down in my hammock bed.
This little wandering journey, without settled place of
abode, had been so unpleasant to me that my own house,
as I called it to myself, was a perfect settlement to me
compared to that; and it rendered everything about me
so comfortable that I resolved I would never go a great
way from it again, while it should be my lot to stay on
the island.
I reposed myself here a week, to rest and regale myself,
after my long journey; during which, most of the time
was taken up in the weighty affair of making a cage for
my Poll, who began now to be a mere domestic, and to
be well acquainted with me. Then I began to think of
the poor kid which I had penned in within my little
circle, and resolved to go and fetch it home, or give it
some food.
Accordingly I went, and found it where I left it, for
indeed it could not get out, but was almost starved for
want of food. I went and cut boughs of trees, and branches
of such shrubs as I could find, and threw over to it, and
having fed it, I tied it as I did before, to lead it away.
But it was so tame with being hungry that I had no need
121
to have Hed it, for it followed me like a dog. As I
continually fed it', the creature became so loving, so gentle,
and so fond, that it became from that time one of my
domestics also, and would never leave me afterwards.

The rainy season of the autumnal equinox was now
come, and I kept the 30th of September in the same solemn
manner as before, it being the anniversary of my landing
on the island, having now been there two years, with no
more prospect of being delivered than the first day I came
there. I spent the whole day in humble and thankful
acknowledgments of the many wonderful mercies which
my solitary condition was attended with.^and without
which it might have been infinitely more miserable. I
gave humble and hearty thanks that God had been pleased
to discover to me that it was possible I might be more
happy in this solitary condition than I should have been in
the liberty of society and in all the pleasures of the world.
It was now that I began sensibly to feel how much more
happy this life I now led was, with all its miserable circum-
stances, than the wicked, cursed, abominable life I led all
the past part of my days. Now I changed both my sorrows
and my joys ; my very desires altered, my affections changed
their gusts, and my delights were perfectly new from what
they were at my first coming, or, indeed, for the two years
past.
Before, as I walked about, either on my hunting, or for
viewing the country, the anguish of my soul at my
condition would break out upon me on a sudden and my very
heart would die within me, to think of the woods, the
mountains, the deserts I was in, and how I was a prisoner,
locked up with the eternal bars and bolts of the ocean, in
an uninhabited wilderness, without redemption. In the
midst of the greatest composure of my mind, this would
break out upon me like a storm, and make me wring
my hands and weep like a child. Sometimes it would take
me in the middle of my work, and I would immediately sit
down and sigh, and look upon the ground for an hour or
two together; and this was still worse to me, for if I
could burst out into tears, or vent myself by words, it would
go off, and the grief, having exhausted itself, would abate.
But not I began to exercise myself with new thoughts.
I daily read the word of God, and applied all the comforts
of it to my present state. One morning, being very sad, I
opened the Bible upon these words: "I will never, never
leave thee, nor forsake thee." Immediately it occurred that
these words were to me. Why else should they be directed
in such a manner, just at the moment when I was mourning
over my condition as one forsaken of God and man ?'' Well,
then,'-' said I, "if God does not forsake me, of what ill
consequence can it be, or what matters it, though the world
should all forsake me, seeing on the other hand, if I had.
all the worla, and should lose the favor and blessing of
God, there would be no comparison in the loss?"
From this moment I began to conclude in my mind that
it was possible for me to be more happy in this forsaken,
solitary condition, than it was probable I should ever have
been in any other particular state in the world. Though I
could not say I thanked God for being there, yet I sincerely
gave thanks to God for opening my eyes to see the former
condition of my life, and to mourn for my wickedness, and
repent. I never opened the Bible, or shut it, but my very
soul within me blessed God for directing my friend in
England, without any order of mine, to pack it up among
my goods, and for assisting me afterwards to save it out of
"•he wreck of the ship.
CHAPTER XXII.
THUS, and In this disposition of mind, I began my third
year. Though I have not given the reader the trouble of
so particular an account of my works this year as the first,
yet in general it may be observed that I was very seldom
idle, having regularly divided my time according to the
several daily employments that were before me; such as,
first, my duty to God, and the reading the Scriptures,
which I constantly set apart some time for, thrice every day;
secondly, the going abroad with my gun for food, which
generally took me about three hours in every morning,
when it did not rain; thirdly, the ordering, cutting,
preserving, and cooking what I had killed or caught for my
supply. These took up great part of the day Also it is
to be considered that in the middle of the day, when the
sun was in the zenith, the violence of the heat was too
great to stir out. About four hours in the evening was all
the time I could be supposed to work in, with this excep-
tion, that sometimes I changed my hours of hunting and
working, and went to work in the morning, and abroad
with my gun in the afternoon.
To this short time allowed for labor I desire may be
added the exceeding laboriousness of my work: the many
hours which, for want of tools, want of help, and want of
skill, everything I did took up out of my time. For
example, I was full two and forty days in making a board
tor a long shelf which I wanted in my cave; whereas two
sawyers, with their tools and a saw pit, would have cut six
of them out of the same tree in half a day-
My case was this. It was to be a large tree which was to
be cut down, because my board was to be a broad one. This
tree I was three days in cutting down, and two more
cutting off the boughs and reducing it to a log, or piece of
timber. With inexpressible hacking and hewing I reduced
both the sides of it into chips, till it began to be light
enough to move. Then I turned it, and made one side of
it smooth and flat as a board from end to end. Then,
turning that side downward, I cut the other side till I
brought the plank to be about three inches thick, and
smooth on both sides. Any one may judge the labor of
my hands in such a piece of work; but labor and patience
carried me through that, and many other things.
I only observe this in particular, to show the reason why
so much of my time went away with so little work;
namely, that what might be a little to be done with help
and tools, was a vast labor and required a prodigious time
to do alone, and by hand. But notwithstanding this, with
patience and labor I got through everything that my
circumstances made necessary to me to do, *y will appear
by what follows.
I was now, in the months of November and December,
expecting my crop of barley and rice. The ground I had
manured and dug up for them was not great; for, as I
observed, my seed of each was not above the quantity of
half a peck, for I had lost one whole crop by sowing in
the dry season. But now my crop promised very well,
when on a sudden I found I was in danger of losing it all
again by enemies of several sorts, which it was scarcely
possible to keep from it. First the goats, and wild crea-
tures which I called hares, who, tasting the sweetness of
the blade, lay in it nigHt and day, as soon as it came up,
and ate it so -:lose that it could get no time to shoot up into
stalk.
This I saw no remedy for but by making an inclosure
about it with a hedge, which I did with a great deal of toil;
and the more, because it required speed. However, as
my arable land was but small, suited to my crop, I got it
totally well fenced in about three weeks' time; and shoot-
ing some of the creatures in the daytime, I set my dog to
guard it in the night, tying him up to a stake at the gate,
where he would stand and bark all night long. So in a
little time the enemies forsook the place, and the corn
grew very strong and well, began to ripen apace.
But as the beasts ruined me before, while my corn was
in the blade, so the birds were as likely to ruin me now,
when it was in the ear; for, going along by the place to
see how it throve, 1 saw my little crop surrounded with
fowls, of I know not how many sorts, who stood, as it
were, watching -till I should be gone. I immediately let
fly among them, for I always had my gun with me. I
had no sooner shot, but there rose up a little cloud of
fowls, which I had not seen at all, from among the corn
itself.
This touched me sensibly, for I foresaw that in a few days
they would devour all my hopes, that I should be starved,
and never \ys able to raise a crop at all; and what to do I
could not tell. However, I resolved not to lose my corn,
if possible, though I should watch it night and day. In
the first place, I went among it, to see what damage was
already done, and found they had spoiled a good deal of
it. But as it was yet too green for them, the loss was not
So great but that the remainder was likely to be a good
crop, if it could be saved.
I staid hy it to load my gun, and then coming away, I
could easily see the thieves sitting upon all the trees about
me, as if they only waited till I was gone away. The
event proved it to be so; for as I walked off, as if I was
gone, I was no sooner out of their sight than they dropped
down one by one into the corn again. I was so provoked
that I could not have patience to stay till more came on,
knowing that every grain that they ate now was, as it
might be said, a peck loaf to me in the consequence; but
coming up to the hedge, I fired again, and killed three of
them. This was what I wished for. I took them up, and
served them as we serve notorious thieves in England,—
hanged them in chains, for a terror to others. It is impos-
sible to imagine that this should have such an effect as it
had, for the fowls would not only not come at the corn,
but, in short, they forsook all that part of the island, and
I could never see a bird near the place as long as my
scarecrows hung there. This I was very glad of, you may
be sure, and about the latter end of December, which
was our second harvest of the year, I reaped my corn.
I was sadly put to it for a scythe or sickle to cut it down,
and all I could do was to make one, as well as I could, out
of one of the broadswords, or cutlasses, which I saved among
the arms out of the ship. However, as my first crop was
but small, I had no great difficulty to cut it down. In
short, I reaped it in my way, for I cut nothing off but the
ears, and carried it away in a great basket which I had
made, and so rubbed it out with my hands. At the end
of all my harvesting, I found that out of my half peck of
seed I had near two bushels of rice, and about two bushels
and a half of barley ; that is to say,'i>y my guess, for I had
no measure at that time.
However, this was a great encouragement to me, and I
foresaw that, in time, it would please God to supply me
with bread. And yet here I was-perplexed again, for I
neither knew how to grind, or make meal of my corn,
or, indeed, how to clean it and part it; nor, if made into
meal, how to make bread of it; and if how to make it, yet
I knew not how to bake it.
These things being added to my desire of having a good
quantity for store, and to secure a constant supply, I
resolved not to taste any of this crop, but to preserve it all
for seed against the next season; and, in the mean time,
to employ all my study and hours of working to accomplish
this great work of providing myself with corn and bread.
It might be truly said that now I worked for my bread.
I believe few people have thought much upon the strange
multitude of little things necessary in the providing, pro-
ducing, curing, dressing, making, and finishing this one
article of bread.
I, that was reduced to a mere state oj nature, found this
to my daily discouragement; and was made more sensible
of it every hour, even after I got the first handful of seed
-corn, which, as I have said, came up unexpectedly^ and
indeed as a surprise.
First, I had no plow to turn up the earth, no spade or
shovel to dig it. Well, this I conquered by making me a
wooden spade, as I observed before. But this did my work
but in a wooden manner; and though it cost me a great
many days to make it, yet for want of iron, it not only
wore out soon, but made my work the harder, and made it
be performed much worse. However, this I bore with, and
was content to work it out with patience, and bear with
the badness of the performance. When the corn was sown,
I had no harrow, but was forced to go over it myself, and
drag a great heavy bough of a tree over it, to scratch it,
as it may be called, rather than rake or harrow it.
When it was growing, and grown, I have observed
already how many things I wanted to fence it, secure it,
mow or reap it, cure and carry it home, thrash it, part it
from the chaff and save it. Then I wanted a mill to grind
it, sieves to dress it, yeast and salt to make it into bread,
and an oven to bake it. All these things I did without, as
shall be pbserved; and yet the corn was an inestimable
comfort and advantage to me, too. , All this, as I said,
made every thing laborious and tedious to me; but that
there was no help for. Neither was my time so much loss
to me, because, as I had divided it, a certain part of it was
every day appointed to these works. And as I had
resolved to use none of the corn for bread till I had a
greater quantity by me, I had the next six months to
apply myself wholly, by labor and invention, to furnish
myself with utensils proper for the performing all the
operations necessary for making the corn, when I had it,
fit for my use.
But first I was to prepare more land, for I had now seed
enough to sow above an acre of ground. Before I did this,
I had a week's work, at least, to make me a spade, which,
when it was done, was but a sorry one indeed, and very
heavy, and required double labor to work with it. How-
ever, I got through that, and sowed my seed in two large,
flat pieces of ground, as near my house as I could find
them to my mind, and fenced them in with a good hedge,
the stakes of which were all cut off that wood which I had
set before, and knew it would grow; so that in a year's
time, I knew I should have a quick or living hedge, that
would want but little repair. This work did not take me
less than three months, because a great part of that time
was the wet season, when I could not go abroad.
Within doors, that is when it rained, and I could not go
out, I found employment in the following occupations,
always observing that all the while I was at work, I
diverted myself with talking to my parrot, and teaching
him to speak. I quickly taught him to know his own
name, and at last to speak it out pretty loud,—" Poll,"
which was the first word I ever heard spoken in the island
by any mouth but my own. This, therefore, was not my
work, but an assistance to my work ; for now, as I said, I
had a great employment upon my hands, as follows: I had
long studied to make, by some means or other, some
earthen vessels, which, indeed, I wanted sorely, but knew
not where to come at them. However, considering the
heat of the climate, I did not doubt but if I could find out
any clay, I might make some pots that might, being dried
in the sun, be hard enough and strong enough to bear
handling', and. to hold anything that was dry and required
to be kept so. As this was necessarv in the preparing
corn, meal, etc., which was the thing I was doing, I
resolved to make some as large as I could, and fit only to
stand like jars, to hold what should be put into them.
CHAPTER XXIII.
IT would make the reader pity me, or rather laugh at
me, to tell how many awkward ways I took to raise this
paste; what odd, misshapen, ugly things I made ; how many
of them fell in, and how many fell out, the clay not being
stiff enough to bear its own weight; how many cracked by
the over-violent heat of the sun, being set out too hastily;
and how many fell in pieces with only removing, as well
before as after they were dried; and, in a word, how often,
having labored hard to find the clay, to dig it, to temper'it,
to bring it home, and work it, I could not make above two
large, earthen, ugly things (I cannot call them jars) in
about two months' labor.
However, as the sun baked these two very dry and hard,
lifted them very gently up, and set them down again in two
great wicker baskets, which I had made on purpose for
them, that they might not break. As between the pot
and the basket there was a little room to spare, I stuffed
it full of the rice and barley straw. These two pots, being
to stand always dry, I thought would hold my dry corn,
and perhaps the meal, when the corn was bruised.
Though I miscarried so much in my design for large
pots, yet I made several smaller things with better success;
such as little round pots, fiat dishes, pitchers, and pipkins,
and any things my hand turned to; and the heat of the
summer baked them quite hard.
But all this would not answer my end, which was to get
an earthen pot to hold what was liquid, and bear the fire,—
which none of these could do. It happened after sotre
time, making a pretty large fire for cooking my meat, wheii
I went to put it out after I had done with it, I found a
broken piece of one of my earthenware vessels in the fire,
burnt as hard as a stone, and red as a tile. I was agreeably
surprised to see it, and said to myself that certainly they
might be made to burn whole, if they would burn broken.
This set me to study how to order my fire so as to make
it burn some pots. I had no notion of a kiln, such as the
potters burn in, or of glazing them with lead, though I had
some lead to do it with; but I placed three large pipkins,
and two or three pots, in a pile, one upon another, and
placed my firewood all round it with a great heap of embers
under them. I plied the fire with fresh fuel round the
outside, and upon the top, till I saw the pots in the inside
red hot quite through, and observed that they did not crack
at all. When I saw them clear rea, i let them stand in
that heat about five or six hours, till I found one of them,
though it did not crack, did melt or run; for the sand
which was mixed with the clay melted by the violence of
the heat, and would have run into glass if I had gone on.
So I slacked my fire gradually till the pots began to abate
of the red color; and, watching them all night, that I
might not let the fire abate too fast, in the morning I had
three very good (I will not say handsome) pipkins, and two
other earthen pots, as hard burnt as could be desired, and
one of them perfectly glazed with the running of the sand.
After this experiment, I need not say that I wanted no
sort of earthenware for my use; but I must needs say as to
the shapes of them, they were very indifferent, as any one
may suppose when I had no way of making them but as
the children make dirt pies, or as a woman would make
pies that never learned to raise paste.
No joy at a thing of so mean a nature was ever equal to
mine when I found I had made an earthen pot that would
bear the fire. I had hardly patience to stay till they were
cold before I set one on the fire again, with some water in
it, to boil me some meat, which it did admirably well.
With a piece of a kid I made some very good broth, though
I wanted oatmeal, and several other ingredients requisite to
make it as good as I would have had it.
My next concern was to get me a stone mortar to stamp
or beat some corn in; for as to the mill, there was no
thought of arriving at that perfection of art with one pair of
hands. To supply this want I was at a great loss; for of
all the trades in the world, I was as perfectly unqualified
for a stone cutter as for any whatever. Neither had I any
tools to go about it with. I spent many a day to find out a
great stone big enough to cut hollow, and make fit for a
mortar, and could find none at all, except what was in the
solid rock, and which I had no way to dig or cut out. Nor
indeed were the rocks in the island of hardness sufficient,
but were all of a sandy, crumbling stone, which neither
would bear the weight of a heavy pestle, nor would break
the corn without filling it with sand. So, after a great
deal of time lost in searching for a stone, I gave it over,
and resolved to look out for a great block of hard wood,
which I found indeed much easier. Getting one as big as
I had strength to stir, I rounded it, and formed it on the
outside with my ax and hatchet, and tnen, with the help
of fire, and infinite labor, made a hollow place in it. as the
Indians in Brazil make their canoes. After this, I made a
great heavy pestle, or beater, of the wood called the iron
wood. This I prepared and laid by against I had my next
crop of corn, which I proposed to myself to grind, or rather
pound, into meal, to make bread.
My next difficulty was to make a sieve, to dress my meal
and to part it from the bran and the husk; without which
I did not see it possible I could have any bread. This was
a most difficult thing even to think on, for to be sure I had
nothing like the necessary thing to make it,—I mean fine,
thin canvas or stuff to sift the meal through.
And here I was at a full stop for many months; nor did
I really know what to do. Linen I had none left but what
was mere rags. I had goafs hair, but neither knew how
to weave it or spin it; and had I known how, h^re were no
tools to work it with. All the remedy that I found for this
was that at last I did remember I had, among the seamen's
clothes which were saved out of the ship, some neckcloths
of calico or muslin. With some pieces of these I made
three small sieves proper enough for the work; and thus I
made shift for some years. How I did afterwards, I shall
show in its place.
The baking part was the next thing to be considered,
and how I should make bread when I came to have corn;
for, first, I had no yeast. As to that part, there was no
sup/'lying the want, so I did not concern myself much ubout
it. But for an oven, I was indeed in great pain. At
length I found out an experiment for that also, which was
this: I made some earthen vessels, very broad, but not
deep,—that is td say, about two feet diameter, and not
above nine inches deep. These I burned in the fire, as I
had done the others, and laid them by; and when I wanted
to bake, I made a great fire upon my hearth, which I had
paved with some square tiles, of my own baking and burn-
ing also; but I should not call them square.
When the firewoo \ was burnt pretty much into embers,
or live coals, I drew them forward upon this hearth, so as
to cover it all over, and there I let them lie till the hearth
was very hot. Then, sweeping away all the embers, I set
down my loaf or loaves, and turning down the earthen pot
to cover them, drew the embers all round the outside of the
pot, to keep in and add to the heat. Thus, as well as in
the best oven in the world, I baked my barley loaves, and
became, in a little time, a good pastry cook into the bargain;
for I made myself several cakes and puddings of the rice.
But I made no pies, neither had I anything to put into
them, supposing I had, except the flesh either of fowls or
goats.
It need not be wondered at if all these things took me
up most part of the third year of my abode here; for it is
to be observed that in the intervals of these things I had
my new harvest and husbandry to manage. I reaped my
corn in its season, and carried it home as well as I could,
and laid it up, in the ear, in my large baskets, till I had
time to rub it out, for I had no floor to thrash it on, or
instrument to thrash it with.
And now, indeed, my stock of corn increasing, I really
wanted to build my barns bigger. I wanted a place to lay
it up in, for the increase of the corn now yielded me so
much that I had of the barley about twenty bushels, and
of the rice as ranch, or more. I now resolved to begin to
use it freely; for my bread had been quite gone a great while.
Also I resolved to see what quantity would be sufficient for
me a whole year, and to sow but once a year.
Upon the whole, I found that the forty bushels of barley
and rice were much more than I could consume in a year;
so I resolved to sow just the same quantity every year thai
I sowed the last, in hopes that such a quantity would fully
provide me with bread.
CHAPTER XXIV.
•
ALL the while these things were doing, you may be sure
my thoughts ran many times upon the prospect of land
which I had seen from the other side of the island. I was
not without secret wishes that I were on shore there, fancy-
ing that, seeing tne mainland and an inhabited country, I
might find some way or other to convey myself farther, and
perhaps at last find some means of escape.
But all this while I made no allowance for the dangers
of such an undertaking, and how I might faL'info the hands
of savages, and perhaps such as I might have reason to
think far worse than the lions and tigers of Africa; that if
I once came in their power, I should run a hazard of more
than a thousand to one of being killed^ and perhaps of being
eaten, for I had heard that the people of the Caribbean
coast were cannibals, or man-eaters, and I knew by the
latitude that I could not be far from that shore. Then,
supposing they were not cannibals, yet they might kill me,
as many Europeans who had fallen into their hands had
been served, even when they had been ten or twenty
together; much more I, that was but one, and could make
little or no defense. All these things, I say, which I ought
to have considered well, and which did come into my
thoughts afterwards, yet gave me no apprehensions at first,
and my head ran mightily upon the thought of getting over to
the shore.
Now I wished for my boy Xury, and the longboat with
shoulder-of-mutton sail, with which I sailed above a thou-
sand miles on the coast of Africa; but this was in vain.
Then I thought I would go and look at our ship's boat,
which, as I have said . was blown up upon the shore a great
way in the storm, when we were first cast away. She lay
almost where she did at first, but not quite, and was turned,
by the force of the waves and the winds, almost bottom up-
ward against a high ridge of beachy, rough sand, but no
water about her. If I had had hands to refit her, and to
launch her into the water, the boat would have done well
enough, and I might have gone back to Brazil with her
easily enough; but I might have foreseen that I could no
more turn her and set her upright upon her bottom, than I
could remove the island. However, I went to the woods,
and cut levers and rollers, and brought them to the boat,
resolving to try what I could do ; suggesting to myself that
if I could but turn her down, I might repair the damage
she had received, and she would be a very good boat, and
I might go to sea in her very easily.
I spared no pains, indeed, in this piece of fruitless toil,
and spent, I think, three or four weeks about it. At last,
finding it impossible to heave it up with my little strength,
I fell to digging away the sand, to undermine it, and so to
make it fall down, setting pieces of wood to thrust and
guide it right in the fall.
But when I had done this, I was unable to stir it up
again, or to get under it, much less to move it forward
towards the water; so I was forced to give it over. Yet,
though I gave over the hopes of the boat, my desire to
venture over for the main increased, rather than decreased,
as the means for it seemed impossible.
This at length put me upon thinking whether it was not
possible to make myself a canoe, or periagua, such as the
natives of those climates make, even without tools,—or,
as I might say, without hands,—of the trunk of a great
tree. This I not only thought possible but easy, and
pleased myself extremely with the thoughts of making it,
and with my having much more convenience for it than
any of the negroes or Indians; but not at all considering
the particular inconveniences which I lay under more than
the Indians did; namely, the want of hands to move it,
when it was made, into the water,—a difficulty much
harder for me to surmount than all the consequences of
want of tools could be to them; for what was it to me if,
when I had chosen a vast tree in the woods, and with
much trouble cut it down, if I had been able with my tools
to hew and dub the outside into the proper shape of a
boat, and burn or cut out the inside to make it hollow, so
as to make a boat of it,—if, after all this, I must leave it
just there where I found it, and not be able to launch it
into the water.
One would think I could not have had the least reflection
upon my mind of my circumstances, while I was making
this boat, but I should have immediately thought how I
should get it into the sea; but my thoughts were so intent
upon my voyage over the sea in it that I never once con-
sidered how I should get it off the land; and it was really,
in its own nature, more easy for me to guide it over forty-
five miles in sea, than about forty-five fathoms of land,
where it lay, to set it arfoat in the water.
I went to work upon this boat the most like a fool that
ever man did who had any of his senses awake. I pleased
myself with the design, without determining whether I
was ever able to undertake it. Not but that the difficulty
of launching my boat came often into my head ; but I put
a stop to my inquiries into it by this foolish answer, which
I gave myself: '' I<et me first make it; I warrant I will
find some way or other to get it along when it is done."
This was a most preposterous method; but the eagerness
of my fancy prevailed, and to work I went. I felled a
cedar tree, and I question much whether Solomon ever had
such a one for the building of the Temple of Jerusalem.
It was five feet ten inches diameter at the lower part next
the stump, and four feet eleven inches diameter at the end
of twenty-two feet, after which it lessened for a while, and
then parted into branches. It was not without infinite
labor that I felled this tree. I was twenty days hacking
and hewing at it at the bottom. I was fourteen more
getting the branches and limbs and the vast, spreading
head cut off, which I hacked and hewed through with ax
and hatchet and inexpressible labor. After this, it cost
me a month to shape it and dub it to a proportion, and to
something like the bottom of a boat, that it might swim
upright as it ought to do. It cost me near three months
more to clear the inside, and work it out so as to make an
exact boat of it. "This I did, indeed, without fire, by
mere mallet and chisel, and by the dint of hard labor, till
I had brought it to be a very handsome periagua, and
big enough to have carried six-and-twenty men, and
consequently big enough to have carried me and all my
cargo.
When I had gone through this work, I was extremely
delighted with it. The boat was really much bigger than
ever I saw a canoe or periagua, that was made of one tree,
in my life. Many a weary stroke it had cost, you may be
sure; and had I gotten it into the water, I make no
question but I should have begun the maddest voyage,
and the most unlikely to be performed, that ever was
undertaken.
But all my devices to get it into the water failed me;
though they cost me infinite labor too. It lay about one
hundred yards from the water, and not more; but the first
inconvenience was, it was up hill towards the creek. Well,
to take away this discouragement, I resolved to dig into
the surface of the earth, and so make a declivity. This I
began, and it cost me a prodigious deal of pains; but
when this was worked through, and this difficulty managed,
it was still much the same, for I could no more stir the
canoe than I could the other boat.
Then I measured the distance of ground, and resolved
to cut a dock or canal, to bring the water up to the canoe,
seeing I could not bring the canoe down to the water.
Well, I began this work; and when I began to enter upon
it, and calculate how deep it was to be dug, how broad,
and how the stuff was to be thrown out, I found that, by
the number of hands I had, being none but my own, it
must have been ten or twelve years before I could have
gone through with it; for the shore lay so high that at the
upper end it must have been at least twenty feet deep.
So at length, though with great reluctancy, I gave this
attempt over also.
This grieved me heartily. Now I saw, though too late,
the folly of beginning a work before we count the cost,
and before we judge rightly of our own strength to go
through with it.
In the middle of this work I finished my fourth year in
this place, and kept my anniversary with the same devo-
tion, and with as much comfort, as ever before. By a
constant study and serious application to the word of God,
and by the assistance of his grace, I gained a different
knowledge from what I had before. I entertained different
notions of things. I looked now upon the world as a thing
remote, which I had nothing to do with, no expectation
from, and, indeed, no desires about. In a word, I had
nothing indeed to do with it, nor was ever likely to have.
So I thought it looked as we may perhaps look upon it
hereafter; namely, as a place I had lived in, but was come
out of it; and well might I say, as Father Abraham to
Dives, "Between me and thee is a great gulf fixed."
In the first place, I was removed from all the wickedness
of the world here. I had neither the lusts of the flesh, the
lusts of the eye, nor the pride of life. I had nothing to
covet, for I had all that I was now capable of enjoying. I
was lord of the whole manor; or, if I pleased, I might call
myself king or emperor over the whole country which I
had possession of. There were no rivals. I had no com-
petitor, none to dispute sovereignty or command with me.
I might have raised shiploadings of corn, but I had no use
for it; so I let as little grow as I thought enough for my
occasion. I had tortoise or turtle enough, but now and
then one was as much as I could put to any use. I had
timber enough to have built a fleet of ships; and I had
grapes enough to have made wine, or to have cured into
raisins, to have loaded that fleet when it had been built.
But all I could make use of was all that was valuable.
1 had enough to eat and supply my wants, and what was
all the rest to me? If I killed more flesh than I could eat,
the dog must eat it, or vermin. If I sowed more corn
than I could eat, it must be spoiled. The trees that I cut
down were lying to rot on the ground; I could make no
more use of them but for fuel, and that I had no occasion
for but to dress my food.
In a word, the nature and experience of things dictated
to me, upon just reflection, that all the good things of this
world are no farther good to us than they are for our use.
Whatever we may heap up to give others, we enjoy just
as much as we can use, and no more. The most covetous,
griping miser in the world would have been cured of the
vice of covetousness if he had been in my case; for I
possessed infinitely more than I knew what to do with. I
had no room for desire, except it was of things which I
had not, and they were but trifles, though, indeed, of
great use to me.
I had, as I hinted before, a parcel of money, as well
gold as silver, about thirty-six pounds sterling. Alas ! there
the sorry, useless stuff lay. I had no manner of business
for it, and often thought with myself that I would have
given a handful of it for a gross of tobacco pipes, or for a
hand mill to grind my corn. Nay, I would have given it all
for a sixpenny worth of turnip and carrot teed out of Bng-
land, or for a handful of peas and beans,. ind a bottle of
ink. As it was, I had not the least advantage by it or
benefit from it. There it lay in a drawer, and grew moldy
with the damp of the cave in the wet seasons; and if I had
had the drawer full of diamonds, it had been the same case;
they had been of no manner of value to me, because 9f
no use.
I had now brought my state of life to he much easier in
itself than it was at first, and much easier to my mind as
well aa to my body. I frequently sat down to my meat
with thankfulness, and admired the hand of God's pro-
vidence, which had thus spread my table in the wilderness.
I learned to look more upon the bright side of my condition,
and less upon the dark side, and to consider what I enjoyed
rather than what I wanted. This gave me sometimes such
secret comforts that I cannot express them; and this I
take notice of here, to put those discontented people in mind
of it who cannot enjoy comfortably what God has given
them, because they see and covet something that he has
not given them. All our discontents about what we want
appeared to me to spring from the want of thankfulness
for what we have.
CHAPTER XXV.
I HAD now been here so long that many things which I
had brought on shore for my help were either quite gone,
or very much wasted and near spent. My ink, as I
observed, had been gone some time, all but a very little,
which I eked out with water, a little and a little, till it was
so pale it scarce left any appearance of black upon the
paper. As long as it lasted I made use of it to minute
down tne days of the month on which any remarkable
thing happened to me. By casting up times past, I remem-
bered that there was a strange concurrence of days in the
-various providences which befell me, and which, if I had
been superstitiously inclined to observe days as fatal or
fortunate, I might have had reason to have looked upon
with a great deal of curiosity.
First, I had observed that the same day that I broke
away from my father and friends, and ran away to Hull,
in order to go to sea, the same day afterwards I was, taken
by the Sallee man-of-war, -and made a slave. The same
day of the year that I escaped out of the wreck of that
ship in Yarmouth Roads, that same day of the year after-
wards I made my escape from Sallee in a boat. The same
day of the year I was born on, namely, the 30th of Sep-
tember, that same day [ had my life so miraculously saved
twenty-six years after, when I was cast on shore on this
island; so that my wicked life and my solitary life began
both on a day.
The next thing to my ink being wasted, was that of my
bread, I mean the biscuit which I brought out of the ship.
This I had husbanded to the last decree, allowing myself
but one cake of bread a day for above a year; and yet I
was quite without bread for near a year before I got any
corn of my own. - Great reason I had to be thankful that
I had any at all, the getting it being, as has been already
observed, next to miraculous.
My clothes, too, began to decay. As to linen, I had
had none a good while, except some checkered shirts which
I found in the chests of the other seamen, and which I
carefully preserved. Many times I could bear no other
clothes on but a shirt; and it was a very gieat helj) to me
that I had, among all the men's clothes of the ship, almost
three dozen of shirts. There were also, indeed, several
thick watch coats of the seamen's which were left, but they,
were too hot to wear; and though it is true that the weather
was so violently hot that there was no need of clothes, yd
I could not go quite without them.
I have mentioned that I saved the skins of all the creatures
that I killed,—I mean four-footed ones,—and I had them
hungup, stretched out with sticks in the sun, by which means
some of them were so dry and hard that they were fit for lit-
tle; but others were very useful. The first thing I made of
these was a great cap for my head, with the hair on the
outside to shoot off the rain. This I performed so well that
afterwards I made me a suit of clothes wholly of these
skins,—that is to say, a waistcoat, and breeches open at the
knees, and both loose, for they were rather wanting to keep
me cool than to keep me warm. I must not omit to acknowl-
edge that they were wretchedly made; for if I was a bad
carpenter, I was a worse tailor. However, they were such
as I made very good shift with, and when I was out, if it
happened to rain, the hair of my waistcoat and cap being
outermost^ I was kept very dry.
After this, I spent a great deal of time and pains to make
an umbrella. I was indeed in great want of one, and had
a great mind to make one. I had seen them made in
Brazil, where they are very useful in the great heats
which are there, and I felt the heats every jot as great
here, and greater too, being nearer the equator. Besides,
as / was obliged to be much abroad, it was a most useful
thing to me, as well for the rains as the heats. I took a
world of pains with it, and was a great while before I could
make anything likely to hold. Nay, after I thought I had
hit the way, I spoiled two or three before I made one to tuy
mind; but at last I made one that answered indifferently
well. The main difficulty I found was to make it let down.
I could make it spread, but if it did not let down too, and
draw in, it was nonportable for me any way but just over
my head, which would not do. However, at last, as I said,
I made one to answer, and covered it with skins, the hair
upwards, so that it cast off the rain like a shed, and kept off
the sun so effectually that I could walk out in the hottest
of the weather with greater advantage than I could before
in the coolest, and, when I had no need of it, could close
it and carry it under my arm.
Thus I lived mighty comfortably, my mind being entirely
composed by resigning myself to the will of God and throw-
ing myself wholly upon the disposal of his providence. This
made my life better than sociable, for when I began
to regret the want of conversation, I would ask myself
whether thus conversing mutually with my own thoughts,
and (as I hope I may say) with even God himself, by
ejaculations, was not better than the utmost enjoyment of
human society in the world.
I cannot say that after this, for five years, any extraordi-
nary thing happened to me, but I lived on in the same course,
in the same posture and place as before. The chief things
I was employed in, besides my yearly labor of planting my
barley and rice, and curing my raisins, of both which I
always kept up just enough to have sufficient stock of one
year's provision beforehand,—I say, besides this yearly
labor, and my daily pursuit of going out with my gun, I had
one labor, to make a canoe, which at last I finished. By
digging a canal to it six feet wide and four feet deep, I
brought it into the creek, almost half a mile. And though
I was near two years about it, yet I never grudged my labor,
in hopes of having a boat to go off to sea at last.
Though my little periagua was finished, yet the size of
it was not at all answerable to the design which I had in view
when I made the first; I mean of ventming over to the
TERRA FIRM A, where the sea was above forty miles broad.
Accordingly, the smallness of my boat assisted to put an
end to that design, and now I thought no more of it.
As I had a boat, my next design was to make a cruise
round the island. I had been on the other side in one
place, crossing, as I have already described it, over the
land, and the discoveries I made in that little journey made
me very eager to see other parts of the coast. Now I had a
boat, I thought of nothing but sailing round the island.
For this purpose, and that I might do everything with
discretion and consideration, \fittedup a little mast in my
boat, and made a sail to it out of some of the pieces of the
ship's sails which lay in store, and of which I had a great
stock by me. Having fitted my mast and sail, and tried
the boat, I found she would sail very well. Then I made
little lockers, or boxes, at each end of my boat, to put
provisions, necessaries, ammunition, etc., into, to be kept
dry either from rain or the spray of the sea. A little, long,
hollow place I cut in the inside of the boat, where I could
lay my gun, making a flap to hang down over it to keep
it dry.
I fixed my umbrella, also, in a step at the stern, like a
mast, to stand over my head and keep the heat of the sun
off me, like an awning. Thus I every now and then took a
little voyage upon the sea; but never went far out, nor far
from the little creek. At last, being eajjer to view the
circumference of my little kingdom, I resolved upon my
cruise; and accordingly I victualed my ship for the voyage,
putting in two dozen of loaves (cakes I should rather call
them) of barley bread, an earthen pot full of parched rice
(a food I ate a great deal of), a little bottle of rum, half a
goat, and powder and shot for killing more, and two large
watch coats, of those which, as I mentioned before, I had
saved out of the seamen's chests. These I took, one to lie
upon and the other to cover me in the night.
It was the 6th of November, in the sixth year of my
reign,—or my captivity, which you please,—that I set out
on this voyage. I found it much longer than I expected,
for though the island itself was not very large, yet when I
came to the east side of it, I found a .great ledge of rocks lie
out about two leagues into the sea, some above water, some
under it, and beyond that a shoal of sand, lying dry half a
league more; so that I was obliged to go a great way out
to sea to double the point.
When first I discovered these difficulties, I was going to
give over my enterprise, and come back again, not know-
ing how far it might oblige me to go out to sea; and,
above all, doubting how I should get back again. I came
to an anchor; for I had made a kind of an anchor with a
piece of a broken grappling iron which I got out of the
ship.
Having secured my boat, I took my gun and went on
shore, climbing up a hill which seemed to overlook that
point, where I saw the full extent of it, and resolved to
venture.
In my viewing the Sea from that hill where I stood, I
perceived a strong and, indeed, a most furious current,
which ran to the east, and even came close to the point.
I took the more notice of it because I saw there might oe
some danger that, when I came into it, I might be carried
out to sea by the strength of it, and not be able to make
the island again. Indeed, had I not got first upon this hill,
I believe it would have been so; for there was the same
current on the other side the island, only that it set off at
a farther distance, and I saw there was a strong eddy under
the shore; so I had nothing to do but to get out of the
first current, and I should presently be in an eddy.
I lay here, however, two days, because the wind blow-
ing pretty fresh at east-southeast, and that being just
contrary to the current, made a great breach of the sea
upon the point; so that it was not safe for me to keep too
close to the shore for the breach, nor to go too far off
because of the stream.
The third day, in the morning, the wind having abated
over night, the sea was calm, and I ventured. But I am a
warning again to all rash and ignorant pilots; for no
sooner was I come to the point, when I was not even my
boat's length from the shore, but I found myself in a great
depth of water, and a current like the sluice of a mill. It
carried my boat along with it with such violence that all
I could do could not keep her so much as on the edge of
it; but I found it hurried me farther and farther out from
the eddy, which was on my left hand. There was no
wind stirring to help me, and all I could do with my
paddles signified nothing. Now I began to give myself over
for lost; for as the current was on both sides of the island,
I knew in a few leagues' distance they must join again,
and 'then I was irrecoverably gone. Nor did I see any
possibility of avoiding it; so that I had no prospect before
me but ot perishing, not by the sea, for that was calm
enough, but of starving from hunger. I had, indeed,
found a tortoise on the shore, as big almost as T could lift,
and had tossed H into the boat; and I had a great jar of
fresh water, that is to say, one of my earthen pots; but
what was all this to being driven into the vast ocean,
where, to be sure, there was no shore, no mainland or
island, for a thousand leagues at least?
And now I saw how easy it was for the providence of
God to make even the most miserable condition of man-
kind worse. Now I looked back upon my desolate, solitary
island as the most pleasant place in the world, and all the
happiness my heart could wish for was to be but there
again. I stretched out my hands to it, with eager wishes.
"O happy desert /" said I, "/ shall never see thee more.
0 miserable creature! whither am I going?" Then I
reproached myself with my unthankful temper, and that I
had repined at my solitary condition ; and now what would
1 give to be on shore there again! Thus we never see the
true state of our condition till it is illustrated to us by its
contraries, nor know how to value what we enjoy but by
the want of it.
,
CHAPTER XXV!.'
IT Is scarcely possible to imagine the consternation T was
now in, being driven from my beloved island (for so it
appeared to me now to be) into the wide ocean, almost
two leagues, and in the utmost despair of ever recovering it
again. However, I worked hard, till indeed my strength
was almost exhausted, and kept my boat as much to the
northward—that is towards the side of the current which
the eddy lay on—as possibly I could ; when about noon, as
the sun passed the meridian, I thought I felt a little breeze
of wind in my face, springing up from south-southeast.
This cheered my heart a little, and especially when, in
about half an hour more, it blew a pretty gentle gale. By
this time I had got at a frightful distance from the island,
and had the least cloudy or hazy weather intervened, I had
been undone another way, too; for I had no compass on
board, and should never have known how to steer
towards the island if I had but once lost sight of it.
But the weather continuing clear, I applied myself to
get up my mast again, and spread my sail, standing
away to the north as much as possible, to get out of the
current.
Just as I had set my mast and sail, and the boat began
to stretch away, I saw even by the clearness of the water
some alteration of the current was near; for where the
current was so strong the water was foul. But per-
ceiving the water clear, I found the current abate; and
presently I found to the east, at about half a mile, a breach
of the sea upon some rocks. These rocks I found caused
the current to part again, and as the main stress of it ran
away more southerly, leaving the rocks to the northeast,
so the other returned by the repulse of the rocks, and made
a strong eddy, which ran back again to the northwest,
with a very sharp stream.
They who knojp what it is to have a reprieve brought to
them upon the ladder, or to be rescued from thieves just
going to murder them, or who have been in such extremi-
ties, may guess what my present surprise of joy was, and
iiow gladly I put my boat into the stream of this eddy;
he wind also freshening', how gladly I spread my sail to it,
running cheerfully before the wind, and with a strong tide
or eddy under foot.
This eddy carried me about a league in my way back
again, directly towards the island, but about two leagues
more to the northward than the current which carried me
away at first; so that when I came near the island, I
found myself open to the northern shore of it,—that is to
say, the other end of the island, opposite to that which I
went out from.
When I had made something more than a league of way
by the help of this current or eddy, I found it was spent,
and served me no farther. However, I found that being
between two great currents,—namely, that on the south
side, which had hurried me away, and that on the north,
which lay about a league on the other side,—I say,
between these two, in the wake of the island, I found the
water at least still, and running no way; and having still
a breeze of wind fair for me, I kept on steering directly
for the island, though not making such fresh way as I did
before.
About four o'clock in the evening, being then within
a league of the island, I stretched across another eddy,
slanting northwest; and in about an hour came within
about a mile of the shore, where, it being smooth water, I
soon got to land
When I was CTIJ shore, I fell on my knees and gave God
thanks for my deliverance, resolving to lay aside all
thoughts of my deliverance by my boat; and refreshing
myself with such things as I had, I brought my boat close
to the shore, in a little cove that I had spied under some
trees, and laid me down to sleep, being quite spent with
the labor stnd fatigue of the voyage.
I was now at a great loss which way to sret home with
my boat. I had run so much hazard, and knew too much
of the case to think of attempting it by the way I went
out. What might be at the other side (I mean the west
side) I knew not, nor had I any mind to run any more
ventures. So I only resolved on the next morning to
make my way westward along the shore, and to see if
there was no creek where I might lay up my frigate in
safety, so as to have her again if I wanted her. In about
three miles, or thereabouts, coasting the shore, I came to a
very good inlet or bay, about a mile over, which narrowed
till it came to a very little rivulet or brook, where I found
a very convenient harbor for my boat, and where she lay
as if she had been in a little dock made on purpose for her.
Here I put in, and having stowed my boat very safe, I
went on shore to look about me, and see where I was.
I soon found I had but a little passed by the place where
I had been before, when I traveled on foot to that shore.
So, taking nothing out of my boat but my gun and
umbrella, for it was exceedingly hot, I began my march.
The way was comfortable enough after such a voyage as I
had been upon, and I reached my old bower in the even-
ing, where I found everything standing as I left it; for I
always kept it in good order, it being, as I said before,
my country house.
I got over the fence, and laid me down in the shade to
rest my limbs, for I was very weary, and fell asleep.
Judge you, if you can, that read my story, what a surprise
I must be in when I was awaked out of my sleep by a
voice calling me by my name several times: "Robin,
Robin, Robin Crusoe; poor Robin Crusoe! Where are
you, Robin Crusoe? Where are you? Where have you
been?"
I was so dead asleep at first, being fatigued with rowing,
or paddling as it is called, the first part of the day, and
with walking the latter part, that I dia, not wake thoroughly.
But dozing between sleeping and waking, I dreamed that
somebody spoke to me, and as the voice continued to
repeat, "Robin Cruse, Robin Crusoe," at last I began'to
wake more perfectly, and was at first dreadfully frightened,
and started up in the utmost consternation. But no
sooner were my eyes open but I saw my Poll sitting on
the top of the hedge, and immediately knew that it was he
that spoke to me; for just in such bemoaning language
I had used to talk to him and teach him. He had
learned it so perfectly that he would sit upon my finger,
and lay his bill close to my face, and cry, "Poor Robin
Crusoe! Where are you? Where have you been? How
came you here ?'' and such things as I had taught
him.
However, even though I knew It was the parrot, and
that indeed it could be nobody else, it was a good while
before I could compose myself. First, I was amazed how
the creature got thither; and then, how he should just
keep about the place, and nowhere else. But as I was
well satisfied it could be nobody but honest Poll, I goi
over it; and holding out my hand, and calling him by his
name, " Poll," the sociable creature came to me, and sat
upon my thumb, as he used to do, and continued talking
to me—Poor Robin Crusoe! and how did I come here?
/tjuoytnv jvym '. n i aSBSua o; SnioS SBM j ;EqM
-uoo o; 's;qSnoq; jampD puB .jajooo q;]Ai 'iiBSaq j
Jjysji uoipv yi{j Jo uonii<fo /Czu os' 'uiBA 115 Sraujora
JBJ os puB Saoj os apBra pen j qoiqM uoisjn3xa
aq; jo AJESM aq o; n^Saq ] 'piBs aABq j SB'
'MOU ing -jti;unoo ;BHJ jo ajdoad aq; jo wojstv i
IB paAWDuoo j jojjoq aq; Xq pajg ;sjig JB ruaAi snotssBd
usq; jaipjsj XTIB 'sjyltnoi{j /Cm ui /o uoissrasw /Cuv
ijv jv jou pvy i qoiqM ysuyjj/o UB joj'
psqvu A;jiq; jo X;uaMi SUTJ^TJI aq; SB uoijnyyxy uv
os joj atnBjj 3^qB}ras B ui anqAi. aq; JJB aq o; pamaas s;iJTds
Atn pnB 'uSisap /Cw jo MZm yyj <fn jfoq j OS^B Suo\ os ';no
21001 0; niq aq; o:> jno; ^[iBp Xra dn ;da^ i SB Suo\ sy
,/Cv/n iiMtia 1{3Vyu pmoj ssvjS jo ssfo /Cw sv jr>{ os'
3];oqAv aq; no ;nq 'ajoqs an; jeaa jo uo X^no ion'
aq; uaaq 'amp ;Bq; \\& u t '}on pBq ajaqj,
;noq;iM ^DBq araBo S^BM^B ;nq 'yyjVM /Cm jfoq /Cjjuv;s
-uoj Bq;uom aajq; jo OM; joj pBq i ja;jB 'A^np pjBq siq;
jo aji; o; UBSaq j ;nq i ;T spjBMo; jaAo SutpnB;s jo 'puBjsi
aq; jBau Suiraoo 'BSS aq; uodn s;Boq XUB aAjasqo pjnoo j
JT aas o; 'ajoui jo 'sajira sajq; ;noqB ';i pajpD \ SB 'aj;sBD
Am raojj SBM qoiqAi 'niq aq; jo do; aq; o; Sinujora XjaAa
j.nof Am apBra X^Bnui;uoo i ^njjvjtf U1 ;; ;«./ uoi;BuiSBrat
Am ui puB 'uSisap Xui jo ywyyys sy? pwj snq; pBq j ja;jy
,uoijwf<fxa iCtu joj fpsMu p9jrxfyjKf \ 'yJSjvyy pjiq; pnB
pnooas B joj nopinnmuiB q;iM papiAojd jpM 'yjnjsot? siq;
Hi 'pnB 1 qDBa s;annq jnoj ;noqB q;m sp;syd Am papBoj
OSJB i -azis ;saSjBj aq; jo joys uvms jo jnjpciBq B jBau q;tM
papBoj i ooaid SUI^MOJ aq; puB I s;annq jo;sid jo azis aq;
's;annq janBms aAg jo jnoj puB 'yyvy sXm: fo xrouq v
j s}a^snra OM; aqj, 'aoaid ^UJ^MOJ AJB ipjo Am
aosnxo NOSNISOH 981
POB s;a2fsnm OM; pajedajd i AjSuipjooDB pnB .'uSissp fiu
nyinj °t paAjosaj i 'aaq; '3DE[d siq; iij ';oqs ;sjg aq ye
raaq; jo jnoj jo aajq; SuipanoM jo JIBJ pjnoo j ;Bq; jo
/fz# ssiw pinoqs j ;Bq; fjq-isso^wi oj jxau aq
SB jaq;aSo; asop os ajam Aaq; uaqM 'spvyi{ uiyyj jv mw jjnj
/ipoojq jpq; jp aAjasqo pn« }i
am [BaDnoo o; qSnoua aSjBj
B SBAi ajaq; qoiqM jo ano ai 'sys^ ./o s;yqyiifj amos o;ui
uassnn jpsAra XaAuoo 'ajoqs uo amoo o; XpBaj aq pjnoM
Xaq; ajojaq aaAa 'uaq; iqSrra pnB .'Surraoo s;Boq Jpq; jo
AUB AVBS i [jji ;IBM Xpjnoas iqSira j pagsi;BS SBM j
jo apis aq; u; aoBjd B punoj j q;8aaj ;B '^
'SJijvw /Cm pwyqv 'jaq;ouB ano SnunoASp
snojBqjBq aq; jo sjvuSis aq; ;B paB 'aoB^d aq;
;B pBq i JOJJoq aq; ';1 JJBD XBTO i SB 'PJOMS aq; o; rasq; jo
JO X;uaM; Sap;nd Xpoojq B puB ySuyiiyj jo
pa^g snq; SBM putra Xra ajiq^ ;ng 'aui o;
ajom UMOJS MOCI SUM qoiqM 'jps;i aoB[d aq; o; Xj;uanbajj
;uaM i puB 'ojaq; joj qo;BM o; 'piBS j SB 'apvysnqwv ui
;nd o; saoBjci jadojd ;no png: o; sABp pjaAas jpsAui
;Bq; uoi;BuiSBrai Xra ni ;i q;iM JBJ os ;uaM j
,daajs Am ni raaq; ;B Ag ;aj o; SupS ;snC SBM j ;Bq; satm;
-atiios PUB ';i jo paujBajp ua;jo j ;Bq; ;i jo ^nj os SBM j
PUB 'sJpaM amos JGJ s;qSnoq; Ara pasBajd XDUBJ siqj^ -^B
tnaq; n;jj p[noqs j 'X;uaM; ajaM ajaq; ji ';sq; ;nq ;qnop
oa apBta i 'PJOMS Am puB sio;srd aajq; Am q;iM maq;
mxfn ui 2Twz//»/'a3q; pnB : ;oqs XjaAa ;B asjq; jo OM; sdBq
-jad pnnoM jo \\\\ o; ajns aq pinoqs i usqM 'wyyj ;» fy
jyj /Cuowusy /Cpoojq Msyt Jo fjppim 91{f ui piiB 'pypvoj yjqnop
l\e snnS aajq; Am q;iM 'aosjd ;uaiuaAuoo amos nj ysnqwv
ui jpsAra aoB[d pjnoM i ;Bq; pasodojd uaq; pnB .'ypisv ;*
S8T Hosnxo
pwj j og -9yvj(f sy? aqvs.wj maq; a^Bin o; ;uaptgns ;on ;nq
'iuaq; ;qSijj pnB SJB3 jpq; ;noqB ajg aq; MO[q ;snC HBq;
ajoun aj;;ij oP PjnoM ;i ;Bq; '/w? tv 'puB :uiaq; asudjns
;qSioi ;- aaqM. 'arai; uiB;jao Acre ;B .^» 2moS sji jo
3Cl I Pjnoo jaq;pa os 'pjjBq auo jo AipaBtib aq;
Mon Snpq ajo;s Am 'raaq; uodn jap^od qontn os
o; Sni^jiAitin aq p^noqs j 'aoB[d ;sjg aq; u t 'SB
jBan SBAi ;Bq; [JB /« aiojq pnB 'ui/ yqvj Xj;uanbasaoo
'sj-tf Mfifj pfjpttvf Xaq; uaqM 'qoiqM 'japModunS jo spnnod
XTS jo aAg n; Sup;nd pnB 'ajg -ipq; apBtn Xaq;
aDBtd aq; .lapun ajoq B SniSSip jo iqSnoq;
^nnS Xra q;iAi pjnoo j SB
B 05 anj; SB ;ooqs pjnoD Xaq; qojqM q;m 'SOIOMV pun saioq
jpq; JO 'sjjvp jpq; q;m 'jaq;aSo; oiaq; jo A;jtq; jo A}aaM;
aq iqSiia ajaq; sdBqjad uaqM 'oiaq; SUOUIB op UBUI auo
pnB :jpsXra ;; op o; ajaq; aq o; SBM j ssajan
oj ajqissod aq pjnoo Suiq;o^j -ji{Snou oj smvy
;nq :ajoui XUB Jaq;iq Sutraoo jpq; ;uaAajd o; SB .
os raaq; SuinaiqSuj }seaj JB jo 'sajn;Bajo asaq;
aq; joj 'siqSnoq; Xra in luotfn pypoojq jaq;Bj jp
I saotiBAu;uoo aq; JJB uaiop jys oj 'aq o; papua;ni si JJJOM
ajoqM siq; UBq; swnjon jaSjBj B dn aj[B; pjnoM ;j 'Aoj;sap
o; jaq;iqSuuq pinoqs Xaq; wipw aq; aABS 'ajqissod ji 'PUB
.';uamniB;ja;ua Apoojq 'pnjo jpq; ui sjsjsuow asaq; jo amos
Aoj;sap ;qStra \ Moq ;nq Suiq;on jo Jjniq; p^noo i '£ep PUB
;q8iu 'joj :ABM jaq;ouB a;mt) UBJ MOU
o; qSnoua peaq Xra ni ;i peq i aouo uaqM';?
-wojyv jnoy)im Mao SuiyjiCuv yavS wopjfs i joj :oo; 'ssvtf
oj ji jyZnOjq s<fvi{jyt? pnB ';i uyqvjAapun pBq \ 'pauaAja;ui
aq; ;noqB ni SBM i sjojja; puB s;qSuj aq; ;ou
SOSQHO NOSNiaox fr8 1
/Cjf.*y0. \ 'JJUtjUVM S^Ullfj ss91{j. JJV
}i a^Btn o; P/;;^ u0 *9<f<foj ou 'JJJOM ;i ajpjui 0; ;SB3A ou
'daaj[ ji asjBen o; £//0y ou pEq j 'aDBjd ;x311 aq; iq
ou oj jnq '}i Supdma;;B ui 'Bq;uora XBU 'SJpaM 4nq
XuBtn Xjuo ;cm ;uads j nSnoq; 'ou—'ssvtfmoi wiyu pjnoi
I 'ApBajjB paA-iasqo aABq j SB ';BHJ Satq; B SBJS. qDiqM 'ai
;j oAjosajd o; S^SBD pspaau j ';SJTjj -Xiddns o} ara joj
ajqissodrai aq p[noM ji ;Bq; 'jaaq Am aui^Bra aq; JDJ
ssuiq; pjaAas jo JUBM aq; aq pjnoM cunq; ABS
i JGJ ,';///? /fjiyytfiats yyj joj uyjjo JjssiCw pyaojfoj
I PUB lfi{8noi{i ^vyismii{ai B AjiBaj SBM siqj, uaaq atnos
j[.isAui ^-j.<^ o; AJ; uaq; puB ';/»w o;ui XajJBq Am jo amos
;ou pjnoo i ji Aj; o; SBM iBq; paB 'uodn qonra oo;
Xui ;usq aouo pBq j qoiqM 'uSisap pooS B
pBq j ,'syyuyiuyriuoj uaio /Cw joj uoiju9tiut /hu jo y%py
uy^vj. pvy 'UOIJBAjasajd UMO Am joj ui uaaq pBq j ujaouoo
si[; ptiB 'saqo;ajM 3SBABS asaq; }noqB ui uaaq pBq j s;qSuij
sq; iBq; ;qSnoq; j 'paapui 'os 'pa;UBM j qoiqM sSuiq)
AUBUJ X[paj ;ou ajaM ajaq) uopipuoo }uasajd Xra ui sy
, sSuiuwitfwoj puv sSuunwMw fisy? JS1SSV oj 'J.TU.KJ
ajB qoiqM asoq; q;uvi raaq; SuuBdraoo SXBMJB aq uBq; 'inj
; aq 0} japjo ui 'asjoM ajaM ;Bip asoq; q;jAi uopipuoo
ajBdraoo jaq;Bj pinoM a^doad ji 'yjy Jo uoijipuoj
XUB ;B pui^uBUJ SuoraB aq pjnoM ajaq;
Moq Suiiysj/sj uotfn yw jn<f;/ -;o^ Xra apBra aABq o;
pasB3[d aABq iqSira }1 qoiqM ',aj-ij Jo sjv]njijuvcf u9t{;o XHEUI
o; 'XBH—'sjaq;o amos o; pajBdraoo 'ajqBjasitn Suiaq mojj
SBM nopipuoo A'IU -iBj Moq 'ajom puB ajora 'am Moqs oj
pspuyi sSuiq; asaq; nV 'SaIAH Jo ABM aiB
Xui o; paonpaj aq 0; 'SUOUHBD asaq; Suirfsyx
I 'arai; araos JQJ 'piBS aABq i SB 'snq; uo S«io3
£81 BOSQH3 NOSNiaOH
pjvqqvys B ;tioq;iM ;nq ';pq B ui apis Am ;B SniSuBq
-pvojq ;B3jS B puB 'sjo;sid OM; jo jBjnoi}jBd aq; jpsAra jo
uopduosap jsnuoj aq; o; ppB noA ji 'pBojqB ;UOM j uaqM ;B
aioijyj s/qvpiuuoj isoui B MOU SBM j ;Bq; os : OSJE uo
}i SnBij p; ;pq B sm apeui puB 'dujs aq; jo ;no pBq j
;B3jS aq; jo auo ^w pyi{siqjnf OS^B j ';pq
-;BoS Xra ni maq; Sni^oi;s — 'maq; jo OM; ;sBa^ ;B jo — 'am
;no raaq; paijjBD sABAip i 'diqs aq; jo ;no
paABS pBq j SB 'ajoui SBM ;BqM 'puB :;i
;no ;uaM jaAaa i qgnoq; 'aouo go unS Jim pajy
I 9A3ipq i siq; Ja;p SJBaX OM; joj }Bq; os 'ajojaq auop
pBq j VB 'sajBus puB sdBj; Xq SBM }t 'siq; Jaijc raaq; jo AUB
pip i ji -raaq; ;B ;ooqs JO 'spooM aq; ;noqB a-iora
;nnq o; paau on pBq i }Bq; pnB 's;BoS jo paajq araB;
paqsmjnj pBq j ;Bq; am 0; ymspmoMf pooS
'SBM ;j -;i jBaq o; uaddBq pjnoqs 'PUBjSI
aq; ao Supq 'raaq; jo AUB ;sa^ 'nnS Am Suug jo snopnBD
SJOTO SBM i 'A'lJBjnopjBd puB 1 uiaq; jo AUB Xq uaas aq
o; uaddBq pjnoqs i ;sa^ 'ajopq pip i UBq; am ;noqB ajora
saXa Am ;das[ pnB 'noiinuo ajora pasu j ;Bq; 'aouajajjtp
siq; q;iM Ajno 'ajojaq SB jauuBUi pasoduioo auiBS aq;
m ;snf SAI^ o; uBSaq j -raaq; inoqB ssauisBaun Am JJo jvyai
o\ nBSaq 'ajdoad asaq; Aq pajaAoosip Supq /i? j9%uvp ou
ui svm i ;Bq; pBq \ UOIPBJSIJBS aq; puB 'jaAaMoq'
'XXX
,}o Am
naaq aABq pjnoM ;BqM Maujj j 'spnBq jpq; o;tn
o; pauaddBq i ji asBD qoit[Ai ni '. Bas }B sajti;Bajo asaq; jo
amos q;iM ;aara pjnoqs i isa^ 'am o} pttBjsi aq; punoj ;Boq
aq; Suuq o; sidma;;B ajotn XUB Sm^em J3A3 jo
NOSNIHO* 281
;on pjnoo i joj :jaq;onB am Srajptn jo j[niq; o;
UBSaq ;nq 'amp siq; jp ;eoq Aui .za;jB J[OOj o; oS SB ipnui os
;ou pip i -sveoS Am joj 3-insopu; OB SB UBq; asn jaq;o XUB
joj siq; -ia;jB j(ooj j ptp jou :spooM aq) ui ajnsopai Xra
pns '(jaMoq Am pajpo j qoiqM) ;B3S XJ;UTIOD Am 'apseo Xra
33Ji[i Xai ji Xq inioui j 'spjp UMO
3}JB sjB3A OAIJ }sorajs joj
UMO Xta uiiffim ?^yp ;(fyq puB '/wjf />?/» yaisuy<f
;Bq; 'dn jaq;ouB auo SupBa paB SuunoAap jpm jo
uBranqni 'paqo}ajM aq; jo piiB 'jo Sa;j[B3ds uaaq aABq j
saqD}ajM aSBABS aq) ^o y3Us.no ifqv uv yyns pyuivjuyjuj \ ;3
,O; uMQU^ jpsXui aspui o; spqiuuBD uuq;
-Bajo jo ;jos ja;;aq B punoj i ssajiin 'SBM j ajaqM papaouoo
A^ajpua jjasAra daast o; ssauisnq A^uo Am Suiaq ;; 'op
oj uoisvyyo fo jsuuvw ou pvi{ j qoiqM 'iuaq; o; jjasAra JSAOD
-sip ion pip i ji MOU SBM i SB papjaoaoo Xjajpua SB ajora
SJuaA uaa;qSia aq ;qSira \ piiB iajopq ajaq; ajn;Bajo uBranij
jo sda;siooj ;sBaj aq; MBS jaAau pnB 'sjBaX uaa;q3ia ;sora[B
MOU ajaq uaaq pBq \ Aianjj j -gs0fan<? uiyyj oj
Suipug ;noq;iM ji jo ;jBd ApooM 'pajaAoo aq; ui dn
';qnop on 'ua;jo SuiABq puB 'ajaq Suiq;AuB 'Supoadxa ;ou
jo 'SupiiBM ;ou 'Sui^aas ;ou sdBqjad :;aS pjnoo Xaq;
jo qDJBas ui puBjsi siq; o; aoiBD jaAau saqo;ajM asaq;
paAjasqo i JQ^ -ajojaq SBM i jaAa UBq; 'saDUBisuinojp
Am jo X;ajBs aqa 0} SB 'MOU jaisBa qonui aq o; uBSaq puB
Am o; amoq ;uaM j ssaujnjJjUBq; jo araBjj siq; uj
uajjns pjnoo jo 'pajajjns pBq i qoiqM Ajasira aq; ne oi
X[;uapgjns UBq; ajom fyijijyj B SBM qoiqM 'Sol
-ssajq siq jo adoq aq; puB 'jpsraiq jo aSpajMouJt aq;
pa;jojmo3 uaaq 'uopipuoo ajqBjasira siq; ui uaAa 'psi) \
'//» 9tioqv siq; puB .'Jo uivjtfwo3 oj UBq; Joj Sj[UBq; 3AtS 0;
181 jiosnao NOSXIHOH
pBq i ;Bq; ;i n i s;jojraoo Aiism os am
aq ;aA 'ajqBjasira XjaA noi;ipuoo ;uasajd Am pywyy}sy pBq
I qSnoq; ';Bq; PUB :asaq; SB sajti;Bajo jnjpBajp qDtis mojj
paqstngui;sip SBM [ ajaqM ppoM aq; jo ;.iBd B ui jo^ ;SJTJ
Am ^SBD pBq aq ;^q; SjjiiBq; poj) SABS 'w/O /fw« w; w»p; /&
^0(?y » i{jim 'pus :jnos Xra jo uo;;o3gn isora;n aq; q;t M dn
pajjoo^i 'jpsXra SnuaAooaj 'uaqjL -pazBraB SB
poois i 'PUBJST aq; jo ;jBd ;Bq; jo ino ap;^ B amBD
,nopB;iqBq OMO Xra
no pajjpM puB 'pjnbo i p?ads aq; ^B q;iM uiBxte
aq; dn }oS j os :}uauioui B aoBjd aq; ui XB;S o; .iBaq
ptnoo ;nq ^py<aijyj 9jjjij v uyyj svm r -i{ymuojs £w
woj./: jypjostp ri{} pyjijvifysip ajn;Bn uaqM 'jfui;uiv//o fuio<f
yyj jv jsnf SBM j puB 'jpis AiajS qoBioo}s Aj^ ,ajjvpxfs
pujoif aq; raojj aosj Ara ABMB psujn; j '}joqs nj -ajojaq
jo MaiA B jsau os pBq jaAan j ;aA 'ua;jo ;i jo pjBaq
j qgnoq; 'qoiqAi 'unjvu uvwny Jo /&vuyuygyp aq; jo
aq; puB 'ftyvjtuq uvwuijtti Jo yjfi<f v yyns fo s;qSnoq;
STJ; ni pautiq ajaM suojsuaqajddB AUI ny 'anqAi Suo^ B
joj ;i raojj jpsAra o; jaSiiBp AUB jo suoi;ou on pauiEija;ua
I ;Bq; sSuiq; asaq; jo ;qSis aq; q;iAi. paqsmo;sB os SBM j
Jiaq; jo saipoq aq; uodti sSutfsvff uvwuifui Jiaq; o;
;BS psq syi{JjMin sSvnvs aq; pasoddns j ajaqM 'jitfqyoy
'q;JB3 aq; ui Snp apjp B puB 'apBra ajy B uaac
ajaq; sjaqAi aoB^d B paAjasqo i 'XjxernopjB
uvwny jo sauoq jaq;o pnB ';aaj 'spnBq 'sjjnqs q;iM
sjoqs aq; Suiaas ;B 'pnitn Am jo joxioq aq; ssa-dxa o;
aui .i0; ajqissod ;i si jon 'vyzvwv puv papunofuoy Aj;oajjad
SBM i puBjsi aq; jo ;uiod ;saA\q;nos aq; 8upq
pits I SB 'ajoqs aq; o; nH atP nMop amoo SBM j
081

ajom qoiqM jo : tuaqi
PIIB jjII pjnoM Xaq:) 'sjBqiutiBD ip Smaq 'sraoisno
jpq; o; SutpjoooB 'ajsqM 'ajoqs siq; o; JSAO maq; Suuq
pjnoM 'sjauosuci AUB uajp} SuiABq (5^/7;^«aq; 'saoaeo Jpq;
ni ;qSnoj PUB iam uaijo Aaq; SB 'asiMasfi'j -joqjvy M>J
puvjsi yyt Jo apis jvifj oj jano jooifs oj 'Bas ;B ;no JBJ 00;
B aq o; pauaddBq Xaq; uaqM 'niBra aq; raojj S.IOUBD
joj ueq; }uanbajj ojora SBMSniq;on iBq; UMOUJ[ aABq
pjnoqs i 'aiuEo ^aAau saSBAES aq; ajaqM pu^jsi aq; jo apis
3OSUHO NOSNIS03
sq; nodn ;SBO SBM j JEIJJ aonapiAojd ppads E SBM \i ;Bq;
;nq puB :pauigBtm j SB puBjsi aq; in Suiq; aSutu;s B qons
;ou SBM ;ooj s(UBra B jo ;uud aq; Supas aq; ;Bq; paouiAuoo
Apuasajd SBM i 'ajojaq uaaq jn.vm pBq j 'pa;ipn i 'a
si sq; jo pua aq; o; j^iq aq; UAiop amoo SBM
,pjpod Xra ui sse^S aAT;osdsjad B ;noq;TM ;no
on 08 o; paApsaj j Ajuo '. JSAO 11 aABS i os '}i jo ajora
ou aas pjnoo j ^iq aq; raojj papuaosap j SB jnq '. MOUJ( ion
op I ';ou jo ;Boq TB SBM ;T jaqpq^\\ uaSuoj XUB jjooj 04
3M saXa Xm np ;i ;B pssjooy i qSnoq; '}i jo
o; ;BqAi jp; ;ou pjnoo j ;BI[; aioui-j os SBM siq; puB
: am ;noqB ;ou ;i pBq j ;nq 'diqs jno jo ino paABs i qoiqAi
's;saqo s,uauiB3S aq; jo atio ni OAi; jo ssv^S yn-ipy(fs.iy(f B
pimoj pBq j -aoucisip ;Bajg B ;B 'sas aq; nodn ;Boq B MBS
j ;qSnoq; i 'Bas o} ;no Siujjoo^ puB '^A anop JSAS
uBq; puBjsi aq; jo ;inod ;saM aq; o; ajoui SnuaptiBM
.' jiso<fyp jaq;ouB qons a^sra 0; aoBjd a;BAud jaq;ouB joj
SuiqojBas 'pnBjsi ajoqM aq; ;noqB ;uam i 'qyojs 2uvnj
Xra jo ;jBd auo pajnoas snq; pBq j Ja;jy 'no oS o;
,ajtisoduioosip piiB jojjai jo ;^q; uBq; jaABjd joj amBjj
ajora aq; qonm si uopoajjB puB'
jo jaduia; B ;Bq; 'aouajjadxa Xra raojj
i pnB :Sinujora ajopq pajnoAap pnB pajapjnm
gupq jo }qSiu AjaAa nopBpadxa DT pnB 'jaSu^p q;iAi pa
-punojuns 'puiwJoy.mss9Mtpuv uotp-ijffv jvyjS! jypun SB poQ
0; psABjd jaq;BJ \ -yavif oj juom svai j qoiqM jnos jo voif
puB ssaurapo aiBpas aq; q;iM jpsAra pnnoj mopps i
uotfn os foj sjEqiuuBo puB saSBABs jo spnBq
aq^ o;ni Snin^j jo jo.ua; pnB pnajp aq; joj :s;qSnoq; Am jo
;jed suoiSipJ Jq; uotfn osjv iwissyjtfwi jvu^i pvif pu;m Am
jo ajnsodmoosip aq; ;Bq; 'oo; 'jauS q;t M 'aAjasqo ;snra ]
Bosnao
siq; pay 'nBin jo jBaj aq; Jo uvus juvjsuoj yy; ui SAIJ 0; si
}i ;BqM Moajf oqA^ AUB Xq pauiSBrai jjaAi aq A'BIU SB 'ajopq
SBAi }i UBq; ajqBViojiiioo ssaj qoma ajij Xra apBra 'paapui
'qoiqM. 'ssauisBaun siq; japun sjBsX OM; paAi^ Aiou
amoo 3jtHE3jo nBranq Awe uaas JOASU peq i 'is^
SB 'joj f;ooj S,UBUI B jo ;uud aq; jo }UHODDB uo suoisuaq
Xra tnojj Xjajnd '/o ysuytfxy yy? jv svm j joqvj siyj
'pap ;B3jS B Aq arap ajora dn am 2100; }i puB 'unsifi
.'.iow jv pip i 'jaA3Moq 'qoiqM '. jaq;o aq; SB ajnoas SB
JT apBra pBq i ^p 'aouaj aq; pajjad o; panupuoo i 'ajaq;
3J3M Aaq; uaq^ -aoaid spq} o? 's;BoS-aq OM} puB 's}BoS
-aqsSunoX ua; paAouiaj i 'XBjap jsq;jnj AUB }noq;iAV 'og
, ;j ni pyjnyys ySnouy jpn fMOI
'aq o; pasoddns aq ;qSira Xaq; ;sjg ;B SB AiOH pjrn os ;on
ajaAi qoiqAi 'asB3[d noA qopqM ;1 JJBD 'pjaq j0 'J[Dog Am }Bq;
punoj }i paoaaj os pBq i 'ami; s,q;uoui B nBq; ssa^ ut 'paB
: punooS jo aoaid spq; q;m JJJOM o; ;uaM XpiBipamrai i
,}B pJBq os pajjjOM pBq j pmioiS
jo aoaid jaq;o aq; SB os ;j aspra o; joqBj qonra os jBau JUBM
;ou pip }i ';sB3j ;y -unjvu £q ajnsopui UB ;sotnp3 SBM
;i ;Bq; spooM q;iM papunojjns os 'sajoB aajq; JBa
jo aoaid .iBap B punoj \ ajaH 'pnB[si aq; jo ;jBd
aq; raojj XBM ;Bq; j[DBq araoo o; SnuoABapua 'aiojaq aono
Jjy$£vt ;soj jsorujv j 'paAjasqo si SB 'ajaqM 'spooM J[oiq;
Monoq aq; jo ajppini aq; nt 'punojS jo aoaid draBp'
SBM ;j uoj qsiM pjtioo ;.iBaq Xra SB 'paapm 'a;BAud SB SB.U
qoiqM fuo uo<}n vyii3jitf j puB '. pnBjsi aq; jo sj.jv(f pyjyy*
;sora aq; ;no pug o} ami; auios ;uads j 'XiSuipJoooy
,uSisyp {vuoyvj jsow aq;
SBM ;qSnoq; i 'joqBj pnB amp jo pap pooS B
^L\ aosnao NOSNISOH
;i qSnoq; 'siqj, ,arai; puB ajqnoj; sp}ii qiiM niBSB cuaq;
asiBj o; ajqB aq ;qx?ira j 'jvjsuyji ui J[0og aq; o; pauaddBq
js;sBsip AUB ji ;Bq; os f 3DB[d qDB3 ui s;BoS SunoA aazop B
jjBq ;noqB d335j ;qSira j ajaqM 'pjnoo \ SB pyjvsjuoj qonra
SB PUB 'jay?ouv auo wcuj y;ojuyj 'puvj Jo sjiq .?/;/;/
jo OMJ ssopui o; SEMI jaq;o aqj^ -;qSiu XjaA3 ji o;a;
3Aup o; puB ^punoASjiapun 90/03 v Sip oj aoBjd ;uaiaaAtioo
paj 0; 'SEM SUQ 'roaq; 3Aj3S3-id o} S/CEM OM; ;nq jo
jnoo i 'aoi;Bjapisaoo Sao[ ja;jB 'asodjnd siq; jo^j
,uivJgv uyti0 cfn
JJB maq;3ABq 0; paB 'caaq; jo a8B;uBApB sq; asoj o;
SBM i puB f auo pjiM 3q; J35JB Sujinnq jo anSi;Bj aq;
OSJB ;nq ';oqs puB japMod Jo ysuy<fxy yyj jnoyjim
'am joj ;uaiogjns aq o; nB3aq paB 'HOISEDDO XJSAS no am
0} £jtf(j.ns /Cpvyj B Xjuo ;on ajaM -^aqj , 'sjvoS Jo pjyi{ aj;;tj
Xra -<i7/ ?/« M(?^« u^yyuoj jvuS v pvy / joj !SJIBJJB jaq;o Am
jo ssapjBo jaq;aSo;jB ;ou SBM j 'Sniop SBM siq; 3liqyV\
,am 0; ps;saSSns
jB3j ajaoi Xtn uBq; a.iom amti ;Bq; ;B Suiq;on MBSSJOJ i
qSnoq; '. uosBaj ;snC ;noq;iM jaqiaSo^B iou aja
'q;Sus^ JB 'uaas aq j[IM n "uoiiv&AfSfjKl uaio iiw
-Sns pjnoo y3iwpru(j. uBranq syjnsvyw. 91^ ;/» qooj j snqj,
jo apis;no aq; no nps ajaM Aaq; 'uMop araoo pBq Xaq; j;
:j9ii{ysim JjysM-iy Suwp ;noq;;M sui o; UMop acnoo pjnoo
UBIB oa 'aMop US^B; ajaM sjappBj OM; aq; naqM og
uodn jappBj jaqiouB 30B[d o; WOOA. jjyj paB 'ui
naq; PUB 'AVOJ SBM qoiqM jpoj aq; jo ;jBd B o; auo'
OM; Sni;;as Aq SBM ;i '(anuynv ou ;jaj i joj) ;no puB ui oS
o; Jjys/Cw oj pasotfojtf / qoiqM ABM aq; joj sy 'iiopB;iqBq B
qonra ';i puoAaq Suiq;AuB SBM sjaq; ;Bq;
NOSNiaoa
pjnoo 'jyajos puiq jvifm /0 'uaui o^[ ,sjqvssrxfiui
paapni SBM -\\ ;Bq; Suo.ps puB spiq; Xjsnoj;snora os Sui
aMp Am ajopq pooM B pBq j amp .sjBaX xis jo
in puB .'aaojS qni{j B pBq j 'ami; (sjBaA OM; ui 'snijj,
ja}no- Xui qoBojddB o; p3;draanB Xaq; ji 'saaj; SnnoX
sip raojj jaipqs on aABq }tjSrra Aaq; puB 'Xraaua ire aas o;
inooj 3ABq iqSira i ;Bq; 'jpjM Xui puB raaq;
^ajd B SniABaj 'ruaq; jo puBsnoq;
I 3A3ipq I jvyj yjnwosui .'puvjs jjaai pjnoj Xaq; SB
oj rfv os punoj j qoiqAi 'poom yqi^yiso aq; jo
jo S32p;s q;iM ^nj SB '/ti>ai fastis yjfiuyj jvyjS v
Xra ;noq;tM pnnojS aq; \\v 2jon;s i 'anop SBM siq;
,auop SBM JT np ajBS
;qSnoq; IOAOU ;aX prre 'JSuiifsiui/ ut yjvow favym v
SBM i ^BM siqjL -amp ,sa;nurui OAJ.; nt sanS uaAas aq;
ajg pjnoo i ;Bq; os 'aSBUjBO v a^ij raaq; ppq
oju-i myif} pyni/ PUB uouuvy Xra a^ij pa;uBjd j 'ABS j'
,diqs aq; jo ;no ajoqs no uaAas ;oS pBq j ;Bq; aopou sjooi j
qoiqM. jo 'spqsnw yyj juvrf oj paAu;uoo j sajoq uaAas aq;
qSnojqj, ,;! uodn SUIJUBM puB '[JBAV aq; jo ;ooj aq; JB }T
SHIA'B^ puB '3ABD Xrn jo ;no q;jiBa SuiSuuq Xjpanupuoo q;iM
>piq; ;aaj uai ;noqB o; \\vt& Xra pauasioiq; i siq; jo apisui
aq; nj ,;» jno MAV /im jru? jyJSiru j SB Siq SB ;noqB
uaAas ;T ni SniAeq : Suoj;s }i ajjBra o; 'jo
puB 'sajqBD p[o 'jaqrap jo saoaid q;iM.
SBM ^BM ja;no Am pui; :J^BM ajqnop B MOU pBq j snqj,
,paqsing noos aq pjnoM jp3M Xra PUB
PUB ja^oiq; aq }qSira Xaq; }Bqj 'iuaq;
aq 0; sajid Avaj B ;nq pa;uBM Xaq; -ajojaq
os pa;uB^d uaaq SuiABq saaj; asaqj , 'uoiiuw/ ypvw /
,!b 'ajopq sjBa^i aAjsM; }noqB saaj; jo MOJ ajqnop B pa;u^jd
aosnno
pBq J ajaqAi. ;snt 'HBM. Am uiojj aouB;sip B ;B
v jo MUHvu/ ai{i ui 'uoi;Bogi;joj puooas B am m.vjp o;
paAjosaj i 'ajojajaq; 'sti{j fiuuypisuoj /Cjyunjvw uotffj 'jpoj
aq; o; pamoC uopBogpjoj Am ajaqM puoXaq ;no ami» 'piBs
I SB 'joop qoiqM 'uiBSB qSnojq; joop B Suuq 0; SB
os aABD Xra Snp pBij \ ;Bq; juycfgj oj tfuos UBSaq
,;ods
uodn pnB^ saSBABs AUB aas pjnoqs i SSBD at
stnos jo japisuoo o; ;nq op o} 3uiH;ou
j[DBq ;yfiij/Cvp paB sapp sq; jo dpq aq; 3ABi[ ;oa
sa[ 'ajoqs uo
i{;Mi UIBSB jjo ;u3Ai ;nq 'ajaH XB;s ou apuui
os '^/z^z ^wy; jsuivZv wyy f*ym 'jamjq uaAup ajaM
ji 'iCjaqij svm jt sv 'oqM 'uiBra aij; UIQJJ
jo Suipuvj jvjuyppjv 'jvnsvy XUB raojj SBAI 'raojj
XTIB ;sa3Sns pjnoo j ;soni am ;Bq; .' uoisvyjo iCuv uo<fn
xg o; ig }qSnoq; jaAau pBq Aaq; Sniaas 'pjnoo Aaq;
su noos SB niBSB X-BMB oS pjnoAi Xam ajqBqojd SBM ji'
uaAup aq pjnoifs Aaq; 9Mij /Cuv jv jj ';Bq; puB '. ;aA ajdoad
XUB jo ajnSg jo MopBqs ;sEaj aq; q;tM ;am ;oii pBq puB
'A\OU sjBaX uaa;jij ajaq paAij pBq j ysi{) :aoBfd siq; o; amoo
}qSira 'spuim. ssoj3 Xq uaAijp ajaAi Aaq; uaqAv ;nq jaAau
sdBqjad j0 'uatsap q;iAi jaq;ia 'oqM 'ajoqs aq; mojj jjo
antoo satnparaos ;qSiui ajaq; ;Bq; ;a^£ ';ods aq; uo
oqM sjuvjiqvyui pyjvjs ou ajaM ajaq; qSnoq;p3 ;Bq;
: aaiSBrai ;qSiai j SB pyuopuvqv iCjsMjuy os ;ou SBM 'uaas pBq
I SB TiBq; puBjuiBra aq; raojj jaq;jBj oa puB 'jnj;injj ';UB
^gnipaaoxa os SBAS. qoiqAi 'pnBjsi siq; ;Bq; papnpuoo
i yjvqyp uo<fn 'pun .' iifejvpys quiyj oj iiBgaq
j MOU pny -ajojaq naaq JaAa pBq j UBq; pasodraoo ja;;aq
qonm psjjBM puB 'Ajpanos AjaA ;dajs j 'py;snvi{xy
aosnao
Am piiB 'pajl; 'ajaM ;i SB 'uaaq pnira Am jo ;uamasnmB
aq; Aq SuiABq 'puB :daa[SB jpj j Sniujora aq; n i ;ng
,;qS;u j[B ajfBMB 9Ui ;dajj s;qSnoq; AUI jo uoisnjuoo SIHJ,
'XIXX
i snosjad atp jno pug o;
n i J3q;jBj jjooj o; paidraojd aq puB uopB;iqBH jo
A.UTS aas ;ou ;qSira Xaq; }Bq; ';ua; PUB j«Moq Am
0; uaq; i ptiBjsi aq; ;uanbajj o; pyrfw<utf sq fjijs pun'
B qons pug p^noqs Xaq; ;saj 'sppgujoo OM; Am '/«
jo Suiq; ajdrais aq; uaq; .' /f/oi7^ ^z/ yyj jo auiBS aq;
/? p9<fsojtf ui puBjsi aq; luanbyjJ uaq; puB raaq; png p^noqs
Xraaua aq; ;sa^ 'spooM aq; o;n i pjm a^;co araBi Xra JJB ujn;
puB 'sa-insopni Aui uMop Mojq; o; SBAV jpsXra o; pasodojd
aqj, 'PH3-1 -iPV JOJ sjago uosBaj
asoq; jo asn aq; //? msi{f synu<fsp }\ \ jBa
passassod uaqAi a^B} uam suopnjosaj snojnnpu ;BqM 'qo
,;on Aiaujj I X;unoas
Am Joj ajjB} o; asjuoo ;BUJ^ -yjvaiv svm j ajojaq pasudjns
aq iqSioi j puB 'pa;iqBqui SBM puB^si aq; ;Bq; ';joqs ui 'JO
ajoqs no uaaq pBq uara jo UBUJ auios }Bq; jajpq ^H}
pa^g 'uiBSB amoq }uaAi j -anSB UB n i auo 3j[T^ pjoo
. Jjooqs i ;Bq; os 'aajSap isaqSiq aq; o; IIIBSB SjKxfva yi{}
yw y<ivS puB 'suo;;BuiSBrai Mau q;iM pBaq Am panif sSuiq;
asaq; q;og -jvyp jvyjS v /Cq 9SAVJ os jou ;ooj Am punoj
I ';ooj UMO Am q;TM ^JBUI aq; ajtisBam o; aujBD j uaqAi
'Xjpuooas :s;noqBajaq; ajaqMXuB ajoqs uo aq Xjqissod ;ou
praoo i ';Boq Am dn piBj i uaqM ;Bq; am o
pajBaddB ;t '}sjg 'aoBjd aq; o; amBD i iwijA\ ;ng ";ooj
Xui SBM }i pajnssB aq ;qSitu i ;Bq; 'ssyufif jo
NOSNiaos
A"UB SBAV ajaq; ji 335 pnB 'UA\O Am Aq }i ajnsBaui puB ';ooj
B jo ;uud sim 33S PUB 'niBSB ajoqs aq; o; uMop oS pjnoqs
i HMO Am ;nq ;i n i Suiq;ou XJJBSJ SBM
'japjoq aj;;n B acl o:> HBSaq I 'Suiq;on uaas
33J.I[J JO OM; Sni{; UAiOp JlI^AV J 'jaA3Ai0]-[
'os puB ! >3ua;qgpj Xjqiua; isora Xp;Bj uaaq pBq j
jo 'yyTispsuoj jwj uv yjwi pyjunvy SBAV i ^niq; ano
IJ pjnoAi ;i ly/ij /Cw uoj utu. pnB ;aj[S
o; 'uaq; PUB AU>U XjaAa 'XpB3j SBAI. i Moq 'am putqaq
j ua;jo moq 'PJBMJOJ ;n3Ai j JB3J iBqM q;iM ass o;
-^Dog Xra 5mra o} ssnoq Xj;unoo Xui o; ;uaAi. puB
pBojqB oS o; ircSaq j 'AVopBqs UAVO Ara ;B ;JB;S o;
pps Xjnj; aq ;qSira i ;Bq; pnB ';aaj UMO Xra jo auo
jo ;nud aq; ;nq Sutq;ou SBM siq; ;Bq; pipq aq; q;TM 'ajoj
-ajaq; 'jjasAra Su;gBjnoong '3^!in JPij; dn pawp JSOUI^B
ptiB 'uiaq; jo amos pa^iods isorajB ;i 'paapuj -}i jo ;UBM
joj aouamaAuoonj pnB niBd ;BajS ui ajaM sajn;Bajo jood
puB :uoisjaAip SuiuaAa Am SBM X^pnsn qotqM '00;
aq o; pa;uBM s}BoS Am ;Bq; Aiausj i u
puB sa^BD XajjBq amos ;nq sjoop utq;TM Suiq;ou jo
pBq j joj . suoismojt? joj yauvjs o; UBSaq j iBq; os 's;qSra
puB sA"Bp aajq; joj apSBD Am jo ;no pajji;s ;ou pBq i joj
'UIBSB p vcuqv <fyytf oj puB 'yJSvjnoJ yqv; oj uv3yq j Mojst
,XpoqAuB UBq; ajora
maq; IB paua;qSuj ajB uaq; pnB 'suoiiUBddB pnB sjspatfs
jo sauo;s aj[Bui o; AJ^ .>qi\ sjooj asoq; jo ;jBd aq;
i ';ooj UMO Xui jo ;uud atp Ajuo SBJI siq;'
-;on pBq \ ajaqM puB 'poj; pBq j ajaqM
suBaui ou Aq p^noo i ;Bq; 'osp 'pajapisuoo
^ ;Boq aq; o; ABM ;Bq; 3uioS SBM j SB naM SB ';Boq aq; raojj
ABM ;Bq; amoo ;ou i ;qSiui Aq^\ '}ooj UMO Am ;nq asp
Suiq;ou SBM ;; ;Bq; / noisnpp B jJB SBM ;i jjasAm apBnsjad 04
UBxteq i puB 'oo; 'aj;;ij B dn am pajaaqo siqj^ -;Boq Am
UIQJJ ajoqs no auiEo j iwq.w ;ooj HMO Am jo iuud aq; aq
;ooj siq; iBq; PUB 'UMO Ara jo XDUBJ ajara B aq
B ;BIW -^BP 3UO s;nSnoq; Am o;ui araBo }i
PUB 'suoisuaqajddB 'suopB}iSoo asaq; jo ajppira aq; uj
(1-am
noq; pnB 'aaq; jaAipp JJIM i pnB 'ajqnoj; jo
aq; m ara nodn J^BQ j ( :sutSnoq; Am o;ui amBD
aq; jo spjoM .>s.ii j i qoiqM uodn .' yynw /Ciy
JT punoj i 'saSBABS jo aouBjBaddB aq; raojj jaSuBp Am
;noqB s;qSnoq; q;iM pa^g pnB 'paq Am m SniA^ 'ApB3 Sui
-ujora auQ 'jtuio jouuvy j HOISBDDO siq; no suoijvjitfoj Aui
jo ;oajja jBfnopjBd auo puB :Bq;uora PUB sjjaaM ABS Aera
I 'ABU — sABp 'sjnoq AUBUI dn am jfoo; s;qSnoq;
j puBjsi aq; ui
;ooj siq ;as SniABq UBra B jo aouBjBaddB ;uajis j0 MopBqs
aq; ;nq ;B punojg aq; o;n; sjuis o; ApBaj SBM puB 'UBUI
B Suiaas jo suoisuaqajddB AjaA aq; ;B ajquiaj; MOU pjnoqs
I ;Bq; 'ABS i :Mo;saq pjnoo jps;i uaABajj ?Bq; Suissajq
;sa;Bax8 aq; puB 'ajjj o; q;Bap raojj am SUTSTBJ B am o;
parnaas aABq pjnoM sytyy<fs umo iCw fo auo uaas aABq o; ;Bq;
os lafij juyjis jjvy / jvyoi oj pyuuiypuoj puB 'pui^uBm mojj
jjo ;no 'anop3 SBM j ;Bq; 'A;aiDos i;Buraq uiojj paqsiu^q
pamaas j ;Bq; SBM noipinjB Ajuo asoqM 'j joj i
jj ;sora aq; ui 'ami; siq; ;B 'yw ui
j fV sjqwZAi U9O9 'ABU —'
Mojjom-o; ;BqM ajisap SM ABp-o; .' unys aM MOJJOUI-O;
9M ABp-o; '. a;Bq aM Mojjoui-o; ;i:q.\i .>.io[ aM
itOSNISOH
ABp-oj, j ;uasajd saouBisrano:ip ';uajajjip SB 'jnoqv
suoijyyffv ay; yjv s/Suutfs jyM9s 'juyjajjlip jvi{tn iCq puB / uvw
/b yjij ay; « yjuypwouj fo qMmayqysr{y v sSuv^s aiofj
,pBajq jo ;UBM joj qsuad
tfSira j 'amoo ;qSira jaAa;Bq.ai ';Bq;
,sjBaX aajq; jo OAV^ aABq o; ajn;nj aq;
-3J i ;Bq; /ooj,tfyj B ;snt os ;q3noq; i siqj, -pnnojS aq;
uodn SBM ;Bq; dojo aq; SuiXoCua Ara ;uaAajd o; suyauafu-i
pjnoo ;uappDB on ji SB 'nosBas }xan aq; ^p am aAjas
pjnoAi nBq; jBaX auo UJOD ajora Awe MOS ;ou pjnoAi
'ssyuizvj AM ifjim, fias/Cw pyyyv<u/fu j -ssanpooS siq
Xq am joj apBra pBq aq qoiqM noisiAOJd aq; 'jiaMod siq Xq
'aAjasajd ion pjnoo oijaq;iq apBJira Xq am paj pBq ;Bq; aq
JT SB '. ssanpooS siq jo pBq pBq i SB aouauadxa
qons nodn papunoj SBM qoiqM 'poQ ut aouapguoo
;Bq; ipe—'adoq snoiSipj: Xra HB paqsraBq JBSJ Am snqj,
•fuvai 9uyw Mj jsvj jv ysuy<f pjnoi{s j puB 's}BoS amBi jo
Xm HB XBMB AJUBD puB 'ruoo /!ra ^[B Aoxjsap 'ajnsopui
pug pjnoM Aaq; ;aX 'am puy ion pjnoqs Xaq;
pjnoqs JT ji }Bq; :am jnoAap pnB 'sjaqmnu ja;BajS ni
araoo raaq; aABq AjniB}jao pjnoqs i 'os ji '}Bq; puB :ajaq
a^doad ajaM ajaq; ;Bq; pnB '}Boq Am ;no punoj SraABq Jiaq;
;noqB uoijvui3vwi /Cw p&{yvj s;qSnoq; a^quja; uaqj,
,am joj jaq;jBj paqojBas
3ABq sdBqjad pnB 'aoB-[d aq; tn uaaq pBq
araos ;Bq; papnpuoo aABq ppoM Asq; qoiqM
aas ;ou pip Xaq; iBq; jo 'ami; i^q; JB s;noqB3jaq; aq
;ou SB AddBq os SBM j ;t;q; s;qSnoq; Am ni
'vuim ,Cw ui Su-ijjo^. ajaM suoj;oagaj asaq;
,maq; pBq aABq o; uaaq
i SB puBjsi a;Bpsap siq; ui paAB;s aABq o; 'sdBqjad
aosnso NOSNIHOH OZI
SB Suiaq ;Bas o; imSv A'BMB ano3 a.raM ;nq 'ajoqs
no uaaq pBq paB 'puv/sz yy? apvw. pvif 'spuiM AJEJJUOD Aq jo
s;uajjno aq; Aq uaAup jaq;ia 'pnB 'saoiiEo jiaq; in Bas o;
;no pajapuBM pBq oqM 'a;isoddo piiEjuiBra at[; jo saSBABS
aq; jo auios aq isnra ;i ;Bq; 'XpraBu .'ajn}Bajo snojaSunp
amos aq ;snra }i ;Bq; 'uaq; 'papnpuoo Apuasajd j
jo ajaq; 3J3M
,;ajaq; ainoo pjnoqs UBUI B a^qissod ;i SBM AVOJI
0; suojiBuiSBm; ptnsip ;nq Saiq;ou panuoj i iBq; Suiq;
jo SBapt jnj;qSpj UMO Xra q;iM passBjjBqma os SBM
,jBaj ui sajn;BajD ne jo aotpBjd pnsn aq; o; Xjppadsa puB
'sSuiq; qons jo ain;Bu aq; o; AJBJ;UOD Sniq;amos si qoiqM
'ajaAi snoisuaqajddB Am ja;BajS aq; ';qSuj Aoi jo UOISBDDO
aq; raojj SBM j jaq;jBj aqj, ^qSra ;Bq; auou ;da[s j
,;Baj;aj siq; o; i nBq; pnita jo jo.ua;
ajoiu q;iM 'y?jvy oj xof uo 'jyaoJ 01 pytf uvy pyuyjySuJ
J3A3U JQJ :Sniujora ;xaa aq; jaqmauiaj i pjnoo jou 'ojst
uaqraauiaj ;OUUBD i 'joop B pajpo puq j qoiqM 'JJDOJC aq; ui
ajoq aq; ;B ui ;uaM jo 'paAp;noo ;sjg SB 'jappBj aq; Aq
'pansjnd ano asjij ;i o;ui pag i '(«y;
j Jjuiq; j os joj) apsBo Jim o; arauo j uaqA\
,foot sitf iCq s;qSnoq; Xra o;ut araBD s/Cysuiiifai 9iqvjunojjvu?i
;BqM puB 'Xouej Jim ui ;uamocn XjaAa punoj
SBapi PJIM XUBUI Moq 'ui ara o; sSutq; py}uysyji?yu
uoyvuiSvwi pyfy2ujffv Jim sy<fvys snouva XuBra Moq aquosap
o; ajqissod ;i si JQ^J -uvw v aq oj ajuvjsip v ;» (fmnjs i/^isay
puB 'aaj; puB qsnq XjaAa SuiJ^sira 'stffjs yyj^ uo
jv yw puiyyq Jguiqoof 'yyjfop jsvj yyf oj pagijad; ;nq
'no ;uaM j punojS aq; 'ABS aM SB 'Suijaaj ;ou 'noi;Bog;;joj
Ara o; amoq onuu j 'Jpswiy /o jno puv pysn/uoj
69T aosnao NOSKiaoa
rre1n B a^ij 'sjyjfnot{j Suuaftnif ajqvjswnuui ja;jy
jsvyj yi{j u i j pjnoj MU ';ou Maiisj i jaq;iq; SIHBD JT MOJJ
,;ooj i jo ;jBd AjaAa pnB '/p^y '«'0; — ';ooj B jo ;uud aq;
XTO aq ;on ;ijSira ;i ji aAjasqo o; puB 'ajotn XUB
jt aas o; UIBSB ;T o; }U3M j 'ano }Bq; ;nq
on aas pjnoo j v«£' //z? svm ji jnq 'ajoqs sq; uAiop
'ajoqs aq; dn ;U3M j uaq;JBj j500j 0; punoj2 Suisu
B o; dn ;u3Ai j -Suiq;XnB sas jon '.Stnq;on
I inq 'am puncu pa^oo^ j 'paua;si^ j -uoijuv(f4v uv
pvi{ j fi sv 10 'qjiu.fSj9puui{f sno a^ij poo;s I -pnBS aq;
no uaas aq 0; uiB[d AjaA SBM uoiqM 'ajoqs aq; no jooj pyqvu
s(nBm B jo ;w«^/ aq; q;iAi pasudjns XjSrapaaoxa SBM i
rpsoq Am spJBMo; SnjoS 'noou ;noqB 'A^p auo pauaddBq }i
Am jo PW^J' /«;'« Tt o} amoo j MOU ing -}uappoB jaq;o
jo 'spniM jo ',sjuy^u.ny ?i{f /Cq uwSv gSpfjaioiiq /Cia /o
?no pyuMy Suiyq Jo saisumfajKfifv os SBM j 'ajoqs aq; THOJJ
OA)4 jo jsvy stauojs v aAoqB jaAa XpojBos jon 'oS i pjnoM
snopjBZBq ajora on ;nq 'jjasAnt ijaAip 0; jaq ni ino
i saraparaog uapjo pooS AjaA ni 'jaq o; SutSnopq
jo ';noqB sSuiq; \\v idaj[ j paB :;Boq Xra iisiA o;
pssn i joj 'jaq;jq; ABM Am m ajaq XBJ puB paAB}s
j ';Boq Ara dn piBj pBq j ajaqM aoBjd aq; puB
jaq;o Am uaaM;aq ABMjpq ;noqB osp SBM slip sy
,syjSyp jsyjvy./S yyj u i Suit{syj/sj puB *2uiifsu.nou
',9wosy]oi{tn 'jvupipsw ;nq 'a^qBaajSB A^no ;on ajaAi Aaq;
paapui pny -;9tp a^oqM Am jo /Cjuwp ajqBaajSB ;som puB
aq; SB -A^njajBD AjaA aAjasajd o; pa^iBj JaAan j qoiqM
'STIISIBJ jo ajo}s jaiutM Am joj pypuytfyp /Cfjv<fpuutf j
nodn 'SumojS sadBjS Am pBq j 'osp 'aoBjd siq; HI
dn rasq; jo amos ^nd o; paojoj SBM j iBq; sjoTq* AJ3A
aosnao NOSATISOX 89T
os raaq; pa;uBjd pBq i 'MOJS o; UBSaq saj[B;s ajijij asaqj
uaqM. ;Bq; siq; pajnoss Ajpn;oaga os i 'paapui 'poq;an
siq; Ajj --iaq;aSo; uiaq; Suida^ jo ajns aq ;qSira i ;Bq;
aajSap E qDtis o; sa.msopui AUI Sui;oajjad A'ra uodn A'pji;ua
papuadap qoBaj Am ut maq; Smdaaj[ }Bq+ ptiB :sjBaA
X;joj aq o; ajaM ;i ji 'aoBjd aq; n; paAij j SB Suoj SB am -toj
asaaqo PUB 'ja;;nq 'SHJUI 'qsag jo 'ssnoqajois JO 'yuizvSvw
is aq pjnoM puvy /Cut ;» snq; sajti;Bajo araBi jo pyy*q B
Suufwq aq; pajapisnoo i -}joddns ajqB;jojraoo Xra JGJ
pajisaddB jaAa;^qM ssv<f o; Suuq oj suiv<f ou puvcfs
paB 'a^pi ;ou SBM j ;-eq; am joj fyijsfj \\IM. siqj,
,[JBM XnB tiBq; jaSnoj;s paapui
, — 'HEM. B 3jjTj Snoj;s ajnsopiii aq; apBra siq; 'uosBas XUIBJ
;xau aq; ui pip jp Xaq; SB 'Majg sa?[n;s asoq; uaq^ "tuaq;
uaaM;aq qSnojq; pnBq B ;nd o; WOOA w*vjs svai 9jyi{i pnB
'aSpaq B unq; apd B jaq;«j SBA\ ;i ;Bq; 'jaq;ouB auo o; JBSU
os pUB 'saj[B;s ^ptns jo ^jnj os aSpaq aq; jo apisjno yyf qynjs
'joqB^ a;;uuuT q;iM '^i; go ;jaj jaAau j }Bq; 'qSnojq;
pjnoqs s;BoS aq; ;w/ 'yM;Uy ;(fyq ;i aas o; snoixuB
os SBM j -punojS siq; asopu t PUB souaj o; suw<f fo jvyp
uv uyqvj pvy j puB — 'S;BOS Xtn 'XBS o; si
A'ra joj sajnsopu; Am p^q \ siq; o; Sniuiofpy
Xra dn J[OOi j ';Bas jaiqo Aui raojj ;uasqB aq
o; noTSBDoo pBq j jaAaiiaqAi. 'ajaq pny -am JBAOD o; ;BOD
qo;BAV ;BajS B pnB '. paABS psq i qoiqM 'Suippaq Bas mo
o; paSnojaq SB qons 'maq; no piBj ;aj(nBjq B pnB 'sSuiq;
;jos jaq;o q;iM pnB 'paj^ijj pBq j sajn;B3JD aq; jo sui^s
aq; q;t M 'yynoj AO ',qvnbs B apBra pBq j sjq; japnfj ,'Hui
-m.yU9j, uo MV(fy* /Cuv pyjuvm jsayu qorqM puB 'yso<fjn(f jvyj
joj <fn jss $9j04 Mao pvyMfs JIBS B jo aoaid B Suiaq'
191 aosnso
iCw pBq i snq; jo ajppim aq; nI -puim Am o;
pip Aaq; qoiqJi 'apBqs ajqBaajSB ajora aq; aj[BUi
2[0iq; MojS puB p^ajds iq3ira Aaq; ;Eq; os
pun nug AJSA UMOJS MOU ajaM ;nq 'sa^E}s
ajora ou 9J3M ;sjg ;B qoiqM 'saaj; aq; ;da'jj j -apisni
ni SABMJB SuipnB}s joppBj aq1, ';i{2i.yi{ jvnsn sji Oj <fn
iCjjuvjsuoj 'm }i paj3jp qoiqM 'aSpaq aq; ;da:sf j 'XBS
si ;^q;—'Mvfej u i jfoq i qotqM ';i panED j SB 'j
Xra pBq j '}SJi,j 'OS^B ajaq; uopB;uBjd
,B MOB pBq i PUB 'jvys /Citunoj Am pBq j 'siq; sapisag
,}Bq; SB ;ij SB Sumiolpv
puBj OJOHI pBq i 'njoo ajora -<o/ uo-isvno pvt{ j jaAa
-uaqM pnB '. uosBas sji ui ;s3AjBq jiaq; aui papjaiX qoiqM
pnB 'paMos puB paiBAiijno /Cjnp ;dasj j qoiqM 'puvj uuoj
jo saoaid OM; Xra XB^ 'punojS jaAio^ nodn PUB 'puB[ aq;
jaq;jBj z\wi\ B ;nq 'auiin jo SnqjaMp siq; JBa^j
,msq; puiqaq
AUB jo 'MaiA s(ano XUB o; 'aouBjtsaddB ;sB3j aqi.
SBM ajaq; iBq; 'qonra X-iaA os pBajds puB 'Si(\ os UMOJS
amp siq; Aq aj3M puB 'saaj; a^Tj \[e MajS sajid asoq; 'sajid
jo sa^Bis Suoj q;iM 'ajopq SB 'apBra 'nBAi Am -ioj sy
,puBq
Xm q;iM ino paqqiu jaq;o aq; puB 'MBJ;S aq; raojj ;joqs
go }no '.IBS aq; ui araos 'UJOD Xtn Ajjvpodsa 'suoisiAojd
jo sajo;s dn piBj j ajaqM 'qoEa sjaqsnq xis jo SAJ pjoq
pjnoM qotqM 's;a^SBq }BajS uaaijg jo uaa;jnoj q;iM puB
ljunojjv uv Uy(iiS yavif j qoiqM. jo s;od uaqpBa aSjBj aq;
q;iM dn pans ^B SBM—'spoj aq; o; paaiot \\eib. Xui ajaqM
puoAaq 'XBS o; si ;Bq;—'nopBogpjoj jo J^BM Xui puoXaq
}no .loop B prq puB '}saSjBj PUB isaup aq; SBM qoiqM 'asaq;
10 aao '-aij;ouB uiq;iAi ano 'saA^o jo 's;Uyw/jS<fv jvjaayi
gg\
pvi{ i ami; Slip Xq qoiqM 'am pniqaq
aq; q;iM 'jpoj an.; .tapun '}i ;noqe
noi;Bogi;joj aj;;ij ^m '3no—'puBjsi am n i suoiivjuvrf OM;
=;,} HBD XBTO i SB 'pBq i MOU ;«q; puB}sjapun b} a» HO A.
,IIIAXX
aq; joj ano puB'
jo apis ano joj ano aA-eq os puB 'aouBD jo BnSeuad
am 'aJ[Bra jaq;Bj .i0 'pjraq pjnoAV j ;Bq; SBM
3.1001 qSnoq; 'aps ajow SBM qoiqM 'noi;njosaj
dn jjoo; j 'XJBJJUOD aq; uo ';nq 'aouai;^d
nreSB }i jo jjuiq; ;ou pjnoo i ;Bq; ui uaaq peq
aq; jo aonBjqrasuiaj aq; ;B squids Am nodn jojja; qons
'93tjyvj<f ui jt jSuifttKf /o quiyi 0; iiBgaq j nsi^M ;ng
pnBjsi aq; ;noqB }Boq Xtn Snuq AjisBa AjaA ;qSiui j
puB 'spi; aq; jo SuiMon aq; puB Suiqqa aq; aAjasqo o; ;nq
Dp o; Sniq;on pBq j }Bq; am paouiAuoo uoi}BAjasqo Siqj
,
,auop
aABq ;on pjnoM ;i amp jaq;ouB ;B qDjqM ';t q;;M SUO^B
aonBD Xtn puB am paujnq ptiB 'ajoqs aq; uodn asop
;as }i asBD Am m SBajaqAi :ajoqs aq; raojj anSBa^ B
Sniaq 'jjo jaq;jBj UBJ ;i ;Bq; Xjno 'ajojaq SB
aq; MBS AjuiBjd j 'apBra 3upq app jo qqa aq;
puB 'niBSB jjooj aq; o; dn ;uaM j 'SuiuaAa JJT; s;noqBajaq;
'ajoqs aq; raojj jaq;jBj ;uaM jo 'j
siq; 'q;jon aq; raojj Jio ;saM aq; raojj
a^q PUTM aq; SB SuipjooDB ';Bq; pnB ';uajjn3
jo -UOISV33O aq; aq ;snra 'ajoqs aq; no JSAU ;BajS araos
raojj sja;BM jo ;uajjno aq; q;iM gnmioC pnB '/SMI yyj wou.f
ypi; fo qqy ym ;Bq; 'XpraBn .'SBM ;i MOI[ paouiAuoa
S9T aosnsD NOSNISOH
SBM i ;ng 72 pyuoisvyyo pvif yptj n{; fo sj?s aq;
raojj Suiq;on ji aas o; ';i SuiAjasqo aq; ui ami; amos puads
o; psAjosaj puB 'sii{j puvjs*?pun oj ssoj ySuvjjs v ;» svm i
,sioBjd jaq;o AUB ui UBq; ajaq;
ajora AUB ^uajjnD on 'nopora ou '?uij<f(f-u uu—;amb puB
q}ooras ^JB Bas aq; sas o; pasudjns SBM j 'aAoqB piBs si SB
Xra q;m sjqnop o; paSijqo SBM j ipit[M PUB ';no &v\
SJJDOJ aq; jo s}niod aq; o; PJBMJOJ Sutsfoo^ 'uaqM
nodn SBM j ;Bq; ;qSpq araBS aq; 0; XBM jajBau B
aq; JSAO ;uaM j 'jo ajBD a^B; 0; MOII ;Boq on SHIABJJ
aq; nodn ;aS o; joqonB UB 0; ;Boq Xra
;sju i ajaqM aoB^d aq; o; Xpoajip 'ajoqsBas aq; SHOJB
papABu i -sABp xis jo aAij ;no SBM pnB 'AaiunoC Man
Xra iuaM j ssajp jo pnijj s;q; uj -;Bq; jo ajora ou XBS i os
.'Mwnbasuoj Jo jyuuvw ou fo SBM }i ;Bq; am aAjasqo o; Aiaj
os prq i 'ajnSy Am o; SB 'joj :aXq aq; Aq si siq; ^B ;ng
,jnjiqSuj Mfpyssv<f yavy pjnom pnBjSug
ni SB qons puB 'qSnoua snojistiora adBqs puB q;Suaj B
jo ajaM Xaq; ;nq 'raaq; uodn ;Bq Am Sneq o; qSnoua 2uo\
9J3M Xaq; ABS ;ou JJIAV j 'sjaj[SiqM jo 'soiyyv?suiu asaq;
JO 'PIP s^njL aq; qSnoq; 'qons JBSAV ;ou pip sjooj^
jM£ atnos Xq UJOM uaas pBq j SB ipns'
jo JiBd aSjBj B o;n i pyiawuj pBq j qoiqM'
jaddn Am no MajS ;BqM ;daoxa ';joqs X;;ajd ;i ;no
'}uapujris SJOZBJ pnB sjossps q;oq pBq \ SB ;nq / Suoj
v fo Agfj.vnb v jnoqv SBM ;i ^i; MojS o; pajajjns aono
j pjBaq Aj^ uo}Bnba aq; jo saajSap ua; jo aniu niq;ui
3niAij puB ';/ /o jnfsutv jjv /» jou nBra B raojj ;oadxa
;qSiin auo SB yafijojjvjnw os ;on A^Baj SBM ;i jo jojoo aq;
Xra joj sy -unS Am o; ;xau 'am ;noqB pBq j Suiq;
;sora aq; SBM 'JJB ja;jB 'qoiqM ;nq
ni3[s-s,;BoS 'AjSn 'Asranp ';BSJS B pBaq Am JSAO pins
'nn3 Am 'japjnoqs Am no pnB ';ajjSBq Ara papjBD
Am ;y 'ioqs Am jaq;o aq; n i 'japMod Ara Sunq
jo auo ui 'oo; nijjs S(;BOS jo apBra q;oq 'sfi{yno<f OM; 3unq
;jaj Xra Japan 'it jo pua aq; }B puB uap[noqs Xra
Sunq qoiqM 'januBra amBS aq; u t paua;sBj pnB 'pBOjq
os ;ou ';pq j?q;ouB pBq i uaq;o aq; uo ano puB apjs ano
no ano ';3ip;Bq B pnB MBS ajwjt B Sunq 'jaSSBp puB pjoMs
B jo pBa;sni 'stq; jo apis jaq;ja no J'(?^/ B jo puisj B ui pnB
fo pvfjsu i amBS aifl jo sSuoyi OM} q;iM
qoiqM 'paup UT^S s,;BoS jo jjyq pBojq B uo
,saq;op Am jo ;saj aq; jp ajaM paapui SB'
snojvqjvq ;sora B jo ;nq 'sSuiMSfj as[ij apis jaq;p uo
PUB 'sSaj Am Usao <fvjf oj 'suiqsnq as[{j 'raaq; JJBD o;
Mousj aojBos I 'sSuiq;amos jo jiBd B am apBra pBq
'auou pBq I saoqs pnB sSui^oo}S 'sSa^ Ara jo ajppira aqi
o; paqoBaj }i *suoo]Vjuv<f 3j51; '}Bq; apis jaq;ia uo
B qons uMop Sunq jpq asoqM ';BoS-aq p^o UB jo ui^s
jo apBra ajaM saqoaajq aqj, -auiBS aq; jo saqoaajq
-uado jo JTBd B puB lsr{3ii{; fi{i/o 9jppiw 9i{j ;noqB 0; UMop
Suiraoo sjji3{s aq; 'uijfs SJBOS jo ;asjoBt vioqs B pBq i
,saq;op aq; japun qsan aq; uodn UIBJ
aq; SB sa;BUJip asaq; ui ^nj;jnq os Suiaq Suiq;ou 'spau
Ara o;ui Suraunj raojj go UITSJ. aq; ;ooqs o; SB ara raojj
uns aq; daaj[ o; jpM SB 'puiqaq uMop SuiSuBq dBn B q;iM.
B jo apBra dBD ssapdBqs 'qSiq 'JB3JS B pBq j
SB '9un3tf /Cw fo yjjyqs r> fyvj oj pasBa^d ag -ssajp B
qons u; pnB 'sSvtfmfo UB qons q;tM ajiqs^jo^ qSnojq;
SuipABj; Ara jo uopou aq; JB a^ims ;nq ;ou ptnoo j
'jpsXra JB J[ooj o; nps poois Apuanbajj j SB puB .'
£91 aosn^D NOSNIHOH
/o jvap jvuZ v pssivj jo 'nnq paua;qSuj aABq .laq;p isnm }i
'SBAV i SB UBra v qoiis ;am pnBjSng ui auo XUB pBq ;tiq : os
PIP I "y*oys fifj Jo sSpy yyj 2uiaioijof 'pu»j iCq uyyjii
oj paAjosaj i q;Siiaj JB puB 'ABp A\iaA3 am uodn
-n i uoi;Binpni siqjy -op o; pBq j ;BqM aas ;qStra
'}as }uajjno aq; Moq puB 'ABJ ajoqs aq; Moq aas o; ^iq sq;
dn JU3A\ j tfqwvj jsvj Am ui 'piBs 3ABq j SB 'sjsqAi paBjsi
aq; jo ;uiod aq; o} nMop oS o; puiw /Cm ui sssuisvyun
B pBq j ;ng uaq ;noq;iM qSnoua pa;u3;uoo UMop
;BS i sami} jaq;o JB puB 'puB^si aq; inoqB jaq ;aS
o; sABM JSuiAu}uoD JBS I sanu;auios ajopjaqj, -spuvzvy
fjow /Cuv uru oj yjvo] /Cisa qSnoq; ';Boq Xra jo asn aq;
3ABq o; 'paAjaaqo 3Asq j SB ';uai;Bdmi Suiq;auios ^BM j
,qonui
o; A[^\\ SBxVi i 'siq; ja}jB amp amos '}Bq; JQ
;nq Suiq;XuB JUBAV o; PTBS aq I pjnoo jaq;iau
jnfyuajcf siq; in puB wuvpuyjjv siq; q;;AV
y?Suyj jy ,A'UBIH }BajS B JJTJI pip pnB 'maq;
o; paSi^qo SBM [ ;SBJ ;B np 'ooj fw jypunj<f puv 'asnoq Am
OJUT amoo uaijo p^noM Aaq; JQJ ';SBJ ;E am o;
psapni amBoaq puB 'spooM aq; ni p^Ui UBJ ;saj aq;
,araB; paAjasajd pEq j qoiqM suy};iq /o jsjfij v jo OAi;
asaqj, -pnBq OMO Am Aq uopB;iqBq Am jBau puu9?u i uaaq
pBq puB 'pBap raaq; jo q;oq ajaM Xaq; joj ';sjg }B 3-ioqs
ao iqSnojq i qoiqM s;BD OMJ aq; ;on ajaAi asaq; ;ng
, joavf jvijy<fs fo qjvw v sv 'pnBq Am mojj jiq v uaq; puB
Mon 3npoadxa 'jaq;o aq; no ano puB 'ajqB; aq; jo apis
suo no ano 'S;BD oAi; pnB :puBq ;qSu Am }B SABMJB JBS
'/CzvM> puB pjo UMOJS Mon SBM oqM 'Sop Xj\[<; -sra o; JJJBJ
o; pa;;iuuad uosjad A\uo aq; SBM 'fjuoav/ Am uaar} p-eq
aq ji SB 'ip<j j siiiBAjas Xra Aq pspuy;jv 'yuojv jjv 'oo;
NOSNiaoa 291
I 8nijj TS aj[Tj Moq aas o; 'uaqj, 'sioaCqns A'tn JJB
SuoraB spqyj on puB 'ABMB JT a^B; puB 'A^jaqij aAiS 'aiBJp
'SaBq pjnoo i -puvwwoj fjnjosqv £w jV spyfqns iCw ]]V
fo S9Mj fi{} pvi{ / -puBjsi ajoqM aq; jo pjo^ puB aouud aq;
'fysyfvm Xra SBM aJsqj , ',rannip o; uMop ;is AJTUIBJ
Ara puB am aas o; a^iuis 3101$ B apBm SABIJ
joj qsusd o; ;nq ;sjg JB Sutq;on MBS
aq; ui am joj pBajds ajaq SBM a^qE; B iBq^w / suosutf puv
suojZunp joj UITH astBjd o; asnBD sn 3AiS pnB 'saouapiA
-ojd ;S3J3;;iq aq; ua}aaMs ajj UBD Aiojj ;nopDnj;sap UT
pauipqMjaAo aq o; iuaas Aaq; q;iqAi u t stroi;ipnoo asoq; nj
IWAO lsfjnjvfM svi{ jvu; *ojvy^ jno uvy £nnfi3j9iu aioff
,spJBMja}jB JT pa;uEM jaAan pnB '(Bas aqi
jo sspoa sq; jo amos uodn nns aq; jo isaq aq; Aq puBq Xtu
o; apEra XpjBd ;t pnnoj i qSnoq;) ;JBS OS^B ';SEJ ;B asaaqD
pnB ja^nq q;oq apEra 'sySvuMysiw pnE s/Cvssy XUEUI }EajS
B J3;p qSnoq; '/C/}puvy puv £]i.pvyj /C/ifti 'apEra ysyyyy jo
uaas jo ';EoS B ssaj qonui 'MOD B pa^tira JOAOU
'i os ';i jo asn asjEra o; Moq A^Bjn;BU uaAa
'3JTHE3JD jfaaAa o; pooj jo saijddns saAiS oqM
SB pny 'XBp B n i JJJTUI jo OMJ jo uojjvJS B ssuii;araos
pBq pnB 'tCiwp /Cm (fn jss j MOU joj 'asTjdjns ajqEaaj^B
UE X^ESJ SBM 'siqSnoq; Xra o}ui amBo ;i uaqM 'qojqM pnB
'jo sjniq; SB qonni os ;ou ptp i 'SnraniSaq aq; u; 'paapui
'qoiqM Sniq; E— 'oo; jn;tn inq 'pasEajd j uaqM uo paaj o;
qsag ,s;BoS pEq £\v.o ;ou j AVO^J '//» ;o« «7/» «y; ;w^
,jaq;ouB o;ni pnnojS jo aoaid auo jo ;no
pnB 'pa;uEM j SB raaq; a^Ei o; 'o}ui utaq; aAup o;
'ui maq; paaj 0} pnnojg jo saoaid \\:.i;>,\->-
'PooJ A^ JOJ psj^H PUB
I ;Bq; JBJ3A3S saptsaq 'Aijoj pnu najq) peq i ajotn
uj -J^B pun sptsj 's;BoS aApMi inoqn jo spog B pBq i
v puE jBaA B inoqB ui piiE 'pua Am pajsMsuB Stqj,
,UJOD jo
[njpiiBq B joj »w uajjv Suijvyjq 'tiMOp puB dn am MOJJOJ
pjnoM Aaq; ^sooj wyy? jaj \ puB 'paqsiug SBM ajnso^Dui
Am J3;JB ;Bq; os 'puvy /Cru Jo jno wyyj pys/ puB 'aou jo
[njpnBq B jo 'XajjBq jo SJES araos raaq; £JJBD pu»? oS pjnoM
I ua;jp Xja^ UBIJIUIBJ oiaq; ajpra o^ 'ajqissod SB am
SB paaj o; raaq; parno;snooB puB ';t jo iJEd ;saq a'qi u;
aajq; aq; py.wi{i3; j ';i auop pBq i UP *PUB faoaid ;sjg
aq; ui SuiSpaq sq;uora 3ajq; ;noqE SBM j -aSBJnoo q;tM
JJJ:OA\ o; ;uaM j ptiB 'aouapnjd amos q;iM SupDB SBM siqj,
,ajnsopni Am o;
pnnojS ajotn ppE pjnoo i 'pasBajoui j[oo;s Am SB 'os 'atnq
ajqBtiosBaj AUB ui aABq pjnoqs j. SB AUBIH SB uivjuivw pjnoM
;t SB 'qoiqM. 'q;pBajq ut spjeA psjpunq auo puB 'q;Suaj
ni spjBA A;jg puB pajpunq ano ;noq« jo aoatd B asoput 0}
paAjosaj i 'SuiuniJJaq aq; joj 'puB 'juoys pstf(fojs A[;uasajd
j og -am o; paj-inooo ;qSnoq; siq; uaqM spjeA A;jg
;noqB 'aAaipq j 'uo pyuuvj PUB unSaq SBM aSpaq &y$
,raaq; qo}BD jaAati pjnoqs
I }Bq; ni raaq; asBqo o; raooj qontn os aABq pjnoqs i PUB
'piiB[Si ajoqM aq; pBq pBq Aaq; jt SB ssv<fmoj qonra os n
i
pjiM SB aq pjnoM S;BOS Atn ;eq; japisuoo ion pip i ;nq !ui
}i op 0; qSnoua amii aABq o; ajjij SBM j ';noqB sajitn iia;
SBM ;1 ji joj 'ssBdcnoo aq; o; SB iBajS os ;1 jo ssaupBin aq;
SBM jo^j ';noqB sajtuj OM; isB3[ JB uaaq aABq isntn apd
jo aSpaq Am ;Bq; jauuBin B qons 111 punojS jo 3D3id siq;
Suisopin Aq iiBSaq j maq; \\s\ nBlls I U311M 'JSVJMO/ Am JB
HIM Aaq; ABS i f ApooM AjaA SBM pua auo ;B puB 'it ui
NOSNrao>i 09 T
jj jo Sfti.i aj;;r[ aaiq; JO OM; pBq qoiqM ('sainojOD
tua;saM aq; ut ;i ^JBD a[doad jno SB (, qBuuBAEs jo 'pnBj
jo aoaid uado 'aiB^d e Supq) 'asaq; ne JDJ jadojd
aoejd B uodn paqo;id j uaqM 'aouBAix;noo aj;;il
puq i ^'Jiq? Hl^i. sajnsopni qons puB;sjapnn oqM
,uns aij; uiojj uiai^ daaj[ o; jatioj pnB '^uup o; raaq; JGJ
J34BM ';B3 Oi raaq; JDJ y2vqA9i{ aq o; -^la^il SBM ajaq; ajaqAY
'punojS jo aoaid jado^d B }no pug o; SBM ^JOAY isjg Xra
•;i S.uiop joj /Cjis$yJyu yjniosqv uv SBM ajaq; MBS \ SB
,spiiBq jo -iiBd ano joj Su;j[B;japun }BajS B SBM
,m ^Bajq ;noq;iAi asoq; jo 'ino ^Bajq ;ou ;qSira ui
asoq; ;Bq; Xjpn;oajja os ui iuaq; daajf o; 'apd jo aSpaq
q;iAi jaq;ia paouaj \\3fA 'punojS jo aoaid pasopu t amos
3ABq o; SBM siq; joj ABM Xjno aqj, 'dn MajS Xaq; uaqM
PJIM unj E^BMJB pjnoM Xaq; asja jo 'P^TM. aq; raojj araB;
aqi da32[ }snra I ;Bq; am 0; pajjnooo ;i uaq; ing
fo qjoy v a5[i^ asnoq Am ;noqB raaq; aABq ;qSira
'uaqM 'ABM Ajno Am SBM amB; dn amos Suipaajq ';y>;
;oqs jo japMod on pBq j uaqM 'qsag (s;Bo3 q;iM j[osAra
A^ddns 0} parpadxa j ji ;Bq; punoj i Mon pny -amBi aq o;
Asq; pnB 'maq; paiduia; ;i 'OJOD iaaMs amos raaq; Sm
'inq '. paaj pjnoM Aaq; ajojaq ajiqM pooS B SBM n
,amoq jp raaq; ;q§nojq Aijnoraip amos q;iM
pnB 'jaq;aSo; sSupis q;iM raaq; pap j 'auo Aq auo raaq;
'puB 'spijj aajq; aq; 0; ;uaM j uaqj, -amp iBq; JB
ou SUIAVOUJJ 'oS raiq ;aj j juyssj<? 9i{} Mf'j
,pasn jpM ajB Aaq; ajaqM sajr.iBajo
'snopvSvs AiqSira ajB Aaq; joj :spijf aq; jo auo SB
SB uaaq aABq ppoM aq 'iuoo aj;;n B uaq; puB 'sjuup o;
ja;BM amos raiq pai-UBD aABq uaq; puB 'pooj ;noq;iM sABp
jnoj j0 aajq; ajaq; AB;S raiq ;aj pBq j jj 'uoij B araB; \\\i&
6ST aosaao NOSNISOH
usq; 500 pip
I ;ng -MZ/K «y A? jno puyuyjy£u/'ud3q pvq aq ji SB ABAIB
UBJ aq piiB ';no raiu ~,aj uaAa j og -puy ifw jyaisuv ;z pjnom
*ou 'ssauisnq Xm ;ou SBAV rjsq; ;nq 'unq panH aABq pjnoo I
,pa;tiBM i ;BqM SBM qoiqM 'aAip ABAXB niiq j^uuq o; 'ABS
o; si }Bq; :ujiq o; ;id aq; o;ui oS ;oa isjnp i sojag os
ajj 'tnm q;iM op o; ;eqAi ^ou Aiaujj j auo pjo aq; o; sy
,syjvwsfoi&i PUB .?/#z# B'
aajq; sjaq;o aq; jo auo ui piiB ';BoS-aq p^o 'aSjB[ B raaq;
jo auo ut punoj i 'sdBJi Xra aas o; Suiujoin auo 3uioS
yfim no/ C yjqnoj; oj jou 'pnB : sdBJ;
-guiSBjnoosip AjaA SBM siqj, -auoS PUB
;iBq aq; ;aA puB 'SuipuB;s \\v raaq; punoj i 'Sniujoui ;xau
aq; SuioS 'PUB ';qSiu auo ut sdBj; aajq; ;as j q;Suaj ;y
•;aaj Jpq; jo ssjjBui aq; aas
pjnoo i joj 'UJOD aq; dn ua;B3 puB ui auoS pBq S;BOS aq;
;BIJ; aAiaojad ^jisBa pjnoo i puB .' <fvjj ^y; JSuijjys ;noq;;Ai
'aDU Xjp PUB AapBq jo s*vs ;nd i sarai; pjaAag -uiaq;
uodn jySisai ;BajS B q;iM 'oo; 'ZuiqvM uaio /Cw /o 'syjpjtn{
paoB^d j s;jd asoq; jaAo puB 'paaj o; pasn s;BoS aq; paAjasqo
pBq j ajaqM saoB^d ui 'q;jBa aq; ui sj-i/f sSm\ pjaAas Snp i
,jjvfli<f B AJ; o; paAjosaj i q;Suaj ;y -pajnoAap j-ivq Aui
PUB 'uajfojq raaq; punoj sABMp j puB 'yj-un ou pBq j joj
'pooS ;ou SBM ajijyv} Am ;nq :raaq; u t ua^B; aouo uBq; ajora
3J344 Xaq; aAaijaq op i puB 'maq; jy<ftiivif o; sajBus spEui
I asodjnd sjq; jo^ 'aaijv raaq; jo amos qo;B3 ;ou pjtioo
j jaq;aqM aas o; 'sjvoJf yyj y,ivus puv <fvuf Oj J.M> nuos A'pnjs
oj }jasAui ;as j 'moj Sv.iaioj3l uopiunrauiB Xra -pps
SB 'puB 'aouapisaj Xra jo jBaX q;uaAap aq; ut MOU
'IIAXX
JO JSVJ jV
aqs 'jaq \\\s( o; }jB9q Xtn ni pntj -iaAau pjnoo j[ SB paB
pjo UB MaiS pij[ A"ra ^i; m?(^ 0; ;/ Suuq suBam Anu A'q
;on pjnoo i ;ng -jvoji-yy B Sin;;aa jo ssdoq ni SBM j pan
'SOIB; dn jaq pajq PUB 'pi^ SnnoX B ;dajj 'sjaq Snpq Xui
jo JB3X pjiq; sq; u; 'paAjssqo j SB 'pBq j -s;BoS XOB ni3[
pjnoqs i Moq 'ABS 0} si }Bq; :japMod ajora on aABq pjnoqs
op isnra I ;BqM japisuoo o; Xjsnouas UBSaq j piiB
o; am joj ajqissodrai SBM }i qoiqM ;OBM B SBM siqj,
pa;BqB japMod Am aAiaojad o; MOU
pnB 'A-ip SBM ;i SB uoos SB jno pyqqru S^BM^B j
'UJOD Am jo 3*y(11y3y* sq; DJDM s;32[SBq dasp 'aSjB[ 'osj
,ara puiqaq }saj aq; aABaj pnB '}ajjsBq B n i amoq raaq; Suuq
paB 'am joj qSiious SBM qojqM 'qssg aq; jo OM; jo aoaid B
puB sSSa aq; ;no a^B; 'dn ji ino pjnoo j :apjn; B Xq aj[ij aq;
pay ';aJ[SBq B ni atnoq it Suuq piiB 'saoaid ni 51 ;no puB
';[ ssajp ';/ fotf 'aaj; B ut dn ;i SuBq pjnoo i 'pBOjqB ;BOS B
P3!!!5! I JI *yi4wvx9 MJ -ainoq sSuiq; Saiqo;aj jo 'in dn
sSuiq; SuiXBj joj ;uaui3Anoo pnB ApuBq XjaA ajaM SB qons
ajaM Xaq; ;aX 'amospuBq XjaA ^on qSnoqj^ 'aui paMoqs
U01}U5AUI XtH SB J^3M SB 'S132[SBq XJBSS333U JO
t|ji:ui puB 'qontn paAojdrai j 'OSJB 'ajBM jajjoiM Xra
,sadid
jv swoj ;on pjnoo j 'UIBSB diqs aq; paqojBas i uaqM'
^Sl HOSQHD NOSNiaOH
PUB :pnBjst sq; m oooBqo; SBM 3j3q; Supjuiq; ;oti
';sjg ;B raaq; ;oSjoj ;nq 'diqs aq; ut sadjd ajaM ajaq; pus
'adorns a? pfsn uaaq sX^M^ p-eq j 'ji rjiiAV pspojmoo
-paaoxa SBM j 'adorns aq; MBjp pjnoM puB 'uuij put:
SBM JT SB ;aX 'sjBMuaq;jB3 jaq;o 3j[ij 'paj patunq
'anop SB^ JT uaqM 8tnq; /Cswnp 'X^Sn XjaA B SBM ;t
»<fitf ojjvqoj B ajpm o; ajqB Snpq Xra joj nBq; ';no punoj j
JQJ jnjXot ajora jo 'aDuvujjojjad HMO Xra jo UIBA

ajom
SBM j sjntq; j ;ng -no jjooj o? paapni
ajojaq qoiqM 'padBqs puB punoj s3niq; apBm
UB jaisBa Xp;iugui punoj
raaq; aj[Bni o} qSnoua jpM paAu;noo pnB'
ui wjjyyj^ pyj3y4xaun uv ;v pyainv / 's}m ssptsag
EOSflHO NOSNISOS
,ptiq I S[oc4 Maj Moq Suuapisiioo X^Bpadsa 'ja;uadB3
pooS AjaA B apBra aABq 'uoiSBDot Hodn 'pjnoqs
I -o; jpsAra SuiAiddB nodn am ;nd sapissaoau Am
syspjyxy ymvyy?w aq; jpe in ami; siq; n i jpsAra pyaow
,A;apos jo ;Bq; ;daoxa
UB UT XjiddsH XjaA Xjpaj paAij I iqSnoij ; j 'aouapiAojj jo
suopisodsip aq; 0} jpsAra SumStsaj n i pa;jojraOD Annj PUB
'uopipuoo Am o; SB pasodraoo qonra A"J3A Suwq
,asoddns jp-M ABUI noA SB 'ajij puyyj ',yjvpys AJSA B
'jBaA B jean pautBiuaj \ jy(/wy; /Cm Jo juawtufdoS siiy. uj
,B3S
aq; o;ui ;t p3 o; ajom AaBra os jo pnB 'ji a^Btn 0; joqB^
,Bq;uom AUBUI os jo pnpo^uf aq; uasq pBq }i qSnoq; ';Boq
AUB ;noq;iAi aq 0} jpsAui pa;uaiuoo i 's;qSnoi[i asaq;
,;i mojj ABMB paujBD Supq jo ajopq uaaq pBq i SB'
aq; Aq pajjjBD pnB 'UIBSJJS aq; nMop uaAup Supq jo
2[su auiBS aq; unj ;qSTtn j 'apis jaq;o aq; no ;i Aq passBd
}i SB ;SBa aq; ;B ajoqs aq; ;sniB3B aojoj amBS aq; q;iM UBJ
;uautiD aq; Suisoddns ;nq :ajaq; aq ;qSira ;i Moq MOUJJ
;ou pip i 'pnB^si aq; jo apis jaq;o aq; o; sy ';t Jo
o; inq 'j/tyy unj poojq faya Am pnB 'yuuys pjnoaijjvy
AJ^J -ABM ;Bq; Suun;naA on SBA*. ajaq; qSnotia jpM Mauj[
I 'pnnoj anoS pBq j qoiqAi 'puB^si aq; jo apis ;sBa aq;
o; sy 'jnoqv ;z jyS o; a^qBopoBjd SBM ;t Moq ;ou
;tiq 1 PUBJSI aq; jo apis Am no nyeSB ;Boq Am aABq o;
AjaA uaaq 3ABq pjnoqs i -UT uaaq puq j jaSuBp atp nodn
puB ^t;s ;1s o; sABp AuBm joj op o; qSnoua pBq paB
auios JGJ Bas o; SuifquiBj jo qSnoua pBq AVOU
,am q;iAi. SUOJB amoq tmq paujBo j og 'ntBSB am aas o;
oaaq pBq aq ji SB ;snf — ^ uaaq j
/ had to pretend to be judge and executioner upon these men
as criminals, whom Heaven had thought fit, for so many
ages, to suffer, unpunished, to go on; how far these people
were offenders against me, and what right I had to engage in
the quarrel of that blood which they shed promiscuously upon
one another. I debated this very often with myself thus:
"How do I know what God himself judges in this particular
case? It is certain these people do not commit this as a
crime; it is not against their own consciences reproving, or
their light reproaching them; they do not know it to be
an offense, and then commit it in defiance of divine justice,
as we do in almost all the sins we commit. They think
it no more a crime to kill a captive taken in war, than we
do to kill an ox; or to eat human flesh, than we do to eat
mutton."
When I considered this a little, it followed necessarily
that I was certainly in the wrong; that these people were
not murderers in the sense that I had before condemned
them in my thoughts. In the next place, it occurred to
me that although the usage they gave one another was thus
brutish and inhuman, yet it was really nothing to me.
These people had done me no injury. If they attempted
me, or I saw it necessary for my immediate preservation
to fall upon them, something might be said for it; but I
was yet out of their power, and they really had no
knowledge of me, and consequently no design upon me.
CHAPTER XXXI.
IN this disposition I continued for near a year after this;
and so far was I from desiring an occasion for falling upon
these wretches, that in all that time I never once went up
the hill to see whether there were any of them in sight, or
to know whether any of them had been on shore there or
not. I went and removed my boat, which I had on the
other side of the island, and carried it down to the east end
of the whole island, where I ran it into a little cove, which
I found under some high rocks, and where I knew, by
reason of the currents, the savages durst not—at least would
not—come with their boats upon any account whatever.
With my boat I carried away everything that I had left
there belonging to her, though not necessary for the bare
going thither,—namely, a mast and sail which I had made
for her, and a thing like an anchor, but which indeed
could not be called either anchor or grapnel; however, it
was the best I could make of its kind. All these I
removed, that there might not be the least shadow for
discovery, or appearance of any boat, or of any human
habitation upon the island.
Besides this, I kept myself, as I said, more retired than
ever, and seldom went from my cell except upon my
constant employment,—to milk my she-goats, and manage
my little flock in the wood, which, as it was quite on
the other part of the island, was out of danger. For
certain it is that these savage people, who sometimes
haunted this island, never came with any thoughts of
finding anything here, and consequent!}' never wandered
off from the coast, and I doubt not but they might have
been several times on shore after my apprehensions of
them had made me cautious, as well as before. Indeed, I
looked back with some horror upon the thoughts of what
my condition would have been if I had chanced upon them
and been discovered before; when, naked, and unarmed,
except with one gun, and that loaded often only with small
shot, I walked everywhere, peeping and peering about the
island to see what I could get. What a surprise should I
have been in if, when I discovered the print of a man's
foot, I had, instead of that, seen fifteen or twenty savages,
and found them pursuing me, and, by the swiftness of
their running, no possibility of my escaping them / The
thoughts of this sometimes sank my very soul within me,
and distressed my mind so much that I could not soon
recover it, to think what I should have done, and how I
should not only have been unable to resist them, but even
should not have had presence of mind enough to do what I
might have done; much less what now, after so much
consideration and preparation, I might be able to do.
Indeed, after serious thinking of these things, I would be
melancholy, and, sometimes, it would last a great while.
I believe the reader of this will not think it strange if I
confess that these anxieties, these contant dangers I lived
in, and the concern that was now upon me, put an end to all
invention, and to all the contrivances that I had laid fo>
my future accommodations and conveniences. I had the care
of my safety more now upon my hands than that of my
food. I cared not to drive a nail, or chop a stick of wood
now, for fear the noise I might make should be heard.
Much less would I fire a gun, for the same reason; and,
above all, I was intolerably uneasy at making any fire, lest
the smoke, which is visible at a great distance in the day
should betray me. For this reason I removed that part of
my business which required fire, such as burning of pots
and pipes, etc., into my new apartment in the woods;
where, after I had been some time, I found to my unspeak-
able consolation a mere natural cave in the earth, which went
in a vast way, and where, I dare say, no savage, had he
been at the mouth of it, would be so hardy as to venture in;
nor, indeed, would any man else, but one who, like me,
wanted nothing so much as a safe retreat.
The mouth of this hollow was at the bottom of a great
rock, where, by mere accident, I would say, if I did not see
abundant reason to ascribe all such things now to Providence,
I was cutting down some thick branches of trees to make
charcoal. Before I go on I must observe the reason of my
making this charcoal, which was this: I was afraid of
making a smoke about my habitation, as I said before ; and
yet I could not live there without baking my bread, cook-
ing my meat, etc. So I contrived to burn some wood here,
as I had seen done in England, under turf, till it became
chark or dry coal. Then putting the fire out, I preserved
the coal to carry home, and perform the other services for
which fire was wanting, without danger of smoke. But
this is bv the bye.
While I was cutting down some wood here, I perceived
that behind a very thick branch of low brushwood or under-
wood, there was a kind of hollow place. I was curious to
look into it; and getting with difficulty into the mouth of
it, I found it was pretty large,—that is to say, sufficient
for me to stand upright in it, and perhaps another with me.
But I must confess to you that I made more haste out than
I did in, when, looking farther into the place, which was
perfectly dark, I saw two broad, shining eyes of some
creature, whether devil or man I knew not, which twin-
kled like two stars, the dim light from the cave's mouth
shining directly in, and making the reflection.
However, after some pause, I recovered myself, and
began to call myself a thousand fools, and to think that he
that was afraid to see the devil, was not fit to live twenty
years in an island all alone, and that I might well think
there was nothing in this cave that was more frightful than
myself. Upon this, plucking up my courage, I took up a
firebrand, and in I rushed again, with the stick flanging in
my hand. I had not gone three steps in, before I was
almost as much frightened as before; for I heard a very
loud sigh, like that of a man in some pain, and it was
followed by a broken noise, as of words half expressed, and
then a deep sigh again. I stepped back, and was indeed
struck with such a surprise that it put me into a cold sweat,
and if I had had a hat on my head, I will not answer for it
that my hair might not have lifted it off. But still plucking
up my spirits as well as I could, and encouraging myself a
little with considering that the power and presence of God
was everywhere, and was able to protect me, I stepped for-
ward again.
By the.light of the firebrand, holding it up a little over
my head, I saw lying on the ground a monstrous, fright-
ful, old he-goat, gasping for life, and dying, indeed, of
mere old age. I stirred him a little to see if I could get
him out, and he essayed to get up, but was not able to
raise himself. I thought with myself he might even lie
there; for if he had frightened me, so he would certainly
frighten any of the savages, if any of them should be so
hardy as to come in there while he had any life in him.
I was now recovered from my surprise, and began to
look round me, when I found the cave was but very small,
that is to say, it might be about twelve feet over, but in
no manner of shape, neither round nor square no hands
having ever been employed in making it but those of mere
nature. I observed also that there was a place at the
farther side of it that went in farther, but was so low that
it required me to creep upon my hands and knees to go
into it, and whither it went I knew not. So, having no
candle,.! gave it over for that time, but resolved to go
again the next day, provided with candles and a tinder
box, which I had made of the lock of one of the muskets,
with some wildfire in the pan.
Accordingly, the next day I came provided with six
large candles of my own making, (for I made very good
candles now of goafs tallow, but was hard set for candle
wicks, using sometimes rags or rope-yarn, and sometimes
the dried rind of a weed like neltles /) and going into this
low place I was obliged to creep upon all fours, as I have
said, almost ten yards; which, by the way, I thought was
a venture bold enough, considering that I knew not how
far it nught go, nor what was beyond it. When I had got
through the strait, I found the roof rose higher up, I
believe near twenty feet. But never was such a glorious
sight seen in the island, I dare say, as it was to look
round the sides and roof of this vault or cave. The wall
reflected a hundred thousand lights to me from my two
candles. What it was in the rock,—whether diamonds or
any other precious stones, or gold, which I rather supposed
it to be,—I knew not. The place I was in was a most
delightful cavity, or grotto, though perfectly dark. The
floor was dry and level, and had a sort of small, loose
gravel upon it, so that there was no nauseous or venomous
creature to be seen, neither was there any damp or wet on
the sides or roof.
The only difficulty in it was the entrance, which, how-
ever, as it was a place of security, and such a retreat as I
wanted, I thought was a convenience; so that I was really
rejoiced at the discovery, and resolved, without any delay,
to bring some of those things which I was most anxious
about to this place. Particularly, I resolved to bring
hither my magazine of powder, and all my spare arms;
namely, two fowling pieces—for I had three in all—and
three muskets—for of them I had eight in all. So I kept
in my castle only five, which stood ready mounted like
pieces of cannon on my outpost fence, and were ready also
to take out upon any expedition. Upon this occasion of
removing my ammunition I happened to open the barrel
of powder which I took up out of the sea, and which had
been wet, and I found that the water had penetrated about
three or four inches into the powder on every side, which
caking and growing hard, had preserved the inside like a
kernel in the shell, so that I had near sixty pounds of very
good powder in the center of the cask. This was a very
agreeable discovery to me at that time; so I carried all
away thither, never keeping above two or three pounds of
powder with me in my castle, for fear of a surprise of
any kind. I also carried thither all the lead I had left
for bullets.
I fancied myself now like one of the ancient giants who
were said to live in caves and holes in the rocks, where
none could come at them. I persuaded myself, while I was
here, that if five hundred savages were to hunt me, they
could never find me out; or if they did, they would not
venture to attack rae here. The old goat whom I found
expiring, died in the mouth of the cave the next day after
I made this discovery; and I found it much easier to dig a
great hole there, and throw him in and cover him with
earth, than to drag him out.
I was now in the twenty-third year of my residence in
this island, and was so naturalized to the place and the
manner of living that, could I but have enjoyed the certainty
that no savages would come to the place to disturb me,
I could have been content to capitulate for spending the
rest of my time there, even to the last moment, till*I had
laid me down and died, like the old goat in the cave. I
had also arrived to some little diversions and amusements,
which made the time pass a great deal more pleasantly
with me than it did before. First, I had taught my Poll,
as I named before, to speak; and he did it so familiarly,
and talked so articulately and plain, that it was very
pleasant to me: and he lived with me no less than six-
and-twenty years. How long he might have lived after-
wards I know not, though I know they have a notion in
Brazil that they live a hundred years. My dog was a
pleasant and loving companion to me for no less than
sixteen years of my time, and then died of mere old age.
As for my cats, they multiplied, as I have observed, to that
degree that I was obliged to shoot several of them at first,
to keep them from devouring me and all I had; but, at
length, when the two old ones I brought with me were
gone, and after some time continually driving them from
me, and letting them have no provision with me, they all
ran wild into the woods, except two or three favorites,
which I kept tame, and whose young, when they had any,
I always drowned; and these were part of my family.
Besides thes« I always kept two or three household kids
about me, which I taught to feed out of my hand. And I
had two more parrots, which talked pretty well, and would
all call '' Robin Crusoe,'' but none like my first; nor,
indeed, did I take the pains with any of them that I had
done with him. I had also several tame sea fowls, whose
name I knew not, that I caught upon the shore, and cut
their wings; and the little stakes which I had planted
before my castle wall being now grown up to a good thick
grove, these fowls all lived among these low trees, and bred
there, which was very agreeable to me; so that, as I said
above, I began to be very well contented with the life I led,
if I could have been secured from the dread of the savages.
But it was otherwise directed; and it may not be amiss
for all people who shall meet with my story to make this
just observation from it; namely, how frequently, in the
course of our lives, the evil which in itself we seek most to
shun, and which, when we are fallen into, is the most
dreadful to us, is oftentimes the very means or door /tf our
deliverance, by which alone we can be raised again from the
affliction we are fallen into. I could give many examples
of this in the course of my unaccountable life; but in
nothing was it more particularly remarkable than in the
circumstances of my last years of solitary residence in this
island.
CHAPTER XXXII.
IT was now the month of December, as I said above, In
my twenty-third year; and this, being the southern solstice
(for winter I cannot call it) , was the particular time of my
harvest, and required me to be pretty much abroad in the
fields. Going out early in the morning, even before it was
thorough daylight, I was surprised with seeing a light of
some fire upon the shore, at a distance from me of about
two miles, toward that part of the island where I had
observed some savages had been before; not on the other
side,—but, to my great affliction, it was on my side of the
island.
I was indeed terribly surprised at the sight, and stopped
short within my grove, not daring to go out, lest I might
be surprised. And yet I had ny more peace within, from
the apprehensions I had that if these savages, in rambling
over the island, should find my corn standing or cut, or any
of my works or improvements, they would immediately
conclude that there were people in the place, and would
then never rest till they had found me out. In this
extremity I went back directly to my castle, pulled up
the ladder after me, and made all things without look as
wild and natural as I could.
Then I prepared myself within, putting myself in a
posture of defense. I loaded all my cannon, as I called
them,—that is co say my muskets,—which were mounted
upon my new fortification, and all my pistols, and resolved
to defend myself to the last gasp, not forgetting seriously to
commend myself to the divine protection, and earnestly to
pray to God to deliver me out of the hands of the
barbarians. I continued in this posture about two hours,
and began to be impatient for intelligence abroad, for I had
no spies to send out. After sitting a while longer, and
musing what I should do in this case, I was not able to
bear sitting in ignorance longer. So, setting up my
ladder to the side of the hill, where there was a flat
place, as I observed before, and then pulling the ladder
after me, I set it up again and mounted the top of the hill,
and pulling out my perspective glass, which I had taken on
purpose, I laid me down flat on the ground, and began to
look for the place. I presently found there were no less
than nine naked savages sitting round a small fire they had
made, not to warm them, for they had no need of that, the
weather being extremely hot, but, as I supposed, to dress
some of their barbarous diet of human flesh which they had
brought with them, whether alive or dead I could not tell.
They had two canoes with them, which they had hauled
up upon the shore; and as it was then ebb of tide, they
seemed to me to wait for the return of the flood to go away
again. It is not easy to imagine what confusion this sight
put me into, especially seeing them come on my side of the
island, and so near to me. But when I considered their
coming must be always with the current of the ebb, I began
afterwards to be more sedate in my mind, being satisfied
that I might go abroad with safety all the time of the flood
of tide, if they were not on shore before. Having made
this observation, I went abroad about my harvest work
with the more composure.
As I expected so it proved; for, as soon as the tide made
to the westward, I saw them all take boat and. row (or
paddle as we call it) away. I should have observed that
for an hour or more before they went off they were dancing,
and I could easily discern their postures and gestures by
my glass.
As soon as I saw them shipped and gone, I took two'guns
upon my shoulders, and two pistols in my girdle, and my
great sword by my side, without a scabbard, and, with all
the speed I was able to make, went away to the hill where I
had discovered the first appearance of all. As soon as I
got thither, which was in not less than two hours, (for I
could not' go quickly, being so loaded with arms as I was,)
I perceived there had been three canoes more of the
savages at that place; and, looking out farther, I saw they
were all at sea together, making over for the main. This
was a dreadful sight to me, especially as, going down to
the shore, I could see the marks of horror which the dismal
work they had been about had left behind it; namely, the
blood, the bones, and part of the flesh of human bodies,
eaten and devoured by those wretches with merriment and
sport.
I was so filied with indignation at the sight, that I now
began to premeditate the destruction of the next that I saw
there, let them be whom or how many soever. It seemed
evident to me that the visits which they made thus to this
island were not very frequent, for it was above fifteen
months before any more of them came on shore there
again,—that is to say, I neither saw them nor any footsteps
or signals of them in all that time; foi as to the rainy
seasons, then they are sure not to come abroad, at least not
so far. Yet all this while I lived uncomfortably, by reason
of the constant apprehensions I was in of their coming upon
me by surprise; whence I observe that the expectation of
evil is more bitter than the suffering, especially if there is
no room to shake off that expectation, or those apprehensions.
I spent my days now in great perplexity and anxiety of
mind, expecting that I should one day or other fall into the
hands of these merciless creatures. If I did at any time
venture abroad, it was not without looking around me with
the greatest care and caution imaginable. And now I found,
to my great comfort, how happy it was that I had provided
a tame flock, or herd, of goats, for I durst not upon any
account fire my gun, especially near that side of the island
where they usually came, lest T should alarm the savages;
and if they had fled from me now, I was sure to have them
come again, with perhaps two or three hundred canoes with
them, in a few days, and then I knew what to expect.
I slept unquietly, dreamed always frightful dreams, and
often started out of my sleep in the night. In -the day, great
troubles overwhelmed my mind; and in the night, I
dreamed often of killing the savages, and of the reasons
why I might justify the doing o/ it.
It was in the middle of May, on the sixteenth day, I
think, as well as my poor wooden calendar would reckon,
—for I marked all upon the post still;—I say, it was on
the sixteenth of May that it blew a very great storm of
wind all day, with a great deal ol lightning and thunder,
and a very foul night it was after it. I knew not what was
the particular occasion of it; but as I^was reading in the
Bible, and taken up with very serious thoughts about my
^resent condition, I was surprised with the noise of a gun,
#3 I thought, fired at sea. This was, to be sure, a surprise
quite of a different nature from any I had met with before;
for the notions this put into my thoughts were quite of
another kind. I started up in the greatest hastt imaginable;
and, in a trice, clapped my ladder to the m'ddle place of
the rock, and pulled it after me; and mounting it the
second time, got to the top of the hill the very moment
that a flash of fire bid me listen for a second gun, which,
accordingly, in about half a minute, I heard. By the
sound I knew that it was from that part of the sea where I
was driven down the current in my boat.
I immediately considered that this must be some ship in
distress, and that they had some comrade, or some other ship
in company, and fired these for signals of distress, and to
obtain help. I had the presence of mind, at that minute,
to think that though I could not help them, it might be
they might help me. So I brought together all the dry
wood I could get at hand, and, making a good, handsome
pile, I set it on fire upon the hill. The wood was dry, and
blazed freely ; and, though the wind blew very hard, yet */
burned fairly out. I was certain, if there was any such
thing as a ship, they must see it. And no doubt they did;
for as soon as ever my fire blazed up, I heard another gun,
and after that several others, all from the same quarter. I
pliea my fire all night long till daybreak.
When it was broaa day, and the air cleared up, I saw
something at a great distance at sea, full east of the island,
whether a sail or a hull I could not distinguish—no, not
with my glass; the distance was so great, and the weather
still something hazy also.
I looked frequently at it all that day, and soon perceived
that it was a ship at anchor; and being eager, you may be
sure, to be satisfied, I took my jjun in my hand, and ran
KSON CEUSOfi 201
towards the south side of the island, to the rocks where I
had formerly been carried away by the current. Getting
up there, the weather by this time being perfectly clear, I
could plainly see, to my great sorrow, the wreck of a ship,
cast away in the night upon those concealed rocks which I
found when I was out in my boat; and which rocks, as
they checked the violence of the stream , were the occasion of
my recovering from the most desperate, hopeless condition
that ever I had been in in all my life. Thus, what is one
man's safety is another man's destruction; for it seems
these men, whoever they were, being out of their knowledge ,
and the rocks being wholly under water, had been driven
upon them in the night, the wind blowing hard at east-
northeast. Had they seen the island, as I must necessarily
suppose they did not, they must, as I thought, have
endeavored to have saved themselves on shore by the help
of their boat.
It was now calm, and I had a great mind to venture out
in my boat to this wreck, not doubting but I might find
something on board that might be useful to me. But that
did not altogether press me so much as the possibility that
there might be yet some living creature on board, whose
life I might not only save, but might, by saving that life,
comfort my own to the last degree. This thought so clung
to my heart that I could not be quiet night or day, but I
must venture out in my boat on board this wreck; and
committing the rest to God's providence, I thought the im-
pression was so strong upon my mind that it could not be
resisted, — that it must come from some invisible direction,
and that I should be wanting to my -self if I did not go.
Under the power of this impression, I hastened back to
my castle, prepared everything for my voyage, took a
quantity of bread, a great pot of fresh water, a compass to
steer by, a bottle of rum (for I had still a great deal of that
left), and a basket of raisins; and thus loading myself with
everything necessary, I went down to my boat, got the
water out of her, got her afloat, loaded all my cargo in her,
and then went home again for more. My second cargo
was a great bag of rice, the umbrella to set up over my
head for a shade, another large pot of fresh water, and
about two dozen of small loaves, or barley cakes, more than
before, with a bottle of goat's milk, and a cheese.
All this with great labor and sweat I carried to my boat;
and praying to God to direct my voyage, I put out, and
rowing or paddling the canoe along the shore, came at last
to the utmost point of the island on the northeast side.
And now I was to launch out into the ocean, and either to
venture or not to venture. I looked on the rapid currents
which ran constantly on both sides of the island at a dis-
tance, and which were very terrible to me, from the
remembrance of the hazard I had been in before, and my
heart began to fail me. I foresaw that if I was driven into
either of those currents, I should be carried a great way
out to sea, and perhaps out of my reach, or sight of the island
again; and that then, as my boat was but small, if any
little gale of wind should rise, I should be inevitably lost.
I first made a little out to sea, full north, till I began to
feel the benefit of the current, which set eastward, and
which carried me at a great rate, and yet did not so hurry
me as the current on the south side had done before, so as
to take from me all government of the boat. Having a strong
steerage with my paddle, I went at a great rate directly for
the wreck, and in less than two hours I came up to it. It
was a dismal sight to look at. The ship, which, by its
building, was Spanish, stuck fast, jammed in between two
rocks. When I came close to her, a dog appeared upon
her, who, seeing me coming, yelped and cried, and, as
soon as I called him, jumped into the sea to come to me.
I took him into the boat, but found him almost dead with
hunger and thirst. I gave him a cake of my bread, and
he devoured it like a ravenous wolf that had been starving
a fortnight in the snow. I then gave the poor creature
some fresh water, with which, if I would have let him, he
would have burst himself. After this I went on board;
but the first sight I met with was two men drowned in the
cookroom, or forecastle of the ship, with their arms fast
about one another. I concluded, as is indeed probable, that
when the ship struck, it being in a storm, the sea broke so
high and so continually over her that the men were not
able to bear it, and were strangled with the constant
rushing in of the water, as much as if they had' been
under water.
Besides the dog, there was nothing left in the ship that
had life; nor any goods, that I could see, but what were
spoiled by the water. I saw several chests, which, I
believe, belonged to some of the seamen; and I got two of
them into the boat, without examining what was in them.
I found, besides these chests, a little cask full of liquor,
of about twenty gallons, which I got into my boat with
much difficulty. I took a fire shovel and tongs, which I
wanted extremely; as also two little brass 'settles, a copper
pot to make chocolate, and a gridiron; and with this cargo,
and the dog, I came away, the tide beginning to make
home again. The same evening, about an hour within
night, I reached the island again, weary and fatigued to
the last degree. I reposed that night in the boat; and in
the morning I resolved to harbor what I had got in my
new cave, and not to carry it home to my castle. When I
came to open the chests, I found several things of great use
to me. For example, I found in one a fine case of bottles, of
an extraordinary kind, and filled with cordial waiers, fine
and very good. The bottles held about three pints each,
and were tipped with silver. I found two pots of very good
succades, or sweetmeats,, so fastened also on the top that the
salt water had not hurt them ; and two more of the same,
which the water had spoiled. I found some very good
shirts, which were very welcome to me; and about a dozen
and a half of white linen handkerchiefs and colored neck-
cloths. The former were also very welcome, being exceed-
ingly refreshing to wipe my face in a hot day. Besides this,
when I came to the till in the chest, I found there three
great bags of pieces of eight, which held about eleven
hundred pieces in all; and in one of them, wrapped up
in a paper, six doubloons of gold, and some small bars
or wedges oj gold; I suppose they might all weigh near a
pound.
Upon the whole, I got very little by this voyage that was
of any use to me; for, as to the money, I had no manner
of occasion for it; it was to me as the dirt under my feet,
and I would have given it all for three or four pair of
English shoes and stockings, which were things I greatly
wanted, but had had none on my feet for many years.
Having now brought all my things on shore, and secured
them, I went back to my boat, and rowed or paddled her
along the shore to her old harbor, where I laid her up.
and made the best of my way to my old habitation, where I
found everything safe and quiet. I began now to repose
myself, live after my old fashion, and take care of my
family affairs. For a while I lived easy enough, only
that I was more vigilant than I usea to be, looked out
oftener, and did not go abroad so muchA If at any time
I did stir with any freedom, it was always to the east
part of the island, where I was pretty well satisfied the
savages never came, and where I could go without so
many precautions and such a load of arms and ammunition
as I always carried with me if I went the other way. I
lived in this condition near two years more; but my
unlucky head, that was always to let me know it was born
to make my body miserable, was all these two years filled
with projects and designs, how, if it were possible, I might
get away from this island.
CHAPTER XXXIII.
IT was one of the nights in the rainy season in March,
the four-and-twentieth year of my first setting foot in this
island of solitude. I was lying in my bed or hammock,
awake, and very well in health; I had no pain, no dis-
temper, no uneasiness of body nor any uneasiness of mind
more than ordinary, but could by no means close my eyes,
—that is, so as to sleep,—no, not a wink. I ran over the
whole history of my life in miniature, or by abridgment, as I
may call it, to my coming to this island, and also of that
part of my life since I came to this island.
In my reflections upon the state of my case since I came
on shore on this island, I was comparing the happy
posture of my affairs in the first years of my habitation
here, with the life of anxiety, fear, and care, which I had
lived in ever since I had seen the print of a foot in the
sand. Not that I did not believe the savages had fre-
quented the island even all the while, and might have
been several hundreds of them at times on shore there ; but
I had never known it, and was incapable of any apprehen-
sions about it. I had walked about in the greatest security,
and with all possible tranquillity, even when perhaps
nothing but the brow of a hill, a great tree, or the casual
approach of night, had been between me and the worst
kind of destructions; namely, that of falling into the hands
of cannibals and savages, who would have seized on me
with the same view as I would on a goat or turtle; and
would have thought it no more crime to kill and devour
me, than I did of a pigeon or a curlew. I would unjustly
slander myself if I should say I was not sincerely thankful
to my great Preserver, to whose singular protection I
acknowledged, with great humility, all these unknown
deliverances were due, and without which I must inevitably
have fallen into their merciless hands.
When these thoughts were over, my head was for some
time taken up in considering what part of the world these
wretches lived in; how far off the coast was from whence
they came; what they ventured over so far from home for;
what kind of boats they had; and why I might not order
myself and my business so that I might be as able to go
over thither as they were to come to me. Perhaps I might
fall in with some Chiistian ship that might take me in;
and, if the worst came to the worst, I could but die, which
would put an end to all these miseries at once.
When this had agitated my thoughts for two hours or
more, with such violence that it set my very blood into a
ferment, and my pulse beat as if I had been in a fever,
merely with the extraordinary fervor of my mind about it,
nature—as if I had been fatigued and exhausted with the
very thoughts of it—threw me into a sound sleep. One
would have thought I should have dreamed of it, but I did
not, nor of anything relating to it. But I dreamed that as
I was going out in the morning as usual, from my castle, I
saw upon the shore two canoes and eleven savages, coming
to land, and that they brought with them another savage,
whom they were going to kill in order to eat him; when, on
a sudden, the savage that they were going to kill jumped
away, and ran for his life. And I thought, in my sleep,
that he came running into my little thick grove before my
fortification, to hide himself; and that I, seeing him alone,
and not perceiving that the others sought him that way,
showed myself to him, and smiling upon him, encouraged
him. He kneeled down to me, seeming to pray me to assist
him; upon which I showed him my ladder, made him go up,
and carried him into my cave, and he became my servant.
As soon as I had got this man, I said to myself, "Now I
may certainly venture to the mainland, for this fellow will
serve me as pilot and will tell me what to do, and whither to
go for provisions, and whither not to go for fear of being
devoured; what places to venture into, and what to shun."
I awoke with this thought; and was under such inexpressible
impressions of joy at the prospect of my escape in my
dream, that the disappointments which I felt upon coming
to myself, and finding that it was no more than a dream,
were equally extravagant the other way, and threw me into
a very great dejection of spirits.
Upon this, however, I made this conclusion: that my
only way to go about to attempt an escape was to endeavor
to get a savage into my possession. If possible, it should
be one of their prisoners, whom they had condemned to be
eaten, and should bring hither to kill.
With these resolutions in my thoughts, I set myself upon
the scout as often as possible, and indeed so often that I was
heartily tired of it. I went .out to the west end, and to the
southwest corner of the island almost every day, to look
for canoes, but none appeared. The longer they seemed
to be delayed, the more eager I was for them. In a word,
I was not at first so careful to shun the sight of these
savages, and avoid being seen by them, as I was now eager
to be upon them. Besides, I fancied myself able to manage
one, nay, two or three savages, if I had them, so as to
make them entirely slaves to me, to do whatever I should
direct them, and to prevent their being able at any time to
do me any hurt. It was a great while that I pleased my-
self with this affair; but nothing still presented itself. All
my fancies and schemes came to nothing, for no savages
came near me for a great while.
About a year and a half after I had entertained these
notions, I was surprised one morning early by seeing no
less than five canoes all on shore together on my side the
island, and the people who belonged to them all landed and
out of my sight. The number of them broke all my
measures; for seeing so many, and knowing that they
always came four or six, or sometimes more, in a boat, I
could not tell what to think of it, or how to take my
measures to attack twenty or thirty men single-handed. So
I lay still in my castle, perplexed and discomforted.
However, I put myself into the same position for an attack
that I had formerly provided, and was just ready for action,
if anything had presented.
Having waited a good while, listening to hear if they
made any noise, at length, being very impatient, I set my
guns at the foot of my ladder, and clambered up to the top
of the hill, by my two stages, as usual; standing so, how-
ever, that my head did not appear above the hill, so that
they could not perceive me by any means. Here I observed
by the help of my perspective glass, that they were no less
than thirty in number; that they had a fire kindled, and
that they had meat dressed. How they had cooked it, I
knew not, or what it was; but they were all dancing, in, I
know not how many barbarous gestures and figures, their
own way, round the fire.
While I was thus looking on them, I perceived, by my
perspective glass, two miserable wretches dragged from the
boats, where, it seems, they were laid by, and were now
brought out for the slaughter. I perceived one of them
immediately fall, being knocked down, I suppose, with a
club, or wooden sword, for that was their way ; and two or
three others were at work immediately, cutting him open
for their cookery, while the other victim was left standing
by himself, till they should be ready for him. In that very
moment, this poor wretch, seeing himself a little at liberty,
tind unbound, Nature inspired him with hopes of life, and
he started away from them, and ran with incredible swift-
ness alonif the sands, directly towards me ; I mean, towards
that part of the coast where my habitation was. I was
dreadfully frightened, I must acknowledge, when I per-
ceived him run my way ; and especially when, as I thought,
I saw him pursued by the whole body. I expected that
part of my dream was coming to pass, and that he would
certainly take shelter in my grove; but I could not depend,
by any means, upon my dream, that the other savages
would not pursue him thither, and find him there. How-
ever, I kept my station, and my spirits began to recover when
I found that there were not above three men that followed
him. Still more was I encouraged, when I found that he
outstripped them exceedingly in running, and gained ground
on them; so that if he could but hold out for half an hour, I
saw easily he would fairly get away from them all.
There was between them and my castle, the creek, which
I mentioned often in the first part of my story, where I
landed my cargoes out of the ship. This I saw plainly he
must necessarily swim over, or the poor wretch would be
taken there. But when the savage escaping came thither,
he made nothing of it, though the tide was then up; but,
plunging in, swam through in about thirty strokes, or
thereabouts, landed, and ran with exceeding strength and
swiftness. When the three persons came to the creek, I
found that two of them could swim, but the third could not,
and that, standing on the other side, he looked at the
others, but went no farther, and soon after went softly back
again; which, as it happened, was very well for him in the
end. I observed that the two who swam were yet more
than twice as long swimming over the creek as the fellow
was that fled from them. It came very warmly upon my
thoughts, and indeed irresistibly, that now was the time to
get me a servant, and perhaps a companion or assistant; and
that I was plainly called by Providence to save this poor
creature's life.
I immediately ran down the ladders with all possible
expedition, fetched my two guns, for they were both at the
foot of the ladders, as I observed before, and getting up
again with the same haste to the top of the hill, I crossed
towards the sea. Having a very short cut, and all down
hill, I placed myself in the way between the pursuers and the
pursued, hallooing aloud to him that fled, who, looking
back, was at first perhaps as much frightened at me as at
them. But I beckoned with my hand to him to come back;
and, in the mean time, I slowly advanced towards the two
that followed. Then rushing at once upon the foremost, I
knocked him down with the stock of my piece. I was loath
to fire, because I would not have the rest hear ; though, at
that distance, it would not have been easily heard, and
being out of sight of the smoke, too, they would not have
known what to make of it. Having knocked this fellow
down, the other who pursued with him stopped, as if he
had been frightened, and I advanced quickly towards
him; but as I came nearer, I perceived presently he had
a bow and arrow, and was fitting it to shoot at me. So
I was then obliged to shoot at him first, which I did, and
killed him at the first shot. The poor savage who fled, but
had stopped, though he saw both his enemies fallen and
killed, as he thought, yet was so frightened with the fire
and noise of my piece that he stood stock-still, and neither
came forward, nor went backward, though he seemed rather
inclined still to fly than to come on. I hallooed again to
him, and made signs to come forward, which he easily
understood, and came a little way; then stopped again,
and then a little farther, and stopped again. I could then
perceive that he stood trembling, as if he had been taken
212
ROBINSON CRUSOB
1
prisoner, and were just about to be killed as his two enemies
had been. I beckoned to him again to come to me, and gave
him all the signs of encouragement that J could think of.
He came nearer and nearer, kneeling down every ten or
twelve steps, in token of acknowledgment for saving his life.
I smiled at him, and looked pleasantly, and beckoned to him
to come still nearer. At length he came close to me; and

then he kneeled down again, kissed the ground, and laid
| his head upon the ground, and, taking me by the foot, set
:my foot upon his head. This, it seems, was in token of
swearing to be my slave forever.
I took him up and made much of him, and encouraged
him all I could. But there was more work to do yet; for
I perceived the savage whom I had knocked down was not
killed, but stunned with the blow, and began to come to
himself. So I pointed to him, and showed him the savage,
that he was not dead. Upon this he spoke words to me,
and though I could not understand them, yet I thought
they were pleasant to hear; for they were the first sound of
a man's voice that I had heard, my own excepted, for above
twenty-five years.
But there was no time for such reflections now. The
savage who was knocked down recovered himself so far as
to sit up upon the ground, -and I perceived that my savage
began to be afraid. But when I saw that, I presented my
other piece at the man, as if I would shoot him. Upon this,
my savage,—for so I call him now,—made a motion to me to
lend him my sword, which hung naked in a belt by my side;
which I did. He no sooner had it, but he ran to his enemy,
and at one blow cut off his head so cleverly, no executioner
in Germany could have done it sooner or better; which I
thought very strange for one who, I had reason to believe,
never saw a sword in his life before, except their own
wooden swords. However, it seemsjwas I learned after-
wards, they make their wooden swords so sharp, so heavy,
and the wood is so hard, that they will even cut off heads
with them,—ay, and arms, and that at one blow, too.
When he had done this, he came laughing to me in sign
of triumph, and brought me the sword again, and, with
abundance of gestures which I did not understand, laid it
down, with the head of the savage that he had killed, just
before me.
But that which astonished him most was to know how I
killed the other Indian so far off. Pointing to him, he
made signs to me to let him go to him; and I bade him go,
as well as I could. When he came to him, he stood like
one amazed, looking at him, turning him first on one side,
then on the other; looked at the wound the bullet had made,
which it seems was just in his breast, where it had made a
hole, and no great quantity of blood had followed, but he
had bled inwardly, for he was quite dead. He took up his
bow and arrows, and came back. I turned to go away, and
beckoned him to follow me, making signs to him that more
might come after them. Upon this he made signs to me
that he should bury them with sand, that they might not
be seen by the rest, if they followed. I made signs to him
again to do so. He fell to work; and in an instant he had
scraped a hole in the sand with his hands, big enough to
bury the first in, and then dragged him into it, and covered
him. He did so by the other also; I believe he had buried
them both in a quarter of an hour. Then, calling him
away, I carried him, not to my castle, but quite away to
my cave, on the farther part of the island; so 1 did not let
my dream come to pass in that part, that he came into my
grove for shelter. Here I gave him bread and a bunch
of raisins to eat, and a draught of water, which I found
he was indeed in great distress for, from his running.
Having refreshed him, I made signs for him to go and lie
down to sleep, showing him a place where I had laid some
rice straw, and a blanket upon it, which I used to sleep upon
myself sometimes, S0 the poor creature lay down, and
went to sleep.
CHAPTER XXXIV.
HE was a comely, handsome fellow, perfectly well made,
with straight, strong limbs; not too large, tall and well
shaped, and, as I reckon, about twenty-six years of age.
He had a very good countenance, not a fierce and surly aspect,
but seemed to have something very manly in his face; and
yet he had all the sweetness and softness of a European in
his countenance too, especially when he smiled. His hair
was long and black, not curled like wool, his forehead very
high and large, and a great vivacity and sparkling sharpness
in his eyes. The color of his skin was not quite black, but
very tawny; and yet not an ugly, yellow, nauseous tawny,
as the Brazilians and Virginians, and other natives of
America are, but of a bright kind of a dun olive-color, that
had in it something very agreeable, though not very easy
to describe His face was round and plump; his nose
small, not flat like the negroes; a very good mouth, thin
lips, and his fine teeth well set, and as white as ivory.
After hf had slept about half an hour, he awoke again,
and came out of the cave to me. I had been milking my
goats, which I had in the inclosure just by. When he
espied me, he came running to me, laying himself down
again upon the ground, with all the possible signs of a
humble, thankful disposition, making a great many antic
gestures to show it. At last he laM his head flat upon the
ground, close to my foot, and set my other foot upon his
head, as he had done before. After this, he made all the
signs to me of subjection, servitude, and submission imagin-
able, to let ifle know how he would serve me so long as he
lived. I understood him in many things, and let him know
I was very well pleased with him. In a little time I began
to speak to him, and teach him to speak to me; and, first,
I let him know his name should be FRIDAY, which was
the day I saved his life. I called him so for the memory of
the time. I likewise taught him to say "Master;" and
then let him know that was to be my name. I likewise
taught him to say "yes" and "no," and to know the
meaning of them. I gave him some milk in an earthen
pot, and let him see me drink it before him, and sop my
bread in it; and gave him a cake of bread to do the like,
which he quickly complied with, and made signs that it was
very good for him.
I kept there with him all that night; but, as soon as it
was day, I beckoned to him to come with me, and let him
know I would give him some clothes. As we went by the
place where he had buried the two men, he pointed exactly
to the place, and showed me the marks that he had made
to find them again, making signs to me that we should dig
them up again and eat them. At this, I appeared very
angry, expressed my abhorrence of it, made as if I would
vomit at the thonghts of it, and beckoned with my hand to
him to come awa>, which he did immediately, with great
submission. I then led him up to the top of the hill, to see
if his enemies were gone. Pulling out my glass, I looked,
and saw plainly the place where they had been, out no
appearance of them or their canoes; so that it was plain
they were gone, and had left their two comrades behind
them, without any search after them.
But I was not content with this discovery; but having
now more courage, and consequently more curiosity, I took
my man Friday with me, giving him the sword in his hand,
with the bow and arrows at his back, which I found he
could use very dexterously, making him carry one gun for
me, and I two for myself; and away we marched to the
place where these creatures had been; for I had a mind now
to get some fuller intelligence of them. When I came to the
place, my very blood ran chill in my veins, and my heart
sank within me, at the horror of the spectacle. Indeed, it
was a dreadful sight,—at least it was so to me, though
Friday made nothing of it. The place was covered with
human bones, and the ground dyed with their blood.
Friday, by his signs, made me understand that they
brought over four prisoners to feast upon; that three of
them were eaten up, and that he, pointing to himself, was
the fourth; that there had been a great battle between
them and their next king, of whose subjects, it seems, he
had been one, and that they had taken a great number of
prisoners; all which were carried to several places, by those
who had taken them in the fight, in order to feast upon
them, as was done here by these wretches upon those they
brought hither.
I caused Friday to gather all the skulls, bones, flesh, and
whatever remained, and lay them together in a heap, and
make a great fire upon it, and burn them all to ashes. I
found Friday had still a hankering stomach after some of the
flesh, and was still a cannibal in his nature; but I showed
so much abhorrence at the very thoughts of it, and at the
least appearance of it, that he durst not discover it; for I
had, by some means, let him know that I would kill him
if he offered it.
When he had done this, we came back to our castle, and
there I fell to work for my man Friday. First of all, I
gave him a pair of linen breeches, which I had out of the
poor gunner's chest I mentioned, which 1 found in the
wreck, and which, with a little alteration, fitted him very
well; and then I made him a jerkin of goat's skin, as well
as my skill would allow (for I was now grown a tolerably
good tailor) ; and I gave him a cap which I made of hare's
skin, very convenient, and fashionable enough. Thus he
was clothed, for the present, tolerably well, and was mighty
well pleased to see himself almost as well clothed as his
master. It is true, he went awkwardly in these clothes at
first. Wearing the breeches was very awkward to him,
and the sleeves of the waistcoat galled his shoulders and the
inside of his arms; but with a little easing them where he
complained they hurt him, and using himself to them,, he
took to them at length very well.
The next day after I came home to my hut with him, I
began to consider where I should lodge him; and, that I
might do well for him and yet be perfectly easy myself, I
made a little tent for him in the vacant place between^ my
two fortifications, in the inside of the last, and in the out-
side of the first. As there was a door or entrance there
into my cave, I made a framed doorcase, and a door to it of
boards, and set it up in the passage, a little within the
entranc :and, causing the door to open in the inside, I
barred it up in the night, taking in my ladders, too. So
Friday could no way come at me in the inside of my innermost
wall, without making so much noise in getting over that it
must needs awaken me; for my first wall had now a com-
plete roof over it of long poles, covering all my tent, and
leaning vp to the side of the hill; which was again laid across
with smaller sticks instead of laths, and then thatched over
a great thickness with the rice straw, which was strong,
like reeds. At the hole or place which was left to go in or
out by the ladder, I had placed a kind of trapdoot, which,
if it had been attempted on the outside, would not have
opened at all, but would have fallen down and made a great
noise. As to weapons, I took them all into my side every
night.
But I needed none of all this precaution; for never man
had a more faithful, loving, sincere servant than Friday
was to me. He was without passions, sullenness, or
designs, perfectly obliged and engaged. His very affections
,were tied to me like those of a child to a father; and I dare
say he would have sacrificed his life to save mine, upon any
occasion -whatsoever. The many testimonies he* gave me of
this put it out of doubt, and soon convinced me that I
needed to use no precautions for my safety on his account.
I was greatly delighted with him, and made it my
business to teach him everything that was proper to make
him useful, handy, and helpful; but especially to make
him speak, and understand me when I spoke. And he
was the aptest scholar that ever was; and particularly was
so merry CO constantly diligent, and so pleased when he
could but anderstand me, or make me understand him,
that it was very pleasant to me to talk to him Now my
life began to be so easy that I began to say to myself that
could I but have been safe from more savages, I cared not
if I was never to remove from the place while I lived.
CHAPTER XXXV.
AFTER I had been two or three days returned to my
castle, I thought that, in order to bring Friday off from his
horrid way of feeding, and from the relish of a cannibaVs
stomach, I ought to let him taste other flesh; so I took him
out with me one morning to the woods. I went, indeed
intending to kill a kid out of my own flock, and bring it
home and dress it; but as I was going, I saw a she-goat
lying down in the shade, and two young kids sitting by
her. I caught hold of Friday. "'Hold," said I, "'stand
still;" and made signs to him not to stir. Immediately,
I presented my piece, shot, and killed one of the kids. The
poor creature, who had, at a distance, indeed, seen me kill
the savage,«his enemy, but did not know, nor could
imagine, how it was done, was sensibly surprised; he
trembled, and shook, and looked so amazed that I thought
he would have sunk down. He did not see the kid I shot
at, or perceive I had killed it, but ripped up his waistcoat,
to feel whether he was not wounded; and, as I found
presently, thought I was resolved to kill him. He came
and kneeled down to me, and embracing my knees, said a
great many things I did not understand ; but I could easily
see the meaning was to pray me not to kill him.
I soon found a way to convince him that I would do him
no harm. Taking him up by the hand, I laughed at him,
and pointing to the kid which I had killed, I beckoned to
him to run and fetch it, which he did, ,^\Vhile he was
wondering, and looking to see how the creature was killed,
I loaded my gun again. By and by I saw a great fowl,
like a hawk, sitting upon a tree within shot. To let Friday
understand a little what I would do, I called him to me
again, pointed at the fowl,—which was indeed a parrot,
though I thought it had been a hawk,—I say, pointing to
the parrot, and to my gun, and to the ground under the
parrot, to let him see I would make it fall, I made him
understand that I would shoot and kill that bird Accord-
ingly I fired, and bade him look, and immediately he saw
the parrot fall. He stood like one frightened again, not-
withstanding all I had said to him. I found he was the
more amazed because he did not see me put anything into
the gun, but thought that there must be some wonderful
fund of death and destruction in that thing, able to kill
man, beast, bird, or anything near or far off; and the
astonishment this created in him was such as could not
wear off for a long time. I believe, if I would have let him,
he would have worshiped me and my gun. As for the gun
itself, he would not so much as touch it for several days
after; but he would speak to it, and talk to it, as if it had
answered him, when he was by himself; which, as I
afterwards learned of him, was to desire it not to kill him.
Well, after his astonishment was a little over at this, I
pointed to him to run and fetch the bird I had shot, which
he did, but stayed some time; for the parrot, not being
quite dead, had flattered away a good distance from the
place where she fell. However; he found her, took her up,
and brought her to me; and as I had perceived his
ignorance about the gun before, I took this advantage to
charge the gun again, and not to let him set me do it, that
I might be ready for any other mark that might present.
But nothing more offered at that time; so I brought home
the kid, and the same evening I took the skin off, and cut
it out as well as I could; and having a pot fit for that
purpose, I boiled or stewed some of the flesh, and made some
very good broth. After I had begun to eat some, I gave
some to my man, who seemed very glad of it, and liked it
very well; but that which was strangest to him was to see
me eat salt with it. He made a sign to me that the salt
was not good to eat; and putting a little into his own
mouth, he seemed to nauseate it, and would spit and sputter
at it, washing Ms mouth with fresh water after it. On the
other hand, I took some meat into my mouth without salt,
and I pretended to spit and sputter for want of salt, as
much as he had done at the salt. But it would not do; he
would never care for salt with meat or in his broth; at
least, not for a great while, and then but a very little.
Having thus fed him with boiled meat and broth, I was
resolved to feast him the next day by roasting a piece of
the kid. This I did by hanging it before the fire on a
string, as I had seen many people do in England, setting
two poles up, one on each side of the fire, and one across
the top, and tying the string to the cross stick, letting the
meat turn continually. This Friday admired very much;
but when he came to taste the flesh, he took so many ways
to tell me how well he liked it, that I could not but
understand him. At last he told me, as well as he could,
he would never eat man's flesh any more, which I was very
glad to hear.
The next day, I set him to work beating some corn out,
and sifting it in the manner I used to do, as I observed
before. He soon understood how to do it as well as I,
especially after he had seen what the meaning of it was,
and that it was to make bread of. After that, I let him
see me make my bread, and bake it, too; and in a little
time, Friday was able to do all the work for me, as well
as I could do it myself.
I began now to consider that, having two months to
feed instead of one, I must provide more ground for my
harvest, and plant a larger quantity of corn than I used
to do. So I marked out a larger piece of land, and began
the fence in the same manner as before, in which Friday
not only worked very willingly and very hard, but did it
very cheerfully. I told him what it was for,—that it was
for corn to make more bread, because he was now with
me, and that I might have enough for him and myself
too. He appeared very sensible of that part, and let me
know that he thought I had much more labor upon me on
his account than I had for myself; and that he would
work the harder for me,- if I would tell him what to do.
This was the pleasantest year of all the life I led in this
place. Friday began to talk pretty well, and understand
the names of almost everything I had occasion to call for
and of every place I had to send him to, and talked a
great deal to me, so that, in short, I began now to have
some use for my tongue again, which, indeed, I had very
little occasion for before. Besides the pleasure of talking
to him, I had a singular satisfaction in the fellow himself.
His simple, unfeigned honesty appeared to me more and
more every day, and I began really to love the creature;
and on his side, I believe he loved me more than it was
possible for him ever to love anything before.
I had a mind once to try if he had any inclina'ion for his
own country again; and having taught him English so well
that he could answer me almost any question, I asked him
whether the nation that he belonged ty never conquered in
battle, at which he smiled, and said, "Yes, yes, we always
fight the better;" that is, he meant, always get the better in
fight; and so we began the following discourse:
Master.—You always fight the better! How came you
to be taken prisoner then, Friday?
Friday.—My nation beat much for all that.
Master.—How beat? If your nation b^at them, how
came you to be taken?
Friday.—They more many than my nation, in the place
where me was; they take one, two, three, and me. My
nation over-beat them in the yonder place, where me no
was; there my nation take one, two, great thousand.
Master.—But why did not your side recover you from the
hands of your enemies then?
Fridry.—They run, one, two, three, and me, and make
go in the canoe; my nation have no canoe that time.
Master.—Well, Friday, and what does your nation do
with the men they take? Do they carry them away and
eat them, as these did?
Friday.—Yes, my nation eat mans too; eat all up.
Master.—Where do they carry them?
Friday.—Go to other place, where they think.
Master.—Do they come hither?
Friday.—Yes, yes, they come hither; come other else
place.
Master.—Have you been here with them?
Friday.—Yes, I been here. (Points to the northwest
side of the island, which, it seems, was their side.)
By this I understood that my man Friday had formerly
been among the savages who used to come on shore on the
farther part of the island, on the same man-eating occasions
he was now brought for. Some time after, when I took
the courage to carry him to that side, being the same I
formerly mentioned, he presently knew the place, and told
me he was there once when they ate up twenty men, two
women, and one child. He could not tell twenty in
English, but he numbered them by laying so many stones
in a row, and pointing to me to tell them over.
I asked him how far it was from our island to the shore,
and whether the canoes were not often lost. He told me
there was no danger, no canoes ever lost; but that, after
a little way out to sea, there was a current and wind,
always one way in the morning, the other in the after-
noon. This I understood to be no more than the sets of
the tide, as going out or coming in. But I afterwards
understood it was occasioned by the great draft and reflux
of the mighty river Orinoco, in the mouth of which river,
as I found afterwards, our island lay; and that this land
which I perceived to be west and northwest, was the great
island Trinidad, on the north point of the mouth of the
river. I asked Friday a thousand questions about the
country, the inhabitants, the sea, the coast, and what
nations were near. He told me all he knew, with the
greatest openness imaginable. I asked him the names of
the several nations of his sort of people, but could get no
other name than Caribs. I easily understood that these
were the Caribbees, which our maps place on the part of
America which reaches from the mouth of the river
Orinoco to Guiana, and onwards to St. Martha. He told
me that up a great way beyond the moon,—that is, beyond
the setting of the moon, which must be west from their
country,—there dwelt white, bearded men like me,—and
pointed to my great whiskers, which I mentioned be-
fore,—and that they had killed "much mans,"—that was
his word. By all which I understood he meant the
Spaniards, whose cruelties in America had been spread
over the whole country, and were remembered by all the
nations from father to son.
I inquired if he could tell me how I might go from this
island, and get among those white men. He told me,
"Yes, yes, you may go in two canoe." I could not
understand what he meant, or make him describe to me
what he meant by "two canoe," till at last, with great
difficulty, I found he meant it must be in a large boat, as
big as two canoes. This part of Friday's discourse I
began to relish very well; and from this time I entertained
some hopes that, one time or other, I might find an
opportunity to make my escape from this place, and that
this poor savage might be a means to help me.
CHAPTER XXXVI.
DURING the long time that Friday had now been with
me, and that he began to speak to me, and understand me
I was not wanting in laying a foundation of religious knowl-
edge in his mind; particularly I asked him, one time, who
made him. The poor creature did not understand me at
all, but thought I had asked who was his father ; but I took
it up by another handle, and asked him who made the sea,
the ground we walked on, and the hills and woods. He
told me it was one old Benamuckee, that lived beyond all.
He could describe nothing of this great person bat that he
was very old,—much older, he said, than the sea 01 land,
than the moon or the stars. I asked him, then, if this old
person had made all things, why all things did not
worship him. He looked very grave, and, with a perfeel-
look of innocence, said, "All things say O to him." I
asked him if the people who died in his country went
away anywhere. He said yes, they all went to Bena-
muckee. Then I asked him whether those they ate went
up thither too. He said, "Yes."
From these things I began to instruct him in the knowl-
edge of the true God. I told him that the great Maker of
all things lived up there (pointing up towards heaven);
that he governed the world by the same power and pro-
vidence by which he made it; that he was omnipotent, and
could do everything for us, give everything to us, take
everything from us. Thus, by degrees, I opened his eyes.
He heard with great attention of Jesus Christ, and
of the manner of making our prayers to God, and his
being able to hear us, even in heaven. He told me one
day that if our God could hear us, up beyond the sun,
he must needs be a greater God than their Benamuckee,
who lived but a little way off, and yet could not hear till
they went up to the great mountains where he dwelt to
speak to him. I asked him if ever he went thither to speak
to him. He said no, they never went that were young
men; none went thither but the old men, whom he called
their " Oowokakee;" that is, as I made him explain to
me, their religious, or clergy; and that they went to say
"O" (so he called saying prayers), and then came back
and told them what Benamuckee said. By this I observed
that there is priestcraft even among the most blinded,
ignorant pagans in the world.
I diverted the Present discourse between me and my man
by sending him for something a good way off. I then
seriously prayed to God that he would enable me to instruct
this poor savage, assisting, by his Spirit, the heart of the
poor, ignorant creature to receive the light of the knowl-
edge of God in Christ, reconciling him to himself, and
would guide me so to speak to him from the Word of God
that his conscience might be convinced, his eyes opened, and
his soul saved. When he came again to me, I entered into
a long discourse with him upon the subject of the redemption
of man by the Savior of the world, and of the doctrine of the
gospel preached from heaven; namely, of repentance towards
God, and faith in our blessed I,ord Jesus.
I had, God knows, more sincerity than knowledge in all
the methods I took/or this poor creature's instruction, and
must acknowledge—what I believe all that act upon the
same principle will find—that in laying things open to him,
I really informed and instructed myself in many things
that either I did not know, or had not fully considered
before, but which occurred naturally to my mind upon
searching into them for the information of this poor savage.
I had more affection in my inquiry after things upon this
occasion than ever I felt before. Whether this poor, wild
wretch was the better for me or no, I had great reason to
be thankfu1 that ever he came to me, my grief sat lighter
upon me, my habitation grew comfortable to me beyond
measure, and I frequently rejoiced that ever I was brought
to this place, which I had so often thought the most dread-
ful of all afflictions that could possibly have befallen me.
I continued in this thankful frame all the remainder of
my time; and the conversation which employed the hours
between Friday and me was such as made the three years
which we lived there together perfectly and completely
happy, if any such thing as complete happiness can be
found in a sublunary state. This savage was now a good
Christian, a much better than I; though I have reason to
hope, and bless God for it, that we were equally penitent,
and comforted, restored penitents. We had here the Word
of God to read, and were no farther off from his Spirit to
instruct than if we had been in England. I always applied
myself, in reading the Scripture, to let him know, as well
as I could, the meaning of what I read.
After Friday and I became more intimately acquainted,
and he could understand almost all I said to him, and
speak pretty fluently, though in broken English, to me, I
acquainted him with my own history', or at least so much of
it as related to my coming to this place; how I had lived
there, and how long. I let him into the mystery—for such
it was to him—of gunpowder and bullet, and taught him
how to shoot. I gave him a knife, which he was wonder-
fully delighted with; and I made him a belt, with a frog
hanging to it, such as in England we wear hangers in ; and
in the frog, instead of a hanger, I gave him a hatchet,
which was not only as good a weapon in some cases, but
much more usefu/. upon other occasions.
I described to him the countries of Europe, particularly
Kngland, which I came from; how we lived, how we
worshiped God, how we behaved to one another, and how we
traded in ships to all parts of the world. I gave him an
account of the wreck which I had been on board of, and
showed him, as near as I could, the place where she lay.
She was all beaten in pieces before, and gone. I showed
him the ruins of our boat, which we lost when we escaped,
and which I could not stir with my whole strength then,
but was now fallen almost all to pieces. Upon s?eing this
boat, Friday stood musing a great while, and said nothing.
I asked aim what it was he studied upon. At last he said,
"Me see such boat like come to place at my nation." I
did not understand him a good while; but at last, when I
had examined further into it, I understood by him that a
boat such as that had been, came on shore upon the
country where he lived; that is, as he explained it, was
driven thither by stress of weather. I presently imagined
that some European ship must have been cast away upon
their coast, and the boat might get loose and drive ashore;
but was so dull that I never once thought of men making
their escape from a wreck thither, much less whence they
might come.
Friday described the boat to me well enough; but
brought me better to understand him when he added with
some warmth, "We save the white mans from drown."
Then I presently asked if there were any " white mans,"
as he called them, in the boat. "Yes," he said; "the
boat full of white mans." I asked him how many. He
told me upon his fingers, seventeen. I asked him then
what became of them. He told me, '' They live, they
dwell at my nation."
This put new thoughts into my head. I presently
imagined that these might be the men belonging to the
ship that was cast away in the sight of my island, as I
now called it; and who, after the ship was struck on the
rock and they saw her inevitably lost, had saved themselves
in their boat, and were landed upon that wild shore among
the savages. Upon this I inquired of him more critically
what was become of them. He assured me they lived still
there; that they had been there about four years; that the
savages left them alone, and gave them victuals to live on.
I asked him how it came to pass they did not kill them and
eat them. He said, " No, they make brother with them;"
that is, as I understood him, a truce. Then he added,
"They no eat mans but when make the war fight, ': that
is to say, they never eat any men but such as come to fight
with them and are taken in battle.
It was after this some considerable time that, being upon
the top of the hill, at the east side of the island, from
whence, as I have said, I had, in a clear day, discovered
the main or continent of America, Friday, the weather
being very serene^ looks very earnestly towards the main-
land, and, in a kind of surprise, falls a-jumping and
dancing, and calls out to me, for I was at some distance
from him. I asked him what was the matter. "O
joy!" says he; "O glad! there see my country! there
my nation !''
I observed an extraordinary sense of pleasure appeared
in his face, and his eyes sparkled, and his countenance dis-
covered a strange eagerness, as if he had a mind to be in
his own country again. This observation of mine put a
great many thoughts into me, which made me, at first,
not so easy about my new man Friday as I was before;
and I made no doubt but that, if Friday could-get back to
his own nation again, he would not only forget all his
religion but all his obligation to me, and would be forward
enough to give his countrymen an account of me, and
gome back, perhaps, with a hundred or two of them, and
make a feast upon me, at which he might be as merry as
he used to be with those of his enemies, when they were
taken in war.
But I wronged the poor, honest creature very much, for
which I was sorry afterwards. However, as my jealousy
increased, and held some weeks, I was a little more
circumspect, and not so familiar and kind to him as before.
In this I was certainly wrong, too; the honest, grateful
creature having no thought about it but what consisted
with the best principles, both as a religious Christian, and
as a grateful friend, as appeared afterwards to my full
satisfaction.
While my jealousy of him lasted, you may be sure I was
every day pumping him, to see if he would discover any
of the new thoughts which I suspected were in him; but I
found everything he said was so honest and so innocent
that I could find nothing to nourish my suspicion. In spite
of all my uneasiness, he made me at last entirely his own
again; nor did he in the least perceive that I was uneasy,
and therefore I could not suspect him of deceit.
One day, walking up the same hill, but the weather
being hazy at sea, so that we could not see the continent,
I called to him, and said, "Friday, do not you wish your-
self in your own country, your own nation?" "Yes,"
he said. "I be much O glad to be at my own nation."
What would you do there ?'' said I; "would you turn
wild again, eat men's flesh again, and be a savage, as you
were before?" He looked full of concern, and shaking his
head, said, "No, no, Friday tell them to live good; tell
them to pray God; tell them to eat corn bread, cattle flesh,
milk; no eat man again." "Why, then," said I to him,
"they will kill you." He looked grave at that, and then
said, "No, no, they no kill me, they willing love learn."
He meant by this, they would be willing to learn. He
added, "They learn much of the bearded mans that come
in the boat." Then I asked him if he would go back to
them. He smiled at that, and told me that he c uld not
swim so far. I told him I would make a canoe for him.
He told me he would go if I would go with him. "I
go I" says I; "why, they will eat me if I come there."
No, no," says he, "me make they no eat you; me make
they much love you." He meant, he would tell them how
I had killed his enemies, and saved his life, and so he
would make them love me.
CHAPTER XXXVII.
FROM this time, I confess, I had a mind to venture over,
and see if I could possibly join with those bearded men,
who, I made no doubt, were Spaniards and Portuguese;
not doubting but, if I could, we might find some method
to escape from thence, being upon a continent, and a good
company together, better than I could from an island forty
miles off the shore, alone, and without help. So, after
some days, I took Friday to work again by way of dis-
course, and told him I would give him a boat to go back to
his own nation. Accordingly, I carried him to my frigate,
which lay on the other side of the island, and having
cleared it of water (for I always kept it sunk in water), I
brought it out, showed it him, and we both went into it.
I found he was a most dexterous fellow at managing it,
and would make it go almost as swift again as I could. So
when he was in, I said to him, "Well, now, Friday, shall
we go to your nation ?'' He looked very dull at my saying
so; which, it seems, was because he thought the boat was
too small to go so far. I then told him I had a bigger;
so the next day I went to the place where the first boat lay
which I had made, but which I could not get into the
water. He said that was big enough ; but then, as I had
taken no care of it, and it had lain two or three and twenty
years there, the sun had split and dried it, and it was
rotten. Friday told me such a boat would do very well,
and would carry " much enough vittle, drink, bread; "—
this was his way of talking.
Upon the whole, I was by this time so fixed upon my
design of going over with him to the continent, that I told
him we would go and make one as big as that, and he should
go home in it. He answered not one word, but looked
very grave and sad. I asked him what was the matter
with him. He asked me again, "Why you angry mad
with Friday? what me done?" I asked him what he
meant, and told him I was not angry with him at all.
"No angry I" says he, repeating the words several times f
why send Friday home away to my nation?" "Why,"
says I, "Friday, did not you say you wished you were
there?" "Yes, yes," says he, "wish we both there; no
wish Friday there, no master there." In a word, he
would not think of going there without me. "I go there,
Friday?" says I, "what shall I do there?' He turned
very quick upon me at this. "You do great deal much
good," says he ; "you teach wild mans be good, sober, tame
mans; you tell them know God, pray God, and live new
life." "Alas, Friday !" says I, "thou knowest not what
them sayest; I am but an ignorant man myself." "Yes,
yes," says he, "you teachee me good, you teachee them
good." "No, no, Friday," says I, " you shall go without
me; leave me here to live by myself, as I did before." He
looked confused again at that word; and running to one of
the hatchets which he used to wear, he takes it up hastily,
and gives it to me. "What must I do with this? " says I
to him. "You take kill Friday," says he. "What must
I kill you for?" said I again. He returns very quick,
What you send Friday away for? Take kill Friday; no
send Friday away." This he spoke so earnestly that I
saw tears stand in his eyes. In a word, I so plainly
discovered the utmost affection in him to me, and a firm
resolution in him, that I told him then, and often after,
that I would never send him away from me, if he was
willing to stay with me.
Upon the whole, as I found by all his discourse a settled
affection to me, and that nothing could part him from me,
so I found all the foundation of his desire to go to his own
country was laid in his ardent affection to the people, and
his hopes of my doing them good; a thing which, as I had
no notion of myself, so I had not the least thought, or
intention, or desire, of undertaking it. But still I found
a strong inclination to attempting my escape, founded on
the supposition, gathered from the discourse, that there
were seventeen bearded men there. Therefore, without
any more dela'y, I went to work with Friday to find out
a great tree proper to fell, and make a large periagua, or
canoe, to undertake the voyage. There were trees enough
in the island to have built a little fleet, not of periaguas
or canoes, but even of good large vessels. But the main
thing I looked at was to get one so near the water that we
might launch it when it was made, to avoid the mistake 1
committed at first. At last Friday pitched upon a tree;
for I found he knew much better than I what kind of
wood was fittest for it. Nor can I tell, to this day, what
wood to call the tree we cut down, except that it was
very like the tree we call fustic, or between that and the
Nicaragua wood, for it was much of the same color and
smell.
Friday wished to burn the hollow, or cavity, of this tree
out, to make it for a boat, but I showed him how to cut it
out with tools ; which after I had showed him how to use,
he did it very handily. In about a month's hard labor we
finished it, and made it very handsome; especially when,
with our axes, which I showed him how to handle, we cut
and hewed the outside into the true shape of a boat. After
this, however, it cost us near a fortnight's time to get her
along, as it were inch by inch, upon great rollers into the
water; but when she was in, she would have carried twenty
men with great ease.
It amazed me to see with what dexterity and how swift
my man Friday could manage her, turn her, and paddle
her along. So I asked him if he would, and if we might
venture over in her. "Yes," he said, "we venture over
in her very well, though great blow wind." However, I
had a farther design that he knew nothing of, and that
was to make a mast "and a sail, and to fit her with an
anchor and cable. As to a mast, that was easy enough to
get; so I pitched upon a straight young cedar tree, which
I found near the place, and which there were great plenty
of in the island, and I set Friday to work to cut it down
and gave Mm directions how to shape and order it. But as
to the sail, that was my particular care. I knew I had old
sails, or rather pieces of old sails, enough; but as I had
had them now six and twenty years by me, and had not
been very careful to preserve them, not imagining that I
should ever have this kind of use for them, I did not doubt
but they were all rotten. Indeed, most of them were so.
However, I found two pieces which appeared pretty good,
and with these I .went to work. With a great deal of
pains, and awkward stitching, you may be sure,/£?r want of
needles, I at length made a three-cornered, ugly thing, like
what we call in England a shoulder-of-mutton sail, to go
with a doom at bottom, and a little short sprit at the top,
such as usually our ships' longboats sail with, and such as
I best knew how to manage, for it was such a one as I had
to the boat in which I made my escape from Barbary, as
related in the first part of my story.
I was near two months performing this last work, name-
ly, rigging and fitting my mast and sails; for I finished
them very complete, making a small stay, and a sail or
foresail to it, to assist if we should turn to windward.
Then, what was more than all, I fixed a rudder to the stern
of her to steer with. I was but a bungling shipwright, yet
as I knew the usefulness, and even the necessity, of such
a thing, I applied myself with so much pains to do it that
at last I brought it to pass; though, considering the many
dull contrivances I had for it that failed, I think it cost me
almost as much labor as making the boat.
After all this was done, I had my man Friday to teach as
to what belonged to the navigation of my boat. Though he
•
knew very well how to paddle a canoe, he knew nothing
of what belonged to a sail and a rudder, and was the most
amazed when he saw me work the boat to and again in the
sea by the rudder, and how the sail jibbed, and filled this
way or thai way, as the course we sailed changed; I say,
when he sa>v this, he stood like one astonished and amazed.
However, with a little use I made all these things familiar
to him, and he became an expert sailor, except that of the
compass I could make him understand very little. On the
other hand, as there was very little cloudy weather, and
seldom or never any fogs in those parts, there was the less
occasion for a compass, seeing the stars were always to be
seen by night, and the shore by day, except in the rainy
seasons, and then nobody cared to stir abroad either by
land or sea.
I was now entered on the seven and twentieth year of
my captivity in this place; though the last three years,
that I had this creature with me, ought rather to be left out of
the account, my habitation being quite of another kind than
in all the rest of the time. I kept the anniversary of my
landing here with the same thankfulness to God for his
mercies as at first. And if I had such cause of acknowledg-
ment at first, I had much more so now, having such
additional testimonies of the care of Providence over me,
and the great hopes I had of being effectually and speedily
delivered; for I had an invincible impression upon my
thoughts that my deliverance was at hand, and that I should
not be another year in this place. I went on, however,
with my husbandry, digging, planting, and fencing, as
usual. I gathered and cured my grapes, and did every
necessary thing as before.
The rainy season was in the mean time upon me, when 1
kept more witnin doors than at other time. We had stowed.
our new vessel as secure as we could, bringing her up into
the creek, where, as I said in the beginning, I landed my
rafts from the ship ; and hauling her up to the shore at high-
water mark, I made my man Friday «dig a little dock, just
big enough to hold her, and just deep enough to give her
water enough fo float in. Then, when the tide was out, we
made a strong dam across the end of it, to keep the water
out; and so she lay dry as to the tide from the sea. To
keep the rain off we laid a great many boughs of trees, so
thick that she was as well thatched as a house; and thus
we waited for the months of November and December, in
which I designed to make my adventure.
When the settled season began to come in, as the thought of
my design returned with the fair weather, I was preparing
daily for the voyage. And the first thing I did was to lay
by a certain quantity of provisions, being the stores for our
voyage; and I intended, in a week or a fortnight's time,
to open the dock and launch out our boat. T was busy
one morning upon something of this kind, when I called
to Friday, and bid him to go to the seashore, and see if he
eould find a turtle or tortoise, a thing which we generally
got once a week, for the sake of the eggs as well as the
flesh. Friday had not been long gone when he came run-
ning back, and flew over my outer wall, or fence, like one
that felt not the ground, or the steps he set his feet on;
and before I had time to speak to him, he cries out to me,
'' O master! O master! O sorrow! O bad!" "What's the
matter, Friday?" says I. "O yonder there," says he,
"one, two, three canoes; one, two, three!" By this way
of speaking, I concluded there were six ; but on inquiry I
found there were but three. "Well, Friday," says I,
"do not be frightened." So I heartened him up as well as
I could.
However, I saw the poor fellow was must terribly scared,
for nothing ran in his head but that they were come to
look for him, and would cut him in pieces and eat him;
and the poor fellow trembled so that I scarcely knew what
to do with him. I comforted him as well as I could, and
told him / was in as much danger as he, and that they
would eat me as well as him. "But," says I, "Friday,
we must resolve to fight them. Can you fight, Friday?"
"Me shoot," says he, "but there come many great
number." "No matter for that," said I, again; "our
guns will frighten them that we do not kill." So I asked
him whether, if I resolved to defend him, he would defend
me, and stand by me, and do just as I bid him. He said,
"Me die when you bid die, master." So I made him take
the two fowling pieces, which we always carried, and
loaded them with large swan shot, as big as small pistol
bullets. Then I took four muskets, and loaded them with
two slugs and five small bullets each; and my two pistols
I loaded with a brace of bullets each. I hung my great
sword, as usual, naked by my side, and gave Friday his
hatchet.
When I had thus prepared myself, I took my perspective
glass, and went up to the side of the hill, to see what I
could discover. I found quickly by my glass that there
were one and twenty savages, three prisoners, and three
canoes; and that their whole business seemed to be the
triumphant banquet upon these three human bodies,—a
barbarous feast, indeed! but nothing' more than, as I had
observed, was asual with them. I observed, also, that they
had landed, not where they had done when Friday made
his escape, but nearer to my creek, where the shore was
low, and where a thick wood came almost close down to
the sea. This, with the abhorrence of the inhuman errand
these wretches came about, filled me with such indignation
that I came down again to Friday, and told him I was
resolved to go down to them, and kill them all; and asked
him if he would stand by me. He had now got over his
fright, and told me, as before, he would die when I bid die.
CHAPTER XXXVIII.
IN this fit of fury I divided the arms, which I had
charged as before, between us. I gave Friday one pistol
to stick in his girdle, and three guns upon his shoulder. I
took one pistol and the other three guns myself; and in
this posture we marched out. I gave Friday a large bag
with more powder and bullets; and as to orders, I charged
him to keep close behind me, and not to stir, or shoot, or do
anything till I bid him, and in the mean time not to speak
a word. In this posture I made a circuit to my right hand
of near a mile, as well to get over the creek as to get into
the wood, so that I could come within shot of them before I
should be discovered, which I had seen by my glass it was
easy to do.
I entered the wood, and, with all possible wariness and
silence, Friday following close at my heels, I marched till I
came to the skirt of the wood on the side which was next to
them, only that one corner of the wood lay between me
and them. Here I called softly to Friday, and showing
him a great tree which was just at the corner of the wood,
I bade him go to the tree, and bring me word if he could
see there plainly what they were doing. He did so, and
came immediately back to me, and told me they might
be plainly viewed there; that they were all about their
fire, eating the flesh of one of their prisoners, and that
another lay bound upon the sand a little from them, whom
he said they would kill next. This fired the -very soul with-
in me. He told me it was not one of their nation, but one
of the bearded men he had told me of, that came to their
country in the boat. I was filled with horror at the very
naming of the white, bearded man ; and going to the tree,
I saw plainly by my glass a while man, who lay upon the
beach of the sea, with his hands and his feet tied with
flags, or things like rushes, and that he was a European,
and had clothes on.
There was another tree, and a little thicket beyond it,
about fifty yards nearer to them than the place where I
was, which, by going a little way about, I saw I might
come at undiscovered, and that then I should be within half
a shot of them. So I withheld my passion, though I was
indeed enraged to the highest degree; and going back about
twenty paces, I got behind some bushes, which held all the
way till I came to the other tree; and then I came to a
little rising ground, which gave me a full view of them at
the distance of about eighty yards.
I had now not a moment to lose, for nineteen of the
dreadful wretches set upon the ground, all dose huddled
together, and had just sent the other two to butcher the poor
Christian, and bring him, perhaps limb by limb, to their
fire, and they were stooping down to untie the bands at his
feet. I turned to Friday: "Now. Friday," said I, "do
as I bid thee." Friday said he would. "Then, Friday,"
says I, " do exactly as you see me do; fail in nothing.''*
So I set down one of the muskets and the fowling piece
upon the ground, and Friday did the like by his, and with
the other musket I took my aim at the savages, bidding him
to do the like. Then, asking him if he was ready, he said,
"Yes." "Then fire at them," said I; and at the same
moment I fired also.
Friday took his aim so much better than I that on the
side that he shot he killed two of them, and wounded three
more; and on my side I killed one, and wounded two.
They were, you may be sure, in a dreadful consternation;
and all of them that were not hurt jumped upon their feet,
but did not immediately know which way to run, or which
way to look, for they knew not from whence their destruc-
tion came. Friday kept his eyes close upon me, that, as I
had bid him, he might observe what I did. As soon as the
first shot was made, I threw down the piece, and took up
the fowling piece, and Friday did the like. He saw me
cock and present; he did the same again. '' Are you ready,
Friday?" said I. "Yes," says he. "Let fly, then,"
says I, "in the name of God/" and with that I fired again
among the amazed wretches, and so did Friday. As our
pieces were now loaded with what I call swan shot, or
small pistol bullets, we found only two drop; but sc many
were wounded that they ran about yelling and screaming
like mad creatures, all bloody, and most of them miserably
wounded; whereof three more fell quickly after, though
not quite dead.
"Now, Fridav," says I, laying down the discharged
pieces, and taking up the musket which was yet loaded,
"follow me," which he did with a great deal of courage;
upon which I rushed out of the wood and showed myself,
and Friday close at my foot. As soon as I perceived they
saw me, I shouted as loud as I could, and bade Frida}' do
so too, and running as fast as I could,—which, by the
way, was not very fast, being loaded with arms as I was,—
I made directly towards the poor victim, who was, as I said,
lying upon the beach or shore, between the place where
they sat and the sea. The two butchers who were just
going to work with him had left him at the surprise of our
first fire, and fled in a terrible fright to the seaside, and
had jumped into a canoe, and three more of the rest made
the same way. I turned to Friday, and bade him step
forward and fire at them. He understood me immediately,
and running about forty yards, to be nearer them, he shot
at them. I thought he had killed them all, for I saw them
all /all ofa heap into the boat, though I saw two of them
up again quickly. However, he killed two of them, and
wounded the third, so that he lay down in the bottom of
the boat as if he had been dead.
While my man Friday fired at them, I pulled out my
knife and cut the flags that bound the poor victim; and
loosing his hands and feet, I lifted him up, and asked him
in the Portuguese tongue what he was. He answered in
Latin, " CAristianus," but was so weak and faint that he
could scarce stand or speak. Then I asked him what
countryman he was, and he said "Espagnole; " and being
a little recovered, he let me know, by all the signs he could
possibly make, how much he ?iias in my debt for his
deliverance. "Seignior," said I, with «3 much Spanish as
I could make up, '' we will talk afterwards, but we musl
fight now. If you have any strength left, take this pistol
and sword, and lay about you." He took them .very
thankfully; and no sooner had he the arms in his hands,
but, as if they had put new vigor into him, he flew upon
his murderers like a fury, and had cut two of them in pieces
in an instant.^ The truth is, as the whole was a surprise to
them, so the poor creatures were so much frightened with
the noise of our pieces that they fell down for mere amaze-
ment and fear, and had no more power to attempt their
own escape than their flesh had to resist our shot. That
was the case of those five that Friday shot at in the boat;
for as three of them fell with the hurt they received, so the
other two fell with the fright.
I kept my piece in my hand still without firing, being
willing to keep my charge ready, because I had given the
Spaniard my pistol and sword. So I called to Friday,
and bade him run up to the tree from whence we first fired,
and fetch the arms which lay there that had been
discharged, which he did with great swiftness. Then
giving him my musket, I sat down myself to load all the
rest again, and bade them come to me when they wanted.
While I was loading these pieces, there happened a fierce
engagement between the Spaniard and one of the savages,
who made at him with one of their great wooden swords,
the weapon that was to have killed him before, if I had not
prevented it. The Spaniard, who was as bold and brave
as could be imagined, though weak, had fought the Indian
a good while, and had cut two great wounds on his head.
But the savage, being a stout, lusty fellow, closing in with
him, had thrown him down, being faint, and was wringing
my sword out of his hand; when the Spaniard, though
undermost, wisely quitting the sword, drew the pistol from
his girdle, shot the savage through the body, and killed
him upon the spot, before I, who was running to help him,
could come near him.
Friday, being now left to his liberty, pursued the flying
wretches, with no weapon in his hand but his hatchet.
With that he dispatched those three who, as I said before,
were wounded at first, and fallen, and all the rest he could
come up with. The Spaniard coming to me foi a gun, I
gave him one of the fowling pieces, with which he pursued
two of the savages, and wounded them both. But, as he
was not able to run, they both got from him into the wood,
where Friday pursued them, and killed one of them; but
the other was too nimble for him, and though he was
wounded,' yet had plunged himself into the sea, and swam
with all his might off to those two who were left in the
canoe ; which three in the canoe, with one wounded, were
all that escaped our hands out of one and twenty.
Those that were in the canoe worked hard to get out of
gunshot, and though Friday made two or three shots at
them, I did not find that he hit any of them. Friday
would fain have had me take one of their canoes, and pursue
them ; and, indeed, I was very anxious about their escape,
lest carrying the news home to their people, they should
come back ^perhaps with two or three hundred of the
canoes, and devour us by mere multitude. So I consented
to pursue them by sea, and running to one of their canoes,
I jumped in, and bade Friday follow me. But when I was
in the canoe, I was surprised to find another poor creature
lie there, bound hand and foot, as the Spaniard was, for
the slaughter, and almost dead with fear, not knowing
,what was the matter; for he had not been able to look up
over the side of the boat, he was tied so hard neck and
heels, and had been tied so long that he had really bul little
life in him.
I immediately cut the twisted flags or rushes, which they
had bound him with, and would have helped him up; but
he could not stand or speak, but groaned most piteous ly,
believing, it seems, still, that he was only unbound in order
to be killed. When Friday came to him, I bade him speak
to him, and tell him of his deliverance; and the news of
his being delivered revived him, and he sat up in the boat.
But when Friday came to hear him speak, and look in his
face, it would have moved any one to tears to see how Friday
kissed him, embraced him, hugged him, cried, laughed,
hallooed, jumped about, danced, sang; then cried again,
wrung his hands, beat his own face and head, and then
sang and jumped about again like a distracted creature. It
was a good while before I could make him speak to me, or
tell me what was the matter; but when he came a little to
himself, he told me that it was his father.
It is not easy for me to express how it moved me to see
what ecstasy and filial affection had worked in this poor
savage at the sight of his father, and of his being delivered
from death. Nor, indeed, can I describe half the extrava-
gances of his affection after this; for he went into the boat,
and out of the boat, a great many times. When he went in
to him, he would sit down by him, open his breast, and
hold his father's head close to his bosom for many minutes
together, to nourish it. Then he took his arms and ankles,
which were numbed and stiff with the binding, and chafed,
and rubbed them with his hands.
This affair put an end to our pursuit of the canoe with
the other savages, who were now almost out of sight. It
was happy for us that we did not, for it blew so hard within
two hours after, and before they could be got a quarter of
their way, and continued blowing so hard all night, and
that from the northwest, which was against them, that I
could not suppose their boat could live, or that they ever
reached their own coast.
CHAPTER XXXIX.
BUT to return to Friday. He was so busy about his
father that I could not find in my heart to take him off for
some time. But after I thought he could leave him a little,
I called him to me, and he came jumping and laughing,
and pleased to the highest extreme. Then I asked him if he
had given his father any bread. H> shook his head, and
said, "None; ugly dog eat all up self." I then gave him
a cake of bread out of a little pouch I carried on purpose.
I had in my pocket two or three bunches of raisins, so I
gave him a handful of them for his father.
We had no sooner given his father these raisins, but I
saw him come out of the boat, and run away as if he had
been bewitched, for he was the swiftest fellow on his feet
that ever I saw. I say, he ran at such a rate that he was
out of sight, as it were, in an instant; and though I called,
and hallooed out, too, after him, it was all one,—away he
went. In a quarter of an hour I saw him come back again,
though not so fast as he went, and, as he came nearer, I
found his pace was slacker because he had something in his
hand. When he came up to me, I found he had been quite
home for an earthen jug or pot, to bring his father some
fresh water, and that he had got two more cakes, or loaves
of bread. The bread he gave me, but the water he carried
to his father. However, as 7 was very thirsty too, I took
a little of it.
When his father had drunk, I called to him to know if
there was any water left. He said "Yes ;" and I bade
him give it to the poor Spaniard, who was in as much want
of it as his father; and I sent one of the cakes that Friday
brought, to the Spaniard, too, who was indeed very weak,
and was reposing himself upon a green place under the shade
of a tree; and whose limbs were also very stiff, and very
much swelled with the rude bandage he had been tied with.
When I saw that upon Friday's coming to him with the
water he sat up and drank, and took the bread and began
to eat, I went to him and gave him a handful of raisins.
He looked up in my face with all the tokens of gratitude and
thankfulness that could appear in any countenance ; but was
so weak, notwithstanding he had so exerted himself in the
fight, that he could not stand up upon his feet. He tried to
do it two or three times, but was really not able, his ankles
were so swelled and so painful to him; so I bade him sit
still, and caused Friday to rub his ankles, as he had done
his father's.
I observed the poor, affectionate creature, every two
minutes, or perhaps less, all the while he was here, turn
his head about, to see if his father was in the same place
and posture as he left him sitting. At last he found he
was not to be seen ; at which he started up, and, without
speaking a word, flew with that swiftness to him that one
could scarce perceive his feet to touch the ground as he
went. But when he came, he only found he had laid him-
self down to ease his limbs, so Friday came back to me
presently. Then I spoke to the Spaniard to let Friday help
him up, if he could, and lead him to the boat, and then he
should carry him to our dwelling, where I would take care
of him. But Friday, a lusty, strong fellow, took the
Spaniard upon his back, and carried him away to the boat,
and set him down softly upon the side or gunnel of the
canoe, with his feet in the inside of it; and th=n lifting
him quite in, he set him close to his father. Presently
stepping out again, he launched the boat off, and paddled
it along the shore faster than I could walk, though the
wind blew pretty hard, too. So he brought them both safe
into our creek, and leaving them in the boat, ran away to
fetch the other carioe. As he passed me I spoke to him,
and asked him whither he went. He told me, '' Go fetch
more boat." So away he went like the wind, for sure never
man or horse ran like him.; and he had the other canoe in
the creek almost as soon as I got to it by land. He wafted
me over, and then went to help our new guests out of the
boat, which he did. But they were neither of them able to
walk; so that poor Friday knew not what to do.
To remedy this, I went to work in my thought, and calling
to Friday to bid them sit down on the bank while he came
to me, I soon made a kind of handbarrow to lay them on,
and Friday and I carried them both up together upon it
between us. But when we got them to the outside of our
wall, or fortification, we were at a worse loss than before,
for it was impossible to get them over, and I was resolved
not to break it down. So I set to work again, and Friday
and I, in about two hours' time, made a very handsome
tent, covered with old sails, and above that with boughs of
trees, being in the space without our outward fence, nnd
between that and the grove of young wood which I had
planted. Here we made them two beds of such things as
I had; namely, of good rice straw, with blankets laid upon
it to lie on, and another to cover them, on each bed.
My island was now peopled, and I thought myself very
rich in subjects. It was a merry reflection, which I fre-
quently made, how like a king I looked. First of all, the
whole country was my own property, so that I had an
undoubted right of dominion. Secondly, my people were
perfectly subjected. I was absolutely lord and lawgiver.
They all owed their lives to me, and were ready to lay down
their lives, if there had been occasion for it, for me. It was
remarkable, too, I had but three subjects, and they were
of three different religions. My man Friday was a Protest-
ant, his father was a Pagan and a cannibal, and the
Spaniard was a Roman Catholic. However, I allowed
liberty of conscience throughout my dominions. But this is
by the way.
As soon as I had secured my two weak, rescued prisoners,
and given them shelter and a place to rest them upon, I
began to think of making some provision for them. The
first thing I did, I ordered Friday to take a yearling goat,
betwixt a kid and a goat, out of my particular flock, to be
killed. Then I cut off the hinder quarter, and chopping it
into small pieces, I set Friday to work to boiling and stew-
ing, and made them a very good dish, I assure you, of
flesh and broth. As I cooked it without doors, for I made
no fire within my inner wall, so I carried it all into the
new tent, and having set a table there for them, I sal
down, and ate my own dinner also with them, and, as well
as I could, cheered them and encouraged them. Friday
was my interpreter, especially to his father, and, indeed,
to the Spaniard, too: for the Spaniard spoke the language
of the savages pretty well.
After we had dined, or rather supped, I ordered Friday
to take one of the canoes, and go and fetch our muskets
and other firearms, which, for want of time, we had left
upon the place of battle. The next day, I ordered him to
go and bury the dead bodies of the savages, which lay open
to the sun. I also ordered him to bury the horrid remains
of their barbarous feast, which I could not think of doing
myself;—nay, I could not bear to see them, if I went that
way. All this he punctually performed, and effaced the very
appearance of the savages being there; so that when I went
again, I could scarce know where it was, otherwise than
by the corner of the wood pointing to the place.
I then began to enter into a little conversation with my
two new subjects. First, I set Friday to inquire of his
father what he thought of the escape of the savages in that
canoe, and whether we might expect a return of them, with
a power too great for us to resist. His first opinion was
that the savages in the boat never could live out the storm
which blew that night they went off, but must, of necessity,
be drowned, or driven south to those other shores, where
they were as sure to be devoured as they were to be drown-
ed if they were cast away. But, as to what they would do
if thej* came wfe on shore, he said he knew not. It was
his opinion chat they were so dreadfully frightened with
the manner of their being attacked, the noise, and the fire,
that he believed they would tell the people they were all
^*
killed by thunder and lightning, not by the hand of man;
and that the two which appeared, namely Friday and I,
were two heavenly spirits, or furies, come down to
destroy them, and not men with weapons. This, he
said, he knew; because he heard them all cry out so, in
their language, one to another. It was impossible for
them to conceive that a man could dart fire, and speak
thunder, and kill at a distance, without lifting up the hand,
as was done now. This old savage was in the right; for,
as I learned since, the savages never attempted to go over
to the island afterwards. They were so terrified with the
accounts given by those four men (for it seems they did
escape the sea), that they believed whoever went to that
enchanted island would be destroyed with fire from the gods.
This, however, I knew not; and therefore was under
continual apprehensions for a good while, and kept always
upon my guard, with all my army. As there were now four
of us, I would have ventured upon a hundred of them,
fairly, in the open field, at any time. In a little time,
however, no more canoes appearing, the fear of their
coming wore off, and I began to take my former thoughts of
a voyage to the main into consideration; being likewise
assured by Friday's father that I might depend upon good
usage from their nation, on his account, if I would go.
But my thoughts were a little suspended rvhen I had a
serious discourse with the Spaniard, and when I under-
stood that there were sixteen more of his countrymen and
Portuguese, who, having been cast away and made their
escape to that side,f lived there at peace, indeed, with the
savages, bat were very sore put to it for necessaries, and,
indeed, for life. I asked him all the particulars of their
254 fcOBTNSON
voyage, and found they were a Spanish ship, bound from
the Rio de la Plata to Havana, being directed to leave their
loading there, which was chiefly hides and silver, and to
bring back what European goods they could meet with
there. They had five Portuguese seamen on board, whom
they took out of another wreck. Five of their own men
were drowned when first the ship was lost, and these
escaped through infinite dangers and hazards, and arrived,
almost starved, on the cannibal coast, where they expected
to have been devoured every moment. He told me they
had some arms with them, but they were perfectly useless,
for that they had neither powder nor ball, the washing of
the sea having spoiled all their powder but a little, which
they used at their first landing to provide themselves with
some food.
I asked him what he thought would become of them
there, and if they had formed any design of making their
escape. He said they had many consultations about it; but
having neither vessel, nor tools to build one, nor provisions
of any kind, their councils always ended in tears and despair.
I asked him how he thought they would receive a proposal
from me, which might tend towards an escape ; and whether,
if they were all here, it might not be done. I told him,
-with freedom, I feared mostly their treachery and ill-usage of
me, if I put my life in their hands. I told him it would
be very hard that I should be the instrument of their
deliverance, and that they should afterwards make me their
prisoner in New Spain, where an Englishman was certain
to be made a sacrifice, what necessity or what accident
soever brought him thither.
He answered, with a great deal of candor, that their
condition was so miserable, and that they were so sensible
of it, that he believed they would abhor the thought ol
using any man unkindly that should contribute to their
deliverance; that if I pleased he would go to them, with
the old man, and discourse with them about it, and return
again, and bring me their answer. He would make
conditions with them, upon their solemn oath, that they
should be absolutely under my direction, as their commander
and captain. He told me they were all of them very civil,
honest men, under the greatest distress imaginable, having
neither weapons nor clothes, nor anv food, but at the mercy
and discretion of the savages, and out of all hopes of ever
returning to their own country; and that he was sure, if I
would undertake their relitf, they would live and die by me.
CHAPTER XL.
UPON these assurances, I resolved to venture to relieve
them, if possible, and to send the old savage and this
Spaniard over to them to treat. But when we had got all
things in readiness to go, the Spaniard himself started an
objection, which had so much prudence in it on one hand,
and so much sinceri/y on the other hand, that I could not
but be very well satisfied in it; and, by his advice, I put
off the deliverance of his comrades for at least half a year.
The case was thus. He had been with us now about a
month, during' which time I had let him see in what
manner I had provided, with the assistance of Providence,
for my support; and he saw evidently what stock of corn
and rice I had laid up. Though it was more than sufficient
for myself, yet it was not sufficient, without good husbandry,
for my family, now it was increased to four. But much
less would it be sufficient if his countrymen, who were, as
he said, fourteen still alive, should come over; and, least
of all would it be sufficient to victual our vessel, if we
should build one, for a voyage to any of the Christian
colonies of America. So he told me he thought it would be
more advisable to let him and the other two dig and
cultivate some more land, as much as I could spare seed to
sow, and that we should wait another harvest, that we
might bave a supply of corn for his countrymen, when
they should come ; for want might be a temptation to them
to disagree, or not to think themselves delivered, otherwise
than out of one difficulty into another.
His caution was so seasonable, and his advice so good,
that I could not but be very well pleased with his proposal,
as well as I was satisfied with his fidelity. So we//»// to
digging, all four of us, as well as the wooden tools we were
furnished with permitted; and, in about a month's time, by
the end of which it was seed-time, we had got as much
land cured and trimmed up as we sowed two and twenty
bushels of barley on, and sixteen jars of rice; which was,
in short, all the seed we had to spare.
Having now society enough, and our number being
sufficient to put us out of fear of the savages, if they had
come, unless their number had been very great, we went
freely all over the island, whenever we found occasion. As
we had our escape or deliverance upon our thoughts, it
was impossible, at least for me, to have the means of it out
of mine. For this purpose I marked out several trees,
which I thought fit for our work, and I set Friday and his
father to cut them down ; and then I caused the Spaniard,
to whom I imparted wy thoughts on that affair, to oversee
and direct their work. I showed them with what indefati-
gable pains I had hewed a large tree into single planks, and
I caused them to do the like, till they had made about a
dozen large planks of good oak, near two feet broad,
thirty-five feet long, and from two inches to four inches
thick. What prodigious labor it took up, any one may
imagine.
At the same time, I contrived to increase my little flock
of tame goats as much as I could. For this purpose, I
made Friday and the Spaniard go out one day, and myself
with Friday the next day (for we took our turns). By
this means we got about twenty young kids to breed up
with the rest; for whenever we shot the dam, we saved the
kids, and added them to our flock. But, above all, the
season for curing the grapes coming on, I caused such a
prodigious quantity to be hung up in the sun that I
believe, had we been at Alicant, where the raisins of the
sun are cured, we could have filled sixty or eighty barrels.
These, with our bread, formed a great part of our food,—
very good living too, I assure you, for they are exceedingly
nourishing.
It was now harvest, and our crop in good order. It was
not the most plentiful increase I had seen in the island, but
it was enough to answer our end. From twenty-two bushels
of barley we brought in and thrashed out above two
hundred and twenty bushels, and the like, in proportion,
of the rice ; which was store enough for our food to the
next harvest, though all the fourteen Spaniards had been
on shore with me. Or, if we had been ready for a voyage,
it would very plentifully have victualed our ship to have
carried us to any part of the world,—that is to say, any
part of America. When we had thus housed and secured
our magazine of corn, we fell to work to make more wicker
ware , namely, great baskets, in which we kept it. The
Spaniard was very handy and dexterous at this part, and
often blamed me that I did not make some things for
defense of this kind of work; but I saw no need of it.
And now, having a full supply of food for all the guests
I expected, I gave the Spaniard leave to go over to the
main, to see what he could do with those he had left
behind him there. I gave him a strict charge not to bring
any man who would not first swear, in the presence of
himself and the old savage, that he would in no way injure,
fight with, or attack the person he should find in the
island, who was so kind as to send for them in order for
their deliverance; but that they would stand by him and
defend him against all such attempts, and, wherever they
went, would be entirely under and subjected to his command;
and that this should be put in writing, and signed in their
hands. How they were to have done this, when I knew
they had neither pen nor ink, was a question which
we never asked.
Under these instructions, the Spaniard and the old
savage, the father of Friday, went away in one of the
canoes which they might be said to have come in,—
or rather were brought in,—when they came as prisoners
to be devoured by the savages. I gave each of them a
musket, with a firelock on it, and about eight charges of
powder and ball, charging them to husband both, and not to
use either of them but upon urgent occasions.
This was a cheerful work, being the first measures used
by me in view of my deliverance for now twenty-seven
years and some days. I gave them provisions of bread
and of dried grapes sufficient for themselves for many
days, and sufficient for all the Spaniards for about eight
days' time; and wishing them a good voyage, I saw them
go, agreeing with them about a signal they should hang out
at their return, by which I should know them again when
they came back, at a distance, before they came on shore.
They went away with a fair gale on the day that the moon
was at full, by my account in the month of October. As
for an exact reckoning of days, after I had once lost it, I
could never recover it again.
It was no less than eight days I had waited for them,
when a strange and unforeseen accident intervened, of which
the like has not, perhaps, been heard of in history. I was
fast asleep in my hut one morning, when my man Friday
came running in to me, and called aloud, " Master, master,
they are come, they are come!" I jumped up, and,
regardless of danger, I went, as soon as I could get my
clothes on, through my little grove, which, by the way,
was by this time grown to be a very thick wood. I say,
regardless of danger, I went without my arms, which was
not my custom to do. But I was surprised when, turning
my eye to the sea, I presently saw a boat at about a league
and a half distance, standing in for the shore, with a
shoulder-of-mutton sail, as they call it, and the wind
blowing pretty fair to bring them in. Also I observed,
presently, that they did not come from that side which the
shore lay on, but from the southernmost end of the island.
Upon this I called Friday in, and bade him lie close, for
these were not the people we looked for, and that we might
not know yet whether they were friends or enemies. In
the next place, I went in to fetch my perspective glass, to
see what I could make of them; and, having taken the ladder
out, f climbed up to the top of the hill, as I used to do
when I was apprehensive of anything, and to take my view
the plainer, without being discovered. I had scarce set my
foot upon the hill when my eye plainly discovered a ship
lying at anchor, at about two leagues and a half distance
from me, south-southeast, but not above a league and a half
from the shore. By my observation it appeared plainly to
be an English ship, and the boat appeared to be an English
longboat.
I cannot express the confusion I was in, though the joy
of seeing a ship, and one that I had reason to believe was
manned by my own countrymen, and consequently friends,
was such as I cannot describe. Yet I had some secret
doubts hung about me-I cannot tell from whence they
came—bidding me keep upon my guard. In the first
place, it occurred to me to consider what business an
English ship could have in that part of the world, since it
was not the way to or from any part of the world where
the English had any traffic. I knew there had been no
storms to drive them in there, in distress ; and that if they
were really English, it was most probable that they were
here upon no good design; and that I had better continue
as I was, than fall into the hands of thieves and murderers.
I had not kept myself long in this posture, till I saw the
boat draw near the shore, as if they looked for a creek to
thrust in at, for the convenience of landing. As they did
not come quite far enough, they did not see the little inlet
where I formerly landed my rafts, but ran their boat on
shore upon the beach, at about half a mile from me; which
was very happy for me, for otherwise they would have
landed just at my door, as I may say, and would soon
have beaten me out of my castle, and perhaps have plundered
me of all I had. When they were on shore, I was fully
satisfied they were Englishmen,—at least most of them.
One or two I thought were Dutch, but it did not prove so.
There were in all eleven men, whereof three of them
I found were unarmed, and, as I thought, bound.
When the first four or five of them were jumped on
shore, they took those three out of the boat as prisoners.
One of the three I could perceive using the most passionate
gestures rf entreaty, affliction, and despair, even to a kind of
extravagance. The other two, I could perceive, lifted up
their hands sometimes, and appeared concerned indeed,
but not to such a degree as the first. I was perfectly
confounded at the sigh., and knew not what the meaning
of it could be. Friday called out to me in English, as
well as he could, "O master! you see English mans eat
prisoner as well as savage mans." "Why, Friday," says
I, "do you think they are going to eat them, then?"
"Yes," says Friday, ',' they will eat them." "No, no,"
says I, "Friday; I am afraid they will murder them,
indeed ; but you may be sure they will not eat them."
All this while I had no thought of what the matter
really was, but stood trembling with the horror of the
sight, expecting every moment when the three prisoners
should be killed. Nay, once I s<Jw one of the villains lift
up his arm with a great cutlass, as the seamen call it,
or sword, to strike one of the poor men. I expected to
see him fall every moment; at which all the blood in my
body seemed to run chill in my veins. I wished heartily
now for the Spaniard, and the savage that was gone with
him, or that I had any way to have come undiscovered
within shot of them, that I might have secured the three
men, for I saw no firearms they had among them. But it
fell out to my mind another way. After I had observed the
outrageous usage of the three men by the insolent seamen,
I observed the fellows run scattering about the island, as if
they wanted to see the country. I observed that the three
other men had liberty to go also ivhere they pleased; but
they sat down all three upon the ground, very pensive, and
looked like men in despair. This put me in mind of the
first time when I came on shore, and began to look about
me; how I gave myself over for lost, how wildly I looked
round me, what dreadful apprehensions I had, and how I
lodged in the tree all night, for fear of being devoured by
wild beasts.
CHAPTER XLI.
IT was just at high water when these people came on
shore; and while they rambled about to see what kind of a
place they were in, they had carelessly staid till the tide
was spent, and the water was ebbed considerably away,
leaving their boat aground. They had left two men in the
boat, who, as I found afterwards, having drunk a little too
much brandy, fell asleep. One of them, waking a little
sooner than the other, and finding the boat too fast
aground for him to stir it, hallooed out for the rest, who were
straggling about; upon which they all soon came to the
boat. But it was past all their strength to launch her, the
boat being very heavy, and the shore on that side being a
soft, oozy sand, almost like A quicksand. In this condition,
like true seamen, who are, perhaps, the least of all mankina
given to forethought, they gave it over, and away they
strolled about the country again; and I heard one of them
say aloud to another, calling them off from the boat,
"Why, let her alone, Jack, can't you? shell float next
tide ;" by which I was fully confirmed in the main inquiry
of what countrymen they were.
All this while I kept myself very close, not once daring
to stir out of my castle any farther than to my place of
observation near the top of the hill; and very glad I was
to think how well it was fortified. I knew it was no less
than ten hours before the boat could float again, and by
that time it would be dark, and I might be at more liberty
to see their motions, and to hear their discourse, if they
had any. In the mean time I fitted myself up for a battle,
as before, though with more caution, knowing I had to do
with another kind of enemy than I had at first. I ordered
Friday also, whom I had made an excellent marksman
with his gun, to load himself with arms. I took myself two
fowling pieces, and I gave him three muskets. My figure,
indeed, was very fierce; I had my formidable goat-skin coat
on, with the great cap I have mentioned, a naked sword
by my side, two pistols in my belt, and a gun upon each
shoulder.
It was my design, as I said above, not to have made any
attempt tiU it was dark; but about two o'clock, being the
heat of the day, I found that they were all gone straggling
into the woods, and, as I thought, were laid down to
sleep. The three poor distressed men, too anxious for their
condition to get any sleep, had, however, sat down under
264
ROBINSON CRUSOB
the shelter of a great tree, at about a quarter of a mile
from me, and, as I thought, out of sight of any of the
rest. Upon this I resolved to discover myself to them, and
learn something of their condition. Immediately I march-
ed, with my man Friday at a good distance behind me, as
formidable for his arms as I, but not making quite so
staring a specter-like figure as I did. I came as near them
undiscovered as I could and then, before any of them saw
me, I called aloud to them in Spanish, " What are ye,
gentlemen ?I-

They started up at the noise, but were ten times more
confounded when they saw me, and the uncouth figure that
I made. They made no answer at all, but I thought i
perceived them just going to fly from me, when I spoke to
them in English: "Gentlemen," said I, "do not be
surprised at me; perhaps you may have a friend near,
when you did not expect it." "He must be sent, directly
from Heaven then ;" said one of them very gravely to me'
and pulling off his hat at the same time to me; "for our
condition is past the help of man." "All help is from
Heaven, sir," said I: "but can you put a stranger in the
way to help you? for you seem to be in some great distress.
I saw you when you landed; and when you seemed to make
application to the brutes that came with you, I saw one of
them lift up his sword to kill you."
The poor man, with tears running down his face, and
trembling, looking like one astonished, returned, "Am I
talking to God, or man? Is it a real man, or an angel?"
"Be in no fear about that, sir," said I; "if God had sent
an angel to relieve you, he would have come better clothed,
and armed after another manner than you see me. Pray
lay aside your fears. I am a man, an Englishman, and
disposed to assist you, you see. I have one servant only;
we have arms and ammunition; tell us freely, can we serve
you? What is your case?" "Our case, sir," said he,
"is too long to tell you, while our murderers are so near
us. In short, sir, I was commander of that ship. My men
have mutinied against me. They have been hardly prevailed
on not to murder me, and, at last, have set me on shore in
this desolate place, with these two men with me,—one my
mate, the other a passenger,—where we expected to perish,
believing the place to be uninhabited, and know not yet
what to think of it."
"Where are these brutes, your enemies? " said I; "do
you know where they are gone?" "There they lie, sir,"
said he, pointing to a thicket of trees; '' my heart trembles
for fear they have seen us, and heard you speak. If they
have, they will certainly murder us all." "Have they
any firearms?" said I. He answered, "They had only
two pieces, and one which they left in the boat." "Well,
then," said I, "leave the rest to me. I see they are all
asleep; it is an easy thing to kill them all; but shall we
rather take them prisoners?" He told me there were two
desperate villains among them that it was scarce safe to
show any mercy to; but if they were secured, he believed
all the rest would return to their duty. I asked him which
they were. He told me he could not at that distance
distinguish them, but he would obey my orders in any-
thing I would direct. "Well," says I, "let us retreat out
of their view or hearing, lest they awake, and we will resolve
further." So they willingly went back with me, till the
woods covered us from them.
"l,ook you, sir," saidl; "if I venture upon your deliver-
ance, are you willing to make two conditions with me?" He
anticipated my proposals by telling me that both he and the
ship, if recovered, should be wholly directed and command-
ed by me in everything. If the ship was not recovered,
he would live and die with me in what part of the world
soever I would send him. The two other men said the
same. "Well," says I, "my conditions are but two ; first:
that while you stay in this island with me, you will not
pretend to any authority here; and if I put arms in your
hands, you will, upon all occasions, give them up to me,
and do no prejudice to me or mine upon this island, and in
the mean time be governed by my orders. Secondly: that
if the ship is, or may be, recovered, you will carry me and
my man to England, passage free."
He gave me all the assurances that the invention or faith
of man could devise, that he would comply with these most
reasonable demands, and besides would owe his life to me.
and acknowledge it upon all occasions as long as he lived.
"Well, then," said I, "here are three muskets for you,
with powder and ball. Tell me next what you think is
proper to be done." He showed all the testimonies of his
gratitude that he was able, but offered to be wholly guided
by me. I told him I thought it was hard venturing any-
thing; but the best method I could think of was to fire on
them at once as they lay, and if any were not killed at the
first volley, and offered to submit, we might save them, and
so put it wholly upon God's providence to direct the shot. He
said, very modestly, that he was loath to kill them, if he
could help it; but that those two were incorrigible villains,
and had been the authors of all the mutiny in the ship, and
if they escaped, we should be undone still, for they would
go on board and bring the whole ship's company, and de-
stroy us all. "Well, then," says I, "necessity legitimates
my advice, for it is the only way to save our lives."
However, seeing him still cautious of shedding blood, I told
him they should go themselves, and manage as they found
convenient.
In the middle of this discourse we heard some of them
awake, and soon after we saw two of them on their feet. I
asked him if either of them was at the head of the mutiny
He said, "No." "Well, then," said I, "you may let
them escape ; and Providence seems to have awakened them
on purpose to save themselves. Now," said I, if the rest
escape you, it is your fault." Animated with this, he took
the musket I had given him in his hand, and a pistol in
his belt, and his two comrades with him, with each apiece
in his hand. The two men who were with him going first
made some noise, at which one of the seamen, who was
awake, turned about, and seeing them coming, cried out to
the rest; but it was too late then, for the moment he cried
out they fired,—I mean the two men, the captain wisely
reserving his own piece.
They had so well aimed their shot at the men they knew
that one of them was killed on the spot, and the other very
much wounded ; but not being dead he started up on his
feet, and called eagerly for help to the other. But the
captain stepping to him, told him it was too late to cry for
help, he should call upon God to forgive his villainy; and
with that word knocked him down with the stock of his
musket, so that he never spoke more. There were three
more in the company, and one of them was slightly
wounded. By this time I was come; and when they saw
their danger, and that it was in vain to resist, they begged
for mercy. The captain told them he would spare their
lives if they would give him any assurance of their
abhorrence of the treachery they had been guilty of, and
would swear to be faithful to him in recovering the ship,
and afterwards in carrying her back to Jamaica, from
whence they came. They gave him all the protestations of
their sincerity that could be desired; and he was willing
to believe them, and spare their lives, which I was not
against. Only I obliged him to keep them bound hand and
foot while they were on the island.
While this was doing, I sent Friday with the captain's
mate to the boat, with orders to se<ure her, and bring away
the oars and sails, which they did. By and by three
straggling men, that were (happily for them) parted from
the rest, came back upon hearing the guns fired; and
seeing the captain, who was before their prisoner, now
their conqueror, they submitted to be bound also. So our
victory was complete.
CHAPTER XLII.
IT now remained that the captain and I should inquire
into one another's circumstances. I began first, and told him
my whole history, which he heard with an attention even
to amazement, and particularly at the wonderful manner
of my being furnished with provisions and ammunition'.
and indeed, as my story is a whole collection of wonders,
it affected him deeply. But when he reflected from thence
upon himself, and how I seemed to have been preserved
there on purpose to save his life, the tears ran down his
face, and he could not speak a word more. After this
communication was at an end, I carried him and his two
men into my apartment, leading them in just where I came
out, namely, at the top of the house, where I refreshed him
with such provisions as I had, and showed them all the
contrivances I had made during my long, long inhabiting
that place.
All I showed them, all I said to them, was perfectly
amazing. But above all the captain admired my fortifi-
cation, and how perfectly I had concealed my retreat with d.
grove of trees, which, having been now planted nearly
twenty years, and the trees growing much faster than hi
England, was become a little wood, so thick that it was
impassable in any part of it but at that one side where I
had reserved my little winding passage into it. I told him
this was my castle and my residence, but that I had a seat
in the country, as most princes have, whither I could
retreat upon occasion, and I would show him that, too,
another time; but at present our business was to consider
how to recover the ship. He agreed with me as to that,
but told me he was perfectly at a loss what measures to take,
for that there were still six and twenty hands on board,
who, having entered into a cursed conspiracy, by which they
had all forfeited their lives to the law, would be hardened in
it now by desperation, and would carry it on, knowing that
if they were subdued they would be brought to the gallows as
soon as they came to England or to any of the English
colonies. Therefore, there would be no attacking them
with so small a number as we were.
I mused for some time on what he had said, and found
it was a very rational conclusion, and that therefore some-
thing was to be resolved on speedily, as well to draw the
men on board into some snare for their surprise, as to
prevent their landing upon us, and destroying us. Upon
this, it presently occurred to me that in a little while the
ship's crew, wondering what was become of their comrades
and of the boat, would certainly come on shore in their
other boat to look for them, and that then, perhaps, they
might come armed, and be too strong for us. This he
allowed to be rational. Upon this, I told him the first thing
we had to do was to stave the boat, which lay upon the
beach, so that they might not carry her off, and, taking
everything out of her, leave her so far useless as not to be
fit to swim. Accordingly we went on board, took the arms
which were left on board out of her, and whatever else we
found there,—which was a bottle of brandy, and another of
rum, a few biscuit cakes, a horn of powder, and a great
lump of sugar in a piece of canvas. The sugar was five or
six pounds. All this was very welcome to me, especially
the brandy and sugar, of which I had had none left for
many years.
When we had carried all these things on shore, (the
oars, mast, sail, and rudder of the boat were carried away
before,) we knocked a great hole in her bottom, that if
they had come strong enough to master us, yet they could
not carry off the boat. Indeed, it was not much in my
thoughts that we could be able to recover the ship. But
my view was that if they went away without the boat, I
did not much question to make her again fit to carry us to
the Leeward Islands, and call upon our friends the
Spaniards in my way; for I had them still in my thoughts.
While we were thus preparing our designs, and had
first, by main strength, heaved the boat upon the beach so
high that the tide would not float her off at high-water
mark, and, besides, had broken a hole in her bottom too
big to be quickly stopped, and were sat down musing what
we should do, we Vard the ship fire a gun, and saw her
,make a waft with her ensign as a signal for the boat to
come on board. But no boat stirred, and they fired several
times, making other signals for the boat. At last, when all
their signals and firing Proved fruitless, and they found
the boat did not stir, we saw them, by the help of my
glasses, hoist another boat out, and row towards the shore.
We found, as they approached, that there were no less
than ten men in her, and that they had firearms with
them.
As the ship lay almost two leagues from the shore, we
had a full view of them as they came, and plain sight even
of their faces; because the tide having set them a little
to the east of the other boat, they rowed up under shore,
to come to the same place where the other had landed, and
where the boat lay. By this means, I say, we had a full
view of them, and the captain knew the persons and
characters of all the men in the boat, of whom, he said,
there were three very honest fellows, who, he was sure,
were led into this conspiracy by the rest, being overpowered
and frightened; but that as for the boatswain, who, it
seems, was the chief officer among them, and all the rest,
they were as outrageous as any of the ship's crew, and
were no doubt made desperate in their new enterprise.
We had, upon the first appearance of the boats coming
from the ship, considered of separating our prisoners; and
we had, indeed, secured them effectually. Two of them,
of whom the captain was less assured than ordinary, I sent
with Friday and one of the three delivered men, to my
cave, where they were remote enough, and out of danger
of being heard or discovered, or of finding their way out of
the woods if they could have delivered themselves. Here
they left them bound, but gave them provisions, and
promised them, if they continued there quietly, to give
them their liberty in a day or two ; but that if they attempt-
ed their escape, they should be put to death without mercy.
They promised faithfully to bear their confinement with
patience, and were very thankful that they had such good
usage as to have provisions and light left them. Friday
gave them candles for their comfort; and they did not
know but that he stood sentinel over them at the entrance.
The other prisoners had better usage. Two of them
were kept pinioned, indeed, because the captain was not
able to trust them ; but the other two were taken into my
service, upon the captain's recommendation, and upon their
solemnly engaging to live and die with us. So with them
and the three honest men we were seven men, well armed;
and I made no doubt we should be able to deal well enough
with the ten that were coming, considering that the captain
had said there were three or four honest men among them
also.
As soon as they got to the place where their other boat
lay, they ran their boat into the beach and came all on
shore, hauling the boat up after them, which I was glad to
see, for I was afraid they would rather have left the boat
at an anchor some distance from the shore, with some
hands in her, to guard her, and so we should not be able
to seize the boat. Being on shore, the first thing they did,
they all ran to their other boat. It was easy to see they
were under a great surprise to find her stripped of all that
was in her, and a great hole in her bottom. After they had
mused awhile upon this, they set up two or three great
shouts, hallooing with all their might, to try if they could
make their companions hear. But all was to no purpose.
Then they came all close in a ring, and fired a volley of
their small arms, which, indeed, we heard, and the echoes
made the woods ring. But it was all one; those in the
cave, we were sure, could not hear; and those in our keep-
ing, though they heard it well enough, yet durst give no
answer to them. They were so astonished at this that, as
they told us afterwards, they resolved to go all on board
again to their ship, and let them know that the men were
all murdered, and the longboat staved. Accordingly, they
immediately launched their boat again, and got all of them
on board.
The captain was terribly amazed, and even confounded,
at this, believing they would go on board the ship again
and set sail, giving their comrades over for lost, and so he
should still lose the ship, which he was in hopes we should
have recovered. But he was quickly as much frightened
the other way.
They had not been long put off with the boat, when we
perceived them all coming on shore again, but with this
new measure, which it seems they consulted together upon;
namely, to leave three men in the boat, and the rest to go
on shore, and go up into the country to look for their
fellows. This was a great disappointment to us, for now
we were at a loss what to do, as our seizing those seven men
on shore would be no advantage to us if we let the boat
escape. They would row away to the ship, and then the
rest of them would be sure to weigh and set sail, and so our
recovering the ship would be lost. However, we had no
remedy but to wait and see what the issue of things might
Present.
The seven men came on shore, and the three who
remained in the boat put her off to a good distance from the
shore, and came to an anchor to wait for them; so that
it was impossible for us to come at them in the boat.
Those that came on shore kept close together, marching
towards the top of the little hill under which my habitation
lay; and we could see them plainly, though they could not
perceive us. We should have been very glad if they would
have come nearer to us, so that we might have fired at
them, or that they would have gone farther off, that we
might come abroad. But when they were come to the
brow of the hill where they could see a great way into the
valleys and woods, which lay towards the northeast part,
and where the island lay lowest, they shouted and hallooed
till they were weary. Not caring, it seems, to venture far
from the shore, nor far from one another, they sat down
together under a tree to consider it. Had they thought fit
to go to sleep there, as the other part of them had done,
they had done the job for us; but the}r were too full of
apprehensions of danger to venture to go to sleep, though
they could not tell what the danger was they had to fear.
The captain made a very just proposal to me upon this
consultation of theirs; namely, that perhaps they would all
fire a volley again, to endeavor so make their fellows hear,
and that we should all sally upon them just at the juncture
when their pieces were all discharged, and they would
certainly yield, and we should have them without bloodshed.
I liked this proposal, provided it was done while we were
near enough to come up to them before they could load
their pieces again. But this event did not happen ; and we
lay still a long time, very irresolute what course to take.
At length, I told them there would be nothing to be
done, in my opinion, till night. Then, if they did not
return to the boat, perhaps we might find a way to get
between them and the shore, and so might use some
stratagem with those in the boat to get them on shore.
We waited a great while, though very impatient for their
removing; aiid were very uneasy when, after long consul-
tation, we saw them all start up, and march down towards
the sea. It seems they had such dreadful apprehensions
of the danger of the place that they resolved to go on
board the ship again, give their companions over for lost,
and so go on with their intended voyage with the ship.
CHAPTER XUH.
As soon as I perceived them go towards the shore,
I imagined it to be, as it really was, that they had given
over their search, and were going back again. The captain,
as soon as I told him my thoughts, was ready to sink at the
apprehension of it. But I presently thought of a stratagem
to fetch them back again, which answered my end to a tittle.
I ordered Friday and the captain's mate to go over the
little creek westward, towards the place where the savages
came on shore when Friday was rescued, and so soon as
they came to a little rising ground, at about half a mile
distance, I bade them halloo out, as loud as they could, and
wait till they found the seamen heard them. As soon as ever
they heard the seamen answer them, they should return it
again, and then, keeping out of sight, take a round, always
answering when the other hallooed, to draw them as far into
the island and among the woods as possible, and then
wheel about again to me by such ways as I directed them.
They were just going into the boat when Friday and the
mate hallooed. They presently heard them, and, answer-
ing, ran along the shore westward, towards the voice they
heard, when they were stopped by the creek, where, the
water being up, they could not get over, and called for the
boat to come up and set them over; as, indeed, I expected.
When they had set themselves over, I observed that, the
boat being gone a good way into the creek, and, as it were,
in a harbor within the land, they took one of the three
men out of her, to go along with them, and left only two
in the boat, having fastened her to the stump of a little
tree on the shore. This was what I wished for. Im-
mediately leaving Friday and the captain's mate to their
business, I took the rest with me; and, crossing the creek
out of their sight, we surprised the two men before they were
aware,—one of them lying on the shore, and the other
being in the boat. The fellow on shore was between sleep-
ing and waking, and going to start up. The captain,
who was foremost, ran in upon him, and knocked him
down, and then called out to him in the boat to yield,
or he was a dead man.
There needed very few arguments to persuade a single man
to yield, when he saw five men upon him and his comrade
knocked down. Besides, this was, it seems, one of the
three who were not so hearty in the mutiny as the rest of
the crew, and therefore he was easily persuaded not only
to yield, but afterwards to join very sincerely with us. In
the mean time, Friday and the captain's mate so well man-
aged their business with the rest that they drew them, by
hallooing and answering, from one hill to another, and
from one wood to another, till they not only heartily tirea
them, but left them where they were very sure they could
not reach back to the boat before it was dark. Indeed,
they were heartily tired themselves, also, by the time they
came back to us.
We had nothing now to do but to watch for them in the
dark, and to fall upon them so as to make sure work with
them. It was several hours after Friday came back to me
before they came back to their boat. We could hear the
foremost of them, long before they came quite up, calling
to those behind to come along; and could also hear them
answer, and complain how lame and tired they were, and
not able to come any faster; which was very welcome news
to us. At length they came up to the boat; but it is
impossible to express their confusion when they found the
boat fast aground in the creek, the tide ebbed out, and
their two men gone. We could hear them call one to
another in a most lamentable manner, telling one another
they were got into an enchanted island; that either there
were inhabitants in it, and they should all be murdered, or
else there were devils and spirits in it, and they should be
all carried away and devoured.
They hallooed again, and called their two comrades by
their names a great many times; but no answer. After
some time we could see them, by the little light there was,
running about, wringing their hands like men in despair.
Sometimes they would go and sit down in the boat to rest
themselves; then come ashore again, and walk about again,
and so the same thing over again. My men would fain
have had me give them leave to fall upon them at once in
the dark ; but I was willing to take them at some advantage,
so as to spare them, and kill as few of them as I could.
Especially I was unwilling to hazard the killing of any
of our men, knowing the others were very well armed.
I resolved to wait, to see if they did not seperate.
Therefore, to make sure of them, I drew my ambuscade
nearer, and ordered Friday and the captain to creep upon
their hands and feet, as close to the ground as they could,
that they might not be discovered, and get as near them
as they possibly could, before they offered to fire.
They had not been long in that posture when the
boatswain, who was the principal ringleader of the mutiny,
and had now shown himself the most dejected and dispirited
of all the rest, came walking towards them, with two more
of the crew. The captain was so eager at having this
principal rogue so much in his power, that he could hardly
have patience to let him come so near as to be sure of him,
for they only h^ard his tongue before. But when they
came nearer, the captain and Friday, starting up on their
feet, let fly at them. The boatswain was killed upon the
spot; the next man was shot in the body and fell just by
him, though he did not die till an hour or two after; and
the third ran for it. At the noise of the fire I immediately
advanced with my whole army, which was now eight men;
namely, myself, generalissimo; Friday, my lieutenant
general; the captain and his two men, and the three
prisoners of war whom we had trusted with arms.
We came upon them, indeed, in the dark, so that they
could not see our number; and I made the man they had
left in the boat, who was now one of us, call to them by
name, to try if I could bring them to a parley and so
perhaps might reduce them to terms. This fell out just as
we desired; for, indeed, it was easy to think, as their
condition then was, they would be very willing to
capitulate. So he calls out as loud as he could to one of
them, "Tom Smith ! Tom Smith!" Tom Smith answered
immediately, "Is that Robinson?" for it seems he knew
the voice. The other answered, "Ay, ay ;for God's sake,
Tom Smith, throw down your arms and yield, or you are
all dead men this moment."
Who must we yield to? Where are they ?'' says Smith
again. "Here they are," says he; "here's cur captain
and fifty men with him, have been hunting you these two
hours. The boatswain is killed, Will Fry is wounded, and
I am a prisoner. If you do not yield, you are all lost."
"Will they give us quarter the.i?" says Tom Smith, " and
we will yield." "I'll go and ask, if you promise to yield,"
says Robinson. So he asked the captain; and the captain
himself then calls out, "You, Smith, you know my voice;
if you lay down'your arms immediately, and submit, you
shall have your lives, all but Will Atkins."
Upon this, Will Atkins cried out, '' For God's sake,
captain, give me quarter! What have I done? They have
all been as bad as I;" which, by the way, was not true;
for, it seems, this Will Atkins was the first man that laid
koldofihe. captain when they first mutinied, and used him
barbarously in tying his hands and giving him injurious
language. However, the captain told him he must lay
down his arms at discretion, and trust to the governor's
mercy,—by which he meant me, for they all called me
governor. In a word, they all laid down their arms, and
begged their lives. I sent the man that had parleyed with
them, and two more, who bound them all. Then my great
army of fifty men, which, with those three, were in all but
eight, came up and seized upon them and upon their boat:
only that I kept myself and one more out of sight, for
reasons of state.
Our next work .was to repair the boat, and think of
seizing the ship. As for the captain, now he had leisure
to parley with them, he expostulated with them upon the
villainy of their practices with him, and upon the further
wickedness of their design, and how certainly it must biing
them to misery and distress in the end, and perhaps to the
gallows.
They all appeared very penitent, and begged hard for
their lives. As for that, he told them they were not his
prisoners, but those of the commander of the island; that
they thought they had set him on shore in a barren,
uninhabited island, but it had pleased God so to direct
them that it was inhabited, and that the Governor was an
Englishman; that he might hang them all there, if he
pleased, but as he had given them all quarter, he supposed
he would send them to England, to be dealt with there as
justice required, except Atkins, whom he was commanded
by the governor to advise to prepare for death, for that he
would be hanged in the morning.
Though this was all but a fiction of his own, yet it had its
desired effect. Atkins/^// upon his knees, to beg the captain
to intercede with the governor for his life; and all the rest
begged of him, for God's sake, that they might not be sent
to England.
It now occurred to me that the time of our deliverance
was come, and that it would be a most easy thing to bring
these fellows in to be hearty in getting possession of the
ship. So I rftireil in the dark from them, that they might
not see what kind of a governor they had, and called the
captain to me. When I called, as at a good distance, one
of the men was ordered to speak again, and say to the
captain, "Captain, the commander calls for you;" and
presently the captain replied, "Tell his Excellency I am
just coming." This mere perfectly amazed them, and
they all believed *aat the commander was just by, with his
fifty men.
Upon '^he captain's coming to me, I told him my project
for seizing the ship, which he liked wonderfully well, and
resolved to put it in execution the next morning. But, in
order to execute it with more art, and to be secure of
success, I told him we must divide the prisoners, and that
he should go and ake Atkins, and two more of the worst
of them, and send them pinioned to the cave where the
others lay. This was committed io Friday and the two men
who came on shore with the captain. They conveyed them
to the cave as o a prison, and it was, indeed, a dismal
place. The others I ordered to my bower. As it was
fenced in, and they pinioned, the place was secure enough,
considering they were upon their behavior.
To these in the morning I sent he captain, who was to
enter info a parley with them; in a word, to try them, and
tell me whether he thought they might be trusted or not to
go oa board and surprise the ship. He talked to them of
the injury done him, of the condition ^hey were brought to,
sad that though the governor had given them quarter for
their lives as Vo the present action, yet that if chey were
sent to England they would all be hanged in chains; but
tliat if they would join in so just an attempt as to recover
the ship, he would have the governor's engagement for
their pardon.
CHAPTER XWV.
ANY one may guess how readily such a proposal would
be accepted'by men in their condition. They fell down on
their knees to the captain, and promised, with the deepest
imprecations, that they would be faithful to him to the last
drop, and that they should owe their lives to him, and
would go with him all over the world; that they would
own him as a father to them as long as they lived.
"Well," said the captain, "I must go and tell the gov-
ernor what you say, and see what I can do to bring him to
consent to it." So he brought me an account of the temper
he found them in, and that he verily believed they would
be faithful.
However, that we might be very secure, I told him he
should go back again and choose out five of them, and tell
them that they might see he did not want men, but that
he would take out those five to be his assistants, and that
the governor would keep the other two, and the three that
were sent prisoners to the castle (my cave), as hostages for
the fidelity of those five; and that if they proved unfaithful
in the execution, the five hostages should be hanged in
chains alive on the shore. This looked severe, and
convinced them that the governor was in earnest; however,
they had no way left them but to accept it; and it was now
the business of the prisoners, as much as of the captain, to
persuade the other five to do their duty.
Our strength was now thus ordered for the expedition:
first, the captain, his mate, and passenger; second, the
two prisoners of the first gang, to whom, having their
character from the captain, I had given their libeily,
and trusted them with arms.; third, the other two that I
had kept till now in mr bower pinioned, but, on the
captain's motion, had now released; fourth, these five,
released at last; so that they were twelve in all, besides
five we kept prisoners in the cave for hostages.
I asked the captain if he was willing to venture with
these hands on board the ship. As for me and my man
Friday, I did not think it was proper for us to stir, having
seven men left behind; and it was employment enough for
us to keep them asunder, and supply them with victuals.
As to the five in the cave, I resolved to keep them fast; but
Friday went in twice a day to them, to supply them with
necessaries; and I made the other two carry provisions to
a certain distance, where Friday was to take them.
When I showed myself to the two hostages, it was with
the captain, who told them I was the person the governor
had ordered to look after them, and that it was the
governor's pleasure they should not stir anywhere but by my
direction; that if they did, they would be fetched into the
castle, and be laid in irons. So, as we never suffered them
to see me as governor, I now appeared as another person,
and spoke of the governor, the garrison, the castle, and the
like, upon all occasions.
The captain now had no difficulty before him but to
furnish his two boats, stop the breach of one, and man
them. He made his passenger captain of one, with four
of the men; and himself, his mate, and five more, went in
the other. They contrived their business very well, for
they came up to the ship about midnight. As soon as
they came within call of the ship, he made Robinson hail
them, and tell them they had brought off the men and the
boat, but that it was a long time before they had found
them, and the like, holding them in a chat till they came to
the ship's side. Then the captain and the mate, entering
first with their arms, immediately knocked down the
second mate and carpenter with the butt end of their
muskets, being very faithfully seconded by their men.
They secured all the rest that were upon the main and
quarter decks, and began to fasten the hatches to keep them
down that were below. The other boat and their men,
entering at the fore chains, secured the forecastle of the
ship, and the scuttle which went down into the cookroom,
making three men they found there prisoners.
When this was done, and all safe upon deck, the captain
ordered the mate, with three men, to break into the round-
house, where the new rebel captain lay, who, having taken
the alarm, had got up, and with two men and a boy had
got firearms in their hands. When the mate, with a crow,
split open the door, the new captain and his men fired
boldly among them, and wounded the mate with a musket
ball, which broke his arm, and wounded two more of the
men, but killed nobody. The mate, calling for help,
rushed, however, into the roundhouse, wounaea as he was,
and, with his pistol, shot the new captain through the
head, the bullet entering at his mouth, and coming out
again behind one of his ears, so that he never spoke a
word more. Upon this the rest yielded, and the ship was
taken effectually, without any more lives lost.
As soon as the ship was thus secured, the captain
ordered seven guns to be fired, which was the signal agreed
upon with me to give me notice of his success, which, you
may be sure, I was very glad to hear, having sat watching
upon the shore for it till near two o'clock in the morning.
Having thus heard the signal plainly, I laid me down ; and
it having been a day of great fatigue to me, I slept very
sound, till I was surprised with the noise of a gun.
Starting up, I heard a man call me by the name of
'' Governor! Governor!'' and presently I knew the cap-
tain's voice; when, climbing up to the top of the hill,
there he stood, and, pointing to the ship, he embraced me
in his arms. "My dear friend and deliverer," says he,
"there's your ship; for she is all yours, and so are we,
and all that belong to her." I cast my eyes to the ship,
and there she rode, within little more than half a mile of
the shore; for they had weighed her anchor as soon as
they were masters of her, and, the weather being fair, had
brought her to an anchor just against the mouth of the little
creek. The tide being up, the captain had brought the
pinnace in near the place where I had first landed my rafts,
and so landed just at my door.
I was at first ready to sink down with the surprise; for
I saw my deliverance, indeed, visibly put into my hands,
all things easy, and a large ship just ready to carry me
away whither I pleased to go. At first, for some time, I
was not able to answer him one word ; but as he had taken
me in his arms, I held fast by him, or I should have fallen
to the ground He perceived the surprise, and immediately
pulled a bottle out of his pocket and gave me a dram of
cordial, which he had brought on purpose for me. After
I had drunk it, I sat down upon the ground; and though
it brought me to myself yet it was a good while before I
could speak a word to him.
All this time the poor man was in as great an ecstasy as
I, only not under any surprise as I was. He said a
thousand kind and tender things to me, to compose and
bring me to myself; but such was the flood of joy in my
breast that it put all my spirits into confusion. At last it
broke out into tears; and, in a little while after, I recovered
my speech. We rejoiced together. I told him I looked
upon him as a man sent by Heaven to deliver me, and that
the whole transaction seemed to be a chain of wonders;
that such things as these were the testimonies we had of a
secret hand of Providence governing the world, and an
evidence that the eye of an infinite Power could search into
the remotest corner of the world, and send help to the
miserable whenever he pleased.
When we had talked awhile, the captain told me he had
brought me some little refreshment, such as the ship
afforded, and such as the wretches that had been so long
his masters had not plundered him of. Upon this, he called
aloud to the boat and bade his men bring the things ashore
that were for the governor; and, indeed, it was a present
as if I had been one that was not to be carried away with
them, but as if I had been to dwell upon the island still.
First, he had brought me a case of bottles full of excellent
cordial waters, six large bottles of Madeira wine (the bottles
held two quarts each), two pounds of excellent good
tobacco, twelve good pieces of the ship's beef, and six
pieces of pork, with a bag of peas, and about a hundred-
weight of biscuit. He also brought me a box of sugar, a
box of flour, a bag full of lemons, two bottles of lime juice,
and abundance of other things.
But besides these, and what was a thousand times more
useful to me, he brought me six new, clean shirts, six very
good neckcloths, two pairs of gloves, one pair of shoes, a
hat, and one pair of stockings, with a very good suit of
clothes of his own, which had been worn but very little.
In a word, he clothed me from head to foot. It was a very
kind and agreeable present, as any one may imagine, to
one in my circumstances, but never was anything in the
world of that kind so unpleasant, awkward, and uneasy as
it was to me to wear such clothes at first.
After these ceremonies were past, and after all his good
things were brought into my little apartment, we began to
consult what was to be done with the prisoners we had,—
whether we might venture to take them away with us or
no, especially two of them, whom he knew to be incorrigible
Mid refractory to the last degree. The captain said he knew
they were such rogues that there was no obliging them,
and if he did carry them away, it must be in irons, as
malefactors, to be delivered over to justice at the first English
colony he could come to. Upon this I told him that, if he
desired it, I would undertake to bring the two men he
spoke of to make it their own request that he should leave
them upon the island. 'I should be very glad of that,"
Bays the captain, "with all my heart." "Well," says I,
"I will send for them up, and talk with them for you."
So I caused Friday and the two hostages to go to the cave,
and bring up the five men, pinioned as they were, to the
bower, and keep them there till I came.
After some time I came thither, dressed in my new habit.
Being all met, and the captain with me, I caused the men
to be brought before me, and I told them I had got a full
account of their villainous behavior to the captain, and how
they had run away with the ship, and were preparing ta
commit further robberies, but that Providence had insnared
them in their own ways, and that they were fallen into the
pit which they had digged for others. I let them know
that by my direction the ship had been seized; that she lay
now in the road; and that they might see by and by that
their new captain had received the reward of his villainy,
and that they would see him hanging at the yardarm. As
to them, I wanted to know what they had to say why I
should not execute them as pirates taken in the fact, as they
could not doubt but I had authority so to do.
One of them answered, in the name of the rest, that they
had nothing to say but this, that when they were taken
the captain promised them their lives; and they humbly
implored my mercy. But I told them I knew not what
mercy to show them ; for as for myself, I had resolved to
quit the island with all my men, and had taken passage with
the captain to go to England; and as for the captain, he
could not carry them to England other than as prisoners in
irons, to be tried for mutiny and running away with the
ship; the consequence of which, they must needs know,
would be the gallows. I could not tell what was best for
them, unless they had a mind to take their fate in the island.
If they desired that, as I had liberty to leave the island, I
had some inclination to give them their lives, if thej
thought they could shift on shore. They seemed very
thankful for it, and said they would much rather venture
to stay there than be carried to England to DC hanged. So
I left it on that issue.
CHAPTER XI/V.
WHEN they had all declared their willingness to stay, T
then told them I would let them into the story of my living
there, and put them into the way of making it easy to them.
Accordingly, I gave them the whole history of the place,
and of my coming to it; showed them my fortifications,
the way I made my bread, planted my corn, cured my
grapes, and, in a word, all that was necessary to make them
easy. I told them the story, also, of the fifteen Spaniards
that were to be expected, for whom I left a letter, and made
them promise to treat them in common with themselves.
Here it may be noted that the captain, who had ink on
board, was greatly surprised that I never hit upon a way of
making ink of charcoal and water, or of something else, as
I had done things much more difficult.
I left them my firearms; namely, five muskets, three
fowling-pieces, and three swords. I had above a barrel and
a half of powder left; for after the first year or two I used
but little, and wasted none. I gave them a description of
the way I managed the goats, and directions to milk and
fatten them, and to make both butter and cheese. In a
word, I gave them every part of my own story, and told
them I should prevail with the captain to leave them two
barrels of gunpowder more, and some garden seeds which
I told them I would have been very glad of. Also, I gave
them the bag of peas which the captain had brought me to
eat, and bade them be sure to sow and increase them.
Having done all this, I left them the next day, and went
on board the ship. We prepared immediately to sail, but
did not weigh that night. The next morning early, twr
of the five men came swimming- to the ship's side, and,
making the most lamentable complaint of the other three,
begged to be taken into the ship for God's sake, for they
should be murdered, and begged the captain to take them
on board, though he hanged them immediately. Upon
this the captain pretended to have no power without me.
After some difficulty, and after their solemn promises of
amendment, they were taken on board, and were, some
time after, soundly whipped; after which they proved very
honest and quiet fellows.
Some time after this, the boat was ordered on shore, the
tide being up, with the things promised to the men; to
which the captain, at my intercession, caused their chests
and clothes to be added, which they took, and were very
thankful for. I also encouraged them by telling them that
if it lay in my power to send any vessel to take them in,
I would not forget them.
When I took leave of this island, I carried on board, for
relics, the great goat-skin cap I had made, my umbrella,
and my parrot. Also, I forgot not to take the money I
formerly mentioned, which had lain by me so long useless
that it was grown rusty or tarnished, and could hardly pass
for silver till it had been a little rubbed ana handled, as also
the money I found in the wreck of the Spanish ship.
And thus I left the island, the 19th of December, as 1
found by the ship's account, in the year 1686, after I had
been upon it eight and twenty years, two months, and
nineteen days; being delivered from this second captivity
the same day of the month that I first made my escape in
the longboat from among the Moors of Sallee. In this
vessel, after a long voyage, I arrived in England the llth
of June, in the year 1687, having been thirty-five years
absent.
When I came to England, I was as perfect a stranger to
all the world a» if I had never been known there. My
benefactor and faithful steward, whom I had left my money
in trust with, was alive, but was become a widow the second
time, and very low in the world. But my father was dead,
and my mother; and as I had been long ago given over for
dead, there had been no provision made for me; so that, in
a word, I found nothing to relieve or assist me. The little
money I had would not do much for me as to settling in the
world.
I met with one piece of gratitude, indeed, which I did
not expect; and this was that the master of the ship, whom
I had so happily delivered, and by the same means saved
the ship and cargo, having given a very handsome account to
the owners of the manner in which I had saved the lives of
the men, and the ship, they invited me to meet them and
some other merchants concerned, and all together made me a
very handsome compliment upon the subject, and a present of
almost £200 sterling.
After making several reflections upon the circumstances
of my life, and how little way this would go towards settling
me in the world, I resolved to go to Lisbon, and see if I
might not come at some information of the state of my
plantation, in Brazil, and of what was become of my
partner, who, I had reason to suppose, had some years past
given me over for dead. With this view I took shipping for
Lisbon, where I arrived in April following. My man
Friday accompanied me very honestly in all these ramblings.
and proved a most faithful servant upon all occasions.
When I came to Lisbon, I found out, by inquiry, and to
my particular satisfaction, my old friend, the captain of the
"hip who first took me up at sea off the shore of Africa. He
was now grown old, and had left off going to sea, having
put his son into his ship, who still used the Brazil trade.
The old man did not know me. Indeed, I hardly knew
him ; but I soon brought him to my remembrance, and as
soon brought myself to his remembrance, when I told him
who I was.
After some passionate expressions of the old acquaintance
between us, I inquired, you may be sure, after my planta-
tion and my partner. The old man told me he had not
been in Brazil for about nine years, but that he could
assure me that when he came away my partner was living.
He believed I would have a very good account of the
improvement of the plantation; for that, upon the general
belief of my being cast away and drowned, my trustees had
given in the account of the produce of my part of the planta-
tion to the government.
He told me he could not tell exactly to what degree the
plantation was improved; but this he knew, that my
partner was grown exceeding rich upon the enjoying his part
ofit; that as to my being restored to a quiet possession of it,
there was no question to be made of that, my partner being
alive to witness my title, and my name being also enrolled
in the register of the country.
After a few days1 further conference with this ancient
friend, he brought me an account of the first six years'
income of my plantation, signed by my partner and the
merchant trustees. I found by this account that every
year the income considerably increased; but, the disburse-
ments being large, the sum at first was small. However,
the old man let me see that he was debtor to me four
hundred and seventy moidores of gold, besides sixty ohests
of sugar, and fifteen double rolls of tybacco.
Never was anything more honorable than the proceedings
which followed. In less than seven months I received a
large packet from the survivors of my trustees, the mer-
chants, for whose account I went to sea. There was also
a letter of my partner's, congratulating me very affectionately
upon my being alive, and concluding with a hearty tender of
his friendship, and that of his family. He sent me, as a
present, seven fine leopards1 skins, which he had received
from Africa, by some other ship that he had sent thither,
and which, it seems, had made a better voyage than I.
He sent me also five chests of excellent sweetmeats, and a
hundred pieces of gold uncoined, not quite so large as
moidores. By the same fleet, my two merchant trustees
shipped me one thousand two hundred chests of sugar,
eight hundred rolls of tobacco, and the rest of the whole
account in gold.
I might well say now, indeed, that the latter end of Job
was better than the beginning. It is impossible to express
the flutterings of my very heart when I found all my wealth
about me; for as the Brazil ships come all in fleets, the
same ships which brought my letters brought my goods,
and the effects were sate in the river before the letters came
to my hand. In & word, I turned pale, and grew sick;
and, had not the old man run and fetched me a cordial, I
believe the sudden surprise of joy had overset nature, and
I had died upon the spot. Nay, after that, I continued
very ill, and was so some hours.
I was now master, all on a sudden, of above five thousand
pounds sterling in money, and had an estate, as I might
well call it, in Brazil, of above a thousand pounds a year,
as sure as an estate of lands in England. In a word, I
was in a condition which I scarce knew how to understand,
or how to compose myself for the enjoyment of it. The first
thing I did was to recompense my original benefactor, my
good old captain, who had been first charitable to me in my
distress, kind to me in my beginning, and honest to me at
the end. I showed him all that was sent to me; I told him
that, next to the providence of Heaven, which disposed all
things, it was owing to him, and that it now lay on me
to reward him, which I would do a hundredfold. I first
returned to him the hundred moidores I had received of
him; then I sent for a notary, and caused him to draw up
a general release or discharge from the four hundred and
seventy moidores, which he had acknowledged he owed
me, in the fullest manner possible; and by a clause in the
ena, I made a grant of one hundred moidores a year to him
during his life, and fifty moidores a year to his son after
him,/br his life. Thus I requited my old man.
I had not a cave now to hide my money in, or a place
where it might lie without lock or key till it grew moldy
and tarnished before anybody would meddle with it. On
the contrary, I knew not where to put it, or whom to trust
with it. My old patron, the captain, indeed, was honest,
and that was the only lefuge I had. In the next place,
my interest in Brazil seemed to summon me thither. But
now I could not tell how to think of going thither till I
had settle! my affairs, and left my effects in some safe
hands behind me. At first I thought of my old friend the
widow, who I knew was honest, and would be just to me;
but then she was in years and but poor, and, for aught I
knew, might be in debt. In a word, I had no wav but to
go back to England myself, and take my effects with me.
I landed safe at Dover the 14th of January, after having
had a severe cold season to travel in. Poor Friday was
really frightened when he saw the mountains all covered
with snow, and felt cold weather, which he had never seen
or felt before in his life.
My principal guide and privy counsellor was my good,
ancient widow, who in gratitude for the money I had sent
her, thought no Pains too much nor care too great to employ
for me. I trusted her so entirely with everything that 7
was perfectly easy as to the security of my effects.
Any one would think that in this state oj complicated
good fortune, I was past running any more hazards,—and
so, indeed, I had been, if other circumstances had concurred.
But I was inured to a wandering life, and had no family;
so I had a great mind to be upon the wing again. Especially
I could not resist the strong inclination I had to see my
island, and to know if the poor Spaniards were in being
there. My true friend, the widow, earnestly dissuaded me
from it, and so far prevailed with me that for almost seven
years she prevented my running abroad, during which
time I took my two nephews into my care. The eldest,
having something of his own, I bred up as a gentleman, and
gave him a settlement of some addition to his estate after
my decease. The other I placed with the captain of a ship.
After five years, finding him a sensible, bold, enterprising
young fellow, I put him into a good ship, and sent him to
sea.
In the mean time, I in part settled myself. First of all,
I married, and had three children, two sons and one
daughter. But my wife dying, and my nephew coming
home with good success from a voyage to Spain, my inclina-
tion to go abroad, and his importunity, prevailed, and
engaged me to go in his ship as a private trader to the East
Indies. This was in the year 1694.
In this voyage I visited my new colony in the island,
saw my successors the Spaniards, and had the whole story
of their lives, and of the villains I left there,—how at first
they insulted the poor Spaniards, how they afterwards
agreed, disagreed, united, separated, and how at last the
Spaniards were obliged to use violence with them; how they
were subjected to the Spaniards, how honestly the Spaniards
used them,—a history, if it were entered into, as full of
variety and wonderful accidents as my own part; particularly,
also, as to their battles with the Caribbeans, who landed
several times upon the island, and as to the improvement
they madr upon the island itself.
Here I staid about twenty days, and left them supplies of
ah necessary things, and particularly of arms, powder, shot,
clothes, tools, and two workmen whom I had brought from
England with me —namely, a carpenter and a smith.
Besides this, I shared the lands into parts with them. I
reserved to myself the property Cj the whole, but gave them
such parts, respectively, as they agreed on; and having
settled all things with them, and engaged them not to
leave the place, T left them there.
293
VERSES
SUPPOSED TO BB WRITTEN BY ALEXANDER SELKIRK, DURING HIS
SOLITARY ABODE IN THE ISLAND OF JUAN FBRNANDttZ.
I am monarch of all I survey,
My right there is none to dispute;
From the center all round to the sea
I am lor 1 of the fowl and the brute.
O, Solitude! where are the charms
That sages have seen in thy face?
Better dwell in the midst of alarms
Than reign in this horrible place.
I am out of humanity's reach,
I must finish my journey alone,
Never hear the sweet music of speech,
I start at the sound of my own.
The beasts that roam over the plain
Mv form with indifference see;
They are so unacquainted with man,
Their tameness is shocking to me.
Society, friendship, and love,
Divinely bestow1 d upon man,
Oh, had I the wings of a dove,
How soon would 1 taste you again!
My sorrows I then might assuage
In the ways ^religion and truth,
Might learn from the wisdom of age,
And be cbeer'd by the sallies of youth.
Religion 1 wjiat treasure untold
Resides in that heavenly word I
More precious than silver or gold,
Or all that this earth can afford.
But the sound of the church-going beli,
These valleys and rocks never heard,
Ne'er sigh'd at the sound of a knell,
Or smiled when a sabbath appear'd.
Ye winds, that have make me your sport,
Convey to this desolate shore
Some cordial, endearing report
Of a land I shall visit no more.
My friends, do they now and then send
A wish or a thought after me?
Oh tell me I yet have a friend,
Though a friend I am never to see.
How fleet is the glance of the mind!
Compared with tfte speed of its flight,
The tempest itself lags behind,
And the swift-winged arrows of light.
When I think of my own native land,
In a moment I seem to be there;
But alas i recollection at hand
Soon hurries me back to despair.
But the sea-fowl has gone to her nest,
The beast is laid down in his lair;
Even here is a season of rest,
And I to my cabin repair.
There's mercy in every place,
And mercy, encouraging thought I
Gives even affliction a grace,
And reconciles man to his lot.
WILLIAM COWPBR.
OF
ROBINSON CRUSOE
NOTES
CHAPTER I.
P- 1- York, £BS«*1«
Not bred to any trade,
Head, ,£>;
Filled with,
Rambling thoughts,
Competent share of learning,
ifti^-*.
; ...... jfij*.
As far as ...... go,
House education,
Free school, &^; |^.
Designed me for the law,
Inclination,
This, im.m
Entreaties,
Fatal, 6
Propensity of nature,
Befall, ffi; Unit;
Serious,
Counsel,
Chamber, g^^; jgg.
Confined by the gout,
Expostulate 1,
Subject,
P. 2. Prospect of raising my
fortune, lic^^JIM.
By application and industry, £1
Pressed,
Not to play the young man,
The station of life,
Provided against,
Under no necessity of,
j».
Seeking my bread,
swan.
Would do well for me,
Nothing to answer for,
*; ^^KS.
Discharged his duty,
'
Measures,
In a word, —
i&iffi
He would not have so much
hand in my misfortunes, jtn
Step, j
God would not bless ine,
Reflect upon, 0iS;
Prophetic, Kg; Bi^fe.
Having leisure to repent,
Moved,
Broke off the discourse,
His heart was so full,
Was sincerely affected,
».
Who could be otherwise?
Wore it all off,
In short,
P. 3. To run quite away from
him, ^ifiiS±.
A little more yielding than
ordinary,
My thoughts were so entirely
bent upon seeing the world,
To go through with it,
& (it
Had better,
Give me his consent,
To go without, Jfci
&ft.
To go apprentice to a trade;
Clerk,
Attorney,
Serve out my time,
Go to sea,
Reported,
Concern,
Wretch,
Broke loose,
Obstinately deaf to,
Elopement,
About to, }j
Prompting,
Allurement,
Seafaring men,
Cost me nothing,
P. 4. Passage,
So much as,
Sent them word,
111 hour, ^P
Went on board a ship. §£.$,; _t
Bound for, Sift; I«J ......
Humber, 3ES9 Ouse and Trent
The sea to rise,
*fls.
Inexpressibly,
Was overtaken by the judg-
ment, S^±
Abandoning my duty,
Pitch, SSS; M^
Breach of my duty,
Anything of the matter,
Trough,
• ,
Should never rise1 more,
NOTES
Agony of mind, Wt
5S-
P. 5. Sober thoughts,
The wind was abated, and the
sea calmer,
Inured,
Grave,
Seasick,
The weather cleared up,
Enticed, 8I
Clapping me upon the shoulder,
Wer'n't, IP were not
But a capful of wind, $&—
A good ship,
Sea room,
A squall of wind. —
Fresh-water sailor,
Make, f
Bowl,
Punch, HIS—
Charming weather,
P. 6. Drowned all my repen-
tance, t»ta±.fr, -sismia.
Drowned, jfSi; ffi3£; JRJJ-
In a word,
Apprehensions
The current of my former
desires returned,
In my distress,
CHAPTER II.
Yarmouth Roads, fc6:&
L&l<£ Norfolk $4).
Roads,
Made but little way,
JtBF^*.
To come to an anchor,
Newcastle,
Ground tackle,
Tackle, l£_
Unconcerned, t
Not in the least apprehensive
of danger, J&M
Hands,
To strike our topmasts,
P. 7. Snug and close, ,
That the ship might ride as
easy as possible,
The sea went very high,
«! *«**,
Shipped several seas,
«m; Stm»^1TA*a''J'
Anchor had come home,
Master,
The sheet anchor,
Rode, «?fl; Sffl-
The cables veered out to the
better end,
Amazement,
Vigilant, $!,£>; .
Cabin, <ft±®lM?.
Undone, !«$(£;
Steerage, jJfiiEjf
State of mind,
Penitence, %W',
Trampled upon,
Dismal sight,
I could see nothing but distres
round us,
Deep laden, £|E;
Foundered, ffitfi.
Driven from their anchors,
». xa&zvBMui.
At all adventures,
Fared the best,
P..8. Spritsail,
Mate,
Boatswain,
Foremast,
Was very unwilling, Jft^gfc;
Protesting,
Mainmast,
Clear deck,
Tenfold,
Upon account of, @ ; j^; ffi.
Acknowledged, >p;gg.
Had never seen a worse
Wallowed in the sea,
*.
Every now and then,
In one respect, fe— ^fffi.
Would go to the bottom, jjf }fi
Sprung a leak,
Hold,
Pump,
P- 9. My heart died within me,
Stirred up,
Light colliers,
To ride out the storm,
B.
Obliged to slip,
As a signal of distress,
ma; a^*±^^.
Fell down in a swoon,
% *«&*&.
What was become of ,
Thrusting,
It was a great while before I
caine to myself,
Worked on,
Ahead of,
Ventured a boat out to help
With the utmost hazard,
Lie, fljtjfl.
Rowing very heartily,
».
Venturing their lives,
Cast them a rope,
Stern, J
Buoy,
Veered it out,
After much labour and hazard,
Took hold of,:
Hauled,*; Jfc; $h.
To no purpose, $fe30i;
P. 10. To let her drive,
Staved upon shore, (S^; fSSSS
Make it good, j&St; ,
Sloping towards,
Labouring at the oar,
Mounting the waves,
Strand, &jft; &.
Were used with great humaui-
Magistrates of the town,
£,
Assigned us good quarters
P. 11 Savior, &;£.
*)-
Parable, '^i'jfe; "fee-
Killed the fatted calf for uie,
Cast away,
Assurances, Hf; Jtft
111 fate,
Calls, .
Composed judgment,
Some decreed
misery,
unavoidable
Course of life,
Uncertain what measures to
take,
Irresistible reluctance,
Wore off,
Abated,
Laid aside,
Looked out for,
Vulgarly called,
Guinea
CHAPTER III.
P. 12. Lot,
First of all,'
Loose,
Misguided,
Taking a fancy to my conver-
sation,
Not at all disagreeable, j
fft*.
Messmate,
Should have all the advantage
of it that the trade would
admit; and perhaps I might
meet with some encourage-
ment,
Embraced the offer,
Entering into a strict friend-
ship with ...... , ^
Plain-dealing, |
Adventure,
ft).
Disinterested,
IE-
Trifles, $B/
Mustered,
Relations,
Corresponded with,
Contribute,
Owed, H; $
Integrity
Competent knowledge
The mathematics and the rules
of navigation,
ROBINSON CRU OE
Keep an ace-bunt of,
IE.
P. 13. Ship's course,
Take an observation,
Took delight to,
Ounces, fg.
Gold dust, &$>;
Yielded me,
Filled me with those aspiring
thoughts,
Being thrown into a violent
fever by the excessive heat
of the climate,
Latitude of fifteen degrees
north,
Line,
Set up for ...... , K ...... 2J& glj
...... zm.
To my great misfortune, jk
Embarked,
Mate, IMft=fe.
Command,
New-gained wealth,
Lodged with,
Making her course towards
The Canary Islands,
#*&$*).
In the gray of the morning,
Turkish rover,
Sallee, fc&(i&-4LftW Tangiers
Gave chase to us with all the
sails she could make,
&;KS5m S
Crowded canvas,
Yards,
Masts carry to get clear (masis
would carry to get aw a\ i . g
Gained upon, jgjS; {§j££.
I'1- 14. Come up with, jg
Athwart, ^JiiJUf1; IS-
Quarter,'
To hear on, IHSfS;
Poured in a broadside upon,
Sheer off,
Returning our fiu-,
Small shot,
Touched,
Hacking,
We plied them with small shot,
half-pikes, powder chests,
and such like and cleared
our deck of them twice,
Disabled,
Obliged to yield,
Moors,
Usage,
Apprehended, j
Prize,
Nimble,
Looked back,
Brought to pass,
P. 15. The hand of Heaven had
overtaken me, 3cJBlF-tfc;
I was undone without redemp-
tion,
Taste,
Go through, jg;
Sequel, T:i.;
Patron, iA-
Taken me home his house,
Some time or other,
Man-of-war,
Set at liberty,
Drudgery, ^.
Cruise,
Look after,
Effect,
Nothing presented to make the
supposition of it rational, B&
Fellow-slave,
So for two years,
Encouraging prospect,
Putting it in practice,
Fitting out his ship,
Pinnace,
Road,
. 16. Insomuch that,
League, H
Lost sight of it,
Got well in,
Long-boat,
Compass,
Provision,
Stateroom,
Barge,
Stand behind it,
Steer, ffi«t; Iglfc.
Haul home, ^M ; ffllg.
Maiusheet, ^CiJUJK'-
"Shoulder-of-mutton" sail, H
The boom gibed over the top of
the cabin,
±.
Lockers,
Liquor,
P- 17. Of some distinction,
Over night,
Fusees, /^.|f
Muskets,
Powder and shot,
Fowling,
Flag and pendants out,
ft-
Pendants, jj£; lf|£.
To accommodate
Put off, jt;
Fell out )g;
My former notions of deliver-
ance darted into my thoughts,
CHAPTER IV.
18- Contrivance,
To make a pretense,
Subsistence, S
We must not presume to eat of
our patron's bread,
Rusk,
By the make,
ROBINSON CRUSOE
Conveyed,
Beeswax,
Hundredweight, — Wl~—%$,
Parcel,
Twine,
Hatchet, ^.
Saw, jg.
Hammer, £|.
Came into, £
Alcamies,
Curlews,
Leather pouch,
Held,
P. 19. Entrance, H P', A P.
Took no notice of,
Hauled in our sail,
North-northeast,
Southerly, gjg.
Made the coast of
Bay of Cadiz,
Horrid place,
Iveave the rest to fate,
Hook, fzj.
This will not do, jlfc'J^^P ^J-
Our master will not be thus
served,
A (
Stand farther off,
Set the sails,
Had the helm,
Ran the boat out,
Brought her to,
St;
Stooped,
Took him by surprise,
Tossed him clear overboard
into the sea,
nw».
Cork !Ri SJ?^lc48t
Fowling pieces, ,
Presented it at him,
(it ^tgjyfHiJ!,).
Make the best of your way, JJ
P. 20. Turned himself about,
No venturing,
Stroke your face to be true to
me,
In view of,
Stood out directly to sea,
Stretching to windward,
Strait, J| Strait of Gibraltar.
In their wits, ^±[g; tfrSl£
Devoured, ^;
Merciless, J^S
Changed my course,
South and by east,
Bending my course a little to-
wards the east,
Keep in with
ffi ...... Stff.
Gale of wind,
Made such sail,
First made the land,
P. 21. Dominions,
Thereabouts, ;fei§; ifift.
Shifting,
In chase of, j
Give over, fg
Make to the coast,
Came to an anchor,
Barking, roaring, and howling,
To die with fear,
After all,
Took it,
P. 22. Wallowing,
Veilings,
Blowing,
Monstrous huge,
Furious,
Pint,
Point,
Waded,
Arms,
Rambled,
Need not take such pains,
When the tide was out,
P. 24. Feasted on,
No footsteps of any human
creature, ^JiAfS-
CHAPTER V.
Cape Verd Islands,
Lay not far off from the coast,
m&*m.
Stand off to sea,
Stood along this coast,
Design of trade,
By the best of my calculation,
&Wr3P; ffi^WIt.
By reason of its barrenness, ^
Might be so for aught I know,
To weight the anchor and row
away,
Slip our cable,
Within two oars' length,
Horrid noises and hideous
cries and bowlings,
Report of the gun,
No going on shore,
Venture on shore, H itg^.
Equally apprehensive of the
P. 23. Be that as it would,
^Bfsr.
Somewhere or other,
Eorsaking,
Prodigious number,
Leopards,
Harbor,
P. 25. In hopes of reaching
thither, ^^IS^. ,
Contrary winds, MM*
To pursue my first design,
Once in particular,
A little point of land,
ROBINSON CRUSOB
Whose eyes were more about
him, ®ft&M; mK&'tf-
Had best go farther off the
shore,
Hillock, />ll].
Sparingly,
P. 27. Make,
Gambia,
Senegal,
To meet with, 51
Knew not what course I had to
take,
Brazil,
Bast Indies,
Upon this single point, ^flfc—
Sailed by
Inclined to go on shore,
Counsellor,
Ran along the shore by me a
good way,
Fast asleep,
Hung as it were a little over
him, 3i«JH®Kj;K-Jt±.
At one mouth, — D; — $1
Musket bore,
Loaded,
A good charge of powder,
SlugS,;
Bullets, j
Took the best aim, •
Started up,
t». 26. Hit,
Struggling for life, SAfPtL, J
Took heart, <jf |j;
Muzzle of the piece,
Dispatched him quite,
It was no food,
Good for nothing to us, Jfc
I bethought myself,
a*.
One way or other,
Very ill,
Got the hide off,
Served me to lie upon,
Made on to the southward
continually, tO|Qfg3!4f.
Living very sparingly on our
provisions,
Slender,
A great way,
Kept at a distance,
By signs,
Beckoned to me,
Upon this, JJJib;
Lowered the top of my sail and
lay by,
P. 28. Such as, j
How to come at it,
Dispute,
Fetched it on board,
To make them amends,
Oblige,
Took,
In sport or in rage,
Ravenous,
11
Terribly frighted,
Dart,
Did not offer to fall upon,
mm-
Plunged themselves into the
sea, ^m&AJS:*.
Come for their diversion,
amis*.
With all possible expedition,
Fairly within my reach,
IB&
Plunged up and down,
Struggling for life,
So indeed he was,
P. 29, Mortal hurt,
Strangling of the water,
Fell down as dead with the
very terror,
To search for,
I found him by,
Staining,
Slung round him,
Spotted,
Fine to an admirable degree,
Held up their hands with
admiration,
Flash of
Favor,
Readily, ®[Jt.
Declined,
Very freely,
P. 30. Held out, J
Turning it bottom upward,
Burnt in the sun,
CHAPTER VI.
Roots and corn,
Runout,
Kept a large offing,
To make, $;,&; iESI
Doubling the point,
Concluded, fe^iffiftl;
Taken with, &; g|.
In this dilemma, ^
Pensive,
On a sudden,
Frighted out of his wits,
Far enough out of their reach,
ffiHKBat, Kae&VMUlUt
P. 31. Portuguese ship,
Bound to,
Steered,
I was soon convinced,
Stretched out to sea, J
With all the sail I could make,
To come in their way,
Be gone by,
Make any signal,
Crowded to the utmost,
ROBINSON CRCTSOB
Despair,
By the help of their glasses,
Shortened sail,
Made a waft of it,
Signal of distress,
Brought to,
Lay by for,
Came up with,
Made my escape out of slavery,
Inexpressible joy,
Delivered,
Esteemed, H
P.32. Offered,
As a return for my deliverance,
Generously,'
Be delivered safe to me, ^g J
IB-
On no other terms than ,
&% £S-;iR£ MB.
One time or other,
Starved, 0
Seignor, S; ^fc4 (inl?A Mr.
In charity,
Passage,
Was just in the performance to
a tittle, Kas-iKi, -
Took everything into his own
possession,
Inventory, a
Note of hand
Eight,
Make it up,
Loath, Jfc;
?. 33. Liberty, |
Procuring my own, if-fill ft
«,
Owned it to be just, ffjS&il;
Medium, i}>-t;
Obligation,
Turned,
Bay de Todas los Santos, or All
Saints' Bay, gJM9« (& Brazil
± Bahia State, ^cH^f").
Consider, g®; fl*J; US-
Never enough remember, fE
Ducats,
Caused everything I had in the
ship to be punctually deliver-
ed to me,
Punctually,
Stock, ^#.
"Ingenio," $
Plantation, *6*itWl- mm'
Sugarhouse,
Planters,
License,
Settle,
P. 34. In the mean time,
Remitted, ®^; Eli.
To this purpose,
13
Letter of naturalization, AH if
Purchased,
Uncultivated, Jjg jg;
Proposed to myself, fJjilaSfc; -f
Neighbor,
Lisbon,
In much such circumstances as
I was,
We went on veiy sociably to-
gether,
My stock was but low,
Come into order,
Canes, mfc
In the year to come,
Parting with, &; Jg;
No remedy,
Remedy,
I had got into an employment,
quite remote to my genius,
and directly contrary to the
life I delighted in,
Broke through,
Fatigued myself,
Used often to say to myself,
SSH.
Used,
^>- Look upon my condition
,with the utmost regret,
Converse -with, JS£j^f&;
Cast away,
Desolate,
Reflect, ,
Compare,
Oblige,
Exchange,
Be convinced of their former
felicity by their experience,
Felicity,
Experience,
In some degree,
In my measures, j
Carrying on,
In providing his lading,
KStft.
Orders,
Effects,
Produce,
God willing,
Human affairs,
Subject,
Disasters,
One hundred pounds sterling,
Let the hazard be run for the
first,
Miscarry,
Have recourse to,
Wholesome, K^
Vesting,
kU.Bii\i'ON CKUSOli
P. 36. Direction,
Ironwork,
Utensils,
My fortunes made,
Steward, f^;
Laid out, ft ; $
Bring me over,
Under bond,
Would not accept of any con-
sideration,
Neither was this all,
Stuffs,;
Baize,
To very great advantage,
Infinitely, g; ®.
Beyond, safe;
Advancement,
CHAPTER VII.
Thrive and prosper, g^;
Contracted acquaintance and
friendship,
P. 37. Beads,
Bits of glass,
Gold dust,
Heads, S
Not far entered into,
Carried on. I^^Xfif .
By permission of the kings of
Excessively with,
In company with.
To make a secret proposal,
Enjoining secrecy,
4U93R&.
To fii out, SKIPS
Were straitened for.
Publicly,
Supercargo,
To manage the trading part, ,
P. 38. To look after,
In a fair way,
Coming to be very considerable,
Preposterous, ^JQ.
Be guilty of, 3ffi,.
Born to be my own destroyer,
Could no more resist the offer,
With all my heart,
In my absence,
Dispose of it to ...... ,
Miscarried,
Bngaged, J
Entered into writings, jfc^J ; IT
Covenants,
Made a formal will, j£ —
In case of,
Musing,
Took all possible caution,
ttSt;S
Preserve,
15
To keep up,
Prudence, gg;
looked into,
My own interest, ^
^(interest ^, # Rifts
Judgment,
P. 39. Undertaking,
Probable views of a thriving
circumstance,
Attended with all its common
hazards,
To say nothing of,
Hurried on,
Obeyed blindly the dictates of
my fancy,
Accordingly, ^^; ^; III.
As by agreement, ffifa;
Partners, ^^^
Went on board,
An evil hour,
In order to act the rebel to
their authority, and the fool
to my own interests,
Tons,
Burden, «f
t
Master, jj&
Large cargo of goods,
Shells, m ( * nlfts"
TriBes, ^SM^S-
Ivooking-glasses,
And the like,
Set sail, iHR,«Ii
Standing away to the north-
ward, iBj^tlSttf ,
With design to stretch over for
Northern latitude,
Planner of course,
Excessively hot, inSt;
Height, ?S®; Sg.
Cape St. Augustine,
Were bound for
A «»,
Fernando de Noronha,
Holding our coast,
Northeast by north,
P. 40. Passed the line,
Observation,
jsmw:-
Tornado or hurricane,
Took us quite out of our knowl-
edge, ,
Came about to the northwest,
J»|6jifnlSM:ft;; SSSEMh.
Scudding away before it,
ftffc; gUSHBJi
Whither ever, |
To be swallowed up,
«; iS^mSg.
Washed overboard,
The weather abating a little,
KOBINSON CRUSOE
River Amazon,
^a±w, &
River Orinoco,
*K).
To consult -with me,
I/eaky, JR.
Disabled,
Was positively against,
Charts, jjft&IB;
The sea broke over her
Perished,
Close quarters,
.
The very foam and spray
the sea, SgU^c.
Consternation
of
Main, *.m-, m-
,.
P. 42. Miracle,
Turnabout, ^; [wj.
Preparing for another world, jj
Comfort, 3ESJ; ftiC-
Contrary to our expectation, [ft
--
Getting off,
To have recourse to,
Caribbee Islands,
(:£ Caribbean Sea «)»).
To stand away for ...... ,
Barbadoes,
*)-
Keeping off at sea,
Indraft,
Bay or Gulf of Mexico, *HBi IF
mm-
P. 41. Northwest by west,
Otherwise determined,
Otherwise,
Determined,
Impetuosity, »3S5 ««,
Out of the way of all human
commerce,
Whereabouts in the world w
Struck upon sand,
Staved,
Dashing against,
Rudder, #£.
In the next place,
Broke away, JSSJii
Get her off into the sea,
There was no time to debate,
Actually, JHf*;
Mate, MW
Laid hold of, St;
Go her slung over the ship's
Committed ourselves to God's
mercy,
The storm was abated consider-
"Den wild zee," iftg|E«£JS.
P. 43. Could not live,
Inevitably,
Making sail, 36^; j
Worked at the oar, ®E$; fcljgg.
With heavy hearts,
Execution,
Breach of the sea,
Committed our souls to God,
m
In the most earnest manner,
ww, ®%m.m.
Hastened our destruction,
w±*t.
Whether steep or shoal
Rationally,
The least shadow of expecta-
tion, -igs±S.
By great chance,
Run our boat in,
Get under the lee of the land,
Make smooth water, J6tffijSi2Ti
Reckoned,
Raging wave,
Came rolling astern of,
Coup de grace,
ft-±-fl; jg^*» (StlPSEt
A).
Overset, i^Si«li;Sa.
Were all swallowed up in a
moment,
CHAPTER VIII.
P. 44. Nothing can describe the
confusion of thought,
To draw breath,
Having spent itself,
B3M&).
Presence of mina, ^^
if^iL; MIR.
Mainland, ^c[^.
Go upon my feet, i
Endeavoured,
To make on towards ...... , j«j ......
Take me up again, WilLS; W
Conie after me, il
Had no means or strength to
contend with,
To hold my breath, »&;
Pilot myself towards the shore
My greatest concern,
*«f.
Came upon, ®^.
Swiftness, ffia;
With all my might,
Burst with holding my breath
To my immediate relief,
Shoot out, ,ftS!; g|fU; flffl-
P. 45. Two seconds of time,
is
ROBINSON CRUSOE
Relieved me greatly,
Courage,
A good while,
Held it out, 33*; Jftft.
Struck forward, <g[BjtJfr;
Felt ground again with my
feet, mm%i
To recover breath,
Took to iny heels,
Well-nigh,
Senseless,
The blow taking my side and
breast, beat the breath, as it
were, quite out of my body,
Strangled in the water,
Hold fast, gg|;
Held my hold,
Fetched another run,
To iny great comfort,
Clambered up the cliffs of the
P. 46. Scarce any room to hope,
Impossible to express
*J§.
Ecstasies and transports
My whole being wrapt up in a
contemplation of my deliver-
ance
Gestures,
Comrades, ftlS;
There should be not one soul
saved but myself,
Cast my ej-es to the stranded
vessel,
The breach and froth of the sea
being so big, mm®® ,,
Froth, jm;*J&.
Solaced my mind,
Shift, H&.
Neither did I see any prospect
before me, -$ffl-S2.%3;.
Which was particulary afflicting
to me, ;fe
For my sustenance,
P. 47. For theirs (for their sus-
tenance), nm^ftn.
Had nothing about rue,
Threw me into terrible agonies
of mind,
With a heavy heart,
en.
Come abroad for their prey,
A thick, bushy tree,
Thorny, ^Ji];..^ffJ.
No prospect of life,
Furlong,
To my great joy,
Truncheon, fslfe;
For my defence,
Took my lodging,
Fell fast asleep, gfg; gftS; A
Comfortably,
CHAPTER IX.
Broad day, fit; B_hH^.
The sea did not rage and swell,
Swelling of the tide,
Mentioned,
P. 48. Bruised,
Seeming to stand upright,
Apartment, jggi;
Looked about me,
Tossed up,
To get to her, iJ®*S* I M
A neck or inlet of water,
For the present,
Being more intent upon getting
at the ship, HSfc&SAS'*-
For my present subsistence, f-j
The tide ebbed out, SU3J1;
A fresh renewing of my grief,
Evidently,
I,eft entirely destitute of all
comfort and company,
There was little relief in that,
Hot to extremity,
^.Si-
Took the water, T?Jl;
Lay aground, fflg{$
To lay hold of, iiJ*; JEW-
Spied, .«a.
Fore chains,
P. 49. Got up into,
The forecastle of the ship,
Bulged,
Hold,
By this means, J^Jfe | @ jlfc.
All her quarter was free,
What was spoiled and what -was
free, ^*K^«*.
Very well disposed to eat,
Biscuit,
Went about,
Had no time to lose,
®il«!^;^^;
In vain to sit still,
This extremity roused my ap-
plication, &-
Spare yards,
Spars of wood, fflK
Topmast, »r
Fall to work,
Could manage,
Tying, ft; tf 1 *,
In the form of a raft,
Rflf !,*»;».
ROBINSON CRUSOE
Plank, 'fa;
Crossway,
To bear any great weight, iHf J{
It;
Carpenter's saw,
P. 50. Necessaries,
Upon another occasion,
Reasonable weight, 3»3
Load, 8ft
P. 51. The surf of the sea
Boards,
Chests, H.
Emptied,
Cheeses,
Lived much upon,
Remainder,
Laid by for , StSt-Hli £
Barley,
To my great disappointment,
Liquors, j@;
Cases, $|.
Skipper, fl£±.
Cordial waters,
In all,
Gallons, tfpft O£fi*).
Rack, jiffliB ; ffi^lS-
Stowed by themselves, 35 S—'
Stowed,
Mortification,
Waistcoat,
Breeches,
Linen,
Open-knee'd, .
Set me on rummaging for
clothes,
Rummaging;; ^^
My eye was more upon,
"
To work with,
Ship load,
\Yithout losing time to look
into it,
To look into,
In general, jfcjft;
Contained,
P. 52. Ammunition and arms,
Cabin,
Pistols,
Secured, Jt; J
Powder horns,
*,
Rusty,
Barrels,
Gunner,
Taken water, JiSf
Pretty well freighted,
The least capful of wind,
Overset,
Navigation,
Setting in to the shore,
Put to sea,
Thereabouts,
Consequently,
Make use of,
Port, »n;itn;l@fig
; _fcT; *#,).
21
To get to land with my cargo,
ao£-h#; nK&-iis2#.
As I imagined, so it was,
Current of the tide,;
Setting into it,
Shipwreck,:
Verily, &
Ran aground, j
P. 53. Shoal,
Slipped off, »E;ffT; WS-.
Did my utmost, i&Jj; ^^J.
To keep them in their places,
Thrust off,
Posture.
Holding up,
With all my might,
Level,
Channel, 7jc;t;
Running up, SS (ii$j).
Cove, /|->flf .
Thrust her directly in,
A
Dipped,
Sloping,
Float,
Ran on shore,
Endanger,
P. 54. Moored,
CHAPTER X.
View, US;
Habitation,
Overtop some other hills,
Rid«e,
To my great affliction,
Environed every way with the
sea, Hjg£iS#rBB<8.
Ivay a great way off, ^i^-^ilj.
Less than, /> ;fc (JgMTf).
Abundance of fowls,
P. 55. Since tL creation of the
world,
Innumerable,
ft-
Of many sorts,
Making a confused screaming
and crying,
Usual note, «IH;
Took it to be a kind of hawk,
Beak, I*; «
Resembling
Talons or claws, JR.
Its flesh was carrion, and fit
for nothing,
Carrion,
Discovery,
Barricaded,
Rigging,
P. 56. I called a council in my
thoughts,
That is to say, 6fl.
This appeared impracticablCj
Stripped,
Having nothing on
ROBINSON CRUSOE
Checkered shirt,
Linen drawers,
Pumps,
Unwieldy,
Nor loaded it so hard,
Nails,
Spikes,
Screw jack,
Above all,
Grindstone, fl££J ; IS5-
Crows,
Musket bullets,
Bagful, ft£; -2§.
A great roll of sheet lead, —;
Hoist it up,
Fore-topsail,
Hammock,
Bedding, j
Under some apprehension,
No sign of any visitor,
Stood still,
Composed and unconcerned,
Looked for more, g
**fti-
Could spare no more,
Marched off,
Was fain to, Jggfc; ffgJC.
By parcels,
Casks,
Tent,
For that purpose.
To fortify it from any sudden
attempt,
P. 57 looked full in my face,
ttK9Vi)S«M1lft.
Unconcerned, ii^;|fi§.t
it-
Tossed her a bit of biscuit,
By the way,
Not very free of it, ^ |8};
Blocked up,
Set upon end, UJA;
Very weary and heavy,
Fetch, }jg; fe
Magazine, 3ftjJ|^ij; iPs^'M.
Laid up, ^RJU; 4St!§4-
Upright, jgjfc; gjg.
P. 58. Something or other,
5ufctf; fclSM^J.
Rope twine,
Mend,
Upon occasion,
First and last,
Worth my meddling with,
=? me*
Hogshead,
Rum,
Spirits,
Flour,
Had given over,
Wrapped it up,
Having plundered the ship of
what was portable and fit to
23
hand out,
%%:Mm%, ffix.-%
Cables,
Hawser,
Ironwork.
Mizzen yard,
Overladen, R$Ki^iS.
Cove, /Hlf.
P. 59. Handily, jjfg;
As for, =5ii£; H&&-
As to, 3tS£-
With infinite labor,
To dip for it into the water,
Effectually,
&*,
**-T»
Locker with drawers in it,
Razors,
Scissors,
Knives and forks,
(HA
Thirty-six pouuds value in
money, gtS'
Coin, ,&$
O drug! m®*?; i»¥-
What art thou good for?
Not the taking off the ground,
»
I have no manner of use for
thee,
P. 60. The sky overcast,
3c;
Gale,
Presently,
At aU,
Hastily,
Got home to,
Very secure,
Behold, S;
Reflection,
Divers,
CHAPTER XI.
P. 61. Method, ^JIJ;
Dwelling, /fi^; ^glf
Description, JgJ|
Not fit for my settlement,
Moorish,
Wholesome,
Consulted,
A view to the sea,
Might not lose any advantage,
I was not willing to banish all
my expectation yet,
Worn a little way in,
A-
P. 62. Green,
Pitch my tent,
Descended irregularly every
way down into the low
ground by the seaside,
North-northwest,
West and by south,
Setting, B&;
Semidiameter,
Diameter,
ROBINSON CRUSOB
Rows, \\; JiJ; g£.
Stakes, fc&fc; ft*.
Driving them into the ground,
Firm like piles,
Above, jSiJ-
Up to the top,
Like a. spur to a post,
Fence, ft
Ladder, |$.
To go over the top,
Lifted over after me,
P. 63. Otherwise, fSflfl;
Fortress,
Riches,
Tarpaulin,
Inclosed
Made up the entrance,
^; eaapin.
Passed and repassed,
«.
To work my way into the rock,
miw&.
Iu the nature of a terrace,
Cellar,
Were brought to perfection,
Took up some of my thoughts,
<&m&; ffrWW-
Had laid my scheme, SK^EiS;
«gE®.
P. 64. Sudden flash of lightning
JfBW*.
Great clap of thunder,
As is naturally the effect of it,
Darted into my mind,
At one blast, —
Laid aside, fjffij
Building and fortifying,
Applied myself to make bags
and boxes,
A little and a little, —
Apart,
Did not apprehend any danger,
In my fancy,
Marking, ft; |E|R.
In the interval of time,
To divert myself,
P. 65. A great satisfaction to
me,
Shy.JHB;
Subtle, Jfcif
Swift of foot,
To come at, &; S; it^.
Not discouraged at this,
Now and then.
Haunts,
Laid wait for,
Optics
Objects, fe ; 4^fl|.
Had a fair mark,
ftXJU
25
Gave suck to,'
Stood stock still,
Inclosure,
Dam,
Pale,
Bred it up tame,
mm.
Sparingly, ©"ft; ^Jj.
P. 66. Absolutely necessary,
Fuel, gf; *.
Give a full account of,
CHAPTER XII.
Dismal prospect,
mmz%&.
Determination of Heaven,
End my lif e,
*£.
Expostulate with myself,
Providence,
Depressed, }tK; Sit-
Rational, -g-£|.
Check, IBJfi:*!j5fc.
Reprove, |Ht
Very pensive upon the subject
of my present condition,
Pray remember, n±&; ISIBJ
It.
P. 67. Singled out, S {ft; jl ffi .
All evils are to be considered
with the good that is in
them, and with what worse
attends them,
m,
A hundred thousand to one,
Necessaries of life, f&ifr&j tS&'jii
*
To sufficient quantity, 3J-J5L; fi
In a fair
Tolerable view of subsisting,
Provide for the accidents,
^«; SaiiS^±».
The time that was to coine,
Decay, ^; ^.
Melancholy relation of a scene
of silent life,
By my account,
P. 68. Set foot upon, J@; ij.
Autumnal equinox, Hfc*fr.
In the latitude of nine degrees
twenty-two minutes north of
the line, &&&&--*-%:
Line, gfot.
Came into my thoughts,
Sabbath days, ^.^0; JJ9^EI J
Capital letters,
Cross, -p^?jg.
Square post,
Notch, an; sflS; tan.
As long again as,
KOBINSON CRUSOE
As long again as that long one,
Calendar,
In the next place,
Made to it,
omitted itii;it-e.
Compasses,
Mathematical instruments, fft
Dials,
Perspectives,
Charts, dfcjgH.
Books of navigation, (JriJ&ii.
Huddled together,
Bibles,
Packed up,
Prayer books, &
P. 69. Eminent, lt?3l;
May have occasion to say some-
thing in its place,
Trusty,
Make up to me,
But that would not do,
Husbanded,
By any means that I could
devise,
Put me in mind,
Notwithstanding,
Amassed together,
Spade, m- ».
Pickax,
Shovel,
By far,
Bethought,
Laborious and tedious work,
*iBX«(S±I.
Concerned at ...... ,
P. 70. Employment, 4|£;Xff=.
Foresee,
Ranging,
The circumstances I was re-
ducedto, S^i^^tt^-
Drew up the state of my affairs
in writing,
To deliver my thoughts from
daily poring over them, and
afflicting my mind,
Deliver my thoughts,
*SL; JKffl
Poring over,
Master my despondencv,
jfe,
To set the gopd against the
evil,
Impartially,
Debtor,
Creditor,
Void of all hope of recovery, ^t
To be spared from death
Miraculously, Oft ^; ^ft.
Divided from mankind,
Solitaire,
Human society,
Perishing, JE; $$,
27
Affording no sustenance,
tt*;fett.
IV71. Resist any violence,
Soul, A-
Upon the whole,
.
Undoubted testimony,
I,et this stand as a direction,
*»«*,
On the credit side of the
account,
Relish,
spy,
To arrange my way of living,
CHAPTER XIII.
P._72. Of turfs,
P. 73. Reason is the substance
and origin of the mathe-
matics,
Stating,
Squaring,
Rational judgment,
awn-
In time,
Mechanic art, IC
Contrivance, $|!
Adze, ^.
Set it on an edge before me,
Hew, «f;«f.
Dub, ft^Pffl-.
No remedy for,
Prodigious deal of ti
ft.
In the first place, ®—;
Wrought out, fit^; ft5'
Shelves, |g.
To separate everything at large
into their places,
Come easily at them,
Knocked into, gi
P. 74 Ready at my hand,
Stock,
Rafters, ffi
Leaning to, . . .
Thatched or covered it with
boughs of treqs,
To keep out the rain,
Very violent,
Lay in no order,
No room,
Set myself to,
Enlarge, ^^
Bestowed on,
Beasts of prey,
Si'leways |Sj — iS;
Egress,
Regress, J
Must needs,
Journal, Bffi-
In too much hurry,
Discomposure of mind,
tl; .M&*
Dull things,
THE JOURNAI,
September, V1JJH .^ Ji ,
ROBINSOrf CRUSOE
offing, mm-, n^tf.
"The Island of Despair,"
In despair of any relief,
H; tyi&^JI.
Saw nothing but death before
me, fllltiitC, 1f JEBBB.
Starved to death for want of
food,
At the approach of night,
*;«#.
Slept soundly,
October,
High tide,
P. 75. On one hand, — fllj; &—
On the other hand,
At the loss of , ft
Out of , JIU it*.
Perplexing,
At length,
Out of, HJ^i ft.
Flood of tide, ifSS; ±m.
Intervals of fair weather,
When the tide was out,
a».
With some gusts of winds,
P. 76. Fixed upon,
Encampment, g?H
Ivined within with,
Without, £fl.Jf.
It rained exceedingly hard,
Would not feed.
November,
To swing uiy hammock upon,
CHAPTER XIV.
P. 77. Began to order,
Employed myself to work,
Live on,
Sorry workman,
Complete natural mechanic,
Would do any one else, J
Went abroad,
Good for nothing,
Seals, Jgft
Gazing at,
Not to my liking,
To be settled fair weather,
Took wholly up,
ft*.
With much ado,
Brought it to a tolerable shape,
J^SftJi; Kfr)&j£3$.
P. 78. Pulled it in pieces,
Neglected,
Refreshed me exceedingly,
To make room for my further
conveniency,
Wheelbarrow,
Desisted from my work,
•I.
Proper enough, Igi
29
Absolutely necessary,
Could do nothing effectually
without it, tyfc^&jft^.
P. 79. With great labour,
Excessive, j{_
Machine, »; «S (tB«t) ,
Broad part, $5J]ijMp$i.
Having no iron shod upon it at
bottom, fcJSSla; SftficSJJi
Served well enough for the
uses which I had occasion to
Made after that fashion,
Deficient,
By any means, fc
Twigs, $l'.J*±tt
Wicker ware, «lft8i®±fl jl.
Had no notion of ^*JilJ!
How to go about it.
Gudgeons,
Spindle or axis of the wheel, ||
To run in,
Gave it over, ffl8!££;
Hod,
Mortar,
Bricklayers,
Stood still,
I.
P. 80. Commodiously,
i.
Spacious,
Accommodate me,
Warehouse,
Lodging,
Kept to, ea^; §£'£.%:.
Thatch,
December,
Vault, ^t; W-
On a sudden, ^^j;
So much that, &M
£,
I had never wanted a grave
digger,
Gravedigger,
Ceiling,
Prop up,
Shores or posts,
Pitched, »4: Si-
Upright to the top,
Served me for partitions to
part off the house,
P. 81. Dresser,
To order my victuals upon
No stirring out,
And lamed another,
Splintered up
N.B. (Nota Bene = Note well),
Took such care of,
Nursing, ^rH; ^W-
Enteitained a thought, ^^t;
56; tP'fr-
Breeding up,
Great heats,
CHAPTER XV.
P. 82. January.
Lay still,
KOBINSON CRUSOE
Hard to come at, ;£.§,'&,
Set him upon, '6£«^i|.SS.
Faced about, J&4 fflfa-
Being still jealous of, $tjj;
at.
Purposely,
Worked very hard,
PI'
Hindering,
Nay, *3S;
Scarce credible,
flf
Inexpressible labor everything
was done with,
P. 83. Double-fenced,
Persuaded,
Hereafter,
Made my rounds,
For game,
St.
To my advantage,
Pigeons, fife.
Household affairs,
For instance, Ujjn
Hooped, H.
Could never arrive at the ca-
pacity of making one by
them, ^^t6o§1^^Ct&Se± M
ft.
Could neither put in the heads,
Staves,
At a great loss,
As soon as ever, — 5g; — JJ.
Was obliged to go to bed,
P. 84. Tallow,
Made of clay,
Baked in the sun,
A wick of some oakum,
Hinted before,
For the feeding of poultry,
Husks,
Shook ...... out of,
Stuff,
Taking no notice,
Stalks, H; ig.
Shooting out of the gron nd,
Ears, ft.
Barley, 0
Hitherto,
Acted upqn no religious found-
ation at all,
Notions of religion,
P. 85. Inquiring into,Sg
The end of Providence,
Climate, ««£,
Startled me strangely,
Suggest,
Without any help of seed sown,
Touched my heart,
Prodigy of nature,
Upon my account,
Straggling,
Productions,
Providence,
Peering in,
Chickens' meat,
I).
(|p
31
God's providence,
Providence, &J$;
P. 86. Whereas, £31;
Anywhere else,
leaving up, JftjgS.
In its order, JfiJfE;
Ways to cook,
Baking, Jft; *&,
CHAPTER XVI.
Contriving, ij
April, wtraj
P. 87. Mouiit,
firm
Go over,
Cast down,
Disconsolate, ^^F*JJ£; g||'
All this while,
Overcast,
Hurricane,
Foam and froth,
Breach of the water,
Held, gf £,f^.
Terrified and dejected
CH.
Consequences,
Venture into,
Spirits began to revive,
P. 89. Namely,
Sink, ^; |i.
Else,
Flooded,
Composed,
To support my spirits, ^H^iW;
Indeed wanted it very much,
fta&W.
Took a small sup of rum
Concluding,
Remove,
Hanging precipice, !HH-
Never slept in quiet,
P 90-
Loath,:
All iny labor overthrown,
Crumbling down,
Cracked, $
Was heartily scared,
Got over, g£; jg.
Stepped down upon the
ground,
Earthquake,
Eight minutes' distance,
Shocks,
Overturned,
Was put into,
The like,
P. 88. Stupefied,
Stomach, tt; ^
Tossed at sea,
tt*.
As it were, M;
Filled me with horror,
Sunk my very soul within
*»ttK.
Began to take courage, $
me, In the mean time, HP^p; JfrB£.
Require a vast deal of time, fjf
Composed,
ROBINSON CRUSOfi
Etc., (et ceterl or cetera),
£ft.
Put this resolve into execution,
At a great loss,
For traffic,
Chopping,
Knotty,
Notches,
Dull, M;
Grindstone,
As a statesman would have
bestowed upon a grand point
of politics,
Or a judge upon the life and
death of a man,
Note,
Besides that, ^ftjlfc-tfe,; jfijiL
To bring it to perfection,
P. 91. L,ow,
Took a survey of it,
Biscuit cake,
Taken water,
Caked,
Heaved up,
P. 92. The sea had loosened,
By degrees, jgif
Mightily, K; @.
Choked up, fglg.
CHAPTER XVII.
May,
Saw, j
Beam,
Quarterdeck,
Cleared away,
Give over for that time,
Durst,
Leave off, (fi^; jt
Dolphin,
Line, $
Rope yarn,
Asunder,
Fir planks,
P. 93. Bolts,
Not with an intent,
Wrench, JH^fe; SLJft-
Made way into the body of the
Felt, 5£^.
Lead, ffi.
Hundredweight, —'S'hZl^iS
P. 94. Head,
Pork,
June,
Sheet lead,
Tortoise, or turtle,
Defect,
Scarcity,
Perhaps had paid dear enough
for,
Three-score,
Savory, 1Tfl
P. 85. Chilly,
Shivering,
Feverish,
Headache,
Ague
Fit,
Faint sweats,
Broiled, ^c;
Stewed,^;
Broth, $; H
33
Lay abed,
Perish for thirst, v&
Light-headed,
Ignorant,
Look upon, gag;
P. % Wearing off,
Till far in the n'ght,
Descend, -£&.
Light upon, fit;
All over, -£
Countenance
Impossible for words to de-
scribe, #f IH/JfrffiJfcS.
Rising ground, Igifi.
Brought thee to repentance, ,§,
Account, f
Vision,
P. 97. Impression, jgi
An uninterrupted series,
Seafaring wickedness,
Profane,
To the last degree,
Stupidity of soul,
Without desire of good, or
conscience of evil,
Overwhelmed,
In great distress,
CHAPTER XVIII
P. 98. In reach of, jg:
To take off,
Disposition,
Quarter,
Pint,
Withal, B.- X.
Heavy-hearted,
The return of my distemper,
Roasted,
Ashes,
Human and brutal,
Secret power,
Inquiry, ^fffc
Blasphemed,
Methought,
Wretch,
Misspent,
P. 99. Struck dumb,
Retreat,
No inclination,
Brazilians,
Physic, m&-,
Tobacco,
Cured, f
Cure,
To look Into,
Experiments,
Hit one way or other,
Chewed, l§.
Used to, fit
P. 100. Steeped,
A dose, — H.
Tan, $89; &,
Suffocation, g,f.
In the interval of this opera-
tion
ROBINSON CRUSOE
Casually,
Glorify,
Apt to, ,g-g;
Remote, &g
Children of Israel,
*; EltS-WA,
Prevailed very often upon- my
thoughts,
Mused upon, -
To fulfil the promise,
The day of trouble,
P. 101. Rank,
Presently,
I am partly of opinion
Lively,
Continued much altered for
the better,
Brand goose,
Forward,
P. 102. July,
Spice, jfa*&;
For good and all,
Scripture
Discouraging,
Disregarded,
Done my part,
New Testament,
Seriously to read it, ijllfnfl.2..
Imposed upon myself, gjjft; 6
Awhile,
Not tying myself to the number
of chapters,
Long as my thoughts should
engage me,
P. 1Q3. The wickedness of my
past life,
ff.
Construe,
Captivity,
At large,
In the worst sense in the
world,
In another sense,
Sought nothing of God but
deliverance,
The load of guilt,
»,
Bore down all my comfort,
Solitary life,
It was all of no consideration in
comparison to this, E'.
Of no consideration,
Whoever,
Whenever,
CHAPTER XIX
Things of a higher nature,
P. 104. Bestirred myself,
Regular,
A little and a little at
Gathering up his strength,
Low,
Carry off,
Contributed to weakening me,
Convulsions,
£*).
Nerves,
Limbs,
In particular, fc.
Most pernicious.
Attended with,
Accompanied with,
Set foot upon, If;®.
P. 105. Savannahs.,
Meadows,
Divers,
No notion of or understanding
about, ^t6fel±.
Have virtues of their own,
Cassava root, -
(
Aloes,
For want of cultivation ,
Musing with myself, || ,® J S tt ,
But could bring it to no con-
elusion,
Serve to any purpose,
P. 106. Melons, &>.
Grapes,
Vines,
Clusters of grapes,
In their prime,
Barbary,
Fluxes,
Cure or dry them in the sun,
Raisins,
Wholesome,
Agreeable to eat,
By the way, iigt
Lain from home,
Proceeded upon.
Keeping still due north,
Issued out of..
Due east, IE*
Flourishing,
A constant verdure or flourish
of spring, Bt*B£1fC;fc^i!f , Jijj
Delicious vale,
P. 107. Indefeasibly,
Right of possession,
If; J&
t
Have it in inheritance, IE:!!;
flBMt*.
Lord of a manor in England,
Manor,
Cocoa trees,
Ivemon,
Citron,
Ivimes,
Juice, j
Lay up a store,
Was approaching,
Sack, g;
Bruised,
Good for little or nothing,
; jig.
Harvest,
ROBINSON CRUSOB
Spread about,
Trod to pieces,
P. 108. Thereabouts,
Could well stand under,
92.; ftffjblB**.
Contemplated with great plea-
sure,
Fruitfulness,
Pitched upon,
Abode, &
By far the worst part,
-88.
Upon the whole, j&£.
Came to a nearer view of it,
P. 109. Was to anticipate my
bondage,
An affair not only improbable,
but impossible,
Enamored,
Bower, j;
Hedge,
Well staked,
Brushwood,
August,
CHAPTER XX.
P. 110. Bunches, Jfc; $.
From hence,
Incessant rain,
Confinement,
Straitened for food, *g«;
A treat to me,
Anniversary, i
p. HI. Kept this day as a
solemn fast,
Religious exercise, tf
Prostrating myself on the
ground, JBffcfeifi.
With the most serious humili-
ation, ®^)SiS^^-^:M.
Confessing my sins to God, W>
Acknowledging his righteous
judgments upon me,
Have mercy on,
Jesus Christ,
No sense of religion, *«—
Began to fail me, jHf;S-
Daily memorandum, HfB-
To provide for them accord-
mm.
p. 112. Sow,
Iveaving about a handful of
each, ««£»,
Handful, — JS-
Came to anything,
No moisture to assist its
growth,
By the drought,
Drought, 3^^.
Make another trial in,
lit; &it£.
February, MM—^>
Vernal equinox,
March,
Crop,
Amounting to,
Peck, Sj-
37
Seedtimes,
The rains were over, jjjjt;
P. 113. Entire,
Shot out,
Lopping,
Pruned,
Scarce credible, HRJLH;
Figure,
Diameter,
P. 114. Ill consequences,
Beforehand, gtJfc.
But by hard labor and constant
application,
m
Get for the purpose,
Proved so brittle that they
would do nothing, j
Basket maker's,
Officious to help,
Lending a hand, Igfil-
Had by this means full knowl-
edge of the methods of it,
Materials,
P. 115. Tough,
Sallows, 8P.2—
Osiers, gP±— S
Country house,
To my purpose,
Whereupon, #U
Earth, ±; jjg.
As I had occasion,'
Handsomely,
Sufficiently serviceable for my
purpose,
Hill.
Decayed, ftffl;
Mastered this difficulty,
Employed a world of time
about it,
Liquid,
CHAPTER XXI.
P. 116. Pouch,
Came within view of,
5,
Fairly descried,
West-southwest, ]
By my guess, £l
Spanish dominions, |Sfi!£Jf.2l$i
±.
Acquiesced in the dispositions
of Providence, j
For the best,
Fruitless wishes,
ilS-
P. 117. One time or other, i
Vessel,
Cannibals,
Fail not to murder,
Human bodies, A.JJ ; A if -
Fall into their hands,
Walked very leisurely forward,
Adorned with,
Parrots, HS|.
After some painstaking,
Recovered,
Familiarly,
Trifle,
Diverting "jtfc;
Hares,
Had no need to be venturous,
In proportion to the company,
P. 118. Though my case was
deplorable enough,
Yet I had great cause fur
thankfulness,
That I was not driven to any
extremities for food,
Dainties,
Outright, -B$; -
Took so many turns and ic-
Reposed,
Taken up my lot,
Innumerable,
ft-
On the other side, &&.&.
Infinite number,
Penguins, :Sfe$|.
Flat and even,
P. 119. Nor even then, |jJjHii/Jv?
Hazy, gi
Turned homeward,
Seized upon, Jfcffi; Jf J£.
Take hold of it,
P. 120. Raise,
Breed, S; »
Collar, $
Very impatient to be at home,
Above a month,
Regale,
Taken up, g;
Weighty affair,
Cage,
Poll,
Mere domestic,
Penned in,
Almost starved for want of
food,
Shrubs,
Threw over to it,
P. 121. Continually fed it,
Fond,
Autumnal equinox,
P. 122. Mercies,
Sensibly,
Cursed, abominable, pJSJj Pitt
My affections changed their
gusts,
Anguish,
Break out upon me on a sud-
den, &t#s^5&.
Locked up with the eternal bars
and bolts of the ocean,
Without redemption
ft-
Composure of my mind,
Wring my hands
Weep, jft;
Sigh, !*A;
Burst out into tears,
Or vent myself by words, ^tfc
39
Light, ®.
From end to end,
Exhausted, t&; fS£; ||.
P. 123. Was mourning over my
condition as one forsaken of
God and man, &5cASf^, Sfe In Particular,
Got through, J
Mourning over my condition, j As w*11 appear by what follows,
Of what ill consequence can it
be,
If I had all the world,
There would be no comparison
in the loss,
HS-lfc).
Mourn for my wickedness, 0
Blessed,
CHAPTER XXII.
P. 124. Disposition of mind,
»;ifrtt.
Very seldom idle,
Idle, £BB
Set apart some time for .......
Preserving,
Zenith, ?c]
Laboriousness,
Sawyers,
Saw pit,
P. 125.
Hacking
Hewing,
Chips
Manured,
Promised,
1 1 danger of losing it all,
P. 126. Blade,
Close, ffi.
Could get no time to shoot up
into stalk, PR&f££Hj&^.
With a great deal of toil,
Arable land, pJffS±Hii&.
All night long,
Apace, jig; $i.
Throve,
Let fly,
Cloud, ».
P. 127. Out of their sight,
Provoked,
A peck loaf,
Served, f£i&
Notorious thieves,
Hanged them in chains,
For a terror to others, ^
ffiA; a®
Scarecrows,
Reaped my corn,
Was sadly put to it,
Scythe or sickle, fltTJ J
ROBINSON CRUSOE
Broadswords,
Cutlasses,
Arms, 3|t
p. 128. Bushels, i
By my guess
Measure,
Grind, Jg; 9f.
Make meal of my corn,
Multitude, fr-£;
Curing, $J; Jj.
Dressing, £;
This one article of bread,
Mere state of nature,
Plow, &; Jkffi.
Turn up,
Wooden,
P. 129. Bore with,
Work it out, tfcjjifc;
Badness of the performance,
Harrow, 81; f§.
Go over, ^fi'jfii®
Rake or harrow, Jfi.
Mow, »J; ^.
Thrash, fl^R; fi'IS-
Part it from the chaff,
Mill, m;
Sieves, ffi;
Yeast, j$.
Oven, jf; %.
All these things I did without,
Inestimable, l
There was no help for,
Invention,
Utensils,
Operations,
An acre of ground, , — £
Sorry, $; 3&.
P. 130. Quick or living, -fc
Earthen vessels.
Wanted sorely,
Come at, ffi.; 8|.
Pots, tg[; $$j'M-
Bear handling,
CHAPTER XXIII.
P. 131. Paste,
Odd,
Misshapen, i
Ugly,
Fell in,
Fell out,
Not being stiff enough to bear
its own weight,
Over-violent, &k
Set out,
Temper,
Set them down again in,
There was a little room to
spare, Hfr/frgBt
Stuffed it full,
Straw,
Miscarried,
Pitchers,
Pipkins, S,^;
Turned to,
41
But all this would not answer
my end,
.', 132. Put it out,
Tile, S-
Agreeably, Jfr®.
Set me to study
Kiln, ft; g; &.
Potters,
Glazing,
Firewood, g|; $f
A great heap, —
Embers,
Plied, JS8.
Red hot quite through,
Clear red,
Melt or run, j
Slacked,
Glazed, ,
Indifferent,
Dirt pies,
To raise paste,
P. 133. Of so mean a nature,
Admirably well,
Oatmeal,
Ingredients,
Requisite, i&
Stamp,
Arriving at that perfection of
art, 5
Was at a great loss,
Unqualified,
Stone cutter,
Whatever,
To go about it,
Si-
Many a day,
Cut hollow,
Crumbling,
Pestle,
Block,
Rounded,
Canoes,
Beater, f|; ft^.
P. 134. Pound,
Bran, Iff; |R.
Canvas,
Sift, |$;
At a full stop,
Rags,
Goat's hair,
Weave,
Spin,
Neckcloths, j
Calico,
Muslin,
Made shift, Jl
There was no supplying the
want, &r£i«i*2;.
Did not concern myself much
about it,
Ivaid them by, .
Hearth, ^ffil£; fltff.
Paved, *§J; ^ffl.
P. 135. Live coals,
Sweeping away,
To keep in,
Pastry cook,
Into the bargain,
Cakes, tff.
Puddings,
T).
ROBINSON CRUSOE
Pies,
Husbandry,
In its season,
And laid it up, in the ear,
Barns,
To use it freely,
Had been quite gone a great
while, -f-EfflS; 4.E*m.
Consume, ^; ^.
CHAPTER XXIV.
P. 136. Secret wishes,
Made no allowance for,
Fall into the hands of ...... , $£,
^ ...... ±^; is ...... mmm.
Run a hazard of ...... , § ......
A thousand to one of being
killed, =P?Eifn*ft-&.
My head ran mightily upon
the thought of getting over
to the shore, tjBSl®J£; 5g«K
9*.
P. 137. Wished for, MM; HSfc
In vain,
Bottom upward,
Ridge, #; KfeSK.
Beachy, rough sand, l|fl,SL'$>?f ,
Refit, ^ig.-
L,aunch her into the water, ft
Could no more turn her and set
her upright upon her bottom,
No more than ,
I/evers,
Rollers,
Repair the damage.
Spared no pains, Jptf ^f£.
Heave it up,
Fell to,
Undermine,
P. 138. At length,
Periagua,
ff.
Not at all,
Particular inconveniences
Lay under, 3£.
Want of hands,
Surmount, ftfllf;
Dub, «^Pff .
Could not have had the least
reflection upon my mind of
my circumstances,
Intent upor.,
In its own nature,
Fathoms,
To set it afloat in the water,
.
P. 139. Determining,
Undertake, Hffi;
Put a stop to, Jt;
Inquiries into it,
Warrant, fl«;ttf5c.
Get it along, IBfciftfT (jHJU
Preposterous,
The eagerness of my fancy.
prevailed,
Felled, «;,
43
Cedar tree,
Solomon,
«*>.
Temple of Jerusalem,
±Jffi(S Solomon
Stamp, tfltAft; tfc
Lessened for a while,
Spreading,
To a proportion, &SSE3S Jft
Mallet, $|;
Chisel, H.
By the dint of, £1;
Brought it to be, j
Six-and-twenty, ^.-t"^#c
Gone through this work,
P. 140. Many a weary stroke it
had cost, m®ffi
Unlikely to be performed,
Failed me,
Up hill towards the creek, $), _h
Declivity,
Still much the same,
Dock,
Canal, 7Kit.
Seeing, H; $f; 0-
Began to enter upon it,
Calculate, ftjf;
Though with great reluctancy,
Grieved me heartily,
Folly,
Cost,
P. 141. By the assistance of his
grace,
Entertained different notions
of things,
Remote,
Had nothing to do with,
No expectation from, Jfe
No desires about, J*
faffiR.
Nor was ever likely to have.
Father Abraham,
*A
Dives,
Removed from all the wicked-
ness of the world,
The lusts of the flesh,
The lusts of the eye,
The pride of life,
Had nothing to covet,
Rivals, H9«; SOttt.
Competitor, j^^^
None to dispute sovereignty or
command with me,
Raised, fl; ffi.
Shiploadings, fl&fS; dff±t£S.
For my occasion,
A fleet of ships, — Sftjft.
ROBINSON CRUSOE
Valuable, Hg; *f flffi ( SitP*
»).
P. 142. Vermin,
Rot,
Had no occasion for,
Dictated, J§gS.
All the good things of this
world are no farther good to
us than they are for our use,
Covetous,
Griping, —
Miser,
The vice of covetousness,
No room for desire,
M#f&m.
As well gold as silver,
ft.
Gross, -j-ZlfT (1P~
Hand mill
Turnip,
Carrot,
Seed,
Peas and beans,
As it was, jfij'T*jU.
Grew moldy with the damp,
Diamonds,
It had been the same case,
p. 143. Sat down to my meat,
The bright side of my con-
dition,
The dark side,
Put those discontented people
in mind of it,
CHAPTER XXV.
Had been gone some time,
SEX-
Eked out with water,
Minute down, f
By casting up times past,
Casting up,
»),
Concurrence of days,
^--
Various providences,
±«ffi.
Superstitiously,
P. 144. Had husbanded to the
last degree, S^fflS^.
Next to miraculous,
Checkered shirts,
Watch coats,
Yet I could not go quite with-
out them, &
P. 145. Four-footed ones,
By which means,
Fit for little,
Cap, />iff .
To shoot off the rain,
A suit of clothes,
•$.
Waistcoat,
45
Breeches, |$.
Open at the knees,
Loose, "Km-
Must not omit to acknowledge,
Wretchedly made, $Sff3 ffl£; g
Tailor,
Made very good shift with,
Outermost,
Umbrella,
The heats every jot as great
here
I was obliged to be much
abroad,
Took a world of pains,
JK;
Had hit the way,
To my mind,
Answered indifferently well,
Main, ^1
Let down,
Spread,
Draw in,
Portable,
P. 146. Answer,
Cast off the rain like a shed, jtn
Kept off, fg;
Mighty comfortably,
Resigning myself to the will
of God,
Throwing myself wholly upon
the disposal of his provid-
ence. gj| aB&t.£S££;?
Sociable,
Conversation,
Mutually,
Ejaculations,
Human society, ASRfttft-
I,ived on in the same course,
Daily pursuit of going out with
Creek, />M
Was near two years about it,
^*K4lfc*. E
Never grudged,
Was not at all answerable to
the design,
Had in view
P. 147. Terra firma,
To put an end to that design,
To make a cruise round the
island, l<5ljltl>; JSliS^:^-
Very eager to see other parts
of the coast, gi^C— j|i
.
For this purpose,
A-
Discretion,
Fitted up,
Lay in store,
The spray of the sea,
Flap,
Fixed, SI; ffi.
ROBINSON CRUSOE
Stand over,?
Awning, 33
Every now and then, ^6'Jgf;
Circumference,
Resolved upon my cruise,
Victualed,
Parched rice,
P. 148. To lie upon, £
Reign, 'i
Ledge of rocks, B|fj$;
Double the point,
Point,
Above all,
Came to an anchor,
Grappling iron, $$$
Overlook, fjJKs.
Saw the full extent of it,
Furious current, i
jP. 149. Make, £lj; ffi; ^.
Got first upon this hill,
Hi.
Set off, mi?; ££.
Eddy, flfcjt; «*..
East-southeast, jfcUjRjS.
Made a great breach of the
sea,
The wind having abated over
night,
Warning,
Rash,
Pilots,
Boat's length from the shore,
Sluice of a mill,
Paddles, «g.
Signified nothing,
Give myself over for lost,
leagues, 3S
league tfj-g-^
Irrecoveral)l\ ,
P. 150. Mankind,
Desert, -^jg; ^lf.
I shall never see thee more,
Repined at,
True state,
Illustrated,
Contraries,
Value,
;
CHAPTER XXVI.
Consternation,
In the utmost despair of ever
recovering it again,
Strength was almost exhaust-
ed,
I,ay on,
P. 151. Meridian,
South-southeast,
Got at, ill; ^; ®.
Frightful distance, $jiifi;
Intervened,
Undone, %£;
Stretch away,
Alteration,
Foul,
Main stress,
The repulse of the rocks,
mm-
Sharp stream,
47
Reprieve,
Rescued,
Extremities,
Freshening,
P. 152. Served me no farther,
In the wake of the island,
Running no way,
Slanting northwest,
P. 153. Spent, H2.;
Lay up my frigate in safety, *$£
Coasting the shore,
Inlet or bay,
Rivulet or brook, /hM; Jl
Made on purpose for her,
^rt»7n:4* JH% J.
,px [III 5^*2. Qi'
Traveled on foot to that shore,
Standing as I left it,
Weary,
p. 154. Dead asleep,
~ Did not wake thoroughly,
Dozing between sleeping and
Bemoaning,
Got over it,
Thumb, ^d
p. 155. Overjoyed,
Get it about, JfeJfc; fflS-
Very heart would shrink,
Very blood run chill,
product,
In this government of my
temper,
Sedate,
Retired,
Improved, i|^; i
Mechanic exercises,
P. 156. 1 arrived at an unex-
pected perfection in my
earthenware,
; 81.
Filthy,
Tobacco pipe,
Clumsy, !ffl.$;
Used to, fJtt;
P. 157. Come at,
For example,
Flay it,
Receivers,
Rubbed out,
He-goat, ;J$=
Bring it to pass,
Died at last of mere age, $*
CHAPTER XXVII.
P. 158. Growing low,
To study some art to trap and
snare the goats,
To trap and snare,
Attire,
Hamper,
ROBINSON CRUSOE
Tackle,
Wire,
Bait, {if;
Pitfall,
Pits, ft;
Hurdles,
Of my own making
weight,
Ears, H.
Setting the trap,
Not to trouble you with parti-
culars,
*$«.
Male, Jg.
Females, «|.
Nor would it answer my end,
Frightened out of his wits, Jg
Msfs&mSE; S|*
P. 159. Sagacious, § JJ; |g ^;
Tractable, Jg
For the present, Jij TF;
Iveft,
A flock of sheep, —
An absolute necessity,
Herbage,
Cover,
Rills, />jlj; /J>ff -
P. 160. Forecast.
Compass
Carried on, itff;
Siopped short,
Maintain,
Tethered, |g; j^; Jf .
Feed them out of my hand,
Ivet them loose,
Bleating after me
P- "I- Pens,
But this was not all,
Set up my dairy,
Gallon,
Nature, jgft;
Butter,
Cheese,
Very readily and handily,
Essays, |
Miscarriages,
How mercifully can our Creat-
or treat his creatures, if
Dungeons and prisons,
**.
Stoic, ^' ^§;
Majesty,
T5J f^
I had the lives of all my sub-
jects at my absolute com-
mand,
Rebels,
Dined,
P. 162. All alone, $3 g (all

Attended,
Favorite,
Crazy, g
A bit, -^
49
As a mark of special favor, £1
Interred, |J; 2gl.
A litter of kittens, —
And plunder me too.
At length,
They left me,
Attendance,
Plentiful,
Very loath to run any more
hazards, ^SfcfWf Sll-
Uneasiness in my mind,
Last ramble,
To travel thither by land,
Following the edge of the
shore, T®&]&ffi1if .
Raised a great deal of laughter,
- 163- Equipage, £ ffi; <££ 2.
A
To take a sketch of my figure,
Skirts,
The middle of the thighs,
Pantaloons,
Buskins,
To flap over,
Leggings,
Barbarous shape,
Thongs,
Instead of buckles,
Pouches, ®; ^.
P. 164. Mulattolike,
4±?SSA.
Not at all careful of it,
St; **§&; ^S«C-.
About a qiiarter of a yard long,
Trimmed,
Mahometan whiskers,
Turks,
Mustachios,
Would have passed for,
Of no manner of consequence
Double,
No rippling, tt
Was at a strange loss to under-
stand this,
Sets of the tide, J
Had occasioned it, ^f HliCJlfc;
P. 165. The ebb of tide,
mm.
Setting from the west, fl
Occasion, j
Think of putting it in practice,
CHAPTER XXVIII.
Plantations, i
Had enlarged into several
apartments, ;ftif &M; Sfitff
Hit ft.
P. 166. Have given an account,
ROBINSON CRUSOE
Corn land,
Duly, -g-g;
Had occasion for, §|;
Adjoining, ,%& ; B&il; Ffti£.
Country seat, )$,],<£;
Tolerable, foe}
Kept in repair,
Constantly fitted up to its us-
ual height,
My tent always standing,
P.167. Spread over,
Poles, ft; ¥.
Set up for that purpose,
Never wanted any repair or
renewing,
mm-
Squab or couch,
Had taken an inconceivable
deal of pains,
a*.
Kept entire,
Lest, ffigt.
Stuck the outside,
There was scarce room,
Testify,
Spared no pains,
To bring to pass,
Keeping up, f|^
Breed, -^; -JR.
At my han.',
Bit
Iviving magazine,
P. 168. Principally depended,
Dainty
Diet, ^&;
Medicinal,
Wholesome,
Nourishing,
Refreshing,
In the greatest degree,
A stone's cast,
Apprehensive of, 58itfi;
Being hurried out of my know-
ledge again by the currents,
New scene,
Print, J£EP;
Naked foot,
Thunderstruck,
As if I had seen an apparition.
Rising ground, ^Ufct
. But it was all one,
Impression, EP;
There was no room for that,?
Toes, It-
Heel, g;
Nor could I in the least imag-
ine,
Innumerable fluttering
thoughts, WJBgUl; .Hg,f;iL.
P. 169. Perfectly confused and
out of himself,
To the last degree,
Looking behind me at every
two or three steps, ^fr^.H
Fancying every stump at a
distance to be a man,
Various shapes,
Affrighted imagination,
Represented,
Unaccountable whimseys,
By the way, Hjfc;
Ever after this, &&;
Frightened hare fled to cover,
or fox to earth,
Had made the island,
Loath, *itSS; fS*«t
P. 170. Rolling in my mind, fg
Racked my imagination.
I should perish at last for mere
want,
Reproached myself with my
laziness,
Intervene,
Reproof,
How strange a checkerwork of
Providence is the life of
man!
By what different, secret
springs are the affections
hurried about,
P. 171.
Even tremble at the appre-
hensions of,
Exemplified in me,
Condemned to what I call silent
One of my own species,
Cogitations, ,8J$|.
I cannot omit,
Discomposed me very much,
Delusion,
P. 172. For certain,
Specters, |£|i; $fg
Began to take courage, JR
To peep abroad,
Starve for provisions, 02.lt ffij
Run for my life,
Haunted with an evil con-
science,
Could not persuade myself
fully of this,
P. 173. Similitude,
Fitness,
Not so large by a great deal,
Gave me the vapors,
Was aware, i§.^n;
Ridiculous, 'nl^j.
Deprives them of,
ROBINSON CRUSOE
Frequent,
In prospect of, gjJSg;
The like booty,
Digging up,
Siill be prompted,
Demolish.
Vestiges,
CHAPTER XXIX.
P. 174. Spirits exhausted,
BZ.
To think sedately, jJCSSfetl
Upon debate with myself,
Entirely abandoned,
mm.
Stated inhabitants,
Cross winds,
At any time,
Upon any occasion,
Casual, accidental landing,
Straggling people,
As it was likely,
Were here against their wills,
*jHs*tft¥±*®-
With all possible speed,
Daylight,
Sorely to repent,
Upon maturely considering
this, fi,
Draw,
In the manner of a semicircle,
P. 175. Of which I made men-
tion.
Might put my arm out at,
T-W±tHA.
To plant the muskets,
n.
Cannon, f|£.
Fitted them into frames,
Man}r a weary month in finish-
ing, ^ft-BS&SE*!.
For a great length every way,
Osierlike wood,
Apt to grow
Could well stand,
Insomuch that,
Set in, mS.\ Ill
Thick grove,
Impassable,
Of what kind soever, $B
wa.
P. 176. I proposed to myself,
Avenue,
Broke in,
Left room,
Doing himself mischief,
B
Took all the measures,
Prudence,
For my own preservation,
I had a great concern upon me
for ...... ,
Herd of goats,
Ready supply,
Without the expense of,
Nurse up over again
*'
To dig a cave underground,
Little bits of land,
Remote from one another,
Concealed,
In general,
P. 177. Most rational design,
**a±8H
Retired parts,
Pitched upon one, &oL~ &.
Almost lost myself, S^jil®
By nature, 5"cBJ9f^.
Were well enough secured,
Did at more leisure,
At leisure,
All this labor I was at the
expense of,
In the constant snare of ...... ,
^
P. 178. Had great impression
also upon ...... ,
L,ay so upon my spirits,
as*.
Resignation,
ft.
Was wont to have,
Under great affliction and pres-
sure of mind,
Living stock,
Deposit,
W).
Perspective glass,!
Not able to hold,
P. 179. To shoot over to that
side of the island for harbor,
Victors,
P. 180. Confounded and amaz-
ed,
Skulls,
Human bodies,
Cockpit, ]
Savage wretches,
A; SPA-
Inhuman feastings,;
Fellow-creatures,
Of such a pitch of inhuman
brutality, if^^SSS-
Degeneracy of human nature,
Horrid spectacle,
Just at the point of,
Fainting, $$j.
Discharged the disorder from
my stomach, ^flt^'}' £^^-
I was then a little relieved, ^
With a flood of tears in my
eyes,
Esteemed,
P. 181. To complain of, S-Sf;
Above all,
Felicity,
ROBINSON CRUSOE
Equivalent,
To their purpose,
Had no manner of occasion to
Entertained such an abhorrence
of, «t
Custom,
Pensive and sad, g.OtttlJ;
Kept close within,
CHAPTER XXX.
P- 182. Was in no danger of...
Wear off,
Providence,
Furbished up, Jg5flj;
Cutlasses, ®7J; «7J.
Formidable fellow,
A;
Broadsword,
Scabbard, ffi
. 183. Excepting,
Tended to,
Other particulars of life,
It put me upon reflecting,
Repining,
Condition of life,
To assist their murmurings and
. complainings, ^KiSl^^fM-
Had taken off the edge of niy
invention for my own con-
veniences.
Dropped,
Malt,
Brew,
Whimsical thought,
Reproved myself often for the
simplicity of it,
Could never compass,
*.
But to no purpose,
Hops,
Copper or kettle,
With all these things wantnig.
Verily believe,
P. 184. Undertaken,
Perhaps brought it to pass,
Seldom gave anything over
without accomplishing it, J^
Monsters,
Victim,
Volume, ^-; ft.
To set down, fE|£;
Hatched, |5at; ^3f.
Brooded upon, f|,®.
All this came to nought,
To take effect,
».
Darts, ff; gjf.
Bows and arrows,
Mark, 46; mtt;
Kindled their fire,
Take fire,
Blow up
Going off, jtf a;
At best,
55,'
33
Forsake the place,
-fife.
P. 185. Laid it aside,
In ambush,
Double loaded, Jnlg-
In the middle of their bloody
ceremony,
Let fly at them,
Falling in upon,
In ambuscade, fi
Thoughts of revenge,
Signals, f
Abetted my malice,
tfc'O-
Thickets of trees,
Bloody doings,
Take my full aim at their
heads,
Next io impossible,
Miss my shot,
To fulfill my design,
P 186. Loaded with a brace of
slugs each,
Swan shot,
Posture,
Charge, 9HJL;
Prepared myself for my ex-
pedition, S^ffl
Laid the scheme,
Put it in practice,
Tour, J^tf; sSfr.
Constantly kept my watch,
So far as my eyes or glass could
reach every way,
Kept up the vigor of my design,
ttt*«ft-«£*8it;fe*ltt
So outrageous an execution, ,'£.
Naked,
Offense,
Had not at all entered into any
discussion of in my thoughts,
Unnatural custom, j
Fruitless excursion,
ft.
My opinion of the action itself
began to alter,
What authority or call I had,
^#isj«i3*frisitti3-
P. 187. To pretend to be,
judge,
Executioner,
A-
Criminals,
To suffer, unpunished, to go
How- far these people were
offenders against me,
What right I had,
To engage in the quarrel of,
That blood which they shed
promiscuously upon one an-
other,
Promiscuously,
This particular case,
£*.
Do not commit this as a crime,
It is not against their own con-
sciences,
In defiance of,
Divine justice,
A captive taken in war,
Mutton,
Murderers,
In the sense,
The usage they gave one an-
other, ®jJt&a±j£.
Brutish and inhuman,
Had done me no injury,
ft; SfcfcinftSfcfta.
For mj- immediate preservation
to fall upon them,
> And consequently no design
upon me, 4fe#T«3fcI£;gilJ±ji>
CHAPTER XXXI.
P. 188. In sight, &JL;;fJL.
Durst not, Jpitfc.
Upon any account whatever,
fcifttoisr.
Bare going thither, =3
ft.
Grapnel, /KB; JS|5j.
Was out of danger,
Haunted this island,
P. 189. Chanced upon,
«!&,
Unarmed,
BS
Peeping and peering,
No possibility of my escaping
them, ^/#f&tli*i§.
Sank my very soul within me,
Unable to resist,
tfeSffi.
Presence of mind,
Anxieties,
The concern that was now
upon me,
Put an end to, g
For my future accommodations
and conveniences,
Chop a stick,
Intolerably uneasy,
P- 190. Visible at a great dis-
tance,
Should betray me,
To my unspeakable consola-
tion, ^KJftffiHgB.
Mere natural cave,
No savage would be so hardy
as to venture in,
Did not see abundant reason to
ascribe all such things to
Providence,
57
Charcoal,
chark, m
Putting the fire out,
Brushwood or underwood,
tic-
Stand upright, Jilt;
P. 191. Plucking up my covi-
Precious stones,
P. 193. Cavity, or grotto,
Firebrand,
In I rushed again,
Broken noise,
Put me into a cold sweat,
*tf.
Will not answer for it,
Lifted it off,
Still plucking up my spirits,
Presence of God was every-
where,
Gasping for life,
P. 192. Had any life in him,
Tinder box,
Wildfire,
Goat's tallow,
Hard set for,
Rind, ^r; t$
Nettles, ^tfg.
To creep upon all fours,
By the way, «g&±;
Had got through the strait, j
Vault,
Reflected,
Gravel,
Nauseous,
Venomous, ^^;
Place of security,
Without any delay,
Particularly,
Had three in all. ^'W-H
Mounted, g^iffnigi
Outpost fence, #,•&;
Penetrated,
Caking,
L/ike a kernel in the shell,
Ancient giants,
P. 194. None could come at
them,
Expiring,
Naturalized,
Manner of living,
Enjoyed the certainty,
^-
Capitulate, ?|]J|; 3W
±«F^.
Articulately and plain,
Multiplied,
P. 195. To feed out of my hand,
Take the pairs,
Sea fowls, $£&
Very well contented with the
life I led, £jfc£
Amiss, Iti^
Just observation,
ROBINSON CRUSOE
In the course of our lives,
ZB-
Seek most to shun,
Are fallen into, g|A ,
Oftentimes, %%; WM
The very means or doors of
our deliverance,
Unaccountable,
CHAPTER XXX II.
P. 196. Southern solstice,
0.
On purpose.
Ivaid me down flat on the
ground, mfc*6±.
They had no need of that,
As it was then ebb of tide,
mmm-
As I expected so it proved, ft
The tide made to the westward,
P. 198. Paddle,
Dancing,
Discern,
Shipped, ffilfifBit.
Girdle, Kff.
With all the speed I was able
to make, f&fF^i&^HjiJiff.
They were all at sea together,
Making over for the main,
**€*,
Dismal work, ggjag** (
«ABBJt±»g).
With merriment and sport,
Filled with indignation at the
sight, JtjfcJtf:, 3EA*St
Premeditate the desiruction of
the next,
By reason of, @; jjj.
Coming upon me by surprise,
P. 199. There is no room to
shake off,
Before it was thorough day-
light, 3Lft3i*.W.
Stopped short, &&£&&;
Yet I had no more peace with-
in,
In this extremity,
Posture of defense,
To defend myself to the last
gasp, ig^eaS; ffiJE^jy.ffi
ft.
To commend myself to the
divine protection,
P. 197. Impatient for intelli-
gence abroad, SiS
Spies,
Was not able to bear sitting in
ignorance longer,
Mounted the top of the hill,
In great perplexity and anxiety
of mind, .fr&jftfil;
One day or other, 1fe%~ 0 .
59
Fall into the hands of ...... ,
With the greatest care and
caution imaginable,
Imaginable,
Durst not upon any account,
Upon any account,
Alarm,
Started out of my sleep,
Might justify the doing of it,
With a great deal of lightning
and thunder,
Very foul night,
P 200. Started up in the great-
est haste imaginable,
In a trice,
Clapped,
Must be some ship in distress,
Some other ship in company,
fflt*±iafif;f.
Making a good, handsome pile,
Set it on fire,
Blazed, ft;&; «.
The wind blew very hard,
It burned fairly out,
The same quarter, E0'~;5'j6j
Plied my fire all night long till
daybreak, fgt ,k:
Broad day,
The air cleared up,
Full east of the island,
Hull, *& Ji ; ««.
Hazy, JiBSSWflE-
A ship at anchor,
P. 201. Checked the violence of
the stream, HLjUll£&8fc.
Desperate, hopeless condition,
In all my life, jfe^; —ft.
Bring out of their knowledge,
Kast-northeast,
To the last degree,
This thought so clung to my
heart,
Committing the rest to God's
providence,
The impression was so strong
upon my mind,
Invisible,
Wanting to myself,
P. 202. A compass to steer by,
Got her afloat,
Put out,
Utmost point.
I.,aunch out into the ocean,
I'rom the remembrance of the
hazard 1 had been in before,.
KOBINSON CRUSOE
Perhaps out of my reach, or
sight of the island again, 501
Should be inevitably lost,
&«2Ji
Made a little out to sea,
Full north,
Set eastward,
At a great rate, g'ft; ®i$.
To take from me all govern-
ment of the boat, &%&&&£
tod; -friewie**
Having a strong steerage with
my paddle,
P. 203. Stuck fast,
*
Jammed in between two rocks,
Yelped, gKinfc.
Ravenous wolf,
Fortnight, ms.m;^R.
The first sight I met with,
Cookroom,
Forecastle of the ship,
With their arms fast about one
another,
The sea broke so high,
Were strangled,
Without examining what was
in them,
Fire shovel,
Tongs, jJcjJ-.
Wanted extremely,
Brass,
To make chocolate,
Gridiron, |
To make home, jg.
P. 204. Weary and fatigued to
the last degree, fijil
Cordial waters,
Were tipped with silver, 0..
«; £
Succades, or sweetmeats, ,
Were very welcome to me,
Linen handkerchiefs, ¥
Neckcloths, Sift; m^tt
Exceedingly refreshing,
t*.
To wipe my face
Till,
Doubloons,
Bars of wedges of gold,
Weigh, S; '&;
Upon the whole,
Had no manner of occasion for
it, «Tffi ±<i^
As the dirt under my feet,
Laid her up,
P. 205 Made the best of my
way to, fta@ifS
Live after my old fasion.
Take care of my family affairs,
61
Was more vigilant than I used
to be, U® jfKB ^.
Did stir with any freedom,
ftfrlS.
Precautions, j£ii|£$
m
Projects and designs,
ft.
CHAPTER XXXIII.
Island of solitude,
No distemper,
No uneasiness of body,
Could by no means,
Not a wink,
In miniature,
'h£&if3tl£.
By abridgment,
P. 206 Was incapable of any
apprehensions about it,
..£>;
With all possible tranquillity
Brow of a hill,
ft.
The casual approach of night,
Seized on, ffi; $}.
With the same view,
Curlew,
Slander, |£
Preserver, ft**;
With great humility,
Due,
Order,
Fall in with, j$,; ^.
If the worst came to the worst,
Put an end to all these miseries
at once,
P. 207. Set my very blood into
TTerment,
Pulse beat,
Fervor of my mind,
Anything relating to it,
On a sudden,
Ran for his life, 5
Under such inexpressible im-
pressions of joy,
Upon coming to myself,
Were equally extravagant the
other way, ^ffi-
Dejection of spirits,
P. 208. Set myself upon the
scout as often as possible g|
Was heartily tired of it,
In a word,
Eager to be upon them,
Nothing still presented itself,
-*0fJL; OJ^i
Came to nothing
ROBINSON CRUSOE
Out of my sight,
Broke all my measures,
To take my measures,
ft; lift
Single-handed, 3S&-A;
P 209. Ready for action,
Clambered up to the top of the
bill,
Stages,
By any means,
Dressed,
Laid by, Jftjg.
Brought out for the slaughter,
Knocked down,
Club, *»;#&
Were at work immediately, |jJ
For their cookery,
Seeing himself a little at liberty,
and unbound,
Inspired,
With incredible swiftness,
P. 210. Coming to pass,
Take shelter,
Kept my station,
My spirits began to recover,
Outstripped them exceedingly
If he could but hold out for
half an hour,
Must necessarily swim over,
mm&-
Would be taken there,
IHUKfe.
Made nothing of it,
Plunging in,
Soon after went softly back
again, KiPffc??®*.
Was very well for him in the
end,
In the end,
Twice as long,
Irresistibly,
Companion or assistant,
P. 211 With all possible ex-
pedition, @3tj»ii£M; »
at*.
Having a very short cut, ^~-
All downhill,
Placed mj'self in the way be-
tween the pursuers and the
pursued,
Hallooing aloud,
That fled, g|;f .
The foremost, §M±— A-
Stock of my piece,
Was loath to fire,
in running, ffijtE^JHSt^.
Gained ground on them,
JJL
Being out of sight of the smoke,
too, .3t*JlJ3.
Was fitting it to shoot at me,
Was then obliged,
Stood stock-still,
Rather inclined,
P. 212. Beckoned to him again
to come to me, &.3-]j&2.$.lK.
In token of acknowledgment
for saving his life, fi
P. 213. In token of,
it-
Swearing, fig; ftS
Made much of him,
Stunned,
Come to himself,
There was no time,
Naked, j
Cleverly,
P. 214. In sign of triumph,
With abundance of gestures,
Indian, ±A-
Made signs to me,
looked at the wound the bullet
had made,
P.
Bled inwardly,
Turned to go away,
In an instant, J£|fl; B&
Scraped a hold, JS/^— J
In a quarter of an honr,
A draught of water, ®'j;
In great distress for, <fg
P. 215. Blanket,
CHAPTER XXXIV.
Comely, ^^.
Perfectly well made,
As I reckon,
Very good countenance,
iE.
Not a fierce and surly aspect,
Manly,
Sweetness and softness,
Not curled like wool,
Forehead, |g.
A great vivacity and sparkling
sharpness in his eyes,
Tawny,
Nauseous,
Virginians, Virginia
(Virginia %, i
Dun olive-color, /^
Round and plump,
His fine teeth well set,
As white as ivory,
Just by, JS; j£^.
Espied, SL.
With all the possible signs of a
humble, thankful disposition,
Antic, -
P. 216. Of subjection, s, rvitude,
and submission imaginable*
ROBINSON CRUSOE
For the memory of the time,
; tft
Sop, §.
Complied with,
Expressed my abhorrence of
it, S^»g&.£3St.
Vomit, Ig; nt.
With great submission,
P. 217. Consequently more cur-
iosity, $*
Very dexterously
«.
Marched to the place,
«5.
Had a mind now to get some
fuller intelligence of
Very blood ran chill in my
veins,
At the horror of the spectacle,
JLJ&IM&.
Made nothing of it, Jp^
*7*U&
Dyed with their blood,
Subjecs,
Whatever remained,
Burn them all to ashes,
A hankering stomach after
some of the flesh, £&A^±
H P.
Was still a cannibal in his
nature,
lliscover,
If he offered it,
P. 218. Fkst of all,
A pair of linen breeches,
**.
With a little alteration.
Jerkin,
As well as uiy skill would
allow,
Tolerably good,
Convenient, ^1
Mighty well pleased,
S; m^-iJ*.
Went awkwardly,
Sleeves,
Galled,
With a little easing them,
Using himself to them,
Took to them, IE; if; W-
Vacant place, ^^.
Framed doorcase, ;&S;,2lPl3$I-
Passage, M?S; fLlt-
Covild no way come at me,
P. 219. Leaning up to the side
of the hill,
Hftift-
L,aid across,
Laths, 1
Reeds,
Trapdoor,
Sincere,
Sullenness,
65
Perfectly obliged and engaged,
His very affections were tied
to me,
S*flzfc!i
Sacrificed his life,
£tfr.
Upon any occasion whatsoever,
Testimonies,
Put it out of doubt,
On his account,
±&.
Aptest scholar,
CHAPTER XXXV.
P. 220. Relish, $t; ft
Cannibal's stomach,
Btl.
Caught hold of, fU£;
Hold, Jti£; ff.lt.
Stand still, i/ij; ^jjfU.
Was sensibly surprised,
ftffil; .&£««.
looked so amazed,
Ripped up, MH;
Found present!-
Embracing,
By and by,
Rawk, JJ.
Within shot,
P. 221. Fund of death,
Wear off, }^; |§.
When he was by himself,
Fluttered away,
Took this advantage,
To charge the gun,
P. 222. Fit for that purpose, ,
Salt, St.
Nauseate, jgj&fi,;
,Spit and sputter, IgflSlffiifc;
It.
Cross, aS^^J:^.
Observed before, EI¥^W-
P. 223. Marked out, ^^;
Cheerfully,
Appeared very sensible,
Had occasion to call for,
Had very little occasion for
before,
Singular satisfaction in .......
Unfeigned,
And on his side, Stfe—
Inclination for,;
P. 224. The nation that he be-
longed to, sjsft B±ia.
Conquered in battle l£l@.
Fight the Better, H^.
Get the better in fight, i)^.
My nation beat much for all
that,
For all that, ^
Beat,
How came you to be taken,;
Over-beat,
ROBINSON CRUSOE
Yonder place,
Recover, 3£i£;
P. 225. Man-eating occasions,
To tell them over, ft;
Sets of the tide,
Draft and reflux,
Mighty river,
Orinoco,
Trinidad,
i£ Orinoco
With the greatest openness
imaginable,
Guiana, Jftfc
St. Martha,
Jamaica
The setting of the moon, ft ?£
±Jt.
P. 226. Spread over the whole
country, £8fifc£H-
One time or other, iiS/^— 0;
CHAPTER XXXVI.
Took it up by another handle,
P. 227. He looked very grave,
With a perfect look of inno-
cence,
Instruct, |!c; fff.
Omnipotent,
By degrees,
Opened his eyes,
Bfcfr.
Religious, or clergy,
Priestcraft,
Pagans,
P. 228. Diverted the present
discourse,
By his Spirit,
Reconciling,
That his conscience might be
convinced, ^pliftSRRK'fr.
Kntered into a long discourse
with him,
The redemption of man by the
Savior of the world,
Jesus Christ -tfe).
The doctrine of Gospel,
Preached,
Repentance towards God, ffi
For this poor creature's in-
struction,
Act upon the same principle,
Act upon,
I/ayiug things open,
Occurred naturally to my mind,
Searching into,
Information,
Inquiry after, Jgfjfe;
Upon this occasion,
Grief sat lighter,
Beyond measure,
it-
Thankful frame,
67
All the remainder of niy time;
£&I$B.
Employed the hours,
aa-
P. 229. Sublunary state,
Penitent, tfW; M».
Restored penitents,
Scripture,
Intimately acquainted,
Fluently,
Broken,
Acquainted him with my own
history,
Related to,
Mystery,
Was wonderfully delighted
with,
Frog,
Stress of weather, $£&££&;
Cast away,
Dull, A
Struck on the rock, J
Inevitably lost,
P. 231. Inquired of him more
critically, f^Htfe
Gave them victuals to live 011,
How it come to pass, \v\fc; ji'J
Truce,
Hangers,
In some cases,
Upon other occasions,
Behaved to one another,
m-.smtx.
Traded, g^
An account of
Was all beaten in pieces,
P. 230. Fallen almost all to
pieces,
Stood musing a great while,
Studied upon,
Taken, j
The weather being very serene^.
Falls a-jumpiug and dancing,
An extraordinary sense of
pleasure,
Eyes sparkled,
Countenance discovered a
strange eagerness, MS—St
His obligation to me, ^J
Forward, Ji.fi;
P. 232. Wronged,
Circumspect, UttS
Consisted with the best princi-
ples,
To my full satisfaction,
&, ffif!^.
Jealousy of him lasted,
Pumping,
Suspected,
To nourish my suspicion,
m spite of, m$t;
Made me at last entirely his
own again,
Perceive,
Could not suspect him of
deceit,
Turn wild again,
looked full of concern,
P. 233. Bearded mans,
CHAPTER XXXVII.
Had a mind to venture over,
By way of discourse,
*&»&£*.
Frigate, ^;
Cleared it of water,
Managing,
P. 234. Dull,
Had lain two or three and
twenty years there,
Split,
Rotten,
Vittle, IP victual
Kxed upon my design,
Repeating the words several
times, S*Si|»fW;
2..
Turned very quick upon,
Sober,
Tame,
SrS
P. 235. Firm resolution,
*; SSilK.
Upon the whole, *tjffiW±; II
Settled affection,
The foundation of his desire,
Ardent affection to the people,
Ardent affection, ffl
Founded on the supposition,
Built a little fleet, 5tj
P. 236. To avoid the mistake I
committed at f.rst,
Pitched upon,
To this day, j
Fustic,
Nicaragua wood,
Inch by inch, iEJ
Rollers, fS;fc.
Had a farther design,
P. 237. Gave him directions,
mm— $;^»;m
Particular care, 4&BlJ&,i&;
Awkward stitching,
For want of needles,
Three-cornered, Hft.
Shoulder-of-mutton sail, H
Boom,
At bottom, ;j£Jt jg.
sprit,
Longboats,
Stay,
Foresail,
Turn to windward, Igjffi |RjJi,;
ISAM!.
What was more than all,
Bungling shipwright,
E-
Brought it to pass,
The navigation of my boat,
p. 238. jibbed, mm-, «».
Filled, SftgL.
This way or that way,
The course we sailed changed
ftt&znm&m.
Expert sailor, ^jffljiifr.^-; ijifc
There was the less occasion for,
Stars, S..
Ought rather to be left out of
the account, flMPPiMBft
Cause of acknowledgment, SK
Speedily, fit; J£; ft.
Invincible impression upon my
thoughts,
Hold,
To float in,
When the tide was out,
B*.
Dam, 4|;Bi.
To keep the rain off, i
Boughs of trees,
Settled season,
Fair weather,
To lay by,
For the sake of
Flew over, jftjl
P. 240. Heartened him up,
Terribly scared,
Scarcely knew what to do with
him,
I was in as much danger as he,
^JSffiEM&nb.
No matter for that,
Stand by,
Swan shot,
Triumphant banquet,
P. 241. Inhuman errand,
Came about, f^j ®; ft.
CHAPTER XXXVIII.
In this fit of fury,
To stick in Ms girdle,
±.
Marched out,
Charged him to keep close be-
At hand, ffi; »JS.
Husbandry, j||£.
In the mean time,
Stowed, fipjfc
P. 239. Hauling her up to the
shore, ^ig^ Jl-
High-water mark,
Dock,
bind me, aSKKPtt.
Made a circuit to my righC
hand,
Could come within shot of
them, tlKSi&m&2.-
With all possible wariness and
silence, »£-'>*$!!?££.
Following close at my heels,
The skirt of the wood,
P. 242. Might be plainly view-
ed,
All about,
Lay bound upon the sand,
This fired the very soul within
me,
Rushes,
Undiscovered,
Withheld my passion,
Enraged to the highest degree,
Paces, $p.
Gave me a full view of them,
Had now not a moment to lose,
,mm®, *§«.
All close huddled together, $?
Butcher, g
Stooping down to untie the
bauds, JBJURWaVX**
P. 243. Fail in nothing,
Did the like,
z.
Took my aim at the savages,
In a dreadful consternation,
Jumped upon their feet,
Kept his eyes upon me,
HlffiM-
Cock,
Present,
Set fly, K; S
In the name of God!
Only two drop,
Discharged pieces,
P. 244. Close at my foot,
Made directly towards
All fall of a heap, 8&f£—H;
I
his hands and feet,
Portuguese tongue,
Christianus,
Weak and faint,
Espagnole,
Was in my debt for his deliver-
ance,
Seignior,
P. 245. Lay about you,
Flew upon,
In an instant,
Spaniard,
Fierce engagement,
Made at,
Stout, lusty,
Wringing,
P. 246. Quitting,
Upon the spot,
Left to his liberty,
71
Flying,
Dispatched, i£
Come up with,
Nimble,
With all his might;
Worked hard to get out of
gunshot,
Hit,
Would fain have had,
Was very anxious about their
eacape,
By mere multitude,
P. 247. Was tied so hard neck
and heels,
Had really but little life in him,
Twisted,
Groaned most piteously,
Revived him,
Moved any one to tears,
Kissed,
Hugged,
Distracted,
Came a little to himself,
Ecstasy,
Filial affection, ^itf.
Extravagances of his affection,
Bosom,
Ankles,
Were numbed and stiff with
the binding,
Chafed, g;£.
P. 248. A quarter,
CHAPTER XXXIX.
To the highest extreme,
Pouch,
On purpose,
Bewitched,
It was all one,
His pace was slacker,
fttMMl
Had been quite home,
*;ES*«fifnXiS^.
P. 249. I was very thirsty too,
Was in as much want of it as
his father,
111.
Reposing himself,
Green, place,
Under the shade of a tree,;
Swelled,
Rude bandage,
With all the tokens of gratitude
and thankfulness,
Exerted,
Could not stand up upon his
feet, ^ffijfeft.
Affectionate creature, jg5§
Started up,;
P. 250. To ease his limbs, «Mt
Gunnel, «
ROBINSON CRUSOE
Like the wind,
Got to it by land,
Wafted me over,
New guests,
To remedy this,
Handbarrow, i
Friday
( IP
Were at a worse loss,
P. 251. With blankets laid upon
it to lie on,
Peopled,
Very rich in subjects,
Undoubted right of dominion,
m®m±2.m:st3L®-
Were perfectly subjected,
Was absolutely lord,
Lawgiver, jfeliif.
They all owed their lives to
If there had been occasion for
it,
Protestant,
Roman Catholic,
Liberty of conscience, HHpf
But this is by the way, $
Rescued prisoners.
Yearling goat, -
Betwixt,
Hinder quarter,
Without doors,
P. 252. Interpreter,
Supped,
Firearms,
For want of time,
p'A-
Place of battle,
Lay open to the sun,
Remains,
Could not bear to see them,
Punctually performed,
Effaced,
Began to enter into a little
conversation with,
With a power too great for us
to resist,
Live out the storm,
Of necessity
Devoured,
Were cast away,
P. 253. Heavenly spirits,
Furies,
Dart fire,
Speak thunder,
In the right, ftf-
Since, H«; £l&
Enchanted island,
Was under continual appre-
hensions,
For a good while,
Kept always upon my guard
'
With all my army,
73
Open field,
wore off,
To take into consideration,
; W
Might depend upon,
Good usage,
On his account,
Suspended,
Lived there at peace, indeed,
with the savages,
Were very sore put to it,
For necessaries,
For life,
Particulars,
P. 254. Bound from ...... to ...... ,
ft ...... 16 ......
Rio de la Plata,
Havana, #E& (Cuba)
To leave their loading,
Through infinite dangers and
hazards,
But a little,
If they had formed any design,
Consultations,
Their councils always ended in
tears and despair,
Receive a proposal from me,
Might tend towards,
With freedom, jSW^St; ifiQ
BBW;
Treachery,
Ill-usage,
The instrument of their de-
liverance, &ifcffi?£±3SJI,
Was certain to be made a sacri-
fice, i&M^tt.
With a great deal of candor, /fji
R255._ Abhor,
Using any man unkindly,
Contribute to their deliver-
ance,
Make conditions with them,
Upon their solemn oath, £l
5S4SHK.
Absolutely under my direction,
Under the greatest distress
imaginable, ^JSSlii^.
At the mercy and discretion
of ...... , ;£..'.
Out of all hopes,
Undertake their relief,
CHAPTER XL.
Upon these assurances,
To treat,
Had got all things in readiness
to go,
Started an objection,
Much prudence,
On one hand, —ftlj; jft—
Much sincerity,
ROBINSON CRUSOE
Uu the other hand,
affair,
Put off,
Laid up,
Without good husbandry,
P. 257. Oversee and direct then-
P. 256. Fourteen still alive,
To victual,
The Christian colonies of
America,
Would be more advisable,
,g-s.
Could spare seed to sow,
For want might be a temptation
to them to disagree,
Out of one difficulty into an-
other,
Seasonable,
Fidelity, ffi.i
Fell to ...... ,
As well as the wooden tools we
were furnished with per-
mitted,
Seed-time,
Cured and trimmed up,
Went freely all over the island,
mw&A-
Whenever we found occasion,
To have the means of it out of
mine
*,
Imparted my thoughts on that
work,
With what indefatigable pains,
Single planks,
What prodigious labor it took
up, £!&£*,
Took our turns, |68S.
To breed up with the rest,
Dam,
Alicant,
Exceedingly nourishing, j^
In good order,
To answer our end,
Thrashed out,
P. 258. Housed and secured our
magazine of corn,
Gave the Spaniard leave to go
over to, )
Strict charge,
In the presence of
In no way,
Standby, S
Be entirely under and subject-
ed to his command, ,
Signed in their ban. s,
Firelock,
liight charges of powder,
Charging them to husband
both, SS^fcSiS/B.
Upon urgent occasion,
The first measures used,
»?2*.
In view of ft j
P. 259. Agreeing with them
about, ffijIfciSS.
At a distance, «&,&,, ftsH.'
A far gale, MMi-
The moon was at full,
By my account,
Exact reckoning of days,
When a strange and unfore-
seen accident intervened, ^
Regardless of danger,
Standing in for the shore,
Kff.
Ivie close, HBg; jfciE-
P. 260. To see what I could
make of them,
To take my view the plainer,
*&»*«*.
Without being discovered,
Set my foot upon,
South-southeast,
English longboat,
Had some secret ucubts hung
about me,
Upon no good design,
For the convenience of land-
ing, »B*S-; ^±^isa.
Ran their boat on shore,
P. 261. Beaten me out of my
castle, S-?ffiS.
Plundered me of all I had, H
Dutch,
But it did not prove* so,
In all, &;
The most passionate gestures
of entreaty,
Even to a kind of extrava-
gcincc, is.3&,5i jjyjjj.
Was perfectly confounded at
the sight, —J
Villains,
P. 262. Wiihin shot of them,
But it fell out to my mind an-
other way,'
Outrageous usage.
Insolent seamen,
Run scattering about,
Had liberty to go also where
they pleased, gft<?T!S;
Very pensive, jg
Gave myself over for lost,
ROBINSON CRUSOK
CHAPTER XU.
At high water, j$g|; ?]«.$
Rambled about to see,
The tide was spent, and the
water was ebbed, iUjfiTKK'
Brandy, &«&&
Too fast aground for him to
stir it,
Hallooed out for the rest,
Straggling about,
Past all their strength,
P. 263. Oozy,
Quicksand,
The least of all mankind given
to forethought,
Strolled,
Main inquiry,
Fitted myself up for a battle,
Marksman, g%% ; MKi&Jfc:f ,
My figure, indeed, was very
The heat of the day, Q fijSSft
P. 264. Out of sight of any of
the rest,
So staring a specter-like figure,
#jtoft«^AttiM£JKIIt.
P. 265. Uncouth figure,
!K;iSrJi±m
Made no answer at all,
£,
Pulling off his hat at the same
time to me,
Stranger,
To make application to the
brutes, tP]®ifS±A3:l§&*.
Angel, ^$t
Armed after another manner,
Lay aside your fears,
Disposed to assist you,
Commander, j
Mutinied against,
Have been hardly prevailed
on,
Passenger,
P. ^66. Leave the rest to me,
Return their duty.
Retreat out of their view or
hearing,
Resolve further,
If I venture upon your deliver-
ance, ^f*®ttWifnSlt.
Anticipated my proposals,
If recovered,
0.
My conditions are but two,
Pretend to any authoritv, ^f
*A;
P. 267. Upon all occasions, ^
1sW;ffilif;*i&
Do no prejudice,
77
Passage free,
Comply with, ;*«;
Most reasonable demands,
Owe his life to me,
^M; J^ffifcgC±&.
Testimonies of his gratitude,
The first volley, £—!*».
Offered to submit, &P$
Put it wholly upon God's prov-
idence to direct the shot, j{
Very modestly,
If he could help it,
Incorrigible villains, IftM
Authors of all the mutiny,
Should be undone still,
Necessity legitimates my ad-
vice,
Shedding blood,
On their feet,
p. 268. On purpose to save
themselves,
Animated with this,
Turned about, ¥
Reserving,
On the spot,
Started up on his feet,
To forgive his villainy,
M-
It was in vain to resist,
Begged for mercy, J^Jfc;
Spare their lives,
Treachery,
Gave him all tlie protestations,
P. 269. Obliged him to keep
them bound hand and foot,
With orders to secure her, -
CHAPTER XI.II.
Inquire into one another's cir-
cumstances, ^ftjlfcSffr^'JZ.
It affected him deeply,
Communication was at an end,
sifcsA^f*- ,r
S!>cSliiiJ£jt.
P. 270. Concealed my retreat,
mm^2.mjii&.
Winding passage, ft®;
What measures to take, fgjfsf
m-.mm.
Having entered into a cursed
conspiracy, E&1IS&.
Forfeited their lives to the
law,
Would be hardened in it now
by desperation,
Carry it on,
Subdued,
ROBINSON CRUSOK
Would be brought to the gal-
lows,
Gallows,
English colonies,
Rational conclusion,
Something was to be resolved
on, Sfif^;B£Jt<fi1±8:.
This he allowed to be rational,
P. 271. To stave the boat,
£?H.#*8S;UniR:&£.
Did not much question, 3S,
Iveeward Islands,
HHE.
Kept pinioned,
Were taken into my service,
Recommendation,
Solemnly engaging to live and
die with us, ftJ&g^lRj^dk
JB; l?£«&*i(B*I.
Be able to deal well enough
with, &&w&; *jea®g.
Stripped of all that was in her,
But all was to no purpose,
tews; wsfcat-
Make a waft with her ensign
as a signal, j£«J3SfES8.
Proved fruitless, fS^fc; $ijfl.
P. 272. Characters, g>ff; Sa^-
Conspiracy, ISIJS^ljE.
Being overpowered and fright-
Chief officer, f&i£;JcslJ-
New enterprise,
Finding their way out of,
To give them their liberty, ££
®&&;Hit2:.
Be put to death without mercy,
P. 273. To bear their confine-
ment, gg*t
Good usage, ^JS; £?#.
Stood sentinel over them at
the entrance, J(/
Came all close in a ring,
Echoes,
King,
But it was all one,
P. 274. Set sail,
Giving their comrades over for
lost,
Had not been long put off wiih
the boat, JUffifeS.
Consulted together upon,
At a loss what to do,
^*fltlMS».
To weigh and set sail,
Had no remedj',
What the issue of things might
present, <t±i^*ipig.
Put her off to a good distance
from the shore,
P. 275. Kept close together,
79
Brow of the hill,
Had done the job for us,
Sally upon them,
Just at the juncture when ...... ,
Without bloodshed,
Provided,
Load their pieces,
Very irresolute what course to
take,
In my opinion,
Use some stratagem,
It;
CHAPTER XLIII.
P. 276. Given over their search,
Was ready to sink at the ap-
prehension of it,
Which answered my end,
To a tittle, ^^^C^
mna.m.
Keeping out of sight,
Take a round, ij&1f—^.
Wheel about, 3§@.
P. 277. Could not get over,
Set them over,
Stump, «;&#.
We surprised the two men be-
fore they were aware,
Ran in upon him,
Knocked him down,!
Yield, j«; &&.
There needed very few argu-
ments,
Not so hearty,
Heartily tired them,'
mmn;^^mmmm^-
P. 278. To.fall upon them,
So as to make sure work with
them,
Lame,
Welcome news,
In a most lamentable manner,
sifters*.
Telling one another,
Devils and spirits,
O ver again, #fi
At some advantage, iS_hS»J
Ambuscade,
P. 279. To creep upon their
hands and feet,
Boatswain, J
Principal ringleader,
Dejected and dispirited, jfrj
Principal rogue,
In his power,
Starting up on their feet,
Let fly at them,
Whole army,
ROBINSON
Generalissimo,
Lieutenant general. IlJ&li&fc-
Trusted with arms,
Parley, jgli; t*3t
Reduce them to terms,
m
This fell out just as we desir-
ed,
Capitulate,
P. 280. Ay.fc;*,
Tor God's sake,
Or,
Give us quarter,
AH but .......
Hang, J
To be dealt with there as
justice required,
».
All but a fiction of his own,
Had its desired effect,
Fell upon his knees,
Intercede with ....... t»J ......
In getting possession of,
Retired in the dark, 5
2ft.
Laid hold of, Jgtt;
Used him barbarously,
3&.
Injurious language,
At discretion,
M.
Trust to the governor's mercy,
±^l;
Robin-
governor
son Crusoe fl').
That had parleyed with them,
For reasons of state,
P. 281. Expostulated with them,
The villainy of their practices,
^fi=»±4FM-
Wickedness of their design, 3t
Begged hard,
Commander of the island,
His Excellency,
P. 282. Was just by, &&&&,
To put it in execution,
In order to,
With more art,
Committed to, ft
Upon their behavior,
Surprise,
The condition they were
brought to,
Hanged in chains,
Engagement,
CHAPTER XLIV.
P. 283., Guess, »i®; Wft.
Accepted, &g; Jft.
With the deepest imprecations,
S*&*
To the last drop, gj£; gSM^
56.
To bring him to consent to it,
ftXire
Hostages,
Fidelity, JS,ifi»;
Severe, J&B
In earnest,
Had no way left them,
Expedition, [rV?T;
The first gang, ^— ^
P. 284. On the captain's motion,
Released,
Hands, A.
To keep them asunder,
To keep them fast,
To look after, yf
Should not stir anywhere but
by my direction,
Be laid in irons,
Never suffered,
Garrison, ffi^;
Upon all occasions,
Stop the breach, S
Within call of, j£;
Hail, fflHf.
P. 285. Holding them in a chat,
Butt end, i&ftj; ItM?.
Seconded, |S; JKflfJ.
Main, |p main deck,
Quarter deck,
Hatches,
Scuttle, >
To break into,
A-
Roundhouse,
Rebel,
Taken the alarm,
Crow,
Split open the door,:
Musket ball,
Wounded as he was, -HitS;®-
The "ignal agreed upon with
me, ^^m^'&^m-
P. 286. Sat watching upon the
shore for it,
Starting up,
Cast my eyes to the ship,
*».
Rode, 1®te.
Brought her to an anchor,
Pinnace,
®.
Held fast,
Dram, ^4* (S*^— ounce A
frZ~).
Brought me to myself,
P. 287. Flood of joy, — fl
Put all my spirits into con-
fusion,
Broke out into tears,
Transaction,
A chain of wonders,
Had of a secret hand of...... ,:
2M®m®
Infinite Power,
Remotest corner,
«&£».
Had not plundered him of,
Present,
Humbly implored my mercy,
Resolved to quit the island
with all my men, ^^
Taken passage, iUff.
Other than, &#;
To be tried for mutinv,
To take their fate, S50M;
±
Shift on shore, m®M?r±;
&±m&m&.
So I left it on that issue,
CHAPTER XLV.
Madeira wine, Madeira js/f tlj
£ Madeira .
Quarts,
»£-).
Lime juice,
P. 288. Two pairs of gloves,
Stockings,
Ceremonies,
Refractory to the last degree,
Malefactors,
Delivered over to justice,
With all my heart,
—*fc>.
Dressed in my new habit,
A full account, f
Villainous behavior to the cap-
tain, m&t"
Preparing to commit further
robberies,
P. 289. Insnared,
In their own ways, Jj,
Lay now in the road,
Reward,
RW2
Yardarm,
M
nx-
Execute them as pirates,
Taken in the fact, _
In the name of the rest,
P- 290. Put them into the way
Making it easy to them
&&.18.
For whom I left a letter,
To treat them in common with
themselves,
Noted,:
Hit upon a way,
Prevail with, _
P. 291. Weigh,,
Lamentable complaint,
Have no power without me,
Solemn promises of amend-
ment, ,fc&ffift.
Soundly whipped,
At my intercession, &.
L,ay in iny power,
For relics,
Come at some information of...
Partner, -
Had some years past given me
over for dead,
With this view, @jlt.
Took shipping for
Lisbon,
P. 293. To my particular satis-
faction,
Which had lain by me so long
useless, E*.*^ ajofclffl*.
Grown rusty or tarnished, ^SS-
Could hardly pass for silver. Jj|
A little rubbed and handled,
P. 292. Perfect a stranger to all
the world,
A-
Benefactor,
Faithful steward,
my money in trust with,
Was alive,
Very low in the world,
•Hi;
Had been long ago given over
for dead, il^EJE*^*.
Settling in the world,
Having given a very handsome
account to the owners of the
manner,
Merchants concerned,
All together made me a very
handsome compliment upon
the subject,
/200 sterling, -
Ivittle way this would go to-
wards , fc
Took me up at sea off the
shore of Africa,
Iveft off going to sea,
Passionate expressions of the
old acquaintance between us,
Account of the improvement,
Upon the general belief of
my being cast away and
drowned,
Trustees,
Given in the account,
The account of the produce of
my part,
Produce,
Grown exceeding rich, ftfc^cgj
Upon the enjoying his part of
it, ¥3£*T#f»£±-3-.
Restored to a quiet possession
of it, i
ROBINSON CRUSOE
There was no question to be
made of that,
Co witness my title,
Unrolled in the register of the
country,
Enrolled,
A few days' further confir-
Ancient friend,
Income, Jtifc; A31
Signed, £?;»&,
P. 294. The disbursements be-
ing large,
Debtor to,
Moidores,
Double rolls of tobacco,
Proceedings,
Packet,
Survivors,
Congratulating me very affec-
tionately upon my being
alive,
With a hearty tender of his
friendship,
Leopards' skin.-.,
Uncoined, 3cf|;t.
The latter end of Job was
better than the beginning,
The flutterings of my very
heart,
Effects,
The sudden surprise of joy
bad overset nature,
P. 295. All on a sudden,
Estate,
Compose myself for Che enjoy-
ment of it,
Recompense,
Charitable to me in my dis-
tress,
Disposed all things,
«r.
Lay on me,
Hundredfold,
Sent for,
Notary,
Draw up,
A general release or discharge,
In the fullest manner possible,
By a clause in the end,
at
Made a grant of,
For his life,
Requited,
Grew moldy and tarnished,
Meddle with,
On the contrary,
Refuge,
Interest,
Summon me thither,
Settled my affairs,
85
P. 296. Be just to me, fjf££i]
In years,
For aught I knew, -ftT-0FJl;
In debt,
Dover,
Severe cold season,
Principal guide,
Privy counsellor,
In gratitude for,
Thought no pains,
I was perfectly easy as to the
security of my effects,
In this state of complicated
good fortune, $}^-Ji£ffa%Sl?&
£; ft&&£.
Past running any more haz-
If other circumstances had
concurred, ^fife^+I-S-ifaM.
Was inured to a wandering
Had a great mind to be upon
the wing again, Si^fflfTifSH-
Earnestly dissuaded me from
it, SASSEl
Took my two nephews into my
care, *kgmmmmn£.
Having something of his own,
Bred up as a gentleman, ^ nf £1
After my decease,
Enterprising,
P. 297. In part,
Coming home with good suc-
cess,
Importunity,
Engaged,
To go in his ship,
Successors,
Insulted,!
United,
Separated,
Were obliged to use violence
with them,
Subjected to, ]
Entered into, 3
As full of variety and wonder-
ful accidents,
Iveft them supplies of all neces-
sary things,
Smith,
Shared the lands into parts
with them,
I reserved to myself the prop-
erty of the whole,
Respectively,
VERSES
P. 298. Verses,
Monarch,
Survey,
Right,
There is none to dispute,
ROBINSON CRUSOE
The midst of alarms,
£*.
Out of humanity's reach,
The sweet music of speech, A.
( a A
My form with indifference see,
Shocking to me,
Divinely bestow'd,
Had I the wings of a dove,
You, f§ society, friendship,
and love ft .
Assuage, ,/&?$.
In the ways of, !fe&; *£&•
Wisdom of age, igjTn®; H
Sallies, !,.„„ , .
P. 299. Treasure untold, 3c^
The church-going bell,
Knell,
Sabbath, ^,1. H slP^-±SW H ),
Made me your sport,
Send a wish or a thought after,
How fleet is the glance of the
mind! ®!®MSifii&
The speed of its flight,
Lags behind, jKI
Lair, 1R
Season of rest,
To my cabin repair,
In every place, Plfe;
Mercy gives even affliction a
grace, and reconciles man to
his lot,
INDUCTIVE STUDIES IN ENGLISH SERI^ v
ENGLISH CLASSICS
EDITED BY
PROFESSOR DANIEL H. KULP II, M.A.
16 m -& m #L m m
BURKE'S CONCILIATION WITH THE COLONIES
Price, 55 cts.
m m & & m
MACAULAY'S ESSAY ON JOHNSON
Price, SO cts.
These two books form the first of a series of inductive studies in
English literature by Professor Kulp. His editing embodies the result of
laboratory practice in view of the specific needs of the Chinese student,
Besides the text, each book contains a biographical skeich of the auihor,
outlines and suggestions for studies, and x\nglo-Chinese notes on difficult
points. These hooks are most helpful for correlating the work in rhetoric
with study of the English classics.
H42
COMMERCIAL PRESS, LTD., PUBLISHERS
Sngllsh Classics Series
The Life and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe
(,with Chinese Notes)
Commercial Press, Lvtd.
All rights reserved
*
*
BttttM
***«*!
"1 -L-
R
tlAt
m
+A
#

Stories from Tennyson
Price, IS cts.
This is a collection of stories from English literature which first
appeared in the English Student. It is made up of some of the beauti-
ful stories found in Tennyson's poems retold in easy prose. King
Arthur, Geraint and Enid, Lancelot and Elaine, The Lady of Shalot,
Countess Sally, Enoch Arden, The Sleeping Beauty, and the Beggar
Maid are the stories taken up. Suitable for supplementary reading
and introduction to the study of Tennyson.
IK s m m m # *
Stories from Longfellow
Price, 25 cts.
Similar in plan to " Stories from Tennyson," and contains some
of the delightful stories found in Longfellow's works, including Evange-
line, Hiawatha, and the Courtship of Miles Standish.
Stories from Shakespeare
Price, 3O cts.
Best of Shakespeare's works retold in very simple language to
arouse the interest of students for reading his original works when
they are more advanced in English study. The Tempest, Romeo and
Juliet, The Winter's Tale, As You Like It, Hamlet, A Midsummer
Night's Dream, and other famous works are in the list.
F23
Commercial Press, Ltd., Publishers
