 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Serious Reflections
DURING THE
LIFE
And Surprising
ADVENTURES
O F
Robinson Crusoe:
WITH HIS
V IS ip N
Amelick *W OR L D.
Written by Himself.
 
LONDON: Printed for W. Taylor, at the Sh'f
and Black-Swan in Pater-nosier-Mow* 1720;
 
 
PREFACE.
S the Design of every Tiling
is laid to be first in the In-
tention, and last in the
Execution; íb I come now
to acknowledge to my Reader, That
rhe present Work is not merely the
Product or rhe two first Volumes,
buc the two first Volumes may rather
be called the Product or this: The
Fable is always made for the Moul,
not the Moral for the Fable.
I have heard, that the envious and
ill-disposed Part of the World have
rais'd some Objections against the
two first Volumes, on Pretence, for
want of a better Reason; That (n,
they fay) the Story is feign'd, that
the Names are borrow'd, and that
A 2 it
 
it is alla Romance; that there never
were any such Man or Place, or Cir-
cumstances in any Mans Life; that
it is all form'd and embelliih'd by
Invention to impose upon the World.
I Robtnjon Crusoe being at this
Time in perfect and found Mind and
Memory, Thanks be to God there-
fore; do hereby declare, their Obje-
ction is an Invention scandalous in
Design, and false in Fact; and do
affirm, that the Story, though Alle-
gorical, is also Historical; and that
it is the beautiful Representation of a
Life of unexampled Misfortunes,and
of a Variety not to be met with in
the World, sincerely adapted to, and
intended for the common Good of
Mankind, and designed at sirst, as it
is now farther applyW, to the most
serious Uses possible.
Farther, that there is a Man alive,
and well known too, the Actions of
whose Lifeare the just Subject of these
* Vo-
 
 
 
Volumes, and to whom all or most
Part of theStory mostdircébly alludes,
this may be depended upon for Truth,
and to this I set my Name.
The famous History ofDon^mxot,
a Work which thousands read with
Pleasure, to one that knows the
Meaning of it, was an emblematic
History of, and a just Satyr upon the
Duke de Medina Sidonia; a Person
very remarkable at that Time inSpam:
To those who knew the Original, the
Figures were lively and easily disco-
vered themselves, as they are also
here, and the Images were just; and
therefore, when a malicious, but
foolifli Writer, in the abundance of
his Gall, spoke of the Gluixotism of
R. Crusoe, as he called it, he shewed
evidently, that he knew nothing of
what he íàid; and perhaps will be
a little startled, when I shall tell
him, that what he meant for a Satyr,
was the greatest of Panegyricks.
A 3" With-
 
 
 
Without letting the Reader into a
nearer Explication of the Matter, I
proceed to let him know, that the
happy Deductions I have employ'd
myself to make from all the Cir-
cumstances of my Story, will abun-
dantly make him amends for his
not having the Emblem explained
by the Original; and that when in
my Observations and Reflexions of
any Kind in this Volume, I mention
my Solitudes and Retirements, and
allude to the Circumstances of the
former Story, all those Parts of the
Story are real Facts in my History,
whatever borrow'dLights they may be
, represented by: Thus the Fright and
Fancies which succeeded the Story of
the Print of a Man's Foot,and Surprise
of the old Goat, and the Thing roll-
ling on my Bed, and my jumping
out in a Fright, are all Histories and
real Stories; as are likewise the Dream
of being taken by Messengers, being
arre-
 
 
arrested by Officers, the Manner of
being driven on Shore by die Surge of
the Sea, the Ship on Fire, the Descrip-
tion of starving ; the jtory of my Man
Friday, and many more most material
Panares observ'd here, and on which
any religious Reflections are made,
are all riistorical and true in Fact:
It is most real, that I had a Parrot,
and taught it to call me by my Name,
such a Servant a Savage, and after-
wards a Christian, and that his Name
was called Friday, and that he was
raviih'd from me by Force, and died
in the Hands that took him, which I
represent by being killed; this is all
litterally true , and should Í enter in-
to Discoveries, many alive can testify
them: His other Conduct: and Al-
íìstance to me also have just Referen-
ces in all their Parts to the Helps I had
from that faithful Savage, in my real
Solitudes and Disasters.
 
 
 
 
 
A 4 The
 
RoàiîisGîss CrúsoèV
 
The Story of the Bear in the Tree,
and the Fight with the Wolves in the
Snow, is likewise Matter of real Hi-
story; and in a Word; the Adven-
tures of Robinson Crusoe, are one
whole Scheme of a real Life of eight
and twenty Years, spent in the
moil wandrins desolate and afflict-
ing Circumstances that ever Man
went through, and in which I have
liv'd so long in a Life of Wonders in
continu'd Storms, fought with the
worse kind of Savages and Man-
caters, by unaccountable supposing
Incidents; fed by Miracles greater
than that of Ravens, suffered all
Manner of Violences and Oppres-
sions, injurious Reproaches, con-
tempt of Men, Attacks of Devils,
Corrections from Hea ven,andOppo-
sions on Earth; have had innumera-
ble Ups and Downs in Matters of
Fortune, been in Slavery worse than
Turkifi) escaped by an exquisite
Manage-
 
PREFACE
Management, as that in the Story of
Xury, and the Boat at Sallee, been
taken up at Sea in Distress, rais'd a-
oain and depreis'd again, and that
ortner perhaps in one Man's Lise
than ever was known before; Ship-
wreck'd often, tho' more by Land
than by Sea: In a Word, there's not
a Circumstance in the imaginary Sto-
ry, but has its just Allusion to a
real Story, and chimes Part for Part,
and Step for Step with the inimitable
Life of Robinson Crusoe.
In like Manner, when in these Re-
flections, I speak of the Times and
Circumstances of particular Actions
done, or Incidents which happened
in my Solitude and Island-Life,
an impartial Reader will be so just
to take it as it is; *viz>. that it is spo-
ken or intended of that Part of the
real Story, which the Island-Life is a
just Allusion to; and in this the
Story is not only illustrated, but the
real
 
Robinson CrusoeV
real Part I think most justly approv'd:
For Example, in the latter Pare of
this Work called the Vision, I begin
thus, When I was in my Ijìanà King-
dom, I had abundance of fir ange
Notions of my feeing Apparitions,
dec. all theie Reflections are just Hi-
story of a State of sored Confine-
ment, which in my real History is
represented by a confine! Retreat
in an Island; and 'tis as reasonable to
. represent one kind of Imprisonment
by another, as it is to represent any
Thing that really exists, by that
which exists not. The .story of my
Fright with something on my Bed,
was Word for Word a History of
what happened, and indeed all those
Things received very little Altera-
tion,: except what neceíìàriiy attends
removing the Scene from one Place
to another.
My Observations upon Solitude
are the fame, and I think I need iay
 
no more, than that the same Remark
is to be made upon all the References
made here, to the Transactions of the
former Volumes, and the Reader is
deíìred to allow for it as he goes on.
Besides all this, here is the just and
only good End of all Parable or Al-
legoiick History brought to pais,<i;jxj.
for moral and religious Improve-
ment. Here is invincible Patience
recommended under the worst of
Misery; indefatigable Application
and undaunted .Resolution under
the greatest and most discouraging
Circumstances; I fay, these are re-
commended, as the only Way to
work through those Miseries, and
their Success appears sufficient to
support the most dead-hearted Crear
turc in the World.
Had the common Way of Writ^
ing a Mans private History been ta-
ken, and I had given you the Con-
duel: or Life of a Man you knew,
and
 
 
 
Robinson CrusoeV
and whose Misfortunes and Infirmi-
ties, perhaps you had sometimes un-
justly triumph'd overall I could have
laid would have yielded no Diver-
sion, and perhaps scarce have obtain-
ed a Reading, or at best no Attention;
the Teacher, like a greater, having
no Honour in his own Country.
Facts that are form'd to touch the
Mind, must be done a great Way ost,
and by somebody never heara of:
Even the Miracles of the Blessed Sa-
viour of the World suffered ^corn
and Contempt, when it was reflected,
that they were done by the Carpen-
ters Son; one whose Family and O-
riginal they had a mean Opinion of*
and whose Brothers and Sisters were
ordinary People like themselves.
There even yet remains a Que-
stion, whether the Instruction of
these Things will take place, when
you are supposing the Scene, which
is placed so far off, had its Original
so near Home. But
 
 
P REVACE.
But I am far from being anxious
about that, feeing I am well astur'd,
that if the Obstinacy of our Age
should shut their Ears against the just
Reflections made in this Volume,
upon the Transactions taken Notice
of in the former, there will come an
Age, when the Minds of Men shall
be more flexible, when the Prejudi-
ces of their Fathers shall have no
Place, and when the Rules of Ver-
tue and Religion justly recommend-
ed, shall be more gratefully accep-
red than they may be now, that
our Children may rife up in Judg-
ment against their fathers, and one
Generation be edified by the fame
Teaching, which another Generation
had despised.
Rob. Crusoe.
THE
Publisher's Introduction.
H E publishing this extraordinary
Volume ' will appear to be Mo^Pri*
sumption y when it Jhall be remembred^
with what unexpected Good and
Evil Willy the former Volumes have been ac-
cepted in the World.
If the Foundation has been so well laid, the
Structure cannot but be expelled to bear a Pro-
portion; ami while the Parable has been so di-
verting) the Moral must certainly be equally
agreeable.
The success the two former Paris have met
withy has been known by the Envy it has
brought upon the Editor^ express9d in a thousand
hard Words from the Men of Trade; the Effect
of that Regret which they entcrtabid^ at their
having no Share in it: And I must do the Au-
thor the Justice to fay, that not a Dog has
wagd his Towue at the Work itself nor has a
Word been said to lessen the Value of ity but
which.has been the visible Effect of that Envy
at the good Fortune of the Boo/feller, ^
 
The Pûbiiíhrfs Introduction*
The Middle is now expounded, and the intel-
ligent Reader may fee clearly the End and De-
sign qf the whole Wbrki that it is calculated jor,
and dedicated to the Improvement and Instru-
ction of Mankind in the Ways of Virtue and
Piety, by representing the various Circumstances\
to which mankind is exposed; and encouraging
such as fall into ordinary or extraordinary Ca-
sualties of Life, how to work thro" Difficulties,
with unwearied Diligence and Application,
and look up to Providence for Success.
The Observations and Reflections, that take
up this Volumej crown the Work; if the Do-
ctrine has been accepted, the Application must of
Necessity please; and the Author shews now,
that he has learnd sufficient Experience^ how
to make other Men wife and himself * happy*
The Moral of the Fable, as the Author calls
it, is most instrufting; and those. who challenged
him most maliciously, with not making his Pen
useful, will have Leisure to rested, that they
pa\sd their Censure too soon; and like Solo-
men x Fool, judged of the Matter before they
heard it.
Those whose Avarice prevailing over their
Eonesty, had invaded the Property of this
Book by a corrupt Abridgment, have èothfaii'd
in their Hope, and been ashamed of the raff;
shifting off the Guilt as well at they could, thaf
weakly, from one to another: The principal Py-
rate is gone to his Place, and we fay no more.
4 him, De mortuìsnilaísi bonumj His Satis
fafîion enough that the Attempt has prtnfd- a-
bortfae, as the Baseness of the Design might
give them Reason to expeff it would.
Advertisement,;
THE Life and Srrange Surprising Adventures
of Robinson Crusoe, of fork, Mariner: Who
lived eight arid twenty Years all alone in an
un-inhabited Island on the Coast of America, near
the Mouth of the Great Rivd'Orcowque -, having
been cast on Shore by Shipwreck, wherein all the
Men perished but himself: With an Account how
he was at last as strangely delivered by Pyrates.
Written by himself.. The Third Edition.
The farther Adventures of Robinson Crusoe, being
the Second, and last Part of his Life, and strange
surprising Accounts of his Travels round three
fares of the Globe. Written by himself. The
Second Edition: To which is added a Map of the
World, in which is delineated the Voyages of
Rétnhfin Crusoe Both sold by W. T a y l oh3 at.,
the Òhtp and Black-Swan in-Pater-nofter-Rvw. ..
 
Serious
Serious
OBSERVATIONS.
Introduction.
IMust have made very UttleXJse of my solitary and wan~
dring Years, if after such a Scene of Wonders, as
my Life may be juflly call\lr Ï had nothing m fay,
and had made no Observations which might be useful
and inftrufiìHgy as n'eli as pleasant and diverting to
those that are to come after me.
Chap, I.
Of SOLITVDE.
Tìow uncapahle to make m happ% and
Bow unqualiffd to a Christian Life.
Have frequently look'd back, you may
be sure, and that with different
Thoughts, upon the Motions of a
long tedious Life of Solitude* wbicfc
I have represented td the Worlds
and oi which you must have formed some Ideas
from the Life of a Man in an Illand. Sometimes
B 1 hi? ô
 
[*]
1 have wonder'd how it could be supported, espc-
daily for the first fears, when the Change was
Violent and impos'd, and Nature unacquainted with
any thing like it. Sometimes 1 have as much
wonder'd, why it should be any Grievance or Af-
fliction v feeing upon the whole View of the Stage
of Life which we act upon in this World, it
seems to me,that Life in general is, or ought to be,
but ore universal Act of Solitude: But I find it is
natural to judge of Happiness, by its suiting or
not suiting our own inclinations. Every filing
ievolves in our Minds by innumerable circular
^Motions, all centring in ^ our selves. We judge
of Prosperity, and of Affliction, joy and Sorrow,
Poverty, Riches, and all the various Scenes of
Life: I fay, we judge of them by our selves: Thi-
ther we bring them Home, as Meats touch the
Palat, by which we try them; the gay Part of
the World, or the heavy Part; it is ail one, they
only call it pleasant or unpleasant, as they suit
our Taste.
The World, I fay, is nothing to us, but as it
ïs more or less to our Relish: All Reflection is
carry'd Home, and our Dear-felt is> in one Respect,
the End of Living. Hence Man may be proper-
ly said to be alone in the Midst of the Crowds
and Hurry of Men and Business t Ail the Refle-
ctions which he makes, are to himself; all that
is pleasant, he embraces for himself; all that is
irksome and grievous, is tasted but by his own
Palat.
'What are the Sorrows of other Men to us? And
what their Joy? Something we may be touch'd
indeed with, by the Power of Sympathy,, and a
secret Turn of the Affections; but all the solid
Reflection is directed to our selves. Our Medi-
cations are all Solitude in Perfection ,* our Passions
are
 
tj]
 
are all exercised in Retirement; we love, we fiâtes
We covet, we enjoy, ail in Privacy and Solitude:
Ail that we communicate of those Things to any
other, is but for their Assistance in the Pursuit of
our Desires; the End is at Home; the Enjoy-
ment, the Contemplation, is all Solitude and Re-
tirement; 'tis for our selves we enjoy, and for
our selves we suffer.
What then is the Silence of Life? And, How
is it afflicting, while a Mast has the Voice of his
Soul to speak to God, and to himself? That Man
can never want Conversation» who is Company
for himself; and he that cannot converse profita-
bly'with himself, is not fit for any Conversation
at all; and yet there are many good Reasons why
a Life of Solitude, as Solitude is now understood
by the Age, is not at all suited to the Life of a
Christian, or of a wise Man. Without enquiring
therefore into the Advantages of Solitude, and
how it is to be managed, 1 desire to be heard
concerning what Solitude really is; for I must con-
fess, 1 have different Notions about it, far from
those which are generally understood in the World,
and far from all those Notions upon which those
People in the primitive Times, and since that also,
acted, who separated themselves into Desarts
and unfrequented Places, or confin'd themselves to
Cells, Monasteries, and the like, renVd, as they
call it, from the World; Ail which, I think*
have nothing of the Thing I call Solitude in them,
nor do they answer any of the true Ends of Solitude,
much less those Ends which are pretended to b$
sought aster, by those who have talk'd most of
those Retreats from the World.
As for Confinement in an Island, if the Scene
was plac'd there for this very End, it were not at
all amiss* I must acknowledge, there was Coir
B 2 finement
 
finement from the Enjoyments of the World, and
Restraint from human Society: But ail that was
mû Solitude; indeed no Part or it was so, except
that which, as in ray Story, 1 apply M to the
Contemplation of sublime Things, and that was
but a very little, as my Readers well know, com-
pared to what a Length of Years my torced Retreat
lasted.
It is evident then, that as I fee nothing but
what is far from being rctir'd, in the forced Re-
treat of an 111 and, the Thoughts being in no Com-
posure fui cable to a rctiied Cenditicu, no not for a
grcatVVJiiSe ; so I can affirm, that! c nj\ y nuich more
Solitude in the Middle of the grcatvít Ccilcétion
of Mankind in the Woild, I mean, a? Ltndcn>
while I am writing this, than ever I could soy I
enjoy'd in eight and twenty Years Consinnement
to a desolate Iiiand.
I have heard eta Man, that upon some extraor-
dinary Disgust which he took at the unsuitable
Conversation of some of his nearest: Relations,
whose Society he could not avoid, suddenly resolved
never to speak any more: He kept his Resolution
most rigorouiiy many Years; not all the Tears or
Entreaties of his Friends, no not of his Wife and
Children, could prevail with him to break his Si-
lence. It seems it was their ill Behaviour to Mm
at first, that was the Occasion of it; for they
treated him with provoking Language, which
tteqaently put him into undecent Passions, and ur-
ged him to rafli Replies; and he took this severe
Way to pun tsti himself for being provok\i,and to pu-
nish them for provoking him: But the Severity was
unjustifiable; it ruin'd his Family, and broke up
his House: His Wife could not bear ir, and after
endeavouring, by a1 J the Ways possible, to alter his
rigid Silence, went first away from him, and af-
terwards
[5]
tcrwards away from her self, turning melancholly
and distracted; His Children separated some one
Way, and some another Way, and only one
Daughter who lov'd her Father above all the rest,
kept with him, tended him, talk'd to him by
Signs, and liv'd almost Dumb like her Father,
near 29 Years with him; till being very sick,
and in a high Fever, délirions as we call it, or
light-headed, be broke his Silence, not knowing
when he did it, and spoke, tho* wildly at first-
He recovered of the Illness afterwards, and fre-
quently talked with his Daughter, but not much,
and very seldom to any Body else.
Yet this Man did not live a silent Life A^ith
respect to himself he read continually; and wrote
down many excellent Things, which deserved to
have appcar'd in the World, and was often heard
to pray to God in his Solitudes very audibly, and
with great Fervency; but the Unjustice which his
rafli Vow, if it was a Vow, of Silence, was to his
Family, and the length he carry'd it, was so un-
justifiable another way, that I cannot fay his In-
structions could have much Force in them*
Had he been a single Man,had he wandred into a
strange Country or Place, where the Circum-
stance of it had been no Scandal, his Vow of
Silence might*ha* been as commendable, and as
I think, much more than any of the primitive
Christians Vows of Solitude were; whose Re-
treat into the Wilderness, and giving themselves up
to Prayer and Contemplation, shunning human So-
ciety, and the like, was so much esteemed by the
primitive Fathers, and from whei ce our religious
Houses, and Orders of religious People were first
deriv'd.
The J civs said, Jifm the Baptist had a Devil,
because ne affected Solitude and Retirement; and
B 3 they
C 6 ]
they took it from an old Proverb they had in tkc
World at that time; "that every solitary Person mufi
he am Angel or a Devil
A Man under a Vow of perpetual Silence, if
but rigorously observ'd, would be even on the Ex-
change of London, as perfectly retired from the
World, as a Hermit in- his Cell ; or a Solitair in
the DXi ts of Arabia; and if he is able to ob-
serve it rigorously, may reap all the Advantages
of those Solitudes, without the unjustifiable Part
of f.ieh a Life, arid without the Austerities of a
Life among Brutes. For the Soul of a Man un-
der a doe and regular Conduct, is as capable of
reserving it self, or separating it self (mm the rest
of human Society, in the midst of a Throng, as
it is when banisli'd into a desolate Maud,
The Troth is, that all those religions Hermit-
like Solitudes, which Men value themselves so
much upon, arc but an Acknowledgment of the
Defect or Imperfection of our Resolutions, our
Incapacity to bind ourselves to needful Restraints,
or rígoronûy to observe the Limitations we have
vow'd our selves to observe; Or take it thus> That
the Man first resolving that it would be his Feli-
city to be entirely given up to conversing only
with Heaven, and heavenly Things, to be sepa-
rated to Prayer and good Works; but being sen-
sible how ill such a Life will agree with Flesh and
Biood, causes his Soul to commit a Rape upon his
Body, and to carry it by Force, as it were into
a Deiart, or into a religious Retirement, from
whence it cannot return, and where it is impossible
for it to have any Converse with Mankind, other
than with such as are under the fame Vows, and
the fame Eanishmenc. The Folly of this is evident
mmiy Ways,
1 mi
f 7 ]
 
I shall bring it home to the Case in Hand thus:
Christians may without doubt come to enjoy all
the desirable Advantages of Solitude, by a strict
'Retirement, and exact Government of their
Thoughts, without any of these Formalities, Ri-
gours, and apparent Mortifications, which I think
I justly call a Rape upon human Nature, and conse-
quently without the Breach of Christian Duties,
whiçh they necessarily carry with them, such as
refecting Christian Communion, Sacraments, Or-
dinances, and the like. ^
There is no need of a Wilderness to wander
among wild Beasts, no necessity of a Cell on the
top of a Mountain, or a desolate Island in the
Sea; is the Mind be confin'd, if the Soul be truly
Master of it self, all is safe; for it is certainly and
cssectually Master of the Body, and what signify
Retreats, especially a fore'd Retreat as mine was?
The anxiety of my Circumstances there, I can assure
you, was such for a Time, as were very suitable
to heavenly Meditations, and even when that was
got over, the frequent Alarms from the Savages,
put the Soul sometimes to such Extremities of
Fear and Horrour, that all manner of Temper was
lost, and I was no more fit for religious Exercises,
than a sick Man is fit for Labour.
Divine Contemplations require a Composure
of Soul, uninterrupted by any extraordinary Mo-
tions or Disorders of the Passions; and this, I
fay, is much easier to be obtained and enjoy'd in
the ordinary Course of Life, than in Monkish Cells
aid forcible Retreats.
The Business is to get a retired Soul, a Frame of
Mind truly elevated above the World, and then
we may be alone whenever we please, in the
greatest apparent Hurry of Business or Com-
pany: If the Thoughts ^re free, and rightly un-
B 4 engagM
[8]
cngag'd, What imports the Employment the Bo-'
dy is engaged in? Does not the Soul act by a dif-
fering Agency, and is not the Body the Servant,
nay,"the Slave of the Soul? Has the Body Hands
to act, or Feet to walk, or Tongue to speak,
but by the Agency of the Understanding, and
Will, which are the two Deputies of the Soul's
Power? Are not all the Affrétions, and all the
Passions which se universally agitate, direct, and
poisese the Body, are they not all seated in the
Soul? What have we to do then more or less, but
to get the Soul into a superior Direction and Ele-
vation, there's no Need to prescribe the Bo-
dy to this or that Situation; the Hands, or Feet,
or Tongue, can no more disturb the Retirement of
the Soul, than a Man having Money in his Pocket
can take it our, or pay it, or dispose of it by his
Hand, without his own Knowledge.
It is the Soûles being entangled by outward Ob-
jects, that interrupts its Contemplation of divine
Objects, which is the Excuse ror these Solitudes,
and makes the removing the Body from those out-
ward Objects seemingly necessary ; but what is
there of Religion in all this? For Example, a vi-
cious Inclination remov'd from the Object, is still
a vicious Inclination, and contracts the lame Guilt,
as if the Object were at Hand; for if, as our
Saviour fays, He that koketh on a Woman to hist
after heu thac is, to desire her unlawfully, has
committed the Adultery already ; so it wiU*be no
inverting, our Saviour's Meaning to lay, that he
that thinketh of a Woman to desire her unlawfully,
has committed Adultery with her already, though
he has not looked on her, or has not seen her at
that Time; and how shall this thinking of her bç
removed by transporting the Body? It must be
jvmovM by the Change in thç Soul, by bringing
[ 9 ]
 
the Mind to be above the Power or Reach of the
Aiiurcnn: r, and to an absolute Maiietship over
flic wicUvi Desire; otherwise the vicious Deiire
icmains as tiie Force remains in the Gunpowder,
and will exert it self when ever toucht with the
Fire.
Alt Motions to Good or Evil are in the Soul:
..OutwardObjects are but second Causes ; and tho*
it is true, separating the Man from the Object, is
the Way to make any Act impossible to be com-
mitted; yet where the Guilt does not lye in the
Act only, but in the Intention or Deiire to com-
mit it, that Separation is nothing at all, and ef-
fects nothing at ail. There may be as much Adul-
tery committed in a Monastery, where a Woman
never comes, as in any other Place, and perhaps
is so: The abstaining from Evil therefore depends
not only and wholly upon limiting, or confining
the Man s Actions, but upon the Man's limiting
and confining his Délires ; seeing to desire to sin,
is to Sin; and the Fact which wc would Commit
if we had Opportunity, is really committed, and
must be answers for as such. What then is
there of Religion, I fay, in fote'd Retirements
from the World, and Vows of Silence or Soli-
tude? They are all nothing; 'tis a retired Soul
that alone is fit for Contemplation; and it is the
Conquest of our Desires to Sin, that is the only
human Preservative against Sin. .
It was a great while after I came into human
Society, that I felt some Regret at the Loss of the
solitary Hours and Retirements I had in the I-
stand; but when I came to reflect upon some ill
spent Time, even in my Solitudes, I found Rea-
son to fee what I have said above; that a Man
may sin alonç several Ways, and find subject of
Kepen-'
 
Repentance for his solitary Crimes, as well as he
may in the midst of a populous City.
The Excellency of any State of Life consists
in its Freedom from Crime ; and it is evident to
our Experience, that some Society may be better
adapted to a Rectitude of Life, than a complcat
Solitude and Retirement: Some have said, that
next to no Company, good Company?* best; but it is my
Opinion^ that next to good Company > no Company is
best j for as it is certain, that no Company is better
than bad Companyy so 'tis as certain, that good Com-
pany is much better than no Company.
In Solitude a Man converses with himself, and
as a wife Man said, he is not always sure that he
does not converse with his Enemy; but he that
is in good Company, is sure to be always among
his Friends.
The Company of religious good Men, is a
constant Restraint from Evil,and an Encouragement
to a religious Life. You have there the Beauty of
Religion exemplified; you never want as well In-
struction in, as Example for, all that is good ; you
have a Contempt of evil Things constantly re-
commended, and the Affections mov'd to delight
in what is good by hourly Imitation : If we are
alone, we want all these, and are led right, or led
wrong, as the Temper of the Mind, which is
sometimes too much the Guide of our Actions, as
well as Thoughts, happens to be constituted at that
Time* Here we have no Restraint upon our
Thoughts, but from our selves, no Restraint upon
our Actions, but from our own Consciences, and
nothing to assist us in our Mortifications of our
Desires or in directing our Desires, but our own
Reflections, which after all may often err, often
be prepoiìeíV'd.
 
 
 
If
If you wou'd retreat from the World then, be
fare to retreat to good Company; retreat to good
Books, and retreat to good Thoughts; these will
always assist one another, and always join to assist
him that flies to them in his Meditations, di-
rect him to just Reflections, and mutually encou-
rage him against whatever may attack him, from
within him, or without him: Whereas to retreat
from the World, as ir is call'd, is to retreat from
good Men, who are our best friends: Besides,
to retreat, as we call it to an entire perfect Soli-
tude, is to retreat from the publick Worship of
God, to forsake the Astemblies; and, in a Word,
is unlawful, because it obliges us to abandon
those Things, which we arc commanded to do.
Solitude therefore, as 1 understand by it, a
Retreat from human Society, on a religious or
philosophical Account, Is a meer Cheat; it nei-
ther can answer the End it proposes, or qualify
lis for the Duties of Religion, which we are com-
manded to perform; and is therefore both irreli-
Eious in it self, and inconsistent with a Christian
.ife many Ways. Let the Man that would reap
the Advantage of Solitude, and that understands
the Meaning of the Word, learn to retire into
himself: Serious Meditation is the Essence of So-
litude; all the Retreats into Woods and Desarts
are short of this; and though a Man that is per-
fectly Master of this Retirement, may be a little
in Danger of Quietism, that is to fay, of an Af-
fectation of Reservedncfs; yet it may'be a Slander
upòn him in the main, and' he may "make himself
amends upon the World, by the blessed Calm of
his Soul, which they perhaps who appear more
çhearful may have little of.
Retiring into Desarts, in the first Days of Reli-
gion, andinto Abbeys and Monasteries foce,
what
 
 
 
what have they been? Or what hare they been
able to do, towards purchasing the Retirement Í
speak of? They have indeed been Things to be
reckonJd among Austerities* and Acts of Mortifi-
cation, and so far might be commendable: But I
must insist upon it, that a retired Soul is not affe-
cted with them, any more than with the Hurries
of Company and Society. When the Soul of a
Man is powerfully engag'd in any particular Sub-
ject, 'tis like that of St. Paul, wrapt up, whether
it be into the third Heaven, or to any Degree
of lower Exaltation: Such a Man may well fay
with the Apostle above, Whether I was in the Body,
or out of the Bodyy I canmt tell* It was in such a
wrapt up State, that i conceived in what I call my
Vision of the Angelical IVo> Id, of which I have
here subjoined a very little Part.
Is it rational to believe, that a Mind exalted so
far above the Scare of Things with which we ordi-
narily converse, should not be capable of a Sepa-
ration from them, winch, in a Word, is the ut-
most Extent of Solitude? Let stch never afflict
themselves, that they cannot retreat from the
World: Let them learn to retreat in the World,
and they sliail enjoy a perfect Solitude; as com-
pleat to all Intents and Purposes, as il they weçç
to Jive in the Cupola of St. Paul's, or, as if they
were to live upon th* Top of Cheviot Hi 1 in
Northumberland,
They that cannot be retiYd in this Manner,
must not only retire from the World, but out of
the Worlds before they can arrive to any true
Solitude. Man is a Creature so form'd for Socie-
ty, that it may not only be (aid, that it is not
good for him to be alone, but 'tis really impos-
sible he should be alone: We ate so continually in
weed of one another; nay, in such absolute Ne-,
ceffity:,
 
 
 
ccssity of Assistance from one another, that those
who have pretended to give us the Lives and
Manner of the Solitaires, as they call them, who
separated themselves from Mankind, and wander'd
in the Delates of Arabia and L)bia> are frequently
put to the Trouble of bringing the Angels down
from Heaven to do cue Drudgery or another for
them; forming imaginary Miracles, to make the
Life of a truc Solitair possible; sometimes they
have no Bread, sometimes no Water, for a long
Time together; and then a Miracle is brought
upon the Stages to make them live so long with-
out Food; at other Times they have Angels come
to be their Cooks, and bring them Roast-meat; to
be their Physicians, to bring them Physick, and
the like; If Saint Hillary comes in his Wan-
drings to the River Nile, m humble Crocrodile
is brought to carry him over upon his Back; thoJ
they do not tell us, whether the Crocodile ask'd
him to ride, or he ask'd the Crocodile, or by what1
Means they came to be so familiar with one ano-
ther: And what is all this to the Retirement of
the Soul, with which it converses in Heaven in
the midst of infinite Crowds of Men, and to whom
the nearest of other Obje&s is nothing at all, any
moic than the Obje&s of Mountains and Defarts*
Lions and Leopards, and the like, were to those
that banifliM themselves to Arabia?
Besides, in a Siatc of Life, where Circumstan-
ces arc easy, and Provision for the Necessaries of
Lire, wkicn the best Saint cannot support the
Want of, is quietly and plentifully made; has not
the Mind infinitely more Room to withdraw
from the World, than when at best it must wan-
der for its daily Food, tho* it were but the Pro-
da ;t of the Field.
Let'
î 14 1
Let no Man plead he wants Retirement, thaf
he loves Solitude, but cannot enjoy it, because of
the Embarrassment of the World; 'tis all a Delusi-
on; if he loves it, if he desires it, he may have it
when, where, and as often as he pleases; let his
Hurries, his Labours, or his Afflictions, be what
they will: It is not the Want of an Opportunity
for Solitude, but the Want of a Capacity of being
soiitairy that is the Cafe in all the Circumstances
of Life.
I knew a poor, but good Man; who tho' he was
a Labourer, was a Man of Sense and Religion;
who being hard at Work with some other Men,
removing a great Quantity of Earth to raise a
Bank against the Side of a Pond, was one Day so
out of himself, and wrapt up in a perfect Appli-
cation of his Mind, to a very serious Subject,
that the poor Man drove himself and his Wheel-
barrow into the Pond, and could not recover him-
self, till Help came to him. This Man was cer-
tainly cápable of a perfect Solitude, and perhaps
really enjoy'd it; for as I have often heard him
fay, he liv'd alone in the World: (1.) Had no
Family to embarrass his Affections. (2.) His low
Circumstances placed him below the Observation
of the upper Degrees of Mankind. (3.) And his
reserv'd Meditations plac'd him above the wicked
Part, who were those in a Sphere equal to him-
self; among whom, as he said, and is most trii*%
it was very hard to find a sober Man, much less a
good Man; so that he liv'd really alone in the
World; apply'd himself to labour for hisSubfistance,
had no other Business with Mankind, but for Ne-
cessaries of Life, and convers'd in Heaven, as ef-
fectually, and, I believe, every Way, as divindy
as St, 'Hilary did in the Desarts of Lybia, among
the Lions and Crocodiles.
 
D5]
If this Retirements which they call Solitude, coir
listed only of separating the Person from the World,
that is to fay, from human Society, it were itself
a very mean Thing, and would every Way as well
be supplied, by removing from a Place where a
Man is known, to a Place where he is not known,
and there accustom himself to a retiVd Liky ma-
king no new Acquaintance, and only making the
Use of Mankind which 1 have already spoken of?
namely for Convenience, and Supply of neceilary
Food ; and 1 think of the Two, that such a Man ,
or a Man so retir'd, may have more Opportunity
to be an entire Recluse, and may enjoy more real
Solitude, than a Man in a Desart. For Example*
In the Solitude 1 speak of, a Man has no more
to do for the Necessaries of Life, than to receive;
them from the Hands of those that are to furnish
them, and pay them for so doing; whereas, in
the Solitude of Desarts, and wand ring Lives from
whence ail our Monkish Devotion springs, they;
had every Day their Food, such as it was, to
seek, or the Load of it to carry; and except whera
as it is said, they put Providence to the Opera-
tion of a Miracle, to furnish it, they had frequently
Difficulties enough to sustain Life; and it" we
may believe History, many of them were flarv'd
to Death for meet Hunger, or Thirst; and as
often the latter as the former.
Those that had Recourse to these Solitudes
mercty as a Mortification of their Bodies, as I
observed before, and delivering themselves from the
Temptations* which Society exposed them to,
had more Room for the Pretence indeed, than
those who ailedge they did it to give un thenar
selves to Prayer and Meditation, The first mights
have some Reason in Nature for the Fact,& as
Mea
 
Mens Tempers and C^íìít^ms might lead 5
k mc having an inordinate Appetite to Crime*
some addicted by Nature to one ill Habit, some
to another; tlx/ the Christian Religion does
not guide us to thole Methods of putting'
a force upon our Bodies to subdue the
Violence of inordinate Appetite* The blessed
Apostle St. Paul, seems to have been in this
Ciret:instance, when being assaulted with what is
call'd in the Text, a Thorn in the Flejh; be it what
it will that is meant there, it is not to my Pur-
pose; but he pray'd to the Lord thrice; that was
the firilMethod the Apostle took, and thereby sec
a pious Example to all those who are aslkilted by
any Temptation. He did not immediately fly
to Austerities and bodily Mortifications, separa-
ting himself from Mankind, or flying into the
Desart to give himself up to Fasting*, and a Re-
treat from the World, which is the Object of all
private Snare* But he applied himself by serious
Prayer to him, who had taught us to pray, Lead
m not into Temptation; and the Answer likewise is
instructing in the Cafe,- lie was not d risen out as
Nebuchadnezzar into the Desart; he was not com-
manded to retire into the Wilderness, that he
might be free from the Temptation; nothing less:
But the Answer was, my Grace is sufficient for thee,
sufficient without the Help of artitìcaíí Mortifica-
tion*
So that even in the Case of these forcible Morti-
fications they are not requir'd, much less directed
for Helps to Meditation > for if Meditation could
not be practised beneficially, and to all the Intents
and Purposes for which it was ordain'd a Duty,
without flying from the Face of human Society,
the Life of Man would be very unhappy.
But
r i7 J
But doubtless the Contrary is evident, ànd all
the Parts of a compleat Solitude are to be as ef-
fectually enjoy'd, if we please, and sufficient Grace
agisting, even in the most populous Cities, among
the Hurries of Conversation, and Gallantry of a
Court,or the Noise and Business of a Camp j as m
the Desarts of Arabia and Lybiay or in the desolate
life of m uninhabited Ifland.
 
C H A F. II.
<tán EJsaj upon HONESTY.
H E N I first came home to my own
Country, and began to Et down and
look back upon the past Circumstan-
ces of my wandriqg t&tate, as you
will in Charity suppo^I could not
but dp very often; the very Prosperity*! enjoyfd
led me most naturally to reflect upoo^e particu-
lar Steps by which I arriv'd to it% "The Condi-
tion I was in was very happy, {peaking of hu-
man Felicity; the former Captivity I had suffer'd,
made my Liberty sweeter to me; and to find my
self jump'd into caff "*Círcùmstances at once, from
a Condition below the common Rate of Life,
made it still sweeter.
One Time, as I was upon my Enquiries into
the happy Concurrence of the Causes which
had brought the Event of my Prosperity to
pass, as an Effect, it occurr'd to my Thoughts,
how much of it all - depended, under the
^Disposition of Providence; upon the Principle
of Honesty, which I met with, in almost all the
People whom it was my Lot to be concern'd with
in my private and particular Affairs; and I that
had met with such extraordinary Instances of the
Knavery and Villainy of Mens Natures in other
Circumstances, could not but be something taken
 «P..
[ 19]
up with ïht Miracle $ of Honesty that Ï had tact
with among the several People, 1 had had to do
with, 1 mean chose whom I had mote particularly
to do with in the Articles of my Liberty, Estate,
or Effects, which set! into their Hands.
1 began with my most trusty and faithful'Wi-
dow, the Captain's Wife, with whoml first went
to the Coast of Afrita, and to whom I encrusted
ioo I. being the Gain I had made in ray first Ad-
Ventures to Guinea, as in , the first Volume, Page
330, appears.'
She was lèse a Widow, and in but indifferent
Circumstances; but when I sent to her so far eff m
the Brasihy where I was in such a Conditioiras she
might have reasonably believed I should never
have been able to come my self; and if I had,
might be in no Condition to recover it of her;
and having my self nothing to shew under her
Hand for the Trust; yet íhe was so just, that she
sent the full Value of what I wrote for, being
one hundred Pound; and to shew, as far as in her
lay,'her sincere honest Concern for my Good, piit .
in among many necessary Things which I did not
write for, I fay, put in two Bibles, besides other
good Books, for my Reading and Instruction, as
Sic said afterward?, in Popish and Heathen Coun-
tries, where I might chance to fall. Honesty not
only leads to discharge every Debt and every Trust
to our Neighbour, so far as is justly to be deman-
ded, but an honest Man acknowledges himself
Debtor to all Mankind, for so much Good to be
done for them, whether for Soul or Body, as Pro-
vidence puts an Opportunity into his Hands to do:
In Order to discharge this Debt, hc'stùdifes-
continually for Opportunity to do all the Acts of
Kindness and Beneficence, that is possible for him
to do; and tho' very few consider it, a Man is
G 2 not
[ 3LO ]
not a compleatly honest Mm, that does not do
this *
Upon this Consideration, I question much,
whether a covetous, narrow, stingy Man, as we
call him, one who gives himself up to himself,
as born for himself only, and who declines the
Advantages and Opportunities of doing Good,
I mean, extreamJy so: I say, ! much question,
whether such a Man can be an honest Man; nay, I
am satisfy'd he cannot be honest Man i for tho*
he may pay every Man his own, and be just, as he
thinks*it, to a Farthing; yet this is Part of the
Justice, which in the common Phrafe is the grea-
test Unjustice* This is one Meaning of that Say-
ing, Summum jus, summa injuria.
Ilo pay every Man their own, is the common
'Law of Honesty; but to do Good to all Mankind,
as far as you are abie, is the Chancery Law of Ho-
nesty; and tho* in common Law or Justice, as I
call it, Mankind can have no Claim upon us, if
we do but just pay our Debt; yet in Heaven's
Chancery they will have Relief against us; for
they have a Demand in Equity of all the Good to
, be done them, that it is in our Power to do, and
. this Chancery Court, or Court of Equity, is held
;' in ef cry Man's Breast ,* 'tis a true Court of Con-
fa em ef ' and every Man's Conscience is a Lord
Chanceilour to him; if he has not perform *d,
if he has not paid this Debt, Conscience will de-
cree hi'm'to pay it, on the Penalty of declaring
him a dijhmwft Man, even in his own Opinion;
and if he still refuses to comply, will proceed
by all the legal Steps of a Court of Conscience
Process, till at last it will iisue out a Writ of Re-
bellion against him, and proclaim him a Rebel to
Nature and his own Conscience.
But
[«'] .
^ But this is by the Way, and is^ occasioned by
the Observations I have' made of many People,
who think they arc mighty honest if they pay
their Debts, and owe no Man any Thing, as they
mil U; at the fame Time, like true Misas, who
lay op all for themselves, they think nothing oi the
Debt of Charity and Beneficence, which they
owe to all .Mankind.
Rich Men are their Maker's Free-holders;
they enjoy freely the Estate he has given them the
Possession of, with all the Rents, Profits, and
Emoluments, but charged with a free Farm Rent
to the younger Children of the Family, namely
the Poor; or if you will, you may call them,
God's Copy-holders, paying a Quit-Rent to the
Lord of the Manor; which Quit-Rent he has
assigned for the Use of the rest of Mankind, to
be paid in a constant Discharge of at! good Offi-
ces, friendly, kind, and generous Actions; and
he that will not pay his Rent, cannot be*an ho-
nest Man, any more than he that' would not pay
his other just Debts.
The Scripture concurs exactly with this No-
tion of mine; the Miser is calfd by the Prophet
Jfntahy a vile Person, one that work* Iniquity, and
pr a fits es Hypocrisy} and utters Error before the Lord,
Isaiah xxxii. 6. How docs this appear? The ve-
ry next Words explain it. He makes empty the Soul
of the Hungry, and he -will cause th? Drink of the
Thirsty m fail But lest this should seem a strain'd
Text, let us read on, both bçfore and after, Verse
5- The Vile Person jhall no more h cah'd Liberal,
nor the Churl said to be Bountiful . Here the Op-
posite to a Liberal Man is calf d a Vile Person,
and the Opposite to a Bountiful Man is cah'd a
Churl; and in the Verse" following, the fame
Vilp Perfon> as opposed to the Liberal Man, is
C 3 «if4
L111
çallM a Wicked Man; and the Libéral; Man if
set up a Pattern for us all, in Opposition to the
vile," churlish, covetous Wretch. Vers! j, 8. lie
Instruments also of the Churl are evil: He devisesk
wicked Devices to destroy the Pom with lying Words,
even when the Needy jpeafoth right. But the Libérât
devifeth liberal Things, and by liberal Things shaU #e
fiand.
In a Word, I think my Opinion justify *d by this
Text, that a Churl, a morose, íòwre Disposition^
f covetous, avaricious, seisifli principled Man, can-
not be an honest Alan ; lie docs not pay the common
Deb, of Mankind to one another,nor theFee-Farm,
or Quit-Rent of his Estate to God, who is his
Great Landlords Lord of the Manor, and who has
charged the Debt upon him. I know the Miser
will laugh at this Notion; but I speak my owr*
Opinion, let it go as far as Reason wiH car-
ry ir-
i come back to the Examples I was giving in
my private Cafe. As the Widow was honest to
me, so was my good Portuguese Captain; and it
is, this Man's original Honesty, that makes mc
peak of the..hoDcû,Mfin,5 Debt tQ-Maakind* It
was Honesty* a.generous Honesty,, that led the
poor Man to take me up at Sea; which if he had
neglected, my Boy X%ry and I had perislied toge-
ther : ' It was, no Debt to me in particular, but
a Debt to Mankind, that he paid in that Action;
and yet he could not have been an honest Map with-
out it. You will fay, if he had gone away and
left me, he had been barbarous and inhuman, and
d^serv'd to be Jest to perish himself in the like
Distress: But, Jsay, this is not all the Cafe : Cu-
stom and *he Nature of the Thing leads us to fay,
i"t would have been hard-hearted and inhuman;
3ut Conscience will tell any Man, that it was a
, . 'Debt,.
[ *3 ]
Debt, and he could not but be condemns by the
Court of Conscience in his own Breast, if be bad
omitted it; nay, in the Sight of Heaven he had
tacitly killM us, and had been as guilty of our
Peath as a Murrherer; for hçthat refuses to save
a Life thrown into his Hands, takes it away; and
if there is a just Retribution in a future State, if
Blood is at all requir'd there, the Blood of every
Man, Woman, or Child, whom we could have la-
ved, and did not, shall hç reckoned to us at that
Day, as spilt by our own Hands ; for leaving Life
in a Posture in which it must inevitably perish,
is without Question causing it to perish, and will
be ealfd so then, by whatever gilded dress'd-up
Words we may express and conceal it now.
But I go farther, for my good Portuguese went
farther with me; he not only paid the Debt he
ow'd to Heaven, in saving our Lives, but he
went farther: He took nothing of what I had,
tho'in the common Right of the Sea, it was all
his Due for Salvage, as the Sailors call it: But
he gave me the Value of every Thing, bo.ugfat
my Boat, which he might have turxui adrift, my
Boy Xuryf who-was not my<-Slav6 by any Right*
or if he had, became free from that Time ; and
the Life of Xury, which he had (m% as a Ser-
vant, was his own; yet he bought every Thing
of me, for the full Value, and took nothing of
me, no not for my Passage.
Here was the Liberal Man devising liberal's kings%
and the Sequel made good the promissory Text;
for by these liberal Things, the honest liberal
Man might be truly said to stand; When I came to
reward him at my coming to ' Lisbon, to sell my
Plantation at Brasil: Then he being poor, and
réduç'd, and notable to pay even what he ow'd
[M ]
me, I gave lûm a Reward sufficient to make hìj
Circumstances easy all his Life after*
The Bounty of this Man to me, when first hè
took me up out of the Sea, was the highest and
most compleat Act of Honesty; Á gênerons Ho-
nesty, laying hold of an Opportunity to do Good
to an Object offer'd by the Providence of Hea-
ven, and thereby acknowledging the Debt he had
to pay to his Maker, in the Persons of his most
distreis'd Creatures.
And here also let me remind my Readers of
what perhaps they seldom much regard; it is not
only a Gift from Heaven to us, to be put in a
Condition of doing Good-; but 'tis a Gift, and a Fa-
Tour from Heaven,, to have an Opportunity of
doing the Good we arc in a Condition to do; and wc.
ought to close with the Opportunity, as a parti-
cular Gift from above, and be as thankful for it ^
I fay, as thankful for the Occasion of doing
Good, as for the Ability.
I might mention here the Honesty of my Fellow-
Planter in the Brasils, and of the two Merchants
and their Sons, by whose Integrity I had my
Share in the Plantation preserved, apd taken Care
of; as also the Honesty of thç publick Treasure?
for the Church thcrç, and the like: But 1 am car-
ry'd off in my Thoughts, to enlarge upon this no-
ble Principle, from the two Examples I have al-
ready mentioned, viz. the Guiney Captains Wi-
dow, and the Portuguese; and this in particular,
because, since I came to England to reside, I have
met with Abundance of Disputes about Honesty,
especially in Cases where honest Men come to be
unhappy Men, when they fall into such Circumstan-
ces as they cannot be honest, or rather, cannot
shew the Principle of Honesty, which is really
at the Bottom of all their Actions, and which,
but for those Cîrcumstaticcs which entirely dìîm
ble them, would certainly shew it self in every
Branch of their Lives: Such Mm 1 have too
often seen branded foe - Knaves by those who$
if they come into the fame Condition, would
perhaps de the fame Things, or worse than they
may ha?e done*
Both my Widow and my Portuguese Captain,
fell into low Circumstances, so that they could
not make good to me. my. Money that was
in their Hands; and yet both of diem ihew'4
to mc, that they had not only a Principle
of Justice, but of generous Honesty too, when'
the Opportunity was put into their Hands to
4q so.
This put me upon enquiring and debating with
my self, what this subtle and imperceptible Thing,
called Honesty, is, and how it might be descri-
bed; setting down my Thoughts, at several Times,
as Qbjects presented ; that Posterity, if they think
them worth while, may find them both useful
and diverting. And Firsts I. thought it not
improper to lay down the Conditions upoa
which I am to enter upon that Description;
that I may not be mistaken, but be allow'd to ex-
plain what I mean by Honesty, before I undertake
to enter upon any Discourses or Observations about
*ç- A - .... ,
And to come directly to it, for I would male as
fern Preambles m possible, I shall crave the Liberty
in all the following Discourse, to take the Term
Honesty, as I think all English Expressions ought to
be taken, namely Hmesierfy9 in the common Accêp*
tation of rfce Word, the general vulgar Sense of
it, without any Circumlocutions or Double.Enten-
dres whatsoever; for 1 desire to speak plainly
and sincerely. Indeed, as I have'-no Talent at hard
 Words,
Words, fol have w great Vet^atíoq fbr'EtymtH
logics, especially in English: Bur since I am tvcsp
ting of Honesty, I desire", to do iix as I fay above,
according to site genuine Signification" of
the.Thing, ''
Neither shall I examine, whether Honesty ho
a natural or an acquired.,Virtue,, whether a Ha-
bit, or a Quality, whether inherent or accidentals
all the philosophical Part of it 1 chàíè" to omit.
Neither shall I examine it, as it extends to
Spirituals, and looks towards Religion; if we en-
quire about Honesty towards God, I readily al-
low all Men are'born Knaves, Villains, Thiefes,'
and Murthercrs, and nothing but the restraining
Power of Providence witholds us all from sliçw'
ing our selves fach,#on all Occasions.
No Man can be just to his Maker; if he could,1
att our Creeds and Confessions, Litanies and Sup-
Íiíçatíons, were ridiculous Contradictions and
^pertinences-; ínconsisteHt with themselves, and"
with the whole Tenor of human Life,
. In all the ensuing Discourse therefore, I am to
be* understood of Honesty, as it regards Mankind'
among themselves, as it looks from one Man to
another, in those necessary Parts of Mans Life,
his.'Conversation and Negotiation, Trusts, Friend-
ships, and atit he-Incidents-of human Affairs'
The Plainness I profess, both in Style and
Method, seems to me to have some suitable Ana-
logy to the-Subject, Honesty; and therefore, is ab-
solutely nectslary to be strictly followM And I
must own, I am the better reconcile, on this very
Account, to a natural Infirmity of homely plain
Writing.; in that I think the Plainness of .Ex-
pression, which I am condemn'd'to, will "give no
Disadvantage to my Subject, since Honesty íhçws
the most beautiful, and the more like - Honesty>
-' . when
[17 3
 
Hihctt Ardice is dismiss'd, and she *s honestly km
fry her own Light only; likewise the same Since--
rity is required in the Reader; and he that read*
this Essay without Honesty, will never understand
it right: She must, I say, be viewed by her own Light.
If Prejudice, Partiality, or private Opinions stand
in the Way, the Mans a reading Knave, he is not
honest to the Subject i and upon such an one all
the Labour is lost; this Work is of no Use to
him, and by my Consent, the Bookseller should
give him his Money again.
If any Man, from his private ill Nature, takes
Exceptions at me, poor, wild, wicked, Robinson
Crusoe, for prating of such Subjects as this is,
and (hall call either my Sins, or Misfortunes to Re-
membrance, in Prejudice of what he reads ; suppo-
sing me thereby unqualify'd to defend so noble a
Subject astthis of Honesty, or at least to handle it ho*
nestly: I take the Freedom to tell such, that those
very wild wicked Doings and Mistakes of mine,
render mc the properest Man alive to give War-
ning to others, as the Man that hm been sick is half
a Physician. Besides, the Confession which I all
along make of my early Errors, and which Provi-
dence,, you fee, found me Leisure enough to re-
pent of, and 1 hope, gave me Assistance to do it
effectually ; assists to qualify me for the present Un-
dertaking, as well to recommend that Rectitude
of Soul, which I call Honesty to others, as to warn
those who are subject to mistake it, either in
themselves or others: Heaven it self receives those
who sincerely repent, into the same State of Ac-
ceptance, as if they had not fmn'd at all, and so
should we also.
They -who repent, and their ill Lives amend,
Stand next to those who never did offend.
"'' Nor
§1
Nor do I think a Man ought to be afraid of
âsham'd to own and acknowledge his Follies and
Mistakes,'.but rather to think it a Debt which Ho*
nefiy obliges him to pay: Besides, our infirmities
and Errors, to which all Men are equally subject,
when recovered from, leave such Impressions be-
hind them, on those who sincerely repent of them,
that they are always the forwardest to accuse and
reproach themselves: No Man need advise them,
or lead them; and this gives the greatest Disco-
very of the Honesty of the Man's Heart, and Sin^
cericy of Principles. Some People tell us, they
think they need not make any open Acknowledg-
ment of their Follies; and 'tis a Cruelty to exact
it of them; that they could rather dye than sub-
mit to it; that their Spirits are too great for it;
that they are more afraid to come to such publick
Confessions and Recognitions, than they would be
to meet a Cannon Bullet, or to face an Enemy:
But this is a poor mistaken Piece of false Bravery;
all Shame is Cowardife, as an eminent Poet tells
us, That all Courage is Fear, the bravest Spirit
is the best qualify *d for a Penitent; 'tis a strange
Thing that we should not be asham'd to oftend,
but should be afham'd to repent; not afraid to
tin, but afraid to confess. This very Thought
extorted the following Lines from a Friend of
mine, with whom I discoursed upon this Head.
Among the worst of Cowards let him be namd%
IJ/ho having jinn d*s afraid to h afharnd;
And to mistaken Courage he's betray'd>
Who having fturid's qfbamd to be afraid.
But to leave the Point of Courage and Cowar-
dife in our repenting of our Offences, I bring ic
back to the very Point I am upon; namely that of
Hone-
 
Honesty. A Ma» cannot be truly an boaeft Mast]
without acknowledging the Mistakes he has made?
particularly, without acknowledging the Wrong
done to his Neighbour § and why pray is Justice
less required in his Acknowledgment to his Maker?
He then that will be honest, mast dare to con-
fess he has been a Knave; for as above, speaking
of our Behaviour to God, we have been all
Knaves, and all dishonest; and if we come to
speak strictly, perhaps it would hold in our Be-
haviour to one another also; for, Where's the
Man that is not chargeable by some or other of his
Neighbours, or by himself, with doing Wrong,
with some Oppression or Injury, either of the
Tongue, or of the Hands.
1 might enlarge here upon the Honesty of the
Tongue, a Thing some People, who call them-
selves very honest Men, keep a very slender Guard
uponj 1 mean, as to Evil-speaking; and'of all
Evil-speaking, that worst Kind or it, the spea-
king hard and unjust Things of one another*
This is certainly intended by the Command
of God, which is so express and emphatick, Thou
/halt not bear false Witness against thy Neighbour; at
least that Part which is what we call Slander, rai-
sing an injurious and false Charge upon the Cha-
racter and Conduct of our Neighbour, and sprea-
ding it for Truth.
But this is not all than Honesty I am speaking'
of respects all Detraction, all outrageous As-
saults of the Tongue ; Reproach is as really a Part
of Dishonesty, as Slander; and tho* not so aggra-
vated in Degree, yet. 'tis the fame in Kind.} *
There is a Kind of Murthcr that may be 'com-
mitted with the . Tongue, that is in its  Na-
ture as cruel as that of the Hand; This can
 • *- * - : - never
 
[30]
feëtorbe the Practice of aw-homû Mart ;1 Nay, hi
that practises, it cannot be an honest Man,
"But perhaps I may come to this again,but I "mist
go back to explain my self upon the Subject a lit*
tie farther in the General, and then yousliail heat
more of me, as to the Particulars.-
 
O/Bonestf in Gtn&aU
Have, always observed, that however
few the real honest Men are, yet e*
very Man thinks himself, and pro-
claims himself an honest Man. Ho-
neity, like Heaven, has all Mens good Word, and
all Menipretend to a Share of it: So general is the
Claim, that like a Jest which is spoiid by the Re-
petition, 'tis grown of no value for a Man t$
swear by his Faith, which is in its original Mean-
ing, by his Honefiy, and ought to be understood
so.
Like Heaven too, 'tis little understood by those
who pretend most to it, 'tis too often squar*d ac-
cording to Mens private Interest, tho' at the fame
Time the Latitude which some Men give them-
selves, is inconsistent with its Nature.
Honesty is a general Probity of Mind, an Apti*
tude to Act justly and honourably in all Cases, re-
ligious and civil, and to all Persons superiour or
inferiour; neither is Ability or Disability to act
so, any Part of the Thing it self in this Sense.
It may be distinguished into Justice and Equity*
or if you will, into Debt and Honour j for both
make up but one Honesty.
Exact
 
C 313
Exact Justice is a Debt to ail our Fellow-Crea-
ses; and honourable, generous Justice is derived
from that golden Rule, Quod tiki fieri am vis sl-
mi ne few i* » and all this put together, makes uf*
Honesty: Honour indeed is a higher Word for it*
but 'tis the fame Thing, and
— Differs from Justice only in the Name*
For Honesty and Honour are the fyrne*
This Honesty is of so qualifying a Nature,
that 'tis the most Denominative of all possible
Virtues: An Honest Man is the best Title can be
given , in the World *' all other Titles are empty
and ridiculous without it, and »o Title can be
really scandalous if this remain. 'Tis the capital
JLetter, by which a Man's Character will be known*
when private Qyalities and Accomplishments arc
Worm-eaten by Time; without it a Man caa
neither be a Christian or a Gentleman: A Man may
be a poor honest Man, an unfortuaate honest Man;
Jbut a Christian Knave, or a Gentleman Knave, is
a Contradiction: A Man forfeits his Character
and his Family by Knavery; and his Escutcheon
ought to have a particular Blot, like that of Ba-
stardy, When a Gentleman loses his Honesty, he
ceases to be a Gentleman, commences Rake from
that Minutt, and ought to be m*d like one.
Bonesty has such a general Character in the
Minds ot Men, that the worst of Men, who nei-
ther practise or pretend to any Part of it, will
yet salue it m mhtis; no Man ever con d be so
out of Love with it, as to délire his Posterity
should be without it; nay, such is the Veneration
all Men have for it, that the general Blessing of a
Father to his Son, ' t§ Pray, God make thee an honest
Man.
: Indeed
r 3* 3
Indècd so general is the Value of ir, md so well
known, that it seems needless to fay any Thing in
behalf of it. So far as it is found upon Earth, so
much of the first Rectitude of Nature, and of the
Image of God, seems to be TestorU' to Man-
kind. : - ? . 
The greatest Mischief which to me seems to
attend this Virtue, like th^ Thorn about the
Rose, which pricks the Finger of those who med-
dle with it, is Pride: 'Tis a hard Thing for a
Man to be very honest, and not be proud of it;
and tho' he who is really honest, has, as we fay,
something to be proud of, yet I take his Honesty to
be in a great deal of Danger, who values himself
too much upon it.
True honest Honesty, if I may be allow'd such
an Expression has the least Relation to Pride of
any View in the World; 'tis all simple, plain, ge-
nuine, and sincere ; and if I hear a Man boast of his
Honesty, I cannot help having some Fears for him,
at least, that 'tis sickly and languishing.
Honesty is a little'tender Plant, not known to
all who have Skill in Simples, Thick sowci, as they
fay, and Thin come up j 'tis nice of Growth, it
seldom thrives in a very fat Soil ; and yet a very poor
Ground too is apt to starve it, unless it has taken
very good Root; when it once takes to a Piece of
..Ground, it will never be quite destroy'd; it may
be choak'd with the Weeds of Prosperity, and
sometimes 'tis so scorcht up with the Droughts of
fiwerty and Necessity, that it seems as if it werú
quite dead and gone; but it always revives upon
the least mild Weather; and if some Showers of
Plenty fall, it makes full Reparation for the Loss the
Gardener had in his Crop.
There is an ugly Weed, cali'd Cunnings which
is very pernicious to it, and which particularly
' injures
íni
injuries ir, by hiding it from our Discovery, and
making it hard to find : This is so like Honesty,
that many a Man has been deceiv'd with ' it, and
have taken one for t'other in the Market; Nay,
f há'w heard of some, who have planted this wild
Honesty, as we may call it, in their own Ground,
have made Use of it in their Fneadihips and Dea-
lings, and thought it had been the true Planr,
but they always lost Credit by it: And that was
not the worst neither; for they had the Loss who
dealt with them, and who chaffer'd for a Counter-
feit Commodity; and we 'find many deceived so
;| still, which is the Occasion there is such an Out~
cry about false Friends, and about.Sharping and
Tricking in Mens ordinary Dealings in the World.
This true Honesty too has some little Difference
: - it, according to the Soil or Climate in which
grows, and your Samplers have had some Dis-
putes about the Sorts ol it: Nay, there have been
great Heats about the several Kinds of this Plants
. iiich grows in different Countries, and some call
* *at Honesty, which others fay, is ribt; as parti-
• ilarly they fay, There is a Sort of Honesty in
" ^y Country, Torkfìme Honesty, which differs very
• -nuch from that which is sound in these southern
:'ar\s about London: Then there h a Sort of Scot*
. iioiicsty, which they fay is a meaner Sort than
.^that of Yorhjhhe: And in New England, I have
í Md they have a kind of Honesty, which is
" orsc thairthe Scotijh, and little better than the
"* wild Honesty, calfd Cunning, which I mentions
before. On the other hand, they tell us, that in
- erne Parts of Afin, at Smyrna, and at Constantino-
, .  *> the Turks have a better Sort of tlonesty that!
,  *iy of us. 1 am sorry* our Turkey Company have
^ r<ot imported some of it, that we might try whe-
ther it would thrive here or no. 'Tis g little odd
D" to
[ 34 3
to me, it should grow to such a Perfection in Ttfr-
"key, because it has always been observed to thrive
* best, where it is sow'd with a Sort of Grain
'call'd Religion: Indeed they never thrive in these
Parts of the World, so well apart, as they do
together. And for this Reason, I must own, I have
found that Scots Honesty, as above, to be of a very
good Kind. How 'tis in "turkey, I know not;
tor in ail my Travels, I never set my Foot in
the Grand Seignior's Dominions.
But to wave Allegories, Disputes about what
is, or is not Honesty, are dangerous to Honesty
itself; for noCaic can be doubtful, which does
not border upon the Frontiers of Diihonesty; and
lie that resolves not to be drowned, had best ne-
ver come near the Brink of the Water.
That Man who will do nothing but what is barely
honest, is in great Danger. 'Tis certainly just for me
to do every Thing the Law justifies; but if I should
only square my Actions by what is literally law-
ful, I must throw every Debtor, tho* he be poor,
in Prison, and/iever release him till he has paid the
uttermost Farthing: I must hang every Malefa-
ctor without Mercy, I must exact the Penalty of
every Bond, and the Forfeiture of every Inden-
ture*: In short, I must be uneasy to all Mankind,
and make them so to mc; and in a Word, be a
very Knave too, as well as a Tyrant; for Cruelty
is not Honesty.
Therefore, the sovereign Judge of every Man's
Honesty has laid us down a general Rule, to
which all the Particulars are resolved, Quod tibi
fieri non vis, alter/ ne jeceris. This is a Part of
that Honesty I am treating of, and which indeed
is the more essential of the two; this is the Test
of Behaviour, and the grand Article to have Re-
course to, when Laws ate silent.
• ' * I have
t jy ]
1 hâte heard íome Men argue, ^ that they mt
not bound to any such Considerations of the In-
digence of Persons, as lead to Concessions of Time,
or Compositions with them for Debts; that 'tis-
all ex gratia, or the Estects of Policy, because Cir-
cumstances lead them to Judge it 'better to take
what they can. get, than lose the Whole-
Speaking of the Letter of the Law, 1 allow that
they may be in the right.
On the other hand, a Man who gives a Bond
for a Debt, pleads, he is answerable for no more
than the Law will force him to -, that is, he may
defend a Suit, stand out to the last Extremity*
and at last keep out of the Way, so as not to have
Judgment or Execution served on him -, he may
secwre his Estate from the Execution, as well as
his Person, and so never pay the Debt at all; and
yet in the Eye of the Law be an honest Man; and
this Part of legal literal Honesty is supported on-
ly by the other, namely, the cruel Part; for real-
ly such a Man, speaking in the Sense of common
Justice, is a Knave ; he ought to act according to
the true Intent and Meaning of his Obligation, and
in the Right of a Debtor to a Creditor, which is
to pay him his Money when it became due, not
stand out to the last, because he cannot be forced
to it sooner.
The Laws of the Country indeed allow such
Actions as the Laws of Conscience can by no
Means allow, as in this Cafe of the Creditor
suing for his Debt, and the Debtor not paying it
till he is forced by Law. The Argument made
Use of to vindicate the Morality of'such a Pra-
ctice, stands thus:
If a Man trusts me with his Money or Goods,
upon my common Credit, or upon my Word, he
then takes me for his Money, and depends both
.; D z upon
.H
Í3*1
upon my Ability and my Honesty ; ^ but if he
comes and demands my Bond, he quits his De-
pendence upon my Honesty, and takes the Law
for his Security; so that the Language of such an
Action is, He will have a Bond, that it may be
Jti his Power, to make me pay him, whether I
will or no; and as for my Honesty, hell have no-
thing to do with it: What Relief than I can have
against this Bond,, by the fame Law, to which
the Person refers himself, is as legal an Action on
my Side, as the other Man's suing for his own,
is oh his.
And thus the Letter of the Law will ruine the
..Honesty of both Debitor and...Creditor, and yet
both shall be justif/d too.
But if I may give my Opinion in this Cafe, nei-
ther of these are the honest Man I am speaking of;
for Honesty docs not consist of Negatives; and
\is not sufficient to do my Neighbour no perso-
nal Injury in the strict Sense and Letter of the Law;
but I am bound, where Cases and Circumstances
'ctîâJce other Measures reasonable, to have such Re-
gard to these Cases and Circumstances, as Rea-
son requires. Thus to begin with the Creditor
to the Debtor 3 Reason requires, that where a
Man is redue'd to Extremities, he should not be
"destroy*d for Debt; and what's unreasonable can-
not be honest.
Debt is no capital Crime, nor ever was; and
starving Men in Prison, a Pumsliment worse than
the Gallows, seems to be a Thing f so severe, as
it ought not to be in the Power of a Creditor
to inflict it: ,The Laws of God never tolerated
such a Method of treating Debtors, as we have
since thought proper, I won't fay honest, to put
M Practice: But since the Politicks of the Nation
stave icse the Debtor so much "at*Mercy by the
; ' Letter
[ 37 1
Letter of the Law, 'tis honest with Respect to
the Law, to proceed so; yet Compassion is in
this Cafe thought reasonable, !#% jlmidjl thou
take kls Bed from under him } fays the Text; which;
implies, 'tis unnatural and unreasonable.
I have heard lome Men insist upon it,  that if
'a Man be sued wrongfully at Law, he ought ra-
ther to submit to the Injury, than to oppose the
Wrong, by the seme Law; and yet I never found
those Gentlemen so passive in Matters of Law^
but they would foe a Debtor at Law, if they could
nof-otherwise obtain their Right;
I confess, 'I cannot blame them for the last,
but I blame them for pretending- to the first:
I am not arguing against recovering a just Debt •
by a juit Law, where the Person is able, but un-
willing to be honest: But I think, pursuing the
Debtor to all Extremities, to tlie turning his Wife
and Children into the Street, expressed in the
Scripture by, Taking his Bed from under him; and
by keeping the Debtor in Prison, when really he
is not able to pay it; theie is something of Cruel-
ty in it, and the honest Man, I am speaking of,
can never doit.
But some may object, if I must serve all Man-
kind, as 1 would be ferv'd in like Cafe, then I
must relieve every Beggar, and release every poor
Debtor j for if I was a Beggar, I would be re5- .
liev'd; and if I was in Prison, I would be released; .
. and so I must give away all I have... This is infer-'
ting the Argument; for the Meaning is in the
Negative still, . Do not to another any_ Thing, ocl';
put no Hardship, upon, another,, which "you would',::
not allow to be just, if you were in ttféír
Cafe,  . . ., .. . .:
Honesty is Equity, every Man is Lord Chan-
cellor to himself; and if he would consuit'that:
D 3 Princi-
Principle within him, would find Reason as fair
$n Advocate for his Nçighbour, as for him-
self: But I proceed.
 
- Of the Trjai of Honesty.
S^glEceiTity makes an honest Man a Knave;
Bk^S and if the World was to be the Judge,
 gHL^Ij according to the common received No-
*rpSfeP» tion, there would not be an honest poor
Man left alive.
A rich Man is an honest Man, no Thanks m
him; for he would be a double Knave to cheat
Mankind, when he had no Need of it: He has
no Occasion to press upon his Integrity, nor so
much as to touch upon the Borders of Diflhonc-
sty.....Tcll me of a Man, that is a very honest
Man; for he pays every Body punctually, runs
into no body's Debt, does no Man any Wrong;
very well, What Circumstances is he in? Why,
he has a good Estate,. a fine yearly Income, and
-no Business to do. The Devil must have full Pos-
session of this Man, if he should be a JÇnave >' for
.#0 .Man commits. Evil .for the Sake of it; even the
Devil himself has some farther Design in Sinning,
thin barely the wicked Part of it. No Man is
so hardped in Crimes, as to commit them for the
meet Pleasure of the Fact; there is always some
Vice gratify\l; Ambition, Pride, or Avarice^
make rich Men Knaves, and Necessity, the Poor:
.But to go on with this rich honest Man; his
Neighbour a thriving Merchant, and whose Ho-
, nçsty had as untainted a Character, as he can
pretend
[ 39 ]
pretend to, has a rich Ship cast away, or a Fa-
ctor Abroad broke in his"'Debt, and his Bills
come back protested, and he fails, is fain to ab-
scond, and make a Composition: Our rich ho-
nest Man flies out upon him presently, he is a
Knave, a Rogue, and don't pay People what he
owes them; and wc ihould have a Law, That
he that runs into Debt farther than he is able to
pay* should be hang'd; and the like. If the poor
.Man is laid Hold on by some Creditor, and ..put
in Prison; ay, there let him lye, he deserves it;
'twill be an Example to keep others from the
like i and now when all is done, this broken Mer-
chant may be as honest a Man as the other.
¥011 fay, you are an honest Man, How do you
know it? DicTyoii ever want" Bread, and had
you....... Neighbour's Loaf in your . Keeping, an4
would starve rather than eat it? Was you ever ar-
rested, and being not able by your self or Friends,
to make Peace with your Plaintiff, and at the
fame Time having another Man's Money in your
Cash Chest, committed to your Keeping, suffered
your felt to be carry \i to Jay J, rather than break
Bulk, and break in upon your Truil. God mar
self h as declauj, That the Power of Extremity
is irrésistible, and that so, as to our Integrity,
thar he has bid us not fasti jo1 th> 7Hef rhar steals
in such a Case; not that the Man is less a Thief,
or the Fait less dislioncst: But the Text is most:
remarkably worded for Instruction, in this Point >
Don't you dcipik the Man; But remember, it
you were driven to the fame Exigence, you would
be the fame Man, and do the fame Thing,  tho*
now yo<» saucy your Principle so^ond; therefore,
whatever his Crime may be as to God, don't re-
proach him with it here; but you that think you
Jiandj take heed, least you fall. "' ''''
li 4 I am
[ 40 1
1 am of the Opinion, that 1 could stare a Cir-
cumstance, io which there is not one Man in the
World would be honest: Necessity is above the
^Qwcr of human Nature; and tor Providence
to suffer a Man to fall into, that Necessity, is to
suffer him to sin; because Nature is not furnisli'd
with Power to defend it self, nor is Grace itself
able to fortify the Mind, against it. .
What shall we say to five Men in a Boat at Sea,
without Provision, calling a Council together,
and resolving to kill one of themselves tor the
others to feed on, and cat him? With what Face
could the four look up, and crave a Blessing on
that Meat? With what Heart give Thanks after
it? Apdyet this has been done by honest Men;
and I believe, the honcflest Man in the World
might-be fore*d toit;, yet here is.no. Manner, oi
Pretence, but Necessity, to palliate the Crime.
If it be argued "Was the Loss of one Man to
save the Four, 'tis answered, But what Authority
to make him die to save their Lives? How came
the Man to owe them Inch a Debt? 'ITwas- Rob-
bery and Murder ; 'twas robbing him of his Life,
which was his, Property to preserve mine,* ' 'tis
M«rder3 by taking away the Life of an innocent-
M*p* arid at bçil 'twas..doíag^Ê'vil that.Good
may come, which is expressly forbidden.
; But there is a Kind of Equity pleaded in this;
Cafe;-generally when Men are brought to such a
Pass, they cast Lots who stall be the Ma», and
the voluntary Consent of the Party makes it law-
ful (God himself being supposed to determine who
Avail be the Man) which I deny; for it is in ' no
plan's Power legally to consent to-siacK-a.Loti
bo Man has. a Right to give away his, own,Life;
he may forfeit'it to the Law, and loose it; but
that's a Crime against himself, as well as against-
[ 4i }
the Law ; and the sour Men might by our Law have
Jbeem try'd and hang'd for Murder. All that can be
said is, That Necessity makes the highest Crimes
lawful,, and Things Evil in their own Nature arc
male practicable by it. From these Extremes
cf Necessity, we come to lighter Degrees of it;
and so let us bring our honest Man to iome Exicng-
cies. He would not wrong any Man of a Farthing;
he could not sleep if he should be in any body's
Debt; and he cannot be an honest Man that can.
That we may see now, whether this Man's
Honesty lyes any deeper than his Neighbour's,
turn the Scale of his Fortune a little: His
Father left him a good Estate, but here comes
some Relations, and they trump up a Title to his
Lands, and serve Ejectments upon his Tenants;
and so the Man gets into Trouble, Hurry of
Business, and the Law: The extravagant Charges
of the Law sink him of all his ready Money, and
his Rents being stopp'd, the first Breach he makes
upon his Honesty (that is9 by Ins former Rules) he
goes to a Friend to borrow Money, tells him this
Matter will be over he hopes quickly, and he
shall have his Rents to receive, and then lie will
pay him again; and really he intends to do so:
But here comes a Disappointment, the TryaL
comes on, and he is cast, and his Title to the
Estate proves defective; his Father was cheated,
and he not only loses the Estate, but is calfd up-
on for the Arrears of the Rent he has received;
and in short, the Man is undone, and has not a
Penny to buy Bread, or help himself; and besides,
this cannot pay the Money he borrowed.
- Now, turn to his Neighbour, the Merchant,
whom he had so loudly caîì'd Knave, for Breaking
in his Trade, he by this Time has made up with
his Creditors, and got Abroad again; and he meets
 -;' *• 1 '  him
[ 4* ]
him íst the Street in his dejected Circumstancesi
WeU, fays the Merchant, and Why don't you fay
my Cousin, jùur old Neighbour, - the"Money you iorroutr
ed of him Ì Truly, fays he, because Lhame loft all my
Estate, and cant pay, nay I have nothing to live on*
Well, but, returns the Merchant,/%ft9tyma Knave
to,borrow Money y and now cant pay it? Why truly,
fays the Gentleman, When I borrowed it, I really
design d to be honest, and did not question but I should
have my Estate again, and then I had been able alsoy
and would have paid him to a Penny, but it has pro*
<ved otherwise; and tho J would pay him, if J had
it, yet I am not able. Well but, {ays the Merchant
again, Did you not call me Knave, tho* I lost my  Estate
Abroad, by unavoidable Disasters, as you have lost
yours at Home? Did you not upbraid mef because Ì
could not pay? I would have paid every Body, if I
could, aâ..v)eil as you. Why truly, fays the Gentle-
man, / wm a Fool, I did not consider what it wm
to be brought to Necessity, I ask you Pardon.
Kow, let's carry on this Story: The Mer-
chant compounds with his Creditors, and paying
every one a just Proportion, as far as 'twill go,
gets himself discharged; and being bred to Busi-
ness, ! and indiTitri'ous, fails- into Trade again,' and
raises himself to good Circumstances; and at last,
a lucky Voyage, or some Hit of Tnde, sets him
above the World again: The Maa remembring
his former Debts, and retaining his Principle
of Honesty, calls his old Creditors together; and
tho' he was formerly disch#irg§d from them all, vo-
luntarily pays them the Remainder of their Debts.
The Gentleman being bred to no Business, and
his Fortune desperate, goes Abroad, and gets in-
to the Army> and behaving himself well, is made
an Officer; and still rising by his Merit,' becomes'
a great Man, but in his new Condition troubles
not
not Ills Head with his former Debts in his native
Country, but fettles in the Court and Favour of
the Prince, under whom he has made his Fortunes,
and there lets up for the fame honest'Man* he-did
.before.
1 think I need not ask which of these two are
the honest Man, any more than which was the
honest Penitent, the Pharisee or the. Publican. •
Honesty, like Friendship, is try'd in Affliction;
and he that cries out loudest against those who in
the Time of this Tryal are forc'd to give Ground,
would perhaps yield as far in the like Shock of
Misfortune.
To be honest when Peace and Plenty flows
upon our Hands, is owing to the Blessing of our
Parents; but to be honest, when Circumstances
grow narrow, Relations turbulent and quarrel-
some, when Poverty stares at us, and the World
threatens; this Blessing is from Heaven., and can
only be supported from thence. God Al-
mighty is very little beholding to them, who will
serve him just as long as he feeds them. 'Twas
a strong Argument the Devil used in that Dia-
logue between Sathan and his Maker about Jck
Tes he is a mighty good Man, and a mighty just
Man, and well he may, while you give him every Thing
he wantswoudserve you my self, and be as true
t 'tjul to me, as you are to him: But nowf do but lay
curse you to your Face. 'Tis true, the Devil was
mistaken in the Man, but the Argument had a
great deal of Probability in it, and the Moral may
 
bç
[ 44 ]
be drawn, both from the Argument and froih the
Consequences.
I That 'tis an easy Thing to maintain the Cha-
racter of Honesty and Uprightness, when a Man
"has no Business to be in employed jn, and no Want
to press him,
II. That when Exigences and Distresses pinch
;3'Matr, then is the Time to prove the Honesty of
his Principle.
The prospérons honest Man can only by boa-
sting tell the World he is honest, but the distressed
and ruin'd hçncsc Man hears other People tell
"Mm "he is honest, - - -  - "'
In 'this Cafe therefore, since Allowance must
jbe made for human Infirmities, we are to di-
stinguish between an Accident and a Practice. I
am not plead ng to encourage any Man to make
no" Scrapie of trespassing upon his Honesty in Time
of Necessity: But I cannot condemn' every Man
for a Knave, .who by., unusual'Pressures, Straits,
Difficulties, or other Temptation, has been left
to slip, and do an ill Action, as we call it,
which perhaps this Person 'would never have
ftoop'dto, if the "Exigence had not been'too
great for his Resolution. The Scripture says of
JDavid, He was a Man after God's own Heart; and
yet we have several Things recorded of him,
which, according the modern Way of censuring
People in this Age, would have given him the
Character of a very ill Man: But I conceive, the
Testimony of David's Uprightness, given us so
authenticity from the Scripture, is given from
this very Rule, That the Inclination of his Heart,
and the general Bent of his Practice, was to serve
and "obey • his Great -Sovereign 'Benefactor, how-
ever, .
[ 45 T
ever, human Frailty, back'd with Extremities of
Circumstances, or powerful Temptations, might
betray him, to commit Actions which he would
not otherwise have done. The Failing into a Crime*
will not denominate a Man dishonest; for butna*
mum est errare. The Character os a Man ought
to betaken from the general Tenour of-his Be-
haviour, and from his allowed Practice. David
took the Shevj-Brcad from the Priests, which it
was not lawful for him to eat. David knew, that
God, who commanded the Sheiv-JBread should not
be eaten, had however commanded him by the Law \
of Nature, not to be starv'd; and therefore, press'd
by his Hunger3he ventures upon the Commandment.
And the Scripture is very remarkable in expressing it,
David when he was an hungry: And the Occasion foe':
which our Bicsled Lord himself quoted this Text,;
is very remarkable, viz,, to prove, that Things
otherwise unlawful, may be made lawful by Ne-,
ceffity, Matt h. xii. 4.
Another Time, David its his Passion resolves
the Destruction of Nabal and all his Family,
which, without Doubt, was a great Sin ;.... and
the Principle which he went upon, to wit9 Re-
venge for his churlish and saucy Answer to him,
was still a greater Sin ; but the Temptation back M
by the Strength of his Paillon, had the better of him
at that Time: And this upright honest Man had >
murder'd Nabal and ail his House, if God had
not prevented him.
Many Instances of like Nature the Scripture
has left upon Record, giving Testimony to the
Character of good Men, from the general Practice
and Bent oi their Hearts, without leaving any
Reproach upon them for particular Failing.*?," tho* 
those Sins have been extraordinary provoking, and
in their Circumstances scandalous enough.
-If,
[4*3
If any Man would be so weak as from hence
to draw Encouragement to allow himself in éasy
Trespaslbs upon his Honesty, on the Pretence of
Necessities, let him go on with me to the fur-
ther End of this Observation, and find room iot
it if he can.
If ever the honest Man I speak of, by what*
soever Exigence or Weakness, thus slips from the:
Principle of his Integrity, he never fails to ex-
press his own Dislike of it ; he acknowledges up-
all Occasions, both to God and to Man, his
having been overcome, and been prevaifd upon
to do, what he does not approve of; he is too
much aíham'd of his own Infirmity, to pretend
to vindicate the Action, and he certainly is re-
stored to the first Regulation of his Principles, as
soon as the Temptation is over. No Man is
fonder to accuse him than he is to accuse himself,
and he has always upon him the sincere Marks
of a Penitent.
"Tis plain from hence, that the Principle of
the Man's Integrity is not destroy'd, however*
he ' may have fallen, tho* seven times a Day *
and I must while I live reckon him for an honest
Man*
Nor am I going about to suppose, that Ae Ex-
tremities and Exigencies which have pressed Men
of the best Principles, to do what at another time
they would not do, make those Actions become
less Sinful, either, in their own Nature or Circum-
stances. The Guilt of a Crime with respect to
its being a Crime, viz. an Offence against God, is
not removed by the Circumstances of Necessity.
It is without Doubt a Sin for me to steal ano-
ther Man's Food, tho* it was to supply Starving
Nature j for how do I know whether he whose
food I steal may not be in as much Danger of
: * 'Starving
 
Starting for want of it, as I; and ifmty 'totaling
to my own Use what I have no Right to, and
taking it by Force or Fraud; and the Question
is.i\otas to the Right or Wrong, whether I have
a Necessity to tat this Man's Bread or no; hut
whether it be his or my own? If' it be his, and
not my own, I cannot do it without a manifest
Contempt of God's Law, and breaking the
Eighth Article of it, Thou fiait net Steal Thus
as to God, the Crime is evident, let the Necessity
be what it will. .
But when we are considering human Nature
subjected by the Consequences of Adams Trans-
gression, to Frailry and Infirmity; and regarding
things from Man to Man, the Exigencies and Ex-
tremities of streightned Circumstances seem to
me to be most prevailing Arguments, why the
Denomination of a Man s general Character ought
not, by his fellow Mortals (JubjeB to the fame
Infirmities) to be gathered from his Mistakes, his
Errors or Failings, no not from his being guilty
of any extraordinary Sin, but from the Manner
and Method of his  Behaviour. Does he go on
to commit Frauds, and make a Practice of his
Sin? Is it a Distress? Is it a Storm of Afflicticr,
and Poverty has driven him upon the Lee . Shore
of Temptation? Or is the Sin the Port lie steer'd
for? A Ship may by Stress of Weather be driven
upon Sands and dangerous Places, and the Skill
of the Pilot not be blameable ; but he that runs
against the Wind, and without any Necessity,,
upon a Shelve which he fees before him, must do
do ir on purpose to destroy the Vessel, and ruine
the Voyage.
in short, if no Man can be calfd honest, but
be ^vho is never overcome, to fall into any Breach
this Rectitude of Life; none but he who
ir,
is sufficiently fortified against all Possibility oi
being tempted by prospects, or driven by Distress,
tomake any Trespass upon his Integrity; Woe be
unto me that Write, and to most that Read, where
shall we find the honest Mm?
The Scripture is particularly expressive of this
« Day, and viseth again. Why, this is very strange,
if a Man come, to commit seven Crimes in a Day,
that is, many, for the Meaning is Indefinite, can
this be an honest Man?: What fays the World of
him? Hang him, he is a Knave, a Rascal, a Dis-
honest Fellow; this is the Judgment of Men: But
in the Judgment of Scripture this may be a
Jtighteous Man.
The main Design, of this Head and the proper
Application of it is, to tell us we ought not be
too hasty to Brand our Brother for his Sins,
his Infirmities or Misfortunes, snce he that is Dis-
honest in your Eyes, by a casual or other Crime
which lie Commits, may rife from that Disaster
by a sincere Repentance, and be to morrow an
honester Man* than thy self in the Eyes of his
Maker.
- Bur here I am assaulted with another censo-
rious honest Man; here you talk of falling to
Day, and rising again to Morrow* Sinning and
Repenting; why here is a Fellow has cheated me
of joo /. and he comes canting to me of his Re-
pentance, tells me he hopes God has forgiven
him; and it would be hard for me to call to Re-
membrance what God has wip'd out; he is
heartily sorry for the Fault, and the like, and
begs my Pardon, that is, begs my Estate indeed:
For what's all this to my 'Money, let him pay me
and I'll forgive him too j God may forgive him
the Sin, but that's nothing to my Debt.
in the
 
Whs
[ 49 J
Why truly, in Answer to this in Parr, you ate
in the Right if the Man be able to make you any
Satisfaction, and does not doit; for I question
nor, but every Trespass of this Nature requires
Restitution, as well as Repentance; Restitution as
far as the possible Power of the Party extends ; and
if the last be nm found, the first is not likely to
be sincere.
But if the Mali, either is not able to make you
any Restitution at all, or does make you Restituti-
on to the utmost of his Capacity, and then comes
and fays as before; then the Poor Man is ill
the Right, and you in the Wrong; sor 1 make 110
Question likewise to affirm, and could prove it by
unanswerable Arguments, He may be an Honest Man
w/m cannot pay his Debts y but he cannot be an Honest
Man who can, and does not.
Innumerable Accidents reduce Men from Plen-
tiful Fortunes -to mean and low Circumstances;
some procured by their own Vices and Intempe-
rance, some by Infirmities, Ignorance, and meer
want of judgment to manage their Affairs:
Some by the Frauds and Cheats of other Men,
some by meer Casualty and unavoidable Acci-
dents, wherein the Sovereignty of Providence!
shews us, that the Race is not to the Swift, or
the Battle to the Strong, or Riches to Men of
Understanding,
F/rsty Some by Vices and intemperance are re-
duced to Poverty and Distress: Our Honest Man
cannot fall in the Misfortunes of th s Class, be-
cause there the very Poverty is a Sin, being product
from a sinful Cause. As its far from being al-
lowed, as an Excuse to a Murtherer, to fay he
was in Drink, because it is excusing a Crime
with a Crime: So for a Man to ruin his For-
tunes, as the Prodigal in the Gospel, with riot-
E mi$
 
 
 
cus Living, all the Etfects arc wicked and dis-
honest, as they partake of the Dishonesty of the
Cause from whence they proceed: For he cannot
be an.honest Man, who wants wherewith to pay
his Debts, after having spent what should have
discharg'd them, in Luxury and Debauches.
Secondly, Some by Ignorance and want of Judg-
ment to manage their Affairs, are brought to
Poverty and Distress; these may be honest Men,
notwithstanding their Weakness, for I won't un-
dertake that none of our honest Men shall be
Fools: JTis true the good Man, is the wife Man,
as to the main Part of Wisdom, which is in-
cluded in his Piety, but many a Religious Man
who would not do any Wrong wilfully to his
Neighbour, is oblig'd at last to injure both his
own Family, and other People's, for want of Dis-
cretion to guide him in his Affairs, and to judge for
himself: and therefore I dare not Tax all our
Fools with being Knaves, nor will I fay but such a
Man may be Honest. Some will fay, but such
a Man should not venture into Business, which he
is not able to manage, and therefore 'twas the
Vice of his Understanding, and like the Cafe in
the first Article, is excusing a .fault with a
fault*
 I cannot allow this for if I am askt why a
Fool ventures into Trade, I answer, because he
is a Fool, not because he is a Knave.
If Fools could their ovm Ignorance íifcërni
"They'd be no longer Fools > because theydlearn.
If you would convince a Man that he wants
Discretion, you must give him Discretion to be
convinced: 'Till then he cannot know he has it
;;ot, because he has it uoc. No Man is answerable,
either
'cither to God or Mao, for that which he never
was Master of: The most proper Expression
that ever 1 met with 1st this Nature, was of a
certain Ideot or Natural, which a Gentleman
of my Acquaintance kept in his Family, who
being on his Death-Bed, was observed to be very
pensive, and much concerned about dying; the
Gentleman sent a Minister to him, who as well
as he could to his Understanding, discoursed with
him about Death and Judgment to come; the
poor Creature who was hardly ever able to give
a rational Answer to a Question before, after
hearing him very attentively, broke out into
Tears with thisExpreffion3 lhat he hoped God would
not require any 'Thing of him, that he had not given
him Judgment to understand. Whatever it may be
as to the Soul, I am positive in the Cafe of human
Affairs, no Man is answerable to Man for any
more than _ his Discretion; Events are not in our
Power, a Man may be nicely Honest in Life, tho*
he may be weak enough in Judgment.
'Thirdly, Some are ruin'd, and are yet merely
passive, being either defrauded and cheated by
Knaves, or plundered and rifled by Thieves, or
by immediate Casualties, as Fire, Enemies, Storms,
Floods, and the like; these arc Things which nei-
ther touch the Man's Honesty, nor his Discre-
tion. Thus Job was by God's Permission and
the Agency of the Devil, redue'd in a Moment
from a plentiful Estate to be as naked as he
came out of his Mother's Womb: I would fain
ask those who say, no Man can be an honest
Man if he does not pay his Debts, who paid
7o£ s Debts if he own'd any, and where was his
jDislionesty, if he did not pay them ?I still rea-
dily grant that he cannot be an honest Man who
does not pay his Debts if he can j but if other-
E z wife
 
 
 
 
 
wise, then the Words ought to be altered* and
they should fay, he cannot be an honest Man
who borrows any Money, or buy s any Thing up-
on his Credit, and this cannot be true,"
But since I have led myself into the Argument,
I cannot but make a small Digression concerning
People who fail in Trade; 1 conceive the greatest
Error of such is their Terror about Breaking, by
which they are tempted while their Credit is
good, tho' their Bottom be naught, to push far-
ther in ; expecting, or at least hoping, by the Pro-
fits of some happy Voyage, or some lucky Hit,
as they call it, to retrieve their Circumstances,
and stand their Ground.
1 must confess, 1 cannot vindicate the Honesty
of this; for he, who knowing his Circumstances
to be once naught, and his Bottom worn out;
ought not injustice to enter into any Man's Debt;
for Then he Trades on their Risque, not on his
own, and yet Trades for his own Profits, not
theirs; this is not fair, because he deceives the
Creditor, who ventures his Estate on that Bot-
tom which he supposes to be good, and the o-
ther knows is not. Nay, tho' he really pays
this Creditor, he is not honest; for in Consci-
ence, his former Creditors had a Right to all
his Effects, in Proportion to their Debts; and if
he really pays one all, and the rest but a Share,
'us a Wrong to the whole.
I would therefore advise all Tradesmen, who
find their Circumstances declining, as soon, at
least, as they first discern themselves to be unca-
pable of paying their Debts, if not, while yet
they can pay every one all, make a full Stop,
and call all People together; if there is enough
to pay them all, let them have it, if not, let
them have their just Shares of it j by this Means
: , . you
 
 
 
r 53 ]
you will certainly have God's Blessing, and the
Character of an honest Man, left to begin again
with ; and Creditors are often prevailM with, in
Consideration of such a 'generous Honesty, to
tirow back something to put such a Man in a
Posture to lire again; or by further voluntary Cre-
dit and Friendship^ to uphold him. This is much
better also with respect; to Interest, as well as Ho-
nesty, than to run on to all Extremities, till the
Burthen falls too heavy, either for Debtor or
Creditor to bear : This would prevent many of
the Extremities, which, 1 fay, puts the Honesty
of a Man to so extraordinary a Tryal.
An honest Principle would certainly dictate to
the Man, if it were consulted with, that when
he knows he is not able to pay, it is not lawful
for him to borrow. Taking Credit is a Promise
of Payment; a Promise of  Payment is tacitly
understood, and he cannot be honest who promises
what he knows he cannot perform, as. 1 shall
note more at large on another Head. But if the
Man be paid, yet it was not an honest Act;
'twas deceiving the Man, and making him run a
greater Risque than he knew of, and such a Risque
as he would not have run, had he known your
Circumstances and Bottom, as you do; so' chat
here is Deceit upon Deceit.
This 1 know is a disputed Point, and a Thing
which a great many practise, who pass for very ho**
nest Men in the World ; but 1 like it not the better
lor that; 1 am very positive, that he who takes
my Goods on the Foot of his Credit, when if
he should dye the next Day, he knows his Estate
will not pay me five Shillings in the Pound;
tho* he should not dye, but deres pay me at the
Time appointed, is as much guilty of a Fraud,
as if he actually rofcb'd my House. Credit is a
E 3 * received
C 54 ]
received Opinion of a Mans Honesty and Abili-
ty, his Willingness to pay, and his hating where-
with to pay; and he who wants cither of these,
his Credit is lame. Men won't fell their Goods
to a litigious quarrelsome Man, tho* he be never
so rich, nor to a needy Man, tho* he be never
so honest. Now, if all the World believe I
am ' honest and able, and 1 know 1 am not the
last, I cannot be the first, if I take their Goods
upon Credit; 'tis vain to pretend, Men Trade
upon the general Risque of Mens Appearance,
and the Credit of common Fame, and all Men
have an equal Hazard. Isajno: Men may ven-
ture their Estates in the Hands of a flourishing
Bankrupt, and he by Virtue of his yet unshaken
Credit is trusted; but he cannot 'be honest that
takes this Credit, because he knows his Circum-
stances are quite otherwise than they are sup-
posed to be, that the Man is deceived, and he is
privy to the Deceit.
This Digression is not so remote from the pur-
pose, as I expected, when I began it; the Honesty
that I am speaking of, chiefly respects Matters
©f Commerce, of wheh Credit and Payment of
Debt are the most considerable Branches.
There is another Article in Trade, which
many very honest Men have made familiar to
themselves, which yet I think, is' in no Cafe to
be defended -, and that is relating to Counterfeit
Money. Custom, before the old Money was
supprefs'd in England, had prevail cl so far upon
Honesty, that I have seen some Men put all their
Brass Money among their riming Caih, to be told
over in every Sum they paid, ' in Order to have
somebody or other take it; I have heard many
People own they made no Scruple of it, but 1
could never find them give one good Reason to
justify the Honesty of ic' '' 'Firfl,
 
first, They say it comes for Money, and it
ought to go so: To which I Answer, tha: is
just as good a Reason as this: A has cheated rne,
and therefore 1 may Cheat J. If 1 have waiv-
ed a Sum of Money tor good, and. knowing not
that any of it is otherwise .JS.i it in Payment to
another: This is Just ana Honest; but» if on this
other Man's telling it over, he rjtnrhs me a Piece
of Brass or Counterfeit Money which I change
again, and afterwards knowing this to be such,
pfter the fame Piece to another: 1 know no worse
Fraud in its Degree pi the World, and I doubt
not to prove it so beyond Contradiction.
If the first Person did not take this Piece of
Money, it was because being both watchful and
skilful,, he pould discover it; and if I offer it
to another 'tis with an Expectation, that lie being
either Ids watphful or ieis skillful, shall overlook
it, and so I shall make an Advantage of my
Neighbour s ignorance, or want of Care.
fil put some parallel Cafes to this, to illustrate
it: Suppose a blind Man comes into a Shop to
buy Goods of me, and giving me a Guinea to
change, 1 fliall give him the Remainder in bad Mo-
ney; would not every Body fay 'twas a barbarous
Thing? Why the other is all one, for if the Person
be ignorant of Money, he is blind as to the Point
in Hand; and nothing can be more unfair thai?
to take the Advantage.
Suppose again a young Boy, or a Servant new-
ly entred in Trade, is sent to buy Goods, and
by his Master's Order, he asks for such a Com-
modity; and you presuming upon the Rawness
of the Messenger, deliver a Sort of a meaner
Quality, and take the full Price of him; would
you grudge to be used fcurvily for such a Trick?
Why, no less or better is ûfteràag Brass for Silver^
 
 
[ 56 ]
presuming only the want of Care or Skill in the
Receiver, shall pass it unobserv'd.
Ay, but fays a learned Tradesman who would be
thought honester than ordinary; 1 always change
it again5 if it be brought back : Yes Sir, so does a
Pick-Pocket give you your Handkerchief again
when you have fastened on him, and threatened him
with the Mob. The Matter in short is this,* if
the Mali whom you have cheated, can cheat no
Body else, then no Thanks to you; when he
comes to you, and charges the Fraud upon you,
you'll make Sat sfaction, because if you won't,
the Law will compel you to it.
But if the Fraud may be carried on, as you
are manifestly willing, consenting, and instrumen-
tal in it that it should; behold^ the Consequence,
your first sln against Honesty is multiplied in ail
the Hands thro* whom this Piece of bad Money
knowingly so passes, till at last it happens to go
single to a poor Man that can't put it off, and
the Wrong and Injury may issue where it was
wanted to buy Bread for a starving Family,
• AU the Excuses I could ever meet with could
never satisfy nie, that it can consist with Honesty,
to put Brass or Copper away for Gold or Silver,
any more than it would, to give a blind Messen-
ger Sand instead of Sugar, or brown Bread instead
of white*' ' • ''
Of
 
Of H o n e s t y in Promises.
 
Man h known by his IVord, and au Ox by
Ms Horns, fays an old Englifo Proverb.
If 1 understand the true Meaning of it,
'tis, that theHonesty of a Man is known
by his punctual observing his Word, as naturally
and plainly as any Creature is known by the
most obvious Distinction. "lis the peculiar
Quality of an honest Man, the distinguishing
Mark to know him by. His Word or Promise is
as sacred to him in all his Affairs in the World,
as the strongest Obligation which can be laid on
himnor is it a Thing form'd by him from set-
tled 'Resolutions, or Measures of Policy taken
up of course to raise or fix his Reputation ; but
*tis the native Produce of his honest Principle:
'Tis the Consequence, and his Honesty is the
Cause; he ceases to be Honest, when he ceases
to preserve this solemn Regard to his Word.
'If he gives his Word, any Man may depend
upon it, for the Safety of his Life or Estate; he
scorns to prevaricate or shift himself off from the
punctual Observance of it, tho* it be~ to his Losel
'I can't abate an honest Man an Inch in the pon-
ctuai Observance of a Promise made upon Parole,
if it be in the Man's possible Power to perform
it, because there seems to be something too base
to consist with Honesty in the very Nature of a
Man that can go back from his Word.
* The Reverence our Ancestors paid to their
Promises, or Word past, I am of the Opinion,
 
gave that Remarkable Brand of Infamy and Scan-
dal upon the Affront of giving the Lie; a QentU-
tmph which is, in short, the modern Term for an
homft Man, or, a Man of Honour, cannot receive
a greater Reproach, than to be told, be lies; that
is, that lie forfeits his Word, breaks his Veraci-
ty; for the Minute he does that, he ungentleipans
himself, disgraces the Blood of his Family, de-
generates from his Ancestors, and commences
Rake, Scoundrel, and any Thing.
Some People, who have run their Points of Ho-
nour tp the E*treams, are of the Opinion, that
this Affront of the Lie ought not to be given to
any Thing they call a Gentleman, or that calls
himself so, till he has so far exposed himself to
all other Degrees of Infamy, #s to bear Kicking,
or Caning, and the like; that after this, when hf
breaks his Word, he may be told, he lies, or any
Thing else ; but till then, the very Thing it self
is so intolerable an Abuse, that the Person who
ventures to trespass so foully on the Rules of good
Manners, deserves not the Honour of fair Play
for his Life: But as some Beasts of Prey are refu-
sed the fair Law of the Field, and are knock'd
down in every Hedge * so these, like Bullies and
meer Rakes, may be pistol u in the Dark, and
ilabb'd at the Corner of an Alley; that is to sayf
any Measure may be used with them, to dismiss
rhera from the Society of Mankind, as Fellows
not sufterabie in the Common-wealth of good
Manners.
I do not argue for these Extremes i but I in-
stance in this, to testify the Veneration all good
Men have for the Word or Promise of an honest
Man,and theEsteem which the Integrity oftheMind
expreíVù by a zeaious Regard to the Words of
the Mouth, have obtained ' in the World. The
Fremh,
[59]
French, when they express themselves In Vindica-
tion of their Honour, always bring it about by
this, Je suis homme de Parol?, I am an honest
Man, or a Man of my Word; that is, I am a
Man that m^y be trusted upon my Parole j for I
never break my Wprd.
Such was the Value put upon the Promises of
Men in former Time, that a Promise of Payment
of Money w^s recoverable in our Courts by Law,
till the Inconveniencies proved so many, that an
Act was made on Purpose to restrain it to a Sum
under ten Pounds: But to this Day, if a Man
Eromises Mas riage to a Woman, especially if she
as granted him any Favours upon that Condition,
the Laws of the Land, which therein have Re-
gard to the JLaws of Honour, will oblige him to
make it good, and allow it to be a sufficient Plea
to forbid his marrying with any body else.
There are innumerable Instances of the Vene-
ration all Nations pay to the expressive Article of
human Veracity. In the War, you meet with
frequent Instances of Prisoners dismiss'd by a ge-
nerous Enemy, upon their Parole, either to pay
their Ransom, or to procure such or such Condi-
tions or come back and surrender themselves Pri-
soners; and he that should forfeit this Parole,
wou'd be posted in the Enemy's Army, and hise'd
put of his own*
I know nothing a wife Man would not chuse
to do, rather than by breaking his Word, give
the World such an undeniable Testimony or his
being a Knave: This is that good Name which
Solomon fays is better than Ltfe> and is a precious
Ointment, and which, when a Man hm onze lost, he
has nothing left worth keeping. A Man may even
hang himself out of the Way; for no Man that
looks like a Man, will keep his Company.
Wkm
[do]
 
When a Man'has* once come* to breaking hit
Wcrd, no Man;- that has any'Value for his Re-
putation, cares to be seen in his Company; but all
good Men shun him, as if he were infected with
the Plague. ^  •
There are Men indeed, who will be exceeding
punctual to their "Words and Promises, who yet
cannot be call'd honest'Men, because they have
other Vices and Excoriions that render them other
Ways wicked*: These give their Testimony to
che' Beauty of Honesty, by chusing it as the best
Mask to put a Gloss upon their Actions, and con-
ceal the other'Deformities of their Lives; and so
Honesty, like Religion, is made Use of to dis-
guise the Hypocrite, and raise a" Reputation upon
the Shadow, by the Advantage it takes of the
teal Esteem the World has of the Substance : 1 fay
of this Counterfeit-Honesty, as is said of Religi-
on in like Cases. If Honesty was not the most ex-
cellent Attainment, 'twould not be made Use of
às the most "specious Pretence; nor is there a more
fcxqiiisite Way for a Man to play the Hypocrite,
than 'to pretend an. extraordinary' Zeal : to the
Performance of his Promises; because, when the
Opinion of any Man's Honesty that'Way, has
spread in the Thoughts of Men, there is nothing
so gteát, but they will trust him with, nor so
hard, but they will do it for him.
• All Men reverence an honest Man; the Knaves
stand in Awë qf hi hi, Fools adore him, and wise
Men loveliittr; and thus is Virtue its own Re-
ward.'" ......
Honest Men are in more Danger from this one
Hypocrite, than from 20 open Knaves -, for these
hâve a Mark pla'c'd upon them by their general
Character, as a Buoy upon a Rock to warn Stran-
gers from venturing upon it : But theHypocritesare
"''' like
 
like a Pit cover'd over, like Shoals under Water,
and Danger conceals which cannot be seen, I
mast confess, I have found these the most dan-
gerous, and have too deeply suffer M by throwing
my self on their Protestations ^ of Honesty: The
Esteem I always entertain \i of the most beautiful
Gift God has bestow'd, or Man could receive, has
made me the easier to be deceiv'd with the Re-
semblance of it.
So much as I, or any one else, by the Vitiouf-
ness of our own Nature, or the prevailing Force of
Accidents, Snares, and Temptations, have devia-
ted from this {hiring Principle, so far we have been
foolish, as well as wicked; so much we have to
repent of towards our Maker, and be afliam'd of
towards our Neighbour.
For my Part, I am never backward to own,
let who will be the Reader of these Sheets, that
to the Dishonour of my Maker, and the just Sean-
da of my own Honesty, 1 have not paid that due
Regard to the Rectitude of this Principle, which
my own Knowledge has own'd to be its due; let
those who have been softer to themselves, and
to ihe Giver of it, rejoice in the Happiness, ra-
ther than triumph over the Infirmity.
But let them be sure, they have been fuller on
their own Parts; let them be positive, that their
own integrity is untainted, and would abide all
the Tryais and Racks, that a ruiVd Fortune,
strong Temptations, and deep Distresses, could
bring it into: Let them not boast till these Dan-
gers are past, and they put their Armour off; and
if they can do it then, I wij freely acknowledge,
they have less need of Repentance than I.
Not that 1 pretend, as 1 noted before, and
stall often repeat, that these Circumitances rea-
der my Failing, or any Man's else, the less a Sin,
but
 
 
 
[**]
but they make the Reason,, Why wc that have
fallen, should rather be pity'd than reproach'd by
those who think they stand; because, when thé
same Assaults are made upon the Chastity of
their Honour* it may be every jot as likely to be
prostituted as their Neighbours*
And such is the Polly of Scandal, as well as
the Blindness of Malice, that it seldom fixes Re-
proach upon the right Foot: I have seen so much
of  it, with respect to other People, as. well
as my self, that it gives me a very scoundrel Opi-
nion of all those People whom I find forward to
load their Neighbours with Reproach. Nothing
is more frequent in this Cafe, than to run away
with a Piece of a Man*s Character, in which
they err, and do him Wrong; and leave that Part
of him untouched which is really black, and
would bear it; this makes rtie sometimes,
when with the humblest and most abasing
Thoughts of my self, 1 look up, and betwixt
God and my own Soul, cry out, What a Wretch
am I! at the same time smile at the hair-brain'd
Enemy, whose Tongue tipt with Malice, runs a-
head of his Understandings and miffing the Crimes
for which I deserve more than he can inflict, re-
proaches me with those I never committed. Me-
thinks I am ready to call him back, like the
Huntsman, when the Dogs run upon the Foil, and
fay, hold, hold, your are wrong; take him here,
andyou have him.
1 question not but 'tis the fame with other Peo-
ple i for when Malice is in the Heart, Reproach
generally goes a Mile before Consideration, and
where is the Honesty of the Man all this while?
This is trampling upon my Pride, fed majo-
ri faftu; but with greater Pride; 'tis exposing my
Dishonesty, but with the highest Knavery i 'tis
 
 
 
a Method nò honest Man will take,, and when
taken, no honest Man regards; wherefore, let
none of these Sons of Slander take Satisfaction in the
frequent Acknowledgments I am always ready to
make of my own failing, for that Humility with
which 1 always find Cause to look into my own
Hearr,where 1 see others worse, and more guilty of
Crimes than they can lay to my Charge, yet makes
me look back upon their Weakness with the last
Contempt, who fix their impotent Chàrges where
there is not Room to take hold, and run away
with the Air, and Shadow of Crimes never com-
mitted.
I have instanced this, not at all on my own
Recount, for 'tis not worth while; for if I am
injured, what's that to troubling the World with,
when I am forgotten; but while I am examin-
ing the nicest Article in the World, Honefly, I can-
not but lay down these three Heads from the pre-
ceding Observations.
1. He who is forward to reproach the Infirmities
of other Mens Honefly, is very near a Breach of
his ovm.
2. He that hastily reproaches another without suffi-
cient Ground, cannot be an honest Man.
3. Where there may be sufficient Ground of Reproach y
yet an hcnejl Man is always tender of his Neigh-
bour s Charatler from the Sense of his own
Frailty.
But I return to Honesty, as it affects a Man's
pledging his Word, which is the Counter-part of
his Principle, and this because as I said, I should
chiefly regard this Honesty, as it concerns human
Affairs Conversation, and Negotiation,
Ani
 
 
 
And here Î meet with. a Tradesman corné
just in from dunning one of his Neighbours t
Well, I have been at a Place for 'Money,says hey but
lean get none ; there's loch a one, he passes for ad
honest Mao, but 1 am fore he is a great Rogue td
me, for he has promised me my Money a long
Time, but puts roe off still from Time to Time f
he makes no more of breaking his Word, than
of drinking a Glass of Beer. I am sure he has
told me forty Lies already; this is one of your
honest Men, if all such honest Men were hang o we
should have a better Trade; and thus he runs on.
if all such honest Men were hang'd, they that
were left might have a better Trade, but how
many of them would there be? 1
Now tho' I shall no Way vindicate Mens hasty
Promises absolutely to perform what is doubtful
in the Event, yet I cannot agree, that every Mart
who having promised a Payment* does not per-
form it, to his Time, is a Knave or a Lyar; if it
were so, the Lord have Mercy upon three Parts
of the City.
Wherefore, to state this Matter clearly, it must
be taken a little to Pieces* and the Articles spo-
ken to apart. - ,
Fh'sif Without Question, when a Man makes a
Promise of Payment to another on a set Day, know-
ing in his own Thoughts that it is not probable he
should be capable to comply with it, or .really
designing not to comply with it, or not endea-
vouring to comply with it: 'Tis a Deceit put
upon the Party, 'tis a premeditated formal Lye,
the Man that made it is a Stranger to Honesty;
he Is a Knave, and every Thing that is base and
bad. But ^ . .
Secondly^ Promises ought to be understood both
by the Person to whom, and the Person by whom,
they
[ tfj ]
they are made a$ liable to those Contingencies,
that all human Affairs and Persons are liable to,*
as Death, Accidents, Disappointments, and Dis-
order: Thus, if a Man, who ought to pay me
to Day, tells me, Sir, I cannot comply with you
to Day, but if you call for it next Week, you shall
have it.
If I may put this Answer into plainer£»^//J&; and
I suppose the Man to be an honest Man; I cannot
understand his Meaning otherwise than thus:
cc Sir, I acknowledge your Money is due;
<c I have not Cash enough by me to pay you to
€c Day i but I have several running Bills, and se-
f£ veral Persons who have promised me Money,
f< which I doubt not I shall receive against such a
u Time i and if you call then, I make no Que-
€< stion, but I shall be able to do it; and if it ii
Cc possible for me to pay you, I will do it at that
u Time, without Fail.
I confess, it were as well to express themselves
thus at large, in all the Appointments People make
for Payment; and would the Persons who make
them consider it, they would do so: But ' Custom,
has prevailed in our general Way of Speaking,
whereby all Things that are subject to the com-
mon known Contingents of Life, or visible in the
Circumstances of the Cafe, are understood without
being exprejfled. For Example:
I make an Appointment of meeting a Man pò*
sitively at such a Town, such a certain Day 0C
Hour; if I were talking to a Turk or a Pagan that
knows nothing, or believes nothing, of Supreme
Providence; I would fay, If the Lord of Heaven
md Earth that governs all my A&ions, please to pré*
serve mdpermit me: But when I anr talking to ZÊ
Christian, it should seem to be so universally sup*
Posed, that tr.ry Appointment is subjected, and!
F  íubmït
 
[<*]
submits to the Govenmfebt of Providence,, that the
Repetition would be needless j and that when a
Man promises positively to meet/tis with a general
Su&intelligitur,' à '"Refers e as natural as Nature it
self, to the Divine Permission: Ail Men know, that
'unless I. am alive, 1 cannot come there; or, if I
am taken sick, both which may easily happen,
1 ill all disappoint him: And therefore*, if heshou'd
'urge me again- to come without Fail, and I should
.reply,. I won't M% if Lam alive and...well, the
Man ought to take it for an Affront, and ask me,
if 1 take him sot a Fool, to think, if 1 am taken
fick, 1 should *cOTW'wîth"my Bed'at my Back] or
if.. Death 'should intetVeen, he had .Occasion to
speak with my Ghost.
In this Sense, a Tradesman who promises Pay-
ment of Money at a set Time; first 'tis suppo-
sed he.... has it not now in his Hands, because he
puts off the Person demanding to a further Day,
and.promises to comply with it then: This Pro-
mise therefore, can be understood no otherwise,
i:h^ ;'tiiat'he''fe!^cts to* receive Money'by that
;Títóe/': Now, if this Man, by the iike Disap-
'^ointíhents from other Men, or ány other, invo-
luntary  Casualty^ 1 is really' • atîd' :bma fide*  unable
to còmply with the fome of -promised Payment;
Ï cannot see, but this may befal an honest Man,
and he neither designing to fail when he promi-
sed, nor 'being able to prevent the Accident that
obliged him to do it, nòr any way voluntary'in the
fiftich,isiiot itt; my Opinion'guilty of a Lie,., or
Breach of his Honour, tho* he did not make
those 'verbal.'-Réserves itx ihe'""Promises......he...had
given.'
•If'every Man, -who cafinot comply with pro-
mised Payments, should be thus branded with
Eying [mé p&oaclty, then -let ""him, who is
.' ..- . . ..„ ". . wiîfaûuï
[67]
without the Sin, cast' the Stone, for no body
else ought to do it.
'Tis true, there is a Difference between an
Accident, and a Practice; that is in short, there
is a Difference between him who meets with a
great many Occasions thus to break his Word,
and he that meets with but a few: But if it be
a Crime, he that commits it once, is no more an
honest Man, than he that commits it forty Times;
and if it be not a Crime, he that does it forty
Times, is as honest as he that has Occasion to do
it but once.
But let no Man take Encouragement from hence,
to be prodigal of his Word, and slack in his Per-
formance; for this nice Path is so near the Edge
of the Pit of Knavery, that the least Slip lets you
fall in.
These Promises must have Abundance of Cir-
cumstances to bring the honest Man out of the
Scandal.
As, ist. The Disappointments which occasioned
this Breach of his Word, must have been un-
foreseen, and unexpected, otherwise the Ex-
pectation of performing his Promise, was ill
grounded, and then his Honesty is answe-
rable for the very making the Promise, as
well as the breaking it.
ad. No Endeavours must be wanting to Com-
ply with the Promise; otherwise 'tis wrong
to fay, I am disappointed, and can't make
good my Word; the Man ought to say, Sir,
I have disappointed my self by my Negli-
gence or Wilfulness, and have obliged my
self to break my Word ; or, in English, Sir, 1
am a Knave; for tho' I made you a Promise
which I might have performed, I took m
F a Cars
 
 
 
Care about it, not valuing the Forfeiture of
"my Word.
If then the Cafe is so nice, tho* in the Strict-
ness 'of Speaking, such a Disappointment may
oblige an honest Man to break his Word; yet
every honest Man, who would preserve that Cha-
racter to himself, ought to be the more wary, and
industriously avoid making such absolute uncon-
ditional Promises, because we are to avoid the
Circumstances of Offence.
But as to the Nature of the Thing, 'tis plain to
me, that a Man may in such Cafes be obliged to
break his Word unwillingly $ and nothing can be
a Fraud or dishonest Action in that Case, which is
not either voluntary in it self, or the Occasion
voluntarily procur a.
Of Relative Honesty.
IS Honesty is simple and plain, with-
out Gloss and Pretence, so 'tis univer-
sal: He that may uphold an untainted Reputation in one Particular, may be
justly branded with Infamy in another. A Man
May 'be punctual in his Dealings, ?nd a Knave
in his Relations; honest in his Ware-house, and
a Knave at his Fire-side: He may be a Saint in
his Company, a Devil in his Family; true to his
Word» and false to his Friendship: But whosoe-
ver he be, he is no honest Mam An honest
Man r? al! of a Piece, the whole Contexture of'
his Life, his general Conduct is genuine, and
fquar'd according to the Rules of Honesty; he
never runs into Extremes and Excesses on one
Hand or other,
1 con*
 
 
! confess, I 4uâ Wm Thing, which they call
Relative Hom>J}yy very little thought of in the
World; and that which is still worse, 'tis very lit-
tle understood: I'll bring it down to but a few
Examples; some of which frequently happen a*
mong us, and will therefore be the more familiar-
ly receiv'd.
There are relative Obligations jentaij'd on us
in our Family Circumstances, which are |pft
Debts, and must be paid; and which, in a Word,
a Man can no more be honest, if he does not make
Conscience of Discharging, than he can in the
Case of the most unquestionable Debts between
Man and Man*
The Debts from Children to Parents, and from
Wives to their Husbands, are in a Manner re-
latively changed, and the Obligation transferred
into the Order of religious Duties. God the
Guide and Commander of all Subordination, has
as it were, taken that Part into his own Hand;
'tis rather calfd a Duty to him, than a relative
Duty only: But if Men take this for a Discharge
to" them, of all relative Obligations to Wives and
to Children, or that God had less required one
than the other, they must act: upon very wrong
Principles.
Nature indeed dictates in general a Man's
providing Subsistence for his Family, and he is
declared to be so far from a Christian, that he is
worse than an Infidel that neglects it: But there
are other Parts of our Obligations, which Ho-
nesty calls upon us to perform.
A Wife and Children are Creditors to the Fa-
ther of the Family; and he cannot be an tapnest
Man that does not discharge his Debt to them,
any more than he could, if he did not repay Mo-
ney borrowed, to a Stranger ;and npt to lead my
F i ^ Reader
 
 
[ 7° ]
Reader on to intricate and disputed Particulars;
1 instance principally in those that no body can
dispute: As Fits, EDUCATION: By this
1 mean, not only putting Children to School,
which some Parents think, is all they have to do
with or for their Children; and indeed with some,
is all that they know how to do, or are fit to do:
I fay, I do not mean this only, but several other
additional Cares, as (i.) Directing what School,
what Parts of Learning, is proper for them, what
Improvements they are to be taught* {2.) Study-
ing the Genius and Capacities of their Children*
in what they teach them; Some Children will vo-
luntarily learn one Thing, and can never be fore'd
to learn another]; and for Want of which observing
the Genius of Children, we have so many learned
Blockheads in the World, who are mere Scholars,
Pedants, and no more. (3.) But the main Part of
this Debt, which Relative Honesty calls upon us
to pay to our Children, is the Debt of Instruction,
the Debt of Government, the Debt of Example:
He thát neglects to pay any of these to his Fami->
ly, is a relative Knave; let him value himself
upon his Honesty, in paying his other Debts,
as much as he will.
'Tis a strange Notion Men have of Honesty,
and of their being honest Men,as if it related to no-
thing but Tradesmen, or Men who borrow and
lend"; or that the Title was'obtain*d by an ordi-
nary Observance of Right and Wrong between
Man and Man. JTis a great Mistake, the|Namç
of an honest Man is neither so easily gain'd, or so
soon lost, as these Men imagine. David was a
very honest Man, notwithstanding his Passion and
Revenge in the Cafe oiNabal> his Murther in the
Cafe oiUtiahy or his Ad 1 leery in the Cafe of Batb~
fheka. Thç Intent and main Design of his Life
C 71 ]
was upright; and whenever he fell by the Power
of that Temptation that overcame him, lie rose
pgain by Repentance.
Let no vain Men flatter themselves with the
Pride of their Honesty, in mere Matters of Debtor
and Creditor, tho* that's also absolutely neceslary
and essential to an honest Man.
But trace this honest Man home to his Family:
Is he a Tyrant or a Churl to his Wise? Is he a
Stranger to the Conduct and Behaviour of hi?
Children? Is he an Eli to their Vices? Are they
uninstructed, uncorrected, unexhorted, ungover*
ned, or ill governed? That Man's a Knave> a re-
lative Knave; he neither does his Duty to God,
or pays the Debt of a Husband, or of a Parent to
his Wife or his Family.
Secondly, After the Debt of EDUCATION,
there is the Debt of INDUCTION due
from us to our Children. The Debt from a Pa-
rent is far from ending when the Children come
from School, as the Brutes who turn their Young
off from them when they are just able to pick for
themselves : It is our Buiiness,doubtless,to introduce
them into the World, and to do it in such a manner,
as jsuits the Circumstances we are in, as to their
Supply, and the Inclinations and Capacities of
our Children: This is a Debt, the Want of pay-
ing which, makes many Children too justly re-
proach their Parents with neglecting them in their
Youth, and not giving them the necessary Intro-
duction into the World, as might have qualify'd
them to struggle and shift for themselves.
, Not to do this, is to ruine our Children nega-
tively on one Hand, as doing it without Judgment,
and without Regard to our Family Circumstan-
ces, and our Childrens Capacities, is a positive
ruining therç on the other. 1 could very usefully
F 4 mi\
C7»]
PU out this Part into a long Discourse on the Ne-
cessity there is of consulting the Inclinations and
Capacities of our Children, in our placing them
out in, the World. How many a martial Spirit do
we find damn'd to Trade, while we spoil many a
good Porter, and convert the able Limbs and
Bones of a Blockhead into the Figure of a long
Jiobe, or a Gown and Cassock?
How many awkward clumsy Fellows do wc
breed to Surgery* or to Muiiek, whose fingers
and Joints, Nature originally detign'd, and plain-
ly fhew'd it us by their Size, were better suited
for the Blacksmiths Sledge, or the Carpenter's
Axe, the Waterman's Oar, or the Carman's
tWhip?
Whence comes it to pass, that we have so many
young Men brought to the Bar, and to the Pul-
pit, with stammering Tongues; Hesitations, and
Impediments in their Speech, unmulical Voices,
and no common Utterance; while on the other
Hand, Nature's Cripples, Bow-legged} Battle-
ham'd, and half-made Creatures, are bred Tum-
blers and Dancing-Masters.
I name these, because they occur most in our
common Observation, and are all miserable Ex-
amples, where the Children curse the Knavery of
their Fathers, in not paying the Debt they ow'd
to them as Parents, in putting them to Employ-
ments that had been suitable to their Capacities,
and suitable to what Nature had cut them out for.
I came into a publick House once in London,
where there was a black Ma/etta loolM Man sit-
ting, talking very warmly among some Gentle-
men, who I observed were listening very attentive-
ly to what he said; and I sat myself down, and
did the like; 'twas with great Pleasure I heard him
iliscourse very handsomiy on several weighty Sub-
jects j
sects; I found he was a very good Scholar,
had been very handsomely bred, and that Lear-
ning and Study was his Delight; and more than
that, some of the best of Science was at that Time
his Employment: At length I took the Freedom
to ask him, If he was born in England?
He reply'd with a great deal of good Humour
in the Manner, but with an Excess of Resentment
at his Father, and with Tears in his Eyes, Yes,
yes, Sir, 1 am a true-born English Man, to my
Father's Shame be it spoken; who being an Englijh
Man himself, could find in his Heart to join him-
self to a Negro Woman, tho* he must needs know,
the Children he should beget, would curse the Me-
mory of such an Action, and abhor his very Name
for the sake of it. Yes, yes, fays he, repeating
it again, I am an Englijh Man, and born in law-
ful Wedlock i happy had it been for me, tho* my
Father had gone to the Devil for Whoredom,
had he lain with a Cook-Maid, or produced
me from the meanest Beggar Woman in the Street.
My Father might do the Duty of Nature to his
black Wife; but, God knows, he did no Justice
to his Children. If it had not been for this
damn'd black Face of mine, fays he then smiling,
I had been bred to the Law, or brought up in the
Study of Divinity: But my Father gave me Lear-
ning to no manner of Purpose; for he knew I should
never be able to rise by it to any Thing, but a
learned Valet de Chamber. What he put me to
School for, I cannot imagine: He spoii'd a good
Tarpawlin, when he strove to make me a Gentle-
man: When he had resolv'd to marry a Slave, and
lye with a Slave, he should have begot Slaves,
and let us have been bred as we were born: But he
has twice ruin'd me \ first with getting me a fright-
ful
 
 
 
ill Face, íind rhen going to paint a Gentleman
«porr me*'"
. .It. was a most affecting Discourse indeed, and as
such I record it; and 1 found it ended in Tears,
from the Person who was in himself the most do
servipg, ipodest, and judicious Man, that I ever
mct wit^ imder a Negro Countenance in my Life.
After this Story, 1 perfwaded myself I need fay
no more to this Cafe; the Education of our Chil-
\ dren, their Instruction, and the Introducing them
into the World, is a Part of Honesty, a Debt wc
owe to them; and he cannot be an honest Man
that does not to the utmost of his Ability and
Judgment, endeavour to pay it.
AH the other relative Obligations, which Fa-
mily Circumstances call for the Discharge of, al-
low the fame Method of arguing for, and are
Debts in their Proportion, and must be paid upon
the fame Principle of Integrity. I have neither
room, nor is there any Occasion to enlarge upon
them. 
 
Chap*
 
C H A F- ÎIL
O F T H E
Immorality o/Conîersatio^
A N B
(The Vulgar Errors of "Behaviour.
Onvcrsation is the "..brigltest itìá
most beautiful Part of Li se \ 'tis an
Emblem of the Enjoyment of a fu-
ture State; for suitable Society is m
heavenly Life; 'tis that Part of Life
by which Mankind are not only
dístíngtiífh'd from the inanimate World, but by
which they are distinguished "from one another.
Perhaps 1 may be more particularly sensible of the
Benefit and of the Pleasure of it, having been so
effectually mortify'd with the Want of it: But as
1 take it to be one of the Peculiars of the ratio-
nal Life, that Man is a conversible Creature; so
'tis his most compleat Blessing in Life, to be bles-
sed with suitable Persons about him to converse
with. Bringing it down from Generals to Par-
ticulars, nothing can recommend a Man more, no-
thing renders him more agreeable, nothing can be
a better Character to give of one Man to another,
next to that of his being an honest and religious
Man, than to fay of him that he is very good Com-
pany. How
 
[7<n
How delightful is it to sec a Man's Face al-
ways cover'd with Smiles, and his Soul shining
continually in the Goodness of his Temper; to sec
an Air of Humour and Pleasantness sit ever upon
his Brow, and to find him on all Occasions the
Came, ever agreeable to qthcrs and to himself; a
steady Calm of Mind, a clear Head, and serene
Thoughts always acting the Mastership upon him;
Such a Man has something angeliek in his very
Countenance; the Life of íuch a Man is one en-
tire Scene of Composure; 'tis an Anticipation of
the future State, which we well represent by an
eternal Peace.
To such a Man to be angry, is only to be fust
to himself, and to act as he ought to do; to be
troubled or fad, is only to act his Reason; for as
to being in a Passion, he knows nothing of it; Pas-
sion is a Storm in the Mind, and this never hap-
pens to him; for all Excceííes, either of Grief or
of Resentment, are Foreigners, and have no Ha-
bitation with him: He is the only Man that can
observe that Scripture heavenly Dictate, Be an-
gry and sm not; and if ever he is very angry, 'tis
with himself, for giving Way to be angry with any
one else.
This is the truly agreeable Person, and the on-
ly one that can be call d so in the World; his Com-
pany is a Charm, and is rather wonderM at than
imitated: *Tis almost a Vertue to envy such a
Man *, and one is apt innocently to grieve at him,
when we fee what is so desirable in him, and can-
not either find it, or make it in our selves.
But take this with you in the Character of this
happy Man,, namely, that he is always a good
Man,a religious Man: 'Tis a gross Error to ima-
gine, that a Soul blacken Yl with Vice, loaded with
Crime, degenerated into Immorality aid Folly,
CM
[77 ]
can be that Matt, can have this calm, serene Sou!*
those clear Thoughts, those constant Smiles upon
his Brow, and the steady Agreeableness and Plea-
santry in his Temper, that i am speaking of; there
must be Intervals of Darkness upon such a Mind »
Storms in the Conscience will always lodge Clouds
upon the Countenance; and where the Weather
is hazey within, it can never be Sun-shine without;
the Smiles of a disturbed Mind are all but feiga'd
and forg'd; there may be a good Disposition, but
it will be too often and too evidently interrupted
by the Recoils of the Mind, to leave the Tem-
per untouched, and the Humour free and uncon-
cern'dt when the Drum beats an Alarm within,
it is impossible but the Disturbance will be dis-
covered without.
Mark the Man of Crime; sit close to hits hi
Company, at the End of the most exube-
rant Excursion of his ^ Mirth; you will never
fail to hear his reflecting Faculty whisper a
Sigh to him; hell shake it ofti you will see him
check it and go on; perhaps he sings it off, but
at the End of every Song, nay perhaps of every
Stanza, it returns; a kind of involuntary Sadness
breaks upon all his Joy; he perceives it, rouzes,
despises ir, and goes on; but in the Middle of a
long Laugh, in drops a Sigh; it will be, it can
be no otherwise ,* and Í never conversed closely
with a Man of Levity in my Life, but ! could
perceive it most plainly; 'tis a Kind of Respira-
tion, natural to a stisl'd Conviction; a Hesitation
that is the Consequence of a captivated' Vertue -
a little Insur recti on in the Soul against the Tyran-
ny of profligate Principles.
Bot in the good Man the Calm is compleat;
'tis all Nature, 110 Counterfeit; he is always in
Humour, because he m always composU
C78 ]
He9s calm without, because his char within.
A slated Composure of'Mind can really pro-
ceed from nothing but a Fund of Vertue; and
this is the Reason why 'tis my Opinion, that the
common Sayings That Content of Mind is Hap-
piness, is a vulgar Mistake, unless it be granted,
that this Content is first founded on such a Basis,
as the Mind ought to be contented with; for
otherwise a Lunatick in Bedlam is a compleatly
happy Man; he sings in his Hutch, and dan-
ces in his Chain, and is as contented as any Man
living: The Possession or Power, which that Va-
pour or Delirium has upon his Brain, makes him
fancy himself a Prince, a Monarch, a Statesman,
or just what he pleases to be; as a certain Dut-
chess, is said to have believ'd her self to be an Em-
press, has her Footmen drawn up, with Javelins,
and dress'd in antick Habits, that she may fee
them thro' a Window, and believe them to be
her Guards; isserv'dupon the Knee; calfdher
Majesty, Imperial Majesty, and the like > and
with this Splendor, her distemper'd Mind is
deluded, forming Ideas of Things which are
not, and at the kmc Time her Eyes are flint to
the eternal Captivity of her Circumstances > in
which she is made a Property to other Persons, her
Estate managed by Gtiardianihip, and she a poor
demented Creature to the last Degree, an Ob-
ject: of human Companion, and compleatly mi-
serable*
The only Contentment which entitles Mankind
to any Felicity, is that which is founded upon
Vertue and just Principles; for Contentment is
nothing more or less than what we call Peace;
and what Peace, where Crime possesses the Mifld,
which
[79 ]
which is attended, as a natural Consequences with
Torment and Disquiet? What Peace where the
Harmony of the Soul is broken by constant Re-
gret, and Self Reproaches ?What Peace in a Mind
under constant Apprehensions and Terrors of
something yet attending to render them misera-
ble; and all this is inseparable from a Life of Crime.
For where there s Guilt} there always will be Feari
Peace of Mind makes a Halcyon upon the Coun-
tenance, it guilds the Face with a chearful Aspect,
such as nothing else can procure ; and which indeed
as above, it is impossible estectually to counter-
feit.
Bow Mighty Reason, to thy Maker s Name,
for GOD and PEACE, an just the fame î
Heaven is the Emanation qf his Face,
And want of Peace, makes Hell in every Place.
TeSus, ye Men of Notion, tell us why,
sou seek for Bliss and wild Prosperity,
In Storms and Tempests, Feuds and Wary
Is Happiness to be expeBed there Ì
Tell us what Sort of Happiness,
Can Men in want of Peace possess Ì
Bust Charm of Peace, how sweet-are aH thoft Hours
We spend in thy Society! .
Affligions lofe their Acid Powers,
And turn to Joys when joind m the*
pi
 
 
C 80 ]
'The darkest Article of Life with Peace,
Is but the Gate of Happiness;
. Death in its blackest Shapes can never fright,
*ïhou canst fee Day, beyond his Night;
T'he Smile of Peace, can calm the Frown of Fate*
And, Spight of Death, can Life anticipate:
Nay, Hell itself could it admit of Peace,
Would change its Nature, and its Name would cease.
f%e Bright Transforming Blefstng would destroy
*fhe Life of Death, and damn the Place to Joy;
The Metamorphosis would be so strange,
"Iwould fright the Devils, and make them bless the Change
Or else the Brightness would be so intense,
7%ey'd §mn the Light, and fi)e from thence*
Let Heaven, that unknown Happiness,
Be what it will, 9tis best described by Peace.
No Storms without, or Storms within;
No Fear, no Danger there, because no Sin;
"fts bright essential Happiness,
Because He dwells within, whose Natfie is PEACE-
JJ/ho would not sacrifice for thee,
All that Men call Felicity!
Since Happiness, is but an empty Name,
A Vapour without Heat or Flame;
But what from thy Original derives,
And Dyes with thee by whom it Lives.
Bits
t813
 
Ëut Ì return to the Subject of Conversation, from
which this Digression is made only to shew that
the Fund of agreeable Conversation is, and can
only be sounded in Virtue; this alone is the Thing
that keeps a Man always in Humour, and always
agreeable.
They mistake much, #ho think Relîgitírt, or a
strict Morality, disconiposes the Temper, sowres
the Mind, and unfits a Man for Conversation.
'Tis irrational to think, a Man can't be bright,
unless he is wicked; It may as well be said, a
Man cannot be merry till he is mad, not agree-
able till he is offensive, not in Humour till he is out
of himself. JTis clear to me, no Man can be truly
merry3 but he that is truly virtuous: Wit is as
consistent with Religion, as Religion is with good
Manners; nor is there any Thing. in the Limita-
tions of Virtue and Religion; I mean, the just
Restraints which Religion and Virtue lay upon us
in Conversation ,• that should abate the Pleasure of
it, on the contrary they encreasc it: For Example:
Restraints from vicious and indecent Discourses.
There's as little Manners in those Things, as
there is Mirth in them; nor indeed does Re-
ligion or Virtue rob Conversation of one Grain
or true Mirth: On the contrary, the religions
Man is the only Man fully qualify*d for Mirth
and good Humour; with this Advantage, that
when the vitrons and the virtuous Man appear gay
and merry, but differ, m they must do, in the Subject
of their Mirth, you may always observe the virtu-
ous Man's Mirth is superiour to the other 1 more
suitable to him, as a Man, as a Gentleman, as a
wife Man, and as a good Man; and generally
speaking, the other will acknowledge it; at least,
afterward, when his Thoughts cool, and as his
Reflections come m - -
G  Mm
 
 
 
 
. Èut what shall we do to correct the Vices o£
Conversation? How shall wc Chew Men the Pi-
cture of their own Behaviour? There' is not a
greater Undertaking *in the World, or an Attempt
of more Con sequence to the Good'of Mankind
than this; but 'tis as difficult allô, as it is use-
ful; and at best I Ciall make but 3 little Progress
in it in tins Work; let ethers mend it.
sét w "êf "àt *&r 4á/ ^
Of unfitting ûtsr -Jepms fir Con v e r-
SATI0N.'
Efore x enter upon the Thing which 1
call the- Immorality of Conversations
let me fay- a little about the many fifalr
and foolish Ways, by which Men strive?
as ''itwere, to unfit themselves for Conversation.
Human Infirmities furnish us with several Things
that help to make us unconvertible . we. need not
study to increase, the'Disadvantages we lye under
"on that Score: Vice and Intemperance, not as a
Crime onlyy that I should speak of hy itself ', but even
as a Di item per, unfit tis'for Conversation, j they
help to make us cynical, morose, surly, and rude
Vicious People boa it of their polite Carriage and
their nice Behaviour, how gay, how good hu-
mour'd, how agreeable? for a While it may be so:
Bur trace them as Men of Vice, follow them till
they come to Years, and observe, while you live,
you never see the Humour last, .hut;they .grow, fiç-
ry, morose, positive, and petulant. An ancient
Drunkard m a Thing indeed not often seen; be-
cause rhe Vice has one good Faculty with it,
That it seldom .Mods .them, on . to. old. Age.* .But
an ancient and good humour d Drunkard, I think I
-'never knew. h It
 
ìt seems strange, that Men. should affect unfit*
ting themselves for Society, and study to make
themselves unconversible, whereas their being
truly Sociable, as Men, is the Thing which
would most recommend them, and that to the
best of Men, and best answers to the highest Fe-
licity of'Life. Let no Man value himself upon
being morose and cynical, sour and unconvertible*
\i$ the Reverse of a good Man \ a truly religi-
ous Man follows the Rule of the Apostle, be Af-
fiâky be Courteous, be Humble; in Mecknejs, esteeming
every Man better than our JeIves; whereas Conversa-
tion now is the Reverse of the Christian Rule;
'tis interrupted with Conceitedness and Affectati-
on, a Pride* esteeming cur selves better than every
Man; and that which is worse still, this happens
generally, when indeed the Justice of the Cafe is
against us; for where is the, Man who thus, over-
ruling himself, is not evidently inférieur in Merit:
to all about him? Nay, and frequently those
who put most Value upon themselves, have the
least Merit to support it. Self-Conceit is the
Bane of human Society, and generally speaking
is the Peculiar of those who have the least to
Tecommend them; 'tis the Ruin of Conversation,
and the Destruction of all Improvement; for how
should any Man receive any Advantage from the
Conversation of others, who believes himself qua-
lified to teach them, and not to have Occasion to
learn any Thing from them?
Nay, as the Fool is generally the Man that is
conceited most of his own Wit, so that very
Conceit i> the Ruin of him; it confirms him a
Fool all the Days of his Life, for he that thinks
himself a wise Man, is a Fool, and knows it
not i nay, 'tis impossible he should continue to be
G i a Fool,
 
 
 
 
 
. t »4 3
a Fool, if lie was but once con vine'd of hi
Folly.
If Fools could their oxm Ignorance discern^
They'd be m longer Foolsy because they'd learn.
It will be objected here indeed, that Folly and
Conceit may be hurtful to Conversation, may
rob Men of the Advantage of it, unfit one Side
for Conversing, and make it unprofitable, as well
as unpleasant to the other; But that this is no-
thing to the Immorality of Conversation; that Ig-
norance and Conceit may be an 1 Infirmity, but is
not always a Crime; that the Mischief of
Mens being Fools is generally " their own, but
the Mischief of their being Knaves is to other
People, and this is very true. • But certainly, e-
gregious Folly merits one Paragraph of Rebuke;
perhaps it may touch' the Senses "of some weak
Brethren one time m other, and the Labour may
not be lost.
I never saw a ftlore simple,-* or yet a snore so*
îîùuì irreconcilable Quarrel, than once between
two of the most empty conceited People that e-
ver I knew in the World; and it was upon one
calling the other Fool, which on both Sides was
unhappily very true; they fought upon the Spot,
but were parted by the Company , they chal-
lenged, and could not meet, their Friends getting
Notice of it ; in short, it ruin'd them both; they
made newAppointments, and at last deceived their
Friends, and fought again; they were both woun-
ded, and oeedied, the other fled the Country,
and never retnrnU The first own*d he'was a
Fool, which was indeed some Diminution of his
Folly. I fay, he knew himself to be a Fool, but
could not bear the other should tell him so> who
was
 
was more a Food than himself The other boldly as-
serted his own Capacities tp be infinitely greater
than they were, and despised lb? first to the kit
Degree, who indeed, ii he ha4 not more Wit,
had more Modesty than the other; but both like
Fools fought about Nothing, for suph indeed the
Question about their Wit might very w# have
been call'd.
But, it is true, after all, the Want of a con-
versibie Temper, if from, a Want or Defect of
Sense may be an Infirmity, not an Immorality;
that is to lay, the Cause is not so in itself, but
it may be so in its Consequences, that way also.
For the Conversation of Fools is Vanity in the Ab~
jhaft. I might here indeed find Subject for a
large Tract, upon the infinite Diversity of Fools,
and by consequence the wondrous Beauty of their
Conversation: I have on this Occasion reckon'd
up a List of about-Seven and Thirty several Sorts
of Fools, besides Solomons Fool,whom I tgke to be
the ivicked Fool only; these I have diversified by
their Tempers and Humours, and in the infinite
Variety of their Follies of several Sorts, in every
one of which they rob themselves, and all that
keep them Company of the Felicity of Conver-
sation, there being nothing in them bpt Emptir
nefs, or a Fulness of v/hat is Ridiculous, and' on-
ly qualified to be laught at, or found Fault
with.
I have likewise describ'd some of their Con-
versation, their vain Repetitions, their Catch-
Words, their Laughings and Gestures, and adap-
ted them to make the World merry. I have
Thoughts of running it on into foreign Chara-
cters, - and ' describe French, Spanish, Portuguese
Fools, and Fools of Russia, China, and the Bast,
iadm: But as this is something remote from the
 
 
 
 
 
 
Design in Hand, which is more serious, and
done"'on*a much better View, and'likewise of
an immeasurable Length, like the weighty Sub-
sect k is upon ( for Folly is a large Field) so I re-
fer it to another Opportunity.
The Truth is, that Part of Conversation which
1 am now to speak of, or which I mean by what
I have said upon this Subject, is the weighty and
serious Fart, and is not the mecrcommon Talk,
or a Conversation which Fools arc capable of;
'tis exercised in a solid and well tempered Frame,
and when regulated as it ought to be, by Virtue,
and good Morals^ is quallified to make Mankind
happy in the Enjoyment of the best Things,
and of the best Company, and therefore, the E-
viis that creep into, and corrupt this Part of our
Conversation, are of the more fatal Quality, and
worth our exposing, that People may see and
stun them, and that Conversation may be restored
4 among'B$ to what it should be. *
I. Of the Immorality of Con ver*
: SATION i» General
OME may object against the Term
the Immorality of ' Conversation, • and
think the*'Word improper to the Sub-
ject ;but to save any Critick the dearly
beloved Labour of cavilling in Favour of ill Man-
ners and unbecoming'Bchaviowv-l stall .explain
myself before I go any farther.
'* ; ' * ' r r *'' leal)
 
'I-callConversation immoral, ' where the Dis-
course is indecent,1 where --'tis irreligious or pro-
fane, where 'tis immodest or scandalous, or where
ris slanderous and abuiivc. - In these and inch Ca-
ses, loqui eft ageri, thus vâlkkïg.lewdly> or talking
profanely, is an immodest Action. Such is the
Power of Words that Mankind is able to act, as
much Evil by their Tongues, as by their Hands;
the Ideas that -are formed* in •rive Mind'from what
we hear, arc niost peircing and permanent; and
the Force of Example in this Cafe, is not ^more
powerful than the Force of-Argument.
- Some of the worst Sins are not to be commit-
ted but by the Tongue, as thé Sin of Blasphemy,
speaking Treason against - the Majesty of God,
Gut sings and * Imprecations • aìtiông" Men, ^ iiex3
Slanders, and a vast Variety.of petty Excursions*
which are grown modish by Custom, and seem too
(mall to be reproved. _ 
-,We are here in England^ after many Years De-
generacy, arrived to a Time, wherein Vice is in
general diTcouht^ancU"by Authority; Godwin
Mercy to the Age has inspired our Government
with a Resolution to discourage it: The King
now, his Wars are -over/ and his foreign'- Enemies
allow him some Rest, will, we hope, declare War
against this Domestick Enemy. _
1 The late Qáeeii Mary^.of heavenly Memory, for
hér Piety andv"bîesièd Example,  appeared in 'her
Time gallantly in the Cause of Virtue: Magi-
strates were 'encouraged- to punish Vice,  new
Laws made to restrain it, and Justice feem'd to
be at Work to reclaim it: But what can Kings or
Queens, or Parliaments do? Laws and Procla-*
mations are weak and useless Things, unless some
secret Influence can affect the Practices of those
wliom no Laws can reach.; -;' - - . . "i
G 4- To
 
 
 
 
 
so male Laws against Words, would be a$
fruitless as to make a shelter against the Lightning;
there arc,.so many Inlets to the Breach, that,the
Informers would be as numerous as the Crimi-
nals, and the Trespass as frequent as the Minutes
we live in.
Conversation has received a general Taint, and
the Disease is become a Charm ; the Way to cure
it, is not by forcible Restraints on Particulars,
but by iomc general Influence on the pubiick Pra-
ctice; when a Distemper becomes pleasant to o,
Patient, he is the harder to be cur'd; he has a fort
of Aversion tQ the Remedy because he has pone to
the Piscasc. Our modern People have such a Pas-
sion for the Mode, that if it be but the Fashion
to be Lewd, they will scandalize their Honour, de-
bauch their Bodies, and damn their Souls to be
Gentile; if the Ëeaux talk Blasphemy, the rest will
set up for Athiests, and deny their Maker, to be
counted witty in thç Defence of it; when our
Tradesmen would be thought wise, and make
themselves appear çiçç and learned in their Cgn-v
yersation, nothing will satisfy them but to criti-
cise upon Things sacred j run up %q discuss the In-
scrutables of Religion; search |hç Arcana even of
Heaven itself: Thç Divinity of the Spn of God*
the hypostatick Union, the rational Description 0?
the State Everlasting, nay, the Demonstrations or
undemohstrabie Things, are the common Subject of
ïheif fancied.affe^ed'Ç^p^cíties*"
Hence come Heresies and Delusipns, Men af-
fecting to search into what is impossible they should
dear! y discover, learn to doubt, because they can-
not describe, and deny the Existence b?cause they
cannot explain the Manner of what thçy enquire
áseei î^ifA ílwra^Jmi^baiçy of their acting
by their Sense upon Objects beyond its Reach* wa?
 
au Evidence against their Being. Thus because the
Trinity cannot appear to their Reasoning, they
oppose their Reasoning to its Reality; they will
digest the Sou of God of his Divinity, and of the
hypostatick Union of the Godhead in the Person
of Christ, because they cannot distinguish between
the Actions done by him in his Mediatorial Capa-
city, in Virtue of his Office, and those Actions,
which he did in Virtue of his Omnipotence and
Godhead,
This is not an immorality and Error in Confer*
sation only, or not so much, so as I think it is a Judg-
ment upon it, a Blast from Heaven upon the Arro-
gance of the Tongue; when proud Men give
themselves"* Loose to talk Blasphemously to be
thought witty, their Maker gives them up to
suggest damnable Errors till they begin to believe
them, and to broach their own wicked Hints, till
they by Custom learn to espouse " and defend
them, as Children tell feigned Stories till they be-
lieve them to be true. ff our Town Fopperies
were visible only in the little Excursions of Dress
and Beliavfour, it would be Satisfaction enough
for a wife Man, either to pity or laugh at them;
but when Wit is set on work, and Invention rack'd
to find out Methods, how they may be more than
superlatively wicked, when all the Endowments
of the Mind and Helps of Art, with the Accomr
pliihments of Education are range! in Battel a-
gainst Heaven, and joyn'd in Confederacy to make
Mankind more wicked, than ever the Devil had
the Impudence to desire of them; This calls out
aloud for the Help of all the Powers of Govern-
ment," and all the Strength of Wit and Virtue m
detect and expose it. • *'
Indeed I had some Thoughts to leave upon Re-
cord a metencholly kind of Genealogy, of this
horrid
 
 
horrid Perfection of Vice, which so increases i
our Age, I mean as it respects this Nation, in
which 'tis too ancient indeed to trace it back to its
Original; yet since its visible Increase lias been
within the reach of our own Memory, and 'tis as
1 may fay, the adopted Child of our Age, wc
may judge oi the Extent of its Influence, and may
take a short View of it in Miniature» None indeed
can judge of the Extent pi its Influence, but such
as have conversed with all Sorts of People, from
the Court to the Plough-tail, where you may too
sadly see the Effect of it, in the general debauch-
ing both the Principles and Practice of all Sorts
and Degrees of this Nation; But it will be an
ungrateful Task, 'twould lead me to she Chara-
cters of Persons, and to write Satyrs upon the
Times, as well those past, £s these present, which
indeed is not my Business in this Work; and
therefore I throw by some keen Observations
which I had made upon this Subject, my Business
here, or at least my Design being rather to instruct
the Age, than to reproach it; and as for the Dead,
ihey are gone to their Place. , .
St. Augustin observes, de Civitatedeiy that the An-
cients justified their Liberty in all Excesses  of
Vice, which they practised in those Times from
the Patterns of their Gods, that the Stories of
the Rapes and Incest of Jupiter, the Lewdness of
Vmus and Alars, and the like, made those Crimes
appear less heinous, since People. had them fre-
quent in the Histories of the Deities they wor-
shipped.; and that they must of Necessity be law-
ful, seeing they were .practised - by those famous
Persons, who they had placed above the Skyes and
thought tit to adore.' . . •" \
If modern Times have received unhappy Im-
pressions from vicious Courts ; * and Princes, have
: ,' not
 
 
 
t 91.3
 
n0t taken the needful Caution pot to guide to Evil
by their Example instead of turning this jntQ
Satyr upon those that are past, !choose to give it
another Turn, which our Kings and People too
in Time to come "'may make good Use of-; and I
hope will not be offended at supposing chat they
will do so.
1. To Kings or Sovereigns in future Reigns;
 for I am not in this intending the present
Reign; it may without Offence-be said, that
they have a glorious Advantage put into their
Hands, to Honour their Maker, and advan-
tage their People, to the immortal Glory of
• their own Memory, by prompting'Virtue and
discouraging Vice by their happy Examples;
by removing the vicious Habits of Conver-
sation from the Court-Modes, and making
Vice unfashionable as it is unseemly ; why
may not the Royal Example go as far to re-
 form a Nation, as it has formerly done tQ
debauch and ruin it? But as this respects the
(a) Heads of the People, I desire to speak it
with the Deference of a Subject, and close
this Discourse with only saying, that I pray
and wish it may be so. . \
2. To the People with more Freedom I apply
it thus* Let past Examples be what they will,
the present Reign encourages no Crime, why
then should our modern Conversation receive'
this Taint? why .should we be. Voluntiers m
the Devil's Service? while the Power we are
under gives us neither Precept or Example j
if we are Guilty, 'tis by meer Choice, the
Crime is all our own, and we are Patterns
.... to, ourselves*  . .., ... . ..-Bui
(a) This was all Written in King WillîamV Jfc/V/i and refers to
f lis. Xíjwí.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
l. Of nformmg the Errm of Ço%:
versation. . .. ...
UT I leave tîiís Part as ksi ^giate&l,
and perhaps not more signihcant thari
; wíiat I hâve yct. to. Jay.upon this Sub:
jcét; 'tis not so absoltitgly jnaterial to
inquíre how bis Conversation came first tp be cor*
rupctd, as hpw it sliall be reform'd or recovered.
The Question before iisis, by what Mcthod to re~
trieve ûús misérable Défection, and to bring back
the Nation to somç tolçcabk Degree or good
Maniiçrs,.. that. Movìlity at kast may regain its
Authority, and Virtue, and Sobriety be valued
again as ít ought to bc; this, I (ay, is a díffr
çultThing to direct.
—Fœcilïs defeenfus averni:
Sed revocaregradumy
Hoc opus hic Içùor est.
•~ - 'Virg.'iEneid. vl
Eïïglìjl/d thus:
#
..: . *Tis casy into Hcll to F»II,'
But to get back from thence is ail.
'- The-Method might be casier  prescríb?di than
practiled; tho* it cannot be perfcctly prescrib'd nei-
ther,íbmething may however be saidby way of Ob-
íervauon, perhapsother Wçll-wiCbcr$,may hereafter
' ^; ' * <throw
throw theií Mites intò this Treasury, and some
zealous Reformers may at last make the Attempt
upôn these Foundations.
i. A strict Execution of the Laws against Vice;
we ha?e already, and are every 'Day making very
good Laws to reform the People : But the Benefit of
Laws consists in the executive Power, which if not
vigorously put forth, Laws become useless, and if
were better they were not made at all* I was once
going to have added here a Treatise, entituled, an
Essay upon the Insignificancy of Laws and Acts of
Parliament in England; but upon íeéond Thoughts,
resolving to mingle no Satyr with my serious Ob-
servations, I omitted this also. The Deficiency
of our Laws, is chiefly in the Want of Laws
to reform the Law-makers, that the Wheel of exe-
cutive Justice might be kept going; Of what
Use else can Laws be?
(2) An exemplar Behaviour in our Gentry,-after
whose Copy the poor People generally write j
not but that I acknowledge < it will be harder*
to reform a Nation, than it would to debauch
it; though Virtue should obtain upon Cu-
stom ; and become the Fasliion, because Incli-
nation does not stand neuter; but it would be
a great Step to this Reformation-, if we could
all joyn to discourage Immorality by Example ;.
That if a Man will be drunk or lewd, he shall
as a Tables rots a House, do it in the Dark, and
be ashamed of it. If these two Heads were
brought to pass, I question not but Reformation
would come to such an heighth, that if a poor
Man happened to be drunk, he should come and
desire the Constable to set him in the Stocks, for
star of worse Punishment; and if a rich Man
swore an Oath in his Passion, he should fend his
Footman to the next Justice of the Peace with his
 
 
 
 
 
 
fine, and get a^Discharge for sear' of being ih-
form'd against and. exposed.
In order to the furthering this great Work, it
wopld be very neceísery3..ií .poJEbkj to draw the
jPicture of our modern Vices, to let Mankind fee
by a true Light what they are doing, and how
ugly a Phyz the Mistress they court really appears
with, when Inclination which paints her in diffe-
rent Colours is taken off.
'Twill be impossible to bring Vice out of Fa-
shion, if we cannot.bring Men'to M Understand-
ing of what it really is But could we prevail up-
on a Man to examine his Vice, to diflect its Parts,
and view the Ánatomy[of it; to fee how disagree-
able it is to him as a Man, as a Gentleman, or as
a Christian; how despicable and contemptible in
its highest Fruition, how destructive to his Senses,
£state,and Reputation; how difljonourable,and how
beastly, in its publick Appearances, such a Man
would certainly be out of Love with it* and be
but Mankind once, out of love with Vice; the Re-
formation is half brought to pass. 
I (hall not pretend to invade the Province of
the Learned, nor offer one Argument from Scrip-
ture or Providence; for I am supposed to be talk-
ing to Men that doubt or deny them both. Divi-
nity is not ray Talent, nor ever ..like, to be my
Profession, the Charge of Priestcraft, and School-
men would not lie against me; besides, 'tis not
the way of talking that the World relishes at this
Time; in a Word, talking Scripture is out of
Fashion : But I must crave leave to tell my Rea-
der, that if there were no God or Providence,
Devil or future State, yet they ought not to be
Drunken and Lewd, Paffionatc, Revengeful or
Immoral i 'tis! so Unnatural, so Unruly, so Ingén-
iée!, so Foolish and Foppish, that no wise Man as
a Man
 
 
[951
 
a Man can justify it so much as to his own Rea-
son, or the Memory of his Ancestors. 1 suppose
my self talking to Men that have nothing co do
with God, and desire he should have nothing to
do with them; and yet even to such, a vicious
Conversation, lookM on without the Gust of incli-
nation, would appear too brutish to be meddled
with, if we will but choose like Men, 'not to say
like Christians; 'Virtue and Morality is more
agreeable to human Nature, more manly than
Vice and Intemperance j 'tis more suitable to all
the Ends of Life, to' the Being of Society, to-the
publick Peace of Families* as well as Nations.
Mankind would rather be virtuous than vicious,
if they were to choose only for their own Case and
Convenience. Vice tends to Oppression, War
and Confusion; Virtue is peaceable and honest;
Vice is a Poison to Society, no Man is safe if
Men have neither^Sobriety or Honesty; for the
Innocent will be robb'd by the Thief, ravifht by
the Lewd, and murther'd by the Drunkard.
It might not be a needless Digression if i should
examine here, whether Whoring and Drunkenness
be not the two Mother Sins of the Times, the
Spring and Original of all our fashionable Vices;
I distinguish this because other Sins, as Mudrers,
Thefts, Rapes and the Iike# are now come so
much in Vogue; we are content the Laws should
be executed for them* but should, think it very
hard a Man fhou'd be hang'd for Whoring, or
transported for being Drunk.
I would not have any of our Gentlemen think,
that my laying the Charge of our Debauchery
on the Examples of the Gods, has taken off any
Thing of the Blame from those who have indu-
stïíoiìOy propogated the spreading Evil, among
rirçir Tenants and Neighbours, by their own vi-
 - * '' '' - eioas
 
C 9<* 3
clous Example; and I could turn the whole Obser-
vation into a Satyr on the Manners of our Gen-
tlemen, and describe with what Easiness our
Magistrates let fall the Reins of their Authority.,
and connive at the Practice of all manner of In-
temperance and Excess among the Peoplfc; with
what Eagerness the poor Country-men are calfd
in to be made drunk upon every Occasion; with
what Contempt any Person is look'd upon either
in Town or Country, that either will not be
drunk, or cannot bear an excessive Quántity of
Wine: How our common Mirth is Bid with
Songs and Poems, recommending Drunkenness and
Lewdness, and rampant Vice ridfcs Riot through
the Nation. But as above I avoid Satyr, I shall
endeavour to treat this foul Subject, in? as civil
Terms as the Cafe will bear, and only examine
general Conversation in particular Heads, with some
vulgar Errors of Behaviour which are crept in, and
which seem authorized by Custom,
J* Of játhìeptcal and Prof ham
Discourse.
O D Almighty himself is the least be-
1 mífiÈ ^°^mS 10 this Açe, of any that ever
rnXt m wâS from the Beginning of Time; for
tsEESl that being arrived to a Degree of Know-
ledge superior to all that went before us, or at
least fancying it to be so. Whereby the greater
Glory might accrew to himself the Author of all
Wisdom, that very Gift, the brightest of all the
heavenly Blessings, ii made use of to put the great-
 
 
t 97 3
cest Contempt upon his Majesty that Mankind is
capable of, to deny his Essence: Such an Affront
flat the Devils themselves never had the Impu-
dence to suggest to the World, till they found
Man arris'd to a Degree of Hardness sit for some-
thing never done before. All the Heathen Mations
in the World carrte short of this; the most refir/d
Philosophers own M a first Cause of all Things, and
that something was superior, whose Influence go-
verns, and whose being was Sacred and to be
AdorU The Devil himself, who is allow'd to be
full of Enmity against the supreme Being, has of-
ten set up himself to be worshipped as a God,
but never prompted the most barbarous Nations to
deny the Being of a God; and 'tis thought that
even the Devil himself belief'd the Notion Wm too
absurd to be imposed upon the World. But our Age
is even with him for his Folly; for since they can-
not get him to joyn in the Denial of a God, they
will deny his Devilfhip too, and have neither one
nor other.
'Tis worth Observation, after the most con-
vincing Arguments that Nature and Reason can
produce for the Existence of a Deity, what weak,
foolish, ridiculous Shifts the most refin'd of our
Atheistical Disputants fly to in Defence of their
Notion; with what senseless Pains they Labour to
reason themselves into an Opinion, which their
own Constitution, Nature and way of Living gives
the Lie to, everycMoment; with how little Consi-
stency they (solve ail the other Phenomena of Na-
ture, and Creation \ that #heri in ail other Points
theyare capable of arguing strenuously, and are not
to be satisfied but with Strength of Reason md
sound Argument; here they admit Sophisms, de-
itìsite Suppositions, and miserable Shams and Pre-*
t*aces to prevail upon their own Judgments. This
H it
E 98 ]
Is touchM at in the following Lines upoft the
S/sttmof Prometheus, which 1 could not omit upon
this Occasion, relating to the Heathens Ignorance
in the great Doctrine of first Causes,
*fbe.Great Promethean J%#j/y,
. First made the Model of a Man in Clay
Ccntrivd the form $f Parts, and whem he had done,
Stole vital Meat from the Prolifick Sun:
But not a Poet tells us to this Day,
Who made Prometheus first, and who the Clay,
ffho gave the great Prolific to the Suny
And where the first poduïlive Work begun.
Also Epicurus his Phylosophy will satisfy some
People* who fancies the World was made by a
strangç fortuitous Conjunction of Atoms, without
any pre-existent Influence, or without any imme-
diate Power, which Mr. Creech very well translates
thus
But some have dreamt o f Atoms strangely hurVdj
'Into the decent Order of the World,
And jo by Chance cornbind.from whence began
Tlje Earth, the Heaven, the Sea, and Beaft, and Man.
To which I crave leave to subjoin one Comple-
ment, by way of Confutation of this Folly $
Forgetting first that something must bestow,
Existence on those Atoms that did so.
The Arguments for the Existence of a Deityv
are so many, sonteely handled, and so uoaafwera-
    /• .. m
 
[ 99 ] ,
ble± that 'ris needless to attempt any Thing tint
Way, no Man in his Wits needs any further De-
monstration of it, than what he may find within
himself; nor is it any Part of the Work I am up-
on, ! have only a few Things to ask of our mo-
dern Atheists.
1. Whether their more serious Thoughts do
not reflect upon them in the very Act, raid give
the Lie to their Arguments. My Lord Rochester ±
who was arriv'd to an extraordinary Pitch in this
Infernal Learning, acknowledged it on his Death
Bed; the Sense Nature has upon her of the Cer-
tainty of this great Truth, will give some Con-;
vulsions at so horrid an Act.
Nature pays Homage with a trembling Bow,
And Conscious Men but faintly disallow,
The secret Trepidation racks the Soul,
And while he fays, no God, réplies, Thou FoùL
2. I would ask the most confident Atheist, what
Assurance he has of the Negative, and what A
Risque he runs if he should be mistaken? This wà
are sure of, if we want Demonstration to prove
the Being of a God, they are much more at a
Loss for a Demonstration to prove the Negative.
Now no Man can Answer it to his Prudence, to
take the Riscjue they run, upon an uncertain suppo-
sititious Notion ; for if there be such a Thing as a
first Cause, which we call God, they have very
httle Reason to expect much from him, who have
^ade it their Business to affront him by denying
his Existence. . .Not have they acted in their De-
nial like wise Men, for they have not used so
ûiichíts the Cautioii of good 'Manners,"but as
H i if
 
 
 
 
[ 100 ]
if they were as sure of his Non-entity, as of the
strongest Demonstration, they have been witty *
upon the Thing, and made a jest of the Supposi-
tion, tum'd all Matters of Faith into Ridicule,
burlesqu'd upoii Religion it self, and made Bal-
lads and Songs on 'the Bible; thus Rochester ha$
left us a long lewd Song, beginning thus:
Religions à Politick Cheat
Made up of many a Fable,
Ne're trouble the Wife or the Great}
But only amuses the Rabble.
Now, Í am not iri this"Discourse entring into any
oi the Arguments in these grand Questions on one
íïde or other, that would be to make this Work
a Collection of Polemicks; nor am I Casuist enough
for such a Work ; but I am observing or remarking
upon the Wickedness of the treating these Subjects
with Levity and Ignorance in the common Road
of Conversation
Methinks these Gentlemen act with more Courage
than- Discretion; for if it, should happen at last,
that there should be a God, and that he has the
Power of Rewards and Punishments in his Hand,
as he must have or cease to be Almighty, they are
but in an ill Case.
"If it should so fall'out) as who can tell,
, But there may be a God$ a Heaveny a Hell%
Mankind had best consider well for fear,
T'Jboud be too late when their Mistakes appear.
Nor do they in my Opinion discover any great
Wit in it; there is if I might pass for a Judge,
•"  ' 'some-
 
 
[ 101 ]
something flat, something that shocks the Fancy?
in all the Satyr upon Religion that ever 1 saw; as
if the Muse were not io much an Atheist as the
Poet, but bauks the Hint, and could not savoura
blasphemous Flight with* so much Freedom and
Spirit that at other Times it has shown; which is
a Notice that there is a tqdt Sense of the Deity,
though they pretend to deny it lodg'd in the Un-
derstanding, that it is not 'stifled without some
Difficulty, and struggles tard with the Fancy,
when the Party strives to be more than ordinary
Insolent with his Maker. *
In the ncxtPîace as'tis one of the worst Immorali-
ties of Conversation when it is prophane/oBlafphe-
my is the Extrcam of Prophancness; you cannot
come into Company with an Atheist, but you have
it in his common Discourse i he is always putting
some Banter or foolish Pun upon Religion, affront-
ing the invisible Power, or ridiculing his Maker;
all his Wit runs out into it,as all Diseases run, into
the Plague in a Time of Infection, and you must
have Patience to hear it or quarrel with him*
Below these we have a Sotft of People who1 will
acknowledge a God, but he must be such a one
as they please to make him ; a fine well bred good
natural Gentleman like Deity, that cannot have
the Heart to damn any of his Creatures to an
Eternal Punilhment, nor could not be so .weak as
to let the Jews crucify his own Son ; these Men ex-4
pose Religion, and all the Doctrines of Repentance,
and Faith in Christ, with all the Means of a
Christian Salvation, as matter of Banter and Ridi-
cule. The Bible they fay is a good History in
most Parts, but the Story of our Saviour they look
upon as a meer Novel, and the Miracles of the
Hew Testament "as a Legend of Priestcraft.
H 3 Fuccheç
Further, besides .these we hayç Art ws and «So-
çìmans, the Disciples of an ancient Heretick, who
went out of the Chutch always at the singing
the-Gloria Patri, chat he might "'be out of the
Noise,, and would, sit down at the Poxology of
the Prayers, to note his disowning the Godhead of
'' These are Iniquities^ as Job said, Jfttftt/t/ ^ f unified by
\he fudges y cap. xxii. v. xx. and these are the Things
which have given ...such a Stroke to the Ruin of
the Nation's Morals y for no Method can be so
direct to prepare People for all Sorts of Wicked-
ness, as to perswade them out of a Belief of any
supreme Power to restrain them.;,make a Man
price cease to believe a God, and he has nothing
left to'limit his Appetite but meer Philosophy; if
there.is up supreme' Judicature* lie must be his
own Judge and his own Law, and will be so; the
Notion of Hell, Devil,, and Infernal Spirits are
empty Things, and have'nothing of Terror in
them, if the Belief pf # Power superior to them
be obliterated.
But to bong this ...particular Cafe nearer to the
Point of Conversation, the Errors of which lie
before me; though we live in an Age where these
jhorod pÊgreç$.of Impiety are too much practised;
yet wc live in a Place where Religion is professed,
the Name of God owned and worshipped, Reli-
ligion and the Doctrines of Christianity esta-
blished ; and as it is,., so, it ought as much to be
preserved by the Civil Power, from the horrid In-
vasion of Atheists,. Deists and Heretkb, as the
Publick Peace, ought to be dçkndçd against Free-
booters, Thieves, and Invaders.  ,
*Ti$ very improbable any Reformation of Man-
ners should be brought to pals, if the debauching
the religious Principles or the Nation, goes on
* - *' -.   - • with
with an imrcstrain'd Liberty. How incongruous
is it to the Décoration of Government, that 9 Mm
(hall be punished for Drunkenness, and set in the
Stocks for Swearing* but shall have Liberty to de-
ny the God of Heaven, and dispute against the
very Sum and Substance of the Christian Doctrine,
(hall banter the Scripture, and make Ballads of the
Pentateuch, turn all the Principles of Religion,
the Salvation of the Soul, the Death of our Savi-
our, and the Revelation of the Gospel, into Ridi-
cule? And shall we pretend to Reformation of
Manners, and suppressing immoralities, white
such as this, is the general Mixture of Conversa-
tion? if a Man calk against the Government, or
speak scurrilously of the King,: he is had to the
Old Baylyv md from thence to the Pillory, or
Whipping-Post, and 'tis fit it should be so: But
he may speak Treason against the Majesty of Hea-
ven, deny the Godhead of his Redeemer, and make
t Jest of the Holy Ghost, and thus affront the
Power we all adore, and yet pass with Impunity';
perhaps some in the Company may have Courage
enough to blame him, and "vindicate their Reli-
gion with a Why do ye talkso> But where is the
Man, or the Magistrate, that ever vindicated the
Honour of his Maker, with a Resentment beco-
ming the Cri<me? Isa Man give the Lie to a
Gentleman in Company, he takes it as an Af-
front, flies into a Passion, quarrels, fights, and
perhaps murders him; nay, some have done it for
an absent Friend, whom they have heard abused:
But where is the Gentleman that ever thought
himself so much concern'd in the Quarrel of his
Maker, but that he could hear him affronted,
his Being deny'd, the Lie given to h s divine Au-
thority, nay, to his divine Being, and all his
Commands ridicul'd and expos'd, without any
H 4 Me-
 
 
[ Ï04 ]
Motion of Spirit to punish the Insolence of thi
Party, and without drawing his Sword in the
Quarrel, or letting him know he docs not like it.
Methinks» 1 need not make an Apology for
this, as if 1 meant, that Quarrelling and Fighting
were a proper Practice in the Cafe; the Law does
not admit it in any Cafe; nor is it reasonable it
should, and God Almighty is far from desiring
us to rim any Risque in his Service: But 1 chufe
to bring the Cafes into a Parallel, to signify, that
I think 'tis a vulgar Error in our Behaviour, not
to fhpw our Resentment, when we hear the Ho-
nour and Essence of God flighted and denied, his
Majesty abused, and Religion banters and ridi^
cul'd in common Discourses.' I think it would
be very reasonable, to tell a Gentleman he wants
Manners, when he talks reproachfully of his Ma-
ker, and to use him scurvily if hç resented it. It
would very well become a Man of Quality to
cane a lew'd Fop, or kick him down Stairs, when
his Insolence took a koose at Religion in his Com-
pany, else Men may be bullied out of their Chri-
stianity, and lampooned into Prophaneness, for
Fear of being counted Fools.
'Besides, *m in in this as in all other like Cafes;
he that will talk athcisticatly in my Company, ei-
ther believes me to be an Atheist like himself, or
ventures to impose upon me; and by 'imposing
upon mc, either accounts me a Fool that can't
tell when I am put upon, or a Coward that dare
not resent it.
Upon which Account, even in good Manners,
it ought to be avoided; for it can't be intro-
duced into any Part of Conversation, where the
Company are not ail alike, without the greatest
Affront upon the rest that can be offered them.
4-V
4- Of Lewd arid Jmmgdefi Discourse^
 
Mking Bawdy, that Sodomy of tin
Tongue lias the most of ill Maimers, and
he least of a Gentleman in it, of any
Part of common Discourse. Sirfòwg*.
Mackenzie has very handsomely exposed it in its
proper Coipurs: Rut it pay pot be an Intrench-
ment at all upon his Province, to fay something
to it in these Observations, . ,
This Part is the peculiar Practice of such Person â
asarehardençd to a Degree beyond other Men;
Proficients in Debauchery, whose Lives are so con-
tinually devoted to Lewdness, that their Mouths,
cannot contain it; who can govern their Tongues
no better than their Tails, aid are willing to be
thought what really they are. In these, it is
neither so strange, nor so much a Crime as in o~
thers; these are Persons not to bt reclaimed. This
Part of my Observation is not designed for theip
Use; they are not to be talk'd out of their Vice*
they must go on and run their Length: Nothing
but a Goal or an Hospital ever brings them to a.
Reform at ipn ; they repent sometimes in that Em-
blem of Hell, a fluxing House, and under the Sur-
geons Hands, with a little they had been wiser;
but they follow pne Sin with another, till their
Carcass stinks as bad as their Discourse, and the
Body becomes too nasty, for the Soul to stay any
longer in it: Frotn these no Discourse is to be ex-
pected, but what is agreeable to the Tenor oC
their Lives; for them to talk otherwise, would be
iirain'd and excentrick, and become them as lit-
tle,
[.106 J
fie, as it would be tedious to them; but for a
Gentleman» .a Man of seeming Modesty, and a
Man of Behaviour, not arrived to that Class in
the Devil*sSchooli for such a one to mix his Dis-
course' with lewfd and -filthy * Expressions,' "has
something in it of a Figure, which inrends more
than is expressed- •;
~ Either we must believe such a one t<j- be very
lew'd in Ms Practice; or else, that ttot being
able yet to arrive to suçh a Degree of Wickedness
as he délires, he would supply that Defect with a
Cheat, and perswade you to believe he is really
wwsethan he is. ........ _ . .
Which of these two Characters I would chuse to
Wt$c>"lcannot tell V for he that desires to be worse
than he thinks he is, is certainly as bad as he de-
bris" to be; má he that is so bad as to let lis the
Excresccncies of ic at his Mouth, is as wicked
as the Devil* canin Reason desire of him,
But I descend from the Wickedness to the Inde-
cency of the Matter;1 its being a Sin ^against God;
is not so much the present Argument, as its being
iinmitinerly, aSirapítist Breedings-and Society,'
a Breach of Behaviour, and a saucy insolent Af-
front to  all  the Company. *  ~ * - ' •;-   • 
1 do not deny,  but that Modesty, as it respects
the Covering our Bodies, wás at first an Effect of
the Fall of our Parents into Crime, and is there-
fore said still to be the Consequences of criminal
Nature, and no Virtue in itself, because no Part
of * the Body liad been unfit "to "be exposed, if
Vice had not made the Distinction necessary.
'; But.ftotrt thi« veff Argfumfcnt; tewd Discourse ap-
pears to be a Sin against Custom and Decency for
why must the Tongue industrioiisly expose Things...
and Actions at which Nature blushes, and which
Custom, kt the OsfgJMl be wèoì'tf wi^ has dedi-
cated
 
cated to Privacy and Retirement? What if
it be true, that Shame is the Consequence of Sin,
and that Modesty is not an original Virtue; it
cannot but be allowed, that Sin has thereby,
brought us to â Necessity of making Modesty be
a Virtue, and Sin would have a double Influence
upon us, if after it had made us aíliam'd, ic should
pake us not ashamed again. .
'Tis in my Opinion a Mistake, when we fay,
Sin was the immediate Cause of Shame; 'twas Sin
indeed gave a Nudity to our Natures and Acti-
ons; the Innocence which fer?'d as a Glory and
Covering, being gone, then Shame came in as
the Effect of the conscious Sinner \ so the Text
fays, They knew that they were naked: Shame was
the Effect of Nakedness, as Nakedness was the
Effect of Sin. . .
From hence then I argue, and this is the Rea-
son of my naming it, That to be afham'd of our
Nakedness, is a Token of our Wisdom, and a
Monument of our just Sense of the first Sin that
made it so, and as much a Duty now, as any
other Part of our Repentance. t (
TTo give theTongue then a Liberty in that which
there is so much Reason to blush at, argues no
Sense of the Original Degeneracy* Where is
the Man that partakes not of Adams Fall, has
no vicious contracted Habit and Nature convey M
to him from his Grand-Predecessor? Let him
come forth, let him go naked, and live by himself,
and [let his Posterity partake of his Innocence \
his Tongue cannot offend, nothing can be inde-
cent for him to fay, nothing uncomely for hun
to fee.
^ But if these Gentlemen think it proper to cover
their Nakedness with their Clothes, methinks
they fiiould not be always uncovering it again
with
[ îo8 ]
 
wth their Tongues; if there are some neçdsiil
Things, which Nature requires to be done in se-
cret, and which they by Inclination chuse to act
in Private: What Reason can they give for speak-
ing of them in Publick.
There is a strange Incongruity in the Behaviour
of these People, that they fill their Mouths with
the foul Repetition of Actions, and Things which
their own Practicing in Private condems them for,
nay, which they would be afliam'd to do in Pub-
lick I such Men ought to act the common Require-
ments of Nature, in the most publickest Places of
the Streets, bring their Wives or Whores to the
Exchange, and to the Market Places, and lye
with them in the Street, or else hold their Tongues,
and let their Mouths have no more the Stench of
their Vices in Publick, than their Actions.
And why of all the rest of the Parts of Life,
must the Tongue take a peculiar Licence to re-
vel thus upon Nature? as if she had a Mind to
reproach her with the Infirmities she labours un-
der: The Gustoms we are obliged to, tho* they are
Çloggs upon Nature, and a Badge of original
Defection; yet neither is there any thing so odi-
ous, or so burdensome, that these Gentlemen
should tptipph over the Nurse that brought them
up. * *''
Take the lewdest and most vicions Wretch that
ever gave his Tongue a Loose in this hateful Pra-
ctice, and turn him about to his Mother, you shall
hardly prevail upon him to talk his lewd Language
to her, there is something nauseous and surfeiting
in that Thought. This talking Bawdy, is like
a Man going to debauch his own Mother; for
'tis raking into, the Arcana, and exposing the Na-'
kedness of Nature, the common Mother of us all-
 
 
 
 
 
C 109 1
 
If, as a famous Man of Wit pretended, lying
With a Woman was the homliefi thing that Mam idíí
á»i 'tis much more true, that talking- of it is the
homliest thing that Man can fay.
Nor is there to me any Jest in these things, no
Appearance of Mirth: There may be some Plea-
fore in wicked Actions, as the World rates Plea-
sure! but 1 must profess 'tis dulJ5 and for Want of
other more regular Tastes, that there should be
Pleasure in the Discourse; 'Tis a prophaning of
Nature, and bringing forth those Things ,fhe has
hallowed to Secresy and Retirement, to the scan-
dalous Indecency of publick Banter and Jest.
But Men, who have always something to fay
sot their Foily, tell us, 'tis Custom only • which
has made any of these things {uncommon ; # and
there's no Sin in speaking that which there is no
Sin in doing.
Let us grant them, that Custom only has done
this: But if Custom has made these things uncom-
mon, and concealed, or at least, banish*d them
from the Voice of Conversation. *Tis a Sin then
against Custom to expose them again. Lawful
Customs become allowed Virtues, and ought to
be preserved. Çuslom is a good Reason in such
Concealments; if Custom has lock'd them up, let
them remain so > at least, till you can give a bet-
ter Reason for calling them abroad again, than
Custom has given for restraining them. Custom
has made these things uncommon, because that
Sin, which first made Nature naked, left her fo
captivated, by some of her Parts more than others,
that she could not but blush at those, where Sin
haditaken up its peculiar Residence. Now, as I
noted before, no Man can with anytolerable Satis-
faction, expose the Parts, till he has first abstra-
cted and separated the Sin, which having pdTess'd
them*
 
 
 
 
 
[ "O ]
thetfc, covered them at first with Shame: He
that cast da this, may go naked, and talk any
thing.
And sot the fame Reason, no Man can, justify'
talking lewdly, but he that at the same Time
throws away his Clothes, for to covet himself
with his Hands, and uncover himself with his
Tongue, are Contradictions in their own "Nature,
and one condemns the other. He that scorns the
Decency of Words, should also scorn the Decen-
cy of Cloches, let his Body be as bald as.his-
Discourse, and let him Icorn the Shame of one, as
well as the Shame of the other.
It is no Sin, they fay, to talk of, what it is no
Sin to do; and I may add, 'tis no Sin at all to
stew, what'tis no Sin to describe. Why is the
Eye to be less offended than the Ear, since both are
but the common Organs of the Understanding?
But the Weather and Inconveniencies of the
Climate, are urged for clothing our Bodies, and
I urge, Decency and good Manners for the Go-
vernment of our Tongues i and let any one con-
tend it with me, that thinks he can prove, that
the Obligation of the first is greater than the
Obligation of the last.
Much more might be said to this, but I make
but an Essay, and am unwilling to run out into a
long Discourse.
 
Of talking faljly. ^
Y Talking falfly, 1 do not design to enter
upon a long Dissertation upon ûmÈm
of Lying in general, i suppose all Mm
that read me will acknowledge Lying to
be one of the most scandalous Sins between Man
and Man ; a Crime of a deep Dye, and of an ex-
tensive Nature leading into innumerable Sins;
That is, as Lying is practised to deceive, to in-
jure, betray, rob, destroy, and the like. Lying
in this Sense is the concealing of all other Crimes,'
'tis the Shecps Clothing bung upon the ..Wolves
back, 'tis the Pharisee's Prayer, the Whore's Blush,
the Hypocrites Paint, the Murderer's Smile, the
Thief $ Cloke, 'tis Joab's Embrace, and Judas**
Kiss; in a Word, 'tis Mankind's Darling-Sin,
and the Devil's distinguisliing Chara§er.
But this is not the Cafe I am upon, this is not
the talking falfly I am upon, but a strange Liberty
which (particularly in Conversation) People take
to talk falsly, without charging themselves with any
Offence in it> either again ft God orJSian: This is to be
considered in two or there Parts, not but that it has
many more,
i. The Liberty of telling Stories, a common
Vice in Discourse; the main End of this extraordi-
nary Part of Tittle Tattle, is to divert the Com-
pany, and make them laugh; but we ought to con-
sider, whether that very empty Satisfaction either
to ourselves or Friends, is to be purchased ' at so
great
 
[ni]
great an Expence as that of Conscience, and d£
a Dishonour done to Truth.
*Tis scarce fit to fay, how far some People go
in this Folly, to call it no worse, even till some-
times they bring the general Credit of their
Conversation into decay, and People that arë used
to them, learn to lay no Stress upon any Thing
they fay.
for once wc will suppose a Story to be in its
Substance true, yet to what monstrous a Bulk
doth it grow, by that frequent Addition put to
it in the Relation, till not only it comes to be im-
probable, but even impossible to be true; and the
ignorant Relator is so tickled with having made
a good Story of its Whatever it was when he
found it, that he is blind to the Absurdities and
Inconsistencies of Fact in Relation, and tells it
with a full Face, even, to those that are able
to confute it, by proving it to be impossible. i .
I once heard a Man who would have taken it
very ill to be thought a Lyar, tell a Story, the
Facts of which were impossible to be true ; and yet
assert it with so much Assurance, and declare so
positively, that he had been an Eye-Witness of it
himself, that there was nothing to do but in respect
to the Man, let him alone and fay nothing. A
Gentleman who fat by, and whose good Breeding
restrained his Passion, turned to him, and said, did
you sec this Thing donejSir? yes, 1 did Sir, fays
Relator: Well Sir, replies the Gentleman, since you
affirm that you did see ity I am bound in regard to you
to believe it; but ufon my Word] 'tis such a Thing*
that if J had seen it my sels 1 would not have believed
it: This broke the Silence, set all the Company a
laughing, and exposed the Falshood, more than
down right telling him it was a Lye, which might
besides have made a Bf oil about it*
 
*Tís a strange Thing, that we cannot be con-
tent to tell a Story as it is, bot we must take from
it on one Side, or add to it on another; till the
Fact is lost among the Addenda, and till inTime even
the Man himself remembring it only as he told it
last, really forgets how it was Originally; this
being so generally practised now, nothing is more
common, than to have two Men tell the fame
Scory quite differing one from another, yet both
of them Eye-Witnesles to the Fact related. These
are chat sort of People, who having onee told a
Story falily, tell it so often in the same or like
manner, till they really believe it to be true*
This supplying a Story by Invention, is certainly
a most scandalous Crime and yet very little regarded
in thatPart, it is a sort of Lying that makes a great
Hole in the Heart, at which by Degrees a Habit
of Lying enters in: Such a Man comes quick-
ly up, to a total disregarding the Truth of what he
says, looking upon it as a Trifle, a Thing of no
import, whether any Story he teils be true or no,
so it but commands the Company as they call it %
that is to fay,procures a Laugh,or a kind of Amaze-
ment Things equally agreeable to these Story-
Tellers; for the Business is to affect the Com-
pany, either startle them with something wonder*
ful, never heard of before; or make them laugfy
immoderately, as at something prodigiously ta*
king, witty, and diverting,
It is hard to place this Practice in a Station e-
quai to its Folly/tis a Meanness below the Digni-
ty of common Sense: They that lye to gain, to
deceive, to delude, to betray as above, have some
End in theiv Wickedness; and though they ean-
not give the Design for an excuse of their Crime,
yet it may be given a* the Reason and Founda*'
*soa oi it: But to lye sor Sport, for Fun, as the
"I Bojs
 
 
 
t lH 3
Boys express it, is to play at Shuttle-cock with your
Soul, and load your Conscience for the meer sake
of being a Fool, and the making A meerBuftoonry
of a Story, the Pleasure of what is below even
MadncCiitself. , . . . ,
And yet, hoiw common is this Folly ì How
is it the Character of some Men's Conversation,
that they are made up of Story? And how mean
g Figure is it they bear in Company? Such Men
always betray their Emptiness by this, and ha-
ving only a certain Number of Tales in their
Budget, like a Pedlar.. with his, Pack,, they can
only at every House shew the same Ware over
again, tell the same Story over and over, 'till the
Jell is quite worn out; and to convince us, that
much of it, if not all, is born of Invention, they
seldom tell it the same Way twice, but vary it
even in the most .material Facts; So,that though
•it may be remembred, that it was the fame Story,
it ought never to be remembred, that it was told
by the fame Man.
, With what Temper should I speak of these
People? What Words can express the Meanness
andBasenefs of theMind, that can do thus ? that sin
without Design,, and not only have no End in
the View, but even no Reflection in the Act : the
Folly is grown up to a Habit, and they not only
mean no ill, but indeed mean nothing at all in it.
It is a strange Length that some People
run m this Madness of Life, and it is so odd, so
unaccountable, that indeed 'tis difficult to describe
xkt "Mail,. tlm not .difficult to describe the Fact.
\yhac Idea can be fornrui in the Mind, of a Man,
who does ill without meaning ill? that wrongs
htiàsetf, affronts Truth, and imposes upon his
Friends, and yet means noFIarm; or to use' his own
Word?,, means nothing? That if he thinks anv
-, , Thing
 
 
 
 
 
 
Things 'tis to make tfae Company pleasant, âtidt
what is this but making the Circle a Stage, and
himself the Merry Andrew.
The best Step such Men can take i$ to LYE
ON; and this fiews the Singularity of the Crime; it
is astrangeExpression,but I shall make it out » their
Way is5 1 fay, to Lyc on; 'till their Character is
compleatly known, and then they can lye no long-
er; for he whom no Body believes, can deceive no
Body, and then theEssence of Lying is removed ; for
the Description of a Lye is, that 'tis spoken to
deceive, or 'tis a Design to deceive. Now, he
that no Body believes can never lye any morej
because no Body can be deceiv'd by him. Such
a Man's Character is a Bill upon his Forehead, by
which every Body knows, Here dwells a Lying
Tongue: When every Body knows what is to be
had of him, they know what to expect; and so
no Body is deceived, if they believe him after-
Wards, 'tis their Fault as much as his.
There are a great many Sorts of those People*
who make it their Business to go about telling
Scories; it would be endless to enumerate them,
some tell formal Stories forg'd in their own Brain
without any Retrospect cither on Persons or
Things; I mean, as to any particular Person, or
Passage known, or in Being, and only with the
ordinary Introduction of, There wm a Man, or*
there was a Woman, and the like.
Others again, out of the fame Forge of Inven-
tion, hammer out the very Person, Man or Wo*
man, and begin, I knew a Man, or 1 knew a Wo-
*nan> and these ordinarily vouch their Story with
more Assurance than others; and vouch also, that
they knew tliie Persons who were concerned in it.
Others còme nearer, assign Places m particular
Accidents, fa$ well as Persons, mi tell on with
I z the
 
 
 
 
the most sonnai Incidents in the World, when thcrc'
.has.really never happened any such Thing, and
that they know it to be so; these generally place
the Incidents of the S:ory at a great Distance of
Place, or of Time, to avoid being detected, but
'tis ordinary to find out the Guilt by some Cu-
eatrííianee or other in the Manner of the Rela-
tion. "'.' #
Others make no Scruple to relate real Stories
with innumerable Omissions and Additions: I
mean, Stories which have a real Existence in Fact,
'but"which by the barbarous Way of relating,-, be-
come as romantickand false, as if they had no real
Original These Talcs, like the old Galley of
V. nice, which had been so often new vamped,
doubled and redoubled, that there was not one
Piece of the first Timber in her, have been told
wrong so often, and so many Ways, "till there
would no: be one Circumstance of she real Story
left in the relating.
There are many more Kinds of these, such
namely, as are personal and malicious, full of
Slander and Abuse; but these are not of the
Kinds I am speaking of, th present Business is
among A Kind of white Devils, who do no
Harm or Injury to any but tc, themselves 5 they
are like the Grashopper, that-1 spends his Time
to divert the Traveller, and does nothing but
starve himseif. The Conversation of these Men
is. j till of. Emptiness, their Words ..arc Levity itself
and according to the Text, they no: only tell Un-
truths, but the Truth is not in thtn'y There is not
a iettfd Aw or Reverence of Truth upon their
.Minds; 'tis., a Thing of no..Valu<jp..to them, 'tis
not...regarded Jo/ their Discourse;:., .abd.tbey give
themselves a Liberty to be perfectly uncencern'd
4bout the Thi;.g they fay, or thcSttory they tell,
whether it be t« ue> or ^ I"
s i*7 3
. This is a most abominable Practice on another
Account, namely, that these Men make a Jest of
çheir Crime; they are a Sort of People that Sis
laughing; that play upon their Souls as a Man
plays upon a Fiddle, to make .other People dance
and wear itself out; they may be said to make
some Sport indeed, but it is all at themselves,
they are the Hearers Comedy and their own Tra-
gedy; £nd like a penitent Jack-pudding, they will
at last lay, I have made others merry'p but 1 hi\%
been the FooL
I would be glad to sname Men of *commom
Sense, out of this horrid Piece of Buffoonry; and
one Thing I would warn them of, namely, tba.:
their learning to Lye so cunentiy in Story, will
insensibly bring them to a bold entrenching upon
Truth, in the rest of their Conversation; the
Scripture Command is, Lt every Man J peak Truth
unto his Neighbour; it we must tell Stories, tell
them as Stories, add nothing willfully to illustrate
or set it forth in the Relation; if you doubt the
Truth of it, say so, and then every one will be at
Liberty to bel eve their Share of it.
Eeiides, there is a spreading Evil in telling a
false Story as true, namely, that you put it into
the Mouths of others^ ana it continues a brooding
Forgery to the End of Time;'tis a Chimney-corner
Romance, and has in it this distinguisliing Article,
that whereas Parables, and the Inventions of Men
published Historically, arc once for »H related,
and the Moral being drawn, the History re-
mains allusive only, as it was intended, as in seve-
ral Cases (a)way be instanced within our Time (l>)
(a) The Tvígrimt Prcgreft.
(b) £/?c Famtij injirùdor md ci ber h
1 3
find without ; here the Case alters, Fraud goes unto
thç World's End, for Story, never dies every Rela-
tor Vouches it for Truth, tho' he knows nothing
pf the Matter.
These Mqi know not what Foundations they
are laying for handing on the Sport of Lying, for
such they makç of it to Posterity, not only leaving'
the Example,' but dictating the vçry Materials for
the Practice ; like Family-Lies handed on from
Father to Son, till what begun in Forgery Ends
in History, and we make our Lies be told for
Truth* by ill our Children that come after us.
If any Man object here, that the preceeding
Volumes of this Work seem to 'be hereby con-
demned, and the History which 1 have therein
publish'd of my self, censur'd; I demand in Ju-
stice, such Qbjector stay his Censure, till he fees
the End of the Scene, when all that Mystery shall
discover it self, and I doubt not, but the Work
shall abundantly justify the Design, and the De-
sign abundantly justify the Work. *
 
Chap.
 
Chap. IV.
An Essay on the present State of
Religion in the Worlds
 
IN that Part of my Work, which may-
be called History, I have fre-
quently mention'd the unconque-
'table Impressions "which dwelt up-
vr-^-^-^-r^ on my Mind, and filfd up all my
Desires 'fMmoveably pressing me to a wand ring
travelling Life, and which push M me continually
on, irqm one Adventure to another, as you have
heard. "'   "7
There is m inconsiderate Temper which reigns
ini'otif Minds, that hurries us down the Stream of
our Affections, by a kind-of involuntary Agency, _
and makes us do a thousand things, in the doing of
which, we propose nothing to our selves, but m
immediate Subjection to our WILL, that is ta
fay, our Passion, even without the Concurrence
of our Understandings, and of whiçh we can give
very little Account, after his done.
You may now suppose me to be arriv'd, after a
long Course of infinite Variety, on the Stage, of
the World* to the Scene of Life, we call Odd"Age;
and that I am writing these Sheets in a Season of
By TimCj when (ii ever) a Mm may be supposed
I 4 capabk
[; no}
capable of making fust Reflections upon things
pall, a true Judgement of things present, and
tolerable Contusions of things to eome.
In the. Beginning of this Life,.of Composure ; sot
now, and not till now, I may say, that 1 begun to
live, that is to fay, a sedate and composed Life,
i enquir'd of my splf very seriously one Day, what
was the proper Business of old Age? The Answer
was very natural, and indeed returned quick upon
me, namely, that two things were my ptesept
Work, as above. '' ' ~"" 
1. Reflection upon things past.
2. Serious Application to things future.
Having rcfolv'd the Business of Life into these
Heads, I began immediately with the First; and
as, some Times I took my Pen and Ink to disbur-
then my Thoughts, when the Subject crowded in
fast upon me; so I have here communicated some
of my Observations for the Benefit of those that
come after me. 
About the Time that I was upon these Enqur
ries, being at a Friend s House, and talking much
of my long Travels, m you knew Travellers are aft
to do; 1 observed an antient Gentlewoman in the
Company listen'd with a great deal of Attention,
and as I thought, with some Pleasure, to what I
was saying: And after I had done, Pray Sir, fays
fie, turning her Speech to me, give me Leave to
ask you a Question or two? With all my Hearts
Madam, said J; so we began the following short
Dialogue.
. Old Gem, Pray .Sir,in all your Travels,., can you
tell what is the World a-doing? What have you
ouíerAí Lo be the principal Buíìnes? qí Mankind?
* * * * Jfofy
[ "I ]
Jtoh. Çru. Truly Madam, 'tis very hard to ap
fwer such a Question, the People being so diffe-
rently employ'd, some one Way, and some another;
and particularly, according to the several Parts of
the World, thro* which our Observations are to
run, and according to the differing Manners, Cu-
stoms, and Circumstances of the People in every
Place.
Old Qent. Alas ! Sirfhzt is no Answer at all to
me, because i am mi a Judge of the differing
Qistoms and Manners of the People you may
speak of: But> Is there not one common End and
Design in the Nature of Men, which seems to
run thro5 ail their Actions, and to be formed by
Nature^ as the main End of Lise» and by Conse-
quence is m^de the chief Business pf Living? Pray,
how do they spend their Time?
R.C. Nay; now Madam you have added a
Question to the rest, of a different Nature from
what, if 1 take pu rights you meant at first.
QtdGem. What Question, Sir? ..
R.C. Why! how Mankind spend their Time;
for I cannot say, that one half of Mankind spend
their Time in what they themselves may acknow-
ledge to be the main End of Lite.
Old Gent Pray, don't distinguish me out of my
Question, we may talk of what is the true End of
Life, as we understood it here in a Christian Coun-
try another Time :, But take my Question as 1
offer it, What is Mankind generally a doing as their
main Business?
R* C Truly, the main Business that Mankind
seems to be doing, is to eat and drink, that's their
Enjoyment, and to get Food to eat is the r Em-
ployment, including a little, their eating and
'pevouring-one another.
çidGm j
[ m ]
Old Çmt "Thát'f a Deferiptioii ' of thcm: as
Brutes. •
R. C. Itss foin the First Part, namcly, their
Living ro eac and drfnk: But in the last Part they
are woríe than the Brutes; for the Brutes destroy
jîot their own Kiad, but ail prey upon a dictèrent
Species ;  andbesides, they prey upon one another,
for Neceffity, to satisfy their Hunger, and for
Food; But Man • for baser Ends, such as Ava-
rice, Envy, Revenge, and the like; devours his
owp Species, nay, his own Fleíh and Blood, as
riiy Lord Rochester vzty well expresses it.
But judge youY self, Vil bring it to tfm Test,
Wh '-xh is the bafefi Créature y Man or Beafl.
Btrdrfcedon Birds, Bea/ïs m each other Prey,
_ But òavage 0au alone does Man betray*
Press9 d by Necejjtty, they kiU for Food,'
Mnn3 un-dots Man, to do Imnjelfno Good.
• Wnh Teeth andClaws, by Nature armdthey hum,
JSsature's Aftçvúance to Jupfly their ÌVant:
, But Man veith Smiksy embraces, Friendfhip, Prflìsh
ìnhumanly his,RDms JJfe betrays. . , 
With vàlumary Pains Works his Difîrefi,
"Notfor ISfiçejJjtjfì but WwtQnness.
QldGerif. Ail thís | belíeye is true ;' but thís
dóésnot reach my" Qùcstîbn'4 yet: ",:Tf*ftcrc is çer-
taioJy somçthing among thcm*, whictí'is 'esteóped
as more particuìaríy the Endos Life,'ahîd of Mfkgf
thari the irçst; "to whiefí. tb^y'^ppî^ in comrçòn*
p the main Business andwhiclj Stis^lway esteem-
td tobé tîícifWîsdom to ht employé in: îsthete
 
C ni l
not something that is apparently the great Business
of Living?  • •
R> C. Why really, Madam,. I think not For
Example: Great Part of the World, and a
greater Part by far than we imagine, i$ resolv'4 in-
to • the lowest Degeneracy of human Nature, 1
mean the Savage Life ; where the chief End of
Life seems to be meerly to eat .and drink, that is
to fay, to get their Food, just as the brutal Life
is employs, and indeed with very little Difference
between them; for except only Speech and Ido*
latry, I fee nothing in the Life of some whole Na-
tions of People, and for ought I know, containing
Millions of Souls, in which the Life of a Lion or
an Elephant in the Dcfarts of Arabia, is not c?
qual* •  • •  ..   
Old Gent. I could mention many things, Sir, in 
which they might differ^ but that h, not the pre-
sent thing I enquire about: But, pray Sir, Is not
Religion the principal Business of Mankind in all
the Parts of the World; for I ' think you grafted
it when you nam M Idolatry, which they, iwdoitbt,
call Religion?' 
R. C Really, Madam, I cannot fay it is ; because,
what with Ignorance on* one hand, and Hypocri-
sy on the other, 'ris vày hard to. know where to
find Religion  in the World.
Old dent. You avoid my Question too laborious-
ly, Sir, I have nothing to. do either .with -the Ig-
norance or Hypocrisy of the People, whether they *:
are blindly devour, or koaviihly.and designedly de-
vout, is not the Case; but whether Religion it
not apparently the main Business of the World, the
principal apparent. End of Life, and the Employ-
ment of Mankind?
'MX* What do.you call.Religion?, . . . .
Old Genu
C i*4 ]
'Old Gem. By Religion, 1 mean, the Worship-
ping and faying Homage to some supreme Being,
some God* known or unknown, is not to the Case,
so it be but to something counted supreme.
R.C. It is true, Madam, there are scarce any
Rations in the World so stupid, but they give Te-
stimony to the Being of a God, and have some No-
tion of a supreme Power.
Old Gent. That I know also, but that is not the
main Part of my Question :. But my Opinion is,
that paying a divine Worship, Acts of Homage and
Adoration, and particularly,., that,of. Praying to
the Supreme Being, which ' they acknowledge, is
derif Jd to Mankind from the Light of Nature,
with the Notion or Belief itself. .
R. C. 1 suppose Madam, you mean by the Que-
stion then, Whether the Notion or Belief of a God
in general,! and the -Sense of Worship in parties
lar, are not one and the same natural Principle.
Old Gem. I do so, if you and I do but agree
about what we call Worship.
- R. C. By Worship, I understand Adoration.
Old Gent. But there you and I differ again a li>
tie; for by Worship, I understand Supplication.
R. C Then you must take them both in toge-
ther; for some Part of the Indian Savages only
«dore. .. : ,
'Old Gent I confess there is much Adprattofy
where there is little Supplication. . .., . ; .
R. C. You distinguish too nicely, Madam.
Old Gent No, no, I do not distinguish in what
I call Worship; I ailedge, that all the Adora-
tion of those poor Savages is mere Supplication:
Xou fay they lift up their Hands to their Idols, fop
Kcar they should hurt them.
R.C, I do say % and it is apparent.
í 115 3
ëMGmt. Why, that is the something, forth**
they' list up their Hands to him, that is to fay,
pray to htm not to hurt them; for all the Wor-
ship in the World, especially the outward Per-
formance, may be refolv'd into Supplication.
jR. it I agree with you in that, if you mean the
apparent End of Worship*
Old Gem. Why! did not your Man Friday anil
the Savage Woman you tell us of, talk of their
old Idol they cali'd Bmamnckee t And what did
they do?
R. C. It is very true they did.
Old Gem. And did not Friday tell you they
went up to the Hills, and (aid 0 to him ? Pray,
what was the Meaning of saying O to him: But
O do not hurt us; for thaw art Omnipotent,
and canst kill us: O heal our Distempers; for thou
art Infinite, and ean'st do all things: 0 give us
what we wait; for thou art Bountiful; Ospare
us; for thou art Merciful; Aid so of all the other
Conceptions of a God?
it G Well, Madam, i grant all this, pray what"
do you infer from it? What is the Reason of your
Question?
Old Gent O Sir, I have many Inferences to
draw from it for my own Observation, I do not
set up to instruct you.
I thought this serious old Lady would have enr
tertain'd a farther Discourse with me on so fruit-
ful a Subject; but she declined it, and left me to
my own Meditation, which indeed she had rais'd
up to an unusual Pitch: And the first thing that.
occurred to me, was to put me upon enquiring
after rhat niqp thing, I ought to call Religion, in*
the World,- seeing reajly I found Reason to think,
that-
 
riz*]
that thëre wás'muìèh wore Devotion than Religion
in the World I in a Word, much in ore Adoration
than Supplication: And 1 doubt, as I come nearer
Home, it will appear, that there is much more
Hypocrisy than Sincerity: Of - which I may speak
by itself.   . *
In my first Enquiries, I look'd back upon my
own Travels, 'aid it afforded me but a melancho-
'ly Reflection, that in all the Voyages and Tra-
vels which I have employ M two Volumes in giving
a Relation of, I never set my Foot in a Christian
Country* no not in circling three Parts of the
Globe; for, excepting the Brasilsr where the
Portuguese indeed jprofcis'd the Romao-Gatholick
Principles, which however, in Distinction from
Paganism, I will call the Christian Religion; I
say, except the Brajtls, where also I made little
Stay, I could not be said to set Foot in a Christi-
an Country, or a Country inhabited by Christians,
from the Bay of Larache^ and the Port of Sallee,
by the Straits Mouth, where I escaped from Slave-
iy, thro' the Atlmtkk Ocean, the Coasts of
Africk on one Side, and oîCarribbea on the Amm-
tan Shore, on the other Side; from thence to Ma-
dagqfear, Malabar, and the Bay and City of Bon-
gale, the Coast oî Sumatra, Malacca, Siam, Cambo-
dia, Cochinchina, the Empire and Coast of China,
the Desarts of Karakathay, the Mongul Tartars, the
Siberian, the Samokde Barbarians, and till I came
within four or five Days of Arch-Angel in the Black
Ruffia.
It is, I fay, a melancholy Reflection to think,
how all these Parts of the World, and with infinite
Numbers of Minions of People, fornilh'd with the
Powers of Reason,' and Gifts of Nature, and ma-
ny Ways* if not every Way, as capable of the
Reception of sublime things, as we are, are yet
aban-
C 117 ]
abandon'd to the grossest Ignorance and Depra-
vity; and that not in Religion only, but even in
ill the desirable Parts of humane Knowledge,
and especially Science and acquiVd Knowledge*
What the Divine Wisdom has determined con-
cerning the Souls of so many Millions, it is hard
to conclude, nor is it my present Design to en-
quire; but this I may be alloW'd'here/as a Re-
mark: If they are received to Mercy in a Fac-
ture State, according to the Opinion of some,
as having not sii/d against saving Light, then their
Ignorance and Pagan Darkness is not a Curse, but
a Felicity; and there are no unhappy People in
the World, but those lost among Christians, for
their Sins against reveal'd Light 1 nay* then being
born in the Regions of Christian Light, and un-
der the Revelation of the Gospel Doctrines* is not
so much a Mercy to be acknowledged as some
teach us, and it may in a negative Manner be true,
that the Christian Religion is an Efficient in the
Condemnation of Sinners, and loses more than it
saves, which is impious but to imagin : On the 0^
ther Hand, if all those Nations ate'concluded
under the Sentence of eternal Absence from God,
which is Hell in the Abstract; then what becomes
of all the sceptical Doctrines of itarbe.'ng incon-
sistent with the Mercy and Goodness of an infi-
nite and beneficent Being, to condemn so great a
Part of the World, for not believing in him< of
whom they never had any Knowledge or Instru-
ction? But I desire not to be the Promoter of un-
answerable Doubts in Matters of Religion 1 much
less would I promote Cavils at the Foundations
of Religion, - either as to its Profession or Practice*
and therefore I only name Things. I return to my
Enquiry after Religion as we generally understand
the Word*
Andi
[ "8 ]
And ist this I cousine my self in My present Enqui-
ries to the particular Nations professing the Chri-*
stiah Religion only, and 1 shall take Notice after-
ward, what influence the want of Religion has
upon the Manners the Genius, and the Capaci-
ties of the People* as to all the improvable Parts of
human Knowledge.
""The Moors dl:Bar&ary are Mahometans, and that
of the most degenerate and unpolished Sort, espe-
cially of that Part of the World where they live;
they are cruel as Beasts, vicious, insolent, and in-
human as degenerated Nature can make them:
Moral Verrues have so little recommended them-
selves to any among them, that they are accounted
no Accomplishment, and are in no Esteem; nor is
a Man at all respected for being grave, sober, ju-
dicious, or wife, or for being just in his Dealings,
or most easy in his Conversation; but Rapine and
Injury is the Custom of the Place; and it is to re-
commend a great Man, that he is rich, powerful
in Slaves, merciless in his Government of them,
and imperiously haughty in his whole Houihold.
Every Man is a King within himself, and regards
neither Justice or Mercy, Humanity or Civility,
cither to them above him, or them below him>
but just as his arbitrary Passions guide him.
Religion here is connn'd to the Biram and the
Ramadan, the Feast, and the Fast, to the Mosque
and the Bath j reading the Alcoran on one Hand,
and performing rhe. Washings and Purifications on
the other, make up their religious Exercises; and
for the rest, Conversation is eaten up with Bar-
barisms and Brutish Customs; so that there's nei-
ther Society, Humanity, Confidence in one ano-
ther, or Conversation with one another; but Men
live like the wild Beasts, for every Man here real-
'ly would destroy and devour the other if he could.
"'" This
[ "9 I
This guided me to a just Reflection, in Ho-
nour of the Christian Religion, which I have of-
ten since made Use of, and which on this Occa-
sion 1 will make a Digression to, That it is to
be said for the Reputation of the Christian Religi-
on in general, and by which it is justly distin-
guiih'd from all other Religions, that where-ever
Christianity has been planted or profefs'd natio-
nally in the World, even where it has not had a
Saving Influence, it has yet had a Civilizing Influ-
ence: It has operated upon the Manners, the Mo-
rals, the Polit cs, and even the Tempers and
Dispositions of the People: It has reduced them to
the Practice of Virtue, and to the true Methods
of Living, has wean'd them from the Baràmmis
Customs they had been used to, infusing a Kind
of Humanity and Softness of Disposition into their
very Natures; civilizing andrCoftning them, teach-
ing them to love a "Regularity of L fe, and filling
them with Principles of generous Kindness and
Beneficence one to another; in a Word, it has
taught them to live like Men, and act upon the
Foundations of Clemency, Humanity, Love, and
and good Neighbourhood, suitable to the Nature
and Dignity of God's Image, and to the Rules of
Justice and Equity, which it instructs them in*
Nay farther, I must observe also, That as the
Christian Religion has worn out, or been remo-
ved from any Country, and they have returned to
Heathenism and Idolatry, so the Barbarisms have
returns, the Customs ot the Heathen Nations have
been again rcstorM ; the very Nature and Temper of
the People, have been again lost: all their generous
Principles have forsaken them, the Softness and
Goodness of their Dispositions have worn out,
and they have returned to Cruelty, Inhumanity,
Rapin, and Blood.
• • • K If
It is true, and it  may be nam'd as an Obje-
ction to this Remark of mine, that the Romans
riio* Heathens, and the Grecians by the Study of
Philosophy, in particular Persons, and by the
Excellency of their Government in their general
or national Capacity, were filfd with Notions of
Virtue and. Honour, with most generous and jast
Principles, and acted with an heroic Mind in
.many. Occasions; practising the most sublime and
exalccd Height of Virtue, such as sacrificing their
Lives for their Country, with the utmost Zeal;
descending to great Examples of Humanity and
Beneficence, scorning to do base or vile Actions,
as unworthy the Roman Name, to save their
Lives; and a great many most excellent Examples
oi Virtue and Gallantry, are found in the Histo-
ries of the Roman Empires.
Thisdoes not oppose, it rather indeed illustrates
what I fay > for with all the Philosophy, all the
Humanity and Generosity they practis'd, they had
yet their Remains of Barbarity, were cruel and
unmerciful in their Natures, as appeared by the
Barbarity of their Customs, such as throwing Ma-
lefactors to wild *Beafts," the Fightings ot their
Gladiators, and the like5 which were not only
appointed as Puniihments* and Severities, by the
Order of Public Justice; but to shew it touched the
very Article I am upon, it was the Subject of
their Sport and Diversion, these Things were ex-
hibited as Shows to entertain the Ladies 1 the
Cutting in Pieces fourty or fifty Slaves, and the
Seeing twenty or thirty miserable Creatures thrown
. to the Lyons and Tygers, was no less pleasant to
them, than the Going to see an Opera, a Masque-
rade, or a Puppet Show, is to us ,* So that I
if think, .the Remans were very far from a People ci-
yiiiz'd and soften'd in their Matures' by the Influ-
ence*
C 'Ji ]
cncss of Religion And this is evident, because*
that as the Christian Religion, came among-., them*
all those cruel Customs were abhorr'd by them, the
famous Theatres and Circles for their publick
Sports, were overthrown, and the Ruines of
them testify the Justice of my Observation at this
very Day.
Nor will it be deny'd, ifl should carry this" yet
farther, and observe, That even among Christians,
those who are more reform'd, and farther and far-
ther christiani^d, are still in Proportion rendred
more human, more soft and tender; and we do
find, without being partial to ourselves, that even
the Protestant Countries are much distinguifli'd in
the Humanity and Softness of their Tempers, the
meek merciful Disposition extends more among
Protestant?, than among the Papists, as I could
very particularly demonstrate from History and
Experience.
But to return back to the fyioores, Where Ì left
off, they are an Instance of that Cruelty of Dispo-
sition, which was anciently in their Nature, and
how in a Country abandoned of the true Christian
Religion* after it has been first planted and pro-
fess cl among them, the Return of Heathenism or
Mahometanism has brought back with it all the
Barbarisms of a Nation void of Religion and good
Nature. r .'
I saw enough of these dreadful People tothiftk
them at this Time the worst of all the Nations of
the World; a Nation, where no such thing as a
generous Spirit, or a Temper with any Compas-
sion mixt with it, is to be found j among whom
Nature appears stripp'd of all the additional Glo-
ries, which it derives from Religion, and yet cheres-
a Christlatf.flouristung Church hid stood'several
hundred T«am:
Ei Front
[ '31 ]
From theseIwcritamong the Negroes of Afri+.
cay many of them 1 saw without any the least No-
tion of a Deity among them, much icss any Form
of Worship; bot 1 had not any Occasion to con-;
verse with them oirShote* other than I have done
íìnce by Accident, but went away to the Brafils:
Here I found the Natives, and that even before the
Portuguese came among thcta, and since also, had
Abundance of Religion, such as Jt was: But it
was all so bloody,, so cruel; consisting.of Murders,
human Sacrifices, Witchcrafts, Sorceries, and Con-
jurings, that I could not so much as call them ho-
nest Pagans, as I do the Negroes* • x
As for the Cannibals, as I have observed in the
Discourse of'.them,. on Account of their Landing
:on my Island, I can say but very little of them:
As for their eating human Flesh, I take it to be a
Kind of martial Rage, rather than a civil Pra*?
ctice; for 'tis evident, they eat no human Crea-
tures, but such as .afe^taken Prisoners in their Bat-
tles; and as I have observed in giving the Account
of those things, they do not Esteem it Murder, no
nor so much as unlawful. I must confess saving
its being a Practice..in.itself unnatural, especially
to us, I fay, saving chit Part, I see tittle Difference
. between that and-our. Way, which in the War is
frequent in Heat of Action, rót. refusing Quarter;
for as to the Difference between Eating and Kil-
ling those that offer to yield, it matters not much.
And/this; I observed :ac. the fame. Time, that in
their other Conduct* those Savages were as human,
as mild, and gentle, as most I have met with in
the World, and as easily civilized.
From these Sorts of People, I come to the fodr
rmr;foras to the-Madagascar.Mm* I saw very
little of them, but that they were a Kind of Ne-
groes, much like those on the Coast of Guinea, on-
r m ]
Jy, a little more used and accustomed to the Euro-
peans, by their often Landing among them,
The £. Indians arc generally Pagans or Mahome-
tans, and have such Mixtures of Savage Customs
with them, that even Mahometanism is there in
its Corruption; neither have they there, the up-
right just Dealing in Matters of Right and Wrong,
which the Turks m Europe have, with whom 'tis
generally very safe trading: But here they act all
the Parts of Thieves and Cheats, watching to de-
ceive you, and proud of being thought able to
do it.
The Subjects of the great Mogul have a seeming
polite Government; and the Inhabitants of Cey-
lon are under very strict Discipline; and yet what
Difficulty do we find to trade with them? Nay,
their very Oeconomy renders them fraudulent,
and in some Places they cannot turn their
Thoughts to being honest.
China is famous for Wisdom, that is to fay, that
they, having such a boundless Conceit of their own
Wisdom, we are oblig'd to allow them more than,
they have; the Truth is, they are justly said to be
a wise Nation among the foolish ones, and may
as justly be called a Nation of Fools among the
wife ones
As to their Religion, 'tis all summ'd up in Con-
joins his Maxims, whose Theology, I take to
be a Rhapsody of Moral Conclusions; a Founda-
tion, or what we may call Elements of Polity,
Morality and Superstition, huddl'd together in a
Rhapsody of Words, without Consistency, and
indçed wish very little Reasoning in it: Then 'tis
really not so much as a refin'd Paganism, for
there are in my Opinion much more regular Do-
iags among some of the Indians that are Pagans in
•Iweïiça, than there are in China : And if I may be-
S ] lievç
 
t m 3
Heve the Account" giten of the 'Government of
Montezamta in Mexico^ and of the Unca's of Cusco
in Peru; their Worstiip and Religion such as it
was, was carry'd 00 with more Regularity than
these in China. As to the human Ingenuity, as they
call it, of the Chinefes, Filial! account sot it by itself:
The utmost Discoveries of it to me appeared in the
Mechanicks, and even in them infinitely short of
of what is found among the Euros em Nations.
But let us take these People to Pieces a little,
and cjcamine.into the great Penetration* they are
io fam'd for: First of ail, their Knowledge has
not led them that Length in religious Matters,
which the common Notions of Philosophy would
have done,and to which they did lead the wise Hea-
thens of Old among the Grecian and Roman Em*
pi res; for they having not the Knowledge of the
true God, ' preserved notwithstanding* the Notion
of g God tp be something Immortal, Omnipo-
tent, sublime; exalted above in Place, as well as
Authority; 'and • therefore made Heaven to be
the Seat of their Gods, and the Images by
which 1 hçy represented the Gods and Goddesses,
had always some Perfections that were really to be
admir'd; as the Attendants of their Gods, as
?up:tcr was calul the Thunderer, sot his Power \
ather of Gcds and Men, for his Seniority; Ve-
nus adorMfor her Beauty; Merçwy for Swiftness;
Apolkîot Wit, Poetry, Mtifiek; Mars for Terror
and'Gallantry in Arms, and the like: But when
we come to these polite Nations of China, which
yet wc cry up for Sense, and Greatness of Genius,
we fee them groveling in the very Sink and Filth
of Idolatry; their idols are the most frightful mon-
strous Shapes, not the'Form of any real Creature,
much less the Images of Virtue, of Chastity, of Li-
terature -, but horrid Shapes of their Priests Inven-
tion;
[ ï?5 ]
tíoiî; neither hellish or human Monsters cempcsVi
of invented Forms," with neither Face or Figure,
but with the utmost Distortions, form'd neither to
walk, stand, sty, or go; neither to hear, fee, or
speak, but meerly to instill horrible Ideas of some-
thing nauseous and abominable, into the Minds
of Men that ador'd them.
If I may be allowed to give my Notions of Wor-
ship, I mean, as it relates to the Objects of natu-
ral Homage, where the Name and Nature of God
is not reveal'd, as in the Christian Religion. I must
acknowledge, the Sun, the Moon, the Stars, the
Elements, as in the Pagan and Heathen Nations
of old; and above all these, the Representations of
superiour Virtues and Excellencies among
Men, such as Valour, Fortitude, Chastity, Pa-
tience, Beauty, Strength, Love, Learning, Wis-
dom, and the like; The Objects of Worship in
the Grecian and Roman Times, were far more eligi-
ble, and more rational Objects of divine Rites, than
the Idols of China and Japan; where with all the
Oeconomy of their State Maxims and Rules of
Civil Government, which we insist so much on,
as Tests of their Wisdom, their great Capacities,
and Understandings; their Worship is the most
brutish, and the Objects of their Worship, the
courfest, the most unmanly, inconsistent with Rea-
son or'she Nature of Religion of any the World
can shew; bowing down to a meer Hob-gobblin,
and doing their Reverence not to the Work of
Mens Hands only, but the ugliest, basest, fright-,
fullest things that Man could make; Images Jo
for from being lovely and amiable, as in tiie Na-
ture of Worship is implied, that they are the most
detestable and nauseous, * even to Nature.
How is it possible these People can have any
Claim ti the Character of wise, ingenious, polite,
K 4' that
 
 
c iî<n
that could suffer themselves to be overwhelmed in
an Idolatry repugnant to common Sense, even to
Nature, and be brought rochuse to adore that
which was in itself the most odious and con-
temptible to Nature ; not meetly terrible, that so
their Worship might proceed from Fear, but a
Complication of Nature's Aversions.
1 cannot omit, that being in one of their Tem-
ples, or rather in a kind ot Oratory or Chapel,
annexed to one part oi the great Palace at Pe(jum9
there appear\J a Mandarin with his Attendants,
or, as we may fay, a great Lord and his Retinue,
prostrate before the linage, not of any one of God's
Creatures, but a Creature of meer human Forming,
such as neither was alive, nor was like any thing
that had Life, or had ever been seen or heard of
in the World.
The like Image, or something worse, if
I could give it a true Representation, may be
found in a Garden Chapel, if not defrze'd by wi-
ser Heads, of a great Tartarian Mandarin, at a
small Distance from Nanquin, and to which the
poor abandor/d Creatures, pay their most blinded
Devotions.
It had a thing instead of a Head, but no Head;
it had a Mouth distorted out of all Manner of
Shape, and not to be described sor a Mouth, being
only an unsliapcn Chasm, neither representing the
Mouth of a Man, Beast, Fowl, or Fish: The
Thing was neither any of the four, but an incon-
gruous Monster: It had Feet, Hands, Finger?,
Claws, Legs, Arms, Wings, Ears, Horns, every
Thing mixt one among another, neither in the
fShipe or Place that Nature appointed, but blend-
ed together, and fix'd to a Bulk, not a Body;
form'd of no just Parts, but a shapeless Trunk or
JLog; whether pf Wood or Stone, I know not \
a thing
 
 
 
[ i37 ]
% thing that might have stood with any Side for-
wards or any Side backward, any End upward,
or any End downward, that had as much Vene-
ration due to it on one Side, as on the other, a
kind of celestial Hedge-hog, that was rolled tip
within itself, and was every thing every Way; that
to a Christian could not have been worth? to have
represented even the Devil; and to Men of common
Sense, must have been their very Souls Aversion;
In a Word, if I have not represented their mon-
strous Deities right, let imagination supply any
thing that can make a misshapen Image horrid,
frightful, and surprising; And you may with ju-
stice suppose, those sagacious People, called the
Chmeses, whom forsooth we must admire, I say,
you may suppose them prostrate on the Ground,
with ail their Pomp and Pageanty, which is in it
self not a little, worshipping such a mangled, pro-
miscuous gendred Creature.
Shall we call these a wise Nation, who repre-
sent God in such hideous monstrous Figures as
these, and can prostrate themselves to things ten
thousand Times more disfigured than the Devil?
Had these Images been contnVd in the Romans
Time, and been set up for the God of Ugliness,
as they had their God of Beauty, they might in-
deed have been thought exquisite; but the Ro-
wans would have spurn'd such an Image out of their
Temples.
Nothing can render a Nation so compleatly
foolish and simple, as such an Extravagance in
Matters of religious Worship; for if gross Igno-
rance in the Notion of a God, which is so ex-
tremely natural, will not demonstrate a Nation
un pel i &'d, foolish, and weak, even next to Ideo-
tism, I know nothing that will.
But
 
 
r ij8 ]
But let me .trace, this, wise Nation that we talk
so much of, and who not only think themselves
wife, but have drawn us in, to pay a Kind of Ho-
mage to their low^priz'd Wit.
Government, and the Mechanick Arts, are the
two main things in which otir People in England^
who have admir'd them so much, pretend they
excel; as to their Government, which consists in
m absolute Tyranny, which, by the Way, is the
easiest Way of Ruling in the World, where the
People are disposed to obey, as blindly as the
Mandarin commands or governs imperiously;
what Policy is required in governing a Peo-
ple, of whom 'tis said,that if you command them to
hang themselves,they will only cry a little, and sub-
mit immediately? Their Maxims of Government
may do well enough among themselves,' but with
us they would be all Confusion. In their Country
it is noc so, only because, whatever the Man-
"dar'm says, is a Law, and God himself has no
Power or Interest among them to contradict it,
unless he pleases to execute it breyi- manu from
Heaven. - *
Most of their Laws consist in immediate Judg-
ment, swift .Executions, just Retaliations, and
fair Protection from Injuries: Their Punishments
are cruel and exorbitant, such as Cutting the Hands
and the Feet off for Theft, at the fame Time re-
leasing Murders and other flagrant Crimes.
Their Mandarines are their Judges in very many
Cafes, like our Justices of the Peace; but then
they judge by Customs, Oral Tradition, or im-
mediate Opinion, and execute the Sentence im-
mediately, wîchoíit room, or Time to reflect
upon the Justice of it, or to consider of Mitigations,
as in all Christian Countries is practised, and as
the Sense of human Frailty would direct. ^
 
[ 139]
But let mecome to their Mechanics, in which
their itigenuity is so much cry'd up, I affirm there is
little or nothing sufficient to build the mighty Opi-
nion we hare or them upon, but what is founded up-
on the Comparisons whichtwe make between them
and other Pagan Nations, or proceeds from the
Wonder which we make, that they should have
any Knowledge of Mechanics Arts, because we
find the remote Inhabitants of Ajric and America,
so grossly ignorant, and so entirely destitute in such
things; whereas we do not consider, that the Chi-
nese* inhabit the Continent oiAjia; and tho' they
are separated by Dcsarts and Wildernesses, yet
they are a continuous Continent of Land, with
the Parts of the World once inhabited by the poli-
ter Medes, Persians, and Grecians; that the first
Ideas of Mechanic Arts were probably recciv'd
by them from the Persians, Assyrians, and the ba-
nished transplanted Israelites, who are said to be
carry'd into the Regions of Parthia, and the Bor-
ders of Karacathay, from whence they are also said
to have communicated Arts, and especially Han-
dicraft, in which the Israelites excelled, to the In-
habitants of all those Countries, and consequently
in Time to those beyond them.
But let them be received from whom they will,
and how long ago soever; let us but compare the
Improvement they have made, with what others
have made; and except in things peculiar to them-
selves by their Climate, We shall find the utmost
of their Ingenuity amounts but to a very Trifle, and
that they are out-done even in the best of their
Works by our ordinary Artists, whose Imitations
exceed their Originals, beyond all Comparison.
For Example, they have Gun-powder and Guns,
Whether they have learned to make them by Di-
rection of Europeans, which is most likely, or that
they
 
 
 
 
 
[140 ]
they found it out by nicer Strength, of Invention!
as some would advance* tho' without Certainty*
in their Favour: * Be it. which it will, as I lay,
it matters not much; their Powder is of no
Strength for the needful Operations of Sieges,
Mines, Batteries, no nor for shooting of Birds, as
ours is, without great Quantities put together;
their Guns are rather an (Mentation than for Exe-
cution, clumiy, heavy, and ill made; neither have
they arriv'd to any tolerable Degree of Know-
ledge in the Art of Gunnery or Engineering; they
have no Bombs, Carcasles, Hand-grenades ; their
artificial Fireworks are in no Degree comparable,
or to be nam'd with ours; nor have they apiv'd to
any thing in the military Skill, in martialling Ar-
mies, handling Arms, Discipline, and the" Exer-
cise in the Field, as the Europeans have; all
which is depending on the Improvement of Fire-
Arms, &€. in which, if they have had the Use of
Gun-powder so many Ages as some Dream, they
must be unaccountable Blockheads, that they have
made no farther Improvement; and if it is but
lately, they are yet apparently dull enough in the
managing of it, at least, çompar'd to what ought
to be expected of an ingenious People, such as our
People cry them up to be.
I might go from this to their Navigation, in
which it is true they out-do most of their Neigh-
bours: But what is all their Skill in Sailing com-
pared to ours? Whither do they go? And how
manage the little and foolish Barks and Jonks they
have? What would they do with them to traverse
the great Indian, American, or Atlantic Oceans?
What Ships, what Sailors, what poor, awkard,
and ignorant Doings is there among them at Sea?
And when our Peop e hire any of them, as some-
times they are oblig'd t&do, How do.-our .Sailop
 
[ w ]
lick them about, as a Parcel of clumsy, ignorant*
unhandy Fellows? ,
Then for building of Ships,"What are they?
And what arc they able to do towards the glo-
rious Art of building a large Man of War? i is
out of Doubt with me, that all the People of
China could not build such a Ship as the Royal So-
weign, in a hundred Yeats, . no not tho' file
was there for them to look at, and take Pattern
I might go on to abundance more things, such
as Painting, making Glasses, making Clocks and
Watches, making Bone-lace, Frame-work Knit-
ting; of all which, except the two first, they know
little or nothing; and of the two first, nothing
compared to what is done in Europe.
The Height of their Ingenuity, and for which
we admire them with more Colour of Cause than-
in other things, is their Porcellain or Earthen-
ware Work, which, in a Word, is more due to
the excellent Composition of the Earth they make
them ot] and which is their Peculiar, than to
the Workmanship > in which, if we had the fame
Clay, we should soon outdo them, as much as we
do in other things. The next Art is, their Ma-
nufacturing in sine Silks, Cotton, Herba, Gold,
and Silver, in which they have nothing but what
is in common with our ordinary poor Weavers.
. The next Mechanic Art is, their Lacquering,
which is just as in the China Ware, a Peculiar to*
their Country, in the Materials, not at all in the
Work man snip: And as for the Cabinet Work of
it, they are manifestly out-done by us; and abun-
dance is every Year sent thither fram'd and made in
England^ and.only lacquered in China, to be re-
turns, to us.
I might
.. s H* J
- I might tmrthc like Parallel thro1 most òf thë
things these People excel in, which would all ap-
pear to be so deficient,, as would "render'ait their
fam'd Wisdom and Capacity most scandalously
imperfect: But 1 am not so much upon their Cost*
ning in Arts, as upon their Absurdity and ridicu-
lous Folly in Matters religious, and in which 1
think the rudest Barbarians out-do them.
From this wife Nation, we have % vast Extent
of Ground, near 2000 Miles in Breadth; partly
under the Chinese Government, partly under the
Mfysmvite, but inhabited by Tartars 'of Mongul Tar-
tar y > Karkathayy Siberian, and Samcidcs Pagans;
whose Idols are almost as hideous as the Chineses,
and whose Religion is all Nature; and not only so,
but Nature under the greatest Degeneracy, and
next to ^ Brutal. Father La Comte givesjìs the Pi-
&ups. of some of their House Idols, and an Ac-
count of their Worihip; and this lasts, as I have
observ'd, to within a few Days of Arch*Angel:
So that, in a Word, fronr tiieMouth of the Straitr,
that is to fay, from Salke over to Caribbea, from
thence round Africa by the Cape of good Hope,
çmís .the .vast '-Indian Ocean,' and upon' all the
Coast of it, about by Malacca and Sumatra, thro
the Straits oîSimaporemà the Coast of Siam North-
wards to China, and thro* China by Land over the
Desarts of the'Grand Tartary, to the River Dwr
na, being a Circuit three Times the Diameter of
the Earth, and every jot as far as the whole Cir-
cumference- The Name of God is not heard of,
except among a few of the Indians that are Ma-
hometan; the Word of'God is not known, or
the Son of God spoken of.
Having some Warmth in my Search after Re-
ligion, occasions by this Reflection, and so little
ot it appealing in all the Parts which I had tra*
[ Hì ]
tes d, 1 resolv'd to travel over the rest of the
World in Books, for my wandringDays arc pretty
well over; 1 soy,, I refclv'd to travel the reft in
Books; and sure, said I, there, must, appear abun-
dance of serious Religion in the rest of the World,
or elfe I know nothing at all of where I shall find
it
But I find by my Reading, just as I did in Tra-
velling, that all the Customs of Nations* as to
Religion, were much alike; that one with., ano-
ther, they are more devout in their Worship of
something, whatever it he, than inquisitive after
what it is they worship; and most of the Altars
of Worship in the World, might to * this Day be
inscribed to the Unknown God.
. This may seem,a strange thing; but that Won*
der may cease, when farther Enquiry is made into
the particular Objects of Worship, which the se-
veral Nations of the World bow down to, some of
which, are so horrid, so absurd, ^ as one would
think human Nature could not sink so low, as to do
her Homage in so irrational a Manner.
And here, being to speak of Religion as idola-
trous, it occurs to me, that it seem a strange, that
except in Persia, and some Part of ïartary, I found
none of the People look Up for their Gods, but
Down; by which it came into my Mind, that even
in Idolatry itself, the World was something dege-
nerated, and their Reason was more hoodwink'd
than their Ancestors.
By looking up, and looking down, I mean, they
do not as the Romans, look up among the Stars
for their Idols, place their Gods in the Skies, and
worship, as we might fay, like Men; but look
down among, the Brutes,, form. Idols to them-
selves out of the Beasts, and figure things like
Moir
 
Monsters, to adôre them for their Ugliness afcd
horrible Deformity.
Of the Two, the former, in my Opinion, was
much the more rational Idolatry, as particularly,
the Persans worshipping the Sun; and when 1 had
a particular Account ot that at Bengale, it present-
ly occur'd to my Thought, that there was some-
thing awful, something glorious* and God-like in
the Sun, that, in the Ignorance of the True God,
might rationally bespeak the Homage of the Crea-
tures; and to whom it scem'd reasonable, when
Reason was its own Judge only, without the Helps of
Revelation, to pay an Adoration, as the Parent of
Light, and the Giver of Life to all the Vegetative
World, and as in a visible Manner, enlivening and
influencing the rational and sensitive Life, and
which might, for ought they knew, at first create,
as it did since, so plainly affect ail things round
us.
This Thought gave Birth to the following Ex-
cursion, with which I ihall close this Observa-
tion.
Mail! Glorious Lamp, the Parent of the Daff
Whose Beams net only Heat, and Life convey |
But may that Heat and Life, jor ought we know,
On many many distant Worlds bestow.
Immense^ amazing Globe of heavenly Fire;
To whom all Flames ascend, in whom all Lights expire.
Rolling in Flames, emits eternal Ray,
set Self-sufficient suffers no Decay.
<Xby Central Vigour never never dies,
But Use the Motion, Motion^ Use supplies*
 
 
í 1413
When les[er Bodies rob us ùf ihy Béants%
And mfercêpt thy flowing heavenly Streamsj
tyols by Mijlake ecclipfe thee from their Sight,
When ytis the Eye's ecclìps'dy and not thy Light*
Thy Absence cmstímtes effeBual Night,
When rolling Earth deprives us of ihy Light:
And Planets ail opaque and beggerly,
Borrow thy Beams, and strive to fhim like thee*
h their mock life-lefs Light westarve andfreezç,
And watt theWarmth of thy returning Rays»
Thy Distance ieaves us ail recline and Jad,
And hoary Wìnter governs m thy Stead:
Swift thy returning Vtgor, warm and mild,
Saintes thi Earth, andgets the World with Clula.
Great Soûl of Nature, from whose vital Spring
Due 'Méat and Life9s diffus9 d9 thro* every thingt
Governfi the Mocn and Stars by diffèrent Ray,
Shee Queeu of Night, thee Monanh of the Day,
Thee Moon, an d St ars, and Earth, and Plants obe)
When darker Nations fée. the plat d m hlgh,
Andjeelthy Warmth, their Génial Heat jupply:
Hûw imperceptible thy Influence
Slides thro9 their Feins, and touches everj Senfe;
By glimmering Nature kd, they hw their Knee,
Mistake their God, andsacrifice to thee*
Mournthy declining Steps, and hate the Nght,
But when in Hope of thy approaching Light,
Biefs thy Return, whkh brings the chearful Dayr
And to thy wond'rous Light falfe Adorations f ay.
* "L Mr
[' H« ]
Nor can we Maine the Justice of the Thottgh^
ìa Minds ly mitíg, Reajon mly, taught.
Nature it seems inflruBs a Deky3
And Reajon fays9 there's^none jo ìríghtm thee*
Nor ìs tbe Influence fi much a Jejï,
7'hcrvs fomcthingfioch otir Nature in the Refi:
To make a God.and then the Tool adore.""
And ùovú to thaî> that uá'orjhipp'd m hejore. .
The Nonfenfe takes off ail the Révérence}
That can! the worjhípping that is not Sensé*
But mhen the S f ring oj Nature fieivs its Vacey
The Glory ojìís Rays, the Swifmejs oj its ' Race,
•Stnpendoits Height, and Xlijejly Diw'ne,
And wíth what awful Splendor it can fiine:
IVho that no other Nnvs jrom Heasum could hearQ
IVouhlthink bituhiswas God> vcoulâtlrink andjear^>
•No other Mol ever came joìiear. * . 3
* Certain ît ís, that "the Vcrfians who t&us paící
tfìcif'Adoration'tothc" San, wereat thit Time
some qí the wiscst Peopie in the World.. . Sonic
rell us, rtiat tlie grcatímagc that. Neíuchadmzzs'
set ttp for ail hís People to woríhip, wàs repre-
íented holding the Stur ih-' liís; Right-hànd ; ' and
that it was tu the Représentation of. the Sun that
lie çoMïï>M<te<L -0Mwom. má Kindreds to bow
and to woríhip,: líío, then the Affyyiam were Wór-
fhìppersalso of the'San," 4s wdTas the Perftánh
whitlr-is not at ail improbable; we read also in
the Scripftìfe,' of those" Nation5 .who" worfhipp^
aîi the;Hoil of Heaven, a Thing much more ra-
tions pá.;V.iiearet ,of.Kin to .WorsliifipiDg l}ìC
Gxcat' God 'eí'Héàvcn; " th'an wòrfhipping the
[ m 3
wliòlc Host óf the Earth, ...ln.d, worshipping úfi •
most abject and loathsome Creatures, or but even -,
the Representations of those Creatures, which wai;
still worse than the other. . ~
But what are all the Absurdities of Heathenism*
which at last are refolv'd into the Degeneracy of
Mankind,and theif beings alien from the Knowledge'
of the true God^ which was once, as we have
Reason to believe, diffused to all Mankind.
I say, What are these? And how much Ground
for just Reflection do they afford us, compared
to the gross things in Practice, . which we find
every Day among thole Nations, who profess to
have had the clear Light of Gospel Revelation?
How many Self-contradicting Principles do they
hold ? How contrary to their Profession do they act?
How do one Side burn for what another Side ab-»
hors? And how do Christians, taking that vene-
rable Name for a general Appellation, doom one ano-
ther to the Devil, for a few disagreeing, Clauses
of the fame Religion, while all profess to worship
the fame  Detty, 'and to expect the fame. Salvar
tion? .. ......... ,,,...... . . ...
With what preposterous Enthusiasms do some
mingle their Knowledge, and with as gross Ab-
surdities others their Devotion? How blindly su-
perstitions? 'How furious and raging in'their
Zeal? How cruel, inexorable, and even inhuman
and barbarous to one another, when they differ?
as if Religion divested us of Humanity, and that
in our worshipping a God of Mercy, and in
whose Compassions alone it is that we have room
to hope*.weibould to please and serve him, ba-
siifli Humanity from our Nature, and shew tip
Compassion to those that fall into our Hands.
In my Travelling thro* Portugal, it was my Lot m
come to Lisbon, while they held there one of their
' L a Courts
C 148 ]
Còurts of Justice, caii'd Auto -deft, that Is to fay
a'Court ot Justice* of rhe 'Inquisition t It is a Sub-
ject has been .handled by many Writers, and indeed
exposed by some of the best Catholicks; and my
present Ènsinessis-not to write a History, or en-
gage in a Dispute, but to relate a Passage*
They carry"d in Procession all their Criminals
to the great Church § where eight of them ap-
peared first, dress'd up in Gowns .and Caps of Can*
vase* upon which was painted all that Man could
devise, of Hell's Torments,..Devils, broiling _and
roasting human Bodies, and a thousand such fright-
ful things, with Flames and Devils besides in eve-
ry Part of the Dress. , .. ....
Those I found were'eight poor Creatures con-
demned to be burnt, and for they scarce knew what 5
but for Crimes against the Catholick Faith, and
against the Blessed Virgin, and they were burnt.
One of them, it was said, rejoie'd that he Was to
be burnt; and being ask'd, Why? Answer'd, That
he had much rather die, than be carry'd back to
the Prison of the Inquisition, where their Cruel-
ties were worse than Death: Of those eight, as 1
was told, some were Jews, whose greatest Crime,
as many there did not scruple to say, was, that
they were very rich; and some Christians were in
the Number at the fame Time, whose greatest
!Misery was,* that they were very poor*
It was a Sighs that almost gave, me a Shock in
my Notion of Christianity itself, till I began to re-
collect, that it might be possible, that Inquisitors
were scarce Christians, and that.I.knew.many Cr
'tholic Countries do not suffer this abominable Judi-
cature to be erected among them.
I have seep much, and read more, of the unhap-
py Conduct' in "Matters of Religion, among the
other Nations of the World, profeffislg the,.Chri-
[ 149 3
ftían Religion; and upon ipy Word, I sind some
Practices infinitely scandalous, some which arc the
common rçceiv?d Customs of Christians, which
would be the Abhorrence of Heathens; and it re-
quires a strong Attachment to the Foundation,
which is indeed the principal Part in Religion, to
guard our Minds against being offended, even' at
the Christian Religion itself; but I got over that
Part afterwards
Let it not oiend the Ears of any true Lover of
the Christian Religion, that I observe some of the
Follies of the Professors of the Christian Religion,
assuring you,'tis far frçrn being my Design to bring
the least Scandal upon the Profession itself.
And here therefore let me give the Words of
a judicious Person who travelled from turkey thro*
Italy: His Words are these.
"When I was in Italy, I rang'd over great Part
41 of the Patrimony of St. Peter, where one would
rt think indeed, the Face of Religion would be
m plainest to be seen, and without any Disguise;
41 but in short I found there the Face of Relir
"gion, and no more.
%f At Rome there was all the Pomp and Glory
"of religious Habits: The Pope and the Cardi-
<c nals walk'd with a religious Gravity, but liv'd
<c in a religious Luxury, kept up the Pomp of Re-
u ligion, and the Dignity of religious Titles:
u But like our Lord s Observation on the Phari-
fc sees, I found within they were all ravening
lc Wolves.
u The religious Justice they do there, is par-
11 cularly remarkable, and very much recommends
<4 them. The Church protects Murthers and As-
11 saffins, and then delivers the Civil Magistrates
(l over to Satan, for doing Justice. They inter-
Î1 dict whole Kingdoms, and ihuc up the Churches
L $ u for
 
! [ ,ifo ]
fc for Want pffiàyíng- a. few Ecclesiastic Ruc^
<c and lb put a Stop ro Religion for Want of their
Money. I found,-the Courtezans. were the most
c*c constant Creatures arthe Church, and the most
certain Piace for an Assignation with another
Man's Wïse* wzi àt"Prayers.-.: '-
iC The Court of Inquisition burnt two Men for
u, speaking dishonourably of the Bleised Virgin,
and t'icivjt issionicries in China tolerated the Wor-
44 slapping the Devil by their new Convert. 'A
<c Jew was likewise burnt for denying Christ, while
<c the Jesuits jottuf the Paganism. the Heathen
u < wiLi1 the High Mais, and sung Anthems to
the immortal Idols .oiJwquin. . . . .... , .
." When I saw this, I rclolv'd to enquire no more
cf after Religion in Italy, .-till by Accident meeting
c< with a Qjietist, he gave me to understand, thaï
*c all Religion was internals that. thé Duties-of
*c Cnriitianity - were '  fumm'd up in Reflection
!c ;aaá Ejaculation/ He inveighed .bittetly against
<c the Game of Religion, which he said was
"'.playing over the whole World by * the Clergy;
*€ and said, idly was a Theatre, where Religion
cc ^ was the Grand Qpera> and the Popish Clergy
"were the Stage Players. I lik'd him in many
*c of his Notions about other Peoples Religion i
".Jbiit-whenlcauicto talk, with him a littlexlose-
€C ly about Lis owny k. was so wrapped up in his
<c Internals, ...eonceaîU m. the ..Canities .and dark
c-c Parts of the Soul, Meditation without
<c Worship, Destrinc wiiiiout Practice, .Reflecti-
8< on without Reformation,; and* Zeal with-
"out Knowledge ;... that I ' could corns to no
"Certainty with him, but in this, that Religion
-frin Judy was really \invifibk. . '«'
This, was'very agreeable to my Notions of ba~
Mm RçJigio% and to' what I had met with from
: .; 'other
[ i5i 3
otfoer People that had travcl'd the Country: But
one Observation of Blindness and Superstition I
must gift, within my own Knowledge; and nearer
Hone; when passing thto'.Ffawiers, 1 found "the
People' in a certain Gity there, ;in a very
grçat Commotion..:..TheCasq wastthis iAçsrfóûi
Smkmte, so they call an abandoned Wretch given
up,to all-'Wickedness, had broken into, a-Chapei
in the.; Gity^and had ftoln the Pix or Casket where-
in the sacreè Host was deposited; which Host,'as-
brightlyj&nsecratcd, they/believe to-be the-real
Body of our Blested Saviour, being transubstantiat-
ed, as they call it, froin the Subftatice of Bread..
- The, Fact being discovers the City, as J said
above, > was all up in a Tumult; the Gates were
ftyt up, • noiBody suffered to go out; every House
was ieaiio limb \ and the utmost Diligence used;,and
!at Jengtb^ as it was next to Irapoffibility he--fhopld
escape," he 'WSs§; 'discovered,• - 1 ' - >
His Execution was not loóg-deferred :.  But first
he was examined, and I think by Torture, What
b$'b&d.:d&Ac*jmththe iaeifed thing which ,wa$>iii
the Pix, which-he had stoln?- And at length he
conseil," : Xbit he had thrown: it into a ; House
of QCtte ; 4 and was car iy?4:witb a Guard to stiew
them the Place. :-, •
As irwas impossible*to find "a. little Piece of a
Wafer in such a Place, tho' no Pains was spard it:
a ^ost' filttrj^Manoer to ieatch for it ;, but, as i lay*
it could not be found, immediately the Place was
|u4g'd consecrated ipfifit£tor tunrVMntoan Orato*
ry> lid the devout People-flock'd to.it, to expiate
by their Prayers, the JDiflionour done to the Lord
God, by throwing his precious Body into so vile a
•Place. It was dcterinin'd by thcWiser part,that" the
Body .would not ; fail down into the Place,-..bet be
foatch'd ujfcby its inherent Power, or by the holy
: L 4 Angels
f1513
Angels, and not be suffer'd to touch the Excre*
mcnts in that Place*- However, the People conti-
iiu'd their Devotions sot some Time, just in the
Place where it was, and afterwards a large Cha-
fcl was built upon it, wfeetc the fame Prayers are
continued, as 1 suppose, to this'Day.
1 hid a particular Occasion to come at a very
accurate Account of Poland, by a Polish Gentle-
man, in whose Company I traveled, and from
whom I learned all that was worth enquiring of,
about religious Affairs in Prussia on one Side, and
Muscovy on the other.
Asibr Poland, he told me they were all Confu*
sion, both in Church and in State; that notwith-
standing their Wars, they were Persecutors of the
worst Kind ; that they let the Jews live among em
undisturb'd, to such a Degree, that in the Coun-
try about L mlevg and Kmw$ there were reckon'd
above 30000 Jews: That these had not Toléra*-
tion only, but many Privileges granted them, tho*
they deny'd Christ to be the Messiah, or that the
Messiah was come in the Flesh; and blasphemed
his Name upon frequent Occasions; and at the
fame Time they persecuted the Protestants, and
destroy'd  their Churches, where-ever they had
Power to do it.
On the other Hand, when I came to enquire of
those Protestants, and what Kind of People they
were, who suffer'd so severely for their Religion, I
found they were generally a Sort of Protestants,
cal I'd Sociniam, and that Lelius Soánus had spread
his Errors so universally over this Country,thatour
Lord Jesus Christ was redue'd here to little more
than a good Man sent from Heaven to instruct the
World, and far from capable of effecting by the In-
fluence of his Spirit, and Grace, the glorious
Work of redeeming the World; As for the
C I5J ]'
Divinity of the Holy Ghost, they have no Trou*
We about it.
Having given this Account of Knowledgf
and Piety in the Countries inhabited by Christians
of the Roman Church, it seems natural to fay some
thing of the Greek Church.
'There are in the Czar of Muscovy's Dominions
abundance of Wooden Churches; and had not
the Counrry been as full of Wóoden Priests,
something might rhave been said for the Reli-
gion of the Muscovites; for the People are won-
derfully devout there, 'which would have been ve-
ry well, if it had not been attended with the pro-
foundest Ignorance that was ever heard of in any
Country, where"the'Name of'Christian was so
much as talked of.
But when I came to enquire about their Wor-
ship, I found ourXotd Jesus Christ made so much,
a meaner Figure among them than St. Nicholas,
that I concluded Religion was swatlow'd up of
Superstition; and so indeed I found it was upon all
Occasions ; as to the Conduct of the People in re-
ligious Matters, their Ignorance is soestablislt<|
upon Obstinacy, which is the Muscovites national
Sin, - that it would be really to no Purpose to look *
any longer for a Reformation among them.
In short,'no Man will, I believe, say of me,
that I do the Muscovites any Wrong, when I say
they are the most ignorant, and most obstinate
People in the Christian World, when I tell the
following Story of them.
It was after the Battle at Narva, where the
lace King of Sweden Charles XII. defeated their great
Army, and after the Victory, extended his Troops
pretty far into their Country, and perhaps plutir
der*d them a little, .as he advance!j when the
Muscovites, we may be sure, being in the utmost
"' *' Distress
Pjstress and CòoMoo, fcíllateírfeytr©:- W«
rcad of nothing they had to say to God Almiglr
ty• ia chat Gase ;> but t® tbeûtí Patron Saint they
addces$,d,riiîsíextraordifiâryftay#r. - .
OT/jou our perpétuai Cortisone* im ail our Acherfi*
ties l'^èm,iÉ0MtefyPvwerfidStvti.ichol as,
ky m h at Stìt, andf hoxn bave we hìghlf- >offended. tb&e in
vpr $ artifices* .GettufieEîiwSy Meveymœumd ABiom
tf\%banfgtoingì tbkt thou ^hafiMus'rfmfiiku m >. tué
ìmé ther^Qje^smghÁt(^appeasethee'ten$hxè^ -and-weihaà
ìmplm'i ijyy irefmœmmd thy Succour;ogoinft the Terril
ble, insolents Dreadful, £uragfd3b'uké Undamted
Emmìes and , Destroyers; • whem &&e> Lyvn$y Eears%
and other Savage. ?jBeafts3 .that hœvzioft their yâung
enay they attacied us aster an injeknt and tarir.
Ue Mdnner \ and terrifyd and wounded, tcokmtdhUJed
us ky thoufands,, us wha are thy Seopie: Now asi it
is impossible that this fhouldhappen vshhout Wìt.chcrajt,
and Ettchantmenty Jeeing the greàt Cane that we had
inken to jorti fy our jelves aster cm- ímpregnahle. Mm*
ìttYy for the QefeKce and Securìty ofthy Name. W&
Bejéâch theer O St. Nicholas, to be our, Champion^
and the Berner ofour Standard, . to be. voith xuy boîh
m Pence md in Hsarrandin our Necejjïties, andtà
the 'finie $f our Death to proteSì us agaixifi this horribk
and'IytannicaíCrev) of Sortererïy md. to driite ihent
fêrmmigh offfrom our Routiers, wiíktàe ^Mmompeucc
uhich they dejerve. . *
It m ay be hoped I may give a better Account:
of Religion among; Protestants than J have among
the Roman and Grecian Churches; and I will, it ía
Justice it is poslìbie. • . -:
, . The next to the .Nations11 hâve been mention-
tó^lmean,' in Geographical Ordcr, are thèse
refonnd Chrîstians, callU Luthaam; to &y
* * no
 
 
 
I 155 ]
 
no worse of them, tlie Face of Religion indeed if
alter'd much between these and the latter: But |
scarce know what Mime to give it, at least as far
as I have enquired into it, or what it is like.
It wis Popery and no Popery; there was the Con~
suk but not the Transuk. The Service differed
indeed from the &tass> but the Deficiency íëém'd
to-be made up very much with the Trumpets, Ket-
tle-Drums, Fiddles, Hautboys, &c. and all the
merry Pmi of the Popish Devotion; upon which it
occurred to me presently,, that if there was no
Danger of Popery among the Lutherans, there was
Danger of Superstition; and as for the pious Part, 1
sow very little of it in either of them.
By Religion therefore, the Readerjs desired to un-
derstand here^ * not the Principles upon which the
sevetal NatioBs denominate themselves so miich",
as the Manner in which they discover themselves
to be iincer&'in the Profession which they make*
I had no Inclination here to enter into the Enquiry
after the Cteétìs, 'which "every" Nation -professed to
believe; but the Manner in Which they practised
that 'Religion which they really profess'd; for,
What is Rdlig&n mfme without Practice? And
ftkbó' it may be true, that there can be no true
Religion, where it is not professed upon right
Principles; yet that which I observe here, and
which to me is the greatest Grievance among
Christians, is the Want of a religious Practice,
tvm where there are right Principles at Bottom,
and where there is a Profession of the Orthodox
Faith.'   
In Brief, I am not hunting after the Profession
of Religion, but the Practice: - The first I 'find
almost in çvery Nation, Nulla gens tarn barbara —
But the last 1 am like to travel thro* the Histories
of all Christendom' with [my Search, and per-
haps
 
 
haps may hardly be able, when I have done* të
icJI you where it is.
Ail the Satyr of this Enquiry will look this
Way-, for where God has not given a People
the Blessing of a true Knowledge of himself, it
would call for our Pity, not Reproach. It
would be a very dull Satyr indeed, tmt a Man
should be witty upon the Negroes in Africa for
not knowing Christ, and not understanding the
Doctrine ot a Saviour; But if turning to our
modern Christians of Barbadoes and Jamaica for
not teaching them, not instructing them, and
for refuting to baptize them -, there the Satyr
would be pointed and seasonable, as we shall hear
farther by and by.
But to return to the Lmhmnh for there I am
supposed to be at this Time, 1 rpean, among
the Courts and Cities of ^Erauimhmghf Saxor
my, &c. I had Opportunity hçre to view a Court;
affecting Gallantry, Magnificence, and gay things,
to such a Height, and with such a Passion, to ex-
ceed the whole World in that empty Part of hu-
man Felicity, calfd Show, that I thought it was
impossible to pursue it with such an impetuous
Torrent of the Affection^ without sacrificing all
things to it, which wife Men esteem more va-
luable,
Afar was my Notion wrong; for the first thing
I found sacrificed, as I fay, to this voluptuous
Humeur, was the Liberties of the People, who
being by Constitution orCustom,rath^r under ab-
solute Government, and at the arbitrary Will
of the Prince, are sure to pay, not all they can
spare, but even all they have, to gratify the un-
bounded Appetite of a Court given up to Plea-
sure and Exorbitance.
 
 
t ïJ7 1
By all I have read of the Manner of Livîtjg
there, both Coure and People; the latter are
entirely given up to the former * not by Ne-
cessity only, bnt by the Consent of Custom, and
the general Way of Management thro' the whole
Country i nay? this is carry'd to such a Height,
that as I have been told, the King's Coffers are
the general Cess-Pool of the Nations, whither all
the Money of the Kingdoms flow, and only dis-
perses again, as that gives it out; whether by
running over or running out at its proper Venr,
1 do not enquire; so that as ail the Blood in the
human Body circulates in 24 Honrs thro" the
Ventricjes of the Heart, so all the Money in the
Kingdom is said to pass once a Year thro' the
King's Treasury.,
.How. far Poverty and Misery may prompt
Piety and Devotion among the poor Inhabi-
tants, Î cannot fay: But if Luxury and Gallan-
try, together with Tyranny and Oppression to
support it, can subsist with true Religion in the
great Men, than for ought I know, the Courts of
Prussia and Dresden may be the^ best qualify'd in thd
World to produce this Thing calfd Religion,
which I have hitherto seen, ^ is hard to be found,
 It is true, that the ^Magnificence of the wisest
King in the World in Jerusalem, was esteemed
the Felicity of his People: Bnt it seems to be ex-
pressed very elegantly, not as a Testimony of
his Glory only, but of the flourishing Condition
of his People at the fame Time, under the pros-
perous Circumstances which his Reign brought
them to, viz... That he made Gold to be for Plen-
ty like the Stones in the Streets, amply expressing
the flourishing Condition of his People, tinder
r us 1
í have likewise read indeed, and heard much of
the same Kind of the King o( Prussia^ and that
even from his own Subjects, who were always full
of the generous and truly royal Qualities of that:
Prince: He was the first King of the Country*
which before was a Dukedom or Electorate only í
The Summ of their Discourse is, That his Ma je-
sty was ib true a Father of his Country and of his
People, that • his1 whole care was the 'Flourishing?
of their Trade, establishing their Manufactures^
encreasing their Numbers, planting' Foreigners,;
French, Swiss, and other Nations,' among them,
to instruct and encourage them; and being noway
accessory to any of their Oppressions, but relieving
and redressing all their Grievances, as often and
as soon as they. came to his Knowledge:
And indeed, I could not but entertain a great
Regard to the Character of so just and good a
Prince. But all I could infer from that was* That
a Government may be tyrannical, • and yet the
King not be a Tyrant; but the Grievances to the
People are oftentimes much the fame: And every
Administration, where the Constitution is thus
stated, as it seems to be in most, if not all of the
Northern Courts, Protestant as*; well as others,
seems inconsistent with the true Ends of Govern-
ment; the thing we call Government <vas certain-
ly established for the Prosperity of the People;
Whereas on the contrary, in all those German
Courts* where I have made my Observations, the
Magnificence of the Court, and the Prosperity of
the People, stand like the two Poles; what Ex-
cels of Light you fee at one, is exactly balanced by
so much Darkness at t'other.
And where, pray, is the Religion of all this?
That a whole Nation of People should appear
miserable, that their Governours may appear gay%
the
 
 
 
[ ml
the ftople starve/, that the Prince may be fed;
or! iàriher,' the 'People be lean, that their Sovereign
may 'be fat s the Subjects figh, that he may laugh';"
bfctirtpty, that'heinay be toll4, and - all thiVfor
meer .Luxury, not for the needful Defence of the
Government, ''refitting Enemies* preserving the
public :Peace9'and the like, but sot meer Extra-
vagance, Luxtíry,.ândMagníftcencei as in Prussia;
or for Ambition, and pushing at Crowns, and the
Lu'stof'Dominariori, as in Saxony.
''But to come back to the religious TransaCtíohà
of these Countries, How are the Ecclesiastics
jealous of their Hierarchy, afraid to 'reform far-
ther, least, as thfcygavea mortal Stabb to the
Pèfqaiíîres and Vails of God 'Almighty's Ser-
vice in the Roman. Church, modern Re formation
might give the like to them? For this Reason
tfk*y ^ set a Pa!e about  their Church, and there,
áSt well "as in''-other'Places, they cry to their
Neighbours, :Stand off, lam holier than'thou; and
with what Persecution and Invasion, persecuting
sot Religion, and invading the Principles of  one
another., If there was any Peace among them>
it '#as that only 'which passes all Vndérstmdìng. It
presently occurred to me, what Charity can here
be, where there'ìs'jí0'Peace? And .whatReligion;
where is no Charity? And I began to fear 1 should
find little'of what I looked for'iff those odd-Cli-
mates.
. I had traveled 'personally thro* the • Heart; of
France, ' where I had 'Occasion to look1 round me
often enough in my Rout from the Foot of the
Pyreman Mountains to 'fboulouse, from thence to
Vutis and Calais. Here.'I found the People so mer-
ry, and yet so miserable, that I knew not where to
tftake any Judgment. The Poverty of the Poor
Was so great, that it seem'd to leave them no
room
t Ifo ]
toom to sigh for any thing, but their Burthens, of
to pray for any thing, but Bread: But the Tem-
per of the People was so volatile* that I thought,;
they went always daneing to Church* and ca#ie
singing out of it.
. 1 found a World of Teaches here, but m.body;
taught: The Streets were every where foil' of
Priests, and the Churches full of Women, But as
for Religion, I found most of the Clergy were so far,
from having much of it, that few of them knew
what it was. Never sure was a Nation so full of
truly blind Guides; Jot nothing can be more gross-
ly ignorant of Religion, than many of their Cler-
gy are; nothing more void of Morals, than many -
of those to whom other People go to confess their
Sins."
I made some Enquiry about Religion i and a-
jnong the rest, 1 happened to fall in Company with
a good honest Hugonot incognito; and he told me
very honestly, that the State of Religion in France
stood thus: First, That for some Years ago it was
put to the Test by the King, and that was, when
the Edicts came out toèaniíh and ruin the Hugo-
nots; at which Time, said he, we thought there
had been a great deal of Religion in it: But really
when it came to the Push, said he, it was hard to
tell where we should find _it. The Persecution,  as
it was thought at first, would be ingrateful to the
more religious Roman-Catholicks, and that some
would be found too good to do the Drudgery of
the Devil: But we were mistaken, tha best fell
in with Persecution, when it was done by other
Hands, and not their own; and those that would
not do it, acknowledge they rejoie'd that it was
done; which (hew'd, said he, that the Catholicks
either
[ i6i ]
either hid no Principle, or acted against Principle,
which is much at one. And as for us Hugonots*
fays be, we have shewn that we have no Religion
lost among us: For first, some rust away for their Re-
ligion* and yet kit it behind them, and we that stay'd
behind did it at the Price ofour Principles : For now,
fays fc,we are meer Hypocrites,neither Papists nor
Hugonots,. for we go to Mass with Protestant
Hearts; and while we call our selves Protestants*
we bow in the House o(Rimmon,\Vhcte theu,said l9
is the Religion, once boasted of here, to be found?
Indeed, said he> it is hard to tell you, and except a
little that is in the Galleys, I can give you no good
Account of it. This indeed was confining the
Remains of a flourishing Church to about 350
Confcisors, who really suffered Martyrdom for it,
for it wis no leis; so I minuted down French Reli-
gion, tugging at the Oar, and would have come
iwiyi
Buiit cimfc into my Thought to ask him, What
he meant by telling me, that those who run away
for their Religion out of France, left most of it
behind them? He answer'd, I should judge of it
better, it I observed them when I came into my
own Country; where, it I found they liv'd better
than other People, or ihew'd any thing of Reli-
gion suitable to a People that suster'd Persecution
for their Profession, I should send Word of it; for
he had heard quite otherwise of them, which
was the Reason why he and Thousands of others
did not follow them.
t It happen'd, while I was warm in my Enqui-
ries thus after Religion, a Proclamation came
out in London, for appointing a General Thanks-
giving, for a great Victory obtain'd by the Enj^
l$ Forces and their Confederates, over the French
it -fi^-i- I care not to put Names to the parti-
cular Times of things. M .1 started
 
 
1 started at the Noise* when they ery'd it in the
Streets: Hah, said /, then 1 have found it at last;
and 1 rcjoyc'd in particular, that having look'd so
much abroad for Religion, 1 should find it out
at home: Then !began to call myself a thousand
Fools, that 1 had not fa/d myself all this Labour,
and look'd at home first; tho* by the By, 1 had
done no mote in this than other Travellers often,
or indeed generally do, viz,, go abroad to fee the
World, and search into the Curiosities of foreign
Countries, and know nothing of their own.
Bnt to return to my Observations: 1 was re-
soiv'd to see the Ceremonies of this pious Piece of
Work; and as the Preparations for it were prodi-
gious great, I enquired how it would be; but no
body could remember that the like had ever been
in their Time before; Every one said, it would
be very sine, that the Queen would be there her
self, and all the Nobility; and that the like had
never been seen since Queen Elizabeth's Time.
This pleased me exceedingly \ and 1 began to
form Ideas in my Mind, of whar had been in for-
mer Times among religious Nations; I could
find nothing of what 1 was made to expect, unless
it was Solomon's Dedication of the Temple, or Jo-
fialh Great Feast of the Reformation; and 1 ex-
pected God would have a most royal Tribute of
Fraise»
But if íîiock'd me a little, that the People said
there had never been such a Thansgiving since
Queen Elizabeth's Time. What thought 1 can be
the Reason of that? and musing a little, OI says I
to myself, now i have found it: 1 suppose, no bo-
dy gives God Thanks in our Country, but Queens:
But this look'd a little hard; and I rumag'd ont
Histories a little for my farther Satisfaction, but
could make nothing of it: At last, talking of ic
to
 
 
 
 
to a good old Cavalier, that had been a Soldier
for King Charles, O, A*, 1 can tell you the
Reason of it: They have never given Thanks,/iyi
he, because they have had nothing to give Thanks
fort Pray, fays he, When have they had any Vi-
ctories in England since Queen Elizabeth's Time,
except two or three in Ireland in King Williams
Time; and then they were so busy, had so many
other Losses with them abroad, that they were
astam'd to give Thanks for them.
This I found had too much Truth in it, howe-
ver bitter the Jest of it: But still heigh tend my
Expectation, and made me look for some strange
Seriousness and religious Thankfulness in the Ap-
pearance that was to be on the Occasion in Hand;
and accordingly I secured myself a Place, both
without and within the Church, where I might be
a Witness to every Part of the Devotionand Joy
People.
But my Expectations were wound up to a yet grea-
ter Pitch, when I saw the infinite Crowds of Peo-
ple throng with so much Zeal, m I, like a charitable
Coxcomb, thought it to be, to the Place of the Worship
of God; and when I considered, that it was to give
God Thanks for a great Victory, I could think of
nothing else than the Joy of the Israelites, wheri
they landed on the Banks of the Sea, and saw Pha-
roah's Army, Horses, and Chariots, swallow'd up
behind them; and I doubted not I should hear
something like the Song of Moses and the Chil-
dren of Israel, on the Occasion, and should hear it
sung with the same Elevation of Soul.
But when I came to the Point, the first thing I
observed was, That nine Parts of ten of all the
Company, came there only to fee the Queen, and
the Show, and the other tenth Part, I think, might
briaid to make the Show.
M z When
 
 
When the Queen came to the Rails, and de-
scended from her Coach, the People, instead of
crying out Hosannah, blested be the Queen that
cometh in the Name of the Lord; I say, the Peo-
ple cry'd Murder, and Help, for God's soke;
treading upon one another, and stifling one ano-
ther, at such a rate, that in the Rear of the tw?
Lines cr Crowds of People, thro1 which the Queen
Pase'd, it look'd something like a Battle, where
the wounded were retir'd to die, and to get Sur-
geons to come to them, for there lay Heaps of
Women and Children dragg'd from among the
Feet of the Crowd, and gasping for Breath. I
went among some of them, and ask'd them, What
made them go into such a Crowd? And their An-
swer was ai) the fame, O Sir, I had a Mind to fee
the Queen, as the rest did.
Weil, I had my Answer here indeed; for in
short, the whole Business of the Thanksgiving
without Doors, was to fee the Queen, that was
plain ; so I went away to my Scand, which, for
no less than three Guineas, I had secured in the
Church.
When I came there, it was my Fate to be pla-
ced between the Seats, where the Men of God
performed the Service of his Praise, and sung out
the Anthems and the Te Deums which celebrated
the religious Triumph of the Day.
As to the Men themselves, I lik'd their Office,
their Vestments, and their Appearance $ all iook'd
awful and grave enough, suitable in some Respects
to the Solemnity of a religious Triumph; and I
expected they would be as solemn in their Perfor-
mances, as the Lévites that blow'd the Trumpets
at Solomons Feast, when ail the People sliouted and
praised God.
But
 
 
Bot I observed these grate People, in the In-
tervals of their worshipping God, when ic was
not their Turn to sing, or read, or pray, bestow'd
some of the rest of their Time in taking Snuff, ad- -
julting their Perukes, looking about at the fair La-
dies, whispering, and that not very softly neither \
to one another, about this fine Lady, that pretty
Woman, 'this fine Dutchess, and that great For-
tune/ and' not without some Indecencies, as well
of Words, as of Gestures. Well, says ly you are
none of the People I look for, where are they that
give God Thanks?
'Immediately the Organ struck up for the7*£*-
urn; up starts all ray Gentlemen, as if inspir'd from
above, and from their talking together, not over
mjDdestfy»faIl to praising God with the utmost Pre-
cipitation, singing the heavenly Anthems, with all
the (jttce and Music imaginable. * .
In the Middle of all this Musick and these exalted
tilings, when I thought my Soul elevated with di-
vine" Melody, and began to be reconciled to all the
rest, I saw a little rustling Motion among the Peo-
ple* as if'they had been disturbs or frighted:
Some said it thunderd, some said the Church (book.
The true Business was, the Te Deum within was
answered without by the Thunder of 100 Pieces
of Cannon, and thé Noise of Drums, with the
Hum's and Shouts of great Crowds of People in
the Streets.*  This I'did norunderstand, so it did
neither disturb or concern me; I found indeed no
great Harmony in it » it bore no Consort in the
Music, at least, as I understood it; but it was
mxr pretty soon, and so we went on.
When the Anthem was sung, and the other Ser-
gée* succeeded them, I that had been a little di-
sttift/ci with the lucid Intervals of the Choristers,
a&d the Gentlemen that fat crowded in with
M i them,
 
 
 
them, turn'd my Eyes to other Places, in Hopes;
Ï should rind some Saints among the Crowd, whose
éouls were taken tip with the exalted Raptures of
the Bay.
But alas, it was all one, the Ladies were busy
singling out the Men, and the Men the Ladies,
The Scar and Garter of a fine young Nobleman,
beautiful in Person, rich in Habit, and sparkling
in Jewels, his blew Ribbond intimating his Cha-
racter, drew the Eyes of so many Women off ot
their Prayer Books, that I think his Grace ought
to have been spoken to by the Vergers, to have
withdrawn out of the Church, that he might
not injure the Service, and rob God Almighty of
the Homage of the Day.
As for the Queen, her Majesty was the Star of
the Day, and infinitely more Eyes were directed
to 'her than were lifted up to Heaven, tho* the
last was the Business of the whole Procession.
Well, said /, this is mighty fine, that's true:
But where/s the Religion of all this? Heavens
biefs me, said I, out of this Crowd, and 111 ne-
ver mock ..God any .more.here, when the Queen
comes again. Cannot these People go and see the
Queen., ..where the Queen is to be seen, but must
they come hither to prophane the Church with
her, and make the Queen an Idol? And in a great
Passion I was both at the People and at the Man-
ner of the Day, as you may easily fee by what
follows.
MB. I had made some other satyrical Reflections
upon the Conduct of the Day; but as it looks
too near home, I am not willing, that poor R°~
binsm Crusoe should disoblige any body.
I confess, the Close of the Day was still more
extravagant; for there the Thanksgiving was ad-
journed from the Church to the Tavern, and to
 '' ' the
 
 
 
the Street; and instead of'the Decency of a reli-
gious Triumph, thçre was indeed a Triumph of
religious indecency, and the Anthems le ùeum
and Thanksgiving of the Day ended in the Drun-
kenness, the Bonefires, and the Squibs and Crac-
kers of the Street.
How far Religion is concern'd in all this, or
whether God Almighty will accept of this noisy
Doings for Thanksgivings, that 1 have nothing
to do with; let those People consider of it, that are
concern'd in it.
 
Of Differences in Religion..
|IS known alone to the Divine Wisdom,
why he has been pleased to ihflfer my
Part of Religion, and the Adoration
paid to his Majesty, the Supplications
made to him, and the Homage which his Crea-
tures owe to his glorious Being, to be so doubt-
fully directed, or so differently understood by his
Creatures, as that there should be any Mistakes or
Disagreements about them.
How comes it to pass, that the paying a Re-
verence to the Name and Beins* of God, should
not be as uncapable of being disputed in the Man-
ner of it, as in the thing itself? That all the Rules
ofWorfliipping^elieving in, and Serving the Great
God of Heaven and Earth, should be capable of
being understood any more than one Way? And that
the Infallible Spirit of God, who is our Guide
M 4 '*to-
 
to Heaven, should leave any one of its Dictates
in a State of being misunderstood?
Why have not the Roles of Religion, as well
those of Doctrine as of Life, been laid down in
Terms so plain, and so impossible to be mistaken,
that all Men in the World in every Age, should
havç the same Notions of chcm,and understand them
in every Tjtleof them exactly a«ike? Then as Hea-
ven is but one blefled great Port,at which all Hope
to arrive, there would have been but one Road
to travel the Journey in ; all Men would have gone
the fame Way, steer'd the fame Course; and
Brethrep would no more have fallen out by the
God alone, who for wise and righteous Rea-
sons, because he can do nothing but what is wife
and righteous, has otherwise order'd it, and that
is all we can fay of it: As to the "Reason and Ju-
stice of it, that is a thing, of which, like as of
the Times and of the Seasons, we may fay, Know*
tth no Mm.
In the State of Uncertainty we ate now in, so
it is ; two Men believing in the fame God, holding
the fame Faith, the fame Saviour, the fame Do-
ctrine, and aiming at the fame Hç^ven; yet can-
not agree to go to that Heaven, or worship
that God, or btlieve in that Saviour the fame Way,
or after the fame Manner: Nay, they cannot
know, or çonecive of God, or of Heaven, or of the
Redeemer, or indeed of any one Principle of the
Christian Religion, in the fame Manner, or form
the fame Ideas of those things in their Minds.
It is true, the diffère; t Capacities and Faculties
of Men, are in Part a Reason for this; by which
ft is occasioned, that fçarce two Men together
have the fame Notions and Apprehensions even of
qtìç and the fame thing, because their Understan-
"' dipgs
 
 
dings are led by different Guides, and they sec by
different Lights.
But this is not all; they are not alike honest to
the Light tney have : Three Men read the fame do-
ctrinal Article, fay it be of the Trinity, ' or of any
other, and they all examine the Foundation of it in
the Scripture. One thinks verily he has found opt
the Mystery effectually, goes on with his Enquiries,
and brings every Scripture and every Paslage to
correspond exactly with his first Notion; and thus
he confirms himself immoveably in his Opinion;
and it is so clear to him, that he can not only ne-
ver be argued out of it, but can entertain no good
Opinion of any Man, that conceives of it in any .
other Way, but takes him for an Enemy to the
Orthodox Doctrine, and that he merits to be ex-
pelf d out of Christ's Church, deny'd the Christian
Communion; and in short, treats him with no Re-
spect, no nor thinks of him with Charity,
'Another comes to the fame Scripture, and in
quest of the fame Doctrine, and he reads over the
fame Texts, and recievçs Notions from them di-
rectly opposite to the other, or at least, very re-
mote from them: He follows in his Search thro'
all the corroborating Texts, and is confirmed in
his first Opinion from them all: He grows as
immoveable in his received Construction of the
Scripture, as the other * and all is so clear to him,
that he not only can never be argued out of his
Opinion, but can entertain no good Opinion of
any Man that conceives of it any other Way,
hut takes him for an Enemy to the Orthodox
Doctrine,
The third Man, he reads over all the fame
Texts of Scripture, but doing it with an Indifse-
*cncy as to the Substance, and whether he • re-
vives right information or no, truly he comes
away
 
 
way with a Calmness of Mind as to the Substance;
and as he went with no great Concern about being
certain, so he comes back as uncertain as he went
These three Men are enough to fill the whole
World full of Disputes about Religion. The first
two meet, and being equally positive of their being
infallibly guided, equally warm in defending their
Opinions, and equally tenacious of them,and above
all equally void of Chanty to the other; truly they
tali cut, Part, condemn, censure, revile, and as Op-
portun icy and Power offers, at last, persecute
one another, and all one anothers Adherents.
The third, half informed indifferent Man, he
ponies in between these two, laughs at them both,
fays they are a Parcel of furious Christians, that
the thing is not absolutely necessary to be known,
that it is no Article of Faith, so as that with-
out deciding it, a Man cannot be sav'd; says,
they arc a Parcel of Fools to fall out thus about
what they cannnot be certain' of, and which they
pay go to Heaven tho'they should not understand
it tils they come there: And thus the World comes
to be divided.
Cojuid they differ with Humility, they would
differ with Charity; but it is not to be, in Religi-
on, whatever it may be in civil or politick Affairs;
for there is a thing called Zeal, which Men call
a Grace in Religion, and esteem a Duty; and this
makes Men fall out in religious Matters, with a
more fatal Warmth, and more Animosity, than in
other Cafes, according to Hudiùrass.
"Zeal makes men fight like mad or drunk,
"For Dame Religion as sot Punk.
Nor is this the Fate only of the Christian Religi-
on, tho* 'tis more so therethan in any other; but 'tis
the
 
 
 
 
[ l7l ]
the same in other Cases, as between the Persians
and the Turks, about the Successors of their Pro-
phet Mahomet, It was so of Old between the
Heathen and the Jews: And the AJJpian Monarch
prepar'd a fiery Furnace for those that would not fail
down and worship the great Image that he had set
up.
In the Primitive Times of God s Church, the
Heathen did the like by theChristians, and Christian
nos ad Leones was the common Cry: But when the
Church came to its Halcyon-Days, Conflantme the
Great gave Peace to the Christians,and it was buta
little While that they enjoy M that Peace, before
they fell out by the Way, the Arian Heresies rose
up, and differing Opinions rent the State into Fa-
ctions, the Church into Schisms, and in the Space
pf two Reigns, the Arians persecuted the Ortho-
dox, and the Orthodox the Arians, almost with
the fame Fury as the Heathen had persecute: hem
both with before.
From thence to our Time, Persecution has been
the Practice even of all Parties, as they have been
clothed with Power, and as their Differences have
mov'd them: For Example, in ail the Christian
Countries, there is a mortal Feud between Popish
and Protestant; and tho' indeed the former have
carry'd their Zeal farthest, yet the latter have not
been able to fay they have not persecuted in their
Turn, tho' not with Fire and Faggot.
What Wars and Bloodshed molested Europe on
the Account of Religion in Germany Ì especially
till the general Pacification of those Troubles at
the Treaty of Westphalia Ì when the Protestants
having had the apparent Advantage of the War,
obtained the everlasting Settlement of their Religi-
on, as well as Liberties thro' the whole Empire.
Since
Since those times, what Persecution in the same
Country, between the Lutheran and Calvinifi
Churches ? And how little Charity is among them?
insomuch, that the Lutherans to this Day will not
allow the reformed Evangelick Churches, so the
Cai vinists are callM,Li berty toasterabíe for Worship
within the Gates of their Cities, or give them
Christian Burial.'
I avoid looking too near Home, or searching in
Scotland and England among the unhappy Divisi-
ons of Episcopal and Presbyterian, Church of Eng-
land and Dissenter; and this 1 do, because it is at
Home: But it is too evident, that all these come
cither from Mens being negligent of right Informa-
tions, or too tenacious when they have it i for 'tis
evident^ if all Men would be honest to the Light
they have, and favourable to their Neighbours, we
might hope, that how many several Ways soever,
we chose to walk towards Heaven5 we should all
meet there at last.
I look upon all the Seeds of religious Dissen-
sion, as Tares fcw'd by the Devil among the
Wheat: And it may be observed, that tho', as I
have already said, the Assyrians persecuted the Jews,
and the Romans the Christians; yet where the
Devil is immediately and personally worshipped,
there we meet with little or no Persecucipp; for
Satan having a kind of peaceable Dominion there,
offers them no Disturbance: He desires no Inno-
vation for ever; he finds the Sweetness of it, and
lets it all alone.
But if once they talk of ether Gods before him,
he is far less easy; there he is continually sewing
Strife, and hatching Divisions among them; for
like all other Monarchy the Devil loves to reign
alone.
It
 
 
 
It would be too long a Task here, to reckon up
she several Sorts of Differences in Religion, even
among us in England; where, if two happen to
differ, presently like St. Paul to St. Peter, they
withstand one another to the Face; that is to fay, car-
ry on the Dispute to the utmost Extremity*
But there is toother Question before me, and
that is not only, Why there are such Differences
in the Points of Reiig on? And, why are religi-
ous Differences hotter and more irreconcilable
than other Breaches? But, why are there more
Differences of this Kind among us, than among
any other Nation in the World?
Certainly this pushing on our religious Broils to
the Extremity, is the Peculiar of this Country of
England, and is not the fame thing in other Places;
and the Variety is suchhere, that 'tis said, there
are more several Communions or Communities of
religious Kinds in England, than in all the other
Protestant Countries in the World.
The best and most charitable Answer that I
can think of to give for this, is to compliment
our selves, and fay, 'tis because we are the most
religious Nation in the World that is to say>
that we in general set more seriously to work, to
enquire into the Substance and Nature of Religion;
to examine Principles, and weigh the Reasons of
things, than other People; being more concerned
for, and anxious about, the Affairs of God, of
Heaven, and our Souls; that thinking, as we
ought to do, that Religion is of the utmost Con-
cern to us, and that it is of the last Moment to us
to be certain about it, and well grounded in the
Points before us,particu!arly whether we are rightly
informed or not; this anxious Concern makes us jea-
lous of every Opinion and Tenacious of our own,
breaks much in upon the Custom of submitting
our
 
our Judgments to the Clergy, as is the Cafe in
Countries, where People are more indifferent in
their Search after these things, and more uncon-
cen/d in the Certainty or Uncertainty of them.
I must acknowledge, that 1 think the true
and the only just Reason that can be given for this
Matter, is not, that f We are more furious
than other People, more censorious and rasli in our
Judgment, that we have less Charity, or less Pa-
tience, in debating religious Points, than other
People; But the Truth is, that we ha?e less In-
difference about them; and we cannot sit down
contented with a Slight and overly Enquiry, or a
Cursory or School Answer to the Doubts in Que-
stion: But we make it a Thing of absolute necessi-
ty, to be fully informed of, and therefore are ear-
nest in the Enquiry, and knowing the Scripture
to be the great Rule of Faith, the Standard for
Life and Doctrine, we lie thither and search for
our selves, not having Popery enough to expect an
infallible Judge, not Indifference enough to acqui-
esce in the Judgment of the Clergy ; and perhaps a
little too tenacious of our own Interpretation,
even in things we are uninstructed about.
* This indeed I take to be the true Reason why
religious Disputes encrcafe so much here, and why
there are such Separations and Schisms among us,
more than they are in any other Nation in the
World.
I know much of it is laid to the Door of the
Confusions they were all in here, during the bloody
intestine Wars in the Years 1640 to t6$6, and the
Liberty given to all Opinions to setup themselves
at that Time: But I wave that as a Question that
tends to more Division. I believe, the Reason Î
have given for it, stands as well grounded, and as
likely
 
 
likely to be approved as any 1 can give, or as any
that has been given in this Cafe.
There is another difficult Question, which still
remains before us; and that is, What Remedy
can we apply to this Malady? Ard íìrst, 1 must
answer negatively; not to have us be less religious,
that we might differ less about it: But to have
us exercise more Chanty in our Disputes, that we
might differ more like Men of Temper, and more
like Christians, than we do: This is striking at
the Root of religious Differences'; for if they were
carry \i on mildly with a peaceable Spirit, witling
to be igform'd, a Disposition to Love as Brethren,
tho in dlrery thing not like minded: Our Variety
of Opinions would not then have the Name of
Differences, -we should not separate in Communion
and in Charity, tho' we did not agree in every
thing we were to believe or not believe, about
Religion.
It is hard that we should say these Differences
are the Consequences of a Nation, having more
Religion than their Neighbours, since we have
still this one Part too little; and as I suppose m
to have more Religion, 1 must be obiig'd to grant
we bave not -enough mm; for if, as we have just so
much more Religion, as is sufficient to make us
quarrelsome in religious Disputes; we had yet
as much more, as were sufficient to make us
peaceable again after it, then we should be refi*
gious to Purpose.
So that, in a Word, our being so religious, as
above, is only an unhappy middle Composition
between the enquiring and fully informed Christi-
an on one Hand, and the careless, indifferent, un-
concerns Temper, that takes up with any things
on the other Hand ;And this I take to be a just tho*
- 1 " • .,:  ' • - short
 
short Account of our Differences in England about
Religion*
It might be a very useful Question to start here,
namuy where ail our unhappy religious Differences
will end. 1 that am not witling to give the worst
natur'd Answer, where the best and kindest will
hold Water, am for the present disposed to answer
in gencral,rather than descend to Particulars,^, in
heaven i There all our unkind,unchrstian, unneigh-
bourly 3 unbrotherly Differences will end: We shall
freely shake Hands there with many a pardon'd
Sinner,that here w bid standoff; embrace many a
Publican,that here we think it a Dishonours con-
verse with; see many a Heart that we hovcoroken
herewith Censures, Reproaching*, and Revilings,
made whole again by the Balm of the fame Re-
deemer's Blood.
f There we shall fee, that there have been other
flocks than those of our Fold, other Paths to
Heaven than those we shut Men out from; that
those we have excommunicated have been taken
into that superiour Communion; and those we
have plac'd at'our Left-hands* have been there sum-
mon a to the Right-hand; all Separations will
be there taken away, and the Mind of every Chri-
stian be entirely reconcild to one another; no Di-
visions, no Differences, no charging sincere Minds
with Hypocrisy, or embracing painted Hypocrites
for Saints; every thing to be seen, and to be
known, as it really is, and by a clear Light; none
will desire to deceive, none be subject to be de-
ceived.
There we shall look upon all we have done and
said in Prejudice of the Character of our Brethren
with a just Change, and sufficiently repair to one
another all the injurious things we have said, ^or
indeed but thought of one another, by rejoicing
m
 
[ i77 3
m the common Felicity, and praising the sore-
reign Glory, that had rccciv'd those we had too-
lifhly rejected, and let those into the same Heaven,
whom we had in the Abundance of our Pride, and
the Penury of our Charity, (hue our*
How many Actions of Men, which we, feeing
only their Out-fide, have now censurVl, shall we
find there, by that Penetration that cannot err, be
accepted for their in side Sincerity? How many
an Opinion, that we condemn here, shall we sec
then to be Orthodox? In a Word, How many
contradicting Notions and Principles, which wc
thought inconsistent with true Religion, (hall we
find then to be reconcilable to themselves, to one
another, and to the Fountain of Truth?
All the Difficulties in our Conceptions of things
invisible, will then be explain'd; all the Doctrines
of the Immutability of the divine Councils will
then be reconcilable to the changeable Events of
things, and to the Varieties often happening in
the world: The Unchangeableness of the eternal
Decrees will then appear; 'and yet the Efficacy of
praying to God to do this, or not do that, to
pardon, forgive, spare, and forbear, which we
now fay is inconsistent with those unchangeable
Decrees, shall be reconcilable to that Unchange-
ableness, in a Manner to us now inconceiveable.
And this is the Foundation of what I now ad-
vance, wz. That in 'Heaven all our Differences in
Religion will be reconciled, and will be at an Ead.
If any Man ask me, whether they cannot be ended
before? I answer, If we were all thoroughly con-
vinced, that they would be reconciled then, we
should certainly put an End to them before; but
tis impossible to be done. Mens Convictions of
the greatest and most certain Truths, are
n°t equal to one another, or equal to the
N Weight
 
Weight and Significancy of those Troths; 'and
therefore, such a general Effect of this Affair can-
not be expected on this Side of Time.
There is one very great Reconciler of religions
Differences in this World, which has sometimes
been made use of by Providenccto heal the Breaches
in Christian Charity among religions People; and
it is, generally speaking, very effectual: But it is
â bitter Draught, a Potion that goes down with
great'Reluctance, and that is Persecution. This
generally reconciles the Differences of Christians,
about the lesser Matters in Religion-;The Primi-
tive Churches, while under the Roman Persecutions,
had a much greater Harmony among, themselves,
and very few Schisms and Divisions broke out a-
mong them. When they did differ in any Parti-
cular Points, they wrote healing Epistles to one
another, contended with Modesty and with Cha-
rity, and rcferr'd willingly their Notions to be de-
cided by one another. They did not separate Com-
munion, and excommunicate whole Churches and
Nations, for a Dispute about the Celebration of
Easier, or unchurch one another for the Question
of receiving and re-baptizing of Penitents, as was
afterwards the Cafe. The Furnace of Affliction (
burnt up all that Dross, the Fury of their Perse-
cutors kept their Minds humble, their Zeal far
Religion hot, and their Affection for, and Charity
to one another increased as their Liberty, and thai
Number was lessened.
Thus Bishop Ridley, and Bishop Hooper; the first,
a.rigid Church of'EnglandBishop, the other, almost
a Presbyterian, or at least a Calvinist, like Peter
and Paul> d ffer'd hotly, and withstood one ano-
ther to the Face^ in the very Beginning of the Re-
formation: But when they came to burn for their
Religion, Fire and .Faggot ftcvvd them the Rc-
concilablencss
eoncileabîeness of all their Disputes; con vine M
them, that it was possible for both to hold fast
the Truth in Sincerity, and yet entertain differing
Notions of the Rites and Outsides of the divine
OEconomy, and at the Stake they ended all their
Disputes, wrote healing Letters to one another^
and became Fellow-Martyrs and Confessors for
that very Profession which was so intermixed with
Censure and Dislike before.
And let all that think of this Remedy remem-
ber, that whenever these quarrelsome Christians
come, by Persecution, or any other Incident, to
be thus reconciled in their Charity, they find al-
ways a great deal to ask Pardon of one another
for, with respect: to what is past ;all their Violence,
Heat of Zeal, and much more Heat of Passion,
all their Breach of Charity, their Reproaches and
Censures, and hard Words, which have pafs'd be-
tween them, will only then serve to bring them
together with more Affection, and to Embrace
more warmly i for, depend upon it, all the Diffe-
rences in Religion among good Men, (for I do
not mean Essential, DoBrinal^ and Fundamental
Differences) serve only to make them all a&am'd
of themselves at last-
 
N %
 
 
Of the wonderful Excellency of
Negative Religion^ and Negative
Virtue.
||Egative Virtue sets out like the Phari-
see, with God J thank thee; 'tis a Piece
of religions Pageantry; a jointed Baby
dressed up gay, but stripe of its Gew-
gaws, it appears a-naked Lump, fit only to please
Children and deceive Fools* 'Tis the Hope of tk
Hypocrite, 'tis a Cheat upon the Neighbourhood,
a Brefs for without Doors, for 'tis of no Use
within; 'tis a Mask put on for a Character, ami
as generally 'tis used to cheat others, 'tis so igno-
sandy -'embrae'd, that - we cheat even ourselves
with- it.v - • .'
: In a Word, Negative Virtue is Positive Vice, at
least when it is made use of in any of the two last
Cases ; namely, Either as a Mask to deceive other*
or as a Mist to deceive ourselves. If a Man were
to look back JJpon it, to fee in what Part he
could take up his Nest, or lay a Foundation of
Hope for the Satisfoction of his Mind, as to fu-
ture things, he woufct find. it the most uncom-
fortable Condition, to go out of the World with,
that any Man in the t^otíd can think.
# The Reason is plain, compare it with the Pub*
lican, whom such a Man despises : Here is mf
Landlord is a Drunkard, one of my Tenants is a
Thief, such a poor Man is a Swearer, such a rich
'~ Man
 
Man a Blasphemer, such a Tradesman is a Cheat,
such a Justice ot the Peace is an Atheist, such a
rakish Fellow is turn'd Highwayman, suçh a
Beau is debauch'd ; But I! I that am cleath'd
in Negatives, and walk in the Light of my own
Vanity, I live a sober, regular, retired Lite* lam
au honest Man: Vida Page , I defraud no body,
no Man ever heard me swear, or an ill Word
come out of my Mouth ; I never talk irreligiously
or prophanely, and I am never miss'd out of my
Scat at Church. God I thank thee !I am noc
debauched, I am no Highwayman, no Murderer,
&c Now, what's the Difference of all these? I
must confess, speaking of all these together, and
of what is usually the End of them, I think a
Man had better be any of them, nay, almost all
of them together, than the Man himself and my
Reason is3 in a few Words, as follows:
All these know themselves to be wicked Per-
sons i Conscience, tho' for a Time oppress'd and
kept under, yet upon all Occasions tells them
plainly what their Condition is, and oftentimes
they repent 'Tis true, sometimes they do not,
God is pleas'd sometimes to. treat them in the
vindictive Attribute, and they are cut off in their
Crimes, insensible and stupid, without a Space or
a Heart to repent ; and therefore, let none take
Hope in their profligate Living, from what I am
going to say.
Again; others, tho* they do repent, and God
is pleasM to give them the Grace to return to
him as Penitents, come toit very late, and some-
times under a severe Hand, as perhaps on a
Death-Bed, or under some Disaster, and often-
times at the Gallows.
But still I fay, those Men-tho1 they sin,, they do
it as a Crime, and when they come to be mid
N 3 ' é
of it often, they are brought to repent: But the
Negative Christian 1 speak of, is so soli of him-
self, so pcrswaded, that he is good enough, and
religious enough already, that he has no Thoughts
of any thing, unless it be to pull off his Hat to God
Almighty now and then, and thank him, that he
fias no Meed of him; this is the Opiat that
doses his Soul even to the last Gasp; and it
is ten thousand to one, but the Lethargic Bream
âioots him thro* the Gulph at once, and he never
opens his Eyes till he arrives in that Light, where
ail things are naked and open; where he (cos
too late, that he has been a Cheat to himself, and
has been hurry'd by his own Pride in a Cloud of
Negatives^ into a'State of positive Destruction,
without Remedy.
'• 1 am reading no particular Man's Fate; God
forbid! 1 restrain it to no Circumstances, 1 point
out no Persons; 'tis too solemn a thing to make
it a Satyr; 'tis the State, not the Man, I speak
of; let the guilty apply it to themselves, and the
proud good Man humble himself, and avoid ic.
I have observ'd, that many fall into this Cafe
by the excessive Vanity of being thought well of
by their Neighbours, obtaining a Character,^, 'tis
a Delusion very fatal to many ;a good Name, is
indeed a precious Ointment, and in some Cases
is better than Life: But with your Pardon, Mr.
Negative, it must be a good Name for good Deeds,
or otherwise, a good Name upon a bad Life is a
fainted Whm% that has a gay Countenance upon a
rotten, diseased, corrupted Carcass.
Much to be prefers"d is the general Slander of a
prejudiced Age, and a State of universal Calumny,
where theMind is free from theGuilt they charge;
Such a "Man, t!ioJ the World spits upon and deipi-
'-' i ses
 
 
 
ícs him, looks in with Comfort, and looks up
with Hope.
. . Hie mums Ahewus est§3
Mil conscirefikiy nulla pallescere culpa.
Virg,
General Contempt, universal Reproach, is a
Life that requires a world of Courage and
Steadiness of Mind to support: But, be this
my Portion in this World, with a Heart that docs
not reproach me with the Guilt, much rather
than to be a Man of Negatives only, and who all
the World caresses with their good Wisties, and
good Opinion, but is himself empty of real Vir-
tue, a Hypocrite at Bottom, a Cheat, and under
the Delusion of it; whose Portion is with Hypo-
crites, and who can neither look in, or look up
with Pleasure, but must look without himself, for
all that can be çall'd Good, either by others, or
by himself.
As at the Great and Last Day, the Secrets of
all Hearts shall be disclosed, so I am perswaded,
the Opinion we have of one another here, will be
one of the Things which will be there, and per-
haps not till then fully rectify'd; and as we shall
be there thorowly enlightened, we shall find Room
to see, that we have been muçh mistaken in our No-
tions of Virtue and Vice, Religion and Irreligion,
in the Characters of our Neighbours. And I am
perswaded, we shall see many of our Acquaintan-
ces placed at the Right-hand of a righteous Judge,
whose Characters we have oppressed with Slanders,
and who we have censoriously placed at his Left-
hand here: And many a painted Hypocrite, who
has insulted his Neighbour with, Stand' off, I am
him than thou, or whoin he has turned from
N 4 with
 
 
 
with Disdain, and-with a This Publican i plae'd at
the Left-hand, who we made no Doubt we should
have seen at the R ght~hand in Triumph.
This is a Support to the Mind of a good Man,
even when his Enemies as David fays, gnajh upon
him with their Teeth, and have him in Deri/ion,
that is to fay, when he is run down by universal
Clamour,-and damn'd 'by the Tongues of Men,
even for this World and another.
Happy the Man, who with exalted Soul,
Knows how to rate the great the proférons Fool,
li'ho can the Insults of the Street contemn,
^ind value » not the Bulge or Tongues oj Men Ì
He like the Sun exists at his own Flame,
And when he dies, is to himselj a Fame.
But take this with yon as you go, that as nega-
tive Praise will build no Man Comfort, so nega-
tive Virtue will not support the Mind under uni-
versal Contempt. Scanda! is much worse than
Slander; tor the first is founded upon real Guilt,
the other attacks Innocence. Nothing is a Scan-
dal, but what is true: Nothing is a Slander, but
what is false.
He that fortifies himself against.. Reproach, must
do it with a certain Reserve of Real, and solid Vir-
tue, and Piety; it must be Uprightness and Inte-
grity that must preserve him; nothing but a Fund
of what is good can support the Mind under the
Reproach of being all that is bad; I do not mean
neither, that the Man must be perfect, have no
Follies or Failings, have made no Excursions, have
nothing to be laid to the Charge of his Character;
for'where then ihallthcMan be found' I am spea-
king of? And I may be said to be describing the
". . '. ' Black-
 
 
Black-fòran, erson that is not, and never was
to be found: But the right Way of judging Men,
and the Way which alone can be just, is to judge
of them by their general Conduct; and so a Mm
may in his own Mind justly denominate himself:
As every* good Action does not denominate me
to be a good Man, so neither does every Failing,
every Folly, no nor every scandalous Action, de-
nominate me a Hypocrite, or a wicked Man;
otherwise, some of the mosteminent Saints in Scrip-
ture, and of every Age since the Scripture was
written, are gone to the Devil; and 'twill be
hard to fay, there was ever a good Man in the
World,
But I return to my Subject, the negative good
Man; and let me examine him a little in his just
Character, in his Conduct, pubiiek and private:
He is no Drunkard, but is intoxicated with the
Pride of his own Worth: He is a good Neigh-
bour, a common Arbitrator and Peace-maker in
other Families, but a curled Tyrant in his own:
He appears in a publick Place of Worship for a
Show, but never enters into his Closet and stiuts
the Door about him, to pray to him that fees in
Secret: He is covered with the vain-glorious,
and ostentatious Part of Charity, but does all his
Alms before Men, to be seen of them i He is migh-
ty eager in the Duties of the second Table, but re-
gardless of the first; appearingly religious to be
seen and taken Notice of by Men; but between
God and his own Soul, no Entcrcourse, no Com-
munication : What is this Man? And what Com-
fort is there of the Life he lives? He knows lit-
tle, or perhaps nothing of Faith, Repentance, and
a Christian mortified Life: In a Word, he is a
Man perfect in the Circumstances of Religion, - .  . and
 
 
 
 
 
 
and perfectly z Stranger to the essential Part of
Religion.
Take this Map's Conversation apart, enter into
the private and retired Part of it, What Notions
has he or miipent Hours, and of the natural Re*
Sox of all our Minutes, on to the great Center and
Gulph of Life, Eternity} Does he know how to
put a right Value upon Time? Does he esteem it
the Life-Blood of his Soul, as it really is, and act-
in ail the Moments of it, as one that must ac-
count for them? Alas! this is of no Weight with
such a Man; hç is too full of himself to enter in-
to any Notions about an Account, either for mi-
spent Time, or any thing else misdonc; but pet-
fwading himself, that he never did any thing amiss,
entertains no Notion of Judgment to come. Eter-
nity, or any tbipg in it.
What Room has a Man to expatiate in
his Thoughts upon so immense and inconceivable
a Subject, as that of eternal Duration, whose
Thoughts are all taken up, and sweilM Top-full
with his own extraordinary self. It would be im-
possible for any Man in the World to entertain one
proud Thought of himself, if he had but one
right Idea of a future State. Could such a Man
think, that any thing in him, or any thing he could
do, could purchase for him, a Felicity that was
to last to Eternity? What 1 that a Man should be ca-
pable in one Moment (for Life is not that in Length
compar'd to Eternity) to do any thing for which lie
ihould deserve to be made happy to Eternity?
If then you can form no Equality between what
he can do, and what he shall receive \ less can it be
founded upon his negative Virtue, or what he has
íorborn todo» and if neither his negative nor his
positive Piety can be equal to the Reward, and to
tbx Eternity chat Reward is to last for; What
then is become of the Pharisee? he must think no
more of himself, for all his Boasts; neither of his
Négatif es nor his Positives, but of a rich unboun-
ded Grace, that rewards according to itself, not
according to what we can do; and that to be
judged at the last Day according to our Works,
if literally understood, would be to be undone;
but we are to be Judged by the Sincerity of pur
Repentance, |>e rewarded according to the infi-
nite Grace of Qod, and Purchase of Christ,
with a State of Blessedness to an endless Eter-
nity.
Indeed this Eterpity is not a Meditation suita-
ble to the Man I am talking of, 'tis a sublime
Thought,which his bloated imagination has never
descended to, or engaged in; and when it comes,
lie is like to have as little Comfort of it, as he has
had Thought about it.
This Thought of Eternity raises new Ideas in
my Mind, and I cannot go forward without z
Digression upon so important a Subject; if the
Reader approves the Thought, he will not quar-
rel about its'being a Digression.
ETERNITY,
HAil mighty Circle, unconceived Abyjsf
Center of Worlds to come, and Grave ofthn:
Great Gulph of Nature in whose mighty Womb,
Lyes all that Thing calfd Past, that nothing mud te
(come
Iverctui never, both begun in thee,
The weak Description ofEtemitie,
Meer Sounds which only can thy Being confess;
For bow should finite Words thee Infinite express*
 
Ibeuart Durations modem 2&ame%
7q bey or to bave been, in thee are ail thef mm*
*Ihy Cìrcle holds the pre-existent State
Of ail that's early, or that Jhall be late.
Ihou knowst no Past or Future ;ail in tbee9
: Make up one Point, Erernity; •
Andy if things mortal meafure things sublime^
Are ail onegreat Ubiquity of Time.
To end, beginy beborny and dye>
?be A d dent s ofTime and Life,
Are Nonfenje in tby Speech, JEteniity
Swaílows tbem ail, in thee they end tbeir Strifç.
In thee the Ends of Nature jonn one Lina
Aud Generaticn vjith Corruption join.
Ages of Life defcrih thy State in vain,
Even Death itfelf in thee, lives oer again.
7 h y radiant Brighty unfaded Facey
Shines over univers il Sface.
Ail Umítsfrom thy vafi Extent mu ft fiée, ")
Old EverlaftingV but a Point to thee >
•J'en Everlastingsy makey not one Eterníde. \
1$ thee things pafty extst m things that are;
Aud things to corne y as ifthey were;
7hu wast the sir ft Creat YVhen, wbik there was yet N»
- Whcre.
 
Eve*
[ i89 ]
Even *fime itselss a lits k Bail of Space,
Borroiving a Marne from thy iVuftrious Face,
Which wheelmg round in its ovm Cinle burus,
Rolls ont from thyfirft Sprmgì andintothtt ntumu
IVhat we have,kœn3 and wkat weœye9
The présent and the Tme that's pafi,
We can résolve to nothing here,
But what we are to be in thee, at la[L
Deedssoon fìaïï dye} bcwever ncbly dene,
And Thougks ofMeny lihe as themfelves decay:
But Time ivhen to Eîernìty rolid on,
Shallnever, ne<ver, never -wafle away.
Tearsy Agesy Months, Weeh, Das s, and Hours,
Wear out, and Words to number them Jhall fail,
One Endless ail the wild Account demoms%
And tby vaft Unit cafìs up ail the Taie.
Numbers as far as Number s rum
Are ail in thy Account but one,
Or raiher are thy Reck'nìng juft begun.
'fhou art the Life of Immortalise,
IVhen Time itfelf drovms, and expires in thee. ^;
'" AU thegreat ABkns of afpiring Men>
By which ihey buildthat triflmg thing caÏÏd
In thy Embrace lofe ail their Where, and When,
Reserving nct fi mmh$ as a meer empty Marne.
Hom
 
 
 
 
 
/sow vain are Sorrows of a human State,
Why mourn thy Afflitted at their Fate Ì
One Point, one Moments longer far
lhau all their Days of Sorrow stall appear »
When wrapt in Wonders we shall fee,
And measure their Extent by thee.
In vain are glorious Monuments of Fame,
Which Fools ereB t9 immortalise a Name,
Not half a Moment when compared with thee,
Lives all their fancy d Immortalities
Start back my Soul! and with some Horror view,
If with these Eyes thou canst look thro9
Enquire what gives the Pain of Lofs a Sting,
Even Hell itself s a Hell, in no one other thing.
'Then with a Brightness on thy Face,
An Emanation from thai glorious Place;
A Joy which no dark Cloud can over-cast^
And which, Eternity itself cannot out-last.
RefleB'my Soul! Duration dwells on high)
And Heaven itself s made Heaven, by blest Eternity.
But to the Purpose in Hand; for 1 have not
clone with this Man of Negatives yet: And now
let. m bring him more nearly and seriously to a
Converse with the invisible World: He looks in-
to it with Horror and dreadful Appréhensions; as
Fa?//x,when $t.Paul reasoned of Temperance,Righ-
teousness, and of Judgment to come. Fœlix, was
a moral
 
 
 
a moral Heathen, that is to fay, a Man of Nega-
tives, like him I am speaking . of. What was
then the Cafe? he trembl'd ; Pray, what is it rea-
sonable to chink fvehx trembled at ? if I may give
my Opinion, who am but a very mean Expositor
or Texts, it was this or something like it,
Fœlix was a Philosopher, as well as a Man of
Power; and by his Wisdom, as also by his Reve-
rence ef the Gods, which at that Time wis the
Sum of Religion, had been a Man of Morals, a
Mao that had practiced Temperance and Righte-
ousness, as the Lite which was unquestionably to
be rewarded by the Powers above, with an Ely-
sian Felicity; that is to fay, according to the Ro-
man Maxim, That the Gods were the Rewardcrs
of Virtue.
But when the blessed Apostle came to reason
with Fœlix, how unlikely it was, that these Ne-
gatives should purchase our Happiness hereafter,
he ihew'd him, that'the Gods could not be in Debt
to us for the Practice of Virtue, which was indeed no
more than living most suitable to our Reason,
that a Life of Virtue and Temperance was its own
Reward, by giving a healthy Body, a clear Head,
a composed Life, &c, sitting the Man for a Li
other worldly Enjoyments, adequate to his Rea-
son, and his present Felicity as a Man: But
eternal Happiness must come from another Spring,
namely from the infinite unbounded Grace of a
provok'd God, who having erected a righteous
Tribunal, where every Heart should be searched,
and where every Tongue would confess itself guil-
ty, and stand self-condemned. Jesus Christ, whom
Paul preach'd, would separate such as by Faith and
Repentance he had brought home, and united u>
himself by the Grace of Adoption, and on the
Foo:
Foot of his having laid down his Lise a Ransom
for them, had'appointed them to Salvation.
When poor Negative Fœlix heard of this, and
that ail his Philosophy, his Temperance, and
Righteousness, it it had been ten thousand Times
as great, could weigh nothing, and plead nothing
for him at that Judicature; and that he began to
see the Justice and Reason of this i for Paul rea-
soned him into it; I say, when he saw this, he
trembi'd indeed, as well he might, and as ail ne-
gative People will.
What a strange Idea must that Pharisee have of
God, who went up with the Publican to the Tem-
ple to pray : 'Tis observable, he went with a good
Stock of Assurance in his Face, that could come to
the Altar, as he did, not to offer any> Sacrifice; we
don't find he carry'd any Offering, or bespoke
the Priest to make any Attonement; he wanted no
Priests to make any Confession to: Good Man, as
he thought he was, he had no Sins to confess;
he. rather came up to the Altar to even Accounts
with Heaven; and like the other Man in the Gos-
pel, tell God, that he had fulfils d the whole Law,
and had done all those things that were command-
ed>even from his Youth; so, as before, he only pul-
led off his Hat to his God, and let him know,
that there was nothing between , them at present,
and away he goes about his Business.
But the poor Wretch, whom he despis'd, and
whom he had lefrbthind him, for he durst come no
farther, acted quite another Part. He had at first
indeed, in Sence of his Duty, resolv'd to go up to
the Temple; But when he saw the Splendor and
Majesty of God represented by the Glory of that
elevated Building; I say, when he saw that, tho
a great Way of£> and then looked into his own
Heart, all his negative Confidences failing him>
 
 
 
and a Sense' of miserable Circumstances coming
upon him, he stops short, and with a Blow of Re-
flection and perfectly unmixc with any of the Pha-
risees Pride, he looks down in Humility, but lifts
up his Heart in a penitential Faith, with a Lord be
merciful to me a Sinner*
Here was Faith, Repentance, Duty, and Con-
fession, all conjoined in one Act, and the Man's
Work was done at once, be went away justified;
when the negative Pharisee went home, the fame-
self vain Wretch, that he came out with God I
thank thee in his Mouth, and a Mass of Pride in
his Heart, that nothing could confinée.
In what glorious Colours do the Scriptures up-
on all Occasions represent those two Hand in Hand
Graces, Faith and Repentance} There is not one
Mention of Faith in the whole Scripture, but
what is recommending some Way or other to our
Admiration, and to our Practice; 'tis the Foun-
dation and the Top-stone of all Religion, the
Right-hand to lead, and the Left-hand to support,
in the whole Journey of a Christian, even thro* this
World, and into the next: In a Word, 'tis the
Sum and Substance of the Gospel Foundation.
Religion seems to have been founded upon three
Establishments in the World > in all which the
Terms of Life are laid down at the End of our
Acceptance of it.
The First Establishment was with Adam in Pa~
ì'aàife; the Terms of which were, Forbear and
Live.
The Second Establishment was with the Chil-
dren of Israel, in the giving of the Law; the Terms
ot which were, D o and Live.
The Third Establishment is that of the Gospel
°fjesus Christ; the Terms of which are, Believe
«ndLive.
O Sa
 
 
 
 
 
So that in a Word, Faíth is the Substance
and Fulfiiling of Gospel Religion, the Plan oí
Righteousnesr, and the great Efficient oí eter-
nal Lite. Let me break ont here upon this glo-
rious Subjeét, and pardon the Excursion, 1 en-
treat y ou.
 
ÎWC "XìP^ y^ï?^ *'<v?*, *%aK çS2S íí^^t^^fíS^/^^IS^
FAITH;
HAil Mïstick! renìi^ing Vistm Hail i
Heavens duplicate, Eternitfs Entail;
GO D's Représentative to hand us ony
And for us daim a Station marins eThromt
Jsfot the eiernal Maniements of Brass,
Gates, a whok Hell of Devils could neverfass;
Not Angds, net íhe bright femphick <trainJ
ttlnch dîme mu Adam Hom the Sacrcd Plain:
Not ail the FlamingSwords Heaven cver drtw.
Shall fliur thee out, or hitercept thy View.
*.* • . « ^
Boldly thon jcasfi th: Adamantin lPaliy
, B/rhere Hcaps offaiming Suppliants sali, 
Where Doubt Im thoufarJs and ten ihoufands flain,
And Hypocrites kncck hard in vain.:
Soaring ahve the dark Abyss of Fear,
Quite m 4 Sigbt, bdïmâ, thm kavft Despair,
 
 
 
Who fainting, and unable to keep Pace,
Gives up the Prize, gives cut the Race*
Faints by the Way, and Fainting cries,
1 can't, and so, for Fear of Dyings dies.
While thou, on Air of Hope, fanning thy Wings,
With gentle Gales of Joy, from whence Assurance
springs,
Mount st cn, and passing all th'JEtherial Boundsx
T'hy Head with beatifick Rapture crowns.
Great Pilot of the Soul, who goes before
The Dangers of the dreadful Voyage f explores
Enters the very Place, and when 'iis there,
Sends back Expresses to support us here,
Negotiates Peace, gains the great Pledge of Love,
And gets it ratify d above.
With awful Confidence at Heaven's high Throne,
It rather humbly claims than meerly prays.
Pleads, promises, and calls them all its own,
And trusts to have, even then, when Heaven denyes]
On Earth what Wonders has it wrought Ì
Rather what Wonders has it not?
**ihas parted Rivers, dry'd up Seas,
Made Hills of those, and Walls of these.
And if to this great Mountain it should fay,
^iove off, O Hill, and roll to yonder Sea>
The Sea and Mountain too must hth obey.
O % ff
 
If íêimrds Heaven k looks, 'tis ne y in wi%
Fy cm thence 7t bas brmtght down Fire} *t has brought
clown Raiu,
'And thlthcY it ascnds in Flamc again.
îi$ Influence isjo vigorous and intense,
It pcnxcs alltlìc Négatives of Sensé.
Things quite invisible to Sight, it fées
Things dìjsicuh persorms with Eaji;
Things imperceptible to us il knows,
Things ntîcvly impossible it docs:
Things mmitellfgible it understands,
"Things higlj (íuperior to íticlf) cemmaads,
Things in themsehes unnatural reconciles,
IVeahiessto Strength, and toits Scrrows íiniles.
Hopes againft Hope, and in DespaiV* restgnd,
And Spight o/Storms witìiout, it calms íhe Mind.
Say nnborn Lamp, i&hat feeds thy Fiante,'
In aUVarietiesjheSpmeì , ,
What Wonder-working-hand thy Power supplies
Natm e and Reasons just Surprime.
Nature and Reafonjoin thee Hand in Hand,
And to thy just Dominion sloop the Mind:
Mut venher can thy TVorkings understand,
Aki in xhy swifter Pace /te leavst them htb
"i, lehùuí
 
'fwas from thy Motion fortify d by thee,
Peter ask'd Leave to walk upon the Sea,
When his Great Lord said Come, and Faith said Go*
What Heart couldJear ? What Coward Tonguesaj No?
Boldly heslept upon the flowing Wave, j
And might ha march"d thro" Fire, or thro* the (
Grave, C
While he stood by, who had the Power to save: ^
But soon as Peter lost his Hold of thee,
He funk like Lead into the Sea.
All thy Magnetic Power difperft and gone.
The heavenly Charm was broke, and Peter quite unr
And had not H ip been just at Handi {done;
Peter had gone the nearest Way to Land.
Made up of Wonders, and on Wonders fixt
Of contradicting Qualities thou'rt mixt.
Small as a Grain, yet as a Mountain great,
A Child in Growthjet as a Giant strong;
A Beggar, yet above a King in State;
Of Birth but short, yet in Duration long.
How shall we reconcile thee to our Sence?
Here thou wouldft pass for meer Impertinence*
Thy teaming Nature would thy End defeat,
So Humble, and yet so Importunate.
 
 
 
 
 
See the great Test of Faith, the greatest sure)
That Heaven e\r put a Mortal to endure.
O 3 SM
[ i98 ]
Sbe cry*d, fie beg'd, my she believ'd, and pray%
let long negletted, aud as long denfd;
At last, as if commanded to Despair,
She's almost told it was not in his Power,
That fie vms out of his Commission phut,
Shut out by Heaven, by Race accurst.
Woman! 1 am not sent to thee!
, Woman! thou hast no Share in me!
ffias ever Creature born, but this could hear,
Such Words frodaimd ,from Heaven, and not
Despair.
But still fie prays, adheres, petitions, cries,
And on the Hand that thrusts her back relies:
Ttll movd, as 'twere with her Impertinence,
Me calls her Dog, and challenges her Sence,
To tell her, whether fuck as fie are fed,
}Vith Food appropriate*, ertbe flousttold Bread.
But all was one; her Faith so often iryd
Too strong to fail, too firm to be denfd: .
She follows still, aUoivs her out-cajl^State,
*Jhe more thrust off, the more importunate:
Every Repulse floe meets, revives her Prayer,
And fie builds, I&ptf'becaxiÇc.Jbe9s kìÀDijpair:
Me calls her Dog, fie calls her self so too,
But pleads as such the Fragments that are due,
*fhe Cafe so doubtful5 the Repulse so long*.
'Mr Sex so weak, ami yet her Faith so strongs
::  heaven
 
 
Heaven yields / The ViBory of Faith's obtain J,
Ami all jhe ask'd, and all fhesought. sory gain'd.
Mysterious Flame! tell us from whence
Thou drawst that Cleaving Confidence,
That strange, that irresistible D.fire, . ... ......
that with such Mlgic Force sets all the Soul on Fire;
By which thou canst to Heaven itself apply,
la Terms, which Heaven' itself can not deny. "?
A Power so great, an Influence so sure,
Not Heaven itself the Wrestlings can endure.
See how the struggling Angel yields the Day,
When Jacob's Faith bids Jacob pray.
Let me alone, the heavenly Vision cries, , .:
No, no, fays conquering Faith, never without my Prize.
Heaven yields Î Victorious Faith prevaiïd.
And all the Blessings ask't for, he entaiPd.
'' „ Bkft humble Confidence that finds the Way}
To know we/hall be heard^before we pray;
Heaven's High Insurance Office, where we give,
!he Premium Faith, and then the Grant receive*
Stupendous Gift! from what strange Spring below,
Can such a supernatural ProduB flow Ì
From Heaven, and Heaven alone it must derive;
For Heaven alone can keep ' its ' Flame alive.
O 4 W
 
 
 
No Spring below can fend out such a'Stream,
No Fire below emit so bright a Flame
Of Nature and original Divine,
It dm all other Gifts of Heaven Out-shine.
ihu art the Touch-stone of all other Grace,
No Counterfeits can keep thy Pace.
The weights Standard of our best Desires,
The true Sublime,1 which'every Breaft inspires.
By thee we rife to such a Height of Flame,
As neither Thought can reach^nor Language name.
Such as St. Paul himself could hardly know,
Whether he really was alive or no;
When cloth* d in Raptures lifted up by thee,
He saw by Faith, what none without it fee.
Just Heaven, that in thy Violence delights.
And easily di(linguistes thy Flights
From the thin Out-íìde Warmth of Hypocrites,
Approves, accepts, rewards, and feeds- thy Flame,
And gives this glorious Witn ess to thy Fame,
Tfhat all our Gifts are hallow'd by thy Name.
By thee our Souls on Wings of Joy ascend,
Climb the third Heaiien, 'an Entrance there demand,
As Jure those Gates to thee stall open wide,
As without thee we3 ye sure to be deny'd.
No Bars, no Bolts; no flaming Swords appear,
To shock thy Confidence, ' or move thy Fear,
 
 
 
To thee the Parent Passage alwayssree,
Peter himfelj receivd the Keys f mm thee;
Or vúbicb we may conceive wîth mue b more Ease,
Tshou art thy self the Gâte, thy self the Keys.
*f/nm was the fiery Chariot, thine the Steeds,
lhat fetcb't Elijah front Oid Jordan'* Plains;
Such a long Journey, fuch a Voiture needs,
And thou the fleady Coachman held the Reins*
T'hìne was the wondrous Mantle ke threw dovon,
Bj which successive Miracles were wrought;
For Twas the Prophets Faith, and not bis Gown>
Eliíhaso importunât ely sought,
Bvight Pôle-Star os the Soul for ever fixt,
íhe Mind'ssure Guide, wben anxious andPerplext;
ÌVhen wandring in the Abyss oj Jboughts and
Cares>
IVhere no Way o ut, and no Way in, appears^
ÌVhen Doubt and Horrory the Extreams os Fearp
Surround the Soul> and prompt ber to Despair.
Thou fhin'st aloft, openfi a Gleam os Light,
Andstovfst ail Heaven to our Sigbt,
Thou guìtdft the Soul ivith fuddain Smiles and
Joy,
And Peace, that Hellitself can neerdestroy.
 
 
[201J
ïf all this be to be said, and all indeed but a Poe-
tical Triste upon this exalted Subject, What is be-
come of our Negative Christian in ail this? There
is not a Word of Negative Religion in all the De-
scription of Faith, anymore than there is of Faith
in aii our Negative Religion.
Now let us follow this poor Negative Wretch to
bis Death-bed, and there having very little other.
Notion of'Religion; for 'tis the Fate of those
that trust to their Negatives, to have little elfe m
their Thoughts.; If a good Man come to talk with
him, if he talks out of that Way, he puts him all
into Confusion; for if he cannot swim upon the
Bladders of his Negatives, he drowns immediate-
ly, or he bony s himself up above your Reproofs,
and goes on as before: He is a little like the 7V
///ftCaptain Uratz, who was executed for the Mur-
ther of Mr/J)j>who, When they talk't to him
of Repentance,, and of Jesus' Christ, said, he was
of such andiocha,.Family, and. he hop\i God would
have some Respect to him as a Gentleman.
But what must • a poor Minister'do, who being
fill*d with better • Principles, prays for this vain
glorious Man? Must he fay, Lord accept this
good Man, for he has been no Drunkard, no Swea-
rer, no debauch'd Person; :he has been a just, a
charitable Man, has done a great deal of Good
among his Neighbours, and never wilfully wrong'd
any Man; he has not been so wicked as it is the
Custom of the Times to be; nor has .he slicwn
bad Examples to others; Lord be merciful to tins
excellent good Man? * '*
'No, no,  the poor sincere Minister 'knows' bettei
things; and if he prays with him, he turns him
quite in-fide-out, represents him as a poor inisi^
ken Creature, who now fees, that be is nothing:-
and
 
 
 
and has nothing in himself, but casts himself en-
tirely, as a miserable lost Sinner, into the Arms
of a most mere sal Saviour, praying to be accep-
ted on the Merits of Jesus Christ, and no other;
so that there's all his Negative Bottom unra-
vell'd at once; and if this is not his Cafe, ic
must be worse.
 
 
 
E are naturally backward to inform
our selves of our Duty to our Ma-
ker, and to our selves; 'tis a Study
we engage in with great Reluctance,
and 'tis but too agreeable to us,
when we meet with any Difficulty
which we think gives us a just Occasion to throw
off any farther Enquiries of that kind.
Hence 1 observe the wisest of Men often run
into Mistakes about the Things, which speaking
of Religion we call Duty, taking up slight Notions
ot them, and believing they understand enough of
them; by which they rob themselves of the Ad-
vantage, as well as Comfort of a farther search.
Or on the other hand, taking up with the gene-
ral Knowledge of rch'g ous Princ pies, and the
common Duties of a Christian Life, are satisfy *d
with knowing what they fay h sufficient to carry
them to Heaven, without enquiring into those
Things which are helpful and assistant to make
that strait Path easy and pleasant to themselves;
and to make them useful to others by the
Way." /-'f -; 
Solomon was quite of another Opinion, when
he bid us cry after Knowledge, and lift up our Wk*.
 
for Under standing; dig for her as for Silver, and ftarch
jot her as for hid Treajure. It is certain here that he
meant religious Knowledge ; and it is explained
in the very next Words, with an encouraging Pro-
mise to those that shall enter upon the Search, (viz)
Then shah thou -understand the Pear of the LORD,
and find the Knowledge of G O D.
I am of Opinion that it is our unquestioned
Duty, to enquire after every Thing in our Jour-
ney to the eternal Habitation! which God has
permitted us to know, and thus to raise Difficul-
ties in the Way of our juit search into divine Dis-
coveries is to^ájikc Solomon s Sluggard,.who faith,
There is a Lion without, I shall he stain in the Streets,
Prov- xxii. 13. that ij, he sirs down in his Ignorance
rcpuls'd with imaginary difficolties^ithout making
one Step in the search after the Knowledge, which
lie ought to dig for, as for hid Treasure. '•
 Let us then be encourag'd to our. Duty; let us
boldly enquire after every Thing that God has
permitted us to know; I grant that secret Things
belong to God, and I shall labour to keep my due
Distance. But I firmly believe, that there are no
secret Things belonging to God, and which
as such we are forbidden to enquire into, but what
alio arc so preserved in Secrecy, that by all our
Enquiries we cannot arrive to the Knowledge of
them i and it is a molt merciful, as well as wife
Dispensation, that we are only forbid enquiring
after these Things which we cannot know; and
that all those Things are effectually lock'd op from
our Knowledge, which we are forbidden to en-
quire into. The Cafe is better with us, than it
was with Adam. We have not. the Tree of Know-
ledge first planted in our View, as it were tempt-
ing us with its Beauty, and within our Reach,
*nd then a Prohibition upon Pain of Death: But
bksled
 
blessed be God, we may eat ot all die Trees in
the Garden j and all those of which we are not
allow'd to take, are placed both out of our Sight,
and out of our Reach.
'""I am' making' Way here to- one- of the Trees of
sacred Knowledge, which tho' it may grow in the
thickest ot the Wood, and be surrounded with
some Briars and Thorns, so as to place it a little
out of Sights yet I hope to prove, that it is our
Duty to taste of it: and that the Way to come at
it, is both practicable and plain.
But to wave the Allegory, as I am entring into
the nicest Search of divine things, that perhaps the
whole Scheme of Religion directs us to; 'tis ab-
solutely necessary at our Entrance, ifpojfible, to re-
move every Difficulty, explain every Principle,
and lay down every Foundation so undeniably
clear, that nothing may appear dark or mysterious
in our first'Conceptions of tilings; no Stumbling-
block lye at the Thresholds and the humble Rea-
der may meet with no Repulse from his own Ap-
prehensions, of not understanding what he-is going
to read.         ,
Listening to the Voice of Providence^ is my Subject:
I am willing to suppose in the first Place, that 1 am
writing to those who acknowledge the two grand
Principles upon which all Religion depends, i.
That there is a God, a first great moving Cause
of'ati things, an eternal Power, Prior, and conse-
quently Superior to all Power and Being. a. That
this eternal Power, which I call God, is the Crea-
tor and Governour of all things, viz,, of Heaven
and Earth.
"To avoid heedless Distinctions cdnccrning which
of the Persons in the God-head, are exercised in the
creating Power, and which in the governing Power.
I ester that glorious Text, Psalm xxxiii. 6. as a
" Repulse
 
 
 
Repulse to all such cavilling Enquiries, where - the
whole Trinity is plainly entitled to the whole
creating Work, by the Word (God the Son) of the
Lord (God the Either) were the Heavens made,
and all the Host of them, by the Breath (God the
Holy Ghost) of his Mouth. ^'
Having thus presupposed the Belief of the Being,
and the creating Work of God, and declar'd, that
1 am writing to such only, who are ready to own,
they believe that God isy and that he created the
Heaven, and the Earth, the Sea, and all that in
them is. I think I need not make any Preamble,
to introduce the following Propositions, viz,.
1. That this Eternal God guides by his Proui-
dmce the whole tporld, which he has created by his
Power*
2. "that this Providence manifesto a particular Can
over, and Concern in the governing and directing Man$
the best and last created Creature m Earth.
Natural Religion proves the first, reveal'd Reli*
gion proves the last of these beyond Contradiction*
Natural Religion intimates the Necessity of a. pro-
vidence guiding and governing the World, from
the Consequence of the Wisdom, Justice, Pre-*
science, and Goodness of the Creator........ ,., :„.
It would be absurd to conceive' of God exer-
ting infinite Power to create a World, and not
concerning his Wisdom, which is his Providence,
ist. guiding the Operations of Nature, so as to pre-
serve the Order of his Creation, and the Obedi-
ence and Subordination of Consequences and Cau-
ses throughout 'the Course of that Naturéy
which is in Part the inferior Life of that Cre-
ation.
KevtaVi
 
[ io8 ]
Reveafd Religion has given such a Light into the
Care and Concern of this Providence in an espe*-
cial«Manneiyin and over that Part of the Creation
cali'd Man, that we must likewise deny Principles,
if we enter into dispute about it.
For him the Peace of the Creation is preserv'd,
the Climates made habitable, the Creatures subje-
cted and made nourishing, all vegetative Life made
medicinal'; so that indeed the whole Creation seems
to be cntail'd upon him as an Inheritancc,and given
to him for a Poslëssion, subjected to his Authority,
and governed by h im,as Viceroy to the King of all
the Earth ; the Management of it is given to him as
Tenant to the great Proprietor, who is Lord of
the Man nor, or Landlord of the Soil And it can
not be conceived, without great Inconsistency of
Thought, that this World isle ft entirely to Man's
Conduct without the supervising Influence and
the secret Direction of the Creator.
This I call Providence, to which I give the whole
Power of guiding and directing of the Creation,
And managing of it, by Man who is his Deputy
or Substitute, and even the guiding/influencing,
and.o^er-ruliiig Man himself also.
-  Let critical Annotators enter into specisick Di-
stinctions of Providence, and its Way of acting,
as they please, and as the Formalities of the School-
men direct. The short Description I shall give of
it is this, That it is that Operation of the Pow-
er, Wisdom, Justice, and Goodness of God, by
which he influences, governs, and directs, not on-
ly the Means, but the Events of all things, which
concern us in this World.
I fay, it is that Operation, let them call it what
they will, which acts thus; I am noway concerted
to shew how it acts, or why it acts thus and thus
in particulars we are to reverence its Sovereignty,
 as
[ *o9 ]
as it is the Finger of God himself, who is the so-
vereign Director, and we are to observe its Mo*
tions, obey its Dictates, and liflen to its Voice, as
it is, and because it is particularly employ *d sot
our Advantage,
It would be a very proper and useful Observa-
tion here, and might take up much of this Work,
to illustrate the Goodness of Providence, in that it
is,' as I fay, particularly employ'd for the Advan-
tage of Mankind: But, as this is not the main
Design, and will come in naturally in every Part of
the Work I am upon, I refer it to the common In-
ferences, which are to be drawn from the Particu-
lars, as I go on.
It is indeed the most rational Foundation of the
whole Design before me; 'tis therefore that we
should liflen to the Voice o/ Providence, because it is
principally determined, and determines all other
things for our Advantage. . .
But I return to the main Subject, The Voice of
Providence^ the Language or the Meaning of Pro-
vidence.
Nothing is more frequent, than for us to mistake
Providence, evert in its most visible Appearances:
How easy then must it be, to let its silent Actings,
which perhaps are the most pungent and significant,
pass our Observation.
I am aware of the Error many fall into, who
determining the universal Currency of Events to
Providence,and that not the minutest thing occurs
*n the Course of Life, but by the particular Destr
nation of Heaven, by Consequence entitle Provi-
dence to the Efficiency of their own Follies; as
if a Person, presuming to smoke his Pipe in á
Magazin of Gun-Powder* should reproach Provi-
dence with blowing up the Castle, for which Ìû~
<kcd he ought to be hang'd; or & Mail leaving bis
f Houfe
£ no ]
House .or Shop open in the Night, should charge
Providence with appointing him to be robb'd, and
the like: Nay, to carry'it farther, every Murthcrer
or Thief may allege Providence, that determines
and directs every thing, directed him to such Wic-
kedness; whereas Providence itself, notwithstan-
ding the Crimes of Men, is actively concerned in
no Evil.
But 1 pass all these things; the Subject lam
treating upon, is bf another Nature: The 'Design
here, is to instruct us in some particular things re-
lating to Providence and its Government of
Men in the World, which it wilt be worth our
While to observe, without enquiring how far it
does or does not act in other Methods.
There is, ns true, a Difficulty to shake off all the
wry Steps, which People take to amuse them-
selves about Providence; and for this Reason, I
take so much Pains at first to avoid them: Many
Men entitle Providence to things, which it is not
concerned about, speaking abfiratiedly; but, which is
a much worse Error,' many also take no Notice of
those things, which Providence particularly, and
even in a very remarkable Manner, distinguiihes it
self by its Concern in*'
"If Providence guides the World, antf'difectsthe
Mues and Events of things, if it commands causes,
and forms the Connection of Circumstances in the
Worlds as no Man, that owns the Principles men-
tioned above, will ' deny: And above all, if the
general Scope of Providence, ' and of the Govern-
ment of the World by its Influence, be for our
Advantage; then it follows necessarily, that it
is our Business, and our Interest, to listen to its
Voice,: .
^ By Listning to the Voice of Providence, I
meafía to study its Meaning in every Circumstance
   of
 
[211 ]
of Lise, in every Event; to learn to understand the
End and Design of Providence in every thing that
happens, what is the Design of Providence in it,
respecting our selves, and what our Duty to do
upon the, particular Occasion that offers. It a Man
were in Danger of drowning in a shipwreck'd
Vessel, and Providence presented a Boar coming
towards him, he would scarce want to be told,
that it was his Business to make Signals of Distress,
that the People in the said Boat might not pass
by ignorant of his Condition, and give him no
Assistance i if lie did, and omitted it, he would
have little Cause to concern Providence in his
Ruine.
There is certainly a Rebellion against Provi-
dence, which Heaven itself will not always con-
cern itself to over-rule; and he that throws him-
self into a River to drown himself, he that hangs
himself up to a Beam, he that shoots himself into
the Head with a Pistol, stall die in Spite of all
the Nouons: of Decree, Destiny, Fate, or what
ever we weakly call Providence; in such Cases,
Providence will not always concern itself to pre-
vent it; and yet 'tis no Impeachment of the So-
vereignty of Heaven, in directing, decreeing, and
governing all Events in the World.
Providence decrees, that Events shall attend up-
on Causes in a direct Chain, and by an evident
Necessity, and has doubtless left many Powers of
Good and Evil, seemingly to our selves, and, as
it were, imour Hands, as the natural Product of
such Causes and Consequences, which we are not
to limit, and cannot expressly determine about,
buc which w:e are accountable for the good or-evil
Application of; otherwise we were in vain ex-
horted and commanded to do any good thing, or
to avoid any wicked one: Rewards and Punish-
P 2 ments
 
 
 
[-in ]
ments would be incongruous with sovereign Justice j
and Promises, and Threatnings, be perfectly un-
meaninrg useless things, Mankind being no free
Agent to hi fti self, or en trusted with the necessary
Powers, which those Promises and Threatnings
imply-
But all these things are out of my present En-
quiry; 1 am for freely and entirely submitting all
Events to Providence; but not to be supinely and
unconcernedly passive, as if there was nothing
warning, instructing, or directing in the Premoni-
tions o£ God's Providence; and which he expe-
cted we should take Notice of, and take Warning
by. The prudent Man jerejeetb the Evily and
hideth himself: How does he foresee it, since 'tis
not in Man to direct himself? There are Intima-
tions given us, by which a prudent Man may some-
times foresee Evil, and hide himself; and I must
take these all out of the Devil's Hands, if possi-
ble, and place Providence at the Head of the in-
visible World, as well as at the Helm of this
World i and the* I abhor superstitious and scepti-
cal Notions of the World of Spirits, of which
I purpose to speak hereafter, either in' this Work,
or in some other by itself; I say, tho' I am not at
all a Sceptick, yet I cannot doubt, but that the
invisible Hand of Providence, which guides and
governs this World, does with a secret Power like-
wise influence the World, and may, and I believe
does, direct from thence silent Melengers on many
Occasions, whether sleeping or waking, whether
directly or indirectly, whether by Hints, Impul-
ses, Allegories, Mysteries, or otherwise, we know
not; and does think fit to give us such Alarms, such
previous and particular Knowledge of things,
that if listened to, raighti many Ways be useful to
 
 
the prudent Man to foresee the Evil, and hide
himself.
The only Objection, and which 1 can see no
Method to give a "Reason for, and no Answer to,
is, Why, if it be the Work of Providence, those
things should be so imperfect, so broken, so irre-
gulars that Men may either never be able to pass
py right Judgment of them, as is sometimes the
Cafe, or make a perfect judgment of them, which
is .often the Cafe, and so the End of the intima-
tion be entirely defeated., without any Fault, Ne-
glect, or Omission of the Man.
This we can no' more account for, than we
can for the Hand-writing upon the Wall at the
great Feast of Belshazzer, viz,, why it was writ-
ten in a Character, which none could understand;
and which, if the Prophet had not been -found,
had perhaps never been known, or at least, not till
the King's Fate, which was even then irretrieva-
ble, had been over.
This, indeed, we cannot account for, and can
only fay, 'tis our Duty to study these things, to listen
to the Voice of them, and obey their secret Di-
ctates, as far as Reason directs, without an over
superstitious Regard to them, any more than a
total Neglect, leaving the Reason of Providence's
acting thus, to be better understood hereafter.
But to describe a little what I mean by Listen-
ing to the Voice of Providence; it is the Reverse
of the supine stupid Man, whose Character I shall
come to by and by. The Man I would recom-
mend, lives first in a general Belief, that Provi-
dence ha^y the supreme Direction of all his Affairs,
even of his in particular, as well as those of the
Wodd ; that 'tis his Mercy that it is so, that 'tis
the Effect of an infinitely wife and gracious Pispo-
.fition from, above, that he subsists j and that 'tis
* P 3 not
 
not below the Dignity any more than.'tis remote
from the Power of an infinite, wife, and good
Being, to take Cognizance of the least thing con-
cerning him.,
This m the Consequence obliges him to all I
fay, sot to him who firmly believes, that Provi-
dence stoops to concern itself for him, and to or-
der the least Article of his Affairs, it necessarily
follows, that hp should concern himself in every
thing that Providence does, which comes within his
Reach, that he may know whether he be interested
in it or no.
It he neglects this, he neglects himself; he a-
bandons all Concern about himself, since he does
not know, but that the very next particular Act of
Providence, which comes within his Reach to
distinguish, may be interested in him, and he
in it.
It is not for me  to dictate here to any Man,
what particular things, relating to him, Providence
is concern'd in, or what not,* or how far any In-
cident of Life is or is not the particular Act and
Deed of the Government of Providence; But as
it is the received Opinion of every good Man, that
nothing befalls us . without the active or passive
Concern of Providence in it,- so it is impossible
this good Man can be unconcerned in what-
ever that Providence determines concerning
him.
If it be true, as our Saviour himself says, "that
not a Hair falls jrom our Heads without the IVHI of
our heavenly Father, then not a Hair ought to fall
from our Heads, without our having our Eyes up
to our heavenly Father in it.
. I take the Text in its due Latitude., namely,
that not the minutest Incident of Life, befalls us
without the active Will of our Father directing it,
or
 
 
 
 
[ W ]
or the passive Will of our Father suffering it, so
I take the Deduction from it in the same Latitude;
that nothing of how mean a Nature soever can
befal us, but we ought to have our Eyes op to
our heavenly Father in it, be resigned to him In
the Event, and subjected to him in the Means $
and he that neglects this, lives in Contempt ot
Providence, and that in the most provoking Man-
ner possible.
i am not answerable for any Extremes these
Things may lead weak People into; 1 know some
are apt to entitle the Hand of God, to the com-
mon and most ridiculous Trifles in Nature;
as a religious Creature,.. I.knew, 'feeing a,Bot-
tle of Beer being over ripe burst out, the Cork fly
up against the Ceiling, and the Froth follow it like
an Engin, cried out, O !..the. Wonder s of.Mmmf^'
tent Power : But I am reprcsenting,how a Christian
with an awful Regard to the Government of Provi-
dence in the World, and .particularly in .all his.own
Affairs, subjects his Mind to a constant Obedience
to the Dictates of that Providence, gives an humble
Preference to it in all his Conclusions,. waits the
issues of it with a chearful Resignation; and in a
Word listens carefully to the Voice of Providence,
that.fie may be. always obedient to the heavenly
Vision.
Whether this divine Emanation has any Con-
cern in the Notices, Omens,. Dreams> Voices,
Hints, Forebodings, Impulses, &c. which seem *
to be a kind of Communication with the invi-
sible World, and a Converse between the. Spi-
rits embodied and those uncmbodied, and how
far without Prejudice to the Honour and our Reve-
rence of Providence,, and without Danger of
Scepticism, and a kind of radicated Infidelity^
those Things may be regarded, m a nice and dif-
P 4 stla,k
[ «<S]
ficult Thing to resolve, and 1*shall treat of it by
itself.
It his been the Opinion of good Men of all
Ages, to soy how far they are to be depend-
ed upon, that such Things are not to be to-
tally disregarded, 1 am not to take upon me,
How far they may or may not be concerned in the
Influence of Providence, 1 also dare not fay : But as
the Verity of Astronomy is evidenced by the
Calculation of Eclipses, so the Certainty of this
Communication of Spirits is established by the
Concurrence of Events with the Notices they
sometimes give; and if it be true, as 1 must be-
lieve,that the Divine Providence takes Cognisance
of all Things belonging to us, 1 dare not exclude
it from having some Concern, bow much 1 do notfay>
in these Things also: But of this in its Place.
Whenever Providence discovers any thing of this
Arcanum, I desire to listen to the Voice of it; and
this is one of the Things I recommend to others:
Indeed I would be very cautious, how I listen to
any other Voices from that Country, than such as 1
am' sure are conveyed to nt from Heaven for my
better understanding the whole Mystery.
If then we are to listen to the Voice of Ngture,and
to the Voices of Creatures,'*//** to the Voice of the
invisible Agents of the World of Spirits as above,
much more are we to listen to the Voice of God.
I have already hinted that he that made the
World, we are sure guides it, and his Provi-
dence is equally wonderful as his Power: But no-
thing in the whole Course of his Providence [i$
more worthy our Regard, especially as it con-
cerns us his Creatures, than the silent Voice, if it
may h allowed me to call it soy of his managing
Events and Causes; he that listens to the Provi-
dence of God, listens tq the Voice of God,
 
as he is seen in the Wonders of his Government,
and as he is seen in the Wonders of ' his Omni-
potence.
If then the Events of Things are his, as well
as the Causes, it is certainly well worth our
Notice, when the Sympathy or Relation between
Events of Things and their Causes, most emi-
nently appears; and how can* any Man, who has
the least Inclination to observe what is remarka-
ble in the World, shut his Eyes to the visible
Discovery, which there is in the Events of
Providence, of a supreme Hand guiding them;
tor Example, when visible Punifliments follow vi-
sible Crimes, who can refrain confessing the appa-
rent Direction of supreme Justice? When Concur-
rence of Circumstances directs to the Cause,
Men that take no Notice of such remarkable
Pointings of Providence, openly contemn.. Hea-
ven, and frequently stand in.the Light -of their
own Advantages.
The Concurrence of Events, is a Light to
their Causes, and the Methods of Heaven in
some Things, are a happy Guide to us to make a
Judgment in others; he that is deaf to these
Things, shuts his Ears to Instruction, and like
Solomons Fool, hates Knowledge.
The Dispositions of Heaven to approve or con-
demn our Actions, are many of them discovered
by Observation; and 'tis easy to know, when that
Hand of Providence opens the Door for, or
shuts it against our Measures, if we will bring
Causes together, and compare former Things
wsth present, making our Judgment by the ordinary
Rules of Heaven's dealing with Men.
How, and from what Hand come the frequent
Iststaoces of severe Judgment, following rash and
jicllifh Imprecations? when Men call for God s
[ «8 ]
 
Judgment; and Providence, or justice, rather
obeys the Sommons and comes at their call: A
Man calls God to Witness to an Untruth, and
wishes himself struck dumb, blind, or dead if it
is not true; and i> struck dumb, blind, or dead;
i^mt this a Voice, does"-nor Heaven with the
Stroke, cry, "Cnjirgo tey Be'it to-thee as thou haft
jaid: He, rnuít be deaf who cannot'hear it, and
worse than deaf* that does not heed it; such Exe-
cutions from Heaven are in Terwem, as Offenders
among Men are punished as we!! for Example to
others, as to prevent'their doing the like again.
Innumerable Ways the merciful Disposition of
Providence takes to discover to us, what he ex-
pects we should do in difficult Cafes, and doubtless
then> it expects at the fame Time we should take
Notice of those Directions.
We are short-lighted Creatures at best, and can
fee but a little Way before us, I mean as to the E-
vents of Things; we ought therefore to make use
of all the Lights and Helps we can get; these it
nicely regarded, would be some of the most con-
siderable to guide us in many difficult Cafes.
. Would we carefully listen to the Concurrence
of Providence, in the several Pares of our Lives,
we should stand in less need of the more dange-
rous Helps of Visions, Dreams, and Voices,
from less certain Intelligences.
A Gentleman of my Acquaintance, being to
go a Journey into the North, was twice ta-
ken very ill the Day he had appointed to begin his
Journey ,and so was obliged to put off poing ; thishe
took for a Direction from Heaven, that he should
no: go at all ; and in very few Days after, his Wife
was taken sick and died, "which made it absolutely
Kccctfiiry for him, to be at Home, to look í after
I. '.r
C »9 ]
 
his Affairs, and had he gone away before, must
certainly have been obliged to come back again.
The Romans had certainly the Foundation of
this Principle, in their prudent Observation of
Days and Circumstances of Days; nor is Scrip-
ture it self void of the like, bot rather points out
to the Observation, particularly that of the Chil-
dren of Israel, who after 430 Years were expired
from their coming into Egypt, Emu in 'the self-
same Day departed they thence, Exod. 12, 41,42.
This is the Day, that remarkable Day, several
other Scriptures mention periodical Times, dies
Infnufius, the Prudent shall  keep Silence in that
Time % for it is an evil "Time.
We find Providence stoops to restrain not the A-
ctions of Men only>but even its own Actions to Days
and Times; doubtles> for our Observation, and in
some Things for our Instruction; I do not
so much refer to the Revolutions of Things and
Families on particular Days, which are there-
fore by some People called lucky and unlucky
Days, as I do to the observing, how Providence
causes the Revolutions of Days, to form a
Concurrence between the Actions of Men, which
it does not approve or does approve, and the Re-
ward of these Actions in this World ,* by which
Men may if they think sit to distinguish, and ob-
serve right upon them, fee the Crime or Merit
of those Actions in the divine Resentment, may
read the Sin in the Punishment, and may lean;
Conviction from the Revolution of Circumstances
in the Appointment of Heaven.
I have seen several Collections of such Things
made by private Hands, some relating to Family
Circumstances,fome to Public; also in the unnatural
Wars in Engiandybttwtm the King and the Parlia-
ment, I have heard many such things have been ob-
<  ~ . serv'd;
[ *lo ]
crv*d: For Example, the same. Day of the Year
•and Month, that Sir John Hotham kept out Hull a-
gainst King Charles* the ist, and refused him En-
trance, was the fame Sir John Hotham put to
Death, by the very Parliament that he did that
Exploit for; that King Charles himself was
sentenced to die, by the high Court of Justice, as
it was then called, the? fame Day of the Month,
that he sign'd the Warrant for the Execution of
the Earl of Strafford, which as it yyas then said by
some of his Friends, was cutting off his own
Right-hand. The fame Day that King James
the 2d came to the Grown against the Design cf
the Bill of Exclusion, the same Day he was voted
Abdicated by Parliament, and the Throne fill'd
with the Prince of Orange and his Princess.
These, or such as these, seem to be a kind of
silent Sentence of Providence upon such Actions,
animadverting upon them in a judicial Manner,
and intimating plainly, ifhat the Animadversion
had a retrospect to what was passed, and those
that listen to the Voice of Providence in such
Things, should at least lay them up in thei?
Hearts.
Eminent Deliverances in sudden Dangers are of
the most significant kind of Providences, anfl
which accordingly have a loud Voice in them,
calling upon us to be thankful, to that blessed
Hand, that has been pleased to spare and protect
us. The Voice of such signal Deliverances, is
frequently a just Call upon us to Repentance
and looks directly that Way; often 'tis a Caution
against falling into the like Dangers we were ex-
posed to, from which nothing but so much Good-
ness could deliver us again. In how many Occa-
sions of Life, if God's Providence had no greater
Shaic in our Safety than our own Prudence,
*' v '" should
C 111 ì
fliould we plunge and precipitate our selves into
all manner of Misery and Distress ? and how of-
ten for want of listening to those Providences do
we miscarry?
Innumerable Instances present themselves to us
every Day, in which the Providence of God speaks
to us, in Things relating to ourselves; in Delive-
rances to excite our Thankfulness, in Views of
Dangers to awaken our Caution, and to make us
walk wisely and circumspectly in every Step we
take; those that are awake to these Things* and
have their Ears open to the Voice of them, many
Times reap the Benefit of their Instruction by
being {protected, while those who neglect them,
are of the Number of the Simple, who pass on
and are punished.
To be utterly careless of ourselves in such Cases,
and talk of trusting Providence, is a Lethargy of
the worst Nature; for as we are to trust Provi-
dence with our Estates, but to use at the same
Time, all Diligence »in our Callings; io we
are to trust Providence with our Safety, but
with our Eyes open to all its neceslary Cautions,
Warnings, and Instructions ; many of which Provi-
dence is pleased to give us in the Course of Life, for
the Direction of our Conduct, and which we should
ill place to the Account of Providence, without ac-
knowledging that they ought to be regarded, and
a due Reverence paid to them upon all Occasions.
I take a general Neglect of these Things, to
be a kind of practical Atheism, or at least a living
in a kind of Contempt of Heaven, regardless of
all that Share, which his invisible Hand has in the
Things that befal us.
Such a Man receives good at the Hand of'his
Maker, but unconcerned at the very Nature or
Original of it, looks not at all to the Benefactor:
Again,
[ 1" ]
Again, he receives Evil, but has no Sense of it, a$
a. judiciaLdispensing of Punishment from,Heaven;
but insensible of one or other, he is neither thank-
ful for one, nor humble under the other, but stupid
in. both, as if he was" out of God's Care, and God
himself out of his Thoughts; this is just the re-
verse of the Temper 1 am recommending, and let
the Picture recommend it self to any according to
its Merit-,.. . . .. ,:
When Prince Vandemont commanded the confe-
derate Army in Flanders, the some. Campaign that
King William was beseiging Namure, some Troops
were orders to march into the flit Country to-
wards Newport, in Order to make a Diversion,
and draw down the Count de Montai, who com-
manded a flying Body about Menin% and to keep
him from joyning the Duke de VilUroy, who com-
manded the main Body of the R*mch Army.
. The Soldiers were order'd upon Pain of Death
not to stir from their Camp, or to plunder any of
the Country People; the Reason was evident,
because Provisions being somewhat scarce, if the
Boors were. not protected they would have fled
from their Houses, and the Army would have
been-put to ..great .Straits, being ju.stentredin.to the
Enemies Country,
It happened that, five EngHp Soldiers straggling
beyond, their Bounds were fallen upon, near a
Farm-House, by some of the Country People (for
indeed the Boors were oftentimes too unmerciful
to the Soldiers) as if they had plundered them,
when indeed they had not: The Soldiers de-
fended themselves, got the better, and kill'd two
of the Boors; and being, as they thought, justly
provok'd by being first attack'd, they broke into
i.iie House,, and then.used them ..roughly enough
indeed. *   - - *
Thcv
[ «3 ]
, They found iti the House a great'Quantity of
Apples, the People being fled had left them in
PoíseíEoii,, and they made no Haste to go away,
but fell to work with the Apples; and heating the.
Oven put a great Quantity, of Apples into the
Oven to roast. In the mean Time the Boors,,
who knew their Number to be but five, and had
got more Help .on their Side, came down upoa
them again, attacks the House, forced their Way
in, mastered the EtigUJbmen% kill'd two, and took
a third, and barbarouily put him into the Oven*
which he had heated, where he was smothered to
Death; it seems it was not hot enough to burn
him.
The other two escaped, but in.coming back to
the Carnp, they were immediately apprehended
by the Provosts, and brought to a Court Martial,
where they were sentenc'd not for Plundering, for
that did not appear, but for being out of the
Bounds appointed by the general Order, as a-
bore.
When the Sentence came to be executed, the
General was prevail?d upon to spare one of them,
and to order them to cast Lots for rh^eir Lives.
This, as it is known is usually done by throwing
Dice upon a Drumhead; and he that throws
highest, or lowest* as is appointed.before is to
die;, at this time he that threw lowest was to
live.
When the Fellows were brought out to throw,
the first threw two Sixes, and fell immediately
to wringing his Hands, crying he was a dead
Man \ but was as much surpriz'd with Joy, when
his Comrade throwing, tbçre came up two Sixes
also.
*
The
[ «4 ]
she Officer appointed to sec Execution was a
little doubtful what to do, but his Orders being
positive., he commanded them to throw again;
they did so, and each of them threw two Fives;
the" Soldiers that stood round shouted, and said
neither of them was to die: The Officer being a
sober thinking Man, said it was strange, and
looked like something from Heaven, and he would
not proceed without acquainting the Council of
War, which was .then sitting; they considers a
while, and at last ordered them to take other Dice
and to throw again, which was done, and both
the Soldiers threw two Fours.
The Officer goes back to the Council of War,*
who were surpriz'd very much, and looking on it
as the Voice of Heaven, respited the Execution
till the General was acquainted with it.
The General fends for the Men and examines
them strictly, who telling him the whole Story, he
pardon'd them with this Expression to those about
him, / love, says he, in such extraordinary Cases to
listen to the Voice of Providence. -
While we are in this un-intorm'd State, where
we know so little of the invisible World, it would
be greatly our Advantage, if we knew rightly,
and without the Bondage of Enthusiasm and Su-
perstition, how to make use of the Hints given
us from above, for our Direction in Matters of
the greatest Importance.
It has pleased God very much to streighten the
special and particular Directions, which he gives
to Men immediately from himself; but I dare not
fay, they are quite ceased; we read of many Ex-
amples in Scripture, how God spake to Men by
Voice immediately from Heaven, by Appearance
of Angels, or by Dreams and Visions of the
Night, and by aU these not in Public and more
extra-
 
 
extraordinary Cases only, but in private, personal,
and family Concerns.
Thus God is said to have appeared to Abraham^
to Loty and to Jacob; Angels also have appeared
in many other Cafes, and to many several Persons,
as to Manoahj and his Wife, to Zackanah, to the
Virgin Maryy and to the Apostles; others have
been warned in a Dream, as King Abimelech, the
false Prophet Balaam, Pontius Pilates Wife, Herod,
Josephy the Apostles also, and many others.
We cannot lay, bat these and all the miracu-
lous Voices, the prophetic Messages prefaced
boldly by the Anc ents, with thus faith the Lord
are ceas'd, and as we have a more sure Word of
Prophesy handed to us by the Mission of Gospel
Ministers; to which the Scripture fays, Wt
do well that we take heed; and to whom our
blessed Lord has said, Loy J am with you to the End
4the World: I say, as we have this Gospel back'd
with the Spirit and Presence of God, we are no
Losers, if we observe the Rule laid down, viz*
that we be obedient to the heavenly Vision, for
such it is, as well as that of the Apostle Peter's
Dream of the Sheet let down from Heaven.
1 mention this to pay a due Reverence to the
Sufficiency of Gospel Revelation, and to the
gliding of the Spirit of God, who in spiritual
Things is given to lead us into all Truth, nor
would I have any Thing, which I am going to
fay, tend to lessen these great Efficients of our
eternal Salvation.
But I am chiefly upon our Conduct in the infe*
tior Life, as I may call it; arid in this, I think,
the Voice of God, even his immediate Voicefrom
Heaven, is not entirely ceased from us, though it
way have changed the Mediums of Communica-
tion/ .
Q. Itiafi
I have heard the Divines tell us by Way of Di-
stinction, that there is a Voice of God in his
Word, and a Voice of God in his Work; the
latter I cake to be a subject very awful and very
instructing.
This Voice of God in his Works, is either
heard in his Works which are already wrought,
such as of Creation, rwhich fill us with Wonder
and Astonishment, Admiration and Adoration;
JVhcu I view the Heavens, the II ork of thy Hands,
the Moon and the Stars "which thon haft made, then I
fay, What is Man, &c\ Or 2. His Works of Go-
vernment and Providence, in which the infinite
Variety affords a pleasing and instructing Contem-
plation ; and it#is without Question, our Wisdom
and Advantage to study and know them, and to
listen to the Voice of God in them: For this
listening to the Voice of Providence, is a Thing
so hard to direct, and so little understood, that I
find the very Thought of it is treated with Con-
tempt, even by many pious and good People,
as leading to Superstition, to Enthusiasm, and
vain Fancies, tainted with Mclancholiy, and
amusing the Mind with the Vapours of the
Head.
It is true, an ill Use may be made of these
Things, and to tye People too strictly down to a
Rule, where their own Observation is to be the
Judge, endangers the running into many foolish
Extreams, entitling a distemper'd Brain, too much
to the Exposition of the sublimestThings; and tack-
ing the awful Name of Providence to every fancy
of their own.
From Hence I think, too ranch proceeds the
extraordinary ( Note, / fay, Extraordinary ) Ho-
mage paid to Omens, flying of Birds, Voices,
Noises, Prediction?, and a thousand foolish
* Things
 
 
 
Tilings, in which 1 shall endeavour ro state the
Cafe fairly between the Devil and Mankind: But
at present i need say no more here, than that they
have nothing to do with the Subject 1 am now
upon, or the Subject 1 am upon with them.
Bot as my Design is serious, and 1 hope pious,
1 shall keep strictly to the Exposition I give of
my own Meaning, and meddle with no other.
By the Voice of Providence therefore, I shall
confine myself to the particular Circumstances in-
cident and accident which every Man's Life is full
of, and which arc in a more extraordinary man-
ner, laid to be peculiar to himself or to his
Family.
By listening to them, I mean, making such due
Application of them to his own Circumstances*
as becomes a Christian, for Caution in his Con-
duct, and all manner of Instruction, receiving all
the Hints as from Heaven, returning all the
Praise to, making a i the Improvement for, and re-
verencing the Sovereignty of his Maker in every
Thing, not disputing or reproaching the Justice
of Providence; and which is the main Thing I
aim at, taking inch Notice of the several Provi-
dences, that happen in the Course of our Lives,
as by one Circumstance to learn how to behave in
another.
For Example, supposing from my own Story,'
When a young Fellow broke from his Friends*
trampled upon all the wife Advices, and most af-
fectionate Perswaíîohs of his Father, and even the
Tears and Entreaties of a tender Mother, and
would go away to Sea; but is checked in his first
Excursions by being Shipwrecked, and in the ut-
most^ Distress fav'd by the Assistance of another
SHp's Boat, feeing the Ship he was in, soon after
ljstk to the Bottom j ought not such a young Man
QL a to
 
 
 
 
 
*e has c listened to the Voice of this Providence,
and have taken it for a Summons to him; that
when he was on Shores he should stay on Shore,
and go back to.,the Arms of his Friends, hearken
to their Council, and not precipitate himself into
farther Mischiefs; what Happiness might such a
prudent Step have procured, what Miseries and
Mischiefs would it have prevented in the rest of
his unfortunate Life.
An Acquaintance of mine, who had several such
Circumstances beki him, as those which I am in-
clined to call Warnings, but entirely neglcóted
them, and laugh'd at those that did otherwise,
suffered deeply for his disregard of Omens; he
took Lodgings in a Village near the City of Lon-
don, and in a House, where either he sought {bad
Company, or at best could meet with little that
was good. Providence that seemed to animadvert
upon his Conduct, so ordered it that something
or other mischievous always happened to him
there, or as he went thither; several Times he
was robbed on the Highway going thither, once
or twice taken very ill, at other Times his Affairs
in the World went ill, while he diverted himself
there; several of his Friends cautioned him of it
and told him, he ought to consider that some su-
perior Hand seemed to hint to him, that he
Ihoiild come there no more ; he flighted the Hint,
or at least neglected it after some Time, and went
to the same Place again: But was so terrified
with a most dreadful Tempest of Thunder and
Lightning, which fell as it were more particular-
ly upon that Part of the Country than upon
others ; that he took it as a Warning from Heaven,
and resolv'd not to go there again, and some
Time after a Fire destroyed that House, very few
escaping that were in it.
 
Jc would be an ill Account we should give of
the Government of divine Providence in the
World, if we should argue, that its Events are so
unavoidable, and every Circumstance so determin-
ed, that nothing can be altered; and that therefore
these Warnings of Providence are inconsistent with
the Nature of it. This besides that I think it
would take from the Sovereignty of Providence,
and deny even God himself the Privilege of being
a free Agent, it would also so contradict the Ex-
perience of every Man living, in the Varieties of
his respective Life, that he should be unable to
give any Account for what End many Things,
which Providence directs in the World, are di-
rected, and why so many Things happen which
do happen; why are Evils attending us so evi-
dently foretold, that by those Fore-tellings they are
avoided, if it was not determined before that they
should be avoided, and should not befal us?
People that tye up all to Events and Causes,
drip the Providence of God which guides the
World of all its Superintendency, and leave it
no room to act as a wife Disposer of Things.
It seems to me that the immutable Wisdom and
Power of the Creator, and the Notion ot it in
the Minds of Men, is^as dutifully preserved, and is
as legible to our Understanding, though there be
a Hand left at Liberty to direct the Course of na-
tural Causes and Events; 'Tis sufficient to the
Honour of an immutable Deity, that for the
common Incidents of Life, they be left to the
Disposition of a daily Agitator, namely, divine
Providence, to order and direct them as it shall sec
good, within the natural Limits of Cause and
Consequence*
Q 3 This
 
 
 
This seems to me a much more rational S \ stem,
than that of tying up the Hands of the supreme
Power to a Road ot Things, so that none can be
acted or permitted, but such as was so appointed
before to be acted and permitted.
But what, it after all, we were to fit down and
acknowledge, that the immutability of God's
Being, and the Unchangcablenefs of his Actings,
are not easy to be comprehended by us, or that
we may fay we are not able to reconcile them
with the infinite Variation of his Providence,
which in all its Actings seems to us to be at full
Liberty to determine anew, and give Events a
turn this Way or that Way, as its Sovereignty
and Wisdom, shall direct; does it follow, that
these Things are not reconcilcahle, because we
cannot reconcile them ? why should we not as welt
fay5 nothing of God is to be understood, because
we cannot understand it? or that nothingm Nature
is intelligible, but what we can understand?
Who can understand the Reason, and much less
the Manner of the Needle tending to the Pole,
by being touched with the Loadstone, and by
what Operation the magnetic Vertue is convey-
ed with a Touch? why that Vertue is not com-
municable to other Metals, such as Gold, Silver,
or Copper, but to Iron only? what Sympathetx
Influence is there between the Stone and the
Star:) or the Pole ? why tending to that Point in
the whole Arch, and not to any other, and why
face about to the South Pole as soon as it has
past the Equinox? yet' we fee all these Things
in their Operations and Events, we know
they must be reconcileable in Nature J though we
cannot reconcile them , and intelligible in Nature,
though we cannot understand them: Sure it is
as highly reasonable then for us to believe, that
 
 
 
the various Actings of Providence, which to us
appear changeable; one Decree, as it were, re-
verting another, and one Action superseding a-
nother, may be as reconcilable to the Immutabi-
lity of- God, and to the Unchsngeablcncss of his
Purposes, tho' wc cannot understand, how it is
brought to pass, as it is to believe, that there is
a Reason to be given for the Agreement and iim-
pathecick Correspondence between the Magn:t and
the Pole, tho at present the Manner of it is not
discovered, and cannot be understood.
If then the Hand of divine Providence has a
spontaneous Power of acting, and directed by its
own Sovereignty, proceeds by such Methods, as
it thinks fit, and as we lee daily in the Course
of human things: Our Business is to converse
with the acting Part of Providence, with which
we more immediately have to do, and not con-
found our Judgment with things which we cannot
fully comprehend, such as the Why, to what
End, and the how in what Manner, it acts so
and so.
As we are then conversant with the immediate
Actions of divine Providence, it is our Business to
itudy it as much as may be in thar Part of its
Actings, wherein it is to be known; and this in-
cludes the silent Actings of Providence, as well as
those which are more loud, and which being de-
clared, speak in pub!ick.
There are several silent Steps, which Providence
takes in the World, which summon our Attention;
and he that will not listen to them, stall deprive
himself of much of the Caution and Council, as
well as Comfort, which he might otherwise have
in his Passage thro' this Life, particularly by thus
listening to the Voice, as I call it, of Providence,
we have the Comfort -of seeing, chat.really .an
Q_ 4 invi-
 
 
 
 
 
invisible and powerful Hand is eraploy'd in, and
concerns for our Preservation and Prosperity in
the World ;And who can look upon the manifcstDe-
liverances which he meets within the infinite Vari-
ety oi Life, without being convinced that they are
wrought tor him without his own Assistance, by
the wife and merciful Dispositions of an invisible
and friendly Power.
The bringing good Events to pass by the most
threatning Causes, as it testifies a Power that has
the Government of Causes and Effects in its Hand,
so it gives' a very convincing Evidence of chat
Power, being m good Terms with us; as on the
contrary, when the like Providence declares against
us, we ought to make a suitable Use of it another
Way, that is to say, take the just Alarm, and ap-
ply to the neceslary Duties of Humiliation and
'Repentance.
These things may be jested with by the Men of
Fashion; but 1 am supposing myself talking to
•Men that have a Sense of a future State, and of
the Oeconoray of an invisible World upon them,
and l either to Atheists, Scepticks, or Persons in-
different,, who are indeed near of Kin to them
.Jboth. .. .. . .
As there are just Reflections to be made upon
the various Conduct of Providence in the several
Paíìages of Man's Life, so there are infinite Cir-
cumlLuces, in which we may furnish our selves
with Directions in the Course of Life, and in the
most sodden Incidents, as well to obtain G sod,
• as' avoid Evil.
Much of the Honour due to the Goodness of
Providence, is unjustly taken away from it, by
Men that give themselves a Loose in a general
Neglect cf these things: But that which is stiU
pore absurd to me is, that some Men are obsti-
 
 
 
 
C13? 1
 
nately resolv'd against paying the Homage of their
Deliverances to their Maker, or paying the Re-
verence due to his Terrors, in any thing that be-
falls them ill, where it ought to be paid, that
they will give all that Honour to another. If it
was well, thej tell you, they know riot how, but
so it happen d, or it was so by good Chance,
and the like. This is a Sort of Language 1 can-
not understand : It seems to be a felonious
Thought in its very Design, robbing Heaven of
the Honour doe to it, and listing our selves in
the Regiment of the Ungrateful.
But this is not all, for one Crime leads on toa-
ther, if this Part is Felony or Robbery, the
next is Treason, for resolving first to deny the
Homage of good or evil Events to God from
whose Hands they come, they go on and pay
it to the Devil, the Enemy of his Praise, and
Rival of his Power.
Two of these Wretches travelsd a little Journey
with me some Years ago; and in their Return,
some Time after I was gone from them, they met
with a very different Adventure, and telling me
the Story, they express ?d themselves thus, They
were riding from Huntington towards London, and
in some Lanes betwixt Huntington and Caxton, one
happen d by a Slip of his Horse s Foot, which lamd him
a little, to flay about half a Mile behind the other, was
Jet upon by some Highway-men, who robbed him, ' and
abus'd him very much; the ether went on to Caxton,
not taking Care of his Companion, thinking he hadstay'd
on some particular Occasion, and escaped the 'Thieves,
they making off cross the Country towards Cambridge.
Well, fays I ro the first, How came you to
escape? I" dont know not I9 says he, I happen d not
to look behind me, when his Horse stumbfd, and
I went forwards and by good Luck, adds he again,
* " I heard
 
 
 
[ m l
I heard nothing of the Matter; here was, h hap-
pen dy and by good Luck, but not the least Sense of
the Government of Providence in this Affair, or
its Disposition for his Good, bot an empty idol
of Air, or rather an imaginary nonsensical Nothing,
an Image more inconsistent than those i mentioned
among the Chinese:; not a Monster indeed of a
ftíglitíul Shape, and ugly Figure, loathsome and
frightful, but a meer Phantasm, an Idea, a None-
Entity, a Name without being a miscalfd, unborn,
nothing,hap, lock, Chance, that is to say, a Name
put upon the Median, which they set up in their
Imagination, for Want os a Will to acknowledge
their Maker, and recognize the Goodness which
had particularly prefer?'cl him.
This was the most ungrateful Piece of Fol-
ly > or to speak more properly, the maddest and foo-
lish est Piece of Ingratitude that ever I met
with. -
Well, if this was foolish and preposterous, the
other was as wicked and detestable: For when
the first had told his Tale, I turn'd to the otheg,
and ask'd him, What was the Matter? Why!
Mow came this to pass? said I, rJiy this Disaster has
fallen all upon you't Hm was it? Nay, fays he, I
don't know, i was a little behind, and my Horse
chancd to flip, and lame himself, and he went for-
ward, and left me; and as the Devil would have
it, these Fellows came cross the Country, and
chopt upon me, &c.
u Here was first Chance, the fame Mock-Goddess,
as before, lam'd his Horse, and next, the Devil
ordered the Highway-men to chop upon him that
Moment. Now, tho* it may true, that the High-
way-men were even by their Employment doing
the Devil's 'Office of going" tcrand" fro, seeking
whom they might plunder; yet 'twas a lusher
Hand
[ 2-3-5 ]
Hand than Satan's, that delivered this poor blind
Fellow into their Power.
We have a plain Guide for this in Scripture
Language, in the Law of Man-slaughter, or
Death, as we call it foolishly enough, by Misadven-
ture it is in the 21 Exod. 13. in the Case of casual
killing a Man, it is express*d thus, If a Man lye
not in TVait) but God deliver him into his Hand, This
was not to be accounted Murther, but the Slayer
was to iy to the City of Refuge-
Here it is evident, that God takes all these
Misadventures into his own Hand; and a Man
kilTd by Accident, is a Man whom God has de-
liver *d up, for what End in his Providence is known
only to himself, to be kiisd in that Manner, per-
haps vindictively, perhaps not.
With what Face can [any Man fay, this was as
the Devil would have it, or as bad Luck would have
ity or it happen d, or chancd, or fell out; all which
are our íìmple and empty Ways of talking of things
that are ordered by the immediate Hand or Dire-
ction of God's Providence.
The Words last quoted from the Scripture of
God's delivering a Man into another Man s Hand to
be killed nnwiUmgiy, are fully explained in another
Place, Deut. xix. 5.
As when a Man goeth into the Wood with Ms Neigh-
bour, to hew Wood, and his Hand fetches a Stroke
with the Ax to cut down the Tree, and the Head flip-
peth from the Helve, and lighteth upon his Neighbour 3
that he die -, he shall fee unto me of those Cities, and
live.
The wicked thoughtless Creature, I have just
mentioned, whose Horse sell lame, and stopt his
Travelling, till he might come just in the Way of
those Thieves, who it seems were crossing the
Country, perhaps upon some other Exploit, ought
to
 
 
to have reflected, that Providence, to chastise
him, and bring him to a Sense of his Dépendance
upon, and being subjected to his Power, had di-
rected him to be separated from his Companion,
that he might fail into the Hands that robh'd and
abiis'd him > and the other had no less Obliga-
tion to give Thanks for his Deliverance: But how
contrary they acted in both Cafes, you have
heard.
We have had abundance of Collections, in my
Remembrance, of remarkable Providences, as they
arc eali'd; and many People are forward to call
them so: But this does not come up to the Case
m Hand.
Tho* contemning Providence, and giving the
Homage due to it, as above, to the Devi], or to
Chance, Fate, and I know not what Embrios of
the P,ancy are impious; yet every one that avoids
this Evil, docs not come up to the particular Point
I am speaking of; for there is a manifest Diffe-
rence between acknowledging the Being and Ope-
rations of Providence, and li fining to its Voice, as
many People acknowledge a God, that obey none
pf his Commands, and concern themselves in no-
thing of their Duty to him.
To listen to the Voice of Providence, is to take
strict Notice of all the remarkable Steps of Provi-
dence, which relate to us in particular, to observe,
if there is nothing in them instructing to our Con-
duct; no Warning to us for avoiding some Dan-
ger; no Direction for the taking some particular
Steps for out Safety or Advantage ,* no Hint to re-
mind us cf such and such things omitted; no Con-
viction of something committed; no vindictive
Step, by Way of Retaliation, marking out the
Crime in the Punishment; You may easily ob-
serve the Differences between the Directions ap4
 
 
 
 
Warnings of [Providence» when duly listned to,
and the Notices of Spirits from an invisible
World, viz,, that these are dark Hints of Evil,with
very little Direction to avoid it: Bat those Noti-
ces, which are to be taken from the Proceedings
of Providence, tho' the Voice be a Kind of silent
or soft Whisper; yet 'tis generally attended with
an Offer of the Means for escaping the Evil, nay,
very often leads by the Hand to the very proper
Steps to be taken; and even obliges us, by a strong
Conviction of the Reason of it, to take those
Steps.
It is in vain for me to run into a Collection of
Stones; for Example,where the Variety is infinite*
and things vary as every particular Man's Circum-
stances vary: But as every Event in the World is
manag'd by the Superintendencyof Providence; so
every Providence has in it some thing instructing,
some thing that calls upon us to look up, or look
out, or look in.
Every one of those Heads are big with particu-
lar Explanations; but my Business is not Preach-
ing; I am making Observations and Reflect ions3
let those makeEnlargements who read it : InaWord,
there is scarce any particular Providence attends
our Lives, but we shall find, if we give due
Weight to it, that it calls upon us, either-
I. To look upj and acknowledge the Goodness
of God ia sparing us, the Bounty of God m
providing for us, the Power of God in deli-
vering and protecting us, not forgetting to
look up, and acknowledge, and be humble
tinder the Justice of God, in being angry
with, and afflicting us.
 
 
 
 
2. Of
. 3. Or to look out, and take the needful Caution
and Warning given of evil approaching, and
prepare either to meet or avoid it.
3, Or to look in, and reflect upon what we find
Heaven animadverting upon, and afflicting
os for, taking Notice of the Summons to re-
pent and reform.
And this is, in a Word, what 1 mean by List-
ning to the Voice of Providence.
 
Chap.
Chap. VI.
Of the Proportion between the Chri-
stian and Pagan World.
Have said something of this al-
ready in my Enquiry after the
Scare of Religion in the World;
but upon some Reflections which
fell in my Way since, I think it
may offer further Thoughts, very
improving, as well as diverting.
When we view the World geographically,
take the Plan of the Globe, and measure it by
Line, and cot it out into Latitude and Longitude*
Degrees, Leagues, and Miles; we may fee indeed
that a pretty large Spot of the whole, is at pre-
sent under the Government of Christian Powers
and Princes, or under the Influence of their Power
and Commerce, by Arms, Navies, Colonies, and
Plantations; or their Factories, Missionaries,Resi«
dences, &c.
But I am loth to fay we should take this for a
Fulfilling the Promise made to the Messiah, that
his Kingdom should be exalted above all Nations,
and the Gospel be heard to the End of the Earth,
I was going to fay, and yet without any Prophane-
r<?ss; that we hope God will not put m of SO*
I must acknowledge, I expect in the Fulfilling of
these Promifesi that the Time will come, when the
Know*
 
[ 240 ]
Knowledge of God stall cover the Earthy as the Waters
mver the Sea, that the Church of God stall be set
Open to the four Winds, that the Mountain ûfiht
Lords House JÌMÍI be exalted above the "Top of the
Mountainsj and all the Hâtions jhall flow into itì Isa.
ii. 2. that is to say, that the Christian Religion,
or the Profession of the Doctrine of the Messiah,
shall be made national over the whole Globe, ac-
cording to those Words, Matth. xxiv. 14. MarkxiiL
13. Luke xxiv. 17. But this may be a little too
apocalyptical, or visionary for the Times; and 'tis
no Business of mine, to enter upon the Interpre-
tation of Scripture Difficulties, whatever I may
understand, or believe my self about them; but
rather to make my Observations, as 1 have be-
gun, upon things which now are, and which we
have seen and know, let what is to come, be as he
pleases, who has ordered things past, and knows
what is to follow.
The present Case is, to speak of the mathema-
tical Proportion that there is now to be observed
upon the Plain of the Globe, and observe how
small a Part of the World it is, where the Chri-
stian Religion has really prevail'd, and is natio-
nally profess'd, I speak of the Christian Religion,
where it is, as I call it, National, that isy in its
utmost Latitude; and I do so, that I may give
the utmost Advantage, even against my self, in
what I am going to say; and therefore, when 1
come to make Deductions for the Mixtures of bar-
barous Nations, I shall do it fairly also*
I have nothing to do with the Distinctions of
Christians: I hope none will object against calling
the Roman Church, a Christian Church, in this
Respect, and the Professors of the Popish Church,
Christians; neither do I scruple to call the Greek
Church Christian, tho' in iome Places so blended
 
 
 
 
with Superstition, arid barbarous Customs, as in
Georgia, Armenia^ and the Borders of Persia and
Tartipy; likewise in many Parts of the C&ar
ot Muscovy's Dominions, that (as before) the Name
oi Christ is little more than just spoken of, and
literally known, without any material Knowledge
of his Person, Nature, and Dignity; or of the
Homage due to him as the Redeemer of the
World.
The Nations of the World then, where Christ
is acknowledged, and the Christian Religion is
profess'd nationally! be it Romijh Church or Greek
Church, or even the Protestant Church, in-
cluding all the several Subdivisions and Denomi-
nations of Protestants, take them alias Christians*
i lay, these Nations are as follow.
1. In Europe; Germany, France, Spain, Italy, Great
Britain, Denmark, Sweden, Muscovy, Poland, Hun-
gary, "Transilvama, Moldavia, and Walachta*
2. In Asia, Georgia, and Armenia.
3» In Africa: No Place at all, the few Factories of
European Merchants, only excepted.
4. In America; The Colonies of Europeans only, as
follow*
1, The Spaniards, in Mexico and Peru, the Coasts
of Chili, of Cartagena, and St. Martha, and a
small Colony at the Buenos Ayr es on the Rio
de la Plata.
z. The Portuguese, in the Brash.
3. The British, on the Coast of America, from
the Gulph of Florida to Cape Britoon on the
Mouth of the Gulph of St. Lawrence, or the
great River of Canada, also a little in New
scundland) and Hudjons Bay.
R 4* The
 
4* The French in the River of Canada^ and the
great River of Mississippi.
5, The Engiijh, French, and Dutch9 00 the Minds
caU'd the Carribbees, &c.
The chief Seat of the Christian Religion is at
present in Europe: But if we measure the Quarter
of* the World, we call Europe upon the Flan of the
Globe,and call up the northcrn;srozen, and indeed
unhabitable Pare of it, such Laponia, Pctzora, Can-
dora,Obdora, and- theSawoiedes, with Fart of Siberia,
they are all Pagans, with the eastern unpeopl'd
Desarts, bordering upon Asia, on the Way to Chi-
na, and the vast Extent of Land on that Side,
which tho' nominally under the Dominion of
Muscovy, is yet all Pagan, even nationally so, im-
under no real Government, but of their own Pa-
gan Customs.
If we go from thence to the South, and takeout
of it the European Tartarsviz. of Circajpa,
the Crimée, and Budziack, if you go on, and
draw a Line from the Cum Tartary 'to the
Danube, and from thence to the Adriatick Gulph,
and cot off all the Grand Seignior's European Do-
minions; 1 fay, take this Extent of Land out of
Europe, and the Remainder does not measure foil
two Thirds of Land in Europe, under the Christr
an Government, much of which is also De fart,
and uninhabited, or at least, by such as cannot he
call'd Christians, and do not concern themselves
about it, as particularly, the Swedish and Ncr^>~
gean Lapland, the more eastern and southern M'sr
ti>vy, beyond the Walga, even to Karakathay, and to
the Borders of Asia on the Side of India \ 1
tftk-íruî in this Parr, not above one half of Europe
is really inhabited by Christians.
 
 
 
The Cz.ar ot Ahjcovy, of the Religion, of whose
Subjects I have said enough, is Lord of a vast ex-
tended Country; and those who have measured
it critically, say, his Dominions are larger than all
the rest of Europe -7 thai is to fay, that he jxìííeíles
a full Half as much as Europe-, and hi those Domi-
nions, he is Matter of Abundance of Nations, that
are Pagan or Mahometan, as in particular Circaf-
jliy being conquered by him, the Circafpau Tartars.
who are all Mahometans, or the moil of them, are
lus Subjects.
However, since a Christian Monarch governs
them, we must upon the Plan I laid clown, call
ciìis a Christian Country; and that alone obliges
me to give two Thirds of Europe to the Chri-
stians.
But this will bring another- Account upon my
Hands to ballance it, viz,. That excepting this
two Thirds, there will not come one Christian to
be accounted for in any of the other three Parts of
the World, except Georgia and Armenia; as foe
Africa, there is nothing to be mentioned on that:
Side: Ail the Christians that are on the Conti-
nent of Africk, consisting only of a few Merchants
residing at the Coast Towns in the Mediterranean^
as at Alexandria, Grand Cairo, Tunis, Tripoli, Al-
lier, dec. The Factories of the Englift and Dutch,
m the Coast of Guinea, the Gold Coast, the Coast
of Angola, and at the Cape of Good Hope; all which
put together, as 1 have calculated them, and as
they are calculated by a better Judgment than mine,
will not amount to 5000 People, excepting Chri-
stian Slaves in Sake, Algier, Tunis, Tripoli, &c#
^hich are not so many more.
America is throng'd with Christians, God wot,
such as they are; for 1 must confess, the Euro-
pean Inhabitants of some of the Colonics there,
R % as
 
 
 
 
% well French and EngUj% as Spanish and Dutch,
very ill merit that Name.
Some Parr oi America is entirely under the Do-
minion and Government of the European Nations;
and having indeed destroy'd the Natives, and
made desolate the Country, they may be said to
be Christian Countries in the Sense, as above.
But what Numbers do these amount to, com-
pared to the Inhabitants of so great a Part of the
World, as that of Awe, ha, which at least is three
Times as big as Europe, and in which are still
vast extended Countries, infinite Numbers of Peo-
ple of Nations unknown, and even unheard of;
which neither the English, French, Spamjh, or Por-
tuguese have ever seen; Witness the populous Ci-
ties and innumerable Nations, which Sir Walter
Raleigh met with in his Voyage up the great
River Oroanoque; in one of which they talk of two
Millions of People, Witness the Nations infinite-
ly populous, spread on both Sides the River de
Amwz.Que$i and all the Country between these two
prodigious Rivers, being a Country above 400
Miles in Breadth, and itfoo Miles in Length,
besides its Extent South even to the Rio Para-
guay, and S. E, to the Brafils, a rich, fruitful, and
populous Country; and in which, by the Ac-
counts g<ven, there must be more People inhabit-
ing at this Time, than in all the Christan Part oi
Europe put together, being the Chief, if not the on-
ly Part of America, into which the Spaniards ne-
ver canity and whether the frighted People fled
from them, being so fortify *d with Rivers and im-
partible Bays and rapid Currents, and so inac-
cessible by the Number of Inhabitants, the Heat
of the Climate, and the Mountains, Waterfals,
and such other Obstructions, that the Spaniard*
durst never attempt to penetrate the Way.
What
 
 
What are the Numbers of Christians in ji-nc-
rica, put them altogether to the Inhabitants of
these Parts of America, besides the Northern
Parts of America not encjiuYd into..
But we are not calculating of People yet, bat'
the Extent of Land, that the Christians poise is,
the Brkijh Colonies in the Norths arc by far the
most populous even more than the Spaniards them-,
selves, though the latter extend themselves over
mere'Land.
The British Colonies in the North of America
are supposed to contain Three Hundred Thousand
Souls, including Nova Scotia, Neiv England, New
Turk, New Jersey, East and West Penfihania, Ma-
ryland, Virginia, and Carolina, and these lye ex-
tended upon the Coast from the Latitude of 3 2
Degrees, to 47, or thereabouts, being about 750
Miles in Length; but then much of this is very
thinly peopled, and the Breadth they lye ll\st
into the Country is little or nothing, 50 Miles
or 60 Miles is in many Places the most ; and ex-
cept some Plantations in Virginia in Rapahanock,
and Janes River in Virginia, occasioned by the
great In-let of the Bay there, and of the Rivers,
that fail into It, We can fee nothing an hundred
Miles within that Land but waste and Woods,
whose Inhabitants seem to be fled farther up in-
to the Country from the Face of their Enemies
the Christians.
So that all this planting though so ..considerable,
amounts to no more compared to the Country it-
self, than a long narrow Slip of Land upon the
Sea-Coast, there being very few Englifi inhabi-
tants 'planted any where above twenty Miles
from the Sea, or from some navigable River, and
even that Sea-Coast itself very thinly inhabited,
2nd particularly from New-England to New Turk,
R 3 . from
 
 
 
[ H6 1
 
from Neiu-Ewìand North to Annapolis 3 from It-
gîìtL't to Carolina; s> that all this great Colony or
Coíkcuuì Colonies, nay, tho1 we include the
French at Canada^ arc buta Point, a Handful, com-
par'd to the vail Extent of Land lying Weil am1.
Korth-Wcst from them, even to the South-Sea,
an Extent of Continent fall of innumerable Na-
rrons of People unknown, undiscovered, never
ícarchVl into or indeed heard of, but from one
another, much greater in its Extent than all
Europe.
If we take the North Part of America exclusive
of all the Country, which the Spaniards poslefs,
and which they call the Empire of Mexico ; and ex-
elusive too of what the Engli(h and pyem:b possess
on the Coast, and in the two Rivers of Canada
zvÀMij}istppì as abovefwhich indeed are but Trifles;
the rest of that Country which as far as h has been
travelled into, is found exceeding populous, is a great
deal larger than all Europe, though we have not
ìcckoned the most Northern, Frozen and ai moll
unhabitable Part ot it, where no End can be found,
and where it is no doubt, but there is a conti-
guous Continent with the Northern Part of Afu%
or so near joyning, as to be only parted by a nar-
row Gtilph and Streighr of Sea, easily palled over
both by Man or Beats, or else it would be hard
to give an Account how Man or Beast came into
that Fait of the World; 1 say, this vast Conti-
nent foil of People, and no doubt, inhabited by
many Millions of Souls, is all wrapt op in Idola-
try and Paganism, given tip to Ignorance and
Blindness, worshipping the Sun, the Moon, the
fire, the Hills their Fathers, and in a Word the
Devin
As to the Thing we call Religion, or the Know;
Jedge of the true God, much less the Doctrine ci
':' ''the
 
 
[ 247 1
the Messiah, and the Name of Christ, they not
only have not, bot never had the least Intimation ot
it on Earth, or Revelation of-it from Heaven,-
till the Spaniards came among them; Nay,
and now Christians are come among them,
'tis hard to fay, whether the Paganism is
much abated, except by the infinite Ravages the
Spaniards made where they came, who rooted
out the Idolatry by destroying the Idolaters, not
by converting them; having cruelly cut off, as
their own Writers affirm, above seventy Millions
of People, and left the Country naked of its In-
habitants tor many hundred Miles together.
But what need we come to Calculations for the
present Time with Respect to America, let us but
be at the Trouble to look back a little more than
a Hundred Years, which is as nothing at all in the
Argument; how had the whole Continent of A-
merka extended almost from Pole to Pole, with
all the I (lands round it,and peopled with such innu-
merable Multitudes of People, been as it were en-
tirely abandoned to the Devil's Government, even
from the beginning of Time, or at least from the
second Peopling the World by Noah to the ró'di
Century, when Ferdixaudo Cortezy General for the
famous Charles the 5 th, first landed in the Gulp h
of Mexico? • 
We have heard much of the Cruelty of the Spa-
niards in destroying such Multitudes of the Inha-
bitants there, and of cutting off whole Nations
by Fire and Sword: But as I am for giving up
all the Actions of Men to the Government of Pro-
vidence, it seems to mc, that Heaven had
determined such an Act of Vengeance should
be executed, and of which the Spaniards
were Instruments, to destroy ihose People,. who
were come up (by the Influence of the Devil, no
R 4 Dank)
[ z4S ]
Doubt) to such a dreadful height, in that abhorr'd
Custom of human Sacrifices, that the innocent
Blood cried for it, and it seemed to be a Time to put
a Stop to that Crime, lest the very Race of People
should at last be extinct by their own Butcheries.
The Magnitude of this may be guested at, by
the Temple consecrated to the great Idol of
VistlipustU in the City of Mexico, where at the
Command of Montezuma the Pagan Monarch,
twenty thousand Men were sacrificed in a Year,
and the Wall hong a Foot thick with clotted
Blood, dashed in Ceremony against the Side of
that Place on those Occasions.
This Abomination God in his Providence, put
an End to, by destroying those Nations from the
Face of the Earth, bringing a Race of bearded
Strangers upon them, cutting in Pieces Man, Wo-
man and Child, destroying their Idols, and even the
Idolatry it self by the Spaniards; who, however
wicked in themselves, yet were in this to be
esteemed Instruments in the Hand of Heaven, to
execute the divine Justice, on Nations,, whole
Crimes were come up to a full Height, and that
called for Vengeance.
I make no doubt (to carry on this Digression a
Ktt'e farther) that when God cast out the Hea-
then, so the Scripture calls ir, from before the
Israelites, and the Iniquity of the People of the
Land was full, Jojhua> Moses, and the Israelites
were tax'd with as much Cruelty and Inhumanity,
in destroying the Cities, killing Man, Woman,
and Child; nay, even destroying the very Cattle>
and Trees, and Fruits of the Earth, as ever the
Spaniards were charged with in the Conquest of
Mexico..
This is apparent by the Terror that was spread
upon the Minds of the People lound about them,
whereof
whereof thousands fled to other Parts of' the
World. That History tells us, that the lirlt
Builders oi the City of Carthage, long before the
Roman Times, or before the Fable of Queen Dido,
were some Phenkiam, that is to fay, Canaan ite$t
who flying for their Lives, got Ships and went
away to Sea, planting themselves on the Coast of
Asrick, as the first Place oi Safety they arriv'd at,
and to prove this a Pillar of Si one, was found not
far from Tripoli, on which was cut in Phenician
Characters, these Words, We are of those win fled
from the Face 0/Joshua the Robber.
The Cruelties of the Israelites, in destroying
the Nations of the Land of Canaan, was com-
manded from Heaven; and therein Jofljua was
justify M in what was clone, The Cruelties of the
Spaniards, however abhorr'd by us, was doubtless
an Appointment of God, for the Destruction of the
wickedest and most abominable People upon
Earth.
But this is all a Digression; 1 come to my Cal-
culation: It is true, that the Spaniards, whom I
allow to be Christians, have possess'd the Empires
of Mexico and Peru: But after all the Havock
they made, and the Millions of Souls they dis-
missal out of Life there, yet the Natives arc in-
finitely the Majority of the Inhabitants; and tho'
many of them are christianiz'd, they arc little more
than subjected, and take all the Spaniards, Christi-
ans, and all the Portuguese in the Erasils, all the
Englijh and French in the North, and in a Word, all
the Christians in America, and put them together,
they will not ballance one Part oi the Pagans or
Mahometans in Europe; For Example, Take the
Cr?m Tartars of Europe, who inhabit the Bank of
the Euxine Sea, they are more in Number than all
the Christians in America; so that setting one Na-
tion
 
 
 
 
tion against the other, and you may reckon that
there is not one Christian, or as if there were not
one Christian in those three Parts of the World,^i,
Africa, and America, except the Greeks of Asia.
This is a just but a very fad Account of the
small Extent of Christian Knowledge in the
World; and were it considers, as it ought, would
put the most powerful Princes of Europe upon
thinking of some Methods, at least to open a Way
for the spreading Christian Knowledge. 1 am
not much of the Opinion indeed, that Religion
should be planted by the Sword: But as the Chri-
stian Princes of Europe, however few in Number,
are yet so superior to all the rest of the World in
.martial Experience and the Art of War, nothing
is mote certain than that, if they could unite their
Interest, they are able to beat Paganism out of the
World, Nothing is more certain than this, that
would the Christian Princes unite their Powers,, and
act in Concert, they might destroy the Turkish Em-
pire, and the Persian Kingdom, and beat the very
Name of Mahomet out of the World.
* It is no Boast to fay, That were there no inte-
stine Broils among us, the Christian Soldiery is
so evidently superior to the Turks at this Time,
that had they all join'd after the late Battel ac
Belgrade, to have sent 80000 Veteran Soldiers to
have join'd Prince Eugene, and supply'd him with
Money and Provisions by the Ports of the Adriatic
GrJph, and the Archipelago, that Prince would in
two or three Campaigns, have driven the Ma-
hometans out of Europe, taken Cmstautmople} and
have overturned the Turkijh Empire.
After such a Conquest, whether might not the
Christian Religion have spread? The King of Spain
with the same Ease would reduce the Moors
oïEarbary, and dispossess thole Sons of Hell the
Alge-
 
Aigcrines, T^ripolines, Tsatimesìu, and all the Maho-
metan Py rates of that Coast, and plant again
the anticnt Churches ofAJrhk, the Sees of Tertulu-
an, Sc. Cyprian, &c.
Nay, even the Czar of Muscovy, an cnterprizing
and glorious Prince, well assisted and supported by
his Neighbours, the Northern Powers, who to-
gether are Masters of the best Soldiery in the
World, would not find It impossible to march an
Army of 36000 Foot and 16000 Horse, in Spite
of waste and unhospitable Deserts, even to attack
the Chinese Empire ,• who, not with (landing their
infinite Numbers, pretended Policy and great
Skill in War, would sink in the Operation: And
such an Army of disciplined European Soldiers,
would beat all the Forces of that vast Empirc,with
the fame (or greater) Ease, as Alexander with
50000 Macedonians destroyed the Army of Darius,
which consisted of 680000 Men.
And let no Man ridicule this Project, on Ac-
count of the March which I know they will call
5000 Miles and more: While there is no Obstru-
ction, but the Length of the Way, it is not so
difficult as some may imagine; \\$ far from im-
possible, to furnish sufficient Provisions for the
March, which is indeed the only Difficulty that
carries any Terror in it.
Such a'Prince as the Czar of Muscovy cannot
want the Assistance of innumerable Hands, for the
Amassing or Carriage for conveying to proper Ma-
gazines, sufficient Stores of Provisions, for the
maintaining a select chosen Body of Men to march
over the Desarts; for in the grand March, no
useless Mouths should be found to feed.
Why then ffiouid not the Christiait Princes think
it a Deed of Compassion to the Souls of Men, as
well as an humble Agency to the Work of Provi-
dence*
dence, and to the Fulfilling the Promises of their
Saviour, by a moderate, and as far as in them lyes,
a bloodless Conquest, to reduce the whole World
to the Government of Christian Power, and so
plant the Name and Knowledge of Christ Jesus
among the Heathens and Mahometans? I am not
supposing, that they can plant real Religion in
this manner \ the Business of Power, is to open
the Way to the Gospel of Peace, the Servants of
the King of the Earth are to sight, that the Ser-
vants of the King of Heaven may preach.
Let but an open Door be made for the preach-
ing of the Word of God, and the Ministers of
Christ be admitted, if they do not spread Christi-
an Knowledge over the Face of the Earth, the
Fault will be their's. 1 Let but the military Power
reduce the Pagan World, and banish the Devil and
Mahomet from the Face of the Earth, the Know-
ledge of God be diligently spread, the Word of God
duly preached, and the People meekly and faith-
fully instructed in the Christian Religion; the
World would soon receive the Truth, and the
Knowledge of divine Things would be the Study
and Delight of Mankind.
I know, some nice and difficult People would
object here, how are the present Body of Christi-
ans, as you call them, qualified to convert the Pa-
gan and Mahometan World, when they are not
able to fettle the main Point, viz. What the Chri-
stian Religion is, Or, what they would convert
them to? That Christianity is subdivided into so
many Parts, and particular Principles,thc People so
divided in their Opinion; and that which is still
worse, there is so little Chanty among the several
Sorts, that some of them would rather side with
Mahomet against their Neighbonr$,than assist to pro-
pagate that particular Doctrine in Religion, which
..  they
they condemn. Thus the Members of the Prote-
stant Faith would make it a Point of Principle,
not to supporr or propagate the Interest of Popery
in such a Conquest as this: And again, the Ca~
tholicks would as much make it a Doty on
them to root out Heresy, so they call the Prote-
stant DoBrinej as they would to root out Paganism
and the Worship of Devils.
1 would not answer for some Protestants, that
they would not be of the fame Mind as to particu-
lar Divisions among Protestants: The Difference
among some Opinions is such, and their Want
of Charity one to another, sets them at such Va-
riance, that if they do not censure one another for
Devil-Worshippers, yet we know they frequently
call some of the opposite Principles, Doctrines of
Devils; and persecute one another with as much
Fury, as ever the Heathen persecuted the Primi-
tive Churches.
Witness the Violences which have reigt/d be-
tween the Episcopal and Presbyterian Parties, in the
North of Ireland, and in Scotland^ which has so
often broken out into a Flame of War, and that
Flame been always qnenchM with Blood.
Witness the frequent Persecutions, Wars, Mas-
sacres, and other cruel and unnatural Doings,
which have been in these Parts of the World among
Christians, the Effect of a mistaken Zeal for the
Christian Religion % which as it was not planted
by Blood and Violence, so much less can Christi-
ans justify the Endeavours to erect this or that
Opinion in it, by the Ruine and Blood of their
Brethren.
But this is far from being a Reason, why we
should not think it our Duty to subdue the barba-
rous and idolatrous Nations of the World; in Or-
der to suppress the Worshipping the Devil, who
is
 
is the Enemy not only of God, and or all true Re-
ligion in the World, bat who is the great Destroy-
er and Enemy or Mankind, and of his future or
present Felicity; and whose Business is always to
the utmost of his Power to involve and retain them
either in Ignorance, or in Error.
. 1 distinguish between forcing Religion upon
People, or forcing them to entertain tins or that
Opinion of Religion; I fay, 1 distínguiílì between
that, and opening the boor for Religion to come
among them: The former is a Violence indeed,
inconíìítent with the .Nature of Religion it self,
whose Energy prevails and forces its Way into the
Minds of Men, by another Sort of Power; Where-
as the latter is removing a Force unjustly put al-
ready upon the Minds of Men by the Artifice of
the Devi!, to keep the Christian Religion out of
the World; so that indeed 1 propose a War not
with Men, but with the Devil; a War to depose
Satbans infernal Tyranny in the World, and set
open the Doors to Religion, that it may enter if
Men wilt receive it; if they will not receive it,
be chat to themselves.
In a Wordy to unchain the Wills of Men, set
their Inclinations free, that their Reason may be
at Liberty to influence their Understandings, and
that they may have the Faith of Christ preach'd
to them; whether they will hear or forbear, I fay,
as above, is no Part of the Question, let the Chri-
stian Doctrine and its spiritual Enemies alone to
struggle about that: I am for dealing with the
Temporalities oi the Devil, and deposing that hu-
man Power which is armed in the Behalf of obsti-
nate Ignorance, and resolute to keep out the Light
of Religion from the Mind.
 
 
 
 
 
 
T think
1 think this is a lawful and just War, and in the
End, kind both to them and their Posterity : Let me
bring the Cafe home ro ourselves.
Suppose .neither Julius Cesar or any of the Ro-
man Generals or Emperors, had cast their Eyes
towards Britain for some Ages, or till the Christian
Religion had spread over the whole Roman Em-
pire. *Tis true, the Brttaim might at last have
received the Christian Faith in common with tht
rest of the Northern World; but they had yet iayo
above 300 Years longer in Ignorance and Paganism,
than they did; and some hundred thousands of
People, who prov'd zealous Christians, nay even
Martyrs for the Christian Doctrine^ would have
dy'd in the profess'd Paganism of the Br it aim.
Now 3ds evident, the Invasion of the Roman t
was an unjust, bloody, tyrannical Aflault upon the
poor Britams/àgainíì all Right and Pi*opcrty,against
Justice and Neighbourhood, and mcerly carry'd
011 for Conquest and Dominion. Nor indeed had
the Romans any just Pretence of War; yet God
was pleased to make this Violence be the kindest
Thing that could have befallen the British Nation,
since it brought in the Knowledge of God among
the Britainsy and was a Means of reducing a hea-
then and barbarous Nation to the Faith of Christy
and to embrace the Messias.
Thus Heaven serves it self of Mens worst De-
signs, and the Avarice, Ambition, and Rage of
Men, have been made Use of to bring to pass the
glorious Ends of Providence, without the least
Knowledge or Design of the Actors: Why then
may not the great Undertakings of the Princes of
Europe^ if they could be brought to ail in Concerts with
a good Design to bring all the World, ro open their
Doors to the • Christian Religion, and by Conse-
quence their Ears? I fay, why may net such an
Attempt
 
 
Attempt be blessed from Heaven with so much
Success, at least as to make Way for bringing in
nominal Christianity among the Nations? For as
to obliging the People to be of this or that Opini-
on afterward, that is another Cafe.
There is a great Pother made in the World a-
mong the* several Denominations of Christians
about Coercion, erecting a Church, and compel-
ling Men to come in; that is to fay, one Sort of
Christians persecuting another Sort of Christians,
to make them worship Christ their Way, as ir
Christ had no Sheep but one Fold.
, 1 distinguish much between using Force to re-
duce Heathens and Savages to Christianity, and
using Force to reduce those that are already Chri-
stians, to be of this or that Opinion; I will not
fay but a War might be very just, and the Cause
be righteous, to reduce the Worshippers of the Pa-
gods of India, to the Knowledge and Obedience
of Christianity, when it would be a horrible In-
justice to commence a like War, to reduce even
a Popish Nation to be Protestant.
But my propos'd War does not reach so far as
that neither; for tho'I would have a Nation of Pa-
gans conquer'd, that their Idols and Temples
might be destroyed, and their Idol Worship be
abûlííh'd; yet 1 would be very far from punishing
and persecuting the People for not believing in
Christ: For if we believe that Faith, as the Scrip-.
cure fays is the Gift of God, How can we upon
any Christian Foundation, punish or persecute the
Man for not exercising that which God had not
given him.
Hence, compelling Men to conform to this
or that particular Profession of the Christian Re-
ligion, is to me impious and unchristian.
And
 
 
 
And fliall 1 speak a Word Iicre os thc iinhap-
py Custom aroong Chriflians, os rcviiing onc
another wkh Words, on Ac count os dífíering O-
pillions in Religion; It was a Part os ApKrysbal
Scriptore, taken trorri onc os thc traditional bay-
íogs os* thc Rabbics, T'hou shah not mcck m the
Gods os the Heathem: Bot Rituldry, Satyr, and
Sarcasme are thc Usage wc give onc another
cvcry Day on the Sr.bjctt os Religion; as if Blin-
da* and thc Scvcmics os thc Tongue, werc not tlie
worst kínd os Violence in Matters os the Chri-
stian Religion,
In a Word.» I mnst acknowicdge, if 1 am t<>
speak os Rcproach in gênerai» I know no worsc
Persécution than thac os thc Tongue; SoIgmcx
says, 'ïhere me that speak > like the piercìng oj a Sword;
and Ring David was ío sensible os thc Bittcrncss
os the Tongue, that he is fnli os Exclamations
npon the Sobject »• among thc refl, he says os his
Enemies, Thej bave mmpûjsed me ah ont ivìth ÌVo) ds
vf Hatred. Ile doathed ìnmselj ïvith Cursing like m
whh his G arment % Psalm cix. 3, 18.
It is mdeed rciîiote hom the Sobject i am upon*
to talk oí tliís kind os uncharitable Dealing, bot
as ííiíì Observations are never out os Season, it
Vddy have jts Uses; J,et no Man ílîgbt the Hinr»
tho'it werc meant os Religion only, for that indecd
h my présent Sobject 1 tíiere is doubtkís as severe
a Persécution by thc Tongue, as that os Pire and
Faggot, and soinc thínk \is as hard to he boni.
1 have never mec with ío mucii os thís any
wherc in ail my Travels as in Englaud, where the
Mordis oí- the fève ra I Seéts and Opinions arc ío
cftecìoaliy ope n againíl onc another, that albeit
c°inmo;ì Charíty commands us to talk the best of
particular Pet sens in their Failings and íntìrmi-
îlçs; yet bere, censuring, eondetxm.ng and re-
.  • Ì proachmg
 
proaching one another on Account of Opinions,
is carried on with such a Gust, that lets every one
sec nothing but Death and Destruction can follow,
and no Reconciliation can be expected.
1 have liv'd to see Men of the best Light be
mistaken, as well in Party as in Principles, as well
* in Politicks as in Religion, and find not only Oc-
casion, but even a Necessity to change Hands or
Sides in both; I have seen them sometimes run in-
to contrary Extremes, beyond their first Inten-
tion, and even without Design: Nay, in those un-
happy Changes, 1 have seen them driven into
Lengths they never designed, by the fiery Re-
sentment of those whom they seem'd to have
left, and whom they differ ?d from; I have lived to
see those Men acknowledge even publickly and
openly, they were wrong and mistaken, and cx-
 press their Regret for being milled very sincerely;
but I cannot fay, I have liv'd to fee the People,
they have desired to return to, forgive or receive
them : Perhaps, the Age I have lived in, has not
been a proper Season for Charity, I hope Futurity
will be furniih'd with better Christians, or per-
haps 'tis appointed so, to illustrate the divine M^-
cy, and let Mankind fee, that they are the only
Creatures that never forgive. I have seen a Man
in the Case 1 speak of, offer the most sincere Ac-
knowledgments of his having been mistaken, and
this not in Matters eílèncial either to the Periods
Morals or Chnitirauty, but only in Matters ot
Parcy, and with the most moving Expressions, dé-
lire ois oid Friends to forgive what has been
paL/d; and have seen their Return, be mocking
him with what they called a Baseness of Spirit,
and a mean Subminion : I have seen him expostu-
late with them, why they should not act upon
the faine Terms with a Penitent, as God himkli
no:
 
 
not only prescribed, but yields tó; and hare seen
them in Return, tell him, God might forgive him
if he pleased, but they would never; and then ex-
pose all thole QH'vT.s to the lïríì Comer in Banter
and Ridicule; But take me rir*ht too, 1 have km
at the same Time, that to wilier Men it has been
always thought to be an exposing themselves, and
an Honour 10 the Person.
i speak this too feelingly, and therefore fay no
more; there is a Way by Patience, to conquer
even the universal Contempt of Mankind ; and
though two Drams of that Brag be a Vomit
for a Dog, it is in my Experience the only Me-
thod ; there is a «secret Peace in it, and in Time
the Rage of Men will abate, a constant steady
adhering to Vertue and Honesty, and shewing the
World, that whatever Mistakes he might be led
into, supposing them to be Mistakes, that yet the
main intention and Design of his Life, was sin-
cere and upright | he that governs the Actions of
Men by an unbiassed Hand, will never suffer
such a Mao to sink under the Weight of universal
Prejudice and Clamour.
1 Ropinson Crusoe, grown old in Affli-
ction, born down' by Calumny and Reproach, but
supported from within, boldly prescribe this Re-
medy against universal Clamours and Contempt of
Mankind; Patience, a steady Life of Vertue and
Sobriety, and a comforting Dépendance on the
Justice of Providence, will first or last restore the
Patient to the Opinion of his Friends, and justify
him in the Face of his Enemies; and in the mean
time; will support him comfortably, in despising
those who want Manners and Charity, and leave
them to be cursed from Heaven with their own
Passions and Rage.
S a This
 
This very Thought made me long ago claim'
a kind of Property in some good old Lines of
the famous George Withers Esq; made in Prison
in the lower; he was a poetical Gentleman, who
had in the Time of the Civil Wars in England,
been unhappy in changing of Sides too often, and
and had been put into the 'sower by every S.de in
their Turn; once by the King, once by the Par-
liament, once by the Army, then by the Romp,
and at last again, / think, by General Monk; in
a Word, what ever Side got* up, he had the Dis-
aster to be down, the Lines are thus:
The World and I may well agree,
as most that are ofeuded;
For I /light her, and she flights me>
and there9s our Quarrel ended,
Jif Service done and love exprest,
Iho9 very few regard ity
My Country owes me Bread at leap;:
But if lam debarred it,
Good Conscience is a daily Feafl,
and Sorrow never ?narrd it.
But this Article of verbal Persecution, has
hurried me from my Subject, which I must re-
turn to.
1 have spoken of a Project for the Czar of Muj;
covy, worthy of a Monarch, who is Lord of so
vait an extent of Country, as the Russian Emp re
reaches to; which is in Effect as 1 have said,
much more than half Europe, and consequently an
eighth Paît of. the World. I have given mf
Thoughts how a War to open a Door for the
 
 
Christian Religion may be juslisiable.and that it fias
not the least Tincture of Persecution m it: If the
Christian Princes of the World, who now spend
their Force so much to an ill Purpose, in real Per-
secution, would join in an universal War against
Paganism and Devil-worship, the savage Part
of Mankind would in one Age, be brought to
bow their Knees to the God of Troth, and would
bless the Enterprise it self in the End of it, as
the best Thing that ever befel them: Nor could
such an Attempt fail of Success, unless Heaven in
Justice had determined to (hut up the World lon-
ger in Darkness, and the Cup of their Abomina-
tions was not yet full: But I may venture to fay,
there would be much more Ground for such
Christian Princes to hope and expect the Con-
currence of Heaven in such an Undertaking, than
in sheathing their Swords in the Bowels of
their Brethren, and making an Effusion of Chri-
stian Blood upon every flight Pretence, as wc fee
has been the Cafe in Europe for above thirty Years
past.
I had intended to remark here, that as the
Country poíîeííed by Christians is but a Spot of the
Ciobe, compared to the Heathen, Pagan, and
Mahometan World; so the Number of real Chri-
stians among the Nations professing the Christian
Name, is yet a more difproportioned Part, a mere
Tnil le, and hardly to be compared with the infi-
nite Numbers of those who tho'chcy call themselves
Christians, yet know as little of God and Reli-
gion as can be imagined to be known, where the
Word Christian is spoken of, and neither seek or
desire to know more; in a Word, who know but
httle of God or Jesus Christ, Heaven or Hell, and
regard none of them.
 
 
 
 
This
[ zóz ]
 
This is a large Field,and being througly search*i
into, would i doubt not, reduce the real faithful
Subjects of the Kingdom of Jesus Christ, to 2
much fewer Number than those of Mahimet ;. nay,
than those of the Monarch of Germany \ and make
our Lord appear a weaker Prince, speaking in the
Sense of Kingdoms, than many of die King's of
the E^rth. And it it be true that tlx old King
of France should fay, That he had mere loyal Sub-
jects than King Jesus; 1 do not know, but in the
Sense his Most Christian Majesty meant it, the
.Thing might be very true-
But this Observation is something out of my
present Road, and merits to be spoken of by itself.
The Number of true Christians will never be
known on this Side the great Bar, where they
shall be critically separated* No political Arith-
metic k can make a Calculation of the Number
pf true Christians, while they live blended with
the false ones, since it is not only hard, but im-
possible to know them one from another in this
.World."
We shall perhaps be surprised at the last Day, to
see some People at the Right-hand of the righ-
teous Judge, whom we have condemned with
the utmost Zeal in our Opinions, while we were
Contemporary with them in Life; for Charity,
as it is generally practised in this World, and
mix'd with our human Infirmities, such as Pride?
Self-opinion, and Personal-prejudice, is strangely
mis-guided, and makes us entertain Notions of
. Things and of People, quite different from what
they really deserve; and there is hardly any Rule
to prescribe ourselves, except it be of the Test,
In Meekness, every one esteeming other better than
tfcmsçhest which by the Way, is difficult to
 
 
But though we shall thus fee at the great Au-
dit) a Transposition of Persons ironi the Station
they held in our Charity, we ihail only thereby
fee that our Judgment was wrong; that God
jitdgeth not as Man judgeth, and that wc too
railiiy condemn, whom he has thought fit to ju-
stify and accept.
Let then tiie Number of Christians be more or
less, as he that makes them Christians determines,
this is not for us to enter into, and this brings
me back to what I said before, that though we
cannot make Christians, we both can and may, and
indeed ought to open the Door to Christianity,
that the .Preaching of God's Word, which is the
ordinary Means of bringing Mankind to the Know-
ledge of Religion, may be spread over the whole
World,
With what Vigour do we consult, and how do
the labouring Heads of the World club together
to form Projects, and to raise Subscriptions to
extend the general Commerce of Nations in-
to every Corner of the World: But 'twould
pass for a Bubble of ail Bubbles, and a Whimsy
that none would engage in, if ten Millions should
be asked to be subscribed, for fending a strong
Fleet and Army to conquer Heathenism and Ido-
latry, and protect a Mission of Christians, to be
employ'd in Preaching the Gospel to the poos
Heathens, fay it were on the Coast of Qmnandcl,
the I [land of Qjlon and Country of Malabar-, or
any of the Dominions of the Great Moguls and
yet such an Attempt would not only be just, b.it
infinitely advantageous to the People who thouIJ
undertake it, and to the People of the Country,
on whom the Operation should be wrought.
In the occasional Discourses i had on this
Subject, in Conversation with Men of good J»dg-
S 4 * meut
 
 
ment and Principles, 1 have been often ask'd
in what Manner 1 would propose to carry on such
a Conquest as 1 speak of, and how it should an-
swer the End; and that 1 may not be supposed to
suggest a Thing impracticable in itself or for
which no rational Scheme might be proposed; 1
shall make a brief Essay, at the Manner, in which
the Conquest I speak of should be, or ought to be
carried on,* and if it be considered seriously, the
Difficulties and perhaps all the reasonable Ob-
jections might vanish in an Instant. I will there-
fore first, for the Purpose only, suppose that an At-
tempt was made by a Christian Nation^ to con-
quer and subdue some Heathen or Mahometan Peo-
ple at a Distance from them, place the Conquest
where, and among whom we will: For Example,
Suppose it was the great Island of Madagascar^ or
that of Ceylon, Borneo in the ladies, or those of
Japan, or any other where you please.
I would first suppose, the Place to be infinite-
ly populous as any of those Countries, though
they are Islands, are said to be; and because the
Japmmefe are (aid to be a most sensible sagacious
People, under excellent Forms of Government,
and capable more than ordinarily ot receiving
Impressions, supported by the Argument and Ex-
ample ot a vertuous and religious Conqueror.
For tits Purpose you must grant me, that the
Island or Islands of Japan were in a Situation
proper for the undertaking, and that a powerful
Europe-w Army being landed upon them> had in a
great Battle or in divers Battles, over-thrown
ail' their Military Force, and had entirely re-
duced the whole Nation to their Power: As to
go back to Examples, the Venetians had done by
the lurks in the Mcrea in a former War, or as
the Turks did in the Isles of Candia, Cyprus, and
 
she like. The short Scheme for establifliing the
Government in those Countries should be this \
first, As the War Is pointed chiefly a-
gainst the Kingdom of the Devil, in
behalf of the Cíiríílíaii Worship, so
no Quarter should be given to Satan's
Administration; and as nothing else
should willingly be treated with Vio-
lence; so indeed no Part of the De-
vils O Economy should have any Fa-
vour, but all the Idols should imme-
diately be destroyed, and publickly
burnt, all the Pa gods and Temples
burnt, and the very Face and Form
of Paganism and the Worship attend-
ing it, be utterly defaced and de-
stroyed.
Secondly, The Priests and dedicated Per-
sons oi every kind, by whatsoever
Names or Titles known or distin-
guifhed, should be at least removed,
if not destroyed.
Thirdly, All the Exerc'se of profane and
idolatrous Rites, Ceremonies, Wor-
ship, Festivals, and Customs, should
be aboliihed entirely, so as by Time
to be forgotten, and clean wiped out
of the Minds, as well as out of the
practice of the People.
This is all the Coercion I propose, and less than
this cannot be proposed, because though we may
not by Arms and Force compel'Mcn to be reli-
gious, because if we do, we cannot make them
sincere,
 
 
 
sincere, and so by Persecution we only create Hy-
pocrites; yet I insist that we may by Force,
and that with. the greatest Justice possible, sup-
press Paganism, and the Worship of God's Enemy
the Devii, and banish it out of the World; nay,
that we ought to do it to the utmost of our Power:
Put 1 return to the Conquest.
The Country being thus entirely reduced under
Christian Government, the Inhabitants if they
submit quietly, ought to be used with Humanity
and Jiist.ee j no Cruelty, no Rigour; they should
foster no Oppression, Injury, or Injustice, that
they may not receive evil Impressions of the Peo-
ple that are come among them; Jest entertaining an
Abhorrence of Christians, from their evil Conduct,
Cruelty, and Injustice, they should entertain an Ab-
horrence of the Christian Religion for their Sakes;
as the poor Wretches the Indians in America, who
when they were talked to of the Future State,
the Resurrection of the Dead, Eternal Felicity in
Heaven, and the like, enquiYd where the Spaniards
went after Death, and if any of them went to
Heaven? and being answered in the Affirmative,
ftook their Heads, and desired they might go to
Hell then, tor thai they were afraid to think of
being io Heaven, it the Spaniards were there.
A just and generous Behaviour to the Natives
or at least to such of them as should show them-
selves willing to submit, would certainly engage
them in their Interest, and accordingly would in
a little while bring them to embrace that Truth,
which dictated such just Principles to those who
espoused it.
Thus Prejudices being removed, the Way to In-
struction would be made the more plain, and then
would be the Time for Goípei-Labourers to cuter
upon the Harvest; Ministers should be instructed
r to
 
to teach them our Language, to exhort them to
seek the Blessings of Religion and of the true
God, and so gradually to introduce right Prtn-
pies among them at their own Request
from hence they should proceed, to teach all
the young Children the Language spoken by them,
who would then be their Benefactors, rather than
Conquerors, and a sew Years wearing the old Ge-
neration out, the Posterity of them, and of their
Conquerors, would be ail one Nation.
In Cafe any rejected the Instruction of religious
Men, and adher'd obstinately to his Idolatry, and
would not be reclaimed by gentle and christian U-
sage, suitable Methods are to be taken with such,
that they might not make a religious Faction in the
Country, and gain others to fide with them, in
order to recover their Liberty, as they might call it
to serve their own Gods, that i> to fay idols; for
it must be for ever as just, not to permit them to go
back to Idolatry by Force, as it was to pull
them from it by Force.
By this kind of Conquest, the Christian Reli-
gion would be most effectually propagated among
innumerable Nations of Savages and Idola-
ters, and as many People be brought to worship
the true God, as may be iaid to doit at this Time
in the whole Christian World*
This is my Cruìfado> and it would be a War as
justifiable on many Accounts, as any that was ever
undertaken in the World, a War that would bring
Eternal Honour to the Conquerors, and an Eternal
Blessing to the People conquered.
It were easy now to cut out Enterprises of this
Nature for other of the Pr'nces of the World than
the Czar of Muscovy; and I could lay very ratio-
nal Schemes for such Undertakings, and the
Schemes that could, if tiuougly pursued never
fail
 
 
 
 
 
 
soil of Success: For Example, An Expedition
against the Moors of Africa, by the French) Spaiiijh
and Italian Princes, who daily suffer so much by
them, and the last of whom are at perpetual War
with them; how easy would it be to those
Powers to join in a Christian Confederacy, to
plant the Christian Religion again in the Numi-
iidii and Mauritaman Kingdoms; where was once
the famous Church of Carthage, and from whence
Thousands of Christians have gone to Heaven;
the Harvest of the primitive Labours of St. Cy~
frian> Tertulliflny and many more, whose Poste-
rity now bow their Knees to that latest and worst
pf all Impostors, Mahomet.
But unchristian Strife was always a Bar against
the Propagation of Christian Religion, and unna-
tural Wars carried on among the Nations I speak
of, arc made so much the Business of the Christian
World, that I do not expect in out Time, to fee
the Advantages taken hold of, that the Nature of
the Thing otfers : But I am persuaded, and leave it
upon Record as my settled Opinion, that one
Time or other, the Christian Powers of Europe,
shall be inspired from Heaven for such a Work,
and then the Easiness of subduing the Kingdom oi
Africa to the Christian Power, shall shame the Ge-
nerations past, who had the Opportunity so ofcen
in their Hands, but made no Use of it.
Note, In this Part of the Subject I am upon, I
must acknowledge there is a double Argument
for a War; j. In Point of the interfering Intetcits>
Europe ought to take Possession of those Shoars,
without wnich it is manifest her Commerce is net
seemed; and indeed, while that Part of Afrkk
bordering on the Sea, is in the Hands of Robbers,
Pirates cannot be lecur'ei: Now, this is a Point
oi undisputed Right, for a War-Traae claims the
 
Protection of the Powers to whom It belongs and
we make no Scruple to make War upon one ano-
ther, for' the Protection of our Trade, and ic is
allowed to be a good Reason why we should do
so. Why then is it nor a good Reason to make
War upon Thieves and Robbers? If one Nation
takes the Ships belonging to another, we imme-
diately reclaim the Prize from the Captors, and
require of the Prince, that Justice be done against
the Aggressor, who is a Breaker of the Peace;
and it this is refused, wc make War*
But shall we do thus to Christians, and scruple
to make an universal War for the rooting out a
Race of •Pyrates and Rovers who live by Rapin,
and are continually employed like the Lions and
Tygcrs of their own L)bia in devouring their
Neighbours; This, I fay, makes such a War not
only just on a religious Account, but both just
and necessary upon a civil Account.
The War then being thus proved to be just on
other Accounts, why should not 2. The Extir-
pation of Idolatry, Paganism, and Devil-Worship,
be the Consequence of the Victory. If God be
allowed to be the Giver of Victory, how can ic
be answered to him, that the Victory should hot
be made Use of, for the Interest and Glory of
the God of War, from whom it proceeds? But
these Things are not to be offered to the World,
till higher Principles work in the Minds of Men,
in their making War and Peace, than yet seems to
take up their Minds,
1 was tempted upon this Occasion, to make an
Excursion here/ upon the Subject of the very
light Occasions, Princes and Powers, States and
Statesmen make use of, for the engaging in War
and Blood one against another ; one for being ill
satisfied with the other, and another for preserving
the
 
 
the Ballance of Power; this for nothing át all*
and that for something next to nothing; and how
little Concern the Blood that is necessarily spilt
iii these Wars produces among them: But this is
not a Cafe that will so well bear, to be entred
upon in a pubiick Manner at this Time.
AU I can add is, I doubt, no such Zeal for the
Christian Religion, will be found in our Days, or
perhaps in any Age of the World, till Heaven beats
theDrumsitseli,and the gloriousLegions from above
come down on Purpose to propagate the Work, and
to reduce the whole World to the Obedience of
King Jesus; a Time which some tell m is not far
off: Bot oi which 1 heard nothing in all mjr Travels
and Illuminations, no not one Word.
 
FINIS.
 
À
VISION
OF THE
Angelick World,
HEÏ must be rûììëh .taken':p$.
with the Satisfaction of whac
they are already, that never spare
their Thoughts upon the Subject
of what they shall be.
The Place,. the Company, the
Employment which we expect m
know so math of hereafter, must certainly be welf
worth our while to enquire after here,
I believe the main Interruptions which have
^een given to these Enquiries and perhaps thé
"eason why those that have entred into them
A '" hiss
 
O]
have given them up, and those who hate not
entred into them, have satisfied themselves in the
utter Neglect, have been the wild- chimerick
Notions, enthusiastick Dreams, and unsatisfying
Ideas, which most-of'the Conceptions of Men
have led them Into, about these Things.
As I endeavour to conceive justly of these
Things, I shall likewise endeavour to reason upon
them clearly, and, if possible, convey some such
Ideas of the invisible World to the Thoughts of
Men, as may not be confused and indigested, and
so leave them darker than I find them.
The Locality of Heaven or Hell is no Part of
my Search; there is doubtless a Place reserved
for the Reception of our Souls after Death; as
there is a State of Being for material Substances,
so there must be a Place; if we are to BE, we
must have a where; the Scripture supports Rea-
son in it, Judm is gone to his Place, Dives in
Hell lift up his Eyes, and saw Lazams in Abra-
hams Bosom; the 'Locality of Bliss and Misery
seefts to be positively asserted in berth'Cafes,
But there is not so clear a View of the Company
as of the Place; it is not so easy to enquire into
the World of Spirits, as it is evident that there
are such Spirits, and such a World i we find the
Locality of it is natural, but who the Inhabitants
are, is a Search of still a sublimer Nature, liable
to more Exception, encumber'd with more Dif-
ficulties, and exposed to much more Uncertainty.
I fliall endeavour to clear up as much of it as
I can, and intimate most willingly, how much i
rejoyce in the Expectation, that some other En-
quirers may go farther, 'till at last, all that Pro-
vidence has thought fit  to discover of that Pare
may be perfectly known.
, The
 
 
 
 
The Discoveries in the Scripture whic head
to this, are innumerable; but the positive Decla-
ration of it seems to be declinM Wi.en our Sa-
viour walking on the Sea frighted his Disciples
and they cried out, what do we find terrify'd
them? Truly, they thought they had seen a Spi-
rit One would have thought such Men as they,
who had the ' Vision of God manifest in the Flesh,
should not have been so much siirpriz'd, if they
had seen a Spirit, that is to fay,seen an Apparition-,
for to fee a Spirit, seems to be an Allusion, not
an Expression to be us'd literacy, a Spirit being
not visible by the Organ of human Sight.
But what if it had been a Spirit? if it had
been a good Spirit, what had they to fear? And
if a bad Spirit, what would crying out have as-
sisted them,? When People cry out in such Cases,
it is either for Help, and then they cry to others;
or for Mercy, and then they cry to the Subject
of their Terror to spare them. Either Way it
was either the fooliflieify or the wickedest Thing
that ever wa$ done by such grave Men as the
Apostles; for if it was a good Spirit, as before;
they had no Need to cry out; and if it was a bad
one, who did they cry to? For 'tis evident they
did not pray to God, or crois and bless them*
selves, as was afterwards the Fashion; but they
tried out, that is to fay, they either cried out foe
Help, which was great Nonsense, to call to Man
for Help against , the Devil; or they cried to the
Spirit they saw, that it might not hurt them,
which was, in short, neither less, or more, than
praying to the Devil.
This put me in Mind of the poor Savages in
many of the Countries of America and Afrkai who
really instructed by their Fear, that is to lay, oy
taeerNatutc, worslupthe Devil, that he may not
hurt them, A » Here
 
 
 
Here I must digress a little, and make a Trart*
'sitioti from the Story of a Spirit, to the strange
Absurdities of Mens Notions at that Time; and
particularly, ot those upon whom the first Im-
pressions of Christ's Preachings were wrought,
and if it be look'd narrowly into, one cannot but
wonder what strange ignorant People, even the
Disciples themselves were, at first; and indeed
their Ignorance continued a great while, even
to after the Death' of Christ Himself;, witness the
foolish Talk of the two Disciples going to Emam,
It is true they were wiser afretwards when they
were better "taught; but the Scripture is hill of
the Discoveries of their Ignorance; as in the No-
tiofis of fitting at his Right-hand and his Left, in
his Kingdom, ask'd for by Éeíédeefs Children; no
doubt but the good Woman their Mother thought
one of her Sons should be Lord Treasurer there,
and the t'other Lord Chancellor, and she could
not but think those Places their Due, when slie
saw them in such.Favour with him here. Just so
in their Notion of seeing a Spirit here, which
put .them into such a Fright, and indeed they
might be said, according to our dull Way of
Tasking, to be frighted out of their Wits; For
bad their Senses been'in Exercise, they would ei-
ther have rejoie'd in the Appearance of a good
Angfcl; and stood still to hear his Message, as
from. Heaven; or pray'd to God to deliver them
Out of the Hands of the Devil, on their supposing
it, as above, to be a Vision from Hell.
But I come to the Subject, tt is evident that
tire  Hotiofí cjf SpititS, and their intermeddling
with the Affairs of Men, and even of their ap-
pearing m Mení prevail'd so universally in those
Ages ;<jf-the World, that efecsGods own.People,
Miq were kctractd from himself, believed it,
- ... 1101
 
 
 
sor is there any Thing in all the Old Testament
Institution to contradict it, tho* many Things
to confirm it; such particularly, as the Law
against what is calfd 'a familiar Spirit, which
was cstccm'd no better or worse than a conver-
sing with the Devil, that is to fay, with some
of the evil Spirits of the World 1 speak of '; •
The Witch of Endor, and the StoVy of an 'Ap-
parition of an old Mao personating Samuel,''which
is so plainly asserted in Scripture, and" which'the
learned Oppofers of these Motions have spent so
much weak Pains to disturb " our Imaginations
about, yet assure us, that such Apparitions are
not inconsistent with Nature, or with Religion;
nay,the Scripture allows thisWoman to Pawwaw,
as iht Indians in America call "it, and conjure for
the raising this Spectre, and when it is come, al-
lows it to speak a great prophetick Truth, sore-
telling the King in all ifs terrible'Particulars what
was to happen to him, and what did befal him
the very next Day.
Either this Appearance must be a good Spirit/
or a bad; if it was a good Spirit, it was an
Angel, as it is express M in another Place of the
Apostle Peter, when he knock'd at the good
People's Door in Jerusalem,ABs xii.x5. and then it
supports my Opinion of the Spirits unembodied
conversing with, and taking Care of the Spirits
embodied; if it was an evil Spirir, then they
must grant Gpd to be making a Prophet of the
Devi], and making him personate Samuel to foretel
Things to come; permitting Sachan to speak in the
first Person of God's own Prophet, and indeed to
preach the Justice of God's Dealing with Saul, for
rejecting his Prophet Samuel; which is short, is not
I httle odd, putting the Spirit of God into the
*  A 3 MQutJi
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
C<5]
Mouth of the Devil, and making Sathan a
Preacher of Righteousness.
When ! was in my Retirement, 1 had a-
bundancc of strange Notions of my seeing Ap-
paritions there, and especially , when I hap-
pened to be abroad by Moon-íhine, when every
Buih look'd like a Man, and every Tree like a
Manf on Horse-back; and I so prepossess'd my
self with it, that I scarce dtirst look behind me
for a good while, and' after that durst not go a-
broad at all at Night; nay, it grew upon me to
such a Degree at last, that I as firmly believ'd I
saw several Times real Shapes and Appearances,
as I do now really believe and am assurd, that it
was all Hypochondriack Delusion.
But however, that the Reader may fee how
far the power of Imagination may go, and judge
for me whether I sliew'd any more Folly and Sim-
plicity than other Men might do, 111 repeat some
little Passages, which for a while gave me very
great Disturbances, and every one shall judge for
me, whether they might not have been deluded in
the like Circumstances as well as I
The first Case was, when I crept into the dark
Cave in the Valley, where the old Goat lay just
expiring, which, wherever it happen'd, is a true
.History, I assure you.
When first I was stopped by the Noise of this
poor dying Creature, you are to observe, that
the Voice was not only like the Voice of a Man,
but even articulate, only that I could not form
any Words from it; and what did that amount to
more or less than this, namely, that it spoke,
but only it was in a Language that I did not un-
derstand. If it was possible to describe the Sur-
prise of my Spirits on that Occasion, I would do
it here; how all my Blood run, or ratier flood st
' " '! chilld
 
 
 
 
 
 
[73
eîìíiíct in my Veins î how a cold Dew, of. .Sweat
fat on my forehead I how my Joints, like Beljbaxr
mrs Knees, shook one against. %|orher; .apjcf kow$
as I said, my Hair would have ljftc$ off pi y Hatj
if I had had one on my Head. '*
But this is not all After the first Noise of the
Creature which was a faint dying Kind of imper- ,
sect Bleating, not unusual, as 1 found afterward ; 1
fay, after this, he fetçh'd two or three deep Sighs
as lively, and as like human, as it is possible to
imagine, as 1 have also said.
These were so many Confirmations of my Sur-
prize, besides the Sight of. his two glaring Eyes,
and carried it up to the Extreme of Fright and
Amazement; how I afterwards conquered this
chiídiíîi Beginning, and mustered op Courage e-
nough to go into the Place with a Firebrand for
Light; and how I was presently satisfy'd with
seeing the Creature whose Condition made ail the
little accidentai Noises appear rational, I have
already said. ''
But 1 must acknowledge, that this real Surprize
left some Relicks or Remains behind it, that did
not wear quite off a great while, tho'Iftruggl'd hard
with them : The Vapours that were raisM at first
were never so laid, but that on every trifling Oc-
casion they returned; and 1 saw, nay, I felt Ap-
paritions, as plainly and' distinctly as ever 1 felt
or saw any real Substance in my Life.
The like was the Cafe with me before that,
when I first found the Print of a Man's Foot up-
on the Sand, by the Seaside on the North Part of
the Island.
And these, 1 say, having left my Fancy a little
peevish and wayward, 1 had frequently some Re-
turns of these Vapours on differing Occasions,
and sometimes even without Occasion; nothing
A 4" but
 
 
 
 
but mecr Hypochondriack Whimsies,, fluttering of
the Blood, and rising of Vapours, which nobody
could give any Account of but myself.
Mr Example : It was one Night, after my having
seen some odd Appearances in the Air, of no great
Significance, that coining home and being in Bed,
but not asleep, 1 felt p Pain in one of ray Feet; af-
ter which it came to a kind of Numb'dncss in my
Foot, which a little surpriz'd me, and after that, a
kind of Tingling in my Blood, as if it had been
some Distemper running up my Leg.
On a sudden I felt, as it were, something alive
lye upon me, as if it had been a Dog lying up-
on my Bed, from my Knee downwards about half
Way my Leg, and immediately afterwards I felt
it heavier, and felt it as plainly roll itself upon me
upwards upon my Thigh, for I lay on one Side;
I fay, as it it had been a Creature lying upon mc
with all his Weight, and turning his Body upon
me, .
It was so lively and sensible to me, and 1 re-
member it so perfectly well, though it is now
many Years ago, that my Blood chills and flutters
about my Heart at the very Writing it. I imme-
diately fiung my self out of my Bed, and flew to
my Mufquet, which stood always ready at my
Hand, and, naked as I was, laid about me upon
the Bed in the daij;, and every where else that 1
could think of where any Body might stand or lye
but could find nothing, 'Lord deliver me from an
evil Spirit, said I! What urn this be Î And being
tired with groping about, ind haying broke two
or three of my Earthen Pots with making Blows
here and there to no Purpose, I went to light my
Candle, for my Lamp which I us'd to burn in the
"Night, either had npt been lighted, or was gone
 
 
 
 
When 1 lighted a Candle, 1 could easily see
there was no living Creature in the Place with
me, but the poor Parrot, who was wak'd and
frighted, and cry'd out, Hold your Tongue, and,
What s the Matter with you? Which Words he *
leara'd of me, from my frequent faying so to him*
when hp used to make his ordinary wild Noise and
Screaming that I did not like.
The more I was satisfy'd that there was nothing
in the Room, at least to be seen, the more another
Concern came upon me. Lord î sap I aloud, this
is the Devil. Hold your %ngue> lays Poll. I was
so rn#d at the Bird, tho' the Creature knew no-
thing of the Matter, that if he had hung near
me, I believe I should have killed him. I put my
Clothes on, and fat me down, for I could not find
in my Heart to go to Bed again; and as I fat
down, / am terribly frighted, said I. Whats the
Matter with y ou? fays Poll. You Toad, said I, Yd
knock your Brains out if you were here. H Ad your
"tongue, fays he again, and then fell to chattering,
Robin Crusoe, and, Poor Robin Crusoe, as he us'd
to do.
Had I been in any Reach of a good Temper, it
had been enough to have composed me; but I
was quite gone, I was fully poslef/d with a Belief,
that it was the Devil, and I pray'd most heartily
to God, to be delivered from the Power of the
evil Spirit.
After some Time, I composed my self a littles
and went to Çed again, and lying just in the Po-
sture as I was in before, I felt a little of the Ting-
ling in my Blood which I felt before, and I re-
folv'd to lye still, let it be what it would; it
came up as high as my Knee, as before, but no
higher; and now I began to see plainly that it was
all a-Distemper, that it was something Paralitica,
and
 
 
tod that affected the Nerves ; but I had not ci-
ther Experience of such a thing, or Knowledge
of Diseases, enough to be fully satisfy'd of the Na-
ture of them, and whether any thing natural, any
Numbedness or Dead Palsie affecting one Part of
îheThígluconic! feel as that 'did ; till some Months
after that, 1 felt something of the very same again
at my first lying down in my Bed for three or four
Nights together,which at first gave me a little Con-
cern as a Distemper, but at last gave me such 'Sa-
t sfaftion, that the first was nothing but the fame
thing in a higher Degree; that the Pleasure of
knowing it was only a Disease, was far beyond the
Concern at the Danger of it; Tho' a dead Palsie
to one in my Condition might reasonably have been
one of the most frightful Things in Nature ; since
having no body to help me, I must have inevitably
perish'd for meer Want of Food, not being able to
go from Place to Place to fetch it.
But to go back to the Cafe in Hand, and to
the Apprehension I had been in; ail the several
Months that pass ci between the first of this and
the last, I went about with a melancholy heavy
Heart, fully satisfy'd that the Devil had been in
my Room, and lay upon my Bed.
Sometimes I would trye to argue my self a little
ont of it, asking my self, Whether it was reason-
able to imagine the Devil had nothing else to do
than to come thither, and only lye down upon
me, and go away about h is Business, and fay not
one Word to me? What End it coifld answer ? and
whether I thought the Devil was really bufy'd
about such Trifles? Or whether he had not Em-
ployment enough of a higher Nature, so that such
a Thing asrhat could be worth his white?
But still then 1 was anfwer'd with my own
Thoughts, returning thus, What could it be? Or,
it
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
if it was not a Devil, what was it?- This I could
not answer by any Means at all; and so 1 still funk
under the Belief, that it was the Devil, and no-
thing bot the Devil
You may be sure, while I had this Fancy in my
Head, 1 was of Course over-run with the Vapours,
and had all the Hypochondriac! Fancies that ever
any melancholy Head could entertain; mid what
with ruminating on the Print of a Foot upon the
Sand, and the Weight of the Devil upon me in my
Bed^I made no Difficulty to conclude,that the Old
Gentleman really viíìted the Place; and in a Word,
it had been easy to have possessed me, if I had con-
tinued so much longer, that it was an enchanted
Iiland, that there were a Million of evil Spirits in
|t, and that the Devil was Lord of the Manor.
I scarce heard the least Noise, near or far off,
but I started, and expected to see a Devil; every
distant Bush upon a Hill, if I did not particularly
remember it before, was a Man, and every Stump
an Apparition; and I scarce went twenty Yards
together by Night or by Day, without looking
behind me.
Sometimes indeed I took a little Heart, and
would fay well, let it be the Devil if it will, God
is Master of the Devil, and he can do me no Hurt,
unless he is permitted; he can be no where, but
lie that made him is there too; and as I said after-
wards, when I was frighted with the old Goat
in a Cave, he is not sit to live all alone in such au
Island for 20 Years that would be afraid to fee the
Devil
But all these Things lasted but a short while,
and the Vapours that were raised at first, were not
to be laid so easily ; for, in a Word, it was not
meer Imagination, but it was the Imagination
ras'd up to Disease: Nor did it ever quite wear
!' of
 
 
 
 
 
off till I got my Man By day with me, of whom
1 have said so much; and then having Company
to talk to, the Hypo wore off, and 1 did not sec
any more Devils after that.
'Before 1 leave this Part, I cannot but give a Cau-
tion to all f apourifh melancholy People, whose I-
maginations run this Way; I mean, about feeing
the Devil, Apparitions, and the like; namely, that
they should never look behind them, and over their
Shoulders as they go up Stairs, or look into the
Corners and Holes of Rooms with a Candle in
their Hands, or turn about to fee who may be be-
hind them in any Walks or dark Fields, Lanes, or
the like; for let such know, they will fee the Devil
whether he be there or no ; nay, they will be so
persvraded, that they do fee him, that their very
Imagination will be a Devil to them where-ever
they go.
But after all this is said, let nobody suggest,
that because the brain-sick Fancy, the vapourish
Hypochondriack Imagination represents Spectres
and Spirits to us, and makes Apparitions for us,
that therefore there are no such Things as Spirits
both good and evil, any more than we should con-
ceive that there is no Devil, ' because we do nor
see him.
The Devil has Witnesses of his Being and Na-
ture, just as God himself has of his; they are not
indeed so visible or so numerous, but we are all
able to bring Evidence' of the Existence of the
Devil from our own Frailties, as we are to bring
Evidence of the Existence of God from the Facul-
ties of our Souls, and from the Contexture of our
Bodies. '' • • *
As our Propensity to Evil rather than Good, is
a Testimony of the original ^Depravity of human
Nature; lb the Harmony between the inclination
• • and
 
 
 
and die Occasion, is a Testimony which leaves
the Presence of die evil Spirit with us out of Que-
stion. , .
Not that the Devil is always the Agent in our
Temptations; for tho' the Devil is a very dili-
gent Fellow, and always appears ready to fall
in with the Allurement, yet the Scripture clears
him, and we most do so too, of being the main
Tempter; 'tis our owe corrupt debaudrd In-
clination which is the first moving Agent; and
therefore the Scripture fays, A Man is tempted
when he is drawn aiuay oj Ms ozvn Ltistsy and enticed.
The Devil who, as I (aid, is a very diligent Fel-
low in the infernal Work, and is always ready to
forward the Mischief* is also a very cunning
Fellow, and knows how most dextrouily to fuie
alluring Objects to the allurable Dispositions; to
procure ensnaring Things, and lay them in the
Way of the Man whom he finds so easy to be en-
snar'd, and he never fails to prompt all the Mis-
chief he can, full as Stratagem and Art to en-
snare us by the Help of our corrupt Affections*
and thef. are call'd Sathans Devices.
. But having charg'd Sathan home in that Pars*
1 must do the Devil that Jastke, as to own, that
he is the most stander'd, most abus'd Creature
alive; Thousands of Crimes we lay to his Chargé
that he is not guilty of; Thousands of our own
Infirmities we load him with which he has no
Hand in; and Thousands of our Sins, which, as
bad as he is, he knows nothing of; calling hint
our Tempter, and pretending we did so and soy
as the Devil would have it, when on the contrary
the Devil had no Share in it, and we were only
led away of our own Lusts, and enticed.
. But now, having made this Digression in the
©evil s Defence, I return to the main Question* that
'* if
 
 
 
 
 
of the Being of the Devil, and of evil Spirits *> this,
1 believe, there is no Room to doubt of; but this,
as I have observed, is not the Thing; these ate
not the Spirits 1 am speaking of, but 1 shall come
directly to what 1 mean, and speak plain without
My Possibility of being misunderstood.
1 make no Question, but that there is not only
à World of Spirits, but that there is a certain
Knowledge of it, tho to us impossible as to the
Manner of it; there is a certain Converse between
the World of Spirits, and the Spirits in this
World ; that is to fay, between Spirits uncased or
unembody'd, and Souls of Men embody *d or cased
up in Flesli and B!ood,asweail are on this side Death.
It is true, that we cannot describe this Con-
verse of Spirits, as to the Way of it, the Manner
of the Communication, Or how things are mutu-
ally convey'd from one to another. How Intelli-
gences are given or receiv'd we know not; we
know but little of their being convey'd this Way,
from the Spirits unembody'd, to ours that are in
Life ; and of their being convey'd that Way, name-
ly, from us to them; of that we know nothing:
The latter certainly is done without the Help of
the Organ, the former is convey'd by the Under-
standing, and the retired Faculties of the Soul, of
which we can give very little Account.
For Spirits, without the help of Voice, converse.
Let me, however, give, as Reasons for my Opi-
nion, some Account of the Consequences of thi$
Converse of Spirits ; I mean such as are quite re-
mote from what we call Apparition or Appearance
of Spirits ; and I omit these, because I know they
are objected much against, and they bear much
Scandal from the frequent Impositions of our Fast-
 
 
 
des and Imaginations upon our Judgments and
Understandings, as above.
But the more particular Discoveries of this Con-
terse of Spirits, and which to me are undeniabx^
are such as follows; namely,
Dreams, Impulses, Involuntary Sad-
Voices^ Hints, nefs, &c.
Noises* Appréhensions;
Dreams are dangerous Things to talk of,* and
we have such dreaming about them, that indeed
the least Encouragement to lay any Weight upon
%m3 is presently carry'd away by a sort of People
that dream waking; and that run into such wild
Extreams about them, that indeed we ought to
be very cautious what we fay of them.
„ It is certain, Dreams of old were the Ways by
which God himself was pleased to warn Men, as
well what to do, as what not to do ; what Ser-
vices to perform, what Evils to stun. Joseph, the
Husband of the Blessed Virgin Mary, was ap-
pears to in both these, Matt. ii# 13. 19. He was
directed of God, in a Dream, to go into Egypty
and he was bid return out of Egypt in a Dream;
and in the fame Chapter, the Wife-men of the
East were warnd of God in a Dream, to depart into
their own Country another Way, to avoid the
Fury oï Herod.
Now as this, and innumerable Instances thro5 the
whole Scripture, confirm, that God did once make
use of this Manner to convey Knowledge and In-
struction to Men, I wiíh I could have this Que-
stion well answered, (viz,.) Why are we now to di-
fiB People to take no Notiçe of their Dreams?
 
 
 
 
But
Bot farther, It appears that this was not only
the Method God himself took by his immediate
Power, but 'tis evident he made use of it by the
Ministry of Spirits; the Scripture fays in both the'
Cafes of Joseph abovc-nam'd, That the Angel ôf the
Lord appeared to Joseph in a Dream. Now every
unembody'd Spirit is an Angel of the Lord in
some Sense, and,.as Angels and Spirits may be the
fame thing in respect of this' Influence upon us in
Dreams, so it is still; and when any Notice for
Good, or Warning against Evil, is given us in a
Dream, I think 'tis no Arrogance at all for us to
fay, the Angel of the Lord appeared to us in a
Dream j or to say5 some good Spirit gave me
Warning of this in a Dream; take this which
Way you will.
That I may support this with such undeniable-
Arguments, drawn from Examples of the Fact, as
no Man will, or reasonably can oppose, I first ap-
peal to the Experience of observing People ; I
mean such People as observe these things without
a superstitious Dependence upon the Signification
of them, that look upon Dreams but with such
a moderate Regard to them, as may direct to a
right Use of them: The Question I would ask of
such is, Whether they have never found any re-
markable Event of their Lives so evidently fore*
told them by a Dream, as that it must of Neces-
sity be true, that some invisible Being foresaw the
Events and gave them Notice of it? And that
had that Notice been listened to, and the natural
Prudence used, which would have been used if it
had been certainly discovered, that evil Event
might have been prevented?
f w<j>uld ask others, whether they have not, by
Dreams been so warn'd of Evil really approach-
ing, as' that taking the Hint, and making use o(
"' ' she
 
 
 
[ i7 1
the Caution given in those Dreams the Evil has.
been avoided. If 1 may speak my own Expe-
rience, 1 must take leave to say, That I never had
any capital Mischief befel me in my Life, bat 1
have had. Notice, of it by a Dream ». and if 1 had
not been that thoughtless unbelieving Creature,
which i now would caution other 'People against,
I might have taken many a Warning, and avoided,
many of the Evils that I afterwards fell into,
merely by a total obstinate Neglect: of those
Dreams.
In like Manner, !have in some of the greatest
Distresses of my Life, been encouraged to believe
firmly and fully, that I should one Time or other
be delivered; and I must acknowledge, that in my
greatest and most hopeless Banishment, I had such
frequent Dreams of my Deliverance, that I al-
ways entertained a firm and satisfying Belief*, that
my last Days would be better than my first; all
which has eftectually come to pass.
From which I cannot determine, as I know some,
do, that all Dreams are meer Doiings of a deli-
rious Head, Delusions of a waking Devil, and Re-
licts of the Day's Thoughts, and Perplexities,
or Pleasures: Nor do I fee any Period of Time
fixed between the two opposite Circumstances;
namely, when Dreams were to be esteemed. the
Voice of God, and when the Delusion, of .the
DeviL .  ,  - ,  . .
i know some have struggled hard to fix that
particular. Article, and to fettle it as a. Thing go-
ing hand in hand with the Jewish Institutions ; as if
the Oracle ceasing in the Temple with the Con-
summation of the typical Law, all the Methods
which Heaven was pleased to take in the former
Times for revealing his Will to Men, were to cease
^Íqm the. same Time, and the Gospel Revela-
B b tion
 
rîon being fully and effectually supplied by the
Mîffioh of the Holy Spirit, Dreams and ail the
Uses and Significations of Dreams were at an
End, and the Esteem and Regard to the Warn-
ings and Instructions- of Dreams was to expire
alio-'
 But the Scripture is Point-blank against this,
in the History of Fact relating to Ananias ^ and
the Conversion of St* Paul; and in the Story of
Sr. Peter and Cornelius the devout Centurion at
Anttoch; both of them eminent Instances of Gods
giving Notice of his Pleasure to Men, by the In-
terposition or Medium of a Dream. The first of
these is in Ails ix. 10. There was a certain Dis-
able at Damascus named -Ananias, To him said the
Lord in a Vision, tkc. the Words spoken in this Vi-
sion to Ananias, directing to go to seek out one
Saul of Tarsus, go on thus «y. 12. And hath seen in
a Vision, * a Man named Ananias coming in.
The other Passage is of St* Peter and Cornelius
the Centurion, ABs 10. v. 3, 10, 11. in the third
Verse it is said, Cornelius Fasting and Praying,
saw a Vifiouy which afterwards in the 22d Verie,
is called an My Angel warning him, in the 30th
Verse it is said, a Man flood before me in bright
Cloathing; at the same Time, vt 10. it is said,
St. Peter was Praying and fell into a Trance; this
we aU* agree to .be-a Possession of Sleep or a deep
Sleep; and in this Traunce 'tis said, he jaw Hea-
ven opened, that is to fay, he dreamed that he saw
Heaven opened; it could be nothing else; for
iio "Interpreters'will offer to insist that Heaven
was really opened ; also the hearing a Voice, v. 13,
15. must be in a Dream; thus 'tis apparent the
Will of God concerning what we are to do or not
to do, what is or is not to befal us, is and has
been thus conveyed by Vision or Dream, since the
 
 
Expiration of the Levhkal Dispensation, and since
the Mission of the Holy Ghost.
When then did it cease? and if we do not
know when it ceased, how then are we sure it is
at all ceased* and what Authority have we now
to reject all Dreams or Visions of the Night, as they
are called, more than formerly?
I will ntít "fay, but there may be moretfoctur-
nal Delusions now in the World, than there were
in those Times; and perhaps the Devil may have
gain'd more upon Mankind in these Days, than
he had then, though We are not let into those
Things enough, to know whether it is ío Of not j
nor do we know, that there were not as many un-
lìgnífying Dreams in those Days as now, and per-
haps as much to be said against depending upon
them; though I think there is not one Word in
Scripture said, to take off the Regard Men might
give to Dreams, or to lessen the " Weight... which*
they might lay on them.
The only Text that I think looks like it, is the
Flout Joseph's Brethren put upon him, or threw
out at him* when they were speaking of him with
Contempt, Genesis xxxvii. ip. Behold this Dreamer
emmtb \ and again, v. 20. Let us flay him and'cap
him into some Pit, and we shall see what will be-x
come of his Dream s.
This indeed looks a little like the present Lan-'
guage against Dreams \ but even this,is sufficiently
rebuked in the Consequences, for those Dreams of
Joseph's did come all to pass, and proving the su-
perior Influence such Things have upon theAffairs
of Men, in spight of all the Contempt they can
cast upon them.-
The Maxim I have laid down to my self for
fay, Conduct in this Affair is in few Words, that
 • Bb a - •wt
 
 
 
we .should not lay. too great Stress upon Dreams,
and yet not wholly neglect: them.
1 remember, I was once present, where a long
'Dispute was warmly carried on between two
Persons of my Acquaintance upon this very Sub-
ject, the one a Layman, the other a Clergyman,
but both very pious and religious Persons: The
first thought there was no heed at ail to be
given to Dreams, that they could have no justi-
fiable Original, that they were Delusions and no
more, that it was Atheistical to lay any Stress up-
on them, and that he could give such Objections
against them, as that no Man of good Principles
could avoid being convinced by; that as to their
being a Communication from the invisible to the
visible World, 'twas a Chimsera, and that he saw
no Foundation for believing any Reality in such a
Thing, unless I would set up for a Popish Limbus
or Purgatory, which had no Foundation in the
Scripture.  .
i. He said, If Dreams were from the Agency
of any prescient Being, the Notices would be
more direct, and the Discoveries clear \ not by
Allegories and emblematick Fancies, expressing
Things imperfect and dark: For to what Purpose
should Spirits un-embodied sport with Mankind,
warning him of approaching Mischiefs by the
most ridiculous Enigmas, Figures, &c. leaving
the Wretch to guess what awaited him, though
of the utmost Consequence, and to perish it
he mistook the Meaning of it; and leaving
him sometimes perfectly at a Loss, to know
whether he was Right or Wrong, and without any
Rule or Guide to walk by in the most difficult
Cafes.
*. m
m
#
 
 
 
 
 
s ]
2. He objected, that with the Notice .of Evil,
{oppose it to be tightly understood, there was not
given a Power to avoid it; and therefore it could
not be alkdged, that the Notice» was any way
kind, and that it was not likely to proceed from a
beneficent Spirit, but mecrly Fortuitous and of
no Signiiicancy.
5. He objected, That If such Notices as those
were of such Weight, why were they not Con-
stant: But that sometimes they were given, and
sometimes omitted, though Cafes were equally
important; and that therefore they did not seem
to proceed from any Agent, whose Actions were
to be fairly accounted for.
4. He said, That oftentimes we had very di-
stinct and formal Dreams, without any Significa-
tion at all, that we could neither know any Thing
probable or any Thing rational of them; and that
it would be profane to suggest that to come from
Heaven, which was too apparently foolish and
inconsistent
j. As Men were not always thus warned, or
supplied with Notices of Good or Evil, so all
Men were not alike supplied with them; and
what Reason cóuld we give, why one Man or one
Woman should not have the s$me Hints as ano-
ther.
The Clergyman gave distinct Answers to all
these Objections, and to me, I confess, very
satisfactory; whether they may be so to those that
read them, is no Concern of mine, let every one
judge for himself.
1. He said, that as to the Signification of
Dreams, and the Objections against them, be-
cause dark and doubtful, that they are express
generally by Hieroglyphical Representations, Si-
mi lies, Allusions, and figurative emblematic^
Bb 3 Ways
 
Ways of expressing Things was true, and that
by this Means/for'want of Interpretation, the
Thing was not understood, and consequently the
Evil not ihun'd. ' This, he said, was the only
Difficulty that remained to him in the Cafe, but
that he could fee nothing in it against the Sig-
nification of them, because thus 'it was be -
fore; for Dreams were often ailcgorick and allu-
sive, when they were evidently from ^ God; and
what the End and Design of Providence in that
was, we could not pretend' to enquire.
2. To the Second he said, wc charged God foo-
lishly, to fay he had given the Notice of Evil
without the Power to avoid it, which he denied;
and affirmed, that 'if any one had not Power to
avoid the Evil, it was no' Notice to him, that it
was want' of giving" due Heed to that Notice,
pot for want of the Notice being sufficient that,
any Evil followed, and that Men first neglected
themselves, and then charged the judge of ail the
Earth with not doing right.' . ..
"3. Likewise he said,the Complaint that these no-
tices were not Constant, was unjust, for he doubt-
ed not but they were fo^ but our .discerning was
crazed and clouded by - our Negligence in not tak-
ing due Notice of it/ that' we hoodwinked out
•Understanding by*-pretending Dreams were not to
be regarded; and the Voice really spoke, but wc
refused to hear being negligent of our own Good.
4. In the same. Sense he answered the Fourth,
and said, it was a Mistake to fay, that sometimes
Dreams had no Import at ail, he said it was only
to be said, none that we could perceive the Rea-
son of, which was owing to our Blindness and so*
pine Negligence to be secure at one Time, and
our Heads too much alarmed at another ,* so that
the Spirit which we might be said to be con ver-
sing with in a Dream, was constantly and equal-
ly kind and careful, but our Powers, not always in
the fame State of Action, nor equally attentive
to, or .retentive of the Hints that were given; or
Things might be rcndred more 01* less intelligible
to us, as the Powers of our Soul were more or less
doz'd or sommated with the Oppression of Va-
pours from the Body, which occaiions Sleep; for
tho* the Soul cannot be said to sleep itself,. yet
how far its Operations may be limited, and the
Understanding pet scribed by the Sleepiness of the
Body, fays he, Ì will not undertake, let the Ana-
tomist judge of it, who can account for the Con-
texture of the Parts, and' for their Operations,
which I cannot answer to.
5. As to the last Question, why People are not
equally supplied with such Warnings, he said, this •
seem'd to be no Question at all in the Cafe; for
Providence itself might .have., some Share in the
Direction of it, and then that Providence might
perhaps be limited by some supérieur Direction,
the same that guides ail the solemn Dispositions of
Nature, and was z Wind blowing where it list-
eth: that as to ...the Converse of Spirits, tho' he
allowed die Thing itself, yet he did not tie it up
to a stated Course of Conversing, that it should
be the same always, and to all People, and on all
Occasions; but that it seem'd to be spontaneous*
and consequently Arbitrary, as if the Spirits
unembodied had ir left to them to converse as
they thought fit, how, where, and with whom
they would; that all he answered for in that Dis-
course was for the Thing itself, that such a Thing
there was, but why there was so much of it, or
why no more, was none of his Business, and he
believed a Discovery was not yet made to Man-
kind of that Part.
B b 4 I thought:
 
 
 
1 thought it would be much to the Purpose to
remark this Opinion of another Man, because it
corresponded so exactly with my own, but 1 have
not done with my Friend, for he led me into a-
nother Enquiry, which indeed I had not taken
so much notice oi before, and tins was introdu-
ced by the following Question.
.sou seem, fays he, to be very inquisitive about
Dreams, and to doubt, tho 1 think you have no
Reason for it> of the Reality of the Wood of Spi-
rits, which Dreams are such an Evidence of. Pray,
says he, what think you of waking Dreams, Tran-
ses, Visions, Noises, Voices, Hints, Impulses,
and all these waking Testimonies of an invisible
World, and of the Communication that there is
between m and them, which are generally enter-
tained with our Eyes open.
This led me into many Reflections upon past
Things, which I had been Witness to as well in
myself as in other People, and particularly in my
former Solitudes, when I had many Occasions to
mark such Things as these; and 1 could not but
entertain a free Conversation with my Friend up-
on this Subject, as often as 1 had Opportunity,
of which I must give some Account.
I had one Day been conversing so long with
him upon the common received Notions of the
Planets being habitable, and of a Diversity of
Worlds, that I think verily, I was for some Day s
like a Man transported into these Regions myself;
whether my Imagination is more addicted to real-
lizing the Things I talk of, as if they were in
View, I know not; or whether by the Power of
the Converse of Spirits I speak of, I was at that
Time enabled to entertain clearer Ideas of the
Invisible World, I really cannot tell > but I cer-
tainly made a Journey to all those supposed ha-
bitable
 
 
 
 
bitablç Bodies- in my Imagination, and 1 know
not but it may be very useful to tell you what I
met with in my Way, and what the wiser I am
for the Discovery; whether yon will be the wiser
for the Relation at second Hand, 1 cannot answer
for that,
1 could make a long Discourse here of the Pow-
er of Imagination, and how bright the Ideas of
Distant Things may be found in the Mind, when
the Soul is more than ordinarily agitated: It is
certain the extraordinary Intelligence conveyed in
this Manner is not always regular, sometimes it is
exceeding confused, and the Brain being not able
to digest it, turns round too fast ; this tends to Lu-
nacy and Distraction, and the Swiftness of the Mo*
tion these Ideas come in with, occasions a Com-
motion in Nature, the understanding is mobb'd
with them, disturbed, runs from one Thing to ano-
ther, and digests nothing; this is well expressed
in our common Way of talking of a mad Man,
namely, that his Head is turned. Indeed I can
liken it to nothing so well as to the Wheels of a
Wind-mill, which if the Sails or Wings are fer,
and the Wind blow a Storm, run round so fast, that
they will set all on Fire, it a skilful Hand be not-
ready to direct and manage it,
, But not to enter upon this whymsical Description
of Lunacy, which perhaps may be no Bodies Opi-
nion but my own, I proceed thus. That when the
Head is strong, and capable of the Impressions;
when the Understanding is impowered to digest
the infinite Variety of Ideas, which present to it
from the extended Fancy; then, I say,the Soul of
Man is capable to act strangely upon the Invisibles
in Nature, and upon Futurity, Realizing every
Thing to itself in such a lively Manner, that what
it thus thinks of, it really fees, speaks to, hears,
con-
 
 
converses with, &c as livelily, as if the Substance
was really before his Face; and this is what I
mean by those that dream waking, by Visions,
Trances, or what you please to call them ; for it is
not necessary to this Part, that the Man Ihouid
be asleep.
1 return to my Share of these Things. It was
after my conversing with my learned Friend a-
bout the heavenly Bodies, the Motion, the Di-
stances, and the Bulk of the Planets, their Si-
tuation, and the Orbits they move in, the
Share of Light, Heat and Moisture, which they
enjoy, their Respect to the Sun, their Influences
upon us, and at last, the Possibility of their being
habitable, with all the Arcana of the Skies, it
was on this Occasion, I fay, that my Imagination*
always given to wander, took a Flight of its own;
and as I have told you that I had an invincible
Inclination ro travel, so I think I travelled as sen-
sibly, to my understanding, over all the Mazes
and Wastes of infinite Space, in Quest of those
Things, as ever I did over the Desarts of Ka~
rakathay, and the uninhabited Walls of 'fariary,
and perhaps may give as useful an Account of
my Journey, 1  -
When first my Fancy raiYd me up in the Con-
fines of this vast Abyss, and having now tra-
velled thro* the misty Regionsof the Atmo-
sphere could look down as I mounted, and fee the
World below ..me, tis scarce., paisible to ima-
giné, how little, how mean, how despicable every
Thing* look'd; let any Man but try this Experi-
ment of himself, and he snail certainly find the
same Thing; 'let him but six his Thoughts so in-
tently upon what is, and must necessarily be seen
in a Stage or two higher, than where we now
live removed from the particular Converse with
 
 
the World, as to reallize to his Imagination what
he can suppose to be there, he shall find all that
is below him, as distant Objects always do,
lessen in his Mind as they do in his Sight."
Could a Man su Wist without a supply of Food,
and live but one Mile in perpendicular Height from
the Surface, he would despise Life and the World
at such a Rate, that he would hardly come down
to have it be all his own; the Soul of Man is
capable of being continually elevated above the
very Thoughts of human Things, is capable of
travelling up to the highest and most distant Re-
gions of Light, but when it does, as it rises a-
bove the earthly Globe, so the Things of this
Globe sink to him.
When I was at first lifted up in ray imaginary
Travels, this was the first Thing ot Moment I
remarked ;' namely, how little the World and every,
Thing about it seemed to me : 1 am not given to
preach or drawing long Corollaries as the Learned
call them, but I commend it to my friends to ob-
serve, that could we always look upon the Things
of Life with the fame Eyes, as we shall do when
we come to the Edge of Time, when one Eye can
as it were look back on the^ World, and the other
look forward into Eternity, we should save our-
selves the Trouble of much Repentance, and
sliould scorn to touch many of those Things, in
which now we fancy our chief Felicity is laid up;
believe ' me we shall fee more with half an Eye
then, and judge better at first Glance, than we
can now with'all our pretended Wisdom and Pe-
netration. In a Word, all the Passions and Af-
fections suffer a general Change upon such a View,
and what we desire before, wè contemn then with
Abhorrence.
 
Having
Having begun to soar, the World was soon out
of Sight, unless that as 1 rose higher, and could
look at her in a due Position as to the Sun, I could
sec her turned into a Moon, and shine by Refle-
ction: Ayy ftnne ou> said I, with thy borrowed Rays,
for thou haft but. very few of thy own.
When my Fancy had mounted me thus beyond
the Vestiges of the Earth, and leaving the Atmos-
phere behind me, t had set my firm Foot upon the
Verge of Infinite, when I drew .bo Breath,
but lubíííced upon pure JEther3 it is not possible
to .express iully the Vision of the Place; first yon
are to conceive of Sight as unconfin'd, and you
see here at least.the whole solar System at one View.
Nor is your Sight bounded by the narrow Cir-
cumference of one Sun, and its Attendants of Pla-
nets, whose Orbits are appropriated to its proper
System, but above and beyond, and on every Side
you fee innumerable Suns, and attending on them!
Planets, Satellites^ and inferior Lights proper
to their respective Systems, and . ail these mov-
ing in their subordinate Circumstances, without the
least..Confusion, with glorious Light and Splendor
inconceivable.
In this first Discovery 'tis most natural to ob-
serve, how plainly it is ro be seen, that the Reason
of the Creation of such immense Bodies as the Sun,
Stars, Planets, and Moons in the great Circle of
the lower Heaven, is far from being to be found in
the Study of Nature, on the Surface of our Earth:
But he that will fee thorowly, w hy God has formd
the... Heavens the Work of his Hands, and the
Moon and the Scars which he has made, must soar
up higher; and then as he will fee with other Eyes
than he did before, so he will fee the God of Na-
ture has for m'd au infinite Variety which we know
nothing
 
 
nothing of, and that all the Creatures are a Rea-
son to one another for their Creation,
1 could noc forget myself however, when 1 was
got up thus high, 1 fay, i could not but look back
upon the State of Man in this Life, how confined
from these Discoveries, how vilely employed in
biting and devouring, envying, and maligning one
another, and all for the vilest Trifles that cm be
conceived.
But 1 was above it ail here, and all thpse Things
which appeared so afflicting before, gave me not
the least Concern now j for the Soul being gone of
this Errand, had quite different Notices of the
whole State of Life, and was neither influenced
by Paflions or Affections as it was before.
Here I saw into many Things by the Help of a
sedate Inquiry, that we can entertain little or no
Notion of in a State of comramon superficial
Life, and 1 desire to leave a few Remarks of this
imaginary Journey, as I did of my ordinary Tra-
vels.
When I came, I fay, to look into the solar
System as I have hinted, I saw perfectly the Emp-
tiness of our modern Notions, that the Planets
were habitable Worlds, and ihall give a brief
Description of the Case, that others may fee it
too, without the Necessity of taking so long a
journey.
And first for the Word Habitable, I understand
the meaning of it to be, that the Place it is spo-
ken of, is qualify'd for the Subsistence and Exi-
stence of Man and Beast, and to preserve the vege-
tative and sensitive Life; and you may depend up-
on it, that none of the Planets except the Moon,
are in this Sense habitable; and the Moon, a poor
little watery damp Thing, not above as big as
Turk/hire, neither worth being called u World, nor
capable
 
 
 
 
 
capable of rend ring Life comfortable to Mankind,
if indeed supportable; and if you will beliefs
one's Mind capable of feeing at so great a Di-
stance, 1 aslure you 1 did not see Mao, Woman or
Child there in all my Contemplative Voyage to
it; my Meaning is, I did not see the least Rea-
son to believe there was or could be any there. As
to the rest of the Planets, Fll take them in their
Order. Saturn, (the remotest from the Sun, which
is in the Centre of the System J is a vast extended
Globe, of a Substance cold and moist, its greatest
Degree of Light is never so much as our greatest
Darkness may be said to be in clear Weather, and
its cold unsufFerable; and if it were a Body com-
posed of the same Elements as our Earth, its Sea
would be all Brass, and its Earth all Iron; that
is to fay, both would be continually frozen, as
the North-Pole in the Winter Solstice. What Man
or Men, and of what Nature, could inhabit this
frigid Planet, unless the Creator must be sup-
posed to have created animal Creatures for the
Climate, not the Climate for the Creatures. All
the Notions of Saturns being a habitable World,
are contrary to Nature,and incongruous with Sense;
for Saturn is at so infinite a Distance from the
Sun, that it has not above one ninetieth Part of
the Light and Heat that we enjoy on our Earth;
so that the Light there, may be said to be much
less than our Star-light, and the cold ninety Times
greater than the coldest Day in our Winter*
Jupiter is in the fame Predicament, his Consti-
tution, however in its Degree much milder than
Saturn, yet certainly is not qualify'd for human
Bodies to subsist, having only one twenty-seventh
Part of the Light and Heat that we enjoy here,
consequently its Light is at best as dim as our
Twilight, and its Heat so little in the Summer of
 
 
 
its Situation, as to be as far from comfortable, as
it is in its Winter Situation insupportable.
Mars, It yon will believe our ancient Philoso-
phers, is a fiery Planet in the very Disposition of
its Influence, as well as by the Course of its Mo-
tion; and yet even here, the Light is not above
one Half, and its Heat one Third of ours. And
on the other Hand, as Saturn is cold and moist,
so this Planet is hot and dry, and would ^dmic
no Habitation of Man, through the manifest In-
temperance of the Air, as well as want of Light
to make it comfortable, and Moisture to make it
fruitful; for by the Nature of the Planet, as well
as by clear-sighted Observation, there is never
any Rain, Vapour, Fog, or Dew in that Pla-
net.,
Venus and Mercury are in the extreme the other
Way, and would destroy Nature by their Heat
and dazling Light, as the other would by their
Darkness and Cold, so that you may depend up-
on it, I couîd see very clearly, that all these Bo-
dies were neither inhabited or habitable; and the
Earth only as we call it, being seated between these
Intemperances appeared habitable, surrounded
with an Atmosphere to defend it, from the Inva-
sion of the inconsistent ./Effor, in which Perspiration
could not be performed by the Lungs, and by
which the needful Vapour it fends forth, is pre-
served from dissipating into the Waste and Abys^
and is condensed and timely returns in Showers of
Rain to moisten, cool, and nourish the exhausted
Earth.
It is true the Way I went was no common
Road, yet I found Abundance of Passengers go-
ing to and fro here, and particularly innumerable
Armies of good and evil Spirits, who all feem'd
busily employed,and continually upon the Wing, as
 
 
 
if some Expresses passed between the Earth, which
in this Part of my Travels 1 place below me, and
some Country infinitely beyond all that 1 could
reach the Sight of; for by the Way, though i
take upon me in this sublime Journey to see a
great deal of the invisible World, yet I was not
arrived to a Length to fee into any Part of the
World of Light, beyond it all; that Vision is
beyond all, and 1 pretend to fay nothing of it
here, except, this only, that a clear View of this
Part with Optieks unclouded is a great Step to
prepare the Mind for a Look into the other.
But to return to my Station in the highest crea<
ted World, flatter not yourselves that those Re-
gions are uninhabited, because the Planets ap-
pear to be so. No, no, 1 assure you this is that
World of Spirits, or at least is a World of Spirits*
Here 1 saw a clear Demonstration of Satan be-
ing the Prime of 'the Power of the Air; 'tis in this:
boundless Waste he is confined, whether it be his
busie restless Inclination has posted him here, that
he may affront'God in his Government of the
World, and do Jnjury to Mankind in meer Envy
to his flappiness, as the fam'd Mr. Milton fays it,
or whether it is that by the eternal Decree of Pro-
vidence he is appointed to be Mans continual
Disturber for divine Ends, to us unknown; . this
I had not wand red far enough to be informed of,
those Secrets being lodged much higher, than 1-
magination itself ever travelled.
* But here, I say, I found Sathan keeping his
Court, or Camp we may call it, which we please.
The innumerable Legions that attended his im-
mediate Service were such, that it is not at all to
be wondred that he supplied every Angle of this
World, and had his Work going forward, not in
every Country only, but even in every individual
 
 
 
 
 
C 3i ]
Inhabitant of it, with all the Dexterity and Appli-
cation, imaginable.
This S.ght gave me a just Idea of the Devil
as a Tempter, but really let me into a Secret,
which 1 did not so well know before,, or at least
did not consider; namely, that the Devil is not
capable of doing half the Mischief in the World
that we lay to his Charge; that he works by En-
gines and Agents, Stratagems and Ate is true, and
a great deal is owing to his Vigilance and Ap-
plication ; for he is a very diligent Fellow in his
Calling: But 'tis plain, his Power is not so great
as we imagine, he can oiily prompt to the Crime,
he cannot force us to commit it; so that if we sin
'tis all our own, the Devil is only to be charged
with the Art of Insinuation; just as he began with
Eve, he goes on with us; in sliort he reasons us
out of our Resolutions to do well, and wheedles us
to an Agreement 'to do ilbj working us up to m
Opinion, that what Evil we are about to do is no
Sin, or not so great a Sin as we feared, and so
draws us by Art into the Crime we had resolved,
against ; this indeed the Scripture intimates when
it speaks of Satan's Devices, the Subtilty of the
wicked one, bis lying in -wait, &c. But to charge
the Devil with forcing us to offend, is doing the
Devil a great Deal of Wrong: Our doing Evil is
from the native Propensity of our Wills: Humd-
mm est peccare. 1 will not enter here into the Dis-
pute about an origmalCorruption in Nature,which
I know many good Men and learned Men dispute*
but that there is a secret Aptness to offend, and a
secret Backwardness to what is Good, which if
it is not born with us, we can give no Account how
we came by, this I think every Man will grant;
and that this is the Devil that tempts us, the Scrip-
ture plainly tells us, when it fays, Every Man is
C € tempted
[ 34 ]
"tempted when he is drawn away of his own Lufl and
enticed.
There is a secret Love of Folly and Vanity in
the Mind, and Mankind are hurry 5d down the
Stream of their own Affections into Crime, 'tis
agreeable to them to do this, and 'tis a Force up-
on Nature not to do it.
Vice is down Hilly and when we do offend,
'Tis Nature all, vie nil as we intend.
Vermes up Hill, and all against the Grain
Refolvd reluBam9 'and pursued with Pain.
But to return to the Devil;, his Power not
extending to Creation, and being not able to force
the World into an open Rebellion against Heaven,
as doubtless he would do if he could, he is left to
the Exercise ot his Skill; and in a Word we may
say of him, that he lives by his Wtts ;, that is to fay,
maintains his Kingdom by Subtilty and most ex-
quisite Cunning; and if my Vision of his Poli-
ticks is not a new Discovery, I am'very much
mistaken.
His innumerable Legions as I hinted above, like
Aid du Camps to a General, are continually em-
ployed to carry his Orders, and execute his Com-
missions in all Parts of the World, and in every in-
dividual to oppose the Authority of God, and the
Felicity of Man to the utmost of his Power.
The first and greatest Pare of his Government,
is over those Savage Nations where he has obtain-
ed to set himself up as God, and to be worshipped
instead of God; and I observed, that though ha-
ving full Possession of these People, even by whole
Nations at a Time, that is the easiest Part of his
* . Govern *
C Î5 ]
Government, yet he is far from neglecting his Inte-'
rest there, but is exceeding vigilant to keep op his
Authority among those People- 'This he does
by fending Messengers into those farts'" to answer
the Pawawings or Conjurings, even of the most
ignorant old Wizard, raising Storms and making
Noises and Shreiks in the Air, Flashes of infernal
Fire, and any Thing but to fright the People*
that they may not forget him, and that they may
have no other Gods but him.
He has his peculiar Agents for this Work,
which he makes Detachments of, as his Occasions*
require, some to one Part of the World, some to
another, as to the North America, even as far as
to the frozen Provinces of Groënland; to the North
of Europe, to the Laplanders, Samoiedes, ^ and Mon-
gupfartarsy also to the Gog and Magog of Asia*
and to the Devil-makers of China and Japan,
again to the Southern Parts of Asia, to the Isles
of the Indian and South Seas, and to the South
Part of America and Africa.
Through all these Parts he has an uncontrolled
Power, and is either worshipped in Person, or by
his Representatives, the Idols and Monsters which
the poor People bow down to, and Satan has very
little Trouble with them.' .
He employs indeed some Millions of his Missio^^
naries into those Countries, who labour adpropa-*
gand.fid. and tail not to return and bring him an
Account of their Success, and I doubt not but
some of them were at Hand in my Island, what
the Savages appear'd there; for it the Devil had
not been in them, they would hardly have come
straggling over the Sea so far, to devour one
another
G € i
[ 3* ]
In all these Countries the Brutality, the Cruelty
and ravenous bloody Dispositions of the People, J$
to me a certain Testimony that the Devil has full
Poticffion of them.
But to "return to my Observations in the exalted
State of my "Fancy, I must ceil you, that though
the Devil carried on his Schemes of Government:,
in those blinded. Parts of the World math great
Ease, and all Things went to his Mind; I found
lie had more Difficulty in the northern Parts of
the temperate Zone, i mean, our Climate and
the re it of Christendom, and consequently he did
iiot act here by whole Squadrons and by Generals;
but was obliged to carry on his Business among us
by particular Solicitations, to act: by particular
Agents upon particular Persons, attacking the
personal Conduct of Men in a Manner peculiar to
himself: But so far was this Difficulty from being
afcy Advantage to the World, or Disadvantage to
the Devil, that it only obliged him to mike Use
of the more Engines; and as he had no want of
Numbers, 1 observed that his whole Clan seemed
busy on this Side, rhe Number of which consists
of innumerable Millions; so that in short, there
was not a Devil wanting, no, not to manage erc-
ry individual Man, Woman, and Child in the
World.
How and in what Manner evil Angels attend us,
what their Business, how far their Power extends,
and how far it is restrained, and by who, were all
made plain to me at one View in this State ot
Eclariaffimem that I stood in now, and I will de-
scribe it if 1 can in a few Heads of Pact; you may
enlarge upon them as Experience guides,
And
 
Aticl sirst3 the Limitations of the Devils Power,
are neccslary to be understood, .and how diie&cd;
for*Exampley you must know, that though the
Numbers of these Evil Spirits, which are thus
diligently employed in Mischief, are so infinitely
great, yet the Numbers of good Angels or good
Spirits, which are employed by a superior Au-
thority, and from a Place infinitely distant and
high above the Devils bounds, is not only equal;
1 lay, equal at least in Number, but infinitely su-
perior in Power, and it is this Particular which
mates it plain, that all the Devil does, or that his
Agents can do, is by continual Subtilty, extreme
Vigilance and Application, under infinite Checks,
Rebukes, and Callings off by the attendant Spi-
rits, who have Power to correct and restrain him
upon all Occasions; just as a Man does a Dog or
a Thief when he is discovered.
On this*Account, 'tis first plain, I fay, that the
Devil can do nothing by Force, he cannot kill,
maim, hurt or destroy; if he could, Mankind
would have but a very precarious State of Life in
the World: Nay, the Devil cannot blast the Fruits
of the Earth, cause Dearth, Droughts, Famine,
or Scarcity, neither can he spread noxious Fumes
in the Air to infect the World ; if any of those
Things were in his Power, he would soon unpeo-
ple Gods Creation, and put his Maker to the
Necessity of a new Fiat, or of having no more
human Creatures to worship and honour him.
You will ask me, how 1 came" to know all this?
fay, ask me no Questions, till the Elevation
of your Fancy carries you up to the outer Edge of
the'Atmosphere, as I. tell you mint did: There
you will fee the Prince of the Ait in his full Stare,
managing his universal Empire with the most exqui-
site Art; Put if ever you can come to a clear Vie^r
. [?8 ]
of his Person, do but look narrowly, and you'll
fee a- great Clog at his Foot, in token, of his li-
mited Power, and though he is himself immcnle in
Biilk^ and moves like a Fiery Meteor in the Air,
yec you always fee a Hand with a* Thunderbolt
impending just over his Head; the Arm coming
out of a fiery Cloud, which is a Token of the Sen-
tence he is* under, "thatat the End of his appointed
Time that Cloud shall break, and that Hand strike
him \vrith the Thunder represented, Down, Down
for ever, into a Place prepared for h m,
But all this does not hinder him, who is
prompted by infernal Rage against the Kingdom
of God, and the Welfare of Man, from pushing
Mankind as above, upon all the Methods of their
own Ruin and Destruction, by alluring Baits, cun-
ning Artifice, Night-whispers, infusing wicked De-
sires, and fanning the Flames of Men's Lusts,
Pride, Avarice, Ambition, Revenge, 'and all the
wicked Excursions of corrupt Nature.
It would take up a long Tract by itself, to form
a System of the Devil's Politicks, and to lay down
a Body of his Philosophy: I observed how-
ever; that some of his general Rules are such as
these.
i. To infuse Notions of Liberty into the
Minds of Men; that it is hard they should be
born into the World with Inclinations,and then be
forbidden to gratify them; that such and such
Pleasures should be prepared in the Nature of
Things, made suitable and proper to the Senses
find Faculties, which on the other Hand, are pre-
pared in mere Constitution, and placed in his
Soul, and that then he should be forbidden under
the Penalty of a Curse to taste them ; that to place
an Appetite in the Man, and a strong powerful
Oust to thesç Delights, and then declare them fa-
C 39 ]
 
ta J to him, would be laying a Snare to Man*
kind in his very Constitution, and making his
brightest Faculties be the Betrayers of his Soul to
Misery, which would not consist with Justice,;
much less with the Goodness of a Creator,
m 2. To persuade from hence, that the Notions
of future Punishments are Fables and Amuse-
ments, that it is not rational to think a just God
would prepare infinite and eternal Punishments,1
for finite and trivial Offences; that God does not
take Notice of the minute acts of Life, and lay
every Slip to our Charge, but that the merciful
Dispositions of God, who so bountifully directs
the whole World to be assistant to the Profit and
Delight of Mankind, has certainly given him
leave to enjoy it at fill, and take the Comfort of
it without fear.
3. Of late indeed the Devil has learn'd, for De*
vils may improve as well as Men in the Arts of doing
ill. At lait, I fay, he has learned to infuse a wild
Notion into the Heads of some People, who are
first fitted for it, by having reasoned themselves in'
Favour of their loose Desires up to a Pitch, that
there is no such Thing as a God or a future State
at all.
Now as at first the Devil was not Fool enough
to attempt to put this Jest upon Man, his own
Antiquity and Eternity being a Contradiction to it;
so I found among my new Discoveries,that the Devil
took this Absurdity from Man himself, and that it
went among Satan's People tor a new Invention: I
sound also that there was a black Party employed
upon this new Subtilty, these were a Sort of De-
vils, for Satan never wants Instruments, who were
call'd Infinuators, and who were formerly employed
to prompt Men to Crimes by Dreams ; and here I
shall observe, that I learned a Way how to make
C c 4 - any
[ 4° ]
 
any Mm dream of what 1 please: For Example,
suppose one to be sound asleep, or as we fay, in a
deep Sleep, or dead asleep, let another lay his
Mouth close to his Ear, and whisper any Thing
to hint so softly as not to awaken him, the sleep-
ing Man shall certainly  dream of what was lb
whispered to him.
Let no Man despise this Hint, nothing is more
sure, than that many of our Dreams are the Wis-
pers of the Devil, who by his lnsmuams whispers
into out Heads, what Wicked Things he wou*d
have our Thoughts entertain and work upon; and
take this math you as you go, those insinuating
Devils can do this as Veil whçn we are awake, as
when we are asleep, and this will bring me to
what I call Impulses upon the Mindy which are cer-
tainly whispers in the Ear and no other, and come
either from good Angels attending us, or from the
Devil s InfinuatorS) which are always at hand, and
may be judged of according as the Subject our
Thoughts are prompted to work upon, are Good
or Evil.
From whence but from these Insinuators, come
opr. causeless Passions, our involuntary Wickedness,
sinning in Desire as effectually, as by actual com-
mitting the Crime we desire to commit?
Whence comes Imagination to work upon
wicked and vicious Objects, when the Person is
fast asleep, and when he bad not been under the
Preparation of wicked Discourse, or wicked
Thoughts previous to those Imaginations? who
forms Ideas in the Mind.of Man? who presents
beautiful or terrible Figures to his Fancy, when
his Eyes are closed with Sleep? who, but these in-
sinuating Devils, who invisibly approach the
Man sleeping or waking, and whisper all man-
ner of lewd abominable Things into his Mind.
'." 'Mr* A£/*
 
[ 41 ]
Mr. Milton, whose Imagination was carried up
to a greater He.ght than I am now, went farther
into the Abyss of Satan's Empire a great Way,
especially when he form'd Satan's Palace ot Pande-
monium, I say, he was exactly of this Opinion,when
he represented the Devil tempting our Mother!™?,
in the Shape of a Toad lying just at her Ear, when
she lay fast asleep in her Bower, where he whispered
to her Ear all the wicked Things which she en-
tertained Notions of by Night, and which
prompted her the next Day to break the great Com-
mand, which was the rule of her (Life ; and ac-
cordingly he brings in Eve telling Adam what an
uneasy Night's Rest she had, and relating "her
Dream to him.
This Thought, however laid down in a kind of
Jest, is very seriously intended, and would, if well
digested, direct us very clearly in our Judgment of
Dreams; viz,, not to suggest them to be always
Things of meer Chance; but that sometimes they
are to be heeded as useful Warnings of Evil or
Good by the Agency of good Spirits, as at other
Times they are the artful Insinuations of the De-
vil to inject wicked Thoughts and abhorr'd abo-
minable Ideas into the Mind; which we ought not
only as much as possible to guard against, but even
to repent of, so far as the Mind may have enter-
tained and acted upon them.
From this general Vision of the Devil's Ma-
nagement of his Affairs, which I must own I have
had with my Eyes wide open, I find £ great many
useful Observations to be made; and first, it can
be no longer strange, that while the Commerce of
Evil Spirits is so free,^ and the intercourse between
this World and that, is thus open, I fay, ir can be
no longer strange, that 'there are so many silent
 
í 4* ]
Ways oí Spirits conversing,. 1 mean Spirits of
all Kinds. .
For as 1 have observed already, there is a Rési-
dence of good Spirits, but they are placed infinite-
ly higher out of the Reach, and out of the Sight of
this lower Orbit of  Satan's Kingdom; as
those pass and repass invisible, 1 confess, 1 have
yet«had no Ideas of them, butt hose which 1 have
received from my first View of the infernal Re-
gion; If 1 slioiild have any superior Elevations,
and should be able to seethe O Economy of Heaven
in his Disposition of Things on Earth, I shall be
as careful to convey them to Posterity as they
come in. - .
However, the Transactions of good Spirits with
Man are certainly the lame; for as God has for
a Protection and Safeguard-to Mankind,; limited
the Devil from-affrighting him," by visible Appear-
ances in his native and hellish Deformity, and the
horrrid Shape he would necessarily bear: So for
Man's Felicity, even the glorious Angels of Hea-
ven are very seldom allowed, at, least not lately,
to..appear, in the glorious Forms they formerly
took, or indeed in any Form, or with a Voice;
the restraint of our Souls, in the Cafe of Flesh and
Blood we..now,wear not'admitting it, and not
being able to familiarize those Things to us; Man
being by no Means, in his encorporated State,qua-
lisied for an open and easy Conversation with un-
embodied Spirit. •" -
Moreover, this would be' breaking into the
Limits, which the Wisdom and Goodness of God
has put to our present State, 1 mean as to Futurity,
our Ignorance in which, is the greatest Felicity ot
.human Life; and without which necessary Blind-
ness Man could not support Life, for Nature is no
way able to support a View into Futurity; 1 mean
not
 
 
 
[ 43 3
not into that Part of Futurity which concerns us in
out State of Life in this World.
I have often been myself among the Number of
those Fools, that would be their own Fortune-tel-
lers; but when 1 look thus beyond the Atmosphere,
and fee a little speculatively into Invisibles, 1 could
easily perceive, that it is our Happiness that we
are short-sighted Creatures, and can fee but a very
little before us: For Example, were we to have the
Eyes of our Souls opened through the Eyes of our
Bodies, we should fee this very immediate Region
of Air which we breath in, throng'd with Spirits,
to us, blessed be God, now invisible, and which would
otherwise be most frightful: We should fee into
the secret Transactions of those Messengers who
are employ*d when the passing Soul takes its Leave
of the Reluctant Body, and perhaps fee Things Na-
ture would shrink back from with the utmost Ter-
ror and Amazement Jn a Word,the Curtain of Pro-
vidence for the Disposition of Things here, and
the Curtain of Judgment for the Determination of
the State of Souls hereafter, would be alike
drawn back, and what Heart could support here
its future State in LIFE, much Jess that of its
future State after LIFE even good or bad
It is then our Felicity, that the Converse of Spi-
rits, and the Visions of Futurity, are silent, em-
blematick, and done by Hints, Dreams, and Im-,
pulses, and not by clear Vision and open Discovery;
they that desire a fuller and plainer Sight of these
Things, ask they know not what; and it was $
good Answer of a Gypsy, when a Lady of my Ac-
quaintance, ask'd her, to tell her Fortune; Do not
ask me, Lady, said the Gypsy, to teli you what you
dare not hear. The Woman was a little honester than
her Profession intimated, and freely confessed it was
ail a Cheated that they knew nothing of Fortunes,
but
 
 
 
C 44 1
 
but had a Course or Round of doubtful Expressions,
to amuse ignorant People and get a little Money.
Even the Devils Oracles> for such no doubt
they were at Delphos, and at other Places, though
the Devil seemed at that Time to have some Li-
berties granted him, which it is evident have iincc
lieen denied him, were allowed to be given only
in doubtful Expressions, double Entendres, Ecchoes
of Words, and such like: For Example, A Man
going to Sea and enquiring of the Oracle, thus;
Have I just cause the Seas and-Storms to Fear?
Eccho. —-—^ -Fear.
Another.
Shall we the Parthian Bowmen fight or Fly Ì
Eccho. pip
Such dark Replies, and other Words doubtful
and enigmatic, were frequently given and taken sot
Answers, by which the deluded World were kept in
doubt of that Futurity they hunted after: But Satan
even then, was not permitted to speak plain > or
Mankind to fee what awaited him behind the dark
Veil of Futurity, nor was it proper on any Ac-
count whatsoever, that it shonla be otherwise.
But before I come to this, let me put some Li-
mits to the Elevations and Visions I have men-
tioned before; for as I am far from Enthusiastic
in my Notions of Things, so I would not lead any
one to fancy themselves farther enlightned than is
meet, or to fee Things unseeable, zs St. Paul heard
Things unutterable.
And therefore let me add here, that the highest
'Raptures, Trances and Elevations of the Soul, are
bounded by the eternal Decree of Heaven and let
Men
 
 
[ 45 ]
Men pretend to what Visions they please, it is all
Romance, all beyond what i have talked of a-
bove, is fabulous and absurd, and it will for ever
be true, as the Scripture fays, not only, those
Things are hid from the Eye, but even from the
Conception.
Upon this Occasion Î must own, that I think
Ms Criminal to attempt to form Ideas either of
Hell or of Heaven in the Mind, other than as the
Scripture has described them, by the State rather
than the Place; we are told in plain Words, it
hath not em red into the Heart of Man to conceive, ei-
ther of what is prepared for the future State of the
Happy or Miserable; 'tis enough for us to enter-
tain the general Notion, the Favour of God is
Heaven, and the Loss of it the most dreadful of
ail Hell
A Hfavèn of jfoy must in his Presence dwell;
And in his Absence every Place is Hell*
My Meaning is this, all Visions, or propoun-
ded Visions either ot Heaven or Hell, are meet
Delusions of the Mind, and generally are Fictions
of a waking bewildred Head ; and you may fee
the Folly ot them in the meanncst of the Descrip-
tions, which generally end in shewing some glo-
rious Place, sine Walks, noble illustrious Palaces,
Gardens of Gold, and People of shining Forms,
and the like. Alas! these are all so short, that
they are Unworthy the Thoughts of a Mind
elevated two Degrees above Darkness and Dirt:
All these Things amount to no more than Ma-
hornet's Aichoran, and the glorious State of Things
represented by him to his Believers. In short,
all this makes only a Heaven of Sense, but comes
so infinitely short of what alone must or can be
a Hea-
 
a Heaven to an exalted* glorified Spirit, that 1
as much 'want Words' to express how concern-
tible the best of these Descriptions are as to a
true Description of" Heaven, as 1 do to express I
true Idea, or Description of Heaven myself.
And how should this be done? We can Form
no Idea of any Thing that we know not and have
not seen, but in the Fórm of something that we
have seen. How then can we form an Idea of
God or Heaven, in any Form but of some*
thing which we have seen or known? By what
Image in the Mind can we fudge of Spirits? By
what Idea conceive of eternal Glory? Let us
cease to Imagin concerning it, 'tis impossible to
attain, 'tis criminal to attempt it.
Let me therefore hint here, that supposing my
self, as before, in the Orbit of the Sun, take it
in its immense Distance as our Astronomers con-
ceive of it, or on the Edge only of the Atmos-
phere with a clear View of the whole Solar Sy-
stem, the Region of Satan's Empire all in View,
and the World of Spirits laid open to me.
Yet let me give you this for a Check to your
Imagination, that even here the 'Space between
Finite and Infinite is as impenetrable as on Earth,
and will for ever be so, till our Spirits being un-
cased shall take their Flight to the Center of
Glory, where every Thing shall be seen as it is;
and therefore you must not be surprized, if I am
come down again from the Verge of the World
of Spirits, the fame short sighted Wretch, as to Fu-
turity and Things belonging to Heaven and Hell
as 1 went up -, for Elevations of this Kind are
meant only to give us a clearer View of what we
are, not of what we stall be\ and 'tis an Advan-
tage worth Travelling for too. All this I thought
necessary to prevent the whimsical Building of
[ 47 3
 
erroneous Structures on my Foundation, and fan-
cying themselves carried farther than they are
able to -go.
1 come therefore back to talk of Things fa-
miliar, and particularly to mention in the next
Place, some of those other Ways by which we
have Notice given of this Converse of Spirits
which 1 have been speaking of; for the Whis-
pers and Inlinuators 1 have mentioned, go some-
times farther than ordinary.
One of those other Methods is, when by
strong Impulses of the Mind, as we call them, we
are directed. to do, or not to do, this or that
particular Thing that we have before us to do, or,
are under Consultation about. I am a Witness
to many of these Things, as well in my own Life,
as in my Observation of others,
I know a Man, who being at some Distance
from London, not above fix or seven Miles, a
Friend that came to visit and dine with him urged
him to go to London. What for, fays his Friend,
is there ' any Business wants me? Nay, nothing,
fays the other, but for your Company * I do not
know of any Thing wants you; and so gave over
importuning him: But as his Friend had given
it over, a strong Impulse of Mínd;iëized him and
followed him like a Voice with this, Go to London,
go to London. He put it by several Times, but it
went on still, Go to Londcny go to London, and
nothing else could come upon his Thoughts but,
Go to London. He came back to his Friend,
Hark ye, fays he, tell me sincerely, is all well
at London} Am 1 wanted there? Did you ask'me
to go to London with you on any particular Ac-
count. Not I, fays his Friend, in tir: least; I
saw all your'Family, and all is very well there;
nor did they fay, they had any particular Occa-
 
 
 
[48 j
sioii for you'to return; 1 only ask it as I told
you, for the Sake of your Company: So he pur
off going again, but could have no Quiet, for it
still followed him, and no doubt, a good Spirit
communicated it, Go to London; and at length
'he resolved he would go, and did so; and when
he came there he found a Letter and Messengers
had been at his House,. to seek him, and to tell
him of a particular Business, which was first and
last worth above a thousand Pounds to him, and
which if he had not been found that very Night,
would have been in Danger of being lost.
1 seriously advise all sober thinking Persons not
to disregard those powerful Impulses of the Mind,
in Things otherwise indifferent or doubtful, but
believe them to be Whispers from some kind Spi-
rit, which fees something that wc cannot fee,
and knows something that. We cannot know.
Besides, unless infinite Power should take off
the Silence that is imposed upon the Inhabitants
of the invisible World, and allow them to speak
audibly, nothing can be a plainer Voice; they
are Words spoken to the Mind, tho' not to the
Ear, and they are a certain Intelligence of Things
unseen, because they are given by Persons un-
seen, and the Event confirms it beyond all Di-
spute,
I know a Man, who made it his Rule always
to obey these silent Hints, and he has often de-
clared to me, that when he obeyed them he ne-
ver miscarried, and if he neglected them, or went
on contrary to them, he never succeeded ; and
gave me a particular Case of his own, among
a great many others, wherein he was thus direct-
ed, He had a particular Cafe befallen him,
wherein he was under the Displeasure of the Go-
vernment, and was prosecuted for a Misdemea-
nor,
 
 
 
 
[ 49 ]
nor, and brought to a Tryal in the King's-Bench
Court, where a Verdict was brought against hlm>
and he was cast; and Times running very hard
at that Time against the Party he was of, he
was afraid to Hand the Hazard of a Sentence
and absconded, taking Care to make due Provi-
sion tor his Bail, and to pay them whatever they
might h-tfer. Jn this Circumstance he was in
great Distress, and no Way presented unto him
but to sty out of the Kingdom, which being to
leave his Family, Children and Employment, was
very bitter to him, and he knew not what to
do; ail hiò Friends advilum him not to put him-
self into the Hands of the JLaw, which tho' the
Offence was not Capital, yet in his Circum-
stances seemed to threaten his utter Ruin. In
this Extremity he felt one Morning, ( just as he
had awaked, and the Thoughts of his Misfor-
tune began to return upon him; ) I fay, he felt a
strong Impulse darting into his Mind thus, IVntè
a Letter to them: it spoke so distinctly to him*
and as it were forcibly, that as he has often said
since, he can scarce persuade himself not to be-
lieve but that he heard it; but he grants that he
did not really hear it, too.
However it repeated the Words daily and
hourly to him, till at length walking about in
his Chamber where he was hidden, very pen-
live and fad, it Jogg'd him again, and he an-
swered aloud to it, as if it had been a Voice,
Who stall J vjritc to i it returned immediately,
Write to the Judge. This perilled him again for
several Days, till at length he took his Pen, Ink
and Paper, and fat down to write, but knew nóc
one Word of What he should fay, but Dabitur in hac
bora, he wanted not Words: It was immediately im-*'
ptestëd on his Mind, and the Words stowed up-
B ci mi
 
ost liis Peu in a manncr» thac crai charm'd him-
felí, andsiilcd him wich Expcctatíons oí Succeís»
The Lctteu was so ftrcnous in Argument, ío
pathetick in its Eloquence, and so moving and
persvvaíive, thac as íoon as the Jauge read u,
hc lent lîi!ii Word lie íheuid be caiìc, tor hc
wouíd Eudcàxoût íú laake chat Matter h'ght to
him, and in a Word Jicrcr leu, u U l:e obuined
to ítop Frosceiirion, rmd rcíiore ìiíra to id* Li-
berty and to his i'amiiy.
• ïheie Kuus, I í'ay, are ou a Nature too íigai-
fic&nt 1*0 be neglccte^; whence the y eoaie 10 uic
nexc Encniiry. I aníWer, l:,en arc the Vvhííperi;
or fouie fubib'ang hpnit coLinranrcaiewì to the
ÎK>al, wíchoat the liclp oí the Orgrn, wiihom;
the Aí'ìíbu ce ot a paiu'cniar iíoaiKí, and wi;**
out any other Conwunicauen ; but take n* as y on
go, ììot vvkhoat tkc iiieielhií ju'apoikìoa ol thac
irower, that govcrn.s that vVcùd, as weiî astîiís
that wc arc íeníibie oí; H o w r.ear thoie Spâks
arc to usy who thus íoreíce ivhat coneenis us,
and howthey convey the se íîints ínro our Minds
as wcii wdong as ílccping, or ho w tliey are di-
rwÓLed, that 1 conkl noc djícovcr, nor can yet ré-
solve» no noc in tac higbesc oí my iniaginary Elé-
vation, any more than in what Mariner they are
Lira ted and riítraíned.
ì have been adied by some, to whom 1 liave
talkcd h:eely oí my fréquent Applications to
theíc xrrnps lf 1 knew any Thíog by thoíe
Ooserv^ch^s, oí ihc Manner oí the Disposition oi
liumau >Ouí .;Ler m Depamitc ooe oí the Body?
ï ineao as to its iiìíddíe Suie, and wherher, as
some, íc h as a wandring Existence in the uppec
Part oí the V/eSíe or Abyse near to, but nor in
a prcíent Sratc oí Felicity? Whether it ís still
'coníîncd vvitíiín the Atmosphère oí the Ëarth
 
 
 
[ 5i ]
 
accord ing to others, as ín a IJném$ or Purga*
tory; or in rhc Circle oí the Sun, as others (ay?
Whcrhcr I knew or perceivcd any Thing oí onr
Saviour's being aíccnded into thc Bcxiy oí the
Sun only, and net into thc híghcíl íleaven re-
ccívíng iiis redeemed Soûls to hun self, and in-
to an Incorporation with lus Glory there, tîllthe
Rcst'-îutkn os ail shmgsì VVhether 1 pcrccivcd any
Tning oí Satan bcing poííciìcd oí thc reprobate
Soûls as they departed; and oí- his Subílkotes
as Executioners, being empowered and employ-
ée! to tonnent them accôrdíng to thc recciv-
cd Notion.» oí thc wiíc Contcmplators oí íuch
Things.
1 answered, as I do now, that not only no-
tìiíng osa I chís appears, but on thc eontrary, íucli
sérions Contemplations as mine g ive a great and a-
blindant Rcaíbn to bc íarisíicd, thac there is no-
thííig ío ic ail but mec r Drcam and enthuíîafUck
Conjecture: I ovvn that thc Agents i mention-
cd, make «íc oí ail those Things to tcrriíy and
affright poor ignorant Pcoplc ont of their Sensés,
and to drive them often into Desperation, and
aítcr to reflore them by a Cure that ís worso
than the Distempe r, nameiy, by a Hardneís and
Coldneís oí Temper, rejectingentírely ail the No-
tions of Eternity and Futtiríty, and ío sitting them.
to go out of the World as they Itvedío it, (viz>)
wirhout troubling themíelves with what ís to
corne aítcr ít.
Bot i return to the Article oí Impulses of the
Mind, for 1 lay greater Weíght upon theíe than
tipon any oí thc other Di/coveties of the in-
visible World, becauíc they have something im
them relating to what \vc arc about, some-
thing directing, something to guide us in avoid-
ing the evíls that attend us, and to accepting, or
B à 2 'rar
 
r 5i i
rather embracing Opportunities of doing our-
selves good when they present, which many
Times for want of the knowledge of out Way,
we irrecoverably let flip.
Voices, Apparitions, Noises, and al! the o~
ther affrighting Things, which unavoidably fol-
low the Neighbourhood of Spirits in the Air
we breath in, seem to have much less Significa-
tion, as to ;ts> than these seasonable kind Whis-
pe $ to our Souls, which it is plain, are directed
for the Advantage of Life.
It seems hard that Mankind should be lo open
to the secret Insmuators the whispering Devils 1
have been speaking of, who are" Night and Day,
sleeping and waking, working upon his Senses by
the Arts and Subulties of Hell, to fill his Ima-
gination with a thousand devilish Contrivances
to gratify his Vanity and Lust; and that our
Thoughts should be always ready to receive the
Impressions they make, pre lied to follow the
internal Counsel, be awake to listen to ail his
Directions, but should be deaf to the Instructions
o\ any kind Spirits that would influence us for our
Advantage, and insensible of those Impressions
which are made upon us for our immediate Good,
by an Agent Good in itself, and acting from a
Principle whatever it be, of Good to us.
We have a foolish Saying, though taken from
Something that is more significant than wc ima-
gine when any Danger has suprised us. Weil,
my Mind misgave me> when I was going about it:
Well, I knew some Mischief would come of it;
did you so? And why then did you do it? Why
did }ou go on? Why, when your Mind mifyiv*
you, did you not obey the friendly Caution?
Whence do you think your Mind received the
speaking, tho' silent Impression? Why did you
not
 
 
 
[ S3 ì
not listen to it, as to a Voice Ì For such a one it
was no doubt; and Jet all those unthinking Peo-
ple who go on in any Thing they are upon, con-
trary to those secret silent Impressions upon their
Minds; 1 lay, let them know and observe ic,
they will very seldom sail of meeting some Mis-
chief in the Way. They will rery seldom fail of
miscarrying in the Way; / Jay very seldom, be-
cause I would not take upon me to prescribe
Things positively, which the Reader will rake
me up short in, and fay, how do 1 know it? But
I will take the Liberty to fay, I durst be posi-
tive in ir, relating to my self, and 1 durst be po-
sitive from the Nature and Reason of the Thing.
As to my own Experience, 1 wave saying much
of ir, but that in general I never flighted these
Impulses, but to my great Misfortune; I never
listenM to and obey'd them, but to my great Ad-
vantage, but I choose to argue from the Reason
of them, rather than from my own Experience.
As they are evident Warnings of what is to
come, and are testified daily and hourly by the
Things coming to pais afterwards, so they are
undeniable Testimonies, that they proceed from
some Being, intelligent of those Things that are
at Hand, while they are yet to come. If then
I am satisfied that it is a Notice given from a
Something, be it what it imli^ which is fully in-
form'd of what is attending me, tho' conceal'd
from me; why should 1 (Sight the Hint given
,ny Thing that knows, what I krow
rfpec
Evils to come.
 
 
me from any Thing —~ --• , - c .
not, and especially, for Example, for avoiding
I know a Person, who had so strong an Impulsi-
on upon her Mind, that the House flic was ...
would be burnt that very N.g^, coat be coi.h
not go to deep, the ^
 
Mind presAl her not to go to Bed, which how-
ever she resisted and went to Bed, but was so
terrified with the Thought, which as she cail'd
it, run in her Mind, that the House Would be
burnt, that she could not go to sleep.
She had made so much Discovery of her Ap-
prehensions in the Family, that they were all
in a I right, and applied themselves to search
from the Top of the House to the Bottom, and
to see every Fire, and every Candle safe out, so
that, as they all laid, it was impossible any
Thin£ could happen in the House, and they sent
to the Neighbours on both Sides to do the like.
Thus far they did well, but had she obeyed the
Hint, which prest upon her strangely not to go
to Bed, she had done much better, for the Fire
was actually kindled at that very Time, tho* not
broken out.
In about an Hour, after the whole Family was
in Bed, the House just over the Way, directly
opposite, was all in a Flame, and the Wind
which was very high, blowing the Flame upon
the House this Gentlewoman lived in, so fx i d it
with Smoke and Fire in a few Moments, the
Street being Narrow, that they had not Air to
breath, or Time to do any Thing, but jump
out of their Beds and save their Lives; had see
obey'd the Hint given, and not gone to Bed, see
might have saved several Things of Value,
which see lost; but as see neglected that, and
would go to Bed, the Moments see had spared
to her, were but just sufficient to get out of Bed,
get some Cloaths on, and get down Stairs, for
the House was on Fire in half Quarter of an
Hour.
 It might be ask'd here, why could not the
fame land Spirit have intimated by the fame
WhiP
 
 
 
c5? ]
Whispers, where the Danger lay, and from what*
Quartet it was to be expected; in wlut Man-
ner rhc Fire would arrack them, and that it
would come from the other Side or* the Street,
the Wind blowing it directly upon them?
To this, I answer, that ir is our Business the
more vigilantly to observe and b'ficn to the Hints
which are given, feeing rhe intimations are not
so Particular as we might \vi-h, without enqui-
ring into the Reasons, why rhey ate given no
plainer. We hare a great deal of Reason to be-
lieve the kind Spirit that gives theic intimations
and WnifperSj thus to us, gives us ail the Light
it is permitted to give, and whispers as much,
either as it knows, or as it is aHow'd to commu-
nicate; otherwise, why docs it give any Inti-
mations at all? But on the other Hand, it may
be allcdg'd, that enough is intimated to Curtice
for our Safety, if we will obey the intimation;
and it would be a much more reasonable Que-
stion, to ask, why wcilight and disobey the Im-
pression that we acknowledge to have received,
rather than why the Intimation was no plainer.
A Person of my Acquaintance being to go to
New-England by Sea, two Ships presented, and
the Masters earnestly solicited to take him as a
Passenger; he asked my Advice, professing, that
as well the Snips, as the Captains, were perfect-
ly indifferent to him, both the Men being equally
agreeable to him, and the Vessels equally good.
I had my Eye upon this Notion of Itnpolsfs, and
prest him to observe strictly, if he had mot some
secret Motion of his Mind to one Ship rather
than another, and he said he had not.
After some Time he accidentally met one of
the Captains, and falling into Terms with him,
agreed for his Passage, and accordingly prepar'd
D d 4 to
 
 
to go on board -, but from the very Time that
he made the Agreement, nay, even while he was
making the Bargain, he had a strong Impression
on his Mind, that he should no: go in that
Ship.
It was some Days after this, that lie told me
of these Impressions, which iucreas'd on him e-
very Day; upon which I prest him earnestly not
to go, but to take Passage with the other. Af-
tet he had refolv'd upon this, he came to me,
and told me, that he had with some Difficulty,
and some Lose, put off the first Ship, but that
now he had the same, or rather stronger Aversi-
on to going in the second Ship, and had a strong
Impression on his Mind, that if he went in the
second Ship he should be drowned; I bid him
consider it a little, and tell me if he had any
farther Intimations of it; and he continued to
tell me, that he had no Rest about his going in
either of those Ships, and yet his Affairs lay so,
that he was under a Necessity of going, and
there was no other Ship put up upon the Ex~
çhíWge for going.
I press a him, however, not to venture by any
Means; I convinced him, that those Impulses of
his Mind were the Whispers ot some kind Spi-
rit, that saw Things farther than he could, and
were certainly given him as Cautions to save
him from some Mischief which he might not
foresee; that it could be no evil Spirit, because
the keeping him back could be no Injury to
him, of ssch a Nature as would gratify the De-
vil in any Part of his usual Dciires; it must there-
fore be something for his Good, and he ought
to be very cautious how he flighted the silent Ad-
monition, In a Word3 I prepoííess'd him so much
in aid of the secret Impulses of his own Mind,
that
 
 
 
that he resolved not to go that Year, and he
íaw clearly afterwards:, that the secret Intimati-
mation was from a good Hand, for both the
Ships miscarried; the first being taken by the
Turks, and the latter cast away and all the Men
lost, the Ship foundring at Sea, as was supposed,
for ilie was never heard of.
1 could fill this Tract with Accounts of this
Nature, but the Reason of the Case is stronger
than the Example ; for as it is an Intimation of
something future, and that is to come to pass, it is
certain, there is a State in which what is Future
and must ccme to pass is known, and why should
we not believe the News, it it comes from the
Place where the Certainty of it is known?
Some give ail this to a Prescience peculiar to
the Soul it self, and of kin to that we call the
Second Sight; but I see no Ground for this, but
mere Presumption. Others call it an Afflatus,
which they think is a Distemper of the Brain.
Others call it a Sympathetick Power in the Soul,
foreboding its own Disasters. But all this is
short of the Thing, for here is not a Foreboding
only, which indeed is often felt, but is expressed
another Way; but here is a direct Intelligence; a
plain Intimation of the Evil, and warning to a-
void it: This must be more than an Afflatus, more
than a Sympathy; this must be from a certain
Knowledge of a Thing that exists not, by a Some-
thing that does exist; and must be communicated
by a Converse of Spirits unembodied, with the
Spirit embodied, for its Good; unless you will
call it Divine Revelation, which 1 fee no Ground
for.
All these Reasonings make it abundantly our
Concern to regard these Things, as what we are
greatly concerned in ; However that is not the chief
Use
 
 
Use 1 make of them here, but (i.) they abundantly
explain the Nature of the World of spirits, and
the Certainty of an Existence after Death; (2.)
they confirm that the Disposition of Providence
concerning Man, and the Event of Things, are
not so much hidden from the Inhabitants of that
World as they are from us; as a!so (3.) that Spirits
unembodied fee with a Sight differing from us,
and are capable of knowing what attends us,
when we know nothing of it our selves.
This offered many useful Reflections to my
Mind, which, however, *ti impossible for me to
communicate with the same Vivacity, or to ex-
press with the fame Life, that the Impression
they make on my own Thoughts canie with.
i. The Knowledge of there being a World of
Spirits, may be many Ways useful to us, and espe-
cially that of their feeing into Futurity, so as to
be able to communicate to us, by what Meam so-
ever they do it, what we ill all, or shall not do,
or what shall, or shall not befall us; to communi-
cate Dangers before us, so as they may be avoided,
and Mischiefs awaiting us, so as they may be pre-
vented, and even Death it self, so as we may pre-
pare for it; For we may certainly, if we would at-
tend to these Things, encreaie our Acquaintance
with them, and that very much to our Advantage
I would be far from prompting the crazy Imagina-
tions of Hypocondriac Distempered Heads, which
run Men out to so manyExtravagancies,and which
in fixing their Thourhts i pen tie real World
of Spirits, make this an imaginary World of Spi-
rits to them ;who think they are talk'd to from
the invisible World, by the Howling of every Dog,
or the Screeching of every Owl I believe it was
much of this vapourish dreaming Fancy, by which
thzAugun of ùisRomans deiermm'd Events from the
 
 
cî9 ]
Flying ofBirds, and the Entrails of- Beasts. It will
be hard for me to be prevails! on to suppose,
that even those intelligent Spirit, which i ipcak of,
who are able by such easy Ways, as the Impul-
ses of our Minds, Dreams, and die jike? to con-
vey the Knowledge of Tilings to us, can be put
to the Nccdiity, or find Reason to make Uie of
the Agency of Dogs and Birds, to convey their
Notices by; this would be to suppose them to
be much more coniin'd in their Converse wirh us9
than we evidently find they are ; and on the other
Hand would suppose the inanimate World to have
more Knowledge of the invisible, than we have,
whereas cn the other Hand we know they have no-
thing at ail to do with it.
There is only this to be said for it, namely,
that those inanimate Creatures do it involunta-
rily, and as it were, under the Power of a Pos-
session.
I will not affirm, bntt/jat the invisible Inhabi-
tants I have been speaking may have Power to
act upon the brute Creatures, so as to employ
them, or make use of their Agency in the Warn-
ings and Notices which they give to us of Things
to come 3 but that the Brutes have otherwise a-
ny farther Sight ot Things than we have, I can
fee nothing at all ot that, It is true, Balaams
Ass saw the Angel with the flaming Sword, stan-
ding in the Road, when the Prophet did not,
but the Reason is plainly expreiVd ; the Angel
was really there, and actually presenting Terror
to them with a íìamíng Sword in his Hand, on-
ly the Prophets Eyes were miraculously witheld,
that he could not see him.
I shall unriddle this Mystery of the Agency of
Beasts, and Birds, as far as Reason dictates;
and it seems to be Easy upon the Scheme of the
Near-
 
 
and their Concern to convey Intelligence to us:
They may, I fay, have Power to Terrify the
Brutes by horrible Apparitions to them, so as to
force those Howlings and Screichings we have
been told of, and to do this in such Places, and
at such Times as shall suit with the Circumstances
of the Family or Person concerned, and so far
their laid extraordinary Howlings and Screichings
may be significant ; but that the Brutes can ei-
ther by Sense, or by extraordinary Sight have any
Foreknowledge of Things in Futurity relating to
us, or to themselves; this has no Foundation in
Reason or Philosophy any more than it has in Re-
ligion. Matter may act upon material Objects,
and so the Understanding or Sense of a Brute
may act: upon visible Objects, but Matter cannot
act upon immaterial Things, and so the Eye of a
Beast cannot fee a Spirit, or the Mind of a Brute
act upon Futurity, Eternity, and the sublime
Things of a State to come.
What Use then the Spirits we speak of, inhabi-
ting the invisible World, can make of the inani-
mate World to direct them, as Missionaries to us,
I do not fee, neither did I m all my Altitudes
perceive they employ'd any such Agents.
It is from the Misunderstanding of these Things
that we place abundance of incidents, meerly for-
tuitous to the Devils Account, which he knows
nothing of; many a Storm blows that is none
of his raising; many a M'd-night Noise hap-
pens that is none of his making; if Satan or his
Instruments had one Tenth Part of the Tow-
er, either of the Air, or in the Air, or over the
Elements, that we give them in our I mgi nations,
we should have our Houses burnt every Night,
Hurricanes ra sed iiuthe Air, Floods made in the
Coun-
 
 
Country, and in a Word, the World would not
be habitable: But you remember I told you, as
powerful as he is, he is chain'd, he has a great
Clog at his Foot, and he can do nothing by Vio-
lence, or without Permission.
I might hint here at abundance of idle ridicu-
lous Devils, that we are daily told of, that come
and only make Game among us, put out our Can*
dies, throw Chairs and Stools about the House,
break Glasses, make a Smoak, a Stink of Brim-
stone, &c. whereas after all, the Devil has no
more Sulphur about him than other Folks, and I
can answer for it, that Satan is not disposed for
Mirth all the Frolicks and Gambols we ascribe
to him, I dare say, are Anticks of our own Brain*
I heard of a House in Essex, which they toid me
was haunted, and that every Night the Devil or
a Spirit, call it which you will, came into such a
Rdom, and made a most terrible Knocking, as if
it had a Hammer or a Mallet, and this for two
or three Hours together: At length, upon looking
about in an empty Closet in that Room, there
was found an old Mallet, and this was presently
concluded to be the Mallet which the Devil made
such a Noise with, so it was taken away: But
the next Night they said, the Devil made such a
Racket for want of the Mallet, that they were
much more disturbs than before, so they were ob-
liged to leave the Mallet there again, and every
Night the Devil would come and knock in the
Window, for two or three Hours together with
that Mallet. I have seen the Room, and the
Mallet, in neither of which was any Thing ex-
traordinary, but never heard the Noise, though
I sat up to wait for it; nor after causing the Mal-
let to be taken away, was there any Noiíê; be
like
 
like the mannerly Spirit would not disturb us who
were Strangers.
This pafs'd for a most eminent Piece of Walk-
ing or Haunting, and all the Difficulty was to
enquire, to what Purpose all this Disturbance was
made, feeing there was no End answered in it,
and I always thought the Devil was too full oi
Business to Ipend his Time to no manner of Pur-
pose.
At last, all the Cheat was discovered, viz,, that
a Monkey kept in a House three or four Houses
from it, had found the Way unto that Room,
and came every Night almost about Midnight,
and diverted him felt with the Frolick, and then
went Home again.
If these Things were not frequently detected,
it would be a great Scandal upon the Devil, that
he had nothing to employ himself in, more signi-
ficant, than Rapping all Night with a Hammer
to fright and disturb the Neighbours, making
Noises, putting out Candles, and the like: When
we come into the invisible State, of which we
now know (o little, we shall be easily convinced*
that the Devil is otherwise employed, and has Bu-
siness of much more importance upon his Hands,
It would be very insignificant, to have us so fre-
quently warned against Satans Devices, to have us
be caucion'd to be sober and vigilant, knowing that
our Adversary the Devil, goes about like a roar-
ing Lion, scekiíif», &c. All these Things import,
that he is diligent in attacking us, watching all
Advantages, hunting us down, circumventing,
waiting, and constantly plying us with Snares that
he may trapan and devour us; This admits not
any of those simple, ludicrous, and senseless Di-
gressions, which we set him to work upon in our
Imaginations.
Perhaps
 
 
Perhaps, it may be expected I should enter here
upon the Subject of Apparitions, and discourse
with equal Certainty of that yet undecided Que-
stion, concerning the Reality of Apparitions,
and whether departed Sou's can revisit the Place
of their former Exist cncSî tal^e up Shapes, Bodies*
and visible and apparent Beings,aifurae Voices,and
concern theoilcives with the A fairs of Life, of
Families, Persons, and even of Estates, and the
like, as many have affirmed they have been Wit-
nelles to.
1 must be-allowed to leave this where I find it;
there are some Difficulties which 1 am not yet got
over in it, nor have I been elevated high enough
to determine that Point, and shall not venture to
decide it, without more certainty than I am yet
arrived to.
I would warn dl People not to suffer their Ima-
gination, to form Shapes and Appearances where
there are none; and 1 may take upon me to fay,
that the Devil himself does not appear half so of-
ten, as some People think they see him; Fancy go-
verns many People, and a sick Brain forms strange
Things to itself:: Bat it does not follow from
thence that nothing can appear, because nothing
does at that Time.
However, as my Design is to instruct, not a-
muse, so I fay, I forbear to enter upon a Subject,
which I must leave as doubtful as I find it, and
consequently talk of to no Purpose.
I have heard of a Man that would allow the
Reality of Apparitions, but would have it be no-
thing but the Devil, that the Souls of Men de-
parted or good Spirits never appeared, it happen'd
that to this very Man something appear'd,as he (aid,
and insisted upon it to the last: He said he saw
the Shape of an ancient Man pass by him in the
Dusk
 
 
 
Dusk of the Evening, who holding op his Hands
as it were in a threading Posture, said aloud, O
wicked Creature, repent, repent, He was exceedingly
terrified, and' consulted several People about it,
Who all advised him seriously to take the Advice;
for his Life maue it well known it icems, that lie
flood in need of it: But being feriouily debating
about it, one of his Friends asked what he thought
of the Apparition, and whether it was uny of the
Devils Businels to bid him Repent -, this puzzled
his Thoughts, and in a Word, he grew a very so-
ber Man: But after all, it was a real Man, and no
Apparition that (poke to him, though his frighted
Fancy made him affirm that he vaniílfd out of his
Sight, which he did not. And the Person who
did it, being a Grave and pious Gentleman, met
him by mere Accident without any Deiigm and
spoke as he did, from the Knowledge he had of his*
being indeed a molt wretched wicked Fellow: By
the Way* the Gentleman had the Opportunity to
hear the Use that was made of it, and to hear
himself mistaken for an Apparition of the Devil,
but he was so prudent as not to discover it to the
Man, kit the Reformation, which was the Con-
sequence of the Fright, should wear off, when he
stould know, that there was nothing in the Thing
but what was common.
If we would always make the like good Use of
Satdns real Appearances, I do not know but it
would go a great Way to banish him from the vi-
sible World ,* for I am well assur'd he would very
seldom visit us, if he thought his Com?ng would
do us any Good; at least he would never come,
but when he was sent, he would never come wil-
lingly : For he is so absolutely at the Divine Dis-
posal, that if Heaven Commands, he must go,
though it were to do the good he abhors 5 not
 
 
[*5 ]
that I believe Heaven ever thinks sit to employ him
in doing Good, if ever he is let loose, 'tis to act in
Judgment as an Instrument of Vengeance, and
some are oi Opinion, he is often employed as
a destroying Angel, tho'I do not grant that; lean
hardly think the Justice of God would gratify
Satan's Gustos doing Evil, so far as to softer him
to be even so much as an Executioner: But that is
by the Way.
I have another Turn to give this Part of my
Observations, which tho* perhaps some may not
think so much to the Purpose, as entring into
a critical Enquiry after the Devils particular
Mission in these Cafes: Yet I think otherwise.
I have observed, that some desperate People
make a very ill use of the general Notion, that there
are no Apparitions, nor Spirits at all^ and really
the Use they make of it, is worse than the ex-
treme of those, who, as I said, make Visions
and Devils of every Thing they fee or hear: ^
For these Men persuade themselves there are no
Spirits at all, either in the visible or invisible
World, and carrying it on farther, they next an-
nihilate the Devil, and believe nothing about
him, either ot one kind or another*
This wôuld not be of so much bad Consequence,
if it was not always followed by a worse; namely,
that when they have prevailed with themselves to
believe there is no Devil, the next Thing is, and
they soon come to it, lhat there is no God, and so
Atheism takes its rise in the fame Sink, with a
Carelesncse about Futurity.
I have no Mind to enter upon an Argument to
prove the being of our Maker, and to illustrate
his Po wer by Words, who has so many undeniable
Testimonies in the Breasts of every rational Being
to prove hi* Existence: But I have a Mind to con-
E e elude
dude this Work with a sliort History of some À-
theists, which I met with many fears ago,
and whether the. Facts .are testified or not, may
be equally useful in the Application, if you do
not think them a little too Religious tor you.
Some Years ago, there was a young Gentleman*
a Scholar at the .University, eminent for Learn-
ing and Venue, of prompt Parts, and great Pro-
ficiency, insomuch that he was taken great .No-
tice of by the Masters and Fellows, and every
one promised fair in their Thoughts for him, that
lie would be a great Man. It happened, whe-
ther from his earnest Deíîre of more Knowledge,
or the Opinion of his own great Capacity, 1 know
not which ;....that this Gentleman falling,upon the
Study of Divinity, grew so opinionative, so very
positive and dogmatic in his Notions in religious
Things, that by Degrees it came to this Height,
that his Tutor saw plainly, he had little more than
Notions in all his religious Pretences to Know*
ledge, and concluded, he would either grow
Enthusiastic or obstinately Profane and Àthei-
stick.
He had three Chums or Companions in his Stu-
dies, and they all. fell .into the fame Error,., as well
by the Consequence of a great deal of Wit and
little Grace, as by the Example and Leading of
this other young Gentleman, who was indeed
their Oracle, almost in every Thing.
As his Tutor who was a very good Man, fear'd
for him, so it came to pass with him, and ail the
rest'; for they ran upnheir superficial Notions in
Divinity to such a Height, that instead of Rea-
soning themselves into good Principles of Reli-
gion, ^ they really reasoned themselves out of all
Religion whatsoever; running on to expunge
 
Things really were not, of whieh they could not
define both how and what they were; they pro-
ceeded to deny the Existence of their Maker, the
Certainty of a future State, a Refurrection3 a Judg-
ment, a Heaven, or a Hell.
They were not contented to satis fie themselves
with these impious Foundations, but they set up
to dispute in private Societies against all revealed
Religion; thereby bringing on themselves the Curse
denounced in Scripture against those, that do Evil
and teach Men so to do; in a little Time they grew
so publick, that more Company came in, and
which was worse, many joined with them in
Principle, or as I should rather have said, in cast-
ing off all Principles, and they began to be famous
in the Place, though to the Offence of all good Men^
and were call'd, The Atheistical Club.
They soon began to fee sober5religious People shun
them, ancfin some Time, upon Information given,
they were obliged by Authority, to separate tor
Fear of Punishment, so that they could not hold
their publick Disputations, as they began to do;
yet they abated nothing of their wicked Custom;
and this dreadful Creature, who set up at the
Head of the rest, began to be so open in his
Blasphemies, that he was at Length obliged to fly
from the University.
However, he went a great while before it came
to that; and though he had been often admonish-
ed, yet instead ot reclaiming, he grew the more
impious, making the most Sacred Things his
Jest, and the Subject of his Ridicule: He gave
out, That he could frame a new Gospel, and a
much better System of Religion, than that which
they call'd Christian; and that if he would trouble
himself to go about it, he would not fail to dra#
in as great a Part of the World to run after him^
E e 2 as
 
as had been after any other, I care not to repeat
any of his blasphemous Words, it is not to be
supposed there can be any blasphemous abominable
Thing! that this Set of wicked wretched young
Men did not run into, neither any Wicked-
ness of that kind within their Reach, which they
did not commit.
It would be too long to enter into the particu-
lar History of these Men, and how it pleased
God to dispose of them; they might be in Number
before they separated about twenty-two in all, 1
shall tell you oi some of them however, who did
not run such Lengths as the rest: There was a
young Man, who frequented their Society, though
as he afterwards said, he was rather persuaded to
be among them, than to be one of them s he had
however too much yielded to their Delusions;
and though they made him very much their Jest3
because they found he still retained some little Sense
of a God, and of a future State in his Mind, yet
he had yielded dreadfully to them, and began to do
so more and more every Day*
It happen'd one Day, this young Man was going
to their hellish Society, and not minding the Wea-
ther, the Clouds gathered over his Head, and he
was stopped by a sudden Shower of Rain in the
Street: It rained so very hard, that it obliged him
to stand up in the Gate-way of-an Inn for some
Time j while he was standing here, a great Flash
of Lightning more than ordinarily surprised him;
it seems the Fire coming so directly in his Face,
that he tele the very Warmth oi it, and was ex-
ceedingly startled; in the fame Moment almost,
a* is natural in the Cafe, followed such a Clap of
Thunder that perfectly astoniihed him. The Rain
continuing,kept him in the Gate-way, as I said,for a
good Whilea tili he had Time sot such Reflections,
 
 
 
[ 6jl
3s these, Wtiere ami going! What am I going about!
Who is it has flupt me thus! Why are these Thunder s%
tfafe Rains ^and this Lightning thus Terrible Ìand whence
are they! and with the test came in this Thought,
warm and swift as the Lightning, which had terri-
fied him .before, What if there should be a God! What
will become of me then ! Terrified with theie Things,
he starts put of the Gate-way into the Street not-
withstar.dinr* the Wet, and runs back through the
Rain, faying to himself as he went, I will go among
them no more! When he came Home to his Cham-
bers, he feJ into dreadful Agonies of Mind, and at
length broke out thus : What have I been doing! have I
been denying the Power that made me! Despising that
God whose Fire flajh9d just now in my Face! And
winchs had not that Mercy I have abused interposed,
might have burnt me to Death! What kind of Creature
am I! While he was thus giving vent to his Re-
flections, a near Relation of his, a pious good
Man, who had often used to speak very plain-
ly to him of the horrid Sin he was guilty of, hap-
pened to come to visit him.
The young Man had thrown himself upon his
Bed, and had with the deepest Sense of his Mad-
ness, and most serious Reproaches of himself for
his horrid Life, been expressing himself to his
Friend, and he had been comforting him in the
best Manner he could, when after a while he desir'd
his Friend to retire, that he might be a little alone,
and might give vent to his Thoughts with the
more Freedom, and his Friend, taking a Book in
his Hand, staid in the outer Room.
In this Interval came another Scholar to the
Door, who was one of the wicked Company I
mentions! just now: He came not to visit this
first Gentleman, but to call him to go with him tp
the usual Meeting of their dreadful Society. And
Ee 3 ''knocking
 
 
[*»]
knocking at his Chamber Door; this Gentleman?
who was kit in the Chamber, slept to the Boor,
and looking through a lirtie Grate, not only knew
the Person, but knew him to be one of the wicked
LOi<í'\:.ny i s";í*'; been speaking of: Now as he
w:S va ;/ !cvr..?y his Friend should have such an In-
*/.;;r .;.'UJii tu i*<c good JJispoíïtìon he was then in,
io above all* he was loth lie should be persuaded
to go any mere among that miserable Gang;
wherefore he opened the Door a little Way, so
as he was not very distinctly seen, and speaks aloud
in the Person of his Friend thus: O Sir, Beseech
them ail to resent; for depend upon it, "there is a
G o 0, tell them, 1 fay so; and with that he ihut
the Door upon him violently, giving him no Time
to reply, and going back ipto his Friends Room,
took no Notice of any Body having been at the
Door at all.
The Person who knocked at the Door, you may
suppose, was one of the Leaders of the Company,
a young Scholar of good Parts and Sense, but de»
badch'd by that horrid Crew; and one that
bad made himself eminent, for his declared Oppo-
sition to all the common Notions of Religion; a
complete Atheist and publickly so, without God
or the Desire of God in the World: However,
(as he afterwards consejjed) the Repulse he met with
at the 'Door, and which he thought came from bis
Friend, gave him a strange Shock at first, and filfd
him with Horror: He went down the College-
Stairs in the greatest Confulion imaginable, and
went musing along a good Way, not knowing*
where he was, or whither he went, and in that
íimbarraíîment of Thought went a whole Street
0ut of the Way; the Words had made an unusual
Impression upon his Mind, but he had his other
§iirj>risçs tçp > for he Thought his Friend, for he
 falievd
, [ *9 1
believd firmly, that it was he that had spoken to himy
had treated him very rudely,
Sometimes he resented it, and reflected upon it
as an Affront, and once or twice was upon the
Pomt of going back again to him, to know the
Reason of his using him so, and to demand Satis-
faction: But still thJ Words, THERE IS A GOD,
dwelt upon his Mind, and what if h fliould be so?
lays he, what then Ì Upon this Question to him-
self, the Answer immediately occurred to his Mind,
What then! Why, then I am undone; for, have net
1 d clar'd War against the very Notion, defsd all the
Pretenders to it, as mere Enthusiasts and Men of
Whimsy? However, after these Thoughts his
Mjnd coord a little again, and it offered to him,
no doubt injected by an Evil Spirit, that lie should not
trouble hi mi elf with enquiring into it one Way or
another, but be easy.
This pacified him for a Jittle While, and he
shook oti the Surprise he was in; the hardned
Temper Icem'd to return, and he kept on his Way
towards the hellish Society, that he was going to
before: But still the Words returned upon him,
THERE IS A GOD, and began to bring
some Terror with it upon, his Mind; and the
last Words of his Friend came into his Mind often,
tell them, I say jo, th's fill'd him with a Curiosity
which he could not withstand, viz,, of going back
to his Friend, and enquiring of him, what Disco-
veries he had made of this Kind ? how he came to
have changed his Mind so suddenly ? and especially,
how he was arrived to a Certainty of the Thing?
I told you, that tjiere had been a gre.,t Shower
of Rain, which had itopp'd the first yoang Gen-
tleman in his Way out; it seems the Day was full
ihowery and "a little Rain happening to fall again,
as this Gentleman went by a Bookseller's Shop*
Ee 4 he
 
 
[ 7*]
he stops at the Door to stand up a little cut of
the wet.
There happens to be sitting in the Shop reading
a Book, a Gentleman of his Acquaintance, though
far differing from him in his Principles, being a
very sober, studious, religious young Man, a Stu-
dent in Divinity of the fame College, who look-
ing up called him in, and after a few common Sa-
lutes, he whispers in his Ear.
Student, I was looking in an old Book here just
now, and began the following short Dialogue; and
1 found four Lines written on the Back of the Title
Page, which put me in Mind of you.
Atheist, Me 1 why did they put you in Mind of
me?
Stud. Til tell you presently, *come hither.
m He retires into a back Room, and calls the
other after him*
Ath. Well, now tell me.
Stud. Because I think they are very fit for stub
an atheistical Wretch as you to read.
Ath, You are very Civil.
Stud. You know you deserve it,
Ath. Come, let me see them however.
Stud. Let me look in your Face all the While
then.
Ath. No you shan't.
Stud. Then you shan't fee them.
Ath. Well; let it alone then.
Stud. Come give me your Hand, you shall see
them, if you will promise to read them over three
Times.  * ' # ' 
Ath. There's my Hand, 111 read them out to
 
Stud.
[ 7* ]
Stud. Til hold your Hand all the While, because
Til be sure of your Performance.
Ath. I'll warrant you Til * read them,
* He reads.
But if it should fall outJ as who can tell?
That there MAYBE a God, a Heaven and
*' Hell:
Had I not best consider well, for fear
'T stiou'd be too late when my Mistakes appear.
* He held him by the Hand till that Wordy
and then Lt it go: pressing gently one of
his Fingers.
Stud. Well, what do you fay to them?
Ath. I'll tell you my Thoughts farther by and
by, but first tell me what did you press my Hand
for when you let it go.
Stud. Did you seel no Motion within you, when
you read those Words, "there may be a God.
Ath. What Motion? What do you talk of?
Stud. Come do not deny it, for I am a Witness
against you.
Ath. Witness, for what? I have kill'd no Body,
I have robb'd no Body ; if you would turn Informer,
I value not your Evidence.
Stud. No, no, I shall not turn Informer of that
Kind, but I am a Witness in your Makers Behalf.
Ath. What can you Witness?
Stud. Til tell you what I can Witness, I can te~
tify, that your own Conscience is against you, in
your impious denying the Existence of that God
that gave you Life; you could not conceal it, I tell
you / felt it,
Ath.
 
 
 
 
Ath. How do you pretend to know, what my
Conscience dictates to-me, or what the Result of
secret Reflections may be in the Mind? ion may
be mistaken, have a Care; you know you are not to
hear false IVitnejs.
Stud* It's in vain to struggle with it, 'tis not to
to be conccal'd, you betray *d yourself, I tell you,
Jill How betrayed myself? you arc mighty dark
In your Expressions.
Stud. Did I not tell you, 1 would look in your
Face all the While you read? Did I not fee into the
Distraction of your Soul? Did you not turn pale at
the very Words, when your Tongue said, There may
he a God} Was there not a visible Horror in your
Countenance, when you read the Word HEAVEN/
A Horror, which signified a Sense of your having
no Share in it, or Hope about it? And did 1 not
feel a Trembling in your very Joints, as 1 held you
by the Hand, when you read the Word HELL?
Ath. And was that it you held me by the Hand
for?
Stud. Indeed it was; I was persuaded I should
find it; for I couid never believe, but an Atheist
had always aHcll within him, even while he brav'd
it out against a Hell without him.
Ath, You speak enough to fright one; how can
you lay so positively a Thing, which you cannot
be lure of? , ^
Smd. Never add Sin to Sin, 'tis in vain to deny
it.
Ath. Well, well, its none of * your Business;
who made you my Father Confessor?
* lie is a Utile Angry.
Stud. Kay do not be angry with your Friend,
ar;d though you arc, do but take the Hint, and be
as Angry as you will. Ath* If/hat
 
 
 
ílíì
Ath, What Hint, what is it you aim at ? your
Hints are all so general, I can make nothing of
them.
Stud! I aim at nothing but your eternal Felicity,
I thought those Lines very apposite to your Cafe,
and was wiihing you had them, before I happen d
to ice you; I thought, that such a RtfLction in
the Case of Atheism, so natural, so plain, espe-
cially île fled from him> whose secret Voice can cffeilually
reach the Mind> might be some Means to open your
E\es.
Ath. Open mine Eyes! to what?
Stud, To something that I am persuaded you see
already in Part, though I find you struggle hard
against yonr own Convictions.
Ath. What is this something you speak oH'
Stud. 1 mean in a few Words, what the Lires
you have read mean3 viz, That perhaps there may
be a God, a Heaven^ and Hell.
Ath. 1 don\ know * but there may.
* He observes "tears (lands in his Eyes.
Stud. Weîî , I fee/it begins to touch you, if you
are uncertain,that ijs a Step to Conviction ; and the
rest of the Words you have read, are a most natural
Inference in your Cafe.
Youd befl consider well for Fear^
'TJhou'd be too late when your Mistakes appear*
Ath. What would you have me consider?
Stud, I am not able to enter into that Part now;
the first Thing is to persuade you to look in ; listen
to the Voice of Conscience, I am satisfied you
stand convicted at that Bar, you cannot plead Nit
guilty there.
Ath. Con-
 
 
[ 74 ]
Atb. Convicted of what?
Stud. Of having acted contrary to the Light of
Nature, of Reason, and indeed of common Sense;
most impiously denied the God whose Air you
breath in, whose Earth you tread on, whose Food
you eat, whose CI oaths you wear, who is ygiiz
Life, and will be your Judge,
Atb. I do not absolutely deny; I tell you, I
don't know, but there may he a God.
Stud. Dout you knoiv hut there may! O SIR, 1
beseech you resent; for certainly THERE IS A
GOD, depend upon it, I SAY SO.
Atb. You * Fright me.
* He starts and locks surprix?'d.
Stud. Indeed I think it may well Fright you.
Mb. But you fright me upon a quite differing
Account from what you imagine; 1 am indeed ve-
ry much surpris'd, and so would you too if you
knew the Circumstance.
Stud. What Circumstance?
A\h. Pray did you hear those Words spoken any
where to Day before you spoke them.
Stud. No, not I.
Ath. Was you at Mr, s Chamber about
half an Hour ago?
Stud. I have not been there this Month past,
I have given over visiting him, and all such as lie
is, long ago.
Ath. Have you seen him to Day, or when did
y on last see him, did he speak those Words to
you, or you to him.
Stud. I have not seen him, since I saw him with
you about fourteen Days ago, when} our Discourse
(even both of you) was so Blasphemous and so
Atheistical* as made my very Heart tremble, and
I re-
r 7/]
I resolv'd never tò come into Company with ei-
ther of you again, and it was that very Discourse,
that made me think of you when I found those
Lines in this Book; I should think it an evident
Discovery of God, and what I might hope should
best forward your Conviction, if his Providence
should have sent you to this Door at that Minute,
to receive the Hint on this Occasion.
Ath. There is something more than common,
in every Thing that has happened to me to Day 1
Stud. If you would explain yourself a little, I
might say more; but you know very well, I can-
not make the least guess at what you mean.
Ath. Ask me no mote Questions, there must be
A * GOD or A DEVIL in Being.
* He looks wildly and amazed.
Stud. Dear Friend, there are both, depend upon
it, but I beseech you compose your Mind, and do
not receive the Conviction with Horror, but with
Comfort and Hope.
Ath. One or other of them has been concern'd
in what has happen'd to me to Day; it has been a
strange Day with me.
Stud. If it relates only to these Things, perhaps
it may be of Use to you to communicate the Par-
ticulars, at least it may give some vent to the Op-
pression of Thought, which you seem to be under,
you cannot open your Mind to One, that has
more earnest Desires to do you Good, tho* pet-
haps not sufficiently furnish'd to advise you.
Ath. I must tell it or * Burst;
Here hegave him the whole Story of his going
to his Friend's Chamber, in order to take
him with him to the wicked Club they had
kept, s
 
 
 
kept, and how he had met him at the Dmr3
and said the same Words to him, that the
Student had repeated, and when he had
done, says he to his Friend;
and who now do you think must dictate the fame
Words to him, and afterwards to you, to fay to me
on the fame Occasion,
Stud. Who do I think! Nay, who do you think >,
Ath. Who! The Devil, if there is a Devil
'Stud. Why, do you think the * Devil preaches
Repentance!
* He stands Stock fìilì, and fays not a Word>
which the other perceiving) got s on»
£ray think seriously* for I see it does a little touch
your Reason; is it likely the Devil should bid ei-
ther of us, or both of us, intreat you to repent ? Is
it the Devil 'think yotí3 that would pronounce the
Certainty of the great Truth I speak of? Is it his
Business to convince you that there is a God Ì
Ath. That's very true.
Stud. One Thing however, I'll fay in Satan's
Behalf -, and that is, that he never came up to your
height of Sinning. The Dev il has frequently set
up himself, and persuaded poor deluded People to
worship him as a God; but to do him jfuflice, he
never had the Impudence to deny the Being of a
God; that's a Sin purely Human, and even among
Men very Modern too, the Invention of witty
Men, as they call themselves; a Way they have late-
ly found out to cherish superlative Wickedness,
and flatter themselves, that they shall have no Au-
dit of their Accompts in a Future State; of whom
it may indeed be said in that Particular, they have
mHÌnfádthe,DêVjlé
J A* h
 
Ath. indeed I think we have.
Stud. I wiih you would eoníidcr a little farther
of it.
Ath. What can Men consider that have gone
that Length?
Stud. Yes, yes, remember what St. Peter said to
Simon the Sorcerer.
Ath. What was that?
Stud. Read Acts viii. 22. Repent therefore of this
thy Wukednefy and pray God, if perhaps the thought
of thine Heart may be forgiven thee,
Ath. No, No, the lait of your Verses is against
me there most directly.
Its all TO O L A TE now my Mistakes appear.
Stud. No, no. Remember what you said, that
it must be a God or a Devil
Ath. What is that to the Purpose?
Stud. Why you scem'd satisfied, that it could not
be from the Devil.
Ath. But what the better am I for that, if the
other is my Enemy?
Stud. Much the better if it was from God, if the
Words you heard were from God, and that two un~
concerted Persons so eminently concurred in speak-
ing to you, you cannot believe God would bid yon
REPENT, if it was too late, or if he were your
irreconciieable Enemy; on the contrary, if you
believe it to be the Vo ce of his Providence, you
ought to listen to and obey it.
Ath. You have a strange Power of Persuasion,
there's no resisting your Argument.
Stud. It is not in me to persuade, but Heaven
may make use of me to convince.
Ath. To convince is to persuade, Ï am convinced
that I have been a dreadful Wretch.
Stud. I am persuaded you were convine'd of that
before, Ath. I
 
Ath. 1 cannot deny but my Heart always struck
me, a kind of chill Horror ran through my
.Veins, when 1 have utter'd the blasphemous Opi-
nions that I have been drawn into, my very Blood
stagnated at the Thought of it, and I look back
on it with Astonishment.
Stud. I tell you, I felt a Tremor even in your
Flesh, when you read the Word , a God, a Hea-
ven, a Hell.
Ath. I confess to you my very Heart funk with-
in me at the Words who can tell; my Soul aniwer'd
that I could tell myself, that it both is, and must
be so.
Stud. Conscience is a faithful and never-failing
Evidence in his Maker's Behalf.
Ath. It is a very terrible Evidence against me,
and where will it End?
Stud. I hope it will End where it began, I
mean in a heavenly Call to you to Repentance,
Ath. That is not always the Consequence of
Conviction.
Stud. You must therefore distinguish again of
what proceeds from Heaven, what from Hell, the
Voice of God, and the Voice of the Devil; the
first calls upon you to repent, the last prompts
you to despair.
Ath. Despair seems to be the natural Conse-
quence of denying God; for it ihuts out the
Power that can alone restore the Mind.
Stud. The greater is that Love which refuses to
be shut out, that sends such a heavenly Summons
to you to repent, and in so eminent a Manner; it
is not your having been an Enemy, a Blasphemer,
a Denver of God; Peter denied Christ three
Times, nay, the third Time he even abjured him,
and yet mark the H/ords> The Lord look'd on him,
and immediately he repented.
Ath
 
 
Ath. My Case is worse than Peter s.
Stud, And yet you see you are call'd on to
repent.
Atb. I think you are call'd to make me repent,
there's no answering you.
Stud. Amen; may I have the Blessing of being
an Instrument to so good a Work,, there seems to
be something extraordinary in it all.
Ath. It s all a Surprise to me, how came I hi-
ther!
Stud. Nay, how came I hither! how came this
Book here! who writ the Lines in the Frontis-
piece! how came I to read them ! 'tis all a Driam
to me.
Ath. How came you to think of me upon the
reading thetti ! and how came I here just at the
* Moment, and but of my Way too!
* He lifts up his Hands and cries out, There
is a God, certainly there is, I am con*
vincd of it, it muft be so.
Stud. Kothing more certain; nor is there any
Doubt but all these Things are of him.
Ath. But there are yet greater Things behind, I
wish you would go with me to my Friend
Mr. '$ Chamber, I am persuaded some-
thing yet more extraordinary must have befallen
him.
Stud. With all my Heart, f
\they both go to the first Gentleman's Cham-
ber, and found him at Home very much
out of Order, but willing enough to dis-
course with them.
F f Atb.
 
 
Ath. Well, Friend of mine, I hope you are bet-
ter disposed to vor.r Friends than when I saw you
last.
Gent. Truly when Î saw you last, I was disposed
of by the Devil, and so f doubt was you; I hope
I ihall never come into that horrid Place again.
Ath. What horrid Place?
Gent. You know where I mean, I tremble at
the very Thoughts of the Place, and much more
of the Company; I wish I could prevail upon you
to come no more'among them too; I assure you
if I know myself, and if God would assist mc
to do it, I would much rather go to a Stake to be
burnt.
Sttui. I rejoice in sjch an Alteration, Sir, upon
you, I hope our Friend here is of the fame Mind,
long may it continue in you both.
Ath. Well, pray tell us something of the Occa-
sion of this happy Alteration; for it will seem stil!
more strange, how you came to be instrumental to
my Change, if I know nothing of the Means that
brought about your own.
Gem: - Mine! I assure you, it was all from Hea-
ven: Not the Light that slione about St. Paul, was
more immediately from Heaven, than the Stroke
that touched my Soul; it is truc, I had no Voice
without, bot a Voice has spoken ( I hope ) efte-
cttiafif to my Understanding, I had Voice enough
to tell me, how I was in the Hands of that Power,
that Majesty, that GOD, whom 1 had wickedly,
and, with a Hardness not to be expressed, disown d
and deny'd.
Stud. Pray Sir, if you care to have it known,
give us some Account of the Particulars of this
wonderful Thing.
''' 5' :' * Gent
1
Gent. Sir, I sliall do it "freely, I think I ought
not to conceal it.
* Here he gives an Account of the Surprise he
was m by the L>ginning, hoxu he was
ftopt in his IVay to his wicked Com-
pari]) and went back to his Chamber*
Ath. Weil, now I will no more wonder at the
Salutation you gave me, when I came to call you,
but thank you for it.
Gent. What Salutation?
Ath. Why, when I was at your Chamber about
two Hours ago.
Gent. You at my Chamber!
Ath. Nay, you need not conceal it, for I have
told our Friend here all the Story.
Gem. I know nothing of what you talk of, much
less what you mean.
Ath. Nay, what need you go about to conceal
it? I tell you I do not take it ill, I hope I may have
Reason to be thankful for what you said co me*
and look upon it as spoken from Heaven; for I
assure you, it has been an Introduction to that
Light in my Thoughts, which I hope shall never be
extinguished.
Gent. Dear Friend, as I believe you are serious,
so I hope you believe I am so; I profess I know*
nothing of all you talk about.
Ath. Why, was I not at your Door this After-
noon, a little after the great Shower of Rain?
Gent. Not that I know of.
Ath. Why, did not I knock at your Chamber-
Door, and you come to the Door yourself and
speak to me?
Gent. Not to Day, I am very sure of it.
F s 2 Ath.
 
 
 
Ath. Am I awake! are you Mr. ——- am 1
sure we are alt alive, and know what we are say-
ing, and to who?
Gent, I beseech you unriddle yourself, for I am
surprised.
Ath. Why, about three a Clock this Afternoon,
I came to this Chamber*Door; I knock'd; you
came and open'd the Door; I began to speak; you
interrupted me, and — 
Here he repeats th: Passage at large,
and his own Thoughts, and Rejent-
ment as before,
Gtnt. Depend upon it, Was some Voice from
Heaven, it was nothing of mine; I have not been
at the Door since two of the Clock, when I came
skit in, but have been on the Bed or in my Study
ever since, wholly taken up with my own Thoughts,
and very much indisposed.
The young Man turns Pale, and falls
into a Swmmd.
There was a great deal more belonging to this
Story, but \i$ too long for the present Purpose* I
have related this Part on several Accounts, and it
hits the Purpose I am upon many Ways.
i. Here is a visible Evidence of God, and of
his Being and Nature ti\ d so in the Mind,
that not the most hardn'd Atheist can deny it,
Nature recoils at every Endeavour to sup-
press it, and the very Pulsation of his Blood
shall discover and acknowledge it.
 
 
 
2, Yet
[ sg ]
2. Yet even in this, we fee how the Power of
Imagination may be worked up, by the se-
cret Agency of an unknown Hand, how ma-
ny Things concurred to make this Man be-
lieve he had seen an Apparition, and heard
3, Voice, and yet there was nothing in it
but the Voice of a Man unseen and mistaken;
the young Man was so surprised at his
Friends declaring that he knew nothing of
his coming there, that he concluded it had
been all a Vision or Apparition that opened
the Door, and that it was a Voice that had
spoken to him, of what Kind he knew not;
and the Reflection upon this surprised him so
much as threw him into a Swound, and yet
here was neither Vision or Voice, but that
of an ordinary Person, and one who meant
well, and said well.
It is not to be doubted, but that many an Ap-
parition related with a great deal ot Certainty
in the World, and of which good Ends have fol-
low'd, has been no more than such a serious Mi-
stake as this.
But before Heave it, let me observe, that this
should not at all hinder us from making a very
food Use of such Things; for many a Voice may
e directed from Heaven, that is not immediately
spoken from thence; as when the Children cried
Hvsannah to our Saviour, they fulfilled the Scrip-
ture, which said out of the Mouths of Eabes and
Sucklings thou hast ordain'd Praise; so doubtless
he that made all Things and created ail Things;
may appoint Instruction to be given by fortuitous
Accidents, and may direct concurring Circum-
stances to touch and affect the Mind as much, and
^s effectually, as if they had been immediate and
miraculous. Thus
 
 
s HI
Thus was the two Persons happening to fay the
lame Words to the Atheist, the'strange reading of
those Lines, when the Person came into the Book-
seller's Shop, the incident of h.\s running into the
Shop for Shelter, and many the like Things of the
fame Nature, and ordered in the lame Manner as
thc-Cock crowing when Pcter denied Christ, which
though wonderfully concurrent with what his
bleifcd Master had foretold, yet was no extraor-
dinary Thing in a Cock, who naturally Crows at
such a Time of the Morning.
In a Word, ail these Things ferre to convince
us of a great Super-intendency of Divine Provi-
dence in the minutest A stairs of this World, of a
manifest Existence of the invisible World, of the
Reality of Spirits, and of the Intelligence between
us and them,' I hope I have said nothing of it to
misguide any Body, or to assist them to delude
themfclveSjjhaving spoken of it with the utmost Se-
riousness in my Design, and with a sincere Dei ire
for a general Good,, . .... ... *. ..
 
F 1 N 1 S.
BOOK S Intel) Printed for W. Taylor,
at the Ship and Black-Swan, in Pater-
noster-Row.
P
W/Hps'$ new World of Words or universal Engl:/!} Dî-
"itionary, the 7 th Edit, improv'd with above twenty
thousand W ords. . .
2. The History of the Revolutions of Romc> by the Ah-
botFelrioty in 2 Vols. S1/5. .; . . . . .
3. —~His History of the Resolution in Sweden, 8w '.
4. The History of Charles the 12th, late King of Sweden,
the 2d Edit, with a Continuation to his Death, iv§*
5". The History of'the Tu>ks> in 4 Vols, Svo.
6*. The Turkish-Spy, Vol. 9th, nwo-
7. Memoirs of a Cavalier, written threescore Years
ago; by an English Gentleman, who served first in the
Army of Gustavus Jdolphm, the glorious King of Sweden, .
till his Death: And after that in the Royal Army of
King.Charles the First, from the Beginning to the Conclu-
iron of the~RebelHon. - •
8. c. Gramma..t\ Mémoires of the E>izllfl Court, during
the Reigns of King Charles the 2d tod King James the
2d ; the 2d Edit. To*vhich is added acompleat Key.
9. The Life arid strange surprising Adventures of Ro-
binfon Crusoe of Turk, Mariner; who lived twenty.eight*.
Years all alone in an uninhabited Island, on the Coast .of
Airieriiar &c. in i Vols, 8vo. , - .;
10. The. Farrier's .New Guide Containing 1. The A-
natomy of a Horse, .being an Exact and Compendious.
Description of all his Parrs, with their Actions and Uses,
illustrated with Figures curiously engraven on Copper-
Plates. 2. An Account of all the Diseases incident, to.
Horses, with their Signs, Causes, and Methods of Cure;
Wherein many Detests in the Farrier's Practice are now
carefully:;
Books ^ Sold by W. Taylo Ky
carefully supplied, their Errors expos'd and amended, and
the Art g rear) y improved and advanced according to the
latest: D i i ce vertes; The Whole inteispersed with many
curious and useful Observations, concerning Feeding and
Kxercise, &c By Will. Gibson.
ii. The Adventures of Jhettgines and Charidia; A Ro-
mance. Done from the Grwl of Belì§dêtm% in 2 Vols,
j 2. The Whole Art of Surveying and Measuring of
Land. By Jvhn£ove9 Philomath, the 4th Edition.
13. Trigonometry improved, and Projection of the
Sphere made easy, teaching the Projection of the Sphere,
Orthographickand Stereographick; as also Trigonometry
plain and spherical, with plain and intelligible Reasons
for various and most: useful Methods, both in Projection
and Calculation ; with the Application of the Whole to
Astronomy, Dialling and Geography. By Henry Wilson.
14. The London Acccmptant. By the lame Author.
15. Mr. Hjwkabecs Vhifico Mechanical Experiments on
Variety of Subjects,
16. Dr. DtjaguUers Translation of Mr, Mdrrióss Hydro*
static k 5/
1 y His Translation of Dv.-GravesandeslniràduÙìion
to Sir Ijaac Ncwtoyss Phylofbphy.
18. Mr. Raphfûnt Translation of Sir Isaac Ne&tons Al-
gebraic Lectures. _'
tq. The Religious Philosopher, by Dr. Nlcwevtyt, 3 Vols,
20; The Use of the Globes, - - '-
if. Astronomical Lectures read in the publick Schools
in Cambridge. By Mr Whist an.
22. 1 lis Lectures to explain Sir Isaac Newton*
Philosophy.
23.' -His Elements of Euclid.
24. — His Astronomical Principles of Religion.
15. -His Solar System, a large Sheet.
26 Mr. Qtmís Treatise of Vulgar and Decimal Fra-
ctions.
27. A Set of Scriptural Maps, fitted to be bound with
the Folio Bible.
28. A îatge Atlas of twenty.two Sheets, and eleven
Sheets Maps, é*c Price bound 2 /,
mJt^ JZj&y J^y ^/
7
