THE
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
To WHICH IS PREFIxed
A BIOGRAPHICAL MEMOIR, OF
DANIEL DE FOE.
VOL. I.
EMBELLISHED WITH WOODEN CUTS,
EDINBURGH:
THE
For John BALLANTYNE AND co. Hanover-street,
EDINBURGH; AND JOHN MURRAY, 32,
FLEET-STREET, LONDON.
1809.

*
)0 - 3-42%
ºut 6. '
CONTENTS
o F
volu ME FIRST.
Biographical MEMoIR of DANIEL DE FoE. . . . . i
THE LIFE AND Adventures o F
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
CHAP. I.
My Birth and Parentage—At nineteen years of age I de-
termine to go to Sea—Dissuaded by my Parents—Elope
with a School-fellow, and go on board Ship—A Storm
arises, during which I am dreadfully frightened—Ship
founders—Myself and Crew saved by a Boat from another
Vessel, and landed near Yarmouth—Meet my Compa-
nion's Father there, who advises me never to go to Sea
more, but all in vain. ................ . . . . . . . . . . . . . I
CHAP. II.
Make a trading Voyage to Guinea very successfully—Death
of my Captain–Sail another Trip with his Mate—The
Vengeance of Providence for Disobedience to Parents
now overtakes me—Taken by a Sallee Rover, and all sold
ii CONTENTS.
as Slaves—My Master frequently sends me a-fishing,
which suggests an Idea of Escape—Make my Escape in
an open Boat, with a Moresco Boy................ .24
CHAP. III.
Make for the Southward, in hopes of meeting with some
European Wessel—See Savages along Shore—Shoot a
large Leopard–Am taken up by a Merchantman—Ar-
rive at the Brazils, and buy a Settlement there—Cannot
be quiet, but sail on a Voyage of adventure to Guinea—
Ship strikes on a Sand-bank in unknown Land–All lost
but myself, who am driven ashore, half dead.........44
CHAP. H.V.
Appearance of the Wreck and Country next day—Swim on
board of the Ship, and, by means of a contrivance, get a
quantity of Stores on shore—Shoot a bird, but it turns out
perfect carrion—Moralize upon my situation—The Ship
blown off Land—Set out in search of a proper place for
a habitation—See numbers of Goats—Melancholy re-
flections................... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .”
CHAP. V.
I begin to keep a Journal—Christen my desart Island the
Island of Despair—Fall upon various schemes to make
Tools, Baskets, &c ; and begin to build my House–At a
great loss of an evening for Candle, but fall upon an ex-
pedient to supply the want—Strange discovery of Corn-
A terrible Earthquake, and Storm................. 110
CHAP. VI. -
Observe a Ship driven aground by the late Storm-Pro-
10
eure a vast quantity of necessaries from the Wreck
—Catch a large Turtle—I fall ill of a Fever and Ague—
Terrible Dream, and serious reflections thereupon—Find
a Bible in one of the Seamen's Chests thrown ashore, the
reading whereof gives me great comfort............ 132
CHAP. VII.
I begin to take a survey of my Island—Discover plenty of
Tobacco, Grapes, Lemons, and Sugar Canes, wild, but no
human Inhabitants—Resolve to lay up a store of these
articles, to furnish me against the wet season—My Cat,
which I supposed lost, returns with Kittens—I regulate
my Diet, and shut myself up for the wet season.—Sow
my Grain, which comes to nothing; but I discover, and
remedy my error—Take account of the course of the
Weather. .......... ... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .156
CHAP. VIII.
Make a second Tour through the Island–Catch a young
Parrot, which I afterwards teach to speak—My mode of
sleeping at night—Find the other side of the island more
pleasant than mine, and covered with Turtle and Sea-fowl
—Catch a young Kid, which I tame—Return to my old
habitation—Great plague with my Harvest......... 172
CHAP. IX.
I attempt to mould earthen ware, and succeed—Descrip-
tion of my mode of baking—Begin to make a Boat—
After it is finished, am unable to get it down to the Wa-
ter—Serious reflections—My Ink and Biscuit exhausted,
and Clothes in a bad state—Contrive to make a Dress of
Skins. . . . . . . . . . . . . . ...................... . . . . . .318
CHAP. X.
I succeed in getting a Canoe afloat, and set out on a
voyage in the sixth year of my reign, or captivity—
Blown out to Sea—Reach the Shore with great difficulty
—Fall asleep, and am awakened by a voice calling my
name—Devise various schemes to tame Goats, and at last
succeed. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ............... .238
CHAP. XI.
Description of my Figure—Also of my Dwelling and In-
closures—Dreadful alarm on seeing the Print of a Man's
Foot on the Shore—Reflections—Take every possible
measure of precaution..................... ... ... .238
CHAP. XII.
I observe a Canoe out at Sea—Find on the Shore the rem-
nant of a feast of Cannibals—Horror of mind thereon—
Double arm myself—Terribly alarmed by a Goat—Dis-
cover a singular Cave, or Grotto, of which I form my
Magazine—My fears on account of the Savages begin to
subside. ..... - - - - - - - - - - . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 801
BIOGRAPHICAL MEMOIR
OF
DANIEL DE FOE.
Pennars there exists no work, either, of instruc-
tion or entertainment, in the English language,
which has been more generally read, and more
universally admired, than the Life and Adventures
of Robinson Crusoe. It is difficult to say in what
the charm consists, by which persons of all classes
and denominations are thus fascinated; yet the ma-
jority of readers will recollect it as amongst the
first works which awakened and interested their
youthful attention; and feel, even in advanced life,
and in the maturity of their understanding, that
there are still associated with Robinson Crusoe, the
WOL. I. A.
sentiments peculiar to that period, when all is new,
all glittering in prospect, and when those visions
are most bright, which the experience of after life
tends only to darken and destroy.
This work was first published in April 1719 ; its
reception, as may be supposed, was universal. It
is a singular circumstance, that the Author, (the sub-
ject of our present Memoir,) after a life spent in po-
litical turmoil, danger, and imprisonment, should
have occupied himself, in its decline, in the produc-
tion of a work like the present; unless it may be
supposed, that his wearied heart turned with dis-
gust from society and its institutions, and found so-
lace in picturing the happiness of a state, such as
he has assigned to his hero. Be this as it may, so-
ciety is for ever indebted to the memory of De Foe
for his production of a work, in which the ways of
Providence are simply and pleasingly vindicated,
and a lasting and useful moral is conveyed through
the channel of an interesting and delightful story.
DANIEL De Foe was born in London in the year
1663. His father was James Foe, of the parish of
St Giles', butcher. Much curious speculation, with
3
OF DANIEL DE FOE. iii,
which we shall not trouble our readers, has arisen
from the circumstance of Daniel's having, in his
own instance, prefixed the De to the family name.
We are inclined to adopt the opinion of that critical
enquirer, who supposes, that Daniel did so, being
ashamed of the lowness of his origin. His family,
as well as himself, were Dissenters; but it does not
appear that his tenets were so strict as his sect re-
quired; for he complains, in the Preface to his More
Reformation, “ that some Dissenters had reproached
him, as if he had said, that the gallows and the gal-
lies ought to be the penalty of going to the conven-
ticle; forgetting, that I must design to have my fa-
ther, my wife, six innocent children, and myself, put
into the same condition.”
De Foe’s education was rather circumscribed,
which is the more to be lamented, as, in so many
instances, he has exhibited proofs of rare natural
genius. He was sent by his father, at twelve years
old, to the Newington Green Dissenting Academy,
then kept by Mr Morton, where he remained about
four years; and this appears to have been all the
education he ever received. When he was remand-
ed from school, it would seem, that, his genius not
lying towards the marrow-bone and cleaver, his fa-
ther had put him to some other trade; of what na-
ture we are unable to learn, De Foe himself being
very reserved on the subject. When charged by
Tutchin” with having his breeding as an appren-
tice to a hosier, he asserts (May 1705) “ that he
never was a hosier, f or an apprentice, but admits
that he had been a trader.”
This, however, had occupied but a short period
of his youth; for in 1685, when he was in his
twenty-second year, he took up arms in the cause
of the duke of Monmouth. On the destruction of
Monmouth's party, Daniel had the good fortune to
- escape unpunished amidst the herd of greater de-
linquents; but, in his latter years, when the avowal
was no longer dangerous, he boasts himself much
* Tutchin, the publisher of the Observator, and a steady
opponent of De Foe's both in politics and literature.
+ Perhaps the salvo he laid to his conscience for this
apparently false assertion, was, that though he dealt in
hose, he did not make them.
of his exploits, in His Appeal to Honour and Jus-
tice, being a true Aecount of his Conduct in Public
Affairs.
Two years afterwards (1688), De Foe was ad-
mitted a Liveryman of London. As he had been
throughout a steady advocate. for the Revolution,
he had now the satisfaction of witnessing that great
event. Oldmixon says, (Works, Vol. II. p. 276)
that at a feast, given by the Lord Mayor of London
to King William, on the 29th October, 1689, De
Foe appeared gallantly mounted, and richly accou-
tred, amongst the troopers commanded by Lord
Peterborough, who attended the king and queen
from Whitehall to the Mansion-house. All Da-
niel's horsemanship, however, united to the steady
devotion of his pen to the cause of William, were
unable to procure him the notice of that cold-cha-
ractered monarch; and our author was fain to
content himself (as his adversary Tutchin asserts)
with the humble occupation of a hosier in Free-
man's Yard, Cornhill;---wisely considering, that if
the court could do without political tracts, the peo-
ple could not do without stockings.
With the ill fortune, however, attendant upon
those men of genius, who cultivate their superior
powers to the neglect of that common sense, which
is requisite to carry a man creditably through this
every-day world, De Foe's affairs declined from
bad to worse; he spent those hours, which he ought
to have devoted to his shop, in a society for the
cultivation of polite learning, and he was under the
necessity of absconding from his creditors in 1692.
One of those creditors, who had less consideration
for polite learning, and more irritability than the
rest, took out a commission of bankruptcy against
him; but, fortunately for our author, this was su-
perseded on the petition of those to whom he was
most indebted, and a composition was accepted.
This composition he punctually paid by efforts of
unwearied diligence; and some of the creditors,
whose claims had been thus satisfied, falling into
distress themselves, he waited upon them, and paid
their debts in full. He was next engaged in carry-
ing on tile-works, on the banks of the Thames, near
Tilbury, but with little success; for it was sarcasti-
cally said of him, that he did not, “like the Egyp-
tians, require bricks without straw, but, like the
Jews, required bricks without paying his labour-
ers.” United to his tile-making, our author, sti-
mulated by an active mind and embarrassed cir-
cumstances, devised many other schemes, or, as
he called them, projects. He wrote many sheets
about the English coin; he projected Banks for
every county, and Factories for goods; he exhibi-
ted a Proposal (very feelingly, no doubt) for a com-
mission of enquiry into bankrupt's estates; he con-
trived a Pension-office for the relief of the poor,
and finished, by publishing a long Essay upon pro-
jects themselves.
About this period (1695), our author's indefa-
tigable endeavours procured him some notice from
the court, and he was appointed accountant to the
commissioners for managing the duties on glass.
Here also his usual ill luck attended him; he was
thrown out of his situation by the suppression of the
tax in 1699.
But the time at length arrived when the sun of
royal favour was to shine out upon our author's
prospects. About the end of 1699, there was pub.
lished, what De Foe calls, “an horrid pamphlet, in
“very ill verse, written by one Tutchin, and called
“The Foreigners: in which the author fell person-
“ally upon the king, then upon the Dutch nation,
“ and, after having reproached his majesty with
“crimes, that his worst enemies could not think of
“without horror, he sums up all in the odious name
“ of Foreigner. This filled me with rage against
“ the book, and gave birth to a trifle, which I ne-
“ver could hope should have met with so general
“an acceptation.”
The trifle, which De Foe here alludes to, was his
True Born Englishman; a poetical satire on the Fo-
reigners, and a defence of King William and the
Dutch; of which the sale was great without exam-
ple, and our author's reward proportionate. He was
even admitted to the honour of a personal inter-
view with the king, and became with more ardour
than ever a professed partizan of the court.
His first publication afterwards, was, The origi-
nal Power of the Collective Body of the People of
England examined and asserted; next, An Argument
to prove, that a standing Army, with consent of Par-
diament, was not inconsistent with a free Government;
but, as we do not mean to follow De Foe through
the career of his politics, and intend only to notice
such as, in their consequences, materially affected
his personal situation and affairs, we shall pass to
the death of his sovereign and patron, which took
place 8th March, 1702.* .
The accession of Anne having restored the line
of Stuart, to whom the politics and conduct of De
Foe had been peculiarly obnoxious, our author was
shortly reduced, as before, to live on the produce
of his wits: and it is perhaps lucky for the world,
that there is so much truth in the universal out-cry
against the neglect of living authors; for there
seems a certain laziness concomitant with genius,
which can only be incited to action by the pres-
sure of necessity. Had William lived, probably
* Feb. 26. William, riding from Kensington towards
Hampton, was thrown from his horse, and broke his collar-
bone. He lingered till the morning of March 8th, when he
died about eight o'clock, in the fifty-second year of his
age.
the world would never have been delighted with
the Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
Whether De Foe found politics the most ven-
dible produce of the press, or, like Macbeth, felt
himself
Stept in so far, that should I wade no more,
Returning were as tedious as go o'er,
we are yet to learn; but he ventured to reprint
his Shortest Way with the Dissenters; and to publish
several other treatises, which were considered libel-
lous by the Commons: and on the 25th of Febru-
ary, 1702-3, a complaint being made in the House,
of a book, entitled, The Shortest Way with the Dis-
senters; and the folios 11---18 and 26 being read,
“Resolved, that this book, being full of false and
scandalous reflections on this Parliament, and tend-
ing to promote sedition, be burnt by the hands of
the common hangman, in New Palace-Yard.” -
Our unfortunate author's political sins were now
all mustered in array against him, and a tremen-
dous catalogue they made. He had been the favou-
rite and panegyrist of William; he had fought for
Monmouth, and opposed James; he had vindicated
the Revolution, and defended the rights of the peo-
ple; he had bantered, insulted, and offended, the
whole Tory leaders of the Commons; and, after
all, he could not be quiet, but must republish his
most offensive productions.
Thus overpowered, De Foe was obliged to se-
crete himself; and we are indebted to a very dis-
agreeable circumstance for the following accurate
description of his person. A proclamation was is-
sued by the secretaries of state, in January 1703,
in the following terms:
“ St James's, Jan. 10, 1702-3.
* Whereas Daniel De Foe, alias De Fooe, is
charged with writing a scandalous and seditious
pamphlet, entitled, “The Shortest Way with the
Dissenters:” he is a middle-sized spare man, about
forty years old, of a brown complexion, and dark-
brown coloured hair, but wears a wig, a hooked
nose, a sharp chin, grey eyes, and a large mole
near his mouth; was born in London, and for
many years was a hose-factor, in Freeman's Yard,
in Cornhill, and now is owner of the brick and
pantile works near Tilbury-fort, in Essex: who-
ever shall discover the said Daniel De Foe to one
of her majesty's principal secretaries of state, or
any of her majesty's justices of peace, so as he
may be apprehended, shall have a reward of £50,
which her majesty has ordered immediately to be
paid upon such discovery.”
He was shortly after caught, fined, pilloried, and
imprisoned. “ Thus,” says he, “ was I a second
time ruined; for by this affair I lost above £3,500
sterling.”
While he was confined in Newgate, he occupied
his time in correcting for the press a collection of
his own writings, which was published in the course
of the year; and he even amused himself by wri-
ting an Ode to the Pillory; of which he had so
lately been made the unwilling acquaintance. But
the chief object to which he directed his mind, was
the projection of The Review. The publication of this
periodical work commenced in 4to, on the 19th Fe-
bruary, 1704, and continued at the rate of two num-
bers a week, till March, 1705, when an additional
weekly number was published, and it was continued
every Tuesday, Thursday, and Saturday, till May,
1713, forming in whole nine thick volumes. De
Foe was the sole writer. This work treats of fo–
reign and domestic intelligence, politics, and trade;
but as our author foresaw that it was not likely to
become popular unless amusing, he discusses vari-
ous other topics, under the head of a Scandal Club;
Love, Marriage, Poetry, Language, and the pre-
vailing tastes and habits of the times. Neither did
these occupations find sufficient employment for
his active mind. While he was still in Newgate,
(1704) he published The Storm; or a collection of
the most remarkable casualties which happened in
the tempest, 26th November, 1703. Nor was this
work a dry detail of disasters only, De Foe having
taken the occasion, with his usual felicity, to incul-
cate the truths of religion, and the superintenden-
cy of Providence.*
* The following account of this tremendous visitation
is extracted from the records of the period.
“November 26. About midnight began the most terrible
About the end of 1704, when, as our author tells
us, he lay ruined and friendless in Newgate, without
hopes of deliverance, Sir Robert Harley, then se-
cretary of state, of whom De Foe had no previous
personal knowledge, sent a verbal message to him,
desiring to know “what he could do for him.” Our
author, no doubt, made a suitable reply; in conse-
storm that had been known in England, the wind W.S.W.
attended with flashes of lightning. It uncovered the roofs
of many houses and churches, blew down the spires of se-
veral steeples and chimneys, tore whole groves of trees up
by the roots. The leads of some churches were rolled up
like scrolls of parchment, and several vessels, boats and
barges, were sunk in the 1iver of Thames; but the royal
mavy sustained the greatest damage, being just returned
from the Straits: four third rates, one second rate, four
fourth rates, and many others of less force, were cast away
upon the coast of England, and above fifteen hundred sea-
men lost, besides those that were cast away in merchant
ships. The loss that London alone sustained was computed
at one million sterling, and the city of Bristol lost to the
amount of two hundred thousand pounds. Among the per-
sons who were drowned was Rear-Admiral Beaumont.
“Upon this calamity the Commons addressed her majesty,
that she would give directions for rebuilding and repairing
the royal navy; and that she would make some provision
for the families of those seamen that perished in the storm,
with which her majesty complied.”
quence of which, Sir Robert took an opportunity to
represent to the queen his present misery, and un-
merited sufferings. Anne, however, did not imme-
diately consent to his liberation, but she enquired
into the circumstances of his family, and sent, by
Lord Godolphin, a considerable sum to his wife.
She afterwards, through the same medium, convey-
ed a sum to himself, equal to the payment of his
fine and discharge, and thus bound him eternally to
her interest. He was liberated from Newgate the
end of 1704, and retired immediately to his fa-
mily at St Edmund's-Bury. He was not allow-
ed, however, to enjoy the quiet he courted. Book-
sellers, news-writers, and wits, circulated every-
where reports, that he had fled from justice, and
deserted his security. He despised their spite, and
resumed his labours; the first fruits of which were,
a Hymn to Victory, and a Double Welcome to the
Duke of Marlborough; the subjects for both of which
were furnished by the glorious achievements of that
general.
Our author now continued his Review, and his
political pamphleteering, for several years; in the
course of which he was subjected to much disquiet,
and frequently to danger; but the consciousness of
his situation as an English freeholder, and a livery-
man of London, united to a considerable degree of
resolution and personal courage, enabled him to
encounter and overcome the machinations of his
enemies. It will scarcely be believed, at this time
of day, that, on a journey which his affairs led
him to take to the western parts of England, a pro-
ject was formed to kidnap and send him as a sol-
dier to the army; that the western justices, in the
ardour of their party zeal, determined to appre-
hend him as a vagabond; and that suits were com-
menced against him in his absence for fictitious
debts: Yet all these circumstances De Foe has as-
serted in his Review; and we have not learnt that
any attempt was ever made to controvert the truth
of his statements.
About this time (1706) a situation occurred, for
which our author's abilities were peculiarly fit-
ted. The cabinet of Queen Anne was in want of a
person of general commercial knowledge, ready ta-
lents, and insinuating manners, to go to Scotland
for the purpose of promoting the great measure of
the Union. Lord Godolphin determined to employ
De Foe; he accordingly carried him to the queen,
by whom our author was graciously received, and
in a few days he was sent to Edinburgh. The parti-
cular nature of his instructions has never been made
public; but on his arrival at Edinburgh, in Octo-
ber, 1706, De Foe was recognized as a character
almost diplomatic. We must refer our readers to
his History of the Union, for the various and inte-
resting particulars of this mission; the detail of
which, here, would occupy an extent beyond the
limits of our biography.
De Foe appears to have been no great favour-
ite in Scotland, although, while there, he publish-
ed Caledonia, a poem in honour of the nation. He
mentions many hair-breadth 'scapes, which, by
“ his own prudence, and God’s providence,” he ef.
fected; and it is not wonderful, that where almost
the whole nation was decidedly averse to the Union,
a character like De Foe, sent thither to promote it
by all means, direct and indirect, should be re-
garded with dislike, and even exposed to danger.
WOL. I. B
The act for the Union was passed by the Scotch par-
liament in January, and De Foe returned to London
in February, 1707. It is believed that his services
were rewarded by a pension from Queen Anne.
During the troublous period, at the conclusion of
the war by the treaty of Utrecht, De Foe, wiser by
experience, lived quietly at Newington, publishing
his Review. He encountered, however, in the ful-
filment of this task, much contentious opposition
and obloquy, which he manfully resisted and re-
torted; but, after the political changes, by which
his first patron Sir Robert Harley, and next Lord
Godolphin, were turned out of power, his pecuniary
allowance from the Treasury seems to have ceased,
and he was compelled, as before, to launch out as
a general writer for the supply of his necessities.
The political agitation of the times dictated his sub-
jects; but, unfortunately for De Foe, both Tories -
and Jacobites, in those days, were such plain mat-
ter-of-fact men, that his raillery was misunderstood,
and he was arrested, and committed to his old ha-
bitation, for several squibs, which were obviously
ironical.
The writings on which he was indicted, were
two; What if the Pretender should come 2 and, What
if the Queen should die P “ Nothing,” says De Foe,
“ could be more plain, than that the titles of these
“ are amusements, in order to get the books into
“ the hands of those who had been deluded by the
“ Jacobites.” His explanation would not suffice;
he was tried and found guilty, fined in £800,
and committed to Newgate. He was now com-
pelled to drop the publication of his Review; and
it is singular, that he did so while confined in
Newgate, the very place in which its idea had first
entered his head nine years before.
After lying in jail a few months, he was libera-
ted by the queen's order in November, 1713.
Although thus released, and the innocence of
his intentions admitted, if not established, nothing
was done for him; and the queen's death, which
took place shortly after, (in July, 1714) left him
defenceless to the attacks of his rancorous enemies.
“No sooner,” says he, “ was the queen dead, and
“the king, as right required, proclaimed, but the
“rage of men encreased upon me to that degree,
“ that their threats were such as I am unable to
“express; and though I have written nothing
“since the queen's death, yet a great many things
“ are called by my name, and I bear the answer-
“ er's insults.” This was the darkest period of our
author's life. He had lost his appointment, what-
ever it was; he had been obliged to give up his
Review; every thing he ventured to publish be-
sides, was received with suspicion, and he was on
all hands overborne by faction, injury, and in-
sult. His health declined fast under these un-
merited sufferings, but the vigour of his mind re-
mained; and he determined to assert the innocence
of his conduct, and to clear his blemished fame.
He accordingly published, in 1715, “An Appeal
to Honour and Justice, though it be of his worst
Enemies, being a True Account of his Conduct in
Public Affairs.” This work contains a long ac-
count and defence of his political conduct from
the outset, and a most affecting detail of his suf-
ferings; but the subject had been too much for him.
When he reviewed what he had done, and how he
had been rewarded; how much he had deserved, and
how heavily he had suffered; the ardent spirit of De
Foe sunk before the picture, and he was struck with
apoplexy before he could finish his work. It was
published nevertheless by his friends, and the pro-
fits of its sale seem to have been the only source of
his support. This was the terminating period of our
author's political career. He recovered his health,
but his mind had changed its tone; and it was
now that the history of Selkirk first suggested to
him the idea of Robinson Crusoe. It has been
thought by some to detract from the merit of De
Foe, that the idea was not originally his own: but
really the story of Selkirk, which had been pub-
lished a few years before, in Woodes Rogers' *
Voyage round the World, appears to have fur-
nished our author with so little beyond the bare
idea of a man living upon an uninhabited island,
that it appears quite immaterial whether he took
* Woodes Rogers, who relieved Selkirk from his solitude,
was, at that time, commodore of a commercial expedition
round the world, which sailed February 1709, and returned
to Britain 1711. A project for the re-settlement of the Ba-
hama Islands having been submitted to Mr Addison, (then
secretary of state) in 1717, the measure was determined
on, and Rogers was appointed to head the expedition.
He died governor of those islands, in 1732.
his hint from that, or from any other similar story,
of which many were then current. In order to en-
able our readers to judge how very little De Foe has
been assisted by Selkirk's narrative, we have ex-
tracted the whole from Woodes Rogers' Voyage.
The Remarkable History of ALEXANDER SELKIRK.
“On February 1st, 1709, we came before the island of
Juan Fernandez, having had a good observation the day
before, and found our latitude to be 34 degrees 10 minutes
south. In the afternoon, we hoisted out our pinnace;
and Captain Dover, with the boat's crew, went in her to
go ashore, though we could not be less than four leagues
off. As soon as the pinnace was gone, I went on board
the Duchess, who admired out boat attempting going ashore
at that distance from land. It was against my inclination:
but, to oblige Captain Dover, I let her go. As soon as it
was dark, we saw a light ashore. Our boat was then
about a league off the island, and bore away for the ships
as soon as she saw the lights. We put our lights aboard
for the boat, though some were of opinion, the lights we
saw were our boat's lights; but, as night came on, it ap-
peared too large for that. We fired our quarter-deck gun,
and several muskets, showing lights in our mizen and fore-
shrouds, that our boat might find us whilst we were in the
lee of the island : About two in the morning our boat came
on board, having been two hours on board the Duchess,
that took them up astern of us; we were glad they got well
off, because it began to blow. We were all convinced the
light was on the shore, and designed to make our ships
ready to engage, believing them to be French ships at an-
chor, and we must either fight them, or want water. All
this stir and apprehension arose, as we afterwards found,
from one poor naked man, who passed in our imagination,
at present, for a Spanish garrison, a body of Frenchmen,
or a crew of pirates. While we were under these appre-
hensions, we stood on the backside of the island, in order
to fall in with the southerly wind, till we were past the
island ; and then we came back to it again, and ran close
aboard the land that begins to make the north-east side.
We still continued to reason upon this matter; and it is
in a manner incredible, what strange motions many of our
people entertained from the sight of the fire upon the
island. It served, however, to show people's tempers and
spirits; and we were able to give a tolerable guess how
our men would behave, in case there really were any
enemies upon the island. The flaws came heavy off the
shore, and we were forced to reef our topsails when we
opened the middle bay, where we expected to have found
our enemy; but saw all clear, and no ships, nor in the
other bay next the north-east end. These two bays are all
that ships ride in, which recruit on this island; but the
middle bay is by much the best. We guessed there had
been ships there, but that they were gone on sight of us.
We sent our yawl ashore about noon, with Captain Dover,
Mr Fry, and six men, all armed : Mean while we and the
Duchess kept turning to get in, and such heavy flaws came
off the land, that we were forced to let go our top-sair
sheet, keeping all hands to stand by our sails, for fear of
the winds carrying them away : But when the flaws were
gone, we had little or no wind. These flaws proceeded
from the land, which is very high in the middle of the
island. Our boat did not return; we sent our pinnace
with the men armed, to see what was the occasion of the
yawl's stay; for we were afraid, that the Spaniards had
a garrison there, and might have seized them. We put
out a signal for our boat, and the Duchess showed a French
ensign. Immediately our pinnace returned from the shore,
and brought abundance of cray-fish, with a man clothed in
goats skins, who looked wilder than the first owners of
them. He had been on the island four years and four
months, being left there by Captain Stradling in the Cinque-
ports; his name was ALEXANDER SELKIRK, a Scotchman,
who had been master of the Cinque-ports, a ship that came
here last with Captain Dampier, who told me, that this
was the best man in her. I immediately agreed with him
to be a mate on board our ship: It was he that made the
fire last night when he saw our ships, which he judged to
be lºnglish. During his stay here he saw several ships pass
by, but only two came to anchor. As he went to view
them, he found them to be Spaniards, and retired from
them, upon which they shot at him : Had they been
French, he would have submitted; but chose to risque his
dying alone on the island, rather than fall into the hands
of Spaniards in these parts; because he apprehended they
would murder him, or make a slave of him in the mines;
for he feared they would spare no stranger, that might be
capable of discovering the South Seas.
The Spaniards had landed, before he knew what they
were ; and they came so near him, that he had much ado
to escape; for they not only shot at him, but pursued
him to the woods, where he climbed to the top of a
tree, at the foot of which they made water, and kill-
ed several goats just by, but went off again without dis-
covering him. He told us that he was born in Scotland,
and was bred a sailor from his youth. The reason of his
being left here, was a difference between him and his
captain; which, together with the ship's being leaky,
made him willing rather to stay here, than go along
with him at first; but when he was at last willing to go,
the captain would not receive him. He had been at the
island before, to wood and water, when two of the ship's
company were left upon it for six months, till the ship re-
turned, being chased thence by two French South Sea
ships. He had with him his clothes and bedding, with a
firelock, some powder, bullets, and tobacco, a hatchet, a
knife, a kettle, a Bible, some practical pieces, and his
mathematical instruments and books. He diverted and
provided for himself as well as he could ; but for the first
eight months, had much ado to bear up against melancho-
ly, and the terror of being left alone in such a desolate
place. He built two huts with pimento trees, covered
them with long grass, and lined them with the skins of
goats, which he killed with his gun as he wanted, so long
as his powder lasted, which was but a pound; and that be-
ing almost spent, he got fire by rubbing two sticks of pi-
mento wood together upon his knee. In the lesser hut, at
some distance from the other, he dressed his victuals; and
in the larger he slept, and employed himself in reading,
singing psalms, and praying; so that he said, he was a bet-
ter Christian, while in this solitude, than ever he was be-
fore, or than, he was afraid, he should ever be again.
At first he never ate any thing till hunger constrained
him, partly for grief, and partly for want of bread and
salt: Nor did he go to bed, till he could watch no longer;
the pimento wood, which burnt very clear, served him
both for fire and candle, and refreshed him with its fra-
grant smell. He might have had fish enough, but would
not eat them for want of salt, because they occasioned a
looseness, except cray-fish, which are as large as our lob-
sters, and very good : These he sometimes boiled, and at
other times broiled, as he did his goats flesh, of which he
made very good broth, for they are not so rank as ours.
He kept an account of 500 that he killed while there, and
caught as many more, which he marked on the ear, and
let go. When his powder failed, he took them by speed
of feet; for his way of living, continual exercise of walk-
ing and running, cleared him of all gross humours; so that
he ran with wonderful swiftness through the woods, and
up the rocks and hills, as we perceived when we employed
him to catch goats for us: We had a bull dog, which we
sent with several of our nimblest runners, to help him in
catching goats; but he distanced and tired both the dog
and the men, caught the goats, and brought them to us on
his back. -
He told us, that his agility in pursuing a goat had once
like to have cost him his life; he pursued it with so much
eagerness, that he catched hold of it on the brink of a
precipice, of which he was not aware, the bushes hiding
it from him; so that he fell with the goat down the preci-
pice, a great height, and was so stunned and bruised with
the fall, that he narrowly escaped with his life; and, when
he came to his senses, found the goat dead under him : He
lay there about twenty-four hours, and was scarce able to
crawl to his hut, which was about a mile distant, or to stir
abroad again in ten days.
He came at last to relish his meat well enough without
salt or bread; and, in the season, had plenty of good tur-
nips, which had been sowed there by Captain Dampier's
men, and have now overspread some acres of ground. He
had enough of good cabbage from the cabbage-trees, and
seasoned his meat with the fruit of the pimento-trees,
which is the same as Jamaica pepper, and smells delicious-
ly. He found also a black pepper, called Malageta, which
was very good to expel wind, and against griping in the
guts.
He soon wore out all his shoes and clothes by running in
the woods; and, at last, being forced to shift without them,
his feet became so hard, that he ran every-where without
difficulty; and it was some time before he could wear shoes
after we found him; for, not being used to any so long, his
feet swelled, when he came first to wear them again.
After he had conquered his melancholy, he diverted him-
self sometimes with cutting his name on the trees, and the
time of his being left, and continuance there. He was at
first much pestered with cats and rats, that bred in great
numbers, from some of each species which had got ashore
from ships that put in there to wood and water. The rats
gnawed his feet and clothes whilst asleep, which obliged
him to cherish the cats with his goats flesh, by which many
of them became so tame, that they would lie about him in
hundreds, and soon delivered him from the rats. He like-
wise tamed some kids; and, to divert himself, would, now
and then, sing and dance with them, and his cats: So
that, by the favour of Providence, and vigour of his youth,
being now but thirty years old, he came, at last, to con-
quer all the inconveniencies of his solitude, and to be very
easy.
When his clothes were worn out, he made himself a coat
and a cap of goat-skins, which he stitched together with
little thongs of the same, that he cut with his knife. He
had no other needle but a nail; and when his knife was
worn to the back, he made others, as well as he could, of
some iron hoops that were left ashore, which he beat thin,
and ground upon stones. Having some linen-cloth by him,
he sewed him some shirts with a nail, and stitched them
with the worsted of his old stockings, which he pulled out
on purpose. He had his last shirt on, when we found him
in the island.
At his first coming on board us, he had so much forgot
his language, for want of use, that we could scarce under-
stand him; for he seemed to speak his words by halves.
We offered him a dram; but he would not touch it, having
drank nothing but water since his being there: and it was
some time before he could relish our victuals. He could
give us an account of no other product of the island than
what we have mentioned, except some black plums, which
are very good, but hard to come at; the trees which bear
them growing on high mountains and rocks. Pimento trees
are plenty here; and we saw some of sixty feet high, and
about two yards thick; and cotton trees higher, and near
four fathoms round in the stock. The climate is so good,
that the trees and grass are verdant all the year round. The
winter lasts no longer than June and July, and is not then
severe, there being only a small frost, and a little hail; but
sometimes great rains. The heat of the summer is equally
moderate; and there is not much thunder, or tempestuous
weather of any sort. He saw no venomous or savage crea-
ture on the island; nor any sort of beasts but goats, the first
of which had been put ashore here, on purpose for a breed,
by Juan Fernandez, a Spaniard, who settled there with
some families, till the continent of Chili began to submit to
the Spaniards; which, being more profitable, tempted them
to quit this island, capable, however, of maintaining a good
number of people, and being made so strong, that they courd
not be easily dislodged from thence.
We are indebted for the following additional
particulars, respecting the life and fate of this
singular character, to the research of A. Gibson
Hunter, Esq. of Balskelly, in Scotland; who, we
believe, is yet in possession of his will, and some
other curious relicks. Through this gentleman
we learn, that Selkirk was born at Largo in
Fife, in the year 1676, where he possessed some
trifling landed property. He went mate with
Captain Stradling, in the Cinque Ports, on a tra-
ding voyage round the world, in 1704. In the
course of which, a difference arising betwixt him
and his captain, the causes of which must now
remain for ever unexplained, Selkirk, with all
the hardihood of the seaman's character, desi-
red to be landed on the island of Fernandez.
Here he remained in perfect solitude, existing as
xxx Biographical MEMOIR
he has described himself, until discovered by Cap-
tain Rogers. Selkirk died on board a king's ship,
the Weymouth, of which he was mate, in 1723;
leaving his effects, by will, to sundry “loving fe-
male friends,” with whom he had contracted inti-
macies in the course of his peregrinations. His
chest, his gun, and his drinking cup, the last
made of a cocoa nut shell, are, or were till lately,
the property of his descendants at Largo.
The sale of Robinson Crusoe was, as we have
already stated, rapid and extensive, and De Foe's
profits were commensurate. The work was at-
tacked on all sides by his ancient opponents, whose
labours have long since quietly descended with
their authors to merited oblivion; but our author,
having the public on his side, set them all at de-
fiance; and the same year, he published a second
volume with equal success. Thus far
“With steady bark and flowing sail
“He ran before the wind,”
but, incited by the hope of further profit, and con-
ceiving the theme of Crusoe inexhaustible, he short-
ly after published Serious Reflections during the Life
of Robinson Crusoe, with his Vision of the Angelic
World. These Visions and Reflections were well
received at the time, although by no means so
much in requisition now. -
With the return of his good fortune, our author’s
health was re-established, and the vigour of his
mind restored. He published, in 1720, The Life
and Piracies of Captain Singleton; and finding it
safer, it would seem, as well as more profitable,
to amuse the public, than to reform them, he con-
tinued this course, with little variation, for the re-
mainder of his life.
His subsequent publications, to all of which a
considerable degree of popularity was attached,
though none of them equalled the reputation of
Robinson Crusoe, were the Dumb Philosopher, His-
tory of Duncan Campbell, Remarkable Life of Co-
lonel Jack, Fortunate Mistress, and New Voyage
round the World.
We are now to take leave of our author, who
died in 1731, at the age of 68, in Cripplegate,
London, leaving a widow and large family in to-
lerable circumstances.
It does not fall within our plan either to attempt
a critical analysis of Robinson Crusoe, or a detail-
ed view of the character of Daniel De Foe; the
one is before our readers, and the other may be
estimated from his life. That De Foe was a man
of powerful intellect and lively imagination, is ob-
vious from his works; that he was possessed of an
ardent temper, a resolute courage, and an un-
wearied spirit of enterprize, is ascertained by the
events of his changeful career: and whatever may
be thought of that rashness and improvidence by
which his progress in life was so frequently imped-
ed, there seems no reason to withhold from him
the praise of integrity, sincerity, and unvaried con-
sistency. As the author of Robinson Crusoe, his
fame promises to endure as long as the language
in which he wrote.
The
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
+
OF
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
-
CHAP. I.
My Birth and Parentage—At nineteen years of age
I determine to go to Sea—Dissuaded by my Pa-
rents—Elope with a school-fellow, and go on board
Ship—A Storm arises, during which I am dread-
fully frightened—Ship founders—Myself and Crew
saved by a Boat from another Vessel, and landed
near Yarmouth—Meet my Companion's Father
there, who advises me never to go to Sea more, but
all in vain.
I was born in the year 1632, in the city of York,
of a good family, though not of that country, my
father being a foreigner of Bremen, who settled
first at Hull. He got a good estate by merchan-
WOL. I. A
2 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES
dize, and, leaving off his trade, lived afterwards at
York, from whence he had married my mother,
whose relations were named Robinson, a very good
family in that country, and from whom I was call-
ed Robinson Kreutznaer; but, by the usual corrup-
tion of words in England, we are now called, nay,
we call ourselves, and write our name, Crusoe;
and so my companions always called me.
I had two elder brothers, one of which was a
lieutenant-colonel to an English regiment of foot
in Flanders, formerly commanded by the famous
Colonel Lockhart, and was killed at the battle near
Dunkirk against the Spaniards: what became of
my second brother, I never knew, any more than
my father or mother did know what was become
of me.
Being the third son of the family, and not bred
to any trade, my head began to be filled very
early with rambling thoughts: my father, who was
very ancient, had given me a competent share of
learning, as far as house education, and a country
free-school generally goes, and designed me for the
law; but I would be satisfied with nothing but go-
ing to sea; and my inclination to this led me so
strongly against the will, nay, the commands, of
my father, and against all the entreaties and per-
suasions of my mother and other friends, that there
seemed to be something fatal in that propension of
10
. OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 8
nature, tending directly to the life of misery which
was to befal me.
My father, a wise and grave man, gave me se-
rious and excellent counsel against what he fore-
saw was my design. He called me one morning
into his chamber, where he was confined by the
gout, and expostulated very warmly with me upon
this subject: He asked me what reasons, more than
a mere wandering inclination, I had for leaving
my father's house and my native country, where
-I might be well introduced, and had a prospect of
raising my fortune by application and industry,
with a life of ease and pleasure: He told me, it
was men of desperate fortunes on one hand, or of
aspiring superior fortunes on the other, and who
went abroad upon adventures, to rise by enter-
prize, and make themselves famous in underta-
kings of a nature out of the common road; that
these things were all either too far above me, or
too far below me; that mine was the middle state,
or what might be called the upper station of low
life, which he had found, by long experience, was
the best state in the world; the most suited to hu-
man happiness, not exposed to the miseries and
hardships, the labour and sufferings of the mecha-
nic part of mankind, and not embarrassed with
the pride, luxury, ambition, and envy of the up-
- -
per part of mankind. He told me, I might judge
of the happiness of this state, by this one thing:
viz. That this was the state of life which all other
people envied; that kings have frequently lament-
ed the miserable consequences of being born to
great things, and wished they had been placed in
the middle of the two extremes, between the mean
and the great; that the wise man gave his testi-
mony to this, as the just standard of true felicity,
when he prayed to have neither poverty nor
riches.
He bade me observe it, and I should always find,
that the calamities of life were shared among the
upper and lower part of mankind; but that the
middle station had the fewest disasters, and was not
exposed to so many vicissitudes as the higher or
lower part of mankind; nay, they were not sub-
jected to so many distempers and uneasiness, ei-
ther of body or mind, as those were, who, by vi-
cious living, luxury, and extravagancies, on one
hand, or by hard labour, want of necessaries, and
mean or insufficient diet, on the other hand, bring
distempers upon themselves by the natural conse-
quences of their way of living; that the middle
station of life was calculated for all kind of vir-
tues, and all kind of enjoyments; that peace and
plenty were the handmaids of a middle fortune;
that temperance, moderation, quietness, health, so-
ciety, all agreeable diversions, and all desirable plea-
sures, were the blessings attending the middle sta-
tion of life; that this way men went silently and
smoothly through the world, and comfortably out
of it; not embarrassed, with the labours of the
hands, or of the head; not sold to a life of slavery
for daily bread, or harassed with perplexed cir.
cumstances, which rob the soul of peace, and the
body of rest; not enraged with the passion of en-
vy, or the secret burning lust of ambition for great
things; but in easy circumstances, sliding gently
through the world, and sensibly tasting the sweets
of living without the bitter; feeling that they are
happy, and learning by every day's experience to
know it more sensibly.
After this he pressed me earnestly, and in the
most affectionate manner, not to play the young
man, or to precipitate myself into miseries, which
nature, and the station of life I was born in, seem-
ed to have provided against; that I was under no
necessity of seeking my bread; that he would do
well for me, and endeavour to enter me fairly into
the station of life which he had been just recom-
mending to me; and that if I was not very easy
and happy in the world, it must be my mere fate,
or fault that must hinder it; and that he should
have nothing to answer for, having thus dischar-
ged his duty in warning me against measures
which he knew would be to my hurt: In a word,
that as he would do very kind things for me, if I
would stay and settle at home, as he directed; so
he would not have so much hand in my misfor-
tunes, as to give me any encouragement to go
away: and to close all, he told me, I had my elder
brother for an example, to whom he had used the
same earnest persuasions to keep him from going
into the Low Country wars, but could not prevail,
his young desires prompting him to run into the
army, where he was killed; and though he said he
would not cease to pray for me, yet he would ven-
ture to say to me, that if I did take this foolish
step, God would not bless me; and I would have
leisure hereafter to reflect upon having neglected
his counsel, when there might be none to assist in
my recovery.
I observed in this last part of his discourse, which
was truly prophetic, though I suppose my father
did not know it to be so himself; I say, I obser-
ved the tears run down his face very plentifully, es-
pecially when he spoke of my brother who was
killed; and that when he spoke of my having lei-
sure to repent, and none to assist me, he was so
moved, that he broke off the discourse, and told
me, his heart was so full, he could say no more to
In 16. -
I was sincerely afflicted with this discourse, as
indeed who could be otherwise? and I resolved
not to think of going abroad any more, but to set-
tle at home according to my father's desire. But,
alas! a few days wore it all off; and, in short, to
prevent any of my father's farther importunities,
in a few weeks after, I resolved to run quite away
from him. However, I did not act so hastily nei-
ther, as the first heat of my resolution prompted,
but I took my mother at a time when I thought
her a little pleasanter than ordinary; and told her,
That my thoughts were so entirely bent upon see-
ing the world, that I should never settle to any
thing with resolution enough to go through with it;
and my father had better give me his consent, than
force me to go without it; that I was now eighteen
years old, which was too late to go apprentice to
a trade, or clerk to an attorney; that I was sure,
if I did, I should never serve out my time, but I
should certainly run away from my master before
my time was out, and go to sea; and if she would
speak to my father to let me go one voyage abroad,
if I came home again, and did not like it, I would
go no more, and I would promise, by a double dili-
gence. to recover the time I had lost.
This put my mother into a great passion: she
told me, she knew it would be to no purpose to
speak to my father upon any such subject that
he knew too well what was my interest, to give his
consent to any such thing so much for my hurt;
and that she wondered how I could think of any
such thing, after the discourse I had had with my
father, and such kind and tender expressions, as she
knew my father had used to me; and that, in short,
if I would ruin myself, there was no help for me;
but I might depend I should never have their con-
sent to it: that, for her part, she would not have
so much hand in my destruction; and I should
never have it to say, that my mother was willing,
when my father was not.
Though my mother refused to move it to my
father, yet I heard afterwards, that she reported
all the discourse to him; and that my father, after
shewing a great concern at it, said to her, with a
sigh, “That boy might be happy, if he would stay
at home; but if he goes abroad, he will be the
most miserable wretch that ever was born; I can
give no consent to it.”
It was not till almost a year after this that I broke
loose, though in the mean time I continued ob-
stinately deaf to all proposals of settling to busi-
mess, and frequently expostulating with my father
and mother, about their being so positively deter-
mined against what they knew my inclinations
prompted me to. But being one day at Hull,
whither I went casually, and without any purpose
of making an elopement that time; but, I say, be-
ing there, and one of my companions being go-
ing by sea to London, in his father's ship, and
prompting me to go with them, with the common
allurement of a seafaring man, that it should cost
me nothing for my passage, I consulted neither
father or mother any more, nor so much as sent
them word of it; but leaving them to hear of it,
as they might, without asking God's blessing, or
my father's, without any consideration of circum-
stances or consequences, and in an ill hour, God
knows, on the 1st of September, 1651, I went on
board a ship bound for London. Never any young
adventurer's misfortunes, I believe, began sooner,
or continued longer, than mine: the ship was no
sooner got out of the Humber, but the wind began
to blow, and the sea to rise in a most frightful
manner; and as I had never been at sea before, I
was most inexpressibly sick in body, and terrified
in mind. I began now seriously to reflect upon
what I had done, and how justly I was overtaken
by the judgment of heaven for my wicked leaving
my father's house, and abandoning my duty; all
the good counsel of my parents, my father's tears
and my mother's intreaties, came now fresh into
my mind; and my conscience, which was not yet
come to the pitch of hardness to which it has been
since, reproached me with the contempt of ad-
vice, and the breach of my duty to God and my
father. -
All this while the storm increased, and the sea
went very high, though nothing like what I have
seen many times since; no, nor what I saw a few
days after: but it was enough to affect me then,
who was but a young sailor, and had never known
any thing of the matter. I expected every wave
would have swallowed us up, and that every time
the ship fell down, as I thought it did, in the
trough or hollow of the sea, we should never rise
more. In this agony of mind, I made many vows
and resolutions, that if it would please God to spare
my life in this one voyage, if ever I got once my foot
upon dry land again, I would go directly home to
my father, and never set it into a ship again while
I lived; that I would take his advice, and never
run myself into such miseries as these any more.
Now I saw plainly the goodness of his observations
about the middle station of life, how easy, how
comfortable he had lived all his days, and never
had been exposed to tempests at sea, or trouble
on shore; and, in short, I resolved, that I would,
hke a true repenting prodigal, go home to my fa-
ther. -
These wise and sober thoughts continued all the
while the storm continued, and indeed some time
after; but the next day the wind was abated, and
the sea calmer, and I began to be a little inured
to it. However, I was very grave for all that day,
being also a little sea-sick still; but towards night
the weather cleared up, the wind was quite over,
and a charming fine evening followed; the sun
went down perfectly clear, and rose so the next
morning; and having little or no wind, and a
smooth sea, the sun shining upon it, the sight
was, as I thought, the most delightful that ever I
8aw.
I had slept well in the night, and was now no
more sea-sick, but very cheerful; looking with
wonder upon the sea, that was so rough and terri-
ble the day before, and could be so calm and so
pleasant in so little a time after: and now, lest
my good resolutions should continue, my compa-
nion, who had indeed enticed me away, comes to
me, “Well, Bob,” says he, clapping me upon the
shoulder, “how do you do after it? I warrant you
were frighted, wer'n't you, last night, when it blew
but a capful of wind * “A capful d'ye call it?”
said I, “’twas a terrible storm.” “A storm, you
fool you!” replies he, “ do you call that a storm 2
why it was nothing at all; give us but a good ship,
and sea-room, and we think nothing of such a
squall of wind as that; but you're but a fresh-wa-
ter sailor, Bob; come, let us make a bowl of punch.
and we'll forget all that; d'ye (see what charming
weather ’tis now ** To make short this sad
part of my story, we went the way of all sailors;
the punch was made, and I was made half drunk
with it, and in that one night's wickedness, I
drowned all my repentance, all my reflections
upon my past conduct, all my resolutions for the
future. In a word, as the sea was returned to
its smoothness of surface, and settled calmness,
by the abatement of that storm, so, the hurry of
nly thoughts being over, my fears and appre-
hensions of being swallowed up by the sea be-
ing forgotten, and the current of my former de-
sires returned, I entirely forgot the vows and pro-
mises that I made in my distress. I found indeed
some intervals of reflection; and the serious thoughts
did, as it were, endeavour to return again some-
times; but I shook them off, and roused myself
from them, as it were from a distemper; and ap-
plying myself to drinking and company, soon mas-
tered the return of those fits (for so I called them);
and I had, in five or six days, got a complete vic-
tory over my conscience, as any young fellow that
resolved not to be troubled with it, could desire.
But I was to have another trial for it still; and
Providence, as in such cases generally it does, re-
solved to leave me entirely without excuse : for if
I would not take this for a deliverance, the next
was to be such an one, as the worst and most hard-
ened wretch among us would confess both the dan-
ger and the mercy.
The sixth day of our being at sea, we came in-
to Yarmouth roads; the wind having been con-
trary, and the weather calm, we had made but lit-
tle way since the storm. Here we were obliged to
come to an anchor, and here we lay, the wind con-
tinuing contrary, viz. at south-west, for seven or
eight days; during which time, a great many
ships from Newcastle came into the same roads, as
the common harbour where the ships might wait
for a wind for the river.
We had not, however, rid here so long, but we
should have tided it up the river, but that the wind
blew too fresh; and, after we had lain four or five
days, blew very hard. However, the roads being
reckoned as good as an harbour, the anchorage
good, and our ground-tackle very strong, our men
were unconcerned, and not in the least apprehen-
sive of danger; but spent the time in rest and
mirth, after the manner of the sea: but the eighth
day in the morning, the wind increased, and we
had all hands at work to strike our top-masts, and
make every thing snug and close, that the ship
might ride as easy as possible. By noon, the sea
went very high indeed, and our ship rid forecastle
in, shipped several seas, and we thought once or
twice our anchor had come home; upon which,
our master ordered out the sheet anchor; so that
we rode with two anchors ahead, and the cables
veered out to the better end. * .
By this time, it blew a terrible storm indeed;
and now, I began to see terror and amazement in
the faces even of the seamen themselves. The
master, though vigilant in the business of preser-
ving the ship, yet as he went in and out of his ca-
bin by me, I could hear him, softly to himself,
say several times; “Lord be merciful to us! we
shall be all lost, we shall be all undone;” and the
like. During these first hurries, I was stupid, ly-
ing still in my cabin, which was in the steerage,
and cannot describe my temper. I could ill re-
sume the first penitence which I had so apparently
trampled upon, and hardened myself against: I
thought the bitterness of death had been past; and
that this would be nothing too, like the first. But
when the master himself came by me, as I said
just now, and said we should be all lost, I was
dreadfully frighted: I got up out of my cabin, and
looked out; but such a dismal sight I never saw :
the sea went mountains high, and broke upon us
every three or four minutes: when I could look
about, I could see nothing but distress round us.
14 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES
masts by the board, being deep loaden; and our
men cried out, that a ship, which rid about a mile
ahead of us, was foundered. Two more ships, be-
ing driven from their anchors, were run out of the
roads to sea, at all adventures, and that with not
a mast standing. The light ships fared the best,
as not so much labouring in the sea; but two or
three of them drove, and came close by us, run-
ning away with only their sprit-sail out, before the
wind. :
Towards the evening, the mate and boatswain
begged the master of our ship to let them cut away
the foremast, which he was very unwilling to do:
but the boatswain protesting to him, that if he did
not, the ship would founder, he consented; and
when they had cut away the fore-mast, the main-
mast stood so loose, and shook the ship so much,
they were obliged to cut her away also, and make
a clear deck. . -
Any one must judge what a condition I must be
in at all this, who was but a young sailor, and
who had been in such a fright before at but a little.
But if I can express at this distance the thoughts I
had about me at that time, I was in tenfold more
horror of mind upon account of my former convic-
tions, and the having returned from them to the
resolutions I had wickedly taken at first, than I was
at death itself; and these, added to the terror of
the storm, put me into 'such a condition, that I
can by no words describe it. But the worst was
not come yet; the storm continued with such fury,
that the seamen themselves acknowledged they
had never seen a worse. We had a good ship, but
she was deep-loaden, and wallowed in the sea, that
the seamen every now and then cried out, she
would founder. It was my advantage in one re-
spect, that I did not know what they meant by
founder, till I enquired. However, the storm was
so violent, that I saw what is not often seen, the
master, the boatswain, and some others more sen-
sible than the rest, at their prayers, and expecting
every moment when the ship would go to the bot-
tom. In the middle of the night, and under all the
rest of our distresses, one of the men that had been
down on purpose to see, cried out we had sprung
a leak; another said, there was four feet water in
the hold. Then all hands were called to the pump.
At that very word, my heart, as I thought, died
within me; and I fell backwards upon the side of
my bed where I sat, into the cabin. However, the
men roused me, and told me, that I that was able
to do nothing before, was as well able to pump as
another; at which I stirred up, and went to the
pump, and worked very heartily. While this was
doing, the master seeing some light colliers, who,
not able to ride out the storm, were obliged to slip
and run away to the sea, and would come near us,
ordered to fire a gun as a signal of distress. I,
8
who knew nothing what that meant, was so sur-
prised, that I thought the ship had broke, or some
dreadful thing happened. In a word, I was so sur-
prised, that I fell down in a swoon. As this was
a time when every body had his own life to think
of, nobody minded me, or what was become of
me; but another man stept up to the pump, and,
thrusting me aside with his foot, let me lie, think-
ing I had been dead; and it was a great while be-
fore I came to myself.
We worked on, but the water increasing in the
hold, it was apparent, that the ship would founder;
and though the storm began to abate a little, yet
as it was not possible she could swim till we might
run into a port, so the master continued firing
guns for help; and a light ship, who had rid it out
just a-head of us, ventured a boat out to help us.
It was with the utmost hazard the boat came near
us; but it was impossible for us to get on board,
or for the boat to lie near the ship-side, till at last
the men rowing very heartily, and venturing their
lives to save ours, our men cast them a rope over
the stern with a buoy to it, and then veered it out
a great length, which they, after much labour and
hazard, took hold of, and we hauled them close
under our stern, and got all into their boat. It
was to no purpose for them or us, after we were
in the boat, to think of reaching to their own ship;
WOL. I. B
so all agreed to let her drive, and only to pull her
in towards shore as much as we could ; and our
master promised them, that if the boat was staved
upon shore, he would make it good to their mas-
ter: so partly rowing, and partly driving, our boat
went away to the northward, sloping towards the
shore, almost as far as Winterton-Ness.
We were not much more than a quarter of an
hour out of our ship, but we saw her sink: and
then I understood for the first time, what was
meant by a ship foundering in the sea. I must
acknowledge I had hardly eyes to look up, when
the seamen told me she was sinking; for, from
that moment they rather put me into the boat, than
that I might be said to go in, my heart was, as it
were, dead within me, partly with fright, partly
with horror of mind, and the thoughts of what was
yet before me.
While we were in this condition, the men yet
labouring at the oar to bring the boat near the
shore, we could see, (when our boat mounting the
waves we were able to see the shore,) a great
many people running along the shore to assist us
when we should come near; but we made but slow
way towards the shore, nor were we able to reach
the shore, till being past the light-house at Win-
terton, the shore falls off to the westward towards
Cromer, and so the land broke off a little the vio-
lence of the wind. Here we got in, and, though not
without much difficulty, got all safe on shore, and
walked afterwards on foot to Yarmouth, where, as
unfortunate men, we were used with great huma-
nity, as well by the magistrates of the town, who
assigned us good quarters, as by particular mer-
chants and owners of ships, and had money given
us sufficient to carry us either to London, or back
to Hull, as we thought fit.
Had I now had the sense to have gone back to
Hull, and have gone home, I had been happy, and
my father, an emblem of our blessed Saviour's
parable, had even killed the fatted calf for me;
for, hearing the ship I went away in was cast away
in Yarmouth Road, it was a great while before he
had any assurance that I was not drowned.
But my ill fate pushed me on now with an ob-
stimacy that nothing could resist; and, though I
had several times loud calls from my reason and
my more composed judgment to go home, yet I
had no power to do it. I know not what to call
this, nor will I urge, that it is a secret overruling
decree that hurries us on to be the instruments of
our own destruction, even though it be before us,
and that we push upon it with our eyes open. Cer-
tainly, nothing but some such decreed unavoidable
misery attending, and which it was impossible for
me to escape, could have pushed me forward against
the calm reasonings and persuasions of my most re-
10
tired thoughts, and against two such visible instruc-
tions as I had met with in my first attempt.
My comrade, who had helped to harden me be-
fore, and who was the master's son, was now less
forward than I. The first time he spoke to me af.
ter we were at Yarmouth, which was not till two
or three days, for we were separated in the town to
several quarters; I say, the first time he saw me, it
appeared his tone was altered; and, looking very
melancholy, and shaking his head, asked me how I
did : And telling his father who I was, and how I
had come this voyage only for a trial, in order to
go farther abroad; his father, turning to me with
a very grave and concerned tone, “Young man,”
says he, “ you ought never to go to sea any more;
you ought to take this for a plain and visible to-
ken, that you are not to be a seafaring man.”
“Why, Sir,” said I, “will you go to sea no more?”
“That is another case,” said he; “it is my calling,
and therefore my duty; but as you made this voy-
age for a trial, you see what a taste heaven has
given you, of what you are to expect, if you per-
sist; perhaps all this has befallen us on your ac-
count, like Jonah in the ship of Tarshish. Pray,”
continues he, “what are you? and on what ac-
account did you go to sea 7" Upon that I told him
some of my story; at the end of which he burst
out with a strange kind of passion; “What had I
done,” says he, “ that such an unhappy wretch
should come into my ship I would not set my
foot in the same ship with thee again for a thou-
sand pounds.” This indeed was, as I said, an ex-
cursion of his spirits, which were yet agitated by
the sense of his loss, and was farther than he could
have authority to go. However, he afterwards
talked very gravely to me, exhorted me to go back
to my father, and not tempt Providence to my ruin;
told me, I might see a visible hand of heaven
against me; “And, young man,” said he, “de-
pend upon it, if you do not go back, wherever you
go, you will meet with nothing but disasters and
disappointments, till your father's words are fulfil-
led upon you.” * .
We parted soon after; for I made him little an-
swer, and I saw him no more : which way he went,
I know not. As for me, having some money in
my pocket, I travelled to London by land; and
there, as well as on the road, had many struggles
with myself, what course of life I should take, and
whether I should go home, or go to sea.
As to going home, shame opposed the best mo-
tions that offered to my thoughts; and it imme-
diately occurred to me how I should be laughed at
among the neighbours, and should be ashamed to
see, not my father and mother only, but even every
body else; from whence I have since often obser-
ved, how incongruous and irrational the common
temper of mankind is, especially of youth, to that
reason which ought to guide them in such cases,
viz. that they are not ashamed to sin, and yet are
ashamed to repent; nor ashamed of the action for
which they ought justly to be esteemed fools, but
are ashamed of the returning, which only can make
them be esteemed wise men.
In this state of life, however, I remained some
time, uncertain what measures to take, and what
course of life to lead. An irresistible reluctance
continued to going home; and as I stayed a while,
the remembrance of the distress I had been in wore
off; and as that abated, the little motion I had in
my desires to a return wore off with it, till at last I
quite laid aside the thoughts of it, and looked out
for a voyage.
That evil influence which carried me first away
from my father's house, that hurried me into the
wild and indigested notion of raising my fortune;
and that impressed those conceits so forcibly upon
me, as to make me deaf to all good advice, and to
the entreaties and even the command of my fa-
ther; I say, the same influence, whatever it was,
presented the most unfortunate of all enterprizes to
my view; and I went on board a vessel bound to
the coast of Africa; or, as our sailors vulgarly call
it, a voyage to Guinea.
It was my great misfortune, that in all these ad-
ventures I did not ship myself as a sailor; where-
by, though I might indeed have worked a little
harder than ordinary, yet, at the same time, I had
learnt the duty and office of a foremastman; and in
time might have qualified myself for a mate or
lieutenant, if not for a master. But as it was al-
ways my fate to choose for the worse, so I did
here; for, having money in my pocket, and good
clothes upon my back, I would always go on board
in the habit of a gentleman; and so I neither had
any business in the ship, or learnt to do any.
CHAP. II.
Make a trading Voyage to Guinea very successfully—
Death of my Captain—Sail another Trip with his
Mate—The Vengeance of Providence for Disobe-
dience to Parents now overtakes me—Taken by a
Sallee Rover, and all sold as Slaves—My Master
jrequently sends me a fishing, which suggests an
Idea of Escape—Make my Escape in an open
Boat, with a Moresco Boy.
It was my lot, first of all, to fall into pretty good
company in London, which does not always happen
to such loose and unguided young fellows as I then
was; the devil generally not omitting to lay some
snare for them very early: but it was not so with
me. I first fell acquainted with the master of a
ship who had been on the coast of Guinea; and
who having had very good success there, was re-
solved to go again; and who taking a fancy to my
conversation, which was not at all disagreeable at
that time, hearing me say I had a mind to see the
world, told me, if I would go the voyage with him
I should be at no expense; I should be his mess-
mate and his companion; and if I could carry any
thing with me, I should have all the advantage of
it that the trade would admit; and perhaps I might
meet with some encouragement.
I embraced the offer; and entering into a strict
friendship with this captain, who was an honest and
plain-dealing man, I went the voyage with him, and
carried a small adventure with me, which, by the
disinterested honesty of my friend the captain, I
increased very considerably; for I carried about
40l. in such toys and trifles as the captain directed
me to buy. This 40l. I had mustered together by
the assistance of some of my relations, whom I cor-
responded with, and who, I believe, got my father,
or at least my mother, to contribute so much as
that to my first adventure.
This was the only voyage which I may say was
successful in all my adventures, and which I owe
to the integrity and honesty of my friend the cap-
tain; under whom also I got a competent knowledge
of the mathematics, and the rules of navigation;
learned how to keep an account of the ship's course,
take an observation, and, in short, to understand
some things that were needful to be understood by
a sailor: For, as he took delight to instruct me, I

took delight to learn; and, in a word, this voyage
made me both a sailor and a merchant: For I
brought home five pounds nine ounces of gold-dust
for my adventure, which yielded me in London, at
my return, almost 300l.; and this filled me with
those aspiring thoughts which have since so com-
pleted my ruin.
Yet, even in this voyage, I had my misfortunes
too; particularly that I was continually sick, being
thrown into a violent calenture by the excessive
heat of the climate; our principal trading being
upon the coast, from the lat. of 15 degrees N. even
to the Line itself.
I was now set up for a Guinea trader; and my
friend, to my great misfortune, dying soon after his
arrival, I resolved to go the same voyage again;
and I embarked in the same vessel with one who
was his mate in the former voyage, and had now
got the command of the ship. This was the un-
happiest voyage that ever man made; for though
I did not carry quite 100l. of my new-gained
wealth, so that I had 200 l. left, and which I lod-
ged with my friend's widow, who was very just to
me, yet I fell into terrible misfortunes in this voy-
age; and the first was this: viz. Our ship, making
her course towards the Canary lslands, or rather
between those islands and the African shore, was
surprised, in the grey of the morning, by a Moor-
ish rover of Sallee, who gave chace to us with all
the sail she could make. We crowded also as much
canvas as our yards would spread, or our masts
carry, to have got clear; but finding the pirate
gained upon us, and would certainly come up with
us in a few hours, we prepared to fight; our ship
having twelve guns, and the rover eighteen. About
three in the afternoon he came up with us, and
bringing to, by mistake, just athwart our quarter,
instead of athwart our stern, as he intended, we
brought eight of our guns to bear on that side, and
poured in a broadside upon him, which made him
sheer off again, after returning our fire, and pour-
ing in also his small shot, from near two hundred
men which he had on board. However, we had
not a man touched, all our men keeping close. He
prepared to attack us again, and we to defend our-
selves; but laying us on board the next time upon
our other quarter, he entered sixty men upon our
decks, who immediately fell to cutting and hacking
the decks and rigging. We plied them with small
shot, half-pikes, powder-chests, and such like, and
cleared our deck of them twice. However, to cut
short this melancholy part of our story, our ship
being disabled, and three of our men killed, and
eight wounded, we were obliged to yield; and were
carried all prisoners into Sallee, a port be
longiº
to the Moors, to

The usage I had there was not so dreadful as at
first I apprehended; nor was I carried up the coun-
try, to the emperor's court, as the rest of our men
were, but was kept by the captain of the rover, as
his proper prize, and made his slave, being young
and nimble, and fit for his business. At this surpri-
sing change of my circumstances, from a merchant
to a miserable slave, I was perfectly overwhelmed;
and now I looked back upon my father's prophetic
discourse to me, that I should be miserable, and
have none to relieve me; which I thought was
now so effectually brought to pass, that I could not
be worse; that now the hand of heaven had over-
taken me, and I was undone without redemption.
But, alas! this was but a taste of the misery I was
to go through, as will appear in the sequel of this
story.
As my new patron or master had taken me home
to his house, so I was in hopes that he would take
me with him when he went to sea again, believing
that it would be some time or other his fate to be
taken by a Spanish or Portugal man of war; and
that then I should be set at liberty. But this hope of
mine was soon taken away; for when he went to sea,
he left me on shore to look after his little garden, and
do the common drudgery of slaves about his house;
and when he came home again from his cruize, he
ordered me to lie in the cabin to look after the
ship. -
Here I meditated nothing but my escape, and
what method I might take to effect it; but found
no way that had the least probability in it. No-
thing presented to make the supposition of it ra-
tional; for I had nobody to communicate it to that
would embark with me; no fellow-slave, no Eng-
lishman, Irishman, or Scotsman there, but myself;
so that for two years, though I often pleased my-
self with the imagination, yet I never had the least
encouraging prospect of putting it in practice.
After about two years, an odd circumstance pre-
sented itself, which put the old thought of making
some attempt for my liberty again in my head:
My patron lying at home longer than usual, with-
out fitting out his ship, which, as I heard, was for
want of money, he used constantly, once or twice a
week, sometimes oftener, if the weather was fair,
to take the ship's pinnace, and go out into the road
a-fishing; and as he always took me and a young
Moresco with him to row the boat, we made him
very merry, and I proved very dexterous in catch-
ing fish; insomuch, that sometimes he would send
me with a Moor, one of his kinsmen, and the youth,
the Moresco, as they called him, to catch a dish of
fish for him.
|

It happened one time, that going a-fishing with
him in a calm morning, a fog rose so thick, that
though we were not half a league from the shore,
we lost sight of it; and rowing we knew not whi-
ther, or which way, we laboured all day, and all
the next night; and when the morning came, we
found we had pulled off to sea, instead of pulling in
for the shore; and that we were at least two leagues
from the land: However, we got well in again,
though with a great deal of labour, and some dan-
ger; for the wind began to blow pretty fresh in the
morning; but, particularly, we were all very hun-
gry.
But our patron, warned by this disaster, resolved
to take more care of himself for the future; and ha-
ving lying by him the long-boat of our English
ship which he had taken, he resolved he would not
go a-fishing any more without a compass and some
provision; so he ordered the carpenter of his ship,
who also was an English slave, to build a little
state-room, or cabin, in the middle of the long-boat,
like that of a barge, with a place to stand behind
it to steer, and haul home the main-sheet; and
room before for a hand or two to stand and work
the sails. She sailed with what we call a shoulder-
of-mutton sail; and the boom jibbed over the top
of the cabin, which lay very snug and low, and had
in it room for him to lie, with a slave or two, and
a table to eat on, with some small lockers to put in
some bottles of such liquor as he thought fit to
drink; particularly his bread, rice, and coffee.
We were frequently out with this boat a-fishing;
and as I was most dexterous to catch fish for him,
he never went without me. It happened one day,
that he had appointed to go out in this boat, either
for pleasure or for fish, with two or three Moors
of some distinction, and for whom he had provided
extraordinarily; and had therefore set on board.
the boat over night a larger store of provisions than
usual; and had ordered me to get ready three fu-
sils with powder and shot, which were on board his
ship; for that they designed some sport of fowling,
as well as fishing.
I got all things ready, as he had directed; and
waited the next morning with the boat washed
clean, her ancient and pendants out, and every
thing to accommodate his guests; when by and by
my patron came on board alone, and told me his
guests had put off going, upon some business that
fell out; and ordered me, with the man and boy,
as usual, to go out with the boat, and catch them
some fish, for that his friends were to sup at his
house; he commanded me too, that as soon as I
had got some fish, I should bring it home to his
house; all which I prepared to do.

This moment my former notions of deliverance
darted into my thoughts; for now I found I was
like to have a little ship at my command; and my
master being gone, I prepared to furnish myself,
not for fishing business, but for a voyage; though
I knew not, neither did I so much as consider whi-
ther I would steer; for any where to get out of
that place was my way.
My first contrivance was to make a pretence to
speak to this Moor, to get something for our sub-
sistence on board; for I told him we must not pre-
sume to eat of our patron's bread; he said, that was
true: so he brought a large basket of rusk or bis-
cuit of their kind, and three jars with fresh water,
into the boat. I knew where my patron's case of
bottles stood, which, it was evident by the make,
were taken out of some English prize, and I con-
veyed them into the boat while the Moor was on
shore, as if they had been there before for our
master: I conveyed also a great lump of bees-wax
into the boat, which weighed above half a hundred
weight, with a parcel of twine or thread, a hatchet,
a saw, and a hammer, all which were of great use
to us afterwards, especially the wax to make can-
dles. Another trick I tried upon him, which he
innocently came into also; his name was Ismael,
whom they call Muly, or Moley; so I called to
him: “Moley,” said I, “our patron's guns are on
of RoBINsoN cRusoe. 33
board the boat; can you not get a little powder
and shot? it may be we may kill some alcamies (a
fowl like our curlews) for ourselves, for I know he
keeps the gunner's stores in the ship.”—“Yes,”
says he, “I’ll bring some;” and accordingly he
brought a great leather pouch, which held about a
pound and a half of powder, or rather more; and
another with shot, that had five or six pounds,
with some bullets, and put all into the boat: at
the same time I had found some powder of my
master's in the great cabin, with which I filled
one of the large bottles in the case, which was al-
most empty, pouring what was in it into another;
and thus furnished with every thing needful, we
sailed out of the port to fish. The castle, which
is at the entrance of the port, knew who we were,
and took no notice of us : and we were not above
a mile out of the port before we hauled in our sail,
and set us down to fish. The wind blew from the
north-north-east, which was contrary to my de-
sire; for had it blown southerly, I had been sure
to have made the coast of Spain, and at least
reached to the bay of Cadiz; but my resolutions
were, blow which way it would, I would be gone
from that horrid place where I was, and leave the
rest to fate.
After we had fished some time and catched no-
thing, for when I had fish on my hook I would
WOL. I. C

34 THE LIFE AND Adventures
not pull them up, that he might not see them, I
said to the Moor, “ This will not do; our master
will not be thus served; we must stand farther
off.” He, thinking no harm, agreed, and, being
in the head of the boat, set the sails; and as I had
the helm, I run the boat out near a league farther,
and then brought her to as if I would fish; when,
giving the boy the helm, I stepped forward to
where the Moor was, and making as if I stooped
for something behind him, I took him by surprise
with my arm under his twist, and tossed him clear
overboard into the sea; he rose immediately, for
he swam like a cork, and called to me, begged
to be taken in, told me he would go all over the
world with me. He swam so strong after the
boat, that he would have reached me very quickly,
there being but little wind; upon which I stepped
into the cabin, and fetching one of the fowling-
pieces, I presented it at him, and told him, I had
done him no hurt, and if he would be quiet I
would do him none: “But,” said I, “ you swim
well enough to reach to the shore, and the sea is
calm; make the best of your way to shore, and I
will do you no harm; but if you come near the
boat, I’ll shoot you through the head, for I am re-
solved to have my liberty:” so he turned himself
about, and swam for the shore, and I make no
When giving the boy the helm, and pretending to
stoop for something, I seized Muly by surprise, and
threw him overboard.
VoI. I. Page 34,

doubt but he reached it with ease, for he was an
excellent swimmer. -
I could have been content to have taken this
Moor with me, and have drowned the boy, but
there was no venturing to trust him. When he
was gone, I turned to the boy, whom they called
Xury, and said to him, “Xury, if you will be
faithful to me I'll make you a great man; but if
you will not stroke your face to be true to me.”
that is, swear by Mahomet and his father's beard,
“I must throw you into the sea too.” The boy
smiled in my face, and spoke so innocently, that
I could not mistrust him; and swore to be faithful
to me, and go all over the world with me.
While I was in view of the Moor that was swim-
ming, I stood out directly to sea with the boat,
rather stretching to windward, that they might
think me gone towards the Straits' mouth, as in-
deed any one that had been in their wits must
have been supposed to do; for who would have
supposed we were sailed on to the southward to
the truly Barbarian coast, where whole nations
of Negroes were sure to surround us with their
canoes, and destroy us; where we could never
once go on shore, but we should be devoured by
savage beasts, or more merciless savages of hu-
man kind?
But as soon as it grew dusk in the evening, I
changed my course, and steered directly south and
by east, bending my course a little toward the east,
that I might keep in with the shore; and having a
fair, fresh gale of wind, and a smooth, quiet sea, I
made such sail, that I believe by the next day at
three o'clock in the afternoon, when I first made
the land, I could not be less than 150 miles south
of Sallee; quite beyond the emperor of Morocco's
dominions, or indeed of any other king there.
abouts, for we saw no people.
Yet such was the fright I had taken at the Moors,
and the dreadful apprehensions I had of falling in-
to their hands, that I would not stop, or go on
shore, or come to an anchor; the wind continu-
ing fair till I had sailed in that manner five days;
and then the wind shifting to the southward, I
concluded also that if any of our vessels were in
chase of me, they also would now give over; so I
ventured to make to the coast, and come to an an-
chor in the mouth of a little river, I knew not what,
or where; neither what latitude, what country, what
nation, or what river: I neither saw, or desired to
see, any people; the principal thing I wanted was
fresh water. We came into this creek in the
evening, resolving to swim on shore as soon as
it was dark, and discover the country; but as
soon as it was quite dark, we heard such dread-
ful noises of the barking, roaring, and howling of
wild creatures, of we knew not what kinds, that
the poor boy was ready to die with fear, and beg-
ged of me not to go on shore till day. “Well,
Xury,” said I, “then I won't; but it may be we
may see men by day, who will be as bad to us as
those lions.”—“Then we give them the shoot
gun,” says Xury, laughing, “ make them run wey.”
Such English Xury spoke by conversing among us
slaves. However, I was glad to see the boy so
cheerful, and I gave him a dram (out of our pa-
tron's case of bottles) to cheer him up. After all,
Xury's advice was good, and I took it; we drop-
ped our little anchor, and lay still all night; I say
still, for we slept none; for in two or three hours we
saw vast great creatures (we knew not what to call
them) of many sorts, come down to the sea-shore,
and run into the water, wallowing and washing
themselves for the pleasure of cooling themselves;
and they made such hideous howlings and yellings,
that I never indeed heard the like.
Xury was dreadfully frighted, and indeed so was
I too: But we were both more frighted when we
heard one of these mighty creatures come swimming
towards our boat; we could not see him, but we
might hear him by his blowing, to be a monstrous,
huge, and furious beast; Xury said it was a lion,
and it might be so for aught I know. Poor Xury
cried to me to weigh the anchor, and row away.
“No,” says I, “ Xury, we can slip our cable
with a buoy to it, and go to sea; they cannot fol-
low us far.” I had no Sooner said so, but I percei-
ved the creature (whatever it was) within two oars
length, which something surprised me; however, I
immediately stept to the cabin-door, and taking up
my gun, fired at him; upon which he immediately
turned about, and swam to the shore again.
But it was not possible to describe the horrible
noises, and hideous cries and howlings, that were
raised, as well upon the edge of the shore, as higher
within the country, upon the noise or report of a
gun; a thing I have some reason to believe those
creatures had never heard before. This convinced
me, that there was no going on shore for us in the
night upon that coast; and how to venture on
shore in the day, was another question too; for to
have fallen into the hands of any of the savages,
had been as bad as to have fallen into the paws of
lions and tigers; at least we were equally appre-
hensive of the danger of it.
Be that as it would, we were obliged to go on
shore somewhere or other for water, for we had not
a pint left in the boat; when or where to get to it
was the point: Xury said, if I would let him go on
shore with one of the jars, he would find if there
was any water, and bring some to me. I asked him
why he would go? why I should not go, and he
stay in the boat? The boy answered with so much
affection, that made me love him ever after. Says
he, “If wild mans come, they eat me, you go wey.”
“Well, Xury,” said I, “we will both go, and if
the wild mans come, we will kill them, they shall
eat neither of us.” So I gave Xury a piece of rusk-
bread to eat, and a dram out of our patron's case
of bottles, which I mentioned before; and we hauled
the boat in as near the shore as we thought was
proper, and waded on shore; carrying nothing but
our arms, and two jars for water.
I did not care to go out of sight of the boat, fear-
ing the coming of canoes with savages down the
river: but the boy, seeing a low place about a mile
up the country, rambled to it; and by and by I saw
him come running towards me. I thought he was
pursued by some savage, or frighted with some wild
beast, and I run forward towards him to help him;
but when I came nearer to him, I saw something
hanging over his shoulders, which was a creature
that he had shot, like a hare, but different in colour,
and longer legs; however, we were very glad of it,
and it was very good meat; but the great joy that
poor Xury came with, was to tell me he had found
good water, and seen no wild mans.
But we found afterwards that we need not take
such pains for water, for a little higher up the creek
where we were, we found the water fresh when the
tide was out, which flows but a little way up; so
we filled our jars, and feasted on the hare we had
killed, and prepared to go on our way, having seen
no footsteps of any human creature in that part of
the country.
As I had been one voyage to this coast before, I
knew very well that the islands of the Canaries, and
the Cape de Verd islands also, lay not far off from
the coast. But as I had no instruments to take an
observation to know what latitude we were in, and
did not exactly know, or at least not remember, what
latitude they were in, and knew not where to look
for them, or when to stand off to sea towards them;
otherwise I might now easily have found some of
these islands. But my hope was, that if I stood
along this coast till I came to that part where the
English traded, I should find some of their vessels
upon their usual design of trade, that would relieve
and take us in.
By the best of my calculation, that place where
I now was, must be that country, which, lying be-
tween the emperor of Morocco's dominions and the
Negroes, lies waste, and uninhabited, except by wild
beasts; the Negroes having abandoned it, and gone
farther south for fear of the Moors; and the Moors
not thinking it worth inhabiting, by reason of its
barrenness; and indeed both forsaking it because of
the prodigious numbers of tigers, lions, leopards,
and other furious creatures which harbour there;
so that the Moors use it for their hunting only,
where they go like an army, two or three thousand
men at a time; and indeed for near an hundred
miles together upon this coast, we saw nothing but
a waste uninhabited country by day, and heard no-
thing but howlings and roaring of wild beasts by
night.
Once or twice in the day time I thought I saw
the Pico of Teneriffe, being the high top of the
mountain Teneriffe in the Canaries; and had a
great mind to venture out in hopes of reaching thi-
ther; but having tried twice, I was forced in again
by contrary winds, the sea also going too high for
my little vessel; so I resolved to pursue my first
design, and keep along the shore.
Several times I was obliged to land for fresh wa-
ter, after we had left this place; and once in parti-
cular, being early in the morning, we came to an
anchor under a little point of land which was pret-
ty high; and, the tide beginning to flow, we lay
still to go farther in. Xury, whose eyes were more
about him than it seems mine were, calls softly to
me, and tells me, that we had best go farther off
the shore; “ for,” says he, “ look, yonder lies a
dreadful monster on the side of that hillock fast
asleep.” I looked where he pointed, and Saw &
dreadful monster indeed, for it was a terrible great
lion that lay on the side of the shore, under the
shade of a piece of the hill that hung as it were a
little over him. “Xury,” says I, “ you shall go on
shore and kill him.” Xury looked frighted, and
said, “ Me kill ! he eat me at one mouth;” one
mouthful he meant: however, Isaid no more to the
boy, but bade him lie still, and I took our biggest
gun, which was almost musket-bore, and loaded it
with a good charge of powder, and with two slugs,
and laid it down; then I loaded another gun with
two bullets; and the third, for we had three pieces,
I loaded with five smaller bullets. I took the best
aim I could with the first piece to have shot him
into the head, but he lay so with his leg raised a
little above his nose, that the slugs hit his leg
about the knee, and broke the bone. He started
up, growling at first, but finding his leg broke, fell
down again, and then got up upon three legs, and
gave the most hideous roar that ever I heard. I
was at ittle surprised that I had not hit him on the
head; however, I took up the second piece imme-
diately, and, though he began to move off, fired
again, and shot him into the head, and had the
pleasure to see him drop, and make but little noise,
but lie struggling for life. Then Xury took heart,
and would have me let him go on shore; “Well,
go,” said I; so the boy jumped into the water, and,
taking a little gun in one hand, swam to shore
with the other hand, and coming close to the crea-
ture, put the muzzle of the piece to his ear, and
shot him into the head again, which dispatched
him quite.
This was game indeed to us, but this was no
food; and I was very sorry to lose three charges
of powder and shot upon a creature that was good
for nothing to us. However, Xury said he would
have some of him ; so he comes on board, and
asked me to give him the hatchet. “For what,
Xury " said I. “Me cut off his head,” said he.
However, Xury could not cut off his head, but he
cut off a foot, and brought it with him, and it was
a monstrous great one.
I bethought myself, however, that perhaps the
skin of him might one way or other be of some
value to us; and I resolved to take off his skin, if
I could. So Xury and I went to work with him;
but Xury was much the better workman at it, for
I knew very ill how to do it. Indeed, it took us both
up the whole day, but at last we got off the hide
of him, and, spreading it on the top of our cabin,
the sun effectually dried it in two days time, and it
afterwards served me to lie upon.
s" CHAP. III.
Make for the Southward in hopes of meeting with
some European Wessel—See Savages along shore—
Shoot a large Leopard–Am taken up by a Mer-
chantman—Arrive at the Brazils, and buy a Settle-
ment there—Cannot be quiet, but sail on a voyage of
adventure to Guinea—Ship strikes on a Sand-bank
in unknown Land—All lost but myself, who am
driven ashore, half dead.
After this stop, we made on to the southward
continually for ten or twelve days, living very spa-
ring on our provisions, which began to abate very
much, and going no oftener into the shore than we
were obliged to for fresh water: my design in this
was, to make the river Gambia or Senegal, that is
to say, any where about the Cape de Verd, where
I was in hopes to meet with some European ship;
and if I did not, I knew not what course I had to
take, but to seek for the islands, or perish there
among the Negroes. I knew that all the ships
from Europe, which sailed either to the coast of
Guinea or to Brazil, or to the East Indies, made
this Cape, or those islands; and, in a word, I put
the whole of my fortune upon this single point, ei-
ther that I must meet with some ship, or must pe-
rish.
When I had pursued this resolution about ten
days longer, as I have said, I began to see that the
land was inhabited; and in two or three places, as
we sailed by, we saw people stand upon the shore
to look at us; we could also perceive they were
quite black, and stark naked. I was once inclined
to have gone on shore to them; but Xury was my
better counsellor, and said to me, “No go, no go.”
However, I hauled in nearer the shore that I might
talk to them, and I found they run along the shore
by me a good way: I observed they had no wea-
pons in their hands, except one, who had a long
slender stick, which Xury said was a lance, and
that they would throw them a great way with good
aim; so I kept at a distance, but talked with them
by signs as well as I could; and particularly made
signs for something to eat; they beckoned to me
to stop my boat, and they would fetch me some
meat. Upon this I lowered the top of my sail, and
lay by, and two of them ran up into the country,
and in less than half an hour came back, and
brought with them two pieces of dry flesh and
*
some corn, such as is the produce of their country;
but we neither knew what the one nor the other
was: however, we were willing to accept it, but
how to come at it was our next dispute, for I was
not for venturing on shore to them, and they were
as much afraid of us: but they took a safe way for
us all, for they brought it to the shore, and laid it
down, and went and stood a great way off till we
fetched it on board, and then came close to us
again.
We made signs of thanks to them, for we had
nothing to make them amends; but an opportuni-
ty offered that very instant to oblige them wonder-
fully; for while we were lying by the shore, came
two mighty creatures, one pursuing the other (as
we took it) with great fury from the mountains to-
wards the sea; whether it was the male pursuing
the female, or whether they were in sport or in
rage, we could not tell, any more than we could tell
whether it was usual or strange, but I believe it was
the latter; because, in the first place, those raven-
ous creatures seldom appear but in the night; and,
in the second place, we found the people terribly
frighted, especially the women. The man that had
the lance, or dart, did not fly from them, but the
rest did; however, as the two creatures ran direct-
ly into the water, they did not seem to offer to fall
upon any of the Negroes, but plunged themselves
into the sea, and swam about as if they had come
for their diversion. At last one of them began to
come nearer our boat than at first I expected; but
I lay ready for him, for I had loaded my gun with
all possible expedition, and bade Xuryload both the
others: as soon as he came fairly within my reach
I fired, and shot him directly into the head; im-
mediately he sunk down into the water, but rose
instantly, and plunged up and down as if he was
struggling for life; and so indeed he was: he im-
mediately made to the shore; but between the
wound, which was his mortal hurt, and the strang-
ling of the water, he died just before he reached the
shore.
It is impossible to express the astonishment of
these poor creatures at the noise and the fire of
my gun; some of them were even ready to die for
fear, and fell down as dead with the very terror.
But when they saw the creature dead, and sunk in
the water, and that I made signs to them to come
to the shore, they took heart, and came to the shore,
and began to search for the creature. I found him
by his blood staining the water, and by the help of
a rope, which I slung round him, and gave the Ne-
groes to haul, they dragged him on shore, and
found that it was a most curious leopard, spotted
and fine to an admirable degree, and the Negroes
held up their hands with admiration to think what
it was I had killed him with.
The other creature, frighted with the flash of fire
and the noise of the gun, swam on shore, and ran
up directly to the mountains from whence they
came, nor could I at that distance know what it
was. I found quickly the Negroes were for eating
the flesh of this creature, so I was willing to have
them take it as a favour from me, which, when I
made signs to them that they might take him, they
were very thankful for. Immediately they fell to
work with him, and though they had no knife, yet
with a sharpened piece of wood they took off his
skin as readily, and much more readily, than we
could have done with a knife. They offered me
some of the flesh, which I declined, making as if I
would give it them, but made signs for the skin,
which they gave me very freely, and brought me a
great deal more of their provision, which, though I
did not understand, yet I accepted; then I made
signs to them for some water, and held out one of
my jars to them, turning it bottom upward, to show
that it was empty, and that I wanted to have it fil-
led. They called immediately to some of their
friends, and there came two women, and brought
a great vessel made of earth, and burnt, as I sup-
pose, in the sun; this they set down for me, as be-
fore, an I sent Xury on shore with my jars, and
filled them all three. The women were as stark na-
ked as the men.
I was now furnished with roots and corn, such as
it was, and water; and, leaving my friendly Ne-
groes, I made forward for about eleven days more,
without offering to go near the shore, till I saw the
land run out a great length into the sea, at about
the distance of four or five leagues before me; and
the sea being very calm, I kept a large offing to
make this point: at length, doubling the point at
about two leagues from the land, I saw plainly land
on the other side to sea-ward; then I concluded, as
it was most certain indeed, that this was the Cape
de Verd, and those the islands, called from thence
Cape de Verd Islands. However, they were at a
great distance, and I could not well tell what I had
best to do; for if I should be taken with a fresh of
wind, I might neither reach one nor the other.
In this dilemma, as I was very pensive, I stepped
into the cabin, and sat me down, Xury having the
helm, when on a sudden the boy cried out, “ Mas-
ter, master, a ship with a sail l’ and the foolish
boy was frighted out of his wits, thinking it must
needs be some of his master's ships sent to pursue
us, when I knew we were gotten far enough out of
their reach. I jumped out of the cabin, and imme-
diately saw not only the ship, but what she was,
viz. that it was a Portuguese ship, and, as Ithought,
WOL. I. D
was bound to the coast of Guinea for Negroes. But
when I observed the course she steered, I was soon
convinced they were bound some other way, and
did not design to come any nearer to the shore; up-
on which I stretched out to sea as much as I could,
resolving to speak with them, if possible.
With all the sail I could make, I found I should
not be able to come in their way, but that they
would be gone by before I could make any signal
to them; but, after I had crowded to the utmost,
and began to despair, they, it seems, saw me by
the help of their perspective-glasses, and that it
was some European boat, which, as they supposed,
must belong to some ship that was lost; so they
shortened sail to let me come up. I was encoura-
ged with this; and as I had my patron's ancient
on board, I made a waft of it to them for a signal
of distress, and fired a gun, both which they saw,
for they told me they saw the smoke, though they
did not hear the gun; upon these signals they very
kindly brought to, and lay by for me, and in about
three hours time I came up with them.
They asked me what I was, in Portuguese, and
in Spanish, and in French; but I understood none
of them; but at last a Scots sailor, who was on
board, called to me, and I answered him, and told
him I was an Englishman, that I had made my
escape out of slavery from the Moors at Sallee.
8
Then they bade me come on board, and very kind-
ly took me in, and all my goods.
It was an inexpressible joy to me, as any one
would believe, that I was thus delivered, as I es-
teemed it, from such a miserable and almost hope-
less condition as I was in, and immediately offered
all I had to the captain of the ship, as a return for
my deliverance; but he generously told me, he
would take nothing from me, but that all I had
should be delivered safe to me when I came to the
Brazils; “ for,” says he, “I have saved your life
on no other terms than I would be glad to be saved
myself; and it may one time or other be my lot
to be taken up in the same condition: besides,”
said he, “when I carry you to the Brazils, so great
a way from your own country, if I should take
from you what you have, you will be starved there,
and then I only take away that life I have given.
No, no, Seignor Inglese,” says he, “Mr English-
man, I will carry you thither in charity, and those
things will help you to buy your subsistence there,
and your passage home again.”
As he was charitable in his proposal, so he was
just in the performance to a tittle; for he ordered
the seamen, that none should offer to touch any
thing I had : then he took everything into his own
possession, and gave me back an exact inventory
of them, that I might have them; even so much as
my three earthen jars.
As to my boat, it was a very good one, and that
he saw, and told me he would buy it of me for the
ship's use, and asked me what I would have for it?
I told him, he had been so generous to me in every
thing, that I could not offer to make any price of
the boat, but left it entirely to him; upon which
he told me, he would give me a note of his hand
to pay me eighty pieces of eight for it at Brazil;
and when it came there, if any one offered to give
more, he would make it up: he offered me also six-
ty pieces of eight more for my boy Xury, which I
was loath to take; not that I was not willing to let
the captain have him, but I was very loath to sell
the poor boy's liberty, who had assisted me so
faithfully in procuring my own. However, when I
let him know my reason, he owned it to be just,
and offered me this medium, that he would give the
boy an obligation to set him free in ten years, if
he turned Christian. Upon this, and Xury saying
he was willing to go to him, I let the captain have
him.
We had a very good voyage to the Brazils, and
arrived in the Bay de Todos los Santos, or All
Saints' Bay, in about twenty-two days after. And
now I was once more delivered from the most mi-
serable of all conditions of life; and what to do
next with myself, I was now to consider.
The generous treatment the captain gave me, I
can never enough remember; he would take no-
thing of me for my passage, gave me twenty du-
cats for the leopard's skin, and forty for the lion's
skin which I had in my boat, and caused every
thing I had in the ship to be punctually delivered
me; and what I was willing to sell he bought, such
as the case of bottles, two of my guns, and a piece
of the lump of bees wax, for I had made candles of
the rest; in a word, I made about two hundred and
twenty pieces of eight of all my cargo; and with
this stock I went on shore in the Brazils.
I had not been long here, but being recommend-
ed to the house of a good honest man like himself,
who had an ingeino, as they call it; that is, a plan-
tation and a sugar-house; I lived with him some
time, and acquainted myself by that means with
the manner of their planting and making of sugar;
and seeing how well the planters lived, and how
they grew rich suddenly, I resolved, if I could get
license to settle there, I would turn planter among
them; resolving, in the mean time, to find out some
way to get my money, which I had left in Lon-
don, remitted to me. To this purpose, getting a
kind of a letter of naturalization, I purchased as
much land that was uncured as my money would
reach, and formed a plan for my plantation and
settlement, and such a one as might be suitable to
the stock which I proposed to myself to receive
from England.
I had a neighbour, a Portuguese of Lisbon, but
born of English parents, whose name was Wells,
and in much such circumstances as I was. I call
him neighbour, because his plantation lay next to
mine, and we went on very sociable together. My
stock was but low, as well as his; and we rather
planted for food, than any thing else, for about
two years. However, we began to increase, and
our land began to come into order; so that the
third year we planted some tobacco, and made
each of us a large piece of ground ready for plant-
ing canes in the year to come; but we both want-
ed help; and now I found, more than before, I had
done wrong in parting with my boy Xury. -
But, alas! for me to do wrong, that never did
right, was no great wonder: I had no remedy but
to go on; I was gotten into an employment quite
remote to my genius, and directly contrary to the
life I delighted in, and for which I forsook my fa-
ther's house, and broke through all his good advice;
may, I was coming into the very middle station, or
upper degree, of low life, which my father advised
me to before; and which, if I resolved to go on
with, I might as well have staid at home, and ne-
ver have fatigued myself in the world as I had
done; and I used often to say to myself, I could
have done this as well in England among my
friends, as have gone five thousand miles off to do
it among strangers and savages in a wilderness,
and at such distance, as never to hear from any
part of the world that had the least knowledge of
IIle.
In this manner I used to look upon my condition
with the utmost regret. I had nobody to converse
with, but now and then this neighbour; no work
to be done, but by the labour of my hands; and I
used to say, I lived just like a man cast away upon
some desolate island, that had nobody there but
himself. But how just has it been, and how should
all men reflect, that, when they compare their pre-
sent conditions with others that are worse, Heaven
may oblige them to make the exchange, and be
convinced of their former felicity by their experi-
ence; I say, how just has it been, that the truly
solitary life I reflected on in an island of mere de-
solation should be my lot, who had so often unjust-
ly compared it with the life which I then led, in
which, had I continued, I had, in all probability,
been exceeding prosperous and rich.
I was, in some degree, settled in my measures for
carrying on the plantation, before my kind friend,
the captain of the ship, that took me up at sea,
went back; for the ship remained there, in pro-
viding his loading, and preparing for his voyage,
near three months; when, telling him what little
stock I had left behind me in London, he gave me
this friendly and sincere advice: “ Seignor In-
glese,” says he, for so he always called me, “if
you will give me letters, and a procuration here in
form to me, with orders to the person who has your
money in London, to send your effects to Lisbon,
to such persons as I shall direct, and in such goods
as are proper for this country, I will bring you the
produce of them, God willing, at my return; but,
since human affairs are all subject to changes and
disasters, I would have you give orders but for one
hundred pounds sterling, which, you say, is half
your stock, and let the hazard be run for the first;
so that if it come safe, you may order the rest the
same way; and if it miscarry, you may have the
other half to have recourse to for your supply.”
This was so wholesome advice, and looked so
friendly, that I could not but be convinced it was
the best course I could take; so I accordingly pre-
pared letters to the gentlewoman with whom I had
left my money, and a procuration to the Portuguese
captain, as he desired.
I wrote the English captain's widow a full ac-
count of all my adventures, my slavery, escape,
and how I had met with the Portugal captain at
sea, the humanity of his behaviour, and what con-
dition I was now in, with all other necessary direc-
tions for my supply; and when this honest captain
came to Lisbon, he found means, by some of the
English merchants there, to send over, not the or-
der only, but a full account of my story, to a mer-
chant at London, who represented it effectually to
her; whereupon, she not only delivered the mo-
ney, but, out of her own pocket, sent the Portugal
captain a very handsome present for his humanity
and charity to me. . -
The merchant in London vesting this hundred
pounds in English goods, such as the captain had
writ for, sent them directly to him at Lisbon, and
he brought them all safe to me to the Brazils;
among which, without my direction, (for I was too
young in my business to think of them,) he had ta-
ken care to have all sort of tools, iron-work, and
utensils necessary for my plantation, and which
were of great use to me.
When this cargo arrived, I thought my fortune
made, for I was surprised with joy of it; and my
good steward, the captain, had laid out the five
pounds, which my friend had sent him for a present
for himself, to purchase, and bring me over a ser-
vant under bond for six years service, and would
not accept of any consideration, except a little to-
bacco, which I would have him accept, being of
my own produce.
Neither was this all; but my goods being all
English manufactures, such as cloth, stuffs, baize,
and things particularly valuable and desirable in the
country, I found means to sell them to a very great
advantage; so that I may say, I had more than four
times the value of my first cargo, and was now in-
finitely beyond my poor neighbour, I mean in the
advancement of my plantation; for the first thing
I did, I bought me a Negro slave, and an European
servant also; I mean another besides that which
the captain brought me from Lisbon.
But as abused prosperity is oftentimes made the
very means of our greatest adversity, so was it
with me. I went on the next year with great suc-
cess in my plantation: I raised fifty great rolls of
tobacco on my own ground, more than I had dis-
posed of for necessaries among my neighbours;
and these fifty rolls, being each of above a hun-
dred weight, were well cured and laid by against
the return of the fleet from Lisbon. And now, in-
creasing in business and in wealth, my head began
to be full of projects and undertakings beyond my
reach; such as are indeed often the ruin of the best
heads in business.
Had I continued in the station I was now in, I
had room for all the happy things to have yet be-
fallen me, for which my father so earnestly recom-
mended a quiet retired life, and of which he had so
sensibly described the middle station of life to be
full; but other things attended me, and I was still
to be the wilful agent of all my own miseries; and
particularly to increase my fault, and double the
reflections upon myself, which in my future sor-
rows I should have leisure to make ; all these mis-
carriages were procured by my apparent obstinate
adhering to my foolish inclination of wandering
abroad, and pursuing that inclination, in contradic-
tion to the clearest views of doing myself good in
a fair and plain pursuit of those prospects and those
measures of life, which nature and Providence con-
curred to present me with, and to make my duty.
As I had done thus in my breaking-away from
my parents, so I could not be content now, but I
must go and leave the happy view I had of being
a rich and thriving man in my new plantation, on-
ly to pursue a rash and immoderate desire of rising
faster than the nature of the thing admitted; and
thus I cast myself down again into the deepest gulf
of human misery that ever man fell into, or per-
haps could be consistent with life and a state of
health in the world.
To come, then, by just degrees, to the particulars
of this part of my story; you may suppose, that,
having now lived almost four years in the Brazils,
and beginning to thrive and prosper very well up-
on my plantation, I had not only learnt the lan-
guage, but had contracted acquaintance and friend-
ship among my fellow-planters, as well as among
the merchants at St Salvadore, which was our port;
and that in my discourse among them, I had fre-
quently given them an account of my two voyages
to the coast of Guinea, the manner of trading with
the Negroes there, and how easy it was to purchase
upon the coast, for trifles, such as beads, toys,
knives, scissars, hatchets, bits of glass, and the like,
not only gold-dust, Guinea grains, elephants teeth,
&c. but Negroes for the service of the Brazils in
great numbers.
They listened always very attentively to my dis-
courses on these heads, but especially to that part
which related to the buying Negroes, which was a
trade at that time not only not far entered into, but,
as far as it was, had been carried on by the Assi-
entos, or permission of the kings of Spain and Por-
tugal, and engrossed in the public, so that few Ne-
groes were bought, and those excessive dear.
It happened, being in company with some mer-
chants and planters of my acquaintance, and talk-
ing of those things very earnestly, three of them
came to me the next morning, and told me, they
had been musing very much upon what I had dis-
coursed with them of the last night, and they came
to make a secret proposal to me; and, after en-
joining me secrecy, they told me, that they had a
mind to fit out a ship to go to Guinea; that they
had all plantations as well as I, and were straitened
for nothing so much as servants; that as it was a
trade could not be carried on, because they could
not publicly sell the Negroes when they came
home, so they desired to make but one voyage, to
bring the Negroes on shore privately, and divide
them among their own plantations; and, in a word,
the question was, whether I would go their super-
cargo in the ship, to manage the trading part up-
on the coast of Guinea 2 and they offered me, that
I should have my equal share of the Negroes, with-
out providing any part of the stock.
This was a fair proposal, it must be confessed,
had it been made to any one that had not had a
settlement and plantation of his own to look after,
which was in a fair way of coming to be very con-
siderable, and with a good stock upon it. But for
me, that was thus entered and established, and had
nothing to do but go on as I had begun, for three
or four years more, and to have sent for the other
hundred pounds from England, and who in that
time, and with that little addition, could scarce
have failed of being worth three or four thousand
pounds sterling, and that increasing too; for me to
think of such a voyage, was the most preposterous
thing that ever man in such circumstances could
be guilty of.
But I, that was born to be my own destroyer,
could no more resist the offer, than I could restrain
my first rambling designs, when my father's good
counsel was lost upon me. In a word, I told them
I would go with all my heart, if they would under-
take to look after my plantation in my absence,
and would dispose of it to such as I should direct
if I miscarried. This they all engaged to do, and
entered into writings or covenants to do so; and I
made a formal will, disposing of my plantation and
effects, in case of my death, making the captain of
the ship, that had saved my life as before, my uni-
versal heir, but obliging him to dispose of my ef-
fects as I had directed in my will, one half of the
produce being to himself, and the other to be ship-
ped to England.
In short, I took all possible caution to preserve
my effects, and keep up my plantation: had I used
half as much prudence to have looked into my own
interest, and have made a judgment of what I
ought to have done, and not to have done, I had
certainly never gone away from so prosperous an
undertaking, leaving all the probable views of a
thriving circumstance, and gone upon a voyage to
sea, attended with all its common hazards; to say
nothing of the reasons I had to expect particular
misfortunes to myself.
But I was hurried on, and obeyed blindly thé
dictates of my fancy rather than my reason: and
accordingly the ship being fitted out, and the
cargo furnished, and all things done as by agree-
ment by my partners in the voyage, I went on
board in an evil hour again, the 1st of September,
1659, being the same day eight years that I went
from my father and mother at Hull, in order to
act the rebel to their authority, and the fool to my
own interest.
Our ship was about one hundred and twenty ton
burden, carried six guns, and fourteen men, be-
sides the master, his boy, and myself; we had on
board no large cargo of goods, except of such toys
as were fit for our trade with the Negroes, such as
beads, bits of glass, shells, and odd trifles, espe-
cially little looking-glasses, knives, scissars, hat-
chets, and the like.
The same day I went on board we set sail,
"standing away to the northward upon our own
coast, with design to stretch over for the African
coast; when they came about 10 or 12 degrees of
northern latitude, which it seems was the manner
of their course in those days. We had very good
weather, only excessive hot, all the way upon our
ewn coast, till we came the height of Cape St
Augustino, from whence keeping farther off at sea,
we lost sight of land, and steered as if we were
bound for the isle Fernand de Noronha, holding
our course north-east by north, and leaving those
isles on the east. In this course we passed the line
in about twelve days time, and were by our last
observation in 7 degrees 22 minutes, northern la-
titude, when a violent tornado, or hurricane, took
us quite out of our knowledge: it began from the
south east, came about to the north-west, and then
settled into the north-east; from whence it blew in
such a terrible manner, that for twelve days toge-
ther we could do nothing but drive; and scudding
away before it, let it carry us whither ever fate and
the fury of the winds directed; and during these
twelve days, I need not say that I expected every
day to be swallowed up, nor indeed did any in the
ship expect to save their lives. -
In this distress, we had, besides the terror of
the storm, one of our men died of the calenture,
and one man and the boy washed overboard.
About the twelfth day, the weather abating a little,
the master made an observation as well as he could,
and found, that he was in about 11 degrees north
latitude, but that he was 22 degrees of longitude
difference west from Cape St Augustino; so that
he found he was gotten upon the coast of Guinea,
or the north part of Brazil, beyond the river
11
Amazons, toward that of the river Oroonoque,
commonly called the Great River, and began to
consult with me what course he should take; for the
ship was leaky, and very much disabled, and he
was going directly back to the coast of Brazil.
I was positively against that, and, looking over
the charts of the sea-coasts of America with him,
we concluded, there was no inhabited country for
us to have recourse to, till we came within the cir-
cle of the Caribbee islands; and therefore resolved
to stand away for Barbadoes, which, by keeping off
at sea, to avoid the indraft of the bay or gulf of
Mexico, we might easily perform, as we hoped, in
about fifteen days sail; whereas we could not pos-
sibly make our voyage to the coast of Africa with-
out some assistance, both to our ship and to our-
selves.
With this design we changed our course, and
steered away N.W. by W. in order to reach some
of our English islands, where I hoped for relief;
but our voyage was otherwise determined; for, be-
ing in the latitude of 12 deg. 18 min. a second
storm came upon us, which carried us away with
the same impetuosity westward, and drove us so
out of the very way of all human commerce, that,
had all our lives been saved, as to the sea, we were
rather in danger of being devoured by savages than
ever returning to our own country.
vol. 1. E.
In this distress, the wind still blowing very hard,
ône of our men, early in the morning, cried out,
Land / and we had no sooner run out of the cabin
to look out in hopes of seeing whereabouts in the
world we were, but the ship struck upon a sand,
and, in a moment, her motion being so stopped,
the sea broke over her in such a manner, that we
expected we should all have perished immediate-
ly; and we were immediately driven into our close
quarters, to shelter us from the very foam and spray
of the sea.
It is not easy for any one, who has not been in
the like condition, to describe or conceive the con-
sternation of men in such circumstances: we knew
nothing where we were, or upon what land it was
we were driven, whether an island or, the main,
whether inhabited or not inhabited; and as the
rage of the wind was still great, though rather less
than at first, we could not so much as hope to have
the ship hold many minutes without breaking in
pieces, unless the winds, by a kind of miracle,
should turn immediately about. In a word, we
sat looking one upon another, and expecting death
every moment, and every man acting accordingly,
as preparing for another world; for there was little
or nothing more for us to do in this: that which
was our present comfort, and all the comfort we
had, was, that, contrary to our expectation, the ship
The ship struck upon a sand, and, in a moment,
her motion being so stopped, the sea broke over her in
such a manner, that we expected we should all have pe-
rished immediately.
- Vol. I. Page 66.

did not break yet, and that the master said the
wind began to abate.
Now, though we thought that the wind did a
little abate, yet the ship having thus struck upon
the sand, and sticking too fast for us to expect her
getting off, we were in a dreadful condition indeed,
and had nothing to do but to think of saving our
lives as well as we could. We had a boat at our
stern, just before the storm; but she was first sta-
ved by dashing against the ship's rudder, and in
the next place she broke away, and either sunk or
was driven off to sea; so there was no hope from
her. We had another boat on board, but how to
get her off into the sea was a doubtful thing; how-
ever, there was no room to debate, for we fancied
the ship would break in pieces every minute, and
some told us she was actually broken already.
In this distress, the mate of our vessel lays hold
of the boat, and, with the help of the rest of the
men, they got her slung over the ship's side, and
getting all into her, let go, and committed ourselves,
being eleven in number, to God's mercy, and the
wild sea; for though the storm was abated consi-
derably, yet the sea went dreadful high upon the
shore, and might well be called den wild zee, as the
Dutch call the sea in a storm.
And now our case was very dismal indeed; for
we all saw plainly, that the sea went so high, that
the boat could not live, and that we should be in-
evitably drowned. As to making sail, we had none,
nor, if we had, could we have done any thing with
it; so we worked at the oar towards the land,
though with heavy hearts, like men going to exe-
cution; for we all knew, that when the boat came
nearer the shore, she would be dashed in a thou-
sand pieces by the breach of the sea. However,
we committed our souls to God in the most earnest
manner; and the wind driving us towards the shore,
we hastened our destruction with our own hands,
pulling as well as we could towards land.
What the shore was, whether rock or sand, whe-
ther steep or shoal, we knew not; the only hope
that could rationally give us the least shadow of
expectation, was, if we might happen into some
bay or gulf, or the mouth of some river, where, by
great chance, we might have run our boat in, or
got under the lee of the land, and perhaps made
smooth water. But there was nothing of this ap-
peared; but, as we made nearer and nearer the
shore, the land looked more frightful than the sea.
After we had rowed, or rather driven, about a
league and a half, as we reckoned it, a raging
wave, mountain-like, came rolling astern of us, and
plainly bade us expect the coup-de-grace. In a
word, it took us with such a fury, that it overset
the boat at once; and, separating us as well from
the boat, as from one another, gave us not time
hardly to say O God! for we were all swallowed
up in a moment.
Nothing can describe the confusion of thought
which I felt when I sunk into the water; for though
I swam very well, yet I could not deliver myself
from the waves so as to draw breath, till that wave
having driven me, or rather carried me, a vast way
on towards the shore, and, having spent itself, went
back, and left me upon the land almost dry, but
half dead with the water I took in. I had so much
presence of mind, as well as breath left, that, see-
ing myself nearer the main land than I expected,
I got upon my feet, and endeavoured to make on
towards the land as fast as I could, before another
wave should return, and take me up again. But I
soon found it was impossible to avoid it; for I saw
the sea come after me as high as a great hill, and
as furious as an enemy, which I had no means or
strength to contend with ; my business was to hold
my breath, and raise myself upon the water, if I
could ; and so, by swimming, to preserve my
breathing, and pilot myself towards the shore, if
possible; my greatest concern now being, that the
sea, as it would carry me a great way towards the
shore when it came on, might not carry me back
again with it when it gave back towards the sea.
The wave that came upon me again, buried me
at once twenty or thirty foot deep in its own body;
and I could feel myself carried with a mighty force
and swiftness towards the shore a very great way;
but I held my breath, and assisted myself to swim
still forward with all my might. I was ready to
burst with holding my breath, when, as I felt my-
self rising up, so, to my immediate relief, I found
my head and hands shoot out above the surface of
the water; and though it was not two seconds of
time that I could keep myself so, yet it relieved
me greatly, gave me breath, and new courage. I
was covered again with water a good while, but
not so long but I held it out; and, finding the water
had spent itself, and began to return, I struck for-
ward against the return of the waves, and felt
ground again with my feet. I stood still a few mo-
ments to recover breath, and till the water went
from me, and then took to my heels, and run with
what strength I had farther towards the shore. But
neither would this deliver me from the fury of the
sea, which came pouring in after me again; and
twice more I was lifted up by the waves, and car-
ried forwards as before, the shore being very flat.
The last time of these two had well near been
fatal to me; for the sea having hurried me along
as before, landed me, or rather dashed me against
a piece of a rock, and that with such force, as it
-
º
%.
º
-
º |
º
I resolved to hold fast by a piece of the rock, and so
to hold my breath, if possible, till the wave went back.
Wor... I. Page 71.

left me senseless, and indeed helpless, as to my
own deliverance; for the blow taking my side and
breast, beat the breath as it were quite out of my
body; and, had it returned again immediately, I
must have been strangled in the water; but I re-
covered a little before the return of the waves, and
seeing I should be covered again with the water, I
resolved to hold fast by a piece of the rock, and so
to hold my breath, if possible, till the wave went
back. Now, as the waves were not so high as at
first, being near land, I held my hold till the wave
abated, and then fetched another run, which brought
me so near the shore, that the next wave, though
it went over me, yet did not so swallow me up as
to carry me away; and the next run I took I got
to the main land, where, to my great comfort, I
clambered up the clifts of the shore, and sat me
down upon the grass, free from danger, and quite
out of the reach of the water.
I was now landed, and safe on shore, and began
to look up and thank God that my life was saved
in a case wherein there was, some minutes before,
scarce any room to hope. I believe it is impossible
to express to the life what the ecstasies and trans-
ports of the soul are, when it is so saved, as I may
say, out of the very grave; and I do not wonder,
now, at that custom, viz. that when a malefactor,
who * the halter about his neck, is tied up, and
just going to be turned off, and has a reprieve
brought to him : I say, I do not wonder that they
bring a surgeon with it, to let him blood that very
moment they tell him of it, that the surprise may
not drive the animal spirits from the heart, and
overwhelm him : - -
For sudden joys, like griefs, confound at first.
72 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES
and my whole being, as I may say, wrapt up in the
contemplation of my deliverance, making a thou-
sand gestures and motions which I cannot describe;
reflecting upon all my comrades that were drown-
ed, and that there should not be one soul saved but
myself; for, as for them, I never saw them after-
wards, or any sign of them, except three of their
hats, one cap, and two shoes, that were not fel-
lows.
I cast my eyes to the stranded vessel, when, the
breach and froth of the sea being so big, I could
hardly see it, it lay so far off, and considered, Lord!
how was it possible I could get on shore
After I had solaced my mind with the comfort-
able part of my condition, I began to look round
me, to see what kind of place I was in, and what
was next to be done; and I soon found my com-
forts abate, and that, in a word, I had a dreadful
deliverance: for I was wet, had no clothes to shift
me, nor any thing either to eat or drink to com-
fort me; neither did I see any prospect before me,
but that of perishing with hunger, or being devour-
'ed by wild beasts; and that, which was particularly
afflicting to me, was, that I had no weapon either
to hunt and kill any creature for my sustenance,
or to defend myself against any other creature
that might desire to kill me for theirs: in a word,
I had nothing about me but a knife, a tobacco-
pipe, and a little tobacco in a box; this was all my
provision, and this threw me into terrible agonies
of mind, that, for a while, I run about like a mad-
man. Night coming upon me, I began, with a
heavy heart, to consider what would be my lot
if there were any ravenous beasts in that country,
seeing at night they always come abroad for their
prey.
All the remedy that offered to my thoughts at
that time, was, to get up into a thick bushy tree
like a fir, but thorny, which grew near me, and
where I resolved to sit all night, and consider the
next day what death I should die, for, as yet, I saw
no prospect of life. I walked about a furlong from
the shore, to see if I could find any fresh water to
drink, which I did, to my great joy; and having
drank, and put a little tobacco in my mouth to
prevent hunger, I went to the tree, and getting up
into it, endeavoured to place myself so, as that if I
should sleep I might not fall; and having cut me
a short stick, like a truncheon, for my defence, I
took up my lodging, and, having been excessively
fatigued, I fell fast asleep, and slept as comfortably
as, I believe, few could have done in my condition,
and found myself the most refreshed with it that I
think I ever was on such an occasion.
CHAP. IV.
Appearance of the Wreck and Country next day—
Swim on board of the Ship, and, by means of a
contrivance, get a quantity of Stores on shore—Shoot
a bird, but it turns out perfect carrion–Moralize
wpon my situation—The Ship blown off Land, and
totally lost—Set out in search of a proper place for
a habitation—See numbers of Goast—Melancholy
reflections.
When I waked it was broad day, the weather
clear, and the storm abated, so that the sea did not
rage and swell as before: but that which surprised
me most, was, that the ship was lifted off in the
night from the sand where she lay, by the swelling
of the tide, and was driven up almost as far as the
rock which I first mentioned, where I had been so
bruised by the dashing me against it; this being
within about a mile from the shore where I was,
and the ship seeming to stand upright still, I wish-
ed myself on board, that, at least, I might save
some necessary things for my use.
When I came down from my apartment in the
tree, I looked about me again, and the first thing I
found was the boat, which lay as the wind and the
sea had tossed her up upon the land, about two
miles on my right hand. I walked as far as I could
upon the shore to have got to her, but found a neck,
or inlet of water, between me and the boat, which
was about half a mile broad; so I came back for
the present, being more intent upon getting at the
ship, where I hoped to find something for my pre-
sent subsistence. -
A little after noon I found the sea very calm, and
the tide ebbed so far out, that I could come within
a quarter of a mile of the ship; and here I found
a fresh renewing of my grief: for I saw evidently,
that if we had kept on board, we had been all safe,
that is to say, we had all got safe on shore, and I
had not been so miserable as to be left entirely des-
titute of all comfort and company, as I now was.
This forced tears from my eyes again; but as
there was little relief in that, I resolved, if possible,
to get to the ship; so I pulled off my clothes, for
the weather was hot to extremity, and took the
water; but when I came to the ship, my difficulty
was still greater to know how to get on board; for
as she lay aground, and high out of the water,
*
there was nothing within my reach to lay hold of.
I swam round her twice, and the second time I
spied a small piece of a rope, which I wondered I
did not see at first, hang down by the fore-chains
so low as that with great difficulty I got hold of it,
and, by the help of that rope, got up into the fore-
castle of the ship. Here I found that the ship was
bulged, and had a great deal of water in her hold,
but that she lay so on the side of a bank of hard
sand, or rather earth, and her stern lay lifted up
upon the bank, and her head low almost to the
water: by this means all her quarter was free, and
all that was in that part was dry; for you may be
sure my first work was to search and to see what
was spoiled, and what was free: and first I found
that all the ship's provisions were dry and un-
touched by the water; and being very well dispo-
sed to eat, I went to the bread-room and filled my
pockets with biscuit, and ate it as I went about
other things, for I had no time to lose. I also found
some rum in the great cabin, of which I took a large
dram, and which I had indeed need enough of to
spirit me for what was before me. Now I wanted
nothing but a boat to furnish myself with many
things which I foresaw would be very necessary to
Ine.
It was in vain to sit still and wish for what was
not to be had ; and this extremity roused my ap-
plication. We had several spare yards, and two or
three large spars of wood, and a spare topmast or
two in the ship; I resolved to fall to work with
these, and flung as many of them overboard as I
could manage of their weight, tying every one
with a rope, that they might not drive away. When
this was done I went down to the ship's side, and,
pulling them to me, I tied four of them fast toge-
ther at both ends as well as I could, in the form of
a raft, and, laying two or three short pieces of
plank upon them crossways, I found I could walk
upon it very well, but that it was not able to bear
any great weight, the pieces being too light; so I
went to work, and, with the carpenter's saw, I cut
a spare topmast into three lengths, and added them
to my raft, with a great deal of labour and pains;
but hope of furnishing myself with necessaries, en-
couraged me to go beyond what I should have
been able to have done upon another occasion.
My raft was now strong enough to bear any rea-
sonable weight; my next care was what to load it
with, and how to preserve what I laid upon it from
the surf of the sea; but I was not long considering
this: I first laid all the planks or boards upon it
that I could get, and having considered well what
I most wanted, I first got three of the seamen's
chests, which I had broken open and emptied, and
lowered them down upon my raft. The first of these
I filled with provisions, viz. bread, rice, three Dutch
cheeses, five pieces of dried goat's flesh, which we
lived much upon, and a little remainder of European
corn, which had been laid by for some fowls which
we brought to sea with us, but the fowls were kil-
led. There had been some barley and wheat to-
gether, but, to my great disappointment, I found af.
terwards that the rats had eaten or spoiled it all.
As for liquors, I found several cases of bottles be-
longing to our skipper, in which were some cordial
waters, and in all above five or six gallons of rack:
these I stowed by themselves, there being no need
to put them into the chest, nor no room for them.
While I was doing this, I found the tide began to
flow, though very calm, and I had the mortification
to see my coat, shirt, and waistcoat, which I had
left on shore upon the sand, swim away; as for
my breeches, which were only linen, and open-
knee'd, I swam on board in them and my stock-
ings: however, this put me upon rummaging for
clothes, of which I found enough, but took no more
than I wanted for present use, for I had other
things which my eye was more upon; as, first, tools
to work with on shore; and it was after long search-
ing that I found out the carpenter's chest, which
was indeed a very useful prize to me, and much
more valuable than a ship-loading of gold would
have been at that time: I got it down to my raft,

even whole as it was, without losing time to look
into it, for I knew in general what it contained.
My next care was for some ammunition and
arms. There were two very good fowling-pieces
in the great cabin, and two pistols: these I secu-
red first, with some powder-horns, and a small bag
of shot, and two old rusty swords. I knew there
were three barrels of powder in the ship, but knew
not where our gunner had stowed them; but with
much search I found them, two of them dry and
good, the third had taken water; those two I got
to my raft, with the arms. And now I thought my-
self pretty well freighted, and began to think how
I should get to shore with them, having neither
sail, oar, or rudder, and the least capful of wind
would have overset all my navigation.
I had three encouragements: 1. A smooth, calm,
sea; 2. The tide rising and setting in to the shore;
3. What little wind there was blew me towards the
land : and thus, having found two or three broken
oars belonging to the boat, and besides the tools
which were in the chest, I found two saws, an axe,
and a hammer; and with this cargo I put to sea:
for a mile, or thereabouts, my raft went very well,
only that I found it drive a little distant from the
place where I had landed before; by which I per-
ceived that there was some indraft of the water,
and consequently I hoped to find some creek or
l2
river there, which I might make use of as a port
to get to land with my cargo. -
As I imagined, so it was: there appeared before
me a little opening of the land, and I found a
strong current of the tide set into it, so I guided my
raft as well as I could to keep in the middle of the
stream; but here I had like to have suffered a se-
cond shipwreck, which, if I had, I think verily
would have broke my heart; for, knowing nothing
of the coast, my raft run aground at one end of it
upon a shoal, and, not being aground at the other
end, it wanted but a little that all my cargo had
slipped off towards that end that was afloat, and so
fallen into the water. I did my utmost, by setting
my back against the chests, to keep them in their
places, but could not thrust off the raft with all my
strength; neither durst I stir from the posture I
was in, but, holding up the chests with all my
might, stood in that manner near half an hour, in
which time the rising of the water brought me a
little more upon a level; and, a little after, the wa-
ter still rising, my raft floated again, and I thrust
her off with the oar I had into the channel; and
then, driving up higher, I at length found myself in
the mouth of a little river, with land on both sides,
and a strong current, or tide, running up. I looked
on both sides for a proper place to get to shore;
for I was not willing to be driven too high up the
WOL. I. F
river, hoping, in time, to see some ship at sea, and
therefore resolved to place myself as near the coast
as I could.
At length I spied a little cove on the right shore
of the creek, to which, with great pain and difficul-
ty, I guided my raft, and at last got so near, as that,
reaching ground with my oar, I could thrust her di-
rectly in; but here I had like to have dipped all
my cargo in the sea again; for that shore lying
pretty steep, that is to say, sloping, there was no
place to land, but where one end of the float, if it
run on shore, would lie so high, and the other sink
lower as before, that it would endanger my cargo
again: all that I could do, was to wait till the tide
was at the highest, keeping the raft with my oar
like an anchor to hold the side of it fast to the
shore, near a flat piece of ground, which I expect-
ed the water would flow over; and so it did. As
soon as I found water enough, for my raft drew
about a foot of water, I thrust her on upon that flat
piece of ground, and there fastened or moored her,
by sticking my two broken oars into the ground;
one on one side near one end, and one on the other
side near the other end; and thus I lay till the wa-
ter ebbed away, and left my raft and all my cargo
safe on shore.
My next work was to view the country, and seek
a proper place for my habitation, and where to stow
my goods, to secure them from whatever might
happen. Where I was, I yet knew not; whether
on the continent or on an island, whether inhabited
or not inhabited, whether in danger of wild beasts
or not. There was a hill, not above a mile from
me, which rose up very steep and high, and which
seemed to overtop some other hills which lay as in
a ridge from it northward : I took out one of the
fowling-pieces, and one of the pistols, and an horn
of powder; and thus armed, I travelled for discovery
up to the top of that hill; where, after I had with
great labour and difficulty got to the top, I saw my
fate to my great affliction, viz. that I was in an
island environed every way with the sea, no land
to be seen, except some rocks which lay a great
way off, and two small islands less than this, which
lay about three leagues to the west.
I found also, that the island I was in was barren,
and, as I saw good reason to believe, uninhabited,
except by wild beasts, of which, however, I saw
none; yet I saw abundance of fowls, but knew not
their kinds; neither, when I killed them, could I
tell what was fit for food, and what not. At my
coming back, I shot at a great bird, which I saw
sitting upon a tree on the side of a great wood—I
believe it was the first gun that had been fired there
since the creation of the world. I had no sooner
fired, but, from all parts of the wood, there arose an
innumerable number of fowls of many sorts, ma-
king a confused screaming, and crying every one
according to his usual note; but not one of them
of any kind that I knew. As for the creature I
killed, I took it to be a kind of a hawk, its colour
and beak resembling it, but had no talons or claws
more than common; its flesh was carrion, and fit
for nothing.
Contented with this discovery, I came back to
my raft, and fell to work to bring my cargo on
shore, which took me up the rest of that day; and
what to do with myself at night I knew not, nor in-
deed where to rest; for I was afraid to lie down on
the ground, not knowing but some wild beast might
devour me; though, as I afterwards found, there
was really no need for those fears. -
However, as well as I could, I barricadoed my-
self round with the chests and boards that I had
brought on shore, and made a kind of a hut for
that night's lodging. As for food, I yet saw not
which way to supply myself, except that I had
seen two or three creatures like hares run out of the
wood where I shot the fowl.
I now began to consider, that I might yet get a
great many things out of the ship, which would be
useful to me, and particularly some of the rigging
and sails, and such other things as might come to
land, and I resolved to make another voyage on
board the vessel, if possible; and as I knew that
the first storm that blew must necessarily break her
all in pieces, I resolved to set all other things apart,
till I got every thing out of the ship that I could
get. Then I called a council, (that is to say, in my
thoughts,) whether I should take back the raft; but
this appeared impracticable : so I resolved to go as
before, when the tide was down, and I did so, only
that I stripped before I went from my hut, having
nothing on but a checked shirt and a pair of linen
trowsers, and a pair of pumps on my feet.
I got on board the ship, as before, and prepared
a second raft; and having had experience of the
first, I neither made this so unwieldy, nor loaded it
so hard, but yet I brought away several things very
useful to me; as first, in the carpenter's stores, I
found two or three bags full of nails and spikes, a
great screw-jack, a dozen or two of hatchets, and,
above all, that most useful thing called a grind-
stone : all these I secured, together with several
things belonging to the gunner, particularly two or
three iron-crows, and two barrels of musket-bullets,
seven muskets, and another fowling-piece, with
some small quantity of powder more; a large bag
full of small shot, and a great roll of sheet lead;
but this last was so heavy, I could not hoist it up to
get it over the ship's side.
Besides these things, I took all the men's clothes
that I could find, and a spare fore-topsail, hammock,
and some bedding; and with this I loaded my se-
cond raft, and brought them all safe on shore, to
my very great comfort.
I was under some apprehensions, during my ab-
sence from the land, that at least my provisions
might be devoured on shore; but, when I came
back, I found no sign of any visitor, only there sat
a creature, like a wild cat, upon one of the chests,
which, when I came towards it, ran away a little
distance, and then stood still; she sat very compo-
sed and unconcerned, and looked full in my face,
as if she had a mind to be acquainted with me; I
presented my gun at her, but as she did not under-
stand it, she was perfectly unconcerned at it, nor
did she offer to stir away; upon which I tossed her
a bit of biscuit, though, by the way, I was not very
free of it, for my store was not great: however, I
spared her a bit, I say, and she went to it, smelled
of it, and ate it, and looked, as pleased, for more;
but I thanked her, and could spare no more; so
she marched off.
Having got my second cargo on shore, though I
was fain to open the barrels of powder, and bring
them by parcels, for they were too heavy, being
large casks, I went to work to make me a little
tent, with the sail and some poles which I cut for
that purpose; and into this tent I brought every
thing that I knew would spoil, either with rain or
sun; and I piled all the empty chests and casks up
in a circle round the tent, to fortify it from any
sudden attempt, either from man or beast.
When I had done this, I blocked up the door of
the tent with some boards within, and an empty
chest set up an end without, and, spreading one of
the beds upon the ground, laying my two pistols just
at my head, and my gun at length by me, I went
to bed for the first time, and slept very quietly all
night, for I was very weary and heavy; as the
night before I had slept little, and had laboured
very hard all day, as well to fetch all those things
from the ship, as to get them on shore.
I had the biggest magazine of all kinds now that
ever were laid up, I believe, for one man; but I
was not satisfied still; for, while the ship sat up-
right in that posture, I thought I ought to get every
thing out of her that I could: so every day, at low
water, I went on board, and brought away some-
thing or other; but particularly the third time I
went, I brought away as much of the rigging as I
could, as also all the small ropes and rope-twine I
could get, with a piece of spare canvas, which was
to mend the sails upon occasion, and the barrel of
wet gunpowder: in a word, I brought away all the
sails first and last, only that I was fain to cut them
in pieces, and bring as much at a time as I could ;
for they were no more useful to be sails, but as
mere canvas only.
But that which comforted me more still, was,
that at last of all, after I had made five or six such
voyages as these, and thought I had nothing more
to expect from the ship that was worth my med-
dling with; I say, after all this, I found a great
hogshead of bread, and three large runlets of rum
or spirits, and a box of sugar, and a barrel of fine
flour; this was surprising to me, because I had
given over expecting any more provisions, except
what was spoiled by the water: I soon emptied the
hogshead of that bread, and wrapped it up, parcel
by parcel, in pieces of the sails, which I cut out:
and, in a word, I got all this safe on shore also.
The next day I made another voyage; and now,
having plundered the ship of what was portable and
fit to hand out, I began with the cables; and cutting
the great cable into pieces, such as I could move, I
got two cables and a hawser on shore, with all the
iron-work I could get; and having cut down the
spritsail-yard, and the mizen-yard, and every thing
I could to make a large raft, I loaded it with all
those heavy goods, and came away; but my good
luck began now to leave me; for this raft was so
unwieldy and so overladen, that, after I had enter-
ed the little cave, where I had landed the rest of
my goods, not being able to guide it so handily as
I did the other, it overset, and threw me and all my
cargo into the water. As for myself, it was no great
harm, for I was near the shore; but as to my car-
go, it was great part of it lost, especially the iron,
which I expected would have been of great use to
me : however, when the tide was out, I got most of
the pieces of cable ashore, and some of the iron,
though with infinite labour; for I was fain to dip for
it into the water; a work which fatigued me very
much. After this, I went every day on board, and
brought away what I could get.
I had been now thirteen days on shore, and had
been eleven times on board the ship; in which
time I had brought away all that one pair of hands
could well be supposed capable to bring, though I
believe verily, had the calm weather held, I should
have brought away the whole ship, piece by piece:
but, preparing the twelfth time to go on board, I
found the wind began to rise; however, at low wa-
ter I went on board, and though I thought I had
rummaged the cabin so effectually, as that nothing
more could be found, yet I discovered a locker with
drawers in it, in one of which I found two or three
razors, and one pair of large scissars, with some ten
or a dozen of good knives and forks; in another I
found about thirty-six pounds value in money, some
European coin, some Brazil, some pieces of eight,
some gold, some silver. -
I smiled to myself at the sight of this money.—
“O drug” said I, aloud, “what art thou good
for thou art not worth to me, no not the taking
off of the ground; one of those knives is worth all
this heap; I have no manner of use for thee; even
remain where thou art, and go to the bottom, as a
creature whose life is not worth saving.” However,
upon second thoughts, I took it away, and, wrap-
ping all this in a piece of canvas, I began to think
of making another raft; but, while I was preparing
this, I found the sky overcast, and the wind began
-to rise, and in a quarter of an hour it blew a fresh
gale from the shore. It presently occurred to me,
that it was in vain to pretend to make a raft with
the wind off shore, and that it was my business to
be gone before the tide of flood began, otherwise I
might not be able to reach the shore at all: accord-
ingly, I let myself down into the water, and swam
cross the channel which lay between the ship and
the sands, and even that with difficulty enough,
partly with the weight of things I had about me,
and partly the roughness of the water, for the wind
rose very hastily, and, before it was quite high wa-
ter, it blew a storm.
But I was gotten home to my little tent, where I
lay with all my wealth about me very secure. It
blew very hard all that night, and in the morning,
when I looked out, behold, no more ship was to be
seen! I was a little surprised, but recovered myself
with this satisfactory reflection, viz. that I had lost
no time, nor abated no diligence, to get every thing
out of her that could be useful to me, and that in-
deed there was little left in her that I was able to
bring away, if I had had more time.
I now gave over any more thoughts of the ship,
or of any thing out of her, except what might drive
on shore from her wreck, as indeed divers pieces of
her afterwards did; but those things were of small
use to me.
My thoughts were now wholly employed about
securing myself against either savages, if any
should appear, or wild beasts, if any were in the
island; and I had many thoughts of the method
how to do this, and what kind of dwelling to
make; whether I should make me a cave in the
earth, or a tent upon the earth: and, in short, I
resolved upon both, the manner and description of
which it may not be improper to give an account
of. -
I soon found the place I was in was not for my
settlement, particularly because it was upon a low
moorish ground near the sea, and I believed would
not be wholesome, and more particularly because
there was no fresh water near it; so I resolved to
find a more healthy and more convenient spot of
ground.
I consulted several things in my situation which
I found would be proper for me: 1st, Health, and
fresh water I just now mentioned. 2dly, Shelter
from the heat of the sun. 3dly, Security from
ravenous creatures, whether man or beast. 4thly,
A view to the sea, that, if God sent any ship in
sight, I might not lose any advantage for my de-
liverance, of which I was not willing to banish all
my expectation yet. -
. In search of a place proper for this, I found a
little plain on the side of a rising hill, whose front
towards this little plain was steep as a house-side,
so that nothing could come down upon me from
the top: on the side of this rock there was a hol-
low place worn a little way in, like the entrance or
door of a cave, but there was not really any cave
or way into the rock at all.
On the flat of the green, just before this hollow
place, I resolved to pitch my tent: this plain was
not above an hundred yards broad, and about twice
as long, and lay like a green before my door, and
at the end of it descended irregularly every way
down into the low grounds by the sea-side. It was
on the north-north-west side of the hill, so that I
was sheltered from the heat every day, till it came
to a west and by south sun, or thereabouts, which
in those countries is near the setting.
Before I set up my tent, I drew a half-circle
before the hollow place, which took in about ten
yards in its semi-diameter from the rock, and
twenty yards in its diameter, from its beginning
and ending.
In this half-circle I pitched two rows of strong
stakes, driving them into the ground till they stood
very firm, like piles, the biggest end being out of
the ground about five foot and a half, and sharp-
ened on the top: the two rows did not stand above
six inches from one another.
Then I took the pieces of cable which I had cut
in the ship, and laid them in rows one upon ano-
ther, within the circle between these two rows of
stakes, up to the top, placing other stakes in the
inside, leaning against them, about two foot and
a half high, like a spur to a post; and this fence
was so strong, that neither man or beast could
get into it, or over it: this cost me a great deal of
time and labour, especially to cut the piles in the
woods, bring them to the place, and drive them
into the earth. --
The entrance into this place I made to be not by
a door, but by a short ladder, to go over the top:
which ladder, when I was in, I lifted over after me:
and so I was completely fenced in, and fortified,
as I thought, from all the world, and consequently
slept secure in the night, which otherwise I could
not have done, though, as it appeared afterward,
there was no need of all this caution from the
enemies that I apprehended danger from.
Into this fence or fortress, with infinite labour,
I carried all my riches, all my provisions, ammu-
nition, and stores, of which you have the account
above; and I made me a large tent, which, to
preserve me from the rains, that in one part of the
year are very violent there, I made double, viz.
one smaller tent within, and one larger tent above
it, and covered the uppermost with a large tarpaulin,
which I had saved among the sails.
And now I lay no more for a while in the bed
which I had brought on shore, but in a hammock,
which was indeed a very good one, and belonged
to the mate of the ship.
Into this tent I brought all my provisions, and
every thing that would spoil by the wet; and ha-
ving thus enclosed all my goods, I made up the
entrance, which till now I had left open, and so
passed and repassed, as I said, by a short ladder.
When I had done this, I began to work my way
into the rock, and bringing all the earth and stones
that I dug down, out through my tent, I laid them
up within my fence in the nature of a terrace,
that so it raised the ground within about a foot
and a half; and thus I made me a cave just be-
hind my tent, which served me like a cellar to my
house.
It cost me much labour, and many days, before
all these things were brought to perfection; and
therefore I must go back to some other things,
which took up some of my thoughts. At the same
time it happened, after I had laid my scheme for
the setting up my tent, and making the cave, that
a storm of rain falling from a thick dark cloud, a
sudden flash of lightning happened, and after that
a great clap of thunder, as is naturally the effect
of it. I was not so much surprised with the light-
ning, as I was with a thought which darted into my
mind as swift as the lightning itself: O my pow-
der! my very heart sunk within me, when I thought,
that at one blast all my powder might be destroy-
ed: on which, not my defence only, but the pro-
viding me food, as I thought, entirely depended: I
was nothing near so anxious about my own danger;
though, had the powder took fire, I had never known
who had hurt me. -
Such impression did this make upon me, that, af.
ter the storm was over, I laid aside all my works,
my building, and fortifying, and applied myself to
make bags and boxes to separate the powder, and
to keep it a little and a little in a parcel, in hope,
that, whatever might come, it might not all take
fire at once, and to keep it so apart, that it should
not be possible to make one part fire another. I fi-
nished this work in about a fortnight; and I think
my powder, which in all was about two hundred
and forty pounds weight, was divided in not less
than a hundred parcels. As to the barrel that had
been wet, I did not apprehend any danger from
that, so I placed it in my new cave, which, in my
fancy, I called my kitchen; and the rest I hid up
and down in holes among the rocks, so that no
wet might come to it, marking very carefully where
I laid it.
In the interval of time while this was doing, I
went out once at least every day with my gun, as
well to divert myself, as to see if I could kill any
thing fit for food, and as near as I could to acquaint
myself with what the island produced. The first
time I went out, I presently discovered that there
were goats in the island, which was a great satis-
faction to me; but then it was attended with this
misfortune to me, viz. that they were so shy, so
subtle, and so swift of foot, that it was the most dif-
ficult thing in the world to come at them. But I
was not discouraged at this, not doubting but I
might now and then shoot one, as it soon happen-
ed; for, after I had found their haunts a little, I laid
wait in this manner for them: I observed, if they
SaW * in the vallies, though they were upon the
rocks, they would run away as in a terrible fright;
but if they were feeding in the vallies, and I was
upon the rocks, they took no notice of me; from
whence I concluded, that, by the position of their
optics, their sight was so directed downward, that
they did not readily see objects that were above
them: so afterward I took this method; I always
climbed the rocks first, to get above them, and then
had frequently a fair mark. The first shot I made
among these creatures I killed a she-goat, which
had a little kid by her which she gave suck to,
which grieved me heartily; but when the old one
fell, the kid stood stock still by her till I came and
took her up; and not only so, but, when I carried
the old one with me upon my shoulders, the kid
followed me quite to my inclosure; upon which I
laid down the dam, and took the kid in my arms,
and carried it over my pale, in hopes to have bred
it up tame; but it would not eat; so I was forced
to kill it, and eat it myself. These two supplied me
with flesh a great while, for I ate sparingly, and sa-
ved my provisions (my bread especially) as much
as possibly I could.
Having now fixed my habitation, I found it ab-
solutely necessary to provide a place to make a fire
in, and fuel to burn; and what I did for that, as al-
so how I enlarged my cave, and what conveniences
I made, I shall give a full account of in its place;
VOL, i. G
but I must first give some little account of myself,
and of my thoughts about living, which, it may well
be supposed, were not a few.
I had a dismal prospect of my condition; for as
I was not cast away upon that island without being
driven, as is said, by a violent storm, quite out of
the course of our intended voyage, and a great way,
viz. some hundreds of leagues out of the ordinary
course of the trade of mankind, I had great reason
to consider it as a determination of Heaven, that, in
this desolate place, and in this desolate manner, I
should end my life. The tears would run plentiful-
ly down my face when I made these reflections;
and sometimes I would expostulate with myself,
why Providence should thus completely ruin his
creatures, and render them so absolutely miserable,
so without help abandoned, so entirely depressed,
that it could hardly be rational to be thankful for
such a life.
But something always returned swift upon me to
check these thoughts, and to reprove me; and par-
ticularly one day, walking with my gun in my
hand by the sea-side, I was very pensive upon the
subject of my present condition, when reason, as it
were, expostulating with me the other way, thus:
“Well, you are in a desolate condition, it is true;
but pray remember, where are the rest of you ?
Did not you come eleven of you into the boat?
6
Where are the ten ? Why were they not saved, and
you lost? Why were you singled out? Is it better
to be here or there ** And then I pointed to the
sea. All evils are to be considered with the good
that is in them, and with what worse attended
them.
Then it occurred to me again, how well I was
furnished for my subsistence, and what would have
been my case if it had not happened, which was
an hundred thousand to one, that the ship floated
from the place where she first struck, and was dri-
ven so near the shore, that I had time to get all
these things out of her. What would have been my
case, if I had been to have lived in the condition
in which I at first came on shore, without necessa-
ries of life, or necessaries to supply and procure
them “particularly,” said I, (loud, though to my-
self) “what should I have done without a gun,
without ammunition, without any tools to make any
thing, or to work with; without clothes, bedding, a
tent, or any manner of covering * and that now I
had all these to a sufficient quantity, and was in a
fair way to provide myself in such a manner, as to
live without my gun when my ammunition was
spent; so that I had a tolerable view of subsisting,
without any want, as long as I lived; for I consi-
dered from the beginning, how I should provide for
the accidents that might happen, and for the time
º

that was to come, even not only after my ammuni-
tion should be spent, but even after my health or
strength should decay.
I confess I had not entertained any notion of my
ammunition being destroyed at one blast, I mean
my powder being blown up by lightning; and this
made the thoughts of it so surprising to me when it
lightened and thundered, as I observed just now.
And now, being about to enter into a melancho-
ly relation of a scene of silent life, such perhaps as
was never heard of in the world before, I shall take
it from its beginning, and continue it in its order.
It was, by my account, the 30th of September,
when, in the manner as above said, I first set foot
upon this horrid island, when the sun being, to
us, in its autumnal equinox, was almost just over
my head; for I reckoned myself, by observation,
to be in the latitude of 9 degrees 22-minutes north
of the Line. - -
After I had been there about ten or twelve days,
it came into my thoughts, that I should lose my
reckoning of time for want of books, and pen and
ink, and should even forget the sabbath days from
the working days; but, to prevent this, I cut it
with my knife upon a large post, in capital letters,
and making it into a great cross, I set it up on the
shore where I first landed, viz. “I came on shore
here on the 30th of September, 1659.” Upon the
sides of this square post, I cut every day a notch
with my knife, and every seventh notch was as
long again as the rest, and every first day of the
month as long again as that long one; and thus I
kept my calendar, or weekly, monthly, and yearly
reckoning of time.
In the next place, we are to observe, that, among
the many things which I brought out of the ship in
the several voyages, which, as above mentioned, I
made to it, Igot several things of less value, but
not all less useful to me, which I omitted setting
down before; as, in particular, pens, ink, and pa-
per, several parcels in the captain's, mate's, gun-
ner's, and carpenter's keeping, three or four com-
passes, some mathematical instruments, dials, per-
spectives, charts, and books of navigation; all which
I huddled together, whether I might want them or
no. Also, I found three very good Bibles, which
came to me in my cargo from England, and which
I had packed up among my things; some Portu-
guese books also, and among them two or three po-
pish prayer-books, and several other books; all
which I carefully secured. And I must not forget,
that we had in the ship a dog and two cats, of
whose eminent history I may have occasion to say
something in its place; for I carried both the cats
with me; and as for the dog, he jumped out of the
ship of himself, and swam on shore to me the day
after I went on shore with my first cargo, and was a
trusty servant to me many years; I wanted nothing
that he could fetch me, nor any company that he
could make up to me; I only wanted to have him
talk to me, but that he could not do. As I observed
before, I found pen, ink, and paper, and I husband-
ed them to the utmost; and I shall shew, that
while my ink lasted, I kept things very exact; but
after that was gone I could not, for I could not
make any ink by any means that I could devise.
And this put me in mind that I wanted many
things, notwithstanding all that I had amassed to-
gether; and of these, this of ink was one, as also
spade, pickaxe, and shovel, to dig or remove the
earth; needles, pins, and thread. As for linen,
I soon learnt to want that without much difficulty.
This want of tools made every work I did go on
heavily, and it was near a whole year before I had
entirely finished my little pale, or surrounded habi-
tation: the piles, or stakes, which were as heavy as
I could well lift, were a long time in cutting and
preparing in the woods, and more by far in bring-
ing home; so that I spent sometimes two days in
cutting and bringing home one of those posts, and
a third day in driving it into the ground; for which
purpose I got a heavy piece of wood at first, but at
last bethought myself of one of the iron crows,
which, however, though I found it, yet it made dri-
ving those posts, or piles, very laborious and tedi-
ous work.
But what need I have been concerned at the
tediousness of any thing I had to do, seeing I had
time enough to do it in 2 Nor had I any other em-
ployment, if that had been over, at least that I
could foresee, except the ranging the island to seek
for food, which I did more or less every day.
I now began to consider seriously my condition,
and the circumstances I was reduced to, and I drew
up the state of my affairs in writing, not so much
to leave them to any that were to come after me,
(for I was like to have but few heirs,) as to deliver
my thoughts from daily poring upon them, and af-
flicting my mind; and as my reason began now to
master my despondency, I began to comfort myself
as well as I could, and to set the good against the
evil, that I might have something to distinguish my
case from worse; and I stated it very impartially,
like debtor and creditor, the comforts I enjoyed
against the miseries I suffered, thus:
Evil.
I am cast upon a hor-
rible desolate island, void
of all hope of recovery.
I am singled out and
separated, as it were,
from all the world, to be
miserable.
Good.
But I am alive, and not
drowned, as all my ship's
company was.
But I am singled out
too from all the ship's
crew to be spared from
death; and He that mira-
104
THE LIFF, AND ADVENTURES
Evil.
I am divided from
mankind, a solitaire, one
banished from human
society.
I have not clothes to
COWer me,
I am without any de-
fence, or means to resist
any violence of man or
beast.
I have no soul to
speak to, or relieve me.
Good.
culously saved me from
death, can deliver me
from this condition:
But I am not starved
and perishing on a bar-
ren place, affording no
SuStenance.
But I am in a hot cli-
mate, where, if I had
clothes, I could hardly
wear them.
But I am cast on an
island, where I see no
wild beasts to hurt me,
as I saw on the coast of
Africa: and what if I
had been shipwrecked
there 2 -
But God wonderfully
sent the ship in near
enough to the shore, that
I have gotten out so
many necessarythings as
will either supply my
wants, or enable me to
supply myself even as
long as I live.
Upon the whole, here was an undoubted testi-
mony, that there was scarce any condition in the
world so miserable, but there was something nega-
tive or something positive to be thankful for in it;
and let this stand as a direction from the expe-
rience of the most miserable of all conditions in
this world, that we may always find in it some-
thing to comfort ourselves from, and to set in the
description of good and evil, on the credit side of
the account.
Having now brought my mind a little to relish
my condition, and given over looking out to sea, to
see if I could spy a ship; I say, giving over these
things, I began to apply myself to accommodate
my way of living, and to make things as easy to
me as I could.
I have already described my habitation, which
was a tent, under the side of a rock, surrounded with
a strong pale of posts and cables; but I might now
rather call it a wall, for I raised a kind of wall up
against it of turfs, about two foot thick on the out-
side; and after some time, I think it was a year and
half, I raised rafters from it, leaning to the rock,
and thatched or covered it with boughs of trees,
and such things as I could get to keep out the rain,
which I found at some times of the year very vio-
lent.
I have already observed how I brought all my
goods into this pale, and into the cave which I had
made behind me: but I must observe too, that at
first this was a confused heap of goods, which as
they lay in no order, so they took up all my place:
I had no room to turn myself; so I set myself to
enlarge my cave and works farther into the earth;
for it was a loose sandy rock, which yielded easily
to the labour I bestowed on it: and so when I
found I was pretty safe as to beasts of prey, I work-
ed sideways to the right hand into the rock; and
then, turning to the right again, worked quite out,
and made me a door to come out, on the outside of
my pale, or fortification.
This gave me not only egress and regress, as it
were a back-way to my tent and to my storehouse,
but gave me room to stow my goods.
And now I began to apply myself to make such
necessary things as I found I most wanted, particu-
larly a chair and a table; for without these I was
not able to enjoy the few comforts I had in the
world; I could not write or eat, or do several things
with so much pleasure without a table.
So I went to work; and here I must needs ob-
serve, that as reason is the substance and original
of the mathematics, so, by stating and squaring
every thing by reason, and by making the most ra-
tional judgment of things, every man may be in
time master of every mechanic art. I had never
handled a tool in my life, and yet in time, by la-
bour, application, and contrivance, I found at last
that I wanted nothing but I could have made it, es-
pecially if I had had tools; however, I made abun-
dance of things, even without tools, and some with
no more tools than an adze and a hatchet, which
perhaps were never made that way before, and that
with infinite labour: for example, if I wanted a
board, I had no other way but to cut down a tree,
set it on an edge before me, and hew it flat on ei-
ther side with my axe, till I had brought it to be as
thin as a plank, and then dub it smooth with my
adze. It is true, by this method I could make but
one board out of a whole tree; but this I had no
remedy for but patience, any more than I had for
the prodigious deal of time and labour which it took
me up to make a plank or board: but my time or
labour was little worth, and so it was as well em-
ployed one way as another.
However, I made me a table and a chair, as I ob-
served above, in the first place; and this I did out
of the short pieces of boards that I brought on my
raft from the ship: but when I had wrought out
some boards, as above, I made large shelves of the
breadth of a foot and a half one over another, all
along one side of my cave, to lay all my tools, nails,
and iron-work, and, in a word, to separate every
thing at large in their places, that I might come
easily at them. I knocked pieces into the wall of
the rock to hang my guns, and all things that would
hang up.
So that, had my cave been to be seen, it looked
like a general magazine of all necessary things; and
I had every thing so ready at my hand, that it was
a great pleasure to me to see all my goods in such
order, and especially to find my stock of all neces-
saries so great.
And now it was that I began to keep a journal of
every day's employment; for indeed at first I was
in too much a hurry; and not only hurry as to la-
bour, but in too much discomposure of mind, and
my journal would have been full of many dull
things. For example, I must have said thus: Sept.
the 30th, after I got to shore, and had escaped
drowning, instead of being thankful to God for my
deliveranee, having first vomited with the great
quantity of salt water which was gotten into my
stomach, and, recovering myself a little, I ran
about the shore, wringing my hands, and beating
my head and face, exclaiming at my misery, and
crying out, “I was undone, undone !” till tired and
faint, I was forced to lie down on the ground to re-
pose, but durst not sleep for fear of being devour-
ed.
Some days after this, and after I had been on
board the ship, and got all that I could out of her,
yet I could not forbear getting up to the top of a
little mountain, and looking out to sea in hopes of
seeing a ship; then fancy, at a vast distance, I spied
a sail; please myself with the hopes of it; and
then, after looking steadily till I was almost blind,
lose it quite, and sit down and weep like a child,
and thus increase my misery by my folly.
But having gotten over these things in some mea-
sure, and having settled my household-stuff and ha-
bitation, made me a table and a chair, and all as
handsome about me as I could, I began to keep my
journal, of which I shall here give you the copy
(though in it will be told all these particulars over
again) as long as it lasted; for, having no more ink,
I was forced to leave it off.
CHAP. W.
I begin to keep a Journal—Christen my desart Island
the Island of Despair—Fall upon various schemes
to make Tools, Baskets, &c. and begin to build my
House—At a great loss of an evening for Candle,
but fall upon an expedient to supply the want—
Strange discovery of Corn—A terrible Earthquake,
and Storm.
THE JOURNAL.
September 30, 1659.
I, poor miserable Robinson Crusoe, being ship.
wrecked, during a dreadful storm in the offing,
came on shore on this dismal unfortunate island,
which I called the Island of Despair; all the rest
of the ship's company being drowned, and myself
almost dead. -
All the rest of that day I spent in afflicting my-
self at the dismal circumstances I was brought to,
viz. I had neither food, house, clothes, weapon, or
place to fly to, and in despáir of any relief, saw no-
thing but death before me, either that I should be
devoured by wild beasts, murdered by savages, or
starved to death for want of food. At the ap-
proach of night I slept in a tree, for fear of wild
creatures, but slept soundly, though it rained all
night.
October 1. In the morning I saw, to my great
surprise, the ship had floated with the high tide,
and was driven on shore again much nearer the
island; which, as it was some comfort on one hand,
for, seeing her sit upright, and not broken to pieces,
I hoped, if the wind abated, I might get on board,
and get some food and necessaries out of her for.
my relief; so, on the other hand, it renewed my
grief at the loss of my comrades, who, I imagined,
if we had all staid on board, might have saved the
ship, or at least that they would not have been all
drowned, as they were; and that, had the men
been saved, we might perhaps have built us a boat
out of the ruins of the ship, to have carried us to
some other part of the world. I spent great part
of this day in perplexing myself on these things;
but at length, seeing the ship almost dry, I went
upon the sand as near as I could, and then swam on
board. This day also it continued raining, though
with no wind at all. -
From the 1st of October to the 24th. All these
days entirely spent in many several voyages to get
all I could out of the ship, which I brought on
shore, every tide of flood, upon rafts. Much rain
also in these days, though with some intervals of
fair weather: but, it seems, this was the rainy sea-
SOIl.
Oct. 20. I overset my raft, and all the good I
had got upon it; but being in shoal water, and the
things being chiefly heavy, I recovered many of
them when the tide was out.
Oct. 25. It rained all night and all day, with
some gusts of wind; during which time the ship
broke in pieces, the wind blowing a little harder
than before, and was no more to be seen, except
the wreck of her, and that only at low water. I
spent this day in covering and securing the goods
which I had saved, that rain might not spoil them.
Oct. 26. I walked about the shore almost all
day, to find out a place to fix my habitation, great-
ly concerned to secure myself from any attack in
the night, either from wild beasts or men. Towards.
night I fixed upon a proper place under a rock, and
marked out a semicircle for my encampment, which
I resolved to strengthen with a work, wall, or forti-
fication, made of double piles, lined within with ca-
ble, and without with turf.
From the 26th to the 30th I worked very hard
in carrying all my goods to my new habitation,
though some part of the time it rained exceeding
hard. - -
The 31st, in the morning, I went out into the
island with my gun, to see for some food, and dis-
cover the country; when I killed a she-goat, and
her kid followed me home, which I afterwards kil-
led also, because it would not feed.
November 1. I set up my tent under a rock,
and lay there for the first night, making it as large
as I could, with stakes driven in to swing my ham-
mock upon. - -
Nov. 2. I set up all my chests and boards, and
the pieces of timber which made my rafts, and
with them formed a fence round me, a little within
the place I had marked out for my fortification.
Nov. 3. I went out with my gun, and killed two
fowls like ducks, which were very good food. In
the afternoon went to work to make me a table.
Nov. 4. This morning I began to order my times
of work; of going out with my gun, time of sleep,
and time of diversion; viz. every morning I walk-
'ed out with my gun for two or three hours, if it did
not rain, then employed myself to work till about
eleven o'clock, then ate what I had to live on, and
vol. 1. . . H.
from twelve to two I lay down to sleep, the weather
being excessive hot, and then in the evening to
work again : the working part of this day and of
the next were wholly employed in making my
table; for I was yet but a very sorry workman,
though time and necessity made me a complete
natural mechanic soon after, as I believe it would
do any one else.
Nov. 5. This day went abroad with my gun and
my dog, and killed a wild cat; her skin pretty soft,
but her flesh good for nothing: every creature I
killed I took off the skins, and preserved them.—
Coming back by the sea-shore, I saw many sorts of
sea-fowls, which I did not understand; but was sur-
prised, and almost frighted, with two or three seals,
which, while I was gazing at, not well knowing
what they were, got into the sea, and escaped me
for that time.
Nov. 6. After my morning walk, I went to work
with my table again, and finished it, though not to
my liking; nor was it long before I learnt to mend
it.
Nov. 7. Now it began to be settled fair weather.
The 7th, 8th, 9th, 10th, and part of the 12th, (for
the 11th was Sunday,) I took wholly up to make
me a chair, and, with much ado, brought it to a to-
lerable shape, but never to please me; and even in
the making, I pulled it in pieces several times—
7
Note, I soon neglected my keeping Sundays; for
omitting my mark for them on my post, I forgot
which was which.
Nov. 13. This day it rained, which refreshed me
exceedingly, and cooled the earth; but it was ac-
companied with terrible thunder and lightning,
which frighted me dreadfully for fear of my pow-
der: as soon as it was over, I resolved to separate
my stock of powder into as many little parcels as
possible, that it might not be in danger.
Nov. 14, 15, 16. These three days I spent in
making little square chests or boxes, which might
hold about a pound, or two pound at most, of pow-
der; and so putting the powder in, I stowed it in
places as secure and remote from one another as
possible. On one of these three days I killed a
large bird that was good to eat, but I knew not
what to call it.
Nov. 17. This day I began to dig behind my
tent into the rock, to make room for my farther
conveniency. Note, Three things I wanted exceed-
ingly for this work, viz. a pickaxe, a shovel, and a
wheelbarrow or basket; so I desisted from my work,
and began to consider how to supply that want,
and make me some tools: as for a pickaxe, I
made use of the iron-crows, which were proper
enough, though heavy; but the next thing was a
shovel or spade; this was so absolutely necessary,
that indeed I could do nothing effectually without
it; but what kind of one to make I knew not.
Nov. 18. The next day in searching the woods,
I found a tree of that wood, or like it, which in
the Brazils they call the Iron Tree, for its exceed-
ing hardness: of this, with great labour, and almost
spoiling my axe, I cut a piece, and brought it home
too with difficulty enough, for it was exceeding
heavy.
The excessive hardness of the wood, and having
no other way, made me a long while upon this ma-
chine; for I worked it effectually by little and little
into the form of a shovel or spade, the handle ex-
actly shaped like ours in England, only that the
broad part having no iron shod upon it at bottom,
it would not last me so long; however, it served
well enough for the uses which I had occasion to
put it to; but never was a shovel, I believe, made
after that fashion, or so long a-making.
I was still deficient, for I wanted a basket or a -
wheel-barrow; a basket I could not make by any
means, having no such things as twigs that would
bend to make wicker-ware, at least none yet found
out; and as to a wheel-barrow, I fancied I could
make all but the wheel, but that I had no notion
of, neither did I know how to go about it; besides,
I had no possible way to make the iron gudgeons
for the spindle, or axis of the wheel, to run in, so I
gave it over; and so, for carrying away the earth,
which I dug out of the cave, I made me a thing
like a hod, which the labourers carry mortar in,
when they serve the bricklayers.
This was not so difficult to me as the making the
shovel; and yet this, and the shovel, and the at-
tempt which I made in vain to make a wheelbar-
row, took me up no less than four days, I mean al-
ways excepting my morning walk with my gun,
which I seldom failed; and very seldom failed also
bringing home something to eat.
Nov. 23. My other work having now stood still,
because of my making these tools, when they were
finished I went on, and working every day, as my
strength and time allowed, I spent eighteen days
entirely in widening and deepening my cave, that
it might hold my goods commodiously.
Note, During all this time, I worked to make
this room, or cave, spacious enough to accommo-
date me as a warehouse or magazine, a kitchen, a
dining-room, and a cellar: as for my lodging, I
kept to the tent, except that sometimes in the wet
season of the year, it rained so hard that I could
not keep myself dry, which caused me afterwards
to cover all my place within my pale with long
poles in the form of rafters, leaning against the
rock, and load them with flags and large leaves of
trees like a thatch.
December 10. I began now to think my cave
or vault finished, when on a sudden (it seems I had
made it too large) a great quantity of earth fell
down from the top and one side, so much, that, in
short, it frighted me, and not without reason too;
for if I had been under it, I had never wanted a
gravedigger. Upon this disaster I had a great deal
of work to do over again; for I had the loose earth
to carry out, and, which was of more importance, I
had the ceiling to prop up, so that I might be sure
no more would come down.
Dec. 11. This day I went to work with it ac-
cordingly, and got two shores, or posts, pitched up-
right to the top, with two pieces of boards across
over each post; this I finished the next day; and
setting more posts up with boards, in about a week
more I had the roof secured; and the posts, stand-
ing in rows, served me for partitions to part off my
house.
Dec. 17. From this day to the twentieth I placed
shelves, and knocked up nails on the posts to hang
every thing up that could be hung up ; and now I
began to be in some order within doors.
Dec. 20. Now I carried every thing into the
cave, and began to furnish my house, and set up
some pieces of boards like a dresser, to order my
victuals upon; but boards began to be very scarce
with me : also I made me another table. -
Dec. 24. Much rain all night and all day; no
stirring out. -
Dec. 25. Rain all day.
Dec. 26. No rain, and the earth much cooler
than before, and pleasanter.
Dec. 27. Killed a young goat, and lamed an-
other, so that I caught it, and led it home in a
string; when I had it home, I bound and splinter-
ed up its leg, which was broke. N. B. I took such
care of it, that it lived, and the leg grew well and as
strong as ever; but by nursing it so long, it grew
tame, and fed upon the little green at my door, and
would not go away. This was the first time that
I entertained a thought of breeding up some tame
creatures, that I might have food when my powder
and shot was all spent.
Dec. 28, 29, 30. Great heats, and no breeze; so
that there was no stirring abroad, except in the
evening for food. This time I spent in putting all
my things in order within doors.
January 1. Very hot still; but I went abroad early
and late with my gun, and lay still in the middle
of the day. This evening, going farther into the
vallies, which lay towards the centre of the island,
I found there was plenty of goats, though exceed-
ing shy and hard to come at; however, I resolved
to try, if I could not bring my dog to hunt them
down.
Jan. 2. Accordingly, the next day I went out
with my dog, and set him upon the goats; but F
was mistaken, for they all faced about upon the dog:
and he knew his danger too well; for he would not
come near them.
Jan. 3. I began my fence, or wall, which, being
still jealous of my being attacked by somebody, I
resolved to make very thick and strong.
N. B. This wall being described before, I pur-
posely omit what was said in the Journal; it is
sufficient to observe, that I was no less time,
than from the 3d of January to the 14th of
April, working, finishing, and perfecting this
wall, though it was no more than about twen-
ty-four yards in length, being a half-circle,
from one place in the rock to another place
about eight yards from it, the door of the cave
being in the centre behind it.
All this time I worked very hard, the rains hin-
dering me many days, nay, sometimes weeks toge-
ther; but I thought I should never be perfectly
secure, until this wall was finished; and it is scarce
credible what inexpressible labour every thing was
done with, especially the bringing piles out of the
woods, and driving them into the ground; for Imade
them much bigger than I need to have done.
When this wall was finished, and the outside
double-fenced with a turf wall raised up close to it,
I persuaded myself, that if any people were to come
on shore there, they would not perceive any thing
like a habitation; and it was very well I did so, as
may be observed hereafter, upon a very remarkable
occasion.
During this time, I made my rounds in the woods
for game, every day, when the rain admitted me,
and made frequent discoveries, in these walks, ot
something or other to my advantage; particularly,
I found a kind of wild pigeons, who built not as wood
pigeons, in a tree, but rather as house pigeons, in
the holes of the rocks; and taking some young ones,
I endeavoured to breed them up tame; and did so:
but when they grew older, they flew away, which
perhaps was at first for want of feeding them; for
I had nothing to give them. However, I frequently
found their nests, and got their young ones, which
were very good meat.
And now, in the managing my household affairs,
I found myself wanting in many things, which I
thought at first it was impossible for me to make,
as indeed as to some of them it was; for instance, I
could never make a cask to be hooped. I had a small
runlet or two, as I observed before, but I could
never arrive to the capacity of making one by them,
though I spent many weeks about it; I could neithel
-, *.
put in the heads, or joint the staves so true to one
another, as to make them hold water, so I gave that
also over.
In the next place, I was at a great loss for candle,
so that as soon as ever it was dark, which was ge-
nerally by seven o'clock, I was obliged to go to bed.
I remembered the lump of bees-wax, with which I
made candles in my African adventure; but I had
none of that now. The only remedy I had, was,
that, when I had killed a goat, I saved the tallow,
and with a little dish made of clay, which I baked
in the sun, to which I added a wick of some oakum,
I made me a lamp; and this gave me light, though
not a clear steady light like a candle. In the mid-
dle of all my labours, it happened, that, rummaging
my things, I found a little bag, which, as I hinted
before, had been filled with corn for the feeding of
poultry, not for this voyage, but before, as I sup-
pose, when the ship came from Lisbon. What little
remainder of corn had been in the bag, was all de-
voured with the rats, and I saw nothing in the bag
but husks and dust; and being willing to have the
bag for some other use, I think it was to put pow-
der in, when I divided it for fear of the lightning,
or some such use, I shook the husks of corn out of
it, on one side of my fortification, under the rock.
It was a little before the great rains, just now
mentioned, that I threw this stuff away, taking no
notice of any thing, and not so much as remember-
ing that I had thrown any thing there; when about
a month after, or thereabout, I saw some few stalks
of something green shooting out of the ground,
which I fancied might be some plant I had not
seen; but I was surprised, and perfectly astonish-
ed, when, after a little longer time, I saw about ten
or twelve ears come out, which were perfect green
barley, of the same kind as our European, nay, as
our English, barley.
It is impossible to express the astonishment and
confusion of my thoughts on this occasion. I had
hitherto acted upon no religious foundation at all.
Indeed, I had very few notions of religion in my
- head, or had entertained any sense of any thing
that had befallen me, otherwise than as a chance,
or, as we lightly say, what pleases God; without so
much as inquiring into the end of Providence in
these things, or his order in governing events in the
world. But after I saw barley grow there, in a cli-
mate, which I knew was not proper for corn, and
especially that I knew not how it came there, it
startled me strangely, and I began to suggest, that
God had miraculously caused this grain to grow,
without any help of seed sown; and that it was so
directed purely for my sustenance on that wild mi-
serable place.
This touched my heart a little, and brought tears
out of my eyes, and I began to bless myself, that
such a prodigy of nature should happen upon my
account; and this was the more strange to me, be-
cause I saw near it still, all along by the side of the
rock, some other straggling stalks, which proved to
be stalks of rice, and which I knew, because I had
seen it grow in Africa, when I was ashore there.
I not only thought these the pure productions of
Providence for my support, but not doubting but
that there was more in the place, I went all over
that part of the island, where I had been before,
peeping in every corner, and under every rock, to
see for more of it; but I could not find any. At last,
it occurred to my thought, that I had shook a bag
of chicken’s meat out in that place, and then the
wonder began to cease; and I must confess, my re-
ligious thankfulness to God's providence began to
abate too, upon discovering, that all this was nothing
but what was common, though I ought to have been
as thankful for so strange and unforeseen a provi-
dence, as if it had been miraculous; for it was really
the work of Providence, as to me, that should order
or appoint ten or twelve grains of corn to remain
unspoiled, when the rats had destroyed all the rest,
as if it had been dropped from heaven: as also,
that I should throw it out in that particular place,
where, it being in the shade of a high rock, it sprang
up immediately; whereas, if I had thrown it any
where else at that time, it had been burnt up and
destroyed.
I carefully saved the ears of corn, you may be
sure, in their season, which was about the end of
June, and, laying up every corn, I resolved to sow
them all again, hoping in time to have some quan-
tity sufficient to supply me with bread; but it was
not till the fourth year that I could allow myseif
the least grain of this corn to eat, and even then
but sparingly, as I shall say afterwards in its order;
for I lost all that I sowed the first season, by not
observing the proper time; for I sowed it just be-
fore the dry season, so that it never came up at
all, at least not as it would have done: of which in
its place.
Besides this barley, there were, as above, twen-
ty or thirty stalks of rice, which I preserved with
the same care, and whose use was of the same kind,
or to the same purpose, viz. to make me bread, or
rather food; for I found ways to cook it up with-
out baking, though I did that also after some time.
But to return to my journal.
Iworked excessive hard these three or four months
to get my wall done; and the 14th of April I closed
it up, contriving to go into it, not by a door, but
over the wall by a ladder, that there might be no
sign, in the outside, of my habitation.
April 16. I finished the ladder; so I went up
with the ladder to the top, and then pulled it up
after me, and let it down on the inside : this was
a complete enclosure to me; for within I had room
enough, and nothing could come at me from with-
out, unless it could first mount my wall.
The very next day after this wall was finished,
I had almost had all my labour overthrown at once,
and myself killed. The case was thus: As I was
busy in the inside of it behind my tent, just in the
entrance into my cave, I was terribly frighted with
a most dreadful surprising thing indeed; for on a
sudden I found the earth come crumbling down
from the roof of my cave, and from the edge of the
hill, over my head, and two of the posts I had set
up in the cave cracked in a frightful manner: I
was heartily scared, but thought nothing of what
was really the cause, only thinking that the top of
my cave was falling in, as some of it had done be-
fore; and for fear I should be buried in it, I ran
forward to my ladder, and not thinking myself safe
there neither, I got over my wall for fear of the
pieces of the hill, which I expected might roll down
upon me. I was no sooner stept down upon the
firm ground, but I plainly saw it was a terrible
earthquake, for the ground I stood on shook three
times at about eight minutes distance, with three
such shocks, as would have overturned the strongest
building that could be supposed to have stood on
the earth; and a great piece of the top of a rock,
which stood about half a mile from me next the
sea, fell down with such a terrible noise as I never
heard in all my life: I perceived also the very sea
was put into violent motion by it; and I believe
the shocks were stronger under the water than on
the island.
I was so amazed with the thing itself, having
never felt the like, or discoursed with any one that
had, that I was like one dead or stupified; and the
motion of the earth made my stomach sick, like
one that was tossed at sea; but the noise of the
falling of the rock awaked me, as it were, and rou-
sing me from the stupified condition I was in, fill-
ed me with horror, and I thought of nothing then
but the hill falling upon my tent and all my house-
hold goods, and burying all at once; and thus sunk
my very soul within me a second time.
After the third shock was over, and I felt no
more for some time, I began to take courage; and
yet I had not heart enough to get over my wall
again, for fear of being buried alive, but sat still
upon the ground, greatly cast down and disconso-
late, not knowing what to do. All this while I
had not the least serious religious thought, nothing
but the common “Lord have mercy upon me!”
and when it was over, that went away too.
While I sat thus, I found the air overcast, and
grow cloudy, as if it would rain; soon after that,
the wind rose by little and little, so that in less than
half an hour it blew a most dreadful hurricane: the
sea was all on a sudden covered over with foam and
froth, the shore was covered with the breach of the
water, the trees were torn up by the roots, and a
terrible storm it was; and this held about three
hours, and then began to abate, and in two hours
more it was stark calm, and began to rain very
hard.
All this while I sat upon the ground, very much
terrified and dejected, when on a sudden it came
into my thoughts, that these winds and rain being
the consequence of the earthquake, the earthquake
itself was spent and over, and I might venture into
my cave again: with this thought my spirits began
to revive, and, the rain also helping to persuade me,
I went in and sat down in my tent; but the rain
was so violent, that my tent was ready to be beaten
down with it; and I was forced to go into my
cave, though very much afraid and uneasy, for
fear it should fall on my head.
This violent rain forced me to a new work, viz.
to cut a hole through my new fortification like
a sink, to let water go out, which would else have
drowned my cave. After I had been in my cave
some time, and found still no more shocks of the
earthquake follow, I began to be more composed;
and now, to support my spirits, which indeed want-
ed it very much, I went to my little store, and
took a small cup of rum, which, however, I did
then, and always, very sparingly, knowing I could
have no more when that was gone.
It continued raining all that night, and great
part of the next day, so that I could not stir abroad;
but, my mind being more composed, I began to
think of what I had best do, concluding, that if
the island was subject to these earthquakes, there
would be no living for me in a cave, but I must
consider of building me some little hut in an open
place, which I might surround with a wall as I had
done here, and so make myself secure from wild
beasts or men : but concluded, if I staid where I
was, I should certainly, one time or other, be bu-
ried alive.
With these thoughts, I resolved to remove my
tent from the place where it stood, which was just
under the hanging precipice of the hill, and which,
if it should be shaken again, would certainly fall
upon my tent. And I spent the two next days,
being the 19th and 20th of April, in contriving
where and how to remove my habitation.
The fear of being swallowed up alive, made me
that I never slept in quiet, and yet the apprehen-
sion of lying abroad without any fence, was almost
WOL. I. - I
equal to it; but still, when I looked about, and saw
how every thing was put in order, how pleasantly
concealed I was, and how safe from danger, it
made me very loth to remove.
In the mean time, it occurred to me, that it would
require a vast deal of time for me to do this, and
that I must be contented to run the venture where
I was, till I had formed a camp for myself, and had
secured it so as to remove to it. So, with this re-
solution, I composed myself for a time, and resol-
ved that I would go to work with all speed, to
build me a wall with piles and cables, &c. in a cir-
cle, as before; and set my tent up in it when it
was finished, but that I would venture to stay where
I was till it was finished, and fit to remove to. This
was the 21st.
April 22. The next morning I began to consi-
der of means to put this resolve in execution, but
I was at a great loss about my tools. I had three
large axes, and abundance of hatchets, (for we car-
ried the hatchets for traffic with the Indians); but
with much chopping and cutting knotty hard wood,
they were all full of notches and dull; and, though
I had a grindstone, I could not turn it, and grind
my tools too: this cost me as much thought as a
statesman would have bestowed upon a grand point
of politics, or a judge upon the life and death of a
man. At length I contrived •whe with a string,
to turn it with my foot, that I might have both my
hands at liberty. Note, I had never seen any such
thing in England, or at least not to take notice how
it was done, though since I have observed it is very
common there; besides that, my grindstone was
very large and heavy. This machine cost me a
full week's work to bring it to perfection.
April 28, 29. These two whole days I took up
in grinding my tools, my machine for turning my
grindstone performing very well.
April 30. Having perceived my bread had been
low a great while, now I took a survey of it, and
reduced myself to one biscuit-cake a day, which
made my heart very heavy.
CHAP. VI.
Observe the Ship driven further aground by the late
Storm—Procure a vast quantity of necessaries from
the Wreck—Catch a large Turtle–I fall ill of a
Fever and Ague—Terrible Dream, and serious re-
flections thereupon—Find a Bible in one of the Sea-
men's chests thrown ashore, the reading whereof gives
me great comfort.
May 1. In the morning, looking towards the sea-
side, the tide being low, I saw something lie on the
shore bigger than ordinary; and it looked like a
cask. When I came to it, I found a small barrel,
and two or three pieces of the wreck of the ship,
which were driven on shore by the late hurricane;
and looking towards the wreck itself, I thought it
seemed to lie higher out of the water than it used
to do. I examined the barrel which was driven on
shore, and soon found it was a barrel of gunpow-
der, but it had taken water, and the powder was
caked as hard as a stone; however, I rolled it far-
ther on shore for the present, and went on upon
the sands as near as I could to the wreck of the
ship, to look for more.
When I came down to the ship, I found it strange-
ly removed; the forecastle, which lay before bu-
ried in sand, was heaved up at least six foot; and
the stern, which was broke to pieces, and parted
from the rest by the force of the sea, soon after I
had left rummaging her, was tossed, as it were, up,
and cast on one side, and the sand was thrown so
high on that side next her stern, that whereas there
was a great place of water before, so that I could
not come within a quarter of a mile of the wreck
without swimming, I could now walk quite up to
her when the tide was out. I was surprised with
this at first, but soon concluded it must be done by
the earthquake: and, as by this violence the ship
was more broken open than formerly, so many
things came daily on shore, which the sea had
loosened, and which the winds and water rolled by
degrees to the land.
This wholly diverted mythoughts from the design
of removing my habitation; and I busied myself
mightily, that day especially, in searching whether
I could make any way into the ship; but I found
nothing was to be expected of that kind, for that.
all the inside of the ship was choked up with sand;
however, as I had learnt not to despair of any
thing, I resolved to pull everything to pieces that
I could of the ship, concluding, that every thing I
could get from her would be of some use or other
to me.
May 3. I began with my saw, and cut a piece
of a beam through, which I thought held some of
the upper part or quarter-deck together, and when
I had cut it through, I cleared away the sand as
well as I could from the side which lay highest;
but the tide coming in, I was obliged to give over
for that time.
May 4. I went a-fishing, but caught not one
fish that I durst eat of, till I was weary of my
sport; when just going to leave off, I caught a
young dolphin. I had made me a long line of
some rope-yarn, but I had no hooks, yet I fre-
quently caught fish enough, as much as I cared to
eat; all which I dried in the sun, and ate them
dry.
May 5. Worked on the wreck, cut another
beam asunder, and brought three great fir planks
off from the decks, which I tied together, and made
swim on shore when the tide of flood came on.
May 6. Worked on the wreck, got several iron
bolts out of her, and other pieces of iron-work;
worked very hard, and came home very much tired,
and had thoughts of giving it over.
May 7. Went to the wreck again, but with an
intent not to work, but found the weight of the
wreck had broke itself down, the beams being cut,
that several pieces of the ship seemed to lie loose,
and the inside of the hold lay so open, that I could
see into it, but almost full of water and sand.
May 8. Went to the wreck, and carried an iron
crow to wrench up the deck, which lay now quite
clear of the water or sand; I wrenched open two
planks, and brought them on shore also with the
tide: I left the iron crow in the wreck for next
day.
May 9. Went to the wreck, and with the crow
made way into the body of the wreck, and felt se-
veral casks, and loosened them with the crow, but
could not break them up: I felt also the roll of
English lead, and could stir it, but it was too heavy
to remove. -
May 10, 11, 12, 13, 14. Went every day to the
wreck, and got a great many pieces of timber, and
boards, or plank, and two or three hundred weight
of iron. f
May 15. I carried two hatchets, to try if I could
not cut a piece off the roll of lead, by placing the
edge of one hatchet, and driving it with the other;
but as it lay about a foot and a half in the water, I
could not make any blow to drive the hatchet.
May 16. It had blown hard in the night, and the
wreck appeared more broken by the force of the
water; but I staid so long in the woods to get
pigeons for food, that the tide prevented me going
to the wreck that day.
May 17. I saw some pieces of the wreck blown
on shore, at a great distance, near two miles off me,
but resolved to see what they were, and found it
was a piece of the head, but too heavy for me to
bring away.
May 24. Every day to this day I worked on the
wreck, and, with hard labour, I loosened some things
so much with the crow, that the first flowing tide
several casks floated out, and two of the seamen's
chests; but the wind blowing from the shore, no-
thing came to land that day but pieces of timber,
and a hogshead, which had some Brazil pork in it,
but the salt water and the sand had spoiled it.
I continued this work every day to the 15th of
June, except the time necessary to get food, which
I always appointed, during this part of my employ-
ment, to be when the tide was up, that I might be
ready when it was ebbed out; and by this time I
had gotten timber, and plank, and iron work enough
to have built a good boat, if I had known how; and
also I got at several times, and in several pieces,
near one hundred weight of the sheet-lead.
June 16. Going down to the sea-side, I found a
large tortoise, or turtle: this was the first I had seen,
which, it seems, was only my misfortune, not any
defect of the place, or scarcity; for had I happen-
ed to be on the other side of the island, I might
have had hundreds of them every day, as I found
afterwards; but perhaps had paid dear enough for
them.
June 17. I spent in cooking the turtle; I found
in her threescore eggs; and her flesh was to me at
that time the most savoury and pleasant that ever
I tasted in my life, having had no flesh, but of goats
and fowls, since I landed in this horrid place.
June 18. Rained all day, and I stayed within. I
thought at this time the rain felt cold, and I was
something chilly, which I knew was not usual in
that latitude.
June 19. Very ill, and shivering, as if the wea-
ther had been cold.
June 20. No rest all night, violent pains in my
head, and feverish. -
June 21. Very ill, frighted almost to death with
the apprehensions of my sad condition, to be sick,
and no help. Prayed to God, for the first time since
the storm off Hull, but scarce knew what I said, or
why; my thoughts being all confused.
June 22. A little better, but under dreadful ap-
prehensions of sickness.
June 23. Very bad again, cold and shivering, and
then a violent headach.
June 24. Much better.
June 25. An ague very violent; the fit held me
seven hours, cold fit and hot, with faint sweats af-
ter it.
June 26. Better; and having no victuals to eat,
took my gun, but found myself very weak; how-
ever, I killed a she-goat, and, with much difficulty,
got it home, and broiled some of it, and ate; I
would fain have stewed it, and made some broth,
but had no pot.
June 27. The ague again so violent, that I lay
abed all day, and neither ate or drank. I was ready
to perish for thirst, but so weak I had not strength
to stand up, or to get myself any water to drink.
Prayed to God again, but was light-headed; and
when I was not, I was so ignorant, that I knew not
what to say; only I lay, and cried, “Lord look up-
on me! Lord pity me! Lord have mercy upon
me!” I suppose I did nothing else for two or three
hours, till, the fit wearing off, I fell asleep, and did
not wake till far in the night; when I waked, I
found myself much refreshed, but weak, and ex-
ceeding thirsty: however, as I had no water in my
whole habitation, I was forced to lie till morning,
and went to sleep again. In this second sleep I had
this terrible dream.
I thought that I was sitting on the ground on the
outside of my wall, where I sat when the storm
blew after the earthquake, and that I saw a man
descend from a great black cloud, in a bright flame
of fire, and light upon the ground. He was all over
as bright as a flame, so that I could but just bear to
look towards him; his countenance was most inex-
pressibly dreadful, impossible for words to describe;
when he stepped upon the ground with his feet, I
thought the earth trembled, just as it had done be-
fore in the earthquake, and all the air looked to my
apprehension as if it had been filled with flashes of
fire.
He was no sooner landed upon the earth, but he
moved forward towards me, with a long spear, ot
weapon, in his hand to kill me; and when he came
to a rising ground, at some distance, he spoke to me,
or I heard a voice so terrible, that it is impossible
to express the terror of it; all that I can say I un-
derstood was this:---" Seeing all these things have
not brought thee to repentance, now thou shalt die:”
at which words, I thought he lifted up the spear
that was in his hand to kill me.
No one, that shall ever read this account, will ex-
pect, that I should be able to describe the horrors
of my soul at this terrible vision; I mean, that even
while it was a dream, I even dreamed of those hor-
rors; nor is it any more possible to describe the
impression that remained upon my mind, when I
awaked and found it was but a dream.
I had, alas! no divine knowledge. What I had
received by the good instruction of my father was
then worn out by an uninterrupted series, for eight
years, of seafaring wickedness, and a constant con-
versation with nothing but such as were, like my-
self, wicked and profane to the last degree. I do
not remember, that I had, in all that time, one
thought, that so much as tended either to looking
upwards toward God, or inwards towards a reflec-
tion upon my own ways. But a certain stupidity of
soul, without desire of good, or conscience of evil,
had entirely overwhelmed me, and I was all that
the most hardened, unthinking, wicked creature,
among our common sailors, can be supposed to be,
not having the least sense, either of the fear of
God in danger, or of thankfulness to God in deliver-
an CeS.
In the relating what is already past of my story,
this will be the more easily believed, when I shall
add, that, through all the variety of miseries that
had to this day befallen me, I never had so much
as one thought of it being the hand of God, or that
it was a just punishment for my sin; my rebellious
behaviour against my father, or my present sins,
which were great, or so much as a punishment for
the general course of my wicked life. When I was
on the desperate expedition on the desert shores of
Africa, I never had so much as one thought of what
would become of me, or one wish to God to direct
me whither I should go, or to keep me from the
danger, which apparently surrounded me, as well
from voracious creatures, as cruel savages: but I
was merely thoughtless of a God, or a Providence;
acted like a mere brute, from the principles of na-
ture, and by the dictates of common sense only,
and indeed hardly that.
When I was delivered, and taken up at sea by
the Portugal captain, well used, and dealt justly and
honourably with, as well as charitably, I had not
the least thankfulness in my thoughts. When again
I was shipwrecked, ruined, and in danger of drown-
ing on this island, I was as far from remorse, or
looking on it as a judgment; I only said to myself
often, that I was an unfortunate dog, and born to be
always miserable.
It is true, when I got on shore first here, and
found all my ship's crewdrowned, and myself spared,
I was surprised with a kind of ecstasy, and some
transports of soul, which, had the grace of God as-
sisted, might have come up to true thankfulness;
but it ended where it begun, in a mere common
flight of joy, or, as I may say, being glad I was alive,
without the least reflection upon the distinguishing
goodness of the Hand which had preserved me, and
had singled me out to be preserved, when all the
rest were destroyed; or an inquiry why Providence
had been thus merciful to me: even just the same
common sort of joy which seamen generally have,
after they have got safe on shore from a shipwreck,
which they drown all in the next bowl of punch,
and forget almost as soon as it is over; and all the
rest of my life was like it.
Even when I was afterwards, on due considera-
tion, made sensible of my condition, how I was cast
on this dreadful place, out of the reach of human
kind, out of all hope of relief, or prospect of re-
demption, as soon as I saw but a prospect of living,
and that I should not starve and perish for hunger,
all the sense of my affliction wore off, and I began
to be very easy, applied myself to the works pro-
per for my preservation and supply, and was far
enough from being afflicted at my condition, as a
judgment from Heaven, or as the hand of God against
me: these were thoughts which very seldom entered
into my head.
The growing up of the corn, as is hinted in my
journal, had at first some little influence upon me,
and began to affect me with seriousness, as long as
I thought it had something miraculous in it; but as
soon as ever that part of thought was removed, all
the impression, which was raised from it, wore off
also, as I have noted already.
Even the earthquake, though nothing could be
more terrible in its nature, or more immediately di-
recting to the invisible Power, which alone directs
such things; yet no sooner was the first fright over,
but the impression it had made went off also. I had
no more sense of God, or his judgments, much less
of the present affliction of my circumstances being
from his hand, than if I had been in the most pros- -
perous condition of life.
But now, when I began to be sick, and a leisurely
view of the miseries of death came to place itself
before me; when my spirits began to sink under
the burden of a strong distemper, and nature was
exhausted with the violence of the fever, conscience,
that had slept so long, began to awake, and I be-
gan to reproach myself with my past life, in which
I had so evidently, by uncommon wickedness, pro-
voked the justice of God to lay me under uncom-
mon strokes, and to deal with me in so vindictive a
manner.
These reflections oppressed me, from the second
or third day of my distemper; and in the violence,
as well of the fever as of the dreadful reproaches of
my conscience, extorted some words from me, like
praying to God, though I cannot say they were ei-
ther a prayer attended with desires, or with hopes;
it was rather the voice of mere fright and distress;
my thoughts were confused, the convictions great
upon my mind, and the horror of dying in such a
miserable condition raised vapours into my head
with the mere apprehensions; and, in these hurries
of my soul, I new not what my tongue might ex-
press: but it was rather exclamation, such as,
* Lord! what a miserable creature am I? If I
should be sick, I shall certainly die for want of help,
and what will become of me !” Then the tears burst
out of my eyes, and I could say no more for a good
while.
In this interval, the good advice of my father came
to my mind, and presently his prediction, which I
mentioned in the beginning of this story; viz. that,
if I did take this foolish step, God would not bless
me; and I would have leisure hereafter to reflect
upon having neglected his counsel, when there might
be none to assist in my recovery. “Now,” said I
aloud, “my dear father's words are come to pass;
God’s justice has overtaken me, and I have none to
help or hear me. I rejected the voice of Providence,
which had mercifully put me in a posture, or sta-
tion of life, wherein I might have been happy and
easy; but I would neither see it myself, nor learn
to know the blessing of it from my parents. I left
them to mourn over my folly, and now I am left to
mourn under the consequences of it. I refused their
help and assistance, who would have lifted me into
the world, and would have made everything easy
to me, and now I have difficulties to struggle with,
too great for even nature itself to support, and no
assistance, no help, no comfort, no advice.” Then
I cried out, “Lord, be my help; for I am in great
distress''"
This was the first prayer, if I might call it so,
that I had made for many years. But I return to
my journal.
June 28. Having been somewhat refreshed with
the sleep I had had, and the fit being entirely off,
I got up; and though the fright and terror of my
dream was very great, yet I considered, that the fit
of the ague would return again the next day, and
now was my time to get something to refresh and
support myself, when I should be ill: and the first
thing I did, I filled a large square case-bottle with
water, and set it upon my table, in reach of my bed:
and to take off the chill or aguish disposition of the
water, I put about a quarter of a pint of rum into
it, and mixed them together; then I got me a piece
of the goat's flesh, and broiled it on the coals, but
could eat very little. I walked about, but was very
weak, and withal very sad and heavy-hearted, un-
der a sense of my miserable condition, dreading the
feturn of my distemper the next day. At night, I
made my supper of three of the turtle's eggs, which
VOL. I. R
I roasted in the ashes, and ate, as we call it, in the
shell; and this was the first bit of meat I had ever
asked God’s blessing to, even, as I could remember,
in my whole life.
After I had eaten, I tried to walk, but found my-
self so weak, that I could hardly carry the gun (for
I never went out without that); so I went but a little
way, and sat down upon the ground, looking out
upon the sea, which was just before me, and very
calm and smooth. As I sat here, some such thoughts
as these occurred to me:---
What is the earth and sea, of which I have seen
so much Whence is it produced 2 And what am
I, and all the other creatures, wild and tame, human
and brutal; whence are we?
Sure we are all made by some secret Power, who
formed the earth and sea, the air and sky; and who
is that?
Then it followed, most naturally:---It is God that
has made it all. Well, but then, it came on strange-
ly, if God has made all these things, he guides and
governs them all, and all things that concern them;
for the Being, that could make all things, must cer-
tainly have power to guide and direct them.
If so, nothing can happen in the great circuit of
his works, either without his knowledge or appoint-
Iment.
8
And if nothing happens without his knowledge,
he knows that I am here, and am in a dreadful con-
dition; and if nothing happens without his appoint-
ment, he has appointed all this to befal me.
Nothing occurred to my thoughts to contradict
any of these conclusions; and therefore it rested
upon me with the greater force, that it must needs
be, that God had appointed all this to befal me;
that I was brought to this miserable circumstance
by his direction, he having the sole power, not of
me only, but of every thing that happened in the
world. Immediately it followed,
Why has God done this to me What have I
done to be thus used?
My conscience presently checked me in that in-
quiry, as if I had blasphemed; and methought it
spoke to me, like a voice:--"Wretch! dost thou
ask what thou hast done? Look back upon a dread-
ful mis-spent life, and ask thyself what thou hast
not done? Ask why is it that thou wert not long
ago destroyed? Why wert thou not drowned in
Yarmouth Roads? killed in the fight, when the ship
was taken by the Sallee man of war? devoured by
the wild beasts on the coast of Africa? or drowned
HERE, when all the crew perished but thyself? Dost
thou ask, What have I done?”
I was struck with these reflections, as one astonish-
ed, and had not a word to say, no, not to answer to
myself; but rose uppensive and sad, walked back
to my retreat, and went up over my wall, as if I
had been going to bed; but my thoughts were sadly
disturbed, and I had no inclination to sleep, so I sat
down in my chair, and lighted my lamp; for it be-
gan to be dark. Now, as the apprehensions of the
return of my distemper terrified me very much, it
occurred to my thought, that the Brasilians take no -
physic but their tobacco, for almost all distempers;
and I had a piece of a roll of tobacco in one of the
chests, which was quite cured, and some also that
was green, and not quite cured.
I went, directed by Heaven, no doubt; for in this
chest I found a cure both for soul and body. I opened
the chest, and found what I looked for; viz. the to-
bacco; and as the few books I had saved lay there
too, I took out one of the Bibles, which I mentioned
before, and which, to this time, I had not found lei-
sure, or so much as inclination, to look into; I say,
I took it out, and brought both that and the tobacco
with me to the table.
What use to make of the tobacco I knew not, as
to my distemper, or whether it was good for it or
no; but I tried several experiments with it, as if I
was resolved it should hit one way or other. I first
took a piece of a leaf, and chewed it in my mouth,
which indeed at first almost stupified my brain, the
tobacco being green and strong, and that I had not
been much used to it; then I took some, and steeped
it an hour or two in some rum, and resolved to take
a dose of it, when I lay down; and lastly, I burnt
some upon a pan of coals, and held my nose close
over the smoke of it, as long as I could bear it, as
well for the heat, as the virtue of it, and I held al-
most to suffocation.
In the interval of this operation, I took up the
Bible, and began to read; but my head was too
much disturbed with the tobacco to bear reading,
at least at that time; only, having opened the book
casually, the first words that occurred to me were
these :---" Call on me, in the day of trouble, and I
will deliver; and thou shalt glorify me.”
The words were very apt to my case, and made
some impression upon my thoughts at the time of
reading them, though not so much as they did after-
wards; for, as for being delivered, the word had no
sound, as I may say to me. The thing was so re-
mote, so impossible, in my apprehension of things,
that I began to say, as the children of Israel did,
when they were promised flesh to eat, “Can God
spread a table in the wilderness?” So I began to
say, Can God himself deliver me from this place?
And as it was not for many years that any hope ap-
peared, this prevailed very often upon my thoughts.
But, however, the words made a very great im-
pression upon me, and I mused upon them very
often. It grew now late, and the tobacco had, as I
said, dozed my head so much, that I inclined to
sleep, so that I left my lamp burning in the cave,
lest I should want any thing in the night, and went
to bed. But before I lay down, I did what I never
had done in all my life, I kneeled down, and pray-
ed to God to fulfil the promise to me, that, if I called
upon him, in the day of trouble, he would deliver
me. After my broken and imperfect prayer was
over, I drank the rum, in which I had steeped the
tobacco, which was so strong and rank of the to-
bacco, that indeed I could scarce get it down. Im-
mediately upon this, I went to bed, and I found
presently it flew up into my head violently; but I fell
into a sound sleep, and waked no more, till, by the
sun, it must necessarily be near three o'clock in the
afternoon the next day; nay, to this hour, I am
partly of the opinion, that I slept all the next day
and night, and till almost three the day after; for,
otherwise, I know not how I should lose a day out
of my reckoning, in the days of the week, as it ap-
peared, some years after, I had done: for, if I had
lost it by crossing and recrossing the Line, I should
have lost more than a day; but in my account it
was lost, and I never knew which way.
Be that, however, one way or other; when I
awaked, I found myself exceedingly refreshed, and
my spirits lively and cheerful. When I got up, I
was stronger than I was the day before, and my
stomach better; for I was hungry; and, in short, I
had no fit the next day, but continued much alter-
ed for the better: this was the 29th.
The 30th was my well day of course, and I went
abroad with my gun, but did not care to travel too
far: I killed a sea-fowl or two, something like a
brand goose, and brought them home, but was not
very forward to eat them : so I ate some more of
the turtle's eggs, which were very good. This even-
ing I renewed the medicine which I had supposed
did me good the day before, viz. the tobacco steep-
ed in rum; only I did not take so much as before,
nor did I chew any of the leaf, or hold my head
over the smoke; however, I was not so well the
next day, which was the 1st of July, as I hoped I
should have been; for I had a little spice of the
cold fit, but it was not much.
July 2. I renewed the medicine all the three
ways, and dozed myself with it at first, and doubled
the quantity which I drank.
July 3. I missed the fit for good and all, though
I did not recover my full strength for some weeks
after. While I was thus gathering strength, my
thoughts ran exceedingly upon this scripture, “I
will deliver thee;” and the impossibility of my de-
liverance lay much upon my mind, in bar of my
ever expecting it; but as I was discouraging my-
self with such thoughts, it occurred to my mind,
that I pored so much upon my deliverance from
the main affliction, that I disregarded the deliver-
ance I had received; and I was, as it were, made
to ask myself such questions as these: viz. Have I
not been delivered, and wonderfully too, from sick-
ness? from the most distressing condition that could
be, and that was so frightful to me? and what no-
tice had I taken of it? had I done my part? God
had delivered me, but I had not glorified him: that is
to say, I had not owned and been thankful for that
as a deliverance; and how could I expect greater
deliverance 2
This touched my heart very much, and immedi-
ately I kneeled down, and gave God thanks aloud,
for my recovery from my sickness. - -
July 4. In the morning I took the Bible; and,
beginning at the New Testament, I began serious-
ly to read it, and imposed upon myself to read a
while every morning and every night, not tying my-
self to the number of chapters, but as long as my
thoughts should engage me. It was not long afte
I set seriously to this work, but I found my heart
more deeply and sincerely affected with the wick-
edness of my past life. The impression of my dream
revived; and the words, “All these things have not
brought thee to repentance,” ran seriously in my
thoughts. I was earnestly begging of God to give
me repentance, when it happened provdentially
the very day, that, reading the Scripture, I came
to these words:---". He is exalted a Prince, and a
Saviour, to give repentance, and to give remission.”
I threw down the book, and with my heart as well
as my hand lifted up to heaven, in a kind of ecstacy
of joy, I cried out aloud, “Jesus, thou Son of David!
Jesus, thou exalted Prince and Saviour, give me
repentance!” -
This was the first time that I could say, in the
true sense of the words, that I prayed in all my life;
for now...I prayed with a sense of my condition, and
with a true Scripture view of hope, founded on the
encouragement of the word of God; and from this
time, I may say, I began to have hope, that God
would hear me.
Now I began to construe the words mentioned
above, “Call on me, and I will deliver thee,” in a
different sense from what I had ever done before;
for then I had no notion of any thing being called
deliverance, but my being delivered from the cap-
tivity I was in: for, though I was indeed at large in
the place, yet the island was certainly a prison to me,
and that in the worst sense of the word; but now
I.learnt to take it in another sense. Now I looked
back upon my past life with such horror, and my
sins appeared so dreadful, that my soul sought no-
thing of God, but deliverance from the load of .
guilt that bore down all my comfort. As for my
solitary life, it was nothing; I did not so much as
pray to be delivered from it, or think of it; it was
all of no consideration in comparison of this; and
I added this part here, to hint to whoever shall
read it, that whenever they come to a true sense of
things, they will find deliverance from sin a much
greater blessing than deliverance from affliction.
But, leaving this part, I return to my journal.
My condition began now to be, though not less
miserable as to my way of living, yet much easier
to my mind; and my thoughts being directed, by
a constant reading the Scripture, and praying to
God, to things of a higher nature, I had a great
deal of comfort within, which till now I knew no-
thing of: also as my health and strength returned, y
I bestirred myself to furnish myself with every
thing that I wanted, and make my way of living
as regular as I could.
From the 4th of July to the 14th, I was chiefly
employed in walking about with my gun in my
hand, a little and a little at a time, as a man that
was gathering up his strength after a fit of sick-
ness; for, it is hardly to be imagined how low I
was, and to what weakness I was reduced. The
application which I made use of was perfectly new,
and, perhaps, what had never cured an ague be-
fore; neither can I recommend it to any one to
practise by this experiment; and though it did
carry off the fit, yet it rather contributed to weaken
me; for I had frequent convulsions in my nerves
and limbs for some time.
I learnt from it also this in particular, that being
abroad in the rainy season was the most pernicious
thing to my health that could be, especially in
those rains which came attended with storms and
hurricanes of wind; for, as the rain which came in
a dry season was always most accompanied with
such storms, so I found this rain was much more
dangerous than the rain which fell in September
and October.
I had been now in this unhappy island above
ten months; all possibility of deliverance from this
condition seemed to be entirely taken from me;
and I firmly believed, that no human shape had
ever set foot upon that place. Having now secured
my habitation, as I thought, fully to my mind,
I had a great desire to make a more perfect dis-
covery of the island, and to see what other produc-
tions I might find, which yet I knew nothing of.
CHAP. VII.
I begin to take a survey of my Island—Discover plen-
ty of Tobacco, Grapes, Lemons, and Sugar Canes,
wild, but no human Inhabitants—Resolve to lay up
a store of these articles, to furnish me against the
wet season—My Cat, which I supposed lost, returns
with Kittens—I regulate my diet, and shut myself
up for the wet season—Sow my Grain, which comes
to nothing; but I discover, and remedy my error—
Take account of the course of the Weather.
It was the 15th of July that I began to take a
more particular survey of the island itself. I went
up the creek first, where, as I hinted, I brought
my rafts on shore. I found, after I came about
two miles up, that the tide did not flow any higher,
and that it was no more than a little brook of run-
ning water, and very fresh and good; but this be-
ing the dry season, there was hardly any water in
some parts of it, at least not enough to run into
any stream, so as it could be perceived.
. On the bank of this brook I found many plea-
sant savannas or meadows, plain, smooth, and co-
vered with grass; and, on the rising parts of them,
next to the higher grounds, where the water, as it
might be supposed, never overflowed, I found a
great deal of tobacco, green, and growing to a great
and very strong stalk: there were divers other plants
which I had no notion of, or understanding about;
and might perhaps have virtues of their own, which
I could not find out.
I searched for the cassave root, which the Indians
in all that climate make their bread of, but I could
find none. I saw large plants of aloes, but did not
then understand them: I saw several sugar-canes,
but wild, and, for want of cultivation, imperfect. I
contented myself with these discoveries for this
time, and came back musing with myself what
course I might take to know the virtue and good-
ness of any of the fruits or plants which I should
discover, but could bring it to no conclusion; for,
in short, I had made so little observation while I
was in the Brazils, that I knew little of the plants
of the field, at least, very little that might serve
me to any purpose now in my distress.
The next day, the 16th, I went up the same way
again; and, after going something farther than I
had done the day before, I found the brook and
the savannas began to cease, and the country be-
came more woody than before. In this part I found
different fruits, and particularly I found melons
upon the ground in great abundance, and grapes
upon the trees; the vines had spread indeed over
the trees, and the clusters of grapes were just now
in their prime, very ripe and rich. This was a
surprising discovery, and I was exceeding glad of
them; but I was warned by my experience to eat
sparingly of them, remembering, that when I was
ashore in Barbary, the eating of grapes killed se-
veral of our Englishmen who were slaves there, by
throwing them into fluxes and fevers: but I found
an excellent use for these grapes, and that was to
cure or dry them in the sun, and keep them as
dried grapes or raisins are kept, which I thought
would be, as indeed they were, as wholesome, and
as agreeable to eat, when no grapes might be had.
I spent all that evening there, and went not back
to my habitation; which, by the way, was the first
night, as I might say, I had lain from home. In
the night I took my first contrivance, and got up
into a tree, where I slept well, and the next morn-
ing proceeded upon my discovery, travelling near
four miles, as I might judge by the length of the
valley, keeping still due north, with a ridge of
hills on the south and north side of me.
At the end of this march I came to an opening,
where the country seemed to descend to the west;
and a little spring of fresh water, which issued out
of the side of the hill by me, ran the other way,
that is, due east; and the country appeared so
fresh, so green, so flourishing, every thing being in
a constant verdure, or flourish of spring, that it
looked like a planted garden. -
I descended a little on the side of that delicious
valley, surveying it with a secret kind of pleasure
(though mixed with other afflicting thoughts) to
think that this was all my own, that I was king and
lord of all this country indefeasibly, and had a right
of possession; and, if I could convey it, I might
have it in inheritance, as completely as any lord of
a manor in England. I saw here abundance of co-
coa-trees, orange and lemon, and citron trees, but
all wild, and few bearing any fruit; at least, not
then : however, the green limes that I gathered
were not only pleasant to eat, but very whole-
some; and I mixed their juice afterwards with wa-
ter, which made it very wholesome, and very cool
and refreshing.
I found now I had business enough to gather and
carry home; and resolved to lay up a store, as
well of grapes, as limes and lemons, to furnish my-
self for the wet season, which I knew was approach-
ing.
In order to do this, I gathered a great heap of
grapes in one place, and a lesser heap in another
place, and a great parcel of limes and lemons in
another place; and taking a few of each with me,
I travelled homeward, and resolved to come again,
and bring a bag or sack, or what I could make, to
carry the rest home.
Accordingly, having spent three days in this
journey, I came home (so I must now call my tent,
and my cave); but before I got thither, the grapes
were spoiled; the richness of the fruit, and the
weight of the juice, having broken them, and
bruised them, they were good for little or nothing:
as to the limes, they were good, but I could bring
but a few.
The next day, being the 19th, I went back, ha-
ving made me two small bags to bring home my
harvest. But I was surprised, when, coming to my
heap of grapes, which were so rich and fine when
I gatheled them, I found them all spread abroad,
trod to pieces, and dragged about, some here, some
there, and abundance eaten and devoured. By this
I concluded there were some wild creatures there-
abouts, which had done this; but what they were
I knew not.
However, as I found there was no laying them
up on heaps, and no carrying them away in a sack,
but that one way they would be destroyed, and the
other way they would be crushed with their own
weight, I took another course; for I gathered a
large quantity of the grapes, and hung them upon
the out branches of the trees, that they might
cure and dry in the sun; and, as for the limes and
lemons, I carried as many back as I could well
stand under.
When I came home from this journey, I con-
templated, with great pleasure, on the fruitfulness
of that valley, and the pleasantness of the situation,
the security from storms on that side of the water,
and the wood; and concluded, that I had pitched
upon a place to fix my abode, which was by far
the worst part of the country. Upon the whole, I
began to consider of removing my habitation, and
to look out for a place equally safe, as where I now
was situated, if possible, in that pleasant, fruitful
part of the island.
This thought ran long in my head, and I was
exceeding fond of it for some time, the pleasant-
ness of the place tempting me; but when I came
to a nearer view of it, and to consider that I was
now by the sea-side, where it was at least possible
that something might happen to my advantage, and
that the same ill fate that brought me hither, might
bring some other unhappy wretches to the same
place; and, though it was scarce probable that any
such thing should ever happen, yet, to inclose my-
self among the hills and woods, in the centre of the
island, was to anticipate my bondage, and to ren-
WOL. I. L
der such an affair not only improbable, but impos-
sible; and that therefore I ought not by any means
to remove.
However, I was so enamoured with this place,
that I spent much of my time there for the whole
remaining part of the month of July; and though,
upon second thoughts, I resolved as above, not to
remove, yet I built me a little kind of a bower, and
surrounded it, at a distance, with a strong fence,
being a double hedge, as high as I could reach,
well staked, and filled between with brushwood;
and here I lay very secure, sometimes two or three
nights together, always going over it with a ladder,
as before; so that I fancied now I had my country-
house, and my sea-coast house; and this work took
me up the beginning of August.
I had but newly finished my fence, and began to
enjoy my labour, but the rains came on, and made
me stick close to my first habitation; for, though
I had made me a tent like the other, with a piece
of a sail, and spread it very well, yet I had not the
shelter of an hill to keep me from storms, nor a
cave behind me, to retreat into when the rains
were extraordinary.
About the beginning of August, as I said, I had
finished my bower, and began to enjoy myself. The
3d of August I found the grapes I had hung up
were perfectly dried, and indeed were excellent
2,
good raisins of the sun; so I began to take them
down from the trees, and it was very happy that I
did so; for the rains which followed would have
spoiled them, and I had lost the best part of my
winter food; for I had above two hundred large
bunches of them. No sooner had I taken them all
down, and carried most of them home to my cave,
but it began to rain; and from thence, which was
the 14th of August, it rained more or less every
day, till the middle of October, and sometimes so
violently, that I could not stir out of my cave for
several days.
In this season I was much surprised with the in-
crease of my family: I had been concerned for the
loss of one of my cats, who ran away from me, or,
as I thought, had been dead; and I heard no more
tale or tidings of her, till to my astonishment she
came home about the end of August, with three
kittens. This was the more strange to me, because
though I had killed a wild cat, as I called it, with
my gun, yet I thought it was a quite different kind
from our European cats; yet the young cats were
the same kind of house breed like the old one; and
both my cats being females, I thought it very
strange: but from these three cats I afterwards
came to be so pestered with cats, that I was forced
to kill them like vermin, or wild beasts, and to
drive them from my house as much as possible.
From the 14th of August to the 26th, incessant
rain, so that I could not stir, and was now very
careful not to be much wet. In this confinement
I began to be straitened for food; but venturing
out twice, I one day killed a goat: and the last
day, which was the 26th, found a very large tor-
toise, which was a treat to me, and my food was
regulated thus: I ate a bunch of raisins for my
breakfast, a piece of the goat's flesh, or of the tur-
tle, for my dinner, broiled (for, to my great mis-
fortune, I had no vessel to boil or stew any thing);
and two or three of the turtle's eggs for supper.
During this confinement in my cover by the rain,
I worked daily two or three hours at enlarging my
cave; and, by degrees, worked it on towards one
side, till I came to the outside of the hill, and made
a door or way out, which came beyond my fence
or wall; and so I came in and out this way. But I
was not perfectly easy at lying so open; for as I
had managed myself before, I was in a perfect en-
closure, whereas now I thought I lay exposed; and
yet I could not perceive that there was any living
thing to fear, the biggest creature that I had seen
upon the island being a goat.
September the 30th. I was now come to the un-
happy anniversary of my landing: I cast up the
notches on my post, and found I had been on shore
three hundred and sixty-five days. I kept this day
as a solemn fast, setting it apart to a religious ex-
ercise, prostrating myself to the ground with the
most serious humiliation, confessing myself to God,
acknowledging his righteous judgment upon me,
and praying to him to have mercy on me, through
Jesus Christ; and having not tasted the least re-
freshment for twelve hours, even till the going down
of the sun, I then ate a biscuit-cake and a bunch
of grapes, and went to bed, finishing the day as I
began it. -
I had all this time observed. no sabbath-day;
for as at first I had no sense of religion upon my
mind, I had after some time omitted to distinguish
the weeks, by making a longer notch than ordinary
for the sabbath-day, and so did not really know
what any of the days were; but now, having cast
up the days as above, I found I had been there a
year; so I divided it into weeks, and set apart
every seventh day for a sabbath; though I found
at the end of my account I had lost a day or two
of my reckoning.
A little after this my ink began to fail me, and
so I contented myself to use it more sparingly, and
to write down only the most remarkable events of
my life, without continuing a daily memorandum
of other things.
The rainy season, and the dry season, began now
to appear regular to me, and I learned to divide
them so as to provide for them accordingly. But
I bought all my experience before I had it; and
this I am going to relate, was one of the most dis-
couraging experiments that I made at all. I have
mentioned, that I had saved the few ears of barley
and rice which I had so surprisingly found spring
up, as I thought, of themselves, and believe there
were about thirty stalks of rice, and about twenty-
of barley; and now I thought it a proper time to
sow it after the rains, the sun being in its southern
position going from me.
Accordingly I dug up a piece of ground, as well
as I could, with my wooden spade, and dividing it
into two parts, I sowed my grain; but as I was
sowing, it casually occurred to my thought, that I
would not sow it all at first, because I did not
know when was the proper time for it; so I sow-
ed about two-thirds of the seeds, leaving about a
handful of each.
It was a gret comfort to me afterwards that I
did so, for not one grain of that I sowed this time
came to any thing; for the dry months following,
the earth having had no rain after the seed was
sown, it had no moisture to assist its growth, and
never came up at all, till the wet season had come
again, and then it grew as if it had been newly
SOWn.
Finding my first seed did not grow, which I easi-
ly imagined was by the drought, I sought for a
moister piece of ground to make another trial in;
and I dug up a piece of ground near my new bow-
er, and sowed the rest of my seed in February, a
little before the vernal equinox; and this, having
the rainy months of March and April to water it,
sprung up very pleasantly, and yielded a very good
crop; but having part of the seed left only, and not
daring to sow all that I had yet, I had but a small
quantity at last, my whole crop not amounting to
above half a peck of each kind.
But by this experience I was made master of
my business, and knew exactly when the proper
season was to sow; and that I might expect two
seed-times, and two harvests, every year.
While this corn was growing, I made a little dis-
covery, which was of use to me afterwards. As
soon as the rains were over, and the weather began
to settle, which was about the month of Novem-
ber, I made a visit up the country to my bower,
where though I had not been some months, yet I
found all things just as I left them. The circle or
double hedge that I had made, was not only firm
and entire, but the stakes which I had cut off of .
some trees that grew thereabouts, were all shot
out, and grown with long branches, as much as a
willow tree usually shoots the first year after lop-
ping its head. I could not tell what tree to call it
that these stakes were cut from. I was surpri-
sed, and yet very well pleased, to see the young
trees grow; and I pruned them, and led them up to
grow as much alike as I could: and it is scarce cre-
dible, how beautiful a figure they grew into in three
years; so that though the hedge made a circle of
about twenty-five yards in diameter, yet the trees,
for such I might now call them, soon covered it;
and it was a complete shade, sufficient to lodge
under all the dry season.
This made me resolve to cut some more stakes,
and make me an hedge like this in a semicircle
round my wall, I mean that of my first dwelling,
which I did; and placing the trees, or stakes, in a
double row, at above eight yards distance from my
first fence, they grew presently, and were at first a
fine cover to my habitation, and afterwards served
for a defence also, as I shall observe in its order.
*I found now, that the seasons of the year might
“generally be divided, not into summer and winter,
"as in Europe, but into the rainy seasons and the
dry seasons, which were generally thus:
... Half February, - -
- sº the sun being then on, or
Half April, near, the equinox.
Half April,
May, Dry, the sun being then to the
June, north of the Line.
July,
Half August,
Half August, Rain, the sun being then come
sº back.
Half October,
Half October,
November, / Dry, the sun being then to the
December, south of the Line.
January,
Half February,
The rainy season sometimes held longer or short-
er, as the winds happened to blow; but this was
the general observation I made. After I had
found, by experience, the ill consequence of being
abroad in the rain, I took care to furnish myself
with provision beforehand, that I might not be obli-
ged to go out; and I sat within doors as much as
possible during the wet months. . . . .
In this time I found much employment, (and
very suitable also to the time,) for I found great
occasion of many things which I had no way to
furnish myself with, but by hard labour and con-
stant application; particularly, I tried many ways
to make myself a basket; but all the twigs I
could get for the purpose proved so brittle, that
they would do nothing. It proved of excellent ad-
vantage to me now, that when I was a boy I used
to take great delight in standing at a basket-ma-
ker's in the town where my father lived, to see
them make their wicker-ware; and being, as boys
usually are, very officious to help, and a great ob-
server of the manner how they worked those things,
and sometimes lent an hand, I had by this means
so full knowledge of the methods of it, that I want-
ed nothing but the materials; when it came into
my mind, that the twigs of that tree from whence
I cut my stakes that grew, might possibly be as
tough as the sallows, and willows, and osiers, in
England; and I resolved to try.
Accordingly, the next day I went to my country-
house, as I called it; and cutting some of the small-
er twigs, I found them to my purpose as much as
I could desire; whereupon I came the next time
prepared with an hatchet to cut down a quantity,
which I soon found, for there was a great plenty
of them: these I set up to dry within my circle or
hedges; and when they were fit for use, I carried
them to my cave; and here, during the next sea-
son, I employed myself in making (as well as I
could) a great many baskets, both to carry earth,
or to carry or lay up anything, as I had occasion;
and though I did not finish them very handsomely,
yet I made them sufficiently serviceable for my
purpose; and thus afterwards I took care never to
be without them: and as my wicker-ware decay-
ed I made more; especially I made strong deep
baskets to place my corn in, instead of sacks, when
I should come to have any quantity of it.
Having mastered this difficulty, and employed
a world of time about it, I bestirred myself to see,
if possible, how to supply two wants. I had no
vessels to hold any thing that was liquid, except
two rundlets, which were almost full of rum, and
some glass bottles, some of the common size, and
others which were case-bottles square, for the hold-
ing of waters, spirits, &c. I had not so much as
a pot to boil any thing in, except a great kettle
which I saved out of the ship, and which was too
big for such uses as I desired it for, viz. to make
broth, and stew a bit of meat by itself. The se-
cond thing I would fain have had, was a tobacco-
pipe, but it was impossible for me to make one;
however, I found a contrivance for that too at
last. -
I employed myself in planting my second rows
of stakes of piles, and in this wicker-work, all the
summer, or dry season; when another business
took me up more time than it could be imagined
I could spare.
CHAP. VIII.
Make a second Tour through the Island–Catch a
3young Parrot, which I afterwards teach to speak—
My mode of sleeping at night—Find the other side
of the Island much more pleasant than mine, and
covered with Turtle and Sea-fowl—Catch a young
Kid which I tame—Return to my old habita-
tion—Great plague with my Harvest.
I MENTioned before, that I had a great mind to
see the whole island, and that I had travelled up
the brook, and so on to where I built my bower,
and where I had an opening quite to the sea, on
the other side of the island. I now resolved to
travel quite across to the sea-shore on that side.
So, taking my gun and hatchet, and my dog, and
a larger quantity of powder and shot than usual,
with two biscuit-cakes, and a great bunch of raisins
in my pouch, for my store, I began my journey.
When I had passed the vale where my bower
stood, as above, I came within view of the sea, to
the west; and it being a very clear day, I fairly
descried land, whether an island or continent I
could not tell; but it lay very high, extending
from the west, to the W. S.W. at a very great dis-
tance; by my guess it could not be less than
fifteen or twenty leagues off.
I could not tell what part of the world this might
be, otherwise than that I knew it must be part of
America; and, as I concluded by all my observa-
tions, must be near the Spanish dominions, and
perhaps was all inhabited by savages, where if I
should have landed, I had been in a worse condi-
tion than I was now; and therefore I acquiesced
in the dispositions of Providence, which I began
now to own, and to believe, ordered every thing
for the best; I say, I quieted my mind with this,
and left afflicting myself with fruitless wishes of
being there.
Besides, after some pause upon this affair, I con-
sidered, that if this land was the Spanish coast, I
should certainly, one time or other, see some vessels
pass or repass one way or other; but if not, then
it was the savage coast between the Spanish coun-
try and Brazii, which were indeed the worst of
savages; for they are cannibals, or men-eaters,
and fail not to murder and devour all the human
bodies that fall into their hands.
With these considerations I walked very leisure-
ly forward. I found that side of the island where
I now was, much pleasanter than mine, the open
or savanna fields sweet, adorned with flowers and
grass, and fulf of very fine woods. I saw abun-
dance of parrots, and fain would I have caught
one, if possible, to have kept it to be tame, and
taught it to speak to me. I did, after some pains-
taking, catch a young parrot; for I knocked it
down with a stick, and having recovered it, I
brought it home, but it was some years before I
could make him speak. However, at last I taught
him to call me by my name very familiarly: but
thé accident that followed, though it be a trifle,
will be wéry'diverting in its place.
I was exceedingly diverted with this journey: I
found in the low grounds, hares, as I thought them
to be, and foxes, but they differed greatly from all
the other kinds I had met with; nor could I satis-
fy flyself to eat them, though I killed several: but
I had no need to be venturous; for I had no want
of food, and of that which was very good too; es-
pecially these three sorts, viz. goats, pigeons, and
turtle or tortoise; which added to my grapes, Lead-
enhall-market could not have furnished a better
table than I, in proportion to the company: and
though my case was deplorable enough, yet I had
great cause for thankfulness, that I was not driven
to any extremities for food; but rather plenty, even
to dainties. -
I never travelled in this journey above two miles
outright in a day, or thereabouts; but I took so
many turns and returns, to see what discoveries I
could make, that I came weary enough to the
place where I resolved to sit down for all night;
and then either reposed myself in a tree, or sur-
rounded myself with a row of stakes set upright
in the ground, either from one tree to another, or
so as no wild creature could come at me without
waking me.
As soon as I came to the sea-shore, I was sur-
prised to see that I had taken up my lot on the
worst side of the island; for here indeed the shore
was covered with innumerable turties, whereas on
the other side I had found but three in a year and
an half. Here was also an infinite number of fowls
of many kinds, some of which I had not seen be-
fore, and many of them very good meat; but such
as I knew not the names of, except those called pen-
guins. -
I could have shot as many as I pleased, but was
very sparing of my powder and shot: and there-
fore had more mind to kill a she-goat, if I could,
which I could better feed on; and though there
were many goats here more than on the other. side
of the island, yet it was with much more difficulty
that I could come near them; the country being
flat and even, and they saw me much sooner than
when I was on the hills.
I confess this side of the country was much
pleasanter than mine, but yet I had not the least
inclination to remove; for as I was fixed in my ha-
bitation, it became natural to me, and I seemed all
the while I was here to be, as it were, upon a jour-
ney, and from home; however, I travelled along
the shore of the sea towards the east, I suppose,
about twelve miles; and then setting up a great
pole upon the shore for a mark, I concluded I
would go home again; and the next journey I
took should be on the other side of the island, east
from my dwelling, and so round, till I came to my
post again: of which in its place.
I took another way to come back than that I
went, thinking I could easily keep all the island so
much in my view, that I could not miss finding my
first dwelling by viewing the country: but I found
myself mistaken; for, being come about two or
three miles, I found myself descended into a very -
large valley; but so surrounded with hills, and
those hills covered with woods, that I could not see
which was my way by any direction but that of
the sun; nor even then, unless I knew very well
the position of the sun at that time of the day.
'. It happened, to my farther misfortune, that the
weather proved hazy for three or four days, while
I was in this valley; and not being able to see
the sun, I wandered about very uncomfortably, and
at last was obliged to find out the sea-side, look
for my post, and come back the same way I went;
and then by easy journies I turned homeward,
the weather being exceeding hot; and my gun,
ammunition, hatchet, and other things, very heavy.
In this journey my dog surprised a young kid,
and seized upon it; and I running in to take hold
of it, caught it, and saved it alive from the dog.
I had a great mind to bring it home, if I could :
for I had often been musing whether it might not
be possible to get a kid or two, and so raise a breed
of tame goats, which might supply me when my
powder and shot should be spent.
I made a collar for this little creature, and with
a string which I made of some rope-yarn, which I
always carried about me, I led him along, though
with some difficulty, till I came to my bower, and
there I enclosed him, and left him, for I was very
impatient to be at home, from whence I had been
absent above a month.
I cannot express what a satisfaction it was to
me to come into my old hutch, and lie down in my
hammock-bed: this little wandering journey, with-
out a settled place of abode, had been so unplea-
sant to me, that my own house, as I called it to
WOL. I. M
myself, was a perfect settlement to me, compared
to that; and it rendered every thing about me so
comfortable, that I resolved I would never go a
great way from it again, while it should be my lot
to stay on the island.
I reposed myself here a week, to rest and regale
myself after my long journey; during which, most
of the time was taken up in the weighty affair of
making a cage for my Pol, who began now to be a
mere domestic, and to be mighty well acquainted
with me. Then I began to think of the poor kid
which I had pent in within my little circle, and
resolved to go and fetch it home, and give it some
food; accordingly I went, and found it where I left
it; for indeed it could not get out, but was almost
starved for want of food. I went and cut boughs
of trees and branches of such shrubs as I could
find, and threw it over, and, having fed it, I tied it
as I did before to lead it away; but it was so tame
with being hungry, that I had no need to have tied
it, for it followed me like a dog; and as I conti-
nually fed it, the creature became so loving, so
gentle, and so fond, that it became from that time
one of my domestics also, and would never leave
me afterwards.
The rainy season of the autumnal equinox was
now come, and I kept the 30th of September in
the same solemn manner as before, being the anni-
l
versary of my landing on the island, having now
been there two years, and no more prospect of
being delivered than the first day I came there. I
spent the whole day in humble and thankful ac-
knowledgments of the many wonderful mercies
which my solitary condition was attended with,
and without which it might have been infinitely
more miserable. I gave humble and hearty thanks,
that God had been pleased to discover to me even
that it was possible I might be more happy in this
solitary condition than I should have been in a
liberty of society, and in all the pleasures of the
world: that he could fully make up to me the de-
ficiencies of my solitary state, and the want of hu-
man society, by his presence, and the communica-
tion of his grace to my soul, supporting, comfort-
ing, and encouraging me to depend upon his pro-
vidence here, and hope for his eternal presence
hereafter.
It was now that I began sensibly to feel how
much more happy the life I now led was, with all
its miserable circumstances, than the wicked, cur-
sed, abominable life I led all the past part of my
days; and now, having changed both my sorrows
and my joys, my very desires altered, my affec-
tions changed their gust, and my delights were
perfectly new from what they were at first coming,
or indeed for the two years past.
Before, as I walked about, either on my hunting,
or for viewing the country, the anguish of my soul
at my condition would break out upon me on a
sudden, and my very heart would die within me
to think of the woods, the mountains, the deserts
I was in; and how I was a prisoner, locked up
with the eternal bars and bolts of the ocean, in an
uninhabited wilderness, without redemption. In
the midst of the greatest composures of my mind,
this would break out upon me like a storm, and
made me wring my hands, and weep like a child.
Sometimes it would take me in the middle of my
work, and I would immediately sit down and sigh,
and look upon the ground for an hour or two to-
gether, and this was still worse to me; for if I
could burst out into tears, or vent myself by words,
it would go off; and the grief, having exhausted
itself, would abate.
But now I began to exercise myself with new
thoughts; I daily read the word of God, and ap-
plied all the comforts of it to my present state.
One morning being very sad, I opened the Bible
upon these words, “I will never, never leave thee,
nor forsake thee!” Immediately it occurred, that
these words were to me; why else should they be
directed in such a manner, just at the moment
when I was mourning over my condition, as one
forsaken of God and man? “Well then,” said I,
“if God does not forsake me, of what ill conse-
quence can it be, or what matters it though the
world should all forsake me; seeing, on the other
hand, if I had all the world, and should lose the fa-
vour and blessing of God, there would be no com-
parison in the loss 2"
From this moment I began to conclude in my
mind, that it was possible for me to be more happy
in this forsaken, solitary condition, than it was pro-
bable I should have ever been in any other parti-
cular state in the world; and with this thought I
was going to give thanks to God for bringing me
to this place. -
I know not what it was, but something shocked
my mind at that thought, and I durst not speak
the words. “How canst thou be such an hypocrite,”
said I, even audibly, “to pretend to be thankful
for a condition, which, however thou mayst endea-
vour to be contented with, thou wouldst rather
pray heartily to be delivered from?” So I stopped
there; but though I could not say I thanked God
for being there, yet Isincerely gave thanks to God
for opening my eyes, by whatever afflicting provi-
dences, to see the former condition of my life, and
to mourn for my wickedness, and repent. I never
opened the Bible, or shut it, but my very soul
within me blessed God for directing my friend in
Fngland, without any order of mine, to pack it up
among my goods, and for assisting me afterwards
to save it out of the wreck of the ship.
Thus, and in this disposition of mind, I began
my third year; and though I have not given the
reader the trouble of so particular an account of
my works this year as at the first, yet in general it
may be observed, that I was very seldom idle;
having regularly divided my time according to the
several daily employments that were before me;
such as, first, my duty to God, and reading the
scriptures, which I constantly set apart some time
for, thrice every day: secondly, the going abroad
with my gun for food, which generally took me
up three hours every morning when it did not
rain: thirdly, the ordering, curing, preserving,
and cooking what I had killed or catched for my
supply; these took up great part of the day : also
it is to be considered, that in the middle of the day,
when the sun was in the zenith, the violence of
the heat was too great to stir out; so that about
four hours in the evening was all the time I could
be supposed to work in; with this exception, that
sometimes I changed my hours of hunting and
working, and went to work in the morning, and
abroad with my gun in the afternoon.
To this short time allowed for labour, I desire
may be added the exceeding laboriousness of my
work; the many hours, which, for want of tools,
want of help, and want of skill, every thing that I
did, took up out of my time: for example, I was
full two-and-forty days making me a board for a
long shelf, which I wanted in my cave; whereas
two sawyers, with their tools and saw-pit, would
have cut six of them out of the same tree in half a
day.
My case was this: it was to be a large tree
which was to be cut down, because my board was
to be a broad one. The tree I was three days a
cutting down, and two more cutting off the boughs,
and reducing it to a log, or piece of timber. With
inexpressible hacking and hewing, I reduced both
the sides of it into chips, till it began to be light
enough to move; then I turned it, and made one
side of it smooth and flat, as a board, from end to
end: then, turning that side downward, cut the
other side till I brought the plank to be about three
inches thick, and smooth on both sides. Any one
may judge the labour of my hands in such a piece
of work; but labour and patience carried me
through that and many other things: I only ob-
serve this in particular, to shew the reason why so
much of my time went away with so little work,
viz. that what might be a little to be done with
help and tools, was a vast labour, and required a
prodigious time, to do alone, and by hand.
But notwithstanding this, with patience and la-
bour, I went through many things, and indeed
every thing that my circumstances made necessary
for me to do, as will appear by what follows.
I was now in the months of November and
December, expecting my crop of barley and rice.
The ground I had manured or dug up for them
was not great; for, as I observed, my seed of each
was not above the quantity of half a peck; for I
had lost one whole crop by sowing in the dry sea-
son; but now my crop promised very well, when
on a sudden I found I was in danger of losing it all
again by enemies of several sorts, which it was
scarce possible to keep from it; as first, the goats,
and wild creatures which I called hares, which,
tasting the sweetness of the blade, lay in it night
and day, as soon as it came up, and ate it so close,
that it could get no time to shoot up into stalks.
This I saw no remedy for but by making an en-
closure about it with a hedge, which I did with a
great deal of toil; and the more, because it re-
quired a great deal of speed; the creatures daily
spoiling my corn. However, as my arable land
was but small, suited to my crop, I got it totally
well fenced in about three weeks time, and shoot-
ing some of the creatures in the daytime, I set my
dog to guard it in the night, tying him up to a
stake at the gate, where he would stand and bark
all night long; so in a little time the enemies for-
sook the place, and the corn grew very strong and
well, and began to ripen apace.
But as the beasts ruined me before, while my
corn was in the blade, so the birds were as likely
to ruin me now, when it was in the ear; for, going
along by the place to see how it throve, I saw my
little crop surrounded with fowls of I know not
how many sorts, which stood as it were watching
till I should be gone. I immediately let fly among
them (for I always had my gun with me.) I had
no sooner shot, but there arose up a little cloud of
fowls, which I had not seen at all, from among the
corn itself.
This touched me sensibly; for I foresaw, that
in a few days they would devour all my hopes;
that I should be starved, and never be able to raise
a crop at all; and what to do I could not tell: how-
ever, I resolved not to lose my corn, if possible,
though I should watch it night and day. In the
first place, I went among it to see what damage
was already done, and found they had spoiled a
good deal of it; but that, as it was yet too green
for them, the loss was not so great, but the re-
mainder was like to be a good crop, if it could be
saved.
I stayed by it to load my gun, and then coming
away, I could easily see the thieves sitting upon all
the trees about me, as if they only waited till I
was gone away, and the event proved it to be so;
for, as I walked off as if I was gone, I was no
sooner out of their sight, but they dropped down
one by one into the corn again. I was so pro-
voked, that I could not have patience to stay till
more came on, knowing that every grain that they
ate now was, as it might be said, a peck loaf to
me in the consequence; but, coming up to the
hedge, I fired again, and killed three of them.
This was what I wished for; so I took them up,
and served them as we serve notorious thieves in
England, viz. hanged them in chains for a terror to
others. It is impossible to imagine almost, that
this should have such an effect as it had ; for the
fowls would not only not come at the corn, but in
short they forsook all that part of the island, and I
could never see a bird near the place as long as
my scarecrows hung there.
This I was very glad of, you may be sure; and
about the latter end of December, which was our
second harvest of the year, I reaped my corn.
I was sadly put to it for a scythe or a sickle to
cut it down, and all I could do was to make one
as well as I could out of one of the broad-swords,
or cutlasses, which I saved among the arms out
of the ship. However, as my crop was but small,
I had no great difficulty to cut it down: in short,
I reaped it my way, for I cut nothing off but the
ears, and carried it away in a great basket which
I had made, and so rubbed it out with my hands:
and, at the end of all my harvesting, I found, that
out of my half-peck of seed I had near two bushels
of rice, and above two bushels and a half of barley,
that is to say by my guess, for I had no measu.e
at that time.
However, this was a great encouragement to me;
and I foresaw, that in time it would please God to
supply me with bread: and yet here I was per-
plexed again; for I neither knew how to grind or
make meal of my corn, or indeed how to clean it
and part it; nor, if made into meal, how to make
bread of it; and if how to make it, yet I knew not
how to bake it. These things being added to my
desire of having a good quantity for store, and to
secure a constant supply, I resolved not to taste any
of this crop, but to preserve it all for seed against
the next season, and in the mean time to employ
all my study and hours of working, to accomplish
this great work of providing myself with corn and
bread.
It might be truly said, that I now worked for
my bread. It is a little wonderful, and what I be-
lieve few people have thought much upon ; viz.
the strange multitude of little things necessary in
the providing, producing, curing, dressing, making,
and finishing this one article of bread.
--- TI--------
********* ses;
* * * * ***-* I-san
ºne ºne-º-team-ºn---sºm-
*** ***** ===ril
ate ºw-as, as ºmitºries---ºf-
me in the ºz ºr ºngº-º-tºe
hedge, I fired again ºf ºilet ºne-ºf-the-
This was -º-º-º-º-º-º-º-º-ºp.
and served --------esia
England, viz- ºg-tºemi-ºs----
ethers. It is ºpºe -ºsie -ºs-tº-
this should have such an ºasi-º-º-tºe
ºwls would not only tº cº-º-º-º-º-in
--- TI--------
ºld never see a bird near the Pºe slºgas
ºyº lºng there.
--------------sure; and
- - - - - - - -se-
--
ºr a sickets
--------e one
the ºrds,


-- ears, and carried it away in a great basket which
-- I had made, and so rubbed it out with my hands:
º and, at the end of all my harvesting, I found, that
- out of my half-peck of seed I had near two bushels
-- of rice, and above two bushels and a half of barley,
- that is to say by my guess, for I had no measu.e
at that time.
However, this was a great encouragement to me;
and I foresaw, that in time it would please God to
supply me with bread: and yet here I was per-
plexed again; for I neither knew how to grind or
make meal of my corn, or indeed how to clean it
and part it; nor, if made into meal, how to make
bread of it; and if how to make it, yet I knew not
how to bake it. These things being added to my
desire of having a good quantity for store, and to
secure a constant supply, Iresolved not to taste any
of this crop, but to preserve it all for seed against
the next season, and in the mean time to employ
all my study and hours of working, to accomplish
this great work of providing myself with corn and
bread.
It might be truly said, that I now worked for
my bread. It is a little wonderful, and what I be-
lieve few people have thought much upon; viz.
multitude of little things necessary in
producing, curing, dressing, making,
one article of bread.
:





I, that was reduced to a mere state of nature,
found this to be my daily discouragement, and
was made more and more sensible of it every hour,
even after I got the first handful of seed corn,
which, as I have said, came up unexpectedly, and
indeed to a surprise. -
First, I had no plough to turn the earth, no spade
or shovel to dig it. Well, this I conquered by
making a wooden spade, as I observed before; but
this did my work but in a wooden manner; and
though it cost me a great many days to make it,
yet, for want of iron, it not only wore out the
sooner, but made my work the harder, and made
it be performed much worse.
However, this I bore with too, and was content
to work it out with patience, and bear with the
badness of the performance. When the corn was
sowed, I had no harrow, but was forced to go over
it myself, and drag a great heavy bough of a tree
over it, to scratch the earth, as it may be called,
rather than rake or harrow it.
When it was growing, or grown, I have observed
already how many things I wanted, to fence it, se-
cure it, mow or reap it, cure or carry it home,
thresh, part it from the chaft, and save it. Then I
wanted a mill to grind it, sieves to dress it, yeast
and salt to make it into bread, and an oven to bake
it in; and all these things I did without, as shall
be observed; and yet the corn was an inestimable
comfort and advantage to me too. But all this, as I
said, made every thing laborious and tedious to me,
but that there was no help for: neither was my
time so much loss to me, because I had divided it;
a certain part of it was every day appointed to
these works; and as I resolved to use none of the
corn for bread till I had a greater quantity by me,
I had the next six months to apply myself wholly,
by labour and invention, to furnish myself with
utensils proper for the performing all the opera-
tions necessary for making the corn, when I had
it, fit for my use.
But first I was to prepare more land, for I had
now seed enough to sow above an acre of ground,
Before I did this, I had a week’s work at least to
make me a spade, which, when it was done, was
a very sorry one indeed, and very heavy, and re-
quired double labour to work with it; however, I
went through that, and sowed my seeds in two
large flat pieces of ground, as near my house as I
could find them to my mind, and fenced them in
with a good hedge, the stakes of which were all
cut off that wood which I had set before, which I
knew would grow; so that in one year's time I
knew I should have a quick or living hedge, that
would want but little repair. This work was not
so little as to take me up less than three months;
because great part of that time was in the wet sea-,
son, when I could not go abroad.
Within-door, that is, when it rained, and I
could not go out, I found employment on the fol-
lowing occasion, always observing, that all the
whi.e I was at work, I diverted myself with talking
to my parrot, and teaching him to speak; and I
quickly learnt him to know his own name; at last,
to speak it out pretty loud, Pol; which was the
first word I ever heard spoken in the island by any
mouth but my own. This therefore was not my
work, but an assistant to my work; for now, as I
said, I had a great employment upon my hands, as
follows: viz. I had long studied, by some means
or other, to make myself some earthen vessels,
which indeed I wanted sorely, but knew not where
to come at them : however, considering the heat
of the climate, I did not doubt but, if I could find
out any such clay, I might botch up some such
pot as might, being dried by the sun, be hard
enough and strong enough to bear handling, and
£o hold any thing that was dry, and required to be
kept so; and as this was necessary in preparing
corn, meal, &c. which was the thing I was upon, I
resolved to make some as large as I could, and fit
only to stand like jars to hold what should be put
into them.
#s
CHAP. IX.
I attempt to mould earthen ware, and succeed—De-
scription of my mode of baking—Begin to make a
boat—After it is finished, am unable to get it down
to the water—Serious reflections—My ink and bis-
cuit exhausted, and clothes in a bad state—Con-
trive to make a dress of skins.
It would make the reader pity me, or rather laugh
at me, to tell how many awkward ways I took to
raise this paste, what odd mis-shapen ugly things
I made, how many of them fell in, and how many
fell out, the clay not being stiff enough to bear its
own weight; how many cracked by the over-
violent heat of the sun, being set out too hastily;
and how many fell to pieces with only removing,
as well before as after they were dried; and, in a
word, how, after having laboured hard to find the
clay, to dig it, to temper it, to bring it home, and
work it, I could not make above two large earthen
ugly things, I cannot call them jars, in about two
months labour.
However, as the sun baked these two very dry
and hard, I lifted them very gently up, and set them
down again in two great wicker-baskets, which I
had made on purpose for them, that they might
not break; and, as between the pot and the basket
there was a little room to spare, I stuffed it full of
the rice and barley straw; and these two pots
being to stand always dry, I thought would hold
my dry corn, and perhaps the meal when the corn
was bruised.
Though I miscarried so much in my design for
large pots, yet I made several smaller things with
better success; such as little round pots, flat dishes,
pitchers, and pipkins, and any thing my hand
turned to ; and the heat of the sun baked them
strangely hard.
But all this would not answer my end, which
was to get an earthen pot to hold what was liquid,
and bear the fire, which none of these could do.
It happened after some time, making a pretty
large fire for cooking my meat, when I went to put
it out, after I had done with it, I found a broken
- piece of one of my earthenware vessels in the fire,
burnt as hard as a stone, and red as a tile. I was
agreeably surprised to see it, and said to myself,
3
that certainly they might be made to burn whole,
if they would burn broken.
This set me to study how to order my fire, so
as to make it burn me some pots. I had no notion.
of a kiln such as the potters burn in, or of glazing
them with lead, though I had some lead to do it
with; but I placed three large pipkins, and two or
three pots, in a pile one upon another, and placed
my fire-wood all round it, with a great heap of
embers under them: I plied the fire with fresh
fuel round the outside, and upon the top, till I saw
the pots in the inside red-hot quite through, and
observed that they did not crack at all: when I
saw them clear red, I let them stand in that heat
about five or six hours, till I found one of them,
though it did not crack, did melt or run; for the
sand which was mixed with the clay melted by the
violence of the heat, and would have run into glass,
if I had gone on; so I slacked my fire gradually,
till the pots began to abate of the red colour; and
watching them all night that I might not let the
fire abate too fast, in the morning I had three very
good, I will not say handsome pipkins, and two
other earthen pots, as hard burnt as could be de-
sired; and one of them perfectly glazed with the
running of the sand.
After this experiment I need not say that I want-
ed no sort of earthenware for my use; but I must
WOL. I. N
needs say, as to the shapes of them, they were
very indifferent, as any one may suppose, when I
had no way of making them, but as the children
make dirt-pies, or as a woman would make pies
that never learnt to raise paste.
No joy at a thing of so mean a nature was ever
equal to mine, when I found I had made an earthen
pot that would bear the fire; and I had hardly pa-
tience to stay till they were cold, before I set one
upon the fire again with some water in it, to boil
me some meat, which I did admirably well; and
with a piece of a kid I made some very good broth,
though I wanted oatmeal, and several other ingre-
dients requisite to make it so good as I would have
had it. -
My next concern was to get me a stone mortar
to stamp or beat some corn in; for as to the mill,
there was no thought of arriving to that perfection
of art with one pair of hands. To supply this
want, I was at a great loss; for of all trades in the
world I was as perfectly unqualified for a stone-
cutter, as for any whatever; neither had I any
tools to go about it with. I spent many a day to
find out a great stone big enough to cut hollow,
and make fit for a mortar, and could find none at
all except what was in the solid rock, and which I
had no way to dig or cut out; nor indeed were
the rocks in the island of hardness sufficient, but
8
were all of a sandy crumbling stone, which would
neither bear the weight of an heavy pestle, nor
would break the corn without filling it with sand;
so, after a great deal of time lost in searching for
a stone, I gave it over, and resolved to look out a
great block of hard wood, which I found indeed
much easier; and, getting one as big as I had
strength to stir, I rounded it, and formed it on
the outside with my axe and hatchet; and then
with the help of fire and infinite labour, made an
hollow place in it, as the Indians in Brazil make
their canoes. After this, I made a great heavy
pestle, or beater, of the wood called the iron-wood,
and this I prepared and laid by against I had my
next crop of corn, when I proposed to myself to
grind, or rather pound, my corn or meal to make
my bread.
My next difficulty was to make a sieve or searce,
to dress my meal, and part it from the bran and
the husk, without which I did not see it possible
I could have any bread. This was a most difficult
thing, so much as but to think on ; for to be sure
I had nothing like the necessary things to make it
with ; I mean fine thin canvass, or stuff, to searce
the meal through. And here I was at a full stop
for many months; nor did I really know what to
do: linen I had none left but what was mere rags;
I had goat's hair, but neither knew I how to weave
or spin it; and had I known how, here were no
tools to work it with. All the remedy that I found
for this, was, that at last I did remember I had
among the seamen's clothes which were saved out
of the ship, some neckcloths of calico or muslin; and
with some pieces of these I made three small sieves,
but proper enough for the work; and thus I made
shift for some years; how I did afterwards, I shall
shew in its place.
The baking part was the next thing to be con-
sidered, and how I should make bread when I came
to have corn; for, first, I had no yeast: as to that
part, there was no supplying the want, so I did not
concern myself much about it. But for an oven,
I was indeed in great pain. At length I found out
an experiment for that also, which was this: I
made some earthen vessels very broad, but not
deep; that is to say, about two feet diameter, and
not above nine inches deep; these I burnt in the
fire, as I had done the others, and laid them by;
and when I wanted to bake, I made a great fire
upon the hearth, which I had paved with some
square tiles of my own making and burning also ;
but I should not call them square.
When the fire-wood was burnt pretty much into
embers, or live coals, I drew them forward upon
this hearth, so as to cover it all over; and there I let
them lie, till the hearth was very hot; then sweep-
ing away all the embers, I set down my loaf, or
loaves, and whelming down the earthen pot upon
them, drew the embers all round the outside of the
pot, to keep in, and add to the heat: and thus, as
well as in the best oven in the world, I baked my
barley-loaves, and became in a little time a mere
pastry-cook into the bargain; for I made myself
several cakes of the rice, and puddings; indeed I
made no pies, neither had I any thing to put into
them, supposing I had, except the flesh either of
fowls or goats.
It need not be wondered at, if all these things
took me up most part of the third year of my abode
here; for it is to be observed, that in the intervals
of these things I had my new harvest and hus-
bandry to manage : for I reaped my corn in its
season, and carried it home as well as I could, and
laid it up in the ear, in my large baskets, till I had
time to rub it out; for I had no floor to thresh it
on, or instrument to thresh it with.
And now indeed my stock of corn increasing, I
really wanted to build my barns bigger: I wanted
a place to lay it up in; for the increase of the corn
now yielded me so much, that I had of the barley
about twenty bushels, and of the rice as much, or
more; insomuch that I now resolved to begin to
use it freely, for my bread had been quite gone a
great while; also I resolved to see what quantity
would be sufficient for me a whole year, and to sow
but once a year.
º
Upon the whole, I found that the forty bushels
of barley and rice were much more than I could
consume in a year: so I resolved to sow just the
same quantity every year that I sowed the last, in
hopes that such a quantity would fully provide me
with bread, &c.
All the while these things were doing, you may
be sure my thoughts ran many times upon the
prospect of land which I had seen from the other
side of the island; and I was not without secret
wishes, that I was on shore there, fancying that
seeing the main land, and an inhabited country,
I might find some way or other to convey myself
farther, and perhaps at last find some means of
escape.
But all this while I made no allowance for the
dangers of such a condition, and how I might fall
into the hands of savages, and perhaps such as I
might have reason to think far worse than the lions
and tygers of Africa: that, if I once came into their
power, I should run an hazard more than a thou-
sand to one of being killed, and perhaps of being
eaten; for I had heard that the people of the Cari-
bean coasts were cannibals, or men-eaters; and I
knew by the latitude, that I could not be far off
from that shore: that, suppose they were not can-
mibals, yet they might kill me, as many Europeans
who had fallen into their hands had been served,
even when they had been ten or twenty together;
much more I that was but one, and could make
little or no defence. All these things, I say, which
I ought to have considered well of, and I did cast
up in my thoughts afterwards, yet took none of my
apprehensions at first; and my head ran mightily
upon the thoughts of getting over to that shore.
Now I wished for my boy Xury, and the long-
boat, with the shoulder-of-mutton sail, with which
I sailed above a thousand miles on the coast of
Africa; but this was in vain. Then I thought I
would go and look on our ship's boat, which, as I
have said, was blown up upon the shore a great way
in the storm, when we were first cast away. She
lay almost where she did at first, but not quite;
and was turned by the force of the waves and the
winds, almost bottom upwards, against the high
ridge of a beachy rough sand, but no water about
her as before.
If I had had hands to have refitted her, and have
launched her into the water, the boat would have
done well enough, and I might have gone lack in-
to the Brazils with her easy enough; but I might
have easily foreseen, that I could no more turn her,
and set her upright upon her bottom, than I could
remove the island. However, I went to the wood,
and cut levers and rollers, and brought them to
the boat, resolving to try what I could do; sug-
gesting to myself, that if I could but turn her down,
I might easily repair the damage she had received,
and she would be a very good boat, and I might
go to sea in her very easily.
I spared no pains indeed in this piece of fruitless
toil, and spent, I think, three or four weeks about
it; at last, finding it impossible to heave it up with
my little strength, I fell to digging away the sand
to undermine it; and so to make it fall down, set-
ting pieces of wood to thrust and guide it right in
the fall.
But when I had done this, I was unable to stir it
up again, or to get under it, much less to move it
forwards towards the water; so I was forced to give
it over: and yet, though I gave over the hopes of
the boat, my desire to venture over for the main
increased, rather than decreased, as the means for
it seemed impossible.
This at length set me upon thinking whether it
was not possible to make myself a canoe or periagua,
such as the natives of those climates make, even
without tools, or, as I might say, without hands,
viz. of the trunk of a great tree. This I not only
thought possible, but easy; and pleased myself
extremely with my thoughts of making it, and with
my having much more convenience for it than any
of the negroes or Indians; but not at all consider-
ing the particular inconveniences which I lay under
more than the Indians did, viz. want of hands to
move it into the water, when it was made; a diffi-
culty much harder for me to surmount than all the
consequences of want of tools could be to them:
for what was it to me, that, when I had chosen a
vast tree in the woods, I might with great trouble
cut it down, if after I might be able with my tools
to hew and dub the outside into a proper shape of
a boat, and burn or cut out the inside to make it
hollow, so as to make a boat of it, if, after all this,
I must leave it just there where I found it, and was
not able to launch it into the water 2
One would have thought, I could not have had
the least reflection upon my mind of my circum-
stances, while I was making this boat, but I should
have immediately thought how I should get it into
the sea; but my thoughts were so intent upon my
voyage over the sea in it, that I never once con-
sidered how I should get it off the land; and it was
really in its own nature more easy for me to guide
it over forty-five miles of sea, than about forty-
five fathoms of land, where it lay, to set it afloat in
the water. - -
I went to work upon this boat the most like a
fool that ever man did, who had any of his senses
awake. I pleased myself with the design, with-
out determining whether I was ever able to under-
take it; not but that the difficulty of launching my
boat came often into my head; but I put a stop to
my own inquiries into it by this foolish answer,
which I gave myself; “Let me first make it, I’ll
warrant I’ll find some way or other to get it along,
when it is done.”
This was a most preposterous method; but the
eagerness of my fancy prevailed, and to work I
went, and felled a cedar tree : I question much
whether Solomon ever had such an one for the
building the temple at Jerusalem. It was five feet
ten inches diameter at the lower part next the
stump, and four feet eleven inches diameter at
the end of twenty-two feet, after which it lessened
for a while, and then parted into branches. It was
not without infinite labour that I felled this tree:
I was twenty days hacking and hewing at it at the
bottom; I was fourteen more getting the branches
and limbs, and the vast spreading head of it, cut
off, which I hacked and hewed through with my
axe and hatchet, with inexpressible labour: after
this it cost me a month to shape it, and dub it to a
proportion, and to something like the bottom of a
boat, that it might swim upright as it ought to do.
It cost me near three months more to clear the in-
side, and work it out so as to make an exact boat
of it: this I did indeed without fire, by mere mal-
let and chissel, and by the dint of hard labour, till
I had brought it to be a very handsome periagua,
and big enough to have carried six-and-twenty
men, and consequently big enough to have carried
me and all my cargo.
When I had gone through this work, I was ex-
tremely delighted with it: the boat was really
much bigger than I ever saw a canoe or periagua,
that was made of one tree, in my life; many a
weary stroke it had cost, you may be sure, for there
remained nothing but to get it into the water; and
had I gotten it into the water, I make no question
but I should have begun the maddest voyage, and
the most unlikely to be performed, that ever was
undertaken.
But all my devices to get it into the water failed
me, though they cost infinite labour too; it lay
about one hundred yards from the water, and not
more; but the first inconvenience was, it was up
hill towards the creek. Well, to take away this
discouragement, I resolved to dig into the surface
of the earth, and so make a declivity; this I began,
and it cost me a prodigious deal of pains: but who
grudge pains, that have their deliverance in view?
but when this was worked through, and this diffi-
culty managed, it was still much at one; for I could
no more stir the canoe, than I could the other
boat.
Then I measured the distance of ground, and re-
solved to cut a dock, or canal, to bring the water
up to the canoe, seeing I could not bring the canoe
down to the water: well I began this work, and
when I began to enter into it, and calculated how
deep it was to be dug, how broad, how the stuff
to be thrown out, I found, that by the number of
hands I had, being none but my own, it must have
been ten or twelve years before I should have gone
through with it; for the shore lay high, so that at
the upper end it must have been at least twenty
feet deep : so at length, though with great reluc-
tancy, I gave this attempt over also.
This grieved me heartily; and now I saw, though
too late, the folly of beginning a work before we
count the cost, and before we judge rightly of our
own strength to go through with it.
In the middle of this work I finished my fourth
year in this place, and kept my anniversary with
the same devotion, and with as much comfort, as
eWer before; for, by a constant study, and serious
application of the word of God, and by the assist-
ance of his grace, I gained a different knowledge
from what I had before; I entertained different no-
tions of things; I looked now upon the world as a
thing remote, which I had nothing to do with, no
expectation from, and indeed no desires about: in
a word, I had nothing indeed to do with it, nor was
ever like to have; so I thought it looked as we may
perhaps look upon it hereafter; viz. as a place I
had lived in, but was come out of it; and well I
might say, as father Abraham to Dives, “Between
me and thee there is a great gulf fixed.”
In the first place, I was removed from all the
wickedness of the world here : I had neither the
lust of the flesh, the lust of the eye, or the pride of
life: I had nothing to covet, for I had all I was
now capable of enjoying; I was lord of the whole
manor, or, if I pleased, I might call myself king or
emperor over the whole country which I had pos-
session of; there was no rivals; I had no compe-
titor, none to dispute sovereignty or command with
me; I might have raised ship-loadings of corn, but
I had no use for it; so I let as little grow as I
thought enough for my occasion: I had tortoises or
turtles enough; but now and then one was as much
as I could put to any use: I had timber enough to
have built a fleet of ships; I had grapes enough to
have made wine, or to have cured into raisins, to
have loaded that fleet when they had been built.
But all I could make use of, was all that was
valuable: I had enough to eat, and to supply my
wants, and what was all the rest to me? If I killed
more flesh than I could eat, the dog must eat it, or
the vermin; if I sowed more corn than I could eat,
it must be spoiled. The trees that I cut down
were lying to rot on the ground, I could make no
more use of them than for fuel; and that I had no
occasion for, but to dress my food.
In a word, the nature and experience of things
dictated to me, upon just reflection, that all the
good things of this world are no farther good to us,
than as they are for our use: and that whatever
we may heap up indeed to give to others, we enjoy
as much as we can use, and no more. The most
covetous griping miser in the world would have been
cured of the vice of covetousness, if he had been
in my case; for I possessed infinitely more than I
knew what to do with. I had no room for desire,
except it was of things which I had not, and they
were but trifles, though indeed of great use to me.
I had, as I hinted before, a parcel of money, as
well gold as silver, about thirty-six pounds sterling:
alas! there the nasty, sorry, useless stuff lay; I had
no manner of business for it; and I often thought
with myself, that I would have given an handful
of it for a gross of tobacco-pipes, or for an hand-
mill to grind my corn; nay, I would have given
it all for six-penny worth of turnip and carrot seed
out of England, or for an handful of peas and beans,
and a bottle of ink: as it was, I had not the least
advantage by it, or benefit from it; but there it
lay in a drawer, and grew mouldy with the damp
of the cave, in the wet season; and if I had had
the drawer full of diamonds, it had been the same
case; and they had been of no manner of value
to me, because of no use.
I had now brought my state of life to be much
easier in itself than it was at first, and much easier
to my mind, as well as to my body. I frequently
sat down to my meat with thankfulness, and ad-
mired the hand of God’s providence, which had
thus spread my table in the wilderness: I learnt
to look more upon the bright side of my condition,
and less upon the dark side; and to consider what
I enjoyed, rather than what I wanted; and this
gave me sometimes such secret comforts, that I
cannot express them; and which I take notice of
here, to put those discontented people in mind of
it, who cannot enjoy comfortably what God hath
given them, because they see and covet something
that he has not given them: all our discontents
about what we want, appeared to me to spring
from the want of thankfulness for what we have.
Another reflection was of great use to me, and
doubtless would be so to any one that should fall
into such distress as mine was; and this was, to
compare my present condition with what I at first
expected it should be; nay, with what it would
certainly have been, if the good providence of God
had not wonderfully ordered the ship to be cast up
near to the shore, where I not only could come at
her, but could bring what I got out of her to the
shore for my relief and comfort; without which I
had wanted tools to work, weapons for defence, or
gunpowder and shot for getting my food.
I spent whole hours, I may say whole days, in
representing to myself, in the most lively colours,
how I must have acted, if I had got nothing out of
the ship; how I could not have so much as got
any food, except fish and turtles; and that, as it
was long before I found any of them, I must have
perished first: that I should have lived, if I had
not perished, like a mere savage: that if I had
killed a goat or a fowl by any contrivance, I had
no way to flay or open them, or part the flesh
from the skin and the bowels, or to cut it up; but
must gnaw it with my teeth, and pull it with my
claws, like a beast.
These reflections made me very sensible of the
goodness of Providence to me, and very thankful
for my present condition, with all its hardships
and misfortunes: and this part also I cannot but
recommend to the reflection of those who are apt
in their misery to say, Is any affliction like mine?
, Let them consider, how much worse the cases of
some people are, and what their case might have
been, if Providence had thought fit.
I had another reflection, which assisted me also
to comfort my mind with hopes; and this was com-
paring my present condition with what I had de-
203 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES
the hand of Providence. I had lived a dreadful
life, perfectly destitute of the knowledge and fear
of God: I had been well instructed by father and
mother; neither had they been wanting to me in
their early endeavours to infuse a religious awe of
God into my mind, a sense of my duty, and of
what the nature and end of my being required of
me. But, alas! falling early into the seafaring life,
which of all the lives is the most destitute of the
fear of God, though his terrors are always before
them; I say, falling early into the seafaring life,
and into seafaring company, all that little sense of
religion which I had entertained, was laughed out
of me by my messmates; by an hardened despi-
sing of dangers, and the views of death, which
grew habitual to me; by my long absence from all
manner of opportunities to converse with anything
but what was like myself, or to hear any thing of
what was good, or tended towards it.
So void was I of everything that was good, or of
the least sense of what I was, or was to be, that in
the greatest deliverance I enjoyed, such as my
escape from Sallee, my being taken up by the Por-
tuguese master of the ship, my being planted so
well in Brazil, my receiving the cargo from Eng-
land, and the like, I never once had the words,
Thank God, so much as on my mind, or in my
mouth; nor in the greatest distress had I so much
VOL. I. O
thought as to pray to him; nor so much as to say,
Lord have mercy upon me! no, not to mention
the name of God, unless it was to swear by, and
blaspheme it.
I had terrible reflections upon my mind for many
months, as l have already observed, on the account
of my wicked and hardened life past; and when I
looked about me, and considered what particular
providences had attended me, since my coming
into this place, and how God had dealt bountifully
with me; had not only punished me less than my
iniquity deserved, but had so plentifully provided
for me; this gave me great hopes that my repen-
tance was accepted, and that God had yet mercies
in store for me.
With these reflections I worked my mind up, not
only to resignation to the will of God in the present
disposition of my circumstances, but even to a sin-
cere thankfulness of my condition; and that I, who
was yet a living man, ought not to complain,
seeing I had not the due punishment of my sins;
that I enjoyed so many mercies, which I had no
reason to have expected in that place, that I ought
never more to repine at my condition, but to re-
joice, and to give daily thanks, for that daily bread,
which nothing but a cloud of wonders could have
brought: that I ought to consider I had been fed
even by a miracle, even as great as that of feeding
Elijah by ravens; nay, by a long series of miracles;
and that I could hardly have named a place in the
uninhabited part of the world, where I could have
been cast more to my advantage: a place, where
as I had no society, which was my affliction on one
hand, so I found no ravenous beasts, no furious
wolves or tygers to threaten my life; no venomous
creatures or poisonous, which I might have fed on
to my hurt; no savages to murder and devour me,
In a word, as my life was a life of sorrow one
way, so it was a life of mercy another; and I want-
ed nothing to make it a life of comfort, but to be
able to make my sense of God’s goodness to me,
and care over me in this condition, be my daily
consolation; and after I made a just improvement
of these things, I went away, and was no more
sad.
I had now been here so long, that many things
which I brought on shore for my help, were either
quite gone, or very much wasted, and near spent.
My ink, as I observed, had been gone for some
time, all but a very little, which I eked out with
water a little and a little, till it was so pale it scarce
left any appearance of black upon the paper: as
long as it lasted, I made use of it to minute down
the days of the month on which any remarkable
thing happened to me; and first, by casting up
times past, I remember that there was a strange
concurrence of days, in the various providences
which befel me, and which, if I had been super-
stitiously inclined to observe days as fatal or fortu-
nate, I might have had reason to have looked upon
with a great deal of curiosity.
First, I had observed, that the same day that I
broke away from my father and my friends, and
ran away to Hull in order to go to sea, the same
day afterwards I was taken by the Sallee man of
war, and made a slave.
The same day of the year that I escaped out of
the wreck of the ship in Yarmouth Roads, that
same day of the year afterwards I made my escape
from Sallee in the boat.
The same day of the year I was born on, viz. the
20th of September, the same day I had my life so
miraculously saved twenty-six years after, when I
was cast on shore in this island; so that my wicked
life, and solitary life, both began on a day.
The next thing to my ink's being wasted, was
that of my bread, I mean the biscuit which I
brought out of the ship. This I had husbanded
to the last degree, allowing myself but one cake of
bread a day, for above a year: and yet I was quite
without bread for a year before I got any corn of
my own; and great reason I had to be thankful
that I had any at all, the getting it being, as has
been already observed, next to miraculous.
º
My clothes too began to decay mightily: as to
... linen, I had none a good while, except some che-
quered shirts which I found in the chests of the
other seamen, and which I carefully preserved, be-
cause many times I could bear no other clothes on
but a shirt; and it was a very great help to me,
that I had among all the men's clothes of the ship
almost three dozen of shirts. There were also
several thick watch-coats of the seamen, which
were left behind, but they were too hot to wear;
and though it is true, that the weather was so
violent hot, that there was no need of clothes, yet
I could not go quite naked: no, though I had been
inclined to it, which I was not ; nor could I abide
the thought of it, though I was all alone.
One reason why I could not go quite naked, was,
I could not bear the heat of the sun so well when
quite naked, as with some clothes on; nay, the very
heat frequently blistered my skin; whereas, with a
shirt on, the air itself made some motion, and, whist-
ling under the shirt, was twofold cooler than with-
out it: no more could I ever bring myself to go out
in the heat of the sun without a cap or a hat; the
heat of the sun beating with such violence as
it does in that place, would give me the headach
presently, by darting so directly on my head, with-
out a cap or hat on, so that I could not bear it;
whereas, if I put on my hat, it would presently go
away.
Upon these views I began to consider about put-
ting the few rags I had, which I called clothes, in-
to some order; I had worn out all the waistcoats I
had, and my business was now to try if I could not
make jackets out of the great watch-coats which I
had by me, and with such other materials as I had;
so I set to work a-tailoring, or rather indeed a-botch-
ing; for I made most piteous work of it. However,
I made shift to make two or three waistcoats, which
I hoped would serve me a great while; as for
breeches or drawers, I made but very sorry shift
indeed till afterwards.
I have mentioned that I saved the skins of all the
creatures that I killed, I mean four-footed ones;
and I had hung them up stretched out with sticks
in the sun; by which means some of them were
so dry and hard, that they were fit for little; but
others, it seems, were very useful. The first thing
I made of these was a great cap for my head, with
the hair on the outside to shoot off the rain: and
this I performed so well, that after this I made a
suit of clothes wholly of those skins; that is to say,
a waistcoat and breeches open at the knees, and
both loose; for they were rather wanted to keep
me cool, than to keep me warm. I must not omit
to acknowledge, that they were wretchedly made;
for if I was a bad carpenter, I was a worse tailor:
however, they were such as I made a very good
11
shift with; and when I was abroad, if it happen-
ed to rain, the hair of the waistcoat and cap being
outmost, I was kept very dry.
After this, I spent a deal of time and pains to
make me an umbrella: I was indeed in great want
of one, and had a great mind to make one: I had
seen them made in the Brazils, where they are very
useful in the great heats which are there; and I
felt the heats every jot as great here, and greater
too, being nearer the equinox; besides, as I was
obliged to be much abroad, it was a most useful
thing to me, as well for the rains as the heats. I
took a world of pains at it, and was a great while
before I could make any thing likely to hold; nay,
after I thought I had hit the way, I spoiled two
or three before I made one to my mind; but at
last I made one that answered indifferently well.
The main difficulty I found was to make it to let
down: I could make it to spread; but if it did not
let down too, and draw in, it would not be portable
for me any way, but just over my head, which
would not do. However, at last, as I said, I made
one to answer; I covered it with skins, the hair
upwards, so that it cast off the rain like a penthouse,
and kept off the sun so effectually, that I could walk
out in the hottest of the weather, with greater ad-
vantage than I could before in the coolest; and
when I had no need of it, I could close it, and carry
it under my arm. -
Thus I lived mighty comfortably, my mind be-
ing entirely composed by resigning to the will of
God, and throwing myself wholly upon the dis-
posal of his providence: this made my life better
than sociable; for, when I began to regret the want
of conversation, I would ask myself, whether thus
conversing mutually with my own thoughts, and,
as I hope I may say, with even my Maker, by eja-
culations and petitions, was not better than the
utmost enjoyment of human society in the world?
I cannot say, that after this, for five years, any
extraordinary thing happened to me; but I lived on
in the same course, in the same posture and place,
just as before. The chief thing I was employed in,
besides my yearly labour of planting my barley and
rice, and curing my raisins, of both which I always
kept up just enough to have a sufficient stock of the
year's provisions beforehand; I say, besides this
yearly labour, and my daily labour of going out
with my gun, I had one labour to make me a canoe,
which at last I finished: so that by digging a canal
to it, six feet wide, and four feet deep, I brought it
into the creek, almost half a mile. As for the first,
that was so vastly big, as I made it without con-
sidering beforehand, as I ought to do, how I should
be able to launch it; so, never being able to bring
it to the water, or bring the water to it, I was obli-
ged to let it lie where it was, as a memorandum to
teach me to be wiser next time. Indeed, the next
time, though I could not get a tree proper for it,
and was in a place where I could not get the water
to it, at any less distance than, as I have said, of
near half a mile; yet as I saw it was practicable at
last, I never gave it over; and though I was near
two years about it, yet I never grudged my labour,
in hopes of having a boat to go off to sea at last.
CHAP, X.
I succeed in getting a Canoe afloat, and set out on a
voyage in the surth year of my reign, or captivity—
Blown out to Sea—Reach the Shore with great diffi-
culty—Fall asleep, and am awakened by a voice
calling my name—Devise various schemes to tame
Goats, and at last succeed.
However, though my little periagua was finished,
yet the size of it was not at all answerable to the
design which I had in view, when I made the first;
Imean of venturing over to the Terra Firma, where
it was above forty miles broad; accordingly, the
smallness of my boat assisted to put an end to that
design, and now I thought no more of it. But as I
had a boat, my next design was to make a tour
round the island: for, as I had been on the other
side, in one place, crossing, as I have already de-
scribed it, over the land, so the discoveries I made
in that journey made me very eager to see the other
parts of the coast; and now I had a boat, I thought
of nothing but sailing round the island. -
For this purpose, and that I might do everything
with discretion and consideration, I fitted up a little
mast to my boat, and made a sail to it out of some
of the pieces of the ship's sails, which lay in store,
and of which I had a great store by me.
Having fitted my mast and sail, and tried the
boat, I found she would sail very well. Then I made
little lockers and boxes at each end of my boat, to
put provisions, necessaries, and ammunition, &c.
into, to be kept dry, either from rain, or the spray
of the sea; and a little long hollow place I cut in
the inside of the boat, where I could lay my gun,
making a flap to hang down over it to keep it dry.
I fixed my umbrella also in a step at the stern, like
a mast, to stand over my head, and keep the heat
of the sun off me, like an awning; and thus I every
now and then took a little voyage upon the sea, but
never went far out, nor far from the little creek;
but at last, being eager to view the circumference
of my little kingdom, I resolved upon my tour, and
accordingly I victualled my ship for the voyage;
putting in two dozen of my loaves (cakes I should
rather call them) of barley-bread; an earthen pot
full of parched rice, a food I ate a great deal of, a
little bottle of rum, half a goat, and powder with
shot for killing more, and two large watch-coats, of
those which, as I mentioned before, I had saved out
of the seamen's chests; these I took, one to lie upon,
and the other to cover me in the night.
It was the 6th of November, in the sixth year of
my reign, or my captivity, which you please, that I
set out on this voyage, and I found it much longer
than I expected; for though the island itself was
not very large, yet when I came to the east side of
it, I found a great ledge of rocks lie out about two
leagues into the sea, some above water, some under
it; and beyond this a shoal of sand, lying dry half
a league more; so that I was obliged to go a great
way out to sea to double that point.
When I first discovered them, I was going to
give over my enterprize, and come back again, not
knowing how far it might oblige me to go out to
sea, and, above all, doubting how I should get back
again; so I came to an anchor, for I had made me
a kind of an anchor with a piece of broken grap-
pling which I got out of the ship.
Having secured my boat, I took my gun, and
went on shore, climbing up an hill, which seemed
to overlook that point, where I saw the full extent
of it, and resolved to venture.
In my viewing the sea from that hill where I
stood, I perceived a strong, and indeed a most fu-
rious current, which ran to the east, even came close
to the point; and I took the more notice of it, be-
cause I saw there might be some danger, that when
I came into it, I might be carried out to sea by the
strength of it, and not be able to make the island
again. And indeed, had I not gotten first upon
this hill, I believe it would have been so; for there
was the same current on the other side of the island,
only that it set off at a farther distance; and I
saw there was a strong eddy under the shore; so I
had nothing to do but to get out of the first current,
and I should presently be in an eddy.
I lay here, however, two days; because the wind
blowing pretty fresh (at E. S. E. and that being just
contrary to the said current), made a great breach of
the sea upon the point; so that it was not safe for
me to keep too close to the shore for the breach,
nor to go too far off because of the stream.
The third day in the morning, the wind having
abated over-night, the sea was calm, and I ventur-
ed: but I am a warning-piece again to all rash and
ignorant pilots; for no sooner was I come to the
point, when I was not my boat's length from the
shore, but I found myself in a great depth of water,
and a current like a sluice of a mill. It carried my
boat along with it with such violence, that all f
could do could not keep her so much as on the edge
of it: but I found it hurried me farther and farther
out from the eddy, which was on the left hand.
There was no wind stirring to help me, and all that
I could do with my paddles signified nothing; and
now I began to give myself over for lost; for, as
the current was on both sides the island, I knew in
a few leagues distance they must join again, and then
I was irrecoverably gone: nor did I see any possibi-
lity of avoiding it; so that I had no prospect before
me but of perishing; not by the sea, for that was calm
enough, but of starving for hunger. I had indeed
found a tortoise on the shore, as big almost as I
could lift, and had tossed it into the boat; and I had
a great jar of fresh water, that is to say, one of my
earthen pots; but what was all this to being driven
into the vast ocean, where, to be sure, there was no
shore, no main land or island, for a thousand leagues
at least 2
And now I saw how easy it was for the provi-
dence of God to make the most miserable condition
that mankind could be in, worse. Now I looked
back upon my desolate solitary island, as the most
pleasant place in the world, and all the happiness
my heart could wish for, was to be there again: I
stretched out my hands to it with eager wishes;
“O happy desert!” said I, “I shall never see thee
more O miserable creature!” said I, “whither am
I going!” Then I reproached myself with my un-
thankful temper, and how I had repined at my soli-
tary condition; and now what would I give to be
on shore there again? Thus we never see the true
4.
state of our condition, till it is illustrated to us by its
contraries; nor know how to value what we enjoy,
but by the want of it. It is scarce possible to ima-
gine the consternation I was now in, being driven
from my beloved island (for so it appeared to me
now to be) into the wide ocean, almost two leagues,
and in the utmost despair of ever recovering it
again: however, I worked hard, till indeed my
strength was almost exhausted; and kept my boat
as much to the northward, that is, towards the side
of the current which the eddy lay on, as possibly
I could; when about noon, as the sun passed the
meridian, I thought I felt a little breeze of wind in
my face, springing up from the S. S. E. This cheer-
ed my heart a little, and especially, when in about
half an hour more, it blew a pretty small gentle
gale. By this time I was gotten at a frightful dis-
tance from the island; and, had the least cloud or
hazy weather intervened, I had been undone ano-
ther way too; for I had no compass on board, and
should never have known how to have steered to-
wards the island, if I had but once lost sight of it;
but the weather continuing clear, I applied myself
to get up my mast again, and spread my sail, stand-
ing away to the north as much as possible, to get
out of the current.
Just as I had set my mast and sail, and the boat
began to stretch away, I saw even by the clearness
of the water, some alteration of the current was
near; for where the current was so strong, the wa-
ter was foul: but perceiving the water clear, I found
the current abate, and presently I found to the east,
at about half a mile, a breach of the sea upon some
rocks: these rocks I found caused the current to
part again; and as the main stress of it ran away
more southerly, leaving the rocks to the north-east,
so the other returned by the repulse of the rock,
and made a strong eddy, which ran back again to
the north-west with a very sharp stream.
They who know what it is to have a reprieve
brought to them upon the ladder, or to be rescued
from thieves just going to murder them, or who
have been in such-like extremities, may guess what
my present surprise of joy was, and how gladly I
put my boat into the stream of this eddy; and the
wind also freshening, how gladly I spread my sail
to it, running chearfully before the wind, and with
a strong tide or eddy under foot.
This eddy carried me about a league in my way
back again directly towards the island, but about
two leagues more towards the northward than the
current lay, which carried me away at first; so that
when I came near the island, I found myself open
to the northern shore of it, that is to say, the other
end of the island, opposite to that which I went out
from.
When I had made something more than a league
of way by the help of this current or eddy, I found
it was spent, and served me no farther. However,
I found, that being between the two great currents,
viz. that on the south side which had hurried me
away, and that on the north which lay about two
leagues on the other side; I say, between these
two, in the west of the island, I found the water at
least still, and running no way; and having still a
breeze of wind fair for me, I kept on steering di-
rectly for the island, though not making such fresh
way as I did before.
About four o'clock in the evening, being then
within about a league of the island, I found the
point of the rocks which occasioned this distance
stretching out as is described before, to the south-
ward, and casting off the current more southwardly,
had of course made another eddy to the north; and
this I found very strong, but directly setting the
way my course lay, which was due west, but al-
most full north. However, having a fresh gale, I
stretched across this eddy slanting north-west, and
in about an hour came within about a mile of the
shore, where, it being smooth water, I soon got to
land.
When I was on shore, I fell on my knees, and
gave God thanks for my deliverance, resolving to
lay aside all thoughts of my deliverance by my boat;
WOL. I. P
*
and refreshing myself with such things as I had, I
brought my boat close to the shore, in a little cove
that I had espied under some trees, and laid me
down to sleep, being quite spent with the labour
and fatigue of the voyage.
I was now at a great loss which way to get home
with my boat; I had run so much hazard, and
knew too much the cause, to think of attempting it
by the way I went out; and what might be at the
other side (I mean the west side,) I knew not, nor
had I any mind to run any more ventures; so I
only resolved in the morning to make my way west-
ward along the shore, and to see if there was no
creek where I might lay up my frigate in safety,
so as to have her again if I wanted her. In about
three miles, or thereabouts, coasting the shore, I
came to a very good inlet, or bay, about a mile
over, which narrowed till it came to a very little
rivulet, or brook, where I found a convenient har-
bour for my boat, and where she lay as if she had
been in a little dock made on purpose for her . here
I put in, and having stowed my boat very safe, I
went on shore to look about me, and see where I
Was.
I soon found I had but a little passed by the
place where I had been before when I travelled on
foot to that shore; so, taking nothing out of my boat
but my gun and my umbrella, for it was exceeding
5
hot, I began my march: the way was comfortable
enough after such a voyage as I had been upon,
and I reached my old bower in the evening, where
I found every thing standing as I left it; for I al-
ways kept it in good order, being, as I said before,
my country-house.
I got over the fence, and laid me down in the
shade to rest my limbs, for I was very weary, and
fell asleep; but judge if you can, you that read my
story, what a surprise I must be in, when I was
awaked out of my sleep by a voice calling me by
my name several times, “Robin, Robin, Robin -
Crusoe, poor Robin Crusoe' Where are you, Ro-
bin Crusoe Where are you? Where have you
been º’”
I was so dead asleep at first, being fatigued with
rowing, or paddling, as it is called, the first part of
the day, and walking the latter part, that I did not
awake thoroughly; and dozing between sleeping
and waking, thought I dreamed that somebody
spoke to me; but as the voice continued to repeat
Robin Crusoe, Robin Crusoe, at last I began to
awake more perfectly, and was at first dreadfully
frighted, and started up in the utmost consterna-
tion: but no sooner were my eyes open, but I saw
my Pol sitting on the top of the hedge, and imme-
diately knew that this was he that spoke to me;
for just in such bemoaning language I had used to
talk to him, and teach him; and he had learnt it
so perfectly, that he would sit upon my finger, and
lay his bill close to my face, and cry, “Poor Robin
Crusoe, where are you? Where have you been P
How came you here * and such things as I had
taught him. -
However, even though I knew it was the parrot,
and that indeed it could be nobody else, it was a
good while before I could compose myself. First,
I was amazed how the creature got thither, and
then how he should just keep about the place, and
no where else: but as I was well satisfied it could
be nobody but honest Pol, I got it over; and hold-
ing out my hand, and calling him by his name,
Pol, the sociable creature, came to me, and sat upon
my thumb, as he used to do, and continued talking
to me, Poor Robin Crusoe, and, how did I come
here? and, where had I been 2 just as if he had
been overjoyed to see me again; and so I carried
him home along with me.
I had now had enough of rambling to sea for
some time, and had enough to do for many days to
sit still and reflect upon the danger I had been in.
I would have been very glad to have had my boat
again on my side of the island, but I knew not how
it was practicable to get it about: as to the east
side of the island, which I had gone round, I knew
well enough there was no venturing that way; my
very heart would shrink, and my very blood run
chill, but to think of it: and to the other side of
the island, I did not know how it might be there;
but supposing the current ran with the same force
against the shore at the east, as it passed by it on
the other, I might run the same risk of being driven
down the stream, and carried by the island, as I
had been before of being carried away from it. So
with these thoughts I contented myself to be with-
out any boat, though it had been the product of so
many months labour to make it, and of so many
more to get it into the sea.
In this government of my temper I remained
near a year, lived a very sedate retired life, as you
may well suppose; and my thoughts being very
much composed, as to my condition, and fully com-
forted in resigning myself to the dispositions of
Providence, I thought I lived really very happily
in all things, except that of society.
I improved myself in this time, in all the mecha-
nic exercises which my necessities put me upon
applying myself to ; and I believe could, upon oc-
casion, have made a very good carpenter, especial-
OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 229
Besides this, I arrived at an unexpected perfec-
tion in my earthenware, and contrived well enough
to make them with a wheel, which I found infinite-
ly easier and better; because I made things round
ºw
and shapeable, which before were filthy things in-
deed to look on. But I think I never was more
vain of my own performance, or more joyful for
any thing I found out, than for my being able to
make a tobacco-pipe; and though it was a very
ugly clumsy thing when it was done, and only burnt
red like other earthen ware, yet as it was hard and
firm, and would draw the smoke, I was exceedingly
comforted with it; for I had been always used to
smoke, and there were pipes in the ship, but I for-
got them at first, not knowing there was tobacco
in the island; and afterwards, when I searched the
ship again, I could not come at any pipes at all.
In my wicker-ware I also improved much, and
made abundance of necessary baskets, as well as
my invention shewed me, though not very hand-
some, yet convenient for my laying things up in,
or fetching things home in. For example, if I kill-
ed a goat abroad, I could hang it up in a tree, flay
it, and dress it, and cut it in pieces, and bring it
home in a basket: and the like by a turtle; I
could cut it up, take out the eggs, and a piece or
two of the flesh, which was enough for me, and
bring them home in a basket, and leave the rest
behind me. Also large deep baskets were my re-
ceivers for my corn, which I always rubbed out as
soon as it was dry, and cured; and kept it in great
baskets instead of a granary.
I began now to perceive my powder abated con-
siderably; and this was a want which it was im-
possible for me to supply, and I began seriously to
consider what I must do when I should have no
more powder; that is to say, how I should do to
kill any goats. I had, as I observed, in the third
year of my being here, kept a young kid, and bred
her tame; I was in hopes of getting an he-kid,
but I could not by any means bring it to pass, till
my kid grew an old goat; and I could never find
in my heart to kill her, till she died at last of mere
age.
But being now in the eleventh year of my resi-
dence, and, as I have said, my ammunition growing
low, I set myself to study some art to trap and snare
the goats, to see whether I could not catch some of
them alive; and particularly I wanted a she-goat
great with young.
To this purpose I made snares to hamper them,
and believe they were more than once taken in
them; but my tackle was not good, for I had no
wire, and always found them broken, and my bait
devoured.
At length I resolved to try a pitfall; so I dug
several large pits in the earth, in places where I
had observed the goats used to feed, and over these
pits I placed hurdles of my own making too, with a
great weight upon them; and several times I put
ears of barley, and dry rice, without setting the
trap; and I could easily perceive, that the goats
had gone in, and eaten up the corn, that I could see
the mark of their feet: at length, I set three traps
in one night, and going the next morning, I found
them all standing, and yet the bait eaten and gone.
This was very discouraging; however, I altered my
trap; and, not to trouble you with particulars, go-
ing one morning to see my traps, I found in one of
them a large old he-goat; and, in one of the other,
three kids, a male and two females.
As to the old one, I knew not what to do with
him; he was so fierce, I durst not go into the pit to
him; that is to say, to go about to bring him away
alive, which was what I wanted. I could have kill-
ed him, but that was not my business, nor would
it answer my end; so I e'en let him out, and he ran
away as if he had been frightened out of his wits;
but I did not then know what I afterwards learnt,
that hunger would tame a lion: if I had let him stay
there three or four days without food, and then have
carried him some water to drink, and then a little
corn, he would have been as tame as one of the
kids; for they are mighty sagacious tractable crea-
tures, where they are well used.
However, for the present l let him go, knowing
no better at that time: then I went to the three
kids; and, taking them one by one, I tied them with
strings together; and with some difficulty brought
them all home.
It was a good while before they would feed; but
throwing them some sweet corn, it tempted them,
and they began to be tame: and now I found, that
if I expected to supply myself with goat's flesh,
when I had no powder or shot left, breeding some
up tame was my only way, when perhaps I might
have them about my house like a flock of sheep.
But then it presently occurred to me, that I
must keep the tame from the wild, or else they
would always run wild when they grew up; and
the only way for this was to have some enclosed
piece of ground, well fenced either with hedge or
pale, to keep them up so effectually, that those
within might not break out, or those without break
1I].
This was a great undertaking for one pair of
hands; yet as I saw there was an absolute neces-
sity of doing it, my first piece of work was to find
out a proper piece of ground; viz, where there was
likely to be herbage for them to eat, water for
them to drink, and cover to keep them from the
Sun.
Those who understand such enclosures, will think
I had very little contrivance, when I pitched upon
a place very proper for all these, being a plain
open piece of meadow-land or savannah (as our peo-

ple call it in the western colonies), which had twe
or three little drills of fresh water in it, and at one
end was very woody; I say they will smile at my
forecast, when I shall tell them I began my enclo-
sing of this piece of ground in such a manner, that
my hedge or pale must have been at least two miles
about: nor was the madness of it so great as to the
compass; for if it was ten miles about, I was like
to have time enough to do it in; but I did not con-
sider, that my goats would be as wild in so much
compass, as if they had had the whole island; and
I should have so much room to chase them in, that
I should never catch them.
My hedge was begun and carried on, I believe,
about fifty yards, when this thought occurred to
me; so I presently stopped short, and for the first
beginning I resolved to enclose a piece of about
one hundred and fifty yards in length, and one
hundred yards in breadth, which, as it would main-
tain as many as I should have in any reasonable
time, so, as my flock increased, I could add more
ground to my enclosure. -
This was acting with some prudence, and I went
to work with courage. I was about three months
hedging in the first piece; and, till I had done it, I
tethered the three kids in the best part of it, and
used them to feed as near me as possible, to make
them familiar; and very often I would go and carry
them some ears of barley, or a handful of rice, and
feed them out of my hand; so that after my enclo-
sure was finished, and I let them loose, they would
follow me up and down, bleating after me for a
handful of corn. -
This answered my end, and in about a year and
a half I had a flock of about twelve goats, kids and
all; and, in two years more, I had three-and-forty,
besides several that I took and killed for my food;
and after that I enclosed five several pieces of
ground to feed them in, with little pens to drive
them into, to take them as I wanted them; and
gates out of one piece of ground into another.
But this was not all; for now I not only had
- goat's flesh to feed on when I pleased, but milk too,
a thing which indeed in my beginning I did not so
much as think of, and which, when it came into my
thoughts, was really an agreeable surprise; for
now I set up my dairy, and had sometimes a gallon
or two of milk in a day. And as nature, who gives
supplies of food to every creature, dictates even
naturally how to make use of it; so I, that never
milked a cow, much less a goat, or saw butter or
cheese made, very readily and handily, though af.
ter a great many essays and miscarriages, made me
both butter and cheese at last, and never wanted it
afterwards.
How mercifully can our great Creator treat his
*
236 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES
creatures, even in those c litions in which they
seemed to be overwhelmed in destruction . How
can he sweeten the bitterest providences, and give
us cause to praise him for dungeons and prisons !
What a table was here spread for me in a wilder-
ness, where I saw nothing at first but to perish for
hunger'
It would have made a stoic smile, to have seen
me and my little family sit down to dinner: there
was my majesty, the prince and lord of the whole
island; I had the lives of all my subjects at abso-
lute command; I could hang, draw, give life and
liberty, and take it away, and no rebels among all
my subjects.
Then to see how like a king I dined too, all
alone, attended by my servants Pol, as if he had
been my favourite, as the only person permitted to
talk to me; my dog, which was now grown very old
and crazy, and found no species to multiply his
kind upon, sat always at my right hand; and two
cats, one on one side the table, and one on the
other, expecting now and then a bit from my hand,
as a mark of special favour.
But these were not the two cats which I brought
on shore at first; for they were both of them dead,
and had been interred near my habitation by my
own hands; but one of them having multiplied by
I know not what kind of creature, these were two
which I preserved tame, whereas the rest ran wild
into the woods, and became indeed troublesome to
me at last; for they would often come into my
house, and plunder me too, till at last I was obli-
ged to shoot them, and did kill a great many: at
length they left me. With this attendance, and in
this plentiful manner, I lived; neither could I be
said to want any thing but society, and of that, in
some time after this, I was like to have too much.
CHAP. XI.
Description of my Figure—Also of my Dwelling and
Inclosures—Dreadful alarm on seeing the Print of
a Man's Foot on the Shore—Reflections—Take
every possible measure of precaution.
I was something impatient, as I had observed, to
have the use of my boat, though very loath to run
any more hazard; and therefore sometimes I sat
contriving ways to get her about the island, and at
other times I sat myself down contented enough
without her. But I had a strange uneasiness in my
mind to go down to the point of the island, where,
as I have said in my last ramble, I went up the hill
to see how the shore lay, and how the current set,
that I might see what I had to do. This inclination
increased upon me every day, and at length I re-
solved to travel thither by land, and following the
edge of the shore, I did so: but had any one in Eng-
land been to meet such a man as I was, it must
either have frighted them, or raised a great deal of
laughter; and as I frequently stood still to look at
myself, I could not but smile at the notion of my
travelling through Yorkshire with such an equipage,
and in such a dress. Be pleased to take a sketch
of my figure as follows:
I had a great high shapeless cap, made of goat's
skin, with a flap hanging down behind, as well to
keep the sun from me, as to shoot the rain off from
running into my neck; nothing being so hurtful in
these climates, as the rain upon the flesh under the
clothes.
I had a short jacket of goat's skin, the skirts
coming down to about the middle of my thighs;
and a pair of open-kneed breeches of the same: the
breeches were made of a skin of an old he-goat,
whose hair hung down such a length on either side,
that, like pantaloons, it reached to the middle of
my legs. Stockings and shoes I had none; but I
had made me a pair of something, I scarce knew
what to call them, like buskins, to flap over my
legs, and lace on either side like spatterdashes; but
of a most barbarous shape, as indeed were all the
rest of my clothes.
I had on a broad belt of goat's skin dried, which
I drew together with two thongs of the same, in-
stead of buckles; and in a kind of a frog on either
side of this, instead of a sword and dagger, hung a
little saw and a hatchet; one on one side, one on the
other: I had another belt not so broad, and fasten-
ed in the same manner, which hung over my shoul-
der; and at the end of it, under my left arm, hung
two pouches, both made of goat's skin too; in one
of which hung my powder, in the other my shot:
at my back I carried my basket, on my shoulder
my gun, and over my head a great clumsy ugly
goat's skin umbrella; but which, after all, was the
most necessary thing I had about me, next to my
gun. As for my face, the colour of it was really
not so Mulatto-like as one might expect from a
man not at all careful of it, and living within nine
or ten degrees of the equinox. My beard I had
once suffered to grow till it was about a quarter of
a yard long; but as I had both scizzars and razors
sufficient, I had cut it pretty short, except what
grew on my upper lip, which I had trimmed into a
large pair of Mahometan whiskers, such as I had
seen worn by some Turks whom I saw at Sallee;
for the Moors did not wear such, though the Turks
did: of these mustachios, or whiskers, I will not say
they were long enough to hang my hat upon them;
but they were of length and shape monstrous
enough, and such as in England would have passed
for frightful.
But all this is by the by; for as to my figure, I
had so few to observe me, that it was of no manner
of consequence; so I say no more to that part. In
10
this kind of figure I went my new journey, and was
out five or six days. I travelled first along the sea-
shore, directly to the place where I first brought my
boat to an anchor, to get up upon the rocks; and,
having no boat now to take care of, I went over the
land a nearer way, to the same height that I was
upon before; when looking forward to the point of
the rock which lay out, and which I was to double
with my boat, as I said above, I was surprised to
see the sea all smooth and quiet; no rippling, no
metion, no current, any more there than in other
places.
I was at a strange loss to understand this, and re-
solved to spend some time in the observing of it, to
see if nothing from the sets of the tide had occa-
sioned it: but I was presently convinced how it
was ; viz. that the tide of ebb setting from the west,
and joining with the current of waters from some
great river on the shore, must be the occasion of
this current, and that according as the wind blew
more forcible from the west, or from the north, this
current came near, or went farther from the shore;
for, waiting thereabouts till evening, I went up to
the rock again, and then, the tide of ebb being made,
I plainly saw the current again as before, only that
it ran farther off, being near half a league from the
shore; whereas, in my case, it set close upon the
VOL. I. Q
shore, and hurried me in my canoe along with it,
which at another time it would not have done.
This observation convinced me, that I had no-
thing to do but to observe the ebbing and the flow-
ing of the tide, and I might very easily bring my
boat about the island again: but when I began to
think of putting it in practice, I had such a terror
upon my spirits at the remembrance of the danger
I had been in, that I could not think of it again
with any patience; but on the contrary, I took up
another resolution, which was more safe, though
more laborious; and this was, that I would build,
or rather make me another periagua, or canoe; and
so have one for one side of the island, and one for
the other.
You are to understand, that now I had, as I may
call it, two plantations in the island; one, my little
fortification or tent, with the wall about it under
the rock, with the cave behind me, which by this
time I had enlarged into several apartments or
caves, one within another. One of these, which was
the driest and largest, and had a door out beyond
my wall or fortification, that is to say, beyond
where my wall joined to the rock, was all filled up
with large earthen pots, of which I have given an
account, and with fourteen or fifteen great baskets,
which would hold five or six bushels each, where I
4.
laid up my stores of provision, especially my corn,
some in the ear cut off short from the straw, and
the other rubbed out with my hands.
As for my wall, made as before, with long stakes
or piles, those piles grew all like trees, and were by
this time grown so big, and spread so very much,
that there was not the least appearance, to any
one’s view, of any habitation behind them.
Near this dwelling of mine, but a little farther
within the land, and upon lower ground, lay my two
pieces of corn-ground; which I kept duly cultiva-
ted and sowed, and which duly yielded me their
harvest in its season: and whenever I had occasion
for more corn, I had more land adjoining, as fit as
that.
Besides this, I had my country-seat, and I had
now a tolerable plantation there also; for first, I
had my little bower, as I called it, which I kept in
repair; that is to say, I kept the hedge which cir-
cled it in, constantly fitted up to its usual height,
the ladder standing always in the inside; I kept
the trees, which at first were no more than stakes,
but were now grown very firm and tall,—I kept
them always so cut, that they might spread and
grow thick and wild, and make the more agree-
able shade, which they did effectually to my mind.
In the middle of this I had my tent always stand-
ing, being a piece of a sail spread over poles set up
for that purpose, and which never wanted any re-
pair or renewing; and under this I had made me a
squab or couch, with the skins of the creatures I
had killed, and with other soft things, and a blanket
laid on them, such as belonged to our sea-bedding,
which I had saved, and a great watchcoat to cover
me; and here, whenever I had occasion to be ab-
sent from my chief seat, I took up my country ha-
bitation. -
Adjoining to this I had my enclosures for my
cattle, that is to say, my goats: and as I had taken
an inconceivable deal of pains to fence and enclose
this ground, I was so uneasy to see it kept entire,
lest the goats should break through, that I never
left off, till with infinite labour I had stuck the out-
side of the hedge so full of small stakes, and so near
to one another, that it was rather a pale than a
hedge, and there was scarce room to put a hand
through between them, which afterwards, when
those stakes grew, as they all did in the next rainy
season, made the enclosure strong, like a wall; in-
deed stronger than any wall.
This will testify for me that I was not idle, and
that I spared no pains to bring to pass whatever
appeared necessary for my comfortable support;
for I considered the keeping up a breed of tame
creatures thus at my hand, would be a living maga-
zine of flesh, milk, butter, and cheese, for me, as
long as I lived in the place, if it were to be forty
years; and that keeping them in my reach, de-
pended entirely upon my perfecting my enclosures
to such a degree, that I might be sure of keeping
them together; which by this method indeed I so
effectually secured, that when these little stakes
began to grow, I had planted them so very thick,
I was forced to pull some of them up again.
In this place also I had my grapes growing,
which I principally depended on for my winter store
of raisins, and which I never failed to preserve very
carefully, as the best and most agreeable dainty of
my whole diet; and indeed they were not agree-
able only, but physical, wholesome, nourishing, and
refreshing to the last degree.
As this was also about half-way between my
other habitation and the place where I had laid up
my boat, I generally staid and lay here in my way
thither; for I used frequently to visit my boat, and
I kept all things about or belonging to her in very
good order: sometimes I went out in her to divert
myself, but no more hazardous voyages would I go,
nor scarce ever above a stone's cast or two from the
shore, I was so apprehensive of being hurried out
of my knowledge again by the currents, or winds,
or any other accident. But now I come to a new
scene of my life.
It happened one day about noon, going towards
my boat, I was exceedingly surprised with the print
of a man's naked foot on the shore, which was
very plain to be seen in the sand : I stood like one
thunderstruck, or as if I had seen an apparition; I
listened, I looked round me, I could hear nothing,
nor see any thing; I went up to a rising ground
to look farther; I went up the shore and down
the shore, but it was all one, I could see no other
impression but that one; I went to it again to see
if there were any more, and to observe if it might
not be my fancy; but there was no room for that,
for there was exactly the very print of a foot, toes,
heel, and every part of a foot; how it came thither
I knew not, nor could in the least imagine. But
after innumerable fluttering thoughts, like a man
perfectly confused, and out of myself, I came home
to my fortification, not feeling, as we say, the
ground I went on, but terrified to the last degree,
looking behind me at every two or three steps,
mistaking every bush and tree, and fancying every
stump at a distance to be a man; nor is it possible
to describe how many various shapes an affrighted
imagination represented things to me in; how many
wild ideas were formed every moment in my fancy,
and what strange unaccountable whimsies came in-
to my thoughts by the way.
When I came to my castle, for so I think I called
it ever after this, I fled into it like one pursued;
One day it happened, that going to my boat, I saw
the print of a man's naked foot on the shore, very evi-
dent on the sand, as the toes, heel, and every part of it.
Vol. I. Page 246.

whether I went over by the ladder, as first contri-
ved, or went in at the hole in the rock, which I
called a door, I cannot remember; for never fright-
ed hare fled to cover, or fox to earth, with more
terror of mind than I to this retreat.
I had no sleep that might: the farther I was
from the occasion of my fright, the greater my ap-
prehensions were; which is something contrary to
the nature of such things, and especially to the
usual practice of all creatures in fear. But I was
so embarrassed with my own frightful ideas of the
thing, that I formed nothing but dismal imagina-
tions to myself, even though I was now a great way
off it. Sometimes I fancied it must be the devil;
and reason joined in with me upon this supposition.
For how should any other thing in human shape
come into the place Where was the vessel that
brought them? What marks were there of any
other footsteps ? And how was it possible a man
should come there But then to think that Satan
should take human shape upon him in such a place,
where there could be no manner of occasion for it,
but to leave the print of his foot behind him, and
that even for no purpose too, (for he could not be
sure I should see it,) this was an amazement the
other way: I considered that the devil might have
found out abundance of other ways to have terrified
me, than this of the single print of a foot; that, as
I lived quite on the other side of the island, he would
never have been so simple to leave a mark in a place
where it was ten thousand to one whether I should
ever see it or not, and in the sand too, which the
first surge of the sea upon an high wind would have
defaced entirely. All this seemed inconsistent with
the thing itself, and with all notions we usually en-
tertain of the subtlety of the devil.
Abundance of such things as these assisted to
argue me out of all apprehensions of its being the
devil. And I presently concluded that it must be
some more dangerous creature; viz. that it must be
some of the savages of the main land over against
me, who had wandered out to sea in their canoes,
and, either driven by the currents, or by contrary
winds, had made the island, and had been on shore,
but were gone away again to sea, being as loath,
perhaps, to have staid in this desolate island, as I
would have been to have had them.
While these reflections were rolling upon my
mind, I was very thankful in my thought, that I
was so happy as not to be thereabouts at that time,
or that they did not see my boat, by which they
would have concluded, that some inhabitants had
been in the place, and perhaps have searched far-
ther for me. Then terrible thoughts racked my
imagination, about their having found my boat, and
that there were people here ; and that if so, I
should certainly have them come again in greater
numbers, and devour me; that if it should happen
so that they should not find me, yet they would find
my enclosure, destroy all my corn, carry away all
my flock of tame goats, and I should perish at last
for mere want. -
Thus my fear banished all my religious hope; all
that former confidence in God, which was founded
upon such wonderful experience as I had had of his
goodness, now vanished; as if He, that had fed me
by miracle hitherto, could not preserve by his power
the provision which he had made for me by his
goodness. I reproached myself with my uneasi-
ness, that I would not sow any more corn one year,
than would just serve me till the next season, as if
no accident could intervene to prevent my enjoy-
ing the crop that was upon the ground. And this
I thought so just a reproof, that I resolved for the
future to have two or three years corn beforehand,
so that, whatever might come, I might not perish
for want of bread.
How strange a chequer-work of Providence is the
life of man! And by what secret differing springs
are the affections hurried about, as differing cir-
cumstances present ' To-day we love, what to-
morrow we hate; to-day we seek, what to-morrow
we shun; to-day we desire, what to-morrow we
fear; nay, even tremble at the apprehensions of.
This was exemplified in me at this time in the
most lively manner imaginable; for I, whose only
affliction was, that I seemed banished from human
society, that I was alone, circumscribed by the
boundless ocean, cut off from mankind, and con-
demned to what I call a silent life; that I was as
one whom Heaven thought not worthy to be num-
bered among the living, or to appear among the
rest of his creatures; that to have seen one of my
own species, would have seemed to me a raising
me from death to life, and the greatest blessing
that Heaven itself, next to the supreme blessing of
salvation, could bestow; I say, that I should now
tremble at the very apprehensions of seeing a man,
and was ready to sink into the ground, at but the
shadow, or silent appearance, of a man's having
set his foot on the island.
Such is the uneven state of human life; and it
afforded me a great many curious speculations after-
wards, when I had a little recovered my first sur-
prise: I considered that this was the station of life
the infinitely wise and good providence of God had
determined for me; that, as I could not foresee
what the ends of divine wisdom might be in all this,
so I was not to dispute his sovereignty, who, as I
was his creature, had an undoubted right by crea-
tion to govern and dispose of me absolutely as he
thought fit; and who, as I was a creature who
had offended him, had likewise a judicial right to
condemn me to what punishment he thought fit;
and that it was my part to submit to bear his in-
dignation, because I had sinned against him.
I then reflected, that God, who was not only
righteous, but omnipotent, as he had thought fit
thus to punish and afflict me, so he was able to
deliver me; that if he did not think fit to do it,
it was my unquestioned duty to resign myself
absolutely and entirely to his will; and on the
other hand, it was my duty also to hope in him,
pray to him, and quietly to attend the dictates and
directions of his daily providence. .
These thoughts took me up many hours, days,
nay, I may say, weeks and months; and one par-
ticular effect of my cogitations on this occasion I
cannot omit: viz. one morning early, lying in my
bed, and filled with thoughts about my danger
from the appearance of savages, I found it discom-
posed me very much; upon which those words of
the Scripture came into my thoughts, “Call upon
me in the day of trouble, and I will deliver thee,
and thou shalt glorify me.”
Upon this, rising cheerfully out of my bed, my
heart was not only comforted, but I was guided and
encouraged to pray earnestly to God for deliverance,
When I had done praying, I took up my Bible,
and opening it to read, the first words that pre-
sented to me were, “Wait on the Lord, and be of
good cheer, and he shall strengthen thy heart;
Wait, I say, on the Lord.” It is impossible to ex-
press the comfort this gave me; and in return, I
thankfully laid down the book, and was no more
sad, at least, not on that occasion.
In the middle of these cogitations, apprehensions,
and reflections, it came into my thoughts one day,
that all this might be a mere chimera of my own,
and that this foot might be the print of my own
foot, when I came on shore from my boat. This
cheered me up a little too, and I began to persuade
myself it was all a delusion; that it was nothing
else but my own foot; and why might not I come
that way from the boat, as well as I was going that
way to the boat? Again, I considered also, that I
could by no means tell for certain where I had trod,
and where I had not; and that if at last this was
only the print of my own foot, I had played the
part of those fools, who strive to make stories of
spectres and apparitions, and then are themselves
frighted at them more than any body else.
Now I began to take courage, and to peep abroad
again; for I had not stirred out of my castle for
three days and nights, so that I began to starve for
provision; for I had little or nothing within doors,
but some barley-cakes and water. Then I knew
that my goats wanted to be milked too, which
usually was my evening diversion: and the poor
creatures were in great pain and inconvenience for
want of it; and indeed it almost spoiled some of
them, and almost dried up their milk.
... Heartening myself therefore with the belief, that
this was nothing but the print of one of my own
feet (and so I might be truly said to start at my
own shadow.) I began to go abroad again, and
went to my country-house to milk my flock; but
to see with what fear I went forward, how often I
looked behind me, how I was ready, every now
and then, to lay down my basket, and run for my
life; it would have made any one have thought I
was haunted with an evil conscience, or that I had
been lately most terribly frighted; and so indeed
I had.
However, as I went down thus two or three days,
and having seen nothing, I began to be a little
bolder, and to think there was really nothing in it
but my own imagination; but I could not persuade
myself fully of this, till I should go down to the
shore again, and see this print of a foot, and mea-
sure it by my own, and see if there was any si-
militude or fitness, that I might be assured it was
my own foot. But when I came to the place first,
it appeared evidently to me, that when I laid up
my boat, I could not possibly be on shore any
where thereabouts. Secondly, when I came to
measure the mark with my own foot, I found my
foot not so large by a great deal. Both these
things filled my head with new imaginations, and
gave me the vapours again to the highest degree;
so that I shook with cold, like one in an ague, and
I went home again, filled with the belief, that some
man or men had been on shore there; or, in short,
that the island was inhabited, and I might be sur-
prised before I was aware; and what course to take
for my security, I knew not.
O what ridiculous resolutions men take, when
possessed with fear! It deprives them of the use of
those means which reason offers for their relief.
The first thing I proposed to myself was, to throw
down my enclosures, and turn all my tame cattle
wild into the woods, that the enemy might not
find them, and then frequent the island in prospect
of the same, or the like booty; then to the simple
thing of digging up my two corn-fields, that they
might not find such a grain there, and still be
prompted to frequent the island; then to demolish
my bower and tent, that they might not see any
vestiges of my habitation, and be prompted to look
farther, in order to find out the persons inhabiting.
These were the subjects of the first night's cogi-
tation, after I was come home again, while the
apprehensions which had so over-run my mind
were fresh upon me, and my head was full of
vapours, as above. Thus fear of danger is ten
thousand times more terrifying than danger itself,
when apparent to the eyes; and we find the bur-
den of anxiety, greater by much than the evil which
we are anxious about: but, which was worse than
all this, I had not that relief in this trouble from
the resignation I used to practise, that I hoped to
have. I looked, I thought, like Saul, who com- .
plained not only that the Philistines were upon
him, but that God had forsaken him; for I did
not now take due ways to compose my mind, by
crying to God in my distress, and resting upon his
providence, as I had done before, for my defence
and deliverance; which if I had done, I had, at
least, been more cheerfully supported under this
new surprise, and perhaps carried through it with
more resolution.
This confusion of my thoughts kept me waking
all night; but in the morning I fell asleep, and
having, by the amusement of my mind, been, as it
were, tired, and my spirits exhausted, I slept very
soundly, and awaked much better composed than
I had ever been before. And now I began to
think sedately; and, upon the utmost debate with
myself, I concluded, that this island, which was so
exceeding pleasant, fruitful, and no farther from
the main land than as I had seen, was not so en-
tirely abandoned as I might imagine: that al-
though there were no stated inhabitants who lived
* .
on the spot; yet that there might sometimes come
boats off from the shore, who either with design,
or perhaps never but when they were driven by
cross winds, might come to this place.
That I had lived here fifteen years now, and had
not met with the least shadow or figure of any
people before; and that if at any time they should
be driven here, it was probable they went away
again as soon as ever they could, seeing they had
never thought fit to fix there upon any occasion, to
this time.
That the most I could suggest any danger from,
was, from any such casual accidental landing of
straggling people from the main, who, as it was
likely, if they were driven hither, were here
against their wills; so they made no stay here, but
went off again with all possible speed, seldom stay-
ing one night on shore, lest they should not have
the help of the tides and daylight back again; and
that therefore I had nothing to do but to consider
of some safe retreat, in case I should see any sa-
vages land upon the spot.
Now I began sorely to repent that I had dug my
cave so large, as to bring a door through again,
which door, as I said, came out beyond where my
fortification joined to the rock. Upon maturely
considering this, therefore, I resolved to draw me
a second fortification, in the manner of a semi-
circle, at a distance from my wall, just where I had
planted a double row of trees about twelve years
before, of which I made mention: these trees ha-
ving been planted so thick before, there wanted but
a few piles to be driven between them, that they
should be thicker and stronger, and my wall would
be soon finished. - -
So that I had now a double wall, and my outer
wall was thickened with pieces of timber, old cables,
and every thing I could think of to make it strong;
having in it seven little holes, about as big as I
might put my arm out at. In the inside of this I
thickened my wall to about ten feet thick, con-
tinually bringing earth out of my cave, and laying
it at the foot of the wall, and walking upon it;
and through the seven holes I contrived to plant
the muskets, of which I took notice that I got seven
on shore out of the ship; these, I say, I planted
like my cannon, and fitted them into frames that
held them like a carriage, that so I could fire all
the seven guns in two minutes time. This wall I
was many a weary month in finishing, and yet
never thought myself safe till it was done.
When this was done, I stuck all the ground
without my wall, for a great way every way, as
full with stakes or sticks of the osier-like wood,
which I found so apt to grow, as they could well
stand; insomuch that I believe I might set in near
VOL. I. R
twenty thousand of them, leaving a pretty large
space between them and my wall, that I might have
room to see an enemy, and they might have no
shelter from the young trees, if they attempted
to approach my outer wall.
Thus in two years time I had a thick grove;
and in five or six years time I had a wood before
my dwelling, grown so monstrous thick and strong,
that it was indeed perfectly impassable; and no
man of what kind soever would ever imagine that
there was any thing beyond it, much less an habi-
tation. As for the way I proposed myself to go in
and out (for I left no avenue,) it was by setting two
ladders; one to a part of the rock which was low,
and then broke in, and left room to place another
ladder upon that; so when the two ladders were
taken down, no man living could come down to
me without mischiefing himself; and if they had
come down, they were still on the outside of my
outer wall. -
Thus I took all the measures human prudence
could suggest for my own preservation; and it will
be seen at length, that they were not altogether
without just reason; though I foresaw nothing at
that time more than my mere fear suggested.
While this was doing, I was not altogether care-
less of my other affairs; for I had a great concern
upon me for my little herd of goats; they were
not only a present supply to me upon everyoc-
casion, and began to be sufficient for me, without
the expense of powder and shot, but also abated
the fatigue of my hunting after the wild ones; and
I was loath to lose the advantage of them, and to
have them all to nurse up over again,
To this purpose, after long consideration, I could
think but of two ways to preserve them : one was
to find another convenient place to dig a cave un-
der ground, and to drive them into it every night;
and the other was to enclose two or three little bits
of land, remote from one another, and as much
concealed as I could, where I might keep about
half a dozen young goats in each place; so that
if any disaster happened to the flock in general, I
might be able to raise them again with little trouble
and time: and this, though it would require a great
deal of time and labour, I thought was the most
rational design.
Accordingly I spent some time, to find out the
most retired parts of the island; and I pitched up-
on one, which was as private indeed as my heart
could wish; for it was a little damp piece of
ground in the middle of the hollow and thick
woods, where, as is observed, I almost lost myself
once before, endeavouring to come back that way
from the eastern part of the island. Here I found
a clear piece of land near three acres, so surround-
ed with woods, that it was almost an enclosure by
3
nature; at least it did not want near so much la-
bour to make it so, as the other pieces of ground
I had worked so hard at.
I immediately went to work with this piece of
ground, and in less than a month's time I had so
fenced it round, that my flock or herd, call it which
you please, which were not so wild now as at first
they might be supposed to be, were well enough
secured in it. So without any farther delay, I re-
moved ten she-goats and two he-goats to this piece;
and when there, I continued to perfect the fence,
till I had made it as secure as the other, which,
however, I did at more leisure, and it took me up
more time by a great deal.
CHAP. XII.
I observe a Canoe out at sea—Find on the Shore the
remnant of a Feast of Cannibals—Horror of mind
thereon–Double arm myself—Terribly alarmed by
a Goat—Discover a singular Cave, or Grotto, of
which I form my Magazine—My fears on account
of the Savages begin to subside.
All this labour I was at the expense of, purely
from my apprehensions on the account of the print
of a man's foot which I had seen; for as yet, I ne-
ver saw any human creature come near the island,
and I had now lived two years under these un-
easinesses, which indeed made my life much less
comfortable than it was before; as may well be
imagined, by any who know what it is to live in
the constant snare of the fear of man; and this
I must observe with grief too, that the discomposure
of my mind had too great impressions also upon
the religious part of my thoughts; for the dread
and terror of falling into the hands of savages and
cannibals lay so upon my spirits, that I seldom
found myself in a due temper for application
to my Maker; at least, not with the sedate calm-
ness and resignation of soul which I was wont to
do. I rather prayed to God as under great afflic-
tion and pressure of mind, surrounded with danger,
and in expectation every night of being murdered
and devoured before the morning; and I must tes-
tify from my experience, that a temper of peace,
thankfulness, love, and affection, is much more the
proper frame for prayer, than that of terror and
discomposure; and that under the dread of mischief
impending, a man is no more fit for a comforting
performance of the duty of praying to God, than
he is for repentance on a sick-bed; for these dis-
composures affect the mind as the others do the
body; and the discomposure of the mind must
necessarily be as great a disability as that of the
body, and much greater; praying to God being
properly an act of the mind, not of the body.
But to go on: After I had thus secured one part
of my little living stock, I went about the whole
island, searching for another private place, to make
such another deposit; when wandering more to the
west point of the island than I had ever done yet,
and looking out to sea, I thought I saw a boat up-
on the sea, at a great distance; I had found a per-
spective glass or two in one of the seamen's chests,
which I saved out of our ship; but I had it not
about me, and this was so remote, that I could not
tell what to make of it, though I looked at it till
my eyes were notable to look any longer: whether
it was a boat, or not, I do not know; but as I de-
scended from the hill, I could see no more of it, so
I gave it over; only I resolved to go no more with-
out a perspective glass in my pocket.
When I was come down the hill, to the end of
the island, where indeed I had never been before,
I was presently convinced, that the seeing the print
of a man's foot, was not such a strange thing in
the island as I imagined; and, but that it was a
special providence that I was cast upon the side of
the island where the savages never came, I should
easily have known, that nothing was more frequent
than for the canoes from the main, when they hap-
pened to be a little too far out at sea, to shoot over
to that side of the island for harbour; likewise, as
they often met, and fought in their canoes, the vic-
tors, having taken any prisoners, would bring them
over to this shore, where, according to their dread-
ful customs, being all cannibals, they would kill
and eat them: of which hereafter.
When I was come down the hill to the shore,
as I said above, being the S. W. point of the island,
I was perfectly confounded and amazed; nor is it
possible for me to express the horror of my mind,
at seeing the shore spread with skulls, hands, feet,
and other bones of human bodies; and particularly
observed a place where there had been a fire
made, and a circle dug in the earth, like a cock-
pit, where it is supposed the savage wretches had
sat down to their inhuman feastings upon the
bodies of their fellow-creatures.
I was so astonished with the sight of these things,
that I entertained no notions of any danger to my-
self from it, for a long while; all my apprehen-
sions were buried in the thoughts of such a pitch
of inhuman, hellish brutality, and the horror of the
degeneracy of human nature; which, though I had
heard of often, yet I never had so near a view of
before: in short, I turned away my face from the
horrid spectacle; my stomach grew sick, and I was
just at the point of fainting, when nature dischar-
ged the disorder from my stomach, and having vo-
mited with an uncommon violence, I was a little
relieved, but could not bear to stay in the place a
moment; so I got me up the hill again with all
the speed I could, and walked on towards my own
habitation.
When I came a little out of that part of the
island, I stood still awhile as amazed; and then
recovering myself, I looked up with the utmost
affection of my soul, and with a flood of tears in
my eyes, gave God thanks, that had cast my first
lot in a part of the world where I was distinguish-
ed from such dreadful creatures as these; and that
though I had esteemed my present condition very
miserable, had yet given me so many comforts in
it, that I had still more to give thanks for than to
complain of; and this above all, that I had, even
in this miserable condition, been comforted with
the knowledge of himself, and the hope of his
blessing, which was a felicity more than sufficient-
ly equivalent to all the misery which I had suffer-
ed, or could suffer.
In this frame of thankfulness I went home to my
castle, and began to be much easier now, as to the
safety of my circumstances, than ever I was be-
fore; for I observed, that these wretches never
came to this island in search of what they could
get; perhaps not seeking, not wanting, or not ex-
pecting, anything here, and having often, no doubt
been up in the covered woody part of it, without
finding any thing to their purpose. I knew I had
been here now almost eighteen years, and never
saw the least footsteps of a human creature there
before; and might be here eighteen more as en-
tirely concealed as I was now, if I did not discover
myself to them, which I had no manner of occasion
to do, it being my only business to keep myself
entirely concealed where I was, unless I found a
better sort of creatures than cannibals to make my-
self known to.
Yet I entertained such an abhorrence of the
savage wretches that I have been speaking of, and
of the wretched inhuman custom of their devouring
and eating one another up, that I continued pensive
and sad, and kept close within my own circle for
almost two years after this: when I say my own
circle, I mean by it my three plantations, viz. my
castle, my country-seat, which I called my bower,
and my enclosure in the woods; nor did I look
after this for any other use than as an enclosure
for my goats; for the aversion which nature gave
me to these hellish wretches was such, that I was
as fearful of seeing them as of seeing the devil
himself; nor did I so much as go to look after
my boat in all this time, but began rather to think
of making me another; for I could not think of
ever making any more attempts to bring the other
boat round the island to me, lest I should meet
with some of those creatures at sea, in which, if
I had happened to have fallen into their hands, I
knew what would have been my lot.
Time, however, and the satisfaction I had, that I
was in no danger of being discovered by these
people, began to wear off my uneasiness about
them; and I began to live just in the same com-
posed manner as before; only with this difference,
that I used more caution, and kept my eyes more
about me than I did before, lest I should happen
to be seen by any of them; and particularly, I
was more cautious of firing my gun, lest any of
them on the island should happen to hear it; and
it was therefore a very good providence to me,
that I had furnished myself with a tame breed of
goats, that I had no need to hunt any more about
the woods, or shoot at them; and if I did catch
any more of them after this, it was by traps and
snares, as I had done before; so that for two
years after this, I believe I never fired my gun
once off, though I never went out without it; and,
which was more, as I had saved three pistols out
of the ship, I always carried them out with me,
or at least two of them, sticking them in my goat-
skin belt: I likewise furbished up one of the great
cutlasses that I had out of the ship, and made me
a belt to put it in also; so that I was now a most
formidable fellow to look at when I went abroad,
if you add to the former description of myself, the
particular of two pistols, and a great broad-sword,
hanging at my side in a belt, but without a scab-
bard. *
Things going on thus, as I have said, for some
time, I seemed, excepting these cautions, to be re-
duced to my former calm sedate way of living.
All these things tended to shew me more and more
how far my condition was from being miserable,
compared to some others; nay, to many other par.
ticulars of life, which it might have pleased God
to have made my lot. It put me upon reflecting,
how little repining there would be among man-
kind, at any condition of life, if people would ra-
ther compare their condition with those that are
worse, in order to be thankful, than be always com-
paring them with those which are better, to assist
their murmurings and complainings.
As in my present condition there were not really
many things which I wanted, so indeed I thought
that the frights I had been in about these savage
wretches, and the concern I had been in for my
own preservation, had taken off the edge of my
invention for my own conveniences, and I had
dropped a good design, which I had once bent my
thoughts upon; and that was, to try if I could not
make some of my barley into malt, and then try to
brew myself some beer: this was really a whimsi-
cal thought, and I reproved myself often for the
simplicity of it; for I presently saw there would
be the want of several things necessary to the
making my beer, that would be impossible for me
to supply; as, first, casks to preserve it in, which
was a thing that, as I have observed already, I
could never compass; no, though I spent not many
days, but weeks, nay months, in attempting it, but
to no purpose. In the next place, I had no hops
to make it keep, no yeast to make it work, no cop-
per or kettle to make it boil; and yet, had not all
these things intervened, I mean the frights and
terrors I was in about the savages, I had under-
taken it, and perhaps brought it to pass too; for I
seldom gave any thing over without accomplish-
ing it, when I once had it in my head enough to
begin it.
But my invention now ran quite another way;
for night and day I could think of nothing, but
how I might destroy some of these monsters in
their cruel bloody entertainment, and, if possible,
save the victim they should bring hither to destroy.
It would take up a larger volume than this whole
work is intended to be, to set down all the contri-
vances I hatched, or rather brooded upon in my
thoughts, for the destroying these creatures, or
at least frightening them, so as to prevent their
coming hither any more; but all was abortive;
nothing could be possible to take effect, unless I
was to be there to do it myself; and what could
one man do among them, when perhaps there
might be twenty or thirty of them together, with
their darts, or their bows and arrows, with which
they could shoot as true to a mark as I could with
my gun?
Sometimes I contrived to dig a hole under the
place where they made their fire, and put in five
or six pounds of gunpowder, which, when they
kindled their fire, would consequently take fire,
and blow up all that was near it; but as, in the
first place, I should be very loath to waste so much
powder upon them, my store being now within the
quantity of a barrel, so neither could I be sure of
its going off at any certain time, when it might
surprise them; and, at best, that it would do little
more than just blow the fire about their ears, and
fright them, but not sufficient to make them for-
sake the place; so I laid it aside, and then propo-
sed, that I would place myself in ambush in some
convenient place, with my three guns all double-
loaded, and in the middle of their bloody ceremony
let fly at them, when I should be sure to kill or
wound perhaps two or three at every shoot; and
then falling in upon them with my three pistols, and
my sword, I made no doubt but that, if there were
twenty, I should kill them all: this fancy pleased
my thoughts for some weeks, and I was so full of
it that I often dreamed of it; and sometimes, that
I was just going to let fly at them in my sleep.
I went so far with it in my indignation, that I
employed myself several days to find out proper
places to put myself in ambuscade, as I said, to
watch for them; and I went frequently to the place
itself, which was now grown more familiar to me;
and especially while my mind was thus filled with
thoughts of revenge, and of a bloody putting
twenty or thirty of them to the sword, at I may
call it; but the horror I had at the place, and at
the signals of the barbarous wretches devouring
one another, abated my malice. -
Well, at length I found a place in the side of
the hill, where I was satisfied I might securely
wait till I saw any of the boats coming, and might
then, even before they would be ready to come on
shore, convey myself unseen into thickets of trees,
in one of which there was a hollow large enough
to conceal me entirely; and where I might sit,
and observe all their bloody doings, and take my
full aim at their heads, when they were so close
together, as that it would be next to impossible
that I should miss my shoot, or that I could fail
wounding three or four of them at the first shoot.
In this place then I resolved to fix my design;
and accordingly I prepared two muskets and my
ordinary fowling-piece. The two muskets I loaded
with a brace of slugs each, and four or five smaller
bullets, about the size of pistol-bullets, and the
fowling-piece I loaded with near an handful of swan-
shot, of the largest size; I also loaded my pistols
with about four bullets each: and in this posture,
well provided with ammunition for a second and
third charge, I prepared myself for my expedition.
After I had thus laid the scheme for my design,
and in my imagination put it in practice, I continual-
ly made my tour every morning up to the top of
the hill, which was from my castle, as I called it,
about three miles or more, to see if I could observe
any boats upon the sea, coming near the island, or
standing over towards it; but I began to tire of
this hard duty, after I had for two or three months
constantly kept my watch; but came always back
without any discovery, there having not in all that
time been the least appearance, not only on or near
the shore, but not on the whole ocean, so far as
my eyes or glasses could reach every way.
As long as I kept up my daily tour to the hill to
look out, so long also I kept up the vigour of my
design, and my spirits seemed to be all the while
in a suitable frame for so outrageous an execution,
as the killing twenty or thirty naked savages for
an offence, which I had not at all entered into a
discussion of in my thoughts, any further than my
passions were at first fired by the horror I con-
ceived at the unnatural custom of the people of
that country, who, it seems, had been suffered by
Providence, in his wise disposition of the world, to
have no other guide than that of their own abomi-
nable and vitiated passions; and consequently were
left, and perhaps had been for some ages, to act
such horrid things, and receive such dreadful cus-
toms, as nothing but nature, entirely abandoned of
Heaven, and actuated by some hellish degene-
racy, could have run them into; but now, when,
as I have said, I began to be weary of the fruitless
excursion which I had made so long, and so far,
every morning in vain; so my opinion of the ac-
tion itself began to alter, and I began, with cooler
and calmer thoughts, to consider what it was I was
going to engage in; what authority or call I had
to pretend to be judge and executioner upon these
men as criminals, whom Heaven had thought fit
for so many ages to suffer, unpunished to go on,
and to be, as it were, the executioners of his judge-
ments upon one another; also, how far these people
were offenders against me, and what right I had to
engage in the quarrel of that blood, which they shed
promiscuously one upon another. I debated this
very often with myself thus: How do I know what
God himself judges in this particular case ? It is
certain these people do not commit this as a crime;
it is not against their own consciences reproving, or
their light reproaching them. They do not know
it to be an offence, and then commit it in defiance
of divine justice, as we do in almost all the sins we
commit. They think it no more a crime to kill a
captive taken in war, than we do to kill an ox, nor
to eat human flesh, than we do to eat mutton.
When I had considered this a little, it followed
e cessarily, that I was certainly in the wrong in it;
VOL. I. s
that these people were not murderers in the sense
that I had before condemned them in my thoughts,
any more than those Christians were murderers,
who often put to death the prisoners taken in battle;
or more frequently, upon many occasions, put whole
troops of men to the sword, without giving quarter,
though they threw down their arms and submitted.
In the next place, it occurred to me, that albeit
the usage they gave one another was thus brutish
and inhuman, yet it was really nothing to me:
these people had done me no injury: that if they
attempted me, or I saw it necessary for my imme-
diate preservation to fall upon them, something
might be said for it; but that I was yet out of
their power, and they had really no knowledge of
me, and consequently no design upon me; and
therefore it could not be just for me to fall upon
them: that this would justify the conduct of the
Spaniards, in all their barbarities practised in
America, where they destroyed millions of these
people, who, however they were idolaters and
barbarians, and had several bloody and barbarous
rites in their customs, such as sacrificing human
bodies to their idols, were yet, as to the Spaniards,
very innocent people; and that the rooting them
out of the country is spoken of with the utmost
abhorrence and detestation, even by the Spaniards
themselves, at this time; and by all other Christian
5
nations of Europe, as a mere butchery, a bloody
and unnatural piece of cruelty, unjustifiable either
to God or man; and such, as for which the very
name of a Spaniard is reckoned to be frightful and
terrible to all people of humanity, or of Christian
compassion: as if the kingdom of Spain were parti-
cularly eminent for the product of a race of men,
who were without principles of tenderness, or the
common bowels of pity to the miserable, which is
reckoned to be a mark of a generous temper in
the mind.
These considerations really put me to a pause,
and to a kind of a full stop; and I began by little
and little to be off of my design, and to conclude I
had taken a wrong measure in my resolutions to
attack the savages; that it was not my business to
meddle with them, unless they first attacked me,
and this it was my business, if possible, to prevent;
but that, if I were discovered and attacked, then I
knew my duty.
On the other hand, I argued with myself, that
this really was the way not to deliver myself, but
entirely to ruin and destroy myself; for unless I
was sure to kill every one that not only should be
on shore at that time, but that should ever come
on shore afterwards, if but one of them escaped to
tell their country-people what had happened, they
would come over again by thousands to revenge
the death of their fellows; and I should only bring
upon myself a certain destruction, which at present
I had no manner of occasion for. -
Upon the whole, I concluded, that neither in
principles nor in policy, I ought one way or other
to concern myself in this affair: that my business
was, by all possible means, to conceal myself from
them, and not to leave the least signal to them to
guess by, that there were any living creatures upon
the island, I mean of human shape.
Religion joined in with this prudential, and I
was convinced now many ways that I was perfectly
out of my duty, when I was laying all my bloody
schemes for the destruction of innocent creatures,
I mean innocent as to me; as to the crimes they
were guilty of towards one another, I had nothing
to do with them; they were national punishments
to make a just retribution for national offences;
and to bring public judgments upon those who
offend in a public manner, by such ways as best
please God. -
... This appeared so clear to me now, that nothing
was a greater satisfaction to me, than that I had
not been suffered to do a thing which I now saw
'so much reason to believe would have been no less
a sin than that of wilful murder, if I had committed
it; and I gave most humble thanks on my knees
to God, that had thus delivered me from blood-
guiltiness; beseeching him to grant me the pro-
tection of his Providence, that I might not fall
into the hands of barbarians; or that I might not
lay my hands upon them, unless I had a more clear
call from Heaven to do it, in defence of my own
life.
In this disposition I continued for near a year
after this: and so far was I from desiring an occa-
sion for falling upon these wretches, that in all that
time I never once went up the hill to see whether
there were any of them in sight, or to know whether
any of them had been on shore there, or not; that
I might not be tempted to renew any of my con-
trivances against them, or be provoked, by any ad-
vantage which might present itself, to fall upon
them; only this I did, I went and removed my
boat, which I had on the other side of the island,
and carried it down to the east end of the whole
island, where I ran it into a little cove which I
found under some high rocks, and where I knew,
by reason of the currents, the savages durst not, at
least would not, come with their boats upon any
account whatsoever. - * *
With my boat I carried away everything that I
had left there belonging to her, though not neces-
sary for the bare going thither; viz. a mast and
sail, which I had made for her, and a thing like an
anchor, but indeed, which could not be called
either anchor or grappling; however, it was the
best I could make of its kind. All these I re-
moved, that there might not be the least shadow
of any discovery, or any appearance of any boat, or
of any habitation upon the island.
Besides this, I kept myself, as I said, more reti-
red than ever, and seldom went from my cell, other
than upon my constant employment, viz. to milk
my she-goats, and manage my little flock in the
wood, which, as it was quite on the other part of
the island, was quite out of danger; for certain it
is, that these savage people, who sometimes haunt-
ed this island, never came with any thoughts of
finding any thing here, and consequently never
wandered off from the coast; and I doubt not but
they might have been several times on shore, after
my apprehensions of them had made me cautious,
as well as before; and indeed I looked back with
some horror upon the thoughts of what my condition
would have been, if I had chopped upon them, and
been discovered before that, when naked and un-
armed, except with one gun, and that loaded often
only with small shot. I walked every where, peep-
ing and peering about the island, to see what I
could get: what a surprise should I have been in,
if, when I discovered the print of a man's foot, I
had instead of that seen fifteen or twenty savages,
and found them pursuing me, and, by the swiftness
of their running, no possibility of my escaping
them
The thoughts of this sometimes sunk my very
soul within me, and distressed my mind so much,
that I could not soon recover it; to think what I
should have done, and how I not only should not
have been able to resist them, but even should not
have had presence of mind enough to do what I
might have done; much less what now, after so
much consideration and preparation, I might be
able to do. Indeed, after serious thinking of these
things, I would be very melancholy, and sometimes
it would last a great while; but I resolved it at last
all into thankfulness to that Providence which had
deiivered me from so many unseen dangers, and
had kept me from those mischiefs, which I could
no way have been the agent in delivering myself
from; because I had not the least notion of any
such thing depending, or the least supposition of its
being possible.
This renewed a contemplation, which often had
come to my thoughts in former time, when first I
began to see the merciful dispositions of Heaven,
in the dangers we run through in this life; how
wonderfully we are delivered when we know no-
thing of it; how, when we are in a quandary, (as
we call it,) a doubt or hesitation, whether to go
this way, or that way, a secret hint shall direct us
this way, when we intended to go another way; nay,
when sense, our own inclination, and perhaps busi-
ness, has called to go the other way, yet a strange
impression upon the mind, from we know not what
springs, and by we know not what power, shall
over-rule us to go this way; and it shall afterwards
appear, that had we gone that way which we would
have gone, and even to our imagination ought to
have gone, we should have been ruined and lost.
Upon these, and many like reflections, I afterwards
made it a certain rule with me, that whenever I
found those secret hints, or pressings of my mind,
to doing or not doing any thing that presented, or
to going this way or that way, I never failed to
obey the secret dictate; though I knew no other
reason for it, than that such a pressure, or such an
hint, hung upon my mind: I could give many ex-
amples of the success of this conduct in the course
of my life; but more especially in the latter part of
my inhabiting this unhappy island; besides many
occasions which it is very likely I might have taken
notice of, if I had seen with the same eyes then
that I saw with now: But it is never too late to be
wise; and I cannot but advise all considering men,
whose lives are attended with such extraordinary
incidents as mine, or even though not so extraordi-
mary, not to slight such secret intimations of Provi-
dence, let them come from what invisible intelli-
gence they will; that I shall not discuss, and per-
haps cannot account for; but certainly they are a
proof of the converse of spirits, and the secret com-
munication between those embodied, and those un-
embodied; and such a proof as can never be with-
stood: of which I shall have occasion to give some
very remarkable instances, in the remainder of my
solitary residence in this dismal place.
: I believe the reader of this will not think it
strange, if I confess that these anxieties, these con-
stant dangers I lived in, and the concern that was
now upon me, put an end to all invention, and to
all the contrivances that I had laid for my future
accommodations and conveniences. I had the care
of my safety more now upon my hands than that
of my food. I cared not to drive a nail, or chop
a stick of wood now, for fear the noise I should
make should be heard; much less would I fire a
gun, for the same reason; and, above all, I was
very uneasy at making any fire, lest the smoke,
which is visible at a great distance in the day,
should betray me; and for this reason I removed
that part of my business which required fire, such
as burning of pots and pipes, &c. into my new apart-
ment in the wood; where, after I had been some
time, I found, to my unspeakable consolation, a
mere natural cave in the earth, which went in a
vast way, and where, I dare say, no savage, had he
been at the mouth of it, would be so hardy as to
venture in, nor indeed would any man else, but one
who, like me, wanted nothing so much as a safe
retreat.
The mouth of this hollow was at the bottom of a
great rock, where, by mere accident, (I would say,
if I did not see an abundant reason to ascribe all
such things now to Providence,) I was cutting down
some thick branches of trees to make charcoal;
and before I go on, I must observe the reason of
my making this charcoal, which was thus:
I was afraid of making a smoke about my habi-
tation, as I said before; and yet I could not live
there without baking my bread, cooking my meat,
&c.; so I contrived to burn some wood here, as I
had seen done in England under turf, till it became
chark, or dry coal; and then putting the fire out,
I preserved the coal to carry home, and perform
the other services, which fire was wanting for at
home, without danger or smoke.
But this by the bye: while I was cutting down
some wood here, I perceived that behind a very
thick branch of low brushwood, or underwood,
there was a kind of hollow place : I was curious to
look into it, and getting with difficulty into the
mouth of it, I found it was pretty large, that is to
say, sufficient for me to stand upright in it, and
perhaps another with me; but I must confess to
you, I made more haste out than I did in; when
looking further into the place, which was perfectly
dark, I saw two broad shining eyes of some crea-
ture, whether devil or man I knew not, which
twinkled like two stars, the dim light from the
cave's mouth shining directly in and making the
reflection.
However, after some pause, I recovered myself,
and began to call myself a thousand fools, and tell
myself, that he that was afraid to see the devil, was
not fit to live twenty years in an island all alone,
and that I durst to believe there was nothing in
this cave that was more frightful than myself: upon
this, plucking up my courage, I took up a large
firebrand, and in I rushed again, with the stick
flaming in my hand: I had not gone three steps
in, but I was almost as much frightened as I was
before; for I heard a very loud sigh, like that of a
man in some pain; and it was followed by a broken
noise, as if of words half-expressed, and then a
deep sigh again: I stepped back, and was indeed
struck with such a surprise, that it put me into a
cold sweat; and if I had had an hat on my head, I
will not answer for it that my hair might not have
lifted it off. But still plucking up my spirits as
well as I could, and encouraging myself a little,
with considering that the power and presence of
God was every where, and was able to protect me;
upon this I stepped forward again, and by the light
of the firebrand, holding it up a little over my
head, I saw lying on the ground a most monstrous
frightful old he-goat, just making his will, as we
say gasping for life, and dying indeed of a mere
old age.
I stirred him a little to see if I could get him
out, and he essayed to get up, but was not able to
raise himself; and I thought with myself, he might
even lie there; for if he had frightened me so, he
would certainly fright any of the savages, if any of
them should be so hardy as to come in there, while
he had any life in him. -
I was now recovered from my surprise, and
began to look round me, when I found the cave
was but very small; that is to say, it might be
about twelve feet over, but in no manner of shape,
either round or square, no hands having ever been
employed in making it but those of mere nature: I
observed also, that there was a place at the farther
side of it that went in farther, but so low, that it
required me to creep upon my hands and knees to
get into it, and whether it went, I knew not; so
having no candle, I gave it over for some time, but
resolved to come again the next day, provided with
candles and a tinder-box, which I had made of the
lock of one of the muskets, with some wildfire in
the pan.
Accordingly, the next day, I came provided with
six large candles of my own making, for I made
very good candles now of goats tallow; and going
into this low place, I was obliged to creep upon all
fours, as I have said, almost ten yards; which, by
the way, I thought was a venture bold enough,
considering that I knew not how far it might go,
or what was beyond it. When I was got through
the streight, I found the roof rose higher up I be-
lieve near twenty feet; but never was such a glori-
ous sight seen in the island, I dare say, as it was,
to look round the sides and roof of this vault or
cave. The walls reflected an hundred thousand
lights to me from my two candles; what it was in
the rock, whether diamonds, or any other precious
stones, or gold, which I rather supposed it to be, I
knew not.
The place I was in was a most delightful cavity,
or grotto, of its kind, as could be expected, though
perfectly dark; the floor was dry and level, and
had a sort of small loose gravel upon it; so that
there was no nauseous creature to be seen; neither
was there any damp or wet on the sides of the roof:
the only difficulty in it was the entrance, which,
however, as it was a place of security, and such a
retreat as I wanted, I thought that was a conveni-
ence; so that I was really rejoiced at the discovery,
and resolved, without any delay, to bring some of
those things which I was most anxious about to this
place; particularly, I resolved to bring hither my
magazine of powder, and all my spare arms, viz.
two fowling-pieces (for I had three in all,) and three
muskets (for of them I had eight in all); so I kept
at my castle only five, which stood ready mounted,
like pieces of cannon, on my utmost fence, and were
ready also to take out upon any expedition.
Upon this occasion of removing my ammunition,
I was obliged to open the barrel of powder which
I took up out of the sea, and which had been wet;
and I found, that, the water had penetrated about
three or four inches into the powder on every side,
which, caking and growing hard, had preserved the
inside like a kernel in a shell; so that I had near
sixty pounds of very good powder in the centre of
the cask; and this was an agreeable discovery to
me at that time; so I carried all away thither, never
keeping above two or three pounds of powder with
me in my castle, for fear of a surprise of any kind;
I also carried thither all the lead I had left for bullets.
280 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES
ants, which were said to live in caves and holes in
the rocks, where none could come at them; for I
persuaded myself while I was here, if five hundred
savages were to hunt me, they could never find me
out; or if they did, they would not venture to at-
tack me here,
The old goat, which I found expiring, died in
the mouth of the cave the next day after I made
this discovery; and I found it much easier to dig
a great hole there, and throw him in, and cover
him with earth, than to drag him out : so I inter-
red him there, to prevent offence to my nose.
END OF THE FIRST VOLUME.
==
ED1NBURGH :
Printed by James Ballantyne & Co.
---- ---- -------------
----- «
- - - -*** --- «
-…- .-…--~~~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~- - -
---- ---- -------------
|-
---------
- - - - ----

