A NEW
ROBINSON CRUSOE
A New Version of His Life
and Adventures
With an Explanatory Note
by
GILSON GARDNER
n
NEW YORK
HARCOURT, BRACE AND HOWE
1920
COPYRIGHT, I92O, BY
HARCOURT, BRACE AND HOWE, Inc.
"?:£'// 7
A NEW ROBINSON CRUSOE
EXPLANATORY NOTE
The real Robinson Crusoe, as everybody knows,
was a pious buccaneer named Alexander Selkirk,
who, while cruising the South Seas in the armed
frigate Cinque Ports, had difficulties with his supe-
rior officer, Captain Thomas Stradling, and was by
him marooned on the Island of Juan Fernandez, a
small body of land in the Pacific Ocean in latitude
33 40' and longitude 78 52' west, about 110 leagues
from the coast of Chili and 440 to the north of Cape
Horn. On this island Selkirk lived, deprived of all
human society, for a period of four years and four
months, at the end of which time he was rescued
by another buccaneer, Captain Woodes Rogers, in
His Majesty's privateer, the Duke of Bristol, Eng.,
with whom Selkirk joined as mate and resumed his
trade of buccaneer.
The solitary life on his island, by all accounts,
had done Selkirk good; for aside from his own
protestations of religion, it is related by Captain
2 A New Robinson Crusoe
Rogers that the treatment accorded by Selkirk and
his men to certain Spanish ladies who were deprived
of their personal jewelry as an incident in the raid
on Guyaquil was of a character so unusual at the
hands of pirates as to elicit wonder as well as
pleasure among the gentle victims, so much so that
on the return of Selkirk's party from looting oper-
ations further up the stream, they were received
by the ladies without fear, who "even prepared food
for them and a cask of very acceptable wine."
"This excellent trait," says Howell in his life of
Selkirk, "can only be attributed to the command
religion had obtained over all his actions."
The observances of religion were by no means un-
common among the buccaneers, as appears from the
account of Rogers' capture of his most important
prize, the Manila ship Nostra Senora de la Incar-
nation Disengani, rechristened by him the Bach-
elor.
"Before the action began," says Howell, "as there
were no spirits on board, a large kettle of chocolate
was made and given to the crew in its place, and
then they went to prayers. Before they had con-
cluded the enemy commenced their fire."
This was a good fight, "the ships lying yard arm
and yard arm, pouring in their broadsides as fast as

they could fire." And when she was taken it was
found "she had twenty guns, twenty pateraroes, all
of brass, and ninety-three men, whereof nine were
killed, ten wounded and a good many blown up and
burned with powder."
The pious pirates circumnavigated the globe and
finally brought their loot, including the Bachelor
frigate, valued at 170,000 pounds, safely back to
England, where Alexander Selkirk received his
share. He was thus able to live the life of a gen-
tleman and after a short visit to his old home in
Largo, Fife County, Scotland, he married and went
to London, where he lived some ten years.
Selkirk's long residence on the uninhabited island
made him, on his arrival in London, an object of in-
terest to the alert news gatherers of that day. Dick
Steele interviewed him and wrote a seven-column
article, published in-the Englishman of December 3,
1713. He spells the name Selcraig, which was as
it appears in the church records at Largo. Captain
Edward Cook also wrote an account of Selkirk's
unusual experience in his two-volume, "Voyage to
the South Sea and Around the World," published
in 1712, as did Captain Woodes Rogers, whose ship
was Selkirk's means of rescue. It was not until
1719, four years after Selkirk's return to England,
that Daniel Defoe published his celebrated novel,
"The Life and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe."
It is commonly supposed that Defoe never saw
Selkirk, but took the hint for this exploit in im-
aginative writing from current accounts in Cook's
and Rogers' voyages and Sir Richard Steele's ar-
ticle in the Englishman.
That the contrary is the fact would appear from
a manuscript which has recently turned up among
the personal effects of the great nephew of Selkirk,
the impecunious teacher in the village school at Ca-
nonmills, Scotland, mentioned by Howell, who in-
herited Selkirk's personal belongings, including his
staff and his battered flip-can, which accompanied
Selkirk on his voyage and during the lonesome
years on the uninhabited island. This manuscript
purports to be the joint work of Selkirk and Defoe.
It is in some respects a very different product from
the Crusoe novel. In fact, the difference is so
marked that those who first examined it were dis-
posed to set it down as a posthumous product, if not
an arrant fraud. The proprietor of the book-stall
in Edinburgh, where it was found, says there is no
question that it was among papers turned out of an
old chest which had reposed many years in the loft
of the cottage in Canonmills, where John Selkirk,
the great grand nephew, lived and died. That is as
far as authentication goes.
Why the joint manuscript should have been dis-
carded is easy to conjecture. There is in the orig-
inal (if it be so) a distinct absence of the religious
homily which, mingled with the adventure, did much
to make the published Crusoe story so acceptable
to the public. In this early collaboration the stress
is laid on the economic problem of an individual in
Selkirk's situation. To him his island world be-
came an economic microcosm wherein he found, re-
duced to simplest terms, all the elements of the prob-
lems which make up the economics of the most elab-
orate civilization. Every new experience on his
island contributed something to his analysis and
conclusions, and it is these analyses and conclusions,
instead of the religious homiletics, which make up
the background of this earlier work.
In 1719 Defoe needed money. His activities as
a political pamphleteer had landed him in Newgate.
The Tory members of the House of Parliament had
caused his works to be burned at the hands of the
common hangman, and he, poor man, had been
made to stand in the pillory. The publication of
Selkirk's economic heresies—for they no doubt
would have been so regarded in that more ignor-
ant age—certainly would have added to troubles
which were already quite sufficient. So Defoe ap-
parently decided to discard what he may have looked
upon as Selkirk's rather tiresome economic views,
and by adding adventure and flavor of that brand
of piety most likely to be approved, to secure for
his literary product a more ready market.
The sale of "Crusoe" justifies Defoe's business
judgment, for the proceeds met all immediate needs
and furnished a comfortable settlement for the re-
mainder of his life.
Gilson Gardner.
LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF
ROBINSON CRUSOE
By Daniel Defoe and Alexander Selkirk
CHAPTER I EXTRACTS FROM CRUSOE'S JOURNAL
Note: In some respects this MSS. is identical with
the novel as first published. The editor has thought
best, therefore, to avoid tedious duplication, giving the
story only in briefest outline and setting out at large
those comments and conclusions in which this work
differs from the one so well known to all.
September so, 16$q.
I, poor, miserable Robinson Crusoe, being ship-
wrecked during a terrible storm in the offing,
came on shore on this dismal, unfortunate island,
which I called the Island of Despair; all the rest of
the ship's company being drowned, and myself al-
most dead.
All the rest of that day I spent in afflicting my-
self at the dismal circumstances I was brought to,
namely, I had neither food, house, clothes, weapon
nor place to fly to, and in despair of any relief, saw
nothing but death before me, either that I should
be devoured by wild beasts, murdered by savages
or starved to death for want of food. At the ap-
proach of night I slept in a tree for fear of wild
creatures, but slept soundly, although it rained all
night.
October i.—In the morning I saw to my great
surprise the ship had floated with the high tide and
was driven on shore again much nearer the island.
I hoped if the wind abated I might get on board and
get some food and necessaries out of her for my
relief. At length the weather permitting I went
upon the sand as far as I could and swam on board.
As it turned out the quarter was free and all that
was in that part was dry; for you may be sure my
first work was to search and see what was spoiled
and what was free; and first I found that all the
ship's provisions were dry and untouched by the
water: and being very well disposed to eat I went
to the bread room and filled my pockets with bis-
cuits, and ate them as I went about other things.
From 1st of October to the 24th.—All these days
spent in making several voyages with the raft I had
constructed to get all I could out of the ship, which
I brought on shore every tide of flood. Much rain
also these days, though with some intervals of fair
weather, for it seems this is the rainy season.
In my labors at plundering the ship I first got
three seamen's chests which I opened and emptied
and lowered on my raft. The first I filled with pro-
visions, namely bread, rice, three Dutch cheeses, five
pieces of dried goat's flesh, which we lived much
upon, and a little remainder of European corn
which had been laid by for some fowls which we
brought to sea with us; but the fowls were killed.
There had been some barley and wheat together but
to my great disappointment I found that the rats
had eaten or spoiled it all.
Next I started rummaging for clothes, of which
I found enough, but took no more than I wanted
for present use, for I had other things which my
eye was more upon, as first, tools to work with on
shore, and it was after long searching that I found
out the carpenter's chest which, indeed, was a very
useful prize to me and much more valuable than a
shipload of gold would have been at that time. I
got it down to my raft, even whole as it was, with-
out losing time to look into it, for I knew in general
what it contained.
My next care was for ammunition and arms.
There were two very good fowling pieces in the
great cabin and two pistols; these I secured first,
with some powder horns and a small bag of shot
and two old rusty swords. I knew there were bar-
rels of powder in the ship but knew not where our
gunmen had stored them; but with much search I
found them, two of them dry and good, the third
had taken water; those two I got to the raft with
the arms.
With many pains and to my utmost delight this
cargo was at last got safely to shore and unloaded
on the beach, where with sails and stakes I made
all safe and dry.
On subsequent voyages to the ship with my raft
I succeeded in bringing away many things which
later proved of great use. Among these were a
grindstone, three bags full of nails and spikes, a
great screw jack, a dozen or two of hatchets. From
the gunner's stores I got two iron crows, two bar-
rels of musket balls, a large bag full of small shot
and a great roll of sheet lead. Besides these things
I took all the men's clothes I could find, a spare
fore topsail, hammock and some bedding.
By now I had discovered that the land on which
I was cast away was indeed an island, for on the
second day, taking the fowling piece and pistols, I
traveled for discovery to the top of a hill I had
observed not above a mile from where I was.
There I saw my fate, to my great affliction, namely,
that I was in an island environed every way with
the sea, no land to be seen except some rocks which
lay a great way off, and two small islands less than
this which lay about three leagues to the west.
I found also that the island was barren and as I
saw reason to believe uninhabited, except by wild
beasts, of which however I saw none. I saw an
abundance of fowls but knowing not their kinds
still concluded, and rightly, that many of them were
good for food. Also on going ashore, on landing
my first raft-load, I saw sitting on a seaman's chest
a creature which was like a cat, which sat and
looked me full in the face. And when I threw her a
biscuit she ate it and made as if she would have
had more; but not caring to spare from my store
for such a purpose, she presently trotted off.
What to do with myself at night I knew not, nor
indeed where to rest, for I was afraid to lie down
on the ground, not knowing but some wild beast
might devour me, though, as I afterward found,
there was no need for such fears.
However, as well as I could I spread one of the
sails for a tent and barricaded myself round with
the chests and boards that I had brought on shore
and made a kind of hut for those nights' lodging.
As for water I had already discovered that there
were streams of fresh water in abundance and I
had no difficulty in bringing down a fowl, which
was all that could be desired.
Still laboring at plundering the ship, for I knew
I must avail of the calm and auspicious weather,
after I had gathered up all I could move of cables,
hawsers, with the sprit sail-yard, the mizen yard
and all the iron work I could move, I came upon a
locker with drawers in it in which I found two
razors, a pair of scissors, with some ten or a dozen
of good knives and forks; in another I found about
thirty-six pounds value in money, some European
coin, some Brazil, some pieces of eight, some gold
and some silver.
I smiled to myself at the sight of the money*
"Oh, drug!" said I aloud, "What art thou good
for? Thou art not worth to me—no, not the tak-
ing off the ground. One of those knives is worth
all this heap; I have no manner of use for thee;
ever remain where thou art and go to the bottom
as a creature whose life is not worth saving!" However, upon second thought I took it away and
wrapping all this in a piece of canvas, I began to
think of making another raft.
That night I lay in the little tent I had erected
on the shore, very secure with all my wealth about
me. It blew very hard all night and in the morning
when I looked out, behold, no more ship was to be
seenl
CHAPTER II
My thoughts now were wholly employed about
securing myself against either savages, if they
should appear, or wild beasts, if any were in the
island; and I had many thoughts of the method how
to do this and what kind of a dwelling to make—•
whether I should make a cave in the earth, or a tent
upon the earth, and, in short, I resolved upon both,
the manner and description of which it may not be
improper to give an account of.
I consulted several things in my situation which
I found would be proper for me:—First, health
and fresh water; secondly, shelter from the heat
of the sun; thirdly, security from ravenous crea-
tures, whether man or beast; fourthly, a view to the
sea, that if God sent any ship in sight I might not
lose any advantage for my deliverance, of which
I was not willing to banish all my expectations yet.
In search for a proper place for this, I found a
little plain on the side of a rising hill, whose front
toward this plain was steep as a house-side, so that
nothing could come down upon me from the top;
14
on the side of this rock there was a hollow place
worn a little way in, like the entrance or door of a
cave, but there was not really any cave or way into
the rock at all.
On the flat of the green just before this hollow
place, I resolved to pitch my tent; this plain was
not above a hundred yards broad, and about twice
as long and lay like a green before my door and
at the end of it descended irregularly every way
down into the low grounds by the sea. It was on
the northwest side of the hill, so that I was sheltered
from the heat every day until it came to a west and
by south sun, or thereabouts, which in those coun-
tries is near setting.
Before I set up my tent I drew half a circle be-
fore the hollow place, which took in about ten yards
in its diameter from its beginning and ending. In
this half circle I pitched two rows of strong stakes,
driving them into the ground till they stood very
firm, like piles, the biggest end being out of the
ground about five feet and a half, and sharpened
on the top. The two rows did not stand above six
inches from one another. These I laced with cables
taken from the ship and braced inside until it was
so strong that neither man nor beast could get into
or over it. This cost me a great deal of time and
labor, especially to cut the poles in the woods,
bring them to the place and drive them into the
earth.
And it was while engaged in this work that I
began to ponder and to ask myself certain ques-
tions, such as Why does man work? Is work a
blessing or a curse? And could there be a world
in which man might not work? And the only an-
swers which I found at hand were these: That
man works to secure his food, or to shelter him-
self against the elements or against ravenous beasts
or other men, as even I now was doing; that the
vigor of exercise and the increased circulation of
the blood bring about an uplifted physical sense
which in a manner resembled the pleasures of intox-
ication, though it differed from that produced by
wine in that there are no ill effects following, but
on the contrary a restful relaxation which is quite
unknown to those who lead a sedentary life. But
as to why all men are not engaged throughout the
world in constructing shelters from the elements, as
I was doing here, I did not at once perceive.
The entrance to my shelter yard I made to be not
by a door but by a short ladder to go over the
top, which ladder when I was in I lifted over after
me. And so I was completely fenced in and forti-
fied as I thought from all the world and conse-
quently slept secure at night; though it afterward
appeared there was no need for all this caution from
the enemies that I apprehended danger from.
Into this stockade I brought, with infinite labor,
all my riches, my provisions, ammunitions, stores
and plunder from the ship and I spread a sail so as
to make a tent, which with a tarpaulin I made
double and hung a hammock for a bed, and so was
in all ways very comfortable.
When I had done this I began to work my way
into the rock, and bringing all the earth and stones
I dug down, piled them about my fence in the na-
ture of a terrace. And the rock proved to be of
a soft texture most easily dug into, so that with the
labor of many days I dug out an excellent cave,
which served me like a cellar to my house. And
here I stowed my most precious things, but not my powder, for the thought came to me during a fright-
ful thunderclap: What if my powder should be,
ignited! For it was the means for my defense and
my food. So thereupon I divided it into almost a
hundred small parcels, which I placed in holes in
rocks and places which I carefully marked.
And while thus engaged I was busied with the
thought of the helplessness of man without some in-
strument of invention and precision in his hand.
Without a gun what would I do? Or having fire-
arms and no powder, how equally helpless! Fowl
there might be all about me, but how could I bring
them to hand? Stones I could not hurl with suffi-
cient accuracy to bring them down. For the little
store of meat, the dried goat's flesh, I was indebted
to other men who had bred or killed the goats. And
I set about conjecturing what would happen to me
when my ship stores of food were exhausted. Of
which I had much of interest later to relate.
In the interval of time when building my forti-
fication and digging the cave I went out once every
day with my gun, as well to divert myself as to see
if I could kill anything for food and to acquaint
myself with what the island produced. The first
time I went out I presently discovered that there
were goats in the island, which was a great satis-
faction to me, and though I found them shy, sub-
tle and swift of foot, I was able in time to get near
enough to shoot them. Though I did not know it at
the time, I found in later years that the presence
of these goats was a happening of pure chance, they
being the descendants of a herd brought to the is-
land about an hundred years before by a Spanish
pilot who was the discoverer of the island and who
tried to colonize it, but being unable to secure title
or the protection of his government, was compelled
to leave the place with those he had brought with
him.
The first time I came within shooting distance
of the goats I brought down a she goat which had
a little kid by her which she gave suck to, which
grieved me heartily; but when the old one fell the
kid stood stock still by her till I came and took her
up, and not only so but when I carried the old one
with me on my shoulders, the kid followed me quite
to my enclosure; so I took it into my enclosure and
hoped to bring it up tame, but I had no milk and
it could not eat, so I was forced to kill it. These
furnished me with food for some time and the
happening furnished me with an idea which I later
carried out, namely, to lame a young she goat and,
having captured her, to tame and breed her. But it
was only after I had thought to dig a pit-fall and
trap the goats in a place I knew they were soon to
go that my plan was carried to success.
Of which I will have more to say at the proper
time. For the present there were other things which
more pressingly demanded thought and labor.
I have spoken of my habitation as the Island of
Despair, and so it seemed those melancholy days
when I looked about me and finding all my com-
panions drowned and myself likely to be destroyed
by beasts or savages or to die for want of food,
saw in the land a place for my imprisonment and
in the sea a barrier from all a man most cherishes
in this world. But every day as it passed had
served in part to allay my fears, and in part to dis-
close to me some aspects of my surroundings which
in my violence of grief I had overlooked. Being
on the southerly side of the equator the fall months
of October were here spring and soon after my ar-
rival I found nature taking on her most gracious
forms. And this matter of the season was favor-
able to me also because here in the months of July
and August the nights are cold so that one wants
fire and shelter and occasionally it happens that
there are slight touches of the frost and a flurry
now and then of snow. But in the spring and sum-
mer months my tent was ample shelter and I had
20
time to prepare and to lay up a few stores for the
more stormy days.
And as my mind became more composed and I
had eyes to see the beauties which were spread be-
fore me I apprehended that the place was filled
with graceful charms. So impressed was I with
them that I took the trouble to write down in the
diary which I had maintained while ink and paper
lasted, the following description:
"The woods which cover most of the steepest
hills are free from all bushes and underwood and
offer an easy passage through every part of them,
and the irregularities of the hills and precipices in
the northern part of the island necessarily trace by
their various combinations a great number of ro-
mantic valleys, most of which have a stream of the
clearest water running through them, that tumbles
into cascades from rock to rock as the bottom of the
valleys by the course of the neighboring hills is at
any time broken into a sudden sharp descent. Some
particular spots occur in these valleys, where the
shade and fragrance of the contiguous woods, the
loftiness of the overhanging rocks, and the trans-
parency and frequent falls of the neighboring
streams present scenes of such elegance and dig-
nity as are but rarely paralleled in any other part
of the globe. It is on this place, perhaps, that the
simple productions of unarrested nature may be said
to excel all the fictitious descriptions of the most an-
imated imagination."
The above was written some eighteen months af-
ter my landing on the island. By that time having
food in abundance, a climate healthy and pleasant,
producing also by reason of the labor I was con-
strained to perform a bodily vigor I had before not
known, I found under the serene sky and temper-
ate air that my life was like, as it were, a continual
feast. I began to take delight in everything about
me, being as happy now as I had before been miser-
able. I ornamented my abode with fragrant
branches cut from the spacious wood near which
it was situated and in this delicious bower, resting
from labor or the chase, fanned with such soft
breezes as the poets tell of, I had repose which was
equal to the most exquisite sensual pleasures.
But before I arrived at a state of mind to enjoy
all these sendings of Providence I had many prob-
lems to solve. Notwithstanding all the things I
had gathered from the wreck there were a few
things whose lack I greatly felt. There was no
shovel to dig with or to remove the earth; I also
lacked a spade, a pick-axe and needles, pins and
thread. As for linen I had in the beginning some,
but soon learned to want that without much diffi-
culty. A fire I produced in the primitive fashion by
rubbing together two pieces of wood of sufficient
hardness with vigor for a long time, but in the be-
ginning I lacked a place for my fire, a spit and some-
thing to pass for an oven in which I might bake
a substitute for the bread I had from the ship
stores, but which would not last forever.
Meantime to keep track of the days and the
months I had set up a large post on the shore where
I had landed and making it with another piece in
the form of a cross cut in it every day a notch with
my knife and every seventh notch was as long again
as the rest so that I might not forget the Sabbath
from the working days, and I inscribed upon it the
30th of September, 1659, the day I landed on this
island. And I divided the months with a still longer
notch and each year from the other.
And now I began to apply myself to make such
necessary things as I found I most wanted, particu-
larly a chair and a table, for without these things
I was not able to enjoy the few comforts I had in
this world. I could not write or eat or do several
things with so much pleasure without a table.
So I went to work; and here I must needs ob-
serve that as reason is the substance and original
of the mathematics, so by stating and squaring
everything by reason and by making the most ra-
tional judgment of things, every man may be in
time master of every mechanical art. I had never
handled a tool in my life, and yet in time, by labor,
application and contrivance, I found at last that
I wanted nothing but I could have made it, after
a fashion, especially if I had had tools; however,
I made abundance of things without tools, or with
simple tools and some with no more tools than an
adze or a hatchet, which perhaps were never made
that way before, and that with infinite labor. For
example, if I wanted a board I had no other way
but to cut down a tree, set it on edge before me
and hew it flat on either side with my axe till I
had brought it to be as thin as a plank and then
dub it smooth with my adze. It is true by this
method I could make but one board out of a tree;
but this I had no remedy for but patience, any
more than I had for the prodigious deal of time and
labor which it took me to make a plank or board;
but my time and labor were of little worth, and so
they were as well employed one way as another.
However, I made me a table and a chair, as I
observed above, out of short pieces of plank I had
brought from the ship; but when I had wrought out
some boards I made large shelves of the breadth of
a foot and a half one over the other all along one
side of the cave, to lay all my tools, nails and iron
work, and, in a word, to separate everything at large
in their places, that I might come easily at them.
I knocked pieces into the wall of rock to hang my
guns and all things that would hang up. So that
had my cave been to be seen, it looked like a general
magazine of necessary things. And I had every-
thing so ready at my hand that it was a great pleas-
ure to me to see all my goods in such order and
especially to see all my stock of necessaries so great.
While exploring one day with my gun in the southern end of the island I came upon a variety of fruits such as I had seen none of in the part wherein I dwelt and particularly I found melons on the ground and grapes upon the trees; the vines had spread indeed over the trees and the clusters of grapes were just in their prime, very ripe and rich. This was a surprising discovery and I was glad of them, and later I found an excellent use for these grapes and that was to cure or dry them in the sun and keep them as dried grapes or raisins are kept, which I thought would be, as indeed they were, as wholesome and as agreeable to eat, when no grapes might be had. And I found here also an abundance of cocoa trees, oranges and lemons and citron trees, all wild and few bearing any fruit. However, the green limes were very wholesome and mixed with water made a drink which was most refreshing, and later I found trees with ripe lemons on them.
I resolved to lay up a store but on trying to
26
carry them the long distance to my cave or tent I
found when I arrived there that the grapes had
bruised and spoiled and of the limes I had but few.
And when I returned the next day those I had piled
up were spoiled and scattered by some animal, prob-
ably the goats, which roamed these parts. So I
gathered more of the grapes and this time hung
them on the branches of the trees where they would
cure in the sun and when I came again after a
number of days found them perfectly dried and in-
deed were excellent good raisins of the sun. So I
took them down from the trees and I was very
happy that I did so for the rains which followed
would have spoiled them and I had lost the best
part of my winter food; for I had above two hun-
dred bunches of them.
On the 26th of August of this year I found a
large tortoise and later I found there were many
on the opposite side of the island; and I found their
eggs as well as their flesh a great addition to my
diet. The eggs like my meat I broiled as I had no
dish in which to stew or to make a broth.
When confined to my tent by the long and copious
rains I found employment in attempting if it were
possible to make myself a basket, and it proved of
advantage to me now that when I was a boy I used
to take great delight in standing at a basket maker's
in the town where my father lived to see them make
their wickerware, and being as boys are very offi-
cious to help and a great observer of the manner
how they worked those things, I had by this means
so full knowledge of the method of it that I wanted
nothing but the materials, which on the island were
easily found, certain of the young branches proving
as tough as the sallows and willows and osiers of
England. And with these I contrived with time and
patience to make a great many baskets both to carry
earth, or to carry or lay up anything as I had occa-
sion, and though I did not finish them very hand-
somely yet I made them sufficiently serviceable for
my purpose and I had strong, deep baskets to place
my corn in instead of sacks when I should come to
have any quantity of it.
Now as to this matter of corn I had seen from
the start that there would in time be an end of the
biscuits taken from the wreck and what to do for
bread when they were gone gave me some concern.
I am a poor botanist and I had hunted among the
growing things of the island for some substitute
for bread such as the natives are said to use, but
with no success. And it was while deeply ponder-
ing what to do that the answer came to me as by the
merest accident. For I have spoken of the little bag
of spoiled rice and barley which the rats had
gnawed. This, it appears, was the remnants I had
shaken out on a spot near my landing place, not
realizing that amid the chaff there were a few grains
still surviving whole. But one day after the rains
had come I came upon new and different blades of
green shooting from the ground which I recognized
as from my corn and at once I set about to harbor
it by all means in my power. I made a hedge about
the place to protect it from the goats which I had
tamed and were now accustomed to browse about
my dwelling, and later on I had a greater danger to
overcome, for as the young grain ripened I found
the birds gathered about in great numbers ready to
save me any trouble in the harvesting thereof. So
angered was I at seeing them that I let fly with my
gun and brought down three, which I treated after
the manner felons are served in England, for I hung
them in chains as a warning to their fellows; and
to my intense relief the birds were so alarmed that
they flew off and abandoned all that side of the
island and would not return while my scarecrows
so remained. And the first season I got but a peck
or so of rice and the same of barley, which I kept
and sowed on a larger space which I hedged and
dug up with a wooden shovel which had to do for
an iron spade. And the next crop was a total of
perhaps five bushels, all of which I kept for seed
and the seasons favored for it is possible in this lat-
itude to get two crops the year by sowing in the
early part of the rainy months and allowing the
crop to ripen, as the dryness and the warmth in-
crease. So with the increase of my store of grain
I began to think of how I might prepare it when
I should have enough to spare for food. And I
was perplexed for I neither knew how to grind nor
to make meal of my corn, nor indeed how to clean
it and part it; nor, if made into meal how to make
bread of it, and if how to make it, I knew not how
to bake it. These things being added to my desire
of having a good quantity for store, I resolved
not to taste any of this crop but to preserve it all
for seed against the next season and to employ all
my study and hours of working to accomplish this
great work of providing myself with corn and
bread.
It might be truly said that I now worked for my
bread. It is a little wonderful, and what I believe
few people have thought much upon, namely the
Strange multitude of little things necessary in the
providing, procuring, curing, dressing, making and
furnishing this one article of bread.
I who was reduced to a mere state of nature
found this to be my daily discouragement, and was
made more and more sensible of it every hour, evert
after I got the first handful of seed corn which, as
I have said, came up unexpectedly and indeed to my
surprise.
First, I had no plow to turn the earth, no spade
or shovel to dig it. But this I conquered by making
a wooden spade; but this did my work but in a
wooden manner, and made the work much harder.
When the seed was sowed I had no harrow but
was forced to go over it myself and drag a heavy
bough of a tree over it, to scratch the earth as it may
be called, rather than rake or harrow it.
When it was growing or grown I have observed
already how many things I wanted, to fence it,
secure it, mow or reap it, cure or carry it home,
thresh, part it from the chaff and save it. Then
I wanted a mill to grind it, sieves to dress it, yeast
and salt to make it into bread and an oven to bake
it in. And all these things I did without, as shall
be observed; and yet the corn was an inestimable
advantage to me, too.
It was quite by accident that I learned to make a
vessel that would stand the fire—the need of which
I have spoken of. I had been fashioning crude ves-
sels and pipkins in clay, in the hope of coming at
something which when wrapped with basketry
would hold my grain, when I found in the ashes of
my fire a piece of the broken clay baked hard and
red. This set me to experiment and after various
trials in increasing and slackening the heat of a
great fire which I built up around my mud-pie ves-
sels, I found that they did not crack or run but came
out after many hours as hard burnt as could be de-
sired and one of them perfectly glazed with the run-
ning of the sand, my joy was like that of some great
artist who sees before him the creation of his gen-
ius. Hardly did I have patience to stay till they
were cold before I set one upon the fire again with
some water in it to boil me some meat which it did
admirably well, and with a piece of kid I made
some very good broth, even though I lacked the oat-
meal.
As for a mill to grind my corn I did not aspire to
that but sought out a great block of hard wood, as
big as I had strength to move, and this I rounded
and formed outside with my axe and hatchet and
then with the help of fire and infinite labor made a
hollow place in it, after which I made a great heavy
pestle or beater of iron-wood. And this was my
mill. And for a sieve I made several small ones
out of some calico neck-cloths which were among
the seamen's clothes.
And for an oven I made earthen vessels, burnt
in the fire two feet wide and nine inches deep and
when I wanted to bake I made a great fire upon
the hearth which I had paved with some square
tiles of my own making and burning also, and when
the firewood was burnt pretty much to embers or
live coals I drew them forward upon this hearth
so as to cover it all over and when the hearth was
very hot, sweeping away the embers I set down my
loaf and whelming down the earthen pot upon them
drew the embers all around the outside to keep in
and add to the heat; and thus, as well as in the best
oven in the world, I baked my barley loaves, and
became in a little time a good pastry cook into the
bargain. As for yeast or salt I did not concern
myself with them and learned to do well without.
For companionship I had these days the dog which
had leaped from the ship the first day I visited the
wreck, the several goats which I had caught and
tamed and which browsed about my tent-cave hab-
itation, and a parrot which also I had knocked down
and tamed and which in time learned to speak,
namely, to call me by name and to say, "Crusoe,
poor old Robinson Crusoe!" Nor should I omit
the cats, for the ship's cat came to me one day a
few months after I had landed and brought with
her a train of kittens which in time again began
to multiply to such numbers that they were a nui-
sance and some had to be killed and others driven
off. My dog, who lived to be very old, was always
at my side. He never lacked in sympathy or ap-
parent understanding of what I said to him and
did all but answer me with words. I talked often to
the dog, for in such solitude there is a comfort even
in the sound of one's own voice.
My days I arranged after a systematic manner.
In the morning generally I went abroad with my
34
gun to shoot a fowl, a duck or a pigeon; or I ran-
sacked the rocks where their nests were made to se-
cure the young or their eggs. Or I might shoot
a young goat or happen on a tortoise, or get fresh
grapes, melons or cress, of which there was abun-
dance in the stream. During the heated spell I
rested in the shade of my tent during the middle
of the day and went abroad again or to my work in
the cooler part. In one of the seamen's chests I
had found some books, three Bibles and some works
on navigation. These I studied and the Bible I be-
gan to read with a renewed interest. The bitterness
and despair which had filled my soul when first I
found myself alone and cast away forever cut off
from the companionship of other human beings—
this bitterness I say had quite abated and I gave
humble thanks that God had been pleased to dis-
cover to me even that it was possible I might be
more happy in this solitary condition than I should
have been in a liberal society, and in all the pleas-
ures of the world.
So in time, in dividing the day for my employ-
ments, I began with the reading of the Scriptures,
and with this I permitted nothing to interfere.
Then coming in from the three hours spent in hunt-
ing, there were the labors attendant upon the order-
ing, curing, preserving and cooking what I had
killed or caught for my supply. These took up
a considerable part of the day, so there was none
too much time remaining for the laborious tasks
which had to be performed.
About the fourth year of my sojourn on this
island my clothes began to decay mightily, so that
I began to consider about putting the few rags I
had which I called clothes into some order. For I
could not bear the thought of being naked, though
I was all alone. And there was another and excel-
lent reason for wishing to be covered, for I found
by experience that I could not bear the heat so well
naked as with some clothes on—nay, the very heat
frequently blistered my skin, whereas with a shirt
on, or some covering, even though thick, the air
itself made some motion and whistling under the
shirt, was twofold cooler than without it. No more
could I ever bring myself to go out in the heat of
the sun without a cap or hat, the heat of the sun
beating with such violence as it does in that place
would give me the headache presently by darting so
directly on my head.
So I fell to tailoring or rather indeed a-botching,
for I made most piteous work of it. Lacking need-
les and thread, I raveled my stockings, which I had
worn, and for needle used a nail which I had sharp-
ened. But soon I gave up trying to mend the rags
and turned attention to the skins of various animals
I had killed. For these I had preserved stretched
out with sticks in the sun, and some were soft and
useful. First I made a great cap for my head with
the hair on the outside to shut off the rain and this
I performed so well that I made a suit of clothes
wholly of these skins—that is to say a waistcoat
and breeches open at the knees, and both loose, for
they were wanted rather to keep me cool than to
keep me warm. I must not omit to acknowledge
that they were wretchedly made; for if I was a bad
carpenter I was a worse tailor; however, they were
such as I made a very good shift with, and when I
was abroad if it happened to rain, the hair of the
waistcoat and cap being outmost, I was kept very
dry.
And after this I spent a great deal of my time
and pains to make an umbrella. I was indeed in
great want of one what with rain and sun. There
were many spoiled before I had my way. It was
covered with skins, hair upwards, so that it cast off
the rain like a tenthouse and kept off the sun so ef-
fectively that I could walk out in the hottest of the
weather with greater advantage than I could before
in the coolest. And when I had no need of it I
could close it and carry it under my arm.
Thus I lived mighty comfortably, my mind being
entirely composed by resigning to the will of God
and throwing myself wholly upon the disposal of
His providence. And when I began to regret the
want of conversation, I found a substitute in ask-
ing myself all manner of difficult and confusing
questions and thereupon setting about answering
them—formulating the answer clearly and in con-
formity with truth and reason. And many prob-
lems which before I had not had time to work out to
any conclusion I was able thus to solve quite to
my own satisfaction, of which I shall at the proper
time have more to say.
And my chief task in the fifth year of my resi-
dence in these parts, outside the yearly planting and
harvesting and the daily hunting, curing, preparing
and cooking, was the building of a canoe, which I
did after the manner of the natives who hew them
out of great logs of some light wood, easily worked
and hollowed out by tools and fire. This with much
labor was finally completed and by building a canal
up to the boat was set afloat. So I was ready to
explore the seas in the direction of those lands or
islands which on clear days I had descried to the
South, but knew not what they were or if inhabited
by man or beasts or savages. But I was curious
to know.
I had now brought my state of life to be much
easier in itself than it was at first, and much easier
to my mind as well as to my body. I frequently
sat down to my meat with thankfulness and admired
the hand of God's providence, which had thus spread
my table in the wilderness.
One reflection was of great use to me, namely,
to compare my present condition with what I at
first expected it to be—nay, with what it certainly
would have been—if the good providence of God
had not wonderfully ordered the ship to be cast up
near to the shore where I not only could come at
her, but could bring what I got out of her to the
shore for my relief and comfort; without which I
had wanted tools to work, weapons for defense or
gunpowder and shot for getting food.
I spent whole hours, I may say whole days, in representing to myself in the most lively colors how I must have acted, if I had gotten nothing out of the ship; how I could not have so much as got my food,
except fish and turtles, and that as it was long be40
fore I found any of them I must have perished
first—that I should have lived if I had not perished,
like a savage—that if I had killed a goat or a fowl
by any contrivance, I had no way to flay or open
them, or part the flesh from the skin and the bowels
or cut it up; but must gnaw it with my teeth and
pull it with my claws, like a beast.
And I passed from these reflections to consider-
ing what man owes to his fellow-man and how de-
pendent, one upon the other, is every human being
in the world. For the tools which I took from the ship, I now bethought me, did not come into being
of themselves, but were themselves worked out by
the labor of workmen like myself, only knowing
more of the arts and crafts. The axe which I used
to chop down a tree—to make it men must have dug
iron from the earth, others must have smelted the
metal from the dross, still others must have jarred it
through the tempering process to give it a hardened
edge, to say nothing of the fashioning it into shape
and fitting it to a suitable helve. And now every-
thing among my possessions from the ship began
to take on a new interest and a dignity which before
were unknown. An ordinary bit of sailcloth I found
to be a quite wonderful contrivance of threaded
hemp or cotton regularly interlaced in a way which
I could never hope to imitate. My powder—of
what was it composed? Whence came the ingre-
dients? Were they dug, distilled or concocted by
some abstruse chemist's formula? How many per-
sons had labored with their hands and brains to pro-
duce the little store which I had harbored up for my
future needs? And the gun I always carried—
again the metal must be dug from the rock below
the surface of the earth, it must be smelted and
worked with tools which in turn were the creations
of still others' work. The levers, bolts and screws
which worked the lock and caused the flint to strike
the steel—all the contriving and creating were to me
reminders of my debt to other men. I had become
an artisan, and I hailed my fellow artisans and su-
periors in the world of artisanry and made them my
obeisance. Before I had thought of a knife or a
gun as articles one bought, getting money for the
purpose as one might; now I thought of them in
terms of labor, skill and creative thought—all per-
formed for me, and the which, by all rights, I
should return in kind.
Thus I came upon the answer to that question
which, at first, had puzzled me: Why does man
work? For I perceived that man works to acquire
the things he must have if he is to go on living—
food, clothing to protect him from the weather and
shelter for his increased protection.
I perceived, moreover, that strictly speaking, man
produceth nothing; but God has ordained that the
earth shall bear trees and other growing things;
and that the verdure and the fruits shall afford sup-
port to animals, wild or tame, and to birds of the
air, and that all these things are for man for his
food. But I perceived that none of these things
are acquired by man except by labor, for the tree
must be hewn and cut into boards, firewood or other
shapes; the fruit must be gathered and ofttimes pre-
served; grain must be sowed, reaped, ground and
made into loaves before it is fit for human food and
animals must be captured or killed if wild, or tend-
ed and bred if domesticated and, being killed, the
flesh must be saved and prepared with intricate care
before it becomes man's nourishment. And for the
doing of all these things there must be tools, and
for the making of the tools there must be labor at
mining, welding, moulding, grinding, tempering and
a hundred varied operations of which the average
person like myself knows nothing. And as tools
wear out or are broken there must be others to
take their place, so that there are always those en-
gaged in making tools. And as clothes wear out
and are thus consumed there are always those who
are working to make clothes; and as houses become
outworn, out of repair and antiquated, or become
too narrow for growing families, there must be new
houses built; so there are those working always at
erecting houses, whether of wood, stone or brick,
all of which materials must be ravished from the
forest, the quarry or the clay-pit. And I began to
see that the workers of the world were specialized.
For no one man can adequately do the many things
needful for the simplest mode of life. In my case
this was clearly manifest, for with all my industry
I was compelled to dress in skins, and despite my
utmost efforts I could not make a needle. If the
lightning had struck my small supply I would have
been sadly in need of a powder specialist, or if
the spring had snapped in the breech-lock of my
fowling piece, no thought or industry of mine would
have supplied the place of that specialist called a
gunsmith.
How helpless, I concluded, is man alone I Fa-
vored as I was by a mild and equable climate,
blessed in the absence of ravening beasts such as
tigers, bears or wolves; finding a veritable garden
of edible wild fruits, and a gracious soil and abun-
dant rain for the raising of agricultural products,
not forgetting the goats, turtles, fish and fresh flow-
ing streams—I say that even amid an environment
like this, and leaning heavily on the tools which I
had from the labor of other men, I was still shel-
tered in a manner which civilization would regard
as almost savage, while my raiment would have
brought a crowd at my heels if I were back among
my fellow-creatures. Nor did I consider myself
remiss; for to have it otherwise I must have been
able to spin and weave, to mine and smelt; to make
needles and gun-springs and powder; to quarry and
perform the work of masons, to shape great beams
and transport all over long spaces, all of which I
perceived is impossible for man laboring by himself.
By collective labor are great things done, and by
those who have specialized are the intricate things
wrought out.
And in the adventures which happened to me
later I saw these things in even a clearer light.
I have spoken of my efforts to make a boat by
digging out a log and shaping it in a way to float
well in the water. My first attempt had failed, for
that I had chosen a log so great that when I had
shaped and hollowed it I was unable to get it to the
water by reason of the distance and the weight.
My second attempt was made with better fore-
thought and while I found it necessary to dig a ca-
nal upward half a mile from the sea to my craft,
yet I diligently pursued the task for two years and
in the end had the satisfaction of viewing my handi-
work floating in my little inlet and ready to be out-
fitted. I was very anxious to explore about the
shores of my island and hoped with it to venture
to the mainland if indeed there should prove to be
a mainland at not too great a distance. In any
case it would, I thought, be the first step in my de-
liverance. So I fitted up a little mast to my boat
and made a sail to it out of one of the pieces of
the ship's sails, which lay in store and of which I
had a great store by me. Thus fitted I tried the
46
boat and found she would sail very well. Then I
made little lockers and boxes at each end to put pro-
visions, necessaries and ammunition in, to be kept
dry, either from rain or the spray of the sea, and a
little long hollow space I cut in the inside where
I could lay the gun, making a flap to hang down
over it to keep it dry. I fixed my umbrella in a
step at the stern, like a mast to stand over my head
and to keep the beating of the sun off me, like an
awning, and thus I every now and then took a
little voyage upon the sea, but never went far out,
nor far from the little creek; but at last, being
eager to view the circumference of my little king-
dom, I resolved upon a tour, and accordingly I
victualed my ship for the voyage, putting in two
dozen of my loaves of barley bread, an earthen
pot full of parched rice (a food I ate a great deal
of), a good supply of fresh water, half a goat and
powder and shot for killing more, and two large
watch coats which I had saved from the seamen's
chests; these I took, one to lie on and the other to
put over me at night.
It was the sixth of November in the sixth year of
my reign, or my captivity, which you please, that I
set out upon this voyage, and I found it longer than
I expected, for while the island was not very large
I found adverse winds the second day and was
obliged to make camp and wait for smoother seas.
On the following day, having resumed my voyage,
I came upon a great ledge of rocks running about
two leagues out to sea; some above water and some
below it, and beyond this a shoal of sand lying
dry half a league or more, so I was obliged to go a
great way out to sea to double that point.
My course from there should stand as a warning
to all rash and ignorant pilots, for no sooner was
I a quarter of a league from the shore than I found
myself in a great depth of water and a current like
the sluice of a mill. It carried my boat along with
such violence that all my efforts could not keep her
so much as on the current's edge; but I found it
hurried me farther and farther out to sea. There
was no wind stirring to help me and all I could do
with my paddles signified nothing. So now I be-
gan to give myself over for lost. Every moment
was carrying me farther from the island, I knew
not whither. My craft would not live in anything
but most favorable weather and if I had the good
fortune to have smooth seas my provisions would
last but a brief space and then I must perish of
hunger and thirst. Now I looked back on my deso-
late, solitary island as the most pleasant place in the
world, and all the happiness my heart could wish for
was to be there again.
I worked hard till indeed my strength was almost
exhausted, and I kept my boat as much as possible
to the northward, where I hoped not only to get out
of the force of the current but to get into the back
flow or eddy which such a current must somewhere
always have. By noon I thought I felt a little
breeze in my face springing from the southeast.
This cheered my heart a little and especially when
an hour later it blew a pretty small gentle gale. By
this time I had gotten a frightful distance from the
island, and had the least cloud or haze intervened
I had been undone, for I had no compass on board
and should never have known which way to steer
for the island. But the weather remaining clear,
I applied myself to getting up my mast again and
spread my sail, standing away to the north as much
as possible. And I had no sooner done so than I
saw by the clearness of the water that some altera-
tion of the current was near; for where the current
was so strong the water was foul; but perceiving
the water clear, I found the current abate and pres-
ently I found to the east, at about half a mile, a
breach of the sea upon some rocks. These I found
made a breach of the current's stream and while
the main stress of it continued to run southerly the
other returned and made a strong eddy which ran
back again to the northwest with a very sharp
stream.
I was now as one who, having been condemned,
had a reprieve. With unspeakable joy I put my
boat into the stream of this eddy and the wind also
freshening I spread my sail to it, running cheerfully
before the wind and with a strong tide or eddy un-
der foot. After about a league the eddy failed and
I was left to my sail alone, but the water now was
neutral and I kept on steering for the island and by
five o'clock in the afternoon I came to shore. At
once I fell on my knees and gave God thanks for my
deliverance, resolving to lay aside all thought of
my deliverance by my boat; and refreshing myself
with such things as I had, I brought my boat close
to the shore in a little cove I had espied under
some trees, and laid me down to sleep, being quite
spent with the labor and fatigue of the voyage.
And presently I was aroused by something hav-
ing touched me and awoke to see before me a man—
the first I had beheld in more than six years.
At first I was convinced that this was a dream
and that I was still asleep or in a fever. My first
impression was one of fear alone, for the unexpect-
edness of the apparition and the long habit of my
life alone had made the appearance of an ordinary
human being startling to the last extreme. I strug-
gled to my feet and would have fled, but the stran-
ger smiled and, laying hold of me urged me to be
calm. Such at least I judged to be the purport of
his words which, as I afterward learned, were spok-
en in Portuguese; but his gestures were reassuring
and from his clothing and general appearance I
placed him as a man of the sea, like myself. Pres-
ently I perceived that there were others and that
they had come in a small-sized sailing boat, which
now lay at anchor near the shore, and when I had
recovered from the fright and shock of this strange
awakening, you may imagine my eagerness and
joy at seeing again creatures of my kind and once
more hearing the human voice. Great was my joy
when a group had gathered quickly about me one
of them addressed me in English, with a touch of
the Yorkshire dialect. At the sound of my native
tongue my joy was too great for utterance and I
fell upon the Yorkshireman and embraced him, to
his great amazement; for they were all regarding
me and my strange attire with a curiosity and sur-
prise they made no effort to conceal. And in reply to my earnest questionings the York-
shireman informed me that they had come from
an island not unlike mine which was one of two
which lay to the west and south of me some eight
leagues and that this was the first time they had
ever landed on my island, which indeed to them
was a new discovery, for they were members of a
colony of political refugees who had taken part in
an uprising in Chili and had by the government
been exiled and set down on these islands, without
boats of sufficient size to make the voyage back to
the mainland and with orders never more to return
on pain of death. And the colony they told me now
numbered some fifty people and they had their
women among them and they had learned to live a
fairly comfortable life on the two islands—the
which were not far distant the one from the other—
and they had finally built this small sailing vessel
and gone exploring what might be farther to the
west. Thus they had come upon my domain and
me.
There were eight in the party which had come in
the little sailing boat to my island and I perceived
that they carried no firearms, though of knives in
their belts they had a-plenty, and I later learned that
their captors had purposely left them neither pow-
der nor firearms when they were deposited on their
island; and these they had not as yet been able to
produce on their own account, though afterward
the formula for making powder, together with the
necessary nitrolis and free carbon, were discovered.
Meantime I figured that with my gun and store of
ammunition I had an advantage over them, even
though I might be but one to their score. But these
thoughts did my visitors great injustice, for never
at any time did any but friendly thoughts enter
their minds and in the end I was ashamed even to
myself that I had momentarily dwelt upon my supe-
rior equipment to do them harm. For I found them
most friendly in their disposition and very eager to
relieve me in what they naturally inferred was a
condition of great distress. Several of the boatmen
53
could speak little English and the Yorkshireman
became at once interpreter for the others, who spoke
both Portuguese and Spanish. It seems a British
ship had gone ashore on the islands and the York-
shireman was one of three who had been saved and
he had now been five years with the Chilean refu-
gees.
I bade the visitors welcome to my island and
made myself a guide to show its various features.
I brought them to my cave and showed them, not
without pride, all the things I had contrived, not
forgetting to kill a kid and set before them, and
from my store of sun-cured grapes, turtle eggs and
barley loaves. In the latter and in the raisins they
were greatly interested, for there were no grapes
on their islands, nor for some unknown reason, cit-
rons. But the lack of barley was due to the fact
that they had been given none for seed by their
jailors who, on the contrary, left them only a small
quantity of maize, and this they had cultivated for
their bread, not without difficulty, however, owing
to the character of the islands, for these two other
islands were quite different from the one on which
I dwelt. When I visited them—as I did shortly as
their guest—I concluded that the geologic history
of the islands was quite diverse; for while mine
was obviously of volcanic origin, theirs was an older
sort of rock, carrying many of the features of the
continental rocks, with mineral beds of iron, coal
and a trace of the more precious metals. But their
islands were less arable. The rocks were bold and
hard and the level spaces narrow and difficult of
access. But withal I found their settlement quite
a picture of contentment. They had built some
thirty houses and there were several others scat-
tered at different points about the islands. Every
house had a garden belonging to it in which many
fruits and vegetables grew luxuriantly. The main
island, which they call Mas-a-fuera, is much Broken
with ravines and gulches, but there is in the midst
one main valley sheltered and inviting, where there
grew many fruit trees, flowers and sweet herbs.
In the midst of the houses there was built a little
church, with an inscription, "La casa de Dias es la
juerta del cielo y Se coloco."
The dress of the women I found to be of a singu-
lar description, and was, they told me, the same
as that of the ladies of Chili and Peru. They wore
a petticoat reaching only a little below the knee,
spread out to a great distance by a hoop at the lower
part, leaving their legs entirely exposed, which,
however, were covered with drawers. They wore
their hair long, hanging down the back and plaited
into forty and sometimes fifty braids. In every
house I entered I beheld great numbers of children,
and indeed other evidences of prosperity.
My visitors remained with me as my guests for
two days, and at the end of that time I sent them
away laden down with dried grapes, goat flesh,
barley loaves and flour. And they were very anx-
ious that I return with them at once to their
islands; but I made excuses to them promising to
visit them on their return voyage, as indeed I did
with observations which I have already set down.
And here I find it necessary to record a strange
thing—namely, my entire change of feeling toward
the island which had in the beginning been to me
a prison and my way of life which had been to my
thought a hardship. Now the island was my home,
and my way of life upon it had revealed to me that even solitude hath its pleasures. I had found,
that there is no such thing as perfect freedom, for
man is what God intended him the servant of laws
which environment impose on him, requiring reg-
ularity of toil, physical and mental, for such laws
require of him foresight and thrift like that of the
bee to lay up stores against the season when they
shall not be at hand, and diligence in devising ways
to protect his life against the elements and those
things which are enemies to his life not forgetting
sloth and dullness which is a close relative as well
as a precursor of death and dissolution. But also
I had found that man alone is more nearly free than
when man is compassed about by other human be-
ings, for in his every day contact with his fellow
creatures man must yield something of his indi-
vidual whims and bend to those common notions
which in time come to be the conventions of society,
and later on its laws. So when I analyzed myself
I found myself averse to taking up a permanent
residence in the colony whence my visitors had
come, but I preferred to remain on my own domain
interchanging friendship with them and such com-
modities and service as would tend to make the
conditions of life more desirable for all.
And so it was. And from this period I entered
on a new experience the relating of which will prove
no less interesting, I trust, than the experiences
which had led up to this new and strange adventure.
With the coming of these other human beings and
the setting up of contact with two more islands
my fiscal world was broadened. By fiscal world I
refer to the realm of those activities which have to
do with the satisfaction of man's needs and wants.
For I conceive that there is such a realm just as
there is an intellectual realm, or a physical. As in
the physical man exercises the faculties of his body,
and in the intellectual realm the faculties of his
mind, so in the fiscal realm he exercises the fiscal
faculties with which he chances to be endowed, pro-
ducing, owning, trading with his fellows and de-
veloping fiscal strength or weakness as the event
may determine.
To this conclusion I had come after much thought
during the many hours I had devoted to thinking
out the problems which my solitary life had imposed
on me. Of my solitary fiscal life—that in which
I was unaided by my fellow men (except what I
had gathered from the wreck) I have spoken. With
the coming of other human beings and the enlarging
58
of these relations there came new problems. Of
them and of the answers I resolved I shall speak
as my narrative proceeds.
On their return to my island which was as soon
as the weather and the state of the sea would per-
mit, for they durst not adventure much in so small
a boat—my neighbor colonists brought with them
a suit of clothes for me made of home-spun wool
woven by hand on looms which certain of their
women operated with skill, together with stockings
knit likewise by the women—all of wool, sheared
from sheep which they had raised and spun on
distaffs operated in their homes. Likewise there
was linen underwear, the need of which I had
greatly felt after the shirts from the ship had worn
out. This, too, was made of flax raised and shred-
ded on their island; for they had for a long time
been cut off from any communication with the
mainland and had only that which their skill and
industry had enabled them to create.
And my first thought was one of shame that I
had not been able to make cloth, spinning it from
the hair of my goats. But in this I blamed myself
without cause, for on inquiry I learned that several
in the colony had been weaver artisans and knew
the trade of weaving before ever they were set
down in this remote spot. So that when the neces-
sity was upon them, they had an experience to
draw upon and knew how to build a loom; and the
women had known how to spin and to knit, and
did not have to invent the art as I should have
had to do. They, in short, were specialists, and
were useful in contributing of their specialty to
the community's needs, while others furnished them
with the products of the soil or the trophies of the
chase.
Gladly, therefore, did I accept cloth from the
weavers, in exchange for the flour and raisins I
had sent them, and I perceived that both had prof-
ited by the exchange for they were equally glad
to have my offerings.
This, then, I concluded, is the function of ex-
change that man may have a greater variety of
useful articles; for different localities of the earth
produce different things; different men have diverse
skill and special knowledge, and when each follows
his specialty or adapts himself to the opportunities
held forth by nature, the total product is made more
diverse and of greater volume, and when exchange
has distributed to each his fair share there results
a larger measure of happiness and comfort than
there would have been had each attempted as I
had previously, and of necessity, tried to do, that
is to do all things for himself.
This time I sent my visitors home laden with
quantities of ripe lemons, grapes, and some goat
meat, and they in turn promised to bring with
them on their next trip tools and a couple of their
best carpenters with enough helpers to build a cot-
tage with sides of dressed boards, a thatched roof
and windows and a door fitted to open or shut.
And this they did. And as I watched their labor
I reasoned thus:
I, working by myself, was not able to build a
house. The beams were too heavy for my single
strength. Two men cooperating can lift a weight
impossible to one and six men with poles and levers
can accomplish wonders. It is because the men
cooperate—because a number are working together
toward a common end—that important things are
done.
And further I observed that one man appeared
to know more about the way the structure should
be built than the others, and this one led. The
others did as he directed, and they called him mas-
ter builder. But it was his superiority in knowing
how that made the others follow and him to give
the orders. There are those who know and those
who cooperate and are willing to take orders, and
this results in bringing the labor of many hands
and the thought of many minds to the accomplish-
ment of a common purpose.
Thus I had discovered in my fiscal world special-
ization, cooperation, and organization—three im-
portant methods employed by man to do man's
work, to do it better and in greater volume, where-
as by exchange the blessings are distributed most
widely.
My friends brought tools and sawed the logs into
boards, and thus two men in a saw-pit in a few
hours did the work and did it better than I had
taken days to do with my axe. And in a week
they worked out rafters and joists which would
have taken me a lifetime to hew. Indeed in ten
days they had builded me a house which would
have done credit to any village, the roof being
thatched with reed-grass—a simple thing I had not
had the wit to think about—and the windows hav-
ing shutters which in wind or storm could be closed,
and at one end a chimney with a walled-in space
at the side where hot cinders could be placed to
heat the space for baking.
And I paid them for their labor on my house
with one of my spare muskets and five pounds of
powder with balls to match. And this more than
satisfied them, so that they were eager to be of
further service to me.
Now I perceived that in one respect I was at a
disadvantage as compared with my neighbors in the
other islands, namely, they had cattle and likewise
barnyard fowl while I had only goats and the wild
fowl which I must bring down with my gun. So
on the next occasion I proposed that they exchange
with me a bullock and a heifer with two hens and
a cockerel for another musket and an equal quantity
of ammunition as I had given for my house. To
this they readily assented—a trade which to me
was excellent since it gave me in time a herd of
cattle for the upland pastures which on my island
were rich and spacious with abundant milk for
butter and cheese and beeves for food. And my
dooryard soon swarmed with fowl, which kept
me in good supply of eggs while there was always
a bird ready for the stew pot or the skewer.
But to the other parties the exchange was not
so profitable, for the powder was soon expended
and until more could be secured the musket was
purely ornamental.
Such, however, is the nature of exchange. Judg-
ment as well as chance oft enters in, and the for-
tunes of the trader rise or fall as he is favored
in the exercise of the one or the fortunate bestowal
of the other.
I soon felt that I was destined to become a person
of wealth; and how this worked out will subse-
quently appear.
Perceiving the great desire of my neighbors to
have more of my rice and barley, I was not slow
to plant more land in these crops.
Here, said I, is the working of that fiscal law
about which I have heard, the law of supply and
demand. Demand is made up of people's wants;
supply is made up of the ability and willingness to
satisfy those wants. These colonists want rice and
barley; I have these commodities in larger measure
than I need; I am in a position therefore to secure
for myself things which I desire by supplying their
demands for rice and barley. I shall secure new
and better tools, help in breaking the soil for my
crop, with further wool and linen.
In all these respects my anticipations were ful-
filled. But one day I received a lesson in the con-
trary working of this self-same principle; for I had
loaded my canoe for a trading voyage with the
other islands and had carried to the second island
some of the many hatchets which I have spoken of
as among the things rescued from the ship—these
65
and a quantity of turtle eggs which I that day gath-
ered. Imagine then my shame and disappointment
when I found that the colonists on the second island
had opened a small iron mine in the mountains, and
set up a smelter and were themselves makers of
axes and hatchets and other tools much finer than
those I brought; so that they laughed at these, while,
as for the turtle eggs, these abounded also on their
island to such a degree that the children were wont
to collect them for the barnyard fowls, but few
were eaten by the people.
Thus there was no demand for my cargo which
I was obliged to take back with me. True there
was a poor beggar among them who by physical
defects was unable to work who wanted a hatchet
and even the turtle eggs, but as he had nothing to
give in exchange his wants did not constitute a de-
mand in the sense which the world of business
knows that term; for demand is made up of both
a want and an ability to grant something of value
in exchange.
So by my failure to suit supply to demand I had
lost my labor and my time; but the loss had profited
me in the way of knowledge, for I now perceived
that when men live as neighbors and trade with
one another it behooves them to study to make
their service fit the needs and wants of their fellows
—in other words to suit supply to demand.
Moreover, if one man does not do this it is apt
to happen that another will; for the second man
will see the opportunity that the first has over-
looked. And likewise in the world of trade neither
party to the exchange is able to be overbearing in
his demands on the other, because a second or a
third will come along and by more reasonable offer
will take the exchange from the first man.
This I perceived when I went to the iron work-
ers' island to exchange barley-flour for a hammer.
I came upon three smiths all with hammers just
alike. The first demanded for his hammer a bushel
of barley-flour, the second offered his hammer for
half a bushel and the third said he would yield his
for a peck. From him I secured the hammer.
And I perceived here the working of the law of
competition. For the three competed one with an-
other and when the first was moved by greed to
demand an unfair amount for his hammer (for he
could make it in a day and it would take me a week
to even grind so much flour) the others interposed,
and one took the trade on a reasonable basis, showing how competition is a check on greed.
I saw the working of this principle on their side
of the exchange; but, alas, for the blindness of man
to his own shortcomings, I had presently to see a
different out-working of the same principle; for I
perceived one workman to have a saw which was
of most excellent workmanship and which I at once
coveted. But perceiving their lack of barley meal
I insisted that he let me have the saw for half a
peck of flour. I was about to get the saw when
the man who had sold me the hammer stepped up
and offered a whole peck for the saw; which the
owner at once accepted and I was left disappointed
and humiliated. For at once I realized that in this
case it was my greed which competition had checked;
for I had not offered a fair value for the saw.
And I thought much about the working of com-
petition, and I concluded that in general competition
tends to equalize the values of articles exchanged—
such values being measured in terms of the labor
necessary to produce the article and bring it to the
place where the exchange takes place.
But I perceived that there are times when there
can be no competition to be a check on greed, as
when I possessed the only musket to be had and
traded it for a fine new house. And at the begin-
ning of my intercourse with the colonists I pos-
sessed the only source of powder and therefore
might come very near to naming my own terms
for an exchange for this for their commodities.
But I could not quite do this for my powder was
a commodity they could live without. And I could
not refrain from some idle speculations as to how
great would have been my fiscal strength if this,
had been a commoditiy they must have to live, and
I with the only supply in the world. Then indeed
would I have been their king and they all my sub-
jects with their lives a forfeit except as I let them
live.
Even as things were the competition among them
as buyers of my barley meal soon placed me in a
position of great fiscal strength. For their maize
was not nourishing and was productive of a com-
mon skin disease which in some cases proved fatal,
so that they were all exceedingly anxious to get
some of my barley meal, so that I soon had them
bringing me stores of all the things they produced
and offering labor of any form in exchange for
small quantities of my flour.
Thus I learned that competition is an influence
which generally works on the two sides of an ex-
change; and that the effect of competition, so at
work, is to prevent the demand of an unreasonable
amount of return for what is given—to make, in-
deed, the exchange more fair.
But what takes place where there is an absence
of competition on one side of an exchange is seen
in the undue amounts I was enabled to demand
because I alone possessed the rice and barley which
my neighbors needed. For had there been others
near at hand having rice or barley, or who could
be reached even at a distance, the colonists would
have gone to them rather than render me a bolt of
cloth for a peck of flour, and other articles in pro-
portion. But there was none to compete with me
in the sale of these two needed foods, my fiscal
strength was overweening.
And what takes place when there is present on the other side of the exchange an excess amount
of competition I presently beheld also, for one day
7o
there came two men to buy rice. Neither had any
commodity to offer in exchange but both offered
to work for me at any employment I might put
them at in payment for a small quantity of grain.
And I bethought me of the weeds which were in
my rice field, which I had intended to pull out, and
I proposed to the first man that he work at weed-
ing for a day for a quart of rice. To this he readily
agreed, but when I informed the second man that
I did not need his labor, having weeds for but one
pair of hands, he showed much concern, and there-
upon informed me that he had eaten nothing since
the previous noonday meal and therefore would do
the same amount of weeding for half a quart of
rice.
To this I readily assented, though I perceived
that a hungry man competes unduly against one
who is not so moved.
And on the next day came a woman and offered
to do the weeding for less than the man, and after
her a neighbor with five children all of whom she
offered to weed all day for a quart of rice which at
once did away with the possibility that any men
might be employed in this labor.
Here, said I, is an instance of undue competition
weakening one side of the exchange. My bar-
gain with the first man was none too beneficial to
him; but he could not compete with the hungry
man, nor the latter with the woman, nor the latter
with the children. What they might have secured
from me was reduced by their under bidding one
against the other; whereas what I was enabled to
extort from them was increased. In the absence of
competition on my side of the exchange, I was
blessed with an ever increasing fiscal strength, while
on their side the growing eagerness of competi-
tors reduced their fiscal strength to a point where
they would gladly toil all their time for enough
food to enable them to go on toiling.
These people, I reasoned, are weak in a fiscal
sense (for they were mostly all of sturdy bodies)
because they have not a store of the necessities
laid by. It is because of their immediate needs
that I am able to take an unfair quantity in ex-
change. It is because they are unable to do with-
out the thing I have that they lack fiscal strength.
And I concluded that one element in fiscal
strength is the ability to do without what is offered
in exchange.
I was able to do without practically all the things
possessed by my neighbors. I had managed to live
quite comfortably before they came, doing all things
for myself, and I could do so again. Hence I was
not compelled to trade with them at all but might
keep all my grain for myself.
Thus I arrived at the conclusion that the fiscal
strength of one side or the other of a possible
exchange increases as competition decreases and
decreases as competition increases; also that it in-
creases in proportion to man's ability to do without
what is offered in exchange, and decreases in pro-
portion to his inability to do without what is so
offered.
Moreover, I observed that in an exchange be-
tween the person of fiscal strength and the person
of fiscal weakness there is no element of fairness
entering in, but the strong ever hath the better of
the bargain.
And in thus considering the matter of fiscal
strength I found I had come upon the answer to
a matter which had always puzzled me; that is to
say, why it is that all the hard work of the world
is done for the least rewards; for those who dig
and delve are not those who live in great houses
and are served dainty food by retinues of servitors,
but on the contrary this is the reward of those whose
services are lightest while those who do those things
most necessary to the continued ongoing of the
world—who mine our coal, dig our iron and till
the soil, as well as those who build houses and carry
merchandise and prepare our food and clothes for
us—these dwell most humbly and often have but
little of that which they produce.
And it now occurred to me that these do the
work more because they must than because they
will. There are present among them the elements
of fiscal weakness. They compete right eagerly
among themselves and they are unable to do with-
out the things offered in exchange, namely, food,
shelter, warmth and a place to be. They have no
store of these laid up, nor a store of money with
which to buy them even for a short period, while
holding out for better terms in the exchange; but
on the contrary they must hearken to their im-
mediate needs, and must exchange their labor or
the product of their labor on any terms the person
of superior fiscal strength shall say. So they are
forever losing a part of the fair share which should
be theirs by the exchange; whereas the few gather
to themselves an ever increasing store with an ever
increasing power to lord it over the weaklings of
the world.
Up to this time I had thought always of exchange
as fair and had heard always that all bargains,
whether for barter or wages, were purely and fairly
made. But now I saw that exchanges are fair only
when made by persons of fairly equal strength,
which seldom is the case; for most exchanges are
between persons of greatly differing degrees of
fiscal strength.
But this is a discovery which one would not
herald generally to the world, for all the laws and
customs even in our most civilized parts are based
on a contrary theory, namely, that exchanges are
all free and fair and that each party to the ex-
change is free to accept or decline the terms—
which, as we have seen, is opposed to the facts.
Such a theory is highly beneficial to the few who
have fiscal strength, and it is not to their advantage
to have the laws overthrown, as they would be if
the many who do not benefit by this theory were to
come to understand why they are opposed.
But with matters of this sort I had no concern
except as it gave me satisfaction to learn the an-
swer to a puzzling question; for I was profiting by
the opportunity which had come my way and be-
lieved I saw how I should in time place myself in
a position of great ease.
Many changes were wrought during the first year following the coming of my neighbors. I find set down in my diary this entry:
I have to-day broken three acres of land for my crops. This is an enormous increase over what has been my custom to break for my own uses, but I perceive that I shall need much grain for trading with the other islanders; for their need is great. I sell my barley only as flour, for I perceive that the less they have for seed to grow crops on their island the better will be my market. For if I sell them seed grain and they cultivate this crop on their lands—which at any rate are inferior to the lands in this island—my own grain soon will begin to compete in the market and my fiscal strength will be made less. So I have said to those asking for seed grain that I could spare a little flour, but must husband my small store of seed, which is in a measure true. The two acres will be for barley
and the one for rice, which I perceive they will
76
raise in considerable amounts on their lands, and
nothing I can do will prevent.
The breaking of land was an easy task for I
now had the help of two strong men and a bullock
dragging a plow with an iron share. And it was
a joy to me to see it cut through the sods which
had so stubbornly resisted my poor wooden spade.
And I marveled also at the great advance man
achieves when he puts a harness on one of these
dumb beasts and by applying his intelligence to
guide their strength of neck and limb is able to
have the most of his labor performed for him.
Behold, said I, is not this the beginning of the
conquest of nature by nature's own forces? For
the ox and the ass and the horse aid man also in
carrying from place to place; and the water of a
falling stream may be used to turn one's mill stones
as may even the winds of the heavens; and in the
face of such marvels of human ingenuity who
knows what other forces may not some day be
made man's servants?
And I secured the labor of the two men to break
and harrow and sow my land for a small amount
of flour with a little rice and two goats from my flock. And I had only to direct their labor.
Seeing that I might have others work for me at
so little cost I procured from the other settlement
two good carpenters and a third who knew some-
thing of the shipwright's trade and in two months
they built for me a sturdy sailing schooner of con-
siderable depth and width, and about fifty feet over
all, which was well suited to cruise between our is-
lands carrying freight and passengers. And in the
weavers' colony I discovered an old seafaring man,
who had proved to be a poor hand at weaving and
of little use at any land occupations; and him I
induced to become master of my schooner at a wage
to be made up of enough goat's meat, barley loaves
and vegetables to keep him well fed and two suits
of clothes a year. This with a little tobacco for his
pipe was all he needed and he was more than con-
tent to serve me thus and I pleased to have him, for
I perceived that what I should take in exchange
for the carrying of cargoes and passengers would
be more than this by far, and the possession of the
boat would be an added source of profit.
And I perceived that when one permits the sur-
plus of one's possessions to serve others he is com-
pensated for this service, just as he would be if he
placed his services at the disposal of his fellows.
And at the end of the year my ship had earned
for me a considerable store of merchandise over
and above what I had acquired by exchanging grain,
rice, lemons, grapes and goats' flesh with the in-
habitants of the other islands. So that my house
and barns were filled with merchandise.
I made frequent voyages in my boat for the pleas-
ure of the intercourse with other creatures of my
kind, and for the profit of the trades which gen-
erally accompanied these meetings.
One day I called on two of the weaver's colony
and found they had been too ill to work and had
no cloth to offer in exchange. The weavers needed
the flour I had brought; so I suggested that they
keep the flour and settle at some future time when
they should have been able to resume their work.
So as a memorandum of the affair I had them write
on a flat shell, "Payment due for six measures of
flour. Weavers."
And in leaving I mused to myself: Here is
the beginning of credit as a medium of exchange.
Credit which is one man's trust in another,
is a great help in the proper distribution of the
world's products. Without credit I should have
had to take my flour back home where I did not need
it, since this was part of my surplus stock. Mean-
time the weavers would have been without what
they needed and would be able in the end to pay
for. But now, by means of credit, I am able to
regard my half of this exchange as an accomplished
fact and this part of the world's work of distribu-
tion is completed. The other part will be completed
when I have exchanged my credit for some com-
modity which I want.
Whereupon I remembered that I needed some
carpentering on my house, so I returned to the
weavers' island and asked:
"Have you a carpenter in your midst who is not
busy?"
"Certainly," said they, "and what is more the
carpenter owes us for his last suit of clothes."
"That is excellent," I exclaimed, "for it enables
me to exchange this credit for six days' services at
carpentering; and when the labor is performed I
will pay the carpenter with this credit. Then, in-
deed, all will be paid."
Which accordingly we did, and I was greatly
impressed with the value of credit as a medium of
exchange.
The end of the next five years saw great changes
in our island world. In numbers we were much
increased for there had been added two shiploads
of refugees, or prisoners as they more properly
should be called—victims of the revolutions which
had gone on in Peru and Chili. Those in power
had sent them hither, and they were set down on the
two islands near mine—yet why not on mine I knew
not—with no means of getting back to their native
land and under sentence if they did so to be stood
up against a wall and shot. For such was the
custom in those lands. And we were now close
to seven hundred adult men and women, not count-
ing children which were very numerous.
Being now so many it was difficult at first to
secure free exchange among all who had need of
things and who had work or goods to contribute
to the common store; for credit will proceed only
between those who are known one to another and
when there are many who are strangers, and some
possibly who for laziness or a tendency to deceive
81
are not deserving to be trusted, exchange cannot
proceed as it does between a smaller number who are
all known one to another. But presently this was
rectified by the finding of silver among the rocks
of that island where the miners and iron workers
dwelt. The silver was not in large quantities nor
was it free, but it must needs be dug and smelted
at considerable cost of labor, so that when it was
refined and stamped into the shape of a small coin,
each coin had cost as much in labor to produce it
as, directed in other ways, would have produced a
bushel of grain or the equivalent in other merchandise. But it was more convenient to carry a piece
of silver than the grain or other merchandise, and
the silver could be exchanged at a fixed value for
labor or commodities and therefore was eagerly
welcomed as a medium of exchange. By this me-
dium strangers could do business, for the silver
having value, it took the place of credit and all
exchanges were made more free and simple. Grain
which had before been the measure of value, now
ceased to be so and merchandise was measured in
terms of these silver coins each of which was about
a quarter the size of an English shilling. And I perceived now for the first time that no
man cares for money for itself, but for what it
will buy. And I remembered how when I was a
solitary exile on my island the thing which I valued
least of those things I rescued from the wreck was
the little hoard of gold and silver coins. Gladly
would I have exchanged the whole for a tobacco
pipe, or a pound of salt. But now when there were
numerous men and women attempting to divide
among themselves the world's labors—those labors
by which man is fed, clothed, and sheltered—then
it becomes of great importance that there be one
commodities which all will value alike and all will
accept on the same terms of exchange for what he
or she has to give, some commodities which will
maintain its value the same from day to day and
year to year, which will not corrode or deteriorate
and which can easily be transported and will have a
mark upon it—which commodities, of course, are
the materials, gold and silver.
Silver alone did us very well, and exchanges went
on freely. The worker exchanged his work or the
product of his work for money and then exchanged
the money for the work, or product of the work
of others. No one cared for the money for itself.
It was valued only for what it would command in
exchange. But everybody wanted as much money
as he could get for his work or products, because
this money measured his right to command the
products or the work of others.
And after a while I beheld another thing concern-
ing money. For I saw the silver disappear and in
its place were paper memoranda showing that so
much money had been deposited in a public treasury
and could be had by one presenting this bit of paper.
This did away with the necessity for carrying about
much of the silver money and only small amounts
had to be used to meet the small exchanges. And
the people preferred the paper so long as they knew
the money was in safe hands and could be had on
demand.
I was greatly convenienced by the coining of
money, for I had stores of merchandise which I
had taken in exchange for which I had no immedi-
ate need, such as cloth, tools, dressed lumber and
all manner of building material and preserved foods.
And these I soon disposed of for silver and of the
latter I laid up a large store. And the silver coins were called marks, for that
they most resembled such a coin of that country
whence most of these colonists had come.
And having now much money for which I had
no immediate use I began to inquire in my mind
as to what use I might put it to. And how this
was presently answered the next chapter will telL
There came to me one from the weavers' colony
and spoke thus:
"We know that you have been prospered in your
exchanges and have more money than any single one
among us. Now I have a plan by which I can make
your money useful to you. I know how to construct
a water wheel and the machinery by which the water
wheel would turn the stones for grinding grain into
flour. Near the house where I live is a stream with
an excellent fall of water and if I had a thousand
marks I could hire the labor to build a mill which
would grind all the grain for this colony. Lend me
the thousand marks and I will pledge you the mill
and my personal honor that I will pay you ten
marks each year for every hundred you lend me
and I will eventually repay the principal sum out of
the earnings which will come to me for grinding the
colony's flour."
The plan was indeed an excellent one, and my
money was soon at work; so that without effort on
my part I was soon receiving each year ten marks
86
for every hundred I had lent together with part
of the principal sum which was coming back.
In this again I was one of those who permit their
possessions to be of service to others; but in a dif-
ferent way from the case of the schooner, for that
was my own risk and venture, while in loaning
money I was assured of a fixed return and had no
need to supervise the work.
And I perceived that it was pleasanter to permit
one's possessions to do the work than to labor
at producing for one's self. For now I had little
labor that it was really necessary for me to do, but
I busied myself supervising the labor of those who
worked for me and in doing such things as I might
choose for increasing my fiscal strength.
And I began to see that ownership is the basis of
all fiscal strength—the ownership of money or the
things that can be exchanged for money.
And this was brought home to me strongly when
I was visited early by a group who were without
work, from the barren and rocky island where the
miners lived. These desired to set up tilling opera-
tions on my island.
To this I said I would consent on terms usual in
such affairs. I would rent them ten acres of ex-
cellent land for ten marks a year the acre.
"Do you own this island?" asked the leader of
the group.
"I do," said I, "I discovered it. I was here first.
According to the customs of land ownership in all
parts of the world, it is mine."
"It isn't fair," quoth a surly fellow. "No one
ought to be allowed to own more land than he can
himself use."
I did not admit that what the fellow said was
true, but stood on my rights and was fully sup-
ported by the opinion of the other colonists. So I
began to rent the arable parts of my domain on these
terms.
This was the most advantageous thing I had yet
experienced; for now I began to receive an income
which was far in excess of all my needs and for
which I did no work at all.
This opened my eyes to the advantage of owning
lands and I began to look about for opportunities
to secure other lands which might produce similar
returns. And the occasion soon appeared. For one
day I had brought a load of melons and other fruits
to the weavers' landing; but finding no one at hand
and knowing that the weavers would want what I
had brought, I put the articles ashore and hired a
man who was fishing to mind the fruit and sell them
to any offering a fair price. The fisherman took
charge and erecting a temporary shelter disposed of
the stock and later made his accounts to me.
"Surely," said I, "this is the beginning of a mar-
ket place. For a market place is the convenient
spot where commodities pause on their way from
the producer to the consumer while questions of
want and right to share are worked out."
And so it proved, for others later came and dis-
played their wares for sale and a regular market
grew up between the wharf and the dwellings of the
weavers.
Foreseeing which I bought all this land from the
weavers, they gladly taking my money for what they
could see little value in; but they did later when I
charged rent for use of the wharf and the stalls in
the market place, which, indeed added considerably
to my income.
My experience in disposing of the load of melons
which had been brought to the weavers' island led
me to reflect as follows:
I perceive here the beginning of distribution as
one of the tasks of the world. Necessities must not
only be produced and transported; they must be dis-
tributed. And in due course distribution, like other
labors, becomes a specialty. The loiterer whom I
have taken from his fishing and made keeper and
salesman of my cargo is now one of the world's dis-
tributors. He is helping to get the product to the
man who is to consume it. When there are so many
consumers with so many differing wants and so
many articles to meet them, much work must be
done to suit the needs of all and to get all the articles
where they are wanted. To do this work calls for
those who specialize on this work alone.
And I summed up thus:
Production, transportation and distribution are
the great labors of the world. Men work to pro-
duce from the raw materials yielded by the earth
90
the things men need; and having thus produced
them, they work to transport and distribute them.
Without work there would be neither food,
clothes nor shelter. By work all these are brought
into existence—together with many other things
which contribute merely to man's amusement or ad-
ditional comfort. And these things are placed at
man's disposal at the time and place most convenient
to him. Verily work is honorable, and it is a just
decree that he who will not work shall not eat.
Further I observed that men have found that it
is better to attack these undertakings with the com-
bined labor and diversified skill of the entire com-
munity rather than for each to undertake the per-
formance of all things for himself. This results in
specialization and organization, and makes neces-
sary the exchange of products among all. For the
specialist produces but one kind of article—though
in quantities more than he needs—but his needs are
of all things. Without exchange, therefore—the
exchange of his specialty for the specialties of the
rest—he could not live. He would not have food,
clothes or shelter.
Thus it happens that there must be exchange and
to make exchange easy a common medium, such as
metai money, supplementing credit without which
few exchanges would take place.
And thus it happens also that the necessity that
is upon all to resort to this thing called exchange to
secure what all must have to live, affords an oppor-
tunity to the person of the greater fiscal strength
to take advantage of the person of less fiscal
strength and to compel the latter to yield more than
a strictly fair return for what he receives; and the
consequences of this are seen in the fact that all the
less agreeable tasks of the world, and the more
onerous ones, are performed in return for the least
rewards. They are, indeed, performed under a sort
of fiscal compulsion.
Of what fiscal strength is made up, and of how
it is lessened by competition and increased by the
absence of competition, I have spoken. And how
the ownership of lands and wharves, and instru-
ments of transportation like ships are important aids
to fiscal strength, was made more evident to me by
each new experience.
And now I have come to that point in my narra-
tive where I must review briefly the happenings of
a score of years. For it was in the twenty-fourth
year after I was cast away that there came an end to
my residence in this part of the earth. And the
strange happenings that then took place I shall tell
at the proper time.
In the years which followed, and while I was
busily solving my fiscal problems, the colony was
developing in many ways. The people soon got to-
gether and built a school-house and a church on
each island and later they built a general assembly
hall where they could gather to discuss matters af-
fecting the general welfare of the community. In
order to meet expenses of this sort they agreed to
tax themselves in proportion to their property. One
man was chosen to settle the disputes. He was
judge. Another to gather the taxes. He was asses-
sor. Six were selected to draw up laws in accord
with the wishes of a majority of the people. They
were parliament. And a general manager for the
community was chosen, and it was agreed to call
him Governor. They chose a man of honesty to
handle the community money and called him treas-
urer. A constable was selected to put down any dis-
turbance; and they built a small gaol.
And the colonists began now to seek the satisfac-
tion of wants as well as needs. Having solved the
problem of a regular supply of food, clothes and
shelter with the expenditure by each man of some
eight hours of labor daily, they began to seek also
pleasure. They paid small sums to certain of their
number to sing and dance for them; and in time
they paid also preachers and lecturers, and even
printed books and a paper once a week. There were
those who polished semi-precious stones, of which
the islands yielded not a few, and some who tried
their skill at painting pictures and carving statuary;
though with no high degree of art. And those who
were thus engaged were in return supplied with
necessaries by those who produced the latter. And
in time the colony organized a small army and
equipped a schooner with a few small cannon for a
navy, delighting to see the soldiers drill and the
small warship maneuver and shoot its guns.
"I perceive," said I, observing this, "that every
man who is used in occupations of this sort is not
available for producing, transporting or distributing
food, clothes or shelter. So the more we have of
pleasure and war, the more we pay for the things
we all must have."
But this troubled me not at all, for I had enough
and to spare, and the burdening was upon the poor,
who, by reason of their fiscal weakness, could not
shift it from themselves.
As time went on I found it profitable to bring
more land under cultivation. By purchasing ma-
chinery and hiring laborers this was easy to accom-
plish.
I soon perceived that the greater a man's income
is, the easier is it to add thereto; I mean without
labor other than taking thought as to how invest-
ments shall be made and what business is good to
venture on.
Seeing my prosperity my neighbors came to me
offering to lend me money, assuming, as I take it,
that having much I would be able certainly to pay
it back. So that I was able, to my amusement, to
borrow at a low rate and to lend again the same
money at a high rate, and thus to add to my income
with no labor whatsoever.
And in other ways my properties were increased, as when the owner of a mill which I had advanced the money to set up, having ill fortune and being unable to redeem his pledge to repay the loan, I was
compelled to take the mill; and having set a skillful
,95
workman to manage it, I had much more from it
than I had received when it was merely a pledge for
the loan. And another mill having been set up near
by I saw that it would be well to buy that also,
thereby wiping out competition in the milling trade;
having done which I was able to double the charge
for all milling done. And this, too, was much to my
advantage.
I had not neglected meantime to buy the lands
about the harbor—it chanced that there was but one
—of the islands where the iron workers dwelt; and
as I now controlled all the harbors of the three is-
lands, and could say what boats might or might not
land, I readily bought the two other boats which
had been built to compete with my schooner and thus
controlled the carrying trade between the islands.
The owners of the iron mines found that the
carrying charges on their products ate up a large
share of the profit of their labors so they were in a
mood to listen to an offer to purchase all these prop-
erties which I caused to be made to them through a
discreet agent, and in that manner I became the
owner of the mines and the iron mills.
Some bold spirits among the iron workers were
disposed to grumble at seeing these properties fall
into the possession of one man, and particularly so
when wages were reduced—for having no spur of
competition I was not compelled to pay more than
a bare living wage. But they soon discovered that
it was more discreet to keep their opinions to them-
selves; for when they had been discharged they
found it difficult to get other work. They thought
at first they might turn to the cultivation of the soil,
but they soon perceived that land had so increased
in price that they were unable to buy or even to rent
enough to keep them. So they were compelled to
hire out by the day to the tenants who had long ago
rented tracts on my island.
I have spoken of the parliament which the colon-
ists had set up to make such laws as they might need.
This body at various times required my attention;
for once a law was proposed which would have
vested the ownership of the docks in the people and
brought carrying charges under regulation. This
I denounced as opposed to all respectable usage and
savoring of revolution against property and I took
pains that one of my capable and faithful employes
should be put forward as a candidate against this
member of the parliament and with the assistance
of the many who were friendly to me or were bound
to me in some business way I had no difficulty in
substituting my man for him that had put forward
the obnoxious legislation.
After that I gave close attention to all those put
forward as candidates and by quietly contributing
funds where they would be most effective was able
to keep a parliament in office made up of men un-
tainted by disturbing doctrines.
In this experience it was borne in upon me that
the foundation of all fiscal power, whether it be
used for good or bad, is in the laws of ownership.
For if the community had been unwilling to main-
tain a law which said that I, by discovering an is-
land, became owner of it, I could not have collected
rents for vast tracts which I had leased to my neigh-
bors. So also the law had permitted me by paying
a trifling sum to acquire the ownership of lands
which the community must use if it were to live,
such as those on which the wharves were built and
the various market sites. So, too, I was permitted
to control by ownership the exhaustless riches of
minerals—coal, iron and silver—which nature had
deposited for man's use, but which these people
could not use except with my consent. For this con-
sent they all paid me tribute.
And I marveled greatly that people intelligent
enough to form laws by majority consent, should
form such laws as should cut themselves off from
the means of livelihood and forge fiscal bonds to
bind them to the service of a few who have the wit
or luck to acquire fiscal strength.
But it was not for me to tell them to change the
laws so that lands might be free to those who would
make them yield, or mines to those who might be
willing to dig their contents, or harbors to the many
who must use them. And in truth these people were
doing only what other peoples have done for cen-
turies; and it is opposed to the habit of men's minds
to think out new ways for making the state of all
men better; but each hopes that he may win a posi-
tion of fiscal strength and come to live upon the
work of others, so he lends his influence against the
welfare of the whole and deserves the hardships
which in practically every instance are put upon him.
Now it happened that the Governor of the colony
for a considerable time had been a man elected to
the office largely by my aid. He was a man of pleas-
ant ways and excellent intentions, but not rich, and
he knew that what little property he had would be
jeopardized if he should offend me. So when I in-
formed him that it was my desire to be honored by
this office he readily retired and I was chosen with
no opposition.
Before this I had enjoyed many perquisites of
my increased wealth. I wore better clothes than the
others; my house was larger and better furnished
and I kept two boats for my private use together
with a dozen servants.
I had taken a wife from one of the best families
in the colony, a woman of unusual personal charm
who dutifully bore me four healthy and promising
children.
As Governor it was my endeavor so to administer
the colony's affairs that I might have a favorable
mention in the history of this island nation. To this
end I had a Governor's palace built of a character
suitable to the office, and a Public Library in each
of the islands, each builded entirely at my own ex-
pense.
I was able to use my influence as Governor to
keep the taxes low on lands and to distribute the
burden among that large and useful class known as
laborers. This, however, I did by indirection and
without ostentation.
My will I made about this time. For I deem it
a matter of ordinary prudence that a man having
property should face the certainty that one day he
must take leave of this earthly sphere and go to that
place which an all-wise Providence has prepared for
those who have repented for their sins and sought
salvation for their souls through the mediating grace
of the only begotten Son. To continue the property,
therefore, in the possession of my natural heirs I
took the advice of the best lawyers in our midst and
on their advice, a trust was arranged which was to
last as the lawyers say "a life on a life," which
would be in all likelihood a half century at least;
and the heirs were to have only the income of the
estates, but never the principal—the income being
now very great and sufficient for all luxuries as well
as needs. And thus I had the satisfaction of know-
ing that my estates would not be squandered, but
would go on increasing in value as the community
grew in numbers and in importance.
But in all these matters my expectations were
doomed to disappointment for reasons which in the
next chapter I will relate.
It had long been my custom to set down daily the
important happenings in my life, a habit which had
begun in noting down the days, weeks and months
and such things as I desired to keep a record of in
the early years of my solitary life on my island.
The early record was of the various expedients I
had used to build a shelter from the elements to in-
sure myself a supply of food and to put clothing on
my back. How these matters were worked out when
other human beings were near at hand presented
problems of no less interest to my mind and these
I have set down, too, together with such comments
as seemed to go with them, and the whole I had pre-
served in a considerable volume which I hoped
might some day be read with interest by the genera-
tions which should perpetuate my name. It was
read, alas, by those who were not of my kin, by cer-
tain treacherous fellows who found access by stealth
or subterfuge to the place where it was kept—with
what results I was presently to learn. For on the
sixth day of October, 1686, the night being dark
102
and somewhat blustering with a mist and no moon
I was suddenly set upon as I was returning to my
house from a stroll upon the beach—the hour being
about eight in the evening and before I had oppor-
tunity to cry out or give an alarm or in any way
defend myself, I was thrown to the ground, my head
was bound with a scarf which gagged and almost
suffocated me and when I had been securely bound
I felt myself carried I knew not whither and laid
down I knew not where, nor did I have any notion
of what was happening or why until a long time
afterward when I was released and found myself in
the cabin of one of my pleasure boats at sea and the
ship under a full spread of canvas.
My captors proved to be three members of the
island's law making body, young fellows whom I
had known but slightly but whom I had always
looked upon as honest and thoughtful citizens. To
my amazed questionings they gave most amazing
answers.
"A revolution is taking place in the island," the
spokesman said, "and the committee on the common
welfare has decreed your removal."
From which I understood that I was being taken
out to sea to be drowned.
"Not that," went on the leader gathering from
my expression what were my thoughts. "It is our
hope that your removal may be accomplished with-
out anything more serious than an adventurous trip
which you will make to the mainland and thence
back to England, if indeed you are so favored as to
reach that goal. But should you return your drown-
ing or death by some other means is decreed. In
about an hour from now you will be transferred to
another boat and in that you will be conveyed by
two of our faithful patriots to some landing from
which you will have to venture afterward by your-
self. We will soon be back in this vessel with an
account of an unhappy accident, namely, that while
you were endeavoring to stay the foresail during
a sudden shifting of the wind you fell overboard
and before we could put the ship about and come to
your assistance you were drowned."
"And to what purpose," I inquired, "is all this
mummery?"
"That the people may believe that you are dead
and that by your will all the properties of which
you have been the owner are passed to public own-
ership."
Saying which the speaker laid before me on the
table a document in form like the will which I had
caused to be drawn up; but I noted that the date of
the witnessing and the attest was of several months
past, and that the document lacked only my signa-
ture to make it formal. By this will all the lands
and properties of which I stood seized were quit-
claimed to the people of the three-island settlement
for their common use.
"Your signature to this document will pay your
passage to the continent," I was told "If you do
not care to sign it the supposed drowning can be
made a real one."
Seeing that it would be worse than useless to re-
sist I made a virtue of necessity and told my cap-
tors it would make me very happy to become in this
way the benefactor of my fellow citizens. I quickly
signed the will.
This matter finished, the revolutionary leader fav-
ored me with further explanation.
"Your diary," said he, "is one potent cause of
these present happenings, A servant's curiosity
brought your writings to the attention of others
who were curious, and to still others who were in-
terested, and finally to those who had long sought
for some remedy for certain difficult problems
touching the people's welfare. For there has grown
up in our midst this thing called poverty. In a land
where nature has been bountiful, and there would
seem to be enough of all things for all, there have
appeared those who did not have food nor a suffi-
cient amount of clothes or shelter. We have found
that work could not be had by all, and that those
who worked were not necessarily those who pos-
sessed. The drudgery was done for the least com-
pensation, and many of those things which are
produced go to the ownership and control of those
who labor not at all."
The speaker paused to observe the effect on me
of his words. I assured him that what he said was
true. Whereupon he went on as follows:
"The reason for this unfortunate state of things'
together with the remedy which should be applied
we found in the diary which you left;. We perceived
that many of these consequences flow from the
great disparity in fiscal strength among our people;
and the basis and substance of fiscal strength, as you
have so clearly set forth in your writings is owner-
ship. It is the ownership of lands over and above
what the owner is able or willing to use which en-
ables him to exact rent; it is the ownership of such
public highways as harbor frontages and wharves
which exacts added tribute; and it is the ownership
of nature's storehouses such as mines, water powers,
and forests which adds to the ability of the owner
to take toll of those who must draw on these re-
sources to maintain their lives. But unless our laws
permitted private ownership of such properties,
those who have thriven and grown powerful on
such ownership would not have waxed so great. The
fault is ours for we are supposed to make the laws
not for the few and strong but for the many, in-
cluding those who are weak. We, the people, have
forged the chains which bind us to the service of
our fiscal masters."
What the young man said was the truth; but im-
agine my sensations when I had these doctrines
hurled at me almost in the words I had set them
down as abstract truths, thought out merely for the
pleasure of the thinking.
"And will you then," I asked, "abolish owner-
ship?" For even in the extremity wherein I found
myself I could not repress a curious interest along
these lines.
"A man may own what he produces," was the
answer.
"And when I lend the shovel I have produced, am
I to have no compensation for its use?"
"A shovel, yes," the revolutionist replied. "Or a
ship. But not the gifts of God to man. Not the
harbors or the land, or the mineral in the ground,
or the power of the running stream or the timber
of the uncut forests. These are things that should
belong equally to all. When ownership is limited
and not permitted to trespass on the unused stores
of a bountiful Providence, man may be safely left
to own all other things. His fiscal strength will not
then become overweening. Men will differ among
themselves, and always there will be those who will
have more and those who will have less. Some men
will be thrifty and some will be improvident. Some
will set themselves to acquire and others will acquire
only what they need. And men still will trade, buy
and sell. But exchanges will be between men more
nearly equal in their fiscal strength and therefore
each exchange will be more fair. Each party to the
trade is more apt to profit by it. And always there
will be opportunity for one willing to exchange his
labor for what man needs; for always there will be
the measureless abundance of nature's stores to be
converted into food, clothes and shelter for those
who need them."
To this long speech I listened in silence for I had
naught to say. Indeed he was but speaking those
things I had myself discovered and to a large extent
set down quite clearly in my daily writings. But,
alas, my discovery had undone me. These rebels
had discovered that the path to freedom was to be
found along fiscal lines, and I being the great ob-
struction in that path was now to be removed. Often
in later years have I wondered what success at-
tended their adventure. But my curiosity never
was so insistent as to brave the menace of an at-
tempt to return. I doubt not, however, these peo-
ple found a larger measure of a practical kind of
freedom than most people do in our larger world.
By this time the other boat had come into hailing
distance and in due course I was put aboard. And
as a parting gift I was handed the flip-can which
I had brought ashore when I landed on my island—
this as a souvenir of the life I was leaving now
forever.
Six months later I was ashore at Liverpool after
some hardships, but no adventures worthy of note
as compared with those which I have already told.
As to how the revolution fared in that three-island
settlement I have never learned.
i
ROBINSON CRUSOE
A New Version of His Life
and Adventures
With an Explanatory Note
by
GILSON GARDNER
n
NEW YORK
HARCOURT, BRACE AND HOWE
1920
HARCOURT, BRACE AND HOWE, Inc.
A NEW ROBINSON CRUSOE
EXPLANATORY NOTE
The real Robinson Crusoe, as everybody knows,
was a pious buccaneer named Alexander Selkirk,
who, while cruising the South Seas in the armed
frigate Cinque Ports, had difficulties with his supe-
rior officer, Captain Thomas Stradling, and was by
him marooned on the Island of Juan Fernandez, a
small body of land in the Pacific Ocean in latitude
33 40' and longitude 78 52' west, about 110 leagues
from the coast of Chili and 440 to the north of Cape
Horn. On this island Selkirk lived, deprived of all
human society, for a period of four years and four
months, at the end of which time he was rescued
by another buccaneer, Captain Woodes Rogers, in
His Majesty's privateer, the Duke of Bristol, Eng.,
with whom Selkirk joined as mate and resumed his
trade of buccaneer.
The solitary life on his island, by all accounts,
had done Selkirk good; for aside from his own
protestations of religion, it is related by Captain
Rogers that the treatment accorded by Selkirk and
his men to certain Spanish ladies who were deprived
of their personal jewelry as an incident in the raid
on Guyaquil was of a character so unusual at the
hands of pirates as to elicit wonder as well as
pleasure among the gentle victims, so much so that
on the return of Selkirk's party from looting oper-
ations further up the stream, they were received
by the ladies without fear, who "even prepared food
for them and a cask of very acceptable wine."
"This excellent trait," says Howell in his life of
Selkirk, "can only be attributed to the command
religion had obtained over all his actions."
The observances of religion were by no means un-
common among the buccaneers, as appears from the
account of Rogers' capture of his most important
prize, the Manila ship Nostra Senora de la Incar-
nation Disengani, rechristened by him the Bach-
elor.
"Before the action began," says Howell, "as there
were no spirits on board, a large kettle of chocolate
was made and given to the crew in its place, and
then they went to prayers. Before they had con-
cluded the enemy commenced their fire."
This was a good fight, "the ships lying yard arm
and yard arm, pouring in their broadsides as fast as

they could fire." And when she was taken it was
found "she had twenty guns, twenty pateraroes, all
of brass, and ninety-three men, whereof nine were
killed, ten wounded and a good many blown up and
burned with powder."
The pious pirates circumnavigated the globe and
finally brought their loot, including the Bachelor
frigate, valued at 170,000 pounds, safely back to
England, where Alexander Selkirk received his
share. He was thus able to live the life of a gen-
tleman and after a short visit to his old home in
Largo, Fife County, Scotland, he married and went
to London, where he lived some ten years.
Selkirk's long residence on the uninhabited island
made him, on his arrival in London, an object of in-
terest to the alert news gatherers of that day. Dick
Steele interviewed him and wrote a seven-column
article, published in-the Englishman of December 3,
1713. He spells the name Selcraig, which was as
it appears in the church records at Largo. Captain
Edward Cook also wrote an account of Selkirk's
unusual experience in his two-volume, "Voyage to
the South Sea and Around the World," published
in 1712, as did Captain Woodes Rogers, whose ship
was Selkirk's means of rescue. It was not until
1719, four years after Selkirk's return to England,
that Daniel Defoe published his celebrated novel,
"The Life and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe."
It is commonly supposed that Defoe never saw
Selkirk, but took the hint for this exploit in im-
aginative writing from current accounts in Cook's
and Rogers' voyages and Sir Richard Steele's ar-
ticle in the Englishman.
That the contrary is the fact would appear from
a manuscript which has recently turned up among
the personal effects of the great nephew of Selkirk,
the impecunious teacher in the village school at Ca-
nonmills, Scotland, mentioned by Howell, who in-
herited Selkirk's personal belongings, including his
staff and his battered flip-can, which accompanied
Selkirk on his voyage and during the lonesome
years on the uninhabited island. This manuscript
purports to be the joint work of Selkirk and Defoe.
It is in some respects a very different product from
the Crusoe novel. In fact, the difference is so
marked that those who first examined it were dis-
posed to set it down as a posthumous product, if not
an arrant fraud. The proprietor of the book-stall
in Edinburgh, where it was found, says there is no
question that it was among papers turned out of an
old chest which had reposed many years in the loft
of the cottage in Canonmills, where John Selkirk,
the great grand nephew, lived and died. That is as
far as authentication goes.
Why the joint manuscript should have been dis-
carded is easy to conjecture. There is in the orig-
inal (if it be so) a distinct absence of the religious
homily which, mingled with the adventure, did much
to make the published Crusoe story so acceptable
to the public. In this early collaboration the stress
is laid on the economic problem of an individual in
Selkirk's situation. To him his island world be-
came an economic microcosm wherein he found, re-
duced to simplest terms, all the elements of the prob-
lems which make up the economics of the most elab-
orate civilization. Every new experience on his
island contributed something to his analysis and
conclusions, and it is these analyses and conclusions,
instead of the religious homiletics, which make up
the background of this earlier work.
In 1719 Defoe needed money. His activities as
a political pamphleteer had landed him in Newgate.
The Tory members of the House of Parliament had
caused his works to be burned at the hands of the
common hangman, and he, poor man, had been
made to stand in the pillory. The publication of
Selkirk's economic heresies—for they no doubt
would have been so regarded in that more ignor-
ant age—certainly would have added to troubles
which were already quite sufficient. So Defoe ap-
parently decided to discard what he may have looked
upon as Selkirk's rather tiresome economic views,
and by adding adventure and flavor of that brand
of piety most likely to be approved, to secure for
his literary product a more ready market.
The sale of "Crusoe" justifies Defoe's business
judgment, for the proceeds met all immediate needs
and furnished a comfortable settlement for the re-
mainder of his life.
Gilson Gardner.
ROBINSON CRUSOE
By Daniel Defoe and Alexander Selkirk
CHAPTER I EXTRACTS FROM CRUSOE'S JOURNAL
Note: In some respects this MSS. is identical with
the novel as first published. The editor has thought
best, therefore, to avoid tedious duplication, giving the
story only in briefest outline and setting out at large
those comments and conclusions in which this work
differs from the one so well known to all.
September so, 16$q.
I, poor, miserable Robinson Crusoe, being ship-
wrecked during a terrible storm in the offing,
came on shore on this dismal, unfortunate island,
which I called the Island of Despair; all the rest of
the ship's company being drowned, and myself al-
most dead.
All the rest of that day I spent in afflicting my-
self at the dismal circumstances I was brought to,
namely, I had neither food, house, clothes, weapon
nor place to fly to, and in despair of any relief, saw
nothing but death before me, either that I should
be devoured by wild beasts, murdered by savages
or starved to death for want of food. At the ap-
proach of night I slept in a tree for fear of wild
creatures, but slept soundly, although it rained all
night.
October i.—In the morning I saw to my great
surprise the ship had floated with the high tide and
was driven on shore again much nearer the island.
I hoped if the wind abated I might get on board and
get some food and necessaries out of her for my
relief. At length the weather permitting I went
upon the sand as far as I could and swam on board.
As it turned out the quarter was free and all that
was in that part was dry; for you may be sure my
first work was to search and see what was spoiled
and what was free; and first I found that all the
ship's provisions were dry and untouched by the
water: and being very well disposed to eat I went
to the bread room and filled my pockets with bis-
cuits, and ate them as I went about other things.
From 1st of October to the 24th.—All these days
spent in making several voyages with the raft I had
constructed to get all I could out of the ship, which
I brought on shore every tide of flood. Much rain
also these days, though with some intervals of fair
weather, for it seems this is the rainy season.
In my labors at plundering the ship I first got
three seamen's chests which I opened and emptied
and lowered on my raft. The first I filled with pro-
visions, namely bread, rice, three Dutch cheeses, five
pieces of dried goat's flesh, which we lived much
upon, and a little remainder of European corn
which had been laid by for some fowls which we
brought to sea with us; but the fowls were killed.
There had been some barley and wheat together but
to my great disappointment I found that the rats
had eaten or spoiled it all.
Next I started rummaging for clothes, of which
I found enough, but took no more than I wanted
for present use, for I had other things which my
eye was more upon, as first, tools to work with on
shore, and it was after long searching that I found
out the carpenter's chest which, indeed, was a very
useful prize to me and much more valuable than a
shipload of gold would have been at that time. I
got it down to my raft, even whole as it was, with-
out losing time to look into it, for I knew in general
what it contained.
My next care was for ammunition and arms.
There were two very good fowling pieces in the
great cabin and two pistols; these I secured first,
with some powder horns and a small bag of shot
and two old rusty swords. I knew there were bar-
rels of powder in the ship but knew not where our
gunmen had stored them; but with much search I
found them, two of them dry and good, the third
had taken water; those two I got to the raft with
the arms.
With many pains and to my utmost delight this
cargo was at last got safely to shore and unloaded
on the beach, where with sails and stakes I made
all safe and dry.
On subsequent voyages to the ship with my raft
I succeeded in bringing away many things which
later proved of great use. Among these were a
grindstone, three bags full of nails and spikes, a
great screw jack, a dozen or two of hatchets. From
the gunner's stores I got two iron crows, two bar-
rels of musket balls, a large bag full of small shot
and a great roll of sheet lead. Besides these things
I took all the men's clothes I could find, a spare
fore topsail, hammock and some bedding.
By now I had discovered that the land on which
I was cast away was indeed an island, for on the
second day, taking the fowling piece and pistols, I
traveled for discovery to the top of a hill I had
observed not above a mile from where I was.
There I saw my fate, to my great affliction, namely,
that I was in an island environed every way with
the sea, no land to be seen except some rocks which
lay a great way off, and two small islands less than
this which lay about three leagues to the west.
I found also that the island was barren and as I
saw reason to believe uninhabited, except by wild
beasts, of which however I saw none. I saw an
abundance of fowls but knowing not their kinds
still concluded, and rightly, that many of them were
good for food. Also on going ashore, on landing
my first raft-load, I saw sitting on a seaman's chest
a creature which was like a cat, which sat and
looked me full in the face. And when I threw her a
biscuit she ate it and made as if she would have
had more; but not caring to spare from my store
for such a purpose, she presently trotted off.
What to do with myself at night I knew not, nor
indeed where to rest, for I was afraid to lie down
on the ground, not knowing but some wild beast
might devour me, though, as I afterward found,
there was no need for such fears.
However, as well as I could I spread one of the
sails for a tent and barricaded myself round with
the chests and boards that I had brought on shore
and made a kind of hut for those nights' lodging.
As for water I had already discovered that there
were streams of fresh water in abundance and I
had no difficulty in bringing down a fowl, which
was all that could be desired.
Still laboring at plundering the ship, for I knew
I must avail of the calm and auspicious weather,
after I had gathered up all I could move of cables,
hawsers, with the sprit sail-yard, the mizen yard
and all the iron work I could move, I came upon a
locker with drawers in it in which I found two
razors, a pair of scissors, with some ten or a dozen
of good knives and forks; in another I found about
thirty-six pounds value in money, some European
coin, some Brazil, some pieces of eight, some gold
and some silver.
I smiled to myself at the sight of the money*
"Oh, drug!" said I aloud, "What art thou good
for? Thou art not worth to me—no, not the tak-
ing off the ground. One of those knives is worth
all this heap; I have no manner of use for thee;
ever remain where thou art and go to the bottom
as a creature whose life is not worth saving!" However, upon second thought I took it away and
wrapping all this in a piece of canvas, I began to
think of making another raft.
That night I lay in the little tent I had erected
on the shore, very secure with all my wealth about
me. It blew very hard all night and in the morning
when I looked out, behold, no more ship was to be
seenl
My thoughts now were wholly employed about
securing myself against either savages, if they
should appear, or wild beasts, if any were in the
island; and I had many thoughts of the method how
to do this and what kind of a dwelling to make—•
whether I should make a cave in the earth, or a tent
upon the earth, and, in short, I resolved upon both,
the manner and description of which it may not be
improper to give an account of.
I consulted several things in my situation which
I found would be proper for me:—First, health
and fresh water; secondly, shelter from the heat
of the sun; thirdly, security from ravenous crea-
tures, whether man or beast; fourthly, a view to the
sea, that if God sent any ship in sight I might not
lose any advantage for my deliverance, of which
I was not willing to banish all my expectations yet.
In search for a proper place for this, I found a
little plain on the side of a rising hill, whose front
toward this plain was steep as a house-side, so that
nothing could come down upon me from the top;
14
on the side of this rock there was a hollow place
worn a little way in, like the entrance or door of a
cave, but there was not really any cave or way into
the rock at all.
On the flat of the green just before this hollow
place, I resolved to pitch my tent; this plain was
not above a hundred yards broad, and about twice
as long and lay like a green before my door and
at the end of it descended irregularly every way
down into the low grounds by the sea. It was on
the northwest side of the hill, so that I was sheltered
from the heat every day until it came to a west and
by south sun, or thereabouts, which in those coun-
tries is near setting.
Before I set up my tent I drew half a circle be-
fore the hollow place, which took in about ten yards
in its diameter from its beginning and ending. In
this half circle I pitched two rows of strong stakes,
driving them into the ground till they stood very
firm, like piles, the biggest end being out of the
ground about five feet and a half, and sharpened
on the top. The two rows did not stand above six
inches from one another. These I laced with cables
taken from the ship and braced inside until it was
so strong that neither man nor beast could get into
or over it. This cost me a great deal of time and
labor, especially to cut the poles in the woods,
bring them to the place and drive them into the
earth.
And it was while engaged in this work that I
began to ponder and to ask myself certain ques-
tions, such as Why does man work? Is work a
blessing or a curse? And could there be a world
in which man might not work? And the only an-
swers which I found at hand were these: That
man works to secure his food, or to shelter him-
self against the elements or against ravenous beasts
or other men, as even I now was doing; that the
vigor of exercise and the increased circulation of
the blood bring about an uplifted physical sense
which in a manner resembled the pleasures of intox-
ication, though it differed from that produced by
wine in that there are no ill effects following, but
on the contrary a restful relaxation which is quite
unknown to those who lead a sedentary life. But
as to why all men are not engaged throughout the
world in constructing shelters from the elements, as
I was doing here, I did not at once perceive.
The entrance to my shelter yard I made to be not
by a door but by a short ladder to go over the
top, which ladder when I was in I lifted over after
me. And so I was completely fenced in and forti-
fied as I thought from all the world and conse-
quently slept secure at night; though it afterward
appeared there was no need for all this caution from
the enemies that I apprehended danger from.
Into this stockade I brought, with infinite labor,
all my riches, my provisions, ammunitions, stores
and plunder from the ship and I spread a sail so as
to make a tent, which with a tarpaulin I made
double and hung a hammock for a bed, and so was
in all ways very comfortable.
When I had done this I began to work my way
into the rock, and bringing all the earth and stones
I dug down, piled them about my fence in the na-
ture of a terrace. And the rock proved to be of
a soft texture most easily dug into, so that with the
labor of many days I dug out an excellent cave,
which served me like a cellar to my house. And
here I stowed my most precious things, but not my powder, for the thought came to me during a fright-
ful thunderclap: What if my powder should be,
ignited! For it was the means for my defense and
my food. So thereupon I divided it into almost a
hundred small parcels, which I placed in holes in
rocks and places which I carefully marked.
And while thus engaged I was busied with the
thought of the helplessness of man without some in-
strument of invention and precision in his hand.
Without a gun what would I do? Or having fire-
arms and no powder, how equally helpless! Fowl
there might be all about me, but how could I bring
them to hand? Stones I could not hurl with suffi-
cient accuracy to bring them down. For the little
store of meat, the dried goat's flesh, I was indebted
to other men who had bred or killed the goats. And
I set about conjecturing what would happen to me
when my ship stores of food were exhausted. Of
which I had much of interest later to relate.
In the interval of time when building my forti-
fication and digging the cave I went out once every
day with my gun, as well to divert myself as to see
if I could kill anything for food and to acquaint
myself with what the island produced. The first
time I went out I presently discovered that there
were goats in the island, which was a great satis-
faction to me, and though I found them shy, sub-
tle and swift of foot, I was able in time to get near
enough to shoot them. Though I did not know it at
the time, I found in later years that the presence
of these goats was a happening of pure chance, they
being the descendants of a herd brought to the is-
land about an hundred years before by a Spanish
pilot who was the discoverer of the island and who
tried to colonize it, but being unable to secure title
or the protection of his government, was compelled
to leave the place with those he had brought with
him.
The first time I came within shooting distance
of the goats I brought down a she goat which had
a little kid by her which she gave suck to, which
grieved me heartily; but when the old one fell the
kid stood stock still by her till I came and took her
up, and not only so but when I carried the old one
with me on my shoulders, the kid followed me quite
to my enclosure; so I took it into my enclosure and
hoped to bring it up tame, but I had no milk and
it could not eat, so I was forced to kill it. These
furnished me with food for some time and the
happening furnished me with an idea which I later
carried out, namely, to lame a young she goat and,
having captured her, to tame and breed her. But it
was only after I had thought to dig a pit-fall and
trap the goats in a place I knew they were soon to
go that my plan was carried to success.
Of which I will have more to say at the proper
time. For the present there were other things which
more pressingly demanded thought and labor.
I have spoken of my habitation as the Island of
Despair, and so it seemed those melancholy days
when I looked about me and finding all my com-
panions drowned and myself likely to be destroyed
by beasts or savages or to die for want of food,
saw in the land a place for my imprisonment and
in the sea a barrier from all a man most cherishes
in this world. But every day as it passed had
served in part to allay my fears, and in part to dis-
close to me some aspects of my surroundings which
in my violence of grief I had overlooked. Being
on the southerly side of the equator the fall months
of October were here spring and soon after my ar-
rival I found nature taking on her most gracious
forms. And this matter of the season was favor-
able to me also because here in the months of July
and August the nights are cold so that one wants
fire and shelter and occasionally it happens that
there are slight touches of the frost and a flurry
now and then of snow. But in the spring and sum-
mer months my tent was ample shelter and I had
20
time to prepare and to lay up a few stores for the
more stormy days.
And as my mind became more composed and I
had eyes to see the beauties which were spread be-
fore me I apprehended that the place was filled
with graceful charms. So impressed was I with
them that I took the trouble to write down in the
diary which I had maintained while ink and paper
lasted, the following description:
"The woods which cover most of the steepest
hills are free from all bushes and underwood and
offer an easy passage through every part of them,
and the irregularities of the hills and precipices in
the northern part of the island necessarily trace by
their various combinations a great number of ro-
mantic valleys, most of which have a stream of the
clearest water running through them, that tumbles
into cascades from rock to rock as the bottom of the
valleys by the course of the neighboring hills is at
any time broken into a sudden sharp descent. Some
particular spots occur in these valleys, where the
shade and fragrance of the contiguous woods, the
loftiness of the overhanging rocks, and the trans-
parency and frequent falls of the neighboring
streams present scenes of such elegance and dig-
nity as are but rarely paralleled in any other part
of the globe. It is on this place, perhaps, that the
simple productions of unarrested nature may be said
to excel all the fictitious descriptions of the most an-
imated imagination."
The above was written some eighteen months af-
ter my landing on the island. By that time having
food in abundance, a climate healthy and pleasant,
producing also by reason of the labor I was con-
strained to perform a bodily vigor I had before not
known, I found under the serene sky and temper-
ate air that my life was like, as it were, a continual
feast. I began to take delight in everything about
me, being as happy now as I had before been miser-
able. I ornamented my abode with fragrant
branches cut from the spacious wood near which
it was situated and in this delicious bower, resting
from labor or the chase, fanned with such soft
breezes as the poets tell of, I had repose which was
equal to the most exquisite sensual pleasures.
But before I arrived at a state of mind to enjoy
all these sendings of Providence I had many prob-
lems to solve. Notwithstanding all the things I
had gathered from the wreck there were a few
things whose lack I greatly felt. There was no
shovel to dig with or to remove the earth; I also
lacked a spade, a pick-axe and needles, pins and
thread. As for linen I had in the beginning some,
but soon learned to want that without much diffi-
culty. A fire I produced in the primitive fashion by
rubbing together two pieces of wood of sufficient
hardness with vigor for a long time, but in the be-
ginning I lacked a place for my fire, a spit and some-
thing to pass for an oven in which I might bake
a substitute for the bread I had from the ship
stores, but which would not last forever.
Meantime to keep track of the days and the
months I had set up a large post on the shore where
I had landed and making it with another piece in
the form of a cross cut in it every day a notch with
my knife and every seventh notch was as long again
as the rest so that I might not forget the Sabbath
from the working days, and I inscribed upon it the
30th of September, 1659, the day I landed on this
island. And I divided the months with a still longer
notch and each year from the other.
And now I began to apply myself to make such
necessary things as I found I most wanted, particu-
larly a chair and a table, for without these things
I was not able to enjoy the few comforts I had in
this world. I could not write or eat or do several
things with so much pleasure without a table.
So I went to work; and here I must needs ob-
serve that as reason is the substance and original
of the mathematics, so by stating and squaring
everything by reason and by making the most ra-
tional judgment of things, every man may be in
time master of every mechanical art. I had never
handled a tool in my life, and yet in time, by labor,
application and contrivance, I found at last that
I wanted nothing but I could have made it, after
a fashion, especially if I had had tools; however,
I made abundance of things without tools, or with
simple tools and some with no more tools than an
adze or a hatchet, which perhaps were never made
that way before, and that with infinite labor. For
example, if I wanted a board I had no other way
but to cut down a tree, set it on edge before me
and hew it flat on either side with my axe till I
had brought it to be as thin as a plank and then
dub it smooth with my adze. It is true by this
method I could make but one board out of a tree;
but this I had no remedy for but patience, any
more than I had for the prodigious deal of time and
labor which it took me to make a plank or board;
but my time and labor were of little worth, and so
they were as well employed one way as another.
However, I made me a table and a chair, as I
observed above, out of short pieces of plank I had
brought from the ship; but when I had wrought out
some boards I made large shelves of the breadth of
a foot and a half one over the other all along one
side of the cave, to lay all my tools, nails and iron
work, and, in a word, to separate everything at large
in their places, that I might come easily at them.
I knocked pieces into the wall of rock to hang my
guns and all things that would hang up. So that
had my cave been to be seen, it looked like a general
magazine of necessary things. And I had every-
thing so ready at my hand that it was a great pleas-
ure to me to see all my goods in such order and
especially to see all my stock of necessaries so great.
While exploring one day with my gun in the southern end of the island I came upon a variety of fruits such as I had seen none of in the part wherein I dwelt and particularly I found melons on the ground and grapes upon the trees; the vines had spread indeed over the trees and the clusters of grapes were just in their prime, very ripe and rich. This was a surprising discovery and I was glad of them, and later I found an excellent use for these grapes and that was to cure or dry them in the sun and keep them as dried grapes or raisins are kept, which I thought would be, as indeed they were, as wholesome and as agreeable to eat, when no grapes might be had. And I found here also an abundance of cocoa trees, oranges and lemons and citron trees, all wild and few bearing any fruit. However, the green limes were very wholesome and mixed with water made a drink which was most refreshing, and later I found trees with ripe lemons on them.
I resolved to lay up a store but on trying to
26
carry them the long distance to my cave or tent I
found when I arrived there that the grapes had
bruised and spoiled and of the limes I had but few.
And when I returned the next day those I had piled
up were spoiled and scattered by some animal, prob-
ably the goats, which roamed these parts. So I
gathered more of the grapes and this time hung
them on the branches of the trees where they would
cure in the sun and when I came again after a
number of days found them perfectly dried and in-
deed were excellent good raisins of the sun. So I
took them down from the trees and I was very
happy that I did so for the rains which followed
would have spoiled them and I had lost the best
part of my winter food; for I had above two hun-
dred bunches of them.
On the 26th of August of this year I found a
large tortoise and later I found there were many
on the opposite side of the island; and I found their
eggs as well as their flesh a great addition to my
diet. The eggs like my meat I broiled as I had no
dish in which to stew or to make a broth.
When confined to my tent by the long and copious
rains I found employment in attempting if it were
possible to make myself a basket, and it proved of
advantage to me now that when I was a boy I used
to take great delight in standing at a basket maker's
in the town where my father lived to see them make
their wickerware, and being as boys are very offi-
cious to help and a great observer of the manner
how they worked those things, I had by this means
so full knowledge of the method of it that I wanted
nothing but the materials, which on the island were
easily found, certain of the young branches proving
as tough as the sallows and willows and osiers of
England. And with these I contrived with time and
patience to make a great many baskets both to carry
earth, or to carry or lay up anything as I had occa-
sion, and though I did not finish them very hand-
somely yet I made them sufficiently serviceable for
my purpose and I had strong, deep baskets to place
my corn in instead of sacks when I should come to
have any quantity of it.
Now as to this matter of corn I had seen from
the start that there would in time be an end of the
biscuits taken from the wreck and what to do for
bread when they were gone gave me some concern.
I am a poor botanist and I had hunted among the
growing things of the island for some substitute
for bread such as the natives are said to use, but
with no success. And it was while deeply ponder-
ing what to do that the answer came to me as by the
merest accident. For I have spoken of the little bag
of spoiled rice and barley which the rats had
gnawed. This, it appears, was the remnants I had
shaken out on a spot near my landing place, not
realizing that amid the chaff there were a few grains
still surviving whole. But one day after the rains
had come I came upon new and different blades of
green shooting from the ground which I recognized
as from my corn and at once I set about to harbor
it by all means in my power. I made a hedge about
the place to protect it from the goats which I had
tamed and were now accustomed to browse about
my dwelling, and later on I had a greater danger to
overcome, for as the young grain ripened I found
the birds gathered about in great numbers ready to
save me any trouble in the harvesting thereof. So
angered was I at seeing them that I let fly with my
gun and brought down three, which I treated after
the manner felons are served in England, for I hung
them in chains as a warning to their fellows; and
to my intense relief the birds were so alarmed that
they flew off and abandoned all that side of the
island and would not return while my scarecrows
so remained. And the first season I got but a peck
or so of rice and the same of barley, which I kept
and sowed on a larger space which I hedged and
dug up with a wooden shovel which had to do for
an iron spade. And the next crop was a total of
perhaps five bushels, all of which I kept for seed
and the seasons favored for it is possible in this lat-
itude to get two crops the year by sowing in the
early part of the rainy months and allowing the
crop to ripen, as the dryness and the warmth in-
crease. So with the increase of my store of grain
I began to think of how I might prepare it when
I should have enough to spare for food. And I
was perplexed for I neither knew how to grind nor
to make meal of my corn, nor indeed how to clean
it and part it; nor, if made into meal how to make
bread of it, and if how to make it, I knew not how
to bake it. These things being added to my desire
of having a good quantity for store, I resolved
not to taste any of this crop but to preserve it all
for seed against the next season and to employ all
my study and hours of working to accomplish this
great work of providing myself with corn and
bread.
It might be truly said that I now worked for my
bread. It is a little wonderful, and what I believe
few people have thought much upon, namely the
Strange multitude of little things necessary in the
providing, procuring, curing, dressing, making and
furnishing this one article of bread.
I who was reduced to a mere state of nature
found this to be my daily discouragement, and was
made more and more sensible of it every hour, evert
after I got the first handful of seed corn which, as
I have said, came up unexpectedly and indeed to my
surprise.
First, I had no plow to turn the earth, no spade
or shovel to dig it. But this I conquered by making
a wooden spade; but this did my work but in a
wooden manner, and made the work much harder.
When the seed was sowed I had no harrow but
was forced to go over it myself and drag a heavy
bough of a tree over it, to scratch the earth as it may
be called, rather than rake or harrow it.
When it was growing or grown I have observed
already how many things I wanted, to fence it,
secure it, mow or reap it, cure or carry it home,
thresh, part it from the chaff and save it. Then
I wanted a mill to grind it, sieves to dress it, yeast
and salt to make it into bread and an oven to bake
it in. And all these things I did without, as shall
be observed; and yet the corn was an inestimable
advantage to me, too.
It was quite by accident that I learned to make a
vessel that would stand the fire—the need of which
I have spoken of. I had been fashioning crude ves-
sels and pipkins in clay, in the hope of coming at
something which when wrapped with basketry
would hold my grain, when I found in the ashes of
my fire a piece of the broken clay baked hard and
red. This set me to experiment and after various
trials in increasing and slackening the heat of a
great fire which I built up around my mud-pie ves-
sels, I found that they did not crack or run but came
out after many hours as hard burnt as could be de-
sired and one of them perfectly glazed with the run-
ning of the sand, my joy was like that of some great
artist who sees before him the creation of his gen-
ius. Hardly did I have patience to stay till they
were cold before I set one upon the fire again with
some water in it to boil me some meat which it did
admirably well, and with a piece of kid I made
some very good broth, even though I lacked the oat-
meal.
As for a mill to grind my corn I did not aspire to
that but sought out a great block of hard wood, as
big as I had strength to move, and this I rounded
and formed outside with my axe and hatchet and
then with the help of fire and infinite labor made a
hollow place in it, after which I made a great heavy
pestle or beater of iron-wood. And this was my
mill. And for a sieve I made several small ones
out of some calico neck-cloths which were among
the seamen's clothes.
And for an oven I made earthen vessels, burnt
in the fire two feet wide and nine inches deep and
when I wanted to bake I made a great fire upon
the hearth which I had paved with some square
tiles of my own making and burning also, and when
the firewood was burnt pretty much to embers or
live coals I drew them forward upon this hearth
so as to cover it all over and when the hearth was
very hot, sweeping away the embers I set down my
loaf and whelming down the earthen pot upon them
drew the embers all around the outside to keep in
and add to the heat; and thus, as well as in the best
oven in the world, I baked my barley loaves, and
became in a little time a good pastry cook into the
bargain. As for yeast or salt I did not concern
myself with them and learned to do well without.
For companionship I had these days the dog which
had leaped from the ship the first day I visited the
wreck, the several goats which I had caught and
tamed and which browsed about my tent-cave hab-
itation, and a parrot which also I had knocked down
and tamed and which in time learned to speak,
namely, to call me by name and to say, "Crusoe,
poor old Robinson Crusoe!" Nor should I omit
the cats, for the ship's cat came to me one day a
few months after I had landed and brought with
her a train of kittens which in time again began
to multiply to such numbers that they were a nui-
sance and some had to be killed and others driven
off. My dog, who lived to be very old, was always
at my side. He never lacked in sympathy or ap-
parent understanding of what I said to him and
did all but answer me with words. I talked often to
the dog, for in such solitude there is a comfort even
in the sound of one's own voice.
My days I arranged after a systematic manner.
In the morning generally I went abroad with my
34
gun to shoot a fowl, a duck or a pigeon; or I ran-
sacked the rocks where their nests were made to se-
cure the young or their eggs. Or I might shoot
a young goat or happen on a tortoise, or get fresh
grapes, melons or cress, of which there was abun-
dance in the stream. During the heated spell I
rested in the shade of my tent during the middle
of the day and went abroad again or to my work in
the cooler part. In one of the seamen's chests I
had found some books, three Bibles and some works
on navigation. These I studied and the Bible I be-
gan to read with a renewed interest. The bitterness
and despair which had filled my soul when first I
found myself alone and cast away forever cut off
from the companionship of other human beings—
this bitterness I say had quite abated and I gave
humble thanks that God had been pleased to dis-
cover to me even that it was possible I might be
more happy in this solitary condition than I should
have been in a liberal society, and in all the pleas-
ures of the world.
So in time, in dividing the day for my employ-
ments, I began with the reading of the Scriptures,
and with this I permitted nothing to interfere.
Then coming in from the three hours spent in hunt-
ing, there were the labors attendant upon the order-
ing, curing, preserving and cooking what I had
killed or caught for my supply. These took up
a considerable part of the day, so there was none
too much time remaining for the laborious tasks
which had to be performed.
About the fourth year of my sojourn on this
island my clothes began to decay mightily, so that
I began to consider about putting the few rags I
had which I called clothes into some order. For I
could not bear the thought of being naked, though
I was all alone. And there was another and excel-
lent reason for wishing to be covered, for I found
by experience that I could not bear the heat so well
naked as with some clothes on—nay, the very heat
frequently blistered my skin, whereas with a shirt
on, or some covering, even though thick, the air
itself made some motion and whistling under the
shirt, was twofold cooler than without it. No more
could I ever bring myself to go out in the heat of
the sun without a cap or hat, the heat of the sun
beating with such violence as it does in that place
would give me the headache presently by darting so
directly on my head.
So I fell to tailoring or rather indeed a-botching,
for I made most piteous work of it. Lacking need-
les and thread, I raveled my stockings, which I had
worn, and for needle used a nail which I had sharp-
ened. But soon I gave up trying to mend the rags
and turned attention to the skins of various animals
I had killed. For these I had preserved stretched
out with sticks in the sun, and some were soft and
useful. First I made a great cap for my head with
the hair on the outside to shut off the rain and this
I performed so well that I made a suit of clothes
wholly of these skins—that is to say a waistcoat
and breeches open at the knees, and both loose, for
they were wanted rather to keep me cool than to
keep me warm. I must not omit to acknowledge
that they were wretchedly made; for if I was a bad
carpenter I was a worse tailor; however, they were
such as I made a very good shift with, and when I
was abroad if it happened to rain, the hair of the
waistcoat and cap being outmost, I was kept very
dry.
And after this I spent a great deal of my time
and pains to make an umbrella. I was indeed in
great want of one what with rain and sun. There
were many spoiled before I had my way. It was
covered with skins, hair upwards, so that it cast off
the rain like a tenthouse and kept off the sun so ef-
fectively that I could walk out in the hottest of the
weather with greater advantage than I could before
in the coolest. And when I had no need of it I
could close it and carry it under my arm.
Thus I lived mighty comfortably, my mind being
entirely composed by resigning to the will of God
and throwing myself wholly upon the disposal of
His providence. And when I began to regret the
want of conversation, I found a substitute in ask-
ing myself all manner of difficult and confusing
questions and thereupon setting about answering
them—formulating the answer clearly and in con-
formity with truth and reason. And many prob-
lems which before I had not had time to work out to
any conclusion I was able thus to solve quite to
my own satisfaction, of which I shall at the proper
time have more to say.
And my chief task in the fifth year of my resi-
dence in these parts, outside the yearly planting and
harvesting and the daily hunting, curing, preparing
and cooking, was the building of a canoe, which I
did after the manner of the natives who hew them
out of great logs of some light wood, easily worked
and hollowed out by tools and fire. This with much
labor was finally completed and by building a canal
up to the boat was set afloat. So I was ready to
explore the seas in the direction of those lands or
islands which on clear days I had descried to the
South, but knew not what they were or if inhabited
by man or beasts or savages. But I was curious
to know.
I had now brought my state of life to be much
easier in itself than it was at first, and much easier
to my mind as well as to my body. I frequently
sat down to my meat with thankfulness and admired
the hand of God's providence, which had thus spread
my table in the wilderness.
One reflection was of great use to me, namely,
to compare my present condition with what I at
first expected it to be—nay, with what it certainly
would have been—if the good providence of God
had not wonderfully ordered the ship to be cast up
near to the shore where I not only could come at
her, but could bring what I got out of her to the
shore for my relief and comfort; without which I
had wanted tools to work, weapons for defense or
gunpowder and shot for getting food.
I spent whole hours, I may say whole days, in representing to myself in the most lively colors how I must have acted, if I had gotten nothing out of the ship; how I could not have so much as got my food,
except fish and turtles, and that as it was long be40
fore I found any of them I must have perished
first—that I should have lived if I had not perished,
like a savage—that if I had killed a goat or a fowl
by any contrivance, I had no way to flay or open
them, or part the flesh from the skin and the bowels
or cut it up; but must gnaw it with my teeth and
pull it with my claws, like a beast.
And I passed from these reflections to consider-
ing what man owes to his fellow-man and how de-
pendent, one upon the other, is every human being
in the world. For the tools which I took from the ship, I now bethought me, did not come into being
of themselves, but were themselves worked out by
the labor of workmen like myself, only knowing
more of the arts and crafts. The axe which I used
to chop down a tree—to make it men must have dug
iron from the earth, others must have smelted the
metal from the dross, still others must have jarred it
through the tempering process to give it a hardened
edge, to say nothing of the fashioning it into shape
and fitting it to a suitable helve. And now every-
thing among my possessions from the ship began
to take on a new interest and a dignity which before
were unknown. An ordinary bit of sailcloth I found
to be a quite wonderful contrivance of threaded
hemp or cotton regularly interlaced in a way which
I could never hope to imitate. My powder—of
what was it composed? Whence came the ingre-
dients? Were they dug, distilled or concocted by
some abstruse chemist's formula? How many per-
sons had labored with their hands and brains to pro-
duce the little store which I had harbored up for my
future needs? And the gun I always carried—
again the metal must be dug from the rock below
the surface of the earth, it must be smelted and
worked with tools which in turn were the creations
of still others' work. The levers, bolts and screws
which worked the lock and caused the flint to strike
the steel—all the contriving and creating were to me
reminders of my debt to other men. I had become
an artisan, and I hailed my fellow artisans and su-
periors in the world of artisanry and made them my
obeisance. Before I had thought of a knife or a
gun as articles one bought, getting money for the
purpose as one might; now I thought of them in
terms of labor, skill and creative thought—all per-
formed for me, and the which, by all rights, I
should return in kind.
Thus I came upon the answer to that question
which, at first, had puzzled me: Why does man
work? For I perceived that man works to acquire
the things he must have if he is to go on living—
food, clothing to protect him from the weather and
shelter for his increased protection.
I perceived, moreover, that strictly speaking, man
produceth nothing; but God has ordained that the
earth shall bear trees and other growing things;
and that the verdure and the fruits shall afford sup-
port to animals, wild or tame, and to birds of the
air, and that all these things are for man for his
food. But I perceived that none of these things
are acquired by man except by labor, for the tree
must be hewn and cut into boards, firewood or other
shapes; the fruit must be gathered and ofttimes pre-
served; grain must be sowed, reaped, ground and
made into loaves before it is fit for human food and
animals must be captured or killed if wild, or tend-
ed and bred if domesticated and, being killed, the
flesh must be saved and prepared with intricate care
before it becomes man's nourishment. And for the
doing of all these things there must be tools, and
for the making of the tools there must be labor at
mining, welding, moulding, grinding, tempering and
a hundred varied operations of which the average
person like myself knows nothing. And as tools
wear out or are broken there must be others to
take their place, so that there are always those en-
gaged in making tools. And as clothes wear out
and are thus consumed there are always those who
are working to make clothes; and as houses become
outworn, out of repair and antiquated, or become
too narrow for growing families, there must be new
houses built; so there are those working always at
erecting houses, whether of wood, stone or brick,
all of which materials must be ravished from the
forest, the quarry or the clay-pit. And I began to
see that the workers of the world were specialized.
For no one man can adequately do the many things
needful for the simplest mode of life. In my case
this was clearly manifest, for with all my industry
I was compelled to dress in skins, and despite my
utmost efforts I could not make a needle. If the
lightning had struck my small supply I would have
been sadly in need of a powder specialist, or if
the spring had snapped in the breech-lock of my
fowling piece, no thought or industry of mine would
have supplied the place of that specialist called a
gunsmith.
How helpless, I concluded, is man alone I Fa-
vored as I was by a mild and equable climate,
blessed in the absence of ravening beasts such as
tigers, bears or wolves; finding a veritable garden
of edible wild fruits, and a gracious soil and abun-
dant rain for the raising of agricultural products,
not forgetting the goats, turtles, fish and fresh flow-
ing streams—I say that even amid an environment
like this, and leaning heavily on the tools which I
had from the labor of other men, I was still shel-
tered in a manner which civilization would regard
as almost savage, while my raiment would have
brought a crowd at my heels if I were back among
my fellow-creatures. Nor did I consider myself
remiss; for to have it otherwise I must have been
able to spin and weave, to mine and smelt; to make
needles and gun-springs and powder; to quarry and
perform the work of masons, to shape great beams
and transport all over long spaces, all of which I
perceived is impossible for man laboring by himself.
By collective labor are great things done, and by
those who have specialized are the intricate things
wrought out.
And in the adventures which happened to me
later I saw these things in even a clearer light.
I have spoken of my efforts to make a boat by
digging out a log and shaping it in a way to float
well in the water. My first attempt had failed, for
that I had chosen a log so great that when I had
shaped and hollowed it I was unable to get it to the
water by reason of the distance and the weight.
My second attempt was made with better fore-
thought and while I found it necessary to dig a ca-
nal upward half a mile from the sea to my craft,
yet I diligently pursued the task for two years and
in the end had the satisfaction of viewing my handi-
work floating in my little inlet and ready to be out-
fitted. I was very anxious to explore about the
shores of my island and hoped with it to venture
to the mainland if indeed there should prove to be
a mainland at not too great a distance. In any
case it would, I thought, be the first step in my de-
liverance. So I fitted up a little mast to my boat
and made a sail to it out of one of the pieces of
the ship's sails, which lay in store and of which I
had a great store by me. Thus fitted I tried the
46
boat and found she would sail very well. Then I
made little lockers and boxes at each end to put pro-
visions, necessaries and ammunition in, to be kept
dry, either from rain or the spray of the sea, and a
little long hollow space I cut in the inside where
I could lay the gun, making a flap to hang down
over it to keep it dry. I fixed my umbrella in a
step at the stern, like a mast to stand over my head
and to keep the beating of the sun off me, like an
awning, and thus I every now and then took a
little voyage upon the sea, but never went far out,
nor far from the little creek; but at last, being
eager to view the circumference of my little king-
dom, I resolved upon a tour, and accordingly I
victualed my ship for the voyage, putting in two
dozen of my loaves of barley bread, an earthen
pot full of parched rice (a food I ate a great deal
of), a good supply of fresh water, half a goat and
powder and shot for killing more, and two large
watch coats which I had saved from the seamen's
chests; these I took, one to lie on and the other to
put over me at night.
It was the sixth of November in the sixth year of
my reign, or my captivity, which you please, that I
set out upon this voyage, and I found it longer than
I expected, for while the island was not very large
I found adverse winds the second day and was
obliged to make camp and wait for smoother seas.
On the following day, having resumed my voyage,
I came upon a great ledge of rocks running about
two leagues out to sea; some above water and some
below it, and beyond this a shoal of sand lying
dry half a league or more, so I was obliged to go a
great way out to sea to double that point.
My course from there should stand as a warning
to all rash and ignorant pilots, for no sooner was
I a quarter of a league from the shore than I found
myself in a great depth of water and a current like
the sluice of a mill. It carried my boat along with
such violence that all my efforts could not keep her
so much as on the current's edge; but I found it
hurried me farther and farther out to sea. There
was no wind stirring to help me and all I could do
with my paddles signified nothing. So now I be-
gan to give myself over for lost. Every moment
was carrying me farther from the island, I knew
not whither. My craft would not live in anything
but most favorable weather and if I had the good
fortune to have smooth seas my provisions would
last but a brief space and then I must perish of
hunger and thirst. Now I looked back on my deso-
late, solitary island as the most pleasant place in the
world, and all the happiness my heart could wish for
was to be there again.
I worked hard till indeed my strength was almost
exhausted, and I kept my boat as much as possible
to the northward, where I hoped not only to get out
of the force of the current but to get into the back
flow or eddy which such a current must somewhere
always have. By noon I thought I felt a little
breeze in my face springing from the southeast.
This cheered my heart a little and especially when
an hour later it blew a pretty small gentle gale. By
this time I had gotten a frightful distance from the
island, and had the least cloud or haze intervened
I had been undone, for I had no compass on board
and should never have known which way to steer
for the island. But the weather remaining clear,
I applied myself to getting up my mast again and
spread my sail, standing away to the north as much
as possible. And I had no sooner done so than I
saw by the clearness of the water that some altera-
tion of the current was near; for where the current
was so strong the water was foul; but perceiving
the water clear, I found the current abate and pres-
ently I found to the east, at about half a mile, a
breach of the sea upon some rocks. These I found
made a breach of the current's stream and while
the main stress of it continued to run southerly the
other returned and made a strong eddy which ran
back again to the northwest with a very sharp
stream.
I was now as one who, having been condemned,
had a reprieve. With unspeakable joy I put my
boat into the stream of this eddy and the wind also
freshening I spread my sail to it, running cheerfully
before the wind and with a strong tide or eddy un-
der foot. After about a league the eddy failed and
I was left to my sail alone, but the water now was
neutral and I kept on steering for the island and by
five o'clock in the afternoon I came to shore. At
once I fell on my knees and gave God thanks for my
deliverance, resolving to lay aside all thought of
my deliverance by my boat; and refreshing myself
with such things as I had, I brought my boat close
to the shore in a little cove I had espied under
some trees, and laid me down to sleep, being quite
spent with the labor and fatigue of the voyage.
And presently I was aroused by something hav-
ing touched me and awoke to see before me a man—
the first I had beheld in more than six years.
At first I was convinced that this was a dream
and that I was still asleep or in a fever. My first
impression was one of fear alone, for the unexpect-
edness of the apparition and the long habit of my
life alone had made the appearance of an ordinary
human being startling to the last extreme. I strug-
gled to my feet and would have fled, but the stran-
ger smiled and, laying hold of me urged me to be
calm. Such at least I judged to be the purport of
his words which, as I afterward learned, were spok-
en in Portuguese; but his gestures were reassuring
and from his clothing and general appearance I
placed him as a man of the sea, like myself. Pres-
ently I perceived that there were others and that
they had come in a small-sized sailing boat, which
now lay at anchor near the shore, and when I had
recovered from the fright and shock of this strange
awakening, you may imagine my eagerness and
joy at seeing again creatures of my kind and once
more hearing the human voice. Great was my joy
when a group had gathered quickly about me one
of them addressed me in English, with a touch of
the Yorkshire dialect. At the sound of my native
tongue my joy was too great for utterance and I
fell upon the Yorkshireman and embraced him, to
his great amazement; for they were all regarding
me and my strange attire with a curiosity and sur-
prise they made no effort to conceal. And in reply to my earnest questionings the York-
shireman informed me that they had come from
an island not unlike mine which was one of two
which lay to the west and south of me some eight
leagues and that this was the first time they had
ever landed on my island, which indeed to them
was a new discovery, for they were members of a
colony of political refugees who had taken part in
an uprising in Chili and had by the government
been exiled and set down on these islands, without
boats of sufficient size to make the voyage back to
the mainland and with orders never more to return
on pain of death. And the colony they told me now
numbered some fifty people and they had their
women among them and they had learned to live a
fairly comfortable life on the two islands—the
which were not far distant the one from the other—
and they had finally built this small sailing vessel
and gone exploring what might be farther to the
west. Thus they had come upon my domain and
me.
There were eight in the party which had come in
the little sailing boat to my island and I perceived
that they carried no firearms, though of knives in
their belts they had a-plenty, and I later learned that
their captors had purposely left them neither pow-
der nor firearms when they were deposited on their
island; and these they had not as yet been able to
produce on their own account, though afterward
the formula for making powder, together with the
necessary nitrolis and free carbon, were discovered.
Meantime I figured that with my gun and store of
ammunition I had an advantage over them, even
though I might be but one to their score. But these
thoughts did my visitors great injustice, for never
at any time did any but friendly thoughts enter
their minds and in the end I was ashamed even to
myself that I had momentarily dwelt upon my supe-
rior equipment to do them harm. For I found them
most friendly in their disposition and very eager to
relieve me in what they naturally inferred was a
condition of great distress. Several of the boatmen
53
could speak little English and the Yorkshireman
became at once interpreter for the others, who spoke
both Portuguese and Spanish. It seems a British
ship had gone ashore on the islands and the York-
shireman was one of three who had been saved and
he had now been five years with the Chilean refu-
gees.
I bade the visitors welcome to my island and
made myself a guide to show its various features.
I brought them to my cave and showed them, not
without pride, all the things I had contrived, not
forgetting to kill a kid and set before them, and
from my store of sun-cured grapes, turtle eggs and
barley loaves. In the latter and in the raisins they
were greatly interested, for there were no grapes
on their islands, nor for some unknown reason, cit-
rons. But the lack of barley was due to the fact
that they had been given none for seed by their
jailors who, on the contrary, left them only a small
quantity of maize, and this they had cultivated for
their bread, not without difficulty, however, owing
to the character of the islands, for these two other
islands were quite different from the one on which
I dwelt. When I visited them—as I did shortly as
their guest—I concluded that the geologic history
of the islands was quite diverse; for while mine
was obviously of volcanic origin, theirs was an older
sort of rock, carrying many of the features of the
continental rocks, with mineral beds of iron, coal
and a trace of the more precious metals. But their
islands were less arable. The rocks were bold and
hard and the level spaces narrow and difficult of
access. But withal I found their settlement quite
a picture of contentment. They had built some
thirty houses and there were several others scat-
tered at different points about the islands. Every
house had a garden belonging to it in which many
fruits and vegetables grew luxuriantly. The main
island, which they call Mas-a-fuera, is much Broken
with ravines and gulches, but there is in the midst
one main valley sheltered and inviting, where there
grew many fruit trees, flowers and sweet herbs.
In the midst of the houses there was built a little
church, with an inscription, "La casa de Dias es la
juerta del cielo y Se coloco."
The dress of the women I found to be of a singu-
lar description, and was, they told me, the same
as that of the ladies of Chili and Peru. They wore
a petticoat reaching only a little below the knee,
spread out to a great distance by a hoop at the lower
part, leaving their legs entirely exposed, which,
however, were covered with drawers. They wore
their hair long, hanging down the back and plaited
into forty and sometimes fifty braids. In every
house I entered I beheld great numbers of children,
and indeed other evidences of prosperity.
My visitors remained with me as my guests for
two days, and at the end of that time I sent them
away laden down with dried grapes, goat flesh,
barley loaves and flour. And they were very anx-
ious that I return with them at once to their
islands; but I made excuses to them promising to
visit them on their return voyage, as indeed I did
with observations which I have already set down.
And here I find it necessary to record a strange
thing—namely, my entire change of feeling toward
the island which had in the beginning been to me
a prison and my way of life which had been to my
thought a hardship. Now the island was my home,
and my way of life upon it had revealed to me that even solitude hath its pleasures. I had found,
that there is no such thing as perfect freedom, for
man is what God intended him the servant of laws
which environment impose on him, requiring reg-
ularity of toil, physical and mental, for such laws
require of him foresight and thrift like that of the
bee to lay up stores against the season when they
shall not be at hand, and diligence in devising ways
to protect his life against the elements and those
things which are enemies to his life not forgetting
sloth and dullness which is a close relative as well
as a precursor of death and dissolution. But also
I had found that man alone is more nearly free than
when man is compassed about by other human be-
ings, for in his every day contact with his fellow
creatures man must yield something of his indi-
vidual whims and bend to those common notions
which in time come to be the conventions of society,
and later on its laws. So when I analyzed myself
I found myself averse to taking up a permanent
residence in the colony whence my visitors had
come, but I preferred to remain on my own domain
interchanging friendship with them and such com-
modities and service as would tend to make the
conditions of life more desirable for all.
And so it was. And from this period I entered
on a new experience the relating of which will prove
no less interesting, I trust, than the experiences
which had led up to this new and strange adventure.
With the coming of these other human beings and
the setting up of contact with two more islands
my fiscal world was broadened. By fiscal world I
refer to the realm of those activities which have to
do with the satisfaction of man's needs and wants.
For I conceive that there is such a realm just as
there is an intellectual realm, or a physical. As in
the physical man exercises the faculties of his body,
and in the intellectual realm the faculties of his
mind, so in the fiscal realm he exercises the fiscal
faculties with which he chances to be endowed, pro-
ducing, owning, trading with his fellows and de-
veloping fiscal strength or weakness as the event
may determine.
To this conclusion I had come after much thought
during the many hours I had devoted to thinking
out the problems which my solitary life had imposed
on me. Of my solitary fiscal life—that in which
I was unaided by my fellow men (except what I
had gathered from the wreck) I have spoken. With
the coming of other human beings and the enlarging
58
of these relations there came new problems. Of
them and of the answers I resolved I shall speak
as my narrative proceeds.
On their return to my island which was as soon
as the weather and the state of the sea would per-
mit, for they durst not adventure much in so small
a boat—my neighbor colonists brought with them
a suit of clothes for me made of home-spun wool
woven by hand on looms which certain of their
women operated with skill, together with stockings
knit likewise by the women—all of wool, sheared
from sheep which they had raised and spun on
distaffs operated in their homes. Likewise there
was linen underwear, the need of which I had
greatly felt after the shirts from the ship had worn
out. This, too, was made of flax raised and shred-
ded on their island; for they had for a long time
been cut off from any communication with the
mainland and had only that which their skill and
industry had enabled them to create.
And my first thought was one of shame that I
had not been able to make cloth, spinning it from
the hair of my goats. But in this I blamed myself
without cause, for on inquiry I learned that several
in the colony had been weaver artisans and knew
the trade of weaving before ever they were set
down in this remote spot. So that when the neces-
sity was upon them, they had an experience to
draw upon and knew how to build a loom; and the
women had known how to spin and to knit, and
did not have to invent the art as I should have
had to do. They, in short, were specialists, and
were useful in contributing of their specialty to
the community's needs, while others furnished them
with the products of the soil or the trophies of the
chase.
Gladly, therefore, did I accept cloth from the
weavers, in exchange for the flour and raisins I
had sent them, and I perceived that both had prof-
ited by the exchange for they were equally glad
to have my offerings.
This, then, I concluded, is the function of ex-
change that man may have a greater variety of
useful articles; for different localities of the earth
produce different things; different men have diverse
skill and special knowledge, and when each follows
his specialty or adapts himself to the opportunities
held forth by nature, the total product is made more
diverse and of greater volume, and when exchange
has distributed to each his fair share there results
a larger measure of happiness and comfort than
there would have been had each attempted as I
had previously, and of necessity, tried to do, that
is to do all things for himself.
This time I sent my visitors home laden with
quantities of ripe lemons, grapes, and some goat
meat, and they in turn promised to bring with
them on their next trip tools and a couple of their
best carpenters with enough helpers to build a cot-
tage with sides of dressed boards, a thatched roof
and windows and a door fitted to open or shut.
And this they did. And as I watched their labor
I reasoned thus:
I, working by myself, was not able to build a
house. The beams were too heavy for my single
strength. Two men cooperating can lift a weight
impossible to one and six men with poles and levers
can accomplish wonders. It is because the men
cooperate—because a number are working together
toward a common end—that important things are
done.
And further I observed that one man appeared
to know more about the way the structure should
be built than the others, and this one led. The
others did as he directed, and they called him mas-
ter builder. But it was his superiority in knowing
how that made the others follow and him to give
the orders. There are those who know and those
who cooperate and are willing to take orders, and
this results in bringing the labor of many hands
and the thought of many minds to the accomplish-
ment of a common purpose.
Thus I had discovered in my fiscal world special-
ization, cooperation, and organization—three im-
portant methods employed by man to do man's
work, to do it better and in greater volume, where-
as by exchange the blessings are distributed most
widely.
My friends brought tools and sawed the logs into
boards, and thus two men in a saw-pit in a few
hours did the work and did it better than I had
taken days to do with my axe. And in a week
they worked out rafters and joists which would
have taken me a lifetime to hew. Indeed in ten
days they had builded me a house which would
have done credit to any village, the roof being
thatched with reed-grass—a simple thing I had not
had the wit to think about—and the windows hav-
ing shutters which in wind or storm could be closed,
and at one end a chimney with a walled-in space
at the side where hot cinders could be placed to
heat the space for baking.
And I paid them for their labor on my house
with one of my spare muskets and five pounds of
powder with balls to match. And this more than
satisfied them, so that they were eager to be of
further service to me.
Now I perceived that in one respect I was at a
disadvantage as compared with my neighbors in the
other islands, namely, they had cattle and likewise
barnyard fowl while I had only goats and the wild
fowl which I must bring down with my gun. So
on the next occasion I proposed that they exchange
with me a bullock and a heifer with two hens and
a cockerel for another musket and an equal quantity
of ammunition as I had given for my house. To
this they readily assented—a trade which to me
was excellent since it gave me in time a herd of
cattle for the upland pastures which on my island
were rich and spacious with abundant milk for
butter and cheese and beeves for food. And my
dooryard soon swarmed with fowl, which kept
me in good supply of eggs while there was always
a bird ready for the stew pot or the skewer.
But to the other parties the exchange was not
so profitable, for the powder was soon expended
and until more could be secured the musket was
purely ornamental.
Such, however, is the nature of exchange. Judg-
ment as well as chance oft enters in, and the for-
tunes of the trader rise or fall as he is favored
in the exercise of the one or the fortunate bestowal
of the other.
I soon felt that I was destined to become a person
of wealth; and how this worked out will subse-
quently appear.
Perceiving the great desire of my neighbors to
have more of my rice and barley, I was not slow
to plant more land in these crops.
Here, said I, is the working of that fiscal law
about which I have heard, the law of supply and
demand. Demand is made up of people's wants;
supply is made up of the ability and willingness to
satisfy those wants. These colonists want rice and
barley; I have these commodities in larger measure
than I need; I am in a position therefore to secure
for myself things which I desire by supplying their
demands for rice and barley. I shall secure new
and better tools, help in breaking the soil for my
crop, with further wool and linen.
In all these respects my anticipations were ful-
filled. But one day I received a lesson in the con-
trary working of this self-same principle; for I had
loaded my canoe for a trading voyage with the
other islands and had carried to the second island
some of the many hatchets which I have spoken of
as among the things rescued from the ship—these
65
and a quantity of turtle eggs which I that day gath-
ered. Imagine then my shame and disappointment
when I found that the colonists on the second island
had opened a small iron mine in the mountains, and
set up a smelter and were themselves makers of
axes and hatchets and other tools much finer than
those I brought; so that they laughed at these, while,
as for the turtle eggs, these abounded also on their
island to such a degree that the children were wont
to collect them for the barnyard fowls, but few
were eaten by the people.
Thus there was no demand for my cargo which
I was obliged to take back with me. True there
was a poor beggar among them who by physical
defects was unable to work who wanted a hatchet
and even the turtle eggs, but as he had nothing to
give in exchange his wants did not constitute a de-
mand in the sense which the world of business
knows that term; for demand is made up of both
a want and an ability to grant something of value
in exchange.
So by my failure to suit supply to demand I had
lost my labor and my time; but the loss had profited
me in the way of knowledge, for I now perceived
that when men live as neighbors and trade with
one another it behooves them to study to make
their service fit the needs and wants of their fellows
—in other words to suit supply to demand.
Moreover, if one man does not do this it is apt
to happen that another will; for the second man
will see the opportunity that the first has over-
looked. And likewise in the world of trade neither
party to the exchange is able to be overbearing in
his demands on the other, because a second or a
third will come along and by more reasonable offer
will take the exchange from the first man.
This I perceived when I went to the iron work-
ers' island to exchange barley-flour for a hammer.
I came upon three smiths all with hammers just
alike. The first demanded for his hammer a bushel
of barley-flour, the second offered his hammer for
half a bushel and the third said he would yield his
for a peck. From him I secured the hammer.
And I perceived here the working of the law of
competition. For the three competed one with an-
other and when the first was moved by greed to
demand an unfair amount for his hammer (for he
could make it in a day and it would take me a week
to even grind so much flour) the others interposed,
and one took the trade on a reasonable basis, showing how competition is a check on greed.
I saw the working of this principle on their side
of the exchange; but, alas, for the blindness of man
to his own shortcomings, I had presently to see a
different out-working of the same principle; for I
perceived one workman to have a saw which was
of most excellent workmanship and which I at once
coveted. But perceiving their lack of barley meal
I insisted that he let me have the saw for half a
peck of flour. I was about to get the saw when
the man who had sold me the hammer stepped up
and offered a whole peck for the saw; which the
owner at once accepted and I was left disappointed
and humiliated. For at once I realized that in this
case it was my greed which competition had checked;
for I had not offered a fair value for the saw.
And I thought much about the working of com-
petition, and I concluded that in general competition
tends to equalize the values of articles exchanged—
such values being measured in terms of the labor
necessary to produce the article and bring it to the
place where the exchange takes place.
But I perceived that there are times when there
can be no competition to be a check on greed, as
when I possessed the only musket to be had and
traded it for a fine new house. And at the begin-
ning of my intercourse with the colonists I pos-
sessed the only source of powder and therefore
might come very near to naming my own terms
for an exchange for this for their commodities.
But I could not quite do this for my powder was
a commodity they could live without. And I could
not refrain from some idle speculations as to how
great would have been my fiscal strength if this,
had been a commoditiy they must have to live, and
I with the only supply in the world. Then indeed
would I have been their king and they all my sub-
jects with their lives a forfeit except as I let them
live.
Even as things were the competition among them
as buyers of my barley meal soon placed me in a
position of great fiscal strength. For their maize
was not nourishing and was productive of a com-
mon skin disease which in some cases proved fatal,
so that they were all exceedingly anxious to get
some of my barley meal, so that I soon had them
bringing me stores of all the things they produced
and offering labor of any form in exchange for
small quantities of my flour.
Thus I learned that competition is an influence
which generally works on the two sides of an ex-
change; and that the effect of competition, so at
work, is to prevent the demand of an unreasonable
amount of return for what is given—to make, in-
deed, the exchange more fair.
But what takes place where there is an absence
of competition on one side of an exchange is seen
in the undue amounts I was enabled to demand
because I alone possessed the rice and barley which
my neighbors needed. For had there been others
near at hand having rice or barley, or who could
be reached even at a distance, the colonists would
have gone to them rather than render me a bolt of
cloth for a peck of flour, and other articles in pro-
portion. But there was none to compete with me
in the sale of these two needed foods, my fiscal
strength was overweening.
And what takes place when there is present on the other side of the exchange an excess amount
of competition I presently beheld also, for one day
7o
there came two men to buy rice. Neither had any
commodity to offer in exchange but both offered
to work for me at any employment I might put
them at in payment for a small quantity of grain.
And I bethought me of the weeds which were in
my rice field, which I had intended to pull out, and
I proposed to the first man that he work at weed-
ing for a day for a quart of rice. To this he readily
agreed, but when I informed the second man that
I did not need his labor, having weeds for but one
pair of hands, he showed much concern, and there-
upon informed me that he had eaten nothing since
the previous noonday meal and therefore would do
the same amount of weeding for half a quart of
rice.
To this I readily assented, though I perceived
that a hungry man competes unduly against one
who is not so moved.
And on the next day came a woman and offered
to do the weeding for less than the man, and after
her a neighbor with five children all of whom she
offered to weed all day for a quart of rice which at
once did away with the possibility that any men
might be employed in this labor.
Here, said I, is an instance of undue competition
weakening one side of the exchange. My bar-
gain with the first man was none too beneficial to
him; but he could not compete with the hungry
man, nor the latter with the woman, nor the latter
with the children. What they might have secured
from me was reduced by their under bidding one
against the other; whereas what I was enabled to
extort from them was increased. In the absence of
competition on my side of the exchange, I was
blessed with an ever increasing fiscal strength, while
on their side the growing eagerness of competi-
tors reduced their fiscal strength to a point where
they would gladly toil all their time for enough
food to enable them to go on toiling.
These people, I reasoned, are weak in a fiscal
sense (for they were mostly all of sturdy bodies)
because they have not a store of the necessities
laid by. It is because of their immediate needs
that I am able to take an unfair quantity in ex-
change. It is because they are unable to do with-
out the thing I have that they lack fiscal strength.
And I concluded that one element in fiscal
strength is the ability to do without what is offered
in exchange.
I was able to do without practically all the things
possessed by my neighbors. I had managed to live
quite comfortably before they came, doing all things
for myself, and I could do so again. Hence I was
not compelled to trade with them at all but might
keep all my grain for myself.
Thus I arrived at the conclusion that the fiscal
strength of one side or the other of a possible
exchange increases as competition decreases and
decreases as competition increases; also that it in-
creases in proportion to man's ability to do without
what is offered in exchange, and decreases in pro-
portion to his inability to do without what is so
offered.
Moreover, I observed that in an exchange be-
tween the person of fiscal strength and the person
of fiscal weakness there is no element of fairness
entering in, but the strong ever hath the better of
the bargain.
And in thus considering the matter of fiscal
strength I found I had come upon the answer to
a matter which had always puzzled me; that is to
say, why it is that all the hard work of the world
is done for the least rewards; for those who dig
and delve are not those who live in great houses
and are served dainty food by retinues of servitors,
but on the contrary this is the reward of those whose
services are lightest while those who do those things
most necessary to the continued ongoing of the
world—who mine our coal, dig our iron and till
the soil, as well as those who build houses and carry
merchandise and prepare our food and clothes for
us—these dwell most humbly and often have but
little of that which they produce.
And it now occurred to me that these do the
work more because they must than because they
will. There are present among them the elements
of fiscal weakness. They compete right eagerly
among themselves and they are unable to do with-
out the things offered in exchange, namely, food,
shelter, warmth and a place to be. They have no
store of these laid up, nor a store of money with
which to buy them even for a short period, while
holding out for better terms in the exchange; but
on the contrary they must hearken to their im-
mediate needs, and must exchange their labor or
the product of their labor on any terms the person
of superior fiscal strength shall say. So they are
forever losing a part of the fair share which should
be theirs by the exchange; whereas the few gather
to themselves an ever increasing store with an ever
increasing power to lord it over the weaklings of
the world.
Up to this time I had thought always of exchange
as fair and had heard always that all bargains,
whether for barter or wages, were purely and fairly
made. But now I saw that exchanges are fair only
when made by persons of fairly equal strength,
which seldom is the case; for most exchanges are
between persons of greatly differing degrees of
fiscal strength.
But this is a discovery which one would not
herald generally to the world, for all the laws and
customs even in our most civilized parts are based
on a contrary theory, namely, that exchanges are
all free and fair and that each party to the ex-
change is free to accept or decline the terms—
which, as we have seen, is opposed to the facts.
Such a theory is highly beneficial to the few who
have fiscal strength, and it is not to their advantage
to have the laws overthrown, as they would be if
the many who do not benefit by this theory were to
come to understand why they are opposed.
But with matters of this sort I had no concern
except as it gave me satisfaction to learn the an-
swer to a puzzling question; for I was profiting by
the opportunity which had come my way and be-
lieved I saw how I should in time place myself in
a position of great ease.
Many changes were wrought during the first year following the coming of my neighbors. I find set down in my diary this entry:
I have to-day broken three acres of land for my crops. This is an enormous increase over what has been my custom to break for my own uses, but I perceive that I shall need much grain for trading with the other islanders; for their need is great. I sell my barley only as flour, for I perceive that the less they have for seed to grow crops on their island the better will be my market. For if I sell them seed grain and they cultivate this crop on their lands—which at any rate are inferior to the lands in this island—my own grain soon will begin to compete in the market and my fiscal strength will be made less. So I have said to those asking for seed grain that I could spare a little flour, but must husband my small store of seed, which is in a measure true. The two acres will be for barley
and the one for rice, which I perceive they will
76
raise in considerable amounts on their lands, and
nothing I can do will prevent.
The breaking of land was an easy task for I
now had the help of two strong men and a bullock
dragging a plow with an iron share. And it was
a joy to me to see it cut through the sods which
had so stubbornly resisted my poor wooden spade.
And I marveled also at the great advance man
achieves when he puts a harness on one of these
dumb beasts and by applying his intelligence to
guide their strength of neck and limb is able to
have the most of his labor performed for him.
Behold, said I, is not this the beginning of the
conquest of nature by nature's own forces? For
the ox and the ass and the horse aid man also in
carrying from place to place; and the water of a
falling stream may be used to turn one's mill stones
as may even the winds of the heavens; and in the
face of such marvels of human ingenuity who
knows what other forces may not some day be
made man's servants?
And I secured the labor of the two men to break
and harrow and sow my land for a small amount
of flour with a little rice and two goats from my flock. And I had only to direct their labor.
Seeing that I might have others work for me at
so little cost I procured from the other settlement
two good carpenters and a third who knew some-
thing of the shipwright's trade and in two months
they built for me a sturdy sailing schooner of con-
siderable depth and width, and about fifty feet over
all, which was well suited to cruise between our is-
lands carrying freight and passengers. And in the
weavers' colony I discovered an old seafaring man,
who had proved to be a poor hand at weaving and
of little use at any land occupations; and him I
induced to become master of my schooner at a wage
to be made up of enough goat's meat, barley loaves
and vegetables to keep him well fed and two suits
of clothes a year. This with a little tobacco for his
pipe was all he needed and he was more than con-
tent to serve me thus and I pleased to have him, for
I perceived that what I should take in exchange
for the carrying of cargoes and passengers would
be more than this by far, and the possession of the
boat would be an added source of profit.
And I perceived that when one permits the sur-
plus of one's possessions to serve others he is com-
pensated for this service, just as he would be if he
placed his services at the disposal of his fellows.
And at the end of the year my ship had earned
for me a considerable store of merchandise over
and above what I had acquired by exchanging grain,
rice, lemons, grapes and goats' flesh with the in-
habitants of the other islands. So that my house
and barns were filled with merchandise.
I made frequent voyages in my boat for the pleas-
ure of the intercourse with other creatures of my
kind, and for the profit of the trades which gen-
erally accompanied these meetings.
One day I called on two of the weaver's colony
and found they had been too ill to work and had
no cloth to offer in exchange. The weavers needed
the flour I had brought; so I suggested that they
keep the flour and settle at some future time when
they should have been able to resume their work.
So as a memorandum of the affair I had them write
on a flat shell, "Payment due for six measures of
flour. Weavers."
And in leaving I mused to myself: Here is
the beginning of credit as a medium of exchange.
Credit which is one man's trust in another,
is a great help in the proper distribution of the
world's products. Without credit I should have
had to take my flour back home where I did not need
it, since this was part of my surplus stock. Mean-
time the weavers would have been without what
they needed and would be able in the end to pay
for. But now, by means of credit, I am able to
regard my half of this exchange as an accomplished
fact and this part of the world's work of distribu-
tion is completed. The other part will be completed
when I have exchanged my credit for some com-
modity which I want.
Whereupon I remembered that I needed some
carpentering on my house, so I returned to the
weavers' island and asked:
"Have you a carpenter in your midst who is not
busy?"
"Certainly," said they, "and what is more the
carpenter owes us for his last suit of clothes."
"That is excellent," I exclaimed, "for it enables
me to exchange this credit for six days' services at
carpentering; and when the labor is performed I
will pay the carpenter with this credit. Then, in-
deed, all will be paid."
Which accordingly we did, and I was greatly
impressed with the value of credit as a medium of
exchange.
The end of the next five years saw great changes
in our island world. In numbers we were much
increased for there had been added two shiploads
of refugees, or prisoners as they more properly
should be called—victims of the revolutions which
had gone on in Peru and Chili. Those in power
had sent them hither, and they were set down on the
two islands near mine—yet why not on mine I knew
not—with no means of getting back to their native
land and under sentence if they did so to be stood
up against a wall and shot. For such was the
custom in those lands. And we were now close
to seven hundred adult men and women, not count-
ing children which were very numerous.
Being now so many it was difficult at first to
secure free exchange among all who had need of
things and who had work or goods to contribute
to the common store; for credit will proceed only
between those who are known one to another and
when there are many who are strangers, and some
possibly who for laziness or a tendency to deceive
81
are not deserving to be trusted, exchange cannot
proceed as it does between a smaller number who are
all known one to another. But presently this was
rectified by the finding of silver among the rocks
of that island where the miners and iron workers
dwelt. The silver was not in large quantities nor
was it free, but it must needs be dug and smelted
at considerable cost of labor, so that when it was
refined and stamped into the shape of a small coin,
each coin had cost as much in labor to produce it
as, directed in other ways, would have produced a
bushel of grain or the equivalent in other merchandise. But it was more convenient to carry a piece
of silver than the grain or other merchandise, and
the silver could be exchanged at a fixed value for
labor or commodities and therefore was eagerly
welcomed as a medium of exchange. By this me-
dium strangers could do business, for the silver
having value, it took the place of credit and all
exchanges were made more free and simple. Grain
which had before been the measure of value, now
ceased to be so and merchandise was measured in
terms of these silver coins each of which was about
a quarter the size of an English shilling. And I perceived now for the first time that no
man cares for money for itself, but for what it
will buy. And I remembered how when I was a
solitary exile on my island the thing which I valued
least of those things I rescued from the wreck was
the little hoard of gold and silver coins. Gladly
would I have exchanged the whole for a tobacco
pipe, or a pound of salt. But now when there were
numerous men and women attempting to divide
among themselves the world's labors—those labors
by which man is fed, clothed, and sheltered—then
it becomes of great importance that there be one
commodities which all will value alike and all will
accept on the same terms of exchange for what he
or she has to give, some commodities which will
maintain its value the same from day to day and
year to year, which will not corrode or deteriorate
and which can easily be transported and will have a
mark upon it—which commodities, of course, are
the materials, gold and silver.
Silver alone did us very well, and exchanges went
on freely. The worker exchanged his work or the
product of his work for money and then exchanged
the money for the work, or product of the work
of others. No one cared for the money for itself.
It was valued only for what it would command in
exchange. But everybody wanted as much money
as he could get for his work or products, because
this money measured his right to command the
products or the work of others.
And after a while I beheld another thing concern-
ing money. For I saw the silver disappear and in
its place were paper memoranda showing that so
much money had been deposited in a public treasury
and could be had by one presenting this bit of paper.
This did away with the necessity for carrying about
much of the silver money and only small amounts
had to be used to meet the small exchanges. And
the people preferred the paper so long as they knew
the money was in safe hands and could be had on
demand.
I was greatly convenienced by the coining of
money, for I had stores of merchandise which I
had taken in exchange for which I had no immedi-
ate need, such as cloth, tools, dressed lumber and
all manner of building material and preserved foods.
And these I soon disposed of for silver and of the
latter I laid up a large store. And the silver coins were called marks, for that
they most resembled such a coin of that country
whence most of these colonists had come.
And having now much money for which I had
no immediate use I began to inquire in my mind
as to what use I might put it to. And how this
was presently answered the next chapter will telL
There came to me one from the weavers' colony
and spoke thus:
"We know that you have been prospered in your
exchanges and have more money than any single one
among us. Now I have a plan by which I can make
your money useful to you. I know how to construct
a water wheel and the machinery by which the water
wheel would turn the stones for grinding grain into
flour. Near the house where I live is a stream with
an excellent fall of water and if I had a thousand
marks I could hire the labor to build a mill which
would grind all the grain for this colony. Lend me
the thousand marks and I will pledge you the mill
and my personal honor that I will pay you ten
marks each year for every hundred you lend me
and I will eventually repay the principal sum out of
the earnings which will come to me for grinding the
colony's flour."
The plan was indeed an excellent one, and my
money was soon at work; so that without effort on
my part I was soon receiving each year ten marks
86
for every hundred I had lent together with part
of the principal sum which was coming back.
In this again I was one of those who permit their
possessions to be of service to others; but in a dif-
ferent way from the case of the schooner, for that
was my own risk and venture, while in loaning
money I was assured of a fixed return and had no
need to supervise the work.
And I perceived that it was pleasanter to permit
one's possessions to do the work than to labor
at producing for one's self. For now I had little
labor that it was really necessary for me to do, but
I busied myself supervising the labor of those who
worked for me and in doing such things as I might
choose for increasing my fiscal strength.
And I began to see that ownership is the basis of
all fiscal strength—the ownership of money or the
things that can be exchanged for money.
And this was brought home to me strongly when
I was visited early by a group who were without
work, from the barren and rocky island where the
miners lived. These desired to set up tilling opera-
tions on my island.
To this I said I would consent on terms usual in
such affairs. I would rent them ten acres of ex-
cellent land for ten marks a year the acre.
"Do you own this island?" asked the leader of
the group.
"I do," said I, "I discovered it. I was here first.
According to the customs of land ownership in all
parts of the world, it is mine."
"It isn't fair," quoth a surly fellow. "No one
ought to be allowed to own more land than he can
himself use."
I did not admit that what the fellow said was
true, but stood on my rights and was fully sup-
ported by the opinion of the other colonists. So I
began to rent the arable parts of my domain on these
terms.
This was the most advantageous thing I had yet
experienced; for now I began to receive an income
which was far in excess of all my needs and for
which I did no work at all.
This opened my eyes to the advantage of owning
lands and I began to look about for opportunities
to secure other lands which might produce similar
returns. And the occasion soon appeared. For one
day I had brought a load of melons and other fruits
to the weavers' landing; but finding no one at hand
and knowing that the weavers would want what I
had brought, I put the articles ashore and hired a
man who was fishing to mind the fruit and sell them
to any offering a fair price. The fisherman took
charge and erecting a temporary shelter disposed of
the stock and later made his accounts to me.
"Surely," said I, "this is the beginning of a mar-
ket place. For a market place is the convenient
spot where commodities pause on their way from
the producer to the consumer while questions of
want and right to share are worked out."
And so it proved, for others later came and dis-
played their wares for sale and a regular market
grew up between the wharf and the dwellings of the
weavers.
Foreseeing which I bought all this land from the
weavers, they gladly taking my money for what they
could see little value in; but they did later when I
charged rent for use of the wharf and the stalls in
the market place, which, indeed added considerably
to my income.
My experience in disposing of the load of melons
which had been brought to the weavers' island led
me to reflect as follows:
I perceive here the beginning of distribution as
one of the tasks of the world. Necessities must not
only be produced and transported; they must be dis-
tributed. And in due course distribution, like other
labors, becomes a specialty. The loiterer whom I
have taken from his fishing and made keeper and
salesman of my cargo is now one of the world's dis-
tributors. He is helping to get the product to the
man who is to consume it. When there are so many
consumers with so many differing wants and so
many articles to meet them, much work must be
done to suit the needs of all and to get all the articles
where they are wanted. To do this work calls for
those who specialize on this work alone.
And I summed up thus:
Production, transportation and distribution are
the great labors of the world. Men work to pro-
duce from the raw materials yielded by the earth
90
the things men need; and having thus produced
them, they work to transport and distribute them.
Without work there would be neither food,
clothes nor shelter. By work all these are brought
into existence—together with many other things
which contribute merely to man's amusement or ad-
ditional comfort. And these things are placed at
man's disposal at the time and place most convenient
to him. Verily work is honorable, and it is a just
decree that he who will not work shall not eat.
Further I observed that men have found that it
is better to attack these undertakings with the com-
bined labor and diversified skill of the entire com-
munity rather than for each to undertake the per-
formance of all things for himself. This results in
specialization and organization, and makes neces-
sary the exchange of products among all. For the
specialist produces but one kind of article—though
in quantities more than he needs—but his needs are
of all things. Without exchange, therefore—the
exchange of his specialty for the specialties of the
rest—he could not live. He would not have food,
clothes or shelter.
Thus it happens that there must be exchange and
to make exchange easy a common medium, such as
metai money, supplementing credit without which
few exchanges would take place.
And thus it happens also that the necessity that
is upon all to resort to this thing called exchange to
secure what all must have to live, affords an oppor-
tunity to the person of the greater fiscal strength
to take advantage of the person of less fiscal
strength and to compel the latter to yield more than
a strictly fair return for what he receives; and the
consequences of this are seen in the fact that all the
less agreeable tasks of the world, and the more
onerous ones, are performed in return for the least
rewards. They are, indeed, performed under a sort
of fiscal compulsion.
Of what fiscal strength is made up, and of how
it is lessened by competition and increased by the
absence of competition, I have spoken. And how
the ownership of lands and wharves, and instru-
ments of transportation like ships are important aids
to fiscal strength, was made more evident to me by
each new experience.
And now I have come to that point in my narra-
tive where I must review briefly the happenings of
a score of years. For it was in the twenty-fourth
year after I was cast away that there came an end to
my residence in this part of the earth. And the
strange happenings that then took place I shall tell
at the proper time.
In the years which followed, and while I was
busily solving my fiscal problems, the colony was
developing in many ways. The people soon got to-
gether and built a school-house and a church on
each island and later they built a general assembly
hall where they could gather to discuss matters af-
fecting the general welfare of the community. In
order to meet expenses of this sort they agreed to
tax themselves in proportion to their property. One
man was chosen to settle the disputes. He was
judge. Another to gather the taxes. He was asses-
sor. Six were selected to draw up laws in accord
with the wishes of a majority of the people. They
were parliament. And a general manager for the
community was chosen, and it was agreed to call
him Governor. They chose a man of honesty to
handle the community money and called him treas-
urer. A constable was selected to put down any dis-
turbance; and they built a small gaol.
And the colonists began now to seek the satisfac-
tion of wants as well as needs. Having solved the
problem of a regular supply of food, clothes and
shelter with the expenditure by each man of some
eight hours of labor daily, they began to seek also
pleasure. They paid small sums to certain of their
number to sing and dance for them; and in time
they paid also preachers and lecturers, and even
printed books and a paper once a week. There were
those who polished semi-precious stones, of which
the islands yielded not a few, and some who tried
their skill at painting pictures and carving statuary;
though with no high degree of art. And those who
were thus engaged were in return supplied with
necessaries by those who produced the latter. And
in time the colony organized a small army and
equipped a schooner with a few small cannon for a
navy, delighting to see the soldiers drill and the
small warship maneuver and shoot its guns.
"I perceive," said I, observing this, "that every
man who is used in occupations of this sort is not
available for producing, transporting or distributing
food, clothes or shelter. So the more we have of
pleasure and war, the more we pay for the things
we all must have."
But this troubled me not at all, for I had enough
and to spare, and the burdening was upon the poor,
who, by reason of their fiscal weakness, could not
shift it from themselves.
As time went on I found it profitable to bring
more land under cultivation. By purchasing ma-
chinery and hiring laborers this was easy to accom-
plish.
I soon perceived that the greater a man's income
is, the easier is it to add thereto; I mean without
labor other than taking thought as to how invest-
ments shall be made and what business is good to
venture on.
Seeing my prosperity my neighbors came to me
offering to lend me money, assuming, as I take it,
that having much I would be able certainly to pay
it back. So that I was able, to my amusement, to
borrow at a low rate and to lend again the same
money at a high rate, and thus to add to my income
with no labor whatsoever.
And in other ways my properties were increased, as when the owner of a mill which I had advanced the money to set up, having ill fortune and being unable to redeem his pledge to repay the loan, I was
compelled to take the mill; and having set a skillful
,95
workman to manage it, I had much more from it
than I had received when it was merely a pledge for
the loan. And another mill having been set up near
by I saw that it would be well to buy that also,
thereby wiping out competition in the milling trade;
having done which I was able to double the charge
for all milling done. And this, too, was much to my
advantage.
I had not neglected meantime to buy the lands
about the harbor—it chanced that there was but one
—of the islands where the iron workers dwelt; and
as I now controlled all the harbors of the three is-
lands, and could say what boats might or might not
land, I readily bought the two other boats which
had been built to compete with my schooner and thus
controlled the carrying trade between the islands.
The owners of the iron mines found that the
carrying charges on their products ate up a large
share of the profit of their labors so they were in a
mood to listen to an offer to purchase all these prop-
erties which I caused to be made to them through a
discreet agent, and in that manner I became the
owner of the mines and the iron mills.
Some bold spirits among the iron workers were
disposed to grumble at seeing these properties fall
into the possession of one man, and particularly so
when wages were reduced—for having no spur of
competition I was not compelled to pay more than
a bare living wage. But they soon discovered that
it was more discreet to keep their opinions to them-
selves; for when they had been discharged they
found it difficult to get other work. They thought
at first they might turn to the cultivation of the soil,
but they soon perceived that land had so increased
in price that they were unable to buy or even to rent
enough to keep them. So they were compelled to
hire out by the day to the tenants who had long ago
rented tracts on my island.
I have spoken of the parliament which the colon-
ists had set up to make such laws as they might need.
This body at various times required my attention;
for once a law was proposed which would have
vested the ownership of the docks in the people and
brought carrying charges under regulation. This
I denounced as opposed to all respectable usage and
savoring of revolution against property and I took
pains that one of my capable and faithful employes
should be put forward as a candidate against this
member of the parliament and with the assistance
of the many who were friendly to me or were bound
to me in some business way I had no difficulty in
substituting my man for him that had put forward
the obnoxious legislation.
After that I gave close attention to all those put
forward as candidates and by quietly contributing
funds where they would be most effective was able
to keep a parliament in office made up of men un-
tainted by disturbing doctrines.
In this experience it was borne in upon me that
the foundation of all fiscal power, whether it be
used for good or bad, is in the laws of ownership.
For if the community had been unwilling to main-
tain a law which said that I, by discovering an is-
land, became owner of it, I could not have collected
rents for vast tracts which I had leased to my neigh-
bors. So also the law had permitted me by paying
a trifling sum to acquire the ownership of lands
which the community must use if it were to live,
such as those on which the wharves were built and
the various market sites. So, too, I was permitted
to control by ownership the exhaustless riches of
minerals—coal, iron and silver—which nature had
deposited for man's use, but which these people
could not use except with my consent. For this con-
sent they all paid me tribute.
And I marveled greatly that people intelligent
enough to form laws by majority consent, should
form such laws as should cut themselves off from
the means of livelihood and forge fiscal bonds to
bind them to the service of a few who have the wit
or luck to acquire fiscal strength.
But it was not for me to tell them to change the
laws so that lands might be free to those who would
make them yield, or mines to those who might be
willing to dig their contents, or harbors to the many
who must use them. And in truth these people were
doing only what other peoples have done for cen-
turies; and it is opposed to the habit of men's minds
to think out new ways for making the state of all
men better; but each hopes that he may win a posi-
tion of fiscal strength and come to live upon the
work of others, so he lends his influence against the
welfare of the whole and deserves the hardships
which in practically every instance are put upon him.
Now it happened that the Governor of the colony
for a considerable time had been a man elected to
the office largely by my aid. He was a man of pleas-
ant ways and excellent intentions, but not rich, and
he knew that what little property he had would be
jeopardized if he should offend me. So when I in-
formed him that it was my desire to be honored by
this office he readily retired and I was chosen with
no opposition.
Before this I had enjoyed many perquisites of
my increased wealth. I wore better clothes than the
others; my house was larger and better furnished
and I kept two boats for my private use together
with a dozen servants.
I had taken a wife from one of the best families
in the colony, a woman of unusual personal charm
who dutifully bore me four healthy and promising
children.
As Governor it was my endeavor so to administer
the colony's affairs that I might have a favorable
mention in the history of this island nation. To this
end I had a Governor's palace built of a character
suitable to the office, and a Public Library in each
of the islands, each builded entirely at my own ex-
pense.
I was able to use my influence as Governor to
keep the taxes low on lands and to distribute the
burden among that large and useful class known as
laborers. This, however, I did by indirection and
without ostentation.
My will I made about this time. For I deem it
a matter of ordinary prudence that a man having
property should face the certainty that one day he
must take leave of this earthly sphere and go to that
place which an all-wise Providence has prepared for
those who have repented for their sins and sought
salvation for their souls through the mediating grace
of the only begotten Son. To continue the property,
therefore, in the possession of my natural heirs I
took the advice of the best lawyers in our midst and
on their advice, a trust was arranged which was to
last as the lawyers say "a life on a life," which
would be in all likelihood a half century at least;
and the heirs were to have only the income of the
estates, but never the principal—the income being
now very great and sufficient for all luxuries as well
as needs. And thus I had the satisfaction of know-
ing that my estates would not be squandered, but
would go on increasing in value as the community
grew in numbers and in importance.
But in all these matters my expectations were
doomed to disappointment for reasons which in the
next chapter I will relate.
It had long been my custom to set down daily the
important happenings in my life, a habit which had
begun in noting down the days, weeks and months
and such things as I desired to keep a record of in
the early years of my solitary life on my island.
The early record was of the various expedients I
had used to build a shelter from the elements to in-
sure myself a supply of food and to put clothing on
my back. How these matters were worked out when
other human beings were near at hand presented
problems of no less interest to my mind and these
I have set down, too, together with such comments
as seemed to go with them, and the whole I had pre-
served in a considerable volume which I hoped
might some day be read with interest by the genera-
tions which should perpetuate my name. It was
read, alas, by those who were not of my kin, by cer-
tain treacherous fellows who found access by stealth
or subterfuge to the place where it was kept—with
what results I was presently to learn. For on the
sixth day of October, 1686, the night being dark
102
and somewhat blustering with a mist and no moon
I was suddenly set upon as I was returning to my
house from a stroll upon the beach—the hour being
about eight in the evening and before I had oppor-
tunity to cry out or give an alarm or in any way
defend myself, I was thrown to the ground, my head
was bound with a scarf which gagged and almost
suffocated me and when I had been securely bound
I felt myself carried I knew not whither and laid
down I knew not where, nor did I have any notion
of what was happening or why until a long time
afterward when I was released and found myself in
the cabin of one of my pleasure boats at sea and the
ship under a full spread of canvas.
My captors proved to be three members of the
island's law making body, young fellows whom I
had known but slightly but whom I had always
looked upon as honest and thoughtful citizens. To
my amazed questionings they gave most amazing
answers.
"A revolution is taking place in the island," the
spokesman said, "and the committee on the common
welfare has decreed your removal."
From which I understood that I was being taken
out to sea to be drowned.
"Not that," went on the leader gathering from
my expression what were my thoughts. "It is our
hope that your removal may be accomplished with-
out anything more serious than an adventurous trip
which you will make to the mainland and thence
back to England, if indeed you are so favored as to
reach that goal. But should you return your drown-
ing or death by some other means is decreed. In
about an hour from now you will be transferred to
another boat and in that you will be conveyed by
two of our faithful patriots to some landing from
which you will have to venture afterward by your-
self. We will soon be back in this vessel with an
account of an unhappy accident, namely, that while
you were endeavoring to stay the foresail during
a sudden shifting of the wind you fell overboard
and before we could put the ship about and come to
your assistance you were drowned."
"And to what purpose," I inquired, "is all this
mummery?"
"That the people may believe that you are dead
and that by your will all the properties of which
you have been the owner are passed to public own-
ership."
Saying which the speaker laid before me on the
table a document in form like the will which I had
caused to be drawn up; but I noted that the date of
the witnessing and the attest was of several months
past, and that the document lacked only my signa-
ture to make it formal. By this will all the lands
and properties of which I stood seized were quit-
claimed to the people of the three-island settlement
for their common use.
"Your signature to this document will pay your
passage to the continent," I was told "If you do
not care to sign it the supposed drowning can be
made a real one."
Seeing that it would be worse than useless to re-
sist I made a virtue of necessity and told my cap-
tors it would make me very happy to become in this
way the benefactor of my fellow citizens. I quickly
signed the will.
This matter finished, the revolutionary leader fav-
ored me with further explanation.
"Your diary," said he, "is one potent cause of
these present happenings, A servant's curiosity
brought your writings to the attention of others
who were curious, and to still others who were in-
terested, and finally to those who had long sought
for some remedy for certain difficult problems
touching the people's welfare. For there has grown
up in our midst this thing called poverty. In a land
where nature has been bountiful, and there would
seem to be enough of all things for all, there have
appeared those who did not have food nor a suffi-
cient amount of clothes or shelter. We have found
that work could not be had by all, and that those
who worked were not necessarily those who pos-
sessed. The drudgery was done for the least com-
pensation, and many of those things which are
produced go to the ownership and control of those
who labor not at all."
The speaker paused to observe the effect on me
of his words. I assured him that what he said was
true. Whereupon he went on as follows:
"The reason for this unfortunate state of things'
together with the remedy which should be applied
we found in the diary which you left;. We perceived
that many of these consequences flow from the
great disparity in fiscal strength among our people;
and the basis and substance of fiscal strength, as you
have so clearly set forth in your writings is owner-
ship. It is the ownership of lands over and above
what the owner is able or willing to use which en-
ables him to exact rent; it is the ownership of such
public highways as harbor frontages and wharves
which exacts added tribute; and it is the ownership
of nature's storehouses such as mines, water powers,
and forests which adds to the ability of the owner
to take toll of those who must draw on these re-
sources to maintain their lives. But unless our laws
permitted private ownership of such properties,
those who have thriven and grown powerful on
such ownership would not have waxed so great. The
fault is ours for we are supposed to make the laws
not for the few and strong but for the many, in-
cluding those who are weak. We, the people, have
forged the chains which bind us to the service of
our fiscal masters."
What the young man said was the truth; but im-
agine my sensations when I had these doctrines
hurled at me almost in the words I had set them
down as abstract truths, thought out merely for the
pleasure of the thinking.
"And will you then," I asked, "abolish owner-
ship?" For even in the extremity wherein I found
myself I could not repress a curious interest along
these lines.
"A man may own what he produces," was the
answer.
"And when I lend the shovel I have produced, am
I to have no compensation for its use?"
"A shovel, yes," the revolutionist replied. "Or a
ship. But not the gifts of God to man. Not the
harbors or the land, or the mineral in the ground,
or the power of the running stream or the timber
of the uncut forests. These are things that should
belong equally to all. When ownership is limited
and not permitted to trespass on the unused stores
of a bountiful Providence, man may be safely left
to own all other things. His fiscal strength will not
then become overweening. Men will differ among
themselves, and always there will be those who will
have more and those who will have less. Some men
will be thrifty and some will be improvident. Some
will set themselves to acquire and others will acquire
only what they need. And men still will trade, buy
and sell. But exchanges will be between men more
nearly equal in their fiscal strength and therefore
each exchange will be more fair. Each party to the
trade is more apt to profit by it. And always there
will be opportunity for one willing to exchange his
labor for what man needs; for always there will be
the measureless abundance of nature's stores to be
converted into food, clothes and shelter for those
who need them."
To this long speech I listened in silence for I had
naught to say. Indeed he was but speaking those
things I had myself discovered and to a large extent
set down quite clearly in my daily writings. But,
alas, my discovery had undone me. These rebels
had discovered that the path to freedom was to be
found along fiscal lines, and I being the great ob-
struction in that path was now to be removed. Often
in later years have I wondered what success at-
tended their adventure. But my curiosity never
was so insistent as to brave the menace of an at-
tempt to return. I doubt not, however, these peo-
ple found a larger measure of a practical kind of
freedom than most people do in our larger world.
By this time the other boat had come into hailing
distance and in due course I was put aboard. And
as a parting gift I was handed the flip-can which
I had brought ashore when I landed on my island—
this as a souvenir of the life I was leaving now
forever.
Six months later I was ashore at Liverpool after
some hardships, but no adventures worthy of note
as compared with those which I have already told.
As to how the revolution fared in that three-island
settlement I have never learned.
