 Hubbard
Imaginary
Voyages
M03
.J\Z
 CRAKLES*R)DD WEN'
Imag. y0ym
PR
34-03
 ('iii.vci' inalr/iii/ hte' c.nt/pr from slavery in ./l//t'/r\y.
Crnxci casl f/iiv/r ivi l/if niiinlui7>i/ttl I.v/u/id.
 Crusoe saving Goads I'/vm /In U'mlr //'///<• Vt/sfZ.
€ntsct& Barter on Hi&oovevvtuj llif ]>rrnt /•/'// .Vans 7/rl .
 Crusoe rrscuinn Ms Mmi Eriilav livm I In Sttvatfcs.
Irusrts drparturt frvm 7us ani'iilialiitnl Island.
THE
VOYAGES and ADVENTURES
OF
ROBINSON CRUSOE,
A SEAMAN OF YORK;
WHO,
AFTER SUFFERING MANY HARDSHIPS BY SEA AND LAND,
Was Shipwrecked
ON THE COAST OF AMERICA, AND CAST ASHORE
ON AX
UNINHABITED ISLAND,
WHERE HE RESIDED TWENTY-EIGHT YEARS;
WONDERFUL DISCOVERY AND DELIVERANCE
THENCE
BY AN
ENGLISH CAPTAIN.
WRITTEN BY HIMSELF.
LONDON:
PUBLISHED BY DEAN & MUNDAY, THREADNEEDLE-STREET.
PRICE SJX-PEXC1S.
B»%n and Munday, Printers,
Throadn««4le Str««t-.
ADVENTURES
ROBINSOJV CRUSOE.
I was bora of a good family in the city of York, where
my father, who was a native of Bremen, had settled, af-
ter having got a handsome estate by merchandize. My
brain was early filled with rambling thoughts, and when
I grew up, my father often persuaded me to settle to
some business,- and my mother used the tenderest en-
treaties, yet nothing could prevail on me to lay aside
my desire of going to sea. Notwithstanding the extreme
uneasiness which my father and mother always shewed at
the thoughts of my leaving them, I hardened myself
against the prudent advice of my kind and indulgent pa-
rents; and being one day at Hull, I met with one of my
companions, who was going to sea in his father's ship,
and he easily persuaded me to go with him.
On the 1st of September, 1651, I went on board this
ship, which was bound for London, and without letting
my father know the rash and disobedient step I had taken,
set sail; but no sooner was the ship out of the Humber,
than the wind began to blow, and the sea to rise in a
most terrible manner. Having never been to sea before,
I was extremely sick, and my mind was filled with terror,
I then began to grow sensible of my wickedness, in dis-
obeying the best of parents.
The next day, the wind abated, and the sea grew calm;
I was no longer sea-sick, and my companion laughed at
my fears. The weather continued calm for several days,
and we at length came into Yarmouth-roads, where we
cast anchor to wait for a fair wind. On the eighth day in
the morning, the wind increased, and we had all hands
at work to strike pur top-masts, and to cast our sheet-
anchor.
I now began to see terror and amazement in the faces
even of the seamen themselves; and as the master passed
by me, I could hear him say softly to himself, " Lord be
merciful to us, or.we shall be lost/7 When I heard this,
I was terribly frightened; such a dismal sight I never be-
fore saw, the sea ran mountains high, and broke upon
ns every three or four minutes.
I cannot express the horror of mind I was then seized
with. The storm still increased, and I saw (what is but
too seldom seen) the master, the boatswain, and several
others at prayers, expecting that every moment the ship
would go to the bottom. The storm however beginning
to abate, the master fired guns for help, and a light ship
which had rid it out just a head of us, ventured a boat
out to help us. It was with the utmost hazard that it
came near us: and our men, casting a rope over the stern
with a buoy, they after much labour and hazard got hold
of it, and we hauling them close under the stem, got all
into the boat. But we had hardly left the ship a quarter
of an hour, when we saw her founder. My heart
seemed dead within me with fright, horror of mind, and
the thoughts of what was yet before me.
As it was impossible for the boat to get up with the
ship to which she belonged, we endeavoured to reach the
shore, and partly by rowing, and partly by being driven
by the waves, we at last with great difficulty got to land,
and walked to Yarmouth.
Had I now had the sense to return home, my father
would have received me with tenderness; but a weak
and foolish shame opposed all thoughts of it; I was
afraid of being laughed at among the neighbours, and
was ashamed to see not only my father, but every
body else. 1 had, withoutblushing, committed an action
which bore all the marks of folly; but was ashamed of
returning, though that was the wisest step I could have
taken. I remained some time in doubt what course to
take; but having money in my pocket, I travelled to
London by land.
On my arrival in that city, I happily contracted an
acquaintance with the master of a ship who had been to
the coast of Guinea; who taking a fancy to me, told rne3
that if I would go the voyage with him, I should be at
no expence; and if I would carry any thing with me,
I should have the advantage of trading for myself. En-
couraged by this offer, by the assistance of some of my
relations with whom I still corresponded, I raised 401.
which I laid out in such toys and trifles as he directed
me to buy. But though in this voyage I was continually
sick, yet, under my worthy friend, I got a competent
knowledge of the mathematics, and the rules of navi-
gation; learned how to keep an account of the ship's
course, and to take an observation; this voyage made
me both a sailor and merchant; for I brought home five
pounds nine ounces of gold-dust for my adventure,
which yielded me in London, at my return, almost 3001,
I was now set up for a Guinea trader; but my friend,
to my great misfortune, dying soon after his arrival, I
resolved to go the same voyage again, and having left
2001. in the hands of my friend's widow, I embarked in
the same vessel. This was one of the most unhappy
voyages that ever man made: for as we were steering
between the Canary islands and the African shore, we
were surprised in the grey of the morning by a Moorish
rover of Salee, who gave chase to us, with all the sail
she could make. Finding that the pirate gained upon
us, and would certainly come up with us in a few hours,
we prepared to fight; our ship having twelve guns, and
the pirate eighteen. About three in the afternoon he
came up with us, and a very smart engagement ensued;
but after having twice cleared the deck of the Moors,
and lost three of our men, and had eight wounded, we
were obliged to submit, and we were all carried pri-
soners into Salee, a port belonging to the Moors. I was
kept by the captain of the rover as his own prize, and
made his slave.
My master having the long-boat of our English ship,
had a little state-room or cabin built in the middle of it]
like a barge, with a place behind it to steer, and haul
home the mainsheet, and another before, for a hand or
two to stand and work the sails.
In this pleasure-boat we frequently went out a fishing,
and one day he had appointed to go out with two or three
Moors of distinction, and had therefore sent over night
b 3
a larger store<©f provision than usual; and ordered me
to get ready two jot three fusees with powder and shot,
winch were on board his ship; for they designed to have
sport at fowling as well as fishing. But in the morning
he came on board, telling me thai his jguest had declined
going, and ordered me, with the man and boy, to sail
out with the boat, and catch some fish, as his friends
were to sup with him.
At this moment the hopes of my deliverance darted
into my mind.—Every thing being prepared, we sailed
out of the port to fish; but purposely catching none, I
told Muley that this would not do, and that we must
stand farther off, which he agreeing to, we set the sails,
and I having the helm, ran the boat out near a league
farther, and then brought her too, as if I would fish;
when giving the boy the helm, I stept forwards, and
stooping behind the Moor, took him by surprise, and
tossed him overboard into the sea; he rose immedi-
ately, for he swam like ga cork, and called to me to take
him in; but fetching out one of the fowling-pieces, I
presented it at him, and told him, that if he came near
the boat, 1 would shoot him; so he turned about and
swam towards the land, and as he was an excellent
swimmer, I make no doubt but that he reached the shore
with ease.
When he was gone, I turned to the boy, whom they
called Xury, and said to him, " Xury, if you will be faith-
ful to me, I will make you a great man; but if you will
not stroke your face to be true to me, (that is swear by
Mahomet and his father's beard), I must throw you into
the sea too." The boy smiled in my face, and spoke so
innocently, that I could not mistrust him; he swore to
be faithful to me, and to go over all the world with me.
While I was in view of Muley, I stood out to sea, but
it no sooner grew dark, than I changed my course, and
steered to the south. I made such sail, that before the
end of the next day, I believe, I was beyond the Em-
peror of Morocco's dominions. Yet so dreadful were, my
apprehensions of falling again into my master's hands,
that I would not Stop, to 50 on shore, till I had sajied in
that manner five days; and then the wind shifting to the
southward, I ventured to come to an anchor at the
mouth of a little river.
The principal thing I wanted was fresh water. But
though I was no less afraid of the savages than of the
wild beasts, our necessities obliged us to land, for we
had not a pint. The next morning Xury asked for one
of the jars, and said he would go and seek for water.
I asked him why he would go. The boy answered with
so much affection that I could not help loving him, " If
wild man comes, they eat me, you go away." " Well,
Xury/' said I, " we will both go, and if the wild men
come, we will kill them; they shall eat neither of us.'* I
then gave Xury a dram out of one of the case-bottles,
and ^having hauled the boat as near the shore as we
thought proper, waded to land, carrying nothing but our
arms, and two jars for water.
The boy seeing a low place about a mile up the coun-
try rambled thither; and by and bye I saw him come
running towards me; when thinking he might be pur-
sued by some savage, or frightened by a wild beast, I
ran to meet him; but when I came nearer, I saw some-
thing hanging over his shoulder, which was a creature
he had shot, like a hare, and we found it very good meat;
but the great joy that poor Xury came with, was to tell
me he had found good water, and seen no wild mans.
We therefore filled our jars, feasted on our hare, and
then set sail.
Several times after we were obliged to go ashore for
fresh water; and once in particular, early in the morning,
Xury called softly to me, and told me, that we had best go
farther off the shore; " For," says he, "look, yonder lies a
dreadful monster fast asleep." 1 looked where he pointed,
and saw a great lion that lay on the side of the shore
under the shade of a piece of the hill that hung a little
over him; upon which, charging my three guns, I took
aim at his head, but lying with his foot raised a little
above his nose, the slug broke his leg. He started up
growling, but fell down again; and gave the most hi-
deous roar that ever I heard; but firing again and shoot-
ing- him in the head, I had the pleasure to see him drop.
I resolved to take off his skin, and going ashore, the
boy and I accomplished it. Then spreading it on the
top of our cabin, the sun dried it in two days time, and
it afterwards served me to lie upon.
About ten days after, as I was steering out to sea, in
order to double a cape, I had the view of some islands,
which I supposed to be those of Cape Verd. I was
afraid of venturing so far from the shore, for if I should
be taken with a fresh gale of wind, I might never be
able to reach again the one or the other. In this dilem-
ma I sat down in the cabin; when on a sudden Xury
cried out in a fright, " Master! master! a ship!" fool-
ishly imagining that it was his master's ship, come so far
in pursuit of us. I jumped out of the cabin, and saw
that it was a Portuguese vessel, and instantly stretched
out to sea with all the sail I could make; they perceived
me by the help of their glasses, and shortened sail to let
me come up. A Scots sailor ou board called to me, and
I answered, that I had made my escape from the Moors
at Salee. On which they very kindly took me in, and
all my goods.
We had a very good voyage to the Brazils, and arrived
at All Saints' Bay in about twenty-two days. The ge-
nerous captain recommended me to an honest man, who
had a plantation, with whom I lived till I had-learnt the
manner of planting and making sugar; after which I
purchased a piece of land, and became a planter. I
had lived here about four years, and had contracted an
acquaintance among several merchants. I had frequently
talked to them of the manner of purchasing negroes on
the coast of Guinea, and they being pleased with the
project, easily prevailed on me to make-a voyage for
that purpose. We fitted out a ship of about 120 tons
burden, which carried six guns, and fourteen men, be-
sides the master, his boy, and myself.
In this vessel I set sail. We had very good weather
for about twelve days; but soon after we had crossed
the line, a violent hurricane drove us quite out of our
reckoning, and for many days together not any in the
ship expected to save their lives. In this distress, one
of our men, early one morning, cried out, " Land!" and
we had no sooner ran out of the cabin, in hopes of see-
mo- where we were, but the ship Struck upon a shoal.
Itls not easy to conceive our consternation; for as.the
rage of the sea was great, we supposed that the ship
would in a few minutes, break to pieces. We had a
boat on board, which the mate laid hold of, and with
the help of the re9t of the men threw her over the ship's
side, and getting all into her, committed ourselves to
God's mercy. We steered towards land, but after we
had rowed, or rather been driven, about a league and
a half, a wave, mountain high, came rolling a-stern of
us with such fury, that it overset the boat at once, and
separated us from one another. This wave carried me a
vast way towards the shore, and having spent itself, went
back, and left me upon the land, almost dry, but half
dead. I stood still a few moments to recover breath,
till the waters went from me, and then took to my heels,
and with all the strength I had left me, ran towards the
shore. I got to the main land, clambered up the cliffs
of the shore, and sat me down upon the grass. Having
rested myself I walked along the shore in search of fresh
water; having found some, and quenched my thirst, I
put some tobacco in my mouth, to prevent hunger, and
having climbed a tree, rested myself till morning.
I then found the sea calm, and the tide ebbed so far
out that I could come within a quarter of a mile of the
ship. The weather being extremely hot, I pulled off my
clothes, and took to the water; but when I came to the
ship, I found no means of getting on board, she lying
so high that I could find nothing within my reach 5 I
swam round her twice; at last, observing a small piece
of rope hanging down, I took hold of it, and got into the
forecastle. Here 1 found that the ship was bulged, and
a great deal of water in the hold; but to my great joy I
saw that all the ship's provisions were dry, and being
well disposed to eat, I went into the bread-room, and
slipping on a waistcoat, filled my pockets with biscuit,
and eat as I went about other things; I also found some
rum in the great cabin, of which I took a dram.
As I found several spare yards, I let them down with
ropes by the ship's sides, and going down to them, tied
them together, and made a raft, placing several pieces
of plank upon them crcssways, and laid upon it all the
pieces of board that came to hand. I next emptied
three of the seamen's chests, then lowered them down
upon the raft and filled them with bread, some dried
goat's flesh, and three Dutch cheeses. I found several
cases of bottles, in which were some cordial waters, and
about five or six gallons of arrac; these I stowed by
themselves, there being no room for them in the chests.
I also let down the carpenter's chest, which was worth
more to me than a ship load of gold, I next found two
good fowling-pieces, and two pistols, with some powder-
horns, two barrels of powder, and two old rusty swords,
all of which I placed on the raft, and with this invaluable
cargo resolved to put to sea.
My raft went very well, and with it I entered a creek,
where I thrust it on a flat piece of ground, over which
the tide flowed, and there fastened it by sticking a
broken oar into the ground. Thus 1 stayed till the wa-
ter ebbed, when I placed my cargo safe on land.
At night I barricadoed myself round with the chests
and boards I had brought on shore, of which I had
made a kind of hut.
The next day I resolved to make a second voyage.
My raft being too unwieldy, I swam to the ship, and
made another, on which I placed two or three bags of
nails and spikes, some hatchets, a grind-stone, two or
three iron crows, seven muskets, and another fowling-
pieces, two barrels of musket-bullets, a large bag of
small shot, and all the men's clothes I could find, a square
fore-topsail, a hammock, and some bedding; all which
I brought safe to land.
I now went to work to make a little hut with the sails,
and some poles, which I cut for that purpose; and into
it [ brought every thing I knew would spoil either with
the sun or rain; I piled all the empty chests and casks
in a circle round the hut, to fortify it from any sudden
attempt of man or beast; I blocked up the door with
boards, and spreading one of the beds upon the ground,
laying my two pistols just by my head, and my gun1>y
me, I went to bed, and slept very quietly all night.
Every day at low water, I went on board, and brought
away something. On my seventh voyage I brought away
a great hogshead of bread, three large runlets of rum, a
box of fine sugar, and a barrel of fine flour.
I had been thirteen days on shore, and eleven times
ori board the ship, but in one of these excursions I had
the misfortune to overset my raft; but it being in shoal
water, and the things being chiefly heavy, I recovered
many of them when the tide was out. Indeed, had calm
weather continued, I believe I should have brought away
the whole ship, piece by piece; but preparing the twelfth
time to go on board, I found the wind began to rise;
however, at low water, I went: rummaging the cabin, I
discovered a locker with drawers in it, in one of which I
found two or three razors, and a pair of large scissars.
with ten or a dozen good knives and forks, and in ano-
ther about 361. value of gold and silver coin. At sight
of this money I smiled to myself, and said aloud, " O
drug! what art thou good for? One of these knives is
worth all the heap; I have no manner of use for thee;
e'en remain where thou art, and go to'the bottom." How-
ever, upon second thoughts, I took it away, and wrap-
ping it all in a piece of canvas, began to think of mak-
ing another raft, but while I was preparing it, the wind
began to rise, and to blow off shore. I then found that
it was time to be gone, lest I should not be able to reach
the shore; accordingly I let myself down in the water,
and swam to land, which I performed with great diffi-
culty, from the weight of the things I had about me,
and the roughness of the water.
It blew very hard all night; and in the morning, when
I looked out, no more ship was to be seen. I now went
in search of a place where I might fix my dwelling, en-
deavouring to chuse one where I might have the advan-
tage of a healthy situation, fresh water, and security
from being surprised by man or beast. I found a little
plain on the side of a rising hill, which was there as
steep as the side of a house, so that nothing could
come down to me from the top; on the side of this
rock was a hollow place, like the entrance of a cave,
before which I resolved to fix my tent. This plain was
not above a 100 yards broad, and twice as long, de-
scending to the sea.
Before I set up my tent, I drew an half circle before
the hollow place, which extended 23 yards, and in this
half circle pitched two rows of strong stakes, diiving
them into the ground like piles; they stood about five
feet and a half out of the ground, sharpened on the top.
Then T took the pieces of cable I had cut in the ship,
and laid them in rows one upon another up to the top;
and this fence was so strong, that neither man nor beast
could enter it. The entrance I made by a short ladder
to go over the top, which, when I was in, I lifted over
after me. Into this fence, I by degrees carried all my
riches, all my provisions, ammunition, and stores, and
made a large tent to secure them and myself from the
weather. When I had done this, I began to work my
way into the rock, laying all the earth and stones I dug
out against my fence in the manner of a terrace; and
thus I had a cave just behind my hut.
But before the above works were completed, a sud-
den storm of thunder and lightning filled me with the
greatest terror; my gunpowder suddenly darted into
my mind, and my heart sunk within me at the thought,
that at one blast it might all be destroyed; on which
not only my defence, but the providing of my food, en-
tirely depended. No sooner was the storm over, than I
lard aside every other work to make boxes and bags, in
order to separate my puwder. I put them in holes up
and down the rocks in such a manner, that one parcel
could not fire another.
While all this was doing, I walked out at least once
every day with my gun, to see if I could kill any thing
fit for food, and to acquaint myself with what the island
produced. The first time I went out, I had the pleasure
to find, that there were goats in the island; but they
were so shy, that it was the most difficult thing in the
world to come up with them; but observing that they
did not easily see objects above them, 1 killed them by
climbing the rocks, and shooting at those in the valley.
I found in the woods a kind of wild pigeon, which built
in holes of the rocks; and taking some young ones, I
endeavoured to breed them up tame, but when they
grew old they flew away; however, I frequently found
their nests, and got their young ones, which were very
good meat,
After I had been about ten or twelve days on shore, it
came into my thoughts that I should lose my reckoning
of time, and should not be able to distinguish the Sun-
days from the working days. To prevent this, I set up
a large square post on the shore where I first landed, and
cut upon it with a knife, I came on shore here the 30th,
of September, 1659. Upon the sides I every day cut a
notch, and every seventh notch was as long again as the
rest, and every first day of the month as long again as
that long one; and thus I kept my weekly, monthly,
and yearly reckoning.
I had got from the ship, some pens, ink, and paper;
some mathematical instruments, and three good bibles,
with several other books, which I carefully secured. I
also brought to shore with me two cats, and a dog swam
on shore, who was a trusty servant to me many years;
nay, he was so good a companion, that I was at a loss
for nothing that he could fetch me; and he only wanted
power of speech to become a most agreeable friend.
When my habitation was finished, I found it far too
small to contain my moveables; I had hardly room to
turn myself; so I set about enlarging my cave, and la-
boured till I had worked sideways into the rock farther
than my outside pale, and hewing a way through, made a
back door to my store-house. I then made a table and
chair, which were great conveniences ; shelved one side
of my cave, and knocked up pieces of [wood into the
rock, to hang my things on. When my cave was set to
rights, it looked like a general magazine of all necessary
things.
What a different situation was I in now, from that I
was in when I first landed, when I was afraid of perish-
ing with hunger, or of being devoured by wild beasts!
But I had scarcely finished my habitation, when an
earthquake had like to have buried me in its ruins. The
fear of being swallowed up alive prevented my sleeping
in quiet, but the apprehensions of lying abroad were
equally terrible, and when I saw'myself concealed and
safe from every other danger, I was loth to remove.
In a little time I recovered from my fright, and after
that frequently killed goats for my subsistence, whose fat
supplied my lamp, which was a dish made of clay, baked
in the sun ; and for a wick I made use of oakum. In the
rummaging among my things, I found a little bag with
16
THE ADVENTURES OF
some husks of corn in it; and wanting it, I shook it out
by the side of my fortification. This was just before
some heavy rain; and about a month afterwards, I saw
some green stalks shooting out of the ground; but how
great was my astonishment, when some time after I saw
about ten or twelve ears of barley! It was some time be-
fore I recollected the bag with the husks: and I thought
that they could have been produced by nothing less than
a miracle. With this barley there also came up a few
stalks of rice; and these were worth more to me than
fifty times their weight in gold; and I carefully pre-
served them for seed.
When I had been about a year on the island, t was
taken extremely ill, which frightened me terribly, ima-
gining I should die for want of help. This fit of illness
proved a violent ague, which made me so weak, I could
hardly carry my gun; and when the fit was on me, I was
almost perishing with thirst. One night, as I was ruminat-
ing on my sad condition, expecting the return of my fit,
it occurred to my thoughts, that the Brazilians took no
physic but tobacco; and I went, directed by heaven no
doubt, to search for some in the chest: and there I found
a bible! I brought both that and the tobacco to my table;
I steeped some of the last in rum; some I burnt in a pan
of coals, holding my head over the fume; and some I
chewed; during the interval of this operation, I opened
my book; and the first words on which I cast my eyes
were, " Call upon me in the day of trouble, and I will
deliver thee!1 The words struck me; but I could read
no more, for the tobacco made me excessive sleepy. I
therefore went to bed, and falling into a sound sleep, I
believe I slept two days; and awoke perfectly recovered.
I now took a survey of the island; and at about two
miles distance from my habitation, came to some fine
savannahs, and, a little farther, a variety of fruit; melons
upon the ground, and vines covered with clusters of ripe
grapes. I proceeded with my discoveries, and came to
an opening that seemed to descend to the west, where
every thing was in such constant verdure, that it looked
like a beautiful garden. I carried some grapes and a
few limes back with me; but the grapes were spoiled
before I got home. I went the next day and gathered a
Jarge quantity of grapes, and hung them upon the out
branches of the trees, that they might cure and dry in
the sun; but as for the limes and lemons, I carried as
many as I could well stand under.
I was so enamoured with this place, that I built myself
a bower fenced with a double hedge; and this country-
house, as I called it, cost me two' months labour; but I
hardly began to enjoy my habitation, when thel rains
came on, and I was obliged to retreat to my old one,
taking with me my grapes, which were now become fine
raisins of the sun.
1 had been concerned for the loss of one of my cats;
but about this time she came home, and encreased my
family with three kittens; she having bred, as I sup-
posed by a wild cat, of which there were some in the
woods, and they soon multiplied so fast, that I was ob-
liged to drive them from me.
The rainy and dry seasons now appeared quite regular
to me. I dug a piece of ground as well as I could, with
a wooden spade of my own making, and began to sow my
grain; but as I was doing it, it occurred to my thoughts
that I would not sow all, for fear it should not grow, so
I reserved about a handful of each sort; and well it was
I did so; for it did not come up till many months after-
wards. When I saw it did not grow, I sought for moister
ground, and dug up a piece nearer my bower, which an-
swered to my wishes; and my crop amounted to about
half a peck of each kind; by this means, I was made
master of my business; knew when to sow, and that I
might expect two seed times, and two harvests every
year; for the corn I set first came up after the next wet
season.
When the rains were over, I made a visit to my bower,
where I found the stakes I set for my defence were shot
up into trees, which I pruned and made as much alike
as possible; and they became a complete shade. This
was my work in the dry season: and to employ myself
when I could not go abroad, I made baskets; having
when a child, taken much delight to see a basket-maker
work.
- In one of the dry seasons, I took another ramble,
armed with my gun and a hatchet, and guarded by my
faithful dog. When I had 'passed the valley in which
stood my bower, I came within view of the sea; and it
being a clear day, I plainly discovered land; but whether
island or continent, I could not tell: I guessed it could
not be less than twenty leagues off. I imagined it was
some savage coast, and such indeed it proved. In this
journey I caught a parrot, having knocked it down with
a stick, brought it home with me, and taught it to speak.
I found hares in the lower grounds; but as they were
not like what I had seen, I was afraid to eat them; and
I had no need to make experiments, as I had goats,
pigeons, and turtle, ivhich, added to my grapes, Lead-
enhall-market could not have furnished a better table.
The shore was covered with fine large turtles; though,
on my side, I had found but three in a year and a half.
Here was also an infinite number of fowls; but I was
too sparing of my powder to shoot them. I travelled
about twelve miles eastward along the shore, and then,
setting up a great post for a mark, returned homeward,
designing that my next tour should be the contrary way?
till I came to this post.
I took a different way home from that I went; but
unfortunately lost myself, and wandered about very un-
comfortably;, till at last I was obliged to find out the
sea-side, to seek for my post, being tired to death with
the heat of ike weather and the weight of my arms. In
this journey my dog seized a young kid^ and I saved it
alive, highly pleased with the hopes of having a breed
of tame goats; but as I could not bring it along without
difficulty, I left it within the inclosure of my bower.
I now rested myself a week, employed in the weighty
affair of making a cage for my parrot, which soon be-
came one of my favourites. I now bethought me of my
kid, and hastened to my bower to bring it home, or to
give it food; and the poor creature was is© tame by hun-
ger, that it followed me home like a dog. From that
time it became one of my domestics also, and would ne*
ver leave me.
My corn was now coming up; and the goats and
hares having tasted the sweetness of the blade, lay at it
night and day as soon as it sprang out of the ground,
19
so that it could get no time to shoot into a stalk. To
defend it, I surrounded it with a hedge, and, in the mean
while, shooting some of the creatures by day, I set my
dog to watch it by night, which he did so faithfully, that
the enemies forsook the place, and the corn ,grew, and
began to ripen apace. When the corn was in ear, I was
nearly as much troubled by birds; but having killed
three, I used them as we do murderers in England,
hung them in chains, to serve as a terror to the rest.
Not a fowl afterwards came near my corn, nor indeed,
near the place, a^ long as my scare-crows hung there.
When my corn was ripe, I made a scythe with a sword,
and cut off none but the ears, which I rubbed out with
my hands. At the end of my harvest, I guessed I had
a bushel of rice, and two bushels and a half of barley.
I kept all this for seed, and bore the want of [bread with
patience, as I had now a tolerable prospect of having as
much as I wanted.
The article of bread was a great difficulty; I had nei-
ther plough nor harrow: For the first I made my shovel
do; and to supply the place of a harrow, I went over it
myself, dragging after me the heavy boughs of a tree;
and when I came to make bread, I had innumerable
wants; I wanted a mill to grind it, sieves to dress it,
yeast and salt to make it into bread, and an oven to bake
it. However, 1 had six months to contrive all these
things in. In the mean time I enlarged the enclosure of
my arable land. I made some mis-shapen pots of clay,
that all broke in the sun, except two, which I cased in
wicker-work; but I succeeded better in little pans, flat
dishes, and pitchers, which the sun baked surprisingly
hard; but they would not bear the fire so as to hold any
liquid, and I wanted one to boil my meat.
One day, after I had dressed my dinner, I went to put
out my fire, and found a piece of one of my earthen ves-
sels burnt as hard as a stone, and as red as a tile: this
taught me to burn my pipkins; and I soon wanted for
no sort of earthen vessels: when I found that I had made
a pot which would bear the fire, I set it on with a piece
of kid, in order to make some broth, which answered
tolerably well.
C 3
I made a wooden mortar and pestle, and also a sieve
out of some of the seamen's neck-cloths, and at length
made a sort of oven of a broad shallow earthen vessel;
and a tiled hearth. When I baked, I drew the live em-
bers forwards upon the hearth, till it was very hot; then
sweeping them away, I set down my loaves, 'whelming
the earthen pot over them, which baked my barley-bread,
as well as the best oven in the world; and I became a
complete pastry-cook.
My thoughts often ran upon the land I had seen; and
I began to make myself a canoe. I felled a great cedar,
but when the impossibility of launching this heavy thing
came jn my mind, I gave myself this foolish answer,,
" Let me but once make it, and I'll warrant I'll get it
along when it is done." But all my devices to get it
into the water failed me, and therefore I gave it over,
determining to enjoy what I had, without repining for
what I could not get.
My clothes now began to decay; so I made myself
two waistcoats out of some watch-coats, which lasted
me a great while. I made a cap out of a goat's-skin,
with the hairy side outwards, to throw off the rain, and
also another waistcoat of the same skin; but I must ac-
knowledge that they were wretchedly done. I made me
too an umbrella, which I could shut up, and take abroad
with me; and this secured me both from the heat and
the rain.
I now built me a small boat, intending to go round
my little kingdom, but in which I had nearly lost my
life. Almost dead with fatigue, I at length arrived at my
little castle. I got over the fence, and laid me down to
sleep in the shade; but judge my surprise, when I was
awaked by a voice calling me by my name several times,
Robin, Robin Crusoe, poor Robin Crusoe, where are you?
where have you been? I was so dead asleep at first, that
I thought I dreamt somebody spoke to me; but as the
voice continued to repeat Robin Crusoe, I awoke dread-
fully frightened; but no sooner were my eyes open, than
1 saw my parrot sitting on the hedge, and immediately
knew that it was him that spoke to me. I called him,
and the poor sociable creature came as he used to do,
21
and sat on my thumb, crying, Poor Robin Crusoe, as if
he had been overjoyed to see me again.
This dangerous ramble reconciled me to my desolate
island, and resigned me to the dispensations of Pro-
vidence.
My powder being considerably abated, I began to per-
ceive that this was a want which it was impossible for
me to supply. Dreading what would become of me
when I could kill no more goats, (for my kid did not
breed,) 1 set snares to catch some alive, and particularly
wanted a she-goat with kid; but my snares were broken
and my bait devoured. At length I resolved to try pit-
falls; in one of which I found a large old he goat, and
in another three kids, a male and two females. The old
one was so fierce, that I durst not meddle with him; but
the three kids I brought home. It was some time before
they would feed; but, however, they grew tame, and
I had the pleasure to find that I might supply myself
with goat's flesh, when I had no powder or shot left.
I enclosed a piece of ground to keep my goats, propos-
ing, as my flock increased, to add more ground to my
enclosure; and I had soon not only goat's flesh to feed
on, but milk too; for I now set up a dairy, and made
myself butter and cheese. It would have made a Stoic
smile, to sec me and my family sit down to dinner:
There was my majesty, all alone like a king, attended
with my servants. Poll, my favourite, was the only
person permitted to talk to me. My dog was grown
very old, sat always at my right hand, and my two cats,
one on the one side of the table, and the other on the
other, expecting now and then a bit from my hand, as
a mark ot special favour.
1 had at length a great mind to go to the point of the
island, to see how the shore lay, and resolved to travel
thither by land. And now, reader, I will give tht;e a
short sketch of the figure I made. I had a great, high,
shapeless cap, made of a goat's skin; a jacket, with the
skirt coming down to the middle of my thighs; and a
pair of open-kneed breeches of the same with the goat's
hair hanging to the middle of my leg. Stockings and
shoes 1 had none; but I had made a pair of somethings,
I scarce knew what to call them, to flap over my legs
like spatterdashes, but of a most barbarous shape; and
so indeed were all the rest of my clothes. 1 had a broad
belt of goat-skin dried; and I hung on one side a saw,
and on the other an hatchet. I had another belt, not
so broad, fastened over my shoulder. Under my arm
hung two pouches, for my shot and powder. On my
back I carried a basket; on my shoulder a gun, and
over my head, a great, clumsy, ugly umbrella. My
beard was cut short, except what grew on my upper lip,
which I had trimmed into a pair of large Mahometan
whiskers: But as for my figure, 1 had so few to ob-
serve me that it was of no manner of consequence.
In this figure I went my new journey, and was out
five or six days. I was exceedingly surprised with the
print of a man's naked foot on the shore, which was
plainly to be seen in the sand. I listened, but could hear
nothing; I went upon a rising ground to look farther;
but I could see only that one impression. There was
plainly a foot, toes, heel, and every part very distinct,
I hurried home to my fortifications, looking behind me
every two or three steps, and fancying every tree, bush,
and stump, to be a man. I had no sleep that night;
but my terror gradually wore off; however, I strength-
ened my fortification, and planted a number of stakes
outside my wall, which growing, became a thick grove.
After having secured my habitation in the strongest
manner possible, I sought for a place of security for my
five goats; nnd at length found a piece of ground, ren-
dered almost inaccessible by nature, so that it cost me
but little pains to make it so; and then I removed the
she-goats and two he-goats into it.
After I had thus secured one part of my live stock,
I went about the whole island, and rambled more to the
western point than I had ever done before. I was pre-
sently convinced, that the seeing a print of a man's foot
was not such a strange thing in the island, as I had ima-
gined, for on my approaching the shore, I was perfectly
confounded, nor is it possible to express the horror I
felt at seeing the shore spread with skulls, hands, feet,
and other bones of human bodies; and particularly a
place, where, as I supposed, there had been a fire made,
and a circle dug in the earth for the savage wretches to
sit down to their inhuman feasts. I turned away my
face from the horrid spectacle, and left the place as soon
as possible.
One day, when I was cutting some brush-wood, I found
behind the bush I was cutting a hollow place, which I
was curious to look into; and getting with difficulty into
its mouth, I found it was sufficient for me to stand up-
right in; but looking further into the place, which was
perfectly dark, I saw two broad shining eyes, which
twinkled like two stars, from a dim light reflected from
the mouth of the cave. At this I returned out faster
than I got in: but plucking up my courage, I took a
great firebrand, and rushing in again with it flaming in
my hand; when I was almost as much frigktened as be-
fore; for I heard a loud sigh, followed by a broken
noise, and then a sigh again. I stepped back, struck
with such surprise, that it put me into a cold sweat.
However I recovered resolution enough to step forward
again, and lifting up my light, I saw lying on the ground
a most monstrous, he-goat gasping for life. I now re-
covered from my fright, and began to look round me.
This cave was but twelve feet over; and I observed,
that on the farther side was an opening, into which I
crept; but as I had no light, I deferred going farther
than the entrance till the next day; when I crept about
ten yards: after which the root rose to about twenty
feet high, and the wall reflected a hundred thousand
lights from the light I carried. It was a delightful grotto,
the floor dry and level, and no damp Tto be felt. To
this place I brought all my powder and all my spare
arms, and now kept at my castle only five guns, which
stood ready mounted.
Some time after, in the midst of a very stormy night,
I was startled at the firing of a gun: I hastened up to
the top of my hill; and heard another. I imagined that
these were the signals of a ship in distress; and such it
proved, as I discovered the next day. I cannot explain
the emotion I felt at the sight of this wreck. " O that
there had been but one saved!" cried I, " that I might
have had one companion, one fellow-creature to have
spoken to, and have comforted in his affliction !M
Under the power of this impression, nothing would
serve me, but I must go in my boat to this wreck, which
lay at a little distance. I furnished myself with a stock
of provisions, for fear of being driven out to sea; and
having begun my voyage, I in two hours time reached
the ship, which was Spanish built. She stuck fast,
jammed in between two rocks, and all the stern and
quarter were beaten to pieces by the sea. On coming
near it, a dog yelped, and cried: but there was no other
living creature on board; and all the goods were spoiled
by the water. I however took two of the seamen's chests
into my boat, without knowing what was in them.
When I had got my treasure home, and began to un-
load, I found several bottles filled with cordial waters,
and some neckcloths and shirts, which were very useful
tome; 11,000 pieces of eight, and about a pound weight
of solid gold, but of what use was this to me! I would
have given it all for three or four pair of shoes and
stockings.
After this acquisition, I lived in my old manner, though
terrified with fears of the savages. One morning, very
early, I saw five canoes of them on shore. I clambered
up my hill; and by the help of my perspective, disco-
vered no less than thirty dancing round a fire. I soon
afterwards saw two miserable wretches dragged out of the
boats, one of whom was immediately knocked down;
but the other, starting from them, ran with incredible
swiftness along the sands towards me. I confess, I was
horridly frightened, when I saw him. come my way,
imagining he would be pursued by the whole body;
however, I kept my station, and quite lost my appre-
hensions when I found but three followed him. He
greatly outran them, and was in a fair way of escaping
them all, when, coming to a creek, he plunged into it,
landed, and ran on as swift as before. Of the three that
followed, but two entered the water, the other returned
back. I hastily fetched my guns from the foot of the
ladder; and having a short cut down the hill, I clapped
myself in the way between the pursuers and the pursued,
hallooed aloud to him that fled, and then beckoned my
hand for him to stop; then rushing at once upon the
foremost, knocked him down with the stock of my
piece. The other stopped, as if frightened, but when I
advanced towards him, I perceived he was fitting his
bow to shoot me: upon which I shot him dead directly.
The poor savage who had fled was so terrified at the
noise of my piece, though he saw his enemies fallen,
that he stood stock still, but seemed rather inclined to
fly than to come towards me. However, when I gave
him signs of encouragement, he came nearer, kneeling
down every ten or twelve steps; on his coming close
again, he laid his head upon the ground and placed my
foot upon it. But there was more work to do; the man
I knocked down came to himself, and my savage began
to be afraid. I then presented my piece at the man,
when the poor fellow whose life I had saved, made a
motion for my sword, which 1 gave him; and he struck
off his enemy's head at one blow, and in a quarter of an
hour buried both the bodies in the sand. I then took
him away to my cave at the farther part of the island.
Here I gave him bread and a bunch of raisins to eat,
and a draught of water, which he wanted much; and
having refreshed him, 1 made signs for him to lie down
upon some rice-straw, which the poor creature did, and
soon went to sleep.
He was a well-made handsome fellow, of about twenty-
six years of age, and of an olive-colour complexion,
with long black hair. He had a small nose, that was not
flat; and fine teeth, as white as ivory. After he had
slept about half an hour, he awaked again, and came
running to me in the inclosure, just where I had been
milking my goats; then falling down again, he laid his
head flat upon the ground, and set my other foot upon
it, as before; and after this made all possible signs of
thankfulness, subjection, and submission. I began to
speak to him, and to teach him to speak to me; and
first I made him know that his name should be Friday,
which was the day whereon I saved his life. I taught
him to say Master, and let him know that was to be my
name. The next day I gave him clothes, at which he
seemed pleased. As we went by the place where he
had buried the two men, he pointed exactly to the spot,
making signs that he would dig them up again, and eat
them; at this I appeared very angry, and beckoned with
my hands to come away, which he did immediately.
Having now more courage, and consequently more
curiosity, I took my man Friday with me, giving him
the sword in his hand, with the bow and arrow at his
back, which I found he could use very dextrously. I
also gave him a gun to carry: and taking two for myself,
away we marched to the place where his enemies had
been: when I came there, my blood ran cold in my
veins; the place was covered with human bones, and the
ground dyed with blood; great pieces of flesh were left
here and there, half eaten, mangled, and scorched. I
saw three^kulls, five hands, and the bones of three or
four legs and feet; and Friday by his signs, made me
understand that they brought over four prisoners to feast
upon; that three of them were eaten up, and he, point-
ing to himself, was the fourth; and that they had been
conquered, and taken prisoners in war.
I caused Friday to collect the remains of this horrid
carnage; then to light a fire and. burn them to ashes.
When this was done, we returned to our castle. The
next day I made a little tent on the outside of my forti-
fication, and at night took in my ladder, that he might
not be able to get at me while I slept. But there was
no need of this precaution; for never man had a more
faithful servant; he had the same affection for me as a
child has for a father; and I dare say, he would have
sacrificed his life to save mine. I was greatly delighted
with him, and made it my business to teach him every
thing proper to render him useful; especially to speak,
and understand me when I spoke; and.he was the aptest
scholar that ever was; then he was so merry, so diligent,
and so pleased when he could understand me, or make
me understand him, that he was very agreeable company.
After I had been two or three days returned to my
castle, I was desirous to bring him off from the relish of
human flesh; so I took him out with me one morning to
the woods, in order to take a kid from the herd; but as
I was going, 1 saw a she-goat lying down in the shade,
and two young kids sitting by her: when, making signs
to Friday not to stir, I shot one of the kids. Poor
Friday, who had at a distance seen me kill the savage
his enemy, but did not see how it was done, trembled,
and looked so amazed, that I thought he would have
sunk down: he did not see the kid I had shot, but
ripped up his waistcoat to feel if he was not wounded,
and thought I was resolved to kill him; for he came and
kneeled down to me, and embracing my knees, seemed
to entreat me not to shoot him. But taking him by the
hand, I laughed at him, and, pointing to the kid I had
killed, beckoned to him to run and fetch it, which he
did.
The next day I set him to beat out some corn, and
sift it; and in a little time Friday was able to do all the
work for me, as well as I could do it myself. In short,
this was the pleasantest year I had led in this island;
for as my man began to talk pretty well, 1 had some use
for my tongue again.
From this time I had a mind to venture over, and see
if I could possibly join these bearded men, not doubting
but we might find some means of escaping from thence.
I was now entered into the 27th year of my captivity,
and intended soon to set sail; when one morning I bid
Friday go to the sea-shore, to see if he could find a
turtle; but he had not long been gone, when he came
running back, and cried, " O Master! O Master! O
sorrow! O bad!" " What's the matter, Friday?" said I.
"O yonder there," said he, "one, two, three canoe!
one, two, three!" " Well, Friday," said I, "-do not
be frightened.1'
I then took my perspective glass, and went up the
side of the hill, when I saw twenty-one savages, three
prisoners, and three canoes. I bid him see what they
were doing: he did so, and told me, that they were all
about the fire, eating the flesh of one of their prisoners;
and that a bearded man lay bound upon the sand, whom
he said they would kill next.
I had not a moment to lose, for two were stooping
down to untie the Christian, in order to murder, him.
" Now," said I, " Friday, do as you see me do." I laid
the musket down, and took one, and then we both fired.
Three were killed, and five wounded. The rest jumped
up immediately on their feet; but knew not where to
run.
I resolved to pursue them* and ran to the "canoe, call-
ing to Friday to follow me; but I was no sooner in the
canoe, than f found another poor creature lie there
alive, bound hand and foot. I immediately cut the
twisted flags; and seeing that he had been bound so
tight, that he was almost dead, I gave him a dram, and
ordered Friday to tell him of his deliverance; but when
the poor fellow looked in his face and heard him speak,
it would have moved any one to tears, to have seen how
he kissed, embraced, hugged him, cried, danced, sung,
and then cried again. It was some time before I could
make him tell me what was the matter; but when he
came a little to himself, he said, it was his own dear
father. He then sat down by him, held the old man's
head close to his bosom, and chafed his arms and ancles,
which were stiff with binding.
The Spaniard having expressed to me the utmost
gratitude for his deliverance, gave me an account of his
shipwreck, and the situation of his companions; and it
was resolved,, that Friday's father and the Spaniard
should go in the boat to fetch them over.
About eight days after they were gone, Friday awak-
ened me one morning, by crying out'" Master, they are
come!" I dressed and hastened to the top of the hill,
and plainly discovered an English ship lying at anchor.
They ran the boat ashore on the beach, and eleven
men landed, three of them unarmed, who by their ges-
tures seemed to be prisoners; and one of them I could
perceive using the most passionate gestures of entreaty,
affliction, and despair; while the two others, though their
orief seemed less extravagant, appeared pleading for
mercy. At this instant, I saw a villain lift up his arm
to kill one of the prisoners; but he did not strike him.
The men having left the prisoners and gone into the
woods, I went up to them with my man Friday, and
said to them in Spanish, " What are you, gentlemen?"
they started at the noise, but prepared to fly. I then
said in English, " Gentlemen, perhaps you may have a
friend near you, whom you little expect. Tell me your
case." " I was commander of that ship (replied one of
the prisoners,) my men have mutinied against me,, anc}
if they do not murder me, they intend to leave me and
these two gentlemen ashore in this desolate place; they
are but in that thicket, and I tremble for fear they have
seen you." Having concerted matters with the captain,
and armed ourselves, we went to the sailors, and the
captain reserving his own piece, the two men shot one
of the villains dead and wounded another. He who
was wounded cried out for help, and I coming up, gave
orders for sparing their lives, on condition of their being
bound hands and feet while they staid on this island.
A little while after another boat came. We formed
an ambuscade, but one of the principal ringleaders of
the mutiny, with two of the crew, coming towards us,
the captain was so eager that he let fly, killed two on
the spot, the third ran for it. I immediately advanced
with rny whole army, upon which Will Atkins, one of
the ring-leaders, called out, " For God's sake, captain,
spare my life!" The captain told him he must lay down
his arms at discretion, and trust to the governor's
mercy, upon which they all submitted. And with their
assistance we seized the ship.
When I saw my deliverance thus put in my hands,
I was ready to sink with surprise; I was not able to an-
swer one word, but a flood of tears brought me to my-
self, and a little while after I recovered my speech. I
then in my turn embraced him as my deliverer, and we
rejoiced together. Having brought the prisoners before
me, I asked them what they had to say in their own
defence, telling them I had power to execute them there.
They pleaded the captain's promise of mercy. I then
told them, that I intended to go passenger in the ship,
with all my men; but that they, if they went, could
only go as prisoners; observing however, that they
might, if they chose it, stay on the island. This they
gladly accepted, and I prepared to go on board the next
day. The captain returned to the ship, to get every
thing ready for my reception.
When he was gone, I talked to the men, told them
my story, and how I managed all my household business;
left a letter for the fifteen Spaniards, and made them
30 THE ADVENTURES OP ROBINSON CRUSOE.
promise to treat them in common with themselves. The
next day I went on board the ship, taking Friday with
me; thus I left the island after being on it twenty-eight
years, and arrived safely in England* Sometime after
I went to Lisbon, to look after my effects in the Brazils,
and found the generous captain, who had been so much
my friend, still alive, and he put me in a way of reco-
vering the produce of my plantations. And a few
months after there arrived ships from the Tagus, with
effects for my use, to the amount of 50,0001. besides
10001. a year, which I expected to receive annually from
my plantation.
THE END.
Dean and Munday, Printers, Threadneedle-Street.
 