THE
LIFE
AND
^urprteittjj Stotenturw
or
ROBINSON CRUSOE,
OF YORK, MARINER;
Who lived Eight and Twenty Years alone in an uninhabited
Island on the Coast of America, near the Mouth of
the Great River Ornnoko;
HAVING BEEN
CAST ON SHORE BY SHIPWRECK,
WHEREIN
ALL THE MEN PERISHED BUT HIMSELF,
WITH
AN ACCOUNT HOW HB WAS AT LAST STRANGELY
DELIVERED BY PIRATES.
WRITTEN BY HIMSELF.
IPSWICH,
PRINTED AND SOLD BY J. RAW, AND SOLD ALSO n>
LONGMAN, BEES, OAME, SHOWN, AND GKEEJf LONDON.
1828
340 "5
( ftf
ADVERTISEMENT.
// it proper to state that this Edition of .ROBINSON
CRUSOE has been printed from the Original published
in 1719, with a change merely pj some obsolete expres-
sions for others more modern, and a correction of tauto-
logy and bad grammar wherever they occurred. TJtese
necessary alterations and improvements, which formed
the amusement of the leisure hours of a Gentleman of
high literary talent, now no more, cannot fail to add to
the value and interest of the work. This is stated for
the information of the Reader, that he may know that
he is really perusing the work of that very ingenious
writer Daniel De foe; for tJiere is no instance in which
so many liberties have been taken with an Original Work
as with ROBINSON CRUSOE. Each succeeding Editor
appears to have entertained the idea that he could int~
prove upon the Original, and all sorts of alterations have
in consequence been adopted, many of which are at
. niter variance with the plan and opinions of the Author.
Daniel De Foe certainly possessed very uncommon
merit both as a man and as a writer, and yet Jew men
have received more injurious treatment from their contem-
poraries. His miscellaneous pieces on the subject of
trade and commerce exhibit uncommon penetration, and
various and extensive knowledge; but his fame must
ever rest on those works which were entirely the offspring
of invention, and of these, his ROBINSON CRUSOE rises
superior to any thing of the kind ever published. We know
of no imitation of this which deserves notice, yet some
• A
(iv)
v *
critics have placed De Foe at the head of a school, and have
instanced Richardson as one of his best scholars. The
following opinion of Dr. Beattie is particularly worthy of
notice.—" ROBINSOH CRUSOE must be attorned, by the
most rigid moralist, to be one of those novels which one
may read not only with pleasure, but also with profit.
It breathes throughout a spirit of piety and benevolence;
it sets in a very striking light the importance of the
mechanic arts, nhich they, who know not what it is to be
without them, are so apt to undervalue; it fixes in the
mind a lively idea of the horrors of solitude, and, conse-
quently, of the sweets of social life, and of the blessings
me derive Jrom conversation and mutual aid; and it
shews, how, by labouring with one's own hands, one may
secure independence, and open to one's self many sources
of health and amusement. I agree, therefore, with
Rousseau, that this is one of the best books that can be
put into the hands of children."
THE PREFACE.
Ip ever the story of any private man's adventures in
the world were worth making public, and were ac-
ceptable when published, the Editor of this account
thinks this will be so.
The wonders of this man's life exceed all that (he
thinks) is to be found extant; the life of one man
being scarcely capable of a greater variety.
The story is told with modesty, with seriousness,
and with a religious application of events to the uses
to which wise men always apply them, viz. to the in-
struction of others by this example, and to justify and
honour the wisdom of Providence in all the variety of
our circumstances, let them happen how they will.
The Editor believes the thing to be a just history
of fact; neither, is there any appearance of fiction in
it: and though he is well aware there are many, who
on account of the very singular preservations the
author met with, w ill give it the name of a romance;
yet, in whichever of these lights it shall be viewed,
he imagines that the improvement of it, as well to
the diversion as to the instruction of the reader, will
be the same; and, as such, he thinks, without farther
compliment to the world; he does them a great
service in the publication.
a 2
^
THE
V
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
OF
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
I WAS born in the year 1632, in the city of York, of
a good family, though not of that country, my father
being a foreigner of Bremen, who settled first at Hull.
He got a good estate by merchandize, and leaving off
his trade, lived afterwards at York, from whence he
had married my mother, whose relations were named
Robinson, a very good family in that country, and from
whom I was called Robinson Kreutsnaer; but by the
usual corruption of words in England, we are now
called, nay we call ourselves, and write our name
Crusoe.
I had two elder brothers, one of whom was lieute-
nant colonel in an English regiment of foot in Flanders,
formerly commanded by the famous colonel Lockhart,
and was killed at the battle near Dunkirk against the
Spaniards: what became of my second brother I never
knew, any more than my father and mother knew
what became of me.
Being the third son of the family, and not bred to
any trade, my head began very early to be filled with
rambling thoughts. My father who was very old, had
given me a competent share of learning, as far as do-
mestic-education, and a country free-school generally
goes, and designed me for the law: but I would be
satisfied with nothing but going to sea; and my incli-
nation to this, led me so strongly against the will, nay
the commands of my father, and against all the entrea-.
ties and persuasions of ray mother and other friends,
that there seemed to be something fatal in that propen-
sion of nature, tending directly to the life of misery
which was to befal me.
My father, a wise and grave man, gave me serious
and excellent counsel against what he foresaw was my
design. He called me one morning into his chamber,
where he was confined by the gout, and expostulated
very warmly with me upon this subject . He asked me
•what reasons, more.than a mere wandering inclination,
I had for leaving my father's house and my native
country, where 1 might be well introduced, and had
a prospect of raising my fortune by application and
industry. He told me it was for men of desperate•
fortunes on the one hand, or of aspiring, superior for-
tunes on the other, who went abroad upon ad-
ventures, to rise by enterprise, and make themselves
famous in undertakings of a nature out of the common
road: that these things were all either too far above
me, or too far below me: that mine was the middle
state, or what might be called the upper state of lorn
life, which he had found by long experience was the
best state in the world, the most suited to human
happiness, the most calculated for all kind of virtues,
'and all kind of enjoyment, temperance, moderation,
quiet, health, society, all agreeable diversions and all
desirable pleasures: that this way men went silently
•and smoothly through life and comfortably out of it;
not exposed to the labour and toil, the miseries and
hardships of the lower order of mankind, nor subject
to the pride, ambition, heartburnings, vicious excesses,
vicissitudes of fortune, diseases of body, and torments
of mind, which so frequently afflict the great; but in
easy circumstances sliding gently through the world,
tasting the sweets of life without the bitters, feeling
that they are happy, and learning by every day's ex-
perience to know it more sensibly. Of the happiness
of this state, he told me, I might judge by this one
thing, that it was the condition of life which all other
people enried: that kings have frequently lamented
3
the miserable consequences of being born to great
things, and wished they had been placed in the middle
of the two extremes, between the mean and the great;
and that the wise man gave his testimony to this as
the just standard of true felicity, when he prayed to
have neither poverty or riches.
After this he pressed me earnestly, and in the most
affectionate manner, not to play the young man, not
to precipitate myself into miseries which nature and
the station of life I was born in, seemed to have pro-
vided against: that I was under no necessity of seeking
my bread; that he would do well for me, and en-
deavour to enter me fairly into the station of life which
he had been just recommending to me; and that if I
was not very easy and happy in the world, it must be
my mere fate or fault that must hinder it, and that he
should have nothing to answer for, having thus dis-
charged his duty in warning me against measures
which he knew would be my ruin. In a word, that
as he would do very kind things for me if I would stay
and settle at home as he directed, so he would not have
so much hand in my misfortunes, as to give me any
encouragement,to go away. To close all, he told me
I had my elder brother for an example, to whom he
had used the same earnest persuasions to keep him
from going into the low country wars, but could not
prevail, his young desires prompting him to run into
the army, where he was killed: and though, he said,
he would not cease to pray for me, yet he would ven-
ture to say to me, that if I did take this foolish step,
God would not bless me; and I should have leisure
hereafter to reflect upon having neglected his counsel,
when there might be none to assist in my recovery.
I observed in this last part of this discourse, that
the tears ran down his face very plentifully, especially
when he mentioned my brother who was killed:
and that when he spoke of my having leisure to re-
pent, and none to assist me, he was so moved, that
he broke off the discourse, and told me, his heart wag
BO fiill, he could say no more to me.
a 2
I was sincerely affected with this discourse (as in-
'deed who could be otherwise ?) and resolved not to
think of going abroad any more, but to settle at home
according to my father's desire. But alas! a few days
wore it all off: and, in short, to prevent any of my
father's further importunities, in a few weeks after, I
resolved to run quite away from him. However, I did
not act so hastily, neither, as my first heat of resolu-
tion prompted; but I took my mother, at a time when
I thought her a little pleasanter than ordinary, and
told her, that my thoughts were so entirely bent upon
seeing the world, that I should never settle to any
thing with resolution enough to go through with it,
and that my father had better give me his consent than
force me to go without it: that I was now eighteen
years old, which was too late to go apprentice to a
trade, or clerk to an attorney; that I was sure, if I
did, I should never serve out my time, but run away
from my master and go to sea; and if she would speak
to my father to let me go one voyage abroad, if I came
home and did not like it, I would go no more, and
would promise by a double diligence to recover the
time I had lost.
This put my mother into a great passion: she told
me, she knew it would be to no purpose to speak to
my father upon any such subject; that he knew too
well what was my interest to give his consent to any
thing so much for my hurt; and that she wondered
how I could think of it after such a discourse as I had
had with him, and such kind and tender expressions
as she knew my father had used to me: that in short,
if I would ruin myself, there was no help for me; but
I might be assured I should never have their consent
to it; that for her part she would not have so much
hand in my destruction; and I should never have it to
say, that my mother was willing when my father was
not.
Though my mother refused to move it to my father,
yetj as I heard afterwards, she reported all the dis-
course to him, who after shewing great concern at it,
said to her with a sigh, "that boy might be happy if
he would stay at home; but if he goes abroad, he will
be the most miserable wretch that was ever born: I can
give no consent to it."
It was not till almost a year after this, that I broke
loose; though in the mean time I continued obstinately
deaf to all proposals of settling to business, frequently
expostulated with my father and mother at their being
so positively determined against what they knew my
inclination prompted me to. But being one day at
Hull, where I went casually, and without any pur-
pose of making an elopement that time, one of my
companions who was going by sea to London, in his
father's ship, inviting me to go with him, with the
common allurement of sea-faring men, that it should
cost me nothing for my passage, I consulted neither
father or mother any more, not so much as sent them,
word of it; but leaving them to hear of it as they
might, without asking God's blessing, or my father's,
without any consideration of circumstances or conse-
quences, and in an ill hour, God knows, on the first
of September 1651, I went on board a ship bound for
London. Never any young adventurer's misfortunes,
I believe, began sooner, or continued longer than mine.
The ship was no sooner got out of the Humber, but
the wind began to blow, and the waves to rise in a
most frightful manner; and as I had never been at sea
before, I was most inexpressibly sick in body, and
terrified in mind. I began seriously to reflect upon
what I had done, and how justly I was overtaken by
the judgment of heaven for thus wickedly leaving my
father's house, and abandoning my duty. All the good
counsel of my parents, my father's tears and my mo-
ther's entreaties came now fresh into my mind; and
my conscience, which was not yet entirely hardened,
bitterly reproached me for the contempt I had shewn
for their advice, and my breach of duty both to God
and them.
All this while the storm increased, and the sea,
which I had never been upon before, ran very high,
B .3
though nothing like what I have seen many times
since; nor even what I saw a few days after: but it
was enough to affect me then, who was but a young
sailor, and had never known any thing of the matter.
I expected every wave would have swallowed us up,
and that every time the ship fell down, as I thought,
in the trough or hollow of the sea, we should never
rise more; and in this agony of mind, I made many
vows and resolutions, that if it would please God to
spare my life this one voyage, if ever I once got my
foot upon dry land again, I would go directly home to
my father, strictly follow his advice, and never run
myself into such dangers any more. Now I saw
plainly the goodness of his observations about the
middle station of life, how easy, how comfortably he
had lived all his days, and never had been exposed to
tempests at sea, or troubles on shore; and I resolved
that I would, like a true repenting prodigal, go home
and implore his forgiveness.
These wise and sober thoughts continued all the while
. the storm continued, and indeed some time after; but
the next day the wind was abated and the sea calmer,
and I began to be a little inured to it. However I was
very grave all that day, being also a little sea-sick
still: but towards night the weather cleared up, the
•wind was quite over, and a charming fine evening
followed: the sun went down perfectly clear, and rose
so the next morning; and having little or no wind,
and a smooth sea, the sun shining upon it, the sight
was, as I thought, the most delightful that ever I saw.
I had slept well in the night, and was now no more
sea-sick, but very chearful, looking with wonder upon
the sea that was so rough and terrible the day before,
and could be so calm and so pleasant a little time
after. And now, lest my good resolutions should con-
tinue, my companion, who had indeed enticed me
away; comes to me, "Well Bob," says he, (clapping
me upon the shoulder,) liow do you do after it? I war-
rant you were frightened, tvc.rn't you, lost night, n-hcn
it blew iut a cap full of wind? A cap full do you calf
tt •' said 1, it was a terrible storm: A ttarm, you Jool
you, replies he, do you call that a storm P why it mat
nothing at all; give us but a good ship and sea-room,
and me think nothing of such a squall of wind as that:
but you're out a fresh-water sailor, Bob; let us make a
bowl of punch and me'llforget all that: do yvu see what
charming weather it is now? To make short this sad
part of my story, we went the old way of all sailors,
the punch was made, and I was made drunk with it,
and in that one night's wickedness I drowned all my
repentance, all my reflections upon my past conduct,
and all my resolutions for my future. In a word, as
the sea was returned to its smoothness of surface and
settled calmness by the abatement of that storm, so the
hurry of my thoughts being over, my fears and appre-
hensions of being swallowed up by the sea forgotten,
and the current of my former desires returned, I
entirely forgot the vows and promises that I made
in my distress. I found indeed some intervals of re-
flection, and the serious thoughts did, as it were, en-
deavour to return again sometimes: but I shook them
off, and roused myself from them as it were from a
distemper; and applying myself to drinking and com-
pany, and soon mastered the return of those fits, (for
so I called them) and had in five or six days got as
complete a victory over conscience, as any young fellow
that resolved not to be troubled with it, could desire.
But I was to have another trial for it still; and Provi-
dence, as in such cases it generally does, resolved to
leave me entirely without excuse: for if I would not
take this for a deliverance, the next was to be such a
one as the worst and most hardened wretch among us
must feel the force of.
The sixth day of our being at sea we came into
Yarmouth Roads. The wind having been contrary,
and the weather calm, we had made but little way
since the storm. Here we were obliged to come to
anchor, and here we lay, the wind continuing contrary,
viz. at south-west, for seven or eight days, during
which time a great many ships from Newcastle came
8
into the same roads, as the common harbour where
the ships might wait for a wind for the river.
We should not however have rode here so long, but
tided it up the river, had not the wind freshened,
and after we had lain four or five days, blown very
hard. However, the roads being reckoned as safe as
a harbour, the anchorage good, and our ground-tackle
very strong, our men were unconcerned, spending
the time in rest and mirth, after the manner of sailors:
but the eighth day in the morning, the wind increased,
and we had all hands at work to strike our top-masts,
and make every thing snug and close, that the ship
might ride as easy as possible. By noon the sea went
very high indeed, and our ship rode forecastle in,
shipped several seas, and we thought once or twice
our anchor had come home; upon which our master
ordered out the sheet anchor; so that we rode with
two anchors a-head, and the cables veered out to the
better end.
By this time it blew a terrible storm indeed, and
now I began to see terror and amazement in the faces
even of the seamen themselves. The master, was vi-
gilant in the business of preserving the ship; yet as
he went in and out of his cabin by me, I could hear
him softly say to himself several times, Lord be merciful
to us, we shall be all lost, we shall be all undone; and
the like. During these first hurries, I was stupid, lying
still in my cabin which was in the steerage, and can-
not describe my temper. I could ill re-assume the
first penitence which I had so daringly hardened myself
against: I thought the bitterness of death had been
past, and that this would be nothing like the first.
But when the master himself came by me, and said
we should be all lost. I was dreadfully frightened:
I got up out of my cabin, and looked out; but such a
dismal sight I never saw: the sea ran mountains high,
and broke upon us every three or four minutes. When
I could look about, I saw nothing but distress around
us: two ships that rode near us, we found, had cut
their masts by the board, being deep laden; and our
mert cryed out, that a ship which rod« about a mil«
a-head ef us was foundered. Two more ship* being
driven from their anchors, ran out of the roads to sea,
at all hazards, and that with not a mast standing. The
light ships fared the best, as not so much labouring in
the sea; but two or three of them drove, and came
close by us, running away with only their sprit-sail
out before the wind.
Towards evening the mate and boatswain begged
the master of our ship to let them cut away the fore-
mast, which he was very unwilling to do; but the boat-
swain protesting to him, that if he did not, the ship
would founder, he consented ; and when they had.
cut away the fbreHmast, the main-mast stood so loose,
and shook the ship so much, they were obliged to
cat that away also, and make a dear deck.
• Any one may judge what I must have suffered at
all this, who was but a young sailor, and had been in
such a fright before without occasion: but if I can ex-
press at this distance the thoughts I had about me at
that time, I was in tenfold more horror of mind upon
account of my former convictions, and the having
returned from them to the resolutions I had wickedly
•taken at first, than I was at death itself. But the
worstwas not come,the storm continued with such fury,
that the seamen themselves acknowledged they had
never known a worse. We had a good ship, but she
was deep laden, and wallowed in the sea, that the sea-
men every now and then cried out, she would founder.
It was my advantage in one respect that I did not
know what they meant by this expression. However,
the storm was so violent, that I saw what is not often
seen, the master, the boat-s\vain, and some others
more sensible than the rest, at their prayers, ex-
pecting every moment the ship would go to the bottom.
In the middle of the night, and under all the rest of
our distresses, one of the men that had been down on
purpose to see, cried out, we had sprung a leak ; ano-
ther said there was four feet water in the hold. Then
all hands were called to the pump. At that very word
10
. my heart, died within me, and I fell backwards upon
the side of my bed where I sat, into the cabin. How-
ever, the men roused me, and told me, that I who was
able to do nothing before, could work at the pump as
well as another; at which I stirred up, went to the
pump, and worked very heartily. While this was
doing, the master seeing some light colliers, who not
able to ride out the storm, were obliged to slip and run
away to sea, and would come near us, ordered a gun
.to be fired as a signal of distress. I who knew nothing
of what they meant, was so surprised, that I thought the
ship had broke, or some dreadful thing happened. In
a word I was so confounded that I fell down in a
swoon. As this was a time when every body had his
own life to think of, no body minded me, or what was
become of me; but another man stept up to the pump,
and thrusting me aside with his foot, let me lie, think-
ing I had been dead; and it was a great while before
I came to myself.
We worked on, but the water increasing in the hold,
it was apparent that the ship would founder, and
though the storm began to abate a little, yet as it was
not possible she could swim till we might run into a
port, so the master continued firing guns for help;
and a light ship who had rode it out just a-head of us,
ventured a boat out to help us. It was with the
utmost hazard the boat came near us, but it was impos-
sible for us to get on board, or for the boat to lie near
the ship side, till at last the men rowing very heartily,
and venturing their lives to save ours, our men cast
them a rope over the stern with a buoy to it, and then
veered it out a great length ; this after great labour and
hazard they took hold of, and we hauled them close
.under our stern, and got all into their boat. It was in
vain to think of reaching their ship, so all agreed to
let the boat drive, and only to pull her in towards shore
as much as we could; and our master promised them,
.that if it was staved upon shore he would make it
good to their master: so partly rowing and partly dri-
ving, our boat went away to the northward, sloping
towards the shore almost as far as Winterton-Ness.
11
'We were not much more than a quarter of an hour
out of ourshipbefore we saw hersink,and then I under-
stood for the first time what was meant by a ship foun-
dering. I must acknowledge I had hardly eyes to look
up when the seamen told me she was sinking; and it
might rather be said I was put into the boat than that
I got into it myself. My heart was as it were dead
within me, partly with fright, partly with horror of
mind, and the thoughts of what was yet before me.
While we were in this condition, the men yet labour-
ring at the oar to bring us near the shore, we could see,
•when our boat mounted the waves, a great many
people running along the beach to assist us when we
should come near, but we made but slow way towards
the shore, nor were we able to reach it, till, being past
the light house at Winterton, the shore falls off to the
westward towards Cromer, and so the land broke off
a little the violence of the wind: here we drove in,
and, though not without much difficulty, got all safe
on shore, and walked afterwards on foot to Yarmouth,
where, as unfortunate men, we were used with great
humanity, as well by the magistrates of the town, who
assigned us good quarters, as by particular merchants
and owners of ships, and had money given us sufficient
to carry us either to London or back to Hull, as we
thought fit.
Had I now had the sense to have gone back to
Hull, and returned home, I had been happy, and my
father, an emblem of our blessed Saviour's parable,
had even killed the fatted calf for me; for hearing the
ship I went away in was cast away in Yarmouth Roads,
it was a great while before he had any assurance that I
was not drowned. But my ill fate pushed me on;
and though I had several times loud calls from my
reason and my more composed judgment to forsake
the task I had taken, I wanted spirit and resolution to
obey them.
My comrade who had helped to harden me before;
and who was the master's son, was now less forward
13
than I. The first time he spoke to me after we were
at Yarmouth, [ which was not till two or three days,
for we were separated in the town to several quarters)
his tone appeared altered: he looked grave and melan-
choly: and upon his stating to his father who I was,
and under what circumstances I had engaged in the
voyage, young man, said the father, turning to me
with a very grave and concerned tone, depend upon it,
if you do not go back, wherever you go, you will meet
with nothing but disasters and disappointments, till your
father's words are fulfilled upon you.
We parted very soon after; for I made him little an-
swer, and saw him no more; which way he went, I know
not. As for me, having some money in my pocket, I
travelled to London by land; and there, as well as on
the road, had many struggles with myself, what course
of life I should take and whether I should go home, or
go to sea.
Asto going home, shame opposed the best motions that
offered to my thoughts ; and it immediately occurred to
me how I should be laughed at among the neighbours,
and should blush to see, not my father and mo-
ther only, but even every body else; on which I have
since otten remarked, how irrational and absurd is the
common temper of mankind, especially of yeuth, that
they are not ashamed to sin, yet ashamed to repent; not
ashamed of the action for which they ought justly
to be esteemed fools, but of that by which they can
alone entitle themselves to be considered as wise men.
In this state of mind however I remained some time,
uncertain what measures to take, and what course of
life to lead. I felt an irresistible reluctance to going
home, and the longer I staid, the more the remembrance
of my distress wore off; till at last I gave over all
thoughts of returning, and looked out for a voyage.
That evil influence which carried me first away from
my father's house now presented the most unfortunate
of all enterprizes to my view; and I went on board a
vessel bound to the coast of Africa; or as our sailors
•vulgarly call it, a voyage to Guinea.
19
It was my great misfortune that in all these adven-
tures I did not ship myself as a sailor; by which step
though I might have subjected myself to some little
toil, I should at the same time have learned the duty
and office of a fore-mast man; and in time might have
qualified myself for a mate or lieutenant, if not for a
master. But as it was always my fate to choose for
the worse, so I did here; for having money in my
pocket, and good clothes upon my back, I would
always go on board in the habit of a gentleman; and
so I neither had any business in the ship, or learned to
do any.
It was my lot first of all to fall into pretty good com-
pany in London, which does not always happen to such
loose and unguided young fellows as I then was; the
devil rarely omitting to lay some snare for them very
early: but it was not so with me: I first fell acquainted
•with the master of a ship who had been on the coast of
Guinea ; and having had, very good success there, was
resolved to go again. He took a fancy to my conversa-
tion, and hearing me say I had a mind to see the world,
told me if I would go the voyage with him I should
be at no expence; I should be his mess-mate and his
companion, and if I could carry any thing with me, I
should have all the advantage of it that the tradewould
admit; and perhaps I might meet with some encou-
ragement.
I embraced the offer, and entering into a strict
friendship with this captain, who was an honestplain deal-
ing man, went the voyage with him, and carried a small
adventure with me, which by the disinterested honesty
of my friend the captain, I increased very considerably;
for I carried about 40 I. in such toys and trifles as the
captain directed me to buy. This 401. I had mustered
together by the assistance of some of my relations
•whom I corresponded with, and who, I believe, got
tny father, or at least my mother, to contribute some-
thing to my first adventure.
This was the only voyage which I may say was suc-
cessful in all my adventures, and which I owe to the
14
integrity and honesty of my friend the captain, under
•whom also I got a competent knowledge of the mathe-
matics and the rules of navigation, learned how to
keep an account of the ship's course, take an observation,
and, in short, to understand some things necessary to
be known by a sailor: for, as he took delight in instruct-
ing me I took delight in learning; and, in a word, this
voyage made me both a sailor and a merchant: for I
brought home 5 pound 9 ounces of gold dust for my
adventure, which yielded me in London at my return,
almost 3001. and this filled me with those aspiring
thoughts which have since so completed my ruin.
Yet even in this voyage I had my misfortunes too;
particularly, that I was continually ill, being thrown
into a violent calenture by the excessive heat of the
climate; our principal trading being upon the coast,
from the latitude 15 degrees north to the line itself.
I was now set up for a Guinea trader; and my
friend, to my great misfortune, dying soon after bis
arrival, I resolved to go the same voyage again, and
embarked in the same vessel with one who was his
mate in the former voyage, and had now got the com-
mand of the ship. This was the unhappiest voyage
that ever man made ; for.though I did not carry quite
1001. of my new gained wealth, (so that I had 200 left,
•which I lodged with my friend's widow.) yet I fell
into terrible misfortunes. Our ship making her
course towards the Canary Islands, or rather between
those islands and the African shore, was suprized in
the grey of the morning, by a Turkish rover of Sallee,
•who gave chase to us with all the sail she could make.
We crouded also as much canvass as our yards would
spread, or our masts carry, to get clear; but finding
the pirate gained upon us, and would certainly come
up with us in a few hours, we prepared to fight; our
ship having 12 guns, and the enemy 18. About three
in the afternoon he came up with us, and bringing to
by mistake just athwart our quarter, instead of athwart
our stern, as he intended, we brought 8 of our guns to
bear on thai side, and poured in a broad-side upon
15
him, which made him sheer off again, after returning
our fire, and pouring in also his small shot from near
200 men which he had on board. However, we had
not a man touched, all our men keeping close. He
prepared to attack us again, and we to defend ourselves;
but laying us on board the next time upon our other
quarter, he entered 60 men upon our decks,who imme«
diately fell to cutting and hacking the decks andrigging.
We plyed them with small-shot, half-pikes, powder-
chests, and such like, and cleared our deck of them
twice. However, to cut short this melancholy part of
our story, our ship being disabled, and three of our
men killed, and eight wounded, we were obliged to
yield, and were carried all prisoners into Sallee, a port
belonging to the Moors.
The usage I had there was not so dreadful as I at
first apprehended; nor was I carried up the country to
the emperor's court, as the rest of our men were, but
was kept by the captain of the rover, as his proper,
prize, and made his slave, being young and nimble
and fit for his business. At this surprizing change of
my circumstances, from a merchant to a miserable slave,
I was perfectly overwhelmed : and now I looked back
upon my father's prophetic discourse tome, that I should
be miserable, and have none to relieve me, which I
thought was now so effectually brought to pass, that
I could not be worse; that now the hand of heaven had
overtaken me, and I was undone without redemption.
But alas ! this was but a taste of the misery I was to go
through as will appear in the sequel of this story.
As my new patron or master had taken me home to
his house, so I was in hopes he would take me with
him when he went to sea again ; believing that it would
some time or other be his fate to be taken by a Spanish
or Portuguese man of war, and that then I should be
set at liberty. But this hope of mine was soon taken
away ; for when he went to sea, he left me on shore to
look after his little garden, and do the common drud-
gery of slaves about his house; and when he came home
again from his cruise, he ordered me to lye in thfl
cabin to look after the ship.
16
Here I meditated nothing but my escape, and
what method I might take to effect it; but found no
way that had the least probability in it: for I had
no body to communicate my design to, that would em-
bark with me, no fellow-slave, no Englishman, Irishi
man, or Scotchman, there but myself; so that for two
years, though I often pleased myself with the imagi-
nation, yet I never had the least encouraging prospect
of putting it in practice.
After about two years, an odd circumstance present-
ed itself, which put the old thought of making some
attempt for my liberty again in my head. My patron
lying at home longer than usual, without fitting out
his ship, (which, as I heard, was for want of money,)
he used constantly, once or twice a week, sometimes
oftener, if the weather was fair, to take the ship's pin-
nace, and go out into the road a fishing; and as he
always took me and a young Moresco with him to row
the boat, we made him very merry; and I proved so
dexterous in catching fish, that sometimes he would
send me with a Moor, one of his kinsman, and the
youth the Moresco as they called him, to catch a dish
of fish for him.
It happened one time, that going a fishing in a calm
morning, a fog rose so thick, that though we were not
half a league from the shore we lost sight of it; and
rowing we knew not whither or which way, we laboured
all day, and all the next night, and when the morning
came we found we had pulled off to sea instead of pul-
ling in to land; and that we were at least two leagues
from the shore : however we got well in again, though
with a great deal of labour, and some danger; for the
wind began to blow pretty fresh in the morning: but
particularly we were all very hungry.
Our patron, warned by this disaster, resolved to
take more care of himself for the future; and having
lying by him the long boat of our English ship he had
taken, he resolved he would not go a fishing any more
without a compass and some provision. So he ordered
the carpenter of his ship, who also was an English slave,
17
to build a little state room or cabin in th1 middle of the
long-boat, like that of a barge, with a place to stand
behind it to steer and haul home the main sheet; a»d
room before for a hand or two to stand and work the
sails. She sailed with what we call a shoulder of mut-
ton sail; and the boom gibed over the top of the cabin,
•which lay very snug and low, and had births in it for
himself and a slave or two to lye in, and room for a
table to eat on, with some small lockers to receive his
liquor, bread, rice, and coffee.
We went frequently out with this boat a fishing, and
as I was most dexterous in catching fish, he never
•went without me. It happened that he had appointed
to go out in this boat, either for pleasure or for fish, with
two or thee Moors of some distinction in that place, for
whom he had provided extraordinarily; and had therefore
sent on board the boat over night a larger store of pro-i
visions than usual; and he ordered me to get ready
three fuzees with powder and shot, which were onboard
his ship, as they designed some sport of fowling as well
as fishing.
I got all things ready as he had directed, and waited
the next morning with the boat washed clean, her anti-
em and pendants out, andevery thing to accommodate
his guests , when by and bye my patron came on board
alone, and told me his guests had put off going, upon
some business that fell out, and ordered me with the
man and boy, as usual, to go out with the boat and catch
them some fish, for that his friends were to sup at his
house.
This moment myformer notions of deliverance darted
into my thoughts, for now I found I was like to have
a little ship at my command; and my master being
gone, I prepared to furnish myself not for fishing bust-
ness but for a voyage; though I knew not, neither
did I so much as consider, whither I should steer. To
ge away was sufficient.
My first contrivance was to make a pretence to speak
to this Moor, to get something for our subsistence on
board; for I told him we must not presume to eat our
t 3
16
patron's bread ; he said, that was true; so he brought
a large basket of rusk or biscuit of their kind, and three
jars with fresh water into the boat. I knew where my
patron's case of bottles stood, which it was evident, by
the make, were taken out of some English prize; and
I conveyed them into the boat while the Moor was on
shove, as if they had been there before for our master. I
carried also a great lump of bees-wax into the boat,
•which weighed above half a hundred weight, with a
parcel of twine or thread, a hatchet, a saw and a ham-
mer, all of which were of great use to us afterwards;
especially the wax to make candles. Another trick I
tried upon him, which he innocently came into also;
his name was Ismael, which they call Mvly, or Moky:
*o I called to him, Moky, said I, our patron's guns
are on board the boat, can't you get a little powder and
shot? It may be we may kill some Alcamies (a fowl
like our Curlews) for ourselves, for I know he keeps
the gunner's stores in the ship ? Yes, says he, I'll bring
some, and accordingly he brought a great leather pouch
which held about a pound and a half of powder, or
rather more ; and another with shot, that had five or six
pounds, with some bullets, and put all into the boat.
At the same time I had found some powder of my
master's in the great cabin, with which I filled one of
the large bottles in-the case, which was almost empty;
pouring what was in it into another: and thus furnish-
ed with every thing needful, we sailed out of the port
to fish. The castle which is at the en'.ranee of the port
knew who we were, and took no notice of us; and we
were not above a mile out of the port before we hauled
down our sail and brought too, to fish. The wind
blew from the N. NE. which was contrary to my desire;
for had it blown southerly I had been sure tohave made
the coast of Spain, and at least reached the bay of Cadiz;
but my resolutions were, blow which way it would, I
would be off, and leave the rest to fate.
After we had fished some time and caught nothing,
(for when 1 had fish on my hook I would not pull them
up, that he might not see them;) I said to the Moor,
19
this will not do; our master will not be thus served; -we
must stand further off: he thinking no harm agreed,
and being at the head of the boat set the sails ; and as I
had. the helm I ran out near a league further, and then
brought to as if 1 would fish, when, giving the boy
the helm, I stept forwards to where the Moor was,
and making as if I stooped for something behind him, I
took him by surprize with my arm under his waist and
tost him clear over-board into the bear he rose imme-
diately, for he swam like a cork, and called to me, beg-
ging to be taken in, and assuring me he would go all
over the world with me; he swam so strong after the
boat that he would have reached me very quickly, there
being but little wind; upon which I stept into thecabin,
and fetching one of the fowling pieces, I presented it
at him, and told him, I had done him no hurt, and if
he would be quiet I would do him none: but, said I,
you swim well enough to reach the shore, and the sea
is calm, make the best of your way, and 1 will do you no
harm; but if you come near the boat I will shoot you
through the head, for I am resolved to have my liberty:
so he turned himself about and swam for the shore, and
I make no doubt he reached it with ease, for he was
an excellent swimmer.
I could have been content to have taken this Moor
•with me, and have drowned the boy, but there was no
venturing to trust him. When he was gone I turned
to the boy, whom they called Xury, and said to him,
Xury, if you will be faithful to me I'll make you a great
man; but if you will not stroke your face to be true to
me, that is swear by Mahomet and his father's beard,(
must throw you into the sea too. The boy smiled in
my face, and spoke so innocently that I could not mis-
trust him; swearing to be faithful to me as long as he
lived.
While I was in view of the Moor who was swimming,
I stood out directly to sea with the boat, rather stretch-
ing to windward, that they might think me gone to-
wards the Straits mouth as indeed any one that had been
in their wits must have been supposed to do. For who
so
would have supposed we were sailed onto the southward
to the truly Barbarian coast, where whole nations of
negroes were sure to surround us with canoes, and de-
stroy us; where we could never once get on shore but
we should be devoured by savage beasts, or more mer-
ciless savages of human kind. As soon as it grew
dusk in the evening, I changed my course, and steered
directly south and by east, bendingmy course a little to-
ward the east, that I might keep in with the shore : and
having a fair fresh gale of wind, and a smooth quiet sea,
I made such sail that I believe by the next day at three
o'clock in the afternoon, when I first made the land, I
could not be less than 150 miles south of Sa/lee; quite
beyond the emperor of Morocco's dominions, or indeed
of any other king thereabouts, for we saw no people.
Yet such was the fright I had taken at the Moors,
and the dreadful apprehensions I had of falling into their
hands, that I would not stop, or g" on shore, or come
to an anchor, the wind continuing fair, 'till I had sailed
in that manner five days : and then the wind shifting
to the southward, I concluded that if any of our vessels
were in chase of me, they would now give it over ; so
I ventured to make to the coast, and come to an anchor
in the mouth of a little river, I knew not what, or
where ; neither what latitude, what country, what na-
tion, or what river: I neither saw, or desired to see any
people; the principal thing I wanted was fresh water.
We came into this creek in the evening, resolving to
swim on shore as soon as it was dark, and discover the
country: but as soon as it was quite dark, we heard
such dreadful noises of the barking, roaring, and howl-
ing of wild creatures of we knew not what kinds, that
the poor boy was ready to die with fear, and begged of
me not to go on shore till day. Well Xury, said I, then
I won't, but it may be, we may see men by day, who
•will be as bad to us as those lions. Then we give them the
shoot gun, says Xury, laughing, make them run may;
such English Xury spoke by conversing among us
slaves. However T was glad to see the boy so chearful;
and gave him a dram out of our patron's case of bottles
21
to chear him up. After all, Xiirtfs advice was good,
and I took it. We dropped our little anchor and lay
still all night, I say still, as we slept none: for in two
pr three hours we saw vast creatures (we knew not
what to call them) of many sorts, come down to the sen
shore and run into the water, wallowing in itforthe plea-
sure of cooling themselves ; and they made such hideous
bowlings and yellings, as 1 never heard before. Xury
was dreadfully frightened, and indeed BO was I too;
but we were both much more so, when we hea • ' one
of these mighty creatures come swimming towards our
boat. We could not see him, but we might hear him
by his blowing to be a prodigious animal. Xury said
it was a lion, (and it might be so for aught I know)
and cried to me to weigh the anchor and row away:
No, says I, Xury, we can slip our cable with the buoy
to it and go off to sea, they cannot follow us far. I
had no sooner said so, but" I perceived the creature
(whatever it was) within two oars length, which
somewhat surprized me: however I immediately stept
to the cabin-door, and taking up my gun fired at him;
upon which he turned about, and swam towards the
shore again.
But it is impossible to describe the horrible noises,
and hideous cries and howlings, that were raised, as
•well upon the edge of the shore, as higher up the
country, upon the noise or report of the gun; a thing
J have some reason to believe, those creatures had
never heard before. This convinced me that there was
no going on shore for us in the night upon that coast:
and how to venture on shore in the day was another
question too; for to have fallen into the hands of any
of the savages, had been as bad as to have fallen into
the hands of lions and tygers ; at least we were equally
apprehensive of the danger of it.
Be that as it would, we were obliged to go on shore
somewhere or other for water, for we had not a pin t
left in the boat: Xury said, if I would let him go on
/bore with one of the jars, he would find if there waa
any water and bring some to me. 1 asked him why
88
he would go? why I should not go and he stay in the
boat? The boy answered with an affection that made
me love him ever after; says he, if' wild, mans come,
they eat me, you go may. Well Xury, said I, we will
both go; and if the wild men come, we will kill them,
they shall eat neither of us. So I gave Xury apiece of
rusk-bread to eat, and a dram out of our patron's case
of bottles ; and we hawled the boat in as near the shore
as we thought was proper, and waded on shore; car-
rying nothing but our arms, and two jars for water.
I did not care to go out of sight of the boat, fearing
the coming of canoes with Savages down the river:
but the boy seeing a low place about a mile up the
country, rambled to it; and by and by I saw him
come running towards me. I thought he was pursued
by some savage, or frightened with some wild beast,
and run forwards towards him to help him: but when
I came nearer to him, I saw something hanging over
his shoulders, which was a creature he had shot, like
a hare, but different in colour, and with longer legs:
however we were, very glad of it, and it was very good
meat; but the great joy that poor Xury came with,
was to tell me he had found good water, and seen no
wild mans.
We discovered afterwards that we need not take
such pains, for a little higher up the creek where we
were, we found the water fresh when the tide was out;
so we filled our jars and feasted on the hare we had
killed, and prepared to make sail, having seen no
foot-steps of any human creature in that part of the
country.
As I had been one voyage to•this coast before, I
knew very well that the islands ot the Canaries, and the
Cape de Verd islands also, lay not far off from the
coast. But as I had no instruments to take an obser-
tion, and ascertain what latitude we were in, I knew
not where o look for them, or when to stand off to
sea towards them; otherwise I might now easily have
found some of these islands. But my hope was, that,
if 1 stood along this coast till I came to that part where
the English traded, I should find some of their vessels
that would relieve and take us in.
By the best calculation I could make the place where
I now was, must be that country, which being situated
between the emperor of Morocco's dominions and the
Negroes, lies waste, and uninhabited, except by the
wild beasts: the Negroes having abandoned it, and
gone farther south for fear of the Moors; and the
Moors not thinking it worth inhabiting, by reason of
its barrenness; and indeed both forsaking it on account
of the prodigious numbers of tygers, lions, leopards,
and other furious creatures which harbour there.
Once or twice in the day time I thought I saw the
Peak of Temriffe, being the high top of the island
Teneriffe in the Canaries; and had a great mind to
venture out in hopes of reaching thither: but having
tried twice, I was forced in again by contrary winds,
the sea also running too high for my little vessel, so
I resolved to pursue my first design and keep along
the shore.
Several times I was obliged to land for fresh water,
after we had left this place; and once in particular,
being early in the morning, we came to anchor under a
little point of land which was pretty high, and the tide
beginning to flow, we lay still to go farther in. Xury,
whose eyes were more about him than it seems mine
were, calls softly to me, and tells me we had better
go farther off the shore; for, says he, look yonder lies
a dreadful monster on the side of that hillock fast
asleep: I looked where he pointed, and saw a dreadful
monster indeed, for it was a huge lion that lay on the
side of the shore, under the shade of a piece of the
hill that hung as it were a little over him. Xury, says
I, you shall go on shore and kill him; Xury looked
frighted, and said, Me kill! he eat me at one mouth;
one mouthful he meant. However I said no more to
the boy, but bad him lie still, and I took our biggest
gun, which was almost musket-bore, and loaded it
with a good charge of powder, and with two slugs,
and laid it down; then I loaded another gun with two
bullets; and the third, for we had three pieces, I
loaded with five smaller bullets. I took the best aim
I could with the first piece to have shot him into the
head, but he lay so with his leg raised a little above
his nose, that the slugs hit his leg about the knee, and
broke the bone. He started up growling at first, but
finding his leg broke fell down again, and then got up
upon three legs, and gave the most hideous roar that
ever I heard. I was a little surprised that I had not
hit him on the head; however, I took up the second
piece immediately, and, though he began t'» move off,
fired again, and had the pleasure to see him drop, and
lie struggling for life. Then Xitry took heart, and
•would have me let him go on shore: well, go, said I;
so the boy jumped into the water, and taking a little
gun in one hand, swam to the shore with the other,
and coming close to the creature, put the muzzle of
the piece to his ear, and dispatched him quite.
This was game indeed to us, but this was no food;
and I was sorry to lose three charges of powder and
shot upon a creature that was good for nothing to us.
However, Xury said, he would have some of him; so
he came on board, and asked me to give him the
hatchet. For what Xury 2 said I Me cut off his
head, said he. However Xury could not cut off his
head, but he cut off a foot, and brought it with him,
and it was a prodigious great one. I bethought my-
self however, that perhaps the skin of him might one
way or other be of value to us; and I resolved to take
it off if I could. So Xury and I went to work with
him; but Xury was much the better workman at it,
for I knew very ill how todo Vf. Indeed it took us both
up the whole day; but at last we got off the hide,
and spreading it on the top of our cabin, the sun effec-
tually dried it in two days time, and it afterwards
served me to lie upon.
After this stop, we made on to the southward con-
tinually for ten or twelve days, living very sparingly
on our provisions, which began to abate very much,
»nd going no oftener on the shore than we were obliged
25
to for fresh water. My design was, to make the river
Gambia or Senegal, that is to say, any where about
the Cape de Verd, where I was in hopes to meet with
some European ship; and if I did not, I knew not
what course I had to take, but to seek for the Islands,
or perish there among the Negroes. I knew that all
the ships from Europe, which sailed either to the coast
of Guinea or to Brasil, or to the East Indies, made this
Cape, or those Islands; and in a word, I put the whole
of my fortune upon this single point, either that I must
meet with some ship, or perish.
When 1 had pursued this resolution about ten days
longer, as I have said, I began to see that the land
was inhabited; and in two. or three places, as we sailed
by, we saw people stand upon the shore to look at us:
we could also perceive they were quite black, and stark
naked. I was once inclined to have gone on shore to
them; but Xury was my better councellor, and said to
me, No go, no go; however, I hauled in nearer the
shore that I might talk to them, and I found they run
along the shore by me a good way. I observed they
had no weapons in their hands, except one, who had a
long slender stick, which Xury said was a lance, and
that they would throw them a great way with good
aim; so I kept at a distance, but talked to them by
signs as well as I could ; and particularly made signs
for something to eat. They beckoned to me to stop
my boat, and they would fetch me some meat: upon
this I lowered the top of my sail, and lay by, and two
of them run up into the country, and in less than half
an hour came back, and brought with them two pieces
of dry flesh and some corn, such as is the produce of
their country; but how to come at it was the next
question, for I was not for venturing on shore to them,
and they were as much afraid of us: but they took a
safe way for us all, for they brought it to the shore and
laid it down, and went and stood a great way off, till
we fetched it on board, and then came close to us
again.
We made signs of thanks to them, for we had
D
.26
nothing to make them amends; but an opportunity
offered that very instant to oblige them wonderfully:
for while we were lying by the shore, came two mighty
creatures, one pursuing the other with great fury, from
the mountains towards the sea. Whether it was the
male pursuing the female, or whether they were
in sport or in rage, we could not tell, any more than
we could tell whether it was usual or strange, but I
believe it was the latter; because, in the first place,
those ravenous creatures seldom appear but in the
night; and in the second place, we found the people
terribly frighted, especially the women. The man
that had the lance or dart did not fly from them, but
the rest did; however, as the two creatures ran directly
towards the water, they did not seem to offer to fall
upon any of the Negroes, but plunged themselves into
the sea and swam about as if they had come for their
diversion. At last one of them began to come nearer
our boat than at first I expected; but I lay ready for
him, for I had loaded my gun with all possible expe-
dition, and bad Xury load both the others; as soon as
he came fairly within my reach, I fired and shot him
directly into the head: immediately he sunk down into
the water, but rose instantly and plunged up and down
as if he was struggling for life; and so indeed he was;
he immediately made to the shore, but between the
wound, which was his mortal hurt, and the strangling
of the water, he died just before he reached it.
It is impossible to express the astonishment of these
poor creatures at the noise and the fire of my gun.
Some of them were even ready to die for fear, and fell
down as dead with the very terror. But when they
saw the creature dead, and sunk in the water, and
that 1 made signs to them to come to the shore, they
took heart and came to the shore, and^ began to search
for the creature. I found him by his blood staining
toe water, and by the help of a rope, which I flung
round him, and gave the Negroes to haul, they dragged
him on shore, and found that it was a most curiotu
leopard, spotted and fine to an admirable degree; and
27
the Negroes held up their hands with admiration to
think, what it was I killed him with.
The other creature frighted with the flash of fire and
the noise of the gun, swam on shore, and ran up direct-
ly to the mountains from whence they came; nor could
I at that distance know what it was. I found quickly
the Negroes were for eating the flesh of this creature;
»o I was willing to have them take it as a favour from
roe, and made signs to them that they might take him,
for which they were very thankful. Immediately they
fell to work with him, and though they had no knife,
yet with a sharpened piece of wood they took off hit
skin as readily, and much more readily, than we could
have done with a knife. They offered me some of the
flesh, which I declined, but made signs for the skin,
which they gave me very freely, and brought me a great
deal more of their provisions. Then I made signs to
them for some water, and held out one of my jars to
them, turning it bottom upward, to shew that it was
empty, and that I wanted to have it filled. They called
immediately to some of their friends, and there came
two women and brought a great vessel made of earth,
and burnt, as I suppose, in the sun; this they set
down for me, as before, and I sent Xury on shore with
my jars, and filled them all three. The women were
as stark naked as the men.
I was now furnished with roots and corn, such as it
was, and water; and, leaving my friendly Negroes, I
made foiward for about eleven days more, without
offering to go near the shore, till I saw the land run
out a great length into the sea, at about the distance of
four or five leagues before me; and the sea being very
calm, I kept a large offing to make this point. At
length, doubling the point about two leagues from the
land, I saw plainly land on the other side out to sea ;•
from which 1 concluded that this was the Capede ferd,
»nd those the islands, called from thence Cape de Verd
Islands. However, they were at a great distance, and
I could not well tell what was best to be done, for if
the wind freshened, I might neither reach the one nor
the other.
28
In this dilemma, as I was very pensive, I stept into
the cabin and sat me down, Xury having the helm,
when on a sudden he cried out, master, master, a ship
with a sail! and the foolish boy was frightened out of
his wits, thinking it must needs be some of his master's
ships sent to pursue us; when I knew we were gotten
far enough out of their reach. I jumped out of the
cabin, and immediately saw not only the ship, but
what she was, (viz.) that it was a Portugueze ship, and,
as I thought, bound to the coast of Guinea for Negroes.
But when I observed the course she steered, I was
soon convinced they were bound some other way, and
did not design to come any nearer to the shore; upon
which I stretched out to sea as much as I could, re-
solving to speak to them if possible.
With all the sail I could make, I found I should
not be able to come up with them: but after I had
crowded to the utmost, and began to despair, they it
seems, saw me by the help of their perspective-glasses,
and that it was some European boat, which, as they
supposed, must belong to some ship that was lost: so
they shortened sail to let me come up. I was encou-
raged with this, and as I had my patron's ancient on
board, I made a waft of it to them for a signal of
distress, and fired a gun, both which they saw; for
they told me they discerned the smoke, though they
did not hear the gun. Upon these signals they very
kindly brought to for me, and in about three hours
time, I came up to them.
They asked me what I was, in Portuguese, and in
Spanish, and in French; but I understood none of
them. At last a Scotch sailor, who was on board,
called to me, and I answered him, that I was an
Englishman, who had made my escape out of slavery
irom the Moors at Sallee. Then they bad me come
on board, and very kindly took me in, and all my
goods.
My joy at this deliverance was inexpressible, and I
immediately offered all 1 had to the captain of the
ship, aTa return for my deliverance; but he generously
29
told me, he would take nothing from me, but that all
I had should be delivered safe to me when I came to
the Brasils; for, says he-, I have saved your life on no
other terms than I would be glad to be saved myself;
and it may one time or other he my lot to be taken up
in the same condition: besides, said he, when I carry
you to the Brasils, so great a way from your own
country, if I should take from you what you have, you
•will be starved there, and then I only take away that
life I have given. No, no, Seignor Inglese, says he,
I will carry you thither in charity, and those things
will help you to buy your subsistence there, and your
passage home again. As he was charitable in his pro-
posal, so he was just in the performance to a tittle, for
he ordered the seamen, on no account to touch any
thing I had: then he took every thing into his own
possession, and gave me back an exact inventory of
them, that I might have them; even to my three
earthen jars.
As to my boat, it was a very good one, this he saw,
and told me he would buy it of me fcjr the ship's use,
and asked me what I would have for it? I told him
he had been so generous to me in every thing, that I
could not offer to make any price of the boat, but left
it entirely to him ; upon which he said he would give
me a note of his hand to pay me eighty pieces of eight
for it at Brasil; and when it came there, if any one
offered to give more, he would make it up. He offered
me also sixty pieces of eight more, for my boy Xury;
which I was loath to take ; not that I was not willing
to let the captain have him, but I was very loath to
sell the liberty of a poor boy, who had assisted me so
faithfully. However, when I let him know my rea-
son, he owned it to be just, and offered me this medi-
um, that he would give the boy an obligation to set
him free in ten years, if he turned Christian : upon this,
and Xury saying he was willing to go to him, I let the
captain have him.
We had a very good voyage to the Brasils, and ar-
rived in the Bay de Todas los Samos, or All-Saints
p 3
do
Bay, in about twenty-two days after. And thus I was
once more delivered from the most miserable of all
conditions of life; and what to do next with myself I
was now to consider.
The generous treatment the captain gave me, I can
never enough remember. He would take nothing of
me for my passage, gave me twenty ducats for the
leopard's skin, and forty for the lion's skin which I
had in my boat, and caused every thing I had in the
ship to be punctually delivered to me: and what I
was willing to sell he bought, such as the case of
bottles, two of my guns, and a piece of the lump of
bees-wax, for I had made candles of the rest. In a
word, I made about two hundred and twenty pieces of
eight* of all my cargo, and with this stock I went on
shore in the Brasils.
I had not been long here, but being recommended
to the house of a good honest man like himself, who
had an Ingenio as they call it, that is, a plantation and
sugar-house, I lived with him some time, and acquain-
ted myself by that means with the manner of their
planting and making of sugar : and seeing how well the
planters lived, and how suddenly they grew rich, I
resolved, if I could get license to settle there, I -would
turn planter among them, resolving in the mean time
to find out some way to get my money, which I had
left in London, remitted to me. For this purpose,
getting a kind of a letter of naturalization, I purchased
as much uncultivated land as my money would reach;
and formed a plan for my plantation and settlement,
suitable to the stock which I expected to receive from
England.
I had a neighbour, a Portuguese of Lisbon, but
born of English parents, whose name was Wells, and
in much such circumstances as I was. I call him
neighbour, because his plantation lay next to mine, and
we lived very sociably together. My stock was but
low, as well as his: and we rather planted for food,
than any thing else, for about two years when our land
began to come into order ; so that the third year we
* A piece of eight or piastre equal to 4«. 6d.
31
planted some tobacco, and made each of us a large piece
of ground ready for planting canes the next year: but
•we both wanted help; and now I found, more than
before, I had done wrong in parting with my boy
Xury.
But alas! for me to do wrong who never did right,
was no great wonder. I had no remedy but to go on.
I was gotten into an employment quite remote from
my genius, and directly contrary to the life I deligh-
ted in, and for which I forsook my father's house, and
and broke through all his good advice. I was coming
into the very middle station which my father advised
me to before: and I used often to say to myself, I
could have done this as well in England among my
friends, as have gone five thousand miles off to do it,
among strangers and savages in a wilderness, and at
such distance, as never to hear from any part of the
world that had the least knowledge of me.
In this manner I used to look upon my condition
with the utmost regret. I had nobody to converse
with, but now and then this neighbour; no work to be
done, but by the labour of my hands ; and 1 used to
say, I lived just like a man cast away upon some deso-
late island, that had nobody there but himself. But,
as the sequel of this history will shew, let all men be-
ware how they unthankfully compare their present
conditions with others that are worse; since heaven
may oblige them to make the exchange, and learn by
experience how unjust their repinings have been.
I was in some degree settled in my measures for car-
rying on the plantation, before my kind friend the
captain of the ship, that took me up at sea, went back;
for the ship remained there, in loading, and preparing
for the voyage, near three months: when, telling him
what little stock I had left behind me in London, he
gave me this friendly and sincere advice: Seignor Ing-
lese, says he, for so he always called me, if you will
give me letters, and a procuration here in form to me,
with orders to the person who has your money it Lon-
don, to send your effects to Lisbon, to such persons as
I shall direct, and in such goods as are proper for this
country, I will bring you the produce of them, God>
willing, at my return: but since human affairs are all
subject to changes and disasters, I would have you
give orders but for one hundred pounds sterling, which
you say is half your stock, and let the hazard be run
for the first; so that if it come safe, you may order the
rest the same way ; and if it miscarry, you may have
the other half to have recourse to for your supply.
This wassuch wholesome advice,and looked so friend-
ly, that I could not but be convinced it was the best
course I could take; and I accordingly prepared letters
to the gentlewoman with whom I had left my money,
and a procuration to the Portuguese captain, as he
desired.
I wrote the English captain's widow a full account
of all my adventures, my slavery, escape, my meeting
with the Portuguese captain at sea, the humanity of his
behaviour, and what condition I was now in, with all
other necessary directions for my supply: and when
this honest captain came to Lisbon, he found means,
by some of the English merchants there, to send over,
not the order only, but a full account of my story, to a
merchant at London, who represented it effectually to
her: whereupon, she not only delivered the money,
but out of her own pocket sent the captain a very hand-
some present for his humanity and charity to me.
The merchant in London vesting this hundred
pounds in English goods, such as the captain had writ-
ten for, sent them directly to him at Lisbon, and he
brought them all safe to me to the Brasils, when I
found he had taken care, without my direction (for I
was too young in my business to think of them), to
send all sort of tools, iron-work, and utensils necessary
for my plantation; which were of great use to me.
When this cargo arrived, I thought my fortune
made, and was elated with joy. My good steward the
captain had laid out the five pounds which my friend
had sent him for a present for himself, to purchase, and
bring me over a servant under bond for six years ter-
33

vice; and would not accept of any consideration, ex-
cept a little tobacco, which I insisted on his taking,
bemg of my own raising. Neither was this all; for
my goods being all English manufacture, such as cloth,
stuffs, baize, and things particularly valuable and desi-
rable in the country, I found means to sell them to a
very great advantage; so that I had more than four
times the value of my cargo, and was now infinitely
beyond my poor neighbour, in the advancement of my
plantation; for the first thing I did, I bought a Negro
slave and an European servant also; I mean another,
besides that which the captain brought me from Lis-
bon.
But as abused prosperity is oftentimes made the
very means of out greatest adversity, so was it with
me. I went on the next year with great success in
my plantation: I raised fifty great rolls of tobacco on
my own ground, more than I had disposed of for ne-
cessaries among my neighbours; and these fifty rolls,
being each of above 100 cwt. were well cured and laid
by against the return of the fleet from Lisbon. And
now, increasing in business and in wealth, my head
began to be full of projects and undertakings beyond
my reach ; such as are indeed often the ruin of the best
heads in business.
Had I continued in the station I was now in, I had
room for all the happy things to have yet befallen me,
for which my father so earnestly recommended a quiet
retired life, and of which he had so sensibly described
the middle station to be full: but other things attended
me, and I was still to be the wilful agent of my own
miseries: and particularly to increase my fault, and
double the reflections upon myself which in my future
sorrows I should have leisure to make, all these mis-
carriages were procured by my obstinate adherence to
the foolish passion for wandering abroad; and pursu-
ing that inclination, in contradiction to the clearest
'views of doing myself good in a fair and plain pursuit
of those prospects and those measures of life, which
nature and providence concurred to set before me and
render my duty.
As I had done thus in breaking away from my pa-
rents, so I could not be content now, but I must go
and leave the happy view 1 had of being a rich and
thriving man in my new plantation, only to pursue a
rash and immoderate desire of rising faster than the
nature of the thing admitted: and thus I cast myself
down again into the deepest gulph of human misery
that ever man fell into.
To come by just degrees to the particulars of this
part of my story ; you may suppose, that having now
lived almost four years in the Brasils, and begmning
to thrive and prosper very well upon my new planta-
tion, I had not only learned the language, but had
contracted acquaintance and friendship among my
fellow-planters, as well as among the merchants at St.
Salvadore, which was our port; and that in my dis-
course among them, I had frequently given them an
account of my two voyages to the coast of Guinea, the
manner of trading with the Negroes there, and how
easy it was to purchase upon the coast, for trifles, such
as beads, toys, knives, scissars, hatchets, bits of glass,
and the like, not only gold dust, Guinea grains, ele-
phants teeth, &c. but Negroes for the service of the
Brasils, in great numbers.
They listened always very attentively to my dis-
courses on these heads, but especially to that part
which related to the buying Negroes, which was a
trade at that time only carried on by the Assiento's, or
by permission ofthe kings of Spain and Portugal, so that
few Negroes were brought, and those excessively dear.
It happened, being in company with some merchant*
and planters of my acquaintance, and talking on thi*
subject very earnestly, three of them came to me the
next morning, and told me they had been musing very
much on what I had said to them last night, and came
to make a secret proposal to me. They told me, that
they had a mind to fit out a ship to go to Guinea: that
they had all plantations ;.s well as 1, and were strait-
ened for nothing so much as servants ; that as it wa« a
trade which could not be openly carried on, because
35
they could not publicly sell the Negroes when they
came home, so they desired to make but one voyage,
to bring the Negroes on shore privately, and divide
them among their own plantations: in a word, the
question was, whether I would go their super-cargo
in the ship, to manage the trading part upon the coast
of Guinea? and they offered me that I should have my
equal share of the Negroes, without providing any part
of the stock.
This was a fair proposal, it must be confessed, had
it been made to any one who had not a settlement and
plantation of his own to look after, which was in a fair
way of coming to be very considerable: but for me,
who was thus entered and established, and had nothing
to do but go on as I had began, for three or four years
more, and to have sent for the other hundred pounds
from England, and who in that time, and with that
little addition, could scarce have failed of being worth
three or four thousand pounds sterling, and that en-
creasing too, for me to think of such a voyage, was
the most preposterous thing that ever man in such cir
cumstances could be guilty of.
But I who was born to be my own destroyer, could
no more resist the offer, than 1 could restrain my first
rambling designs, when my father's good counsel was
lost upon me. In a word, I told them 1 would go
with all my heart, if they would undertake to look
after my plantation in my absence, and would dispose
of it to such as I should direct if I miscarried. Thi«
they all entered into covenants to do; and 1 made a
formal will, disposing of my plantation and effects, in
case of my death, making the captain of the ship who
had saved my life as before, my universal heir, but
obliging him to dispose of my effects as I had directed
in my will, one half of the produce being for himself,
and the othtr-to be shipped to England.
In short, I took all possible caution to preserve my
effects, and keep up my plantation. Had I used half
as much prudence to have looked into my own interest,
and have made a judgment of what I ought to have
done, and not to have done, I had certainly never
left so prosperous an undertaking, and gone upon a
voyage to sea, attended with all its common hazards;
to say nothing of the reasons I had to expect particu-
lar misfortunes.
But I was hurried on, and obeyed blindly the dic-
tates of my fancy rather than my reason: and accor-
dingly the ship being fitted out,and the cargo furnished,
and all things done as by agreement by my partners
in the voyage, I went on board in an evil hour, the
first of September, 16•59, being the same day eight years
that I went from my father and mother at Hull, in
order to act the rebel to their authority, and the fool
to my own interest.
Our ship was about 120 tons burthen, carried six
guns, and fourteen men, besides the master, his boy,
and myself. We had on board no large cargo of goods,
expect of such toys as were fit for our trade with the
negroes, such as beads, bits of glass, shells, and odd
trifles, especially little looking-glasses, knives, scissars,
hatchets, and the like.
The same day I went on board we set sail, standing
away to the northward upon our own coast, with de-
sign to stretch over for the African coast, when they
came about ten or twelve degrees of northern latitude,
which it seems was their usual course in those days.
We had very good weather, only excessively hot, all
the way upon our own coast, till we reached Cape St.
Augustino, from whence keeping further off at sea we
lost sight of land, and steered as if we were bound for
the isle Fernand de Noronha, holding our course N. E.
by N. and leaving those isles on the east. In this
course we past the line in about twelve days time, and
were by our last observation in 7 degrees 22 min. nor-
thern latitude, when a violent tornado or hurricane
took us quite out of our knowledge. It began from
the south-east came about to the north-west, and then
settled into the north-east, from whence it blew in
such a terrible manner, that for twelve days together
we could do nothing but drive; and scudding away
37
before it, let it carry us where over fate and the fury
of the winds 'directed: and during these twelve days,
I need not say that I expected every day to be swal-
lowed up, nor indeed did any in the ship expect to
save their lives,
In this distress, one of our men died of the calenture,
and one man and the boy were washed over-board.
About the twelfth day the weather abating a little, the
master made an observation as well as he could, and
found that he was in abouteleven degrees north latitude,
but twenty-two degrees of longitude west from Cape
St. Augustino; so that we were got upon the coast of
Guinea, or the north part of Brasil, beyond the river
Amazones, toward that of the river Oronoque, com-
monly called the Great River, and he began to con-
sult with me what course we should take, for the ship
•was leaky and very much disabled, and he was for
going back to the coast of Brasil. I was positively
against that, and looking over the charts of the sea-
coasts of America with him, we concluded there was
no inhabited country for us to have recourse to, till we
came within the circle of the Caribbee-islands, and
therefore resolved to stand away for Barbadoes, which
by keeping off at sea, to avoid the indraft of the bay
or gulph of Mexico, we might easily perform, as we
hoped, in about fifteen days sail; whereas we could
not possibly make our voyage to the coast of Africa
•without some assistance, both to our ship and to
ourselves.
With this design we changed our course, and steer-
ed away N. W. by W. in order to reach some of our
English islands, where I hoped for relief: but our
voyage was otherwise determined: for being in the
latitude of 12 deg. 18 min, a second storm came upon
us, which carried us away with the same impetuosity
•westward, and drove us so out of the way of all human
commerce, that had the sea spared our lives, we oould
expect nothing but to be devoured by savages on
shore.
In this distress, the wind still blowing very hard,
38
one of our men early in the morning cried out, Land!
and we had no sooner run out of the cabin to look out
in hopes of seeing whereabouts in the world we were,
but the ship struck upon a sand, and in a moment, her
motion being so stopped, the sea broke over her in
such a manner, that we expected we should all have
perished immediately, and were driven into our close
quarters to shelter us from the very foam and spray
of the sea.
It is not easy for any one, who has not been in the
like condition, to describe or conceive the consternation
of men in such circumstances. We knew nothing
where we were, or upon what land we were driven,
whether an island or the main, whether inhabited or
uninhabited; and as the rage of the wind was still
great, though rather less than at first, we could not so
much as hope to have the ship hold many minutes
•without breaking in pieces, unless the wind by a kind
of miracle should turn immediately about. In a word,
we sat looking one upon another, and expecting death
every moment, and every man acting accordingly, as
preparing for another world, for there was little or no-
thing more for us to do in this. All the comfort we
had, was, that, contrary to our expectation, the ship
did not break yet, and that the master said the wind
began to abate.
Now though we thought that the wind did a little
abate, yet the ship having thus struck upon the sand,
and sticking too fast for us-to expect her getting off,
•we were in a dreadful condition indeed, and had no-
thing to do but to think of saving our lives as well
as we could. We had a boat at our stern, just before
the storm, but she was first staved by dashing against
the ship's rudder, and in the next place she broke away,
and either sunk or was driven off'to sea, so there was
no hope from her: we had another boat on board, but
how to get her off into the sea was a doubtful thing;
however, there was no room to debate, for we fancied
the ship would brake in pieces every minute, and some
told us she was actually broken already. In thi* dis-
39
tress, the mate of our vessel lay hold of the boat, and
with the help of the rest of the men, we got her flung
over the ship's side, and getting all into her, let go,
and committed ourselves, being eleven in number, to
God's mercy, and thewild sea; for though thestorm was
abated considerably, yet the sea ran dreadfully high
upon the shore, and might well be called, den wild
zee, as the Dutch call the sea in a storm.
And now our case was very dismal indeed; for we
all saw plainly, that the boat could not live, and that
we should be inevitably drowned. As to making sail,
we had none, nor, if we had, could we have done any
thing with it: so we worked at the oar towards the
land, though with heavy hearts, like men going to ex-
ecution; for we all knew, that when the boat came
nearer the shore, she would be dashed in a thousand
pieces by the breach of the sea. However, we com-
mitted our souls to God in the most earnest manner,
and the wind driving us towards the shore, we hasten-
ed our destruction with our own hands, pulling as well
as we coiild towards land.
What the shore was, whether rock or ?and, whether
steep or shoal, we knew not: that only shadow of
hope we had left, was that we might find some bay or
gulph, or the mouth of some river, where by great
chance we might run our boat in, or get under the lee of
the -land, and perhaps make smooth water. Nothing
of this kind however appeared; but as we made near-
er and nearer the shore, the land looked more fright-
ful than the sea.
After we had rowed, or rather driven about a league
and a half, a,s we reckoned it, a raging wave, mountain,
like, came rolling a-stern of us, and plainly bad us ex-
pect the coup-de-grace. In a word, it took us with
such f'.iry, that it overset the boat at once; and sepa-
rating us as wellfromthe boat, as from one another, gave
us hardly time to say, O God! tor we were all swal-
lowed up in a moment.
Nothmg can describe the confusion of thought
which I felt when I sunk into the water; for though
40
I swam very well, yet I could not deliver myself
from the waves so as to draw breath, till that wave
having driven me a vast way on towards the shore and
spent itself, went back, and left me upon tlie land,
almost dry, but half dead with the water I togk in, I
had so much presence of mind as well as breath left,
that seeing myself nearer the main land than I expec-
ted, I got upon my feet, and endeavoured to make on
towards the land as fast as I could, before another
wave should return, and take me up again. But I
soon found it was impossible to avoid it; for I saw the
sea come after me as high as a great hill, and as furious
as an enemy which I had no means or strength to con-
tend with: my business was to hold my breath, and
raise myself upon the water, if I could, and so by
swimming to pilot myself towards the shore, my great-
est concern now being, that the sea, as it would carry
me a great way towards the shore when it came on,
might not carry me back again with it when it gave
back towards the sea. The wave that came upon me
again, buried me at once twenty or thirty feet deep
in its own body; and I could feel myself carried with
a mighty force and swiftness towards the shore a very
great way: but -I held my breath, and,assisted myself
by swimming forward with all my might, I was ready
to burst with holding my breath, when, as I felt my-
self rising up, so to my immediate relief, I found my
head and hands shoot out above the surface of the
water; and though it was not two seconds of time
that I could keep myself so, yet it relieved me greatly,
giving me breath and new courage. I was covered
again with water a good while, but not so long but I
held it out; and finding the water had spent itself, and
began to return I struck forward against the return
of the waves, and felt ground again with my feet. I
stood still a few moments to recover breath, and let
the wave subside; and then took to my heels, and ran
with what strength I had, farther towards the shore
But neither would this deliver me from the fury of the
sea, which came pouring in after me again, and twice
•1
more I was lifted up by the waves and carried for-
wards as before, the shore being very flat.
The last time this had near been fatal to me; for
the sea having hurried me along as before, dashed me
against a piece of a rock, and that with such force, as
left me senseless, and indeed helpless, as to my own
deliverance: for the blow taking my side and breast,
beat the breath quite out of my body; and had the
swell returned again immediately, I must have been
strangled in the water: but I recovered alittlebefore the
return ofthewaves ; andseeing I should be covered again
with the water, I resolved to hold fast by a piece of the
rock, if possible, till the wave went back: now as the
waves were not so high as at first, being near land, I
kept my hold till the wave abated, and then fetched
another run, which brought me so near the shore, that
the next wave, though it went over me, yet did not
so swallow me up as to carry me away; and the next
run I took, I got to the main land, where, to my great
comfort, I clambered up the cliffs of the shore, and
sat me down upon the grass, free from danger, and
quite out of the reach of the water.
I was now safe on land, and began to look up and
thank God that my life was preserved in a case where
some minutes before there was scarcely any hope. I
believe it is impossible to express to the life what the
extasies and transports of the soul are, when it is so
saved, as I may say, out of the very grave: and I do
not wonder now that when a malefactor, who is tied
up, and just going to be turned off, has a reprieve
brought to him, they bring a surgeon with it, to let
him blood the very moment they tell him of it, that
the surprize may not drive the animal spirits from th«
heart, and overwhelm him.
For sudden jovs like griefs confound at first.
I walked about on the shore, lifting up my hands;
my whole being, (as I may say,) wrapt in the contem-
plation of my deliverance; making a thousand gestures,
and motions which I cannot describe: reflecting upon
all my comrades that were drowned, and that there
£ 3 •
42
should not be one soul saved but myself: for us to
them, I never saw them afterwards, or any sign of
them, except three of their hats, one cap, and two
shoes that were not fellows.
I cast my eyes to the stranded vessel, which from
the breach and foam of the sea, I could hardly discern,
it lay so far off; and considered Lord ! how was it possi-
ble I could get on shore!
After I had solaced my mind with the comfortable
part of my condition, I began to look round me, to
see what kind of a place I was in, and what was next
to be done. I soon found my comforts abate, and
that in a word I had a dreadful deliverance: for I
•was wet, had no clothes to shift me, nor any thing to
eat or drink: neither did I see any prospect before
me, but that of perishing with hunger, or being de-
voured by wild beasts: and that which was particular-
ly afflicting to me, was, that I had no weapon either
to bunt and kill any creature for my sustenance, or to
defend myself against any other creature that might
desire to kill me for theirs. In a word, I had nothmg
about me but a knife, a tobacco-pipe, and a little to-
bacco in a box: this was all my provision, and this
threw me into such terrible agonies of mind that for
awhile I run about like a madman.
Night coming on, I began with a heavy heart to
consider what would be my lot if there were any rav-
enous beasts in that country, seeing at night they
always came abroad for their prey. All the remedy
that offered to my thoughts at that time, was, to get
up into a thick bushy tree like a fir, but thorny, which
grew near me; and where I resolved to sit all night,
and consider the next day what death I should die,
for as yet I saw no prospect of life. I walked about
a furlong from the shore, to see if I could find any
fresh water to drink, which I did, to my great joy;
and having drank, cut a short stick for my defence,
and put a little tobacco in my mouth to prevent hun-
ger, I got up into the tree and endeavoured to place
myself so, that if I should sleep I might not
43
fall. Having been excessively fatigued, I fell fast
asleep, and slept as comfortably as, I believe, few
could have done in my condition, and found myself
wonderfully refreshed by it.
When I waked, it was broad day, the weather clear,
and the storm abated: but what surprized me most,
was, that the ship was lifted off in the night from the
sand where she lay, by the swelling of the tide, and
•was driven up almost as far as the rock which I first
mentioned, where I had been so bruised by being
dashed against it. This being within about a mile
from the shore where I was, and the ship seeming to
stand upright still, I wished myself on board, that,
at least, I might save some things necessary for my
use.
When I came down from my apartment in the tree,
I looked about me again, and the first thing I found
was the boat, which lay as the wind and the sea had
tossed her up upon the land, about two miles on my
right hand. I walked, as far as I could, upon the
shore, to get to her; but found a neck or inlet of wa-
ter between me and the boat, which was about half a
mile broad: so I came back for the present, being
more intent upon getting at the ship, where I hoped
to find something for my present subsistence.
A little after noon I found the sea very calm, and
the tide ebbed so far out, that I could come within a
quarter of a mile of the ship: and here_ I found a fresh
renewing of my grief; for I saw evidently, that if
we had kept on board, we had been all safe, that is to
say, we had all got safe on shore, and I had not been
so miserable as to be left entirely destitute of all com-
fort and company, as I now was. This forced tears
from my eyes again; but as there was little relief in
that, I resolved, if possible, to get to the ship. So I
pulled off my clothes, for the weather was extremely
hot, and took the water: but when I came to the ship,
my difficulty was still greater to know how to get on
board, for «s she lay a-ground, and high out of the
water, there was nothing within my reach to lay hold
t>f. 1 swam round her twice, and the second time I
spied a small piece of a rope, which I wondered I did
not see at first, hanging down by the fore-chains so
low that with great difficulty I got hold of it, and by
the help of that rope got up into the forecastle of the
ship. Here I found that the ship was bulged, and
had a great deal of water in her hold, but that she lay
so on the side of a bank of hard sand, or rather earth,
that her stern was lifted up on the bank, and her
head low almost to the water: by this means all her
quarter was free, and all that was in that part was dry;
foryou may be sure my first work was to examine
what was spoiled and what was uninjured. And first
I found that all the ship's provisions were dry and un-
touched by the water; and being very well disposed
to eat, I went to the bread-room and filled my pockets
•with biscuit, to eat as I went about other things; for
I had no time to lose. I also found some rum in the
great cabin, of which I took a large dram, and which
I had need enough of to spirit me for what was before
me: Now I wanted nothing but a boat, to furnish
myself with many things which I foresaw would be
very necessary to me.
It was in vain to sit still and wish for what was not
to be had, and this extremity roused my application.
We had several spare yards, and two or three large
spars of wood, and a spare top-mast or two in the
ship: I resolved to fall to work with these, and flung
as many of them over-board as I could manage on ac-
count of their weight, tying every one with a rope
that they might not drive away. When this was done
I went down the ship's side, and pulling them to me,
I tyed four of them fast together at both ends as well
as I could, in the form of a raft; and laying two or
three short pieces of plank upon them cross-ways, I
found I could walk upon it very well, but that it
was not able to bear any great weight, the piece*
being too light. So I went to work, and with the car-
penter's saw I cut a spare top-mast into three lengths,
and added them to my raft, with a great deal of labyui-
45
and pains; but the hope offurnishing myself with neces-
saries encouraged me to go beyond what I should have
been able to have done upon another occasion.
My raft was now strong enough to bear any reason-
able weight. My next care was what to load it with,
and how to preserve what I laid upon it from the sur f
of the sea: but I was not long considering this: I
first laid all the planks or boards upon it that I could
fet; and having considered well what I most wanted,
first got three of the seamen's chests, which I had
broken open and emptied, and lowered them down
upon my raft. The first of these I filled with provi-
sions, viz. bread, rice, three Dutch cheeses, five pieces
of dried goat's flesh, which we lived much upon, and
a little remainder of European corn which had been
laid by for some fowls which we brought to sea with
us, but the fowls were killed. There had been some
barley and wheat together; but to my great disap-
pointment, I found afterwards that the rats had eaten
or spoiled it all. As for liquors, I found several cases
of bottles belonging to our skipper, in which were
some cordial waters, and in all above five or six gallons
of rack: these I stowed by themselves, there being no
need to put them into the chest, nor any room for them.
While I was doing this the tide began to flow, though
very calm, and I had the mortification to see my coat,
shirt, and waistcoat, which I had left on shore upon
the sand, swim away: as for my breeches, which
were only. linen, and open kneed I swam 011 board
in them and my stockings: however, this put me up-
on rummaging for cloaths, of which I found enough,
but took no more than I wanted for present use, for
I had other things which my eye was more upon; par-
ticularly tools to work with on shore; and it was after
long searching that I found out the carpenter's chest,
which was indeed a very useful prize to me, and much
more valuable than a ship-laden with gold would
have been at that time: I got it down to my raft, even
whole as it was, without losing time to look into it,
»°r I knew in general what it contained.
46
My next care wa« for gome ammunition and ar»i:
there were very good fowling pieces in the great cabin,
and two pistols; these I secured first, with some pow-
der-horns, and a small bag of shot, and two old rusty
swords. I knew there were three barrels of powder
in the ship, but could not tell where our gunner had
stowed them; with much search however I found
them; two where dry and good, the third had taken
water. These I got to my raft, with the arms: and
now I thought myself pretty well freighted, and be-
gan to think how I should get to shore with them,
having neither sail, oar, or rudder; and the least cap
full of wind would have overset all my navigation.
I had three encouragements: 1. A smooth calm sea:
2. The tide rising and setting into the shore: 3. What
little wind there was blew me towards the land: and
thus, having found two or three broken oars belong-
ing to the boat, and, besides the tools which were in
the chest, two saws, an axe, and a hammer, with this
cargo I put to sea.
For a mile, or thereabouts, my raft went very well;
only that I found it drive a little distant from the
place where I had landed before; by which I per-
ceived that there was some indraft of the water, and
consequently hoped to find some creek or river there,
which I might make use of as a port to get to land
with my cargo. As I imagined, so it was; there ap-
peared before me a little opening of the land, and I
found a strong current of the tide set into it, so I
guided my raft as well as I could to keep it in the
middle of the stream. But here I had like to have
suffered a second shipwreck; which if 1 had, I think
verily it would have broke my heart: for knowing no-
thing of the coast, my raft run a-ground at one end
upon a shoal, and not being a-ground at the other end,
it wanted but a little that all my cargo had flipped off
towards that end that was a float, and so fallen into
the water. I did my utmost, by setting my back
against the chests, to keep them in their places; but
could not thrust off the raft wjth all my strength, nei«
47
ther durst I stir from the posture I was in; but hold-
up the chests with all my might, stood in that manner
near half an hour; in which time the rising of the
water brought me a little more upon a level, and a little
after, the water still rising, my raft floated again, and
I thrust her off with the oar I had, into the channel,
and then driving up higher, 1 at length found myself
in the mouth of a little river, with land on both sides,
and a strong current or tide running up.
I looked on both sides for a proper place to get to
shore, for I -was not willing to be driven too high up
the river, hoping in time to see some ship at sea, and
therefore resolved to place myself as near the coast as
I could. At length I spied a little cove on the right
shore of the creek, to which with great pain and diffi-
culty I guided my raft; and at last got so near, that,
reaching ground with my oar, I could thrust her di-
rectly in. But here I had like to have dipt all my
cargo in the sea again; for that shore lying pretty
steep, there was no place to land, but where one end
of the float, if it run on shore, would lie so high, and
the other sink so low, that it would endanger my cargo
again. All that I could do, was to wait 'till the tide
was at the highest, keeping the raft with my oar like
an anchor to hold the side of it fast to the shore, near
a flat piece of ground, which I expected the water
•would flow over; and so it did. As soon as I found
water enough, (for my raft drew about a foot of water,)
I thrust her upon that flat piece of ground, and there
fastened or moored her by sticking my two broken
oars into the ground, one at each end; and thus I lay
till the water ebbed away, and left my raft and all
my cargo safe on shore.
My next work was to view the country, and seek a
proper place for my habitation, and where to stow• my
goods, to secure them from whatever might happen.
Where I was, I yet knew not: whether on the con-
tinent or on an island; whether inhabited, or not inha-
bited, whether in danger ot wild beasts or not. There
was a hill not above a mile from me, which rose up
48
very steep and high, and which seemed to over-top
some other hills which lay as in a ridge from it north-
ward. I took out one of the fowling pieces^ and one
of the pistols, and an horn of powder; and thus armed
I travelled for discovery up to the top of that hill,
which after I had with great labour and difficulty
attained I saw to my great-affliction, that I was in
an island environed every way with the sea; and no land
to be seen, except some rocks which lay a great way
off, and two small islands less than this, about three
leagues to the west.
I found also that the island I was in was barren,
and, as I had good reason to believe, uninhabited, except
by wild beasts, of whom however I saw none. I saw
abundance of fowls but knew not their kinds; nei-
ther when I killed them could I tell what was fit
for food, and what not. In my coming back, I shot
at a great bird, which I saw sitting upon a tree on the
side of a wood: I believe it was the first gun that had
been fired there since the creation of the world; for I
had no sooner fired, than from all parts of the wood
there arose an innumerable number of fowls of many
sorts, making a confused screaming, and crying every
one according to his usual note; but not one of them
of any kind that I knew. As for the creature I killed,
I took it to be a kind of a hawk, its colour and beak
resembling it, but it had no talons or claws more than
common: its flesh was carrion, and fit for nothing.
Contented with this discovery I came back to my
raft, and fell to work to bring my cargo on shore,
which took me up the rest of that day. What to do
with myself at night, I knew not, nor indeed where
to rest; for I was afraid to lie down on the ground,
not knowing but some wild beast might devour me,
though, as I afterwards found, there was really no
need for those fears. However, as well as I could, I
barricaded myself round with the chests and boards
that I had brought on shore, and -made a kind of a
hut for that night's lodging. As for food, I yet saw
not wkich way to supply myself except that I had
49
observed two or three creatures like hares run out of
the wood where I shot the fowl.
I now began to consider, that I might yet get a great
many things out of the ship, which would be useful to
me, particularly some of the rigging and sails; and
as I knew that the first storm that blew must necessa-
rily break her to pieces, I resolved to set all other
things apart, 'till this was accomplished. Then I
called a counsel in my own thoughts, whether I should
take back the raft: but this appeared impracticable;
so I resolved to go as before, when the tide was down;
and 1 did so; only that I stripped before I went from
my hut, having nothing on but a chequered shirt,
a pair of linen trowsers, and a pair of pumps on my
feet.
I got on board the ship, as before, and prepared a
second raft; and having had experience of the first, I
neither made this so unweildly, nor loaded it so hard,
but yet I brought away several things very useful to
me. As first, in the carpenter's stores, I found two or
three bags full of nails and spikes, a great screw-jack,
a dozen or two of hatchets, and above all, that most
useful thing called a grind-stone: all these I secured,
together with several things belonging to the gunner;
particularly two or thiee iron crows, and two barrels
of musket-bullets, seven muskets, and another fowling
piece, with some small quantity of powder more; a
large bag full of small shot, and a great roll of sheet
lead: but this last was so heavy, I could not hoist it
up to get it over the ship's side. Besides these things,
I took all the men's cloaths that I could find, and a
spare fore-top-sail, hammock, and some bedding: and
•with this I loaded my second raft, and brought them
all safe on shore, to my very,great comfort.
I was under some apprehensions during my absence
from the land, that at least my provisions might be
devoured on shore: but when I came back, I found
no sign of any visitor, only there sat a creature like a
•wild cat upon one of the chests, which when I came
towards it, ran away a little distance, and then stood
00
still. She sat very composed and unconcerned, and
looked full in my face, as if she had a mind to be
acquainted with me : 1 presented my gun at her, but
as she did not understand it, she was perfectly uncon-
cerned at it, nor did she ofier to stir away; upon
which I tossed her a bit of biscuit, and she went to it,
smelled of it, ate it, and looked, as pleased, for more;
but I thanked her, and could spare no more; so she
marched off.
Having got my second cargo on shore, (though I
was obliged to open the barrels of powder, and bring
them by parcels, tor they were too heavy, being large
casks,) I went to work to make me a little tent with
the sail and some poles which I cut for that purpose:
and into this tent I brought every thing that I knew
would spoil, either with rain or sun, and piled all the
empty chests and casks up in a circle round the tent,
to fortify it against any sudden attack either from man
or beast. When I had done this I blocked up the door
of the tent with some boards within, and an empty
chest set up an end without; and spreading one of
the beds upon the ground, and laying my two pistols
just at my head, and my gun at length by me, I went
to bed for the first time, and slept very quietly all
night, for I was very weary and heavy, having slept
little the night before, and laboured very hard all day,
as well to fetch all those things from the ship, as to
get them on shore.
I had the biggest magazine of all kinds now that
ever were laid up, I believe, for one man. But I was
not satisfied still; for while the ship sat upright in
that posture, I thought I ought to get every thing out
of her that I could: so every day at low water I went
on board, and brought away something or other. Par-
ticularly the third time I went, I brought away as
much of the rigging as I could, as also all the small
ropes and rope-twine I could get, with a piece of spare
canvass, which was to mend the sails upon occasion,
and the barrel of wet-gunpowder: in a word, I brought
away all the sails first and last, only I was obliged to
cut them in pieces, and bring as much at a time as I
could; for they were useful to me, not as sails, but
as mere canvass only.
But that which comforted me more still, was, that
at last of all, after I had made five or six such voyages
as these, and thought I had nothing more to expect
from the ship that was worth my meddling with, I
found a great hogshead of bread, and three large run-
lets of rum or spirits, and a box of sugar, and a barrel
of fine flour: this was surprising to me, because I had
given over expecting any more provisions, except what
was spoiled by the water. I soon emptied the hogs-
head of the bread, and warpt it up, parcel by parcel,
in pieces of the sails, which I cut out; and got all this
safe on shore also.
The next day I made another voyage; and now,
having plundered the ship of what was portable and
fit to hand out, I began with the cables; and cutting
the great cable into pieces, surh as 1 c•ouk! move, I
got two cables and a hawser on shore, with all the
iron-work I could find: and having cut down the
spritsail-yard, and the mizen-yard, and every thing I
could, to make a large raft, I loaded it with bll those
heavy goods, and came away: but my good luck
began now to leave me ; for this raft was so unwieklly,
and so overladen, that after I had entered the little
cove, where I had landed the rest of my goods, not
being able to guide it so handily as I did the other, it
overset, and threw me and all my cargo into the water.
As for myself, it was no great harm, for I was near
the shore, but my cargo was great part of it lost,
especially the iron, which I expected would have been
of great vise to me: however, when the tide was out,
I got most of the pieces of cable ashore; and some of
the iron, though with infinite labour; for I was
obliged to dip for it into the water, a work which fa-
tigued me very much. After this, I went every day
on board, and brought away what I could get.
I had beennowthirteendaysonshore.andeleventimes
on board the ship; in which time I had brought away
r 2
52
all that one pair of hands could well be supposed ca-
pable of bringing, though 1 believe verily, had the
calm weather held, I should have brought away the
whole ship, piece by piece. But preparing the
twelfth time to go on board, I found the wind began
to rise: however at low water I went on board, and
though I thought I had rummaged the cabin so effec-
tually that nothing more could be found, yet I dis-
covered a locker with drawers in it, in one of which I
found two or three razors, and one pair of large scissors,
with ten or a dozen good knives and forks ; in another
I found about thirty-six pounds value in money, some
European coin, some Brasil, seme pieces of eight,
some gold, and some silver. I smiled to myself at the*
sight of this money. O Drug! said I, aloud, what
art thou good for? tiiou art not worth to me, no, not
the taking off of the ground; one of those knives is
worth all this heap; I have no manner of use for thee!
even remain where thou art, and go to the bottom as
a creature whose life is not worth Caving. However,
upon second thoughts, I took it away, and wrapping
all this in a piece of canvas, I began to think of making
another raft: but while I was preparing this, I found
the sky over-cast, and the wind began to rise, and in
a quarter of an hour it blew a fresh gale from the shore.
It presently occurred to me, that it was in vain to pre-
tend to make a raft with the wind off shore, and that
it was my business to be gone before the tide of flood
began, otherwise I might not be able to reach the
shore at all: accordingly I let myself down into the
water, and swam cross the channel, which lay be-
tween the ship and the sands: and even that with
difficulty enough, partly from the weight of things I
had about me, and partly the roughness of the water;
for the wind rose very hastily, and before it was quite
high water it blew a storm.
But I was got home to my little tent, where I lay
with all my wealth about me very secure. It blew
very hard all that night, and in the morning when I
looked out, behold no more ship was to be seen, I
53
was a little surprised, but recovered myself with the
satisfactory reflectionj that I had neither lost time,
nor spared my labour in getting every thing out of her
that could be useful to me; and that indeed there was
little left that I was able to bring away, if more time
had been allowed me.
I now gave over any more thoughts of the ship, or
of any thing out of her, except what might drive on
shore.from her wreck, as indeed divers pieces of her
afterwards did; but those things were of small use to
me.
My thoughts were now wholly employed about se-
(juring myself against either savages, if any should
appear, or wild beasts, if any were in the island;
whether I should make a cave in the earth, or a tent
upon the earth: and, in short, I resolved upon both,
the manner and description of which it may not be
improper to give an account of.
I soon found the place I was in, was not adapted
for my settlement; particularly because it was upon a
low moorish ground near the sea, and I believed
would not be wholesome; and still more, because
there was no fresh water near it: so I resolved to find
a more healthy and convenient spot of ground.
I consulted several things with respect to the situa-
tion. First, Health and fresh water, I just now men-
tioned. Secondly, Shelter from the heat of the sun.
Thirdly, Security from ravenous creatures, whether
man or beast. Fourthly, A view to the sea, that if
God sent any ship in sight, I might not lose any ad-
vantage for my deliverance, of which I was not willing
to banish all my expectation yet.
In search of a place proper for this, I found a little
plain on the side of a hill which rose above as steep as
a house-side, so that nothing could come down upon
me from the top. On the side of this cliff there was a
hollow place worn a little way in, like the entrance or
door of a cave; but there was not really any cave or
way into the rock at all. On the flat of the green,
just before this hollow place, I resolved to pitch my
r 3
54
tgrit. This plain was not above an hundred yards
broad, and about twice as long, and lay like a green
before my door, and at the end of it defended irregu-
larly every way down into the low grounds by the sea-
side. It was on the N. N. W. side of the hill, so
that I was sheltered from the heat every day, till it
came to a W. and by S. sun, or thereabouts, which in
those countries is near the setting.
Before I set up my tent, I drew a half circle before
the hollow place, which took in about ten yards in its
semi-diameter from the rock, and twenty yards in its
diameter, from its beginning and ending. In this
half circle I pitched two rows of strong stakes, driving
them into the ground till they stood very firm, like
piles, the biggest end being out of the ground about
five feet and a half, and sharpened on the top; the
two rows did not stand above six inches from one
another. Then I took the pieces of cable which I had
cut in the ship, and laid them in rows one upon another,
within the circle, between these two rows of stakes,
up to the top; placing other stakes in the inside, lean-
ing against them, about two feet and a half high, like
a spur to a post: and this fence was so strong, that
neither man nor beast could get into it or over it. This
cost me a great deal of time and labour, especially to
cut the piles in the woods, bring them to the place,
and drive them into the earth.
The entrance into this place I made not by a door,
but by a short ladder, to go over the top; which lad-
der, when I was in, I lifted over after me; and so I
was completely fenced in, and fortified, as I thought,
from all the world, and consequently slept secure in
the night, which otherwise I could not have done:
though as it appeared afterwards, there was no need
of all this caution against the enemies that I apprehend-
ed danger from.
Into this fence or fortress, with infinite labour, I
carried all my riches, all my provisions, ammunition
and stores of which you have the account above: and
within-side, I raised a large tent; which to preserve
. "V.
55
me from the rains, that in one part of the year are
•very violent there, I made double, viz. one smaller
tent within, and one larger tent above it, and covered
the uppermost -with a large tapaulin which I had
saved among the sails. And now I lay no more in the
bed which I had brought on shore, but in a hammock,
which was indeed a very good one, and belonging to
the mate of the ship.
Into this tent I brought all my provisions, and every
thing that would spoil by the wet; and having thus
enclosed all my goods, I made up the entrance, which
till now I had left open, and so passed and repassed,
as I said, by a short ladder.
When I had done this, I began to work my way
into the rock, and bringing all the earth and stones
that 1 dug out, through my tent, I laid them up with-
in my fence in the nature of a terras, so that it raised
the ground within about a foot and a half; and thus
formed a cave just behind my tent, which served as a
cellar to my house.
It cost me much labour, and many days, before all
these things w-re brought to perfection, and therefore
I must go back to some other things which took up
some of my thoughts. It happened, after I had laid
my scheme for the setting up my tent, and making
the cave, that a storm of rain falling from a thick dark
cloud, there was a sudden flash of lightning followed
by a great clap of thunder. I was not so much sur-
prised with the lightning, as I was with a thought
which darted into my mind as swift as the lightning
itself: O my powder! my very heart sunk within me,
•when I thought, that at one blast all my powder
might be destroyed; on which, not my defence only,
but my subsistence depended. I was nothing near so
anxious about my own danger; though, had the pow-
der taken fire, I had never known who had hurt me.
Such impression did this make upon me, that after
the storm was over, 1 laid aside all my works, my
building and fortifying, and applied myself to make
bags and boxes, to divide the powder, and keep it by
56
small quantities in separate parcels, in hope, that
whatever might come, it might not all take fire at
once. I finished this work in about a fortnight, and
I think my powder, which in all was about 240 pounds
weight, was divided into not less than a hundred par-
cels. As to the barrel that had been wet, I did not
apprehend any danger from that, so I placed it in my
new cave, which I called my kitchen; and the rest I
hid up and down in holes among the rocks, that no
wet might come to it; marking very carefully where
I laid it
.
In the interval of time while this was doing, I went
out once at least every day with my gun, as well to
divert myself, as to see if I could kill any thing fit for
food; and, as near as I could, to acquaint myself with
what the island produced. The first time I went out,
I presently discovered that there were goats in the
island, which was a great satisfaction to me; but then
it was attended with this misfortune, that they were
so shy, so subtile, and so swift of foot, it was the most
difficult thing in the world to come at them. But I
was not discouraged at this, not doubting but I might
now and then shoot one; as it soon happened; for
after I had found their haunts a little, I laid wait in
this manner for them: I observed, if they saw me in
the valleys, though they were upon the rocks, they
•would run away as in a fright; but if they were feed-
ing in the valleys, and I was upon the rocks, they
took no notice of me; from whence I concluded, that
by the position of their eyes, their sight was so direct-
ed downwards, that they did not readily see objects
that were above them: so I always climbed the rocks
first, to get above them, and then had frequently a
fair mark. The first shot I made among these crea-
tures, I killed a she-goat, which had a little kid by
her, which she gave suck to: this grieved me heartily,
but when the old one fell, the kid stood stock still by
her till I came and took her up; and not only so, but
when I carried the old one with me upon my shoulders,
the kid followed me quite to my enclosure: upon
57
which I laid down the dam, and took the kid in my
arms, and carried it over my pale, in hopes to have
bred it up tame; but it would not eat, so I was forced
to kill it and eat it myself These two supplied me
with flesh a grreat while: for I eat sparingly; and
saved my provisions ( my bread especially) as much as
possible.
Successful as I had hitherto been, I had still a dis-
mal prospect of my condition; for as I was not cast
away upon that island without being driven, by a
violent storm quite out of the course of our intended
voyage, and some hundreds of leagues out of the or-
dinary course of the trade of mankind, I had great
reason to consider it as a determination of heaven, that
in this desolate place, and in this desolate manner, I
should end my life The tears would run plentifully
down my face when I made these reflections, and
sometimes I would expostulate with myself, why pro-
vidence should thus compleatly ruin his creatures, and
render them so absolutely miserable, so without help
abandoned, so entirely depressed, that it could hardly
be rational to be thankful for such a life'.
But something- always returned swift upon me to
check these thoughts, and to reprove me. Particularly
one day, walking with my gun in my hand by the
sea-side, I was very pensive upon this subject, when
reason expostulated with me thus: You are in a deso-
late condition, 'tis true, but pray remember, where
are the rest of ygu? Did not you come eleven of you
into the boat? where are the ten? why were they not
saved, and you lost? why are you singled cut? Is it
better to be here or there? and then 1 pointed to the
sea. All evils are to be considered with the good that
is in them, and with what worse attended them.
Then it occurred to me again, how well I was fur-
nished for my subsistance, and what would have been
my case if it had not happened, which was an hundred
thousand to one, that the ship floated from the place
where she first struck, and was driven so near the
shore that I had time to get all these things out of her:
58
what would have been my case, had I been doomed to
live in the condition in which I first came on shore,
without the necessaries of life, or necessaries to supply
and procure them ? particularly, said I, aloud, (though
to myself) what should I have done without a gun,
without ammunition, without any tools to make any
thing, or to work with; without cloaths, bedding, a
te.nt, or any manner of covering: of these I had now
a sufficient quantity; and was in a fair way of pro-
viding myself in such a manner, as to live without
my gun when my ammunition was spent: so that T
had a tolerable view of subsisting, without any want,
as long as I lived.
And now, being about to enter into a melancholy
relation of a scene of silent life, such perhaps as was
never heard of in the world before, I shall take it from
its beginning, and continue it in its order. It was,
by my account, the 30th. of September when, in the
manner abovementioned, I first set foot upon this
island; the sun being in its autumnal equinox, was
almost just over my head; for I reckoned myself, by
observation, to be in the latitude of 9 degrees 22
minutes north of the line. After I had been there
about ten or twelve days, it came into my thoughts,
that I should lose my reckoning of time for want of
books, and pen and ink, and should even forget the
sabbath days from the working days. To prevent this,
I cut the day of my arrival in capital letters on a large
post, and set it up in the form of a cross on the spot
where I first landed. Upon the sides of this square
post, I cut every day a notch with my knife, and every
seventh notch was as long again as the rest, and every
first day of the month as long again as that long one;
and thus I kept my calendar, or weekly, monthly, and
yearly reckoning of time.
In the next place we are to observe, that among the
many things which I brought out of the ship in the
several voyages which I made to it, I got several
things of less value, but some not less useful to me,
than those I particularized, such as three or four com-
59

passes, some mathematical instruments, dials, perspec-
tive glasses, charts, and books of navigation, all which
I huddled together, whether I might want them or
no. I also found three very good bibles, which came
to me in my cargo from England, and which I had
packed up among my things; some Portugueze books
also, and among them two or three Popish prayer-
books, and several other books, all which I carefully
secured. And I must not forget, that we had in the
ship a dog and two cats, of whose eminent history I
may have.occasion to say something in its place: for I
carried both the cats with me; and as for the dog, he
jumped out of the ship of himself, and swam on shore
to me the day after I went on shore with my first
cargo, and was a trusty servant to me many years. I
wanted nothing that he could fetch me, nor any com-
pany that he could make up to me; I only wanted
him to talk to me, but that he could not do. Having
found pens, ink, and paper too, while my ink lasted
(which I husbanded to the uttermost) I kept things
very exact; but after that was gone, I could not; for
I could not make ink, by any means that I could
devise.
Notwithstanding all that I had amassed together, there
were still many things I wanted—particularly a spade,
pick-axe, and shovel, to dig or remove the earth;
needles, pins, and thread. As for linen, I soon learn-
ed to bear the want of that without much difficulty.
This deficiency of tools made every work I undertook
go on heavily; and it was near a whole year before I
had entirely finished the pale which surrounded my
habitation. The piles or stakes, which were as heavy
as I could well lift, were a long time in cutting and
preparing in the woods, and more by far in bringing
home; so that I spent sometimes two days in cutting
and bringing home one of those posts, and a third day
in driving it into the ground; for which purpose I
first employed a heavy piece of wood, but at last be-
thought myself of one of the iron crows, yet still it
was very laborious and tedious work.
But what need I have been concerned at the tedi-
ousness of any thing I had to do, seeing I had time
enough to do it in, nor had I any other employment
if that had been over, that I could foresee, except the
ranging the island to seek for food, which I did more
or less every day.
I now began to consider seriously my condition, I
drew up the state of my affairs in writing, not so much
to leave them to any that were to come after me, (for
I was like to have but few heirs,) as to deliver my
thoughts from daily poring upon them, and afflicting
my mind. And as my reason began now to master
my despondency, I began to comfort myself as well as
I could, by setting like, debtor and creditor, the com-
forts I enjoyed against the miseries I suffered, thus:
EVIL.
I am cast upon a deso-
late island, void of all hope
of recovery.
GOOD.
But I am alive, and net
drowned, as all my ship's
company was.
I am singled out and But I am singled out
separated, as it were, from too from all the ship s
all the world,'to be misera- crew to be spared from
ble. death; and he that mi-
raculously saved me from
death, can deliver me from
this condition.
I am divided from man- But I am not starved
kind, one banished from and perishing on a barren
human society. place affording no suste-
nance.
I have not cloaths to But laminahotclimate,
cover me. where if I had cloaths I
could hardly wear them.
EVIL, GOOD.
I am without any do- But I am cast on an
fence or means to resist island, where I see no wild
any violence of man or beasts to hurt me, as I saw
beast. on the coast of Africa: and
what if I had been ship-
wrecked there?
I have no soul to speak But I have providenti-
t(i, or relieve me. ally been enabled to get
so many necessary articles
out of the wreck as will
supply my wants as long
as I live.
Upon the whole here was an undoubted testimony,
that there is scarce any condition in the world so mi-
serable, but there is something negative or something
positive to be thankful for in it: and let this stand as
a direction, from the experience of the most wretched
of all states, that we may always find, if we were so
disposed, something to comfort ourselves in the worst.
Having now brought my mind a little to relish my
condition, and giving over looking out to sea in anxi-
ous longing for a vessel, I began to apply myself to
accommodate my way of living, and to make things as
easy to me as I could.
I have already described my habitation, which was
a tent under the side of a rock, surrounded with a
strong pale of posts and cables: against this I raised
a kind of wall of turfs, about two feet thick on the
out-side; and after some time, I think it was a year
.and half, I placed rafters from it, leaning to the rock,
and thatched or covered the whole with boughs of
trees, and such things as I could get to keep out the
.rain, which I found at sometimes of the year very
violent. I have already remarked that I brought all
my goods into this pale, and into the cave which I had
made behind it: but 1 must observe too that at first
62
this was a confused heap of goods, which as they lay
in no order, took up so much space, that I had no
room to turn myself. Accordingly I set myself to
enlarge my cave and works further into the earth; for
it was a loose sandy rock, which yielded easily to the
labour I bestowed on it: and when I found I was pretty
safe from beasts of prey, I worked side-ways to the
right hand into the rock; and then, turning to the
right again, worked quite out, and made me a door
to come out, on the outside of my pale or fortification.
This gave me not only easier egress and regress, to my
tent and store-house, but more room to stow my
goods.
And now I began to apply myself to make such
necessary things as I found I most wanted, particular-
ly a chair and a table; for without these I was not
able to enjoy the few comforts I had in the world: I
could not write or eat, or do several things commodi-
ously without a table.
So I went to work; and here I must remark, that
as reason is the foundation of all the rules of art, so,'
by exercising and rational judgment methinks, every
man may with pains make himself master of every art.
I had never handled a tool in my life, and yet in time,
by labour, application and contrivance, 1 found at last
that I wanted nothing that I could not have made;
especially with proper tools. However, I made a-
bundance of things, even without tools, and some
with no more tools than an adze and a hatchet, which
perhaps were never made that way before. For ex-
ample, if I wanted a board, I had no other way but
to cut down a tree, set it on an edge before me, and
hew it flat on either side with my axe, till I had
brought it to be as thin as a plank, and then dub it
smooth with my adze. It is true, by this method I
could make but one board out of a whole tree: but for
this I had no remedy but patience ; any more than I
had for the prodigious deal of time and labour which
it cost me.
The first thing I made, as I have said, was a table
63
and chair, which I did out of the short pieces of boards
that I brought on my raft from the ship: but when I
had wrought out some boards of my own, I made
large shelves of the breadth of a foot and a half one
over another, all along one side of my cave, to receive
my tools, nails, and iron-work, every thing in its
proper place; and I knocked pieces into the wall of
the rock to hold my guns, and whatever would hang
up. So that my cave looked like a general magazine
of all useful articles: and I had every thing so ready
at hand, that it was a great pleasure to me to see all
my goods in such order, and especially to find my
stock of necessaries so great.
Having settled my habitation, made me a table and
a chair, and got every thing about me as commodious
and comfortable as I could render it, I began a journal
which I regularly continued as long as my ink lasted.
Of this journal, for the sake of greater exactness,
I shall here give an entire copy; though it necessarily
contains many things which have been anticipated in
the foregoing narrative.
THE JOURNAL.
SEPTEMBER 30th, 1659.
I poor miserable Robinson Crusoe, being shipwreck-
ed, during a dreadful storm, in the offing, came on
shore on this dismal unfortunate island, which I called
the Island of Despair; all the rest of the ship's com-
pany being drowned, and myself almost dead.
The rest of that day I spent in afflicting myself at
the dismal circumstances I was brought to, without
food, house, cloaths, weapon, or place to fly to: in
despair of any relief, and nothing before me but the
prospect of being devoured by wild beasts, murdered
by savages, or starved to death for want of food. At
the approach of night I climbed a tree, for fear of wild
creatures, and slept soundly though il rained all night,
o 2
64
October 1st. In the morning I saw to my great
surprise the ship had floated with the high tide much
nearer the island, which as it was some comfort on
one hand, irom the hope that if the wind abated, I
might get on board, and procure some food and ne-
cessaries out of her for my relief; so on the other it
renewed my grief at the loss of my comrades, who I
imagined if we had staid on board might have saved
the ship; at least that they would not have been all
drowned; and that we might perhaps have built us a
boat out of the ruins of the ship, to have carried us to
some other part of the world. I spent great part of
this day in perplexing myself on these things: at
length, seeing the ship almost dry, 1 went upon the
sand as near as I could, and then swam on board.
This day also it continued raining, though with no
wind at all.
From the first of October to the 24th. All these
days entirely spent in many several voyages to get all
I could out of the ship, which 1 brought on shore,
every tide of flood, upon rafts. Much rain also in
these days, though with some intervals of fair weather:
but, it seems, this was the rainy season.
Oct. 20. I overset my raft, and all the goods I had
got upon it; but being in shoal water, and the things
being chiefly heavy, I recovered many of them when
the tide was out.
Oct. 25. It rained all night and all day, with some
gusts of wind, during which time the ship broke in
pieces, (the wind blowing a little harder than before,)
and was no more to be seen, except the wreck of her,
and that only at low water. I spent this day in co-
vering and securing the goods which I had saved, that
rain might not spoil them.
Oct. 26. I walked about the shore almost all day,
to find out a place to fix my habitation; greatly con-
cerned to secure myself from any attack in the night,
either from wild beasts or men. Towards night I fix-
ed upon a proper place under a rock, and marked out
a semi-circle for my encampment, which I resolved to
65
strengthen with a wall, or fortification made of double
piles, lined within with cable, and without with turf.
From the 26th to the 30th I worked very hard in
carrying all my goods to my new habitation, though
some part of the tune it rained exceedingly hard.
The 31st in the morning I went out into the island
•with my gun, to see for some food, and discover the
country; when I killed a she-goat, and her kid fol-
lowed me home, which I afterwards killed also, be-
cause it would not feed.
November 1st. I set up my tent under a rock, and
lay there for the first night, making it as large as I
could with stakes driven in to swing my hammock
upon.
Nov. 2. I set up all my chests and boards, and the
pieces of timber which made my rafts, aivl with them
formed a fence round me, a little within the place I
had marked out for my fortification.
Nov. 3. I went out with my gun, and killed two
fowls like ducks, which were very good food. In the
afternoon went to work to make me a table.
Nov. 4. This morning I began to order my times
of work, of going out with my gun, time of sleep, and
time of diversion; viz, every morning I walked out
•with my gun for two or three hours, if it did not rain;
then employed myself towork till about eleven o'clock;
then eat what I had to live on; and from twelve to
two laid down to sleep, (the weather being excessively
hot;) and then in the evening to work again. The
•working part of this day and of the next were wholly
employed in making my table; for I was yet but a
very sorry workman, though time and necessity made
me a complete natural mechanic soon after; as I be-
lieve it would do any one else.
Nov. 5. This day went abroad with my gun and
my dog, and killed a wild cat; her skin pretty sort,
but her flesh good for nothing. Every creature I
killed, I took off the skins and preserved them. Com-
ing back by the sea-shore, I saw many sorts of sea-
fowls, which I did not know: but was surprised and
G 3
almost frightened with two or three reals, \vhicli while
1 was gazing at them, not well knowing what they
were, got into the sea, and escaped me for that thne.
Nov. 6. After my morning walk I went to work
with my table again, and finished it, though not to
my liking; nor was it long before I learned to mend
it.
Nov. 7- Now it began to be settled fair weather.
The 7th, 8th, 9th, 10th, and part of the 12th, (for
the llth was Sunday) I took wholly up to make me
a chair, and with much ado brought it to a tolerable
shape, but never to please mej and even in the making
I pulled it to pieces several times. Note, I soon neg-
lected my keeping Sundays, for omitting my mark for
them on my post, I forgot which was which.
Nov. IS., This day it rained, which refreshed me
exceedingly, and cooled the earth, but it was accom-
panied with terrible thunder and lightning, which
frighted me dreadfully for. fear of my powder. As
soon as it was over, I resolved to separate my stoc•k
of powder into as many little parcels as possible, that
it might not be in danger.
Nov. 14, 15, 1C. These three days I spent in mak-
ing little square chests or boxes, which might hold
about a pound, or two pound, at most, of powder; and
so putting the powder in, I stowed it in places as se-
cure and remote from one another as possible. On
one of these three days, I killed a large bird that was
good to eat; but I knew not what to call it.
Nov. 17. This day I began to dig behind my tent
into the rock, to make room for my further convenien-
cy. Note, Three things I wanted exceedingly for
this work, viz. a pick-axe, a shovel, and a wheelbarrow
or basket; so I desisted from my work, and began to
consider how to supply that want, and make me some
tools. As for a pick-axe, I made use of the iron crows,
which were proper enough, though heavy: but the
next thing was a shovel or spade: this was so absolute-
ly necessary, that indeed I could do nothing effectually
without it; but what kind of one to make I knew
not.
67
Nov. 18. The next day in searching the woods I
found a tree which in the Brasils they call the Iron
Tree, for its exceeding hardness: of this, with great
labour, and almost spoiling my axe, I cut a piece, and
brought it home too with difficulty enough, for it was
exceedingly heavy.
The excessive hardness of the wood made me a long
•while upon this machine; but 1 worked it effectually
by little and little into the form of a shovel or spade,
the handle exactly shaped like ours in England, only
that the broad part having no iron shod upon it at
bottom, it would not last so long: however it served
well enough for the uses which I had occasion to put
it to; but never was a shovel, I believe, so long a
making.
I was still deficient, for I wanted a basket or a wheel-
barrow. A basket I could not make by any means,
having no such things as twigs that would bend to
make wicker ware. As to a wheelbarrow, I fancied
I could make all but the wheel, but that I had no no-
tion of, neither did I know how to go about it: besides
I had no possible way to make the iron gudgeons for
the spindle or axis of the wheel to run in: so I gave
it over; and for carrying away the earth which I dug
out of the cave, I made a thing like a hod which the
labourers carry mortar in, when they serve the brick-
layers. This was not so difficult to me as the making
the shovel: and yet this, and the shovel, and the at-
tempt which I made in vain to make a wheelbarrow,
took me up no less than four days; always excepting
my morning walk with my gun, which I seldom fail-
ed; and very seldom failed also bringing home some-
thing to eat.
Nov. 23. My other work having now stood still,
because of my making these tools; when they were
finished I went on: working every day as my strength
and time allowed, I spent eighteen days entirely in
widening and deepening my cave, that it might hold
my goods commodiously.
Note. During all this time, 1 worked to make this
6,8
room or cave spacious enough to accommodate me as
a warehouse or magazine, a kitchen, a dining-room,
and a cellar. As for my lodging, I kept to the^tent,
except that sometimes in the wet season of the year,
it rained so hard that I could not keep myself dry,
which induced me afterwards to cover all the place
within the pale with long poles in the form of rafters,
leaning against the rock, and load them with flags and
large leaves of trees like a thatch.
December 10. I began now to think my cave or
vault finished, when on a sudden (it seems I had made
it too large) a great quantity of earth fell down from
the top and one side, so much that it frighted me, and
not without reason too; for if I had been under it I
had never wanted a grave digger. Upon this disaster
I had a great d€al of work to do over again: for I had
the loose earth to carry out; and, which -was of more
importance, I had the cieling to prop up, so that I
might be sure no more would come down.
Dec. 11. This day 1 went to work with it accord-
ingly, and got two snores or posts pitched upright to
the top, with two pieces of boards a-cross over each
post: this I finished the next day; and setting more
posts tip with boards, in about a week more I had the
roof secured; and the posts, standing in rows, served
me for partitions to part off my house.
Dec. 17- From this day to the twentieth I placed
shelves, and knocked up nails on the posts to hang
every thing up that could be hung up: and now I be-
gan to be in some order within doors.
Dec. 20. Now I carried every tiling into the cave,
and began to furnish my house, and set up some pieces
of boards, like a dresser, to order my victuals upon,
but boards began to be very scarce with me. I also
made another table.
Dec. 24. Much rain all night and all day; no stir-
ing out.
Dec. 25. Rain all day.
Dec. 26. No rain, and the earth much cooler than
before, and pleasanter.
69
Dec. 27. Killed a young goat, and lamed another,
so that I caught it, and led it home by a string. When
I had it home, I bound and splintered up its leg,
which was broke, and.took such care of it, that it lived,
and the leg grew well and as strong as ever: but by
nursing it so long it grew tame, and fed upon the little
green at my door, and would not go away. This was
the first time that I entertained a thought of breeding
some tame creatures, that I might have food when my
powder and shot was expended.
Dec. 28, 29, 30. Great heats and no breeze; so
that there was no stirring abroad, except in the even-
ing for food : this time I spent in putting all my things
in order within doors.
January 1. Very hot still, but I went abroad early
and late with my gun, and lay still in the middle of
the day. This evening, going further into the valleys
which lay towards the centre of the island, I found
there was plenty of goats, though exceeding shy and
hard to come at; however I resolved to try if I could
not bring my dog to hunt them down.
Jan. 2. Accordingly, the next day, I went out with
my dog, and set him upon the goats: but I was mis-
taken; for they all faced about upon the dog; and he
knew his danger too well, for he would not come
near them.
Jan. 3. I began my fence or wall; which, being
still jealous of my being attacked by some body, 1 re-
solved to make very thick and strong. At this work
I continued till the fourteenth of April, the rains hin-
dering me many days, nay, sometimes weeks together:
but I thought 1 should never be perfectly secure till
the wall was finished; and it is scarce credible what
labour every thing was done with; especially the
bringing piles out of the woods, and driving them
into the ground; for I made them much bigger than
I need to have done. When this wall was finished,
and the out-side double fenced with a turf-wall raised
up close to it, 1 persuaded myself that if any people
were to come on shore there, they would not perceive
70
any thing like an habitation: and it was very well I did
so, as may be observed hereafter upon a very remark-
able occasion.
During this time I made my rounds in the woods
for game every day, when the weather permitted; and
made frequent discoveries in these walks of something
or other to my advantage. Particularly I found a kind
of wild pigeons, who built, not as wood pigeons in a
tree, but rather as house pigeons, in the holes of the
rocks: and taking some young ones, I endeavoured,
to breed them up tame, and did so; but when they
grew older they flew away: which perhaps was at first
for want of feeding them, for I had nothing to give
them ; however I frequently found their nests, and got
tlieir young ones, which were very good meat.
And now, in the managing my household affairs, I
found myself wanting in many things, which I thought
at first it was impossible for me to make, as indeed
with respect to some of them it was. For instance, I
could never make a cask to be hooped: I had a small
runlet or two, as I observed before, but I could never
arrive to the capacity of making one by them, though
I spent many weeks about it: I could neither put in
the heads, or joint the staves so true to one another as
to make them hold water: so I gave that also over.
In the next place, I was at a great loss for candle;
so that as soon as ever it was dark, which was gene-
rally by seven o'clock, I was obliged to go to bed. I
remembered the lump of bees-wax with which I made
candles in my African adventure, but I had none of
that now. The only remedy I had, was that when I
killed a goat I saved the tallow, and with a little dish
made of clay, which I baked in the sun, to which I
added a wick of some oakum, I made me a lamp; and
this gave me light, though not a clear steady light like
a candle.
In the middle of all my labours it happened that
rummaging my things, I found a little bag, which, as
I hinted before, had been filled with corn for the feed-
ing of poultry, not for this voyage, but before, as I
71
suppose, when the ship came from Lisbon: what little
remainder of corn had been in the bag, was all de-
voured with the rats, and I saw nothing in the bag
but husks and dust; and being willing to have the bag
for some ether use, (I think it was to put powder in,
when I divided it tor fear of the lightning, or some
such use,) I shook the husks of corn out of it on one
side of my fortification under the rock. It was a little
before the great rains, just now mentioned, that I
threw this stuff away, taking no notice of any thing,
and not so much as remembering that I had thrown
any thing there: when about a month after, or there-
about, I saw some few stalks of something green shoot-
ing out of the ground, which I fancied might be some
plant I had not seen: but I was surprised and perfect-
ly astonished, when after a little longer time I saw
about ten or twelve ears come out, which were perfect
green barley of the same kind as our European, nay,
as our English barley.
It is impossible to express the confusion of my
thoughts on this occasion. I had hitherto acted upon
no religious foundation at all; indeed I had very few
notions of religion in my head, or had entertained any
sense of any thing that had befallen me, otherwise than
as a chance, or, as we lightly say, what pleases God;
without so much as enquiring into the end of provi-
dence in these things, or his order in governing events
in the world: but after I saw barley grow in a climate
not proper for corn, and knew not how it came there,
it startled me strangely; and I began to suggest, that
God had miraculously caused this grain to grow with-
out seed; and that it was so directed, purely for my
sustenance on that wild miserable place. This touched
my heart a little, and brought tears into my eyes; and
I began to bless myself, that such a prodigy of nature
should happen upon my account: and it was the more
strange to me, because I saw near it all along by the
side of the rock, some other stragiing stalks, which I
knew to be stalks of rice, because I had seen it grow
in Africa, when I was a-shore there.
72
I not only thought these the pure productions of
providence for my support, but not doubting but that
there was more in the place, I went all over that part
of the island, where I had been before, peeping in
every corner and under every rock to see for more of
it, but I could not find any. At last it occurred to me
that I shook a bag of chickens meat out in that place,
and then the wonder began to cease; and I must con-
fess, my religious thankfulness to God's providence
began to abate too upon discovering that all this was
nothing but what was common: though I ought to
have been as thankful for so strange and unforeseen a
providence as if it had been miraculous: for it was
truly providential that ten or twelve grains of corn
should remain unspoiled, when the rats had destroyed
all the rest; as also, that I should throw it out in that
particular place, where being in the shade of a high
rock, it sprang up immediately; whereas if I bad
thrown it any where else at that time, it had been
burnt up and destroyed.
I carefully saved the ears of corn, you may be sure,
in their season, which was about the end of June; and
laying up every corn, I resolved to sow them all again,
hoping in time ,to have quantity sufficient, to supply
me with bread: but it was not till the fourth year that
I could allow myself the least grain of this com to eat,
and even then but sparingly, as I shall say afterwards
in its order: for I lost all that I sowed the first season,
by not observing the proper time for sewing it, so that
it never came up at all, at least not as it would have
done.
Besides this barley, there were, as above, twenty
or thirty stalks of rice, which I preserved with the
same care, and which were equally useful to me j for
I found ways to cook it up without baking, though I
did that also after some time. To return to my journal.
April 14. I closed up my wall, contriving to get in
and out, not by a door, but a ladder, that there might
be no appearance of a habitation on the outside.
April 16. I finished the ladder: so I went up with
73
the ladder to the top, and then pulled it up after me,
and let it down on the inside. This was a complete
enclosure to me: for within I had room enough; and
nothing could come at me from without, unless it
could first mount my wall.
The very next day after this wall Was finished, I
had almost had all my labour overthrown at once, and
myself killed. The case was thus: As I was busy be-
hind my tent, iust in the entrance of my cave, on a
sudden I found the earth come crumbling down from
the roof of my cave, and from the edge of the hill,
over my head; and two of the posts I had set up in
the cave cracked in a frightful manner. I was hearti-
ly scared; but thought nothing of what was really the
cause, only imagining that the top of my cave was
falling in, as some of it had done before: and for fear
I should be buried in it, I ran forward to my ladder;
and not thinking myself safe there neither, I got over
my wall for fear of the pieces of the hill which I ex-
pected might roll down upon me. I was no sooner
stept down upon the firm ground, but I plainly saw it
was a terrible earthquake; for the ground I stood on,
shook three times at about eight minutes distance,
with such shocks, as would have overturned the
strongest building that could be supposed to have stood
on the earth; and a great piece of the top of the rock,
which stood about half a mile from me next the sea,
fell down with such a tremendous noise as I never
heard in all my life. I perceived also the very sea
was put into violent motion by it; and I believe the
shocks were stronger under the water than on the
island.
I was so amazed with the thing itself, having never
felt the like, or discoursed with any one that had, that
I was like one dead or stupified; and the motion of
the earth made my stomach sick, like one tossed at
sea: but the noise of the falling of the rock rousing
me from the stupified condition I was in, filled me
with horror, and I thought of nothing but the hill
falling upon my tent and household goods, and bury*
74
ing all at once: and this sunk my very soul within me
a second time.
After the third shock was over, and I felt no more
for some time, I began to take courage; and yet I had
not heart enough to get over my wall again, for fear
of being buried alive, but sat still upon the ground,
greatly cast down and disconsolate, not knowing what
to do: all this while I had not the least serious religi-
ous thought, nothing but the common, Lord have
mercy upon me; and when it was over, that went
away too.
While I sat thus, I found the air over-cast, and
grow cloudy, as if it would rain: soon after which,
the wind rose by little and little, so that in less than
half an hour it blew a most dreadful hurricane. The
sea was all on a sudden spread over with foam and
froth, the shore was covered with the breach of the
water, and the trees were torn up by the roots. This
held about three hours, and then began to abate; and
in two hours more it was quite calm, and beg^n to
rain very hard.
All this while I sat upon the ground, very much
terrified and dejected; when on a sudden it came into
niy thoughts, that these winds and rain being the con-
sequence of the earthquake, the earthquake itself was
spent and over, and I might venture intomy cave again.
With this thought my spirits began to revive, and
the rain also helping to persuade me, I went in and
sat down in my tent: but the rain was so violent, that
my tent was ready to be beaten down with it; and I
was forced to go into my cave, though very much
afraid and uneasy, for fear it should fall on my head.
This violent rain forced me to a new work, viz. to
cut a hole through my new fortification like a sink, to
let the water out, which would else have deluged my
cave. After I had been in my cave some time, and
found still no more shocks of the earthquake follow, I
began to be more composed; and now, to support my
spirits, which indeed wanted it very much, I went to
my little store, and took a small sup of rum, which
75
however I did always very sparingly, knowing I could
have no more when that was gone.
It continued raining all that night, and great part
of the next day, so that I could not stir abroad; but
my mind being more composed, I began to think of
what I had best do, concluding, that if the island was
subject to these earthquakes, 1 must consider of build-
ing me some little hut in an open place, which I might
surround with a wall as I had done here, and so make
myself secure from wild beasts or men, since if I staid
where I was, I should certainly, one time or other be
buried alive. With these thoughts I resolved to re-
move my tent from the place where it stood, which
was just under the hanging precipice of the hill, and
which, if it should be shaken again, would certainly
fall upon my tent: and I spent the two next days,
being the 19th and 20th of April, in contriving where
and how to remove my habitation.
The fear of being swallowed up alive, made me ne-
ver sleep quiet; but still, when I looked about and
saw how every thing was put in order, how pleasantly
concealed I waSj and how safe from danger, I was loth
to remove.
In the mean time it occurred to me that it would
require a vast deal of time for me to do this, and that
I must be contented to run the venture where I was,
till I had formed a camp for myself, and had secured
it so as to remove to it. With this resolution I com-
posed myself for a time, and resolved that T would go
to work with all speed to build me a wall with piles
and cables, die. in a circle as before, and set my tent
up in it when it was finished; but that I would ven-
ture to stay where I was till it was finished and fit to
remove to. This was the 21 st.
April 22. The next morning I began to consider of
means to put this resolve in execution, but I was at a
great loss about my tools. I had three large axes and
abundance of hatchets, (for we carried the hatchets for
traffic with the Indians) but with much chopping and
cutting knotty hard wood, they were all full of notches
H 2
76
and dull; and though I had a grindstone,, I could not
turn it and, grind my tools too. This cost me as much
thought as a statesman would have bestowed upon a
grand point of politics, or a judge upon the life and
death of a man. At length I contrived a wheel with
a string, to turn it with my foot, that I might have
,both my hands at liberty; a thing I had never seen in
England, or at least not to take notice how it was
done, though since I have observed it is very common
there. This .machine cost me a full week's work to
bring \t to perfection.
April 28, 29. These two whole days T took up in
grinding my tools, my machine for turning my grind-
stone performing very well.
April SO. Having perceived my bread had been
low a great while, I now took a survey of it, and re-
duced myself to one biscuit-cake a day; which made
my heart very heavy.
May 1. In the morning, looking towards the sea-
side, the tide being low, I saw something lie on the
shore bigger than ordinary; and it looked like a cask:
when I came to it, I found a small barrel, and two or
three pieces of the wreck of the ship, which were driven
on shore by the late hurricane; and looking towards
the wreck itself, I thought it seemed to lie higher out
of the water than it used to do. I examined the barrel
which was drived on shore, and soon found it was a
barrel of gunpowder; but it had taken water, and the
powder was caked as hard as a stone: however I rolled
jt farther on shore for the present, and went on upon
the sands as near as I could to the wreck of the ship,
to look for more.
When I came down to the ship, I found it strange-
ly removed. The fore-castle, which lay before buri-
ed in sand, was heaved up at least six feet; and the
stern, which was broken to pieces and parted from the
rest by the force of the sea soon after I had left rum-
maging her, was cast on one side, and the sand thrown
so high on one side of it that whereas before I could
not come within a quarter of a mile of the wreck with,-
77
out swimming, I could now walk quite up to her when
the tide was out. I was surprised with this at first,
but soon concluded it must be done by the earthquake:
and as by this violence the ship was more broken open
than formerly, so many things came daily on shore,
which the sea had loosened, and which the winds and
water rolled by degrees to the land.
This wholly diverted my thoughts from the design
of removing my habitation; and I busied myself
much, in searching whether I could make my way
into the ship: but I found nothing was to be expected
of that kind, for that all the inside of the ship was
choaked up with sand. However, as I had learnt not
to despair of any thing, I resolved to pull every thing
to pieces that I could; concluding, that whatever I
could get from her, would be of some use or other to
me.
May 3. I began with my saw, and cut a piece of
a beam through, which I thought held some of the
upper part or quarter-deck together; and when I had
cut it through, I cleared away the sand as well as I
could from the side, which lay highest: but the tide
coming in, I was obliged to give over for that time.
May 4 I went a fishing, but caught not one fish
that I durst eat of, till I was weary of my sport; when
just going to leave off, I caught a young dolphin. I
had made a long line of some rope-yarn, but had no
hooks; yet I frequently caught fish enough, as much
as I wished to eat: some of which I dried in the sun.
May 5. Worked on the wreck, cut another beam
asunder, and brought three great fir planks from the
decks, which I tied together, and floated on shore when
the tide of flood came on.
May 6. Worked on the wreck, got several iron bolts
out of her, and other pieces of iron-work: worked
very hard and came home very much tired, and had
thoughts of giving it over.
May 7. Went to the wreck again, but not with an
intent to work; found the weight of the wreck had
broke itself down, the beams being cut; that several
H 3
78
pieces of the ship were loose, and the inside of the
hold lay so open, that I could see into it, but almost
full of water and sand.
May 8. Went to the wreek, and carried an iron
crow to wrench up the deck, which lay now quite
clear of the water or sand. I wrenched open two
planks and brought them on shore also with the tide:
left the iron crow in the wreck for the next day.
May 9- Went to the wreck, and with the crow
made way into the body of the wreck, and felt several
casks, and loosened them with the crow, but could not
break them up. I felt also the roll of English lead,
and could stir it but it was too heavy to remove.
May 10, 11, 12, 18, 14. Went every day to the
wreck, and got a great many pieces of timber, an.d
boards, or plank, and two or three hundred-weight of
iron.
May 15. I carried two hatchets, to try if I could
not cut a piece off the roll of lead, by placing the edge
of one hatchet, and driving it with the other: but as
it lay about a foot and a half in the water, I could not
make any blow to drive the hatchet.
May 16. It had blowed hard in the night, and the
wreck appeared more broken by the force of the
-water; but I staid so long in the woods to get pigeons
for food, that the tide prevented me going to the
wreck that day.
May 17. I saw some pieces of the wreck blown
on shore at a great distance, near two miles off;
but was resolved to see what they were, and found
it was a piece of the head too heavy for me to bring
away.
May 24. Every day to this day I worked on the
wreck, and with hard labour I loosened some things
so much with the crow, that the first blowing tide
several casks floated out, and two of the seamen's chests
the wind however blowing from the shore, nothing
came to land that day, but pieces of timber; and a
hogshead which had some Brazil pork in it, but the
salt water and the sand had spoiled it
.
79
I continued this -work every day to the 15th of June,
except the time necessary to get food, which I always
appointed, during this part of my employment, to be
when the tide was up, that I might be ready when it
was ebbed out: and by this time I had gotten timber,
and plank, and iron-work enough, to have built a good
boat, if I had known how; and also, I got at several
times, and in several pieces, near 100 weight of sheet-
lead.
June 16. Going down to the sea side, I found a
large tortoise or turtle. This was the first I had seen,
which it seems was only by misfortune, not any defect
of the place, for had I happened to be on the other
side of the island, I might have had hundreds of them
every day, as I found afterwards; but perhaps had
paid dear enough for them.
June 171 spent in cooking the turtle. I found in
her threescore eggs; and the flesh was to me at that
time the most savoury and pleasant that ever I tasted,
having had do meat, but of goats and fowls, since I
landed in this place.
June 18. Rained all day, and I stayed within. I
thought at this time the rain felt cold, and I was
something chilly, which I knew was not usual in that
latitude.
June. IQ. Very ill, and shivering, as if the weather
had been cold.
June 20. Nn rest all night; violent pains in my
head, and feverish.
June 21. Very ill, frighted almost to death with
the apprehensions of my sad condition, to be sick and
no help: Prayed to God for the first time since the
storm off Hull, but scarce knew what I said, my
thoughts being all confused.
June 22. A little better, but under the dreadful
apprehensions of sickness.
June 23. Very bad again, cold and shivering, and
then a violent head-ache.
June 24. Much better.
June g5. An ague very violent: the fit held me
80
seven hours, cold fit and hot, with faint sweats after
it.
June 26. Better: and having no victuals to eat,
took my gun, but found myself very weak: however
I killed a she-goat, and with much difficulty got it
home, and broiled some of it, and eat. I would fain
have stewed it, and made some broth, but had no pot.
June 27- The ague again so violent, that I lay
a-bed all day, and neither eat or drank. I was ready
to perish for thirst, but so weak I had not strength to
stand up, or to get myself any water to drink: Prayed
to God again, but was light-headed: and when I was
not, I was so ignorant that I knew not what to say;
only I lay and cried, Lord look upon me; Lord pity
me; Lord have mercy upon me. I suppose I did no-
thing else for two or three hours, till the fit wearing
off, I fell asleep, and did not wake till far in the night.
When I waked, I found myself much refreshed, but
weak and exceeding thirsty: however, as I had no
water in my whole habitation, I was forced to lie till
morning, and went to sleep again : in this second sleep
I had this terrible dream.
I thought that I was sitting on the ground on the
out-side of my wall, where I sat when the storm blew
after the earthquake, and that I saw a man descend
from a black cloud, in a bright flame of fire, and light
upon the ground: he was all over as bright as a flame,
so that I could but just bare to look towards him.
His countenance was most inexpressibly dreadful, im-
possible for words to describe. When he stepped upon
the ground with his feet, I thought the earth trembled,
just as it had done before in the earthquake; and all
the air looked to my apprehension as if it had been
filled with flashes of fire.
He was no sooner landed upon the earth, but he
moved forward towards me, with a long spear or
weapon in his hand to kill me; and when he came to
a rising ground, at some distance he spoke to me, and
I heard a voice so awful that it is impossible to express
the terror of it: all that I can say 1 understood was this.
Seeing all these things have not brought thee to repent-
ance, nowthou shalt die: at which words I thought he
lifted up the spear in his hand to kill me.
No one, that shall ever read this account, will ex-
pect that I should be able to describe the horrors of
my soul at this terrible vision; nor the impression that
remained upon my mind, when I awoke. I had alas!
no divine knowledge; what I had received by the good
instruction of my father being then worn out by an
uninterrupted series, for eight years, of sea-faring
wickedness, and a constant conversation with none
; but such as were like myself, wicked and profane to
•the last degree. 1 do not remember that I had in all
that time one thought that so much as tended either to
looking upwards toward GOD, or inwards towards a
•reflection upon my own ways: but a certain stupidity
of soul, without desire of good, or conscience of evil,
-had entirely overwhelmed me; and I was all that the
most hardened, unthinking creature among our com-
mon sailors can supposed to be.
This will be the more easily believed, when I add,
that through all the variety of dangers and deliverances
I had experienced, of which I have given so free an ac-
count, I never had the slightest thought that the hand
of God was at all concerned in them, either in the way
of punishment or mercy.
But now, when I began to be sick, and a leisurely view
of the miseries of death came to place itself before me;
•when my spirits began to sink under the burden of a
strong distemper, and nature was exhausted with the
violence of the fever; conscience that had slept go long,
awoke; and I began to reprnach myself with my past
life, in which I had so evidently, by uncommon wick-
edness, provoked the justice of .GoD to deal with me
in so severe a manner.
These reflections oppressed me the second or third
day of my distemper, and in the violence, as well of
the fever as of the dreadful reproaches of my conscience,
extorted some words from me, like praying to GOD;
though I cannot say they were either a prayer attended
•with desires, or with hopes : it was rather the voice of
mere fright and distress: my thoughts were confused,
the convictions great upon my mind, and the horror
of dying in such a miserable condition, filled my head
with dreadful apprehensions; and, in these hurries of
my soul, I knew not what my tongue might express:
but it was rather exclamation, such as, Lord! what a
miserable creature am I! If I should be sick, I shall
certainly die for want of help, and what will become
of me! Then the tears burst from my eyes, and I
could say no more for a good while.
In this interval, the good advice of my father came
to my mind, and presently his prediction, which I
mentioned in the beginning of this story; that if I did
take this foolish step, GOD would not bless me, and I
should have leisure hereafter to reflect upon having
neglected his counsel, when there might be none to
assist in my recovery. Now, said I aloud, my dear
father's words are come to pass: Gon's justice has
overtaken me, and I have none to help or hear me: I
rejected the voice of Providence, which had mercifully
put me in a station of life where I might have been
happy and easy; but I would neither see it myself, nor
learn to know the blessing of it from my parents: I
left them to mourn over my folly, and now I am left
to mourn under the consequences of it: I refused their
help and assistance, who would have laised me in the
world, made every thing easy to me; and now I have
difficulties to struggle with, too great for even nature
itself to support; and no assistance, no help, no com-
fort, no advice. Then I cried out, Lord, be my help,
for I am in great distress.
This was the first prayer, if I might call it so, that
I had made for many years. But I return to my journal.
June 28. Having been somewhat refreshed with
sleep, and the fit being entirely off, I got up: and
though the fright anil terror of my dream was very
great, yet I considered, that the fit of the ague would
return again next day, and now was my time to get
something to refresh and support myself when I should
83
be ill. The first thing I did, I filled a large square
case bottle with water, and set it upon my table, in
reach of my bed; and to take off the chill, I put about
a quarter of a pint of rum into it: then I got a piece
of the goat's flesh, and broiled it on the coals, but
could eat very little. I walked about, but was very
weak, and withal, heavy-hearted under a sense of my
miserable condition; dreading the return of my dis-
temper the next day. At night I made my supper of
three of the turtle's eggs, which I roasted in the ashes,
and eat as we call it, in the shell; and this was the
first bit of meat 1 had ever asked GOD'S blessing to, as
far as I could remember in my whole life.
After I had eaten I tried to walk; but found my-
self so weak; that I could hardly carry the gun (for
I never went out without that:) so I went but a little
way, and sat down upon the ground, looking out upon
the sea, which was just before me, and very calm and
smooth. As I sat here, some such thoughts as these
occurred to me.
What is the earth and sea, of which I have seen so
much? Whence did they come? And what am I,
and all the other creatures, wild and tame, human and
brutal, whence are we? Sureweare allmadeby some se-
cret power, who formed the earth and sea, the air and
sky; and who is that but GOD? Then it followed,
most naturally, if GOD has made all these things, he
guides and governs them all, and all things that con-
cern them; for the Being that could make all things,
must certainly have power, to guide and direct them.
If so, nothing can happen in the great circuit of his
works, either without his knowledge or appointment.
And if nothing happens without his knowledge, he
knows that I am here, and am in a dreadful condition;
and if nothing happens without his appointment, he
has appointed all this to befall me. Immediately it
followed, Why has God done this to me? What have
I done to be thus used? My conscience presently
checked me in that inquiry, as if I had blasphemed;
and methought it spoke to me, like a voice; Wretch!
84
dost thouask -what thou hast done? look back upon a
dreadful mispent life, and ask thyself what thou hast
not done? ask, why is it that thou weit not long ago
destroyed? why wert thou not drowned in the Yar-
mouth Roads? killed in the fight when the ship was
taken by the Sallee man of war? devoured by the wild
beasts on the coast of Africa? Or, drowned HERE,
when all the crew perished but thyself? Dost thou
ask, What have I done?
I was struck with these reflections as one astonished,
and had not a word to say, no, not to myself; but
rose up pensive and sad, walked back to my retreat,
and went up over my wall, as if I had been going to
bed: but my thoughts were sadly disturbed, and I
had no inclination to sleep; so I sat down in my chair,
and lighted my lamp, for it began to be dark. Now,
as the apprehensions of the return of my distemper
terrified me very much, it occurred to my thoughts
that the Brasilians take no physic but their tobacco,
for almost all distempers; and I had a piece of a roll
of tobacco in one of my chests, which was quite cured,
and some also that was green, and not quite cured.
I wentj directed by heaven, no doubt! for in this
chest I found a cure both for soul and body; I open-
ed the chest, and found what I looked for, viz. the
tobacco; and as the few books I had saved lay there
too, I took out one of the bibles which I mentioned
before, and which, to this time, I had not found leisure,
or inclination to look into. I say I took it out, and
'brought both that and the tobacco with me to the
table.
What use to make of the tobacco for my distemper,
or whether it was good for it or no I knew not; but I
tried several experiments with it, as if I was resolved
it should hit one way or the other. I first took a piece
of a leafi and chewed it in my mouth; which indeed
at first almost stupified my brain, the tobacco being
green and strong, and I not much used to it: then I
took some, and steeped it an- hour-or two in some rum,
and resolved to take a dose of it when I lay down: ami-
85
lastly, I burnt some upon a pan of coals, and held my
nose close over the smoke of it, as long as I could bear
it, as well for the heat, as the virtue of it, and I held•
almost to suffocation.
In the interval of this operation I took up the bible;
but my head was too much disturbed with the tobacco
to bear reading, only, having opened the book casually,
the first words that occurred to me were these, "Call on
me in the day of trouble, and I will deliver, and thou
shall glorify me." The words were very apt to my
case, and made some impression upon my thoughts at
the time, though not so much as they did afterwards.
For as to being delivered, the word had no meaning
to me: the thing was so remote, so impossible in my
apprehension of things, that 1 began to say as the
children of Israel did, when they were promised flesh
to eat, "Can GOD spread a table in the wilderness?'
Can GOD himself deliver me from this place? It grew
now late, and the tobacco had, as I said, dozeu my
head so much, that I inclined to sleep. So I left my
lamp burning in my cave, lest I should want any thing
in the night and went to bed: but before I lay down,
I did what I never had done in all my life; I kneeled
down and prayed to GOD to fulfil the promise to me,
that if I called upon him in the day of trouble, he
would deliver me. After my broken and imperfect
prayer was over, I drank the rum in which I had
steeped the tobacco, which was so strong and rank of
the tobacco, that indeed I could scarce get it down.
Immediately upon this I went to bed, and found pre-
sently it flew up into my head violently; but I fell
into a sound sleep, and waked no more, till by the sun
it must necessarily be near three o'clock in the afternoon
the next day: nay to this hour I am partly of opinion,
that I slept all the next day and night, and till almost
three the day after; for otherwise J knew not how I
should lose a day out of my reckoning in the days of
the week, as it appeared some years after I had done;
since if I had lost it by crossing and re-crossing the
line, I should have lost more than a day; but in my own
i
86
account it was lost, and I never knew which way. Be
that as it may, when I awoke I found myself exceed-
ingly refreshed, and my spirits lively and cheerful.
When I got up, I was stronger than I was the day be-
fore, and my stomach better; for I was hungry ; and,
in short, I had no fit the next day, but continued much
altered for the better. This was the 29th.
The 30th. was my well day of course, and I went
abroad with my gun, but did not choose to travel too
far: I killed a sea-fowl or two, something like a brand
goose, and brought them home; but was not very for-
ward to eat them: so I eat some more of the turtle's
eggs, which were very good. This evening I renew-
ed the medicine which I had supposed did me good
the day before, viz. the tobacco steeped in rum; only
I did not take so much as before, nor did I chew any
of the leaf, or hold my head over the smoke : however,
I was not so well the next day, which was the 1st. of
July, as 1 hoped I should have been; for I had a little
touch of the cold fit, but it was not much.
July 2. I renewed the medicine all the three ways,
and doubled the quantity which I drank.
July 3. I missed the fit for good and all, though I
did not recover my full strength for some weeks after.
While I was thus gathering strength, my thoughts ran
exceedingly upon this scripture, I will deliver thee:
and the impossibility of my deliverance lay much upon
my mind, in bar of my ever expecting it: but as I was
discouraging myself with such thoughts, it occurred to
my mind, that I pored so much upon my deliverance
from the main affliction, that I disregarded the deliver-
ance I had received. Have I not been delivered, said
i,.and wonderfully too, from sickness? from the most
distressed condition that could be? and what notice had
J! taken of it? had I done my part? God had deliver-
ed me: but I had not glorified him: that is to say, I
had not been thankful for that as a deliverance; and
how could I expect a greater? This touched my heart
ery much, and immediately I kneeled down, and gave
GOD thanks aloud, for my recovery from my sickness.
87
July 4. In the morning I took the bible; and be-
ginning at the New Testament, I began seriously to
read it, and imposed upon myself to read a-while every
morning and every night; not tying myself to the
number of chapters, but as long as my thoughts should
engage me. It was not long after I "set seriously to
this work, but I found my heart more deeply and sin-
cerely affected with the wickedness of my past life.
The impression of my dream revived, and the words,
All these things have not brought thee to repentance,
ran seriously in my thoughts. It happened, one day,
after earnestly begging of GOD to give me repentance
that, reading the scripture, I came to these words, He
is exalted a Prince, and a Saviour, to give repentance,
and to give remission: I threw rlown the book, and
•with my heart as well as my hands lifted up to heaven,
in a kind of extasy of joy, I cried out aloud, Jesus,
thou son of David, Jesus, thou exalted Prince and Sa-
viour, give me repentance!
This was the first time that I could say in the true
sense of the words, that I prayed in all my life; for now
I prayed with a sense of my condition, and with a true
scripture view of hope, founded on the encourage-
ment of the word of Gon; and from this time, I may
say, I began to have hope that GOD would hear thje.
Now I began to construe the words mentioned above,
call on me, and I will deliver thee, in a different sense
from what I had ever done before: for then I had no
notion of any thing being called deliverance, but my
being delivered from the captivity 1 was in; but nbw
I learned to take it in another sense, the .deliverahcfe
from the load of guilt that bore down all my comfort.
As for my solitary life, it was nothing: I did not sb
much as pray to be delivered from it, Or think of it;
it was of no consideration in comparison with the much
greater blessing of deliverance from sin.
But, to return to my journal.
My condition became now much easier to my mind;
and my thoughts being directed, by a constant read-
ing the scripture, and praying to GOD, to things of a
i 3
88
higher nature, I had a great deal of comfort within,
•which till now I knew nothing of: also as my health
and strength returned, I bestirred myself to provide
every thing that I wanted, and make my way of living
as regular as I could.
From the 4th of July to the 14th, I was chiefly em-
ployed in walking about with my gun in my hand a
little and a little at a time, as a man that was gather-
ing up his strength after a fit of sickness; for it is
hardly to be imagined how low I was, and to what
weakness I was reduced. The application which I
made use of was perfectly new, and perhaps what had
never cured an ague before; neither can I recommend
it to any one to practise by this experiment: and
though it did carry off the fit, yet it rather contributed
to weaken me; for I had frequent convulsions in my
nerves and limbs for some time.
I learnt from it this also; that being abroad in the
rainy season was the most pernicious thing to my
health that could be, especially in those rains which
came attended with storms and hurricanes of wind:
for as the rain which came in a dry season was always
most accompanied with such storms, so I found this
rain was much more dangerous than the rain which
fell in September and October.
I had been now in this unhappy island above t< n
months: all possibility of deliverance seemed to be
entirely taken from me; and I firmly believed that no
human being had ever set foot on the place. Having
now secured my habitation, as I thought, fully to my
mind, I had a great desire to make a more perfect dis-
covery of the island and to see what other productions
it might possess, which yet 1 knew nothing of.
It was the 15th of July that I began to take a more
particular survey of the island itself. I went up the
creek first, where, as I hinted, I brought my rafts on
shore: I found after I came about two miles up, that
the tide did not flow any higher, and that it was no
more than a little brook of running water, and vf ry
fresh and good; but this being the dry season, there
89
was hardly any water in some parts of it, at least not
enough to run in any stream. On the bank of this
brook I found many pleasant savannahs or meadows,
plain, smooth, and covered with grass; and on the
rising parts of them next to the higher grounds, where
the water, as it might be supposed, never overflowed,
I found a great deal of tobacco, green, and growing
to a great and very strong stalk: there were divers other
plants which I had no knowledge of, and might per-
haps have virtues of their own, which I could not find
out. I searched for the cassava root, which the In-
dians make their bread of: but could fmd none. I
saw large plants of aloes, but did not then know their
nature: I saw several sugar canes, but wild, and, for
•want of cultivation, imperfect. I contented myself
with these discoveries for this time, and came back
musing with myself what course I might take to know
the virtue and goodness of any of the fruits or plants
which I should discover, but could bring it to no con-
clusion; for, in short, I had made so little observation
on this subject while I was in the Brasils, that I knew
little that might serve any useful purpose now in my
distress.
The next day, the Ifith,I went up the same way again;
and after going something further than I had done the
day before, I found the brook and the savannahs began
to cease, and the country became more woody than
before. In this part I found different fruits, and par-
ticularly I found melons upon the ground in great
abundance, and grapes upon the trees: the vines had
spread over the trees, and the clusters of grapes were
just now in their prime, very ripe and rich. This was
a valuable discovery; but I was warned by my expe-
rience to eat sparingly, remembering, that when I
was ashore in Barbary, the eating of grapes killed sev-
eral of our Englishmen who were slaves there, by
throwing them into fluxes and fevers: but I found an
excellent use for these grapes, and that was to cure or
dry them in the sun, and keep them as dry grapes or
raisins are kept, when they proved a most wholesome
and agreeable fruit.
90
I spent all that evening there, and went not back to
my habitation; which was the first time I had lain
from home. In the night I took my first contrivance,
and got up into a tree, where I slept well, and the
next morning proceeded upon my discovery, travel-
ing near four miles, as 1 might judge by the length of
the valley, keeping still due north, with a ridge of hills
on the south and north side of me. At the end of this
march I came to an opening, where the country seemed
to descend to the west; and a little spring of fresh
water, which issued out of the side of the hill by me,
ran the other way, that is, due East: here the country
appeared so fresh, so green, so flourishing, every thing
being in a constant verdure or flourish of spring, that
it looked like a planted garden. I descended a little
on the side of that delicious valley, surveying it with
a secret kind of pleasure (though mixed with other
afflicting thoughts) to think that this was all my own,
that I was king and lord of all this country indefeasi-
bly. I saw here abundance of cocoa-trees, orange and
lemon, and citron-trees, but all wild, and few bearing
any fruit; at least, not then : however, the green limes
that I gathered were not only pleasant to eat, but very
wholesome ; and I mixed their juice afterwards with
water, which made it very wholesome, and very cool
and refreshing. I found now I had business enough
to gather and carry home; and resolved to lay up a
store, as well of grapes as limes and lemons, to furnish
myself for the wet season, which I knew was ap-
proaching. In order to do this I gathered a great heap
of grapes in one place, and a lesser heap in another
place, and a great parcel of limes and lemons in another
place; and taking a few of each with me, I travelled
homeward, and resolved to come again, and bring a
bag or sack, or what I could make, to carry the rest
home. Accordingly, having spent three days in this
journey, I came home (so I must now call my tent, and
my cave;) but before I got thither, the grapes were
spoiled, being crushed from the ripeness of the fruit:
as to the limes, they were good, but I could bring but
a few.
91
The next day being the 19th, I went back having
made two small bags to bring hom? my harvest: But
I was surprised when coming to the heap of grapes
•which were so rich and fine when [ gathered them, I
found them all spread abroad, trod to pieces, and drag-
ged about, some here, some there, and abundance eaten
and devoured: by this I concluded there were some
•wild creatures.thereabouts, which had done this; but
•what they were I knew not. However, as I found
there was no laying them up on heaps and no carry-
ing them away in a -ack, but that one way they would
be destroyed, and the other way they would be crush-
ed with their own weight; I took another course ; for
I gathered a large quantity of the grapes, and hung
them upon the out branches of the trees, that they
might cure and dry in the sun; and as for the limes
and lemons, I carried as many back as I could well
stand under.
When I came home from this journey, I reflected
with great pleasure on the fruitfulness of that valley,
and the pleasantness of the situation, the security from
storms, and the convenience of wood; and concluded
that I had pitched upon a place for my abode which
•was by far the worst part of the country. Upon the
•whole, I began to consider of removing my habitation,
and looking out for a place equally safe in that pleasant
fruitful part of the island.
This thought ran long in my head, and I was ex-
ceedingly fond of it for some time, the advantages of
the place tempting me: but when I came to take a
nearer view of it, and to consider that 1 was now by
the sea side, where it was at least possible that some-
thing might happen to my advantage, and that the
same ill fate that brought me hither might bring some
other unhappy wretches to the same place. Whereas
by removing higher up the island, among hills and
woods, I should deprive myself of all chance of relief
from such an accident, I finally determined on no ac-
count to change my abode
However, I was so enamoured with the place, that
92
I spent much of my time there for the whole remain-
ing part of the month of July ; and though, I resolved
not to remove, yet I built me a little kind of a bower,
and surrounded it at a distance with a strong fence
being a double hedge, as high as I could reach, well
staked and filled between with brushwood: and here
I lay very secure, sometimes two or three nights to-
gether; always going over it with a ladder as in my
first abode; so that I fancied now I had my country
house, and my sea-coast house: and this work took me
up till the beginning of August.
I had but newly finished my fence, and began to en-
joy my labour, when the rains came on, and made me
stick close to my first habitation; for though I had
made me a tent for the other, with a piece of a sail,
and spread it very well, yet I had not the shelter of an
hill to keep me from storms, nor a cave behind to re-
treat into when the rains were extraordinary.
About the beginning of August, as I said, I had
finished my bower, and began to enjoy myself. The
third of August I found the grapes I had hung up
were perfectly dried, and indeed were excellent good
raisins of the sun: so I began to take them down from
the trees: and it was very happy that I did so; for
the rains which followed would have spoiled them, and
I lost the best part of my winter food; for I had above
two hundred large bunches of them. No sooner had
I taken them all down, and carried most of them home
to my cave, but it began to rain; and from thence,
which was the fourteenth of August, it rained more or
less every day, till the middle of October; and some-
times so violently, that I could not stir out of my cave
for several days.
In this season I was much surprised with the in-
crease of my family: I had been concerned for the loss
of one of my cats, who ran away from me, as I thought,
had died ; and saw no more of her, till to my astonish-
ment she came home about the end of August, with
three kittens. This was the more strange to me, be-
cause though I had killed a wild cat, as I called it, with
93
my gun, yet I thought it was a quite different kind
from our European cats: yet the young cats were the
same kind of house breed with the two I brought with
me, who were both females. But from these three
cats, I afterwards came to be so pestered with the race,
that I was forced to kill them like vermin, or wild
beasts, and to drive them from my house as much as
possible.
From the fourteenth of August to the twenty-sixth,
incessant rain, so that I could not stir, being very care-
ful not to be much wet. In this confinement I be-
gan to be straightened for food; but venturing out
twice, I one day killed a goat, and the last day, which
was the twenty-sixth, found a very large tortoise,
•which was a treat to me, and my food was regulated
thus: I eat a bunch of raisins for my breakfast, a
piece of goats flesh, or of the turtle, for my dinner,
broiled (for to my great misfortune I had no vessel to
boil or stew any thing;) and two or three of the turtle's
eggs for supper.
During this confinement by the rain, I worked
daily two or three hours at enlarging my cave; and,
by degrees, worked it on towards one side, till I came
to the outside of the hill, and made a door or way out,
which came beyond my fence or wall; and so I came
in and out this way. But I was not perfectly easy at
lying so open; for as I had managed matters before, I
was in a perfect inclosure, whereas now I thought I
lay exposed; and yet I could not perceive that there
was any living thing to fear, the biggest creature that
I had seen upon the island being a goat,
September the thirtieth. I was now come to the
unhappy anniversary of my landng: I cast up the
notches on my post, and found I had been on shore
three hundred and sixty-five days. I kept this day as
a solemn fast, setting it apart for religious exercise,
prostrating myself to the ground with the most serious
humiliation, confessing myself to GOD, acknowledging
his righteous judgment upon me, and praying to him
to have mercy on me, through Jesus Christ: and hav-
94
ing not tasted the least refreshment for twelve hours,
even till the going down of the sun, I then eat a bis-
cuit-cake, and a bunch of grapes, and went to bed,
finishing the day as I began it.
I had all this time observed no sabbath day: for as
at first I had no sense of religion upon my mind, I had
after some time omitted to distinguish the weeks, by
making a longer notch than ordinary for the sabbath-
day, and so did not really know what any of the days
were: but now, I set apart every seventh day for a
sabbath; though I found at the end of my account I
had lost a day or two of my reckoning.
A little after this my ink began to fail me, and so I
contented myself to use it more sparingly, and to write
down only the most remarkable events of my life, with-
out continuing a daily memorandum of other things.
The rainy season, and the dry season, began now to
appear regular to me, and I learned to divide them so
as to provide for them accordingly. But I bought all
my experience before I had it; and this which I am
going to relate, was one of the most discouraging ex-
periments I made. I mentioned that I saved the few
ears of barley and rice which had so surprisingly
sprung up, as I thought, of themselves, and believe
there were about thirty stalks of rice, and about twenty
of barley; and now I thought it a proper time to sow
it after the rains, the sun being in its southern position
going from me. Accordingly I dug up a piece of
ground, as well as I could with my wood«n spade, and
dividing it into two parts, I sowed my grain; but as
I was sowing, it casually occurred to my thought, that
I would not sow it all at first, because 1 did not know
when was the proper time for it: so I sowed about
two-thirds of the seed, leaving about an handful of
each. It was a great comfort to me afterwards that I
did so, as not one grain of that I sowed this time came
to any thing; for the dry months followed, the earth
having had no rain after the seed was sown, it had no
moisture to assist its growth, and never came up at
all, till the wet season had come again, and then it
grew as if it had been newly sown.
95
Finding my first seed did not grow, which I easily
imagined was occasioned by the drought, I sought for
a moister piece of ground to make another trial in:
and digging up a piece of ground near my new bower,
cowed the vest of my seed in February, a little before
the vernal equinox: this, having the rainy months of
March and April to water it, sprung up very pleasant-
ly, and yielded a very good crop; but having part of
the seed left only, and not daring to sow all that, I had
but a small quantity at last, my whole crop not
amounting to above half a peck of each kind. But by
this experience I was made master of my business, and
knew exactly when the proper season was to sow ; and
that I might expect two seed times, and two harvests,
every year.
While this corn was growing, I made a little dis-
covery, which was of use to me afterwards: As soon
as the rains were over, and the weather began to settle,
which was about the month of November, I made a
visit up the country to my bower, where though I
had not been some months, yet I found all things just
as I left them. The circle or double hedge that I made,
was not only firm and entire, but the stakes which I
had cut off of some trees that grew thereabouts, were
all shot out, and grown with long branches, as much
as a willow-tree usually shoots the first year after lopp-
ing its head. I could not tell what tree it was that
these stakes were cut from. I was surprised and yet
very well pleased, to see the young trees grow; so I
pruned them, and led them up to grow as much alike
as I could: and it is scarce credible, how beautiful' a
figure they made in three years; so that though the
hedge made a circle of about twenty-five yards in dia-
meter, yet the trees, for such I might now call them,
soon covered it: and it was a complete shade, suffici-
ent to lodge under all the dry season.
This made me resolve to cut some more stakes, and
make me an hedge like this in a semi-circle round
the wall, of my first dwelling: which I did: and
placing the trees or stakes in a double row, at above

96
eight yards distance from my first fence, they grew
pleasantly, and were at first a fine cover to my habita-
tion, and afterwards served for a defence also, as I
shall observe m its order.
I found now, that the seasons of the year might
generally be divided, not into summer and winter, as
m Europe, but into the rainy seasons, and the dry sea-
sons, which were generally thus:
Half February, | Ramyj ^ sm bemg then ^ of
Half April! j near, the equinox.
Half April, I
aY> I D™ tne sun being then to the north
June>f of the line.
July,
Half August, J
Half August,"*
September, >Rain, the sun being then come back.
Half October, J
Half October, ^1
November, I _ fa being then to the south
December,)- '* <?tu»i:
T f of the lme.
January, I
Half February,]
The rainy season sometimes held longer or shorter,
as the winds happened to blow; but this was the gene-
ral observation I made. After I had found by expe-
rience, the ill consequence of being abroad in the rain,
I took care to furnish myself with provision before-
hand, that I might not be obliged to go out; and I
sat within doors as much as possible during the wet
months.
In this time I found much employment, and very
suitable also to the time; for I had great want of many
things which I had no way to furnish myself with, but
by hard labour, and constant application. Particular-
ly, I tried many ways to make myself a basket; but
all the twigs I could meet with,, were too brittle for
97
the purpose It proved of excellent advantage to me
now, that when I was a boy I used to take great de-
light in standing at a basket-maker's in the town
where my father lived, to see them make their wicker
ware; and being, as boys usually are, very officious
to help, and a great observer of the manner how they
worked those things, and sometimes lending a hand,
I had by this means so full knowledge of the methods
of it, that I wanted nothing but the materials: when
it came into my mind, that the twigs of that tree from
whence I cut my stakes might possibly be as tough as
the sallows and willows, and osiers, in England; and
I resolved to try. Accordingly the next day I went
to my country-house, as I called it, and cutting some
of the smaller twigs, I found them to my purpose as
much as I could desire; whereupon I came the next
time prepared with a hatchet to cut down a quantity,
•which I soon found, for there was a great plenty of
them: these I set up to dry within my circle or hedges;
and when they were fit for use, I carried them to my
cave; and here during the next season I employed
myself in making, (as well as I could) a great many
baskets, to carry or lay up any thing, as I had occa-
sion; and though I did not finish them very handsome-
ly, yet I made them sufficiently serviceable for my
purpose; and took care never to be without them: for
as my wicker-ware decayed I made more; especially
I made strong deep baskets to place my corn in, in-
stead of sacks, when I should come to have any quan-
tity of it.
Having mastered this difficulty, and employed a
deal of time about it, I bestirred myself to see, if pos-
sible, how to supply two wants. I had no vessels to
hold any thing that was liquid, except two rundlets,
which were almost full of rum, and some glass bottles,
some of the common size, and others which were square
casebottles, for the holding of waters, spirits, &c. I
had not so much as a pot to boil any thing in, except
a great kettle which 1 saved out of the ship, which
was too big for such uses as I desired it for, viz. to
98
make broth, and stew a bit of meat by itself. The
second thing I would fain have had, was a tobacco
pipe, bat it was impossible for me to make one; how-
ever, I found a contrivance for that too at last.
I employed myself in planting my second rows of
stakes or piles, and in this wicker work, all the sum-
mer, or dry season; when another business took me
up more time than it could be imagined I could spare.
I mentioned before, that I had a great mind to see the
•whole island, and that I had travelled up the brook,
to where I built my bower and beyond it, where I had
an opening to the sea on the other side of the island.
I now resolved to travel quite across to the sea shore
on that side: so taking my gun, and hatchet, and my
dog, and a larger quantity of powder and shot than
usual, with two biscuit-cakes, and a great bunch of
raisins in my pouch, for my store, I began my journey.
When 1 had passed the vale where my bower stood, I
came within view of the sea, to the west; and it being
a very clear day, I fairly descried land, whether an
island or continent I could not tell: but it lay very
high, extending from the west to the W. S. W. at a
very great distance; by my guess it could not be less
than fifteen or twenty leagues off.
I could not tell what part of the world this might
be, otherwise than that I knew it must be part of
America; and,as I conjectured near theSpanishdomini-
ons. If it was part of the Spanish coast, then I concluded
that I should certainly some time or other see vessels
passing or repassing that way; but it" this was not the
case, then the land I saw must be the savage coast be-
tween the Spanish country and Brasil, inhabited by
the worst of savages; for they are all cannibals, or men-
eaters, and fail not to murder and devour all the hu-
man bodies that fall into their hands.
With these considerations I walked very leisurely
forward. I found that side of the island where I now
was, much pleasanter than mine; the open or savannah
fields sweet, adorned with flowers and grass, and full
of very fine woods. I saw abundance of parrots, and
ft»in would have caught one, if possible to have made
it tame, and taught it to speak to me. I did, after
some pains taking, catch a young parrot; for I knock*
ed it down with a stick, and having recovered it,
brought it home, but it was some years before I could
teach him to speak.
I was exceedingly diverted with this journey. I
found in the low grounds, hares, as I thought them
to be, and foxes, but they differed greatly from all the
other kinds I had met with; nor could I reconcile my-
self to eat them, though I killed several: but I had no
need to be venturous; for I had no want of food, and
of that which was very good too: especially goats,
pigeons, and turtle or tortoise: add to these my grapes,
and Leadenhall-market could not have furnished a bet-
ter table, in proportion to the company.
I never travelled in this journey above two miles
outright in a day, or thereabouts: but I took so many
turns and returns, to see what discoveries I could make,
that I came weary enough to the place where I resolv-
ed to remain all night; and then either reposed myself
in a tree, or surrounded myself with a row of stakes set
upright in the ground, so that no wild creature could
come at me without waking me.
As soon as I came to the sea-shore, I was surprised
to see that I had taken up my lot on the worst side of
the island; for here the shore was covered with innu-
merable turtles, whereas on the other side I had found
but three in a year and a half. Here was also an infi-
nite number of fowls of many kinds, some of which I
had not seen before, and many of them very goodmeat;
but such as I knew not the names of, except those
called penguins. I could have shot as many as I
pleased, but was very sparing of my powder and shot:
and therefore had more mind to kill a she-goat, if I
could, which I could better feed on: and though there
were many goats here more than on the other side of
the island, yet it was with much more difficulty that I
could come near them; the country being flat and even,
and they saw me much sooner than when I was on
the hills.
100
I confess this side of the country was much plea-
santer than mine, but yet I had not the least inclina-
tion to remove; for as I was fixed in my habitation, it
became natural to me, and I seemed all the while 1 was
here to be, as it were, upon a journey, and from home.
However, I travelled along the shore of the sea to-
wards the east, I suppose, about twelve miles; and
then setting up a great pole .upon the shore for a. mark,
I concluded I would go home again; and the next
journey I took should be on the other side of the island,
east from my dwelling, and so round, till I came to
my post again: of which in its place
I took a different way to come back, thinking I
could easily keep all the island so much in my view,
that I could not miss finding my first dwelling by view-
ing the country: but I was mistaken; for being come
about two or three miles, I found myself descended
into a very large valley; but so surrounded with hills,
and those hills covered with woods, that I could not
see which was my way by any direction but that of
the sun; nor even then, unless I knew very well the
position of the sun at that time of the day. It happen-
ed, to my farther misfortune, that the weather proved
hazy for three or four days, while I was in this valley:
and not being able to see the sun, I wandered about
very uncomfortably, and at last was obliged to find
out the sea-side, look for my post, and come back the
the same way I went: and then by easy journies I
turned homeward, the weather being exceedmgly hot;
and my gun, ammunition, hatchet, and other things,
very heavy.
In this journey my dog surprised a young kid, and
siezed upon it; and I running in to take hold of it,
caught it, and saved it alive from the dog: I had a
great mind to bring it home, if I could; for 1 had
often been musing whether it might not be possible to
get a kid or two, and so raise a breed of tame goats,
which might supply me when my powder and shot
should be spent. I made a collar for this little crea-
ture, and with a string made of some rope yarn, which
101
I always carried about me, led him along, though with
some difficulty, till I came to my bower, and there
enclosed and left him: for I was very impatient to
be at home, from whence I had been absent above a
month.
I cannot express what a satisfaction it was to me to
come into my old hutch, and lie down in my ham-
mock-bed. This little wandering journey, without a
settled place of abode, had been so unpleasant to me,
that my own house as I called it, was a perfect settle-
ment to me, compared to that; and it rendered every
thing about me so comfortable, that I resolved I would
never go a great way from it again, while it should be
my lot to stay on the island.
I reposed here a week, to rest and regale myself
after my long journey: during which, most of the
time was taken up in the weighty affair of making a
cage for my poll, who began now to be a mere domes-
tic, and to be mighty well acquainted with me. Then
I began to think of the poor kid, which I had pent in
within my little circle, and resolved to go and fetch it
home, and give it some food: accordingly I went and
found it where I left it; for indeed it could not get
out, but was almost starved for want of food. I went
and cut boughs of trees and branches of such shrubs
as I could find, and threw it over, and having fed it,
I tied it as I did before, to lead it away; but it was so
tame with being hungry, that I had no need to have
tied it; for it followed me like a dog; and as I continu-
ally fed it, the creature grew so loving, so gentle, and
so fond, that it became from that time one of• my
domestics also, and would never leave me after-
wards.
The rainy season of the Autumnal Equinox was
now come, and I kept the thirtieth of September in
the same solemn manner as before, being the anniver-
sary of my landing on the island, having now been
there two years, with no more prospect of being deli-
vered than the first day I came there. I spent the
whole day in humble and thankful acknowledgements
K S
102
of the many wonderful mercies which my solitary con-
dition was attended with, and without which it might
have been infinitely more miserable. I gave humble and
hearty thanks, that GOD had been pleased to discover
to me even that it was possible I might be more happy
in this solitary condition than I should have been in all
the pleasures of the world: that he could fully make up
to me the deficiencies of my solitary state, and the
•want of human society, by his presence, and the com-
munication of his grace to my soul, supporting, com-
forting, and encouraging me to depend upon his
providence here, and hope for his eternal presence
hereafter.
It was now that I began sensibly to feel how much
more happy the life I now led was, with all its mis-
erable circumstances, than the wicked, abominable
life I led in the earlier part of my days, and during
my first residence in this island. Before, as I walked
about, either hunting, or viewing the country, the an-
guish of my soul at my condition would break out on
a sudden, and my very heart would die within me, to
think of the woods, the mountains, the deserts I was
in; and how I was a prisoner, locked up with the
eternal bars and bolts of the ocean, in an uninhabited
wilderness, without redemption. In the midst of the
greatest composures of my mind, this would burst
upon me like a storm, and made me wring my hands,
and weep like a child. Sometimes it would take me
in the middle of my work, and I would immediately
sit down and sigh, and look upon the ground for an
hour or two together: and this was still worse; for if
I could burst out into tears, or vent myself by words,
it would go off, and the grief, having exhausted itself,
abate. But now I began to exercise myself with new
thoughts; I daily read the word of GOD, and applied
all the comforts of it to my present state.
One morning, being very sad, I opened the bible
upon these words, "I will never, never leave thee, nor
forsake thee!" The application of these words to my
own situation was striking. Well then, said I, if GOD
103
does not forsake me, of what ill consequence can it
be, or what matters it, though the world should do so;
since if I had all the world, and should lose the favour
and blessing of GOD, how great would be my loss?
From this moment 1 began to conclude in my mind,
that it was possible for me to be more happy in this
forsaken, solitary condition, than it was probable I
should ever been in any other particular state in the
world; and with this thought I was going to give thanks
to GOD for bringing me to this place. I know not
what it was, but something shocked my mind at that
thought, and I durst not speak the words. How canst
thou be such an hypocrite (said I, even audibly), to
pretend to be thankful for a condition, which, how-
ever thou mayst endeavour to be contented with, thou
wouldst rather pray heartily to be delivered from? So
I stopped there: but though I could not say, I thank-
ed GOD for being there, yet I sincerely gave thanks to
GOD for opening my eyes, by whatever afflicting pro-
vidences, to see the former condition of my life, and
to mourn for my wickedness and repent.
Thus, and in this diposition of mind, I began my
third year; and though I have not given the reader
the trouble of so particular an account of my works
this year as the first, yet in general it may be observed,
that 1 was very seldom idle ; having regularly divided
my time, according to the several daily employments
that were before me: such as. First, my duty to Gon,
and reading the scriptures, which I constantly set
apart some time for, thrice every day. Secondly, the
going abroad with my gun for food, which generally
took me up three hours every morning when it did not
rain. Thirdly, the ordering, curing, preserving, and
cooking what I had killed or caught for my supply
These employments took up great part of the day,
it must also be considered that in the middle of the day
when the sun was• in the zenith, the violence of the
heat was too great to stir out: so that about four hours
in the evening was all the time I could be supposed to
•work in; with this exception, that sometimes I chang-
104
ed my hours of hunting and working, and went to
•work in the morning, and abroad with my gun in the
afternoon.
To this short time allowed for labour, must be add-
ed the exceeding laboriousness and tediousness of my
work, for want of tools, want of help, and want of
skill. For example, I was full two-and-forty days
making me a board for a long shelf, which I wanted
in my cave; whereas two sawyers, with their tools and
saw-pit, would have cut six of them out of the same
tree in half a day. My case was this: It must be a
large tree which was to be cut down, because my board
was to be a broad one, the tree I was three days cut-
ting down, and two more lopping off the boughs, and
reducing it to a log, or piece of timber: with inex-
pressible hacking and hewing I reduced both the
sides of it into chips, till it began to be light enough
to move: and then I turned it, and made one side of
it smooth and flat as a board, from end to end: then
turning that side downward, cut the other side till I
brought the plank to be about three inches thick, and
smooth on both sides. Any one may judge the labour
of such a piece of work; but labour and patience carri-
ed me through that and many other things; and I
only mention these difficulties, to shew the reason why
so much of my time went away with so little work.
I was now in the months of November and Decem-
ber, expecting my crop of barley and rice. The ground
I had prepared for them was not great; for, as I ob-
served, my seed of each was not above the quantity
of half a peck, having lost one whole crop by sowing
in the dry season: but now my crop promised very
well, when on a sudden I found I was in danger of
losing it all again by enemies of several sorts, which
it was scarce possible to keep from it. As first the
goats, and wild creatures which I called hares, who,
tasting the sweetness of the blade, lay in it night and
day, as soon as it came up, and eat it so close, that it
could get no time to shoot up into stalks. This I saw
no remedy for, but by making an inclosure about it
105
with an hedge, which I did with a great deal of toil;
and the more, because it required a great deal of speed:
the creatures daily spoiling my corn. However as my
arable land was but small, suited to my crop, I got
the whole well fenced in about three weeks time; and
shooting some of the creatures in the day-time, I set
my dog to guard it in the night, tying him up to a
stake at the gate, where he would stand and bark all
night long: so in a little time the enemies forsook the
place, and the corn grew very strong and well, and
began to ripen apace.
But as the beasts ruined me before, while my corn
was in the blade, so the birds were as likely to ruin
me now, when it was in the ear; for going along by
the place to see how it throve, I saw my little crop
surrounded with fowls of I know not how many sorts,
which stood as it were watching till I should be gone.
I immediately let fly among them (for I always had
my gun with me.) I had no sooner shot, but there
arose up a little cloud of fowls, which I had not seen
at all, from among the corn itself.
This touched me sensibly; for I foresaw, that in a
few days they would devour all my hopes: and that I
should never be able to raise a crop at all. What to
do I could not tell: however, I resolved not to lose
my corn, if possible, though I should watch it night
and day. In the first place, I went among it to see
what damage was already done, and found they had
spoiled a good deal of it; but that, as it was yet too
green for them, the loss was not so great, but the re-
mainder was like to be a good crop, if it could be sa-
ved. I staid by it to load my gun, and then coming
away, I could easily see the thieves sitting upon all
the trees about me, as if they only waited till I was
gone awajr: and the event proved it to be so; for walk-
ing off as if I was gone, I was no sooner out of their
sight, but they dropped down one by one into the corn
again. I was so provoked, that I could not have pati-
ence to stay till more came on, knowing that every
grain that they eat now was, as it might be said, a
106
peck loaf to me in the consequence; but coming up to
the hedge, I fired again, and killed three of them.
This -was what I wished for; so I took them up, and
served them as we do notorious thieves in England,
hanged them in chains for a terror to others. It is in-
credible what an effect this had; for the fowls would
not only not come at the corn, but in short they forsook
all that part of the island, and I could never see a bird
near the place as long as my scarecrows hung there.
This 1 was very glad of, you may be sure; and
about the latter end of December, which was our se-
cond harvest of the year, I reaped my corn. I was
sadly put to it for a scythe or a sickle to cut it down,
and all I could do was to make one as well as I was
able out of one of the broad swords, or cutlasses, which
I saved among the arms out of the ship. However, as
my crop was but small, I had no great difficulty to
cut it down: in short, I reaped it my way, for I cut
nothing off but the ears, and carried them away in a
great- basket which I had made, and so rubbed it out
with my hands: and at the end of all my harvesting I
foundj that out of my half-peck of seed, I had near
two bushels of rice, and above two bushels and a half
of barley, that is to say, by my guess, for I had no
measure at that time.
However, this was a great encouragement to me;
and I foresaw, that in time it would please GOD to
supply me with bread: and yet here I was perplexed
agam, for I neither knew how to grind or make meal
of my corn, or indeed how to clean it, and part it;
nor, if made into meal, how to make bread of it; and
if how to make it, yet I knew not how to bake it.
These difficulties added to my desire of having a good
quantity for store, made me resolve not to taste any of
this crop, but to preserve it all for seed against the
next season, and in the mean time employ all my study
and hours of working to accomplish this great work
of providing myself with corn and bread.
it might be truly said, that I now worked for my
bread. It is a little wonderful, and what I believe fe-v
*
•> —•'*"•.;• •' j
107
people have thought much upon; viz. the strange mul-
titude of little things necessary in the providing, pro-
ducing, curing, dressing, making, and finishing, this
one article of bread. I, who was reduced to a mere
state of nature, found this to be my daily discourage-
ment, and was made more and more sensible of it
every hour, even after I got the first handful of seed
corn, which, as I said, came up so unexpectedly.
First, I had no plough to turn the earth, no spade
or shovel to dig it. Well, this I conquered by making
a wooden spade, as I observed before: but this did my
work but in a wooden manner ; and though it cost me
a great many days to make it, yet for want of iron, it
not only wore out the sooner, but made my work the
harder, and worse done. However, this I bore too,
and was content to work with patience, and put up
with the badness of the performance. When the corn
was sowed, 1 had no harrow, but was forced to go
over it myself, and drag a great heavy bough of a tree
over it, to scratch the earth, as it may be called, ra-
ther than rake or harrow it. When it was grow ing or
grown, I have observed already how many things I
wanted, to fence it, secure it, reap it, carry it home,
thresh it, part it from the chaff, and save it. Then I
wanted a mill to grind it, sieves to dress it, yeast and
salt to make it into bread, and an oven to bake it in.
All these difficulties I determined, in some way or
other, to get over: and having resolvsd to use none of
the corn for bread till I had a greater quantity by me,
I had the next six months to provide myself by dint
of labour and invention, with utensils proper for per-
forming all the operations necessary for the making
the corn, when I had it, fit for my use.
But first I was to prepare more land, for I had now
seed enough to sow above an acre of ground. Before
I did this, I had a week's work at least to make me a
spade, which, when it was done, was a very sorry oae
indeed, and very heavy: however, I went through
that, and sowed my seeds in two large flat pieces of
ground, as near my house as I could find them to my
108
mind, and fenced them in with a good hedge, the
stakes of -which were all cut off that wood which I had
set before, and which I knew would grow so that in
one year's time I should have a quick or living hedge,
that would want but little repair. This work took me
up not less than three months; because great part of
that time was in the wet season, when I could not go
abroad.
Within-doors, when it rained, and I could not -go
out, I found employment on the following occasion:
IJiad long studied, by some means or other, to make
myself some earthen vessels, which indeed I wanted
much, but knew not how to come at them: however,
considering the heat of the climate, I did not doubt but,
if I could find out any fit clay, I might botch up some
such pot, as might, being dried in the sun, be
hard enough, and strong enough, to bear handling,
and to hold any thing that was dry, and required to
be kept so: and as this was necessary in preparing
corn, meal, &c. which was the work I was upon, I
resolved to make some as large as I could. It would
make the reader pity me, or rather laugh at me, to tell
how many awkward ways I took to raise this paste;
what odd mis-shaped ugly things I made; how many
of them fell in, and how many fell out, the clay not
being stiff enough to bear its own weight; how many
cracked by the over-violent heat of the sun, being set
out too hastily; and how many fell to pieces with only
removing, as well before as after they were dried; and
in a word, how, after having laboured hard to find
the clay, to dig it, to temper it, to bring it home, and
work it, I could not make above two large earthen
ugly things, I cannot call them jars, in about two
months labour.
However, as the sun baked these two very dry and
hard, I lifted them very gently up, and set them down
again in two great wicker-baskets, which I had made
on purpose for them, that they might not break: and,
as between the pot and the basket there was a little
room to spare, I stuffed it full of the rice and barley
100
straw; and these two pots being designed to stand
always dry, I thought would hold my dry corn, and
perhaps the meal when the corn was bruised.
Though I miscarried so much in my design for large
pots, yet I made several smaller things with better
success; such as little round pots, flat dishes, pitchers,
and pipkins, and the heat of the sun baked them
surprisingly hard.
But all this would not answer my end, which was
to get an earthen pot to hold what was liquid, and
bear the fire, which none of these could do. It hap-
pened, after some time, making a pretty large fire for
cooking my meat, when I went to put it out after I
had done with it, I found a broken piece of one of my
earthen-ware vessels in the fire, burnt as hard as a
stone, and red as a tile. I was agreeably surprised to
see it, and said to myself, that certainly they might
be made to burn whole, if they would burn broken.
This set me to study how to order my fire so as to
make it burn me some pots. I had no notion of a kiln,
such as the potters burn in, or of glazing them with
lead, though I had some lead to do it with; but I
placed three large pipkins, and two or three pots, in
a pile one upon another, and placed my fire wood all
round it with a great heap of embers under them: then
I piled the fire with fresh fuel round the outside, and
upon the top, till I saw the pots in the inside red hot
quite through, and observed that they did not crack
at all: when I saw them clear red, I let them stand
in that heat about five or six hours, till I found one of
them, though it did not crack, began to run ; for the
sand which was mixed with the clay melted by the
violence of the heat, and would have run into glass,
if I had gone on: so I slacked my fire gradually, till
the pots began to abate of the red colour; and watch-
ing them all night, that I might not let the fire abate
too fast, in the morning I had three very good, I will
not say handsome, pipkins, and two other earthen
pots, as hard burnt as could be desired; and one of
them perfectly glazed with the running of the sand.
110
After this experiment I need not say that I wanted
any sort of earthen-ware for my use; but I must con-
fess, in point of shape, they were very indifferent as
any one may suppose, when I had no way of making
them, but as the children make dirt-pies, or as a
woman would make pies that never learnt to raise
paste.
No joy at a thing of so mean a nature was ever
equal to mine, when I found I had made an earthen
pot that would bear the fire; and I had hardly pati-
ence to stay till they were cold, before I set one upon
the fire again, with some water in it, to boil me some
meat: which it did admirably well; and with a piece
of a kid I made some very good broth, though I wan-
ted oatmeal, and several other ingredients requisite to
make it so palatable as I would have had it.
My next concern was to get a stone mortar to stamp
or beat the corn in: for as to the mill, there was no
thought of arriving to that perfection of ait with one
pair of hands. To supply this want, I was at a great
loss; for of all trades in the world I was most perfect-
ly unqualified for a stone cutter: neither had I any tools
proper for the work. I spent many a day to find out a
great stone big enough to cut hollow, and make fit for a
mortar, but could find none at all, except what was in
the solid rock, and which I had no way to dig or cut
out: nor indeed were the rocks in the island of hardness
sufficient for the purpose, being all of a sandy crumb-
ling stone, which would neither bear the weight of a
heavy pestle, nor would break the corn without filling
it with sand. So, after a great deal of time lest in
searching for a stone, I gave it over, and resolved to
look out a great block of hard wood, which was much
easier to be found: and getting one as big as I had
strength to stir, I rounded it, and formed it on the cut-
side with my axe and hatchet; and then with the help
of fire and infmite labour, made an hollow place in it,
as the Indians in Brasil make their canoes. After this,
I formed a great heavy pestle of the wood called the
iron-v,•01 d ; and both these implements I laid by against
Ill
my next crop of corn, -when I proposed to pound it
into meal for my bread.
My next difficulty was to make a sieve to dress my
meal, and part it from the bran and the husk; without
which I did not see it possible I could have any bread.
This was a most difficult thing; for I had nothing like
the necessary stuff to make it with; I mean fine thin
canvass, to sierce the meal through. And here I was
at a full stop for many months; nor did I really know
what to do. Linen I had none left but what was mere
rags: I had goat's hair, but neither knew how to weave
or spin it; and had I known how, here were no tools
to work it with. All the remedy that I found for this,
was, that at last I did remember I had among the sea-
men's clothes which were saved out of the ship, some
neckcloths of calico or muslin; and with some pieces
of these I made three small sieves, but proper enough
for the work. And thus I made shift for some years:
how I did afterwards, I shall shew in its place.
The baking part was the next thing to be considered.
For, first, I had no yeast: as to that part, there was no
supplying the want, so I did not concern myself much
about it. But for an oven, I was indeed in great pain.
At length I found out an experiment fov- that also,
which was this: I made some Ctirthen vessels very
broad, but not deep; that is to say, about two feet di-
ameter, and not above nine inches deep: these I burnt
in the fire, as I had done the other, and laid them by;
and when I wanted to bake, I made a great fire upon
the hearth, ( which I had paved with some square tiles
of my own making and burning also,) and when the
fire-wood was burnt pretty much into embers, or live
coals, I drew them forward upon this hearth, so as to
cover it all over; and there I let them lie, till the hearth
was very hot: then sweeping away all the embers, I
set down my loaf, or loaves; and whelming down the
earthen pot upon them, drew the embers all round the
outside of the pot, to keep in, and add to the heat.
And thus, as well as in the best oven in the world, I
baked my barley-loaves, and became in a little time a
L 2
112
Mere pastry-cook into the bargain; for I made myself
several cakes of the rice, and puddings: indeed I made
no pies, having nothing to put into them, except the
flesh either of fowls or goats.
It need not be wondered at, if all these things took
me up most part of the third year of my abode here.
For it is to be observed, that in the intervals of these
things, I had my new harvest and husbandry to man-
age: for I reaped my corn in its season, and carried it
home as well as I could, and laid it up in the ear, in
my large baskets, and then rubbed it out with my
hands; having no floor to thresh it on, or instrument
to thresh it with.
And now indeed my stock of corn increasing, I really
wanted to build my barns bigger; I wanted a place to
lay it up in: for the increase yielded me so much, that
I had of the barley about twenty bushels, and of the
rice as much, or more; insomuch that I now resolved
to begin to use it freely, (for my bread had been quite
gone a great while;) and resolved to see what quantity
would be sufficient for me a whole year, and to sow but
once a year. Accordingly I found that the forty bush-
els of barley and rice were much more than I could
consume in a year: so I resolved to sow just the same
quantity every year that I sowed the last; in hopes that
this would fully provide me with bread.
While these things were doing, you may be sure my
thoughts ran many times upon the prospect of land
which I had seen from the other side of the island; and
I was not without secret wishes, that I was on shore
there: fancying that if it was the main land, and an
inhabited country, I might find some way or other to
convey myself farther, and perhaps at last escape.
But all this while I made no allowance for the dan-
gers of such a condition, and the infinite hazard I
should run of falling, alone and defenceless as I was,
into the hands of savages, such as I might have reason
to think far worse than the lions and tygers of Africa;
since I had heard that the people of the Caribean coasts
were canibals, and I knew by the latitude that I could
113
not be far off from that shore. All this I say, which I
ought to have considered well of, and which did occur
to me afterwards, never struck me at first; and my
head ran mightily upon the thoughts of getting over to
that shore.
Now I wished for my boy Xury, and the long-boat,
with the shoulder of mutton sail, with which I sailed
above a thousand miles on the coast of Africa; but this
was in vain. Then I thought I would go and look at
our ship's boat, which, as I have said, was blown up
upon the shore a great way in the storm, when we were
first cast away. She lay almost were she did at first,
but not quite; and was turned by the force of the
waves and the winds, almost bottom upwards, against
the high ridge of a beachy rough sand, but no water
about her as before.
If I had had hands to have refitted her, and launch-
ed her into the water, the boat would have done, and
I might have gone back into the Brasils with her easy
enough; but I might have easily foreseen, that I could
no more turn her, and set her upright upon her bottom,
than I could remove the island However I went to
the wood, and cut levers and rollers, and brought
them to the boat, resolving to try what I could do;
suggesting to myself, that if I could but turn her down,
I might easily repair the damage she had received, and
she would be a very good boat, and I might go to sea
in her very safely. I spared no pains indeed in this
piece of fruitless toil, and spent, I think, three or four
weeks about it: at last finding it impossible to heave it
up with my little strength, I fell to digging away the
sand to undermine it; and so to make it fall down,
setting pieces of wood to thrust and guide it right in
the fall. But when I had done this, I was unable to
stir it up again, or to get under it, much less to move
it forwards towards the water; so I was forced to give
it over: and yet, though I gave over the hopes of the
boat, my desire to venture over to the main land in-
creased, rather than decreased, as the means for it
seemed impossible.
L 3
114
\
This at length set me upon thinking whether it was
not possible to build myself a canoe or periagua, such
as the natives of those climates make, even without
tools, of the trunk of a great tree. This I not only
thought possible, but easy; and pleased myself ex-
tremely with the idea, and my having much more con-
venience for it than any of the Negroes or Indians; but
not at all considering the particular inconveniencies
which I lay under more than the Indians did, viz. want
of hands to move it into the water, when it was made;
a difficulty much harder for me to surmount than all
the consequences of want of tools could be to them.
For what was it to me, if after I had chosen a vast tree
in the woods, with great trouble cut it down, hewn
and dubbed the outside into the proper shape of a boat,
and burnt or cut out the inside to make it hollow, I
must leave it just there where I found it?
One would have thought I could never have serious-
ly engaged in the making this boat, without immedi-
ately considering how I should get it into the sea: but
my thoughts were so intent upon my voyage over the
sea in it, that I never once thought how I should get it
off the land; and it was really in its own nature more
easy for me to guide it over forty-five miles of sea, than
about forty-five fathoms of land, where it lay, to set it
afloat in the water.
I went to work upon this boat the most like a fool
that ever man did, who had any of his senses awake.
I pleased myself with the design, without determining
whether I was ever able to complete it; or if the diffi-
culty of launching my boat came into my head, I put
a stop to all inquiries by this foolish answer, "let me
first make it; I'll warrant I'll find some way or other
to get it along, when it is done."
This was a most preposterous method: but the
eagerness of my fancy prevailed and to work I went,
and felled a cedar-tree. I question much whether
Solomon ever had such an one for the building the
temple at Jerusalem, for it was five feet ten inches dia-
meter at the lower part next the stump, and four feet
115
eleven inches diameter at the end of twenty-two feet,
after which it lessened for a while, and then parted into
branches. It was not without infinite labour that I fel-
led this tree: I was twenty days hacking and hewing
at it at the bottom; I was fourteen more getting the
branches and limbs, and the vast spreading head of it
off: after this it cost me a month to shape it, and dub
it to a proportion, and to something like the bottom of
a boat, that it might swim upright as it ought to do.
It cost me near three months more to clear the inside,
and work it out so as to make an exact boat of it: this
I did indeed without fire, by mere mallet and chissel,
and by the dint of hard labour; till I had brought it
to be a very handsome periagua, and big enough to
have carried six and twenty men, and consequently
big enough to have carried me and all my cargo.
When I had gone through this work, I was extreme-
ly delighted with it: the boat was really much bigger
than I ever saw a canoe or periagua, that was made of
one tree, in my life, and many a weary stroke it had
cost me. There remained nothing now but to get it
into the water; and had I got it into the water, I
made no question but I should have began the madest
voyage, and the most unlikely to be performed, that
ever was undertaken. But all my devices to get it into
the water failed me, though they cost infinite labour
too. It lay about one hundred yards from the water,
not more; but the first inconvenience was, it was up
hill towards the creek: well, to take away this dis-
couragement, I resolved to dig into the surface of the
earth, and so make a declivity; this I began, and it
cost me a.prodigious deal of pains; but who grudge
pains, that have their deliverance in view? but when
this was worked through, the difficulty remained; for
I could no more stir the canoe, than I could the ship's
boat
.
Then I measured the distance of ground, and re-
solved to cut a dock, or canal, to bring the water up
to the canoe, seeing I could not bring the canoe down
to the water: well, I undertook this work, and when
116
I began to enter into it, and calculated how deep it wai
to be dug, how broad, how much stuff must be thrown
out, I found, that by the number of hands I had, being
none but my own, it must have been ten or twelve
years before I should have gone through with it; for
the shore lay high, so that at the upper end it must
have been at least twenty feet deep. At length, though
with great reluctance, I gave this attempt over also.
This grieved me heartily; and now I saw, though too
late, the folly of beginning a work before we count the
cost, and before we judge rightly of our own strength
to go through with it.
In the middle of this work I finished my fourth year,
in this place, and kept my anniversary with the same
devotion, and with as much comfort, as ever before;
for by a constant study, and serious application of the
word of GOD, and by the assistance of his grace, I gain-
ed a different knowledge from what I had before: I
entertained different notions of things: I looked now
upon the world as a thing remote; which I had nothing
to do with, no expectation from, and indeed no desires
about: it looked (as w« may perhaps look upon it here-
after) as a place I had lived in, but was come out of;
and well I might say as father Abraham to Dives, be-
tween me and thee there is a great gulf fixed. I had
neither the lust of the flesh, the lust of the eye, nor
the pride of life: I had nothing to covet; for I had all
I was now capable of enjoying: I was lord of the whole
manor, or, if I pleased, might call myself king or em-
peror over the whole country which I had possession of:
there were no rivals: I had no competitor, none to dis-
pute sovereignty or command with me: I might have
raised ship-loadings of corn, but T had no use for it; so
grew as little as I thought enough for my occasion: I
had tortoises, or turtles enough; but now and then
one, was as much as I could put to any use: I had
timber enough to have built a fleet of ships; I had
grapes enough to have made wine, or to have cured into
raisins, sufficient to have loaded that fleet when it had
been built. But all I could make use of, was all that
117
wis valuable: I had enough to eat, and to supply my
wants, and what was all the rest to me? If I killed
more flesh than I could eat, the dog must eat it, or the
vermin: if I sowed more com than I could eat, it must
be spoiled: The trees that I cut down were lying to
rot on the ground, I could make no more use of them
than for fuel; and that I had no occasion for, but to
dress my food.
In a word, the nature and experience of things dicta-
ted to me upon just reflection, that all the good things
of this world are no farther good to us, than as they
are for our use: and that, whatever we may heap up
indeed to give to others, we enjoy as much as we can
use, and no more. The most covetous griping miser
in the world would have been cured of the vice of cov-
etousness, if he had been in my case. I had, as I
hinted before, a parcel of money, as well gold as silver,
about thirty-six pounds sterling, alas! there the sorry
useless stuff lay: I had no manner of use for it;
and I often thought within myself, that I would have
given a handful of it for a gross of tobacco-pipes, or
for a hand-mill to grind my corn; nay, I would have
given it all for sixpenny-worth of turnip and carrot seed
out of England, or for an handful of peas and beans,
and a bottle of ink: as it was, I had not the least benefit
from it; but there it lay in a drawer, and grew mouldy
with the damp of the cave, in the wet season.
I had now brought my state of life to be much easier
than it was at first. I frequently sat down to my meat
with thankfulness, and admired the hand of GOD'S
providence, which had thus spread my table in the wil-
derness. I learned to look more upon the bright side
of my condition, and less upon the dark side; and to
consider what I enjoyed, rather than what I wanted:
and this gave me sometimes such secret comforts, that
I cannot express them; and which I take notice of
here, to put those discontented people in mind of it,
who cannot enjoy comfortably what GOD hath given
them, because they see and covet some thing that he hai
not given them. All our discontents about what we
118
want, appeared to me to spring from the want of thank-
fulness for what we have.
Another reflection was of great use tome, and doubt-
less would be so to any one that should fall into such
distress as mine was; and this was, to compare my
present condition with what I at first expected it should
be; nay, with what it certainly would have been, if
the good providence of Gon had not wonderfully or-
dered the ship to be cast up near the shore, where I
not only could come at her, but could bring what I got
out of her to the shore for my relief and comfort: with-
out which I had wanted tools to work, weapons for
defence, or gunpowder and shot for getting my food.
I spent whole hours, I may say, whole days, in re-
presenting to myself in the most lively colours, how I
must have acted, if I had got nothing out of the ship:
that I could not have so much as got any food, except
fish and turtles; that, as it was long before I found
any of these, I must probably have perished; and that
had I lived, it must have been like a mere savage : that
if I had killed a goat or n fowl by any contrivance, I
had no way to flay or open them, or part the flesh from
the skin and the bowels, or to cut them up; but must
have knawn them with my teeth, and pulled them to
pieces with my claws like a beast.
These reflections made me very sensible of the good-
ness of providence to me, and very thankful for my
present condition, with all its hardships and misfor-
tunes. And let me recommend all those who are apt
in their misery to say, Is any affliction like mine? to
consider, how much worse the cases of some people are,
and reflect that such might have been their lot, had
providence thought fit.
I had now been here so long, that many things which
I brought on shore for my help, were either quite gone,
or very much wasted, and near spent.
My ink I had eaked out with water by little and
little, till it was so pale it scarce left any appearance
of black upon the paper. The next thing to my ink
being wasted, was the failure of my bread, I mean
119
the biscuit which I brought out of the ship. This I
had husbanded to the last degree, allowing myself but
one cake of bread a day, for above a year; and yet I
was quite without bread for a year before I got any
corn of my own: and great reason I had to be thank-
ful that I had any at all, the getting it being, as ha*
been already observed, next to miraculous. My clothes
too began rapidly to decay. As to linen, I had none a
good while, except some chequered shirts which I found
m the chests of the other seamen, and which I careful-
ly preserved, because many times I could bear no other
clothes on but a shirt; and it was a very great help to
me, that I had, among all the men's clothes of the ship,
almost three dozen of shirts. There were also several
thick watch coats of the seaman, which were left be-
hind, but they were too hot to wear: and though it
is true, that the warmth of the climate was such, that
clothes might seem unnecessary; yet I could not have
gone quite naked, had a sense of decency allowed me
to do so; for so powerful was the sun that the very
heat frequently blistered my skin; whereas, with a
shirt on, the air itself made some motion, and whist-
ling under the shirt, made me twofold cooler than with-
out it. Nor could I ever bring myself to go out without
a cap or a hat, the heat of the sun being such that it
would give me the head-ach presently, by darting di-
rectly on my head: whereas, if I put on my hat the pain
would presently go away.
Upon these views I began to consider about putting
the few rags I had, which I called clothes, into some
order. I had worn out all the waistcoats I had, and
my business was now to try if I could not make jackets
out of the great watch coats which I had by me, and
with such other materials as I had: so I set to work a
tailoring, or rather indeed a botching; for I made most
piteous work of it. However, I contrived to patch to-
gether two or three waistcoats, which I hoped would
serve me a great while: as for breeches or drawers, I
made but very sorry shift indeed, till afterwards.
1 have mentioned that I saved the skins of all the
120
creatures that I killed, (I mean four-footed ones:) and
had hung them up streached out with sticks in the sun:
by which means some of them were so dry and hard, that
they were fit for little; but others were very useful.
The first thing I made of these was a great cap for my
head, with the hair on the outside to shoot off the rain:
and this I performed so well, that after it I made a
suit of clothes wholly of those skins; that is to say, a
waistcoat and breeches open at the knees, and both
loose; for they were rather wanted to keep me cool,
than to keep me warm. I must not omit to acknow-
ledge, that they were wretchedly made; for if I was a
bad carpenter, I was a worse tailor: however, they
were such as I made a very good shift with ; and when
I was abroad, if it happened to rain, the hair of the
waistcoat and cap being outermost, I was kept very
dry.
After this I spent a great deal of time and pains to
make me an umbrella: I was indeed in great want of
one. I had seen them in the Brasils, where they are
very useful in the great heats; and I felt the heats
quite as great here, and greater too, being nearer the
equinox: besides, as I was obliged to be much abroad,
it was a most useful thing to me, for the rains as well
as the heals. I took a world of pains at it, and was a
great while before I could make any thing likely to
succeed; nay, after 1 thought I had hit the way, I
spoiled two or three before I made one to my mind.
At last I made one that answered indifferently well.
The main difficulty I found was to make it let down:
I could make it to spread; but if it did not let down
too, it would not be portable for me any way, but just
over my head, which would not do. However, at last,
as I said, I made one to answer. I covered it with
skins, the hair upwards, so that it cast off the rain like
a penthouse, and kept off the sun so effectually, that I
could walk out in the hottest weather, with greater
advantage than I could before in the coolest; and when
I had no need of it, I could close it, and carry it under
my arm.
121
t
D!
Thus I lived mighty comfortably, my mind entirely
resigned to the "Will of God, and the disposal of his
providence. This made my life better than sociable;
for when I began to regret the want of conversation, I
•would ask myself whether thus conversing with my
own thoughts, and, as I hope, I may say, with even
my Maker, by ejaculations and petitions, was not better
than the fullest enjoyment of human society in the
world?
I cannot say, that after this, for five years, any ex-
traordinary thing happened to me; but I lived on in
the same course as before. The chief thing I was em-
iloyed in, (besides my yearly labour of planting my
>arley and rice, and curing my raisins, of both which
I always kept up just enough to have sufficient stock
of the year's provisions beforehand) was to make me a
canoe, which after two years labour and perserveranee
at last 1 finished: so that by digging a canal to it, six
feet wide, and four feet deep, I brought it into the
creek, from which it was almost half a mile distant,
not having been able to meet with a tree proper to form
it of nearer. However, though my little periagua was
launched, yet the size of it was not at all answerable to
the design which I had in view, when I made the first;
I mean of venturing- over to the Terra Firma, where it
was above forty miles broad. But as I had a boat, my
next design was to make a tour round the island; for
the discoveries I made when I crossed over by land,
made me very eager to see the other parts of the coast;
and now I had a boat, I thought of nothing but sailing
round the island.
For this purpose, and that I might do every thing
with discretion and consideration, I fitted up a little
mast to my boat, and made a sail to it out of some of
the pieces of the ship's sails, of which I had a great
store by me. Having fitted my mast and sail, and
tried the boat, I found she would sail very well Then
I made little lockers and boxes at each end of my boat,
to put provisions, necessaries, and ammunition, &c. into,
to be kept dry, either from rain, or the spray of the
M
122
sea; and a little long hollow place I cut in the inside
of the boat, where I could lay my gun, making a flap
to hang down over it to keep it dry. I fixed my um-
brella also in a step at the stern, like a mast, to stand
over my head, and keep the heat of the sun off me, like
an awning. And thus I every now and then took a
little voyage upon the sea; but never went far from the
little creek: but at last, being eager to view the cir-
cumference of my little kingdom, I resolved upon my
tour, and accordingly victualled my ship for the voy-
age; putting in two dozen of my loaves (cakes I should
rather call them } of barley bread; an earthen pot full
of parched rice, which I eat a great deal of; a little
bottle of rum, half a goat, and powder with shot for
killing more; and two large watch-coats, which, as I
mentioned before, I had saved out of the seamen's
chests, one to lie upon, and the other to cover over me
in the night.
It was the sixth of November, in the sixth year of
my reign, or my captivity, which you please, that I set
out on this voyage; and I found it much longer than
I expected: for though the island itself was not very
large, yet when I came to the east side of it, I found a
great ledge of rocks lie out about two leagues into the
sea, some above water, some under it; and beyond
this a shoal of sand, lying dry half a league more; so
that I was obliged to go a great way out to sea to
double that point. When I first discovered them, I
was going to give over my enterprize, and come back
again, not knowing how far it might oblige me to go
out to sea, and above all, doubting how 1 should get
back again: so I came to an anchor; for I had made a
kind of an anchor with a piece of broken grappling
which I got out of the ship.
Having secured my boat, I took my gun, and went
on shore, climbing up a hill, which seemed to over-
look that point. In viewing the sea from this height I
perceived a strong, and indeed, a most furious current,
which ran to the east, close to the point; and I took
the more notice of it, because I saw there might be
123
some danger, that when I came into it, I might be car-
ried out to sea by the strength of it, and not be able
to make the island again: And indeed, had I not got
first upon this hill, I believe it would have been so: for
there was the same current on the other side of the
island, only that it set off at a further distance; and I
saw there was a strong eddy under the shore; so I had
nothing to do but to get out of the first current, and I
should presently be in an eddy.
I lay here, however, two days; because the wind
blowing pretty fresh (E. at S. E. and that being just
contrary to the said current) made a great breach of
the sea upon the point; so that it was not safe for me
to keep too close to the shore for the breach, nor to go
too far off because of the stream. The third day in the
morning, the wind having abated over night, the sea
was calm, and I ventured. But I am a warning-piece
again to all rash and ignorant pilots; for no sooner was
I come to the point, when I was not my boat's length
from the shore, but I found myself in a great depth of
water, and current like the sluice of a mill: It carried
my boat along with it with such violence, that all I
could do would not keep her so much as on the edge of
it: but I found myself hurried farther and farther from
the eddy, on the left. There was no wind stirring to
help me, and all that I could do with my paddles sig-
nified nothing. And now I began to give myself over
for lost; for, as the current was on both sides the
island, I knew in a few leagues distance they must join
again, and then I was irrecoverably gone; with no
prospect before me but of perishing; not by the sea,
for that was calm enough, but of hunger. I had indeed
found a tortoise on the shore, as big almost as I could
lift, and had tossed it into the boat; and I had a great
jar of fresh water, that is to say, one of my earthen
pots: but what was all this when driven into the vast
ocean.
And now I saw how easy it was for the providence
of GOD to make the more miserable condition that
mankind could be in, worse. I looked back upon my
M 3
124
desolate solitary island, as the most pleasant place in
the world; and all the happiness my heart could wish
for, was to be there again. I stretched my .hands jout
to it with eager wishes; O happy desert! said .1, 1 shall
never see thee more; O miserable creature! stud I,
whither am.I going! then I reproached myself .with
my unthankful temper, and how J had repined at my
solitary condition; and now what would I give .to be
on shore there again? Thus we never see the true
state of, our condition, till it is illustrated to us by its
contraries; nqr know how to value what we enjoy, hut
by the want of it. However, I worked hard, till indeed
my strength was almost exhausted; and kept my boat
as much to the northward, that is, towards the side of
the current which the eddy lay on, as possibly I could;
when about npon, as the sun passed the meridian, I
thought I felt a little breeze of wind in my face, spring-
ing up from the S. S. E. This cheered my heart a little,
and especially when in about half an hour more it blew
a pretty smart gale. By this time I had got to a fright-
ful distance from the island; and, had the least cloud
or hazy weather intervened, I had been undone another
way too; for I had no compass on board, and should
never have known how to have steered towards the
island, if I had but once lost sight of it: but the wea-
ther continuing clear, I applied myself to get up .my
mast again, arid spread my sail, standing away to the
north as much as possible, to get out of the current.
Just as I had set my mast and sail, and the boat be-
gan to stretch away, I saw even by the clearness of the
water, some alteration of the current was near: for
where the current was so strong, the water was fcul;
but perceiving the water clear, I found the current
abate, and presently I found to the east, at about half
a mile, a breach of the sea upon some rocks. These
rocks I found caused the current to part again; and as
the main stress of it ran away more sauthernly,, leaving
the rocks to the north-east, so the other returned by the
repulse of the rock, and made a strong eddy, which
ran back again to the north-west with a very sharp
stream.
125
They who know what it is to have a reprieve brought
to them upon the ladder, or to be rescued from thieves
just going to murder them, may guess what my present
surprise of joy was, and how gladly I put my boat into
the stream of this eddy, and, the wind also freshening,
spread my sail and ran cheerfully before it, with a
strong eddy below. This eddy carried me about a
league in my way back again directly towards the
island, but about two leagues more towards the north-
ward than the current lay, which carried me away at
first: so that when I came near the island, I found my-
self upon the northern shore of it, that is to say, the
end of the island opposite to that which I started from.
When I had made something more than a league of
way by the help of this current or eddy, I found it was
spent, and saved me no farther. However being be-
tween the two great currents, (viz. that on the south-
side which had hurried me away, and that on the north,
•which lay about two leagues on the other side) the water
at least was still, and running no way; and having still
a breeze of wind fair for me, I kept on steering directly
for the island, though not making such fresh way as I
did before. About four o'clock in the evening, being
then within about a league of the island, I found the
point of the rocks which occasioned the first current,
had made another eddy, not directly setting 1 he way
my course lay, which was due west, but almost full
north: However, having a fresh gale, 1 stretched
across this eddy, slanting north-west, and in about an
hour came within about a mile of the shore, where, it
being smooth water, 1 soon got to land.
When 1 was on shore, I fell on my knees, and gave
GOD thanks for my deliverance, resolving to lay aside
all thoughts of deliverance by my boat: and refreshing
myself with such things as I had, I brought my boat
close to the shore, in a little cove that I had espied
under some trees, and laid me down to sleep, being
quite spent with the labour and fatigue of the voyage.
I was now at a great loss which way to get home
with my boat; 1 had run too much hazard to think of
M 5
126
attempting it by the way I went out; and what might
be at the other side (I mean the west side) I knew not,
nor had I any mind to run any more ventures. 3 a I
resolved in the morning to examine the coast to the
westward, and see if there was no creek where I might
lay up my frigate in safety; and having coasted the
shore about three miles, I came to a very good inlet, or
bay, about a mile over, which narrowed to a little rivu-
let, or brook; where I found a convenient harbour for
my boat, and where she lay as if she had been in a
little dock made on purpose for her. Here I put in;
and having stowed my boat very safe, I went on shore
to look about me, and see where I was.
I soon found I had but a little passed by the place
where I had been before when I travelled on foot to
that shore; so taking nothing out of my boat but my
gun and my umbrella, for it was exceeding hot, I began
my march. The walk was comfortable enough after
such a voyage as I had been upon; and I reached my
o}d bower in the evening, where I found every thing
standing as I left it?
I got over the fence, and laid me down in the shade
to rest my limbs, for I was very weary, and fell asleep:
but judge if you can, that read my story, what a sur-
prise I must be in, when I was awaked out of my sleep
by a voice calling me by my name several times, Robin,
Robin, Robin Crusoe, poor Robin Crusoe! Where are
you, Robin Crusoe? Where are you? Where have you
been?
I was so dead asleep at first, being fatigued with
rowing, the forepart of the day, and walking the latter,
that I did not awake thoroughly; and dozing between
sleeping and waking, thought I dreamed that some-
body spoke to me: but as the voice continued to repeat
Robin Crusoe, Robin Crusoe; at last I began to awake
more perfectly, and was at first dreadfully frightened,
and started up in the utmost consternation: but no
sooner were my eyes open, than I saw my Pol sitting
on the top of the hedge, and immediately knew it was
he that spoke to me; for just in such bemoaning Ian-
127
guage I had used to talk to him; and he had learned it
so perfectly, that he would sit upon my finger, and lay
his bill close to my face, and cry, Poor Robin Crusoe,
Where are you? Where have you been? How came you
here? and such words as I had taught him. However,
even though I knew it was the parrot, and that indeed
it could be nobody else, it was a good while before I
could compose myself: at last holding out my hand,
and calling him by his name, the sociable creature came
to me, and sat upon my thumb, as he used to do, and
continued talking to me, Poor Robin Crusoe, and, how
did 1 conie here? and, where had I been? just as if he
had been overjoyed to see me again.
I had now had enough of rambling to sea for some
time. I should have been very glad to have had my
boat again on my side of the island, but I knew not
how it was practicable to get it about. As to the east-
side of the island, which I had gone round, I knew
well enough there was no venturing that way; my very
heart would shrink, and my very blood run chill, but
to think of it: aud with respect to the other side of the
island, I did not know how it might be there; but sup-
posing the current to run with the same force against
the shore at the east, as it passed by it on the other, I
might venture the same risque of being driven down
the stream, and carried by the island, as I had been
before of being carried away from it. So with these
thoughts I contented my self to be without any boat;
though it had been the product of so many months la-
bour to make it, and of so many more to get it into the
sea.
In this government of my temper I remained near a
year, perfectly resigned to the condition in which pro-
vidence had placed me, and daily improving in those
mechanic exercises which my necessities had put me
u pon. I became in time a very good carpenter; especi-
ally considering the few tools I had. Besides this, I
arrived at an unexpected perfection in my earthen ware,
contriving to make them with a wheel, which I founel
infinitely easier and better; for now I made things round
128
and shapeable, which before were very unsightly. But
I think I never was more vain of my own performance,
or more joyful for any thing I found out, than being
able to make a tobacco-pipe; and though it was a very
clumsy thing when it was done, and only burnt red like
other earthen-ware, yet as it was hard and firm, and
would draw the smoke, I was exceedingly comforted
with it: for I had been always used to smoke, and there
were pipes in the ship; but I forgot them at first, not
knowing there was tobacco in the island; and after-
wards, when I searched the ship again, I could not
come at any pipes at all. In my wicker-ware I also
improved much, and made abundance of necessary bas-
kets, though not very handsome, yet convenient for
laying things up in, or fetching them home: for example,
if I killed a goat abroad, I could hang it up in a tree,
slay it, and dress it, and cut it in pieces, and bring it
home in a basket: and the like by a turtle; I could cut
it up, take out the eggs, and a piece or two of the flesh,
which was enough for me, and bring them home in a
basket, and leave the rest behind me.
I also formed some large deep baskets for my corn;
which I always rubbed out as soon as it was dry, and
laid it up in them instead of a granary.
I began now to perceive my powder abated con-
siderably; and this was a want which it was impossible
for me to supply, and I began seriously to consider
what I muit do when I should have no more.
I had, as I observed, in the third year of my being
here, kept a young kid, and bred her tame: I was in
hopes of getting a he kid, but I could not by any means
bring it to pass, till my kid grew an old goat; and I
could never find in my heart to kill her, so she died at
last of mere age. But being now in the eleventh year
of my residence, and, as I have said, my ammunition
growing low, I set myself to study some contrivance
to snare the goats, alive; and particularly I wanted a
she-goat great with young. For this purpose I made
snares to hamper them; and believe they were more
than once taken; but my tackle was not good, for I had
129
no wire, .•and I always found my trap broken and my
bait devoured.
At length I resolved to try a pit-fall: so I dug
several large pits in the earth, in places where I had
observed the goats used to feed, and over these pits I
placed hurdles of my own making too, with a great
weight upon them: and several times I put ears of
barley, and dry rice, without setting the trap; and I
could easily perceive, that the goats had gone in, and
eaten up the corn, as I could see the mark of their feet.
At length, I set three traps in one night, and going
the next morning, I found them all standing, and yet
the bait eaten and gone. This was very discouraging:
however, I altered-my plan; and, not to trouble you
•with particulars, going one morning to see my traps, I
found in one of them a large old he-goat; and> in one of
the others, three k ids, a. male and two females. As to
the old one, I knew not what to do with him: he was
so fierce I durat not go into the pit to bring him away
alive, which was what I wanted: I could nave killed
him but that would not answer my end: so I e'en let
him out, and he ran away as if he had been frightened
out of his wits. Then I went to the three kids; and
taking them one by one, I tied them with strings to-
gether; and with some difficulty brought them all
home.
It was a good while before they would feed, but
throwing them some sweet corn, it tempted them, and
they began to be tame. And now 1 found, that if I
expected to supply myself with goat's flesh, when I had
no powder or shot left, breeding some up tame was my
only way, when perhaps I might have them about my
house like a flock of sheep. But then it presently oc-
curred to me, that I must keep the tame from the wild,
or else they would always run wild when they grew up;
and the only way for this, wan, to have some inclosed
piece of ground, well fenced either with hedge or pale,
to separate them so effectually, that those within might
not break out, or those without break in, This was a
great undertaking for one pair of hands; yet as I saw
130
there was an absolute necessity of doing it, my first
employment was to find out a proper piece of ground
where there was likely to be herbage for them to eat,
water for them to drink, and cover to keep them from
the sun.
Those who understand such inclosures, will think I
had very little contrivance, when having pitched upon
a place very proper in all these respects, being a plain
open piece of meadow-land or savannah, which had two
or three little rills of fresh water in it, and at one end
was very woody, I shall tell them I began my inclosing
this piece of ground in such a manner, that my hedge
or pale must have been at least two miles about: nor
was the madness of it so great as to the compass (for if
it was ten miles about I was like to have time enough to
do it in: but I did not consider, that my goats would
be as wild in such a space, as if they had the whole
island to range in; and I should never be able to catch
them.
My hedge was begun and carried on, I believe about
fifty yards, when this thought occurred to me: so I
presently stopped short, and for the first beginning I
resolved to inclose a piece of about 150 yards in length
and 100 yards in breadth, which as it would maintain
as many as I should have in any reasonable time, so,
as my flock increased, I could add more ground to my
inclosure. This was acting with some prudence, and I
went to work with courage: I was about three months
hedging in the first piece; and, till I had done it, I
tethered the three kids in the best part of it, and used
them to feed as near me as possible, to make them fa-
miliar; and very often I would carry them some ears
of barley, or an handful of rice, and feed them out of
my hand: so that after my inclosure was finished, and
I let them loose, they would follow me up and down,
bleating after me for a handful of corn.
This answered my end, and in about a year and a
half I had a flock of about twelve goats, kids and all;
and in two years more T had three and forty, besides
several that I took and killed for food: and after that,
131
I enclosed five several pieces of ground to feed them
in, with little pens to drive them into, to take them
as I wanted them ; and gates out of one piece of ground
into another. But this was not all; for now I not
only had goat's flesh to feed on when I pleased, but
milk too, a thing which indeed at first I did not so
much as think of, and which, when it came into my
thoughts, was really an agreeable surprise: for now I
set up my dairy, and had sometimes a gallon or two
of milk in a day. And as nature, who gives supplies
of food to every creature, dictates how to make use of
it; so I, that never milked a cow, much less a goat,
or saw butter or cheese made, after a great many
essays and miscarriages, made both butter and cheese
at last, and never wanted it afterwards.
How mercifully can our great Creator treat his crea-
tures, even in those conditions in which they seem to
be overwhelmed in destruction! How can he sweeten
the bitterest providences, and give us cause to praise
him for dungeons and prisons! What a table was here
spread for me in a wilderness, where I saw nothing
at first but to perish for hunger! It would have made
a stoic smile, to have seen me and my little family sit
down to dinner. There was my majesty, the prince
and lord of the whole island; I had the lives of all
my subjects at absolute command, to take away or to
give at my pleasure: and no rebels among all my sub-
jects. Then to see how like a king I dined too, all
alone, attended by my servants! Pol as if he had been
my favourite, was the only person permitted to talk
to me. My dog who was now grown very old and in-
firm, and found no species to multiply his kind upon,
sat always at my right-hand; and two cats, one on
each side of the table, expecting now and then a bit
from my hand, as a mark of special favour. In this
plentiful manner I lived: neither could I be said to
want any thing but society; and of that, some time
after this, I was like to have too much.
I was something impatient, as I had observed, to
have the use of my boat, though very loth to run any
132
more hazard ; and therefore sometimes I sat contriving
ways to get her about the island, though at others I
sat myself down contented enough without her. But
I had a strange uneasiness in my mind to go down to
the point of the island, where, as I have said in my
last ramble, I went up the hill to see how the shore
lay, and how the current set. This inclination increas-
ed upon me every day, and at length I resolved to
travel thither by land, and following the edge of the
shore, I did so. But had any one in England met
such a man as I was, it would have startled him a
little: and as I frequently stood still to look at myself,
I could not but smile at the notion of my travelling
through Yorkshire with such an equipage, and in such
a dress.
Be pleased to take a sketch of my figure, as follows:
I had a great high shapeless cap, made of goat's skin,
with a flap hanging down behind, as well to keep the
sun from me, as to shoot the rain off my neck; nothing
being so hurtful in these climates, as the rain upon the
flesh under the clothes. I had a short jacket of goat's
skin, the skirts coming down to about the middle of
my thighs; and a pair of open-kneed breeches of the
same: the breeches were made of the skin ot an old
he-goat, whose hair hung down such alength on either
side, that, like pantaloons, it reached to the middle of
my legs. Stockings and shoes I had none; but I had
made me a pair of something, I scarce knew what to
call them> like buskins, to flap over my legs, and lace
on either side like spatterdashes; but of a most bar-
barous shape, as indeed were all the rest of my clothes.
I had on a broad belt of goat's skin dried which I drew
together with two thongs of the same, instead of
buckles: and in a kind of a frog on either side, instead
of a sword and dagger, hung a little saw and a hatchet.
I had another belt not so broad, and fastened in the
same manner, which hung over my shoulder; and at the
end of it, under my left arm, hung two pouches, both
made of goats skin too; in one of which hung my
powder, in the other my shot. At my back I carried
133
my basket, on my shoulder my gun, and over my head
a great clumsy ugly goat's-skin umbrella; but which,
after all, was the most necessary thing I had about me,
next to my gun. As for my face, the colour of it was
really not so Mulatto-like, as one might expect from a
man not at all careful of it, and living within nine or
ten degrees of the equinox. My beard I had once
suffered to grow till it was about a quarter of a yard
long; but as I had both scissars and razors sufficient,
I had cut it pretty short, except what grew on my upper
lip, which I had trimmed into a large pair of Maho-
metan whiskers, such as I had seen worn by some
Turks, whom I saw at Sallee; for the Mpors did not
wear such, though the Turks did: of these mustachios,
or whiskers, I will not say they were long enough to
hang my hat upon them; but they were of length and
shape monstrous enough, and such as in England would
have passed for frightful.
In this kind of figure I went my new journey, and
was out five or six days. I travelled first along the sea-
shore, directly to the place where I first brought my
boat to an anchor, to get upon the rocks; and, hav-
ing no boat now to take care of, I went over the land
a nearer way, to the same height that I was upon before;
when looking forward to the point of the rock which
lay out, and which I was to double with my boat, I
was surprised to see the sea all smooth and quiet; no
rippling, no motion, no current, any more there than in
other places.
I was at a strange loss to understand this, and re-
solved to spend some time in observing it, to see
if nothing from the sets of the tide had occasioned it:
but I was presently convinced how it was; viz. that
the tide of ebb setting from the west, and joining with
the current of waters from some great river on the
shore, must be the occasion of this current; and that
&a the wind blew more forcibly from the west, or from
the north, this current came near, or went farther from
the shore : for, waiting thereabouts till evening, I went
up to the rock again, and then the tide of ebb being
N
134
mailf, I plainly saw, the current again as before, only
that it ran, farther off, being near half a league from
the shore; whereas, in my case, it set close upon the
shore., and hurried me in my canoe along with it,
which at another time it would not have done. This
observation convinced me, that I had nothing to do
but to observe the-ebbing and the flowing of the tide,
and I might very easily bring my boat about the island
again: but when I began to think of putting it in
practice, I had such a terror upon my spirits at the
remembrance of the danger 1 had been in, that I took
up another resolution, which ••*»» more safe, though
more laborious; and this was, to buikl another pe-
riagua, or canoe; and so have one for one side of the
island, and one for the other.
You are to understand, that now I had as I may call
it, two plantations in the island.
First, my httle fortification or tent, with the wall
about it under the rock, and the cave behind which by
this time I had enlarged into several apartments, one
within another: one of these which was the driest, and
largest, and had a door beyond where my wall joined
to the rock, v. as all filled up with large earthen pots,
of which I have given an account, and with fourteen or
fifteen great baskets, which would hold five or six
bushels each, in which J laid up my stores of provi-
sion, especially my corn; some in the ear cut oft• short
from the straw, and the other rubbed out with my
hands. As for my wall, made with long stakes or
piles, those piles grew all like trees, and had by this
time spread so very much, that there was not the least
appearance of any habitation behind them Near this
dwelling of mine, but a little further within the land,
and upon lower ground, lay my two pieces of corn
ground; •which 1 kept duly cultivated and sowed, and
which duly yielded me their harvest in its season: and
whenever I had occasion for more corn, I had more
land.adjoining as fit as that.
Besides this, I had my country-seat, or little bower
as-1 call it, which I kept in repair: and the ladder
185
standing always in the inside. The trees, wbreh at
first were no more than rny stakes, were now groww
very firm and tall, and I kept them always so cut,
that they might spread and grow thick and wild, and
make the more agreeable shade, which they did effec-
tually to my mind. In the middle of this I had my tent
always standing, being apiece of a sail spread over poles
set up for that purpose, and under this I had made me
a squab or couch, with the skins of the creatures I
had killed, and with other soft things and a blanket laid
on them, such as belonged to our sea-bedding, which
I had saved, and a great watch-coat to cover me: and
here, whenever I had occasion to be absent from my
chief seat, I took up my country habitation. Adjoin-
ing to this 1 had my inclosures for my cattle, that is
to say, my goats: And as I had taken an inconceivable
deal of pains to fence and inclose this ground, I was
so anxious to see it kept entire, lest the goats should
break through, that I never left off, till with infinite
labour I had stuck the outside of the hedge so full of
small stakes, that it was rather a pale than a hedge,
and there was scarce room to put a hand through be-
tween them. These stakes afterwards grew like the
rest, in the next rainy season ; and formed an inclosure
like a wall, indeed stronger than any wall.
This will testify for me that I was not idle, and that I
spared no pains to bring to pass whatever appeared
necessary for my comfortable support. For I consider-
ed the keeping up a breed of tame creatures thus at
ray hand, would be a living magazine of flesh, mifk,
butter and cheese, for me, as long as I lived in the
place, were it the doing so forty years; and that de-
pended entirely upon my perfecting my inclosures to
such a degree, that I might be sure of keeping them
together ;.which by this method I so effectually accom-
plished that when the little stakes began to grow, I
•was forced to pull some of them up again, so thick
had I planted them.
In this place also I had my grapes growing,•on which
I principally depended for my winter store of raisins,
and which I never failed to preserve very carefully,
136
as the best and most agreeable dainty of my whole
diet: and indeed they were not agreeably only, but
wholsome, nourishing and refreshing to the last degree.
As this was also about half way between my other
habitation and the place where I had laid up my boat,
I generally staid and lay here in my way thither: for
I used frequently to visit my boat, and kept all things
belonging to her in very good order. Sometimes I
went out in her to divert myself, but no more hazard-
ous voyages would I go, nor scarce ever above a stone's
cast or two from the shore, so apprehensive was I of
being hurried out of my knowledge again by the cur-
rents, or winds, or any other accident. But now I
come to a.new scene of my life.
It happened one day, about noon, going towards my
boat, I was exceedingly surprized with the print of a
man's naked foot on the shore, very distinctly marked
in the sand. I stood like one thunder-struck, or as if
I had seen an apparition. I listened, I looked round
me: I could hear nothing, nor see any thing. I went
up to a rising ground to look farther: I went up the
shore, and down the shore, but it was all the same ; I
could see no other impression but that one. I went
to it again to see if there were any more, and to ob-
serve if it might not be my fancy: but there was no
room for that; for there was exactly the very print of
toes, heel, and every part of a foot. How it came
thither I knew not, nor could in the least imagine.
After innumerable fluttering thoughts, like a man per-
fectly confused, and out of myself, I came home to my
fortification, not feeling, as we say, the ground I went
on, but terrified to the last degree; looking behind me
at every two or three steps; mistaking every bush and
tree; and fancying every stump at a distance to be a
man.
When I came to my castle (for so I think I called
it ever after this,) I fled into it like one pursued: whe-
ther I went over by the ladder, as first contrived, or
went in at the hole in the rock, which I called a door,
I cannot remember; for never frighted hare fled to
137
cover, or fox to earth, with more terror of mind than
I to this retreat.
I had no sleep that night. The farther I was from
the occasion of my fright, the greater my apprehension 8
were. Sometimes 1 fancied it must be the devil; and
reason joined in -with this snpposition: For how
should any other thing in human shape come into the
place? Where was the vessel that brought them?
What marks were there of any other footsteps? And
how was it possible a man should come there? But
then to think that Satan should take human shape "up-
on him and leave the mark of his foot to terrify me, in
a place where it was ten thousand to one whether I
should ever see it or not, and in the sand too, which
the first surge of the sea upon an high wind would
have defaced entirely, all this seemed inconsistent with
the notions we usually entertain of the subtlety of the,
devil. Then I concluded that it must be some more
dangerous creature; viz. some of the savages of the
main land over-against me, who had wandered out to
sea in their canoes, and, either driven by the currents,
or by contrary winds, had made the island, and were
gone away again to sea ; being as loth, perhaps, to stay
in this desolate island, as I should have been to have
had them.
While these reflections were rolling in my mind, I
was very thankful in my thought, that I was so happy
as not to have been there-abouts at the time, or that
they did not see my boat, by which they would have
concluded, that some inhabitants had been in the place,
and perhaps have searched farther for me. Then ter-
rible thoughts racked my imaginations, about their
having found my boat, and that there were people
here; and if so, I should certainly have them come
again in greater numbers, and devour me: at least they
would find my inclosure, destroy all my corn, carry
away my flock of tame goats, and leave me at last to
perish for want.
Thus my fear banished all my religious hope. All
that former confidence in GOD, which was fovmded
N S
138
upon such wonderful experience as I had had of his
goodness, now vanished: as if he that had fed me by
miracle, could not sustain by his power the creature
whom he had hitherto preserved by his goodness. I
reproached myself with my presumption in not sowing
any more corn one year, than would just serve me till
the next season, as if no accident could intervene to
prevent my enjoying the crop that was upon the
ground; and resolved for the future to have two or
three years stock before-hand, so that whatever might
come, I might not perish for want of bread.
How strange a chequer-work of Providence is the
life of man! And by what secret differing springs are
the affections hurried about, as differing circumstances
present! To-day we love what to-morrow we hate;
to-day we seek what to-morrow we shun; to-day we
desire what to-morrow we fear. This was exemplified
in me at this time in the most lively manner imagin-
able: for I, whose only affliction was, that I seemed
banished from human society, that I was alone, cir-
cumscribed by the boundless ocean, cut off from man-
kind, and condemned to a solitary life, as one not wor-
thy to be numbered among the living, now trembled
at the very apprehensions of seeing a man, and was
ready to sink into the ground, at but the appearance
of his having set foot on the island.
Such is the uneven state of human life : and it afford-
ed me a great many curious speculations afterwards,
•when I had a little recovered my first surprise. I con-
sidered that this was the station of life the infinitely
wise and good providence of GOD had determined for
me: that as I could not foresee what the ends of divine
wisdom might be in all this, so I was not to dispute his
sovereignty; who, as I was his creature, had an un-
doubted right by creation to govern and dispose of me
absolutely as he thought fit; and who, as I was a crea-
ture who had offended him, had likewise a judicial right
to condemn me to what punishment he thought fit:
that as he had thought fit thus to punish and afflict me,
so. he was able to deliver me: and that if he did not
139
think fit to do it, it was my unquestioned duty to re-
sign myself absolutely and entirely to his will; hop-
ing in him, praying to him, and quietly attending the
dictates and directions of his daily providence.
These thoughts took me up many hours, days, nay,
I may say, weeks and months ; and one particular ef-
fect of my cogitations on this occasion I cannot omit;
viz. one morning early, lying in my bed, and filled
with thoughts about my danger from the appearance
of savages, I found it discomposed me very much ; upon
which those words of the scripture came into my thoughts,
Call upon me in the day of trouble, and I mi/I deliver tfiee
and thou shall glorify me. Upon this, rising chearfully
out of my bed, my heart was not only comforted, but
I was guided and encouraged to pray earnestly to GOD
for deliverance: When I had done praying, I took up
my bible, and opening it to read, the first words that
occurred to me, were, Wait on the Lord, and be of good
cheer, and he shall strengthen thy hearl: Wait, I say on
the Lord. It is impossible to express the comfort this
gave me; and in return,! thankfully laid down the book,
and was no more sad, at least, not on that occasion.
In the midst of these apprehensions, and reflections,
it came into my thoughts one day, that all this might
be a mere chimera of my own, and that this foot might
be the print of my own foot, when I came on shore
from my boat. This cheared me up a little; and I
began to persuade myself it was all a delusion ; that it
was nothmg but my own foot; and why might not I
come that way from the boat, as well as go that way to
the boat? I considered, that I could by no means tell
for certain where I had trod, and where I had not; and
that if at last this was only the print of my own foot, I
had played the part of those fools, who strive to make
stories of spectres and apparitions, and then are them-
selves frighted at them more then any body else.
Now I began to take courage, and to peep abroad
again: for I had not stirred out of my castle for three
days and nights, so that I began to starve for want of
provision, having little or nothing within doors, but
140
some barley-cakes and water. Then I knew that my
goats wanted to be milked too, which usually was my
evening diversion: and the poor creatures were in great
pain and inconvenience for want of it; indeed it almost
spoiled some of them, and dried up their milk.
Heartening myself therefore with the belief, that this
was nothing but the print of one of my own feet, I began
togoabroad again, and went tomycountry-housetomilk
my flock: but to see with what fear I went forward,
how often 1 looked behind me, how I was ready, every
now-and-then, to lay down my basket, and run for my
life; would have made any one think I was haunted with
an evil conscience.
However, as I went down thus two or three days,
and saw nothing, I began to be a little bolder, and to
think there was really nothing in it but my own ima-
gination: but I coukl not satisfy myself fully of this,
till I should go down to the shore again and measuring
this print of a foot by mine, be assured it was my own.
When I came to the place it appeared evidently to me,
that when I laid up my boat, I could not possibly be on
shore any where thereabouts; and when I came to
measure the mark with my own foot, I found my foot
not so large by a great deal: this filled my head with
new terrors, and gave me the vapours again to the high-
est degree, so that I shook with cold, like one in an
ague; and I went home again, persuaded that some
man or men had been on shore there; and that I might
be surprised before I was aware.
O what ridiculous resolutions men form, \\hen pos-
sessed with fear! It deprives them of the use of those
means which reason offers for their relief. The first
thing I proposed to myself was, to throw down my
inclosures, and turn all my tame cattle wild into die
woods, that the enemy might not find them, and be
tempted to renew their visits, in prospect of the like
booty; then to dig up my two corn-fields, that they
might not find such a grain there, anil so be prompted
to frequent the island; then to demolish my bower
and tent, that they might not see any vestiges cf my
141
habitation, and thus be induced to search for the in-
habitants, these were the subjects of my first night's
cogitation, while the apprehensions which had so over-
run my mind were fresh upon me. Thus fear of dan-
ger is ten thousand times more terrifying than the
danger itself, when present; and we find the burden
of anxiety, greater by much than the evil upon which
it is employed.
This confusion of my thoughts kept me waking all
night; but in the morning I fell asleep, and my spirits
being exhausted, I slept very soundly, and awaked
much better composed than I had ever been before.
And now I began to think sedately; and upon the
vitmost debate with• myself, I concluded, that this
island, which was so exceedingly pleasant and fruitful,
and no farther from the main, land than I had seen,
was not so entirely abandoned as I might imagine:
That although there were no stated inhabitants who'
lived on the spot; yet that there might sometimes
come boats off from the shore, who either with design,
or perhaps never, but when driven by cross winds,
might land at this place: That as I had lived here fif-
teen years now, and had not met with the least appear-
nce of any people before, it was probable they went
away again as soon as ever they could: That the most
I could suggest any danger from, was, from any such
casual accidental landing of straggling people from the
main: and; that therefore I had nothing to do but
to consider of some safe retreat; in case I should see
any savages land upon the spot.
Now 1 begun sorely to repent that I had dug my
cave so large, as to bring a door through again, which
door, as I said, came out beyond where my fortifica-
tion joined to the rock. Upon maturely considering
this, therefore, I resolved to draw a second fortification,
in the manner of a semicircle, at a distance from my
wall, just where I had planted a double row of trees
about twelve years before, of which I made mention:
these trees having been planted so thick before, there
wanted but a few piles to be driven between them, and
my wall would be soon finished.
142
So that I had now a double Vail, and my outer wall
Was thickened with pieces of timber, old cables, and
every thing I could think of to make it strong; having
in it seven little holes, about the size of my own. Ill
the inside of this I enlarged my wall to about ten feet
thick, by bringing earth out of my cave, and walking
upon it; and through the seven holes I contrived to
plant the musquets which I got out of the ship; point-
Ing them like cannon, and fitting them into frames
that held them like a carriage, so that I could fire all
the seven guns in two minutes time. This wall I was
many a weary month in finishing, and yet never thought
myself safe till it was done.
When this was completed, I stuck all the ground
without my wall, for a great way round, as full with
stakes of the osier like wood, which I found so apt to
grow, as they could well stand; insomuch that I believe
I might plant near twenty thousand of them, leaving
a pretty large space between them and my wall, that
I might have room to see an enemy, and they might
have no shelter from the young trees, if they attempt-
ed to approach my outer wall,
Thus in two years time I had a thick grove; and in
five or six years time 1 had a wood before my dwelling,
• grown so monstrous thick and strong, that it was in-
deed perfectly impassable: and no man would ever
imagine that there was any thing beyond it, much less
an habitation. As to the way I propose for myself to
go in and out (for I left no avenue) it was by setting
two ladders; one to a part of the rock which was low,
and then broke in, and left room to place another lad-
der upon that; so that when the two ladders were taken
down, no man living could come down to me without
mischiefing himself; and it'they had come down, they
were still on the outside of my outer wall.
Thus I took all the measures human prudence could
suggest for my own preservation; and it will be seen
*t length, that they were not altogether without just
reason.
While this was doing, I was not careless of my other
affairs; for I had a great concern upon me for my little
143
herd of goats: they were not only a present supply to
me upon every occasion, and began to be sufficient for
me, without the expence of powder and shot, but also
abated the fatigue of my hunting after the wild ones;
and I was lolh to lose the advantage of them, and to
have them all to nurse up over again. After long con-
sideration, I could think but of two ways to preserve
them: one was to find another convenient place to dig
a cave under ground, arid to drive them into it every
night; and the other was to inclose two or three little
bits of land, remote from one another, and as much
concealed as I could, where I might keep about half a
dozen young goats in each place; so that if any disaster
happened to the flock in general, I might be able to
raise them again with little trouble and time: and this,
though it would require a great (leal of time and labour,
I thought was the most rational design.
Accordingly I spent some time, to find out the most
retired parts of the island; and I pitched upon one,
•which was as private indeed as my heart could wish:
for it was a little damp piece of ground in the mid*
die of hollow and thick woods, where, as is observed,
I almost lost myself once before, endeavouring to come
back that way from the eastern part of the island.
Here I found a clear piece of land nearly of three
acres, so surrounded with woods, that it was almost
an inclosure by nature; at least it did not want near
so much labour to make it so, as the other pieces of
ground I had worked so hard at. I immediately went
to work with this piece of ground, and in less than a
month's time I had so fenced it round, that my flock
or herd, which were not so wild now as at first they
might be supposed to be, were well enough secured in
it. So without any farther delay, I removed ten she-
goats and two he-goats to this piece ; and when there,
I continued to perfect the fence, till I had made it as
secure as the other, which, however, 1 did at my lei-
sure.
All this labour I was at the expence of, purely from
my apprehensions on the account of the print of a
144
man's foot which I had seen; and I must observe with
grief too, that the discomposure of my mind had too
great impressions also upon the religious part of my
thoughts; for the dread and terror of falling into the
the hands of savages and cannibals lay so upon my
spirits, that I seldom found myself in a due temper for
application to my Maker; at least, not with the sedate
calmness and resignation of soul which J was wont to
do. I rather prayed to GOD as under great affliction
and pressure of mind, surrounded with danger, and in
expectation every night of being murdered and de-
voured before the morning; and I must testify from
my experience, that a temper of peace, thankfulness,
love and affection, is much more the proper frame for
prayer than that of terror and discomposure ; and that
under the dread of mischief impending, a man is no
more fit for a comforting performance of the duty of
praying to GOD, than he is for repentance on a sick
bed.
But to go on; after I had thus secured one part of
my little living stock, I went about the whole island,
searching for another private place, to make such
another deposit; when wandering more to the west
point of the island than I had ever done yet, and look-
ing out to sea, I thought I saw a boat upon the sea at
a great distance. I had found a perspective glass or
two in one of the seamen's chests, which I saved out of
our ship; but I had it not about me, and this was so
remote, that I could not tell what to make of it, though
I looked at it till my eyes were not able to look at it
anv longer. Whether it was a boat, or not, I did not
know: but as I descended from the hill, I could see
no more of it; so I gave it over: only I resolved to go
no more without a perspective glass in my pocket.
But I was presently convinced, that the seeing the
print of a man's foot, was not such a strange thing in
the island as I imagined: being the S. W. point r,f the
island, for having reached the shore I was perfectly
confounded and amazed, (where indeed I had never
been before) nor ia it possible for me ta express the
145
horror of my mind, at seeing the beach spread with
skulls, hands, feet, and other bones of human bodies:
particularly I observed a place where there had been a
fire made, 'and a circle dug in the earth, like a cock-pit,
round which the savage wretches had sat down to their
inhuman feastings upon the bodies of their fellow-
creatures.
I was so astonished with the sight of these things,
that I entertained no notions of any danger to myself
from it, for a long while. All my apprehensions were
buried in the thoughts of such a pitch of inhuman,
hellish brutality, and the horror of the degeneracy of
human nature; which, though I had heard of often,
yet I never had so near a view of before. lu short, I
turned away my face from the horrid spectacle; my
stomach grew sick, and I was just at the point of
fainting: so I got up the hill again with all the speed
I could, and hastened towards my own habitation.
When I came a little out of that part of the island,
I stood still awhile as amazed; and then recovering
myself, I looked up with the utmost affection of soul,
and, with a flood of tears in my eyes, gave GOD thanks,
that had cast my first lot in a part of the world where
I was distinguished from such dreadful creatures as
these : and who, even in my present forlorn condition,
had comforted me with the knowledge of himself, and
the hope of his blessing, which was a felicity more than
sufficiently equivalent to all the misery which I had
suffered, or could possibly endure. In this frame of
thankfulness I went home to my castle, and began to
be much easier now, as to the safety or" my circum-
stances, than I was before: for 1 concluded that these
•wretches never came to this island in search of what
they could get; perhaps not seeking, not wanting, or
not expecting any tiling here; and having often, no
doubt, been up in the covered woody part of it, with-
out finding any thing to their purpose; I knew I had
been here now almost eighteen years, and never saw
the least footsteps of a human creature there before;
and might be here eighteen more as entirely concealed
146
as I was now, if I took care not to discover myself to
them.
Yet I entertained such an abhorrence of the savage
wretches that I have been speaking of, and of the
wretched inhuman custom of their devouring and eat-
ing one another up, that I continued pensive and sad,
and kept close within my own circle for almost two
years after this. When I say my own circle, I mean
by it my three plantations, viz. my castle, my country-
seat, which I called my bower, and my inclosure in
the woods : nor did I look after this for any other use
than as an inclosure for my goats; for the aversion
which nature gave me to these hellish wretches, was
inch, that I was as fearful of seemg them as of seeing
the devil himfelf Nor did I so much as go to look
after my boat in all this time, but began rather to
think of making me another: for I could not think of
ever making any more attempts to bring the other
boat round the island to me, lest I should meet some
of those savages at sea.
Time, however, and the satisfaction I had, that I
was in no danger of being discovered by these people,
began to wear off my uneasiness about them: and I
began to live just in the same composed manner as be-
fore; only with this difference, that I used more
caution, and kept my eyes more about me than I did
before, lest I should h;ippen to be seen by any of
them. Particularly I was more cautious of firing my
gun, lest any of them on the island should happen to
hear it; ami it was therefore a very good providence
to me, that I had furnished myself with a tame breed
of goats, that I had no need to hunt any more about
the woods, or shoot at them: and if I did catch any
more of them after this, it was by traps and snares, as
I had done before: so that for two years after this, f
believe I never fired my gun once off, though I never
went ont without it; and, which was more, as I had
saved three pistols out of the sliip, I always carried
them out with me, or at least two of them, sticking
them in my goafs-skin belt: I likewise furbished up
147
one of the great cutlasses that I had out of the ship,
and made me a belt to put it in also; so that I was now
a most formidable fellow to look at when I went
abroad, if you add to the former description of myself,
the particular of two pistols, and a great broad-sword,
hanging at my side in a belt, but without a scabbard.
Things going on thus, as I have said, for some time,
I seemed, excepting these cautions, to be reduced to
my former calm sedate way of living. All this tended
to show me more and more how far my condition was
from being miserable, compared to others which it
might have pleased GOD to have made my lot. It put
me upon reflecting, how little repining there would
be among mankind, at any condition of life, if people
•would rather compare their condition with those that
are worse, in order to be thankful, than be always
comparing them with those which are better, to assist
their murmurings and complainings.
As in my present condition there were not really
many things which I wanted, so indeed I thought that
the frights I had been in about these savage wretches,
and the concern I had been in for my own preserva-
tion, had taken off the edge of my invention for my
own conveniences, and I had dropt a good design,
which I had once bent my thoughts upon; and that
•was, to try if I could not make some of my barley
into malt, and then try to brew myself some beer.
This was really a whimsical thought, and I reproved
myself often for the simplicity of it. For I presently
saw there would be the want of several things neces-
sary to the making my beer, that it would be impossible
for me to supply: as, first, casks to preserve it in,
which was a thing that, as I have observed already, I
could never compass; no, though I spent not many
days, but weeks, nay months, in attempting it, but to
no purpose: in the next place, I had no hops to make
it keep, no yeast to make it work, no copper or kettle
to make it boil: and yet, had not all these things inter-
vened, I mean the frights and terrors I was in about
the savages, I had undertaken it, and perhaps brought
o 2
148
ft to pass too: for I seldom gave any thing over with*
out accomplishing it, when I once had resolution to
begin it.
But my invention now ran quite another way; for
night and day I could think of nothing, but how I
might destroy some of these monsters in their cruel
bloody entertainment, and, if possible, save the victim
they should bring hither to destroy. It would take up
a larger volume than this whole work is intended to
be, to set down all the contrivances I brooded upon
in my thoughts, for the destroying these creatures, or
at least frightening them, so as to prevent their coming
hither any more: but all was abortive; nothing could
possibly take effect, unless I was there to do it my-
self; and what could one man do among them, when
perhaps there might be twenty or thirty of them toge-
ther, with their darts, or their bows and arrows, with
which they could shoot as true to a mark as I could
with my gun?
Sometimes I contrived to dig a hole under the place
where they made their fire, and put in five or six
pounds of gunpowder, which, when they kindled their
fire, would consequently take fire, and blow up all
that was near it: but, as in the first place I should be
very loth to waste so much powder upon them, tny
store being now within the quantity of a barrel, so
neither could I be sure of its going off at any certain
time, when it might surprise them; and, at best,
it would do little more than just blow the fire aboat
their ears, and fright them, but not prove sufficient to
make them forsake the place. So I laid it aside, and
then proposed, that 1 would place myself in ambush,
in some convenient place, with my three guns all
double-loaded, and in the middle of their bloody cere-
mony let fly at them, when I should be sure to kill or
wound perhaps two or three at every shoot; and then
falling in upon them with my three pistols, and my
sword, I made no doubt but that, if there were twenty,
I should kill them all. This fancy pleased my thoughts
tor some weeks; and I was so full of it that I often
149
dreamt of it, and sometimes that I was just going to
let fly at them in my sleep.
I went so far with it in my indignation, that I employ-
ed myself several days to find out proper places to put
myself in ambuscade, as I said, to watch for them ; and
1 went frequently to the scene of action itself, which
was now grown more familiar to me: but the horror
I had at the place, and at the signals of the barbarous
wretches devouring one another, abated my malice.
Well, at length I found a place in the side of the
hill, where I was satisfied I might securely wait till I
saw any of the boats coming, and might then, even
before they would be ready to come on shore, convey
myself unseen into thickets of trees, in one of which
there was a hollow large enough to conceal me entire-
ly : and where I might sit, and observe all their bloody
doings, and take my full aim at their heads, when,
they were so close together, as that it would be next
to impossible that I should miss my aim, or that I
could fail wounding three or four of them at the first
shot. In this place then I resolved to fix my design;
and accordingly I prepared two muskets and my ordi-
nary fowling-piece. The two muskets I loaded with
a brace of slugs each, and four or five smaller bullets,
about the size of pistol-bullets; and the fowling-piece
I loaded with near a handful of swan-shot, of the
larger size: I also loaded my pistols with about four
bullets each: and in this posture, well provided with
ammunition for a second and third charge, I prepared
myself for my expedition.
After I had thus laid the scheme for my design, and
in my imagination put it in practice, I continually
made my tour every morning up to the top of the hill,
•which was from my castle, as 1 called it, about three
miles or more, to see if I could observe any boats upon
the sea, coming near the island, or standing over to-
wards it; but I began to tire of this hard duty, after
I had for two or three months constantly kept my
watch, and always come back without any discovery.
As long as I kept up my daily tour to the hill to
look out, so long also I kept up the vigour of my de-
160
sign, and my spirits seemed to be all the while in a
suitable frame for so outrageous an execution; but
now, when I began to be weary of the fruitless excur-
sion which I had made so long, and so far, every morn-
ing in vain; so my opinion of the action itself began
to alter, and I began, with cooler and calmer thoughts,
to consider what it was I was going to engage in;
what authority or call I had to pretend to be judge
and executioner upon these men as criminals, whom
Heaven had thought fit for so many ages to suffer,
unpunished, to go on, and to be, as it were, the execu-
tioners of his judgments upon one another. Such a
proceeding, it soon occurred to me, far from being
either laudable or right, would justify the conduct of
the Spaniards, in all their barbarities practised in
America, where they destroyed millions of people,
who, however they were idolaters and barbarians, and
had several bloody and barbarous rites in these cus-
toms, such as sacrificing human bodies to their idols,
were yet, as to the Spaniards, very innocent people;
insomuch that the rooting them out of the country is
spoken of with the utmost abhorrence and detestation,
even by the Spaniards themselves, at this time; and
by all other Christian nations of Europe, as a mere
butchery, a bloody and unnatural piece of cruelty,
perfectly unjustifiable either to GOD or man.
Even on the score of policy, I argued with myself,
that this really was the way not to deliver, but entire-
ly to ruin and destroy myself; for if I failed to kill
every soul that should be on shore at the time, so that
but one of them escaped to tell their country-people
•what had happened, they would come over again by
thousands to revenge the death of their fellows; and
I should only bring upon myself a certain destruction.
In this disposition I continued for near a year after
this: and so far was 1 from desiring an occasion for
falling upon these wretches, that in all that time I
never once went up the hill to see whether there were
aoy of them in sight, or to know whether any of them
had been on shore there, or not; that I might not be
151
tempted to renew any of my contrivances against
them, or be provoked, by any advantage which might
present itself, to fall upon them : only this I did; I
went and removed my boat, which I had on the other
side of the island, and carried it down to the east end
of the whole island, where I ran it into a little cove
which I found under some high rocks, and where I
knew, by reason of the currents, the savages durst not,
at least would not, come with their boats upon any
account whatsoever.
With my boat I carried away every thing that I had
left there belonging to her, though not necessary for
the bare going thither; viz. a mast and sail, which I
made for her, and a thing like an anchor, but indeed,
which could not be called either anchor or grappling;
however, it was the best I could make of its kind.
All these I removed, that there might not be the least
traces of any habitation upon the island.
Besides this, I kept myself, as I said, more retired
than ever, and seldom went from my cell, other than
upon my constant employment, viz. to milk my she-
goats and manage my little flock in the wood, which,
as it was quite on the other part of the island, was
quite out of danger: for certain it is, that these savage
people, who sometimes haunted this island, never came
with any thoughts of finding any thing here, and con-
sequently never wandered off from the coast; and I
doubt not they might have been several times on shore,
after my apprehensions of them had made me cautious,
as well as before. Indeed I looked back with some
horror upon the thoughts of what my condition would
have been, had I chopped upon them when naked and
unarmed, except with one gun, and that loaded often
only with small shot.; and instead of discovering the
print of a man's foot, in my careless rambles about the
island, had beheld fifteen or twenty savages, and
found them pursuing me, and, by the swiftness of their
running, no possibility of escape.
I believe the reader will not think it strange, if I
confess that these anxieties, these constant dangers I
152
lived in, and the concern that was now upon me, put
an end to all invention, and to all the contrivances
that I had laid for my future accommodation and con-,
veniencies. I had the care of my safety more now
upon my hands than that of my food. I cared not to
drive a nail, or chop a stick of wood now, for fear the
noise I should make should be heard: much less
would I fire a gun, for the same reason: above all,
I was very uneasy at making any fire, lest the smoke,
which is visible at a great distance in the day, should
betray me; and for this reason I removed that part
of my business, which required fire, such as burning
pots and pipes, &c. into my new apartments in the
wood; where, after I had been sometime, I found, to
my unspeakable consolation, a natural cave in the
earth, which went in a vast way, and where, I
dare say, no savage, had he been at the mouth of it,
would have been so hardy as to venture in, nor indeed
any man else, but one who, like me, wanted nothing
so much as a safe retreat
The mouth of this hollow was at the bottom of a
great rock, where, by mere accident (1 would say,
if I did not see an abundant reason to ascribe all such
things now to providence), I was cutting down some
thick branches of trees to make charcoal; and before
I go on, I must observe the reason of my making this
charcoal, which was this:
I was afraid of .making a smoke about my habitation,
as I said before; and yet I could not live there with-
out baking my bread, cooking my meat, &c. so I con-
trived to burn some wood here, as I had seen done in
England under turf, till it became cbark, or dry coal;
and then putting the fire out, I preserved the coal to
carry home, and perform the other services, which fire
was wanting for at home, without danger or smoke.
But this by the bye : while I was cutting down some
wood here, I perceived that behind a very thick
branch of low brushwood, or underwood, there was a
kind of hollow place: I was curious to look into it,
and getting with, difficulty into the mouth of it, I
153
found it was pretty large, that is to say, sufficient for
me to stand upright in it, and perhaps another with
me: but -I must confess to you, I made more haste out
than 1 did in; when looking further into the place,
which was perfectly dark, I saw two broad shining
eyes of some creature, whether devil or man I knew
not, which twinkled like two stars, the dim light from
the cave's mouth shining directly in, and making the
reflection.
However, after some pause, I recovered, and began
to call myself a thousand fools, and say that he that
was afraid to see the devil, was not fit to live twenty
years in an island all alone, and that I durst believe
there was nothing in this cave that was more frightful
than myself: upon this, plucking up my courage, I
took up a large firebrand, and in I rushed again, with
the stick flaming in my hand: I had not gone three
steps in, but I was almost as much frightened as I
was before; for I heard a very loud sigh, like that of
a man in some pain; and it was followed by a broken
noise, as if of words half-expressed, and then a deep
sigh again. I stepped back, and was indeed struck
with such a surprise, that it put me into a cold sweat;
and if I had had a hat on my head, I will not answer
for it that my hair might not have lifted it off. But
still plucking up my spirits as well as I could, and en-
couraging myself a little, with considering that th«
power and presence of GOD was every where, and every
where able to protect me, I stepped forward again, and
by the light of the firebrand, holding it up a little
over my head, I saw lying on the ground a most mon-
strous frightful old he-goat, just making his will, at
we say, gasping for life, and dying indeed of a mere
old age. I stirred him a little to see if I could get him
out, and he essayed to get up, but was not able to raise
himself; and 1 thought with myself, he might even
lie there; for if he had frightened me so, he would
certainly fright any of the savages, should any of them
be so hardy as to come in there, while he had any life
in him.
154
I was now recovered from my surprise, and began
to look round me, when I found the cave was but
very small; that is to say, it might be about twelve
feet over, but in no manner of shape, either round or
square, no hands having ever been employed in
making it but those of nature: I observed also, that
there was a place at the farther side of it that went in
farther, but so low, that it required me to creep upon
my hands and knees to get into it, and whither it went
I knew not. So, having no candle, I gave it over for
some time, but resolved to come again the next day,
provided with candles and a tinder-box, which I made
of the lock of one of the musquets, with some wildfire in
the pan.
Accordingly, the next day, I came provided with
six large candles of my own making, (for I made very
good candles now of goat's tallow) and going into this
low place, I was obliged to creep upon all fours, as I
have said, almost ten yards; which, I thought was a
venture bold enough, considering that I knew not how
far it might go, or what was beyond it. When I was
got through the streight, I found the roof rose higher
up, I believe near twenty feet; but sure never was
such a glorious sight seen in the island, as was pre-
sented by the sides and roof of this vault or cave, the
walls reflecting an hundred thousand lights to me from
my two candles. What it was in the rock, whether
diamonds, or any other precious stones, or gold, which
I rather suppose it to be, I knew not.
The place I was in was a most delightful cavity,
or grotto, of its kind, as could be expected, though
perfectly dark: the floor was dry and level, and had
a sort of small loose gravel upon it; so that there was
no nauseous creature to be seen ;. neither was there
any damp or wet on the sides of the roof. The only
difficulty in it was the entrance, which, however, as
it was a place of security, and such a retreat as I
wanted, I thought was a convenience; so that I really
rejoiced at the discovery, and resolved, without any
delay to bring some of those things which I was roost
155
anxious about to this place; particularly my maga-
zine of powder, and all my spare arms, viz. two fowl-
ing-pieces (for I had three in all) and three musquets,
( for of them I had eight in all), keeping at my castle
only five, which stood ready mounted, like pieces of
cannon, on my outmost fence, and were ready also to
take out upon any expedition.
Upon this occasion of removing my ammunition, I
was obliged to open th? barrel of powder which I
took out of the sea, and which had been wet; and I
found, that the water had penetrated about three or
four inches into the powder on every side, which,
caking and growing hard, had preserved the inside
like a kernel in a shell; so that I had near sixty
pounds of very good powder in the centre of the cask.
This was an agreeable discovery to me at that time .•
so I carried all away to the cave, never keeping above
two or three pounds of powder with me in my castle,
for fear of a surprise of any kind. I also carried
thither all the lead I had left for bullets.
I fancied myself now like one of the ancient giants,
•who were said to live in caves and holes in the rocks,
where none could come at them; for I persuaded
myself while I was here, if five-hundred savages were
to hunt me,'they could never find me out; or if they
did, they would not venture to attack me here. The
old goat, which I found expiring, died in the mouth
of the cave the next day after I made this discovery;
and I found it much easier to dig a great hole there,
and throw him in, and cover him with earth, than to
drag him out: so I interred him there, to prevent
offence to my nose.
I was now in my twenty-third year of residence in
this island, and was so naturalized to the place, and
my manner of living, that could I have but enjoyed the
certainty that no savages would disturb me, I could
have been content to have laid my account with spend-
ing the rest of vy time there, even to the last moment,
till I had laid me down and died, like the old goat, in
the cave. I had aiso arrived to some little diversions
156
and amusements, -which made the time pass more plea-
santly with me a great deal than it did before. I had
taught my Poll, as I noted before, to speak; which he
did so familiarly, and talked so articulately and plain,
that it was very pleasant to me: he lived with me no
less than six-and-twenty years; how long he might live
afterwards I knew not: though I know they have a no-
tion in the Brasils, that they live an hundred years:
perhaps some of my polls may be alive there still, cal-
ling after Poor Robin Crusoe to this day: I wish no
Englishman the ill luck to come there and hear them:
for if he did, he would certainly believe it was the devil.
My dog was a very pleasant and loving companion to
me for no less than sixteen years of my time, and then
died of mere old age. As for my cats, they multiplied,
as 1 have observed, to that degree, that I was obliged
to shoot several of them at first, to keep them from de-
vouring all I had; but at length, when the two old
ones I brought with me were gone, by continually driv-
ing them from me, and letting them have no prevision,
they all ran wild into the woods, except two or three
favourities, whom I kept as part of my family. Be-
sides these, I always kept two or three household kids
about me, which I taught to feed out of my hand : hnd
I had also more parrots which talked pretty well, and
would all call Robin Crusoe, but none like my first; nor,
indeed, did I take the pains with any of them that I
had done with him. I bad also several tame sea-fowls,
whose names I know not, which I caught upon the
shore, and cut their wings: and the little stakes, which
I had planted before my castle wall, being now grown
up to a good thick grove, these fowls all lived among
these low trees, and bred there, which was very agree-
able to me. So that, as I said above, I began to be
very well contented with the life I led, could I but
have been secured from the dread of savages.
But it was otherwise directed; and it might not be
amiss for all people who shall meet with my story to
make this just observation from it, viz. How frequent-
ly, in the course of our lites, the evil, which in itself
157
we seek most to shun, and which, when we are fallen
into, is the most dreadful to us, is oftentimes the very
means or door of our deliverance, by which a'one we
can be raised again from the affliction we are fallen in-
to. I could give many examples of this in the course
of my unaccountable life; but in nothing was it more
particularly remarkable, than in the circumstances of
my last years of solitary residence in this island.
It was now the month of December, as I said above,
in my twenty-third year; and this being the southern
solstice, for winter I cannot call it, was the particular
time of my harvest, and required my being pretty much
abroad in the fields: when going out rather early in
the morning, even before it was thorough day-light, I
was surprised with seeing a light of some fire upon the
shore, at a distance from me of about two miles, to.
wards the end of the island, where I had observed some
savages had been before; and to my great affliction, it
was on my side of the island.
I was indeed terribly surprised at the sight, and stop.
rd short within my grove, not daring to go out, lest
might be surprised: and yet I had no more peace
within, from the apprehensions I had, that if these sav-
ages, in rambling over the island, should find my corn
standing, or cut, or any of my works and improve.
merits, they would immediately conclude that there
were people in the place, and would then never give
over till they found me out. In this extremity I went
back directly to my castle and pulled up the ladder
after me, having made all things without, look as wild
and natural as I could.
Then I prepared myself within, putting myself in a
posture of defence. I loaded all my cannon, as I called
them, that is to say, my musquets, which were mount-
ed upon my new fortification, and all my pistols, and
resolved to defend myself to the last gasp; not forget,
ting seriously to recommend myself to the divine pro.
tection, and earnestly to pray to GOD to deliver me out
of the hands of the barbarians. In this posture I con,
tinued about two hours, but began to be mighty igj«
158
patient for intelligence abroad, for I had no spies to
tend out.
After sitting a while, and musing what I should do
in this case, I was not able to bear remaining in igno-
rance any longer: so setting up my ladder to the side
of the hill, where there was a flat place, as I observed
before, and then pulling the ladder up after me, I set
it up again, and mounted to the top of the hill; and
pulling out my perspective glass, which I had taken
on purpose, I laid me down flat on my belly on the
ground, and began to look for the place. I presently
found there were no less than nine naked savages sitting
round a small fire they had made; not to warm them,
for they had no need of that, the weather beimg ex-
treme hot; but, as I supposed, to dress some of their
barbarous diet of human flesh which they hat: brought
with them, whether alive or dead I could not know.
They had two canoes with them, which they had hauled
up upon the shore; and as it was then tide of ebb, they
teemed to me to wait the return of the flood to go
•way again. As 1 expected, so it proved; for as soon
as the tide made to the westward, I saw them all take
boat, and row (or paddle, as we call it) all away. I
should have observed, that for an hour and more befort
they went off, they went to dancing, and I could easily
discern their postures and gestures by my glasses, and
that they were stark naked.
As soon as I saw them shipped and gone, I took two,.
guns upon my shoulders, and two pistols at my girdle,
and my great sword by my side, without a scabbard;
and with all the speed I was able to make, I went away
to the hill, where I had discovered the first appearance
of all. As soon as I got thither, which was not in leas
than two hours (for I could not go apace, being so
loaded with arms as I was); I perceived there had been
three canoes more of savages on that place; and look-
ing out further, I saw they were all at sea together,
making over for the main.
This was a dreadful sight to me; especially, when
going down to the shore, I could see the marks of
159
horror which the dismal work they had been about had
left behind it, viz. the blood, the bones, and part oF
the flesh of human bodies, eaten and devoured by those
wretches with merriment and sport. I was so filled
•with indignation at the sight, that I began now to
premeditate the destruction of the next that I saw ther«^
let them be who or how many soever. It seemed
evident to me, that the visits which they thus made to
this island were not very frequent; and it was above
fifteen months before any more of them came on short
there again, at least, I never saw them, or any footstep*
or signals of them, during that time. Yet all this
•While 1 lived uncomfortably, by reason of the constant
apprehension I was in of their coming upon me so:n«
time or other by surprise: and if I did at any tiirie
venture abroad, it was not without looking round me
with the greatest care and caution imaginable. And
now I found, to my great comfort, how happv it wa»
that I had provided' a tame flock or herd of goats: far
I durst not, upon any account, five my gun, especially
near that side of the island where they usually came,
lest I should alarm the savages; and if they hud fled
from me now, I was sure to have them come back
•gain, with perhaps two or three hundred canoes in a
few days, and then I knew what to expect.
The perturbation of my mind, on this account, wa»
rery great; I slept unquiet, had frightful dreams, and
often started out of my sleep in the night: in the daj
great troubles overwhelmed my mind; in the night I
dreamed often of killing the savages, and the reason*
why I might justify the doing of it. But to waive all
this for awhile, it was in the middle of May, on tb*
sixteenth day, I think, as well as my poor wooden ca-
lendar would reckon (for I marked all upon the post
•till), I say, it was on the sixteenth of May, that it
blew a great storm of wind all day, with a great deal
of lightening and thunder, and a very foul night wa»
after it: I know not what was the particular occasion
of it; but as I was reading in the bible, and taken up
with serious thoughts about my present condition, I
f 2
160
>eas startled with the noise of a gun, as I thought,
fired at sea.
This was, to be sure, a surprise of a quite different
nature from any I had met with before; for the no-
tions this put into my thoughts were quite of another
kind. I started up in the greatest haste imaginable;
and in a trice clapped up my ladder to the middle
place of the rock, and pulled it after me, and mount-
ing it a second time, got to the top of the hill: that
very moment a flash of fire bade me listen for a second
gun, which accordingly in about half a moment I
heard, and by the sound knew that it was from that
part of the sea where I was driven out with the cur-
rent in my boat.
I immediatey considered that this must be some
ship in distress, and that they had some comrade, or
some other ship in company, and fired these guns for
signals of distress, and to obtain help. I had the pre-
sence of mind on this occasion to think, that though I
could not help them, they might help me: so I
brought together all the dry wood I could get at
hand, and making a good handsome pile, I set it on
fire upon the hill. The wood was dry, and blazed
freely, and though the wind blew very hard, yet it
burnt fairly out, so that I was certain, if there was
any such thing as a ship they must needs see it: and
no doubt they did: for as soon as ever my fire blazed
up, I heard another gun, and after that several others,
all from the same quarter. I piled my fire all night
long, till day broke; and when it was broad day, and
the air cleared up, I saw something at a great distance
at sea, full east of the island, whether a sail, or an hull,
I could not distinguish, no not with my glasses, the
distance was so great, and the weather still something
hazy also; at least it was so out at sea.
I looked frequently at it all that day, and soon per-
ceived that it did uot move; so 1 concluded that it
was a ship at anchor; and being eager, you mayfibe
sure, to be satisfied, I took my gun in my hand, and
ran towards the south-east side of the island, to the
161
racks, where I had been formerly carried away with
the current; and getting up there, (the weather by
this time being perfectly clear.) I could plainly see,
to my great sorrow, the wreck of a ship cast away in
the night upon those concealed rocks which I found
when I was out in my boat; and which as they
checked the violence of the stream, and made a kind
of counter-stream, or eddy, were the occasion of my
recovering then from the most hopeless condition that
ever I had been in, in my life.
Thus, what is one man's safety is another man's de-
struction; for it seems these men, whoever they were,
being out of their knowledge, and the rocks being
wholly under water, had been driven upon them in
the night, the wind blowing hard at E. and E. N. E.
Had they seen the island, they must, I thought, hav«
endeavoured to save themselves on shore by the help
of their boat: but the firing of their guns for help,
especially when they saw, as I imagined, my fire, fill-
eel me with many thoughts. First, I imagined, that,
upon seeing my light, they might have put themselves
into their boat, and endeavoured to make the shore;
but that the sea going very high, they had been cast
away: at other times 1 thought, that they might haw
lost their boat by the breaking of the sea upon their
«hip: then I conjectured they had some other ship or
ships in company, who, upon the signals of distress
they had made, had taken them up, and carried them
off: again 1 fancied they were all gone off to sea in
their boat, and being hurried away by the current that
1 had been formerly in, were carried out into the great
ocean, where there was nothing but the prospect of
perishing; and that perhaps they might by this time
think of starving, and be in a condition to eat one
another. As all these were but conjectures at best, so,
in the condition I was in, I could do no more than
look upon the misery of the poor men, and pity them;
which had still this good effect on my side, that it
gave me more and more cause to give thanks to GOD,
who had so happily and comfortably provided for me
in my desolate condition.
162
"Yet I cannot explain, by any possible energy of
words, -what a strange longing, or hankering of desire,
this occurrence excited in my soul, breaking out some-
times thus: O that there had been but one or two,
nay, but one soul saved out of the ship, to have es-
caped to me, that I might have had but one com-
panion, one fellow-creature to have spoken to me, and
to have conversed with! In all the time of my solitary
life, I never felt so earnest, so strong a desire after the
society of my fellow-creatures, or so deep a regret at
the want of it.
There are some secret moving springs in the affec-
tions, which, when they are set a going by some ob-
ject in view, or though not in view, yet rendered
present by the power of imagination, as excite such
Violent eager embracings of the object, that the absence
of it is insupportable. Such were these earnest wish-
ings, that but one man had been saved ! O that it had
been but one! I believe I repeated the words, O that
it had been but one ! a thousand times; and my desires
were so moved by it, that when I spoke the words,
my hands would clinch together, and my fingers press
the palms so violently, that had any thing soft been
there it must necessarily have been crushed; at the
same time my teeth would strike together, and set
against one another so strong, that for some time I
could not part them again.
Let the naturalist explain these things, and the
reason and manner of them: all I can do is, to describe
the fact, which was doubtless the effect of ardent
wishes, and of strong ideas formed in my mind, rea-
lizing the comfort which the conversation of one of my
fellow-creatures would have been to me.
But it was not to be: either their fate, or mine, or
both, forbade it: for till the last year of my being on
this island, I never knew whether any were saved out
of that ship, or no; and had only the affliction some
days after to see the corpse of a drowned boy come on
shore, at the end of the island which was next the
shipwreck, He had on no clothes but a seaman's waist-
coat, a pair of open-kneed linen drawers, and a blue-
linen shirt; but nothing to direct, me so much as to
guess what nation he was of: nor was there any thing
in his pocket but two pieces of eight, and a tobacco-
pipe: the last was to me of ten times more value than
the first.
It was now calm, and I had a great mind to ven-
ture out in my boat to this wreck, not doubting but I
might find something on board that might be useful
to me: but that did not altogether press me so much,
as the possibility that there might be yet some living
creature on board, whose life I might not only save,
but by saving that life, comfort my own to the last
degree. This thought clung so to my heart, that I
could not be quiet night nor day; and at length the
impression became so powerful that I could no longer
resist it, but resolved to commit myself to providence
and pay a visit to the wreck. I accordingly prepared
every thing for my voyage; took a quantity of bread,
a great pot for fresh water, a compass to steer by, a
bottle of rum (for I had still a great deal of that left,)
and a basket full of raisins: and thus loading myself
•with every thing necessary, I went down to my boat,
got the water out of her, set her afloat, loaded all my
cargo in her, and then went home again for more..
My second cargo was a great bag full of rice, the um-
brella to set up over my head for shade, another large
pot full of fresh water, and about two dozen of my
small loaves, or barley-cakes, with a bottle of goat's
milk, and a cheese. All these with great labour and
sweat, I brought to my boat; and praying to GOD to
direct my voyage, I put out, and rowing or paddling
die canoe along the shore, I came at last to the utmost
point of the island, on that side, viz. N. E.
And now I was to launch out into the ocean, and
either to venture, or not to venture. I looked on the
rapid currents which ran constantly on both sides of
the island, at a distance, and which were very terrible,
to me, from the remembrance of the hazard I had been
iu before, and my heart began to fail me; for I fore*
104
r, that if I was driven into either of those currents,
I should be carried a vast way out to sea, and perhaps
out of my reach, or sight of the island again; and that
then, as my boat was but small, if any little gale of
wind should rise, 1 should be inevitably lost. These
thoughts so oppressed my mind, that I began to give
aver my enterprize, and having hauled my boat inot a
little creek on the shore, I stepped out, and sat me
down upon a little spot of rising ground, very pensive
and anxious, between fear and desire, about my voyage.
While I was thus musing, I could perceive that the
tide was turned, and the flood came on, upon which
my going was for so many hours impracticable. Upon
this it presently occured to me, that I should go up to
the highest piece of ground I could find, and observe*
if I could, how the sets of the tide or currents lay,
when the flood came in, that I might judge whether,
if I was driven one way out, I .might not expect to be
driven another way home, with the same rapidness of.
the currents. This thought was no sooner in my head,
but I cast my eye upon a little hill which sufficiently
overlooked the sea boih ways, and from whence I could
have a clear view of the currents, or sets of the tide:
here I found, that as the current of the ebb set out
dose by the south point of the island, so the current of
the flood set in close by the shore of the north-side;
and that I had nothing to do but to keep to the north
of the island on my return, and 1 should do well enough.
Encouraged with this observation, I resolved to set
out with the first of the tide; and reposing myselffor
that night in the canoe, under the great watch-coat I
mentioned, in the morning I launched out. I made
first a little out to sea full north, till I began to feel the
benefit of the current, which set eastward, and carried
me at a great rate, and yet did not hurry me as the
southern side current had done before, so as to take
from me all government of the boat; but having •
strong steerage with my paddle, I went, I say, at a
great rate, directly for the wreck, and in less than two
hours I came up to it.
165
"It was a dismal sight to look at. The ship, which
by its building was Spanish, stuck fast, jambetl in be-
tween two rocks. All the stern and quarter of her waa
beaten to pieces with the sea; and as her forecastle,
which stuck in the rocks, had run on with great vio-
lence, her main-mast and fore-mast were brought by
the board, that is to say, broken short off, but her bow-
sprit was sound, and the head and bow appeared•firm.
When I came close to her, a dog appeared upon her,
which, seeing me coming, yelped and cried, and as
soon ss 1 called him, jumped into the sea to come to
me ; and I took him into the boat, but found him almost
dead for hunger and thirst: I gave him a cake of my
bread, and he ate like a ravenous wolf that had been
starving a fortnight in the snow : I then gave the poor
creature some fresh water, with which, if I would have
let him, he would have burst himself.
After this I went on board. The first sight I met
with was two men drowned in the cook-room, or fore-
castle of the ship, with their arms fast about one
another. I concluded, that when the ship struck, the
sea broke so high, and so continually over her, that the
men were not able to bear it, and were strangled with
the constant rushing in of the water, as much as if they
had been under water. Besides the dog, there was
nothing left in the ship that had life, nor any goods
that 1 could see, but what were spoiled by the waters
There were some casks of liquor, whether wine or
brandy I knew not, which lay lower in the hold, and
which, the water being ebbed out, I could see; but
they were too big to meddle with. I saw several chests}
which I believed belonged to some of the seamen, and
I got two of them into the boat without examining
what was in them.
Had the stern of the ship been fixed, and the fore
part broken off, I am persuaded I might have made a
good voyage; for by what I found in these two chests,
I had room to suppose the ship had a great deal of
wealth on board; anil if I may guess by the course-sbe
steered, she must have been bound from the Buenos
166
Ayres, or the Rio de la Plata, in the south part of"
America, beyond the Brazils, to the Havannah, in the
gnlph of Mexico, and so perhaps to Spain. She had, no
doubt, a great treasure in her, but of no use at that
time to any body ; and what became of the rest of her
people I then knew not.
I found, besides these chests, a little cask full of
liquor, of about twenty gallons, -which I got into my
boat with much difficulty. 1 here were several vnus-
quets, in a cabin, and a great powder-horn, with about
four pounds of powder in it: as for the musquets, I
had no occasion for them, so I left them; but took the
powder-horn. 1 took a fire-shovel and tongs, which I
wanted extremely ; as also two little brass kettles «
copper pot to make chocolate, and a grid-iron ; aod
with this cargo and the dog, I came away, the tide
beginning to make home agam ; and the same evening)
•bout an hour within night, I reached the island again,
weary and fatigued to the last degree.
I reposed that right in the boat, and in the morning
resolved to harbour what I had gotten in my new caves
not to carry it home to my castle. After refreshing
myself, I got all my cargo on shore, and began to
examine the particulars. The cask of liquor I found
to be a kind of rum, but not such as we had at the
Brazils, and, in a word, not at all good; but when I
came to open the chests, 1 found several things which
I. wanted: in one a case of bottles, of an extraordinary
kind, and filled with cordial waters, fine and very good;
the bottles held about three pints each, and were tip-
ped with silver: two pots of very good succades, or
•weetmeats, so fastened also on the top, that the salt
water had noi hurt them ; and two more of the same,
which the water had spoiled: some very good shirts,
which were very welcome to me, and about a dozen
and an half of white linen handkerchiefs, and coloured
neckcloths ; the former were also very welcome, being
exceeding refreshing to wipe my face in an hot day:
besides this, when 1 came to the till in the chests, I
found there three great bags of pieces of eight, which
167
held about eleven hundred pieces in all; and in one of
them, wrapt up in a paper, six doubloons of gold, and
tome small bars or wedges of gold; I suppose they
might all weigh near a pound. The other chest I
found had some clothes in it, but of httle value: by
the circumstances it must have belonged to the gun-
ner's mate, as there was no powder in it, but about
two pounds of glazed powder in the three flasks, kept,
I suppose, for charging their fowling-pieces on occa-
sion. Upon the whole, I got very little by this voyage
that was of much use to me; for as to the money, I had
no manner of occasion for it: it was to me as the dirt
under my feet ; and I would have given it all for threw
or four pair of English shoes and stockings, which wer»
things 1 greatly wanted, but had not had on my feet
now for many years. I ha:l, indeed, got two pair of
•hoes now, which I took off the feet of the two drown»
ed men whom I saw in the wreck; anil I found two
pair more in one of the chests, which were very wel-
come to me; but they were not like our English shoes,
either for ease or service, being rather what we call
pumps than shoes. I found in the seaman's chest about
fifty pieces of eight in royals, but no gold; I suppose
this belonged to a poorer man than the other, which
teemed to belong to some officer.
Well, however, I lugged the money home to my cave,
and laid it up, as I had done that before, which I
brought from our own ship: but it was great pity, as I
.•aid, that the other part of the snip had not come to
my share, for I am satisfied I might have loaded my
canoe several times over with money, which, if I had
ever escaped to England, would have lain here safe
enough till I had come again and fetched it.
Having now brought all my things on shore, and
secured them, I went back to my boat, and rowed or
paddled her along the shore to her old harbour, when
I laid her up, and made the be=t of my way to my old
habitation, where I found every thing safe and quit.
So I began to repose myself, live after my old fashion,
and take care of my family affairs. And for a while I
168
lived easy enough; only that I was more vigilant than
I used to be, looked out ottener, and did not go abroad
so nni h: and if at any time I did stir -with any free«
doni, it was always to the east part of the island, where
I was pretty well satisfied the savages never came, and
where I could go without so many precautions, and
luch a load of arms and ammunition as I always carried
with me, if I went the other way.
I lived in this condition near two years more; but
my unlucky head, that was always to let me know it
was born to make my body miserable, was all these
two years filled with projects and designs, how, if it
were possible, I might get away from this island: for
sometimes I was for making another voyage to the
wreck, though my reason told me, that there was
nothing left there worth the hazard of my voyage:
sometimes for a ramble one way, sometimes another:
and 1 believe, verily, if I bad had the boat that I went
from Sallee in, I should have ventured to sea, bound
any where, I knew not whither. Thus have I been,
in all the circumstances of my life, a memento to those
who are touched with that general plague of mankind,
whence, for aught I know, one half of their miseries
flow; I mean, that of not being satisfied with the
station wherein GOD and nature hath placed them.
It was one of the nights, in the rainy season in
March, the four-and-twentieth year of my first setting
foot in this solitary island, I was lying in my bed or
hammock, awake, and very well in health, had no
pain, no distemper, no uneasiness of body, no, npr
any uueasiness of mind more than ordinary, but could
by no means close my eyes, that is, so as to sleep,
no, not a wink, all night. It is as impossible, aa
•needless, to set down the innumerable crowd of thoughts
that whirled through that great thoroughfare of the
brain, the memory, in this night's time. I ran over
the whole history of my life in miniature, or by abridg-
ment, as I may call it, to my coming to this island;
and also of that part of my life since I came to this
island. In my reflections upon the state of my case,
169
since I came on shore on this island, I was comparing
the happy posture of my affairs, in the first years of
my habitation here, to that course of anxiety, fear and
care, which I had lived in ever since I had seen the
print of a foot in the sand; which suggested this pro-
fitable reflection: how infinitely good that Providence
is," which has settled in its government of mankind
such narrow bounds to his sight and knowledge of
things; and though he walks in the midst of so many
thousand dangers, the sight of which, if discovered to
him, would distract his mind, and sink his spirits, is
kept serene and calm, by having the events of things
hid from his eyes, and knowing nothing of the dangers
which surround him.
After these thoughts had for sometime entertained
me, I came to reflect seriously upon the real danger I
had been in for so many years in this very island; and
how I had walked about in the greatest security ; and
with all possible tranquility, even perhaps when no-
thing but a brow of a hill, a great tree, or the casual
approach of night, had been between me and the worst
kind of destruction, viz. that of falling into the hands
of canibals and savages, who would have seized on me
with the same view as I did on a goat or a turtle, and
have thought it no more a crime to kill and devour
me, than 1 did of a pigeon or a curlew: and I should
unjustiy slander myself, were I to say I was not
sincerely thankful to my great Preserver, to whose
singular protection I acknowledged, with great hu-
mility, that all these unknown deliverances were due.
When these thoughts were over, my head was for
sometime taken up in considering the nature of these
wretched creatures, I mean, the savages; and how it
came to pass in the world, that the wise Governor of
all things should give up any of his creatures to such
inhumanity, nay, to something so much below even
brutality itself, as to devour its own kind: but as this
ended in some (at that time fruitless) speculations, it
occurred to me to inquire what part of the world these
wretches lived in; how far off the coast was from
<J
170
whence they came; what they ventured so far from
home for; what kind of boats they had; and why I
might not order myself, and my buisness so, that I
might be as able to go over thither, as they were to
come to me.
I never so much as troubled myself to consider,
what I should do with myself when I came thither;
what would become of me if I fell into the hands of
the savages; or how I could possibly escape them:
my impatient temper rendered desperate by the long
continuance of my solitude, and the disappointment I
had experienced in the wreck where I had been so
near the obtaining what I so earnestly longed for, viz.
somebody to speak to, could rest on nothmg but the
project of a voyage to the main; which came upon me
with such force, and such an impetuosity of desire, as
was not to be resisted.
When this had agitated my thoughts for two hours
or more, with such violence, that it set my very blood
into a ferment, and my pulse beat as high as if I had
been in a fever, nature, as if 1 had been fatigued and
exhausted with the very thought of it, threw me into
a sound sleep. One would have thought I should have
dreamed of it; but I did not, nor of any thing relating
to it, my dream was this: I thought that as I was go-
ing out in the morning, as usual, from my castle, I saw
upon the shore two canoes, and eleven savages coming
to land, and that they brought with them another
savage, whom they were going to kill, in order to eat
him; when on a sudden, the savage that they were
going to kill jumped away, and came running into my
little thick grove, before my fortification, to hide him-
self: then 1 thought that seeing him alone, and not
perceiving that the others sought him that way, I
shewed myself to him, and smiling upon him, encou-
raged him; that he kneeled down to me, seeming to
pray me to assist him; upon which I shewed him my
ladder, made him go up it, and carried him into my
cave, and he became my servant; and that as soon as
I had got this man, I said to myself, now I may cer-
171
tainly venture to the main land; for this -fellow will
serve me as a pilot, and will tell me what to do, and
whither to go for provisions, and whither not to go for
fear of being devoured; what places to venture into,
and what to escape. I waked with this thought, and
was under such inexpressible impressions of joy at the
prospect of my escape in my dream, that the disap-
pointment I felt upon coming to myself, and finding
it was no more than a dream, was equally extravagant
the other way, and threw me into a very great dejec-
tion of spirit.
It suggested, however, this conclusion, that my
only way to attempt an escape, was, to get a savage
into my possession; and, if possible, one of their
prisoners whom they had condemned to be eaten, and
should bring hither to kill: but these thoughts still
were attended with the difficulty, that it was impos-
sible to effect this, without attacking a whole caravan,
of them, and killing them all; and this was not only a
very desperate attempt, and might miscarry; but, on
the other hand, I had greatly scrupled the lawfulness
of it to me, and my heart trembled at the thoughts of
shedding so much blood, though it was for my deliver-
ance. I need not repeat the arguments which occur-
red to me against this, they being the same mentioned
before: but though I had other reasons to offer now,
viz. that those men were enemies to my life, and
would devour me, if they could; that it was self-
preservation, in the highest degree, to deliver myself
from this death of a life, as much as if they were
actually assaulting me, and the like; yet the thoughts
of shedding human blood for my deliverance were
very terrible to me, and such as I could by no means
reconcile myself to a great while. .
However, at last, after many secret disputes with
myself, and after great perplexities about it, the eager
prevailing desire of deliverance at length mastered all
the rest, and I resolved, if possible, to get one of
these savages into my hands, cost what it would. The
next thing then was to contrive how to do it: and
• -
172
this Indeed was very difficult to resolve on: but as I
could pitch upon no probable means for it, so I resol-
ved to put mjrself upon the watch to see them when
they came on shore, and leave the rest to the event,
taking such measures as the opportunity should pre-
sent, let it be what it would.
With these resolutions in my thoughts, I set myself
upon the scout as often as possible, and indeed so often,
that I was heartily tired of it; for it was above a year
and an half that I waited, and for a great part of that
time went out to the west end, and to the south-west
corner of the island, 'almost every day, to see the
canoes, but none appeared. This was very discourag-
ing; but I cannot say that it did in this case, as it had
done before, wear off the edge of my desire; for the
longer the occasion seemed to be delayed, the more
eager I was for it.
About a year and half after I had entertained
these notions, and, by long musing, had, as it were
resolved them all into nothing, for want of an occasion
to put them in execution, I was surprised one morning
early, with seeing no less than five canoes on shore
"together, on my side the island, and the people who
belonged to them all landed, and out of my sight.
The number of them broke all my measures; for see-
'ing so many, and knowing that they always came
four, or six, or sometimes more, in a boat, I could not
tell what to think of it, or how to take my measures
to attack twenty or thirty men single-handed, so I lay
still in my castle, perplexed and discomforted; how-
ever, I put myself into all the same postures for an
attack that I had formerly provided, and was ready
for action, if any thing presented itself. I waited a
good while, listening to hear if they made any noise;
at length being very impatient, I set my guns at the
foot of my ladder, and clambered up to the top of the
hill by my two stages, as usual; taken care however,
that my head did not appear above the hill, so that
they could not perceive me by any means. Here I
observed, by the help of my perspective glass, that
173
. they were no less than thirty in number; that they
had a fire kindled, and that they had had meat dressed:
how they cooked it, I knew not, or what it was; but
they were all dancing in I know not how many bar-
barous gestures and figures, their own way, round
the fire.
When I was thus looking on them, I perceived by
my glass two miserable wretches dragged from the
boats, where, it seems, they were laid by, and whence
they were now brought out for the slaughter. I per-
ceived one of them immediately fall, being knocked
down, I suppose, with a club or wooden sword, for
that was their way; and two or three others were at
work immediately, cutting him open for their cookery,
while the other victim was left standing by himself,
till they should be ready for him. In that very moment
this poor wretch, seeing himself a little at liberty, na-
ture inspired him with hopes of life, and he started
_away from them, and ran with incredible swiftness
along the sands, directly towards me, I mean towards
that part of the coast where my habitation was.
I was dreadfully frightened, I must acknowledge,
when I perceived him to run my way; and especially
when, as I thought, I saw him pursued by the whole
body: and now I expected that part of my dream was
coming to pass, and that he would certainly take
shelter in my grove; but I could not depend, by any
means, upon my dream for the rest of it, viz. that the
other savages would not pursue him thither, and find
him there. However, I kept my station, and my
spirits began to recover, when I found that there were
not above three men that followed him; and still more
was I encouraged, when I found that he outstrip!
them exceedingly in running, and gained ground of
them, so that if he could but hold it for half an hour,
I saw easily he would fairly get away from them all.
There was between them and my castle, the creek,
which I mentioned often in the first part of my story,
where I landed my cargoes out of the ship; and this I
knew, he must necessarily swim over, or the poor
<J S
174
wretch would be taken there. When the fugitive
came thither, he made nothing of it, though the tide
was then up; but plunging in, swam through in about
thirty strokes, or thereabouts, landed, and ran on with
exceeding strength and swiftness: when the three pur-
suers came to the creek, I found that two of them
could swim, but the third could rot, and that he,
standing on the other side, looked at the other, but
went no farther; and soon after went softly back again,
which, as it happened, was very well for him in the
main.
I observed, that the two who swam, were more than
twice as long swimming over the creek than the fel-
low was that fled from them. It came instantly upon
my thoughts, and indeed irresistibly, that now was
my time to get a servant, and perhaps a companion,
or assistant, and that I was called on plainly by Provi-
dence to save this poor creature's life. I immediately
got down the ladders with all possible expedition,
fetched my two guns, for they were both at the foot
of the ladder, as I observed above, and getting up
again with the same haste to the top of the hill, I
crossed towards the sea, and having a very short cut,
and all down-Jjill, placed myself in the way between
the pursuers and the pursued, hallooing aloud to him
that fled, who, looking back, was at first perhaps as
much frighted at me as at them; but I beckoned with
my hand to him to come back; and in the mean time,
I slowly advanced towards the two that followed; then
rushing at once upon the foremost, I knocked him
down with the stock of my piece; I was loth to fire,
because I would not have the rest alarmed; though at
that distance it would not have been easily heard, and
being out of sight of the smoke too, they would scarcely
have known what to make of it. Having knocked
this fellow down, the other who pursued him stopped,
as if he had been frightened, and I advanced apace
towards him; but as I came nearer, I perceived pre-
sently he had a bow and arrow, and was fitting it to
shoot at me; so I was then necessitated to shoot at
175
him first; which I did, and killed him at the first
shot. The poor savage who fled, but had stopped,
though he saw both his enemies fallen, and killed (as
he thought) yet was so frightened with the fire and
noise of my piece, that he stood stock-still, and neither
came forward, nor went backward; though he seemed
rather inclined to fly still, than to come on. I hal-
looed again to him, and made signs to him to come
forward, which he easily understood, and came a little
way, then stopped again, and then a little farther, and
stopped again; and I could then perceive that he
stood trembling, as if he had been taken prisoner, and
had just been to be killed, as his two enemies were.
I beckoned him again to come to me, and gave him
all the signs of encouragement that I could think of:
and he came nearer and nearer, kneeling down every
ten or twelve steps, in token of acknowledgment for
saving his life. I smiled at him, and looked pleasantly,
and beckoned to him to come still nearer. At length
he came close to me, and then he kneeled down again,
kissed the ground, and laid his head upon the ground,
and taking me by the foot, set my foot upon his head:
this, it seems, was in token of swearing to be my slave
for ever. I took him up, and made much of him, and
encouraged him all I could. But there was more
work to do yet; for I perceived the savage, whom I
knocked down, was not killed, but stunned with the
blow, and began to come to himself: so I pointed to
him, and shewed him the savage, that he was not
dead: upon this he spoke some words to me; and
though I could not understand them, yet I thought
they were pleasant to hear, for they were the first sound
of a man's voice that I had heard, my own excepted,
,for above five-and-twenty years. There was no time
however for such reflections now: the savage, who
was knocked down, recovered himself so far as to sit
up upon the ground; and I perceived that my savage
began to be afraid; on which I presented my other
piece at the man, as if I would shoot him; when my
savage, for so I call him now, made a motion to me to
"176
lend him my sword, which hung naked in a belt by
my side: so I did and he no sooner had it, but he ran
to his enemy, and at one blow cut off his head so de-
rerly, no executioner in Germany could have done it
sooner or better; which I thought very strange for
one, who, 1 had reason to believe, never saw a sword
in his life before, except their own wooden swords;
however it seems, as I learned afterwards, they make
their wooden swords so sharp, so heavy, and the wood
is so hard, that they will cut off heads even with them,
nay, and arms, and that at one blow too. When he
had done this, he came laughing to me in sign of
triumph, and brought me the sword again, and, with
abundance of gestures, which I did not understand,
laid it down, with the head of the savage that he had
killed, just before me.
But that which astonished him most was to know
how I had killed the other Indian so far off; and
pointing to him, he made signs to me to let him go to
him: so I bade him go, as well as I could. When he
came to him, he stood like one amazed, looking at
him; turned him first on one side, then on the other;
looked at the wound the bullet had made, which it
seems was just in the breast, where it had made a
hole, and no great quantity of blood had followed; but
he had bled inwardly, for he was quite dead. Then
he took up his bow and arrows, and came back; so I
turned to go away, and beckoned him to follow me,
making signs to him that more might come after them.
Upon this he signed to me, that he should bury
them with sand, that they might not be seen by the
rest, if they followed; and I made signs again to him
to do so. He fell to work; and in an instant he had
scraped a hole in the sand with his hands, big enough
to bury the first in, and then dragged him into it,
and covered him, and did so also by the other; I be-
lieve he had buried them both in a quarter of an hour.
Then calling him away, I carried him, not to my
castle, but quite away to my cave, on the farther
part of the island: so I did not let my dream come to
m
pass m that party vi*. ftat he Came into my grove
for shelter.
Here I gave him bread, and a bunch of raisins to
eat, and a draught of -water, which I found he was
indeed in great distress for, by his running; and having
refreshed him, I made signs for him to go lie down
and sleep, pointing to a place where I had laid a great
parcel of rice-straw, and a blanket upon it, which I
used to sleep upon myself sometimes; so the poor
creature lay down, and went to sleep.
He was a comely handsome fellow, perfectly well
made, with straight long limbs, not too large, tall, and
well-shaped, and, as I reckon, about twenty-six years
of age. He had a very good countenance: not a fierce
and surly aspect, but seemed to have something very
manly in his face; and yet he had all the sweetness
and softness of an European in his countenance too,
especially when he smiled: his hair was long and
black, not curled like wool; his forehead very high
and large,' and a great vivacity and sparkling sharp-
ness in his eyes. The colour of his skin was not quite
black, but very tawny, and yet not of an ugly yellotv
nauseous tawny, as the Brazilians and Virginians, and
other natives of America are, but of a bright kind of
a dun olive colour, that had in it something very
agreeable, though not very easy to describe. His face
was round and plump; his nose small, not flat like the
negroes; a very good mouth; thin lips ; and his teeth
fine, well-set, and white as ivory. After he had slum-
bered, rather than slept, about half an hour, he waked
again, and came out of the cave to me, for I had been
milking my goats, which I had in the inclosure just
by: when he espied me, he came running to me, lay-
ing himself down again upon the ground, with all the
possible signs of an humble thankful disposition,
making many antic gestures to shew it. At last he
lays his head flat upon the ground, close to my foot,
and sets my other foot upon his head, as he had done
• before; and after this, made all the signs to me of
subjection, servitude, and submission imaginable, to
178
let me know how much he would serve me as long as
he lived. I understood him in many things, and let
him know 1 was very well pleased with him. In a
little time I began to speak to him, and teach him to
speak to me; and first, I made him know his name
should be Friday, which was the day I saved his life;
and I called him so for the memory of the time: I
likewise taught him to say Master; and then let him
know that was to be my name: I likewise taught him
to say Yes and No, and to know the meaning of them:
I gave him some milk in an earthen pot, and let him
see me drink it before him, and sop my bread in it;
and I gave him a cake of bread to do the like, which
he quickly complied with, and made signs that it was
very good for him.
I kept there with him all that night; but as soon as
it was day, I beckoned him to come with me, and let
him know I would give him some clothes; at which
he seemed very glad, for he was stark-naked. As we
went by the place where he had buried the two men,
he pointed exactly to the spot, and shewed me the
marks that he had made to And them again, making
signs to me that we should dig them up again, and eat
them: at this I appeared very angry, expressed my
abhorrence of it, made as if I would vomit at the
thoughts of it, and beckoned with my hand to him to
. come away, which he did immediately, with great
submission: I then led him up to the top of the hill,
to see if his enemies were gone, and pulling out my
glass, I looked, and saw plainly the place .where they
had been, but no appearance of them, or of their
panoes; so that it was plain they were gone, and had
left their two comrades behind them, without any
search alter them.
I was not content however with this discovery; but
having now more courage, and consequently more
curiosity, I took my man Friday with me, giving him,
the sword in his baud, with the bow and arrows at
his back, which I found he could use very dexterously,
making him carry one gun, for me, and I two for my-
179
self, and away we marched to the place where these
creatures had been; for I had a mind now to get some
fuller intelligence of them. When I came to the place,
my very blood ran chill in my veins, and my heart
sunk within me at the horror of the spectacle : indeed
it was a dreadful sight, at least it was so to me, though
Friday made nothing of it. The place was covered
with human bones, the, ground dyed with the blood,
great pieces of flesh left here and there, half-eaten,
mangled, and scorched; and, in short, all the tokens
of the triumphant feast they had been making there,
after a victory over their enemies. I saw three skulls,
five hands, and the bones• of three or four legs and
feet, and abundance of other parts of the bodies; and
Friday, by his signs, made me understand that they
brought over four prisoners to feast upon, three of
which were eaten up, and that he, pointing to himself,
was the fourth: that there had been a great battle be-
tween them and their next king, to whom, it seems,
he had been subject; and that they had taken a great
number of prisoners, all which were carried to several
places by those who had seized them in the flight, in
order to be devoured in the same manner as the un-
fortunate wretches who had been brought hither.
I caused Friday to gather all the skulls, bones, flesh,
and whatever remained, and lay then together on an
heap, and make a great fire upon it, and burn them
all to ashes. I found Friday had still an hankering
stomach after some of the flesh, and was still a canibal
in his nature -. but I expressed so much abhorrence at
the very thoughts of such an abomination, that he durst
not discover it; for I had, by some means, let him
know, that I would kill him if he offered such an of-
fence to my nature.
When .we had done this, we came back to our castle,
and there I fell to work for my man Friday. And
first of all, I gave him a pair of linen drawers, which
I had out of the poor gunner's chest I mentioned to
have found in the wreck, and which, with a little
alteration, fitted him very well: then I made him a
180
jerkin of goat's skin, as well as my skill would allow,
and I was now grown a tolerable good taylor; and
gave him a cap, which I had made of a hare skin,
very convenient, and fashionable enough. And thus
he was dressed, for the present, tolerably well; and
mighty well was he pleased to see himself almost as
well clothed as his master. It is true, he went ungain-
ly hi these things at first: wearing the drawers, was
very awkward to him; and the sleeves of the waistcoat
galled his shoulders and the inside of his arms; but
after a little easing them, where he complained they hurt
him, and using himself to them, he at length took to
them very well.
The next day after I came home to my hutch with
him, I began to consider where I should lodge him;
and that I might do well for him, and yet be perfectly
easy myself, I made a little tent for him in the vacant
place between my two fortifications, in the inside of
the last, and in the outside of the first: and as there
was a door or entrance there into my cave, 1 made a
formal framed door-case, and a door to it of boards,
and set it up in the passage, a little within the entrance;
and causing the door to open on the inside, I barred
it up in the night, taking in my ladders too; so that
Friday could no way come at me in the inside of my
innermost wall, without making so much noise in
getting over, that it must needs awaken me. For my
first wall had now a complete roof over it of long poles,
covering all my tent, and leaning up to the side of
the hill, which was again laid cross with small sticks
instead of laths, and then thatched over a great thick-_
ness with the rice-straw, which was strong like reeds;
and at the hole or place which was left to go in or out
by the ladder, I had placed a kind of trap-door, which
if it had been attempted on the outside, would not
have opened at all, but would have fallen down, and
made a great noise; and as to weapons, I took them
all into my side every night.
But I needed none of all this precaution; for never
man had a more faithful, loving, sincere servant than
181
Friday was to me: without passion, sullenness, or ill
designs; perfectly obliging and engaging; his very
affections were tied to me, like those of a child to a
father; and I dare say, he would have sacrificed his
life to save mine, upon any occasion whatsoever. The
many testimonies he gave me of this, put it out of all
doubt; and soon convinced me, that I required no
contrivances for security against attacks from that
quarter.
This frequently gave me occasion to observe, and
with wonder, that, however it has pleased GOB in his
providence, and in the government of the works of
his hands, to take from so great a part of the world
of his creatures the best uses to which their faculties
are adapted; yet that he has bestowed upon them the
same powers, the same reason, the same affections, the
same sentiments of kindness and obligation, the same
passions and resentments of wrongs, the same sense
of gratitude, sincerity, fidelity, and all the capacities
of doing good, and receiving good, that he has given
to us; and that when he pleases to offer them occasion
of exerting these, they are as ready, nay more ready,
to apply them to the right uses for which they were
bestowed, than we are. And this made me very me-
lancholy sometimes, in reflecting, how mean a use we
make of these advantages though enlightened by the
great lamp of instruction, the spirit of GOD, and by
the knowledge of his word, added to our understand'
ing; and why it has pleased GOD to hide the like
saving knowledge from so many millions of souls, who,
.if I might judge by this poor savage, would turn such
a blessing to a far better account than we do.
From hence I sometimes was led too far to invade
the sovereignty of Providence; and, as it were, ar-
raign the justice of so arbitrary a disposition of things,
that should hide that light from some, and reveal it
to others, and yet expect a like duty from both; but
I checked my thoughts with this conclusion; first,
that we do not know by what light and law these
should be condemned; but that as GOD was by the
R
im
nature of his being, infinitely holy and just, so it
could not be, but that if these creatures were all sen-
tenced to absence from himself, it was on account of
sinning against that light, which, as the Scripture
says, was a law to themselves, and such rules as their
consciences would acknowledge to be just, though the
foundation was not revealed to them: and, secondly,
that still, as we are all clay in the hand of the potter,
no vessel could say to him, why hast thou formed me
thus?
But to return to my new companion: I was greatly
delighted with him, and made it my business to teach
him every thing that could render him useful, handy,
and helpful; but especially to make him speak, and
understand me when I spoke: and he was the aptest
scholar that ever was ,• and particularly was so merry,
so constantly diligent, and so pleased when he could
but understand me, or make me understand him, that
it was delightful to me to talk to him: and now my
life began to be so easy, that I was tempted to say to
myself, that could I but have been safe from more
savages, I cared not if I was never to remove from
the place while I lived.
• After I had been two or three days returned to my
castle, I thought that, in order to bring Friday off
from his horrid way of feeding, and from the relish of
a canibal's stomach, I ought to lethim taste other flesh;
so I took him out with me one morning to the woods.
I went, indeed, intending to kill a kid out of my own
flock, and bring it home and dress it: but as I was
going, I saw a she-goat lying down in the shade, and
two young kids sitting by her: I caught hold of Fri-
day, hold, said I, stand still; and making signs to him
not to stir, immediately I presented my piece, fired,
and killed one of the kids. The poor creature, who
had, at a distance indeed, seen me kill the savage his
enemy, but did not know, or could imagine, how it
•was done, was sensibly surprised, trembled and shook,
and looked so amazed, that 1 thought he would have
sunk down. He did not see the kid I had shot at, or
perceive I had killed it, but ripped up his waistcoat
to feel if he was not wounded; and, as I found, pre-
sently thought I was resolved to kill him; for he came
and kneeled down to me, and, embracing my knees,
said a great many things I did not understand; but
I could easily see that his meaning was to pray me
not to kill him.
I soon found a way to convince him, that I would
do him no harm; and taking him up by the hand,
laughed at him, and pointing to the kid which I had
killed, beckoned to him to run and fetch it, which he
did; and while he was wondering and looking to see
how the creature was killed, I loaded my gun again,
and by and bye I saw a great fowl, like a hawk, sitting
upon a tree within shot: so, to let Friday understand
a little what I would do, I called him to me again,
pointing at the fowl, which was indeed a parrot, though
I thought it had been a hawk; I say, pointing to the
parrot, and to my gun, and to the ground under the
parrot, to let him see I would bring him down, I
made him understand that I would shoot and kill that
bird: accordingly I fired, and bid him look; and im-
mediately he saw the parrot fall. He stood like one
frighted again, notwithstanding all that 1 had said to
him: and I found he was the more amazed, because
he did not see me put any thing into the gun; but
thought there must be some wonderful fund of death
and destruction in that thing, able to kill man, beast,
bird, or any thing near or far off. The astonishment
this created in him was such, as did not wear off for
a long time; and I believe, if I would have let him,
he would have worshipped me and my gun: as far
the gun itself, he would not so much as touch it for
several days after; but would speak to it, and talk to
it, as if it had answered him, when he was by himself;
which, as I afterwards learned of him, was to desire
it not to kill him.
Well: after his astonishment was a little over at
this, I pointed to him to run and fetch the bird I had
shot, which b« did, but staid sometime, for the parrot*
R 2
184
/
not being quite dead, had fluttered a good way off
from the place where she fell: however he found her,
took her up, and brought her to me; and, as I had
perceived his ignorance about the gun before, I took
this advantage to charge the gun again, and not let
him see me do it, that I might be ready for any other
mark that might present. Nothing more however of-
fered at that time: so I brought home the kid; and
the same evening I took the skin off, and cut it out as
well as I could, and having a pot for that purpose, I
boiled or stewed some of the flesh, and made some
very good broth. After I had begun to eat some, I
gave some to my man, who seemed very glad of it,
and liked it very well; but that which was strangest
to him, was, to see me eat salt with it. He made a
sign to me that the salt was not good to eat; and put-
ting a little into his own mouth, he seemed to
nauseate it, and would spit and sputter at it, washing
his mouth with fresh water after it: on the other hand,
I took some meat in my mouth without salt, and I
pretended to spit and sputter for want of salt, as fast
as he had done at the salt; but it ^ould not do, he
•would never care for salt with meat, or in his broth;
at least, not for a great while, and then but a very
little.
Having thus fed him with boiled meat and broth, I
was resolved to feast him the next day svith roasting a
piece of the kid. This I did, by hanging it before the
fire on a string, as I had seen many people do in En-
gland, setting two poles up, one on each side the fire,
and one across on the top, and tying the string to the
cross stick, letting the meat turn continually. Fri-
day admired the contrivance very much: but when he
came to taste the flesh, he took so many ways to tell
me how well he liked it, that I could not but under-
stand him; and at last he assured me he would never
eat man's flesh any more, which I was very glad to
hear.
The next day I set him to work to beat some corn
fiut, and sift it in the manner I used to do, as I
185
observed before ; and he soon understood how to do it
as well as I, especially after he had seen what the
meaning of it was, and that it was to make bread of:
for presently after I let him see me make my bread,
and bake it too; and in a little time Friday was able
to do all the work for me, as well as I could do it
myself.
I began now to consider, that having two mouths
to feed instead of one, I must provide more ground
for my harvest, and plant a larger quantity of corn,
than I used to do -. so I marked out a larger piece of
land, and began the fence in the same manner as •be-
fore, in which Friday not only worked very willingly,
and very hard, but did it very cheerfully ; .and I told
him what it was for, that it was for corn to make more
bread, because he was now with me, and that I might
have enough for him and myself too, He appeared
very sensible of this kindness, and let me know that
he thought I had much more labour upon me on.his
account, than I had for myself, and that he would,
work the harder for me, if I would tell him what to do.
This was the pleasantest year of all the life I led in
this place. Friday began to talk pretty well, and un-
derstand the names of almost every thing I had occa-
sion to call for, and of every place I had to send him
to, and to prattle a great deal to me: so that, in short,
I began now to have some use for my tongue again,
which indeed I had very little occasion for before, so
far as speech was concerned. Besides the pleasure of
conversing with him, I had a singular satisfaction in
the fellow himself: his simple unfeigned honesty ap-
peared to me more and more every day, and I began
really to love the creature: and on his side, I believe
he loved me more than it was possible for him ever to
love any thing before.
I had a mind once to try if'he had any harikering
inclination to his own country again; and having
taught him English so -well, that he could answer me
almost any questions, I asked him, whether .the nation,
that he belonged to never conquered in battle? At
,.YV • fi: 3,•iB-'- • '•> -:•'• • - . •'•' '•> i •
186
which he smiled, and said, Yes, yes, we always fight
the better; that is, he meant, always get the better in
fight: and so we began the following discourse. You
always fight the better! said I: how came you to be
taken prisoner then, Friday?
Friday. My nation beat much for all that.
Master. How beat; if your nation beat them how
came you to be taken?
Friday. They more than my nation in the place
where me was; they take one, two, three, and me:
my nation over-beat them in the yonder place, where
me no was; there my nation take one, two great
thousand.
Master. But why did not your side recover you
from the hands of your enemies then?
Friday. They run one, two, three, and me, and
make go in the canoe; my nation have no canoe that
time.
Master. Well, Friday, and what does your nation
do with the men they take? Do they carry them away,
and eat them as these did?
Friday. Yes, my nation eat mans too, eat all up.
Master. Where do they carry them?
Friday. Go to other place where they think.
Matter. Do they come hither?
Friday. Yes, yes, they come hither; come other
else place.
Master. Have you been here with them?
Friday. Yes, I been here [points to the N. W. side
of the island, which, it seems, was their side.]
By this I understood, that my man Friday had for-
merly been among the savages, who used to come on
shore on the farther part of the island, on the same
horrid occasions that he was now brought for: and
some time after, when I took the courage to carry him
to that side, being the same I formerly mentioned, he
presently knew the place, and told me, he was there
once when they eat up twenty men, two women, and
one child. He could not tell twenty in English; but
he numbered them, by laying so many stones in a row,
and pointing to me to tell them over.
187
I have told this passage, because it introduces what
follows; that after I had had this discourse with him,
I asked him, how far it was from our island to the
shore, and whether the canoes were not often lost?
He told me there was no danger, no canoes ever lost;
but that after a little way out to sea, there was a cur-
rent, and a wind always one way in the morning, the
other in the afternoon. This 1 understood to be no
more than the sets of the tide, as going out, or coming
in; but I afterwards learned it was occasioned by the
great draught and reflux of the mighty river Oroono-
co; in the mouth of which river, as I thought after-
wards, our island lay; and that this land, which I
perceived to the W. and N. W. was the great island
Trinidad, on the north point of the mouth of the river.
I asked Friday a thousand questions about the country,
the inhabitants, the sea, the coast, and what nations
were near: he told me all he knew, with the greatest
• openness imaginable. I asked him the names of the
several nations of his sort of people, but could get no
other name than Caribs; from whence I easily under-
stood, that these were the Caribees, which our maps
place on that part of America which reaches from the
mouth of the river Oroonoco to Guinea, and onwards
to St. Martha. He told me, that up a great way
beyond the moon, that was, beyond the setting of the
moon, which must be W. from their country, there
dwelt white bearded men, like me, and pointed to my
great whiskers, which I mentioned before; and that
they had killed much mans, that was his word: by
which I understood he meant the Spaniards, whose
cruelties in America had been spread over the whole
of that region, and were remembered by all the na-
tions from father to son.
I enquired if he could tell me how I might come
from this island, and get among those white men. He
told me, Yes, yes, I might go in two canoe. I could
.not understand what he meant by two canoe; till at
last, with great difficulty, I found he meant that it
must be in a large great boat as big as two canoes.
188
This part of Friday's discourse began to relish with
me very well; and from this period I entertained some
hopes, that one time or other I might find an oppor-
tunity to make my escape from this place, and that
this poor savage might be a means to help me to
accomplish it.
During the long time that Friday had now been
•with me, and that he began to speak to me, and un-
derstand me, I was not wanting to lay a foundation of
religious knowledge in his mind ; particularly; I asked
•him one time, Who made him? The poor creature did
not understand meat all, but thought I had asked who
was his father : but I took it by another handle, and
asked him, who made the sea, the ground he walked
on, and the hills and woods? He told me, It was one
old Benamuckee that lived beyond all: he could des-
cribe nothing of this great person, but that he was
very old; much older, he said, than the sea or the land,
than the moon or the stars, I asked him then, if this
old person had made all things, why did not all things
•worship him? He looked very grave, and with a per-
fect look of innocence said, all things said O ! to him.
I asked him, If the people who die in his country,
went away any-where? He said, Yes, they all wentto
Benamuckee. Then I asked him, whether those they
eat up went thither too ? he said, Yes.
From these things I began to instruct him in the
knowledge of the true God. I told him, that the great
Maker of all things lived there, pointing up towards
heaven, that he governs the world by the same power
and providence by which he made it; that he was om-
nipotent, could do every thing for us, give every thing
'to us, take every thing from us ; and thus, by degrees,
I opened his eyes. He listened with great attention,
and-received with pleasure the notion of JESUS CHRIST
being sent to redeem us.and ofthe•manner of making
our prayers to -Gon, and his being able to hear us even
into heaven: he told me one day, that if our GOD could
hear us up beyond the sifti, hemustneeds be a greater
GOD than their Benamuckee, who lived bats a little way
189
off, and yet could not hear, till they went up to the
great mountains, where he dwelt, to speak to him. I
asked him, If ever he went thither to speak to him?
He said, No, they never went that were young men;
none went thither but the old men; whom he called
their Oowookakee, that is, as I made him explain it to
me, their religious, or clergy; and that they went to
sayOl (so he called saying prayers) and then came
back, and told them what Benamuckee said: by this
I observed, that there is priestcraft even amongst the
most blinded ignorant Pagans in the world ; and the
policy of making a secret religion, in order to preserve
the veneration of the people to the clergy, is not only
to be found in the Romish, but perhaps among all reli-
gions in the world, even of the most brutish and bar-
barous.
I endeavoured to clear up this fraud to my man
Friday; and told him, that the pretence of their old
men going up to the mountains to say O ! to their god
Benamuckee, was a cheat; and their bringing word
from thence what he said, was much more so; that if
they met with anyanswer, or spoke with any onethere,
itmust be with an evil spirit: and then I entered into
a long discourse with him about the devil, the original
of him, his rebellion against Goo, his enmity to man,
the reason of it, his setting himself up in the dark
partsof the world to be worshipped instead of GOD,
and as GOD, and the many stratagems he made use
of, to delude mankind to their ruin; how he had a
secret access to our passions, and to our affections, to
adapt his snares so to our inclinations, as to cause us
even to be our own tempters, and to run upon our own
destruction by our own choice.
I found it was not so easy to imprint right notions
in his mind about the devil, as it was about the being
of a GOD. Nature assisted all my arguments to ma-
nifest the necessity of a great first cause, and of the
equity and justice of paying homage to him that made
us, and the like: but there appeared nothing of all
this in the notion of an evil spirit, of his original, his
190
being, his nature, and above all, of his inclination to
do evil, and to draw us into do so too: and the poor
creature puzzled me once in such a manner, by a
question merely natural and innocent, that I scarce
knew what to say to him.
I had been talking a great deal to him of the power
of GOD, his omnipotence, his dreadful aversion to sin,
his being a consuming fire to the workers of iniquity;
how, as he had made us all, he could destroy us, and
all the world, in a moment; and he listened with great
seriousness to me all the while. After this, 1 had been
telling him how the devil was Gon's enemy in the
hearts of men, and used all his malic* and skill to
defeat the good designs of Providence, and to ruia
the kingdom of CHRIST in the world, and the like:
well, says Friday, but you say GOD is so strong, so
great, is he not much strong, much might, as the
devil? Yes, yes, said 1, Friday, GOD is stronger than
the devil, GOD is above the devil, and therefore we
pray to GOD to tread him under our feet, and enable
us to resist his temptations, and quench his fiery darts.
But, says he again, if GOD much strong, much might,
as the devil, why GOD not kill the devil, so make him
no more wicked?
I was strangely surprised at his question; and after
all, though I was now an old man, yet I was but a
young doctor, and ill enough qualified for a casuist,
or a solver of difficulties: and, at first, I could not tell
•what to say; so I pretended not to hear him, and asked
him what he said? But he was too earnest for an an-
swer to forget his question; so that he repeated it in
the very same broken words, as above. By this time
I had recovered myself a little, and I said, GOD will
at last punish him severely; he is reserved for the
judgment, and is to be cast into the bottomless pit, to
dwell with everlasting fire. This did not satisfy Fri-
day; but he returns upon me, repeating my words,
reserve at last I me no understand: but why not kill
the devil now, not kill great ago? You may as well ask
me, said I, why Goo does not kill you and me, when
191
•we do wicked things here that offend him: we arc
preserved to repent and be pardoned. He muses a
while at this: Well, well, says he, mighty affection-
ately, that well; so you, I, devil, all wicked, all pre-
serve, repent, GOD pardon all. Here I was run down
again by him to the last degree: I therefore diverted
the present discourse between me and my man, rising
up hastily, as upon some sudden occasion of going
out; then sending him for something a great way off,
I fell on my knees and earnestly prayed to Goo that he
•would assist me with his spirit in insructing this poor
savage, and guide me so to speak to him, that his
conscience might be convinced, his eyes opened, and
has soul saved. When he came again to me, I entered
into a long discourse with him upon the subject of the
redemption of man by the Saviour of the world, and
of the doctrine of the gospel preached from Heaven,
viz. of the repentance towards GOD, and faith in our
blessed LORD JESUS. I then explained to him, as well
as I could, why our blessed Redeemer took not on him
the nature of angels, but the seed of Abraham, and
how, for that reason, the fallen angels had no share in
the redemption; that he came only to the lost sheep
of the house of Israel, and the like.
I had, GOD knows, more sincerity than knowledge
in all the methods I took for this poor creature's in-
struction: and must acknowledge, what I believe all
that act upon the same principle will find, that in lay-
ing things open to him, I really informed and instruct-
ed myself in many things that either I did not know,
or had not fully considered before, but which occurred
naturally to my mind, upon my searching into them
for the information of this poor savage. And I had
more affection in my enquiry after things upon this
occasion, than ever I felt before; so that whether this
poor wild wretch was the better for me or not, I had
great reason to be thankful that ever he came to me;
my grief sat lighter upon me, my habitation grew
comfortable to me beyond measure; and when I re-
flected, that in this solkary life, whkh I had been
192
confined to, I had not only been moved myself to look
up to Heaven, and to seek to the hand that brought
me thither, but was now to be made an instrument,
under Providence, to save the life, and for aught I
knew, the soul of a poor savage, and bring him to the
true knowledge of religion, and of the Christian doc-
trine, that he might know CHRIST JESUS, to know
whom is life eternal; I say, when I reflected upon all
these things, a secret joy ran through every part of my
soul, and I frequently rejoiced that ever I was brought
to this place, which I had often thought the most
dreadful of all afflictions that could possibly have be-
fallen, me.
In this thankful frame I continued all the remainder
of my time, and the conversation which employed the
hours between Friday and me was such, as made the
three years which we lived there together perfectly
and completely happy, if any such thing as complete
happiness can be found in a sublunary state. The sa-
vage was now a good Christian, a much better than I;
though I have reason to hope, and bless GOD for it,
that we were equally penitent, and comforted, restored
penitents : we had here the Word of GOD to read; and
were no farther off from his Spirit to instruct, than if
we had been in England.
I always applied myself to reading the Scripture, and
to let him know, as well as I could, the meaning of
what I read; and he again, by his serious enquiries
and questions, made me, as I said before, a much better
scholar in the Scripture knowledge, than I should ever
have been by my own private reading. Another
thing I cannot refrain from observmg here also from
experience, in this retired part of my life; viz. how
infinite and inexpressible a blessing it is, that the know-
ledge of GOD, and of the doctrine of salvation by
CHRIST JESUS, is so plainly laid down in the Word of
GOD, so easy to be received and understood, that as
the bare reading the Scripture made me capable of un-
derstanding enough of my duty to carry me directly
on to the great work of sincere repentance for my sins,
193
and laying hold of a Saviour for life and salvation, V.
a stated reformation in practice, and obedience to all
GOD'S commands, and this without any teacher or
instructor (I mean, human,) so the plain instruction
sufficiently served to the enlightenmg this savage
creature, and bringing him to be such a Christian, as
1 have known few to equal in my life. »
As to the disputes, wranglings, strife, and conten-
tion, which has happened in the world about religion,
whether niceties in doctrines, or schemes of church
government, they were all perfectly useless to us, as,
for aught I can yet see, they have been to all the rest
in the world. We had the sure guide to Heaven, viz
the Word of GOD; and we had, blessed be GOD! com*
fortable views of the Spirit of GOD, teaching and
instructing us by his Word, leading us into all truth,
and making us both willing and obedient to the in-
struction of his Word; and I cannot see the least use
that the greatest knowledge of the disputed points in
religion, which have made such confusions in the world,
would have been to us, if we could have obtained it.,
But I must go on with the historical part of things,
and take every part in its order.
After Friday and I became more intimately ac<
quainted, and that he could understand almost all I
said to him, and speak fluently, though in broken
English, to me, I acquainted him with my own story,
or at least so much of it as related to my coming into
the place, how I had lived there, and how long. I
let him into the mystery (for such it was to him) of
gunpowder and bullets, and taught him how to shoot:
I gave him a knife, which he was wonderfully delighted
•with; and I made him a belt with a frog hanging to
it, such as in England we wear hangers in; and in the
frog, instead of a hanger, I gave him a hatchet, which
was not only as good a weapon in some cases, but
much more useful upon many occasions.
I described to him the countries of Europe, and
particularly England, which I came from; how we
Jived, how we worshipped Goo, how we behaved ttj
s
«* «tot*tt*, ibid httw We traded hi sMps to ril parts
tfrth« Verld: I gate Mm am ;accOtint 'bf the wteek
which I had been on board of, and shewed him, as near
afe I could, the pla«e where she lay; but she was all
beaten in pieces long before, and quite gone.
1 Shewed him the ruins of our boat, which •wte Idst
•when we escaped, ahd whkh I could not stir ^ith niy
whole strength then, b»t was now fallen almost all to
pieces. Upon seeing this boat, Friday stood musing a
great while, and Said nothing; I asked him what ft
•was he.studied upon? At last, says he, me see such
boat lite come to place at my nation. I did not ufi-
derstand him a good While; but at last, when I had
examined further into it, I understood by him, that a
boat, stlch as that had been, came on shore upon the
country where he liVed; that is, as he explained it,
was driven thither•by stress of weather. I presently
imagined, that some European ship must have been
cast away upon their coast, and the boat might get
loose, and drive ashore; but was so dull, that 1 never
once thought of men making escape from a wreck
thither, much less whence they might come; so I only
enquired after a description of the boat.
Friday described the boat to me well enough ; but
brought me better to understand him, when he added,
with some warmth, we save the white mans from
drown: then I presently asked him, if there were any
•white mans, as he called them, in the boat? Yes, he
said, the boat full of white mans: 1 asked him, how
many? He toW upon his fingers seventeen: I asked
him then, what became of them? He told me, they
live, they dwell at my nation. '. .
This put new thoughts into my head again; for I
presently imagined, that these might be the men be-
longing to the ship that Was cast away in sight of my
island, as I now call it; and who, after the ship was
struck on the rock, and they saw her inevitably lost,
had•saved themselves in their boat, and were landed
upon that wild shore among the savages.
'-Upon tmVI enquired of him more critically, what
was become of them? He assured me they lived still
340
there; ti»at they had been ther^ abouit fo«r yearsj and
that the savages let them alone, and gave them victuals
to live. I asked him, how it catne to. pass they did
not kill them, and eat them? lie said, No, they make
brother with them: that is, as I understood him, a
truce: and then he added, they eafc no mans but when
make the war fight: that is to say, they never oat any
men, but such as come to fight with them, and are
taken in battle. ;j:
It was after this, some considerable time, that being
on the top of the hill, at the east side of the island,
from -whence, as I have, said, I had in a clear day
discovered the main or continent of America; Friday,
the weather being very serene, looks vei-y earnestly
towards the main land, and in a kind, of surprise falls
a jumping and dancing, and calls out to me, for I was
at some distance irom him. I asked him what was the
matter? O joy! says he, Q glad! there see my
country, there nj.y nation!
\ observed an extraordinary sense of pleasure; ap-
peared in his. face, and his. eyeft s.parkle4, and his
countenance discovered a strange eagerness, as if he
bad a mind to be in bis. owri country again: and this
observation pf mine put a great many thoughts, into
me, which made me at first not so easy about niy new
nqan Friday as I was before; and I made no doubt,
but that if Friday could get back to his own nation
«ga,in, he would not only forget aU his religion, but
all his obligations to me; and would be forward enough
to give his countrymen an account of me, and come
back, perhaps, with a hundred or two of them, and
make a feast upon me, at which he might be as merry
AS he used to be with those of his enemies, when they
were taken in war.
Btjt I wronged the poor honest creature very mwcli,
for which I was very sorry afterwards: however, as
my jealousy increased, and held me some weeks, I was
a little, more circumspect, and not so familiar and kind
to him as before; in which I was certainly in the wrong
too, toe honest grateful creature having no thought
..;,.: .--.-,.. . S -8
196
about it, but what consisted of the best principles,
both as a religious Christian, and as a grateful friend,
as appeared afterwards to my full satisfaction.
Whilst my jealousy of him lasted, you may be sure
I was every day pumping him, to see if he would dis-
cover any of the new thoughts which I suspected were
in him; but I found every thing he said was so honest,
and so innocent, that I could find nothing to nourish
my suspicion; and, in spite of all my uneasiness, he
made me at last entirely his own again: nor did he in
the least perceive that I was uneasy; and therefore I
could not suspect him of deceit.
One day, walking up the same hill, but the weather
being hazy at sea, so that we could not see thecontinent,
I called to him, and said, Friday, do not you wish
yourself in your own country, your own nation? Yes,
he said, I be much O glad to be at my own nation.
What would you do there? said I: would you turn
wild again, eat mens' flesh again, and be a savage as
you were before? He looked full of concern, and
shaking his head, said, No, no, Friday tell them to
live good, tell them to pray GOD, tell them to eat corn-
bread, cattle-flesh, milk, no eat man again. Why then,
said I to him, they will kill you. He looked grave at
that, and then said, No, they no kill me, they willing
love learn: he meant by this, they would be willing
to learn. He added, they learned much of the bearded
mans that came in the boat. Then I asked him, if he
•would go back to them? He smiled at that, and told
me he could not swim so far. I told him I would
make a canoe for him. He told me he would go, if I
would go with him. I go! said 1, why they will eat
me if 1 come there. No, no, says he, me make them
no eat you, me make they much love you: he meant
he would tell them how 1 had killed his enemies, and
saved his life, and so he would make them love me.
Then he told me, as well as he could, how kind they
were to seventeen white men, or bearded men, as he
called them, who came on shore in distress.
From this time, I confess, I had a mind to venture
over, and see if I could possibly join with these bearded
men, -who, I made no dquhtj srerp Spaniards or PqrV
tuguese; not doubtmg but, if I could, we might find
some method to escape from thence, being upon the
continent, and a good company together, better than
I could from, an island forty miles off the shore, and
alone without help. So, after some days, I took Friday
to work again, by way of discourse; and told him, 1
would give him a boat to go back to his own nation;
and accordingly I carried him to my frigate, which
lay on the other side of the island; and having clear-
ed it of water (for I always kept it sunk in the water,)
| brought it out, shewed it him, and we both wenf
into it.
I found he was a most dexterous fellpw at managing
it, would make it go almost as swift and fast again as•
I could; so when he was in, I said to him, Well, now
Friday, shall we go to your nation? He looked very
dull at my saying so, which, it seems, was because he
thought the boat too small to go so far. I told him
then I had a bigger; so the next day I went to the
place where the iu'st boat lay which I had made, but
which I could not get into the water: he said that was
big enough; but then, as I had taken no care of it,
and it had lain two or three and twenty years there*
the sun had split and dryed it, that it was in a man-
ner rotten. Friday told me, such a boat would dq
very well, and would carry 'much enough vittle^
'drink, bread,' that was his way of talking.
Upon the whole, I was by this time so fixed upon,
my design of going over with him to the continent,
that I told him we would go and make one as big as,
that, and he should go home in it. He answered not
one word, but looked very grave and sad. I asked
liim, what was the matter with him? He asked me>
again thus, why you angry mad with Friday? what
me done? I asked him, what he meant? 1 told him I
•was not angry with him at all: no angry! no angry 1.
says he, repeating the words several times, why send
Friday home a,way to my nation? Why, said I, Fridayf
jnot gay you. wisjied you. were there?
&3.
198
yes, says he, wish be both there; no wish Friday
there, no master there. In a word, he would not
think of going there without me. I go there, Friday!
said I, what should I do there? He turned very
quick upon me at this; You do great deal much goorf,
says he, you teach wild mans be good, sober, tame
mans; you tell them know GOD, pray GOD, and live
new life. Alas, Friday, said I, thou knowest not
what thou sayest; I am but an ignorant man myself.
Yes, yes, says he, you teechee me good, you teechee
them good. No, no, Friday, said I, you shall go
•without me; leave me here to live by myself, as I
did before. He looked confused again at that word,
and running to one of the hatchets which he used to
wear, he took it up hastily, and gave it me. What
must I do with this? said I to him: yon take kill
Friday, says he. What must I kill you for? said I
again. He returns very quick, What you send Friday
away for? Take kill Friday, no send Friday away.
This he spoke so earnestly, that I saw tears stand in
his eyes. In a word, I so plainly discovered the ut-
most affection towards me in him, that I told him then,
and often after, that I would never send him away
from me, if he was willing to stay with me.
Upon the whole, I found by all his discourse that
the sole foundation of his desire to go to his own
country was laid in his ardent affection to the people,
and his hopes of my doing them good; a thing, which
as I had no notion of myself, so I had not the least
thought, or intention, or desire of undertaking it: but
Still 1 found a strong inclination to my attempting an
escape, as above, founded on the supposition gathered
from the former discourse; viz. that there were seven-
teen bearded men there; and therefore, without any
delay, I went to work with Friday, to find out a great
tree proper to fell, and make a large periagaa or canoe,
to undertake the voyage. There were trees enough.
5n the island to have built a little fleet, not of periaguas
and canoes only, but even of good large vessels: but
the mam thing I looked at, was to get one so near the
199
water, that we might launch it when it was made, to
avoid the mistake I committed at first.
At last Friday pitched upon a tree; for I found he
knew much better than I, what kind of wood was
fittest for it: nor can I tell to this day what wood to
call the tree we cut down, except that it was very like
the tree we call fustick, or between that and the Nica-
ragua wood, for it was much of the same colour and
smell. Friday was for burning the hollow or cavity
of this tree out, to make it into a boat: but I shewed
him how rather to cut it out with tools, which after I
shewed him how to use, he did very handily; and in
about a month's hard labour we finished it, and made
it very handsome, especially when, with our axes, which
I shewed him how to handle, we cut and hewed the
outside into the true shape of a boat: after this, how-
ever, it cost us near a fortnight's time to get her along,
as it were inch by inch, upon great rollers into the
water: but when she was in, she would have carried
twenty men with great ease.
When she was in the water, though she was so big,
it amazed me to see with what dexterity and how swift
my man Friday could manage her, turn her, and pad-
• die her along; so I asked him if he would/ and if we
might venture over in her? Yes, he said, he venture
over in her very well, though great blow wind: how-
ever, I had a farther design that he knew nothing of,
and that was to make a mast and sail, and to fit her
with an anchor and cable. As to a mast, that was
easy enough to get; so I pitched upon a striaght young
cedar-tree, which I found near the place, and of
which there was a great plenty in the island ; and I
set Friday to work to cut it down, and gave him di-
rections how to shape and order it; but as to the sail,
that was my particular care. I knew I had old sails,
or rather pieces of old sails enough; but as I had them
now twenty-six years by me, and had not been very
careful to preserve them, not imagining that I should
ever have this kind of use for them, 1 did not doubt
but they were all rotten; and indeed most of them
390
were so: however, I found two pieces which appeared
pretty good, and with these I went to work, and with
a great deal of pains, and awkward tedious stitching
(you my be sure) for want of needles, I at length made
a three-cornered ugly thing, like what we call in
England a Khou'.tltT-of-mutton sail, to go with a boom
at bottom, and a little short sprit at the top, such as
usually our ships longboats sail with, and such as I
best knew how to manage; being the same I used in
the boat in which I made my escape from Barbary, as
related in the first part of my story.
I was near two months performing this last work;
viz. rigging and fitting my mast and sails; for J
finished them very complete, making a small stay, and
a sail or foresail to it, to assist, if we should turn to
windward; and, which was more than all, I fixed a
rudder to the stern of her, to steer with ; and though
I was but a bungling shipwright, yet as I knew the
usefulness, and even necessity of such a thing, I ap-
plied myself with so much pains to do it, that at last
I brought it to pass, tho', considering the many dull
contrivances I had for it that failed, I think it cost me
almost as much labour as making the boat.
After aH this was done, I had my man Friday to
teach as to what belonged to the navigation of my boat;
for tho' he knew very well tow to paddle the canoe,
he knew nothing that belonged to a sail and rudder,
*nd was the more amazed when he saw me work the
boat to-and-again in the sea by the rudder, and ho or
the sail gybed, and filled this way or that way, as the
course we sailed changed. I say, when he saw this, he
stood like one astonished and amazed: however, with
a little use, I made all these things imuiliar to him, and
he became an expert sailor, except that as to the com-
pass I could make him understand very little of that:
on the other hand, as there was very little cloudy
weather, and seldom or never any fogs ia those parts,
there was the less occasion for that instrument the stars
being usually visible by night, and the shore -by day,
except in the rainy seasons ; and .then nobody caved
to stir abroad, either by land or sea.
SOI
I was now entered on the seven-aml-twcntieth year
of my captivity in this place; though the three last
years that I had this creature with me, ought rather
to be left out of the account, my mode of life having
been rendered quite different from what it was before.
I kept the anniversary of my landing here with the
same thankfulness to GOD for his mercies as at first;
and if I had such cause of acknowledgement at first,
I had much more so now, having such additional tes-
timonies of the care of Providence over me, united to
the great hopes I entertained of being effectually and
speedily delivered; for I had an invincible impression
upon my thoughts, that my deliverance was at hand,
and that I should not be another year in this place.
However, I went on with my husbandry, diggmg,
planting, and fencing, as usual; I gathered and cured
my grapes, and did.every necessary thing as before.
The rainy season was in the mean time upon me,
•when I kept more within doors than at other times,
so I had stowed our new vessel as secure as we could,
bringing her up into the creek, where, as I said in
the beginning, I landed my rafts from the ship; and
haling her up to the shore, at high-water mark, I made
my man Friday dig a little dock, just big enough for
her to float in; and then, when the tide was out, we
made a strong dam across the end of it, to keep the
•water out so that she lay dry, as to the tide, from the
sea; and to keep the rain off, we laid a great many
boughs of trees so thick, that she was as well thatched
as a house: and thus we waited for the months of
November and December, in which I designed to make
rny adventure.
When the settled season began to come in, as the
thoughts of my design returned with the fair weather,
I was preparing daily for the voyage. And the first
thing 1 did, was to lay up a certain quantity of provi.
sion, being the store tor the voyage; and intended, in
a week or a fortnight's time, to open the dock, and
launch out our boat. I was busy one morning upon
Something of this kind, when 1 called to Friday, and
202
bid him go to the sea-shore, and see. if be could find
a turtle or tortoise, a thing which we generally got
once a week, for the sake of the eggs, as well as the
flesh. Friday had not been long gone, when he came
niiining back, and flew over my outward wall or fence,
like one that felt not the ground, or the steps he set
his feet on; and before I had time to speak to him, he
cried out to me, O master! O master! O sorrow! O
bad! What's the matter, Friday) said I? O yonder
there, says he, one, two, three, cancel one, two, three!
By this way of speaking I concluded there were six;
but on enquiry I found there were but thi'ee. Well
./•'/ iday, said I, do not be frighted; so I heartened
him up as well as I could. However, I saw the poor
fellow was most terribly geared; for as nothing ran
iu his head but that they were come to look for him,,
and would cut him in pieces, and eat him, the poor
fellow trembled so, that I scarce knew what to do with
him. 1 comforted him as well as I was able, and
told him I was in as much danger as he, and that they
would eat me as well as him; but, said I* Friday, we
must resolve to fight them: Can you fight, Friday f
Me shoot, says he, but there come many great num-
ber. No, matter tor that, said I again, our guns will
flight those that we do not kill. So I asked him,
whether, if I resolved to defend him, he would defend
me, and stand by me, and. do j ust as I bade him? He
said, Me die, when you bid die, master: so I went
and fetched a good dram of rum, and gave him ; for I
had been so good a husband of my ram, that I had
a great deal left. When he had drank it, I made him
take the two fowling-pieces which we always carried,
and load them with large swan shot as big as small
pistol-bullets; then I took four musquets, and loaded
them with two slugs, and five small bullets each; and
my two pistols I loaded with a brace of bullets each:
I iuirig my great sword, as usual, naked by ray side,
and gave Friday his hatchet. .• <••
When I had thus prepared myself, I took my per-
spective.glass, and went up to the side of the hill, to
20S
see what I could discover; and I found quickly, by
my glass, that there were one-and-twenty savages,
three prisoners, and three canoes; and that their whole
business seemed to be the triumphant banquet upon
these three human bodies; a barbarous feast indeed,
but nothing more than I had observed 'was usual with
them. I observed also, that they were landed, not
where they bad done when Friday made his escape,
but nearer to my creek, where the shore was low, and
where a thick wood came close almost down to the sea.
This, with the abhorrence of the inhuman errand these
wretches came about, so filled me with indignation,
that I came down again to Friday, and told him, I was
resolved to go down to them, and kill them all; and
asked him if he would stand by me. He was now got*
ten over his fright, and his spirits being a little raised
with the dram I had given him, he was very cheerful;
and told me, as before, he would die when I bid die.
• In this fit of fury, I took first and divided the arms
which I had charged, as before, between us: I gave
Friday one pistol to stick in his girdle, and three guns
upon his shoulder; and I took one pistol, and the
other three, myself; and in this posture we marched
out. I took a small bottle of rum in my pocket, and
gave Friday a large bag with more powder and bullet;
and as to orders, I charged him to keep close behind
me, and not to stir, shoot, or do any thing till I bid
him ; and in the mean time, not to speak a word.
In this posture I fetched a compass to my right hand
of near a mile, as •well to get over the creek as to get
into the wood; so that I might come within shot • of
them before I should be discovered, which I had seen
by my glass it was easy to do.
While I was making this march, «ny former thoughts
returning, I began to abate my resolution. I do not
mean, that I entertained any fear of their number; for
as they were naked, unarmed Wretches, it is certain I
was superior to them, though I had been alone: but
it occurred to my thoughts, what call, what occasion,
much less what necessity, I WAS IB, to go and dip my
204
hands in blood; to attack people who had neitiwt
done or intended me any wrong, who, as to me, were
innocent; and whose barbarous customs were their
own disaster, being in them a token indeed of GOD'S
having left them, with the other nations of that part
of the world, to such stupidity and to such inhuman
courses, but, did not call upon me to be a judge of
their actions, much less an executioner of his justice,
who, whenever he thought fit, would take the cause
into his own hands, and by national vengeance punish
national crimes: that it was true, Friday might justify
it, because he was a declared enemy, and in a state of
war with those very people; but I could not say the
same with respect to myself. These things were so
warmly pressed upon my thoughts all the way as J
went, that I resolved I would only place myself near
them, that I might observe their barbarous feast, and
that I would act then as GOD should direct; but that
unless something offered that was more a call to me
than yet I knew of, I would not meddle with them.
With this resolution I entered the wood, and with
all possible wariness and silence (Friday following close
at my heels) I marched till I came to the skirt of the
wood, on the side which was next to them; only that
one corner of the wood lay between me and them.
Here I called softly to Friday, and shewing him a
great tree, which was just at the corner of the wood,
I bade him go to the tree, and bring me word if he
could see there plainly what they were doing. He
did so, and came immediately back to me, and told
me they might be plainly viewed there; that they
were all about the fire, eating the flesh of one of their
prisoners; and that another lay bound upon the sand,
a little from them, whom he said they would kill next;
and ( which fired my very soul within me) he told me,
it was not one of their nation, but one of the bearded
men whom he had mentioned as coming to their coun-
try in the boat. I was filled with horror at the very
naming the white-bearded man ; and, going to the tree,
I saw plainly, by .my glass..a white man, who lay upon
the beach pf the sea, with hi? hands and feet tied with
Hags, or things like rushes; and that he was an Euro*
pe'an, and had clpthes on.
There was another tree, and a little thicket beyond
it, aboji^ fifty yards nearer to them than the place
where I was, which, by going a little way about, I
saw I might come at undiscovered, and that then I
should be within half shot of them; so I withheld my
passion, though I was indeed enraged to the highest
degree; and going back about twenty paces, I got
behind spme bushes, which held all the way till I came
to the other tree, and then I came to a little rising
ground, which gave me a full view of them, at the
distance of about eighty yards.
I had now not a moment to lose; for nineteen of
the dreadful wretches sat upon the ground all close
huddled together, and had just sent the other two to
butcher the poor Christian, and bring him, perhaps
limb by limb, to their fire; and they were stooped
down to untie the bands at his feet. I turned to Pri«
day; Now, Friday, said I, do as I bid thee. Friday
said he would. Then, Friday, said I, do exactly as
you see me do: fail in nothing. So I set down one of
the musquets and the fowling-piece upon the ground,
and Friday did the like by his; and with the other
musquet I took my aim at the savages, bidding him
do the like. Then asking him if he was ready, he
said, Yes. Then fire at them, said I; and the same
moment I fired also.
Friday took his aim so much better than I, that on
the side that he shot, he killed two of them, and
wounded three more; and on my side, I killed one,
and wounded two. They were, you may be sure, in
a dreadful consternation; and all of them, who were
not hurt, jumped up upon their feet immediately, but
did not know which way to run, or which way to look;
for they knew not from whence their destruction came.
Friday kept his eyes close upon me, that as I had bid
him, ne might observe what I did; so as soon as the
first shot was made, I threw down the piece, and took
T
£06
ff• *• • - '«,
iip the fowling-piece, and Friday did the like; he saw
me cock, and present; he did the same again: are you
ready, Friday? said I; yes, says he; let fly then,
said I, in the name of GOD: and with that I fired
again among the amazed wretches, and so did Friday;
and as our pieces were now loaden with what I called
swan-shot, or small pistol bullets, we found only two
drop; but so many were wounded, that they ran about
yelling and screaming like mad creatures, all bloody,
and miserably wounded most of them; whereof three
more fell quickly after, though not quite dead.
Now, Friday, said I, laying down the discharged
pieces, and taking up the musquet, which was yet
loaden, follow me: this he did, with a deal of courage;
upon which 1 rushed out of the wood, and shewed
myself, and Friday close at my feet. As soon as I
perceived they saw me, I shouted as loud as I could,
and bade Friday do so too; and running as fast as I
could which by the way was not very fast, being load-
ed with arms as I was I made directly towards the
poor victim, who was, as I said, lying upon the beach,
or shore, between the place where they sat and the sea.
The two butchers, who were just going to work with
him, had left him, at the surprise of our first fire, and
flying in a terrible fright to the sea-side had jumped
with three of the others, into a canoe. I turned to
Friday, and bade him step forwards, and fire at them;
he understood me immediately, and running about
forty yards to be near them, he shot at them, and I
thought had killed them all, for I saw them all fall on
a heap into the boat; but two of them were up again
quickly: however, he killed two of them, and wounded
the third, so that he lay down in the bottom of the
boat, as if he had been dead.
While my man Friday fired at them, I pulled out
my knife, and cut the flags that bound the poor victim;
and loosing his hands and feet, I lifted him up, and
asked him in the Portuguese tongue, what he was?
He answered in Latin, Christianus; but was so weak
and faint, that he could scarce stand, or speak. I
SOT
took my bottle out of my pocket, and gave it him,
making signs that he should drink, which he did; and
I gave him a piece of bread, which he eat; then I
asked him, what countryman he was? and he said,
Espagnole; and, being a little recovered, let me know,
by all the signs he could possibly make, how much he
was in my debt for his deliverance. Seignior, said I,
with as much Spanish as I could make up, we will
talk afterwards, but we must fight now: if you have
any strength left, take this pistol and sword, and lay
about you. He took them very thankfully, and no
sooner had he the arms in his hands, but as if they
had put new vigour into him, he flew upon his mur-
derers like a fury, and had cut two of them in pieces
in an instant; for the truth is, as the whole was a
surprise to them, so the poor creatures were so much
frighted with the noise of our pieces, that they fell
down for mere amazement and fear, and had no more
power to attempt their own escape, than their flesh
had to resist our shot; just as was the case of those
five that Friday shot in the boat; for as three of them,
fell with the hurt they received, so the other two fell
with the fright.
I kept my piece in my hand still, without firing,
being willing to keep my charge ready, because I had
given the Spaniard my pistol and sword; so I called
to Friday, and bade him run up to the tree from whence
we first fired, and fetch the arms which lay there, that
had been discharged, which he did with great swift-
ness; and then gave him my musquet, I sat down
myself to load all the rest again, and bade them come
to me when they wanted. "While I was loading these
pieces, there happened a fierce engagement between
the Spaniard and one of the savages, who made at him
with one of their great wooden swords, the same wea«
pon that was to have killed him before, if I had not
prevented it. The Spaniard, who was as bold and as
brave as could be imagined, though weak, had fought
this Indian a good while, and had cut him two great
wounds on his head; but the savage, being a stout
------ , • T2- •""
208
lusty fellow1, closing in with him, had thrown him
down, (being faint,) and was wringing my sword out
of his hand, when the Spaniard, though undermost,
wisely quitting his sword, drew the pistol from his
girdle, shot the savage through the body, and killed
him upon the spot, before I, who was running to
help, could come near him.
Friday, being now left at his liberty > pursued the
flying wretches with no weapon in his hand but his
hatchet; and with that he dispatched those three, who,
as I said before, were wounded at first, and fallen, and
all the rest he could come up with; and the Spaniard
coming to me for a gun, I gave him one of the fowling-
pieces, with which he pursued two of the savages, and
wounded them both: but as he was not able to run,
they both got from him into the wood, where Friday
pursued them, and killed one of them; but the other
was too nimble for him; and though he was wounded,
yet he plunged into the sea, and swam with all his
might off to those who were left in the canoe, which
three in the canoe, with one wounded, who we knew
not whether he died or no, were all {bat escaped our
hands of one-and-twenty. The account of the rest is
as follows:
3 Killed at our shot from the tree.
, 2 Killed at the next shot,
% Killed by Friday in the boat.
2 Killed by ditto, of those at first wounded.
1 Killed by ditto, in the wood.
3 Killed by the Spaniard.
4 Killed, being found dropt here and there of their
wounds, or killed by Friday in his chace of them,
4 Escaped in the boat, whereof one wounded, if
not dead.
21 in all.
Those that were in the canoe, worked hard to get
but of gun-shot; and though Friday made two or three
shots at them, 1 did not find that he hit any of them.
Friday would.fain have had me take one of therf
canoes, and pursue them; and indeed I was very an-*
xious about their escape, lest carrying the news home
to their people, they should come back, perhaps, with
two or three hundred of their canoes, and devour us
by mere multitudes; so I consented to pursue them
by sea; and running to one of their canoes, I jumped
in, and bade Friday follow me: but when I was in
the canoe, I was surprised to mid another poor crea-
ture lie there alive, bound hand and foot, as the
Spaniard was, for the slaughter, and almost dead with
fear, not knowing what the matter was; for he had
not been able to look up over the side of the boat, he
was tied so hard, neck and heels, and had been con-
fined so long, that he had really little hfe in him.
I immediately cut the twisted flags, or rushes, which
they had bound him with, and would have helped him
up; but he could not stand, or speak, but groaned
most piteously, believing, it seems still, that he was
only unloosed in order to be killed.
When Friday came to him, I bade him speak to him,
and tell him of his deliverance; and pulling out my
bottle, made him give the poor wretch a dram, which,
with the news of his being delivered, revived him, and
he sat up in the boat: but when Friday came to hear
him speak, and looked in his face, it would have
moved any one to tears, to have seen how Friday kis-
sed him, embraced him, hugged him, cried, laughed,
hallooed, jumped about, danced, sung, then cried
again, wrung his hands, beat his own face and head,
and then sung and jumped about again like a distract-
ed creature. It was a good while before I could make
him speak to me, or tell me what was the matter; but
•when he came a little to himself, he told me that it
•was his father.
It was not easy for me to express how it moved me,
to see what extasy and filial feeling had worked in this
poor savage, at the sight of his father, and of his being
delivered from death; nor indeed can I describe half
the extravagancies of his affection after this; for he
X 3 *
went mto the boat and out of the boat a great many
times: when he -went in to him, he would sit down
by him, open his breast, and hold his father's head
close to his bosom, half an hour together, to nourish
it: then he took his arms and ancles, which were
numbed and stiff with the binding, and chafed, and
rubbed them with his hands; and I perceiving what
the case was, gave him some rum out of my bottle to
rub them with, which did them a great deal of good.
This action put an end to our pursuit of the canoe
with the other savages, who were now gotten almost
out of sight; and it was happy for us that we did not;
for it blew so hard within two hours after, and before
they could be gotten a quarter of their way, and con-
tinued blowing so hard all night, and that from the
north-west, which was against them, that I could not
suppose their boat could live, or that they ever reached
to their own coast.
But to return to Friday; he was so busy about his
father, that I could not find in my heart to take him
off for sometime: but after I thought he could leave
him a little, I called him to me, and he came jumping
and laughing, and pleased to the highest extreme.
Then I asked him, if he had given his father any bread?
He shook his head, and said, None: ugly dog eat all
up self. So I gave him a cake of bread out of a little
rch I carried on purpose; I also gave him a dram
himself, but he would not taste it, but carried it
to his father: I had in my pocket also two or three
bunches of my raisins, so I gave him a handful of them
for his father. He had no sooner given his father
these raisins, but I saw him come out of the boat, and
run away as if he had been bewitched. He ran at
such a rate, (for he was the swiftest fellow with his feet
that ever I saw) I say, he ran at such a rate, that he
was out of sight, as it were, in an instant; and though
I called and hallooed too after him, it was all one;
away he went, and in a quarter of an hour I saw him
come back again, though not so fast as he went; and
as he came nearer, I found his pace was slacker, be»
cause he had something in his hand.
When he came up to me, I found he had been
quite home for an earthen• jug, or pot, to bring his
father some fresh water; and that he had got two more
cakes or loaves of bread. The bread he gave me, but
the water he carried to his father: however, as I was
very thirsty too, I took a little sup of it: this water
revived his father more than all the rum or spirits I
had given him; for he was just fainting with thirst.
When his father had drank, I called him, to know
if there was any water left? he said, Yes; and I bade
Rim give it to the poor Spaniard, who was in as much
want of it as his father; and I sent one of the cakes,
that Friday brought, to the Spaniard too, who was
indeed very Weak, and was reposing himself upon a
green place, under the shade of a tree, his limbs being
also very stiff, and much swelled with the rude ban-
dage he had been tied with. When I saw that upon
Friday's coming to him with the water, he sat up and
drank, and took the bread, and began to eat, I went
to him, and gave him a handful of raisins: he looked
up in my face with all the tokens of gratitude and
thankfulness that could appear in any countenance;
but was so weak, notwithstanding he had exerted him-
self with such courage in the fight,' that he could not
dtand upon his feet: he tried to do it two or three
times, but was really not able, his ancles were so swel-
led and so painful to him; so I bade him sit still, and
caused Friday to rub his ancles, and bathe them with
fum, as he had done his father's.
I observed the poor affectionate creature every two
minutes, or perhaps less, all the while he was here,
turning his head about, to see if his father was in the
same place and posture as he left him sitting: and at
last he found he was not to be seen; at which he
started up, and, without speaking a word, flew with
that swiftness to him, that one could scarce perceive
his feet to touch the ground as he went: but when he
came, he only found he had laid himself down to ease
his limbs. So Friday came back to me presently; and
1 then spoke to the Spaniard to let Friday help him up,
1*1
if he could, and lead him to the .boat, -and then he
should carry him to our dwelling, where I would take
care of him: but Friday, a lusty young fellow, took
the Spaniard quite up upon his back, and carried him
away to the boat, and set him down softly upon the
side or gunnel of the canoe, with his feet in the inside
of it, and then lifted them quite in, and set him close
to his father, and presently stepping out again, launch-
ed the boat off, and paddled it along the shore faster
than I could walk, though the wind blew pretty hard
too; so he brought them both safe into our creek; and
leaving them in the boat, ran away to fetch the other
canoe. As he passed me, I spoke to him, and asked
him, whither he went? He told me, Go fetch more
boat; so away he went, like the wind; for sure never
man or horse ran like him, and he had the other canoe
in the creek almost as soon as I got to it by land; so
he wafted me over, and then went to help our new
guests out of the boat, which he did; but they were
neither of them able to walk; so that poor Friday
knew not what to do.
To remedy this, 1 went to work in my thought, and
calling to Friday to bid them sit down on the bank
while he came to me, I soon made a kind of hand-
barrow to lay them on, and Friday and I carried them
up both together upon it between us. But when we
got them to the outside of our wall or fortification, we
were at a worse loss then before: for it was impossible
to get them over; and I was resolved not to break it
down: so I set to work again; and Friday and I, in
about two hours time, made a very handsome tent,
covered with old sails, and above that with boughs of
trees, in the space without our outward fence, and be-
tween that and the grove of young wood which I had
planted: and here we made two beds of such things
as I had; viz. of good rice-straw, with blankets spread
upon it to lie on, and another to cover them, on each
bed.
My island was now peopled, and I thought myself
very rich in subjects. It, was a merry reflection which
<. »•••••••• "• -• • . • • •
213
1 frequently made, how like a king I looked : first of
all, the whole country was my own mere property;
so that I had an undoubted right of dominion: 2dly,
My people were perfectly subjected: I was absolute
lord and lawgiver ; they all owed their lives to me,
and were ready to lay down their lives, if there had
been occasion for it, for me. It was remarkable too, I
had but three subjects, and they were of three different
religions: my man Friday was a protestant; his father
a pagan and a canibal; and the Spaniard was a papist:
however, I allowed liberty of conscience throughout
my dominions:—but this by the way.
As soon as I had secured my two weak rescued pri-
soners, and given them shelter, and a place to rest
them upon, I began to think of making some provision
for them ; and the first thing I did, I ordered Friday
to take a yearling goat, betwixt a kid and a goat, out
of my particular flock, to be killed: then I cut off the
hind quarter, and, chopping it into small pieces, I set
Friday to work to boiling and stewing, and made
them a very good dish, I assure you, of flesh and broth',
having put some barley and rice also into the broth;
and as I cooked it without doors (fot I made no fire
within my inner wall) so I carried it all into the new
tent; and having set a table there for them, I sat down
and eat my dinner also with them; and, as well as I
could, cheered them and encouraged them, Friday
being my interpreter, especially to his father ; and in-
deed to the Spaniard too, for the Spaniard spoke the
language of the savages pretty well.
After we had dined, or rather supped, I ordered
Friday to take one of the canoes, and go and fetch out
musquets and other fire-arms, which, for want of time,
we had left upon the place of battle: and the next
day I ordered him to go and bury the dead bodies of
the savages, which lay open to the sun, and would
presently be offensive; and I also ordered him to bury
the horrid remains of their barbarous feast, which 1
knew were pretty much, and which I could n6f think
of doing myself; nay, I coul'd not bear to see them, if
214
I went that way: all which he punctually performed,
and effaced the very appearance of the savages being
there; so that when I went again, I could scarce know
where it was, otherwise than by the corner of the
wood pointing to the place.
I then began to enter into a little conversation with
my two new subjects. And first I set Friday to enquire
of his father, what he thought of the escape of the
savages in that canoe? and whether he might expect
a return of them with a power too great for us to resist?
His first opinion was, that the savages in the boat
never could live out the storm which blew that night
they went off, but must of necessity be drowned or
driven south to those other shores, where they were
as sure to be devoured as they were to be drowned, if
they were cast away : as to what they would do if they
came safe on shore, he said, he knew not; but it was
his opinion, that they were so dreadfully frightened
with the manner of being attacked, the noise, and the
fire, that he believed they would tell their people they
were all killed by thunder and lightning, and not by
the hand of man ; and that the two which appeared
(viz. Friday and I) were two heavenly spirits or furies
comedown to destroy them, and not men with weapons.
This, he said, he knew, because he heard them all cry
out so in their language to one another ; indeed it was
impossible for them to conceive that a man should dart
fire, and speak thunder and kill at a distance, without
lifting up the hand, as was done now. And this old
savage was in the right, for, as I understood since by
other hands, the savages of that part never attempted
to go over to the island afterwards. They were so
terrified with the accounts given by these four men
(for it seems they did escape the sea,) that they be-
ieved, whoever went to that enchanted island, would
be destroyed with fire from the gods.
! This, however, I knew not, and therefore was under
continual apprehensions for a good while, and kept
always upon my guard, I and all my army; for as there
•were now four of us, I would have ventured upon a
Ijitndre•d of them fairly in the open field: at any throe.
215
In a little time, however, no more canoes appearing/
the fear of their coming wore off, and I began to take
my former thoughts of a voyage to the main into con«
sideration; being likewise assured by Friday's father,
that I might depend upon good usage from their nation
on his account, if I would go.
But my thoughts were a little suspended, when I
had a serious discourse with the Spaniard, and when
I understood, that there were sixteen more of his count
trymen and Portuguese, who having been cast away,
and made their escape to that side, lived there at peace
indeed with the savages, but were very sore put to it
for necessaries, and indeed for life. 1 asked him all
the particulars of their voyage; and found they were
of a Spanish ship, bound from the Rio de la Plata to
the Havannah, being directed to leave their loading
there, which was chiefly hides and silver, and to bring
back what European goods they could meet with there;
that they had five Portuguese seamen on board, whom
they took out of another wreck; that five of their own
men were drowned when first the ship was lost; and
that these escaped through infinite dangers and ha-
zards, and arrived almost starved on the Canibal coast,
where they expected to have been devoured every,
moment.
He told me, they had some arms with them, but
they were perfectly useless, for that they had neither
powder or ball, the washing of the sea having spoiled
all their powder, but a little which they used at their
first landing to provide themselves some food.
I asked him what he thought would become of them
there; and if they had formed no design of making
any escape? He said, they had many consultations
about it; but that having neither vessel, nor tools to
build one, or provisions of any kind, their counsels
always ended in tears and despair.
I asked him, how he thought they would receive a
proposal from me, which might tend towards an escape;
and whether, if they were all here, it might not be
done? I told him with freedom, I feared mostly their
$16

treachery and ill usage of me, if J put my life in their
hands; for thajt gratitude was no inherent virtue in
the nature of man; nor did men always square their
dealings by the obligations they had received, so much
as they did by the advantages they expected: it would
be very hard, I told him, that I should be the instru-
ment of their deliverance, and that they should after-
wards make me their prisoner in New Spain, where
an Englishman was certain to be made a sacrifice,
what necessity, or what accident soever, brought him
thither; and that I had rather be delivered up to the
savages, and he devoured alive, than fall into the
merciless claws of the priests, and be carried into the
inquisition. I added, that otherwise I was persuaded,
if they were all here, we might, with so many hands,
build a bark large enough to carry us all away either
to the Brasils southward, or to the islands or Spanish
coast northward: but that if in requital they should,
when I had put weapons into their hands, carry me
by force among their own people, I might be ill used
tor my kindness to them, and make my case worse
than it was before.
He answered, with a great deal of candour and in-
genuity, that their condition was so miserable, and they
were so sensible of it, that he believed they would
abhor the thought of using any man unkindly that
should contribute to their deliverance; and that, if I
pleased, he would go to them with the old man, and
discourse with them about it, and return again, and
bring me their answer: that he vrouldmake conditions
with them upon then: solemn oath, that they would be
absolutely under my leading, as their commander and
captain; and that they should swear upon the holy
sacraments and gospel, to be true to me, and go to
such Christian country as I should agree to, and no
other; and be directed wholly and absolutely by my
prders, till they were landed safely in such country as
I intended; and that he would bring a contract from
them under their hands for that purpose.
Then he told me, he would first swear to me him-
self, that he would never stir from me as long as he

217
lived, till I gave him order; and that he Would tak«
my side to the last drop of blood, if there should hap«
pen the least breach of faith among his countrymen.
He assured me, they were all of them very civil
honest men, and under the greatest distress imaginable,
having neither weapons or clothes, nor any food, but
at the mercy and discretion of the savages; out of all
hopes of ever returning to their own country; and
that he was certain, if I would undertake their relief,
they would live and die by me.
Upon these assurances, I resolved to venture to re-
lieve them, if possible, and to send the old savage and
this Spaniard over to them to treat: but when he had
gotten all things in readiness to go, the Spaniard him-
self started an objection, which had so much prudence
in it on one hand, and so much sincerity on the other
hand, that I could not but be very well satisfied with
it; and, by his advice, put off the deliverance of his
comrades for at least half a year. The case was thus:
He had been with us now about a month; during
•which time I had let him see in what manner I had
provided for my support, and what stock of corn and
rice I had lain up; which, as it was more than suf-
ficient for myself, so it was not sufficient, at least
without good husbandry, for my family, now it was
increased to four: but much less would it be sufficient,
if his countrymen, who were, as he said, fourteen
still alive, should come over; and least of all would it
be sufficient to victual our vessel, if we should build
one, for a voyage to any of the Christian colonies of
America. So he told me, he thought it would be more
advisable, to let him and the other two dig and cul-
tivate some more land, aa much as I could spare seed
to sow; and that we should wait another harvest, that
we might have a supply of corn for his countrymen
when they should come: for want might be a tempta-
tion to them to disagree, or not to think themselves
delivered, otherwise than out of one difficulty-into
another: you know, says he, the children of Israel,
though they rejoiced at first at their being delivered
S18
oat of Egypt, yet rebelled even against GOD himself,
that delivered them, when they came to -want bread
in the wilderness.
His caution was so seasonable, and his advice so
good, that I could not but be very well pleased with
his proposal, as well as satisfied with his fidelity: so
V/e fell to digging, all four of us, as well as the wooden
tools we were furnished with permitted; and in about
a month's time, by the end of which it was seed-time,
we had gotten as much land prepared and trimmed up
as enabled us to sow twenty-two bushels of barley, and
sixteen jars of rice, which was, in short, all the seed
we had to spare; nor indeed did we leave ourselves
barley sufficient for our own food for the six months
that we had to expect our crop, that is to say, reckon-
ing from the time we set our seed aside for sowing;
for it is not to be supposed it is six months in the
ground in that country.
Having now society enough, and our number being
sufficient to put us out of fear of the savages, if they
had come, unless their number had been very great,
we went freely all over the island, wherever we found
occasion; and as the means of our escape from it was
ever on my mmd, I marked out several trees, which
I thought fit for our work, and set Friday and his
father to cutting them down; and then I caused the
Spaniard, to whom I imparted my thoughts on that
affair, to oversee and direct their work. I shewed them
•with what indefatigable pains I had hewed a large
tree into single planks; said I caused them to do the
like, till they had made about a do^en large planks of
good oak, near two feet broad, thirty-five feet long,
and from two inches to four inches thick: what pro-
digious labour it too.': up, any one may imagine.
At the same time I contrived to increase my little
flock of tame goals as much as I could; and for this
purpose I made Friday and the Spaniard go out one
day, and went out myself, with Friday, the next; for
we took our turns: and by this means we got about
twenty young kids to breed up with the rest; for
\vhenever we shot the dam, we saved the kids, sad
added them to our flock. But above oil, the season
for curing the grapes coming on, I caused such a
prodigious quantity to be hung up in the sun, that I
believe, had we been at Alicant, where the raisins of
the sun are cured, we should have filled sixty or eighty
barrels; and these, with our bread, was a great part
of our food; and good living too, I assure you; for it
is very nourishing food.
It was now harvest, and our crop in good order.
It was not the most plentiful increase I had seen in the
island, but, however, it was enough to answer our
end: for from twenty-two bushels of barley, we
brought in, and threshed out, above two hundred and
twenty bushels; and the like in proportion of the rice:
which was store enough for our food to the next
harvest, though all the sixteen Spaniards had been on
shore with me; or if we had been ready for a voyage,
il would very plentifully have victualled our ship, to
have carried us to any part of the world, that is to say,
of America. When we had thus housed and secured
our magazine of corn, we fell to work to make more
wicker-work, viz. great baskets, in which we kept it;
and the Spaniard was very handy and dexterous at
this part, and often blamed me, that I did not make
some things for defence of this kind of work; but I
saw no need of it. And now having a full supply of
food for all the guests expected, I gave the Spaniard
leave to go over to the main, to see what he could do
with those he left behind him there. I gave him a
strict charge, in ivriting, not to bring any man with
him, who would not first swear, in the presence of
himself and of the old savage, that he would no way
injure, or attack the person he should find in the is-
land, who was so kind to send for them in order to
their deliverance; but that they would stand by and
defend him against all such attempts; and wherever
they went, would be entirely under, and subjected to
his command; and that this should be put in writing,
and signed with their hands. How we were to have
u 8
220
this dohe, •when,I knew they had neither pen or ink,
that indeed was a question which we never asked.
Under these instructions, the Spaniard, and the old
savage (the father ot Friday) went away in one of the
canoes, which they were brought in, when they came
as prisoners to be devoured by the savages. I gave
each of them a musquet, and about eight charges
of powder and ball, charging them to be very good
husbands of both, and not to use either of them but
upon urgent occasions.
This was a cheerful work, being the first measures
used by me in view of my deliverance for twenty-seven
years and some days. J gave them provisions of
bread, and of dried grapes, sufficient for themselves
for many days, and sufficient for their countrymen for
about eight days time; and wishing them a good
voyage, I let them go, having previously agreed upon
a signal, by which 1 should know them again, when
they came back, at a distance, before they reached
shore.
They went away with a fair gale on the day that
the moon was at the full; by my account in the
month of October: but as for the exact reckoning of
days, after i had once lost it, I could never recover it
again ; nor had I kept even the number of years so
punctually, as to be sure that I was right; .though, as
it proved, when I afterwards examined my account, I
found I had kept a true reckoning of the latter.
It was no less than eight days that I waited for
them, when a strange and unforeseen accident inter-
vened, of which the like has not, perhaps, been heard
of in history. I was fast asleep in my hutch one morn-
ing, when my man Friday came running in to me,
and called aloud, "Master, master, they are come,
they are come." I jumped up, and, regardless of danger,
ran out, as soon as I could get my clothes on, through
my little grove, which (by the way) was by this time
grown to be a very thick wood: I say, regardless of
danger, I went without my arms, which was not my
custom to do; but I was. surprised, when turning ray
2S1
eyes to the sea, I presently saw a boat at about a league
and half's distance, standing in for the shore, with
a shoulder-of-mutton sail, as they call it, and the wind
blowing pretty fair to bring them in: I observed too,
that they did not come from that side which the shore
lay on, but from the southermost end of the island.
Upon this I called Friday in, and bid him lie close,
for these were not the people we looked for, and that
we did not know yet whether they were friends or
enemies. In the next place, I went in to fetch my
perspective-glass, to see what I could make of them;
and having taken the ladder out, I climbed up to the
top of the hill, as I used to do when I was apprehen-
sive of any thing, and to take my view the plainer
without been discovered.
I had scarce set my foot on the hill, when my eye
plainly discovered a ship lying at an anchor, at about
two leagues and-an half's distance from me, S. S. E»
but not above a league and half from the shore. By
my observation it appeared plainly to be an English
ship, and the boat appeared to be an English long-boat;
I cannot express the confusion I was in. Though
the joy of seeing a ship, and one which I had reason
to believe was manned by my own countrymen, and
consequently friends, was such as I cannot describe,
yet I had some secret doubts hung about me, I cannot
tell from whence they came, bidding me keep upon
my guard. It immediately occurred to me to consider
what business an English ship could possibly have in
that part of the world; since it was not the way to or
from any part of the world where the English had any
traffic; and I knew there had been no storms to
drive them in there, as in distress; if they were En-
glish really, therefore, it was most probable that they
were here upon no good design; and that I had better
continue as I was, than fall into the hands of thieves
and murderers.
Let no man despise the secret hints and notices of
danger, which sometimes are given him when he may
think there is no possibility of their being realized,
u 3
223
That such hints and notices are given us, I believe
few that have made any observations of things can
deny: that they are certain discoveries of an invisible
•world, and a converse of spirits, we cannot doubt;
and if the tendency of them seems to be, to warn us of
danger, why should we not suppose they are from
some friendly agent (whether supreme, or inferior and
subordinate, is not the question,) and that they are
given for our good?
The present occasion abundantly confirms me in the
justice of this reasoning; for had I not been made
cautious by this secret admonition, come from whence
it will, I had inevitably been undone, and in a far
worse condition than before, as you will see presently.
I had not kept myself long in this posture, but I
saw the boat draw near the shore, as if they looked
for a creek to thrust in at for the convenience of
landing: however, as they did not come quite far
enough, they did not see the little inlet where I for-
merly landed my rafts, but run their boat on shore
upon the beach, at about half a mile distance: which
was very happy for me; for otherwise they would
have landed just, as I may say, at my door, and
would have soon beaten me out of my castle, and,
perhaps, plundered me of all I had.
When they were on shore, I was fully satisfied they
were Englishmen, at least most of them. One or two
I thought were Dutch, but it did not prove so. There
were in all eleven men, of whom three I found were
unarmed, and (as I thought) bound; and when the
first four or five jumped on shore, they took those three
out of the boat as prisoners: one of the three I could
perceive using the most passionate gestures of entreaty,
affliction, and despair, even to a kind of extravagance;
the other two, I observed, lifted up their hands some-
times, and appeared concerned indeed, but not to such
a degree as the first.
I was perfectly confounded at the sight, and knew
not what the meaning of it could be. Friday called
put to me in English, as well aa he could, 0 master!
you see English mans eat prisoners as well as savage
mans. Why, said I, Friday, do you think they are
going to eat them then? Yes, says Friday, they will
eat them. No, no, said I, Friday: I am afraid they
will murder them indeed; but you may be sure they
will not eat them.
All this while 1 had no thought of what the matter
really was, but stood trembling with the horror of the
sight, expecting every moment the three prisoners
would be killed: nay, once I saw one of the villains
lift up his arm with a great cutlass (as the seamen
call it) or sword, to strike one of the poor men ; and
I expected to see him fall every moment, at which
all the blood in my body seemed to run chill in my
veins.
I wished heartily now for our Spaniard, and the
savage that was gone with him • or that 1 had any
way to have come undiscovered within shot of them,
that 1 might have rescued the three men; for I saw
no fire-arms they had among them: but it fell out to
my mind another way.
After I had observed the outrageous usage of the
three men by the insolent seamen, I observed the
fellows ran scattering about the land, as if they wanted
to see the country: I observed also, that the three
other men had liberty to go where they pleased; but
they sat down all three upon the ground very pensive,
and looked like men in despair.
This put me in mind of the first time when I came
on shore, and began to look about me; how I gave
myself over for lost, how wildly I looked round me,
what dreadful apprehensions I had, and how I lodged
in the tree all night for fear of being devoured by
wild beasts. As i knew nothing, that night, of the
supply I was to receive by the providential driving of
the ship nearer the land, by which I have since been
so long nourished and supported, so these three poor
desolate men knew nothing how certain of deliverance
and supply they were; how near it was to them; and
how effectually and really they were in a condition of
224
safety, at the same time they thought themselves lost,
and their case desperate.
So little do we see before us in the world, and so
much reason have we to depend cheerfully upon the
great Maker of the world, that he does not leave his
creatures so absolutely destitute, but that in the worst
circumstances they have always something to be thank-
ful for, and sometimes are nearer their deliverance
than they imagine; nay, are even brought to their
deliverance by the very means by which they seem to
be brought to their destruction.
It was just at the top of high-water when these
people came on shore; and while partly they stood
parlying with the prisoners they brought, and partly
while they rambled about to see what kind of place
they were in, they had carelessly staid till the tide
was spent, and the water was ebbed considerably
away, leaving their boat aground. They had left two
men in the boat, who, as I found afterwards, having
drank a little too much brandy, fell asleep; however,
one of them waking sooner than the other, and find-
ing the boat too fast aground for him to stir it, hal-
looed for the rest who were straggling about, upon
which they all soon came to the boat; but it was past
all their strength to launch her, the boat being very
heavy, and the shore on that side being a soft oozy
sand, almost like a quicksand. In this condition, like
true seamen, who are, perhaps, the least of all man-
kind inclined to forethought, theygave.it over, and
away they strolled abput the country again; and I
heard one of them say aloud to another (calling them
off from the boat,) Why, let her alone, Jack, can't ye?
she'll float next tide: by which I was fully confirmed
in the main enquiry, of what countrymen they were.
All this while I kept myself close, not once daring
to stir out of my castle, any farther than to my place
of observation, near the top of the hill; and very
glad I was, to think how well it was fortified. I knew
it was no less than ten hours before the boat could be
afloat again, and by that time it would be dark, and
Mi
I might be more at. liberty to see their motions, and to
hear their discourse, if they had any.
In the mean time I fitted myself up for a battle, as
before, though with more caution, knowing I had to
do with another kind of enemy than 1 had at first. I
ordered Friday also, whom I had made an excellent
marksman with his gun, to load himself with arms.
1 took myself two fowling-pieces, and I gave him
three musquets: my figure, indeed, was very fierce;
I had my formidable goat-skin coat on, with the
great cap 1 mentioned, a naked sword, two pistols in
my belt, and a gun upon each shoulder.
It was my design, as 1 said above, not to have made
any attempt till it was dark; but about two o'clock,
being the heat of the day, I found that they were all
gone straggling into the woods, and, as I thought, laid
down tosleep: the threepoor distressed men, too anxious
for their condition to get any sleep, were however laid
down under the shelter of a great tree, at about a
quarter of a mile from me, and seemingly out of sight
of the rest.
Upon this I resolved to discover myself to them,
and learn something of their condition: immediately
I marched in the figure above described; my man
Friday at a good distance behind me, as formidable
for his arms as I, but not making quite so staring a
spectre-like figure as I did.
1 came as near them undiscovered as I could, and
then, before any of them saw me I called aloud to
them in Spanish, What are ye, Gentlemen?
They started up at the noise, but were ten times
more confounded when they saw me, and the uncouth
figure that 1 made. They made no answer at all, but
I thought I perceived them just going to fly from me,
when I spoke to them in .English: Gentlemen, said
I, do not be surprised at me; perhaps you may have
a friend near you, when you did not expect it. He
must be sent directly from Heaven then, said one of
them very gravely to me, pulling off his hat at th?
«arne time, tor our condition is past the help of niuu.

IN
All help id From Heaven, Sir, said I: twt can you put
a stranger in the way how to help you? For you seem
to me to be in some great distress: I saw you when
you landed; and when you seemed to make application
to the brutes that came with you, I saw one of them
lift up his sword to kill you.
The poor man, with tears running down his face,
and trembling like one astonished, returned, Am I
talking to GOD or man? Is it a real man, or an angel?
Be in no fear about that, Sir, said I: if GOD had sent
an angel to relieve you, he would have come better
clothed, and armed after another manner than you see
me in: pray lay aside your fears; I am a roan, an En-
glishman, and disposed to assist you; you see I have
one servant only; we hare arms and ammunition; tell
us freely, can we serve you ?—What is your case?
Our case, said he, Sir, is too long to tell you, while
our murderers are so near; but in short, Sir, I was
commander of that ship; my men having mutinied
against me, they have been hardly prevailed on not
to murder me, and at last have set me on shore in this
desolate place, with these two men, one my mate, the
other a passenger, where we expected to perish, be-
lieving the place to be uninhabited, and know not yet
what to think of it.
Where are those brutes, your enemies? said I; Do
you know where they are gone? There they are, Sir,
said he, pointing to a thicket of trees: my heart trem-
bles for fear they have seen us, and heard you speak;
if they have, they will certainly murder us all.
Have they any fire-arms? said I: he answered,
They had only two pieces, and one which they leftinthe
boat. Well then, said I, leave the rest to me: I see
they are all asleep; it is an easy thing to kill them all;
but shall we rather take them prisoners? He told me
there were two desperate villains among them, that it
was scarce safe to shew any mercy to; but if they were
secured, he believed all the rest would return to their
duty: I asked him, Which they were? He told me,
lie could not at that distance describe them j but "he
227
would obey my orders in any thing I would direct.
Well, said I, let us retreat out of their view or hearing,
lest they awake, and we will resolve farther: so they
willingly went back with me, till the woods covered
us from them. .
Look you, Sir, said I, if I venture upon your deli-
verance, are you willing to make two conditions with
me? He anticipated my proposals, by telling me, that
both he and the ship, if recovered, should be wholly
directed and commanded by me in every thing; and
if the ship was not recovered, he would live and die
with me in what part of the world soever I would send
him; and the two other men said the same.
Well, said I, my conditions are but two: 1. That
while you stay on this island with me, you will not
pretend to any authority here; and if I put arms into
your hands, you will upon all occasions give them up
to me, and do no prejudice to me or mine, upon this
island, and in the mean time be governed by my orders.
2. That if the ship is recovered, you will carry me and
my man to England, passage free.
He gave me all the assurance that the invention and
faith of a man could devise, that he would comply with
those most reasonable demands, and besides, would
owe his life to me, and acknowledge it upon all occa-
sions as long as he lived.
Well then, said I, here are three musquets for you,
with powder and ball; tell me next what you think is
proper to be done. He shewed all the testimony of his
gratitude that he was able ,• but offered to be wholly
guided by me. I told him, I thought it waa hard ven-
turing any thing, but the best method I could think
of, was to fire upon them at once, as they lay; and if
any were not killed at the first volley, and offered to
submit, we might save them, and so put it wholly
upon GOD'S providence to direct the shot.
He said, very modestly, that he was loth to kill
them, if he could help it, but that two of them were
incorrigible villains, and had been the authors of all the
mutiny in the ship; and if they escaped, we should

228
'be undone still; for they would go on board, and bring
the whole ship's company, and destroy us all. Well
then, said I, necessity legitimates my advice; for it is
the only way to save our lives. However, seeing him
still cautious of shedding blood, I told him, they should
go themselves, and manage as they found convenient.
In the middle of this discourse we heard some of
them awake, and soon after saw two of them on their
feet: I asked him, if either of them were the men who
he had said were the heads of the mutiny? He said,
No, Well then, said I, you may let them escape, and
Providence seems to have wakened them on purpose
to save themselves: Now, said I, if the rest escape you,
it is your fault.
Animated with this, he took the musquet I had
given him in his hand, and pistol in his belt, and his
two comrades with him, with each man a piece in his
hand. The two men, who were with him, going first,
made some noise, at which one of the seamen, who
was awake, turned about, and seeing them coming,
cried out to the rest; but it was too late then; for the
moment he cried out, they fired, I mean the two men,
the captain wisely reserving his own piece. They
had so well aimed their shot at the men they knew,
that one of them was killed on the spot, and the other
very much wounded; but not being dead, he started
up on his feet, and called eagerly for help to the
other; but the captain, stepping to him, told him it
was too late to cry for help; he should call upon GOD
to forgive his villainy; and with that word knocked
him down with the stock of his musquet, so that he
never spoke any more. There were three more in
the company, and one of them was also slightly
wounded: by this time I was come; and when they
saw their danger, and that it was in vain to resist, they
begged for mercy. The captain told them, he would
spare their lives, if they would give him any assur-
ance of their abhorrence of the treachery they had
been guilty of, and would swear to be faithful to him
in recovering .the ship, and afterwards in carrying
her back to Jamaica, from whence they came. They
gave him all the protestations of their sincerity that
could be desired, and he was willing to believe them,
and spare their lives, which I was not against; only
I obliged him to keep them bound hand and foot
while they were upon the island.
While this was doing, I sent Friday with the cap*
tain's mate- to the boat, with orders to secure her, and
bring away the oars and sail, which they did: and by
and by, three straggling men, that were (happily for
them) parted from the rest, came back upon hearing
the gans fired; and seeing their captain, who before
was their prisoner, now their conqueror, they submit-
ted to be bound also, and so our victory was complete.
It now remained, that the captain and I should en-
quire into one another's circumstances: I began first,
and told him my whole history, which he heard with
an attention even to amazement, and particularly at
the wonderful manner of my being furnished with
provisions and ammunition; and indeed, as my story
is a whole collection of wonders, it affected him deeply:
but when he reflected from thence upon himself, and
how I seemed to have been preserved there on purpose
to save his life, the tears ran down his face, and he
could not speak a word more.
After this- communication was at an end, I carried
him and his two men into my apartments, leading
them m just where I came out, via. at the top of the
house; where I refreshed them with such provisions
as I had, and shewed them all the contrivances I had
made during my long, long inhabiting that place.
. All I shewed them, all I said to them, was perfectly
amazing: but,, above all, the captain admired my
fortification; and how perfectly .1 had concealed my
retreat with a grove of the trees, which, having now
been planted near twenty years, and the trees growing
much faster than in England, was become a little- wood,
and so thick, that it was utterly impassable except on
that side where I had reserved my little winding pas-
gage into it, This, I told him, was my• castle, and my
£30
residence; but that I had a seat in the country, as
most princes have, whither I could retreat upon oc->
casion, and I would shew him that too another time;
but at present our business was to consider how to
recover the ship. He agreed with me as to that; but
• told me, he was perfectly at a loss what measure to
take; for that there were still six-and-twenty hands
on board, who having entered into a cursed conspiracy}
by which they had all forfeited their lives to the law,
would be hardened in it now by desperation; and
would carry it on, knowing that if they were reduced)
they should be brought to the gallows as soon as they
came to England, or to any of the English colonies;
and that therefore there would be no attacking them
with so small a number as we were.
I mused for sometime upon what he had said, and
found it was a very rational conclusion, and that there-
fore something was to be resolved on very speedily, as
well to draw the men on board into some snare for
their surprise, as to prevent their landing upon us, and
destroying us • upon this it presently occurred to me,
that in a little while, the ship's crew, wondering what
was become of their comrades, and of the boat, would
certainly come on shore in their other boat to see for
them; and that then perhaps they might come armed,
and be too strong for us : this, he allowed, was rational.
Upon this I told him, the first thing we had to do,
was to stave the boat, which lay upon the beach, so
that they might not carry her off, and-, taking every
thing out of her, leave her so far useless as not to be
fit to swim. Accordingly we went on board, took the
arms which were left on board, out of her, and what-
ever else we found there, which was a bottle of brandy,
and another of rum, a few biscuit cakes, a horn of
powder, and a great lump of sugar in a piece of can-
vas, weighing five or six pounds; all which was very
welcome to me, especially the brandy and sugar, of
wh;ch I had had none left for many years.
When we had carried all these things on shore (the
Oars, mast, sail, and rudder of the boat, were carried
231
away before, as above-mentioned,) we knocked a great
hole in her bottom, so that if they had come strong
enough to master us, yet they could not carry off the
boat.
. Indeed it was not much in my thoughts, that we
should be able to recover the ship; but my view was,
that if they went away without the boat, 1 did not
much question to make her fit again to carry us as far
as the Leeward Islands, and call upon our friends the
Spaniards in my way, for I had them still in my
thoughts.
While we were thus preparing our designs, and
having first, by main strength, heaved the boat up upon
the beach, so high that the tide would not float her
off at high-water mark, and, broken a hole in her
bottom, too big to be quickly stopped, were sat down
musing what we should do; we heard the ship fire a
gun, and saw her make a waft with her ancient, as a
signal for the boat to come on board: but no boat
stirred; and they fired several times, making other
signals for the boat.
At last, when all their signals and firings proved
fruitless, and they found the boat did not stir, we saw
them (by the help of our glasses) hoist another boat
out, and row towards the shore; and we found, as
they approached, that there were no less than ten men
in her, and that they had fire arms with them.
As the ship lay almost two leagues from the shore,
we had a full view of them as they came, and a plain
sight of the men, even of their faces; because the tide
having set them a little to the east of the other boat,
they rowed up under shore, to come to the same place
.where the other had landed, and where the boat lay.
By this means, I say, we had a full view of them,
and the captain knew the persons and characters of all
the men in the boat; of whom he said that there were
three very honest fellows, who, he was sure, were led
into this conspiracy by the rest, being overpowered
and frightened. But that for the boatswain, who, it
teems, was the chief officer among them, and all the
X 2
232
rest, they were as outrageous -as any of the ship's
crew; and were, no doubt, made desperate in their
new enterprise: and terribly apprehensive he was,
that they would be too powerful for us.
I smiled at him, and told him, that men in our cir-
cumstances were past the operations of fear: that since
almost any condition was better than that we were in,
we ought to expect that the consequence, whether death
or life, would be sure to be a deliverance: I asked
him, what he thought of the circumstances of my life,
and whether a deliverance was not worth venturing
for? And where, Sir, said I, is your belief of my
being preserved here on purpose to save your life,
which elevated you a let -while ago? For my part,
said I, there seems to be but one thing amiss in all
the prospect of it. What's that? says he. Why, said
I, it is that, as you say, there are three or four honest
fellows among them, which should be spared: had
they been all of the wicked part of the crew, I should
have thought GOD'S providence had singled them out
to deliver them into your hands; for, depend upon it,
every man of them that comes ashore, are our own,
and shall die or live, as they behave to ua.
As I spoke this with a raised voice, and cheerful
countenance, I found it greatly encouraged him; so
we set vigorously to our business. We had, upon the
first appearance of the boat's coming from the ship,
considered of separating our prisoners, and had indeed
secured thenj effectually. Two of them, of-whom the
captain was less assured than ordinary, I sent with
Friday, and one of the three (delivered men) to my
cave, where they were remote enough, and out of
danger of being heard or discovered, or of finding
their way out of the woods, if they could have deli-
vered themselves; here they left them bound, but gave
them provisions, and promised them, if they continued
there quietly, to give them their liberty in a day or
two; but that if they attempted their escape, they
should he put to death without mercy. They promis/.
«d faithfully, to bear their confinement with patience,
233
and were very thankful that they had such good us*
age as to have provisions, and a light left them; for
Friday gave them candles (such as we made ourselves)
for their comfort; and they did not know but that he
stood centinel over them at the entrance. The other
prisoners had better usage: two of them were kept
pinioned indeed, because the captain was not free to
trust them; but the other two were taken into my
service upon their captain's recommendation, and upon
their solemnly engaging to live and die with us. So,
with them and the three honest men, we were seven
men well armed; and I made no doubt we should be
able to deal well enough with the ten that were a com-
ing, considering that the captain had said, there were
three or four honest men among them also.
As soon as they got to the place where their other
boat lay, they ran their boat upon the beach, and
came all on shore, hauling the boat up after them:
which I was glad to see; for I was afraid they would
rather have left the boat at an anchor, some distance
from the shore, with some hands aboard so that we
should not have been able to seize her.
Being on shore, the first thing they did, they ran
all to the other boat; and it was easy to see they were
under a great surprise to find her stripped, as above, of
all that was in her, and a great hole in her bottom.
After they had mused awhile upon this, they set up
two or three great shouts, hallooing with all their
might, to try if they could make their companions
hear; but all to no purpose: then they came all close
in a ring, and fired a volley of their small arms, which
indeed we heard, and the echoes made the woods ring;
but it was all one; those in the cave, we were sure,
could not hear; and those in our keeping, though they
heard it well enough, yet durst give no answer to
them.
They were so astonished at this, that, as they told
us afterwards, they resolved to return to their ship,
and let them know there, that the men were all mur-
dered, and the long-boat staved: accordingly, they
x 3
immediately launched the boat again, and got all of
them on board.
The captain was terribly amazed, and even con.
founded at this, believing they would go on board the
ship again, and set sail, giving their comrades up for
lost, and so he should still lose the vessel, which he
was in hopes we should have recovered: but h* was
quickly as much frightened the other way.
They had not been long put off with the boat, but
we perceived them all coming on shore again; but
with this new measure in their conduct, which, it
seems, they had consulted together upon; viz. to leave
three men in the boat, and the rest to land, and go up
into the country to look for their fellows.
This was a great disappointment to us: for now we
were at a loss what to do; since the seizing those
seven men on shore would be no advantage to us if we
let the boat escape, which would of course return to
the ship; and then the rest would be sure to weigh,
and set sail, and so our recovering the vessel would be
rendered entirely hopeless.
However, we had no remedy but to wait and see
what the issue of things might present. The seven
men came on shore, and the three who remained in
the boat put her off to a good distance from the shore,
and came to an anchor to wait for them. Those that
came on shore, kept close together, marching towards
the top of the little hill, under which my habitation
lay; and we could see them plainly, though they
could not perceive us. We could have wished thev
had come nearer to us, so that we might have fired at
them; or gone farther off, that we might have come
abroad. But when they arrived at the brow of the
hill, where they could see a great way in the valley
and woods, which lay towards the north-east part,
and where the island lay lowest, they shouted and hal-
looed till they were weary; and not caring, it seems,
to venture far from the shore, nor far from one another,
they sat down together under a tree, to. consider of it.
Hud they thought/ fit to have gone to sleep there, aa
the other party of them had done, they had done th«
job few us; but they were too full of apprehensions
of danger, to- venture upon this, though they Could
not tell what the danger was they had to fear, neither.
The captain made a very just proposal to me upon
this consultation of theirs; viz. that perhaps they would
all fire a volley again, to endeavour to' make their fel-
lows hear ,• and that we should all fall upon them, just
at the juncture when their pieces were all discharged,
and they would certainly yield, and we should have
them without bloodshed. I liked the proposal, pro.
vided it was done while we were near enough to coms
up to them, before they could load their pieces again.
But this event did not happen, and we lay still a
long time, very irresolute what course to take: at
lengtbi I told them, that nothing could be done in my
opinion till night; and then, if they did not return to
the boat, perhaps we might find a way to get between
them and the shore, and so might use some stratagem
with those in the boat, to get them on shore.
We waited a great, while, though very impatient fou
their removing, and extremely uneasy: when, after
long consultations, we saw them start all up and march-
ed down toward the sea: it seems, they had such dread-
ful apprehensions upon them of the danger of the
place, that they resolved to go on board the ship
again, give then1 companions over for lost, and pro-
ceed on their intended voyage. As soon as I perceiv.
ed them go towards the shore, I imagined it to be as
it .really was; and presently thought of a stratagem to
fetch them back again, which answered my end to a
tittle. I ordered Friday, and the captain's mate, to
ga over the little creek westward, towards the place
where the savages came on shore when Friday was
rescued; and as soon, as they came to a little rising
ground, at about half a mile's distance, I bade them
halloo as loud as they could, and wait till they found
the seamen heard them: that as soon as ever they
heard the seamen answer them, they should) return; it
again, and.then, keeping out of sight, take a round-
236
always answering when the others hallooed, to draw
them as far into the island, and among the woods, as
possible, and then wheel about again to me, by such
ways as I directed.
They were just going into the boat, when Ftiday
and the mate hallooed, and they presently heard them,
and answering, run along the shore westward, towards
the voice they heard, till they were stopped by the
creek, which, the water being up, they could not get
over, and called for the boat to come up, and set them
over, as indeed I expected. When they had set them-
selves over, I observed that the boat being gone up a
good way into the creek, and as it were in a harbour
•within the land, they took one of the three men out
of her to go along with them, and left only two in
the boat, having fastened her to the stump of a little
tree on the shore.
This was what I wished for, and immediately
leaving Friday and the captain's mate to their business,
I took the rest with me, and, crossing the creek out
of their sight, we surprised the two men before they
•were aware, one of them lying on shore, and the
other being in the boat. The fellow on shore was be-
tween sleeping and waking, and going to start up,
when the captain, who was foremost, ran in upon him,
and knocked him down, and then called out to him in
the boat to yield, or he was a dead man. As to the
other, there needed very few arguments to persuade a
single man to yield, when he saw five upon him, and
his comrade knocked down; besides, this was, it seems,
one of the three who were not so hearty in the mu-
tiny as the rest of the crew, and therefore was easily
persuaded not only to yield, but afterwards to join
very sincerely with us,
In the mean time, Friday and the captain's mate so
well managed their business with the rest, that they
drew them, by hallooing and answering, from one
hill to another, and from one wood to another, till
they not only heartily tired them, but left them where
they were very sure they could not reach back to the
83T
boat before it was dark; and indeed they -were heartily-
tired themselves also by the time they came back-to us.
We had nothing now to do but to watch for them•
in the dark, and to fall upon them, so as to make
sure work with them.
It was several hours after Friday returned before
they got back to their boat; and we could hear the
foremost of them, long before they came quite up,
calling to those behind to come along; and could also
hear them answer, and complain how lame and tired
they were, and not able to come any faster, which was
very welcome news to us. At length they reached to
the boat; but it is impossible to express their confu*
sion, when they found her fast aground in the creek,
the tide ebbed out, and their two men gone. We
could hear them call to one another in a most lamen-
table manner, and exclaiming that they were gotten
into an enchanted island; that either there were inha-
bitants in it, and they should all be murdered; or
else there were devils or spirits in it, and they should
be all carried away and devoured. •
They hallooed again, and called their two comrades
by their names a great many times, but no answer.
After some time, we could see them, by the little light
there was, run about -wringing their hands, like men
in despair; and observed that sometimes they would
go and sit down in the boat to rest themselves, then
come ashore, and walk about again, and so the same
thing over again..
My men would fain have had me given them leave
to fall upon them at once in the dark , but 1 was will-
ing to take them at some advantage, to spare the
effusion of blood on both sides; I therefore drew my
ambuscade nearer; and ordered Friday and the cap«
tain to creep upon their hands and feet as close to the
ground as they could, that they might not bediscovered,
and get as near them as they could possibly, before
they offered to fire.
They had not been long in that posture, before the
boatswain, who was the principal ringleader of the
238
mutiny, and had now shewn himself the most dejected
and dispirited of all the rest, came walking towards
them with two more of the crew; when the captain,
who was so eager, at having the principal rogue in his
power, that he could hardly have patience to let him
come near enough to be sure of him, together with
Friday, starting up on their feet, let fly at them.
The boatswain was killed upon the spot; the next
man was shot in the body, and fell just by him, though
he did not die till an hour or two after; and the third
run for it.
At the noise of the fire, I immediately advanced
with my whole army, which was now eight men; viz.
myself generalissimo; Friday my lieutenant-general;
the captain and his two men, and the three prisoners
of war, whom he had trusted with arms.
We came upon them in the dark, so that they could
not see our number; and I made the man they had
left in the boat, who was now one of us, call them
by name, to try if 1 could bring them to a parley, and
so perhaps reduce them to terms: which fell out just
as we desired; for indeed it was easy to think, as their
condition then was, they would be very willing to
capitulate: so he calls out, as loud as he could, to one
of them, Tom Smith, Tom Smith, Tom Smith answer-
ed immediately, Who's that! Robinson? For it seems
he knew his voice. The other answered, Ay, ay;
for GOD'S sake, Tom Smith, throw down your arms,
and yield, or you are all dead men this moment.
Who must we yield to? Where are they? says
Smith again. Here they are, says he; here is our
captain and fifty men with him, have been hunting
you this two hours: the boatswain is killed ; Will Fr> e
is wounded, and 1 am a prisoner; and if you do not
yield, you are all lost.
Will they give us quarter then? says Tom Smith,
and we will yield. I'll go and ask, if you promise to
yield, says Robinson. So he asked the captain, and
the captain himself then calls out; You, Smith, you
know my voice, if you lay down your arms irome-
239
tlintely, rtrtd submit, you shall have your lives, all but
Will Atkins. Upon this Will Atkins cried out, For
GOD'S sake, captain, give me quarter! what have I
done? they have been all as bad as I: (which by the
way was not true, either; for it seems this Will Atkins
•was the first man that laid hold of the captain whert
they first mutinied, and used him barbarously, in tying
his hands, and giving him injurious language ij how-
ever, the captain told him he must lay down his arms
at discretion, and trust to the governor's mercy, by
which he meant me; for they all called me governor,
In a word, they all laid down their arms, and beg-
ged their lives: and I sent the man that had parlied
with them, and two more, who bound them all; and
then my great army of fifty men, which, particularly
with those three, amounted but to eight, came up and
seized upon them all, and upon their boat, only that
I kept myself and one more out of sight, for reasons
of state.
Our next work was to repair the boat, and to think
of seizing the ship; and as for the captain, now he
had leisure to parley with them, he expostulated with
them upon the villainy of their practices with him,
aad upon the general wickedness of their design; and
how certainly it must bring them to misery and distress
in the end, and perhaps to the gallows.
They all appeared very penitent, and begged hard
for their lives. As for that, he told them they were
none of his prisoners, but the commander's of the
island; that they thought they had set him on shore-
in a barren uninhabited island; but it had pleased
GOD so to direct them, that the island was inhabited,
and that the governor was an Englishman; that he
might hang them all there, if he pleased; but as he
had given them all quarter, he supposed he would send
them to England, to be dealt with there as justice
required, except Atkins, whom he was commanded
by the governor to advise to prepare for death; tor
that he would be hanged in the morning.
Though this was all a fiction of his own, yet it had
its desired effect: Atkins fell upon his knees to beg
840
the Captain to intercede with the governor for bis life 5
and all the rest begged of him for Con's take, that
they might not be sent to England.
It now occurred to me, that the time of oar deliver'
ance was come, and that it would be a most easy
thing to bring these fellows in to be hearty in getting
possession of. the ship: so I retired in the dark from
them, that they might not see what kind of agovernor
they had, and calted the captain to me. When I called,
as at a good distance, one of the men was ordered to
speak again, and said to the captain, Captain, the
commander calls for you,; and presently the captain
replied, Tell his excellency I am just coming. This
more perfectly amused them; and they all believed,
that the commander was near by with his fifty men.
Upon the captain's coming to me, I told him; my
project for seizing the ship, which lie liked wonder-
fully well,, and resolved to put it in execution the
next morning.
But, in order to do this with more art, and to be
secure of success, I told him we must divide the pri-
soners; and that he should go and take Atkins, and
two. more of the worst of them, and send them pinioned
to the cave where the other* lay: this was committed
to Friday, and the two men. who came on shore with
the captain.
They conveyed them to the cave, as to a prison;
and. it was indeed a dismal, place, especially to men in
their condition. The others I ordered to, my bower,
as I called it, of which I have given a full description;
and as it was fenced in, and they pinioned, the place
was secure enough, considering they were upon their
behaviour. To these in the morning 1 sent the cap-
tain, who was to enter into a parley with them; in a
•word, to try them, and tell me, whether he thought
they might be. trusted or not, to go on board,, and
surprise the ship. He talked to them of the injury
done him, of the condition they were brought to; and
that though the governor had. given them quarter fo»
their lives, as to the present action, yet that if they
241
were sent to England, they would all be hanged in
chains, to be sure; but that if they would join in such
an attempt, as to recover the ship, he would have the
governor's engagement for their pardon.
Any one may guess how readily such a proposal
would be accepted by men in their condition. They
fell down on their knees to the captain, and promised
with the deepest imprecations, that they would be
faithful to him to the last drop, and that they should
owe their lives to him, and would go with him all
over the world; that they Would own him for a father
to them as long as they lived.
Well, says the captain, I must go and tell the go-
vernor what you say, and see what I can do to bring
him to consent to it: so he brought me an account of
the temper he found them in; and that he verily
believed they would be faithful.
However, that we might be very secure, I told him
he should go back again, and choose out five of them,
and tell them, that they should see that we did not
want men; but he would take out those five to be his
assistants, and that the governor would keep the other
two, and the three that were sent prisoners to the
castle, (my cave) as hostages, for the fidelity of those
five; and that if they proved unfaithful in the exe-
cution, the five hostages should be hanged in chains
alive upon the shore.
This looked severe, and convinced them that the
governor was in earnest: however, they had no way
left them but to accept it; and it was now the business
of the prisoners, as much as of the captain, to per-
suade the other five to do their duty.
Our strength was now thus ordered for the expedi-
tion. 1. The captain, his mate, and passenger. 2.
The two prisoners of the first gang, to whom, having
their characters from the captain, I had given their
liberty, and trusted them with arms. 3. The other
two whom I kept till now in my bower pinioned; but,
upon the captain's motion, had now released. 4.
These five released at last: so that they were twelve
Y
242
in all, besides five we kept prisoners in the cave for
hostages.
I asked the captain if he was willing to venture with
these hands on board the ship; for, as for me, and
ray man Friday, I did not think it was proper for us
to stir, having seven men left behind; and it was em-
ployment enough for us to keep them asunder, and
supply them with victuals.
As to the five in the cave, I resolved to keep them
fast; but Friday went twice a day to them, to supply
them with necessaries; and I made the other two
carry provisions to a certain distance, where Friday
was to take it.
When I shewed myself to the two hostages, it was
with the captain, who told them, I was the person the
governor had ordered to look after them, and that it
was the governor's pleasure that they should not stir
any where but by my direction; that if they did, they
should be fetched into the castle, and laid in irons : so
that as we never suffered them to see me as governor,
so I now appeared as another person, and spoke of the
governor, the garrison, the castle, and the like, upon
all occasions.
The captain now had no difficulty before him, but
to furnish his two boats, stop the breach of one, and
man them: he made his passenger captain of one, with
four other men; and himself, and his mate, and five
more, went in the other. And they contrived their
business very well; for they came up to the ship about
midnight: as soon as they came within call of the ship,
he made; Robinson hail them, and tell them he had
brought off the men and the boat, but that it was a
long time before they had found them, and the like;
holding them in a chat, till they came to the ship's
side; when the captain and the mate, entering first
with their arms, immediately knocked down the second
mate and carpenter with the but end of their musquets,
being very faithfully seconded by their men: they
secured all the rest that were upon the main and quar-
ter-decks, and began to fasten the hatches to keep
243
those down who were below, when the other boat, and
their men, entering at the forechains, secured the
forecastle of the ship, and the skuttle which went
down into the cook-room, making three men they
found there prisoners.
When this was done, and all safe upon the deck,
the captain ordered the mate with three men to break
into the round house, where the new rebel captain
having taken the alarm, with two men and a boy all
fully armed, had posted himself: and when the mate
with a crow split open the door, the new captain and
his men fired boldly among them, and wounded the
mate with a musquet ball, which broke his arm, and
Wounded two more of the men, but killed nobody
The mate, called for help, rushed, however, into the
round-house, wounded as he was, and with his pistol
shot the new captain through the head, the bullets
entering at his mouth, and coming out again behind
one of his ears; so that he never spoke a word: upon
which the rest yielded, and the ship was taken ef-
fectually, without any more lives being lost.
As soon as the ship was thus secured, the captain
ordered seven guns to be fired, the signal agreed upon,
to give me notice of his success; which you may be
sure I was very glad to hear, having sat watching up-
on the shore for it, till near two o'clock in the morn-
ing-
Having thus heard the signal plainly, I laid me
down; and it having been a day of great fatigue to
me, I slept very sound, till I was something surprised
with the noise of a gun; and presently starting up, I
heard a man call me by the name of governor, go-
vernor; and presently I knew the captain's voice,
when climbing up to the top of the hill, there he
stood, and pointing to the ship, he embraced me in
his arms: My dear friend and deliverer, says he,
there's your ship, for she is all your's, and so are we
and all that belong to her. I cast my eyes to the
ship, and there she rode within a little more than
half a true of the shore: for they had weighed anchor
Y 2
244
as soon as they were masters of her; and the weather
being fair, had brought her to an anchor just against
the mouth of a little creek; and the tide being up,
the captain had brought the pinnace in near the place
where I first landed my rafts, and so landed just at
ray door.
I was, at first, ready to sink down with the surprise;
for I saw my deliverance indeed visibly put into my
hands, all things easy, and a large ship just ready to
carry me away whither 1 pleased to go. At first, for
sometime, I was not able to answer one word; but as
he had taken me in his arms, I held fast by him, or
I should have fallen to the ground.
He perceived the surprise, and immediately pulled
a bottle out of his pocket, and gave me a dram of
cordial, which he had brought on purpose for me:
after I drank it, 1 sat down upon the ground, and
though it brought me to myself, yet it was a good
while before I could speak a word to him.
All this while the poor man was in as great an ec-
stasy as I, only not under any surprise, as I was; and
he said a thousand kind tender things to me, to com-
pose and bring me to myself: but such was the flood
of joy in my breast, that it put all my spirits into
confusion; at last it broke into tears, and in a little
while after I recovered my speech.
Then I took my turn, and embraced him as my
deliverer; and we rejoiced together: I told him, I
looked upon him as a man sent from Heaven to deliver
me, and that the whole transaction seemed to be a
chain of wonders; that such things as these were the
testimonies we had of a secret hand of Providence
governing the world, and an evidence, that the eyes
of an infinite power could search into the remotest
corner of the world, and send help to the miserable
whenever he pleased.
I forgot not to lift up my heart in thankfulness to
Heaven; and what heart could forbear to bless him,
who had not only in a miraculous manner provided
for me in such a wilderness, and in such a desolate
245
condition, but from whom my present deliverance must
also be acknowledged to proceed!
When we had talked a while, the captain told me,
he had brought me some little refreshments, such as
the ship afforded, and such as the wretches, who had
been so long his masters, had not plundered him of:
upon this he called aloud to the boat, and bade his
men bring the things ashore that were for the gover-
nor; and indeed it was a present, fit for me if I had
really occupied that station.
First, he had brought me a case of bottles full of
excellent cordial waters, six large bottles of Madeira
wine (the bottles held two quarts each;) two pounds
of excellent good tobacco, twelve good pieces of the
ship's beef, and six pieces of pork, with a bag of peas,
and about an hundred weight of biscuit. He brought
me also a box of sugar, a box of flour, a bag full of
lemons, and two bottles of lime-juice, and abundance
of other things: but besides these, and what was ;i
thousand times more useful to me, he brought me six
clean new shirts, six very good neckcloths, two pair
of gloves, one pair of shoes, a hat, and one pair of
stockings, and a very good suit of clothes of his own,
which had been worn but very little: in a word, he
clothed me from head to foot.
It was a very kind and agreeable present, as any
one may imagine, to one in my circumstances; but
never was any thing in the world of that kind so un-
pleasant, awkward, and uneasy, as it was to me to
wear such clothes at their first putting on.
After these ceremonies passed, and after all his good
things were brought iuto my little apartment, we be-
gan to consult what was to be done with the prisoners
we had; fjr it was worth considering whether we
might venture to take them away with us or not, especi-
ally two of them, whom we knew to be incorrigible
and refractory to the last degree; and the captain said,
he knew they were such rogues, that there was no
binding them by any obligations; and if he did carry
them away, it must be in irons, as malefactors, to be
v 3
246
delivered over to justice at the first English colony he
could come at: and I found that the captain himself
was very anxious about it.
Upon this, I told him, that if he desired it, I durst
undertake to bring the two men he spoke of, to make
it their own request that he should leave them upon
the island: I should be very glad of that, says the
captain, with all my heart.
Well, said I, 1 will send for them, and talk with
them for you: so I caused Friday and the two hostages,
(for they were now discharged, their comrades having
performed their promise;) to go to the cave, and bring
up the five men, pinioned as they were, to the bower,
and keep them there till I came.
After sometime, I came thither dressed in my new
habit, and now I was called governor again. Being
all met, and the captain with me, I caused the men
to be brought before me, and I told them, I had had
a full account of their villainous behaviour to the cap-
tain, and how they had run away with the ship, and
were preparing to commit farther robberies; but that
Providence had ensnared them in their own ways, and
that they were fallen into the pit which they had dig-
ged for others.
I let them know, that by my direction the ship had
been seized, that she lay now in the road, and they
might see by and by, that their new captain had re-
ceived the reward of his villainy; for that they might
see him hanging at the yard-arm.
That as to them, I wanted to know what they had
to say, why I should not execute them as pirates ta-
ken in the fact, as by my commission they could not
doubt I had authority to do.
One of them answered in the name of the rest,
that they had nothing to say but this, That when they
•were taken, the captain promised them their lives, and
they, humbly implored my mercy. But I told them I
knew not what mercy to shew them; for, as for my-
self, I had resolved to quit the island with all my men,
and had taken passage with the captain to go for
247
England: and as for the captain, he could not carry
them to England, other than as prisoners in irons to
be tried for mutiny, and running away with the ship;
the consequence of which, they must needs know,
would be the gallows: so that I could not tell which
was best for them, unless they had a mind to take
their fate in the island: if they desired that, as I had
liberty to leave it, I had some inclination to give them
their lives, if they thought they could shift on shore.
They seemed very thankful for it; and said they would
much rather venture to stay there, than to be carried
to England to be hanged; so I left it on that issue.
However, the captain seemed to make some difficul-
ty of it, as if he durst not leave them there: upon this
I seemed to be a little angry with the captain, and
told him, that they were my prisoners, not his; and
that seeing I had offered them so much favour, I
would be as good as my word; and that if he did not
think fit to consent to it, I would set them at liberty
as I found them; and if he did not like that, he might
take them again, if he could catch them.
Upon this they appeared very thankful, and I ac-
cordingly set them at liberty, and bade them retire
into the woods, to the place whence they came, and
I would leave them some fire arms, some ammunition,
and some directions how they should live very well,
if they thought fit.
Upon this, I prepared to go on board the ship;
but told the captain, that I would stay that night to
prepare my things; and desired him to go on board
in the mean time, and keep all right in the ship, and
send the boat on shore the next day for me; order-
ing him in the mean time, to cause the new captain
who was killed, to be hanged at the yard-arm, that
these men might see him.
When the captain was gone, I sent for the men up
to me to my apartment, and entered seriously into
discourse with them of their circumstances: I told
them, I thought they had made a right choice; that
if the captain carried them away, they would certainly
248
be hanged: I shewed them their captain hanging at
the yard-arm of the ship, and told them they had
nothing less to expect.
When they had all declared their willingness to
stay, I then told them, I would let them into the
story of my living there, and put them into the way
of making it easy to them: accordingly I gave them
the whole history of the place, and of my coming to
it; shewed them my fortifications, the way I made my
bread, planted my corn, cured my grapes; and, in a
word, all that was necessary to make them easy. I
told them the story of the sixteen Spaniards that were
to be expected; for whom I left a letter, and made
them promise to treat them in common with them-
selves.
I left them my fire-arms; viz. five musquets, three
fowling-pieces, three swords, and nearly a barrel of
gun-powder which I had still remaining; for after the
first year or two I used but little, and wasted none:
I gave them a description of the way I managed the
goats, and directions to milk and fatten them, to make
both butter and cheese. I told them, I would prevail
with the captain to leave them two barrels of gun-
powder more, and some garden-seed, which I should
have been very glad of; I also gave them the hag of
peas which the captain had brought me to eat, and
bade them be sure to sow and increase them,
Having done all this, I left them the next day, and
went on board the ship: we prepared immediately to
sail, but did not weigh that night. The next morn-
ing early, two of the five men came swimming to the
ship's side, and making a most lamentable complaint
of the other three, begged to be taken into the ship,
for GOD'S sake, for they should be murdered; and
begged the captain to take them on board though he
hanged them immediately.
Upon this the captain pretended to have no power
•without me; but after some difficulty, and their
solemn promises of amendment, they were taken on
board, and were sometime after soundly whipped and
249
pickled; after which they proved very honest and
quiet fellows.
Sometime after this, I went with the boat on shore,
the tide being up, with the things promised to the
men, to which the captain, at my intercession, caused
their chests and clothes to be added, which they were
very thankful for: I also encouraged them, by telling
them, that if it lay in my way to send a vessel to take
them in, I would not forget them.
When I took leave of this island, I carried on board,
for reliques, the great goat's skin cap I had made, my
umbrella, and one of my parrots; also I forgot not to
take the money I formerly mentioned, which had lain
by me so long useless, that it was grown rusty, or
tarnished, and could hardly pass for silver, till it had
been a little rubbed and handled ; as also the money
I found in the wreck of the Spanish ship.
And thus 1 left the island the nineteenth of Decem-
ber, as I found by the ship's account, in the year
lb•86, after I had been upon it eight-and-twenty years,
two months, and nineteen days; being delivered from
the second captivity the same day of the month that I
first made my escape in the Barco-longo, from among
the Moors of Sallee.
In this vessel, after a long voyage, I arrived in
England the eleventh of June, in the year 1687,
having been thirty and five years absent.
When I came to England, I was a perfect stranger
to all the world, as if 1 had never been known there.
My benefactor, and faithful steward, whom I had left
in trust with my money, was alive, but had had great
misfortunes in the world, was become a widow the
second time, and very low in the world. I made her
easy as to what she owed me, assuring her, I would
give her no trouble; but on the contrary, in gratitude
to her former care and faithfulness to me, I relieved
her as far as my little stock would afford, which at
that time would indeed allow me to do but little for
her: but I assured her, I would never forget her for-
mer kindness to me; nor did 1 forget her, when I had
sufficient to help her; as shall be observed in its place.
250
I went down afterwards into Yorkshire: but my
father was dead, and my mother, and all the family
•extinct; except that I found two sisters, and two of
the children of one of my brothers. As I had been
long ago given over for dead, there had been no pro-
vision made for me: so that, in a word, I found nothing
to relieve or assist me; and what little money I had,
was quite insufficient to set me up in the world.
I met with one piece of gratitude indeed, • which I
did not expect; and this was, that the master of the
ship, whom I had so happily delivered, and by the
same means saved the ship and cargo, having given a
very handsome account to the owners, of the manner
in which I had aided, they invited me to meet them,
and some other merchants concerned, and all together
made me a very handsome compliment upon that sub-
ject, and a present of almost two hundred pounds
sterling
But after making several reflections upon the cir-
cumstances of my life, and how little way this would
go towards settling me in the world, I resolved to go
to Lisbon, and see if I might not gain some information
of the state of my plantation in the Brasils, and what
was become of my partner, who, I had reason to sup-
pose, had some years now given me over for dead.
With this view I took shipping for Lisbon, where
I arrived in April following; my man Friday accom-
panying me very honestly in all these ramblings, and
proving a most faithful servant upon all occasions.
When I came to Lisbon, I found out, by enquiry,
and to my particular satisfaction, my old friend, the
captain of the ship, who first took me up at sea, off
the shore of Africa. He was now grown old, and had
left off going to sea, having put his son, who was far
from a young man, into his ship, in which he still
pursued the Brasil trade. The old man did not know
me, and, indeed I hardly knew him; but I soon
brought myself to his remembrance, when I told him
who I was.
After some passionate expressions of our old acquain-
tance, I enquired, you may be sure, after my plantation,
251
and my partner. The old man told me, he had not
been in the Brasils for about nine years; but that he
could assure me, that when he came away, my partner
•was living; but the trustees, whom I had joined with
him, to take cognizance of my part, were both dead:
that, however, ne believed that I should have a very
good account of the improvement of the plantation i
for that, upon the general belief of my being cast away
and drowned, my trustees had given in the account
of the produce of my part of the plantation, to the
procurator Fiscal; who had appropriated it, in case I
never came to claim it, one-third to the King, and two-
thirds to the monastry of St. Augustine, to be expen-
ded for the benefit of the poor, and for the conversion
of the Indians to the Catholic faith; but that if I
appeared, or any one for me, to claim the inheritance,
it would be restored: only that the improvement, or
annual production, being distributed to charitable uses,
could not be restored; but he assured me, that the
steward of the king's revenue (from lands) and the
provedore, or steward of the monastery, had taken
great care all along, that the incumbent, that is to say
nay partner, gave every year a faithful account of the
produce, of which they received duly my moiety.
I asked him, if he knew to what height of improve-
ment he had brought the plantation: and whether he
thought it might be worth looking after; or whether,
on my going thither, I should meet with no obstruc-
tion to iny possessing my just right in the moiety.
He told me, he could not tell exactly to what de-
gree the plantation was improved; but this he knew,
that my partner was growing exceeding rich upon
the enjoying but one half of it; and that, to the best
of his remembrance, he had heard, that the king's
third of my part, which was, it seems, granted away
to some other monastry, or religious house, amounted
to above two hundred moidores a year; that, as to
my being restored to a quiet possession of it, there
was no question to be made of that, my partner being
alive to witness my title, and my name being also


252
enrolled in the register of the country. He told me
also that the survivors of my two trustees were very
fair, honest people, and very wealthy, and he be-
lieved I should not only have their assistance for put-
ting me in possession, but should find a very conside-
rable sum of money in their hands for my account,
being the produce of the farm, while their fathers
held the trust, and before it was given up, as above
mentioned, which, to the best of his remembrance,
was about twelve years since.
I shewed myself a little concerned and uneasy at
this1 account, and enquired of the old captain, how it
came to pass, that the trustees should thus dispose of
my effects, when he knew that 1 had made my will,
and had made him, the Portuguese captain, my
universal heir, &c.
He told me, that "Was true, but that, as there was
no proof of my being dead, he could not act as exe-
cutor, until some certain account should come of my
death; and that, besides he was not willing to inter-
meddle witli a thing so remote: that it was true, he
had registered my will, and put in his claim: and
could he have given any account of my being dead or
alive, he would have acted by procuration, and taken
possession of the Ingenio, (so they called the sugar-
house) and had actually given his son, who was now
at the Brasils, an express order to do it.
But, says the old man, I have one piece of news
to tell you, which perhaps may not be so acceptable
to you as the rest; and that is, that believing you
were lost, and all the world believing so also, your
partner and trustees did offer to account to me in your
name, for six or eight of the first years of profit, which
I received; but there being at that time, says he,
great disbursements for increasing the works, build-
ing an Ingenio, and buying slaves, it did not amount
to near so much as afterwards it produced: however.
says the old man, I shall give you a true account of
what I have received in all, and how I have disposed
tofit.
253
After a few days farther conference with this an-
tient friend, he brought me an account of the first six
years income of my plantation, signed by my partner,
and the merchant's trustees, being always delivered
in goods; viz. tobacco in roll, and sugar in chests,
besides rum, molasses, &c. which is the consequence
of a sugar-work; and I found by this account, that
every year the income considerably increased: but, as
above, the disbursement being large, the sum at first
was small: however, the old man let me see that he
was debtor to me four hundred and seventy moidores
of gold, besides sixty chests of sugar, and fifteen
double rolls of tobacco, which were lost in his ship,
he having been shipwrecked coming home to Lisbon,
about eleven years after my leaving the place.
The good man then began to complain of his mis-
fortunes, and how he had been obliged to make use
of my money to recover his losses, and buy him a
share in a new ship; however, my old friend, says he,
you shall not want a supply in your necessity; and as
soon as my son returns, you shall be fully satisfied.
Upon this he pulled out an old pouch, and gave me
two hundred Portugal moidores in gold; and giving
me the writings of his title to the ship, in which his
son was gone to the Brasils, of which he was a quarter
part owner, and his son another, he put them both
in my hands for secui ity of the rest,
I was too much moved with the honesty and kind-
ness of the poor man, to be able to bear this; and
remembering what he had done for me, how he had
taken me up at sea, and how generously he had used
me on all occasions, and particularly how sincere a
friend he was now to me, I could hardly refrain from
weeping at what he said to me; therefore, first I asked
him if his circumstances admitted him to spare so much
money at that time, and if it would not straighten him?
He told me he could not say but it might straighten him
a little; but, however, it was my money, and I might
want it more than he.
254
Every thing the good man said was full of affection;
So I took one hundred of the moidores, and called for
a pen and ink to give him a receipt for them; then I
returned him the rest, and told him, if ever I had
possession of the plantation, I would return the other
to him also, as indeed I afterwards did; and that, as
to the bill of sale of his part in his son's ship, I would
not take it by any means; but that if I wanted the
money, I found he was honest enough to pay me ; and
if I did not, but should receive what he gave me
reason to expect, I would never have a penny more
from him.
When this was passed, the old man began to ask
me if he should put me in a method to make my
claim to my plantation. I told him, 1 thought to go
over to it myself. He said, I might do so if I pleased;
but that if I did not, there were ways enough to se-
cure my right, arid immediately to appropriate the
profits to my use; and as there were ships in the river
of Lisbon, just ready to go away to Brasil, he made
me enter my name in a public register, with his af-
fidavit, affirming upon oath that I was alive, and that
I was the same person who took up the land for the
planting the said plantation at first. This being re-
gularly attested by a notary, and a procuration affixed,
he directed me to send it with a letter of his writing,
to a merchant of his acquaintance at the place; and
then proposed my staying with him till an account
came of the return.
Never any thing was more honourable than the
proceedings upon this procuration; for in less than
seven months I received a large packet from the sur-
vivor of my trustees, the merchants, oh whose ac-
count I went to sea, in which were the following
particular letters and papers inclosed.
First, There was the account current of the pr<£
duce of my farm, or plantation, from the year when
their fathers had balanced with my old Portuguese
captain, being for six years; the balance appeared to
be 1174 moidores in my favour.
25S
Secondly, There was the account of four years more
•while they kept the effects in their hands, before the
government claimed the administration, as being the
effects of a person not to be found, which they call
Civil Death; and the balance of this, the value of the
plantation increasing, amounted to cruisadoes, which
made 3241 moidores.
Thirdly, There was the prior of the Augustines
account, who had received the profits for above four-
teen years; but not being able to account for what
was disposed to the hospital, very honestly declared he
had 872 moidores not distributed, which he acknow-
ledged to my account. As to the king's part, that
refunded nothing.
There was also a letter of my partner's, congra-
tulating me very affectionately upon my being alive;
giving me an account how the estate was improved
and what it produced a year, with a particular of the
number of squares, or acres, that it contained, how
planted* how many slaves there were upon it; and,
making two-and-twenty crosses for blessings, told me
he had said so many Ave Maria's to thank the Blessed
Virgm that I was alive; inviting me very passionately
to come over and take possession of my own, and in
the mean time to give him orders to whom he should
deliver my effects, if I did not come myself; conclud-
ing with a hearty tender of his friendship, and that
of his family. He sent me, as a present, seven fine
leopards skins, which he had, it seems, received from
Africa by some other ship which he had sent thither,
and who, had made a better voyage than I; also five
chests of excellent sweetmeats, and an hundred pieces
of gold uncoined, not quite so large as moidores.
By the same fleet my merchants-trustees shipped me
a thousand and two hundred chests of sugar, eight
hundred rolls of tobacco, and the rest of the whole
account in gold.
I might, well say now, indeed, that the latter end
of Job was better than the beginning: it is impossi-
ble to express the flutterings of my heart, when t
'
256
looked over these letters, and especially when I found
all my wealth about me; for as the Brasil ships come
all in fleets, the same ships which brought my letters
brought my goods: and the effects were safe in the
Tagus before the letter came to my hand: in a word,
I turned pale, and grew sick: and had not the old
man ran and fetched me a cordial, I believe the sud-
den surprise of joy had overset nature, and I had
died upon the spot. Nay, after that, I continued very
ill, and was so some hours, till a physician being sent
for, and something of the real cause of my illness
being known, he ordered me to be let blood, after
which I had .relief, and grew well; but I verily be-
lieve, if it had not been eased by the vent given in that
manner to the spirits, I should have died.
I was now master all on a sudden, of above 50,0001.
sterling in money, and had an estate, as 1 might well
call it, in the Brasils, of above a thousand pounds a
year, as sure as an estate of lands in England; and,
in a word, I was in a condition which I scarce knew
how to understand, or how to compose myself for the
enjoyment of.
The first thing I did, was to recompense my ori-
ginal benefactor, my good old captain, who had been
first charitable to me in my distress, kind to me in the
beginning, and honest to me at the end. I shewed
him all that was sent me; 1 told him that, next to the
providence of heaven, which disposes all things, it
was owing to him; and that it now lay on me to re-
ward him, which I would do an hundred-fold: So I
first returned to him the hundred moidores I had
received of him; then I sent for a notary, and caused
him to draw up a general release or discharge for the
4?0 moidores, which he had acknowledged he owed
me, in the fullest and firmest manner possible; after
which I caused a procuration to be drawn, empower-
ing him to be my receiver of the annual profits of my
Elantation, and appointing my partner to account to
_ im, and make the returns by the usual fleets to him
in my name; and I added a clause at the end, contain-
257
ing a grant of 100 moidores a year to him during hi*
life, out of the effects; and 50 moidores a year to his
son after him, for his life: and thus I requited my
old man.
I was now to consider which way to steer my course
next, and what to do with the estate that Providence
had thus put into my hands. And, indeed, I had
more care upon my head now, than I had in my silent
state of life in the island, where I wanted nothing but
what I had, and had nothing but what I wanted;
whereas I had now a great charge upon me, and my
business was how to secure it: I had never a cave to
hide my money in, or a place where it might lie with-
out lock or key, till it grew mouldy and tarnished
before any body would meddle with it: on the con-
trary, I knew not where to put it, or whom to trust
with it: my old patron, the captain, indeed, was
honest, and that was the only refuge I had.
In the next place, my interest in the Brasils seemed
to summon me thither: but I could not tell how to
think of going there, till I had settled my affairs, and
left my effects in some safe hands behind me. At first
I thought of my old friend the widow, who, I knew,
•was honest, and would be just to me: but then she
was in years, and but poor, and, for aught I knew,
might be in debt; so that, in a word, no way seemed
left but to go back to England myself, and take my
effects with me.
I was some months, however, before I resolved upon
this; and therefore as I had rewarded the old captain
fully, and to satisfaction, who had been my former
benefactor, so I began to think of the poor widow-
above-mentioned, whose husband had been my first
benefactor, and she, while it was in her power, my
faithful steward and instructor. The first thing I did,
therefore, was to get a merchant in Lisbon to write to
his correspondent in London, not only to pay a bill, but
to find her out, and carry her in money an hundred
pounds from me, and to talk with her, and comfort
tier, in her poverty, by telling her she should, if I )ived4
z 3.
258
have a farther supply: at the same time I sent my
two sisters in the country, each of them an hundred
pounds, they being, though not in want, yet not in
very good circumstances; one having been married,
and left a widow; and the other having a husband
not so kind to her as he should be.
In order to prepare things for my going home, I
first, (the Brasil fleet being just going away) resolved
to give answers suitable to the just and faithful ac-
count of things I had from thence; and first to the
prior of St. Augustine, I wrote a letter full of thanks
for his just dealings, and the offer of the 872 moi-
dores, which were undisposed of, which I desired might
be given, 500 to the monastery, and 372 to the poor,
as the prior should direct, desiring the good Father's
prayers for me, and the like. I wrote next a letter of
thanks to my two trustees, with all the acknowledg-
ment that so much justice and honesty called for: as
for sending them any present, they were far above
having any occasion for it. Lastly, I wrote to my
partner, acknowledging his industry in improving
the plantation, and his integrity in increasing the
stock of the works; giving him instructions for his
future government of my part according to the powers
I had left with my old patron, to whom I desired him
to send whatever became due to me, till he should
hear from me more particularly; and assuring him, that
it was my intention, not only to come to him, but to
settle myself there for the remainder of my life: to
this I added a very handsome present of some Italian
silks for his wife and two daughters, for such the cap-
tain's son informed me he had; with two pieces of
fine English broad-cloath, the best I could get in Lis-
bon, five pieces of black baize, and some Flanders lace
of a good value.
Having thus settled my affairs, sold my cargo, and
turned all my effects into goox.1 bills of exchange, my
next difficulty was, which way to go to England. I
had been accustomed enough to the sea, and yet I had
a strange aversion to go to England by sea at thai
259
time; and though I could give no reason for it, yet
the difficulty increased upon me so much, that though
I had once shipped my baggage in order to go, yet 1
altered my mind; and that not once, but two or three
times.
It is true, I had been very unfortunate by sea, and
this might be one of the reasons: but let no man slight
the strong impulses of his own thoughts in cases of
such moment. Two of the ships which I had singled
out to go in, I mean more particularly singled out
than any other, that is to say, so far as in one of them
to put my things on board, and in the other to have
agreed with the captain; I say, two •of these ships•
miscarried, viz. one was taken by the Algerines, and
the other was cast away on the Start, near Torbay,
and all the people drowned except three: so that in
either of those vessels I had been made miserable; and
in which most, it was hard to say.
Having been thus harrassed in my thoughts, my
old pilot, to whom I communicated every thing, pres-
sed me earnestly not to go to sea; but either to go by
land to the Groyne, and cross over the Bay of Biscay
to Eochelle, from whence it was but an easy and sate
journey by land to Paris, and so to Calais and Dover;
or to go up to Madrid, and so all the way by land
hrough France.
In a word, I was so prepossessed against going by
sea at all, except from Calais to Dover, that I resol-
ved to travel all the way by land; which, as I was not
in haste, and did not value the charge, was by much
the pleasanter way: and to make it the more so, my
old captain brought an English Gentleman, the son of
a merchant in Lisbon, who was willing to travel with
me; after which, we picked up two who were Eng-
lish, and merchants also, and two young Portuguese
Gentlemen, the last going to Paris only; so that we
•were in all six of us, and five servants, the two mer-
chants, and the two Portuguese, contenting themselves
•with one servant between two, to save the charge: as
for me, I got an English sailor to travel with me as a
260
servant, besides my man Friday, who was too much
a stranger to be capable of supplying that place upon
the road.
In this manner I set out from Lisbon ; and our com-
pany being all very well mounted and armed, we
made a little troop, whereof they did me the honour
to call me captain, as well because I was the oldest
man, as because I had two servants, and indeed was
the origin of the whole journey.
As I have troubled you with none of my sea
journals, so shall I trouble you with none of my land
journals: but some adventures that happened to us in
this tedious and difficult journey, I must not omit.
When we came to Madrid, being all of us strangers
to Spain, we were willing to stay sometime to see the
court of Spain, and whatever was worth observing at
that capital; but it being the latter part of the sum-
mer, we were obliged to hasten away, and set out from
Madrid about the middle of October.. When we came
to the edge of Navarre, we were alarmed, at several
towns on the way, with an account that so much snow
was fallen on the French side of the mountains, that
several travellers were obliged to come back to Pam-
peluna, after having attempted, at an extreme hazard,
to pass on.
When we came to Pampeluna itself, we found it so
indeed;'and to me that had been always used to a hot
climate, and indeed to countries where we could scarce
bear any clothes on, the cold was insufferable; nor,
indeed, was it more painful than it was surprising, to
come but ten days before out of Old Castile, where the
weather was not only warm, but very hot, and im-
mediately to feel a wind from the Pyrenean mountains,
so very keen, so severely cold, as to be intolerable,
and to endanger benumbing and perishing of our fin-
gers and toes. Poor Friday was really frightened
when he saw the mountains all covered with snow,
and felt cold weather, which he had never seen or felt
before in his life.
To mend the matter, after we came to Pampeluna,
it continued snowing with so much violence, and so-
long, that the people said, winter was come before
its time; and the roads, which were difficult before;
were now quite impassable: in a word, the snow lay
in some places too thick for us to travel; and being
not hard frozen, as is the case in northern countries,
there was no going without the danger of being
buried alive every step. We staid no less than twenty
days at Pampeluna; when ^seeing the winter coming
on, and no likelihood of its being better, for it was the
severest winter all over Europe that had been known
in many years) I proposed that we should all go away
to Fontarabia, and there take shipping for Bourdeaux,
which was a very little voyage.
But while we were considering this, there came in
four French gentlemen, who, having been stopped
on the French side of the passes, as we were on the
Spanish, had found out a guide, who traversing the
country near the head of Languedoc, had brought
them over the mountains by such ways, that they
were not much incommoded with the snow; and
where they met with snow in any quantity, they said
it was frozen hard enough to bear them and their
horses.
We sent for this guide, who told us, he would un-
dertake to carry us the same way, with no hazard from
the snow, provided we were armed sufficiently to
protect us from wild beasts; for he said, upon these
great snows, it was frequent for the wolves to shew
themselves at the foot of the mountains, being made
ravenous for want of food, the ground being covered
with snow. We told him we were well prepared f•or
sue,'! creatures as they were, if he would insure us
from a kind of two-legged wolves, which we were
told we were in most danger from, especially on the
French side of the mountains.
He satisfied us there was no danger of that kind
in the way that we were to go; so we readily agreed
to follow him: as did also twelve other gentlemen,
with their servants, some French, some Spanish, who,
as I said, had attempted to go, and were obliged to
come back again.
262
Accordingly we all set out from Pampeluna, with
our guide, on the fifteenth of November; and indeed,
I was surprised, when, instead of going forward, he
came directly back with us, on the same road that
we came from Madrid, above twenty miles; when,
having passea two rivers, and come into the plain
country, we found ourselves in a warm climate again,
where the country was pleasant, and no snow to be
seen: but on a sudden, turning to the left, he ap-,
proached the mountains another way; and though
it is true, the hills and the precipices looked dreadfully,
yet he made so many tours, such meanders, and led
us by such winding ways, we insensibly passed the
height of the mountains, without being much incum-
bered with the snow; and all on a sudden he shewed
us the pleasant fruitful provinces of Languedoc and
Gascoigne, all green and flourishing; though indeed
they were at a great distance, and we had some rough
way to pass yet.
We were a little uneasy however, when we found
it snowed one whole day and a night, so fast, that
we could not travel; but he bade us be easy, we should
soon be past it all: we found, indeed, that we began
to decend every day, and to come more north than
before; and so, depending upon our guide we went on.
It was about two hours before night, when out
guide being somewhat before us, and not just in sight,
out rushed three monstrous wolves, and after them a,
bear, out of an hollow way, adjoining to a thick wood.
Two of the wolves flew upon the guide; and had he
been half a mile before us, he had been devoured indeed,
before we could have helped him. One of them fas-
tened upon his horse, and the other attacked the man
with such violence, that he had not time,, or at least
presence of mind enough, to draw his pistol, but hal-
looed and cried out to us most lustily. My man Friday
being next to me, I bade him ride up, and see, what
was the matter: As soon as Friday came in sight of
the man, he hallooed, as loud as the other, O Master!
O Master! But, at the same time, like a bold fellow.,
I'dde directly Up to the man, and with his pistol shot
the wolf that attacked him in the head.
It was happy for the poor man that it was my man
Friday; for he, having been used to that kind of
animal in his country, had no fear upon him, but went
close up to him, and shot him as I have stated : where-
as any of us would have fired at a further distance,
and have perhaps either missed the wolf, or endan-
gered shooting the man.
But it was enough to have terrified a bolder man
than I, and indeed it alarmed all our company, when,
with the noise of Friday's pistol, we heard on both
sides the dismallest howlings of wolves, and the noise
redoubled by the echo of the mountains, as if there
had been a prodigious multitude of them; and perhaps
indeed there was not such a few, that we had no cause
of apprehensions.
However, as Friday had killed this wolf, the other
that had fastened upon the horse, left him immediate-
ly, and fled, having happily fastened upon his head,
•where the bosses of the bridle had stuck in his teeth,
so that he had not done him much injury: the man,
indeed, was most hurt; for the raging creature had
bit him twice, once on the arm, and the other time a
little above his knee; and he was just as it were tum-
bling down by the disorder of the horse, when Friday
tame up, and shot the wolf.
It is easy to suppose, that at the noise of Friday's
pistol we all mended our pace, and rode up as fast as
the way (which was very difficult) would give us leave,
to see what was the matter. As soon as we came
•clear of the trees, which blinded us before, we saw
plainly what had been the case, and how Friday had
disengaged the poor guide; though we did not im-
inediately discern what kind of creature it was he had
killed.
But never was a sight managed so hardily, and in
such a surprising manner, as that which followed be-
tween Friday and the bear, which gave us all (though
at first we were surprised and afraid for him) ttie
264
greatest diversion imaginable. As the bear is an
heavy, clumsy creature, and does not gallop as the
wolf does, which is swift and light; so he has two
particular qualities, which generally are the rule of his
actions; first, as to men, who are not his proper prey,
because though I cannot say what excessive hunger
might do, which was now their case, the ground being
all covered with snow; yet as to men, he does not
usually attempt them, unless they first attack him;
on the contrary, if you meet him in the woods, if you
do not meddle with him, he will not meddle with you;
yet then you must take care to be very civil to him,
and give him the road; for he is a very nice gentleman,
he will not go a step out of the way for a prince; nay,
if you are really afraid, your best way is to look another
way, and keep going on; for sometimes, if you stop,
and stand still, and look stedfastly at him, he takes it
for an affront; and if you throw or toss any thing at
him, and it hits him, though it were but a bit of stick
as big as your finger, he takes it for an affront, and
sets all other business aside to pursue his revenge;
for he will have satisfaction in point of honour, and
this is his first quality; the next is, that if he be once
affronted, he will never leave you, night or day, till
he has his revenge, but follow at a good round rate
till he overtakes you.
My man Friday had delivered our guide, and when
we came up to him, he was helping him off from his
horse; for the man was both hurt and frightened, and
indeed the last more than the first; when, on a sudden,
we espied the bear come out of the wood, and a very
monstrous one it was, the biggest that ever I saw:
we were all a little surprised when we saw him; but
when Friday saw him, it was easy to see joy and
courage in the fellow's countenance: O! O! O ! says
Friday, three times, pointing to him, O Master! you
give me te leave, me shakee te hand with him, me
makee you good laugh.
I was surprised to see the fellow so pleased: You
fool you, said I, he will eat you up. Eatee me up!
265
«atee me up! says Friday, twice over again; me eatee
him up; me make you good laugh; you all stay here
me shew you good laugh: so down he sat, and took
his boots off in a moment, and put on a pair of pumps
(as we call the flat shoes they wear) and which he had
in his pocket, and gave my other servant his horse,
and, with his gun, away he flew, swift as the wind.
The bear was walking softly on, and offered to
meddle with nobody, till Friday coming pretty near,
called to him, as if the bear could understand him:
Hark ye, hark ye, says Friday, me speakee wit you.
We followed at a distance; for now being come down
to the Gascoigne side of the mountains, we had enter-
ed a vast great forest, where the country was plain,
and pretty open, though many trees in it scattered
here and there.
Friday, who had, the heels of the bear, came up
•with him quickly, and took up a great stone, and
threw at him, and hit him just on the head; but did
him no more harm than if he had thrown it against a
wall; but it answered Friday's end; for the rogue
was so void of fear, that he did it purely to make the
bear follow him, and shew us some laugh, as he
called it.
As soon as the bear felt the stone, and saw him, he
turned about, and came after him, taking long strides,
and shuffling along at a rate swift enough to put a
horse to a middling gallop; away rims Friday, and
takes his course, as if he ran towards us for help; so
we all resolved to fire at once upon the bear, and
deliver my man ; though I was angry at him heartily
for bringing the bear back upon us, when he was go-
ing about his own business another way; and especial-
ly I was angry that he had turned the bear upon us,
and then run away; and I called out, You dog, is
this your making us laugh? Come away, and take
your horse, that we may shoot the creature. He
heard me, and cried out, No shoot, no shoot, stand
still, you get much laugh: and as the nimble creature
ran two feet for the beast's one, he turned on a sud-«
A a
266
den, on one side of us, and seeing a great oak tree,
fit for his purpose, he beckoned us to follow, and
doubling his pace, he got nimbly up the tree, leaving
his gun upon the ground, at about five or six yards
from the bottom of the tree.
The bear soon came to the tree, and we followed at
a distance; the first thing he did, he stopped at the
gun, smelt at it, but let it lie, and up he scrambled
into the tree, climbing like a cat, though so mon-
strous heavy: I was amazed at the folly, as I thought
it, of my man, and could not for my life see any
thing to laugh at yet, till seeing the bear get up the
tree, we all rode nearer to him.
When we came to the tree, there was Friday got
out to the small part of a large limb of the tree, snd the
bear nearly half way to him • as soon as the bear
reached that part where the limb of the tree was
weaker, Ha, says he to us, now you see me teachee
the bear dance; so he falls a jumping, and shaking
the bough, at which the bear began to totter, but
stood still, and began to look behind him, to see how
he should get back; then indeed we did laugh hearti-
ly: But Friday had not done with him by a great
deal; when he saw him stand still, he called out to him
again, as if he had supposed the bear could speak
English, What, you come no farther? Pray you come
farther. So he left jumping and shaking the bough;
and the bear, just as if he understood what he said,
did come a little farther; then he fell a jumping again,
and the bear stopped again.
We thought now was a good time to knock him on
the head, and called to Friday to stand still, and we
would shoot the bear; but he cried out earnestly, O
pray! O pray! no shoot, me shoot by and then; he
would have said, by and bye. However, to shorten
the story, Friday danced so much, and the bear stood
so ticklish, that we had laughing enough indeed, but
still could not imagine what the fellow would do; for
first we thought he depended upon shaking the bear
off; and we found the bear was too cunning for that;
for he would not get out far enough to be thrown
down, but clung fast with his great broad claws and
feet, so that we could not imagine what would be the
end of it, and where the jest would be at last.
But Friday put us out of doubt quickly; for seeing
the bear cling fast to the bough, and that he would
not be persuaded to come any farther; Well, well, said
Fiiday, you no come farther, me go, me go; you no
come to me, me come to you; and upon this he went
out to the smallest end of the bough, where it would
bend with his weight, and gently let himself down
by it, sliding down the bough, till he came near
enough to jump down on his feet, and away he ran to
his gun, takes it up, and stands still.
Well, said I to him, Friday, what will you do now?
Why do not you shoot him? No shoot, says Friday,
no yet, me shoot now me no kill; me stay, give you
one more laugh; and indeed so he did, as you well
see presently ; for when the bear saw his enemy gone,
he came back from the bough where he stood, but did
it mighty leisurely, looking behind him every step
and coming backward till he got into the body of the
tree; then with the same hinder end foremost, he came
down the tree, grasping it with his claws, and moving
one foot at a time, very leisurely; at this juncture,
and just before he could set his hind feet upon the
ground, Friday stepped close to him, placed the muz-
zle of his piece into his ear, and shot him as dead 3
a stone,
Then the rogue turned about, to see if we did not
laugh; and when he saw we were pleased by our
looks, he fell a laughing himself very loud; So we
kill bear in my country, says Friday. So you kill
them, said I; why you have no guns; No, said he,
po guns, but shoot great much long arrow.
This was, indeed, a good diversion to us; but we
were still in a wild place, and our guide very much
hurt, and what to do we hardly knew; the howling
of wolves ran much in my head; and indeed except
the noise I once heard on the shore of Africa, of which
A a 2
£68
I have said something already, I never heard any
thing that filled me with so much horror.
These things, and the approach of night, called us
off, or else, as Friday -would have had us, we should
certainly have taken the skin of this monstrous crea-
ture off, which was worth saving; but we had three
leagues to go, and our guide hastened us; so we left
him, and went forward on our journey.
The ground was still covered with snow, though
not so deep and dangerous as on the mountains; and
the ravenous creatures, as we heard afterwards, were
come down into the forest and plain country, pressed
by hunger, to seek for food, and had done a great
deal of mischief in the villages, where they surprised
the country people, killed a great many of their sheep
and horses, and some people too.
We had one dangerous place to pass, of which our
guide told us, if there were any more wolves in the
country, we should find them there; and this was a
small plain, surrounded with woods on every side, and
a long narrow defile or lane, which we were to pass to
~0* tV.-™,^ tV.0 WOO'' -*• •* tV i".". ~•i ±*"«ll«1 Ontv. a «••»
Ml»l< •ilAA.WKgA*. »4«r -. >*•*, mid IHCli Wi* Oaiut**^* ««•*«» v< •
the village where we were to lodge.
It was within half an hour of sun-set when we
entered the first wood; and a little after sun-set, when
we came into the plain. We met with nothing in the
first wood, except that in a little plain within the
wood, which was not above two furlongs over, we saw
five great wolves cross the road, full speed one after
another, as if they had been in chase of some prey, and
had it in view; they took no notice of us, and were
gone and out of sight in a few minutes.
Upon this our guide, who, by the way, was a
wretched faint-hearted fellow, bade us keep in a rea.
dy posture; for he believed there were more wolves
coming.
We kept our arms ready, and our eyes about us;
but we saw no more wolves till we came through that
wood, which was nearly half a league, and entered the
plain; as soon as we came into the plain, we had QC-
269
casion enough to look about us. The first object we
met with was a dead horse, that is to say, a poor horse
which the wolves had killed, and at least a dozen
of them at work; we could not say eating him, but
picking his bones rather; for they had eaten up all
the flesh before.
We did not think fit to disturb them at their feast,
neither did they take much notice of us; Friday
would have let fly at them, but 1 would not suffer him
by any means; for I found we were likely to have more
business upon our hands than we were aware of. We
•were not half gone ovei the plain, before we began to
hear the wolves howl in the woods on our left, in a
frightful manner; and presently after we saw about
a hundred coming on directly towards us, all in a
body, and most of them in a line, as regularly as an
army drawn up by experienced officers. I scarcely knew
in what manner to receive them; but found to draw
ourselves in a close line, was the only way; so we
formed in a moment; but, that we might not have
too much interval, I ordered, that only every other
man should fire ; and that the others, who had not
fired, should stand ready to give them a second vol-
ley immediately, if they continued to advance upon us;
and that then those who had fired at first, should not
pretend to load their fusils again, but stand ready,
•with every one a pistol, for we were all armed with a
fusil, and a pair of pistols each man; so we were, by
this method, able to fire six volleys, half of us at a
time; however, at present we had no necessity; for,
upon firing the first volley, the enemy made a full
stop, being terrified, as well with the noise as with
the fire; four of them, being shot in the head, drop-
ped; several others were wounded, and went bleeding
of, as we could see by the snow: I found they stop-
ped, but did not immediately retreat; whereupon
remembering that I had been told, that the fiercest
creatures were terrified at the voice of a man, I caused
all our company to halloo as loud as we could, and I
found the notion not altogether incorrect; for upon
A a 3
270
our shout, they began to retire, and turn about; then
J ordered a second volley to be fired in their rear,
which put them to the gallop, and away they went to
the woods.
This gave us leisure to charge our pieces again, which,
that we might lose no time, we kept doing; but we
had but little more than loaded our fusils, and put
ourselves into a readiness, when we heard a terrible
noise in the same wood, on our left; only that it was
farther onward the same way we were to go.
The night was coming on, and began to be dusky,
which made it the worse on our side; but, the noise
increasing, we could easily perceive that it was the
howling and yelling of those hellish creatures; and,
on a sudden, we perceived two or three troops of
wolves on our left, one behind us, and one on our
front, so that we seemed to be surrounded with them;
however, as they did not fall upon us, we kept our
way forward, as fast as we could make our horses go,
which, the way being very rough, was only a good
quick trot; and in this manner we only came in view
of the entrance of the wood through which we were
to pass, at the farther side of the plain; but we were
greatly surprised, when, coming near the lane, or pass,
we saw a confused number of wolves standing just at
the entrance.
On a sudden, at another opening of the wood, we
heard the noise of a gun; and, looking that way, out
rushed a horse, with a saddle and a bridle on him,
flying like the wind, and sixteen or seventeen wolves
after him full speed: indeed the horse had the heels
of them; but as we suppose that he could not hold it
at that rate, we doubted not but they would get up
with him at last; and no question but they did.
Here we had a most horrible sight; for,, riding up
to the entrance where the horse came out, we found
the carcase of another horse, and two men devoured
by these ravenous creatures, and one of the men was
no doubt the same whom we heard fire a gun, for
there lay a gun just by him, fired off; but as to the
271
man, his head, and the upper• part of his body, were
eaten up.
This filled us with horror, and we knew not what
course to take; but the creatures resolved us soon,
for they gathered about us presently, in hopes of prey •
and I verily believe there were three hundred of then..
It happened very much to our advantage, that at the
entrance into the wood, but a little way from it, there
lay some large timber trees, which had been cut down
the summer before, and I suppose lay there for car-
riage; I drew my little troop in among these trees,
and placing ourselves in a line behind one long tree,
I advised them all to alight, and, keeping that tree
before us, for a breast-work, to stand in a triangle, or
three fronts, inclosing our horses in the centre.
We did so, and it was well we did; for never was
a more furious charge than the creatures made upon
us in this place; they came on us with a growling
kind of a noise, and mounted the piece of timber
(which was our breast work,) as if they were only rush-
ing upon their prey; and this fury of theirs, it seems,
was principally occasioned by their seeing our horses
behind us, which was the prey they aimed at: I or•-
dered our men to fire as before, every man; and they
took their aim so sure, that they killed several of the
wolves at the first volley; but there was a necessity
to keep a continual firing, for they came oil like devils,
those behind pushing on those before.
When we had fired our second volley of fusils, we
thought they stopped a little, and I hoped they would
have gone off, but it was but a moment, for others
came forward again; so we fired our volleys of pistols;
and I believe in these four firings, we killed seventeen
or eighteen of them, and lamed twice as many; yet
they came on again.
I was loth to spend our last shot too hastily; so I
called my servant, not my man Friday, for he was
better employed; for, with the greatest dexterity ima-
ginable, he charged my fusil and his own, while we
were engaged; but, as I said, I called my other man;
272
and giving him a horn of powder, I bade him lay a
train all along the piece of timber, and let it be a large
train ; he did so, and had but time to get away, when
the wolves came up to it, and some were got upon
it; when I, snapping an uncharged pistol close to the
powder, set it on fire; and those that were upon the
timber were scorched with it, and six or seven of them
fell, or rather jumped in, among us, with the force
and fright of the fire; we dispatched these in an in-
stant, and the rest were so frightened with the light,
which the night, for now it was very nearly dark, made
more terrible, that they drew back a little.
Upon which I ordered our last pistols to be fired
off in one volley, and after that we gave a shout;
upon this the wolves turned tail, and we sallied imme-
diately upon near twenty lame ones, which -we fount!
strugglingon the ground, and began cutting them with
our swords, which answered our expectation ; for the
crying and howling they made were better understood
by their fellows; so that they fled and left us.
Thus we, first and last, killed about three score of
them; and had it been day-light, we should have killed
many more; the field of battle being thus cleared, we
made forward again; for we had still near a league to
go; we heard the ravenous creatures howl and yell
in the woods as we went, several times; and sometimes
we fancied we saw some of them, but the snow daz-
zling our eyes, we were not certain; so in about an
hour more we came to the town, where we were to
lodge, which we found in great alarm, and all in
arms; for, it seems, that the night before, the wolves
and some bears had broken into that village, and put
them in a terrible fright; and they were obliged to
keep guard night and day, but especially in the night,
to preserve their cattle, and indeed their people.
The next morning our guide was so ill, and his
limbs so swelled with the rankling of his two wounds,
that he could go no farther; so we were obliged to
take a new guide there, and go to Toulouse, where we
found a warm climate, a fruitful, pleasant country,
273
and no snow, no wolves, or any thing like them; but
•when we told our story at Toulouse, they said it
•was nothing but what was ordinary hi the great forest
at the foot of the mountains, especially when the snow
lay on the ground; but they enquired much what
kind of a guide we had hired, that would venture to
bring us that way insuch a severe season; and said
it was very fortunate we were not all devoured:
When we told them how we placed ourselves, and the
horses in the middle, they blamed us exceedingly, and
said it was fifty to one but we had been all destroy-
ed ; for it was the sight of the horses that made the
wolves so furious, seeing their prey ; and that at other
times they are really afraid of a gun; but they being
excessively hungry, and raging on that account, their
eagerness to come at the horses had made them sense-
less of danger; and that if we had not by the continued
fire, and at last by the stratagem of the train of powder,
mastered them, it had been great odds but that we
had been torn to pieces; whereas, had we been con-
tent to have sat still on horseback, and fired as horse-
men, they wpvild not have taken the horses so much
for their own, when men were on their backs, as
otherwise; and withal they told us, that at last, if we
had stood altogether, and left our horses, they would
have been so eager to have devoured them, that we
might have come off safe, especially having our fire*
arms in our hands, and being so many in number.
For my part, J was never so sensible of danger in
my life; for seeing above three hundred devils come
roaring and open»mouthed to devour us, and having
nothing to shelter us, or retreat to, I gave myself over
tor lost; and as it was, J believe, I shall never care to
cross those mountains again; I think I would much
rather go a thousand leagues by sea, though I was
sure to meet with a storm once a week.
I have nothing uncommon to take notice of in my
passage through France; nothing but what other tra-
vellers have given an account of, with much more
advantage than I can; I travelled from Toulouse to
274
Paris, and without any considerable stay, came to
Calais, and landed safe at Dover, the fourteenth of
January, after having had a severe cold season to
travel in.
I now come to the end of my travels, and had in
a little time all my new discovered estate safe about
me, the bills of exchange which I brought with me,
having been very honourably paid.
My principal guide and privy counsellor, was my
good ancient widow, who, in gratitude for the money
I had sent her, thought no pains too much, or care
too great, to employ for ine; and I trusted her so
entirely with every thing, tyat I was perfectly easy as
to the security of my effects; and indeed I was very
happy from the beginning, and to the end, in the
unspotted integrity of this good gentlewoman.
And now I began to think of leaving my effects
with this woman, and setting out for Lisbon, and so
to the Brasils: but another scruple came in the
way, and that was religion; for as 1 had entertained
some doubts about the Roman Catholic religion, even
while I was abroad, especially in my state of solitude;
so I knew there was no going to the Brasils for me,
much less going to settle there, unless I resolved to
embrace the Roman Catholic religion, without any
reserve; except on the other hand I resolved to be a
sacrifice to my principles, be a martyr for religion,
and die in the inquisition: so I resolved to stay at
home, and if I could find means for it, to dispose of
my plantation.
To this purpose I wrote to my old friend at Lisbon,
who in return gave me notice, that he could easily
dispose of it there: but that if I thought fit to give
him leave to offer it in my name to the two merchants,
the survivors of my trustees who lived in the Brasils,
who must fully understand the value of it, who lived
just upon the spot, and whom I knew to be very rich,
so that he believed they would be anxious to buy it;
he did not doubt, but I should make 4 or 5000 pieces
pf eight the more of it.
275
Accordingly I agreed, gave him orders to offer it
to them, and he did so; and in about eight months
more, the ship being then returned, he sent me an
account, that they had accepted the offer, and had
remitted 33,000 pieces of eight to a correspondent of
theirs at Lisbon, to pay for it.
In return, I signed the instrument of sale in the
form which they sent from Lisbon, and sent it to my
old man, who sent me the bills of exchange for 32,80O
pieces of eight for the estate; reserving the payment
of 100 moidores a year, to him, (the old man,) during
his life, and 50 moidores afterwards to his son for his
life, which I had promised them; and which the
plantation was to make good as a rent charge. And
thus I have given a life of fortune and adventure, a.
life of providence's chequer-work, and of a variety
-which the world will seldom be able to shew the like
of: beginning foolishly, but closing much more hap-
pily than any part of it ever gave me leave so much
as to hope for.
Any one would think, that in this state of compli-
cated good fortune, I was past running any more
hazards, and so indeed I had been, if other circum-
stances had concurred: but I wasinuredto a wandering
life, had no family, nor many relations; nor, however
rich, had I contracted much acquaintance ; and though
I had sold my estate in the Brasils, yet I could not
keep that country out of my head, and had a great
mind to be upon the wing again; especially I could
not resist the strong inclination I had to see my island,
and to know if the poor Spaniards were in being there;
and how the rogues I left there had used them.
My true friend the widow earnestly dissuaded me
from it, and so far prevailed with me, that almost for
seven years she prevented my running abroad ; during
which time I took my two nephews, the children of
one of my brothers, into my care: the eldest having
something of his own, I bred up as a gentleman, and
gave him a settlement of some addition to his estate,
after my decease; the other 1 put out to a captain of
276
a shipi and after five years, finding him a sensible,
bold, enterprising young fellow, I put him into a good
ship, and sent him to sea: and this young fellow
afterwards drew me in, as old as I was to farther
adventures myself.
In the mean time, I in part settled myself here:
for, first of all I married, and that not either to my
disadvantage or dissatisfaction; and had three chil-
dren, two sons and one daughter: but my wife dying,
and my nephew coming home with good success from
a voyage to Spain, my inclination to go abroad, and
his importunity, prevailed, and engaged me to go in
his ship as a private trader to the East Indies. This
was in the year 1694.
In this voyage I visited my new colony in the island,
saw my successors the Spaniards, had the whole story
of their lives, and of the villains I left there; how.at
first they insulted the poor Spaniards, how they after-
wards agreed, disagreed, united, separated, and how
at last the Spaniards were obliged to use violence with
them; how they were subjected to the Spaniards; how
honestly the Spaniards used them; an history, if it
were entered into, as full of variety and wonderful
accidents as my own part; particularly also as to
their battles with the Caribbeans, who landed several
times upon the island, and as to the improvement
they made upon the island itself; and how five of them
made an attempt upon the main land, and brought
away eleven men and five women prisoners ; by which,
at my coming, I found about twenty young children
on the island.
Here I stayed about twenty days ; left them supplies
of all necessary things, and particularly of arms, powder,
shot, clothes, tools, and two workmen, whom I brought
from England with me; viz. a carpenter and a smith.
Besides this, I shared the land into parts with them,
reserved to myself the property of the whole, but gave
them such parts, respectively, as they agreed on; and,
having settled all things with them, and engaged
them not to leave the place, I left them there.
277
From thence I touched at the Brasils, from whence
I sent a bark, -which I brought there, with more peo-
Jle, to the island; and in it, besides other supplies,
sent seven women, being such as I found proper
for service, or for wives to such as would take them.
As to the Englishmen, I promised them to send them
some women from England, with a good cargo of neces-
saries, if they would apply themselves to planting;
•which I afterwards could not perform: the fellows
proved very honest and diligent, after they were
mastered, and had their properties set apart for them.
I sent them also from the Brasila five cows, three of
them being big with calf, some sheep, and some hogs,
which, when I came again, were considerably in-
creased.
But all these things, with an account how three
hundred Caiibbees came and invaded them, and ruin-
ed their plantations, and how they fought with that
•whole number twice, and were at first defeated and
one of them killed; but at last a storm destroying
their enemies' canoes, they famished or destroyed
almost all the rest, and renewed and recovered the
possession of their plantations, and still lived upon the
island.
FINIS.
J. Raw, Printer, Ipswich.
DIRECTIONS FOR THE BINDER.
Robinson Cru«o« and Friday — frontitpiece
Xury and the Lion page 2*
.——_—— Shipwreck — —41
.• building his house — 5,
__——— reaping his corn — —.106
•. with his Umbrella, &c. — 13*
• - shooting the Negroes — 205
