THE
CHILDRE N'S
ROBINSON CRUSOE;
ORTHE
REMARKABLE ADVENTURES
OF AN ENGLISHMAN,
WHO LIVED FIVE YEARSON AN UNKNOWN AND UNINHABITED
ISLAND OFTHE PACIFIC OCEAN.
BY A LADY.
I am monarch of all I survey,
My right there is none to dispute;
From the centre all round to the sea,
I am lord of the fowl and the brute.
COWPER.
EMBELLISHED WITH CUT S.
•
BOSTON:
HILLIARD, GRAY, LITTLE, AND WILKINS.
1830.
DISTRICT OF MASSACHUSETTS to wit:
BE IT REMEMBERED, That on the eleventh day of December
A. D. 1830, in the fifty fifth year of the Independence of the United
States of America, Hilliard, Gray, Little, and Wilkins, of the said
District, have deposited in this office the title of a book, the right
whereof they claim as proprietors, in the words following, to wit:
"The Children's Robinson Crusoe; or the Remarkable Adventures
of an Englishman, who lived Five Years on an Unknown and Uninhab-
ited Island in the Pacific Ocean. By a Lady.
I am monarch of all I survey,
My right there is none to dispute;
From the centre all rr.und to the sea,
I am lord of the fowl and the brute.
Cowper.
Embellished with Cuts."
In conformity to the act of the Congress of the United States,
entitled, "An Act for the encouragement of learning, by'securing the
copies of maps, charts, and books, to the authors and proprietors of
such copies, during the times therein mentioned "; and also to an act
entitled, " An Act supplementary to an Act, entitled,' An Act for the
encouragement of learning, by securing the copies of maps, charts,
and books to the authors and proprietors of such copies, during the
times therein mentioned'; and extending the benefits thereof to the
arts of designing, engraving, and etching historical and other prints."
JNO. W. DAVIS,
Clerk of the District of Maaiachusetts.
CAMBRIDGE:
PRIJCTED BY E. W. METCALF AND CO.
ADDRESS TO PARENTS.
IT will very naturally be asked, why another is added
to the numerous stories, already in circulation, founded
on De Foe's interesting fiction, and purporting to be
abridgments of it, for the use of children, or variations
of the story, intended to render it more instructive. To
this, it may be replied, that the abridgments lose much
of the spirit and graphic manner of the original, while
they retain certain parts, that are ill adapted to the perusal
of children of the present day. The stories which vary
materially from the original tale, may have a merit of
their own; but they have not the distinguishing features of
De Foe's narrative, while they far exceed his in the
exhibition of the marvellous and improbable. To those
who love and respect the minds of children as they ought
to be loved and respected, the impropriety of so exciting
them must be apparent.
These objections to the various new "Robinson Cru-
soes" in circulation, determine some parents to put the
original work into the hands of their children; and re-
membering only the delight with which they pored over
its pages in their own childhood, they forget how much
was skipped over as unintelligible in those juvenile read-
ings, and are not aware of its want of adaptation to the
state of education at the present day.
The great merit of De Foe's work is its natural-
ness; it seems to be exactly what it purports to be,
the narrative of a profane, ill-educated, run-away appren-
tice of the seventeenth century ; and with perfect con-
sistency of character even his better feelings have a
stamp of vulgarity and superstition. But can such a
tale, though perfect in itself, be suited to children who
have been carefully guarded from all profaneness, vulgar-
ity, and superstition 1 It was written for grown persons,
particularly that class to which the hero is supposed to be-
long; and the very skilful manner in which it was adapted
to them, makes it unfit for the perusal of children. There
is necessarily much in it which they cannot comprehend,
and much that a judicious parent would hope they
might pass over without understanding; yet the story is
so fascinating, that the book is constantly read by chil-
dren, with the most intense interest; and Robinson Cru-
soe, with all his faults, his disobedience to his parents, and
his inordinate love of adventure, becomes their favorite and
admired hero.
The best modern writers for children have considered
it important, that characters which excite in them a
deep interest, should be represented as models of those
qualities which we wish them to admire and cultivate;
and it occurred to the writer of the following story, that
the fascination of De Foe's hero might be enlisted on the
side of industry, perseverance, resignation to the will of
God, and numerous other good qualities of which he
might be supposed an example.
With this view, the Children's Robinson Crusoe is here
represented as an amiable and well educated youth, early
trained to habits of observation and reflection, and capa-
ble of pure and exalted feelings of religion; a hero, in
short, whom children may safely love and admire, yet not
faultless, or they could not sympathize with him. In
consequence of the mismanagement of his own mind, he
grows up with a strong bias for a sailor's life, which is
the occasion of all his misfortunes, whilst his good quali-
ties alleviate his sufferings under them.
He goes to sea with the consent, though against the
wishes, of his parents; and meets, immediately, with disas-
ters, which occasion his being cast ashore on a desert
island. There his sufferings cure him of all his wandering
propensities; and he feels nothing but regret at having
left his comfortable home, and contrition for having acted
contrary to the inclination of his parents. All the pros-
perous voyages and bold enterprises, which in the original
tale precede Robinson Crusoe's life on the island, and
which are calculated to encourage a love of roaming over
the world, are here purposely omitted; and as this story
closes with the hero's return to England, after spending
five years in solitude, there is no danger of its fostering,
in the reader, any spirit of adventure, like that which De
Foe's narrative has been known to infuse.
As much information about domestic arts as could well
be interwoven with the story, has been introduced ; but
without attempting to make the book a child's Encyclopae-
dia, which would be apt to be occasionally consulted rath-
er than read. The hero is here left for a while destitute
of all those materials, which the original Robinson
Crusoe obtained from the vessel he was wrecked in, with
a view of making the young reader fully sensible of the
value of iron, of edgctools, and of all those means which
civilized life furnishes. This has been done in some of
the abridgments, already before the public; but the ob-
6
jection to them is, that Robinson Crusoe is made to per-
form impossibilities, with only shells and stones for tools.
Some of the ingenious contrivances, however, which those
works contain, have been adopted in this ; though most
of the incidents are either borrowed from the old story,
or are entirely new.
The Life and Adventures of Alexander Selkirk,
lately published from authentic sources, has furnished
some anecdotes; and from that work the author has
taken her description of the beautiful scenery and
abundant productions of her unknown island. As goats
were carried by the Spaniards, from South America to
the island of Juan Fernandez, and there increased to a
large flock, it has been considered allowable to place la-
mas, in the same way, on this supposed island of the
Pacific; and as a more interesting and important class of
animals, they were preferred. Robinson's fall from a preci-
pice, with a lama under him, is copied from the account
of a similar accident that happened to Alexander Selkirk
with a goat, which was thought to have saved his life by
breaking the fall.
The man Friday, of the Children's Robinson Crusoe
is supposed to be a native of the Sandwich Islands, which
were discovered about the time of the date of this story.
Their inhabitants being of a mild, affectionate, and tracta-
ble nature, it was thought they might furnish a very teacha-
ble and interesting Friday; and for the representations
here given of the manners and customs of that people, the
writer has the authority of an enlightened traveller, who
has been much among them, and to whom she is indebt-
ed for many valuable hints, which she begs leave grate-
fully to acknowledge.
The religious sentiments here inculcated are not those
of any particular creed; nothing has been admitted
which is not common to all Christians; those simple
views of love to God and constant dependence upon him,
which were most likely to be suggested by the circum-
stances of Robinson Crusoe's situation, and which
children can best understand and sympathize with, are all
that the writer has attempted, leaving to parents the sa-
cred charge of directing the minds of their offspring to
particular doctrines.
Notwithstanding the reasons here given for this under-
taking, the author is very sensible that, in its execution, it
falls far short of what such a book might be. She thinks
with Rousseau," that it might be made a great in-
strument in the education of children, leading their
minds to a philosophical investigation of man's social na-
ture, and introducing them to trains of thought, which
no other story could so well suggest; and the only con-
siderations, which induce the writer of this volume to of-
* "Puisqu'il nous faut absolument des livres, il en existe un qui
foumit, a mon gré, le plus heureux, traite d'education naturelle. Ce
livre sera le premier que lira mon Emile : seul il compose™ durant
long-temps toute sa bibliotheque, et il y tiendra toujours une place
distinguce. 11 sera le texte auquel tons nos entretiens sur les sciences
naturelles ne serviront que de comrnentaires. 11 servira d'epreuve
durant nos piogres a Tetat de notre ju^einent, et taut que notre gout
ne sera pas gate, sa lecture nous plaira toujours. Quel est done ce
merveilleux here ? Est-ce Aiistote, est-ce Pline, est-ce Buffon?
Nonl c-est Robinson Crusoe.
"Robinson Crusoe dans son isle, seul, depourvu de 1'assistance de
ses semblables et des instrumens de tous les arts, pourvoyant cepen-
tlunl a sa subsistance, a sa conservation, et se procurant meme une
sorte de bien-etre ; voila un objet interessant pour tout age, et qu'on
a mille nioyens de rendre agreable aux enfans.
"Ce roman, deharrasse de tout son fatras, commencant au naufrage
de Robinson pres de son isle, et linissant a 1'ariivee du vaisseau qui
vicnt 1'en tirer, fera tout a la fois 1'ainusemeut et I'instruction d'Emile
durant 1'epoque dont il est ici question."
fer her imperfect attempt to the public, are founded in
the belief, that it comes nearer what is wanted, than those
which have preceded it, that its influence will be favora-
ble to the cause of truth, social order, and religion,
and that it contains nothing incompatible with that
love and respect for childhood, in which it was writ-
ten, and with which it is now commended to the careful
and anxious parent, who may be seeking among the load-
ed counters of the children's bookseller, a safe and use-
ful book.
ADVENTURES
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
CHAPTER I.
CHILDHOOD OF ROBINSON CRUSOE.
ROBINSON CRUSOE was the youngest son of a respect-
able broker in the city of York. His parents took great
pains with his education, and not only sent him to the
best schools in York, but supplied him with entertain-
ing and instructive books to read at home; and as his
brothers were all much older than himself, and there
were no playmates for him in the family, he became
more studious than most boys of his age. He loved to
hear grown persons talk, and was the constant compan-
ion of his father when business called him from home.
Mr. Crusoe took pleasure in answering his little son's
numerous questions as to how things were made; he
often took him to see the different tradesmen at their
work and explain to him what they were doing; and
as Robinson was not one of those giddy children who
like to see every thing but never examine any thing at-
tentively, he learned to understand the common arts of
life pretty well.
His father gave him a set of carpenter's tools and a
little room for a workshop, and when he was nine years
1
2 CHILDHOOD OF ROBINSON CRUSOE.
old he could make boxes, and stools, and benches; and
though the boxes were not always very neatly dove-
tailed together, and sometimes one leg of a stool would
be shorter than the rest, his parents encouraged him to
persevere, and told him he would do better every time
he tried. In basket-making he was very successful; and
from an old blind man, who lived near his father's house
and maintained himself by weaving baskets and mats,
Robinson learned the art. He used to do many kind
things for the blind man, who in return taught him to
make basket-work almost as neat as his own ; and he not
only supplied his mother's house with baskets, but fre-
quently made presents of them to his friends.
When he was old enough to work in a garden, his
father gave him a small piece of ground to manage as
he pleased; he had a spade, rake, hoe, and wheel-
barrow of the right size for him to work with conven-
iently; and his great ambition used to be to have a dish
of pease out of his little garden, before there were any fit
for use in his father's large one.
Robinson was very fond of studying natural history,
and whenever there was a show of wild beasts in the
city, his father allowed him to go and see them as
often as he pleased; he would examine each animal
separately, and read the account of it in some book
of natural history; and sometimes he would take the
book with him, and spend hours in reading and compar-
ing the description and the plates with the real animal.
In this way he became acquainted with each specimen,
and never confounded tigers, panthers, and leopards
all together, as some children do.
Robinson took great pleasure in reading about the
manners and customs of different countries; and every
book of voyages and travels that he could get hold of,
he read through with delight. When he grew older, his
fondness for this kind of reading increased; and as he
could not understand all the hardships and sufferings
which travellers and navigators are obliged to bear,
he thought their life must be the pleasantest in the world.
About this time, there was a great deal said of cir-
cumnavigating the globe; some very enterprising voy-
ages were made; the newspapers and journals were
full of accounts of newly found islands in the Pacific
ocean; many false stories were circulated about coun-
tries recently discovered and their marvellous produc-
tions; and Robinson's head was filled with these things.
Much was then believed which has since been contra-
dicted, and voyages of discovery were the fashion of the
day.
When Robinson was fifteen years old, his father told
him he must now make choice of some business that he
would like to follow, and learn to provide for himself, as
his elder brothers had done. Robinson's parents had
often talked about this to their son, and urged him to
make up his mind as to what he would prefer; but
he had always objected to every employment they
had proposed, not because he was idle and wished
to do nothing, but because his great desire to travel and
see different countries made him wish above all things
to be a sailor and go to sea.
When he told his parents what his choice was, they
were very much astonished as well as grieved ; and they
tried to convince him that he had chosen an occupa-
tion that he was not fit for. They explained to him
the great hardships and privations of a sailor's life,
told him he must work night and day, be exposed to
storms, often be in wet clothes for days together, and
sometimes not have enough to eat; they reminded
him too, that vessels were often wrecked, and that he
might be drowned, or obliged to go on shore among
savages.
All his parents said, against a sailor's life, made no
impression upon Robinson's mind, because it was filled
with his own false notions about the pleasures of going
to sea. His father told him, he would teach him to be a
broker, and as soon as he was old enough, he would take
him into partnership; and he explained to him all the
advantages of such a business, and showed him so clearly
what an easy and pleasant life he might lead in the city
of York, that if Robinson had not, for a longtime before,
set his heart on being a sailor, he would certainly have
made up his mind at once, to take his father's advice
and remain with him. But Robinson had read so many
accounts of voyages and different countries, that he
longed to make a voyage himself, and to see some
other country besides England; and, though he would
not think of going to sea without the consent of his
parents, he did not feel willing to give it up and stay
quietly on shore.
After many long conversations on the subject, his
parents determined that, as they could not convince him,
he had better stay at home, they would not oblige him
to do so out of mere obedience to their will.
When Mr. Crusoe told his son their determination, he
added, "Now, Robinson, if you go to sea, it must be
as a common sailor, and you must work your way up, as
well as you can; for they only make good captains,
'who come in over the bows,' which is the sailor's phrase
for beginning as a common hand." To this Robinson
readily agreed, and thanked his parents very heartily for
allowing him to follow the strong inclination he felt to be
a sailor; and from that time, he could talk and think of
nothing else, but the new life he was going to lead.
Every evening after supper, he would get a map of the
world that he had won as a prize at school, and spread
it on the table, and trace upon it the various voyages that
he wished to make; whilst his father would smile at his
extravagant wishes, and remind him that he made none
but fair weather voyages on that paper, but his real voy-
ages would be full of difficulties and dangers that he
never thought of now; and then his mother would sigh
and wipe away the tears that stood in her eyes, and tell
him how much she wished he could be contented to
remain on dry land, and give up his foolish fancy for
sailing all over the world. When she talked in this
way, it made Robinson, who loved his mother dearly,
feel very unhappy, and he would slip away to bed, as
soon as he could, to get rid of his unpleasant feelings;
and when he fell asleep, he was sure to dream of what
filled his thoughts all day. The voyages he made in
his sleep were all prosperous, and he would often sail
round the world, and see every curious thing that he
remembered to have read about, in the course of one
night; and then he would awake in the morning, more
eager than ever to begin that life which he expected to
find as agreeable in reality, as it was in his dreams.
Poor Robinson! If he could have known what would
afterwards happen to him, how glad he would have been
to stay at home and follow any business, rather than go
to sea and suffer all that befell him.
His father told him he must remain at school one year
longer and learn navigation, and then if he continued of
the same mind, he would fit him out and send him to
sea, as a common hand, with the best captain, and in the
best ship, he could find in Hull.
As Robinson knew how very useful it would be to
him to learn to navigate a vessel, and that without it he
could never rise to be a mate or master of a ship, he ap-
plied himself very industriously to his new studies ; in his
leisure hours, he made a complete model of a ship, like
the one he had seen, and rigged it, by which he learnt
how a real ship is rigged; and a boy of his acquaintance,
who had been at sea, helped him, and told him the name
of every part. Robinson's parents hoped that his fond-
ness for going to sea would be lessened, by being with
the boy who taught him to rig his model; for that youth
had been one voyage, and disliked it so much that he
preferred doing any thing on land, to going again on the
water. But Robinson, like many other foolish people,
did not like, when he had fixed his heart upon a thing,
to hear any body speak against it; and therefore, instead
of getting all the information he could from his young
friend, and so correcting some of his own wrong notions,
he begged him never to say a word against a sailor's life,
for a sailor he was determined to be, and he was sure
he should like it, if no one else did. Now if Robinson
1*
had been a little more reasonable and less wilful, he
would have wished to hear all that could be said against
his favorite plan, as well as for it, before he made up his
mind; but like a silly boy, he made up his mind first,
and then would not listen to any thing that could be said
against it.
During the year that Robinson was studying naviga-
tion, a course of lectures was given in the city, on Nat-
ural Philosophy, which his father wished him to attend;
but Robinson said, it would be of no use to a sailor to
know such things, and he would rather not. His
father, however, was kind enough to explain to him
how all sorts of knowledge might be useful to a sailor,
told him that the more he knew, the more pleas-
ure and information he would get from seeing foreign
countries, and showed him that in all the common
things that we do every day, he would find it useful to
know just what those lectures would teach him; so he
advised Robinson to try and fix his attention upon them
and learn all he could. Robinson promised he would,
and regularly attended the lectures; how much he
learned from them will be seen in the course of his
story.
At length the time came for Robinson to go to sea,
and his kind parents fitted him out with all the comforts
and conveniences that a sailor could desire. He had a
very nice chest made to hold his clothes, with a little
box fixed inside of it, called a till, to hold his money
and any very small things that he might have; his
mother had plenty of checked and baize shirts made for
him, besides jackets and trowsers such as sailors wear;
and his father gave him a set of maps and charts, a
quadrant and compass, and a good silver watch. A
little girl of his acquaintance made a large thread-case
for him, and filled it with such needles and thread as
would be most useful to him; and when she gave it to
him, she said, "As you will go away from all the
friends who would be glad to mend your clothes for
you, here is something to help you to do it for yourself."
Robinson thanked her for her useful present, and told
her, he thought it would be fine fun to turn seamstress,
when he had nothing better to do. "There I shall sit,"
said he, " on the clean, white deck of the vessel, and sew
up the holes in my stockings, whilst the ship is gliding
over the beautiful blue water, and the dolphins are sport-
ing round her bows, and the sea-birds are making circles
in the air, and the sailors are singing songs or telling
stories around me. O how happy I shall be!" "Ah!"
said the little girl, "just so my poor brother Edward
thought, when he set his heart upon being a soldier; no-
body could make him believe what a hard life a sol-
dier's is ; he used to talk just as you do, Robinson, about
the pleasures he expected to find in it; but he soon per-
ceived his mistake, poor fellow, when he was sick of a
fever, among strangers, and had no one to care any thing
about him; and now that he has been shut up for years
in a dismal prison, I dare say he thinks what a fool he
was, to fancy a soldier's life must be a pleasant one.
So it will be with you, Robinson; you will find out
your mistake when it is too late." "I hope not, Mary,"
said Robinson, as he turned away from her, feeling
pretty serious at what she had said, but not wishing to
show it.
Many voyages were talked of for Robinson, and he
and his father made several visits to Kingston, upon the
river Hull, a port of great commerce, thirty-six miles
from York. The foreign trade of that place is chiefly
up the Baltic, and Robinson's father advised him to go
there for his first voyage. But he did not like so short a
one as that; his mind was full of Lord Anson's sail-
ing round the world, and nothing would satisfy him but
crossing some great ocean. So at last his father found a
vessel that was going to the North American Colonies,
the captain of which he knew something of, and consid-
ered a fit person for his son to sail with; and Robinson
was delighted with the idea of being shipped as a sailor
on board the Neptune, a fine ship of three hundred tons'
burthen.
Robinson had frequently been on board vessels; but
he generally staid on the deck, or went into the cabin,
and he had never thought much of the accommodations
he should have as a common sailor, till his father took
him into the forecastle* of the Neptune, and showed him
the damp, narrow, dark berthjf that would be his bed,
telling him that one of them served for two sailors, as half
the crew were always on deck, and that when he took his
turn to watch on the deck, one of the men who had been
watching would take the berth he left. He told him
also, that his chest would be the only seat he would
have, that there never was any more light in the fore-
castle, than what came down the hatchway,^ and that
he would have no table set for his meals, but must sit on
his chest, and eat out of a small wooden tub, called a
kid, with an iron spoon, or off a hard biscuit for a plate,
with his jack-knife, like all the rest of the sailors; and
then he desired Robinson to look at the rough set of
men he would be obliged to live with, and consider
whether he would be the happier for exchanging his
comfortable home for such a place as that. Robinson
looked very grave, and his father told him, it was not at
all too late to change his mind, that all his friends
would rejoice to have him stay on shore, and he
might now give up going to sea entirely. Robinson
colored and hesitated, and then asked his father, if he
could think well of a person who should give up a great
object, because of some bodily inconvenience, add-
ing, "I thought you admired men who bore hardships
well." "So I do," replied his father, " when hardships
cannot be avoided; if I was very poor, and could not
provide for you in any other way, but by making a
sailor of you, I should like to see you undertake it cour-
* An apartment under the most forward part of the deck,
where sailors eat and sleep.
t A boxed-up shelf at the side of the vessel, in which bed-
ding is put, and people sleep.
t A hole in the deck by which sailors pass in and out of the
forecastle.
ageously, and make the best of every thing; but when
there is no need of your going to sea, when you can be
better provided for in many other ways, there is no merit
in running into difficulties to see how well you can bear
them. What object can you have in going to sea, that
can make you prefer this ship to your own comfortable
home?"
"O dear father! pray don't say a word more against
it. I have an object; I want to see the world; I have
set my heart upon it, ever since I was ten years old ; and
now I cannot give it up, indeed I cannot, though I own,
I never thought of sleeping in such a dismal hole as
this." "I dare say not," said his father; "and you will
meet with many more dismal things in a sailor's life, that
you never thought of; but since nothing can convince you
of your folly, you must go and find it out for yourself."
So saying, he turned away from Robinson, and went
up on deck to tell the captain that his son would go
with him, and ask what day he must join the vessel.
Mr. Crusoe and his son then returned to York, and as
Robinson appeared as cheerful as usual, and continued
his preparations for going, his father lost all hope of his
changing his mind, though he frequently observed to
him that it was not too late to give up his voyage, if he
thought better of it.
Robinson persevered in his resolution to see the world,
and his friends took a sorrowful leave of him on the
10th of June, 17—. He embarked at Hull, on board
the good ship Neptune, Captain Gordon, bound to
Virginia; but as the vessel and crew were not heard of
after they left the Downs, they were all given up for
lost, and Robinson Crusoe was mourned as dead by his
affectionate family.
[The preceding account of Robinson Crusoe's child-
hood is furnished by a friend of his mother, as an intro-
duction to his own narrative written during his residence
on a desert island.]
10 SEASONS FOR WRITING.CHAPTER II.
REASONS FOR WRITING—LEAVING HOME — SEA-SICKNESS
— A SQUALL,— A GALE OF WIND—LOSS OF THE NEP-
TUNE.
I, ROBINSON CRUSOE, mariner, of the city of York,
England, being cast away on this desert island, on the
14tli of October, 17—; and, having spent two years
here in perfect solitude, have resolved to write down all
I can remember of my past history, from the time I
quitted my native land to the present, and then continue
my narrative, as long as I remain in this uninhabited
spot.
It has pleased Providence to send me some allevia-
tion of my difficulties, in the stores and tools furnished
by a wreck, driven on the shoals ; and being now pro-
vided with all that is necessary to my bodily comfort, and
having provisions enough by me to last many months, I
make use of the writing materials, found in the wreck, to
write my own history. I begin it on the second anni-
versary of my being cast ashore here.
Having lived so long without a human being to speak
to, or a book to read, I have amused myself by contin-
ually thinking over all the circumstances of my life, and
particularly those which led to my shipwreck on this
island; every little detail of my voyage is as fresh in
my memory, as if it happened yesterday ; and I shall
set the whole down exactly as I have been accustomed
to call it to mind when thinking it over.
I recollect too, perfectly, my first days of misery on
this island, and how I became gradually reconciled to
my solitude. My first attempts at making myself a hab-
itation, all the difficulties I met with, and my various
contrivances to supply the place of tools, are all fresh in
my recollection ; and it will be a pleasure and satisfaction
for me to put all this in writing, though no eye but mine
may ever see it.
LEAVING HOME. 11
If ever I return to social life, I will take it with me,
to show my friends what shifts a man can make, when
driven to them by necessity, and to prove that, in the
most forlorn condition of life, he need not despair,
but that, by the proper regulation of his mind, and a firm
trust in God, he may enjoy a good deal of happiness
under the most adverse circumstances.
If I die here, I will put my manuscript in the safest
place I can make for it, and so mark the spot that any
one, landing on this side the island, shall be attracted to
it; with the hope that, through such means, it may be car-
ried to England, and give my friends there an account
of the life and adventures of poor Robinson Crusoe.
Narrative of the Life and Adventures of Robinson Cru-
soe, written by Himself, on a Desert Island.
FROM ten years of age, I was possessed with the idea
that a sailor's life was the best in the world, and I set
my heart so firmly on following the seas, that nothing my
good parents and friends could say, to dissuade me from
it, had the least effect; so I left a comfortable home and
good prospects on shore, to seek my fortune in sailing
over the world, and gratify my curiosity in seeing dif-
ferent countries, little thinking, to be sure, how soon all
my voyages would end, or that my knowledge of foreign
parts would be confined to an uninhabited island of a
few miles in extent.
I well remember though, how much my heart mis-
gave me, as the time drew near for me to sail, how
sorrowful all my friends were, what discouraging
speeches every body made about my going to sea, and
that I found it much harder than I expected, to leave my
happy home and part from my dear father and mother.
The last evening before I left home, I felt wretchedly;
again and again it came into my head that I had better
give it all up, and stay quietly where I was; all that my
friends had said to me, without making the least impres-
12 SEA-SICKNESS.
sion, now rushed into my mind with great force; and I
saw how reasonable it was, and, at the bottom of my
heart, I wished I was not going, but had not courage to
say so. I was afraid.of being laughed at, and ashamed
of acknowledging that I had changed my mind ; so, like
a fool that I was, I hid what was passing within me,
kept to my determination, and thus brought on my-
self all the misery I have since endured. May my false
shame and foolish pride be a warning to others!
I passed a wretched night ; and the next morning,
when I embraced my weeping mother for the last time,
I could hardly help saying, "I will not go "; but I shut
my lips tight, and forced myself away, in an agony of
mind that I cannot describe. But if I had then known all
that was to happen to me, I could not have felt worse;
and I now think that I had those painful feelings be-
cause it was not right for me to go.
I reached Hull just in time to join the good ship Nep-
tune, as the crew were weighing anchor. The bustle
and novelty of all around me, turned my thoughts from
home and the dear friends I had left; and as I had now
lost all the good opportunities I had had of changing my
plan of life, I resolved to bear its hardships as well as I
could, and make the best of every thing ; thinking that
if I did not like it, after one voyage, I could give it up,
and spend the rest of my life with my friends in England.
The weather was fine, the waters of the Hum-
ber were smooth, and I recovered my spirits, as the ship,
under full sail, glided down that fine, broad river, which
serves as a mouth for the Trent, the Ouse, the Der-
went, and several other streams. I soon began talking
with the sailors, and one of them, perceiving my love of
adventures, gave me a marvellous account of something
that I now believe never happened ; and I was taking it
all for true, when I suddenly felt so giddy, I could not
stand, without holding fast of something; then I felt
very warm and miserably sick all over, and not knowing
what ailed me, I cried out, "O dear! what is the mat-
ter with me?" This made the sailors burst out in a
loud laugh; they told me I was sea-sick, and made such
sport of my sufferings, that as soon as I had relieved my
stomach, I was glad to get away, and creep into my
berth, in the forecastle ; and as I was too sick to be of
any use on deck, I was allowed to lie there all night.
I could not sleep much, on account of the various noises
all around me ; the dashing of the waves against the
sides and bows of the vessel sounded so loud, and seem-
ed so near my ear, that I could hardly believe the water
was not coming into my berth; then the rattling of
the ropes on the deck, the heavy tread of the sail-
ors, the singing noise they made in hoisting, with the
whistling and rushing of the wind through the sails and
rigging, were all sounds so new to me, that I could
not help listening to them, instead of sleeping.
When I came on deck, in the morning, I was ex-
tremely surprised to find myself so far from land ; and I
made the sailors laugh, by asking where the river was
that we were sailing down the night before. I was told
that we were now on the North Sea or German Ocean,
many leagues from the Humber, and that we were off
Spurn Head ; when I grew sick with the Ocean swell,
which we came into just there. I was surprised to find
so much motion in the water, when there was so little
wind ; but I soon found that the waves of the Ocean sel-
dom cease to roll, even in a dead calm. For three days I
continued very sick, but after that I began to get bet-
ter. When I had any thing to do, that I could not
leave, it would keep off the sickness for a while; and
as I was inclined to be industrious, I learnt my duty as
a sailor very quickly, and often surprised the old hands
on board by imitating them so exactly. A person who
goes to sea, for the first time, is always laughed at and
called a land-lubber; but I bore all the sailors' jokes
good-humoredly. and by being civil and obliging to
every body, I soon became a general favorite, and in-
stead of faring the worse for being a green-hand, every
one seemed disposed to make my situation, as agreeable
to me as possible, and to save me from any very hard
14 A SQUALL.
duty. The weather was remarkably fine, and the winds
favorable ; and we soon reached the Straits of Dover, and
passed through the British Channel. During this part
of our voyage, we could see the coast, at a distance, all the
time; but when we had passed the Land's End, in
Cornwall, and the Scilly Isles, a brisk wind soon carried
us entirely out of sight of all land; and then there was
nothing to be seen but the wide waters all around, and
the sky and clouds above.
A few days after we lost sight of land, I was surprised
to hear the captain give orders to take in most of the
sails; for it appeared to me that we were sailing along
very pleasantly, and I could see no reason why we
should shorten sail and go more slowly. I was surprised
too, to observe with what activity the sailors sprung to
their work, and what haste every body was in. I did not
know, then, how quickly sailors can see when it
is going to blow very hard. They are constantly looking
at the water and the clouds, and observing every little
change in their appearance, and can perceive that the
wind is blowing very fresh, at a distance of several miles,
some minutes before it reaches them ; and then they take
in most of the sails, and prepare for it, as well as they
can. They had just got every thing snug, on board the
Neptune, when the squall * struck her, with such force,
that she was thrown on her beam ends, or laid down side-
ways, so that her lower yardsf almost touched the water.
I was thrown down by the suddenness of the motion, and
slid to the lower side of the deck ; but I had presence of
mind enough to catch hold of something as I went, or I
might have gone overboard. In a few moments the ves-
sel righted J again, and I was able to get upon my feet;
but she pitched and tossed about so violently, that I was
obliged to hold on by something all the time, or I should
have fallen again. One of the sailors told me, that if
* A sudden gust of violent wind.
t Poles that go across the masts at different distances, to
which the sails are fastened.
J Became upright.
A GALE OF WIND. 15
they had not seen the squall, before it came, and pre-
pared for it, it would most likely have upset the vessel,
and he added, "So now you see the use of keeping a
good look-out at sea."
In half an hour, the wind abated, and they set* alittle more sail. I asked why they did that, when the sea
was still so rough, and the vessel tossed about as much as
ever; and I was told that she would be much steadier
under more sail, and, as the wind had gone down, there
was no risk in doing it. I was pleased to observe
what command the captain's knowledge gave him over
the vessel ; and though I was becoming more acquainted
with the danger of the sea, I felt increased confidence
in the skill that could provide against it. The sailors
watched the weather very closely all the afternoon, and
before night closed in, there was every sign of a
heavy gale coming on; and we all prepared for it
accordingly. Seeing me look very serious, one of the
sailors told me not to be frightened, for that with a good
ship under them, like the Neptune, and plenty of sea-
room,! there was very little danger, even in a storm, I was glad to hear this; for though I was not fright-
ened, I liked to know how much danger they expected
to be in; I resolved to attend to every thing that pass-
ed, and try to be as quiet and collected as the most
experienced sailors. I had always felt a great curiosity
to know what a storm at sea really was; but though I
was now about to be gratified, I felt more serious
than I expected to do; I could not help thinking of my
pleasant home and dear parents, and comparing their
situation with my own. My attention was however
soon called away from these thoughts, by the duty I had
to do; I was afterwards so occupied in watching the
vessel, and listening to the wind, and observing the
enormous waves, that I thought no more of any thing but
the present scene. It blew very hard all night, and I
* Spread out.
f Sufficient distance from shore.
could not be persuaded to take my turn below; * for I
could not make up my mind to go to sleep, in the midst
of such a gale, as some of the sailors did. By day-
break, the next morning, the wind abated a little, and as
it became fair for us to steer our course, we scudded be-
fore it all day, and went very fast, though we had only a
foresail and close-reefed i- main top-sail set. At last I
was tired out with watching the vessel, and the weather,
and I slept most of the forenoon. When I came on
deck again, I was surprised to find no alteration in the
weather. I had no idea of a gale lasting so long, and
asked the sailors, if it was not likely soon to be over; but
they shook their heads, and said they thought it would
blow harder before it blew less. And sure enough, that
afternoon, the wind increased, the clouds thickened, it
suddenly became unusually dark, and thundered and
lightened terribly. I knew by the flashes of lightning
being followed so quickly by the thunder, that the clouds,
which were full of electricity, must be very near us, and
as I had never before heard such long and loud peals of
thunder, or seen such very bright flashes of lightning, I
thought there must be great danger of the vessel being
struck by the lightning and shivered to pieces; but, as I
could not discover any appearance of alarm in the
countenances of those about me, I kept my fears to my-
self, and stood ready to do as others did, if any thing
should happen. I now suppose that all on board the
ship knew the danger they were in from the lightning,
as well as I did ; but they had been in such storms be-
fore, and had escaped unhurt; they also knew that
the best way to avoid danger, was not to be alarmed by
it; so they quietly awaited whatever might happen. They
had besides great confidence in their captain, and he
seemed as perfectly calm and self-possessed, as if it were
fine weather. Every flash of lightning showed me the
monstrous size of the waves, which looked, each time
they broke near the vessel, as if they would overwhelm
* Under deck.
t Tied up in part, so as to be spread as little as possible.
her; and sometimes we actually shipped a sea* that swept
the deck fore and aft,^ and obliged every one to hold
fast, to avoid being carried over-board. When the vessel
rose on the top of a great wave, she seemed to be on a
pinnacle, with a deep gulf on every side of her ; and when
she sank down again into the trough of the sea, she
appeared to be in a deep pit, and ready to be buried un-
der the waters that rose on every side of her, almost as
high as her masts; but when I observed her to descend
safely from the pinnacle, and rise as safely out of the
deep pit, a great many times, I became accustomed to
the size of the waves, and was not alarmed by them.
The storm lasted several hours; at length a flash of
lightning, more vivid than any before, struck the main-
mast I and mizen-mast,^ and shivered both. When the
lightning struck the masts, and the cracking of the wood
was heard with the thunder, I thought the whole vessel
was split to pieces, and I expected to find myself in the
water the next minute; I was therefore astonished to
hear Captain Gordon give his orders about cutting away
the rigging, and clearing the deck of the broken masts,
in the same calm voice he always used.
The behaviour of the captain gave me fresh courage,
and I helped to execute the commands, so coolly and
distinctly given. The first mate was sent to examine
whether the hull of the vessel had been injured by the
lightning; he returned with a face of alarm, and told the
captain that the vessel had sprung a leak, and there was
already considerable water in her hold. This made our
danger very great; but the captain preserved his pres-
ence of mind, and quietly said, "Set the men at the
pumps, and fire signal guns; there may be some ves-
sel within hearing, though there is none in sight." Whilst
that was doing, the captain told me to assist him in throw-
ing overboard every thing we could move, in order to
lighten the ship as much as possible, and keep her from
* Had a wave break over and deluge the deck.
t From one end to the other.
j Middle and highest mast. § The hindermost mast.
2*
18 LOSS OF THE NEPTUNE.
sinking as long as we could, in hopes some other vessel
would come to our assistance. Though we pumped as
fast as we could, the water in the hold became deeper
and deeper, and the captain was convinced the ship must
soon sink; he therefore consulted with the mates as to
what they had better do. The last flash of lightning
had been followed by a torrent of rain, which, though it
appeared to me to increase the difficulties of our situa-
tion, was, I found, of great use, in lessening the waves
and quieting the waters. The captain observed this, and
as the wind began to abate, he proposed that we
should all get into the boats, taking some bread and
water and a compass with us, and row away from the
vessel, before she sank under us. Whilst the rest were
lowering the boats and getting the provisions into them,
the captain and I continued to fire the signal guns as
long as we could. My courage was kept up by that of
Captain Gordon, who was the last to leave the vessel.
We rowed away from her as fast as we were able, and
when we were far enough off, to escape being drawn in
by the vortex she would make in going down, we lay
upon our oars to see her sink. After settling down
lower and lower in the water, she suddenly made a
plunge and went down, bows foremost, with the water
spouting out of the cabin windows. There was some-
thing grand in that plunge, which made me shiver all
over; some of the sailors looked very solemn, and
spoke of the vessel as if it was a living creature. We
were all glad that we had left the ship in time to
avoid sinking with her ; but what would become of us in
the midst of the ocean, in small boats, and with only
a few days' provision, was still very uncertain. We
were considering the danger of our situation, when, to
our great relief, we heard a gun fired, in answer to our
signals of distress ; and when it stopped raining and the
clouds cleared away, we could see a large vessel com-
ing directly towards us. The captain took off his shirt,
which was white, and tied it by the sleeves to one of the
oars, and stuck it up in the boat for a flag, knowing how
=8
>—-
GO

CHANGE OF PROSPECTS. 19
much more difficult it would be for the people on board
the ship to see so low an object as a boat, than for
those in the boats to see the ship; the mate in the other
boat did the same with his checked shirt; and we soon had
the pleasure of observing a flag hoisted on board the ship,
which was to let us know that we were seen, and should
be relieved. In half an hour more we were all on board
of a large Spanish ship, bound to South America. Being
extremely fatigued, as well as wet, and cold, and hun-
gry, we were very glad to accept the kindness of stran-
gers, and be where we could get shelter, food, and
dry clothes, all of which were freely offered us by the
Spaniards, who, though they could not speak or under-
stand English, made themselves intelligible by signs.
CHAPTER III.
CHANCE OF PROSPECTS THE SANTA MARIA — TEDIOUSNESS
OFTHE VOYAGE NEW EMPLOYMENTS CHANGE OF
WEATHER FALKLAND ISLANDS SEALS PENGUINS
PASSAGE OF THE SOUND STATEN ISLAND BEHAVIOUR
OF MANEGRO UNKNOWN LAND SHIPWRECK ESCAPE
FROM DROWNING.
WHEN, after a sound and refreshing sleep, I went on
deck, I found my ship-mates looking very dejected, and
talking over the misfortune of losing the Neptune and
their own private losses, and regretting that the ship,
which had picked them up, was bound to South Amer-
ica. I had been so rejoiced, to get into a place of safety,
that I never once thought of the loss of my clothes and
every thing that I had on board the Neptune, till I heard
the sailors talking of what they had lost; and then I
remembered that I now had nothing in the world but one
suit of clothes, and no money to buy more. I wondered
what I should do ; but recollecting that all my companions
20 THE SANTA MARIA.
were in a like situation, I thought I could do as they did,
and manage as well as they. As soon as South Amer-
ica was mentioned, I eagerly inquired to what part of it
the ship was bound; and hearing that it was to Callao,
in Peru, I asked what they knew about that country.
All they could tell me was, that the Spaniards had
possession of it, and would not suffer any other nation to
trade thither; and that they had plenty of gold and silver
there, but it would cost an Englishman his life to pick any
of it up, though he trod it under foot at every step. As I
could get no further information respecting the present
state of Peru, I called to mind all I had read about it
in the history of America; and recollecting how ex-
tremely interested I had been in the account of the
Peruvians, and of their conquest by the cruel Pizarro, I
felt a strong desire to see that people, and visit the
places where those events had happened. I considered
too, that as Peru lies on the western side of South Amer-
ica, I should cross the equator, sail over the South Atlan-
tic ocean, and go round Cape Horn, in order to get there;
I should thus see a great deal of the world, and be in a
tropical climate; by passing into the southern temperate
zone, I should see grand constellations, that I had never
seen before; I thought, too, we might touch at some
islands on our way, and put into some other ports be-
sides Callao. Thus, on the whole, I considered the
change in our prospects, occasioned by the loss of the
Neptune, as very favorable to my desire of seeing the
world; for though I felt for my ship-mates, who had no
such wish, and therefore regretted the accident very
much. I could not help rejoicing on my own account.
I had neither money nor clothes; but I knew many kinds
of work by which I could earn a living, and I determined
that my hands should labor for the gratification of my
mind.
Pleased as I was with my new prospects, I found a
great many disagreeable things in my present situation.
The Spanish ship, called Santa Maria, and commanded
by Captain Manegro, was very different from the Nep-
TEDIOUSNESS OF THE VOYAGE. 21
tune; being ill-shaped, she was a dull sailer, and
was besides extremely filthy and full of vermin; the
berths were the most odious, dirty holes that ever
any decent person was obliged to sleep in; the provis-
ions also were so bad, and cooked in a way so disgusting
to English stomachs, that I could hardly eat them; but
whenever I complained to my ship-mates, they made
light of the badness of the food, and only hoped the
quantity on board would be found sufficient to last
us to the end of such a long voyage, as this was likely
to be.
The captain and crew, on board this ship, were very
much inferior to those of the Neptune. Though I could
not understand a word they said, I soon discovered that
the captain was a passionate man, neither respected nor
beloved by his crew; and that the sailors were lazy and
disobedient, fond of playing cards, smoking, and swear-
ing. The Santa Maria had lost several of her hands
since she left Old Spain; two were washed overboard
in the late storm; one had died of a fever soon after
they sailed ; and thus the captain was very glad of the
assistance of our shijHwrecked mariners, in working the vessel.
The voyage now became extremely tedious to me; I,
who had before been the most reconciled to our change
of situation, was now the first to complain ; and my friends
would sometimes reproach me with my impatience, and re*
mind me how pleased I had been with the idea of a long
voyage; but I did not know then how little variety there
would be in it. And when we got into the trade winds,
which I longed for so much, the days were more tedious
than ever, for there was nothing at all to he done; the
sails remained in one position, from one week's end to
another. Even the variety of climate which I experU
enced on approaching the equator, was less agreeable to
me than I expected ; and I found the heat of the sun so
great, that I wished myself again in a temperate zone.
The want of necessary occupation very much increas-
ed my restless and uncomfortable feelings; and though I
22 NEW EMPLOYMENT; gladly joined my countrymen, in doing all the work they
could find to do about the ship, and helped to put the
Santa Maria in better order than she had been in for
years, yet there were many hours, each day, that
I was obliged to spend in idleness. O, how I long-
ed for some book to read! the most uninteresting
one, that ever was written, would have been a treasure
to me. But no book could I get; and having lost all
my things, I had no pens, ink, or paper, that I might
amuse myself with writing.
One day, however, I found a bit of chalk, and with
that I began making figures on the deck, and calculat-
ing sums; two hours passed away, while I was thus
employed, without my perceiving how time went. Re-
joiced at the discovery, I resolved to employ part of
every day in that way; and though my piece of chalk
was soon used up, and no more could be had, I con-
trived to make a little piece of charcoal answer as well.
Finding me so occupied with my figures, that I no lon-
ger complained, as I had before done, of the tediousness
of the voyage, the English sailors began to take an inter-
est in them too. As they had not been so well educat-
ed as I was, they asked me to teach them, which I
found great pleasure in doing; and my school of Arith-
metic beguiled me of some hours, each day, very
pleasantly. Two of the Spanish sailors, when they per-
ceived that we Englishmen were using the same figures
which they were accustomed to, took some interest in what
was going on, and began to learn also; and in return,
they taught me the names of every thing on board the
vessel, as well as to count in the Spanish language.
When Captain Gordon found how I was employed, and
how much I disliked idleness, he kindly offered to go
over with me, by means of my charcoal pencil, the
problems and calculations that belong to the art of Navi-
gation; which was of great use to me, in refreshing my
memory, and occupying my mind agreeably ; and when
the sailors had made some progress in Arithmetic, I
taught them the lessons I had learnt from the captain.
CIIANOK OF WEATHER. 23
This continued as long as we were in fine weather
latitudes, and had little to do in working the ship; but
when we approached Cape Horn, the weather became
tempestuous, and we were obliged to give up our stud-
ies, for more active employment. We became anx-
ious too, for our water and provisions ran very short;
and though it was the intention of the Spanish
captain to touch at the Falkland Islands to get wa-
ter and wild fowl, there were some apprehensions felt
by the English sailors, that we had missed of those
islands altogether. Westerly winds had prevailed for a
long time, and we feared that they had set us so far east,
that we should run by them, without being near enough
to see them. We had no confidence in the captain's
reckoning ; * there was no quadrant on board, and the
charts were very poor; the ship was badly* worked, and
the voyage made longer than necessary, by the bad sea-
manship of the master; and yet he was so obstinate and
passionate, that no one dared to advise him. Accord-
ing to his reckoning, we ought to have made f the islands
three days before they actually appeared. At last, when
the only salt meat on board was cooking, and the last
cask of water was on tap, we were relieved from the
worst apprehensions, by the thrilling sound of "Land
O!" O what a welcome sight was that group of unin-
habited islands! after such a tedious voyage, and so
many fears of having passed them.
We entered a sound, between the two largest of them,
and found good anchorage, opposite a fine beach of hard
sand. I was all impatience to set foot on the land, and,
fortunately for me, the captain ordered me into the boat
that took him, the mate, and Captain Gordon ashore.
When we ran the boat aground, and jumped out on
dry land, I was almost wild with delight; every sense
was regaled. I threw off my shoes, and ran barefoot,
on the sand, for a mile. After being confined, so long,
* An account, kept by the captain, of the daily progress of
the vessel.
t Sea-phrase for seen.
24 FALKLAND ISLANDS.
to the narrow bounds of a vessel's deck, the sensation of
freedom was enchanting. When I returned I found
my comrades drinking largely, at a fine rivulet of
pure water, that was running and sparkling over the
beach, to the sea; and I could not help throw-
ing myself down by it, at full length, and drinking of it
horse fashion, as sailors say. After the bad water we
had been using for weeks, the taste of this was delicious;
I could barely drink enough of it. And so it was with ev-
ery one present; they drank as though they would never
be satisfied.
There were no trees to be seen any where ; but the
land was covered with tall, rank grass. The beach
was bordered with numerous little hillocks, that seemed
to be formed by the decay of the coarse grass, resem-
bling sedge, that grew upon them, and hid the sand that
was interspersed among them. I was amusing myself
with stepping, or jumping, from one of these hillocks to
another, when my bare foot slipped off the little emi-
nence, and rested on something cold, and wet, and slip-
pery, and full of muscular motion; a sound between a
squeak and a grunt followed, and then a most hideous
roar, as loud as a lion's, completed my horror and alarm.
I lost my balance, as the creature moved under my feet,
and fell down upon him; and there I rolled about,
among the grass, between two hillocks that hindered my
rising, with this roaring monster creeping out from under
me. Every drop of blood seemed to curdle in my
veins, and I expected to be torn in pieces every instant.
At last I made out to rise, and run to my companions,
who looked almost as much alarmed as I was; and turn-
ing round to face the enemy at a distance, I saw seven
great, shaggy animals, half beast, half fish, issuing from
the sedgy border of the beach, and making towards us.
Captain Gordon exclaimed, "Kill all you can ; they
are very good eating." Being near our boat, we arm-
ed ourselves, some with muskets, others with oars,
and began our attack. The animals were endeav-
ouring to reach the water, but having only tails
SEALS PENGUINS. 25
and fins to push themselves along with, they advanced
but slowly. We beat them over the back, as hard as
we could, but without making any impression on them;
we fired at them, and several balls took effect; 'yet
the creatures proceeded toward the sea, upsetting every
one who came in their way. At last we discovered their
snouts to be the most vulnerable part; a few blows
there stopped their progress, and we made five of them
prisoners.
When we rested from our labors, I begged to know
what these terrible-looking creatures were, and was told
they were sea-lions. Captain Gordon called them shag-
gy seals, and said that their skins were very valuable ; that
they contained a great deal of blubber, which made very
good oil; and that their flesh was palatable food. Delight-
ed with this addition to our sea-stores, we secured them in
the boat, and then proceeded to explore the island
further.
We found large flocks of ducks and other sea-fowl, so
tame that we could drive them before us, and fire into
them, before they attempted to fly. In this way,
great slaughter was made among them. On advancing
into the island, our attention was suddenly fixed upon a
ridge of land, just above us, on which were ranged, in
the most regular order, what appeared to me a number
of little children, of the same age and size, and dressed
alike, with their arms extended. I could think of noth-
ing but a charity school, with an uniform of brown frocks
and white aprons. After gazing a moment, in silent
amazement, I perceived the heads to be those of birds,
and recognised the shape and position of the penguin, as
described and drawn in books.
We next had a fine battle with the penguins; but were
not so successful as with the seals, for they bit so hard,
we could not hold them, and we could manage to carry
only one on board the vessel; that one we took alive, and
to keep him safe, during the night, the captain ordered
us to put him in the pen, with a pig that we had on deck, the last of our live stock. We did so, and left
3
26 PASSAGE THROUGH THE SOUND.
the two strangers, to make each other's acquaintance;
but in the morning, to our great surprise, we found
there had been a mortal combat between them, which
had ended in the death of the pig.
We spent two days at anchor in the sound, and, by
turns, all the ship's company were allowed to go on
shore, and refresh themselves; but there were no more
adventures, like those I was engaged in. The hands,
that were left on board the vessel, were busied in skin-
ning the seals, boiling the blubber, and salting the meat
for future use. We took in a good supply of excellent
water; and on the third day after we made the land, we
proceeded on our voyage.
There were some deliberations, in the cabin, as to the
course we had best take; whether we should leave the
sound the way we entered it, and sail round to the
eastward of the group of islands, or whether we should
find a passage through the sound, and so keep nearer the
cape, and nearer the west wind that was continually
blowing. Captain Gordon advised to the former course,
as he found that no one on board had ever passed
through the sound, and they had no chart of it. This
determined the obstinate Manegro to try the passage
through the islands. By keeping a boat out ahead, to
sound the way, we got safely through; but there were,
in some places, such quantities of sea-weed, that this of
itself threatened wholly to obstruct our passage; we
could but just force the ship through it. We pulled up
«ome of the smaller plants of this weed, which is like what
we call kelp, and found that it grew with one large stem,
very deep in the water, and that it had a wide spreading
head to it, which floated very near the surface. From
the strength of its stalks, I could easily believe what a
sailor told me, about its being used for fishing-lines and
cordage in some parts of the world.
After we had got safely through the islands, we were glad
we had taken that course, as it would make it easier to.
get round the cape; still I perceived that Captain Gor-
don was anxious, and the English sailors were very
STATEN ISLAND. 27
watchful. The third night after we left the Falkland
Islands, we were all startled by the cry of " Land O!
land close aboard, over the larboard* bow." Captain
Gordon was on deck in a moment, and gave the neces-
sary orders for altering the vessel's course ; for there was
not a moment to be lost, and the master of the vessel was
below. Every one was astonished, at seeing land on
our left; if it had been on the right, we should have
thought all was well. In a few minutes, we were close
in with the land on the starboard f side. To me, who
was unaccustomed to the appearance of land at sea in
a dark night, it looked like a high wall that we were
running directly against; and well it was for us that it
was a bold shore, for we had only just time to tack and
keep clear of the steep rocks that rose on either side of us.
The Spaniards were very much alarmed, and began
to call upon their saints. The captain allowed he did
not know where we were; but after consulting the mis-
erable charts on board, Captain Gordon came to the
conclusion, that we were in the channel, between Staten
Island and the main land, and, as he had heard of ves-
sels going through there before, he determined to keep
on. Daylight soon appeared, and we could then see
our way very well; but the current was so strong, and
the eddies so numerous, that we were strangely whirled
about. Although there was a good breeze from the
West, and we had several sails set, we were sometimes
turned completely round by an eddy, just as if we had
been a mere log on the water. By the good sense of
Captain Gordon, however, and the good conduct of the
English sailors, we did get safely through the strait, and
reach the open sea near the cape.
As soon as we were out of danger, Captain Gordon
gave up his command, and treated the master of the
ship as though nothing had happened; but Captain
Manegro had one of those little minds, that cannot bear
the superiority of others, and he was shy and jealous of
Captain Gordon on account of the services he had
rendered.
* Left side. t Right side.
38 BEHAVIOUR OF MANEGHO.
Mancgro was a very ignorant man. If he had never
had an opportunity of learning, he had no reason to be
ashamed of his ignorance ; it was his misfortune, not his
fault; and if he had acknowledged it, he might have
benefited by the company of Captain Gordon; but in-
stead of that, he tried to conceal it, and affected to
despise every thing he did not understand.
He seemed to think he could hide his ignorance, by
being very authoritative in his manner, and severe in his
punishments, which, as he was a passionate man, were
often very unjust. My heart would sometimes swell with
indignation, and my eyes fill with tears, at the injustice
which the Spanish sailors were obliged to suffer; but
my comrades cautioned me against showing what I felt,
as it would only make matters worse.
I was often provoked, to see how uncivilly Manegro
treated Captain Gordon, whom I loved and admired,
more and more every day, for his mildness and for-
bearance toward our ignorant commander.
On one occasion, in doubling * the cape, we were in
great danger; and the difference between the two cap-
tains was most striking. The man, whose business it was
to command the vessel, was so frightened, he could not
give a single order; but kept calling upon all the saints
he could think of, to come and save them; and cried
and lamented over his situation, like a distracted crea-
ture. Whilst our good captain, seeing we might be
lost, for want only of a little presence of mind, if he did
not take the command, seized the helm himself, and gave
a few clear directions to his own men, who were watch-
ing him, and hoping he would do so; and, in a few min-
utes, all danger was over.
The Spanish captain was so overjoyed at finding
himself in safety, that he knelt down before Captain
Gordon, and kissed his hands, and thanked him over
and over again. But his gratitude was not of a kind to
last long; it was soon changed into dislike of the person
that had done him a service; and he became as jealous
* Going round.
UNKNOWN LAND. 29
as ever of Captain Gordon's superior knowledge and
presence of mind. He would not hear any observation
from him on the management of the ship, and was
ready to quarrel with every one who knew more than
himself.
We had a great deal of tempestuous weather, in
doubling Cape Horn; and as the currents were very
strong, and the sea rough, and the reckoning but poorly
kept, we hardly knew when we really had doubled it.
We continued to have heavy gales of wind, after we
knew that we were several hundred miles from the
cape, and our voyage became every day more unpleas-
ant. Our provisions were scanty and poor ; we were all
on short allowance, and heartily tired of our voyage,
counting the days and weeks that must still be endured
before we reached our destined port.
About three weeks after we left Cape Horn, we
were sailing along, under close-reefed topsails, with
as much wind as we could bear, when we were all
thrown into consternation, by the cry of " Land right
ahead." That which is so cheering a sound, when
expected, is an equally alarming one, when not expect-
ed; for if the seaman finds land where he only look-
ed for water, he knows that he cannot be where he
supposed himself; and this, on the ocean, is a fearful
predicament.
Manegro now pretended to be very knowing; he said
he knew very well what land it was, and he meant to
go ashore there, and get some fresh provisions. Cap-
tain Gordon advised keeping off till the wind abated, or
sailing round the island, and entering a port to the
leeward. But our obstinate commander insisted upon keeping on
just as we were. The wind was increasing every
moment, and we were anxiously expecting orders to
shorten sail, or alter our course, when a gust came that
nearly capsized us, and carried away several sails. All
was dismay and confusion; Captain Manegro refused
*11 aid from Captain Gordon, while he gave contradic-
3*
30 SHIPWRECK.
tory orders to his men, and we suddenly perceived
breakers very near us. The wind was blowing us di-
rectly upon a reef of rocks, and the vessel was unman-
ageable.
When it was too late, Captain Gordon's voice was
heard, amid the roar of the waves, the whistling of the
wind, and the cracking of spars. Anchors were let go,
and some judicious measures taken; but the breakers
were all around us, and nothing could save the vessel
from destruction. She was driven upon the rocks with
such force, that none of us could keep his feet;
and, after striking three times, she remained immovably
fixed upon the reef, and the sea broke all over her.
The force of the waves now filled me with fear and
"amazement. While we were afloat, the vessel had
borne a great deal of tossing about, without injury, be-
cause she moved with the waves; but, as soon as she
was firmly fixed, and could not give way before the
dashing waters, their mighty power was apparent, and it
seemed to me, that the vessel must be destroyed in a
few minutes. I was convinced by all I saw, that we
were in the greatest possible danger ; the Spaniards
gave themselves up to useless cries and lamentations;
the Englishmen gathered round their captain, to consult
on what they had better do.
He said the vessel must soon go to pieces, and there-
fore, though the sea was so rough that a boat could hard-"
ly live in it, he thought they had better take to the boats.,
and see what could be done in them; they might be
carried towards the land, without capsizing, and get into
some sheltered bay or creek. Just as they came to this
determination, a great wave broke away part of the
stern, and carried off a boat that was hanging there.
There was then but one boat left, and that was only
large enough to hold, with safety, a part of those on
board; so one of the English sailors proposed that they
should go off in her, and leave the Spaniards behind, as
they would not do any thing to help themselves, and
it was their obstinacy and ignorance that had brought
us into this situation. But our good captain would
not listen to such selfish advice; he said, "They saved
our lives once, and we will try to save theirs now; at
least we will give them a chance with ourselves." So,
while his men were getting ready to launch the long boat,
he called the Spaniards. As he had before saved them
from shipwreck, all, who were not too much alarmed to
listen to any thing, came upon deck, when they heard
his voice. With his direction and assistance, the boat was
launched, and all on deck got into her ; though not
without great difficulty and danger. The boat was so
tossed about by the waves, that she was sometimes a
great way from the vessel; and then she was again dashed
up so near, that we feared she would be broken in
pieces against the side of the ship.
We rowed as well as we could towards the land,
and as the boat drew very little water compared with the
ship, we passed over the reef on which the vessel had
stuck fast, and proceeded in safety about half a league;
but as we approached the land, we saw nothing like
any bay or inlet, and the breaking of the waves on the
beach made it impossible to land; we could but just
keep the boat from filling with water, where we were;
and nearer the shore, it would be entirely out of our
power.
In this situation there was nothing more to be done,
and those in the boat, who were good and wise, were
quietly making up their minds to be drowned in a few
minutes ; when a monstrous wave, larger than all the
rest, overturned the boat, and covered us all with its
mighty waters.
As I was a good swimmer, I did not lose my presence
of mind, when I found myself under water; I tried to
rise to the surface, that I might take breath ; this, how-
ever, I could not do ; the motion of the waves was so
great, it baffled me ; and I must soon have been suffocat-
ed, if that very force had not carried me so far toward the
beach, that when it was spent, and the wave went back
again, it left me upon the sand in shallow water.
32 ESCAPE FROM DROWNING.
Though much exhausted with the exertions I had made,
and the want of breath, I struggled successfully against
the under-tow,* and advanced towards the land ; but I
had not proceeded far, before I saw the sea coming af-
ter me, like a high wall. I knew it would carry me
towards the shore, so I gave myself up to its power, and
held my breath, and kept my strength, that I might
struggle against it, when it retired again. In this way I
approached nearer and nearer to the land with every
wave; till at last I felt ground with my feet. The next
moment my head was out of water, and I could breathe
freely!
I stood still a moment, to recover my breath, and
then ran forward as hard as I could. Again I was cov-
ered, many feet deep, with water, and carried along with
the breaker; but I managed as before, and resisted the
under-tow, and was again on my feet with my head out
of water, and a good deal nearer land. Once, as the sea
was carrying me along very swiftly, I struck against a
rock, which hurt me very much, and disabled me from
struggling against the retreat of the waves; but, happily
for me, I thought of holding on by the rock, and so re-
sisted the under-tow. There I remained, supporting
myself by the rock, till I recovered from the blow; while
several waves passed over me, and retired again. After
this, a few more runs, between the breakers, brought me
quite out of the water; I had just strength enough left
to walk up the beach, above the mark of high tide, when
my knees bent under me, and I sank down on the dry
sand. Here I had hardly realized my escape, and felt the
joy of present safety, when, exhausted by the great exer-
tions I had made, I fainted away.
* The name given by sailors to the water which runs back
from the beach after the wave is spent.
MISERABLE SITUATION. 33
CHAPTER IV.
MISERABLE SITUATION — BETTER FEELINGS -FIRST NIGHT
ON THE ISLAND FIRST WALK SAD REFLECTIONS—
AGREEABLE SURPRISE THE BEACH WANT OF TOOLS.
How long my swoon lasted, it is impossible for me to
say, and it is almost as impossible for me to describe
how I felt on recovering from it. It was some time be-
fore I could recollect what had happened to me; but,
by degrees, the sight of the wreck at a distance, the
blowing of the wind, and dashing of the waves, helped
me to recall the disasters, which occasioned my being
where I now found myself. At last, the dreadful cer-
tainty, that I alone, of all that were on board, had reach-
ed the shore alive, burst upon me, and made me truly
miserable. Let whoever reads this, consider well the
circumstances of my wretched condition, or they can
form no idea of my feelings.
There I was. cold, wet, hungry, and thirsty; without
any thing in the world, but the wet clothes I had on. I
was alone, in an unknown country; it might be full of
savages and wild beasts; I could see no traces of culti-
vation; I had no fishing-tackle, to get fish; no gun, to
shoot birds ; no means of lighting a fire. I was far, very
far, from my pleasant home and dear parents, and could
not hope ever to see them again. In this dismal situa-
tion, I could not rejoice in having saved myself from
drowning; for I expected a worse death. I walked up
and down the beach, in a state of agitation not to be de-
scribed. I wrung my hands, and cried, and sobbed
aloud, and reproached myself, in the bitterest manner,
with the folly and obstinacy which had brought me to
this wretched condition ; till, quite exhausted, I sat
down on a large stone ; and, resting my head on my
knee, I fell into a silent agony of despair.
How long I sat there, I cannot tell; but I was roused
34 BETTER FEELINGS.
from that fit of dejection, by a distressing sensation of
thirst. I bore this for some time ; at last it overcame
my reluctance to move, and I went in search of water.
I looked fearfully around, to see if any savage man,
or wild beast, were near me; but seeing no living crea-
ture, I walked slowly up the beach, and made my way
over long grass and through shrubs, towards a place
where the form of the ground and the slope of the
woods made me think there might be a valley, with a
stream of fresh water in it. After wandering about for
some time, I came to a narrow vale or dingle, the sides
of which were clothed with beautiful flowering shrubs
and trees; and there I heard the pleasant sound of a
brook. Winding among rocks, that sometimes broke it
into small cascades, I found a clear sparkling stream, of
which I drank plentifully. Greatly refreshed by my
draught, I seated myself on the grass, at the foot of a
beautiful, large tree, with leaves like a laurel; and there,
in that sheltered spot, I began to reflect more calmly on
my sad condition.
The anguish of my heart subsided. I remembered
there was One Friend, from whom no outward circum-
stances could separate me. My Heavenly Father was
as near me there, as in my own happy home. By
thinking on the power and goodness of God, my courage
and strength revived, and after much serious meditation,
my soul was comforted. I resolved to trust in God en-
tirely, and do the best I could to continue the life that
had been so remarkably preserved amid the greatest
dangers.
Just as I had formed this good resolution, I heard the
most melodious warbling of birds, in the bushes near
me, and the sound cheered my heart; "Those birds are
happy here," said I to myself, "and why may not I be
happy too?" The thought that they had companions,
and I had none, again filled my eyes with tears, and my
heart with sorrow; but it was not of that distracting
kind, which I had felt before ; it was a tender feeling,
that made me lift up my heart to God, and trust entirely
to his loving-kindness and tender mercy.
FIRST NIGHT ON THE ISLAND. 35
The birds were not at all afraid of me, but flew about
so near me, that I could observe them getting their food;
and I said to myself, "Will not the same Power that di-
rects them to their proper nourishment, and supports
their life, also guide and sustain me?" I felt an assur-
ance, in my heart, that it would ; and being very hungry,
I returned to the beach, and looked there for something
eatable. I had not walked far, when I found some oys-
ters, and something like limpets, only much larger. As
I had been accustomed to eat such shell-fish raw, I sat-
isfied my appetite pretty well. I had great diffi-
culty in opening some of the oysters, as I had no knife,
and could not always succeed in catching them with
their shells open, long enough to put a stick or stone in,
to prevent their closing.
When I had finished my meal, it was about sunset;
the wind had abated, but it began lo rain very fast, and
I returned to the little valley, to seek a shelter for the
night. I could have found a dry spot under the dense
foliage of many trees, and lain very comfortably on the
grass, but I was afraid of wild beasts. I knew that such
animals keep very quiet during the day, and roam
about at night in search of their prey; and therefore it
would not be safe to lie on the grass, without any thing
around me to keep them off. I had no means of mak-
ing any defence; so at last, I thought my best plan
would be, to follow the example of the birds, and sleep
in a tree. I found one, whose thick foliage would
screen me from rain, and whose numerous crooked
branches made it easy to climb ; and in it I fixed my-
self, as securely as I could, and being very much ex-
hausted, I soon feel asleep.
My slumbers were disturbed by frightful dreams. I
fancied the boat upset, and myself again struggling
with the waves; and, making a motion in my sleep, as
if to reach the shore, I fell down out of the tree. My
joy, on awaking, was great, to find that I had only been
dreaming, and that I really was on dry land and not
struggling in the water; and, as I had not climbed up
36 THE FIRST WALK.
very high into the tree, and the tall grass was thick
around it, my fall did not hurt me much; and bodily pain
seemed very trifling, compared to the distress of my
mind in the dream.
I placed myself, once more, in the tree, and deter-
mined to lie awake the rest of the night, rather than run
the risk of dreaming again that I was shipwrecked; but
fatigue overcame this resolution, and I soon fell into a
profound sleep, which lasted till the day was far ad-
vanced.
I awoke refreshed, and with a keen appetite for my
breakfast. Leaving my airy bed, I washed my hands
and face in the brook, before I remembered that I had
no towel, or cloth of any kind, to wipe them with. They
dried however, as I walked to the shore, to look for
shell-fish for my breakfast.
To my great disappointment, the tide was high; and
there were no oysters, or limpets, to be found. The
water was full of fishes, to be sure ; but I could not
make up my mind then, to eat such fish raw, even if I
had had the means of taking them.
The dread of being starved to death, now rushed up- on my mind, and, for a few minutes, nearly overpow-
ered me; but my good mother had always taught me to
consider God as a kind Parent, who sees all our wants,
and provides bountifully for them. I now remembered,
and felt the comfort of her instructions; I thought upon
the goodness of God, and my mind became tranquil.
It occurred to me, that though I had failed of getting
fish for my breakfast, there might be wild fruits inland,
that would satisfy my appetite as well; so I walked
away from the shore, and seeing a high hill, that appear-
ed about a mile from where I was, I determined to as-
cend it, and take a survey of the country, and look for
something eatable, as I went along. I walked, for some
distance, over a sandy soil, partially covered with tall,
rank grass, and then I came to rocks and bushes ; but I
looked in vain for any berries. Every thing was grow-
ing luxuriantly, and various beautiful flowers met my eye,
but no fruits were to be seen. All the productions of
the earth were like those of a fine spring; and when I re-
flected, that I must be between twenty and thirty degrees
from the equinoctial line, and in south latitude, I was
satisfied that it must be the spring-time of the year
in this region ; and that, in due season, these brilliant
and beautiful blossoms would give place to berries and
fruits, that might prove wholesome food.
With this consoling hope, I pursued my way, and be-
gan to ascend the hill I had seen at a distance. I
found it more difficult to climb, than I had anticipated;
and I was often obliged to go a great way round, in or-
der to avoid perpendicular cliffs, or thick, impassable
woods. But my desire of getting a good view of the
country, and ascertaining whether I was on an island or
on the main-land, and the hope of finding some plant
with ripe fruit, urged me on. After a long and toilsome
ascent, I found myself on the bare summit of a very
high hill ; and discovered, that I was on a small island,
whence I could see nothing but the wide ocean all around
me. I looked for the wrecked vessel, but it had entire-
ly disappeared; the loss of that last vestige of civiliza-
tion made me feel more lonely than ever.
I looked very earnestly, in every direction, to see if
there were any traces of the island being inhabited, but
could discover none ; though I had feared to meet with
savages, I felt very melancholy when I was convinced I
was alone on an uninhabited island. "Here then,"
said I to myself, "I must pass the remainder of my life,
on this desert island, in the middle of the ocean, far
away from my friends, who will never know what has
become of me. I shall never see the face of any hu-
man being again. Here I must live and die alone."
As I thus realized my dismal situation, I could not
help shedding a flood of tears, and inwardly exclaiming,
"O my dear parents! if you could see your unhappy
son as he now is, you would pity and forgive him.
You will never know how severely he is punished for
not taking your advice; here I must live and die,
38 SAD REFLECTIONS.
unpitied and unknown!" As these thoughts passed
through my mind, I wept bitterly, and almost wished I
had been drowned with the rest of the ship's company;
but something within reproved me for that thought, and
I repressed the half-formed wish.
I have since seen the folly of anticipating evil; for my
situation, bad as it seemed then, has not proved so utter-
ly miserable as I feared; and if I had not given way
to the fear of starving, and other apprehensions, I
should have spared myself some very unhappy hours.
Almost exhausted by fasting and sorrow, I began to
descend the hill, intending to reach the shore by the
time the tide left it, and look for shell-fish to allay the
pains of hunger, which began to be very severe.
My feet had become very sore and tender, with so
much walking on rough ground, and in thin, old shoes;
to favor them I took the smoothest paths, and in doing
so I insensibly wandered away from that side of the hill,
by which I went up ; and when I arrived at the bottom
of it, I found myself still very far from the shore, where
I expected to get the food I so much needed. This
was a great disappointment, as I feared my strength
would hardly last, to carry me back to that part of the
coast where I had found the oysters. The trees were
so thick around me, I could not see which way to go; but
by observing the sun, I could tell the points of the com-
pass, and direct my steps accordingly ; for I remember-
ed that the beach, on which I landed, was on the south
side of the island, and run east and west. As I walked
along, frequently casting my eyes upward, to see that I
kept a right course, I observed some very curious-look-
ing trees, with tall, naked stems, and a great tuft of leaves
on the top. I had seen such in paintings, but could not,
at once, recall what they were; as I approached them,
I saw, among the long, drooping leaves, some very large
three-sided things; and thinking it possible they might be
good to eat, I threw stones at them, till I knocked one
down. It was nearly as large as my head, covered
with a husk that was tough, and full of fibres, and came
AN AGREEABLE SURPRISE THE BEACH. 39
off with difficulty ; but what was my joy and delight,
when I discovered, by the inside shell, that it was a
cocoa-nut! I had often seen and tasted cocoa-nuts
in England; but I had never seen one with the
husk on, which was the reason I did not know what
this was, as soon as I saw it. I quickly broke the shell
on a stone, drank off the delicious milk it contained, and
then devoured the kernel. One did not satisfy me,
half-starved as I was; so I knocked down a second, and
ate that as voraciously as the first. While I was thus
satisfying my appetite, my eyes filled with tears of joy
and gratitude, for this new relief in my distress; and I
felt, more sensibly than ever, that I ought not to despair,
but to do the best I could in the present moment, and
remain unconcerned about my future subsistence.
I had seen sketches of trees like these, in some books
of travels; but they were called palm trees; and the
pictures gave me such a poor idea of them, and how
they actually looked, that I was now very much struck
with their grand appearance and singular way of grow-
ing. Though I thought it likely there were more cocoa-
nut trees, on the island, I marked the spot where this
cluster of them stood; and, taking with me one of the
broken nut-shells for a drinking-cup, I continued my
way to the beach.
The tide had receded, a considerable distance; but I
could only find a few oysters and limpets, not enough
to make a meal of, which made me doubly glad that
I had found the cocoa-nuts. I had the prudence not
to eat the oysters I now picked up, but saved them for
my next meal.
I found some fragments of the boat, that had been
dashed to pieces on the rocks the day before, and a
couple of oars that had been washed ashore; but none
of the bodies of my shipmates. The oars and frag-
ments of the boat, I carefully collected, and carried,
with my oysters, to the shady valley of the brook,
where I meant to pass the night in the same tree I had
already lodged in.
40 WANT OF TOOLS.
Being now relieved from the fear of immediate dan-
ger from savages or wild beasts, as I had seen no tra-
ces of either during my day's journey, I began to feel
something like security in the pleasant retreat I had
found by the brook. Seating myself on a grassy bank,
I tried to plan some kind of habitation ; but the total
want of tools seemed to render it impossible for me to
do any thing. If I had had a spade, or an axe, or a
knife, or any iron tool, I could have contrived many
things for my comfort and security ; but without any of
these implements, what could be done! Careful, as
sailors generally are, to have their jack-knives tied to a
button-hole, I had been so unfortunate as to lose mine,
just after the wreck of the Neptune. I had two more
knives in my chest, but that went down with the ship.
All the while I was on board the Santa Maria, I was very
much incommoded by the want of a knife; but I little
thought it would soon prove the most serious loss I ev-
er met with. I had reason, now, to regret my knife
more than I can express; every plan, that came into
my head, for bettering my situation, failed for want of
it; and I went to my tree for the night, very much de-
pressed in spirits by the helplessness of my condition.
CHAPTER V.
SECOND EXCURSION—A TERRACE AND CAVE DISCOVERED
ENLARGING THE CAVE A WILLOW HEDGE — ROPE
LADDER SUNDAY — AN ALMANAC—A FLAG.
MY position in the tree, though improved by placing a
piece of plank among the branches, was not comfortable
enough to make me sleep after day-light; I therefore
made an early breakfast of the oysters, I had collected the
evening before, and set off on a long walk, resolved to see
SECOND EXCURSION. 41
as much as I could of the island, before the noon-day sun
should make it oppressively warm. I found the coun*-
try beautifully undulated, plentifully watered, and filled
with a great variety of vegetable productions. I looked
earnestly at every plant and tree, as I went along, in
hopes of discovering something that I might safely eat;
but every thing looked strange to me, except a water
plant, which so resembled the water-cress of England,
that I ventured to taste it; and, finding the flavor the
same, I ate a good deal of it, and relished it well. I
regretted, at every step, that I knew nothing of botany;
and remembered with shame and sorrow, that I used to
laugh at a boy of my acquaintance, for studying it, and
trying to understand the nature of different plants that
he found growing wild in the fields. "O that I had
done the same," exclaimed I, "and then I might find
some wholesome food among these numerous weeds,
and distinguish those which are poisonous, from those
which are good to eat." Though I knew nothing of
botany, my habit of observing every thing that I saw
done, enabled me to make one valuable discovery dur-
ing my walk.
Happening to pluck up some long stalks of a plant,
resembling a nettle, that grew in my way, I observed
that they were composed of numerous fibres, so tough
that I could hardly break them; and, recollecting to
have seen hemp dressed, I thought this looked a good
deal like it, only smaller; so I gathered a large bundle
of it, tied it up with some of the stalks, and slung it over
my shoulder, that I might try, at my leisure, if it could
be made into cordage.
The chief object of my excursion was, to look for
some hollow among the rocks, or natural cave in the
earth, where I might sleep in safety, instead of perching,
like a bird, in a tree. I wished to fix on some spot,
which should be shaded from the noon-day sun, and
yet high enough to command a view of the ocean ; for
to that I looked continually, in the hope of discovering
a vessel near enough for some communication by signal.
4*
42 A TERRACE AND CAVE DISCOVERED.
I thought so much of being taken off, that I could not
bear to be out of sight of the ocean, even for a few
hours at a time. Vain hope ! idle expectation! how
long and how fondly indulged!
After wandering about, for several hours, among the
wo od and hills on the same side of the island where I
first landed, I found a smooth, grassy terrace, on the
south side of a steep, rocky hill ; it looked as if a piece
of the hill had been cut out, to make this level spot, and
the rocks rose up behind it, as steep as the side of a
house; so that it was perfectly protected on the north.
This terrace was about two hundred paces long, and
twenty broad; and from the front edge of it, the land
sloped gently down to the low ground near the beach.
There were large fragments of rock scattered over
it, as if by some great convulsion of the earth in ages
past; and small clusters of trees dotted the terrace,
very ornamentally. Numerous shrubs and plants grew
among the rocks that bounded it on the north, and it
looked as if it were made for the site of a romantic cot-
tage. No situation could have suited me better, if I had
had the means of building myself any kind of hut; but,
as I could not make a shelter for myself without tools, I was obliged to look for one ready made, in the earth,
or among the rocks, as animals do. Being very warm
and thirsty from my walk, I searched about for a spring
of water; and, in so doing, discovered a small, hollow
place in the steep side of the hill. This, enlarged a lit-
tle, would be exactly what I wanted ; but how to make
it big enough to sleep in, without a pick-axe, spade,
shovel, or any iron tool, was the grand difficulty. I de-
termined, however, not to give up so fine a situation,
without exerting all my ingenuity to adapt it to my pur-
pose; and I was still more encouraged to undertake it,
when I perceived, at a small distance, a beautiful, clear
stream of water, trickling out of a crevice in the rock.
The more I observed the advantages of this remarkable
spot, the more determined I was to make it my resi-
dence ; and though I had nothing but my hands to work
ENLARGING THE CAVE. 43
with, I resolved to scoop out the earth with them, rath-
er than give up sleeping in the cave.
Having refreshed myself by a good draught of water,
I made the best of my way back to the sea-side. This
I now reached by a much shorter route, than I had tak-
en in discovering the terrace. I hastened back, that I
might gather shell-fish while the tide was low; and in
this I was more successful than before. While wan-
dering over the beach, I found a very large, strong shell,
with a sharp edge to it, which I thought would serve
me instead of a spade, and answer much better than my
hands had done, to scoop the earth out from the little
cave. With the aid of this tool, I hoped to make it
large enough to sleep in that night.
When I had satisfied my appetite, I carried my bun-
dle of nettles, and the large shell, to the side of the
brook, and there I tied up the plant in small
bunches, and put it in the water to rot the woody part of
the stalk, a process I had seen adopted with regard to
hemp. By the time that was done, I was so tired, that I
lay down on the green bank to rest myself; and before
I was aware of it, I fell fast asleep. My position was so
much more comfortable, than when perched in the tree,
that I was more refreshed by that hour's nap, than by
any sleep I had had for many nights. As wild beasts
generally sleep during the heat of the day, I thought it
would be advisable for me always to take a nap on the
grass at noon.
When I awoke, I hastened by the shortest way to the
terrace; and, carrying the great shell with me, began to
work most industriously at enlarging the cave. By pa-
tiently removing a little earth and few stones at a time, I
made some progress; but it was so much slower than I
expected, that I was obliged to give up all thoughts of
sleeping there that night. It also occurred to me, that
it would not be safe to lodge there, without some means
of defending the entrance; for though it was well guard-
ed by the high rock at the back, there was nothing in
front of the terrace to keep off savages or wild beasts.
44 A WILLOW HEDGE.
The cave, when made large enough to sleep in, would
be too contracted if the entrance were closed up entire-
ly; it was therefore necessary to contrive some bar-
rier, that would protect me while the mouth of the
cave was left open. I was greatly puzzled to think of
any kind of defence, which it was in my power to make;
but, by reflecting upon it all the while I was digging out
the cave, this way of doing it came at last into my head.
I had seen a great many young willow trees at the
foot of the hill, which I knew could be easily transplant-
ed, as their roots do not grow deep in the earth; I
therefore resolved to pull up a number of them, and
plant them close together, in a serai-circle, round the
entrance of the cave. They would be some protection
at once, and when they grew larger and fixed them-
selves in the earth, they would make a very effectual
barrier.
I returned to my tree that night, after a hard day's
work, but more comforted and cheerful than I had been
since my shipwreck. I longed to stretch my tired
limbs, at full length on the grass, but the fear of wild
animals, roaring about in search of prey, sent me to my
tree for the night.
For many days, I devoted myself to digging out my
cave and transplanting trees; and though the want of
proper tools made it very laborious, I persevered, and
succeeded beyond my expectations. While thus occu-
pied, I dined every day on shell-fish, and breakfasted
and supped on cocoa-nuts and water-cresses. I in-
dulged myself too with an afternoon nap on the grassy
bank, by the side of the brook, whose murmuring sound
lulled me to sleep.
One day, thinking the nettles might have lain long
enough for the woody part to separate easily, I took
them out of the water, and spread them in thin layers
on the grass to dry ; I next pounded them with a large
stick, as I had seen flax pounded ; and succeeded per-
fectly in freeing the fibres from the stem. They were of
a good length, and could be twisted into pack-thread.
ROPE LADDER. 45
Much pleased with the success of this experiment, I
went on twisting and doubling the string, till I made
some very strong cord. It was not quite so even
as that made by rope-makers, for I had no wheel to
twist the threads, nor a second person to assist me; but
rough and clumsy as it was, it soon proved of great ser-
vice to me.
I went on with my work very diligently ; and planted
tree after tree, until I formed a complete semi-circle
round the cave. But as a single row of such saplings,
did not seem sufficient, I spared no pains, but planted a
second row, outside of the first. I then interwove the
branches of the two rows together, and at last hit upon
the plan of filling up the space between with the earth
and stones I was removing from the cave. This made
the barrier very strong. Every morning and evening
I watered my little hedge ; but this was a tedious pro-
cess, as I had nothing bigger than a cocoa-nut shell to
carry the water in. I was however rewarded for all my
labor by seeing the willows alive and growing after their
removal.
My plan was to make no opening in the hedge, lest I
should not be able to secure it firmly if attacked ; so,
when I had nearly completed it, I spent a whole day in
making a rope ladder out of my cordage. The rock,
behind the cave, was about as high as the second story
of a house ; and on the top of it was a tree. To this I
fastened one end of the ladder, and fixed the other to
the ground, beside the cave, by means of stakes driven
in firmly. I then tried to mount by it, and finding I
could go up and down very safely I completed the bar-
rier, and piled up, on the inside of it, the rest of the
rubbish taken from the cave.
When I had worked a little longer at enlarging my
cave, I came to hard points of rock that I could not pos-
sibly remove with my hands or shell. O how I longed
for an iron crow! but as I knew that wishing was of no
use, I tried to think of something that might answer the
purpose. I remembered seeing, on the beach, some hard,
46 SUNDAY.
green stones scattered about; and on examining them I
found one, the sight of which made my heart leap for joy.
It was nearly in the form of a wedge, with a very sharp
edge to it. Searching further I found another that was
equally well fitted for my purpose. It was very thick
and heavy at one end, while at the other it was small
and easily grasped; so that I could use it as a mallet
or hammer.
Delighted with my new tools, I set to work with them
immediately. I applied the sharp edge of the wedge
to the rock, and striking it with the mallet, I broke off a
large piece. In this way I cleared the cave of all the
sharp projecting rocks inside of it ; and made it large
enough for me to lie at ease, and be at some distance
from the mouth.
I had before plucked up with my hands a quantity of
grass, and dried it in the sun; this hay I now threw
down from above into the enclosure, and made a most
comfortable bed of it at the back part of my new lodg-
ing-room.
From this time, I was able to sleep on a dry, soft,
sweet-scented bed, sheltered from wind, rain, and sun.
Those who have always been able to stretch their
weary limbs on a good bed, in a secure place, can hard-
ly imagine how delighted I was with my rude accommo-
dations ; their being obtained too by my own industry
and ingenuity, gave me a sense of self-approbation that
I cannot describe. I went to sleep that night, feeling
happier than I could have thought it possible for me to
be on this uninhabited island.
The following day was Sunday. I remembered it
as soon as I awoke. I recollected too that I had always
been in the habit of putting on clean linen on the sab-
bath; but now I had no clothes of any kind, except
those I had worn so long. I determined, however, to
make myself as clean as I could ; so I bathed in the
brook, and left my shirt to soak in the stream, tied by
its sleeves to a bush.
On my way back to my new habitation, I gathered
AN ALMANAC.
47
cocoa-nuts enough to last all day; and then rested
from all my labors, and spent the day in serious medita-
tion, devout prayer, and tender recollections of my far-
distant home, and the dear friends whom I feared I
should never see more.
As I was counting over the number of days that I had
been on the island, and trying to remember on what day
of the month I was wrecked, it occurred to me that I
should soon lose all knowledge how time passed, if I
did not mark the days, as they went by. The next
morning, therefore, I set. to work to make myself an
almanac, by which I could count the days regularly.
Having no paper, pens, or ink, or any thing on which
I could write, I chose one of several trees, that stood
close together and had very smooth bark; on this I
made a scratch, with the edge of a shell, for every day
I had been on the island, and a longer scratch for
Sunday.
When this was accomplished, I considered the impor-
tance of having some kind of signal put up, to give no-
tice, if a vessel should happen to pass by, that there
was somebody on the island who needed assistance. I
could easily find a tree, for a flag-staff; but what to
make use of for a flag puzzled me extremely. At last,
I made up my mind to give up my only shirt for the
purpose ; "I have but one," said I to myself; "it can-
not last long, and when in rags I must do without it;
so I had better give it up at once, and use it in the only
way in which it can possibly do me any great service.
If it should make a vessel stop and take me off this desert
island, it will certainly be the best use I can put it to."
Thus resolved, I washed my old shirt in the brook,
made it look as white as I could, and left it to dry in
the sun, while I explored the hills on the south side of
the island, and searched for a tall, straight tree that could
be converted into a flag-staff by stripping it of its
branches.
On a point of land, higher than the hill on which I
lived, and more to the eastward, I found a solitary tree,
48 A FLAG.
with a straight trunk, that would serve my purpose
extremely well, if I could get the branches off, and so
make it look enough like the work of man, to attract the
attention of a sailor; but without any iron tools, this
seemed impossible. I resolved, however, to try my
wedge and mallet; and, by very great patience and
perseverance, I succeeded in removing a good many of
the upper branches. Finding it such slow work, I con-
cluded to leave the larger boughs below, and fasten
my shirt, to the top of the bare stem above; and after
two days' hard labor, I had the satisfaction of seeing my
flag flying in the air, well secured, and sufficiently con-
spicuous.
The high point of land, on which I had placed it, I
called Signal Hill ; it is in sight from the ground above
my cave, and commands a more extensive prospect,
than the hill under which I live, and to which I have
given the name of Fort Hill, from my fortifications on
its side.
CHAPTER VI.
PREPARATIONS FOR A THIRD EXCURSION LAMAS — CURI-
OUS COOKERY—ATHUNDER STORM.
I HAD now eaten up most of the cocoa-nuts that grew
on the only trees of the kind which I had yet seen; and
the shore furnished me with such a scanty supply of shell-fish, that I began to be uneasy about getting food
enough to keep me from starving.
I had been so constantly employed in making a safe
retreat to sleep in, that I had explored only a small part
of the island; but now I determined to travel over it,
and seek for more cocoa-nuts, and other articles of food.
Being considerably weakened by the hard fare to
which I had been exposed, since I was wrecked, and for
PREPARATIONS FOR A THIRD EXCURSION. 49
some time before, I found the noon-day sun very op-
pressive; and having no hat to shelter my head from its
ardent rays, I spent half a day in making an umbrella,
to shade me on my intended journey. I had neither
silk nor whalebone; nor had I a knife or scissors, sew-
ing-thread or needle; yet I contrived to make some-
thing that answered all the purpose of a large parasol.
I found a kind of willow, the branches of which were
very slender and pliable; with these, I wove a circular
piece of wicker-tvork, like the cover of a round basket;
to the hollow side, I fastened a stick, and made it firm
by tying it with pack-thread. Then from a young palm
tree, whose top I could reach by a little climbing, I
gathered some large leaves, with which I covered the
outside of my wicker-work. Thus I contrived to make
a screen for my head, which the sun's rays could not
penetrate; and I was as much pleased with this basket-
work umbrella, as ever any little girl was with a new
silk parasol.
The rest of the day I employed in making a bag to
hold any provisions I might be so happy as to find in
my excursion; and having a good stock of pack-thread
by me, I thought I would net one with that. I took a
piece of reed, that grew in the marshy ground near the
sea, to form the meshes on; and fastened the end of the
string to a smooth twig six inches in length, for a needle;
and though it was very inconvenient to net with a long
string hanging about, instead of being wound up, as it is
on a proper netting-needle, yet, as I was an expert netter,
I managed with it; and before night, I had a good-sized
bag, with a string in the top, by which I could hang it
round my neck.
Having thus completed the preparations for my jour-
ney, I went to bed, slept well, and rose as soon as the
first rays of light made their way into my apartment. I
tied a large cord round my waist; into which I stuck
my stone mallet, and with my bag and umbrella I began
my day's march. I went first to the beach and break-
fasted on what I could find there; then to the group of
5
50 LAMAS.
cocoa-nut trees, to furnish my bag with a nut, that I
might have something to eat at noon, if my morning's
walk should not lead me to a new stock of provisions.
The morning was delightful; the sun was rising in all
his glory, and appeared to ascend out of the sea. A
variety of birds were singing their morning songs, and
rejoicing at the return of light; the air was pure and re-
freshing, and the plants and flowering shrubs gave out
the sweetest scents. I walked cheerfully forward, on
my tour of discovery; but, as I was not yet assured
that the island did not contain beasts of prey or sava-
ges, I avoided, as much as possible, all forests and thick-
ets; and kept, as much as I could, on open ground,
which allowed of my looking around me. Unfortu-
nately, those high, open places were the barrenest spots
on the whole island, so that I walked a long way without
meeting with any thing that could repay me for my
trouble. Seeing some pretty flowers, that resembled
the convolvulus, and reminded me forcibly of my own
garden, in dear, distant England, I gathered several;
and, in pulling at the vine, I happened to pluck up the
roots; they looked a little like potatoes, and thinking
they might be eatable, I put a couple of them in my bag
with the flowers.
After wandering about all the forenoon, I felt the
want of food and rest; and having just arrived on the
banks of a pretty rivulet, I sat down under the shade of
a fine branching tree, with leaves like a laurel, to eat
the cocoa-nut I had brought with me. I had just begun
my repast, when, all at once, I heard a noise like the
trampling of many animals. I started up on my feet,
and seizing my stone mallet, and holding my umbrella
before me as a shield, I prepared to defend myself
against the attack of some wild beasts. I soon saw a
troop of four-legged creatures coming towards me ; but
my alarm was turned at once to joy, on perceiving them
to be that most harmless and useful of animals, the lama
or Peruvian camel.
They trotted by, without appearing to see me, and
LAMAS. 51
pursued their way to the rivulet, where I suppose they
were accustomed to drink. I watched their movements
unobserved. I had once seen a lama, in a collection of
wild beasts exhibited at York, and remembered read-
ing an account of the Peruvians taming them, and using
them as beasts of burden, just as Europeans do mules
and horses. I knew too that warm, soft clothing was
made from their hair or wool, and that their flesh was
excellent food. This thought brought with it a strong
desire to taste a piece of meat, which I had not done
for so long a time; and I determined to kill one of them,
if I could. For this purpose, I placed myself close to
the spot by which they had passed, partly hid behind a
tree, with my mallet in my hand, and waited their re-
turn from the rivulet. A young one happening to come
very near my place of concealment, I gave it such a
stroke on the back of its neck, as laid it dead at my feet
in a moment.
I never remembered, till I had killed the lama, that I
had no fire to dress it by, nor the means of lighting one.
I had no flint, steel, matches, or tinder; and though I could strike fire with two hard stones, I could make no
use of the spark, without some kind of tinder; and how
to procure that, I was entirely at a loss. I had read of
savages rubbing two dry sticks together till they take
fire; and the moment I recollected that, I was satisfied
I could do the same, and therefore promised myself a
good meal of cooked meat that evening. *
Having rested sufficiently, and eaten a cocoa-nut, I
prepared to carry home my dead game. If I could
have opened the body, as hunters do, and got rid of its
contents, my load would have been much lighter; but
the want of a knife, or any sharp instrument, made that
impossible; so I threw the whole carcass over my shoul-
der, and turned my steps homeward.
On my way, I made another agreeable discovery, and
that was, of a group of lemon trees; they had fruit and
blossoms on them, and some ripe lemons had fallen to
the ground; these I picked up and put in my bag. Af-
ter a long and warm walk, I reached the terrace with
my various acquisitions. My eagerness to eat a bit of
meat made me set to work directly to skin the lama.
But this I found impossible, with such a poor tool
as a stone wedge. After pulling and hacking away
at it for some time, I was obliged to content myself
with the tongue, which I succeeded in pulling out whole;
and I could not help smacking my lips, at the thought
of eating such a delicate morsel, as I knew that would
be, when cooked. I next set to work to kindle a fire
by rubbing two pieces of dry wood together, and ex-
pected to see it light at once. I rubbed so briskly that
the sweat ran down my face in large drops, but I could
not raise a spark; for when the wood was heated enough
to smoke, I was so tired I could not rub a moment lon-
ger. While I stopped to rest and recover my breath,
the wood cooled, and all my labor was lost. I worked
away in this manner a long time, and tried many differ-
ent kinds of wood, but all to no purpose. I could never
do more than make the wood smoke a little. At last I
gave up in despair, threw away my sticks, and lay down
on the grass exhausted and disappointed. 1 indulged in
many sad thoughts, and mourned bitterly over my lonely
condition. "If I only had a companion," said I to my-
self, " he could rub when I was tired, and we should
soon procure fire; but alone here, I am worse off than
the savages."
After some time spent in these mournful reflections,
hunger made me think of eating the meat raw; but on
trying it I found it so tough, I could hardly bite it, and
the taste was so unlike that of cooked meat, that I could
not relish it at all; and I went to my cave for the night,
feeling very hungry and tired and melancholy. Sleep,
however, soon came to my relief, and I forgot my
troubles for a while.
The first thing I thought of, on awaking the next
morning, was the flesh of the lama, which only wanted
a fire to make it delicious food. As I lay reflecting up-
on it, and trying to remember how savage nations cook
CURIOUS COOKERY. 53
their meat, or prepare it without the use of fire, I recol-
lected having read an account of the Tartars putting
the meat, they mean to eat, under their saddles, and
cooking it by the heat of the horse's body, as they ride
along; this heat, I said to myself, may be given to the
meat in another way, as well as by the horse's back; so
up I jumped and began a new experiment in cookery.
I found two pieces of thin, flat stone; between them I
placed the lama's tongue, and began to strike upon the
upper stone with my mallet. These blows I continued,
without intermission, for eight or ten minutes; and feel-
ing the stone grow hot, I went on striking it with re-
doubled activity for half an hour or more. By that
time, the meat had become, partly by the heat and part-
ly by the blows, quite tender and fit to eat; and to one,
who had not eaten any animal food for such a length
of time, it tasted very well. I was so hungry that the
lama's tongue did not half satisfy me; so I made great
exertions to pull off a part of the skin, and get a piece
of the flesh to cook in the same manner; and at last I
succeeded. I made this still more palatable, by squeez-
ing a little lemon juice over it; and the excellent meal
I now made, repaid me for all my labor. I ate it with
a thankful heart, and was greatly refreshed and strength-
ened by it.
I could not help feeling sad, when I reflected on the
helplessness occasioned by the want of a common pock-
et knife; with that, I could have skinned the lama, and
saved the skin whole for various purposes. I could
have eaten my meat, too, much more comfortably, with
a knife to cut it, instead of tearing it to pieces with my
fingers and teeth, as I had been obliged to do. I turn-
ed my mind from these vain regrets, by thinking over
all I had read about the lama, and then a thought occur-
red to me which proved a most happy one. It struck
me that, as the lamas suckle their young, they must have
milk; and if I could catch one of the mothers alive, I
could use her milk as food, and have the pleasure of her
company too. Delighted with this idea, I was revolving
5*
54 A THUNDER STORM.
in my mind the best way to catch one, when a violent
shower of rain obliged me to shelter myself in the cave.
It was the first shower that had fallen since I was cast
upon the island; and though heavy dews and fogs had
partly supplied the place of rain, and prevented the
earth's being very much parched, I welcomed the show-
er, anticipating the pleasure of walking out after it was
over, and enjoying the freshness of every thing that had
been washed by it.
The rain became heavier every moment, till it seemed
to run in streams from the clouds, rather than to fall in
drops. I had never seen such rain before, but I had
read of its being common in the West Indies. Pres-
ently it began to thunder and lighten violently. At each
flash the cave seemed illuminated, and after each blaze
of light there came such loud claps of thunder, as I had
never before heard.
I knew how useful storms are in clearing the air, and
that men and animals, trees and plants, are refreshed and
invigorated by them; therefore I was not sorry to see
one. I rejoiced that I had a cave to shelter me from
the rain, and only feared that my barrier might be un-
dermined by the floods of water that came down on all
all sides. I kept my eyes fixed upon it with some anx-
iety, and was very sorry to see some of the earth and
stones washed away; but it happened very fortunately,
that there was one weak place, in this barrier, at which
the rain found a passage; for otherwise, it would have
collected inside, till the quantity of water would have
been so great, as to carry away all my works of defence
at once. As it was, it made an opening for itself, and
ran off harmlessly.
The rain continued so long, that I was obliged to give
up all thoughts of making any excursion that day; but
as I sat in my cave, contemplating my barrier and the
breach made in it by the rain, I resolved not to close it
up entirely, as before, but to leave a space to pass in
and out, and secure it at night as well as I could. Nev-
er having had any alarm, from man or beast, since I had
CATCHING A LAMA ALIVE. 55
been on the island, I began to think so much precaution
unnecessary. Also the convenience of a passage in and
out would be very great, and save my climbing the ladder
so often, and running round the hill to my terrace. In
the evening I made my gateway, and secured it with the
two oars I had, till I could get something better. Then
I went to bed, full of schemes for catching lamas with
nooses, as the Peruvians do wild horses, and dreamt all
night that I was in the midst of lamas, and horses, and
Peruvians.
CHAPTER VII.
CATCHING A LAMA ALIVE — THE CAPTIVE LAMA — EFFORTS
TO GET A FIRE NEW RESOURCES.
FULL of my new schemes, for catching lamas alive, I
rose with the sun, and began my preparations for break-
fasting on another piece of meat, cooked between stones,
as before; but the remaining flesh of the lama was spoil-
ed, the weather being extremely sultry when I killed it.
So I buried it, at a distance from my cave, and went to
the beach in search of other food. There I found, in
the crevices of the rocks, some large, round balls, that
looked like eggs, having soft shells resembling parch-
ment. Supposing them to be the production of some
large sea-fowl, I sucked one of them, found it palatable
food, and made a very good breakfast in spite of my
disappointment about the meat. I then prepared a
noose in such a manner, that it should not choke the
lama, but'only draw up to the size of its neck; and
throwing the rope over my shoulder, I marched off, ac-
coutred as before. The country was greatly improved
by the rain; all the vegetable world seemed clad in new
beauty, and the birds sang over my head more merrily
than ever. I now penetrated into the island by new
paths, and much more beautiful ones than I had before
50 THE CAPTIVE LAMA.
Seen. I crossed some very pretty valleys, abounding in
shrubs and flowers, berries and other kinds of fruits.
Some of these resembled a little the fruits I had been
accustomed to, in my own country, but most of them
were such as I had never before seen. The fear of
being poisoned could not restrain me from the tempting
banquet spread before me by the hand of nature, and I
ate without injury of several of the fruits.
Before the sun had reached the highest point of his
course, I had crossed the range of hills that run nearly
east and west (on the south side of which I live), and
penetrated several miles into the country, without seeing
any living creature except birds, or discovering the least
trace of any human being. I began to fear that, in
changing my course, I should miss of the lamas alto-
gether; but being weary with my long walk and the
heat of the day, I resolved to rest myself at the first
shady place I should find. Seeing a winding river at a
little distance, I walked that way, and presently came to
a beautiful, wooded spot on its banks. From childhood
I had always admired and loved fine scenery, and this
taste was now a source of great pleasure to me. I laid
myself down on a smooth, grassy bank, and forgot for a
while my unhappy situation, in contemplating the beau-
ties of nature around me. But I never remained long
unemployed without having painful thoughts, and my
mind soon turned to the dear friends and sweet home
that were so far off; my tears began to flow, and there
is no knowing how long I might have indulged in un-
profitable sorrow, had not the well remembered sound
of the lamas' footsteps roused me to action.
I jumped up, and had just time to place myself be-
hind a large tree, and adjust my noose properly, before
they appeared. I fixed my eye upon a mother with
two young ones following her; and as she moved gently
by my place of concealment, I had no difficulty in throw-
ing the loop over her head. The bound she gave on feel-
ing the rope touch her, drew it close round her throat,
and had well nigh pulled the end of it out of my hand.
Perceiving that her struggles would soon free her from
my hold, I made the end of the rope fast by giving it
a turn round the trunk of a small tree. Thus secured,
she jumped and pulled in vain, till she tired herself out.
The young ones played many pranks about her, wonder-
ing, no doubt, what ailed their poor mother. I sympa-
thized so much with her unwillingness to be made a cap-
tive, that I had serious thoughts of letting her go; but at
length I yielded to reason. Knowing how useful she
would be to me, and that she would, in time, be recon-
ciled to captivity, I resolved to lead her home if I could.
I might have caught as many as I pleased, for my
presence did not alarm them in the least; they passed
by me as unconcerned, as if I were a tree or a stone.
This should have satisfied me that the island was unin-
habited; for whenever the power of man has been felt,
his approach is feared by all inferior animals.
The flock of lamas drank at the river, and then trot-
ted off again into the woods; and when I thought my prisoner was sufficiently exhausted to be manageable, I
began to lead her to her future home, while her kids
followed close after us.
At first she stepped along very quietly, and I began
to think I should have no more difficulty with her; but
she soon undeceived me, and began such a set of capers
that I was obliged to throw away my umbrella, and then,
with both hands, I could but just keep hold of the cord.
Sometimes she showed her anger by stamping on the
ground with her fore feet; then she would bound as
high as my head, and draw me along with such force as
nearly threw me down; now and then she would stand
entirely still, and fix her Jarge, dark eyes upon me, lay
back her ears, and spit in my face, I had seen an ani-
mal of this kind do the same thing before at a show of
wild beasts, or I might have supposed it a peculiar mark
of scorn and indignation at my treatment of her.
Occasionally she would allow me to lead her along
for some distance; but, at intervals during the whole
route, she was very refractory; and I was so worn out
58 EFFORTS TO GET A FIRE.
with the exertions I had made, that when I reached my
terrace, I could only tie her to a tree, and go at once to
my soft bed of hay, where falling asleep directly, my
whole night's rest seemed like one short nap.
I well remember that my first sensation on awaking
was hunger, for I had eaten nothing for twenty-four
hours but the eggs that I found on the rocks, and some
wild fruits gathered on my long walk; and this was a
spare diet for one who had taken so much exercise. I
rose, determined to kill one kid for present use, and by
so doing secure to myself a part of the mother's milk;
but when I joined my new companions, and saw the
pretty gambols and joyous faces of the young ones, and
the subdued appearance of their captive mother, I could
not bring myself to take the life of either. I tried, how-
ever, to get some milk from the old one, but in vain; so
I supposed the rightful claimants, the kids, had been be-
forehand with me, and left nothing for their new master.
But I afterwards found that the lama withheld her milk
at pleasure; and it was not till she became tame, that I
could get a drop from her.
I went to the beach for a breakfast, and found more
of the same kind of eggs, and plenty of oysters; both
good kinds of food to eat raw. I was now convinced
that there was no danger of my starving to death, while
I had strength and health to obtain and eat the raw vi-
ands within my reach; but still I foresaw many acci-
dents, that might happen, to cut off these resources. I
strongly desired, therefore, to have a stock of vegetables
and fruits near my cave, together with a flock of lamas,
and a fire to cook with. As I had already done more
towards making my situation tolerable, than I had at first
thought possible for a man to do alone and without tools,
I resolved not to despair of effecting a great deal more.
I now turned all my thoughts to the invention of some
method for obtaining a fire. I tried to make tinder of
dried leaves and decayed wood, and the ravelings of my
cotton stockings ; but none of these would take fire
from the sparks produced by striking together two pie-
NEW RESOUKCES. 59
ces of quartz; again and again I lamented my igno-
rance of the substance called spunk, used by the sailors
to light their cigars with. I remembered perfectly how
it looked, and thought from its appearance it must be a
marine plant. I therefore spent many hours looking for
it among the rocks and sea weed; but all in vain. At
last, as I was one day in a thick wood looking for cocoa-
nuts, I seated myself under the shade of a fine branch-
ing tree of a kind unknown to me; and, upon exam-
ining its bark, I saw, growing out of it, a fungus that
looked so exactly like spunk, I could not doubt that it
was the very thing I had been in search of. As I al-
ways carried two stones in my pocket that would strike
fire, I made the experiment at once ; but alas! without
success; every spark fell lifeless on the fungus. I was
disappointed, but not discouraged; it came into my
head that it might require to be dried before it was used.
I therefore looked about, to find some that had been
severed from the tree long enough to dry, or for a dead
tree, on which it might have grown and died with its
parent stem. The latter soon presented itself, and my
heart beat perceptibly quicker, as I struck the stones
together over this dry fungus, and found to my great joy
that it kindled immediately. With the lighted spunk, I
set fire to some dry leaves and broken twigs, that lay
about, and delighted my eyes with the sight of a blaze,
that I might fully realize the certainty that I possessed
that "best of servants, and worst of masters " — a fire.
As I had nothing with me to cook, I suffered the fire
to burn out; but collected, very carefully, all the spunk
I could find, and carried it home. Having no meat in
my possession, and my three lamas being now such
pets that I could not bear to kill one of them, I went
to the beach for something to cook ; intending, if I found nothing else, to gather some oysters and roast
them.
As I reached the sands, I saw something on them like
a large roundish stone, where I had never remarked one
before; on approaching it, I perceived that it moved on
four legs; and when I overtook it, I found it to be a kind
of turtle, though not exactly like the green turtles, that
are brought to England from the West Indies.
I quickly stopped its march toward the sea, by turn-
ing it over on its back, which made it quite helpless.
Then, following its track to the place it had just come from,
on the sands, I found, lightly covered, a large deposit of
the soft eggs, which I had eaten for birds' eggs, but
which, I was now convinced, belonged to this creature.
Having my bag by my side, I put several of them in
it, with pea-weed between, to prevent their breaking;
and then took the turtle on my shoulder, and walked
back to my terrace. I thought he weighed a good ma-
ny pounds, when I first lifted him up; and before I
reached home, his weight seemed doubled. I had
scarcely strength to ascend the terrace with him on my
shoulder, so much was I weakened by the want of nour-
ishing food, properly cooked.
From descriptions I had read of a kind of turtle or
tortoise, found in some of the South Sea islands, and
called terrapin, I knew this must be of the same kind,
and if so, very good to eat; I was therefore determined
to kill him at once, and dress some of the meat. But
this was easier said than done; for he had drawn his
head into his shell, and covered it so closely with his
hard, scaly legs, that it was impossible to get at it. His
legs, when drawn up, presented a tough, hard substance,
that just filled up the interstices of his shell; and made
him as invulnerable as a knight in complete armour. I
rolled him over and over, and tried every means I
could think of, to make him alter his position; but all in
vain. There he remained, immoveably closed up ; well
knowing that his safety depended on his being perfectly
passive.
This was a most tantalizing situation for a hungry
man like me; if I had possessed a hatchet, I should
quickly have divided his upper from his lower shell; but
how to do that with my stone wedge and mallet I did
not know. Disliking, however, to mangle the poor crea-
ture without killing him at once, I determined to make a
fire and roast my eggs, and let him alone a while longer.
In rummaging round for materials to light a fire with,
I found the roots which I had gathered long before, and
which belonged to a vine like the convolvulus; these, I
also thought of roasting, and having made a fine cheer-
ful fire, and got a good bed of ashes, I put them and the
eggs into it.
The eggs were done long before the roots, and as my
appetite was very keen, I could not wait for the whole
dinner to be served up at once, but began on the first
dish; and never did any thing taste so well to me. No
one can imagine the luxury of eating cooked victuals,
who has not lived for months on raw provisions, as I
had done. To me these eggs, though of a coarse kind,
and eaten without salt, which they very much needed,
tasted deliciously; and when I reflected on the various
benefits to be derived from fire, my heart overflowed
with gratitude to the Giver of all good gifts, for this great
blessing.
When I had done my dinner, I found my boxed-up
friend had walked off, unobserved, to a considerable
distance; but as soon as I came near him, he shut him-
self up as before; so I put him on his back, within my
enclosure, and left him.
I now set to work to make a fishing-net of the string
I had amused myself with spinning, at various times,
from the fibres of the nettle. I knew I could catch a
variety of fish, which, with the help of fire, would be excellent eating, though quite useless to me without;
and as I lived near the sea, in which they abounded,
they would be a very convenient article of food.
I let my fire burn out, and some hours after with-
drew the roots from the warm ashes, and found them a
most excellent vegetable, in texture like a potatoe, but
much sweeter. Of these and a drink of lama's milk,
obtained for the first time, I made a most luxurious sup-
per; and went to bed, in excellent spirits, and full of
schemes for the future.
6
62
ADDITIONAL COMFORTS.
CHAPTER VIII.
COMFORTS — ROAST MEAT—THE LAMA LOADED
TALKING — FISHING—STATE OF MIND—ANTICIPATIONS —
PREPARATIONS.
THE first days, which I spent on this island, made
such a deep impression on my mind, that I can remem-
ber precisely what I did each day ; but as week after
week passed away, and I became accustomed to my
situation, I cannot so distinctly recollect the manner in
which my time was employed. Though I know the
order of events, I cannot now tell how many days pass-
ed, after I caught the live lamas, and before I found the
spunk, but I know it was several; and during that time,
there were some little matters, which I have omitted to
put down in their proper place, but which I will now
mention.
Not knowing that lamas have stomachs somewhat
like camels, and that they do not drink often, I thought
it important to have a good watering-place for them; so
I put a large shell under the little stream, that flowed
out of the rock near my cave. This shell was at least
two feet long, and about sixteen inches broad, of an irreg-
ular oval shape, with deep notches in the margin, of a
pink color inside, and highly polished. The constant
flowing of the stream kept it full of water, and made it
run over at all these notches. It had thus a very pretty
effect, and doubly repaid me, by its beauty as well as
usefulness, for the hard tug I had in bringing it from the
beach to my terrace.
About the same time, I made myself a comfortable
seat, under the shade of a tree, near my pretty fountain,
by placing a piece of the plank that was washed ashore
from the wrecked boat, on some stones; and there I fre-
quently sat, to enjoy the company of my dumb compan-
ions, the lamas, which had become quite tame. The
young ones soon followed me about, and put their noses
ROAST MEAT. 63
into my hand, to find if I had any berries for them, as I
often brought home from the woods such as I observed
them to be fond of. By robbing them of a little of their
mother's milk every day, they were soon weaned; and
I had the full benefit of the old one's milk, which I used
to keep in cocoa-nut shells, and drink out of the same.
After I found the spunk, I was very desirous of eating
some roast meat, not only for the sake of its taste, but
because I hoped it would restore my strength, which
was considerably wasted ; so I went into the country
behind the hills, and killed a young lama, and brought
it home on my back. I thought the load would tire
me less than the exertion of leading it home; and, besides,
I knew that if.I brought it home alive, I should be
unwilling to kill it at all.
The pleasure of eating this sort of food was dearly
bought; great was the trouble it cost me, to tear off a
part of the skin, divide the limbs, or get off a piece of
the flesh, without a knife, or edged tool of any sort,
unless my stone wedge may be so called. I was forced
to use my teeth and nails, and pull and tear the flesh
apart, which was so disagreeable to me, that I could
hardly bring myself to do it.
When I had at last succeeded in separating a proper
sized piece to roast, I made a good fire, in a sheltered
nook of the rocks, near my cave. I then took for a
spit a slender branch, and having run it through the meat,
I rested the ends on two forked sticks, stuck into the
ground before the fire. This was all done and the
meat began to scorch, before I remembered that it
ought to be basted with something, or it would burn on
the outside before it was done through. Having seen
my mother's cook use salt and water for this purpose, I
put my meat a little way back from the fire, while I ran
with two cocoa-nut shells, to the sea-side, for some salt
water. When I had brought it to the spot, I found a
dripping-pan was still wanting to complete my means of
cooking ; so, to supply that deficiency, I took my shell
shovel, washed it clean, and placed it under the meat,
while I poured on the salt water ; this soon mixed, in
the shell, with the juices that dropped from the meat,
and made very good dripping.
I made a basting-ladle, by sticking a shell into a slit
in the end of a twig; with this I basted the meat well,
all the time it was roasting. It seemed to me to be a
great while cooking; partly, I suppose, owing to my
impatience, and partly in consequence of the fire not
being enclosed, and there being nothing round the meat
to reflect the heat on the side farthest from the fire, as
the tinned screen does in my mother's kitchen. Consid-
ering my slender preparations, however, I performed the
duties of a cook to my own satisfaction entirely. The
crackling of the wood was music to my ear, and the
sight of the fire delighted me, though its heat made the
sweat run down my face.
At last however, the meat seemed thoroughly done;
and for want of a dish, I took it up in the dripping-pan, or
shell shovel, and placed it on a large, flat rock for a
table. Without a knife, fork, or plate, I was obliged to
use my fingers and eat out of the dish ; but hunger and
necessity will reconcile one to many things ; so I made
light of these inconveniences, and the meat certainly
tasted better than the best dressed dish that was ever
served up to me before. All that was wanting to make
the meal delicious, was bread and salt; those two com-
mon articles of food would now have been to me the
greatest delicacies. The dryest crust, the blackest rye
bread that I ever saw in England, would have been a
treat to me ; and I wondered that I had not valued
bread more when at home. I regretted that I had not
procured more of the excellent roots resembling potatoes
sweetened, and roasted them to eat with my meat; but
that was a luxury reserved for another time. Soon
afterwards, I made a business of gathering a large quan-
tity of those roots; but, as the vine was out of blossom,
and I was not well acquainted with the leaf, I had at
first some difficulty in finding it.
Remembering that the Peruvians use the lama as a
THE LAMA LOADED. 65
beast of burthen, I determined to try to make mine
useful in that way. It was necessary to have some
contrivance for holding the load on the back of the
lama; so after a good deal of consideration, I thought
of attempting to make some panniers, such as are slung
over the backs of mules, in countries where those animals
carry all the burthens.
I found enough of the proper kind of willow for
wicker-work, growing near the terrace; but I had great
difficulty in getting off twigs enough for my purpose,
as the wood was very tough, and I had nothing to cut it
with. When once I had procured my stock, it was no
trouble to me to weave the panniers; for I learned the
art of basket-making when a boy, and had not forgotten
how to set to work. To be sure, I had never woven
any thing of the shape I now wanted, with one flat side,
to go next the lama; but I succeeded tolerably well,
and made a pair of panniers, that were pretty good
mates, and sufficiently strong and capacious.
These I slung over the back of the lama with a stout
cord; and that this might not hurt her, I put it over a
piece of bark with a stuffing of grass under it, like the
little saddle used in a cart-harness, and made all fast
with a string.
I had for some time accustomed the old lama to be
led about; and as I often took her to graze on the herbs
she liked best, she was always willing to accompany me.
But when I fastened the empty panniers on her back,
she was really frightened, and tried to run away from
them ; to prevent this, I made blinders for her, of bark,
and fastened them on with my cordage. This produced
the desired effect; for, though she was a little uneasy
at first, on feeling something on her back, she was not
alarmed by it. I accustomed her first to a small load,
and then to a heavier one, until by degrees she did all
the work I had occasion for.
With this excellent help, I brought to my cave a good
stock of the sweet potatoes, as I called them; also ber-
ries and fruits and various kinds of nuts, besides cocoa-
6*
TALKING.
nuts, that I found to be palatable food. I even made
her bear one of her own species on her back, when I
had killed it for eating.
I hardly need say that I became very fond of this use-
ful creature, and often contrasted my first walk with her,
through the woods, with the journeys that we now made
together. The kids generally followed in our train, but
were not old enough to share our toils. Wild lamas
would sometimes approach us, when we were out on
these excursions, and show some astonishment at their
sister in harness; but she took very little notice of them,
and seemed perfectly contented with her lot. The kids
would join the herd and sport with them awhile, but
soon left them again, to return to my side, which was a
proof of attachment that pleased me very much.
The affection of these animals was a great comfort to
me in my solitude ; I used to talk to them just as if they
could understand me, and so try to cheat myself into a
belief, that they were more to me than their natures
were capable of. I had another reason for this; I fear-
ed I might forget how to speak, if I did not practise ; and
as I always hoped to be taken off the island by a pass-
ing vessel, I wished to be able to speak intelligibly.
Every Sunday, I used to recite aloud all the hymns and
chapters that I could remember; and having learned a
good many, in my childhood, it kept me spouting for an
hour or more. At other times, I would repeat songs,
tell stories, and narrate my own adventures, for the sake
of practice. Any one who had heard me, and seen me
addressing my lamas as if they were human beings,
would certainly have thought me crazy.
My terrapin became one of my family, and finding I
no longer tried to injure him, he walked about, at his
ease, within my barrier. Occasionally I let him out on
the terrace, when the kids would try to play with him;
but his grave demeanor baffled them, and prevented any
intercourse.
The difficulty of preparing meat for eating made me
live a great deal on fish, and I succeeded very well in
contriving some fishing-tackle. I netted a bag and then
fastened it to a hoop made of a twig bent round; this I
tried to tie to the flat end of an oar, but for want of a
notch in the car, which I had no knife to make, the
string continually slipped off; instead, therefore, of the
oar, I was obliged to get a straight branch of a tree with
a small fork at the end. It was very difficult to sever
even this slender limb from the trunk without any iron
tool, but when I succeeded, it answered the purpose
nicely ; for I could put the hoop into the fork, and tie
each tine to the side of the hoop securely. With this
instrument I often scooped up three or four fine fish at
once, besides crabs, which I found to be excellent food
and easily cooked, for I could roast them in their shell
and eat them out of it. As I had no pot to boil any thing
in, I was obliged to roast all my fish, or cook them in the
ashes.
Procuring and preparing food, with such small means
as I had of doing either, took up a great deal of time;
and every thing spoiled so quickly, in this warm climate,
that I could do little more than provide for each day as it
came. It was, however, very happy for me, that I had
this constant employment; for when I was not obliged to
exert myself, I spent hours in melancholy reverie, with
my eyes fixed on the ocean, hoping to spy out a sail.
During the first month of my solitary life, I was subject
to sudden changes in my feelings. After being very
busy and cheerful for a while, some trifle would re-
mind me of my misfortunes, and throw me into a state
of dejection that would last for hours. When worn out
with vain regrets, I used to turn my mind to God; and
when I lifted up my heavy heart to that ever-present
Friend, my sorrow would gradually subside. The more
I thought on the goodness of my Heavenly Father, the
more I loved him; and with that love, came peace and
comfort to my soul. After experiencing this blessed re-
lief many times, I learned to seek it sooner, and thus my
fits of melancholy became shorter, and returned less fre-
quently; but what I suffered during that first summer
68 ANTICIPATIONS.
can never be told,%or comprehended by any who have
not been similarly situated.
When I had been on the island six months, by my
reckoning, I found it would be inconvenient to count the
weeks as they became more numerous; and therefore I
added another column to my calendar by taking another
tree and making a notch on that for every four weeks.
But as I hoped to get away before it would be necessa-
ry to count years, I would not make any arrangements
for such a long period.
On first coming here, I found every thing in the beauty
of spring; the vegetable world was putting forth buds
and blossoms in October, just as it does in April and
May, in England; and knowing that, in southern lati-
tudes, the seasons are reversed, I considered that I had
a long summer before me. In this, I was not mistaken.
For many months the weather was fine, though rather
oppressively warm, with occasional thunder storms and
sudden gusts of wind, that blew for a few minutes, or
half an hour, and then were as suddenly over. But
when I had enjoyed this fine weather for six months, I
began to think what sort of change I might expect. The
few cocoa-nut and lemon trees, that I had found, con-
vinced me I need not fear any cold weather; but I had
read of mild climates that were subject to long continu-
ed rains. Thinking that might be the case here, and re-
membering the torrents that fell during a thunder
storm, I determined to provide against such a time as
well as I could.
As I had not yet explored much of the island, or
found out half its resources, I resolved on making an
extensive tour while the fine weather lasted. It will
seem strange that I should not sooner have visited every
part of the small spot of earth to which I was confined;
but several reasons prevented it. My shoes being
soon worn out, my feet blistered, and continued very ten-
der for a long while. Besides this, I always liked to be in
sight of the ocean from the south side of the island; it
increased my sadness togo away from the coast, even for
PREPARATIONS. 69
a few hours. I feared, too, that there were savages on
the other side of the mountains, which divided the north
from the south part of the island, and I dreaded discov-
ering myself to them. These, and many other smaller
circumstances, had hitherto kept me from wandering
far; but now my feet were hardened by use, my fears
were allayed by long continued safety, and I was bent
on making the tour of the island by the coast, as well
as examining the interior. I therefore prepared for an
excursion of several days.
My umbrella was often inconvenient; sol made a cap
of wicker-work, and covered it very thickly with leaves
to defend my head from the sun, and contrived a brim
of leaves, likewise, to shade my eyes and neck. I also
made a pair of smaller panniers and blinders for the
young lamas, and put halters about their necks, and
pack-saddles, of bark and hay, on their backs. Having
trained them for a few days before I set off, and found
them very tractable, I thought I could make them carry
the panniers alternately, and lead the one that was load-
ed, leaving the other at liberty to follow, till her turn
came. I took with me some spare ropes and string, my
stone wedge and mallet, and a cocoa-nut shell for a
drinking-cup, some spunk and stones to strike fire with,
my fishing-net and the bag I wore suspended round my
neck. This was all the treasure I possessed in the way
of implements except my shell shovel, and I resolved
not to leave that behind, fearing I might want it in my
journey. I took a few baked potatoes with me, for pres-
ent use, trusting for a further supply of eatables on the
way; and thus prepared I set forward. But the history
of this excursion deserves a fresh chapter and a new
pen. I have written all the foregoing with the same one,
lest my stock should not hold out; and without mending
it, as I have no penknife.
70 DEPARTURE.
CHAPTER IX.
DEPARTURE LAND'S END — GORDON VALE — GORDON BAY —
NAIL COVE—MOSQUITO RIVER—A SURPRISE.
AMONG other preparations for my journey, I had
climbed to the top of Signal Hill, to take a survey of the
country, and learn something of the coast, that might
serve to guide me in my course; but objects look so
differently, when viewed from a height, that I was not
much the wiser for my toilsome ascent. I discovered,
however, that the range of hills, on the south side of
which I lived, extended a good way to the eastward,
and that the land seemed to be in the form of a point or
promontory. As I had never been far in that direction,
I resolved to take that course, and, by keeping along at
the foot of the hills, see where it would lead me.
Every thing favored my departure, and I set off in
excellent spirits, on this tour of observation and discov-
ery. I kept as near the coast on my right hand, as I
could without encountering rocks, for I wished to under-
stand the shape of the island and know all its bays and
coves ; while the range of hills on my left was a general
guide.
After walking slowly about three hours, as well as I
could judge by the sun, the hills gradually disappeared,
and I came to a smooth, grassy cape, or ridge of land,
that sloped down to the coast on each side. The her-
bage here was short and sweet, so I let the lamas
graze, while I walked forward far enough to ascertain
that this point of land was really what it seemed. The
waves gently kissed the shore on each side, and the
stillness of the water, far and near, reminded me that it
was justly named the Pacific Ocean. There was not a
cloud in the sky, or a breath of air to be felt; and as
the sun was now pretty high, the heat was oppressive.
Being satisfied that the cape terminated in a rocky point,
LAND'S END — GOHDON VALE. 71
and that there was nothing further to be seen, I named
it the "Land's End," after the last corner I saw of old
England, which it somewhat resembles in shape; and
hastened back to my lamas, determined to seek a shady
spot, in which to rest myself and them.
I now followed the coast on the opposite side of the
cape, and soon found myself on the northern side of the
same range of hills. 1 then struck more inland, and
came to a narrow valley, that appeared to extend from
the hills to the coast, and to be full of trees, for I could
see their tops from the high land by which I approached
it; and I did not doubt that I should there find water
as well as shade.
The sound of a mountain stream saluted my ear, as
soon as I began to descend the wooded sides of this val-
ley; but what was my surprise and delight, when, from
a rock a few yards lower down, I beheld the prettiest
water-fall I ever saw!
A considerable stream leaped from a perpendicular
cliff, at the head of this dingle, into a large basin, formed
in the rocks many yards below; and then found its way,
by various romantic windings and lesser falls, to the sea.
The groves, on each side, were free from underwood,
and perfumed the air with their delicious odors. I
was lost in admiration at the great variety and beau-
ty of the trees around me; most of them were such
as I had either never seen, or seen only of a much
smaller size. Here were myrtles and laurels as large as
forest trees, besides lofty palms and numerous pimentos.
From every part of this last tree proceeded a grateful
perfume that filled the air. In an account I once read
of Jamaica, there was a particular description of the
pimento, by which I knew it as soon as I saw and smelt
it; it is much valued there for its seeds, which are used
as spice all over Europe, and called in England allspice,
or Jamaica pepper. The trees were now in fruit;
and I determined to return here when the time came
for gathering the berries, and supply myself with a stock
of spice, to season my food with, instead of salt.
72 GORDON VALE.
Where the stream ran smoothly along, its banks were
of the most vivid green, interspersed with flowers of
various hues. Such a scene of enchantment I never
before beheld; and I sighed to think, that there was no
human being to admire it with me; no one, to whom I
could say, "How beautiful this is!"
The impatience of my dumb companions to reach a
particular kind of herbage, that grew near the water,
aroused me from my reverie; and I accompanied them
to a part of the stream, where its glassy surface was
unbroken by a ripple ; and no one would have suspected
it to be in rapid motion towards the sea, unless a leaf or
a stick, floating upon it, showed the rate at which it
moved.
Here I unloaded the lamas, and gave them their lib-
erty, while I refreshed myself with some of the older
one's milk, and the roasted potatoes I had brought with
me; and at the same time feasted my eyes on the beau-
ties around me, and thought of my dear native land and
her smiling landscapes.
At first, I thought I should be happier for living in
this delightful valley ; but, on further consideration, I
knew I could never bear to be out of sight of those
"wide waters," towards which I constantly looked for
deliverance from my solitude. My first and last act,
every day, was to climb, by my rope ladder, to the high
land above the cave, and look out for a vessel; the bare
possibility of escape was more to me, than all this fine
scenery, much as I admired it. So I resolved to con-
tinue my residence at the cave, but to make frequent
visits to this romantic spot; and in imitation of other trav-
ellers, who give names to the places they discover, I
called this Gordon Vale, in remembrance of my late
excellent friend and commander.
Having eaten my dinner, I fell asleep, and so passed
away the warmest part of the day. On awaking, I found
my faithful attendants sleeping close by me, and the
head of one resting on my leg. The attachment and
confidence, thus displayed, was a cordial to my heart,
GORDON BAT. 73
and brought tears to my eyes. As soon as I moved,
they started up and seemed as ready as I was, to con-
tinue their journey.
I reloaded them, and went down the vale to the coast,
where the mountain stream emptied itself into a pretty
little sheltered bay, and was so shallow we could easily
ford it.
I followed the sweep of the bay, and was examining
some curious sea-weed, such as I had not before seen,
when a most unexpected sight fixed my eyes — frag-
ments of sailors' clothes, like those I wore, and numer-
ous human bones lying among them. I was convinced
that I here saw the remains of my own shipmates, whose
bodies had floated ashore, and been quickly consumed
by birds of prey and insects.
I could not, at first, account for the clothes being so
torn; but, after a while, I supposed it to be done by the
birds of prey, in order to come at the flesh within them.
The pieces which had buttons on them, I picked up and
threw into my panniers, also the shoes, though a good
deal injured by salt water and the sun. I then set to
work, to bury the bones, and the rest of the fragments.
This I did, out of respect to the memory of my former
companions, and for my own satisfaction; for to them
I knew it could not be of the least consequence.
While working, sorrowfully enough, at putting the
bones into a grave, dug for the purpose with my shell
shovel, I made a most valuable discovery; it was noth-
ing less than a jack-knife! I found it still tied, in true
sailor fashion, to a button-hole of a jacket. No one can
at all imagine how I felt on taking possession of this
knife, all rusty as it was, unless situated like me; which
I hope no one ever will be. My joy seemed too much
for me ; and being already a good deal overcome by my
occupation, I cried and laughed by turns, like a fool.
Finding this treasure put it in my head to look for
other articles that might be in the pockets, or fallen out
among the bones; and I was happy enough to pick up
another knife, a better one than the first, three tobacco-
boxes and a broken watch, with chain, key, and seal,
which I knew to be the captain's. This made my .tears
flow afresh, as it convinced me that some of the bones,
I was then burying, had belonged to my excellent com-
mander.
I also found some Spanish dollars and half-dollars, but
they were so perfectly useless to me, I hardly thought
it worth while to pick them up ; and I could not help
saying aloud, as I compared the real value of silver and
iron, "I would not exchange one of my - rusty iron
knives, for a hundred pounds of silver, or of gold either."
I wondered that men should ever set such a value
upon those metals ; not considering at that moment, as
I now do, that they are valued, when coined into money,
as the representatives of useful articles of food, clothing,
&.c.; a convenient kind of substitute, that can always be
exchanged for the necessaries of life, among civilized
people.
When I had finished burying the remains of my com-
panions, I collected all I had reserved for my own use;
and having carefully secured my precious knives and the
watch, I threw the rest into my panniers, only putting
the money into the tobacco-boxes.
I then marched off from Gordon Vale and Gordon
Bay, well satisfied with the names I had given to those
places, and feeling very rich in my new acquisitions.
Finding these bodies on this side of the island, made
me think it likely I might discover others, as well as
parts of the wrecked boat, and perhaps of the ship Santa
Maria herself; as she disappeared from the sand bank,
the night after I reached the island, when the wind blew
very hard for two or three hours, and was probably
dashed to pieces. I now followed the coast closer than
ever; and visited every part that looked like a bay, or
inlet, or cove, where I thought it likely any thing might
be washed on shore. But though two hours' walking
brought me to another small bay, I found nothing but
some pieces of plank, too heavy for me to carry away;
these I dragged a little farther from the water that they
NAIL COVK.
75
might not float away, in case I should want them at
some future time; and carefully extracting all I could
of the rusty nails, that were sticking in them, I tied
them up in a piece of cloth so as not to lose one of
them ; well knowing the value of iron, and of any thing
sharp-pointed, like a nail.
I now thought it was time to look for a sheltered spot
to spend the night in, as well as for some provisions for
my supper. My fishing-net soon procured me a crab,
and two or three fishes ; these I put in my panniers, lest
the land productions, of this part of the island should
not serve me for food ; and then, having determined to
call this second bay Nail Cove, I turned my steps inland,
and left the seashore for that day.
A beautiful wood, the top of which was illumined by
the red glow of the setting sun, looked very inviting ; and
I made my way to it over a plain covered with grass as
high as my shoulders, which was very tiresome walking.
The lamas would not go first, to beat a path for me;
they knew better, and chose to follow in my wake.*
This high grass was very dry, and looked a little like
a ripe crop of oats; for the seeds grew on the top of the
stalks in the manner of oats, only smaller. They some-
times thrashed my lips as I passed along, and I found
they had quite a good, farinaceous taste; so I put
some of them in my pocket, hoping to make them grow
near my cave, and improve by cultivation, but they
never came to any thing.
After walking at least three quarters of a mile through
this high grass, I came to a little sluggish stream, which
separated me from the wood where I intended to sleep;
but, as the banks of it afforded some sweet herbage for
my companions, I altered my mind, and resolved to pass
the night on this side of it. A dry, gravelly bank prom-
ised me a good place to sleep on, as I had now little
fear of man or beast; and plenty of dry wood, lying
about, offered me the means of making a fire.
* The track a vessel leaves in the water.
76 MOSQUITO HtVEfi.
I congratulated myself on having brought my supper
with me, from the seashore, as I here saw nothing
eatable, except some cresses that grew in the brook. I
unloaded my lamas, milked the old one, and set them
all at liberty to get their own meal, while I cooked mine.
But I soon found, that this would prove no place of rest
for me, for I was beset by mosquitos on every side;
the first I had met with on the island, and coming no
doubt from some stagnant waters, near this sluggish
stream, which was so unlike the mountain torrents and
sparkling brooks, that I had before met with. I hastened
to kindle a fire, that I might screen myself from the
attacks of these tormenting insects, by getting to leeward *
of the smoke. I roasted my crab, and tried to eat it,
but could not enjoy my supper, on account of the mos-
quitos; and I determined to quit the spot, before I
attempted to sleep. The moon was just risen, and by
her light I found my way, with my reloaded lamas, across
the stream, which I called Mosquito River. It was not
without difficulty that I crossed, as there was a good deal
of mud and soft ground on each side. A cloud of
mosquitos still followed me, and I feared I should not
get rid of them by changing my quarters; but as I
ascended the high ground opposite, a brisk wind sud-
denly arose, and delivered me at once from my tormenttors. A long, barren slope led from the river to the
wood, which clothed the side of the hill; and, on reach-
ing the skirts of it, I turned to see the prospect, and had
a very fine viewof the country below. I now perceived,
that in crossing the plain of high grass, I had had the
mouth of a large river on my right; into which, the small
stream, that I had just crossed, emptied itself.
Being very much fatigued, by my day's march, I
threw myself down on the first dry and sheltered spot I
could find ; and my lamas were no sooner unloaded,
than they did the same. I observed that they never
feed at night; they only sleep and ruminate, being in that
respect like the domestic cow.
* The side towards which the wind blows.
A SURPRISE SECOND DAY'S JOURNEY. 77
I soon lost all consciousness of where I was, in a deep
slumber; how long it continued, or what awaked me, I
know not; but on opening my eyes I beheld a most
appalling sight. Vast clouds of smoke and sheets of
flame, were rolling over the plain below. I rubbed my
eyes and stood up, to convince myself I was really
awake ; and then gazed, in silent amazement, at the
wide-spreading conflagration, so suddenly and unac-
countably kindled. A gentle breeze fanned the flame,
and carried it over the plain at a rapid rate. It was a
grand sight, and accompanied by such a loud, crackling,
roaring noise, as made it quite awful. As I gazed upon
it, I shuddered to think how little the power of man
could do, to arrest the progress of such a fire as this;
and I felt grateful for my own safety, which I thought I
might possibly owe to those tormenting mosquitos, that
drove me across the river.
I watched the progress of the fire, till it had swept
across the plain, and began to diminish for want of the
dry fuel it had there found ; and when it was almost ex-
tinct, I dropped asleep again, from exhaustion of mind
and body.
CHAPTER X.
SECOND DAY'S JOURNEY — BREAD-FRUIT— CHANGE or MIND
PARROTS — MOUNTAINS — STRANGE NOISE — GRAPES
RETURN SUPPER.
MY second day's journey was so much less remarka-
ble than the first, that I do not remember half so much
about it. One thing, however, I must not omit to no-
tice, and that is, my discovering the cause of the fire, the
night before. In the morning, the plain presented a dis-
mal appearance, blackened all over by the burnt stalks
of grass; and as I gazed at it, I observed that this black
appearance extended, in one place, to the gravelly bank,
7*
78 BREAD FRUIT.
by the side of which I lighted my fire. The truth then
flashed on my mind. The fire had been communicated
by dried leaves and sticks, that lay on the top
of the bank, to the grass on the plain, and I was
myself the innocent cause of the destruction I had
witnessed. I resolved to take a lesson of caution,
for the future, from this accident, and never again to
leave a large blazing fire to burn out unheeded.
On crossing the top of the wooded hill, on the south-
east side of which I had passed the night, and coming to
an opening in the trees, I saw the large river, the mouth of
which I had discovered by moon-light; it was flowing
majestically through a wide valley, bounded on each
side by more woody mountains, than any I had yet seen.
I spent the whole day in this valley ; travelling, some-
times in a forest, sometimes on open ground, and often
changing my course without perceiving it; till I came to
a height, from which I could see the river, the course of
which I was trying to pursue. The beauty of several
small valleys tempted me to explore them, and delayed
me some hours; but as my object was to see as much
as I could of the island, I did not regret it. At night-fall,
I found myself in that part of the vale, where a sudden
bend of the river to the west seemed to enclose it entirely.
A dry nook, among some sheltering rocks, with a bed of
fern leaves, received my weary limbs, after a light sup-
per of milk and berries; and undisturbed repose restored
my vigor for the morrow.
My interest in exploring the country increased as I
proceeded; and though travelling where there are no
roads or paths, is very hard work; and depending for
food- on wh u one can find, is a very uncertain way of
living, I enjoyed myself more, during this journey, than
at any time since I was wrecked.
My third day's journey was entirely among the moun-
tains. As I could not cross the river with my loaded
lamas, I followed its course among the hills; and was
rewarded for my pains, by discovering new arid beauti-
ful productions.
Of various trees, that met my view, and were entirely
new to me, one kind particularly attracted my attention.
It was as large as a middling-sized oak, but with a
straight trunk. The branches came out very regularly
and horizontally from it, on every side, beginning about
twelve feet from the ground ; the lower ones being the
longest, and the next set of branches shorter, and so on,
up to the top. The shape of the tree was beautifully reg-
ular. The leaves were about a foot and a half long,
very thick and soft, and yielded a milky juice, when
squeezed. The fruit of this superb tree was as remark-
able as the foliage ; large, pale green balls hung from every
part of it, heart-shaped, and of the size of a child's head.
I never saw a richer looking fruit ; but whether it was
eatable or not, I did not know ; and I determined, that
if it were possible, I would handle as well as see it. I
could not climb the bare trunk, and so get to the
branches, and thence to the fruit; what then was to
be done? I threw stones at the fruit, to knock it down,
as I did cocoa-nuts; but it was too tender to bear a
blow without injury, and too firmly fixed to the stalk to
fall off. At last I thought of a way of getting at
it. I threw the end of a rope over one of the long
horizontal branches, and having pulled it down within
my reach, gathered several specimens of the fruit. It
had a thin skin ; and on breaking it open, I found a
substance more like new bread, than any thing else;
it had very little taste, and that was sweetish. The
sight of it reminded me strongly of the wheat bread in
my father's house, and made me long fora slice of it
very much. While thinking about it, it popped into
my head that I had heard or read of a tree, called the
bread-fruit tree; and that this might be it. As the fruit
was not very palatable when raw, I resolved to try it
cooked ; for it looked so good, I thought it must be eatable.
Being about the time that I usually dined and rested,
I unloaded my lamas, and kindled a fire with my spunk.
This fruit seemed too tender to bear baking in the ashes,
and as I had no utensil for boiling, I tried roasting it.
Every few minutes, I cut out a little piece with my
knife, and tasted it, to find out what effect the fire had
on it. Every time I tasted, it was improved ; till at
last it was so like bread, that I could no longer doubt it
was the true bread-fruit, and that I had made a
very valuable discovery. With this bread, and the
lama's milk, I made an excellent meal; and before leav-
ing the spot, I gathered enough to load my lamas, with
what was already in their panniers.
I amused myself, as I went along, with cutting sticks
with my new found tool, the jack-knife; and prom-
ised myself great advantages from it, when I should
return to my cave, and have leisure to clean off the rust
and sharpen it on a stone. I slept the third night in a
pretty grove of trees, on the side of a hill, surround-
ed by mountains. I did not fall asleep immediately,
but lay on a bed of dry leaves, looking at the moon and
stars. Nothing made me feel the great distance which
separated me from my friends, more than the appear-
ance of the heavens in a clear night. Instead of the
Great and Little Bear, and all those familiar constella-
tions, I beheld a large assemblage of stars, that were
entirely new to me; I could only distinguish among the
polar constellations that called the Cross. While gazing
on its brilliant stars, my thoughts turned on dear Eng-
land and those I loved there, and suddenly it crossed
my mind that a vessel might pass the island, without my
knowing it, while I was so far inland, and that I might
thus lose an opportunity of escape from solitude. The idea
made me miserable for a while ; I blamed myself for
ever leaving the coast, and wished myself back at my
cave so much, that I could hardly wait for daylight, to
return. After fretting and lamenting for some time, I
began to consider whether I was not wrong in making
myself unhappy in this way ; and then I thought over the
great advantages I had gained by my excursion, and was
quite ashamed of myself. Before I went to sleep, I
settled it in my own mind, that I had nothing to regret
in having taken this journey; but that it was time for
PARROTS MOUNTAINS. 81
me to turn my steps towards my cave, and find my way
back again to the coast.
I was awakened, the next morning, by strange noises
that mingled in my dreams, before they roused me
entirely ; when quite awake, I could not tell what tp
make of them, until I discovered a tree, at some little
distance, covered with parrots, that seemed to be hold-
ing a council, in which all were talkers and none hear-
ers.
I wished to catch one of these parrots alive, and carry
it home with me, that I might teach it to talk, and so
have the pleasure of hearing a few words uttered by a
different voice from my own. For this purpose, I hastily
made some loops of twine, with slip-knots, and fastened
them to the ground by suitable stakes, cut with my jack-
knife; then I strewed some crumbs of bread-fruit over
them for bait, and withdrew to eat my breakfast, and
watch the effect of my gins, from a distance. But
though the saucy creatures came and ate up the crumbs,
and looked very knowingly at the loops and sticks; they
walked over the string, without happening to catch their
feet in one of the loops, and I was too anxious to reach
the seashore, to spend any more time in ensnaring par-
rots. But I named the grove after them ; and resumed
my walk, as soon as I had finished my breakfast and
loaded my lamas.
I now kept the rising sun on my left hand, and march-
ed directly south, knowing that my cave must be in that
direction ; and as I had been travelling n a northwest-
erly course, ever since I left the Land's End, I thought
it would be but a short cut, across the country, to my
abode on the terrace. I found it, however, a much
longer journey than I expected; for, though the distance
was not great, the nature of the ground was such, that I
was three days in accomplishing it. The first day I was
entirely among mountains; and they so bewildered me,
that I frequently walked many miles out of my way. At
night I took up my quarters by the side of a considerable
river, which ran across my path, and effectually pre-
82 STRANGE NOISE.
vented my going any farther in that direction. I stretch-
ed my weary limbs on a grassy bank, and had not
yet fallen asleep, but was looking at the stars, and
observing the stillness of the night and clearness of the
atmosphere, when every nerve in me was shaken by a
loud crashing noise, such as I never before heard. It
reverberated among the mountains in the most solemn
manner, and then died away, making the stillness that
succeeded most striking and appalling. It was some
time before I could breathe freely, and when I recovered
my composure, I felt oppressed by the remarkable still-
ness of the night. This I had experienced before,
but the loud noise was new to me. I could not under-
stand it for some time; but as I knew it must have a
natural cause, I tried to think what it could be. At last
I came to the conclusion, that it must be either a fall-
ing rock, or a falling tree ; and as it had not affected my
safety, I resolved not to be kept awake by it. After
asking the protection of God for the night, I fell asleep
and rested well.
In the morning, I surveyed the right bank of the riv-
er for some place shallow enough to be forded ; for,
though I could easily have swum across it myself, and
so could my lamas too, without their loads, I was obliged
to devise some means of taking my goods and chattels
over. The stream was deep and rapid, and there was
no possibility of crossing it thereabouts ; so we were
forced to turn our faces eastward, and go up the valley
by the side of the river. I soon found that it took a
bend to the south, which favored my course; and by
going over a high hill, I got rid of the river, and saw no
more of it. But the precipices and chasms, that I met
with, frequently turned me out of my way, and prevented
my getting much nearer the coast, after a long and
fatiguing day's march. I lived, during this part of my
journey, on bread-fruit and milk. The third day I
was allured from my direct southerly course, by a
fertile looking plain to the west; and there I met with a
rich reward for all my toilsome journey over the moun-<
GHAPES. 83
tains, an abundance of fine ripe grapes, on which
I feasted both my eyes and palate, and found them
very refreshing. The vines hung in beautiful fes-
toons from tree to tree, or covered, with their rich
foliage and fruit, the smaller bushes and shrubs that
grew in their way. Numerous trees, such as I had seen
elsewhere, and many that were new to me. adorn-
ed this beautiful plain, which was bordered on the
north and south by a river, on the east by the moun-
tains, and extended to the west further than I had time
to go. I was very desirous of taking away with me some
of these delicious grapes; but how to carry them, with-
out crushing them by their own weight was the difficulty.
At last I thought of tying some bunches to the edges of
the panniers on the inside, and in this way I brought off
a small supply, resolving to go there again very soon
and procure more. I also gathered some ripe lemons
on this luxuriant spot, which I called my vineyard. The
river that lay to the south of this plain, intercepted my
course homeward, and obliged me to go up its banks till
I found a shallow place, at which to ford it. I now
approached the range of hills on the south side of which
I lived, and saw a flock of lamas sporting on their sides.
This was a most fortunate encounter; for being now pos-
sessed of a knife, I longed much to eat some roast meat,
properly cut and carved. Yet I had neither time nor
strength to go out of my way in search of them. At-
tracted by the tame lamas, they came very near us, and
seemed to be observing the difference between these
loaded animals and themselves. I therefore had no
difficulty in knocking down a young one with my stone
mallet. On seeing their comrade fall, they all took to
their heels and scampered off among the hills.
I shall never forget the satisfaction I felt in having a
sharp instrument, with which to cut open the lama and
take out the contents of the body. I put it across the
back of the unloaded kid, and tied the feet under her.
Soon afterwards, I reached a part of the hill where I
had frequently been before, and felt something of the
84 RETURN SUPPER.
pleasure that travellers do, on approaching their homes;
though mine was nothing but a cave on a desert island,
and contained no friend to greet me on my return.
When I came over the brow of the hill on which I lived,
and was again in sight of the ocean and the beach on
which I first landed, my heart swelled with a variety of
emotions that caused me a flood of tears ; and I should
have thrown myself down on the grass, and indulged in a
long and painful reverie, had not the necessity of follow-
ing my lamas, who were trotting nimbly towards their
well known home, obliged me to hurry forward to unload
them.
The sight of my flourishing hedge, pretty foun-
tain, and comfortable retreat, the cave, awakened better
feelings, and made me glad to get back to my accustomed
abode ; and when I had reflected on the treasures I had
acquired in my excursion, I became quite cheerful.
Being very hungry and in need of nourishing food, I
resolved to have a meat supper; so I set about skin-
ning the dead lama with my jack-knife, while it was yet
light enough for me to see to do it. I cut off a good
slice of the haunch, and roasted it as well as I could
without any salt water to baste it with ; and having season-
ed it with lemon juice, I ate it with a good relish ; all the
better too for having a knife to cut it with, and some
roasted bread-fruit to eat with it. This was the best
meal I had yet made on the island; and after my long
privations it seemed so excellent, that I thought nothing
could be better. The business of preparing my supper
had driven away all sad thoughts; I ate it with a thank-
ful heart, and went to bed composed and happy.
When I lay down on my bed of hay, I felt a lump
under me that never was there before ; and on thrust-
ing my hand through the hay to feel what it could be, I
discovered my old friend, the terrapin! He had probably
taken possession of my bed for one of his long naps of
two or three months, and little expected to be disturbed
till he was ready to come forth; but I soon showed him
the way out of my sleeping apartment, and covered him
up with hay in a nook outside of the cave.
LAYING IN STORES. 85
It was not time yet for the terrapin to lie dormant, as
his brethren were to be seen walking about the shores;
but I suppose that, being a prisoner and deprived of his
usual walks, he betook himself to sleep, because he had
nothing else to do.
CHAPTER XI.
LAYING IN STORES RIDING THE LAMA — RAINY SEASON
— INACTIVITY—* AN ALARM — A LAMP.
THE morning after my return from my journey, I
spent in overhauling the treasure, of various kinds, that I
had brought home with me. Different ledges of rock,
in my cave, served for shelves; on these I arranged my
bread-fruit, and stowed away my tobacco-boxes filled
with silver coin, and the old shoes and pieces of clothing
and nails, that I had picked up in Gordon Bay and Nail
Cove. The bunches of grapes, I hung up in the sun to
dry ; and took care to put them out of the reach of the la-
mas, who liked grapes as well as their master. My
precious jack-knives I kept always about me, well se-
cured to button-holes, that I might not lose them in any
of my walks and jumps. With one of them, I cut
some small stakes, and stretched out the lama's skin on
the grass, that it might dry in the sun, and be of some
service to me afterwards.
I found it took up so much time to cook victuals three
times a day, that 1 now dressed enough at once to make
several meals, and ate it cold. As long as the lama's
flesh lasted, I desired nothing but that and the bread-
fruit. I found, however, that a large portion of the meat
spoiled before I could eat it, and I tried to invent some
way of preserving it; which, as I had no salt, was very
difficult.
8
I remembered having read, that the Peruvians cut up
their meat in long strips, and hang it in the sun to dry j
and I tried this experiment, but it did not succeed, owingr
I suppose, to the air being moister here than in Peru,
where it is remarkably dry. I next tried to make the
water of the ocean answer instead of brine. I put a
piece of meat in a hollow of the rock, which I filled with
salt water by means of a capital dipper, made with four
cocoa-nut shells, tied upon an oar; with this I soon
baled up water enough to fill the hollow, and having
put the meat in, I laid a clean stone on it to keep it
under water. Here it kept longer than in the open air,
but not long enough for me to depend on a stock of pro-
visions so cured.
The day that I was disappointed, by the meat's spoil-
ing which was in salt water, I found, on the shore, a fine,
large terrapin; and happening to have a stick in my hand
with a fork at the end of it, I went softly behind the crea-
ture, and pinned his head to the sand with my stick, in
such a mpnner, that he could not draw it into his shell,
and then I easily severed it from his body with my jack-
knife. The nourishing food I had lately eaten, had so
restored my strength, that I easily shouldered this heavy
terrapin, and carried him to my terrace. There I cut
open his shell and cooked some of the flesh, which I
found to be delicious food, of a much fiaer flavor than
the lama, and so much fatter, that I was at no loss for
any thing to baste it with. I had found a deep recess in
the rock, near my cave, where I made my fire. Being
sheltered from the wind, it burnt pretty steadily, and a
good quantity of ashes retained the heat, and enabled me
to roast and bake pretty well. Still I was greatly in
want of cooking utensils, and, next to a knife, an iron pot
would have been the greatest gain to me.
Having cooked as much of the terrapin as I could eat
while good, I regretted very much that the rest should
spoil. While I was thinking what I could possibly do with
it, my eyes rested on a thick column of smoke, that
was rising perpendicularly from my fire, by the side of a
smooth rock ; and it suddenly came into my head, that I
might preserve meat by smoking it. When I had once
thought of this way, I wondered it had not occurred to
me before, for I had seen flitches of bacon smoked in the
chimney of my father's kitchen; and though they were
salted first, I trusted that the smoke might do without the
salt.
As I could not drive nails into the rock to hang the
meat on, I fixed two poles, one on each side of the fire,
and made the ends meet above it, high enough not to
burn, and low enough for the meat, suspended between
them, to hang in the thickest of the smoke. I selected
the leanest part of the terrapin to dry; and having hung
it up, and made a good fire under it, I preserved the fat,
by melting it in my shovel and pouring it while hot into
a cocoa-nut shell. This I thought would do to baste a
lean lama, or might be used as butter with the bread-
fruit or sweet potato, when I was too busy to prepare a
dish of meat. It never served me for either of these
purposes, but proved far more valuable in another way,
as will appear hereafter. The upper shell of the terra-
pin, which was very rounding, I scraped out clean, and
set in the sun to dry. It made me an excellent vessel,
fit for various uses; and the under shell, which was
nearly flat, I prepared in the same way, and employed as
a plate.
My plan of smoking succeeded so well, that I made sev-
eral excursions after lamas, in order to get their meat
and prepare a stock of provisions for the winter, before
the fine weather should be over. I found the lamas had
become shy of me and my tame companions. I was
often obliged to spend hours in ambush, in order to get
a chance of killing one. Sometimes I attempted to run
down a young one; and as my activity and speed increas-
ed much with practice, I was soon able to catch them
in this way. I kept some alive and increased my flock
of tame ones, as well as added to my store of smoked
meat. Between my hunting excursions, of which I be-
came very fond, I occupied myself in digging up a fresh
stock of sweet potatoes; and with the help of my lamas
I brought home a large supply of that excellent vege-
table.
The grapes which I had hung up in the sun dried so well,
that I determined to' have a good store of them by me.
Accordingly, I went to the rich plain I called my vine-
yard, before the grapes were over ripe; and as I could
not, with all my contrivances of sticks put across the
panniers, carry home many in this fresh state, I resolved
to gather a large quantity, leave them to dry there, and
go for them when they had become raisins, and could
bear transportation. I brought home with me, in one of
these excursions, several dozen limes and lemons, from
trees that grew in the vineyard; and, as the best means
of keeping them, I surrounded each one with soft, dry
hay, and stacked them up in a corner of my cave. The
dried grapes proved excellent. I brought home two
large panniers nearly full of them, and for want of some-
thing else to put them in, I let them remain in the pan-
niers and stand where they could in my cave, which be-
gan to be so filled up, I had hardly room to move in. Ex-
pecting a very rainy season when the winter should set in,
I was anxious to have all my provisions within the shelter
of my cave ; and that being only about ten or eleven feet
deep, by eight or nine wide, my bed and stores nearly
filled it. As fast as the meat which I hung in the smoke
was sufficiently dried to keep, I removed it to the cave;
some of it I hung up, and some I packed in dry sand,
hoping that would help to preserve it, if not sufficiently
smoked. The lamas' tongues I took particular pains
with, and they kept perfectly well for months.
When I had secured a good stock of these provisions,
which were to be had without going far from home, I
determined to make an excursion to Gordon Vale, and
gather some of the pimento berries, or allspice, which
must, I supposed, be ripe by that time. As the clouds
began to gather and the weather looked threatening, I
was desirous of going there and back as quickly as pos-
sible; sp I thought I would try to make my old lama
RIDING THELAMA RAINY SEASON. 89
perform the duty of a saddle-horse. As I mounted her
very gently, with her blinders on, she made no opposition
to it; but when I was seated on her back, I could not
make her go forward; she waited to see me by her
side. When I spoke to her, she would turn round to
look for me. By degrees, however, I coaxed her to
proceed; and by the time we were a mile from home,
she trotted off with me at a brisk pace, and I found the
motion agreeable and exhilarating. Her thick, soft
wool and hair made a very good saddle, and I en-
joyed my ride to Gordon Vale exceedingly. That ro-
mantic spot charmed me as much on my second visit as
before; and, had not the weather warned me to lose no
time, I could have lingered about those groves, and that
waterfall, for hours. As it was, however, I hastened to
fill the small panniers I had brought, with the green ber-
ries that contain the spice, and made the best of my way
home again. I arrived just in time to avoid a drenching
shower, and was truly glad to find myself safe within my
cave. I only regretted it was not large enough to hold
my lamas too. A clump of trees which grew on my
terrace were their shelter; and by feeding them every
evening with a plant they were very fond of, and keep-
ing one tethered, I easily prevented' the others from stray-
ing.
This proved to be the beginning of winter ; and though
I was tolerably well prepared for it, there were still many
things left undone that would have added greatly to my
comfort, by giving me employment when confined to my
cave.
I regretted that I had not laid in a stock of the fibrous
nettle, and soaked and dried it, ready for twisting into
pack-thread and cordage; as that would have been an
excellent occupation for me during the many hours that
I sat with nothing to do but to watch the torrents of rain
that fell, with occasional intermissions, for several weeks.
One difficulty now presented itself which I had never
once thought of before the rainy season set in 5 and that
was, how to make a fire, in the midst of so much wet.
8*
90
My cave was too small, and too much crowded with com-
bustible matter, for me to light one inside of it; and
without, every thing was so wet, that it was scarcely pos-
sible to make the wood burn. I was obliged, whenever
I did make a fire, to rob myself of some of the hay I slept on for kindling-stuff.
My smoked meat I ate raw. By cutting it In Very
thin shavings, with my jack-knife, I could chew it, and,
by degrees, I learned to like it tolerably well. When-
ever the rain ceased long enough for me to make a fire, I
improved the opportunity to bake as much provision as I
could consume while it was good. In these intervals I
visited the shore, and picked up oysters and crabs to
vary my diet.
I found it necessary to be very careful not to wet my
clothes at this time, for if I did I could not dry them
again for a great while, having no fire constantly burning;
and no sun-shine; besides the air was chilly, and as I
had no room to exercise in my cave, I thought it would
certainly make me ill, if I sat still in wet clothes. I miss-
ed my accustomed exercise exceedingly, and felt the want of useful occupation so much, that my time passed
very heavily. I lost my appetite too, and my food did
not taste good to me, as it used to do, when I returned to it after a day's hard work in the open air. During
the nights, which were now so long that I could not sleep
through them, I used to lie in the dark, thinking of
my far distant parents and friends, and lamenting my
unhappy condition. For the first week after the rain set
in, I used, as soon as it was dark, to throw myself on my
bed and begin a melancholy train of reflections; till one
evening, my mind was suddenly impressed with a strong
conviction, that I was doing wrong in thus indulging sad
thoughts and useless regrets. I always knew that it was
foolish to do so, but now it appeared to me great ingrati-
tude to that benevolent Being who had comforted and
supported me in the severest trials, and who had led me
to find so many alleviations in my solitude. Struck to
the heart by this sense of my ingratitude, I earnestly de-
AN AtARM. 91
sired to value my blessings as I ought, and by degrees
my mind became so tranquil and happy, that I was sur-
prised at myself. I was sure that God loved me, and
my heart was full of love to Him; and the happiness of
loving Him, as I then did, was so great, that I thought I
could be content to live alone on that island all my life,
if I could be always in that frame of mind. After this,
I spent a great many hours in pleasant meditation, and
happy thoughts about God, and his care over his crea-
tures; and the nights did not seem so tedious as they had
before done.
One of my few amusements at this time was feed-
ing my flock of lamas, on a kind of berry that they
are very fond of, and of which I had laid in a good
stock for their use. After wandering about all day, and
sheltering themselves from the rain among the trees and
rocks, they would come a little before sunset to the en-
closure before my cave, and, when I let them in, they
eagerly devoured all I chose to give them. Sometimes
they tried hard to get into my cave, and it was as much
as I could do to keep them from taking possession of my
apartment, and helping themselves to my provisions ; but
as soon as they had taken their allowance of berries, and
I had stroked and patted them a while, I generally drove
them out of my enclosure, and barricadoed the entrance
with branches of trees. One night after doing this, I
seated myself on a pannier, turned upside down, at the
entrance of my cave, to watch the last rays of the sun,
whose slanting beams were visible on the watery atmo-
sphere, and was deep in thought, when I heard a sound
behind me like a person sighing deeply. It went through
me like an electric shock, and so amazed and startled
me, that my knees trembled under me, as I jumped up
and stepped into the cave to see whence the sound pro-
ceeded. It was so dark I could see nothing, and so still
that I heard nothing, but the beatings of my own heart.
I felt about, but could discover nothing, and concluded,
at last," that I must have been mistaken; perhaps I had
sighed myself, and some part of the cave had returned
the sound to my ear. Thus I reasoned with myself, but
92 A LAMP.
still I was not satisfied, and I earnestly wished I had a
light to see if any living thing was in the cave besides
myself. I then recollected the cocoa-nut shells that
I had filled with the fat of the terrapin, which had
soon become too rancid to eat; this I knew would burn
if I could contrive a wick for it. After much consid-
eration, and trying several things that would not do, I put
my hand on the ravellings of my cotton stockings, which
I had attempted to use for tinder without success ; and
doubling up a short piece and twisting it slightly, till
I made a wick about as large as that of a tallow candle,
I stuck it into the grease, and having struck fire on
my spunk, I blew it till it lighted the cotton wick. This
interesting occupation made me forget all about the un-
accountable sigh; but on looking round my cave, to see it
illuminated by my new lamp, I was surprised and amus-
ed to perceive that I had an uninvited guest, sleeping
very quietly in the farthest corner. A young lama, which
had escaped my observation when I drove out the flock,
had preferred good quarters to good company, and it
was a long breath of hers that I had mistaken for a sigh.
I could not bear to turn her out that night in the rain;
so, after amusing myself some time with my lamp, and
finding it succeed perfectly well, I put it out and went to
bed.
CHAPTER XII.
AND ARROWS — A FIf OF SICKNESS—UNEXPECTED
RELIEF RECOVERY NEW CLOTHES.
HAVING accustomed myself to a great deal of exer-
cise, I suffered much during the rainy season from the
want of it, though I took advantage of every interval of
fair weather to stretch my limbs, by running on the hills
behind my cave, or down to the shore and back again.
BOWS AND ARROWS. 93
My unavoidable idleness, too, was a great trial of my
patience. Though I did not indulge melancholy
thoughts, after the first week, and had many happy
feelings and delightful meditations upon the great Cre-
ator and his works, I still wished to find something for
my hands to do, as I sat in my cave from morning till
night.
At last, I thought of making some bows and arrows,
and learning to shoot at a mark, which would prepare
me for a new kind of sport when the fine weather re-
turned. I made several excursions between the show-
ers, or rather torrents, and brought home several large
bundles of rods and branches of various trees, before I
found any thing suitable for a bow; and when, after
much pains and labor, I discovered a kind of wood that
was elastic and supple enough for the purpose, it was so
tough, that I had great difficulty in severing the branch
with my jack-knife. I did succeed, however, and had
great satisfaction in shaping it into a bow. I also made
a great number of arrows, and winged them with the
feathers of a large bird, that I found dead on the shore.
I knew they would not fly steadily, unless they were
loaded with something heavy; nor do much execution,
without being sharp pointed, and, at the same time, not li-
able to break; but how to unite these properties was the
difficulty. I had read of savages that fix fish-bones,
and sharp stones, to the end of their arrows; I tried
both, but the bones were too light, and the stones were
not sharp enough. I made but a clumsy piece of work
of it at that time. How I afterwards succeeded, will
be seen when I come to that part of my story.
In looking for wood to make my bow and arrows of, I
came across a large bed of that kind of nettle which fur-
nished the fibres for my twine and cordage. Finding the
rain had so completely soaked the stalks, that the fibres
separated very easily, I carried home a good supply of it;
and had ample employment in spinning and twisting it
for future use. With some of it, I made new fishing-nets,
and a stock of strings for my bow, which I took particu-
lar care to make smooth and strong.
94 A FIT OF SICKNESS.
I had now so much occupation, that the dark, rainy
days did not give me daylight enough for all I wanted to
do, and I found my cocoa-nut lamp very convenient. As
the fat was consumed, I cut away the sides of the shell,
that I might have all the advantage of the light which the
blazing wick could give; and by the decrease of it I
judged how time passed, and avoided sitting up too late,
which I might have done without perceiving it, when
busily engaged.
About this time, I made myself a sort of high bench for
a table, and a three-legged stool, out of the pieces of
plank that I picked up on the shore, immediately after
my shipwreck; with my jack-knife I cut holes in the
corners, and stuck in legs, made of the boughs of trees,
and wedged them in very tight. These two articles,
simple as they were, added greatly to my comfort; and
could not have been procured without the use of a knife.
Now I believe I have related all that happened to me,
before I fell ill, which was a new and unexpected trial
that befell me towards the close of the rainy season, and
was, I suppose, a seasoning sickness, that few escape on
first living in a new climate.
I was seized with shivering fits, pains in my head and
limbs, and a burning thirst; all these symptoms came on
so quickly, that I had only time to fill some cocoa-nut
shell:, with water, and set them by the side of my bed,
before I was obliged to throw myself upon it, in utter
helplessness. I had often thought how miserable my
condition would be, in case of my being ill; but had al-
ways hoped my active life and hard fare would preserve
me from it; and, as I lived almost like wild animals, I
hoped to escape sickness, and die suddenly, as they gen-
erally do. I now perceived that I was not to be so fa-
vored; I was to experience the miseries of that situation in
which, of all others, we are most dependent on the kind-
ness of our friends, without the aid of any human being.
My heart sunk within me at the thought; and, overcome
by bodily and mental suffering, I wept aloud. This
emotion increased the pain in my head, and I soon found
myself in a burning fever, and felt so badly all over, that
I had no doubt my death was near at hand. This idea
comforted and calmed me; for I had, for some time past,
regarded death as a friend, that would deliver me from
all my present trials, and unite me for ever to that Good
and Great Spirit, who had been my support in this soli-
tude. I dreaded a long fit of sickness, without any one
to assist me; but I welcomed the idea of death, and only
hoped it would come quickly, and relieve me from my
sufferings.
Thinking of this desirable change, I turned my mind
on that Almighty Father, whose love had so often filled my
heart, and made me happy in spite of my desolate con-
dition; and I was surprised to find, how much less I felt
the pain of my body, when my thoughts were fixed on
God. How long I continued in this state, I know not.
I remember suffering much from thirst, after I had
drained my nut-shells dry; and I have an indistinct
recollection of going to the fountain, and drinking plenti-
fully of its crystal water. But whether I did so, or
whether I only dreamt it, I cannot say ; though from what
afterwards occurred, I think it probable, that in the de-
lirium of fever, I went there and drank, and that it pro-
duced a favorable crisis; for I remember being in a pro-
fuse perspiration, and very sleepy; and when I came to
the full use of my reason, the fever had left me, and all
my pain was gone. I could not at first recollect what
had happened. On trying to get up, I found myself so
excessively weak and helpless, that I could not doubt I
had been ill and delirious; but it was long before I
could recall all the circumstances I have here set down.
I had scarce strength to turn myself on my bed of
hay, and I could not sit up five minutes, or stand at all.
In this condition, what was to become of me! There
was no human being to bring me the little nourishment I
so much needed; and I expected nothing, but to starve
to death, which was, I knew, a lingering and painful way
of dying.
I however soon became resigned even to this; my
96 RECOVERY.
heart was full of love to God, and I felt willing to submit
to any thing.
I judged by the shadows at the mouth of the cave,
that it was near sunset, and was tonsidering how long I
should probably live without food, when I heard the
sound of the lama's footsteps, and the next instant my
old friend was at my side. She seemed surprised to see
me lying there, instead of being ready to feed her with
her favorite berries; and while she was surveying me, I
resolved to make an effort to use the little strength I had
in milking her. I put my hand accidentally on an emp-
ty cocoa-nut shell, and she no sooner perceived my in-
tention, than she placed herself so conveniently, that I
easily drew from her as much as I required, and drank
it off. Never was there a more acceptable draught, or
more seasonable relief; it gave new vigor to my ex-
hausted body, and filled my heart with wonder, love, and
praise.
I was very much puzzled, to know how the lama found
her way into my enclosure; because I knew that I had
fastened up the opening, after filling the cocoa-nut shells
with water, just before I took to my bed; but I have
since concluded, that I must have gone to the fountain
in my delirium, and left the pass open on my return,
thus enabling the faithful creature to render me this kind
service. She rewarded herself by eating heartily of
the berries she was so fond of, and then went away.
Revived by the milk, I contrived to crawl to that cor-
ner of my cave, where I kept my raisins; and by eating
a few of them, at several different times the next day, I did very well, till the lama came again, and again suppli-
ed me with a delicious draught of milk. She was now
accompanied by the rest of the lamas, and they made an
end of their berries very quickly. If my raisins had not
been well secured, they would have eaten them too; for
I had no power to prevent their doing as they pleased.
The rains were abated, and the weather was very fine, or
I suppose I should have had the whole flock to sleep in
my cave, not being able to drive them out; but as it
NEW CLOTHES. 97
was, they preferred another lodging, much to my com-
fort and satisfaction.
In a few days I was able to walk about a little, and to
enjoy the beautiful appearance that every thing was put-
ting on since the rains had ceased. The fineness of the
weather aided much in my recovery; and as soon as I
was well enough to venture on a long walk, I went into
the woods with my bow and arrows to try my skill in
archery by shooting at birds. Considering the clumsi-
ness of my arrows, I succeeded tolerably well; for I
killed two birds in twenty shots. And though it cost me
a great deal of fatigue and the loss of many arrows, I
was well satisfied with my day's sport, and had a good
meal of the birds, which I roasted, and ate with an excel-
lent appetite.
I found the pimento berry, or Jamaica pepper, very
useful in seasoning my food, instead of salt; the want of
which was for several months a serious inconvenience
to me. I often revolved in my mind the possibility of
obtaining some, not only as a seasoning to render my
food more palatable, but as a means of preserving meat;
but all my schemes failed at that time for want of proper
tools.
The weather was now that of a fine, mild spring ; but
vegetation was much more tardy than I had ever seen it
in England. Dame Nature seemed to be taking advan-
tage of the long summer before her, to do her work
as slowly as possibly. The singing of birds, however,
and the agreeable temperature, rendered my walks
delightful ; and, after my long confinement to such nar-
row bounds, I highly prized the privilege of again ex-
ercising in the open air.
It was about this time, that my clothes became so
ragged and worn, that at every leap or run I took, they
would split out or give way in some new place; and I
found it absolutely necessary to invent some kind of cov-
ering for my body. The difficulty of the task made
me think of accustoming myself to go without clothes, as
some savages do; but, on trying the experiment, I found
9
many inconveniences that I had never thought of. The
heat of the sun scorched my skin till it almost blistered;
the mosquitos, which had become numerous in some
parts of the island since the rainy season, tormented me
sadly; and I was continually scratching and hurting my-
self in passing through the woods. Besides all this, I
felt so uncomfortable in this savage state, that I could
not bring myself to bear it.
Clothes therefore being absolutely necessary to my
comfort, I set about contriving some out of the skins of
the lamas which I had killed for my stock of smoked
meat. These skins I had stretched and dried in the
sun, but had not tanned them ; and therefore they were
stiff and brittle, and proved very difficult materials to
work into any shape that could be worn without chaf-
ing me. They were besides much too warm a
covering for the climate; but as I had nothing else to
make clothes of, I resolved to use these for the present,
and to tan some skins for future use. Accordingly, I
cut out a jacket and a pair of trowsers, as well as I could,
by using my old clothes for a pattern, and making my
new ones a good deal larger. I sewed up the seams, by
making holes in the skin with a sharp pointed nail, and
then pushing the thread through with my fingers. This
was very slow work, but still the edges were fastened
together, and I went on very patiently with my clumsy
tailoring. At last I remembered seeing shoe-makers fix
a bristle to the end of their thread to make it go through
more easily; and though I could not get any bris-
tles or shoe-makers' wax, I thought I might find
something that would answer as well. After trying
thorns, and straws, and several other things, I found that
a fish-bone would do pretty well, and by means of a row
of fine notches on one end, I could tie the thread to it
without its slipping off; and with this contrivance I got
on a little faster. The buttons on my old clothes being
made of horn or metal, they were not worn out; so
I transferred them to the new ones, and made slits serve
for button-holes.
After working very industriously for many hours, I
completed my suit of clothes; and, though they were
such shapeless things, as hardly deserved the name of
jacket and trowsers, they served to cover my body with-
out impeding its movements; whereas the old rags had
become so troublesome, I was glad to throw them off.
As soon as I was equipped, I took my bow and arrows,
and went into the woods to shoot birds. On my way I
passed a little pond of water made by the late rains;
being smooth as glass, it reflected my image like a mir-
ror, and when I caught a sight of it, I was so aston-
ished at my wild and savage appearance, that I hardly
knew myself. My hair had grown very long and thick
and fell over my neck and shoulders, whilst, in front, I
parted it and hitched it behind my ears. My beard cov-
ered my upper lip and chin. This hairy appear-
ance, added to the fur of the lama skins in which
I was dressed, gave me a wild and almost ferocious look.
My wicker hat, covered with leaves, was not the most
becoming head-dress in the world, and with my bow
«nd arrows in my hand, I might have passed for an
Indian warrior among my friends in England; for none
of them could possibly have recognised, in the figure I
then cut, the smooth-faced and blooming youth whom
they parted from in York.
CHAPTER XIII.
RESOURCES—SALT-MAKING SLIDE OF EARTH—ANNIVER-
SARY — LIME SALT-MAKING A HAY STACK — POTTERY.
WHEN I was once equipped in a new suit of clothes,
I spent most of my time in the open air, and made up
for my long confinement to the cave, by wandering about
the island a great deal. After I was recovered from
100 RESOURCES my seasoning sickness my appetite became very keen;
and having a plenty of animal food and a fire to cook it
by, I soon regained my strength, and became broader and
stouter in my figure, than I ever was before. My chief
amusement was chasing lamas, and by constant prac-
tice I became very swift of foot, and an expert climber
among the crags and precipices of the mountains that
they frequent.
I had now experienced what a winter was in this fine
climate; I had explored a great part of the island ; I
had acquired some regular habits of living, and I began
to feel at home in my domain, and accustomed to soli-
tude. My greatest wants were salt, bread, and a kettle;
for the first I had used Jamaica pepper, but it was a
very poor substitute ; for the second I had bread-fruit,
when in season, but that was only a small part of the
year; as for the last, I could find nothing to supply its
place.
The sweet, mealy roots which I called potatoes, were
a very valuable article of food; and I determined to
keep a good stock of them always by me. I thought a
little of making a garden near my cave, and planting it
with those roots and other esculent vegetables; but
considering the difficulty of fencing it in from the lamas,
and my ignorance of the proper method of cultivating
these vegetables, I resolved to trust to nature's planting,
and only take the best advantage of her bounty, It was
no objection to me, that the places where the sweet potatoes grew wild, were a good way from my cave ; as.
I had nothing better to do, than to go after them with
my lama and panniers.
Having given up all thoughts of a garden, there were
two other projects that ran in my head, on which I
dwelt a great deal; one was for enlarging my cave, the
other for making salt. The former I knew to be practi-
cable; it only required industry and perseverance in
removing piece by piece a loose rocky ledge; but the
latter puzzled me extremely. I knew that sea water
contained salt, in solution, but how to come at it I could
not tell,
SALT-MAKING. 101
In all the accounts I had ever read, or heard, of mak-
ing salt from salt springs or sea water, the process con-
sisted in boiling ; and I had no pot, or kettle, or other
utensil in which to boil any thing. I had read in some
book of voyages, that the natives of an island in the
Pacific Ocean, make salt from sea water, by suspend-
ing it in a large leaf over a fire ; but I had seen no leaf
on the island, that was at all like the one there described.
Still I was not discouraged; I went on thinking about
it, and trying to remember all I had ever learnt of
evaporation and crystallization, which I knew to be the
two things necessary in order to make salt. At last I
recollected that in the course oflectures, which I attended
in York the winter before I left home, the lecturer said
that the sun produced evaporation ; that clouds were
formed by the small particles of water which his heat
caused to rise from rivers, lakes, and oceans. I had
moreover often remarked how quickly the sun dries up
or evaporates, in the morning, the dew that collects on
Elants in the night; so I resolved to try whether the
eat of the sun, which is very great here in the middle
of the day, would not evaporate the water and leave the
salt, if I put some sea water in a shallow place, where
the sun would shine on it all day long.
For this purpose 1 formed a shallow pan of earth,
above high-water mark, and undertook to fill it with sea-
water, with my cocoa-nut dipper; but the water would
sink into the earth and disappear. This puzzled me a
good deal, for I could not see why the water did not
stay above ground there as well as on the beach, where
the sea remained upon it. So I lay down, well tired
with my fruitless exertions, to ponder on the subject, and
after a while I came to the conclusion that the beach
was so small compared to the waters that rolled upon it,
that if it soaked up all it could, it would make no per-
ceptible difference; and I have since found that below
the level of the sea at high water, the sand is always full
of moisture.
My next attempt was to form a pan of clay; and I
9*
102 SLIDE OF EARTH.
made an excursion with my lamas to a narrow valley,
where I had observed some appearance of a clay soil*
On approaching the spot I could not recognise it; the
valley seemed to be filled up and changed entirely. On
scrambling up a bank of loose earth and stones, I be-
held such a phenomenon as I had read of, but never
expected to see. It was what was called a slide of
earth. Since I was last there a large tract of land had
slidden down from the side of the mountain, and half filled
the valley. I discovered that the bed of earth thus re-
moved, had rested upon a slanting, smooth rock; and
when moistened by excessive rains, it could not, I sup-
pose, keep its place, but glided off. I regretted that I
had not seen this piece of land in motion, for it must
have been a very grand sight; and to view it in safety,
from a distance, would be something like seeing a fine
ship launched, only the spectacle would be far more
sublime.
After gazing some time at the novel scene before me,
and tracing the outline of the slide on the side of the
mountain, and wishing again and again that I had seen it
move, I led my lamas to the nearest part of a large bed
of clay exposed by the slide, and, having loaded them, I
made the best of my way home.
It cost me a good deal of labor to construct my clay
pan, and fill it; but it held the water so well, I was quite
repaid for my trouble, and hoped now to succeed in
my important undertaking. But as evaporation is a slow
process, I was obliged to make up my mind to wait
patiently for a considerable time.
It was on a fine moonlight evening that I completed
my clay pan, and filled it with salt water. Having fed
my lamas and made my daily notch on the tree, I sat
down by the fountain to enjoy the moonlight scene, and
meditate a little before I went to bed.
While reflecting on the past and anticipating the
future, I recollected that when I last numbered the
notches which stood for months in my calendar, it want-
ed but a few weeks of the anniversary of my shipwreck,
ANNIVERSARY. 103
the memorable 14th of October. I had resolved to
keep the day very solemnly, to dedicate it to religious
exercises, and fond recollections and tender thoughts of
my dear, distant home, and the loved friends I must never
see more.
Wishing to plan my work with some reference to this
intended day of solemn rest, I went to examine my reck-
oning. As I had counted only four weeks to a month, I
knew it would require thirteen such months and one day
to make a year, so I made my calculations accordingly;
and to my great surprise and disappointment, I found
that the evening was come of that long expected anniver-
sary, and I had spent it in a far different way from what
I intended. I felt vexed and provoked with myself for
my inadvertence, and returned to my rustic seat near
the fount lin, so out of sorts that my conscience told me
it was not right.
I tried to persuade myself that I was grieved at losing
an opportunity of exercising my mind religiously ; but
reason told me I might devote any other day to that pur-
pose quite as well as this particular one that was past;
and, after examining myself some time, I was obliged to
acknowledge that I was sorry to have lost so favorable
an opportunity of making myself melancholy, and indulg-
ing vain regrets; and that it was much better for me to
be employed usefully and cheerfully, as I had been the
whole of the day, than to spend it as I intended.
My thoughts turned quite often enough on my far dis-
tant friends, without appointing a special time for think-
ing of them ; and every day it was equally my duty and
my happiness to think of God, to love him with my
whole heart, and thank him for all his mercies.
Having thus reasoned myself out of my foolish regrets
and lifted up my heart in prayer to my Heavenly Fath-
er, I went to bed and slept in peace.
Knowing by experience, that the best way to prevent
impatience, as to the result of an experiment, is to set to
work industriously about something else, I turned my
attention from my salt-pan, and leaving it to the power
104 LIME.
of the sun, I began my operations for tanning leather.
As there are no oak trees here, J was obliged to search
for bark that would best answer the purpose, and soak
i^ in water, to find out what kind made the water
taste most astringent, or had most of the tanning princi-
ple in it. It happened to be the very best season for
stripping off bark, for the sap was running freely, and
made it come off very easily; so I pulled off a good deal
more than I then wanted for tanning leather, and piled it
up for future use. This afterwards proved very service-
able in many other ways. I broke up the bark as well
as I could, with my hands and knife; with great labor I
dug a deep hole in the earth, and lined it with clay; this
I filled with bark and water, and suspended some lama
skins in the liquor. Those which I first tried had the
hair on; but I resolved, if I could get any lime, to dress
others without it, and make good leather if I could.
As I was no mineralogist, I could not tell whether
there was lime stone to be found or not; but as I knew
lime could be made from shells, I collected a large
quantity and put them in a dry and sheltered nook,
among the rocks, and heaped up plenty of dry wood
among them, and then set fire to the pile and tended it
well, to keep the shells in the hottest part of it. When
I thought, by their crumbling, that they were burnt
enough, I tried one of them by wetting it with fresh wa-
ter, and was delighted to find that it immediately hissed
and smoked, and could be mixed into a paste with the
water, just like burnt lime-stone.
The success of this experiment was very important to
me on another account, besides that of removing the
hair from the lama skins: I hoped it would enable me
to build a chimney and fireplace, and make something
like a little kitchen, in which I could have a fire in rainy*
weather.
With all these schemes in my head, and experiments
on my hands, I was very busy and tolerably cheerful from
morning till night; though the idea, that I had now
entered o;i the second year of my banishment from hu-
man society would come across my mind occasionally,
and make me feel very sad.
I did not go near my salt-pan for some time, that I
might find the experiment well advanced when I did
visit it; my vexation and disappointment may therefore
be imagined, when I found the clay all cracked to pie-
ces, and the water leaked out. I knew bricks were
made of clay and were dried in the sun without crack-
ing, and therefore I wondered why my clay pan had
failed me so entirely. Perhaps I had not worked the
clay enough; so I began again. After kneading and
mixing it well, I made another pan and heaped up the
sand round the outside, to protect the «dges from the
sun, and, having filled it with sea-water, tried the experi-
ment over again. This time the water did not leak, it
evaporated; and every time I tasted it, I found it more
salt; and though it became bitter also, I felt almost sure
of success.
At last I was certain that my purpose was accom-
plished, for I saw a white substance deposited in the
bottom of the pan. Overjoyed at this discovery, and
impatient to realize the success of my experiment, I
made a hole in the side of the pan and let the water off,
then tasted the deposit and found no flavor of salt in
it! I was never more surprised or more severely disap-
pointed, and at first I resolved to give it all up in de-
spair; but, after some useless repining, I thought I
would try to find out the reason of my disappointment.
The water had certainly been very salt and very bit-
ter; yet here was a substance that was neither, and the
salt must still be in solution in the water. On tasting a
little of it, which still remained in one corner of the pan,
I found it excessively salt, and somewhat bitter. I then
saw the great mistake I had made in drawing off and
wasting the water when the salt in it was probably just
about to crystallize. I was so provoked with myself that
I found it harder to bear with my own folly and precipi-
tancy, than with an unavoidable misfortune. To prove
whether my supposition was correct, I carefully removed
106 HAYSTACK.
all the white deposit, which looked like lime, and which
I have since found to be such, and left the small remain-
ing quantity of salt water to crystallize if it would; and
the result showed I was right. In a few days I found
some perfect crystals of salt in the pan, and could only
blame myself for not having a much larger quantity.
The moisture that remained was still very bitter, but had
lost all taste of salt. The spoonful of salt thus obtained,
served to season a few meals, and was so grateful to my
palate, and invigorating to my whole frame, that I set to
work with fresh zeal to profit by my experience in mak-
ing more. The clay pan was repaired and filled again;
and while the water was evaporating, I pursued my other
plans. I did not forget to make hay while the sun shone,
literally, as well as metaphorically; for I pulled up a
large quantity of fine grass, and made it into very nice,
sweet hay ; this I stacked up on my terrace, and cover-
ed with the bark I had by me. I remember feeling
particularly pleased with this piece of work, and congrat-
ulating myself on having done it in true farmer-like style;
but my conceit was soon taken out of me, by seeing
some smoke issue from the top of my stack, and,
to save it from burning up, I was forced to pull it
all apart, and dry the hay more thoroughly. I knew
that moisture was the cause of its smoking, and that it would soon be in a blaze and be consumed; but I puzzled
myself in vain, to find out how moisture could kindle a
fire! I cannot now understand it at all ; but if ever I
am again in reach of a book that can explain it, I will
find out all about it; and I shall lay it up in my mind as
a mode of getting fire, if I am ever again without other
means.
As I had no way of cutting down trees, I used the
limbs and branches that I found on the ground for fire-
wood; but as this was rather a scanty supply, and col-
lected with great labor, I often regretted that I had
neither axe nor saw to help myself with. Sometimes
the lightning did me good service by splitting and shiver-
ing trees on the hills, and then I used to collect the
fragments.
POTTERY. 107
Being now sure that salt could be made by evapora-
tion in the sun, I made two more salt-pans of clay like
the first, and placed them on different levels, one below
the other, that I might draw off the water into the second
one, when it had deposited the lime in the first, and then
clean that out and fill it afresh. While working and
mixing the clay for this purpose, it occurred to me that
I could make some useful utensils of clay; and possibly,
some that would hold water, and stand fire.
Overjoyed at this thought, I tried the experiment at
once ; but it would have set any one a laughing, to see
the awkward attempts I made at forming a pipkin * out
of clay. Such one-sided things, of such unequal thick-
ness, were never seen before. Sometimes the clay was
so soft, that it fell in or fell out; and the vessels would
not bear their own weight. Some dried too suddenly in
the sun, and cracked, and fell to pieces; but at last, after
many disappointments and much patient labor, I made
two tolerably well shaped pipkins, and dried them in the
sun very hard. But after all, they would not hold any
liquid; it all filtered through them; then I remem-
bered something about glazing earthen ware, and mixing
sand with the clay. So I tried a fresh set of experi-
ments, on some finer clay mixed with sand, and resolved
to burn these vessels in the fire, as well as dry them in
the sun, hoping the heat would melt the sand, and so
glaze the pots. I made several, but fortunately I tried
the effect of burning them, on one alone ; that I put in-
to the centre of a very hot fire, and away it went, crack-
ed all to pieces, as I ought to have known it would
be beforehand.
The next I heated gradually; and that did not crack.
I watched it and tended the fire many hours, in hopes it
would come out glazed and fit for use; but alas! I was
again disappointed, and entirely at a loss what to do next.
While considering the subject, and turning about the
utensil in my hand, I discovered one little spot on the
* An earthen-ware pot, used instead of an iron vessel to
cook in, by the poor.
108 POTTERY.
bottom of it, that was perfectly glazed ; this gave me
new life and energy, to find out a glazing for my earthen
ware ; because this convinced me there was a substance
within my reach, that would do it. Accordingly, I ex-
amined every step I had taken, and tried to remember
where I had set it down and every thing I had done
with it, from first to last; but I could not account far that one spot of glazing, unless a few drops of salt wa-
ter from my pans, had got on the clay. I did not think
it at all likely that this would produce any such effect, and
was on the point of giving it up without a trial, when I
thought I would just satisfy myself it was not that, by
dipping another of my pipkins into strong salt water,
and burning it in the fire. I did so, and to my inexpres-
sible joy and great surprise, it came out well glazed inside
and out! Here then I had a vessel in which I could
boil my food, and was at once possessed of what I had
so long desired, and had thought that nothing but the
materials and skill of a regular manufacturer could furnish.
I lost no time in boiling a piece of meat and some
sweet potatoes in it; and by adding a little pepper and
salt, I made very good broth of the liquor, though I had
nothing to thicken it with, as I had seen my mother's
cook thicken her soups.
Nothing could taste better to me than this dinner of
boiled meat, simple as it was! It was such a novelty
that it relished highly, and all the more for being obtain-
ed by my own ingenuity and perseverance ; indeed it
was that which made me care about it at all ; for I am
not of the dainty sort, and care not what I eat, if it is but wholesome food and there is enough of it.
GREAT CATASTROPHE. 109
CHAPTER XIV.
A GREAT CATASTROPHE — AN UNEXPECTED CALAMITY —
NEW PLANS A DISCOVERT PHILOSOPHIZING A
STRANGE PHENOMENON ADDITIONAL ACCOMMODATION3
AND CONTRIVANCES.
I NEXT turned my thougnts upon building a sheltered
fireplace and chimney; I had made lime enough for the
purpose, and carried it to my terrace, and had collected
there sand and stones sufficient to enable me to begin;
but I had not quite settled where to place it, or how to
contrive it to the best advantage, when an event occur-
red that made a great change in my situation, and is one
of the most remarkable and wonderful of my life. It
has left such an impression on my memory, that I can
recount every particular just as it happened.
It was about noon, on one of the hottest and stillest
days I ever experienced; not a breath of wind moved
upon the face of the waters; not a leaf stirred; the only
cloud in the sky had been motionless for hours, and I
was reposing under the shade of some fine trees, near
my favorite brook, when I heard a low, rumbling sound,
which seemed to come from under the ground, on which
I was lying. I raised my head; the sound grew louder,
and then died away ; the earth trembled as it does during
a heavy discharge of artillery; and I was instantly pos-
sessed with the idea, that it was the report of cannon at
a distance, and that a ship might be in sight. I started
up, to run to the nearest spot that commanded a view of
the coast; but before I had proceeded many steps, I was
suddenly thrown prostrate on the ground, by a shock
which I now knew to be that of an earthquake. I shall
never forget what an awful thing it was to feel this earth,
which we consider so firm and solid, heave and shake un-
der me like something afloat. Not knowing what would
come next, I thought it best to lie where I was; and
this I was the more willing to do, on account of a sensa-
10
110 UNEXPECTED CALAMITY.
tion at my stomach, like sea-sickness; which, with the
alarm I felt, made me unable to stand. While lying
there, many appalling thoughts passed through my mind.
I had read of islands in the ocean, that were thrown up by an earthquake, and, after remaining above water a few
years, suddenly disappeared. I thought this might be
one of that sort, and that the island was now going to be
swallowed up again in the mighty deep. This, and many
other frightful ideas, crossed my imagination, and filled
me with dread for a few minutes; but I soon turned
my thoughts upon that Almighty Friend, in whom is no
change, and on whom we can firmly rely, for the safety
and happiness of our souls, even though the world itself
should crumble to pieces under us. As soon as my mind
was fixed on God, it became calm; and I was able to
bear with tolerable composure the next shock, which was much more violent than the first, and attended with
a loud noise, such as cannot be described; for it was un-
like any other noise that I ever heard. The earth heav-
ed less than before, but shook more. I lay with my
face downwards, my head resting on my arms, and my
eyes shut, scarce daring to breathe, while the vibra-
tion lasted. Long after it had subsided, I remained
motionless, expecting another shock; but that proved to
be the last; and when my fear of a repetition of it was
passed away, I sat for some time on the ground, thinking
on the mighty convulsion which must have taken place
within the earth, thus to affect the surface. I felt thank-
ful that I had not been swallowed up in one of those
chasms, that are said to open in the ground, and then
close again immediately. I remembered meeting with
accounts of earthquakes far more terrible than this, the
horrors of which I could now appreciate much better
than when I read about them, in dear, happy England,
where such calamities are little known.
Thus I sat, meditating upon this awful event, till I
was recovered from its effects, and inclined to return to
my business on the terrace; but great was my coasternation when, on approaching my place of abode, I be-
NEW PLANS. Ill
held stones, and earth, and fragments of rock, scattered
around; and, on reaching my cave, I perceived it to be
half filled with rubbish, and that there was a rent in the hill
directly over it, which spoiled the roof of my habitation.
This new misfortune afflicted me greatly, for, rude as
my dwelling was, it was a comfortable home to me, and
was endeared by many interesting associations. It had
sheltered me from the heavy rains and sudden gales of
winter, and was of vast importance to me as a store-
house, no less than as a dwelling-place. Besides, it had
Cost me much hard labor to make it what it was; and to
see it all destroyed, filled me with sadness. After the
first shock to my feelings was over, I began to find some
comfort in the thought that I was not in the cave at the
time of the catastrophe, and that it happened during the
dry season, as I could sleep without its shelter while pre-
paring a new abode for the winter. To do this, now
became my chief concern.
I thought a good deal of building a hut of stones, laid
in mortar; but how to roof it in was the difficulty, unpro-
vided as I was with tools. I could cover it with bark,
or cocoa-nut leaves; but there must be a wooden frame
to rest the covering upon; and to make any sort of raf-
ters with only a jack-knife, seemed impossible. If I had
only possessed an axe, I could have built myself a log
cabin, and made as many roofs as I wanted ; but without
any edgetool larger than a knife, my powers were very
small. At one time, I thought of building a circular
wall, round a tall, straight tree, and then making the roof
by fastening pieces of bark in a slanting position from
the tree to the wall; but I had not nails enough, to nail
the bark to the tree, and even if I could fasten it in some
other way, I knew I could not make the roof tight
enough to keep out the pouring rains of the wet season.
I surveyed my cave again and again, to see if I could
not make that once more habitable, by clearing out the
loose earth and stones, and covering over the slit or rent
in the top. After mature deliberation, I resolved to
make the attempt.
112 A DISCOVERY. I scooped up the rubbish with my large shell, and
throwing it into a pannier, carried it to a proper dis-
tance, and thus by slow degrees, I lessened the pile in
the cave.
My old lama helped me a little, for I had taught her
to kneel down to be loaded, as camels do. Now I made
her kneel, while I filled a pannier on each side of her,
just full enough for her to rise pretty easily; then she
carried the dirt away for me; I followed, and emptied
the panniers, without taking them off her back. At first,
she did not like the rattling of the earth and stones so
near her legs, but she soon learned to bear it very qui-
etly.
As I removed the earth, I saw that the damage to my
cave was greater than I had at first supposed; the rent
which spoiled the roof, extended through the back part
of the cave ; but the floor, being solid rock, remained un-
injured; and when I could scramble over the loose
earth, I found a narrow, dark passage made by the
earthquake.
Eager to know the extent of it, and what other open-
ings had been made in the hill, I groped about till I
found my cocoa-nut lamp; and having lighted it, I ex-
plored, with a mixture of curiosity and trepidation, these
cracks and openings in the earth. I held the lamp so
as to show my footing at every step, and proceeded sev-
eral yards in a narrow pass, just wide enough for me to
walk in without rubbing against the sides; which were
of a white, compact texture, and as even and perpendic-
ular as if they had been cut with tools. It was well for
me, that I looked carefully to my footing ; for after going
some distance, the fissure widened very much, and the
rock, on which I had been walking, terminated abruptly.
I held the lamp out as far as I could, to see what was
beyond; but I could only discern a dark abyss beneath
my feet, i threw a small fragment of rock into it, and
after falling a great way, I heard it plash in water.
Having discovered all I then could, I retraced my steps,
and was glad to see daylight at the end of the passage.
PHILOSOPHIZING. 113
As I was about to re-enter my cave, I observed some-
thing like an opening in a rock, on my left hand ; it was
just large enough for me to squeeze through; but what
was my wonder and delight, when I found myself in an-
other cave, larger and more regularly formed than the
one I had lived in! Here then was a habitation, better
than any I could build, and all ready to receive me and
my stores! I stood still, for some time, in perfect
amazement and delight; then I walked round it, and
held my lamp up to the sides; and found them so reg-
ular and smooth, that I thought they must have been
formed so by the action of water. Perhaps the sea
might once have covered much more of the island than
it now does; and my terrace might have been under the
ocean, and the washing of the waves might have made
these caves.
Then there was another way which I thought of in
"accounting for them. They might have been formed by
fresh water, dissolving and carrying off with it the softer
particles, that once filled up the cave; and the water in
"the deep abyss, at the end of the narrow passage, made
me think this very likely. But let the cave be formed
as it might, I was delighted to find it, and determined to
fit it up for my habitation, against the next rainy season.
While exploring my new-found apartment, it crossed
-my mind several times, that there might be danger in
living in a cave, since the island was subject to earth-
quakes; but my fear was not great enough to overcome
other considerations in favor of it; and as I had lived
safely so many months in a cave, and been away from
it when the earthquake happened, I persuaded myself
that I should be equally fortunate in future.
I now went on with the work of clearing my old cave
with fresh spirit; for as that would be my entry, or ante-
chamber, I wished to have it in order. While shovel-
ling, or rather shelling away the earth, it occurred to me
that I could make a very good kitchen of this outer cave,
and that the crack in the roof would serve a capital pur-
10*
114 STRANGE PHENOMENON,
pose, for I could build a chimney up through it, and so
carry the smoke out of my house.
When I thought of this contrivance, I was standing
near the opening into the narrow passage, and being
greatly delighted, I clapped my hands and shouted out
"capital"; but the next moment I was startled almost
out of my wits; for an echo repeated the noise I had
made, and the word " capital" was so distinctly return-
ed, that it was exactly like a human being imitating me.
After the first surprise was over, I knew it must be an
echo; and then I amused myself very much with it, and
had great pleasure in hearing my words repeated, though
they were only my own sounds, sent back to me by caves
and rocks.
Strange as it may seem to my friends, if they should
ever read this history, I must say that I never was hap-
pier in my life, than while I was arranging these two
caves for my kitchen and lodging-room. My work pros-
pered finely; I succeeded very well in building a chim-
ney, and making a kind of fireplace, with loose stones
and fragments of rocks, that I found lying about, near at
hand; and I take some credit to myself for the contriv-
ance I used to supply the place of scaffolding, which
enabled me to build the chimney higher than my head, I fixed into the wall projecting stones, that I could stand
upon, and so reach higher and higher, till I carried
the chimney tip through the top of the cave, and could
work upon it from above. As I was obliged to make
my chimney pretty large, owing to the clumsiness of my
materials, I thought the rain, which falls very perpendic-
ularly in the wet season, would certainly come down in
sufficient quantity to put out my fire; so, to obviate that
difficulty, I made a tile of clay, which was so shaped as
to protect the top of the chimney from rain, and yet let
out the smoke. I was so pleased with my fireplace,
that I could hardly wait for the mortar to dry, and the
masonry to become solid, before I lighted a fire in k;
and when at last I thought it would do to try the ex-
periment, I found it to answer perfectly well; which so de-
lighted me, that I danced and capered about like a child.
NEW ACCOMMODATIONS A BOWER. 115
As very little light could find its way into my new
apartment, I left open the crack across my kitchen roof,
till I should be obliged to close it on account of the rain;
this I meant to do with bark laid across, and loaded with
stones, to keep it in its place. The light, that came
through this crack, enabled me to do many things in the
inner cave without a lamp; though it did seem a very
dark place, when I first entered it, out of broad day-
light.
It gave me great pleasure to arrange my stores in my
new room, and make up a nice bed of sweet, fresh, new
hay. 1 easily cut places in the sides of the cave, and so
made shelves to put my little utensils upon ; for the rock
was as soft and crumbling as chalk. Never was a little
girl more happy in arranging a new baby-house, than I
was in furnishing my rude apartment with the few goods
and chattels I possessed.
CHAPTER XV.
i BOWER — A PARROT—DOMESTIC MANOTACTURES — AR-
RANGEMENTS FOR WINTER SECOND RAINY SEASON.
THIS second summer passed swiftly away, while I di-
vided my time among my salt-works, pottery, and tan-
pits, hunting, shooting, and making exploring excursions
over the island. I found a short cut over the hills to
Gordon Vale, and I frequently carried my dinner with
me, and spent the whole day in that enchanting spot. I
made a very pretty bower there, by planting young trees
in a regular form, and near together; then training
creepers about their trunks, and making the topmost
branches meet to cover it in. By watering and pruning,
rt became, by the end of the summer, a very shady re-
treat, and a sufficient shelter from moderate rains. In
116 A PARROT.
it, I placed upon stones a piece of plank, brought from
Nail Cove, which made a settee long enough for me to
stretch myself upon it at full length. There I took many
a noon-day nap and sometimes spent the night.
In crossing Oat Plain this summer, I found it covered
with a fresh crop of grass, of quite a different kind from
what grew there before, I was at first surprised, that
the fire had not destroyed every seed in the earth; but,
on further reflection, I remembered what my young
friend, the botanist, once said to me about seeds, when
he tried to interest me in his pursuits; and if this ever
reaches my friends in England, I request them to tell
him, I remembered that conversation in my solitude, and
wished I had learned more of him. He told me that
there are a great many more seeds produced, than are
usually wanted; on purpose, it would seem, to provide
against accidents; and when a fire destroys all vegeta-
tion to a certain depth, there are still seeds in the earth
below, that are ready to start up and supply the loss.
He related, also, many curious facts about seeds, their
manner of spreading themselves over the earth, and
their power of resisting decay, which I recollect with
pleasure.
In one of my excursions, I went as far as Parrot
Grove, and was saluted, as before, with the inharmoni-
ous notes of these gay birds, that, in a wild state, seem
formed to please the eye more than the ear.
Knowing that they can be made to imitate the human
voice, I was very desirous of procuring a young one that
I could teach; and, after many fruitless attempts, I suc-
ceeded in making one prisoner. The poor little crea-
ture was hardly fledged, and could not fly; I found it
on the ground, and supposed it must have fallen out of its
nest. I carried it home in a pannier, covered over with
boughs and leaves, so that it could not escape.
The addition of a parrot to my family, pleased me
much, and I determined as soon as the fine weather was
over, and I had more leisure, to make her a cage; which
I thought I could do with wicker work, as I was quite
DOMESTIC MANUFACTURES. 117
a skilful basket-weaver. Till then, I tied a small
weight to her foot, which prevented her flying, but allow-
ed her to walk about. She soon became tame and fa-
miliar; but it was long before I could teach her to pro-
nounce even her own name, Poll.
To return now to the history of my domestic manufac-
tures. My tan-pit gave me a great deal of trouble.
Changing the water and tan, was quite a job with such
poor tools as I had ; sometimes it leaked, and then I had
a deal of irouble to find the leak and mend it; but as
the skins appeared to be doing very well, their texture
approaching nearer, every day, to that of leather, I was
encouraged to persevere. I had just time enough to
complete the process, and dry the skins, before the rains
began.
My salt-works succeeded very well when there was no
rain; but, in the driest weather and with every attention on
my part, I could not hasten the process of evaporation or
crystallization; that must go on in its own slow way.
As my three pnns were all small, I could not make
salt enough to cure any meat for the winter; I could
only get as much as I should want to season my food
with, as I ate it.
Encouraged by my success in making, baking, and
glazing one pipkin, I made a great many more vessels,
of various sizes; but as their shapes were not very regu-
lar, I did not know what names to give them. They
were a good deal like the worst shaped crucibles I ever
saw; still they answered my purpose as well as the most
beautifully moulded China vases and cups could have
done; and when I had completed a good many vessels,
and ranged them on a shelf in my kitchen, I was as well
satisfied as any lady in England with a closet full of rare
and valuable china. I esteemed things now according
to their usefulness, not their beauty.
I found the chimney very convenient to smoke my
meat in for the winter ; but as I should not now be oblig-
ed to eat it raw, I dried it less than before, and found it,
when soaked and boiled, quite palatable.
118 WINTER ARRANGEMENTS.
I laid in a good stock of vegetables and fruits; and
dried so many grapes, that any one would have thought
I meant to live on them altogether. I also provided large
bundles of willow wands for basket stuff, soaked nettle
stalks for cordage, and dried wood for fuel. I had,
moreover, plenty of room to stow every thing under cov-
er in my two caves.
I was now so well prepared for the rainy season, that
I only dreaded it on account of the confinement to which
I should be subjected, and its injurious effects upon my
health; I was, therefore, considering how I should con-
trive to exercise within my house, and how I could diet
myself to avoid disease, when it occurred to me that,
with my present hairy garments, I might perhaps set the
rains at defiance, and exercise in the open air, even in
the wet season. To make it still safer to do so, I made
myself a second suit of clothes from skins, dressed with
the hair on ; and then when I came in wet, I could change
my garments for others that were dry and equally warm.
My second attempt at tailoring was an improvement
on the first; and the skins that had been tanned, were
so much more soft and agreeable, that I always put them
on to exercise in.
At last the fine, serene sky, which had not been ob-
scured except by a passing cloud or a welcome thunder
storm, for several months, became overcast; the wind
whistled ominously through the trees; the ocean became
dark and rough; and the rainy season was ushered in
by a gale of wind, that blew violently for a few hours.
When it subsided, the rain began to pour down in floods,
and I gladly sought the shelter of my inner cave. Among
other earthen vessels, I had made some for lamps; and
having saved a great deal of oil and fat, from turtles and
lamas, I hoped to be well provided with light during the
dark days I was to spend in my new parlour ; but my rav-
elled cotton stocking would not last through the season;
so I was obliged to think what I should do for wicks
when that was gone.
My lamas continued to be as useful and as dear to me
SECOND RAINY SEASOIT. 119
as ever. The old one had a kid during the fine weath-
er; and, as I now had room enough, I allowed her
and her young one to shelter themselves in my kitchen.
I fastened the mother by a halter, and fed her with the
plant she was most fond of; I shared her milk with the
kid, that was suffered to go at large, and often got pun-
ished for his impertinence. Once he put his nose into
some hot broth, which scalded him. Another time he
offended Poll, and she made him feel her sharp bill in a
way that taught him to keep his distance in future. One
day he walked off through the narrow passage, and I
fully expected he would fall from the rock at the end and
be killed; so I followed gently after him and pulled him
back by the hind leg. He singed and scorched himself
continually against the hot stones of the fireplace, and
would often play about the wood pile till he threw it all
down on himself or his mother.
These mischievous tricks amused me, and though he
sometimes plagued me a little, I could not bear to de-
prive him of his liberty. To prevent any accident with
either of the lamas, as the old one was sometimes loose,
I blocked up the narrow passage beyond the entrance to
my parlour, with the wood I had collected for fuel; this
was also useful in giving me more room in the kitchen.
I found my parrot a very entertaining companion and
very affectionate too; she loved to be caressed and talk-
ed to, and was always delighted to sit on my hand, to be
fed by me, and have her head rubbed; but though I
talked to her a great deal, she did not learn to speak
that winter. I made her a very commodious wicker
cage with a swing in it, that she took great pleasure in,
when shut up ; but she loved so well to be at liberty, that
I only put her in the cage occasionally.
This second winter was far less tedious to me than
the former; I was better prepared for it, and I knew what
to expect from the first, and made up my mind to it. I
also found that I could expose myself in my shaggy coat
to the hardest rain, without any inconvenience; and I
smiled to think that my rude garments were a better de-
fence from weather, than the best suit of English broad- cloth. In my wet walks, I needed a different hat from
that I had worn in summer; and I accordingly made
a frame of wicker-work, as near like a broad brimmed
hat as I could, and covered it with lama skin, putting the
hair outside, that it might shed the rain; and though
much heavier than my leafy head-dress, it suited the
weather far better, and kept my head and neck perfectly
dry.
Though I took frequent runs in the open air, for the
sake of exercise, my chief occupations were within my
dwelling; and, during the latter part of the time, I found
work enough within doors, for exercise and pleasure too.
On being better acquainted with the form and position
of my inner apartment, I felt sure that it approached very
near the outer one, at one particular point; and as it
would be very convenient to have a passage directly out
of one into the other, I resolved to see what could be
done.
To work I went, with my green stone wedge and mal-
let, and soon convinced myself it was practicable. The
reverberation in both caves, occasioned by the blows on
the rock, in breaking it away, was so powerful that
at first it almost stunned me; but I became accustomed
to the sound, and after laboring very diligently many
days, a good opening was made between the two caves.
I have heard of ladies being very much pleased with
having their drawing-rooms open into each other; but
they were not more delighted than I was, when I had a
passage-way from my kitchen to my parlour, large enough
for me to walk through erect, with elbow-room on each
side. As the former entrance from the narrow passage
was now of no use, I shut it up with a piece of plank,
and felt better satisfied than ever with my accommoda-
tions.
Towards the end of the rainy season, all my cotton
wicks were used up. I spent several evenings in the
dark, before I could think of a substitute. At last I re-
membered seeing candles, used in cottages, that were
A WRECK. 121
called rush lights; the name led me to the conclusion,
that the wicks were made of rushes; and though I look-
ed in vain, on the marshy grounds near the terrace, for
any thing like the English rush, I found other plants
with pithy stems; and after several experiments, I suc-
ceeded in making very good wicks of pith, and was nev-
er afterwards at a loss for a light.
When it had rained with little interruption for two
months, the return of fine weather was preceded by a
violent storm of thunder and lightning, accompanied by
a heavy gale of wind. I never before heard such loud,
crackling thunder, or saw such vivid lightning. An
English thunder storm is nothing compared with it.
The wind, too, blew a perfect hurricane for a few hours.
This storm came on about sunset, and lasted all the
first part of the night; but after listening to it till I was tired, I fell asleep, and did not awake again till the
morning was far advanced.
It rained'hard all the next day, and I hardly stirred
out of the cave ; but the morning after, the sky was
clear, and there was every appearance of fine, settled
weather. I was impatient to go forth and view the isl-
and after the storm; but the sight, which that morning's
light disclosed, must be described in a separate chapter.
CHAPTER XVI.
A WRECK VISIT TO THE WRECK — A RAFT — A NARROW
ESCAPE — VALUABLES SECURED—A NIGHTLY VISITOR.
HAVING hastily despatched my breakfast in order to
go out and see the effects of the storm, I mounted my
ladder to take a general survey of the scene from the
top of Fort Hill. Instantly my eyes were fixed upon a
sight so new, so strange, and so full of interest, that
11
122 A WRECK.
I remained in one attitude, with my head stretched out
and my eyes straining open in dumb amazement, for I
know not how long. Tbe object I was so eagerly look-
ing at, was a wrecked vessel, aground on a shoal not
far from the reef on which the Santa Maria was lost.
As I gazed upon it, and thought of the probable fate
of the crew, and remembered my own shipwreck, my
feelings were so wrought up that they quite overpowered
me; my knees trembled and bent under me, and I sank
upon the grass in a flood of tears.
How long I indulged this useless emotion, I do not
remember. But I well recollect what it was, that made
me jump on my feet, and run towards the shore; it was
the idea that some one or more of the crew might have
reached land in safety, as I had done ; and the hope of
finding a fellow being, a companion in my solitude, gave
new strength and fleetness to my limbs. I ran about
the beach, examined every nook among the rocks, and
made the air resound with my shouts; but all in vain,
no human voice responded to mine, and my heart sank
within me, as I gave up the hope of meeting with a fel-
low man. I frequently turned my eyes on the wreck, to
see if there were not some one remaining on it, but
there was no appearance of any human being on the
deck, cleared as it was of every thing that could be car-
ried away by the force of the waves. It was not till I
had given up all hope of greeting any living being, saved,
like myself, from destruction, and my mind had become
more calm, that I thought of the possibility of visiting the
wreck, and finding things in it, that would be useful to
me in my solitude. In my various fishing excursions, as
well as in swimming for pleasure, I had thoroughly ex-
plored the coast towards the Land's End, and the shoals
near it; I knew that at low water it would be easy for
me to reach the wreck by wading and swimming, and I
impatiently awaited the ebbing of the tide.
The mere sight of this shattered vessel, of any thing
made by human hands and tools, was so exciting hat I
could think of nothing else; I could not eat, or drink,
VISIT TO THE WRECK. 123
or do any thing but sit on the rocks opposite the vessel
with my eyes fixed on the interesting spectacle, waiting
for the proper time of tide. At last I thought it would
do to set out; so I stripped off my leathern suit and wad-
ed off towards the object on which all my thoughts now
turned. I made a circuit to avoid deep water, and with
some swimming reached the grand shoal on which the
vessel lay. As I approached her I heard a sound which,
to my excited imagination, seemed nothing less than a
human voice. O how my heart beat, and how eagerly
I pressed forward, to find the sufferer and relieve him!
In a moment I fancied the meeting I hoped for, with a
fellow-being; another sound, like the first, confirmed
me in my expectation; and breathless with hope I reach-
ed the side of the vessel.
Here an unthought of difficulty presented itself. As
the vessel lay aground, she was so high out of water,
that I saw no means of climbing up her rounding and
slippery sides. Twice I waded round her, to see if I
could discover any way of getting into her ; the second
time I espied a small piece of rope, hanging down by
the fore-chains *. I reached this with some difficulty, and
finding it fast at the other end, I climbed up by it to the
deck and hurried to the cabin. The dead-lights f were
in, which made it so dark I could hardly see any thing.
I spoke, but no one answered. I felt in the berths, but
found no body. I stumbled over things on the floor,
till by degrees my sight became clearer, and by the
feeble light which came down the gangway f I saw traces
of the recent departure of the former occupants of the
cabin. On the table stood an open writing-desk, which
* Short pieces of large chain, or crooked pieces of iron,
bolted to the sides of the ship abreast of the foremast, to
which are fastened the ends of large ropes, called shrouds,
which, at the other end, are attached to the foremast, near its
top, for the purpose of supporting the mast
f Window-shutters used only in a storm.
f The stair-case leading from the deck to the cabin.
appeared to have been hastily emptied of its con-
tents; an evidence as it seemed to me, that the
owner had hopes of saving his life, when he abandoned
the vessel ; otherwise he would not have taken those
things with him. A repetition of the sound I had
before heard, now hurried me forward again, in my search for some living being. I approached the spot
whence it proceeded ; I heard it more distinctly; I
pushed open a sliding door, and out leaped a large, black
dog!
My disappointment was extreme ; I felt provoked
with myself for being so carried away by my hopes and
wishes, as to have mistaken the whining of a dog, for a
human voice.
Convinced now that there was no probability of find-
ing any fellow being on board, I pursued my examina-
tion more calmly. I found that the ship was bulged,*and had a great deal of water in her hold; but as she
had drifted stern foremost on the sand-bank, that
part of her was so lifted up that the cabin and the run -f-
of the ship were dry, though the forecastle was full of
water.
I saw by the papers that were still left in the above-
mentioned desk, that the ship's name was the Thames,
and that she was a London whaler. It was very in-
teresting and affecting to me to see the traces of human
beings all around me. I had dwelt so long in a spot,
where I had reason to believe no man but myself had
ever lived, that to be where I knew that men, my
countrymen too, had recently been, gave rise to new
and overpowering thoughts. I was so exhausted by the
strong emotions I had experienced, and the exertions I
had made to reach the vessel, that I feared my strength
* This is said of a vessel when she has a hole in her bot-
tom that lets in water.
t That part of the vessel which is under the cabin floor.
It is entered by a trap-door in the cabin floor, and contains a
store of provisions.
A RAFT.125
would fail me before I had accomplished half I wished,
if I did not take some nourishment and endeavour to re-
gain my usual composure. I therefore went in search
of bread, and soon found some in the steward's pantry.
I might have considered it rather uninviting when I lived
at home, and ate good household bread every day; but
after my being nearly two years without tasting a mouthful
of bread of any kind, this hard, brown biscuit was most
delicious. As I refreshed myself with it, I reasoned
myself into greater calmness, and began to see that,
although I was disappointed of finding some one on board,
I might derive great advantage from the vessel's being
driven on this shore; and I resolved to make the best
use I could of it.
My experience had taught me, that tools were the
greatest treasure I could possess ; so, while I was still
eating, I went about looking for the carpenter's chest;
and as the vessel was an English whaleman, I found an
excellent assortment of the most useful tools. O how
pleased I was to see and handle an axe, a saw, chisels,
gimblets, hammers, planes, &c. I could not refrain
from examining and trying them all, anticipating the
pleasure I should have in using them. I had already
fancied myself doing wonders with them on the island,
when my spirits were suddenly damped by recollecting
that I had no boat to carry any thing ashore in. I
was however, so accustomed to depend on my own con-
trivances, and had accomplished so many things which
had at first appeared impossible, that I did not despair
of getting all these tools safe on shore in some way or
other. I resolved, if I could do nothing better, to tie an
axe and a saw to my back, and swim ashore with them
at any rate. The afternoon was very fine, the sea was
become calm, and though it was some distance from the
wreck to the beach opposite my dwelling, it was not
very far to the rocky shore nearest the shoal; and if I
could only land the tools on any part of the coast, I knew
I could easily transport them afterwards wherever I
pleased. My first plan was to get an empty half-barrel
11*
126 A RAFT.
head up the tools in it, and float them ashore in that, pushing it before me as I swam over the deep places,
and carrying it, where the water was too shallow for it
to float. I was trying to get at a cask for this purpose,
when, seeing some spare spars between decks, it
occurred to me that I could make a raft, and carry
the whole chest of tools and many other things
ashore, quite dry and safe. To work I went with great
spirit, and carried up four small spars on deck; having
fastened a rope to one end of each, I threw them over-
board and tied them to the side of the ship, to keep them
from floating away; then I lowered myself down into
the water and lashed the ends of these spars together,in
the form of a hollow square, and on this frame I placed
some short pieces of plank that I also found between
decks. Here then was a raft made at once, on
which I could stand perfectly dry and secure; but I
found that my weight alone brought it down to the wa-
ter, and an additional load would sink it below the sur-
face. I therefore looked about the ship for some more
spars, and found a spare topmast which would be very
buoyant, I knew, from its size, if I could but get it into
the water; so I took a saw out of the carpenter's chest
and sawed it into four pieces; and with great pains and
labor I got these tied under my raft, and found they
buoyed it up finely out of the water. Besides this I laid
on more pieces of plank, and secured them with ropes
and nails, so that they could not slip off. Now my raft
floated high enough for me to venture to put the tool-
chest upon it. The tide had risen so much, that the
height of the ship's deck from the water was not nearly
so great, as when I first climbed up the bows; and by
the help of ropes fastened to the vessel at one end, then
passed round the chest and held in my hands at the oth-
er, I lowered the precious burden down to the wooden
platform, or raft.
As I had now done working in the water, and intend-
ed to go ashore with my goods, I dressed myself in a
suit of sailor's clothes, of which I found a good many in
A RAfT. J27
the officers' cabin ; and having collected all the best
articles, I packed one chest full of them and lowered
that to the raft, as I had done the other. In rummaging
about the wreck, I met with a great many more things
that would be extremely useful to me, and was quite
puzzled what to take first ; but I remembered the dan-
ger there was of losing all, if I attempted too much. So
for fear some change in the weather might pre-
vent my reaching land with my inestimable treasure, I
hurried away, leaving many tempting things behind me,
and only taking, besides the two chests, an iron pot, two
guns, and some powder and shot. One oar was all I
could find, but that would be useful as a rudder to steer
with; the tide was rising and the current setting towards
the west end of the island ; what little wind there was
blew directly on shore, and the water was remarkably
smooth. With every prospect of a safe passage, I push-
ed off from the side of the ship, and while I could
feel bottom shoved the raft along, by the help of my
oar. When I was beyond the sand bank the wind and
tide floated me along, in the very direction I wished to
go. It was a beautiful evening, the sensation of floating
over the bright blue waters, by the unseen power of wind
and tide, was delightful ; and, as I sat upon the chest of
tools and thought of its valuable contents, I was so happy
that I forgot my disappointment at not finding a fellow
creature on board the wreck. I also enjoyed being once
more dressed in well-shaped clothes, made of soft ma-
terials: all except the shoes and stockings felt very com-
fortably ; but these cramped my feet so much, that I did
not keep them on long, I had gone barefoot till I dis-
liked the feeling of any covering, however large or easy.
The more I reflected on the choice I had made of
things to be first secured, the better pleased I was;
and I hoped, if the weather continued favorable,
to make many other trips, and bring off a great deal
more.
When I had got about half way, I perceived that my
raft drifted more to the west, and as I approached the
128 A NARROW ESCAPE.
land, I could not steer it straight for the beach; so I let
it float westward, trusting that when I got near the creek
or inlet of the sea, into which my favorite brook empti-
ed itself, the indraught would enable me to land there.
As soon as I had passed the rocks which terminate
the beach on the west, I found a strong current setting
into the creek, and was quickly carried in that direction.
I tried to keep as near the middle of the stream as I
could; but not being well acquainted with the shores,
and a raft being difficult to steer, one end of it ran
aground upon a shoal, which raised it so much on that
side, that all my precious cargo had like to have slip-
ped off into the water. Seeing the danger I was in of
losing my treasure at last, I sej my back firmly against the chests and kept them from sliding off, while I held
the smaller things with my hands. In this situation I
could not move without endangering my goods, and I
could make no efforts to push off the raft ; but I knew
the tide was rising, and if I could hold out to keep the
things as they were, for a few minutes, I hoped the other
end would gradually float as high as that which rested
on the ground, and so relieve me.
The time appeared to me very long, that I stood in
this constrained posture; and I almost despaired of the
raft becoming level again, when I perceived the weight
on my back to lessen gradually, and soon after all
was afloat and drifting safely up the creek. I kept in
the deepest water till I approached a certain spot,
where I knew the bottom was level; so I pushed my raft
over it, and kept it there with my oar, stuck into the
mud, till I could wade ashore and pull it after me as far
as it would float; then making it fast with a rope to a
large stone, I kept it there till the tide fell and left it
high and dry.
It was not till I had thus secured my new possessions
that I thought any thing about the dog, which had
raised my expectations so high, and then disappointed
them. He had rushed by me when liberated, and dis-
appeared ; and I had been so engrossed by other things,
VALUABLES SECURED A NIGHTLY VISITOR. 129
that I had entirely forgotten him from that time, till my
cargo was safely landed. I now wondered what had
become of him, and hoped to find him on the island;
but I would not leave my precious tools for any thing,
till I had them safely deposited in my inner cave. Ac-
cordingly I labored hard at my task all the rest of the
afternoon, assisted by my lamas, and when I went to
bed that night, I had my two great chests, one of tools,
the other of clothing, securely placed in my sleeping
apartment; my iron pot graced my kitchen, and the
powder and guns were put in a dry spot, away from all
danger of sparks, from fire or lamps. O how rich I
felt, and how full my mind was of schemes for the im-
provement of my condition! Tired as I was with such
a day of excitement and exertion, it was long before I
closed my eyes in sleep; and when I did lose myself,
it was only to dream of wrecks, and rafts, and diffi-
culties such as I had experienced during the day.
Again I heard sounds that I was sure were human,
and again I eagerly pursued them. My imagination
exceeded the reality ; the search was longer than before,
and my hopes were oftener raised and disappointed.
I was so affected by my dream that my emotions awak-
ened me; but even then, I did not lose the sounds that
had so moved me. I started up, rubbed my eyes, and lis-
tened with breathless attention ; the sounds continued at
intervals. I endeavoured to collect my thoughts and judge
calmly of what I heard; then I discovered it to be
the same noise which had before deceived me, and that
it proceeded from the entrance to my apartment, which
was barricaded at night, to keep out the young lama.
I was now very glad to hear the sound, and rejoiced at
the return of the dog. I thought of the strong attach-
ment often formed between a dog and his master, and
felt that I should gain in this the next best companion to
a rational one.
Supposing he must be very hungry, I determined to
rise and strike a light, and begin the acquaintance imme-
diately by feeding him ; but on letting him in, he soon
convinced me that he was in no mood to form a new
friendship. He ran by me into the cave, intent only on
finding the scent of his old friends ; having gone round
the apartment with his nose to the floor, he scampered
off again towards the shore, in spite of every effort I
could make to detain him by kindness, or to call him
back. Disappointed as I was, I could not help admiring
his attachment to his lost master, and I comforted my-
self with the hope, that he would ere long give up his
vain search, and transfer his affection to me, I per-
ceived, as I passed through the kitchen, that he had help-
ed himself to food ; I did not doubt that when he
wanted a fresh supply he would return to the same spot,
and gradually become domesticated. After this noc-
turnal visit I slept soundly till morning.
CHAPTER XVII.
SECOND VISIT TO THE WRECK DOCt'S BEHAVIOUR A TES-
TAMENT — A SECOND DRAFT — AN ASSORTED CARGO — A
SAFE LANDING A HUNGRY GUEST.
As soon as I was up the next morning, and had made my
daily arrangements, I was impatient to be again on board
the wreck. The weather was as fine as the day before,
and I was greatly inclined to swim the whole way, rath-
er than wait for low tide. On second thought, however,
I gave that up, for fear the currents among the rocks
and shoals might be too strong for me, or I should be
exhausted by swimming so far. I thought a little of
taking the raft off to the ship; but, considering the dan-
ger there was of my not being able to guide it to the
point I wished to reach, and of my being carried out to
sea, I resolved to trust to making another ; and while
waiting for the tide to fall, I laid my plans, and determin-
131
ed what it would be most important to secure next. It
then came into my head for the first time, that I might
possibly have found some books on board the vessel;
and I blamed myself severely, for not thinking of them
next to tools. I wondered I had not seen any in the
cabin ; but then I remembered how dark the cabin
was, and that any books which might be on board,
would most likely be in the officers' state rooms, as
their little sleeping-closets are called. I now resolv-
ed to make a thorough search after what was most desir-
able next to tools.
Of all eatables, I most desired bread and salt. Of
the latter I had never made enough in my little salt-pans,
to season all the meat I ate, and had none to cure pro-
visions with ; the taste I had of the former, the day be-
fore, made me long for a hard, brown biscuit, more than
I ever did for cakes, or sweet-meats, when a child.
As soon as it would do to set off, I started for the
wreck with no other garments except a shirt and a pair
of thin cotton trousers which I thought I could swim in
without difficulty.
As I approached the vessel, I saw the dog looking
earnestly at me from the deck. I could not doubt that
the sight of me made him hope that one of his old
friends was coming back, and I greatly pitied him for the
disappointment he must soon feel. When I reached
the deck he smelt me, and then walked slowly away,
and laid himself down by the gang-way, with a counte-
nance so expressive of sorrow, that it went to my heart.
I spoke to him and attempted to caress him, but he took
no notice of me, and looked all the while so solemn and
thoughtful, that I felt almost as much for him as if he had
been a rational being. He was of the Newfoundland
breed, and very large, with a fine expressive face; and
his silent grief was so touching, that it would soon have
made me melancholy, if the desire I felt to find
some books had not hurried me away to the cabin.
There on a little shelf in one of the state-rooms I
found three or four volumes, and hastened with them to
132 A TESTAMENT.
the light, to see what they were ; the first one I opened,
was an old romance about knights and squires, and so
was the second ; thus I began to fear, I had gained nothing
that would amuse or instruct me. The third book, how-
ever, looked more promising, and proved to be Moore's
Navigator; and the fourth was to my great joy and sat-
isfaction a Testament. This I pressed to my lips, re-
solving to study it well and never to part from it.
Valuable as my time was, and much as I had to do, I
could not help sitting down on the cabin stairs, and read-
ing a few verses out of the precious book that I had so
often heard my mother read aloud at home, I happen-
ed to turn to the latter part of the 6th chapter of
Matthew ; the dependence on God which it teaches,
had been so brought home to my mind, by my own ex-
perience, that my whole heart assented to the truth of
every sentence, and it seemed to me far more beautiful,
and full of meaning, than it had ever done before.
Having finished the chapter and pondered upon it
awhile, I concluded that though we were not to make
ourselves anxious about the morrow, we ought to do dil-
igently what appears to be the duty of the present day;
so I jumped up and went to work.
Another raft was to be made, and there were no more
spars to make it of; but I had thought of what would
do quite as well, namely, empty casks ; and, as the ves-
sel was a whaler, and had not half her cargo of oil on
board, I found plenty of them. They were packed to-
gether so tightly, that it was with great difficulty I could
start any of them ; but when I had loosened one, the
rest were easily removed.
I had trouble enough in tying the barrels together;
being round and slippery, and tapering off at each end,
it was very hard to make the rope stay round the biggest
part; and when, after great pains and perseverance, I
succeeded in that, I had as much more trouble in fixing
planks upon them. But when all was made fast, I found
my second raft much more buoyant than the first. Hav-
ing carried the carpenter's chest with all its contents on
SECOND KAFT AN ASSORTED CARGO. 133
shore, I should have been at a loss for tools, had I not
found several hatchets about the vessel, and a keg of
nails and spikes, which enabled me to make my raft.
These I also wanted to carry on shore, for iron had be-
come so important to me, that I coveted all I saw; but
I left one hatchet and some nails, for future use on board
the vessel.
I now went in search of salt, and soon found a cask
nearly full of it; but it was so heavy, I could not move
it; and as my time was very precious, I considered
how I could convey its contents in the quickest man-
ner to my raft. The best way I could think of was
this. I placed an empty cask on the raft, which floated
close to the side of the vessel, and having found two
pails of nearly equal size, I slung them by a rope over
my shoulders, and carried them full of salt up the cabin
stairs, and from the deck poured their contents into the
cask on the raft. In this way, I soon removed all the
salt; and then I carried up bread in the same manner,
and filled three casks with good hard biscuit. Finding
the raft so buoyant that these four barrels hardly sank it
perceptibly, I packed on it a variety of other things, such
as a barrel of salt beef, and another of pork, a bag of cof-
fee and some sugar; a seaman's chest filled with crock-
ery and tin ware, knives, forks, and spoons. On this, I piled up the bedding I found in the cabin; and amoug
it, I safely deposited a spy-glass and the captain's writ-
ing desk, with a store of pens, ink, and paper, that I found
in a locker. I looked every where for a compass and a
quadrant, but could not find any ; so I concluded that
they were taken by the captain and crew, when they
abandoned the vessel. Some spare sails that I found
between decks, and some coils of rope called whale
lines, I also brought away ; besides some iron hoops
and many other articles, that I need not name. When
I had loaded the raft as heavily as I thought it safe to
do, and had scarcely left room enough for myself to
move upon it, I recollected that I had no oar to steer it
with ; for I had taken ashore with me the only one I
could find, and left it there.
12
134 A SAFELANDING.
I now looked about for something that would serve
the purpose of an oar ; and happening to find care-
fuly stowed away, a number of long, narrow, cedar
boards, about six inches wide and half an inch thick, I
tried to get one of them for a rudder. In pulling at it,
I threw down the whole pile, and discovered a number
of new oars, fine long ones such as whalemen use! I
hastily seized one, and having tried in vain to coax the
dog to accompany me, I jumped on my raft; fixed two
spikes in one end, just wide enough apart to receive the
oar as a rudder; and pushed off. The wind and tide were
quite as favorable as they were the day before; and I ar-
rived without any accident at a place in the creek, which
I had explored in the morning, and which, at high wa-
ter, made a fine, natural wharf of rock, the side of which
I could approach without running aground. I moored
my raft and unloaded it with great ease; for, having
headed up the casks of provisions before I piled on other
things, I could now roll them on shore at once.
What a relief it was to my mind, when all these goods
were safely landed on the island! How rich I felt I
How thankful I was that this valuable wreck had been
driven on shore, within my reach!
I thought a great deal of the poor fellows, who had
abandoned it; and could not help regretting that they
had not stuck by the vessel. In that case their lives
would probably have been saved ; and I should have had
companions to dwell with me. By our united exer-
tions we might have built a boat, large enough to carry
us away from this lonely island, to the abodes of our fel-
low men.
Many such trains of thought passed through my mind,
while engaged on the wreck, and in transporting my
treasures from the creek to my dwelling-place. The
latter task I might have taken very leisurely, as the fine
weather was now set in, and.the goods were safe enough
any where; but I had so much pleasure in arranging
them in my two caves, and in looking over and handling
the utensils I was now in possession of, that I worked
A HUNGRY GUEST VARIOUS ACQUISITIONS. 1 35
very hard all the rest of the day, and carried a good
many of the things to the terrace. My lamas never
were so loaded before; but they were in excellent spir-
its, and assisted me finely. The barrels of provisions I
left on the shore by the creek, above high water mark.
Looking out, for the last time, before I retired to
rest, on the beautiful moonlight, as it made the long line
of sandy beach distinctly visible, I perceived a small,
dark object come out of the water, and soon distinguished
it to be my unsociable acquaintance, the dog. I con-
cluded that hunger had driven him from his sad and
lonely watch on the deck of the vessel, and determined,
if possible, to win his favor by giving him a good meal
from my own hand.
He received it with some signs of pleasure and grati-
tude; he licked my hand, and wagged his tail, and even
followed me into my kitchen; but happening to go rath-
er nearer Poll's cage than she liked, she made such a
frightful noise as drove away all his social feelings at once,
and off he went again to his melancholy station on the
wreck.
He continued to come ashore for food every night;
but as long as the vessel lay there, he kept his station on
her deck.
CHAPTER XVIII.VARIOUS ACQUISITIONS A VALUABLE DISCOVERY—CARE
LESSNESS— THE LAST TRIP SUNDAY READING A
FAITHFUL FRIEND.
FOR eight days the weather continued the same;
during that period, I made ten more excursions to the
wreck, bringing off, each time, large cargoes of goods.
The difficulty of finding materials for a raft increased
every trip; there were plenty of casks to be had, but
planks and boards became scarce; and I was obliged to
use bulkheads,* doors, hatches,\ and whatever else I
could find, that would serve for a platform on the barrels.
Wanting, one day, some short pieces of board to com-
plete the floor of my raft, I was about to saw in two one
of the long, narrow, cedar boards before mentioned;
being struck, however, with their number, uniformity,
and nice workmanship, I stopped to think for what pos-
sible use they could be intended; and although I did not
then find out, I thought it most prudent not to cut or de-
stroy them, but to carry them all on shore as they were,
when I had nothing of more value to load my raft with.
While busy in selecting various articles for transportation,
the idea of those mysterious boards would force itself
upon my attention; and two or three times I left my
work to re-examine them; but all to no purpose at that
time. My greatest prize, this trip, was a grindstone,
which I accidentally put my hand on when groping
about that part of the vessel which had the most water -
in it. Had I not been very strong and well accustomed
to exert my muscles, I never could have lifted it from
where I found it; but I was resolved to possess myself,
if possible, of so very important an article; and I suc-
ceeded in getting it safely to land. Two brass lamps, a
large ball of wick-yarn, and a tinder-box, with a flint and
steel, were valuable additions to my household goods.
Notwithstanding my earthen-ware lamps had answered
far better than none, these brass ones were more easily
trimmed and carried about. A flint and steel also gave
better sparks, than two pieces of quartz, valuable as they
had been to me. When the tinder-box first met my
eye, it reminded me forcibly of the time, when such an
article would have been to me the greatest treasure next
to a knife; and, though I had contrived so well to sup-
ply its place, I was glad to have a more complete ap-
* The partitions in a vessel are so called*
I Covers to the openings in the deck.
A VALUABLE DISCOVERY. 137
paratus. The experience of the past year made me
highly prize all the conveniences of life, which I had
been obliged to do without, and a common tinder-bos
now appeared to me a great acquisition.
I lighted a lamp, that I might examine the run of
the ship, and see better what was in the dark cabin; and
thus many things were brought to view that I was
glad to secure.
As I passed about with the lamp in my hand, I caught
sight, unexpectedly, of my own face in a small looking-
glass, that hung in the cabin; and it gave me such a
start, as made my heart beat violently for a few minutes.
It was so long since I had seen myself, that I hardly rec-
ognised my face, and at the first glance, I took it for that
of another man ; but the deception was only for a mo-
ment, after which I gazed at myself with great curiosity
and some complacency.
If this account is ever read by my friends, they will
be inclined to laugh at me, when they learn that I car-
ried this looking-glass very carefully to my cave, and
hung it up in a convenient place, that I might frequently
view myself in it. But the truth is, I did not do it from
vanity; it was merely for the sake of seeing a human
face, and gladly would I have exchanged this image of
my own, for that of any fellow being.
Continuing my examination by lamp light, I was very
much struck with the manner in which things were stow-
ed away, so as to take up the least possible room. Near
the pile of cedar boards, I discovered, packed away so
snugly that I had never seen them before, a great many
curiously shaped pieces of wood. Many of them just
alike, and of such neat workmanship, that I thought
these and the boards might belong together. After con-
sidering them very attentively, for some time, I exclaim-
ed aloud, "A boat! These are materials to build a
boat with! Here are the knees and ribs! This must
be meant for a keel, and this for the stem! But where
is the sternpost and rudder!" I then recollected that
whaleboats are made sharp at both ends and steered
12*
138 CARELESSNESS THE LAST TRIP.
with an oar. Overjoyed at finding these materials for
boat building, I hastened to place them on the raft and
looked forward to the happy time, when I should put
them together, not without a hope that they might even-
tually be the means of my return to society. My next
most important discovery was, a cask of lime, a pair of
blacksmith's bellows, and all the materials for building a
forge. These I joyfully transported to the island; and
I got the lime ashore dry.
When I had brought off all the rigging and sails that I
could find, and a great quantity of stores of all kinds, I
began cutting up the cables in pieces, as long as I could
lift, and bringing them on shore too; also harpoons, lan-
ces, and little spades, used in cutting up whales. Of these,
as well as of hoops and nail-rods, I found a great stock,
and valued them highly as iron that could be converted
to other uses. I also found a number of scythes without
handles, a spade, two iron shovels, and several large cop-
per dippers, that I was very glad to obtain.
All my voyages were prosperous except one, and that
was the last, when my raft was heavily laden with pieces
of cable, harpoons, and other iron implements, I sup-
pose that constant success had made me less careful, and
as my cargo was not the most valuable I had brought off,
I was very easy about it, and did not steer as well as
usual. My carelessness met with its just punishment, for
all my goods were tumbled into the creek, and I got a
good ducking myself.
It was on a Wednesday that I first boarded the wreck,
and on the following Friday week, I brought off my last
cargo, having made in all twelve trips, and carried away
almost every thing that one pair of hands could move.
There being no masts standing, I could not use a tackle
and fall * to hoist up things with, out of the hold f and
from between decks, or else I might have saved myself a
great deal of time and trouble, I was obliged to carry
* Pulleys and ropes adjusted so as to hoist up weights,
f A large space in the lower part of the vessel under the
lower deck, where the chief part of the cargo is placed.
THE LAST TRIP. 139
every thing upon deck by hand, which was tedious
enough; but by patient industry and perseverance, I had
possessed myself of a large quantity of very useful articles.
I determined as long as the weather would permit, to go on
board every day, for when I thought there was nothing
left worth taking, I still discovered some new treasure; and
if the fine weather had continued, I suppose I should have
brought away the vessel itself piecemeal. As it was,
I sawed out a part of her side, and took out some things
in that way that I could not otherwise get at. On Sat-
urday morning the sky was overcast, and there were in-
dications of a change of weather; but during the day I
ventured on board the wreck notwithstanding this, and in
searching about the cabin once more, I found a locker
which I had not before opened. In it were a large pair
of scissors and a bag of dollars. As money was wholly
useless to a person living alone, I had serious thoughts of
leaving it on board the ship, to go to the bottom of the
sea with her. The hope, however, of being taken off
the island, by a passing vessel, never left me; and as in
that case I might again find some use for such an article,
I determined to save it. When I had worked some time
at tearing up a part of the vessel's deck, to make anoth-
er raft, I perceived that a brisk wind had sprung up from
the north-east, which would entirely prevent my getting
it on shore. The water was becoming darker and
rougher every minute, and the gathering clouds warned
me to leave the wreck as soon as possible.
I hastened, therefore, to put the few things I wished
to take with me, into a small keg; to this I fastened a
rope, which I meant to tie round my waist with a knot,
that could be easily loosened, if the keg became trouble-
some; I then lowered it down to the water, but it would
not float; the keg was not large enough to support the
weight it contained; I was therefore obliged to exchange
it for a half-barrel, which was more buoyant. I re-
turned by the shoals and rocks, wading and swimming
alternately; carrying the half-barrel in shallow water,
and pulling it after me when it floated. In this manner,
140 SUNDAY READING.
I reached the rocky shore, eastward of the beach, and
landed my last load safely.
By the time I arrived at the terrace, the wind had ris-
en very much and the waves were dashing over the
stranded vessel. In the night it blew very hard for two
or three hours, and when I looked out, the next morning,
the wreck had entirely disappeared. I immediately
thought of the faithful servant and sincere mourner, the
dog, and wondered what had become of him; the food I
had placed for him was consumed, though he was no
where to be seen.
As this was Sunday morning, and there was now no
necessity for my doing any work, I determined to rest
and keep the day in the best way I could. I well re-
member the comfort I had in washing and dressing my-
self that day; for I had the luxury of using a towel, for
the first time for two years, and of putting on clean linen,
and well made clothes. My breakfast, too, was an un-
usual one; for I treated myself with some coffee and
bread and butter, from my new stores. When I had
done my morning's work, I took my Testament to the
shady seat by the fountain, and there I pored over the
precious volume I had been so long deprived of. So
deeply was I interested in it, so eagerly did I devour its
once familiar contents, that the forenoon was gone before
I was aware of it. I read for three hours without know-
ing it to be more than one; but when I did leave off, I
found myself very much exhausted in mind and body
by this unwonted application, and not disposed for any
other Sunday exercises; I therefore made a light meal
of cold victuals, and set out for a walk to the seashore.
In a sheltered nook of the rocks, I found the faithful dog,
seated with his face to the sea and looking towards the
spot where the vessel had lain. I spoke to him, in a
lively and affectionate manner, and thinking Neptune
would be a good name for him, I so called him. He
immediately came to me, wagging his tail, and showed
himself really glad to see me, and disposed to cultivate
my acquaintance. Whether I had accidentally hit upon
A FAITHFUL FRIEND. 141
his real name and that conciliated him, or whether he
was now without any hope of finding his old friend and
ready to make a new one, I could not tell; but from that
time he adopted me as his master, and became my faith-
ful and affectionate companion; never leaving me by day
or night, except to execute my commands, and always
ready to exert his utmost powers in my service.
When I returned from my long and agreeable walk,
rendered doubly pleasant by the company of my intelli-
gent though dumb companion, I felt disposed to pour out
my heart in thanksgiving to the great source of all good,
for the numerous mercies I had received from Him, and
to recite my hymns and chapters and serious pieces, as I
was accustomed to do on the Sabbath. When these ex-
ercises were ended, I again took up my Testament, and
read till the lengthened shadows of the trees warned me
that it was time to attend to my household concerns.
Reading was such a novelty and such a treat to me,
that I suppose I should have continued it through the
evening, if a pain and weakness in my eyes had not ad-
monished me to leave off. After being so long out of
the habit of reading, I suppose it strained my eyes to
look at such small objects as letters, and that I made an
exertion to see them which I was not aware of.
I afterwards thought it was better for me, on another
account, to lay aside the book. I had read so much
that I could not clearly recollect one quarter of it;
whereas the half chapter that I read, by itself, on board
the vessel, had made such an impression on my mind,
that I could repeat every word of it by rote. This con-
vinced me that I ought, in future, to limit myself to such
a portion as I could take in and remember, and thus have
it to meditate upon when going about my business.
CHAPTER XIX.
ARRANGEMENTS—LETTERS — A WATCH — CONTENTS Or A
CHEST—ANEW FLAG—TOO MUCH LEISURE NEW PRO-
JECTS — SECOND ANNIVERSARY.
AFTER the disappearance of the wreck, I devoted al!
my time for a week to examining, sorting, and arranging
my various goods and chattels. My caves were so lum-
bered up, that they seemed already full; yet many things
were still at the creek, and the terrace was strewed with
bulky articles.
Having taken a lesson on board ship, in stowing away
things in the smallest compass, I thought it likely that,
with order and good contrivance, I might ,get all my
things into the two caves and the long, narrow passage
beyond; but I doubted whether that was desirable, for,
in case of another earthquake, they might all be buried
up at once, under such a load of earth as I could not re-
move. The possibility of such an accident, determined
me to make a temporary store-house, of spars and sails,
in a pleasant, shady spot, close by my favorite brook and
not far from the landing-place in the creek; and to carry
thither all the stores which still remained on the shore
and which did not require to be kept cool. O what a
pleasure it was to me to use good tools! the mere driv-
ing a nail with a proper iron hammer was a treat. Hav-
ing made my store-house secure against a summer show-
er, which was all I had to fear for some months to come,
I stowed into it a great variety of things, with as many
empty casks as it would conveniently hold, because they
would shrink and become leaky by exposure to the heat
of the sun; but all the beef, pork, butter, cheese, and
other provisions, that required to be kept cooler still, I
deposited in my inner cave or the narrow passage, which
formed an excellent store-closet. I had now so much
to do with casks, that I became quite expert at rollin
and managing them, though awkward enough, when
LETTERS, 143
first began to move them on board the wreck; those
that were filled with provisions, I rolled all the way from
the landing at the creek, to the terrace, a distance of
more than a mile of rising ground. It took me a good
while to be sure, and made me very tired, but my time
was of little value when I had nothing to do but to take
care of myself, and rest was the sweeter for toil.
Between these heavy jobs, I indulged myself in the
lighter and more agreeable task of examining the con-
tents of several seamen's chests, which I had filled up
with small articles and brought away, without looking at
the things already in them, or opening the tills.
In one of these, I found several letters addressed to
"James McIntyre, second mate of the ship Thames."
They were all in the same hand-writing, but only one
had any post mark, and I could not make out what the
name of the place was. The seals were all broken
open, and the letters appeared to have been much read.
I found them tied together with a rope-yarn. Sitting
with them in my hand, I fell into a deep reverie, on the
probable fate of the person to whom they were address-
ed, and the sufferings of the writer, when, after vainly
expecting his return, all was given up for lost. This led
me to think of my own friends, who had probably mourn-
ed me as dead; and brought up so many painful thoughts
that a flood of tears followed, and I was obliged to quit
these memorials of affection, take a turn on the terrace,
and attend to some of my daily concerns in order to
recover my composure.
I had been taught to consider it a very mean action
to read any manuscript that was not intended for my pe-
rusal, and when I lived among men, I never had the
least desire to look into any papers or letters that did not
concern me ; I was therefore greatly surprised at the curi-
osity I now felt, to read the letters that had accidentally
fallen into my hands.
I was ashamed of my feelings, and determined not to
gratify them; so I put the letters out of sight and tried to
forget them, by occupying myself with other interesting
144 A WATCH.
personal effects, that I found in the chests and tills; such
as a thread-case well filled with needles and thread, a
present no doubt from some kind female friend or rela-
tion ; the sight of it reminded me directly of the one I
had possessed, and of Mary's speech when she gave it
to me, which proved a foreboding of what actually
befell me. I was in danger of falling into another mel-
ancholy reverie, when I was suddenly cheered up by
the welcome sight of a watch; a large, bright-looking,
silver watch lay among the miscellaneous contents of this
till. I had always wished for one very much, and now
I had tools, I had intended trying to mend the one I
found in Gordon Vale; but it was so much broken and
so rusted that this was quite a hopeless task, and I rejoiced
exceedingly in finding one that appeared to be whole.
I seized it and applied the key to it, but, to my great dis-
appointment, it unwound as fast as I tried to wind it; I
then looked at the works and saw that the chain was
broken, which was enough to account for its doing so.
If this was all the injury, I knew I could mend it; so to
work I went directly, and though I did not use any watch-
maker's tool, but merely a woman's implements, needle
and thread, I soon had the satisfaction of winding and
setting the watch, and hearing it tick. There seemed to
me to be real company in the ticking of that watch, and
I hung it up in a conspicuous place.
As soon as I had looked and listened to it enough, my
thoughts returned to those letters, and I felt the strong-
est desire to read them. Cut ofFas I was from all social
intercourse, I longed to share in the thoughts of other
minds; to peruse these written pages, which were proba-
bly the outpourings of family affection, appeared to me
the greatest pleasure I could have in my present situa-
tion; but I remembered how I had always regarded
looking into other peoples' letters, and I determined not
to do it. So, to divert my thoughts, I went again to over-
hauling the tills in the mate's chest; and as their con-
tents were very characteristic of the profession and prov-
ed very useful to me, I will here note down the principal
CONTENTS OF A CHEST. 145
items.—Two razors, one covered with rust; a box-wood
shaving-box with a brush beside it; a small looking-glass;
a coarse and a fine tooth comb; a small horn filled with
grease, and stuck full of sail-needles; a mounted palm
which is the kind of thimble sail-makers use ; two spare
jack-knives ; a small marline spike; a rusty pair of scis-
sors, a broken breast-pin in the shape of an anchor;
eleven horn buttons; and other trifles too numerous to
mention.
In the bottom of the chest I found to my great joy
four more books; a volume of Anson's Voyages; an old
romance in two volumes, with the title-page torn out of
each, and all the leaves soiled and defaced ; and "The
Complete Letter-Writer." Much as I wanted books, I
was disappointed in the contents of these; with the first I
was very familiar; the romance did not promise to be at
all instructive from the few pages I read in it; and the
last, being mere models of letters and not the expression
of real feeling, was uninteresting. I put them however
on the shelf with my other books, and went on sorting
and arranging my various possessions.
Those, who have always lived surrounded by every
article of necessity and even luxury, can form little
idea of the pleasurable feelings I experienced, in see-
ing, handling, and using such common things as a tea-
cup and saucer, a knife, fork, and spoon, a pewter tea-
pot, or even a tin cup. All these things looked beauti-
ful to me, and I was really delighted with arranging
them on shelves cut in the soft, rocky sides of my inner
apartment. As I had a great many more of these arti-
ticles than I had occasion to use, I thought it prudent to
pack up what I did not immediately want in a chest, and
deposit them in my store-house, at the brook, lest anoth-
er earthquake should deprive me of my subterranean
treasures. For the same reason I divided my tools, and
kept part of them at each place.
Among the articles brought from the wreck, but not
yet named in this narrative, was a suit of colors; and in
taking possession of them, I could not help contrasting
13
the condition of the good ship Thames when, with her
colors flying, and all her valuable stores on board for a
long whaling voyage, she sailed down the river whose
name she bore, with her forlorn appearance when, desert-
ed by her captain and crew, stripped of her masts and
sails, she was driven, tempest-tost, on this shoal. I now
overhauled this suit of colors, and determined that one of
them should grace my flag-staff, in place of the poor old
shirt, a very small fragment of which now remained.
As I was possessed of pulleys and ropes in plenty, I
meant to rig the flag-staff properly, in order to hoist and
lower the flag at pleasure. So one afternoon, I shoul-
dered an axe and a saw, a line and pulley, and walked
off to Signal Hill, with other tools in my pockets, and an
English jack* inmy hand. It was quite an amusement
to me, to climb the tree and pull down the old rag, and
then fix my little block firmly to the top of the stem, and
reeve the line through it. Having done this, I finished the
work of stripping the tree of its branches. While thus
employed, I could not help comparing the ease with
which I now chopped or sawed off large limbs, with the
difficulty I formerly had in getting off the small topmost
branches. "So much for edgetools," thought I, as I look-
ed at my useful axe and saw. When stripped of its
limbs, this tall, straight tree made an excellent flag-staff;
and having joined together the two ends of the line that
was rove through the block, I tied the flag to the line
and then pulled away till it was up to the block. The
loop was easily fastened to the trunk of the tree. The
ensign f made a fine show, and now I felt sure that no
English captain would come in sight of it, without mak-
ing an inquiry into its meaning.
At the end of a week, devoted to assorting and arrang-
ing my goods, I got my house into tolerable order; and
the things I was obliged to leave at the creek and upon
the terrace, were conveniently placed. I was now so well
* A certain flag so called.
t Another name for the same flag.
TOO MUCH LEISURE NEW PROJECTS. 147
off for provisions and utensils that I had a great deal of
leisure. Not being obliged to hunt the lama, or fish for
my daily food, and having now no inducement to tan
leather, or make pipkins, or contrive salt-pans, I became
rather indolent for a while ; and, as with other idlers, time
soon hung heavy on my hands. The week after I com-
pleted my arrangements, seemed longer to me, as it pass-
ed, than any previous one, since the first month I spent
on this island. I did nothing but read, and lounge about,
or play with Neptune and send him after sticks into the
water, and shoot a little in the woods, for mere amuse-
ment.
I found my body languid, and my mind sluggish and
apt to fall into sad reveries. On seriously considering
my condition, I saw there was danger of my newly ac-
quired treasures depriving me of what was far more val-
uable than any outward possession — health and cheer-
fulness; and I firmly resolved not to be so unwise and
so ungrateful to the Giver of all these gifts, as to suffer
them to become snares instead of blessings.
I was convinced that active employment, both of
body and mind, were necessary to my health and happi-
ness ; and that even on a desert island I had no right to
waste my time in idleness. I endeavoured to fix on a
plan of regular employment, and numerous schemes
were formed and rejected. Large as was my present
supply of provisions, I knew it would not last good more
than two years ; and as I might live here much longer
than that, it was most prudent to keep up the habit of
using such productions as the island afforded, for then
I should not miss my present luxuries so much, when
they were gone. These considerations made hunting
once or twice a week enter into all my plans. I wished
there was something that I felt obliged to do, for I al-
ways preferred necessary labor to what was done for the
mere sake of employment. At length it occurred to me,
that I must have a store-house, to keep my goods secure
from rain, before the wet season came ; and I resolved to
set about building one directly. The more I thought of
148 SECOND ANNIVERSARY.
it, the more necessary it seemed, and I rejoiced in being
obliged to set to work and in having tools to work with.
Thinking it best to divide my time between hard labor
and sedentary employments, I was planning a course of
exercises in writing and reading, when the idea struck
me for the first time, that I could write a narrative of
my own adventures.
The thought pleased me extremely ; for, next to the
desire of seeing my distant friends, was the wish that they
should be informed of my fate; and I resolved to put
my manuscript as fast as it was written, in some safe and
conspicuous place, so that if I should die here, it might
be found by any one who should touch at the island.
It will perhaps seem very strange that I did not imme-
diately set to work to build a boat out of the materials I
was so rejoiced to find; but various considerations made
me defer it. I had never sailed a boat, or seen one
built. I feared I should not succeed, and dreaded the
disappointment. I disliked the idea also of throwing
away my life, which had become bearable and almost
agreeable, in a fruitless attempt to improve my condi-
tion ; and the fear of exchanging my peaceful and inde-
pendent mode of living, for one of slavery among the
savages, more than counterbalanced my desire of seek-
ing companions, in on open boat, on an unknown sea.
When the idea of writing an account of my shipwreck
and residence on a desert island, came into my head, I resolved to complete that before I risked myself in a
sea voyage ; so that if I perished, my history might re-
main, and be one day made known to my fellow-men.
If it never reaches my own friends, I wish others to know
what I have endured, and what hardships and sufferings
a man may live through, and yet keep a stout heart and
trust in God through every thing.
The second anniversary of my shipwreck approached,
and I thought the best way of keeping it would be, to
begin upon that day both my great works, the store-house,
and the history of my adventures; but the memorable
14th of October returned before I had sufficiently set-
tied my plan of building, to begin. As I was not now so
fully occupied as before, the day did not slip by unob-
served. The moment I awoke I remembered it, and
my thoughts turned involuntarily on my far distant friends,
and the trying scenes I had passed through since I parted
from them. My mind being thus full of the subject, it
appeared to be the very time for beginning my nar-
rative, and accordingly I devoted most of the day to
writing. This occupation, by fixing my attention on the
earliest events of my history and exercising my intellect,
prevented my being as melancholy as I should have
been, if I had spent the day in thinking over all the trou-
bles I had met with, since I left my father's house. In
the evening, when I had tired myself with writing, I took
a walk to my favorite brook. Happening to seat my-
self on the very spot where I sat when I first visited the
little valley, I remembered that it was there I felt the be-
ginning of peace and calmness in my soul, after my ship-
wreck ; and my heart turned with renewed thankfulness
to God for his great goodness to me then, and his con-
tinued mercies ever since. A long train of thought fol-
lowed, in which, instead of numbering my trials as I had
often planned to do on this anniversary, I numbered my
blessings, and remembered how often all sense of loneli-
ness had been removed, by drawing near in spirit to God.
By meditating upon Him, by loving Him, by trusting in
Him, my sorrow had often been turned to joy, and I had
spent my time contentedly, even on a desert island.
These thoughts brought to mind the following hymn,
written by a French lady, and altered by me to suit my
own situation. I sung it with a full heart and loud voice,
before I quitted the spot for the night.
1.
"O Thou! by long experience tried,
Near whom no grief can long abide;
Dear Lord, how full of sweet content
I pass my years of banishment.
13*
150 DIFFICULTIES AS A WRITER,
"All scenes alike engaging prove
To souls impressed with sacred love;
Where'er they dwell, they dwell in Theer
In heaven, on earth, or on the sea.
3.
"To me remains nor place nor time;
My home is in an unknown crime. I can be calm and free from care
On any shore, since God is there.
4.
"Could I be cast where Thou art notr
That were indeed a dreadful lot;
But regions none remote I call,
Secure of finding God in all"
CHAPTER XX.
DIFFICULTIES A3 A WRITER — A STOREHOUSEMAKIPf*
CHARCOAL — WORKING AT A FORSE THE STOREHOUSE FINISHED.
Now that I was resolved on building and writing,
which would exercise both body and mind, I felt myself
justified in living for a while on my sea-stores, as it
took less time to prepare them ; so I divided the day
very methodically between my domestic affairs, the
erection of a store-house, and the history of my own ad-
ventures. I used to work hard morning and afternoon,
and write in the middle of the day, when it was too warm
to labor in the sun. I generally returned from my work
a little before noon ; ate my dinner in the cool shade of
my outer cave, with Poll on one side and Neptune on the
other, each being fed occasionally by a nice bit from my
plate. After dinner I washed my dishes, like a pro-
fessed cook, and put every thing away in its proper
place. Then I threw myself on my bed and slept half an
hour. This refreshed me and made me feel bright
A STORE-HOUSE. 151
for my writing, when I again seated myself at the
mouth of the cave, with the portable writing-desk, found
in the cabin of the Thames, placed on my clumsy table.
I found writing my own history much slower work
than I at first expected. I loved to dwell on every mi-
nute particular, in hopes it might be read by my dear
parents, who would wish to know every thing about their
poor lost son; and I was so out of the habit of writing,
that I made a great many mistakes, and altered and alter-
ed till the manuscript was illegible, and required to be
written all over again. This wasted my materials, of
which I had not a very large stock ; and when I found that
I had used up a quire of paper without telling more than a
quarter of my story, I became more careful, and consid-
ered better what I was going to say, before I put it
down. Sometimes my hand trembled so much, after
hard work, that I could scarcely write at all; but still it
was a very agreeable employment, and I seldom let a
day pass without adding something to my narrative. I
fear my friends will have a very poor opinion of my au-
thorship, when I acknowledge that I did not bring my
history up to the time of writing, till I was confined to
my cave by the next rainy season. Nevertheless I love
to tell, not only truth, but the whole truth; for I have
no wish to appear better or cleverer than I really am;
and if my readers will only sympathize in my trials and
sufferings, they are welcome to laugh at my weaknesses.
I was a good while deciding how to build my store-
house. My first idea was to make a log cabin, as I had
read of the early settlers doing in the woods of America;
but I feared that I could not lift and manage trees large
enough for my purpose; and as I did not need a warm
building, but merely a shelter from rain, I gave that up.
Mud walls and a thatched roof, like a Welsh or Irish
cottage, next occurred to me ; but to work in mud like a
beaver was not very inviting, so this too was rejected. I
was determined to build near my favorite book, among
the romantic slopes and rocks, trees and shrubs, that
ornament the little valley through which it ripples, before
it loses itself in the salt water of the creek. I could not
however make up my mind as to the materials or shape of
the building, till one day I observed a smooth, perpen-
dicular cliff, about eighteen feet high, and decided to
take that for one wall of the house. Some tall straight
trees grew at the foot of it, and by cutting down three
of them, I could make a clear space large enough for the
building, while those that remained would serve for
corner posts, and assist me, if I built of wood, in making
the side opposite to the cliff. A low front wall and a
long sloping roof, like that of a green-house, seemed to
me the easiest form to build, and having fixed upon
a thatched roofs and wattled ends,f I began to make
my preparations accordingly.
I fitted a handle to one of those scythes which I had
found on board the Thames, and with that I cut some
Tery tall, rank grass, the stalks of which were as big as
oat-straw, and spread it to dry, against I was ready to
thatch my house. The art of doing this, I had learnt
when a boy, by observing some laborers at work on a
cottage, and persuading them to let me try my hand at
it; and though they went over my work after me, and
did it better than my strength would allow me to do it,
yet I learnt the method, and felt sure that I could now
practise it.
After much cogitation, I -determined to turn mason,
and build the front wall of stone and mortar; the form-
er abounded on the spot, and the latter I could easily
make, having plenty of quick-lime among my stores, and
sand and water close at hand; and as the chief weight
of the roof would be on this front wall, I knew it ought to
be strong.
Trowels, plummet, leather apron, and every thing necessary to a mason, were found in the wreck; so I went
to work with great pleasure to dig the foundation of the
* A covering of straw or reeds, laid on very thick over th*
roof timbers, and fastened down with willow bands and wood-
en peg*.
t Slender branches woven together.
wall by line and measure, and then to build it as much
like a mason as I could. It was to be twenty-five feet
long, five feet high, and as thin as I could conveniently
make it with irregular fragments of rock, and yet have
it strong enough to support the roof.
It was so agreeable to me to work with good tools,
that I had great pleasure in building this wall ; and I
succeeded so well that instead of using the trees for
corner posts, I avoided them. Turning the corners with
my masonry, I continued the wall across the ends, leav-
ing spaces for door-ways, and making the end walls at
first no higher than the front one.
By the time I had done this, I had become so expert
with the trowel and mortar, that I thought it would be
the shortest way to build up the ends of stone high
enough to meet the roof. To do this I must have a
stage and a ladder; the former I made by resting the
ends of boards on barrels, and then putting another row
of barrels on the boards, and another set of boards on
them, and so on till the stage was as high as I wanted it;
the ladder was easily made out of the variety of small
spars that I now possessed, and I soon produced
a very good-looking substantial one, ten feet long.
With this, I could carry stones and mortar up to the
staging; but my masonry went on much more slowly
than before, for I found climbing up a ladder, and hold-
ing, at the same time, a large stone or a bucket of mortar
on my shoulder, no very easy task. 1 persevered how-
ever, and built up the ends till they were fifteen feet
high where they joined the cliff, and sloped gradually
down to the front wall.
My next business was to cut down tall, straight saplings
for rafters, and make notches in the cliff, three feet
from the top, to receive one end of each, while the other
rested on the front wall. Knowing it would be very dif-
ficult to prevent the rain from coming into the house,
where the roof joined the cliff, I thought it would help
the matter to make the joining at some distance below the
top of the rock ; and as that was a little overhanging, I
154 MAKING CHARCOAL.
hoped the rain would fall on the roof beyond the joining,
and so be conducted off.
I nailed pieces of wood across from timber to timber,
close enough together to support the thatch ; which I put
on in a masterly manner, and had the satisfaction of
seeing a tight, even, and very sloping roof, that would
carry off a deluge of rain.
I made a large door-way at each end of the building,
for the sake of admitting light and air to my goods; and
found plenty of boards and bulkheads, out of which I
made two capital doors; but what to do for hinges I did
not know. A whaling vessel has almost every thing on
board, but I could not find a pair of hinges among all
my stores; and when I had made my doors, I was
greatly disappointed at not being able to hang them. Hav-
ing succeeded so well in every part of my new building,
I did not like to have the doors incomplete, or fastened
up in any bungling manner; so I resolved, whilst my
hand was in as a mason, and I had mortar made, to set
up the forge I had found in the wreck, make some char-
coal to use in it, and try to form a pair of hinges out of
the iron in which I abounded.
As I had often seen charcoal made, I had no difficulty
in doing it except that of selecting a spot near at hand,
which I was willing to have disfigured by a charcoal pit;
for I loved the little valley of the brook so well, I could
not bear to have it there. At last I fixed on a place,
dug up the turf, made a shallow pit, and arranged
the wood in it so as to give it air enough to char, with-
out allowing it to blaze and consume to ashes. When I
had piled up wood enough, I covered it over with turf
and earth ; and leaving a sufficient number of vent-holes,
as I thought, I set fire to it in several places. It did not
burn well, but soon went out; I made more openings
and kindled it again, and then it burnt freely, and sent
out columns of black smoke at every vent-hole. In a
sheltered nook among the rocks of my favorite valley I
set up my forge ; to build the chimney, hang the bel-
lows, and fix the anvil, was a great amusement to me,
WORKING AT A FORGE. 155
and required no more ingenuity than I possessed ; but
whether I should be able to perform the part of black-
smith, and make any thing that would serve the purpose
of a hinge, I was a little doubtful; though, having all the
tools necessary, I was resolved to do my utmost to suc-
ceed.
When it was time to look after my charcoal, I opened
the pit and found plenty of ashes, but very little coal!
It had burnt too freely, and consumed instead of charring.
There was however enough to fill a pair of panniers, and
my faithful lama brought it to the forge for me. I had
not felt a doubt about being able to make charcoal, it
seemed such a simple operation ; but I found it required
experience, and it was not till 1 had tried several times,
that I could feel a certainty of succeeding.
Quite different from this was my experience at the
forge ; what had appeared very difficult proved tolera-
bly easy. I found I could heat iron, and hold it, and
hammer it into what shape I pleased, with far more facil-
ity than I had anticipated. My only mistakes were not
getting the iron hot enough to weld, which requires it to
be more than red-hot, and my hammering it too much
in trying to make the work smooth, and so reducing the
size more than I intended. My hinges were of the sim-
ple construction that I had seen on gates, a sort of large
iron eye with a staple that hooked into it. When these
were made and put on, and the two doors hung, I was
greatly pleased ; and the work of a smith was so agreedble to me, that I afterwards amused myself very often
with fashioning iron into various shapes. Among other
things, I made some arrow-heads, for I had become fond
of shooting with a bow when I had very clumsy arrows;
and now that I could make very good ones, I liked it
better than shooting with a gun.
My new store-house had quite a pretty effect under
the shade of the fine trees that grew close around it. It
reminded me of the pretty thatched cottage of the Eng-
lish peasant, and to make the resemblance still stronger,
I white-washed the walls with lime. It was complete
156 THE STORE-HOUSE FINISHED.
DOW in all respects but the floor; and though there could
not be a prettier carpet for it, than the fine greensward
that now covered it, I knew that would be so damp in the
rainy season as to be unfit to set my goods on. I there-
fore dug two narrow, deep trenches across it, and as the
wall was now settled and dry enough not to be injured
by it, I continued the trench under the foundation
and a good way beyond the building, to a slope in the
ground that would carry off the water. These drains I
filled with large stones put in loosely, and felt confident
they would make the ground dry within the building.
I forgot to say in the proper place, that in ridding my-
self of the three trees that stood within the walls of my
building, I did not cut them down entirely, but only took
off their branching tops, and left the trunks standing as
high as they could without interfering with the roof,
knowing they would be very useful; some of the forks
too, made by the branches, I left for the purpose of lay-
ing poles and cedar boards across from tree to tree,
and of hanging things upon them. When the building
was finished, I spent three days in cutting my name and
the date of its completion on a large stone in the wall.
It cost me many weeks of hard labor to build this
store-house ; but I had a great deal of pleasure and sat-
isfaction in doing it, was cheerful and healthy all the
time, and felt richly rewarded for my exertions when all
my goods and chattels were safely removed, from their
temporary shelter, to this substantial place of deposit,
and I saw them arranged in proper order within its walls.
There was another consideration which made me par-
ticularly well satisfied with this piece of work. It was
likely to last much longer than I should, and if the island
were visited after my death, it would afford proof that a
civilized being had resided here, and might lead to the
discovery of my manuscript.
BUILDING A PYRAMID. 157
CHAPTER XXI.
i
BUILDING A PYRAMID NEPTUNE'S SERVICES — THE PYRA-
MID COMPLETED A «RII»DSTONE.
To make a safe and conspicuous place of deposit for
my manuscript, was my next undertaking; and being
quite in the spirit of building, I lost no time in setting
about the necessary preparations. A stone monument on
Signal Hill was what I was resolved upon ; and whilst I
was thinking about the shape of the structure, I busied
myself in transporting my tools and materials to the spot
where it was to stand.
My old lama, whom I called Judy, did me good ser-
vice in carrying up lime and sand ; and the mortar was
made and the stones were selected before I could decide
on the form of the monument. Great strength and solidity
were necessary, to withstand the wind in this exposed situ-
ation; and yet it must not be so shapeless as to be mis-
taken at a distance for a mass of rock, or it would be
useless. After puzzling over the subject till I was tired
of it, and altering my mind so often that I seemed likely
not to set about it at all, I at last fixed upon a small pyra-
mid as the most enduring form, and one which I could
most easily build; it would also be readily distinguished
from the surrounding rocks.
Thinking it would help me forward with my work, I
took an irregular shaped rock for the centre, and de-
termined to build my pyramid around it. In order to
make the four sides equal, I dug a foundation eight feet
square, and placed a pole upright in the rock, so that the
top of it should be twelve feet from the ground, and
equally distant from each corner of the foundation. To
this pole I fastened four lines, and brought them down to
the four corners of the square base ; these marked out
the exact shape of the pyramid, and enabled me to build
it very evenly. ",
14
As the prevailing winds were from the south, the cav-
ity for the manuscript was to be on the northern or most
sheltered side ; there I meant to have a chamber two
feet square, smooth-plastered within, and closed by an
iron door. All the rest of the pyramid Was to be of
solid masonry.
The summit of Signal Hill was composed of ledges of
rock, with natural seams; I was thus able to separate
large slabs, and if I had had a fellow-laborer to help me
lift and transport them, the work would soon have
been completed. As it was, I proceeded but slowly,
though I made all the use I could of levers and rollers,
and even rigged a tackle to a neighbouring tree,
that I might the better move large pieces of the rock.
Very often the labor of a whole hour would be lost, for
the want of another hand to keep a rope from slipping,
or to push one end of a stone round while I held the
other, or to afford some such slight service as any second
person could have rendered me; I then sighed over my
lonely condition. After a while, I thought of making a
little cart on which to carry the stones from the
quarry to the monument. This I at length did by taking
the large lignum vitee * sheaves f out of four blocks,
and fastening them with axles to a broad piece of
plank. With a rope I could easily draw this vehicle
along, and it proved to be of great service to me ; for I
could rest my arms, after placing the stone on the cart,
before I lifted it to its place, while I moved it forward
by the rope passing round my waist.
I accidentally found out an easy way of splitting the
rock with wooden wedges. I had driven some in, very
hard and very close together, without success, when I
was obliged by a shower to quit my work for that even-
ing; on my return, the next morning, the rock was split.
The wedges were so swelled by the rain as to produce
* A kind of dark, heavy, firm wood,
t The grooved wheels of a pulley.
SERVICES. 159
that effect; and, availing myself of this hint, I was able
to proceed more rapidly.
While working on the pyramid I had exercise enough,
without walking to and from Signal Hill, twice a day j
so I used to ride backwards and forwards upon Judy,
and tether her, while I was at work, by a long rope,
kept on her neck for the purpose. One day she pulled
up the stake, to which the rope was fastened, and walk-
ed off among the hills. When I perceived she was gone,
I looked about for her in every direction; I climbed the
rocks and called after her, but all to no purpose ; and I
gave her up for that day. But my watchful companion,
Neptune, understood what was the matter, and off he
went full speed, in the track of the lama. I saw how
eager he was in the pursuit, but did not believe he would
be able to catch her if he found where she was. At the
end of an hour however, I saw the poor fellow laboring
up the hill very slowly, panting as if he were very much
tired, and holding the rope in his mouth, by which he
led the lama back to me. I suppose she gave him a
long run before he caught her; but when I saw them,
she was letting him lead her along very submissively.
Another day she broke loose as before, and I sent
Neptune after her, feeling very sure that he would soon
return with her; but to my surprise he returned without
her. I looked gravely at him, and immediately he set
off again; but came back in half an hour as before, with-
out the lama. He now jumped upon me, barked and
yelped, and ran a little way down the hill, and then back
again to me, as though he wanted me to follow him. I
did so, and then he ran on delighted; and, after winding
about among the hills for a considerable distance, he
brought me to where my poor old lama was fastened by
her tether to a tree. She had run round it till she had
wound the rope all up on the trunk ; and there she was,
lying down close to it, looking quite subdued and for-
lorn. I soon released her and led her back, with
Neptune for a guide, or I could not have found the short-
est way to my work
160 THE PYRAMID COMPLETED.
There was no water nearer the top of Signal Hill, tharr
a quarter of a mile ; and as I frequently wished to drink
when working so hard under an ardent sun, I taught
Neptune to bring me water in a cocoa-nut shell which I
fitted up for the purpose with a bale like a bucket. I
used to put the handle in his mouth and point to the
spring, when away he would scamper, dip it in the
stream and bring it to me about half or one third full.
I took great pains to teach him to bring it more careful-
ly so as not to spill so much; but he generally gave some
unlucky jump before he got back, that made his self-
command the rest of the way of no use.
After many days of constant labor the monument be-
gan to look as I expected and hoped it would. As I ap-
proached the top, I hammered the stones very carefully,
that the form might be regular and true. With the upper-
most one of all, I took great pains, and as it was a pret-
ty large piece, it cost me much exertion to raise it to its
place ; but it formed a very complete apex to the pyra-
mid, and so rewarded me for all my trouble.
On the whole, this humble imitation of the greatest
wonders of the world, was a respectable miniature ; and
I flattered myself it was as remarkable a production for
one pair of hands, as the pyramids of Egypt were for
the thousands that probably worked upon them.
On the largest and smoothest stone in the pyramid, I
carved my name, and the date of my shipwreck, with
the words " LOOK WITHIN "; and fearing this inscription
might, in time, become illegible by the wearing away of
the stone, I made one of iron letters out of nail rods, and
put it on the side where the iron door was. It took me
a great while to make all this iron work to my satisfac-
tion, and fasten the letters securely to the stone, but it
was at last accomplished ; it looked very well, and was
very substantial. I then made, out of a very hard kind of
wood that grew on the island, a box of my best work-
manship, to hold my manuscript; and only waited for
the monument to be dry enough to deposit there what
was already written.
A GRINDSTONE. 161
By the time all these works were accomplished, my
tools needed grinding very much, and I found I must
rig my grindstone so as to turn and grind at the same
time, or I could not use it at all. I had so often stood
by the side of the knife and scissors grinders in the streets
of York, and watched the motion of their large wheel
and treadle, that I was at no loss bow to fit up my grind-
stone. For a wheel I nailed two pieces of plank togeth-
er and sawed them round by a chalk mark made with a
string fastened in the centre. I cut a groove in the edge to
receive the band, and made an iron axle for it with a
bell-crank* to fasten the treadle f to; and another iron
axle for the grindstone and the little drums that was to
carry the band. When these parts were prepared, I
made the frame and legs, and the box for water under
the stone ; for I had heard my father tell my mother nev-
er to employ a grinder that ground with a dry stone, as
it takes all the temper out 5 of the steel. My mounted
grindstone looked very grand and workman-like; but
when I put on the band and tried to turn it with my foot,
I found, to my mortification and surprise, that it would
not go round at all. The treadle sank under my foot,
but never rose again. I sat down before it, and putting
my elbows on my knees, and resting my chin on my
hands, I determined to reason upon it till I found out
where I had failed. I now remembered that the lectur-
er I heard in York, explained all about fly-wheels, and
momentum, and treadles, and cranks ; he showed us also
some pretty models, and related some curious facts that in-
terested the audience very much; but just in the mid-
dle of his explanations, a stray dog walked up to the
lecturer's table, and looked so knowingly in his face,
that I could not help being diverted by it; thus, like a
* A crooked axle of this shape, f~l
t The part the foot is placed upon to produce motion,
j The broad wheel over which the band passes.
§ Softens it.
14*
162 A GRlNDSTOftE.
simpleton, I suffered the foolery this incident gave rise
to among my companions, to take off my attention from
the lecture entirely, and in this way, I missed the in-
formation which would now be so useful to me. I sigh-
ed over my folly, and then tried to exert my ingenuity
in finding out what I might have then learned. After
thinking some time, I perceived that my wheel and
drum were not large and heavy enough for the size of
the grindstone; and that, if I were to make them in the
same proportion with that of the scissors-grinder, they
would be too large to be moved by the foot; 1 accord-
ingly began to think that I should be obliged to contrive
some means of turning my grindstone by water power,
which would be a long and difficult business for one pair
of hands. My thoughts then wandered to my father's
back-yard, and the many times that I had turned his
grindstone for him. I recollected too, that in playing
with the grindstone I used to turn it very fast for some
time and then let go the crank, when it would fly round
several times of itself before it stopped. When this oc-
curred to me, I thought the same force which turned the
handle after I let go of it, would raise a treadle; as soon
as this possibility struck me, I went to work and fixed
the axle with the bell-crank and treadle to the grindstone
itself, instead of having a separate wheel. Full of doubts
and fears, I put my foot upon the treadle ; it went down
and rose again! I could continue the motion with my
foot, and make it turn very fast. Here then, I supposed,
was an end to my difficulties. But another disappoint-
ment awaited me ; when I applied my axe to the stone,
it went slower and slower, till at length it stopped, and
no exertions of my foot and leg were able to keep it
moving. This partial success, however, put me on a
right train of thought. It seemed to me that the force
which raised the treadle was made by the weight of the
stone, and the quickness with which it moved ; if there-
fore, I could increase either of these powers, I should get
force enough to turn it, when grinding a tool. The rate
of its going I could not increase, but its weight I could;
VARIOUS OCCUPATIONS. 163
so I cut out of the trunk of a tree, the size of which was
a little smaller round than the grindstone, a piece a foot
thick, and boring a hole through it, I put it on the axle
by the side of the stone. On trying the treadle it mov-
ed better than before; but even now it would not grind
an axe ; the most I could do was to sharpen my jack-
knives, and some small tools.
Very much disappointed at the small success which
attended all my labors and contrivances, and convinced
now that I never could grind an axe without some great-
er power than that of my foot, I gave up the matter for
the present, hoping some bright thought would occur to
me when my mind was less wearied with the subject.
CHAPTER XXII.
VARIOUS OCCUPATIONS —NEPTUNE—NEW CONTRIVANCE*
— NEPTUNE'S PERFORMANCE—A WATER-WHEEL.
IN the next three or four weeks, I made severa.1 excur-
sions among the woods and mountains, and visited the
vineyard in search of some ripe grapes, and Gordon
Vale to enjoy its beauty and its perfumes. I had, be-
sides, several fine lama hunts, and tried my new iron-
headed arrows with very good success. I believe that
what made me so fond of shooting with a bow, was having
heard in my childhood many stories of the famous English
archer, Robin Hood, who could split a willow wand at
one hundred yards' distance, together with my hav-
ing once attended, with my father, a meeting of John of
Gaunt's Bowmen,* and seen prize archery.
Besides this enjoyment of the fine weather, beau-
tiful scenery, and luxuriant vegetation, I busied myself in
* The name of a society that practices archery, and shoots
for prizes once a year.
164 NEPTUNE. cutting down, and piling up to dry, a stock of fuel for the
winter. As I was obliged to carry it home on the backs
of my lamas, in a sort of cradle made for the purpose, I
did not wish to increase the load by carrying any sap in
the wood.
In all my excursions I was accompanied by Neptune,
except when I hunted, and then I was obliged to leave
him tied up at home ; for he made the lamas very wild
by running after them, and spoiled my sport entirely,
without being of the least use. These animals had be-
come so shy, that it was with difficulty I could approach
them. As they always ran for the highest land, when
pursued, I used to have very fatiguing chases, and often
returned without any success. Their flesh, however, not
being now necessary to me for food, I did not like to
shoot them ; I merely wished to hunt them and run
them down, for the sake of the sport and exercise, and
that I might be able to catch them when necessary.
When Neptune was first added to my family, he did
not know how to behave himself to the lamas; I was
often obliged to interfere in their gambols to prevent his
playing too roughly^with the kids, and I had to chastise
him several times for driving them away, when they were
returning home at night.
After a while, however, he came to understand mat-
ters so well that, when they staid later than usual, he
would go after them and drive them home. By the
time Neptune and I had lived together a few months, he
understood every thing I said to him, and used even to
read my countenance wonderfully. His intelligence
seemed to me so nearly to resemble reason, that I valu-
ed his company exceedingly ; and if he was missing for
an hour or two, I felt lonely and uneasy at his ab-
sence.
Neptune did not get on with Mistress Poll so well as with
the other members of my family. She received all his
advances very ungraciously, and never let him approach
her without pocking his nose with her sharp bill, and
raising her voice in most discordant notes. I was some-
NEW CONTRIVANCES.
165
times amused, and sometimes provoked, with the silly
creature, for her continued hostility to one who never
offended her; but he was never disturbed by it, and al-
ways treated her as if she were of too little consequence
for him to resent any thing she did. It was curious
enough, that the first attempt she made at speaking
should be pronouncing the name of him she so disliked;
but she heard me say "Nep, Nep, poor Nep," so much
oftener than "Poll, Poll, pretty Poll," that she learnt to
repeat those words very distinctly, before she tried her
own name. I never shall forget the sensation it gave me,
when I first heard a word spoken on that island, by
another mouth than my own.
In all my various occupations and excursions, I kept
thinking about my grindstone, and trying to invent some
mode of turning it; for both my axes and all three of my
hatchets had become so blunt, I could hardly use them
at all. It frequently occurred to me, when near the
brook, that I should be obliged to use some of its pretty
little cascades to turn the grindstone; but the trouble and
labor of making a dam and a water-wheel seemed to me
so great, that I delayed in hopes of finding some easier
way. The idea of a small wind-mill occurred to me, as
a possible contrivance, but there were many objections to
that. After various plans, formed and rejected, I resolved
at last on trying a very simple method, suggested to me
by thinking about home, and the customs of my father's
house, where all the meat was roasted by a turnspit dog moving a large, hollow wheel or tread-mill, by his own
weight. "I will make a tread-mill," said I to myself,
"and teach Neptune to turn it." Very confident of
success, I made two large pieces of frame-work that
answered for a double set of spokes, and joined them to-
gether by staves, cut in pieces as long as I wanted the
wheel to be wide. I hung the wheel on an iron axle,
by putting one end of the axle on the fork of a small
tree and resting the other on a piece of plank fixed up-
right in the ground to receive it. On this end of the
axle I placed a little wheel with a groove in it, and on
166
the axle of the grindstone another, and then connected
them by a smooth cord. I turned the wheel with my
hand and the stone went round perfectly well. "Now,"
thought I, " if I can only teach Neptune to run in this
wheel, I shall be set up." I first coaxed him into it, by
placing his dinner there, and fixing the wheel so that
it should not turn round; but he did not like it very
well, and he jumped out as soon as he had done eating.
I had contrived the wheel so that I could shut him in-
to it, if I pleased, and meant, if no other way succeeded,
to teach him as young turnspits are taught in England,
and as I had often seen my mother's cook train puppies,
viz. by putting a little piece of hot coal into the wheel
behind him, which falling against his heels would urge
him forward, and keep him going till he should under-
stand what was required of him. But I could not bear
the idea of hurting my good dumb friend, if I could pos-
sibly do without it; and by dint of playing and coaxing,
and commanding and rewarding him, I taught him what
I wanted of him, without the hot coal,
Neptune trotted off finely, and round went the wheel
under him, while he remained in the same place. If he
could have reasoned a little upon his employment he
would have wondered how it could be, that he never
moved from the same spot though he was running as
hard as he could.
The grindstone turned very well though not very fast,
and sanguine of success I applied the edge of my axe to
it. Disappointment again attended all my efforts to
grind so large a tool. The dog's weight was only
sufficien to overcome the weight of the stone and
carry that round ; — the moment I bore upon the stone
hard enough to do any good, the dog was obliged
to stand still, for the wheel would not move under him.
I was greatly chagrined at losing so much time, pains,
and contrivance, and rather provoked with myself for
not having reasoned upon it, before I began to make the
wheel, enough to satisfy myself it would not succeed. But
the most trying thought of all was, that if I had attended
A WATER-WHEEL. 167
to the lecturer in York, I should have saved myself this
disappointment, and made a water-wheel at once.
When I had recovered from my chagrin enough to feel
in spirits to set about my water-works, I perceived that
my past labor would not be wholly in vain, as the large
wheel I had made for the dog to run in, would, with a
little alteration, serve for a water-wheel.
I first surveyed the brook, to find the best place
for a dam and water-course, and discovered a spot
higher up than I usually went, where nature seem-
ed to have done the work for me. The waters of the
brook were here collected in a natural basin, formed by
a quantity of stones and earth which had gathered about
some aged trees that had fallen across the stream. This
natural dam made a sufficient head of water for an
under-shot wheel, and the principal outlet was close to the
left bank of the stream, on which were all my other
works. Now the first thing to be done, was to get rid
of the water while I made my race, and set up my
wheel; and the readiest mode seemed to be, to stop up
this outlet in a temporary manner, and let the water rise,
till it found vent at some other place. There was some
danger, to besure, that the increased pressure would
carry away the whole embankment, and thus spoil my
project; but I ventured it, and anxiously watched the
little basin, filling higher and higher, till at length it dis-
charged itself without injury to the natural dam, and at
a convenient distance.
I now planted firmly, in the bed of the brook, two posts,
to support the wheel; and having made a large wooden
trough for a race, I secured it in a slanting direction, one
end joining the temporary dam, and the other reaching to
where I thought the lower part of my wheel would come.
Then I made a substantial frame and gate at the top of the
race, to let the water in, when the dam should be remov-
ed. Neptune's tread-mill was converted into a water-
wheel by placing on the outside of it a series of projecting
pieces, called, I believe, float-boards, which would catch
the water as it fell, and cause the wheel to turn round. I
made the axle to extend beyond the post nearest the bank
168 A SHED BUILT.
and over the green margin of the brook, as the grindstone
was to be fitted to that end of it. Having filled up the
space around my face firmly with stones and sods, and
hung my wheel, I took away my temporary dam, and let
the water come against the gate. So far all promised
well, and with a beating heart I proceeded to raise the
gate. The water rushed down the race upon the floats
with such force and splashing that I started back, and the
next instant the wheel went round to my entire satisfac-
tion, with a regular motion and at a quicker rate than
I expected.
Now remained the oft repeated test of applying the
edge of a broad axe to the surface of the stone. Twice
before, the stone had turned as well as it did now, but
had ceased to move on applying the axe; so with a
trembling hand and fearful heart I held it to the stone.
It did not alter its pace. I thought my anxiety made my
hand weak, and that I did not bear on hard enough ; so I
pressed harder and heard the welcome sound of the grit
of the stone taking hold of the iron, and saw a bright
line made along the edge of the axe without sensibly al-
tering the motion of the wheel.
This experiment succeeded completely, and I was de-
lighted.
CHAPTER XXIII.
A SHED BUILT — VALUE OF BREAD — HOW TIME GOES — A
BAY DISCOVERED A NARROW ESCAPE NEPTUNE ACT-
ING NURSE.
I OBSERVED with pleasure that the lamas I had tamed,
became more and more dependent. Weaned from their
natural habits, they were less capable of taking care of
themselves, and relied more upon me; and as one of
the great trials of my situation was having no one but
myself to care for, I was rejoiced to find these dumb
creatures look up to me for food and shelter. The de-
VALUE OT BREAD. 169
sire they had shown to take refuge from the rain in my
cave, determined me to construct a shed for them on the
terrace; and as there were eight now domesticated, it
required a good-sized building to accommodate them.
I placed it against a perpendicular cliff and made use of
a thatched roof, like that of my store-house; but instead
of a low front wall, I let the roof timbers rest on the
ground, and left both ends open for air and light. A rough
kind of manger held their provender; and when they
were all ranged along in my rude stable, and fastened by
their halters, they looked quite like a stud, and gave me
a pleasure superior to that of a German prince, whose
steeds inhabit a building fit for a palace.
I had not forgotten to gather a good stock of the plant
that the lamas were most fond of; and as it grew only on
the highest hills, I often devoted a whole day at a time
to collecting and bringing it home. I used to ride Judy,
when I went on these foraging expeditions, in the service
of her own species; and she would carry me, of her own
accord, to the places where the plant was abundant.
If I muzzled her, to prevent her eating it, she would look
further and find more; and when her panniers were
filled, I let her satisfy herself, before we returned.
All this summer I lived chiefly on bread and fruits.
In my hunting and shooting excursions, I used to
put three or four hard biscuits in my pocket, and these,
with the wild fruits of the island, made me a delicious
repast, wherever I was. I dried a large quantity of fine
grapes, and packed them down close in a clean, dry
half-barrel, where they kept as well as those sold in box-
es in England.
Though I lived so much without animal food this
summer, I did not lose my strength, because I had the
staff of life, as bread is truly called; and there is so
much nourishment in wheat, that it kept up my health
and strength finely. I even felt better with this diet in
very warm weather, than when I ate meat. But I saw,
with concern, that my stock of bread diminished fast; I
dreaded being again without that first and best of all
15
170 HOW TIME GOES.
kinds of food. If I had had any wheat in the kernel, I
should have tried to raise my own bread-stuff; but there
was none among all my stores- In looking for wheat,
however, I found a bag of barley, put up, no doubt, to
feed fowls on; so I determined to plant some of it, and see
if I could not get a crop of this inferior grain, before my
wheat bread was all consumed. I had once tasted bar-
ley bread and thought it very tolerable.
I knew how many operations, requiring new contriv-
ances, would be necessary, before a crop of barley, even
if it grew and ripened well, could be converted into a
loaf of bread ; but I did not despair, now I had tools, of
accomplishing the whole process, if the grain did but
come to perfection. I could not tell whether it would
be best to sow the seed in the autumn or the spring; so I
thought I would sow half at one season, and half at the
other. Accordingly, I set to work; selecting a piece of
ground, I dug it over with a spade, and then made a
rake serve the purpose of a harrow, throwing in the seed
as I had seen farmers do. This sort of work was quite
new to me; I liked it so much that I resolved to have a
garden in the spring, and amuse myself with cultivating
vegetables and flowers, although nature's gardening was
carried on around me upon so grand a scale.
I tried to be regular and methodical in the distribution
of my time and labors, and had generally made a point
of writing and reading a little every day ; still my writing
advanced but slowly. When deeply engaged in any im-
portant work, I sometimes gave myself up to it entirely,
and was often too tired to do any thing at night, but get
supper for myself and my dumb companions, and go di-
rectly to bed.
The various occupations of this summer made it pass
away very agreeably; though, on looking back to the
storm that drove the wreck on shore, at the end of the
last rainy season, the interval seemed a long one. The
weeks were so marked by different pieces of work, at-
tempted or accomplished, and especially by the great and
exciting task of clearing the wreck of its valuables,
that this period seemed longer than the whole time that
preceded it.
I looked forward with pleasure to the approaching
winter, when there would be nothing to tempt me abroad,
and I could devote myself to writing my history. My
heart filled with joy and gratitude, when I contrasted my
situation now with what it was at the beginning of the
first rainy season I spent on the island.
In one of my lama hunts, during the latter part of
summer, I made a discovery, which proved that I had
not yet explored the whole of the island. I suppose the
mountains had deceived me, and by turning me out of
my intended course, had prevented my visiting a bay on
the northeast side, till now; when I unexpectedly came
upon it, and found a sheltered situation for vessels to lie
at anchor in. My heart sank within me, as I reflected
on the possibility of a merchantman or whaleman having
put in there, for wood or water, since I had been on the
island, and of my having missed an opportunity of being
taken off. After a careful examination of the shore, and
the ground about the nearest springs, I satisfied myself
that no one had lately been there; but considering it far
more likely that a vessel should approach the island on
the north side, where this fine bay would afford them
shelter, than on the south, where there are so many rocks
and shoals, I thought of putting up a signal on one of the
high hills seen from the bay.
This, however, I was prevented from doing, by an un-
accountable sense of danger, which always arose in my
mind, whenever I thought of setting about it. I had
never felt so about my first signal; and it seemed to me
so foolish and inconsistent to have a flag on one side of
the island and none on the other, that I once made some
preparations for erecting a second; but all my cheerful-
ness forsook me, and I felt as though I was about to do
something wrong; I therefore gave it up. The peaceful,
happy feelings I had, when I resolved not to put up this
flag, satisfied me I was right, though I could not see
the reason of it, The more I attend to what passes in
my own mind, the more my heart is filled with love for
the Great Creator of that mind, and the more dependent
I feel upon him for help and guidance in all I do, or
think, or feel.
When I read the Scriptures in this perfect solitude,
they speak to me with new force and beauty; many ex-
pressions I now understand for the first time, and many
sentences which I used to think mere figures of speech,
I find to be literally true in my own experience.
I have now come to the last material circumstance
that occurred, before the wet weather began in good
earnest. There had been a few showers, and the
clouds were gathering; but I thought I would take one
more ramble on the hills, and have one more lama hunt,
before I gave up the sport for the season.
The ground was rather wet and slippery ; but I became
deeply engaged in chasing a young lama, and had fol-
lowed her to some high ground, full of precipices and
crags, when she trotted up a slanting ledge of rock that
led to the brow of a perpendicular cliff. Stepping
along in a zig-zag course, to avoid the steepness of the
ascent and secure a footing, I saw her directly over me,
and her hind legs within reach. In my eagerness to
seize hold of her, I threw my whole weight on one foot;
it slipped from under me and I fell to a great depth be-
low, dragging the lama with me (for I held her firmly by
one leg), and we rolled and tumbled together to the bot-
tom of the cliff. My senses forsook me in falling, and I
know not how long I lay on the ground before I recov-
ered them; but when I opened my eyes, I was lying
upon a dead lama, very much bruised, and my clothes
were stained with blood; but on trying to move, I
found I had the use of all my limbs. A sprain in my
ancle and some severe bruises were all the injury I had
received, in a fall which had killed the lama; and I did
not doubt, that bringing the animal down with me had
broken my fall, and perhaps saved my life.
Thankful to have escaped so well from such a foolish
and useless risk of life, I made the best of my way home.
NEPTUNE ACTING NDBSE. 173
Walking, however, was extremely painful, and I was
nearly exhausted by suffering and fatigue, when I met
one of my lamas grazing at the foot of Fort Hill; I
gladly mounted her and rode home.
Neptune greeted me very affectionately, and seemed
to understand directly that something unusual was the
matter; for he looked on with a countenance that ex-
pressed the greatest concern, while I wrapped up my
limbs with a plaster of salt and tallow, which, I had
learnt from my father, was the best thing in the world to
remove the soreness and stiffness of bruised and sprained
muscles. When I retired for the night, the good dog
took up his station, for the first time, at the foot of my
bed, like a kind nurse; and whenever I moved, he
awoke and watched me till I fell asleep again. It is
impossible for me to describe, how grateful to my feel-
ings was the conduct of this dumb friend; it often
brought tears into my eyes.
I congratulated myself that my accident had occurred
at the end of the pleasant season, and that I should lose
but little out-door exercise by it. The application I
used, cured the soreness and stiffness of my limbs; but it
was several weeks before I recovered from the sprain in
my ancle.
CHAPTER XXIV.
FAMILY ANECDOTES—A NEW TABLE — CHAIR-MAKING —
NEW USE OFA RAZOR — A CURIOUS WORM — END OFTHIRD WINTER.
As my arrangements were nearly completed before
my accident, and as the heavy rains came on soon after,
I had few inducements to venture out; my lame ancle,
therefore, had time enough to get well. With so many
comforts and even luxuries around me, I did not dread
174 FAMILY ANECDOTES.
the confinement at all, but determined to be very indus-
trious with my pen, and bring my narrative up to the
present time, before the fine weather should return.
I found Neptune a very amusing companion, and many
hours were insensibly beguiled, by the pleasure of teach-
ing him to perform certain tricks, and by settling quar-
rels between him and Poll. She behaved so ill to Nep-
tune, that I did not like to let her go at large; yet, as
she disliked her cage, I could not bear to keep her in it.
So I made a long perch for her, and placed it near the
mouth of the cave, high enough to prevent her peck-
ing at the dog; to this I fastened her, with a light chain,
made of iron wire, and a ring that traversed the perch.
Thus giving her as much liberty as she would use
properly.
When Poll once began to speak, she improved very
fast, and I taught her to say many things, just for the
sake of hearing words spoken, that I did not utter myself.
Though this parrot talk had no meaning, and the bird
did not know when she spoke my name, and when the
dog's, yet it gave me great pleasure to hear her say,
"Robin, poor Robin," or "Poor Robinson Crusoe,"
which she did very distinctly. She imitated my whist-
ling for the dog so exactly, that Neptune would come run-
ning to me, thinking it was I who called him; and she
added to her accomplishments a frightful noise, which
she meant for barking, but which I could well dispense
with.
One member of my family absconded, during the
time I was so busy on Signal Hill. My Jack-in-a-box,
as I called the terrapin, grew tired of solitude and made
his escape, which on reflection, I was not sorry for. To
separate him from his fellows, and lessen the number of
his enjoyments, when there was no necessity for it, and
when I could give him nothing in exchange for liberty,
was really cruel; and I regretted having kept him a
prisoner so long.
When any thing called me abroad in the rain, I was
glad to put on my suit of home-made clothes, which
A NEW TABLE. 175
Were a much better protection from the wet weather
than broadcloth. The first time I dressed myself up in
these hairy garments, Neptune did not know me at all,
but was much frightened at my uncouth appearance; and
it was some time before I could reconcile him to it, or
make him come near me. Whenever I exchanged
them for my European dress, he would jump upon me,
lick my face and hands, wag his tail, and show as much
joy, as if I had returned after an absence. This dog
was not, however, wanting in courage; he always met
any known danger bravely, but he was apt to be alarmed
at new sights. Much as I wished to get on with my
narrative, I could not write more than two or three hours
at a time without cramping and tiring my hand so much,
that my words became illegible and I was obliged to
change my occupation. When this was the case, I
found the use of tools the best relief; I was fond of car-
penter's work, and this I could do and yet continue think-
ing about my history, and so prepare matter for the next
time I sat down to write.
As my few wants were well supplied, I did not know ex-
actly what to make with my tools; and having no one to
work for but myself, I was apt to say, such and such a
thing will do well enough for me; why should I trouble
myself to contrive any thing better? This want of mo-
tive to exertion, was the reason why I did not do many
things that occurred to me, and will perhaps enter the
minds of my readers.
It was a pleasure to me to work, whenever I had a
sufficient inducement, and I often taxed all my ingenuity
to find one. At last I made myself believe I should
write better, if I had a less rickety support for my writ-
ing apparatus. Once convinced of this, I went to work
with great zeal and pleasure, to make a substantial, well
Eroportioned table. Thinking to improve upon my three-
igged bench, I determined that this new piece of furni-
ture should have four, well shaped legs; but after taking
great pains to have them all exactly of the same length, I
found there was not a place on the uneven floor of my
176 CHAIR-MAKING — NEW USE OF ARAZOR.
dwelling where they could all rest on the ground at once,
though I perceived that three would touch anywhere.
This taught me the necessity of returning to that num-
ber, and making my table suit my floor.
A higher and easier seat, I also found desirable; and I
undertook to make a chair with a back to it, because I
thought an easy posture of the body would be favora-
ble to recollection and composition, and nothing was
indifferent to me that would help me on with my history.
It was a difficult undertaking for me, to make a firm,
even, three-legged chair, with a leather seat and high
back; and I labored at it several days, before it was far
enough advanced for me to try it. When it was nearly
finished, I seated myself in it; but, to my great disap-
pointment, instead of finding any comfort or repose, I
never sat on so uneasy a chair. The back was too up-
right, the seat too narrow, and I felt as if I was slipping
out of it all the while; nothing could be more wearisome
than sitting in it. To work I went, to alter its whole
shape, and after many trials I at last formed a chair that
was tolerably comfortable, though not very good-look-
ing-
Another small piece of work was making a wooden
sword, with which to practise the broad-sword exercise;
this I found to be a very salutary exertion of the mus-
cles, and one which could be made in a small space.
It was well for me that my stock of quills were all
ready made into pens; for I did not possess a pen-
knife, and it was not till I had written a great deal, and
been so saving of my pens as to spoil the looks of a good
part of my writing, that I thought of trying to mend a
pen with a razor, and found it answer the purpose per-
fectly well. I was not afraid of spoiling the edge of this
instrument for its proper use, as I preferred wearing my
beard ; it protected my chin from the sun, and from the
attacks of mosquitos, and was much less troublesome than
shaving. Besides this, I always thought it a barbarous
custom to cut off this natural and appropriate ornament
of the face of man ; old pictures and busts, that repre-
A CURIOUS WORM. 177
sent persons with their beards, always looked very
comely to me; so I thought I might as well gratify my
taste, and consult my convenience, by letting mine grow.
Considering the uncertainty of life and health, and be-
ing very desirous that all which was written of my histo-
ry should be preserved from accident, I used, whenever
a chapter was completed, to button it up under my jack-
et, put on my hairy garments over the others, mount up-
on Judy, and ride off to the pyramid, to deposit it safely
in the box, in the little chamber of the monument.
By making it my chief business, to write as much as I
could every day and all through the long, rainy evenings,
I have at last brought up my narrative to the present
time ; and as the winter is not quite passed, I shall miss
this daily employment very much.
I will here add one remarkable incident which occur-
red to me last summer, but which I have omitted in its
proper place. During the hottest weather, and some
days after a long walk over swampy ground, I was troub-
led by an inflammation on my ancle. Thinking it was a
bile, I poulticed it, to bring it quickly to a head, that I
might not be hindered by it. One evening, I was chang-
ing the poultice by the light of a lamp, that shone full on
the inflamed spot, and saw something project from it in a
curious way. It was white, round, and smooth, of about
the size of a large bristle. I took hold of it and pulled
it gently ; it came out several inches. Amazed at this,
and not knowing how long or what it might be, and
fearful I was pulling out some part of my body, I stop-
ped to consider what I had best do.
As I sat with my eyes fixed upon this new object of
wonder, I perceived it to move a little; and keeping my
ancle quite still, I saw plainly that it was alive and ought
therefore to be removed; so I continued pulling gently,
till I had drawn it out twelve inches at least. My
amazement kept pace with the length of the worm, but
not my strength, for by the time I had pulled it out eigh-
teen inches, I was quite faint and qualmish ; so I re-
solved to do no more at it that night. But being very de-
178 END OF THE THIRD WINTER.
sirous that this intruder should not return to his lurking
place in my flesh, I wound up what I had pulled out on
a stick, and bound up my ancle for the night. The next
morning, I went to work upon it again, pulling and
winding as I pulled, till I was lost in astonishment at the
length of the operation. Fearing that this slender crea-
ture would break in two, and that the part which re-
mained in my flesh would. trouble me, I was careful to
draw it out very gently ; but though I felt no pain, the
operation again brought on faintness and nausea, and I
was obliged to desist for some hours. In the evening
I rid myself of this extraordinary worm, which I had
wound upon a stick and could not therefore see its length
till it was unwound, when it measured more than five
feet; how much more I will not say ; for no one would
believe the whole truth, and what is already told is enough,
I fear, to make those, who do not know the author, disbe-
lieve the story. But if this is ever read by my parents
and friends, they will know, that what I gravely assert to
be true, is not to be doubted, and they will believe this
account of the hair worm as I call it. I never suffered
any further inconvenience; the wound healed up very
soon, and I preserved the worm in a bottle of spirits,
which I had among my stores, and which I came very
near not bringing on shore, thinking ardent spirits would
be entirely useless to one who never drank any in
his life. As I do not like to have the character of tell-
ing what are called travellers' stories, I shall put the bot-
tle, with the worm in it, in the pyramid; and I request
that whoever takes the manuscript, will also take the
bottle, and carry both together to my friends.
Now that my past history is completed, I shall not
mind running some risk of my life; therefore I intend,
when the fine weather returns, to try my hand at boat-
building, and if I succeed in putting together the materi-
als I have by me, I shall vary my amusements by sailing
about the shores of this beautiful island. I shall also pay
great attention to raising barley, and making the neces-
sary arrangements for converting it into bread. These
are my two great projects for the coming summer.
I shall now deposit this last chapter of my narrative
with the others, and continue the account of my resi-
dence here, by keeping a diary.
CHAPTER XXV.
THIRD ANNIVERSARY — BARLEY FIELD AND GARDEN—BOAT-
BUILDING— LAUNCH OF THE BOAT — ROWING AND SAIL-
ING— SHIFTING BALLAST—A HEAD WIND AN ALARM-
ING SITUATION—A FAVORABLE CHANGE.
WHEN I completed the foregoing part of my nar-
rative, I intended to continue it in the form of a diary;
but on further consideration, I am convinced that in so
doing, I should note down many things which might
seem interesting at the moment, but would not be worth
reading a little while after. There is not much variety
in my life from day to day, and my stock of writing ma-
terials is small ; so I have thought it best to write at in-
tervals of several months, and give a general account of
what has occurred.
The winter passed away as I have described, but the
weather continued unsettled longer than usual. I spent
the third anniversary of my shipwreck in reading, medi-
tating, and comparing my situation with that of travellers
who have fallen into the hands of savages or pirates,
or who have been made slaves by Moors or Turks.
By dwelling on the blessings which I had enjoyed in this
solitude, and thinking how much worse my condition
might have been, I did not feel so melancholy as on the
preceding anniversary.
When at last the clouds and vapors disappeared, and
the sun shone forth in all his splendor, I began my rides
and walks, which were rendered doubly agreeable by my
previous confinement.
180 BARLEY FIELD AND GARDEN.
I had the pleasure of finding that my store-house had
preserved my goods in excellent order; the thatched
roof had kept out the rain, and the drains had prevented
the ground on the inside from becoming moist enough
to hurt any thing.
I took down my water-wheel at the beginning of the
rainy season, for fear the brook should be so swelled as
to break, or carry it away. I now replaced it; also my
forge was set up again as before, that all might be ready
for the new business of boat-building.
The barley that was planted in the autumn made its
appearance above ground in the course of the winter,
but grew very slowly ; and I sowed the rest of the grain in
another patch by the side of it. As my lamas roamed
about at large in the summer, it was necessary to en-
close my barley field. To do this with the least labor
and in the shortest time, I cut down some small trees, of
a light, soft kind of wood, and split them up into long, nar-
row pieces ; these I piled up in a zig-zag form, by lay-
ing their ends together, in the same way that we place
our fingers when we lock our hands together. I never
saw such a railing, but I once heard a traveller describe
one, which he had seen in some foreign country, I for-
get where.
When I enclosed my barley field, I took in twice as
much ground as that crop occupied, that I might make a
garden of the rest; and I have spent many hours very
pleasantly in preparing the land and transplanting a vari-
ety of wild fruit trees and vegetables, flowering shrubs
and plants, most of which do pretty well; though, having
taken them from various situations, I cannot expect them
all to live in one spot, with the same degree of heat and
moisture, and the same kind of soil. My farm and gar-
den are situated on a gentle slope of rich land, very near
my terrace, and I have great pleasure in watching the
growth of my crops. When those labors were com-
pleted, which required to be done early in the spring, I
devoted myself to boat-building.
BOAT-BUILDING. 181
Considering my entire inexperience in the business, I
succeeded tolerably well; with what I had seen and
heard of ship-building I managed to begin in a pretty
ship-shape way, as sailors say ; though I have no doubt
that I took far more pains than was necessary for build-
ing a boat. I laid a row of blocks of wood on the shore,
near enough to high water mark, at spring-tide,* for the
ways f to enter the water, that the boat in launching might
float as she left them. Then I made the ways of the
smoothest plank I had, and a cradle f that would slide
very easily on the ways, and yet be kept firmly in its
place by shores § till the boat was ready to go off.
All this had been explained to me once, by a ship-
builder, in his yard, where I went with my father to see
a merchantman launched; but I doubt whether I should
ever have got much farther in the undertaking, had I
not found a keel and two stem pieces, and a complete set
of ribs all ready fashioned to my hand. I think the peo-
ple on board the Thames must have intended to build an
additional boat, and made all these preparations on their
voyage; for some of the parts were numbered to show
how they were to go together, which helped me greatly.
My interest in the work increased very much, as I went
on, and by the time I had all the frame up and began to
nail on the long, narrow cedar boards, I thought boat-
building the pleasantest business I had yet attempted.
The smallness of the ribs, and lightness and delicacy
of every part of this boat, surprised me. If I had been
contriving a boat for men to risk themselves in, on the
ocean, in pursuit of whales, I should have supposed it
necessary to make the timbers much larger and to
build it in a much more substantial manner. The
* The tide which happens at or soon after the new and
full moon, and which rises higher than other tides.
f Two long, sloping pieces of wood, down which the cradle
slides into the water.
t A wooden frame, that supports the vessel on the ways.
§ Pieces of wood that are placed in a slanting direction,
from the ground to the side of the vessel, as props.
16
182 LAUNCH OF THE BOA*.
elegance of the form too delighted me, when I had put
on all the boards, and could see the beautiful outline of
her swelling sides and long, tapering ends. Fitting up
the inside with thwarts,* a floor, and cuddies f at each
end, was very agreeable work, and occupied me many
days. I had much pleasure too in painting this boat
with the paint I had brought from the wreck. I made
the outside white, with one green stripe near the top,
and the inside 1 painted green and white, in an ornamen-
tal manner.
I longed so much to see my pretty piece of work dis-
encumbered of her cradle and shores, and floating in the
water, that I could hardly wait for the paint to dry before
I launched her.
To fill up the time, I occupied myself in making a
small anchor for the boat ; this was the heaviest job of
smith's work that I had done. It tried the strength of
my arms to the utmost, and required the greatest heat I
could produce to weld together the shank\ and flukes. §
When at last my beautiful boat was ready to be
launched, I could not help sighing to think that I had no
one to sympathize with me in my pleasure at having com-
pleted it, no one to say how well it was done, no one to
look on and see it move off towards the water, when the
last shore should be knocked away.
I was sitting on a rock, waiting for high water, when
these sad thoughts crowded upon me, and converted
what I had looked forward to, as a joyful occasion, into
a sorrowful one. "Time and tide wait for no man," or
I know not how long my melancholy reverie would have
lasted. The ways were greased, the tide was high, the
last prop was to be removed ; I struck it with a beating
heart; it fell before my axe, but the boat did not stir.
* The pieces that go across the inside of a boat, and make
seats for the sailors.
t Small apartments in a ship or boat to put things in, that
must be kept dry.
t The straight piece of iron that joins the flukes.
§ The part that sticks in the ground.
BOWING AND SAILING. 183
Surprised and disappointed, I looked about on every side
to find out the obstacle. The boat rested in the cradle,
the cradle on the ways, and I could see no reason why
she did not go off. I gave her a push with my hand;
that impulse was all she wanted, and away she went with
a gentle but increasing motion, till she dipped her bows
in the water, and floated off as light as an egg-shell. I
had fastened one end of a coil of rope to her, and with
it I checked her motion when she had reached the mid-
dle of the creek.
This complete success raised my spirits; and though
deprived of human sympathy, there was one faithful
friend present, whose noisy rejoicings were some substi-
tute for the cheers that always attend a good launch, and
whose carresses I received instead of the compliments
usually bestowed on the master builder. Neptune bark-
ed and jumped, as if he were almost frantic with excite-
ment, when the boat went off; then he came and fawn ed upon me, and licked my face and hands,—and last of
all, as if he meant to act out the doings of men on such
occasions, he went off to the boat. But there the pa-
rallel ended, for with all his strength and sagacity he could
not get on board.
For several days after my launch, I amused myself
with rowing or sculling about the creek, or venturing a
little beyond the mouth of it, and exploring the coast on
each side ; but as it was hard work for one pair of arms
to row so large a boat, I was very careful not to expose
myself to any strong current.
I next made some experiments in sailing as well as
rowing. With a mast fixed as I had seen it in other
boats, and the main royal sail of the Thames rigged so
as to be easily hoisted and lowered, I pushed off from
my natural wharf of rock, and sailed down the creek with
a side wind, which would, I knew, be fair both ways. I
enjoyed the motion extremely, and felt it quite a luxury
to be carried along without any muscular exertion. The
wind, though light, came in puffs over the land, and each
time it struck the boat, she leaned on one side in a fear-
ful manner. At first I thought she would inevitably up-
set, but I found she went so far and no farther; in smooth
water, therefore, there was no danger, though in any
thing of a sea she would certainly have filled. After a
while, I found the reason of this was, my having no bal-
last on board, and I laughed at myself for forgetting such
an essential thing, when I had remembered so many of
less consequence.
I found the whaleman's mode of steering with a long
oar very inconvenient, and determined to make arudder *
and tiller f before I took another voyage. To do this
I was obliged to exert my ingenuity at the forge in mak-
ing pintles J and gudgeons § to hang the rudder to the
boat with. But I was now so practised a blacksmith,
that I made much better work of it than when I first at-
tempted something of the same sort, as hinges for the
doors of my store-house.
My next sail was with a rudder and a sufficient quan-
tity of smooth, round stones for ballast, that I pick-
ed up on the shore. The boat now worked much bet-
ter. It did not toss about as before, and I made a con-
siderable voyage along the southern shore towards the
Land's End. By my knowledge of this part of the
coast I was able to avoid the shoals and rocks, and keep
in the deepest water. The weather was delightful, and
the soft south-wind just strong enough to make the boat
dance beautifully over the waves; and as I lolled at my
ease, and guided her by a gentle touch of the tiller, it
seemed possible for me to traverse, in this manner, the
whole expanse of waters that divided me from my fel-
low beings. It was quite an effort of mind to recall the
different appearance of this same ocean, when tossed
* A broad, flat piece of wood attached to the hind
part of a vessel by hinges, or gudgeons and pintles, by which
her course is governed.
t The handle that moves the rudder.
j Iron pins, that hook into the gudgeons, and are fast-
ened to the rudder.
§ Iron eyes, driven into the stern post, to receive the pintles
of the rudder.
SHIFTING BALLAST. 185
-about by agale of wind, and to conceive how sudden
the transition might be, from my present safety to immi-
nent danger.
A slight circumstance, however, soon convinced me
that, without any change of weather, a little want of skill
would put my boat in jeopardy, though not my life, as I
could swim well enough to reach the shore, from any
part of the course I then steered. As I passed by the
hilly land and approached the Land's End, a puff of
wind made the boat heel * very much, and the ballast shift-
ing to the leeward side, prevented her rising again when
the wind abated. The waves also were a little higher
here, and every now and then one broke over the gun-
nel t.Another such puff, and the boat would certainly
fill and sink ; accordingly I lowered the sail as quickly as
possible, and began moving the ballast with my hands to
the higher side. When, by this means, the boat righted,^.
I opened the scuttle, 5 and baled out the water with a
copper dipper I had put on board for that purpose.
This accident reminded me of having seen in boats a
board, placed lengthwise in the bottom, which divided
the ballast into two portions; and now for the first time I
perceived that its use was to prevent the ballast from
shifting, as mine had done to the lower side. I there-
fore resolved to have such a contrivance myself, before I
made another excursion ; for the bare idea of losing my
pretty boat, now I had taken so much painslo build it,
and derived so much pleasure from it, greatly disturbed
me.
I doubled the cape which I call the Land's End, and
reached Gordon Bay without any further accident. There
I moored my little bark, and paid a visit to the beautiful
cascade and perfumed groves of the valley; when I had
made my dinner of some cold provision and taken a short
nap, it was four o'clock before I was aware of it.
* Lean down on one side.
f Gunnel or gunwale, the upper edge of the boat.
j Recovered her upright position.
\ A small part of the floor that takes up.
16*
I was awakened by my good dog Neptune, who was lick"
ing my hands and uttering low notes of delight at having
found me, for I left him tied up at home, not wishing for his
company in the boat, lest he might embarrass my move-
ments in working her ; and knowing, by experience, that
he would swim after me if at liberty. How he found
me out, I do not know, but there he was with the broken
rope by which I had fastened him, hanging about his
neck. After caressing him awhile, and rewarding him
for his affection with the remains of my cold dinner, I
re-embarked, leaving him to swim after me, or go by
land, as he pleased. The wind had changed to west, and
though very fair for my run to the Land's End, was very
unpropitious foe my return; but as I thought I under-
stood sailing on a wind, I expected to make a beating pas-
sage home, in a few hours. Neptune looked after me till
I turned the point, and then very wisely trotted off by land.
I steered my boat as near the wind as I could,
and tacked from time to time ; but my sail did not work
very well, and I regretted that I had not made a proper
sprit-sail instead of using this square one that belonged
to the Thames, which, though it did very well with a
fair wind, did not answer for beating. After doing my
best for three hours, and tacking a great many times, I
had not proceeded more than half a mile from the point,
when I found that I was contending against a strong current,
as well as a head wind. Despairing now of reaching the
creek, or even the beach, this evening, I thought I would
return to Gordon Bay; for there was no place short of
that, where I could land and leave my boat in safety;
and I could not bear to moor her, where she would
probably knock a hole in her bottom before morning. I
therefore put down the helm, and turned round towards
the point; but I was carried back the half mile I
had come, so swiftly, that I had passed it long before I
thought of putting about, so as to go round it; and when
I did, I could no more reach Gordon Bay, than I could
make my passage home. The wind and tide were too
much for me, and I was somewhat alarmed to find my
AN ALARMING SITUATION. 187
self carried away from the island, in an easterly direc-
tion, and the shades of night coming on. I did not
however lose my presence of mind, but did the only
thing that could be done. I continued tacking, and
beating up to windward, as well as my awkward sail
would permit, and so kept as near the land as I could,
hoping to avail myself of the first change in the wind, or
turn of tide. Soon after I was blown off from the point,
and while it was yet twilight, I observed something in
the water coming towards me, with a motion too uniform
for a fish; but it was some minutes before I discovered
it to be my faithful Neptune. When I turned back, he
was, I suppose, watching me from the land, and when
he found that the distance between us increased, he
swam off, and was so tired, that on reaching the boat, he
could hardly scramble into it with my assistance. That
he should thus come, to share my fate, when I consider-
ed it so full of danger and uncertainty, was quite touch-
ing, and made me welcome him with some emotion;
though I feared his weight and indiscreet movements
might add to the danger of the shifting ballast, should
the wind increase.
I was such a novice in sea-faring matters, and so ig-
norant of the management of a boat, that I hardly knew
what to apprehend, and yet I felt myself to be in a most
unpleasant situation. If the wind should increase, and
carry me out of sight of land, I should not know which
way to steer; for here in this southern hemisphere is no
pole-star to show which is south, and I reproached my-
self for not having observed the motions of the stars in
the Cross, sufficiently to regulate my course by them, as I
knew might be done. Here then I was, alone in a boat,
upon the wide ocean, without compass, or light, or pro-
vision, and carried off to sea by the wind and tide, just
as night was coming on.
Oh how desirable did my home, even on a desert
island, seem to me now, in comparison with my present
situation! How I blamed myself for venturing on the un-
stable element! How I wished myself ashore, on any
188 AFAVORABLE CHANGE.
part of the island! I bitterly lamented having thought so
much of saving my boat from injury, as not to land when
and where I could, and let her take her chance.
While indulging these vain regrets, the twilight had
entirely disappeared, but the stars made it light enough
for me to discern the island, though it looked only like a
dark streak in the horizon; I kept my eyes constantly
turned towards it, fearing every moment to lose sight
of it.
I perceived the wind to change a little and become
more favorable ; and as I knew the tide must turn in a
short time, I was beginning to feel more at ease, when a
new and unthought of circumstance rendered my situa-
tion more precarious than ever. A thick fog arose,
which hid the island entirely, obscured the heavens,
and left me at the mercy of the wind and the waves,
without any means of knowing which way the land lay.
All exertions on my part were now useless, so I low-
ered the sail, unshipped the tiller,* and gave myself up
to my fate. I could not, at first, reflect on the danger
of my situation, without a feeling of despair, that made
me tremble all over; but by turning my mind to God,
and trusting in that Friend who never faileth, I became
calm enough to perceive that the wind was dying away,
and though the island was hidden from me by the fog,
the tide must soon turn, and then I should be carried
towards it. After some time spent in meditation upon
that Power which can calm the troubled soul, as surely
as it can still the raging sea, I became reconciled to my
situation; and being wearied by the exertions of the day,
the gentle, lulling motion of the boat closed my eyes in
sleep, and I enjoyed a sound and refreshing nap.
When I awoke, the stars were shining brightly upoa
me. As soon as I could recover my senses enough to
know where I was, I looked around me in hopes of see-
ing land, and to my great relief, found myself much
nearer to it than when the fog came on. As the wind
* Took it out of the place where it ia used.
MEASURES OF SAFETY. 189
was fair, I hoisted sail immediately, and was gently
wafted towards the home I so much wished to regain;
resolving, as I went, not to venture on the water again
without a proper sail that I could work to windward
with, ballast that would not shift, and a knowledge of the
tides and stars that would save me from such an adven-
ture in future.
CHAPTER XXVI.
MEASURES OF SAFETY—MAGNETISM — A NEEDLE MADE
MAGNETIC — BOAT NEW RIGGED—WANT OF KNOWLEDGE PREPARATIONS FOR A VOYAGE.
WHEN I was floating about on the waves, and lost in
the fog, I thought I should never venture again on the
ocean; but after enjoying the safety of land for a few
days, the sight of my pretty boat, sitting like a duck on
the water, made me long for another cruise. Consider-
ing moreover, that with greater prudence and forethought
I might have the pleasure without the danger, I deter-
mined to take all necessary measures for sailing about in
safety.
I watched the tides and made a table of the times of
high and low water. I looked at the stars more atten-
tively than I had ever before done; and being acquainted
with that splendid collection of stars called Orion, I per-
ceived that it always rose in the east, and set in the west;
and by observing several other constellations that did the
same, at different times of night, I made sure of knowing
the points of compass pretty nearly, provided the sky
was not overcast. But with all my star-gazing, I was
still at the mercy of the weather; and I sighed to think
how impossible it was to supply the place of that blessed
invention, the mariner's compass. With that, the sailor
190 MAGNETISM.
finds his way over the pathless ocean, in the darkest
night, with even more certainty, than when he has all
the lights of heaven to guide him.
While thinking of the importance of the wonderful
stone, with which artificial steel magnets are made, I
remembered the old story of its being first discovered by
a shepherd, who, in tending his flock, felt his crook to be
suddenly attracted to one spot, by an invisible power;
and found on examination, that it was drawn down by a
large, black stone, which had the same effect on every
thing made of iron or steel.
I wished I could feel my spade fastened to the earth,
in the same way; this wish suggested the possibility of
finding a magnet, or load-stone, on the island.
From this time I was continually examining every
dark-colored, heavy stone I saw. I even took several
long walks and rides in search of the magnetic ore, but
without discovering any thing of the kind. I used to
carry a sewing-needle on my cuff, and apply it to every
thing that looked at all like a load-stone; but it never
showed any signs of attraction.
Although this search proved entirely vain, as far as re-
garded the object looked for, it was, nevertheless, of
great use to me in another way; for, by keeping my
mind upon the subject of magnetism, I was able to recall
much of what the lecturer in York said about it, particu-
larly the following facts :— that magnets have two dif-
ferent kinds of poles or ends ; that those which are alike,
or point the same way, repel each other, and those
which are unlike, attract each other; that magnets com-
municate these same properties to any small piece of
iron or steel placed near them, without any perceptible
loss of their own power; that the earth itself is a great
magnet, the poles of which are nearly the same as the
geographical poles, and that it communicates magnetism
to bars of iron, just as an artificial magnet does to a sew-
ing-needle.
All this made a lively impression on my mind, because
it was connected with the mariner's compass; but as I
A NEEDLE MADE MAGNETIC. 191
never expected to be without a magnetic needle, or to
wish to make one, I did not retain all the lecturer said
about magnetizing needles. I recollected, however, his
telling us that the magnetic needle must be made of hard
steel, or it would soon lose its power. He described the
process of converting iron into steel by mixing it with
carbon* and then hardening it by heating it very hot,
and plunging it suddenly into cold water. This he called
tempering steel, and said it was more brittle and hard,
according as it was heated to a greater degree, and
cooled more quickly.
Reflecting on this part of the lecture, brought to mind
another that was more to my purpose ; for I was now bent
upon making a magnetic needle, if it could be done, by
the magnetism of the earth. Something was said about
heating a common needle, placed in the direction of the
earth's poles, and that when softened by heat, it imbibed
magnetic power from the earth; but what was to be
done with it afterwards, I could not call to mind. It ap-
peared to me reasonable, that the magnetism should be
retained by cooling the needle suddenly, and thus hard-
ening it; and this experiment I resolved to try.
Having drilled a hole near the middle of a large darn-
ing-needle, and adjusted it so that it would turn easily
on the point of another needle, fixed upright to receive
it, I placed it north and south in a bed of live coals; and,
when red hot, threw on cold water enough to deluge my
fire, and cool the needle very quickly. I hastily seized
it and balanced it on the pivot, prepared for it; but,
alas, neither end pointed to the north! I was disappoint-
ed, but not discouraged. I repeated the experiment
several times, tried different needles, and various de-
grees of heat; at last on balancing one of them, it
vibrated awhile, and then fixed itself very nearly north
and south! O how my heart throbbed with delight!
Here was a magnetic needle, with which to construct a
* Pure coal; when crystallized it is a diamond, and one of
the hardest substances known.
192 BOAT NEW EIGGfiO.
mariner's compass! Now I could sail over the ocean, in-
dependent of the sun and stars! Elated by my success,
I almost believed my new invention would enable me to
cross the ocean in an open boat.
I had great pleasure in marking off all the points of
the compass on the back of an old playing-card, found
in a seaman's chest, and in drawing ajleur de Us for the
north; this card 1 fixed in the bottom of a shaving-box,
and over it, on its pivot, I placed the needle, thus making
my mariner's compass complete.
While pursuing my search after loadstones and mak-
ing experiments on needles, I employed part of each
day in new rigging my boat. I now put two masts in her,
and made proper, well-shaped sprit-sails. In doing this,
I was truly glad to have the mounted palm, found in the
mate's till, and some of his sail-needles out of the horn,
already mentioned; for without them, I should have
been greatly puzzled to sew such stiff cloth as sails are
made of. A very pretty little reed that grows on the
island, split and bent into small hoops, answered to
fasten the sails to the masts, and made it very easy to
hoist and lower them. I arranged the sheets * of both
sails, so that I could manage them without leaving the
after part of the boat, where I was constantly needed at
the helm. While considering what would be the best
way to fix the ballast, so that it should not shift, it came
into my head that I might use, instead of stones, some
buoyant substance that would not sink the boat, if she
filled with water, as stones certainly would. I first
thought of a barrel of water for ballast, which would float
if the boat filled, and not weigh her down at all; but
then a barrel of oil seemed better still, for that was light-
er than water, and would help to keep her afloat when
full of water. I had two half-barrels, and as they would
lie snugger and be handier than one whole one, I put
them on board, and lashed them down firmly.
* Ropes fastened to the lower corners of a sail, by which its
position is altered.
WANT OF KNOWLEDGE. 193
While occupied with my boat, I did not neglect my
barley-field and garden, but kept them both in good or-
der, and had the pleasure of seeing my crop of grain
grow finely.
I also attended to my daily duties, and exercised with
my bow and arrow, and in hunting and fishing. I read
a little every evening, and watched the stars till bed-
time, and became so interested in them that I often rose
three or four times in the night to continue my observa-
tions. Oh, how I longed for a map of the heavens, or a
celestial globe, with the names of the constellations! What
pleasure I should have taken in making them all out,
and learning the right names of those groups of stars that
I was now becoming familiar with, but had no names for.
Here I was, with plenty of leisure, and a strong inclina-
tion for acquiring knowledge, but for want of more pre-
vious information and of books and instruments, I could
not do any thing worth mentioning.
If I had had any knowledge of botany before I left
England, I could have amused myself with collecting
and arranging dried specimens of plants; but as it was, I
had no pleasure in collecting them ignorantly, and with-
out any classification. It was the same with mineralogy
and entomology; a little knowledge of these things,
would have given me an interest in a great many objects
around me, which I now only gazed at ignorantly, or
passed by unnoticed.
December 12th, in the fourth year of my exile.
Having tried my new-rigged boat several times, and
found that she now works well to windward, I intend to
imitate the great navigators of old, on a small scale, to be
sure, by sailing round — not the world — but my world,
the island. I shall lay in provisions for a week, and
carry with me my compass, lantern and tinder-box,
fishing-tackle, bows and arrows, gun and ammunition,
cooking utensils, spy-glass, &c.
Neptune and Poll shall go as company for me and for
each other. They have become the best of friends ever
17
194 PREPARATIONS FOR A VOYAGE.
since Poll was knocked off the gunwale of the boat with
a chain fastened to her foot, when Neptune was generous
enough to forgive all her bad treatment, and plunge in after
her. He took her up very carefully by one wing, and
brought her back to me. Poll now likes to sit on the dog's
back, or run after him as fast as her short legs and par-
rot toes will permit; and when he is beyond her reach
and out of her sight, she keeps on her perch and looks
as if she were in the dumps, till he returns. Then she
shows her joy, by dancing up and down before him,
keeping close to him, and saying over all the words she
knows. When she unconsciously calls Neptune by
name, he looks as pleased as she. These two friends
are to be my shipmates, and as I mean to set sail to-
morrow, I must finish this chapter and deposit it in the
pyramid. As it may be the last one I shall live to write,
I have dated it, that my friends may know, in the event
of my death, about what time it happened.
CHAPTER XXVII.
BANKS OF THE RHINE ROCKY COAST — A LAKE DISCOV-
ERED— A GREAT SURPRISE AGITATING THOUGHTS
TRUST IN GOD — A WAKEFUL NIGHT VOYAGE CONTIN-
UED — VISIT TO THE BAY — GORDON VALE — REFLECTION?
ON RETURNING.
I AM safely returned from my voyage round the isl-
and ; but it has been such an eventful one, that I must
not trust myself to speak of it in general, before I give
the details, or my narrative will be less interesting.
On the 13th of December, the weather being to all
appearance settled and fine, and a gentle breeze blowing
from the south, I set sail from the creek in my good
boat, called the Success ; 1 steered about northwest,
keeping pretty near the coast, which is formed of
BANKS OF THE RHINE. 195
high rocks of a reddish color, and the most irregular
shapes, without any bay, cove, inlet, or shelter of any
kind, for three or four miles. I followed the direction
of the coast, steering more northerly, and my boat
dancing beautifully over the waves, with the wind just
on her quarter, and both sails drawingfinely. In a
very short time, I came up with a head land, and sailing
round it, found myself in the mouth of a river, which I
supposed to be the same that runs through the vineyard,
and which I called the Rhine. I went but a little way
up it, not knowing how shallow it might be, and fearing
very much to get my boat aground where my strength
could not push her off again; so I lowered my sails, ap-
proached a rock near enough to jump out, shoved off the
boat into deep water, and made her fast to the shore with
a long rope that sailors call a painter. Accompanied
by my shipmates, one on my shoulder and the other
trotting on before me, I walked along the left bank of
the river, far enough to ascertain that it certainly was
the one I supposed it to be. Seeing at a distance the
plain covered with vines, I could no longer doubt; but
as it was too early for grapes to be ripe, I did not go all
the way to the vineyard, but struck off at a right angle
with the river, to explore the country between it and the
coast. I found it to be undulated ground, covered with
rank grass and interspersed with trees and shrubs,
among which various birds were sporting about. Hav-
ing walked several miles, I returned to my boat, crossed
the mouth of the river, and landed on the other side.
I was weary of carrying Poll, so I left her chained to
the boat, and set off to explore the country on the right
bank of the Rhine, A thick wood, with a great deal of
under-brush, made it very difficult to penetrate far. I
persevered however, till I came to swampy ground,
which so increased the difficulty, that I gave it up.
Whistling to Neptune, who was far ahead of me, and
seemed very unwilling to return, I retraced my steps to
the river and got on board my boat, a good deal fatigued,
and much heated by my walk. As it was past my usual
196 ROCKY COAST A LAKE DISCOVERED.
dinner hour, and I had a good appetite, I dropped an-
chor in the shadow of a high rock, and dined before I proceeded on my voyage.
I then continued my cruise round the coast, looking out all the way for a good landing-place, where I could
safely leave my boat; for I was bent upon lying on shore
every night, if I could. I had brought a spare sail to
make a shelter for me to sleep under, and a blanket to
wrap myself in. I sailed five or six miles along a rock-
bound coast, without seeing a spot where a landing could
be made if there were any sea going, or where, if once
landed, a person could climb the rocks so as to get into
the country beyond them. Overhanging cliffs, and per-
pendicular rocks, and rugged points every where oppos-
ed themselves to the surge of the ocean, and made me
rejoice that I had not been wrecked on this side of the
island.
At last after a very pleasant sail of two hours, from
my last departure, I came to a small opening in the rocks,
where a few rods of something like a beach, promised
me a landing and safe moorings for my boat. As I
wished to explore this part of the country, I resolved
here to spend the night. I had kept the run of the
tides; so I knew that if my boat grounded, she would be
afloat again by the time I wanted her in the morning;
and as the bottom of this little bay seemed smooth and
free from rocks, I hauled her into it just far enough to
ground a little after high water, and float again a little
before.
The afternoon was delightful; a refreshing breeze had
set in from the west, and cooled the air. I left Poll
boat-keeper as before, and taking Neptune with me
walked inland in a southerly direction. A range of hills
were before me, which I hastened to ascend, that I
might get a distant prospect from them; and when, after
a scrambling walk, I reached the brow of one of them, a
new and pleasant landscape opened upon me. At the
distance of a mile was a beautiful little lake, surrounded
by fine trees and various flowering shrubs. I was sur-
A GREAT SURPRISE. 197
prised that I had never happened to cast my eye upon
this spot before, in my numerous excursions over the isl-
and. But the rivers and mountains had so often turned
me out of my course, that having no particular object in
view, I had never systematically explored it.
As I gazed on the lovely scene below me, I reflected
on the comfort I enjoyed, in being free from all fear of
savages, wild beasts, and noxious reptiles. I had been
three years on the island, and had never seen any four-
footed animals, but lamas and terrapins. I had walked
through brakes and swamps, and untrodden woods, and
had never been alarmed by snakes or stung by any thing
bigger than a mosquito; and though my solitude had, at
times, been a very great trial to me, I had often felt it to
be far preferable to a life of dependence among a fierce
and uncivilized race of men, such as inhabit many of
the islands in the Southern Pacific Ocean. Reflecting
with great satisfaction and thankfulness on the safety and
beauty of the island, on which my lot was cast, I de-
scended from the hill and approached the lake.
The setting sun gilded the tops of the tall trees near
it, and cast long shadows on its glassy surface. Nep-
tune hurried forward and was soon bathing himself in its
pure waters. I sought another part of it that I might
quench my thirst, where be had not disturbed it; and
after forcing my way through a thick shrubbery of lau-
rels and myrtles, I came upon a part of the margin that
was of fine white sand. Looking down to observe the
quality of it, I beheld a sight that fixed me to the ground,
as motionless as a statue, and almost as breathless too.
To my great amazement, I beheld the print of a human
foot! It was so distinctly marked that it could not be
mistaken, and was repeated at the distance of a common
step, three times, crossing the sand in a slanting direc-
tion, and then vanished upon the grass and stones.
This astonishing sight so appalled me, that at first ev-
ery pulsation in me seemed to cease. I stood like one
transfixed, in the very attitude in which I was when it
first caught my eye ; and then it sent the blood rushing
17*
198 AGITATING THOUGHTS.
through my veins to my head and heart, till both throb-
bed violently, and I sunk down upon the sand, unable to
bear my own weight.
If I had ever been here before, I might have supposed
it my own track, for it was the print of a naked foot; but
I never had. The marks too had every appearance of
being very fresh. There was therefore another human
being besides myself, on the island. In the crowd of ideas
that whirled through my mind, I remember thinking it
might be one of my own shipmates whose foot-print I
saw, and I was about to raise my voice and halloo, after
the manner of an English sailor, in hopes of making him
come forth from his hiding-place, when the fear that it
might be the track of a savage stopped my mouth, and
fell like a weight on my heart. I might be, at that mo-
ment, surrounded by a band of fierce natives, who were
eyeing me from their ambush among the trees, ready to
pierce me with their arrows, or make me their prisoner
for life. A cold shiver passed over me at the thought,
I hid my face in my hands, as I lay prostrate on the
ground. How long this unreasonable agitation lasted, I
do not know, but as soon as I had self-command enough
to turn my mind to God, and trust to him in my despair, it began to subside. By degrees I became calm and ra-
tional, and could see how unlikely it was that there should
be any considerable number of men on the island, with-
out my having perceived something of them before now;
if there were, it was still more unlikely, that they should
lie in ambush for one defenceless individual whom they
could so easily overcome, and do as they pleased with.
I now raised myself up, and looked around; the same
lovely scene was before me, but the happy feeling of
safety was gone ; much as I had longed for the sight of
a human being, I now dreaded it. I wished myself at
home again in my cave, and was sorry I had ever made
this discovery. When I indulged this feeling, I felt con-
demned for it by my conscience, and this made me hope
that there was some hidden good, in that which now oc-
casioned me so much uneasiness. Fixing my heart
TRUST IN GOD A WAKEFUL NIGHT. 199
again devoutly and trustingly on God, a sweet feeling of
peace and assurance that all would yet be well, sprang
up in my mind, and melted me into tears; precious tears
of love and gratitude to Him, who is strength to the
weak, and a present help in every time of trouble.
Fortified by this communion with God, I felt renewed
strength in every limb; having drunk of the water be-
fore me, and called Neptune, I retraced my steps to the
little bay, intending, in consequence of what I had seen,
to spend the night afloat in my boat. In this however I
was disappointed by finding the tide had left her aground.
While thinking how I could best provide for my safety,
a delightful feeling arose in my mind of confidence in
God, and security every where. This convinced me I
might lie down any where, and be protected by Him
who had sent peace into my troubled soul.
I did not want any supper myself, but I fed my dumb
companions, and arranged my sails so as to make myself
a very comfortable bed in the bottom of my boat. It
was several hours before I could get any sleep; for,
though my fears were allayed, I could not help thinking
over the circumstance that had made such a change in
my condition. I said to myself, "I am no longer the
sole inhabitant of this island; some fellow-being is here
also; but he either conceals himself from me intention-
ally, or he is ignorant of my residence here. Perhaps
he does not dwell here; he may have been here lately
and have gone away again; but if so, whence does he
come and whither does he go? Is he alone, or one of
a company? When will he come again f Shall I ever
see him? Will he prove friendly? Can I ever make
a companion of him?" Thus conjecturing, hoping, and
wondering, I passed most of the night; and towards
morning, lost myself in a troubled sleep that did me little
good.
I was dreaming that I had just seen the foot-prints in
the sand, and heard myself called by name several times,
when I awoke; some one seemed speaking to me. I
thought In inst still be dreaming, so I rubbed my eyes
200 VOYAGE CONTINUED.
and sat up in the bottom of the boat, when I distinctly heard a voice saying, "Where are you, Robin Crusoe?
where are you? where have you been?" Startled al-
most out of my wits, I jumped up and looked around, ex-
pecting to see not only a human being, but some well
known friend. What then was my disappointment and
vexation, when I saw Poll sunning herself on the gun-
wale of the boat, and found it to be her senseless repeti-
tions that had so deceived me! As soon as I could re-
cover my composure, I separated the real events of the
preceding evening from my dreams, and finding my
boat afloat, I pushed off into deeper water, and there
anchored while I fed my dog and bird, and tried to eat
something myself; but I had no appetite, and felt per-
plexed as to the course I ought to pursue.
The morning was very fine, but the quiet pleasure of
my cruise was gone. I cannot possibly describe the
great change produced in me and all my views by that
foot-print in the sand! I hesitated about proceeding on
my voyage, for it occurred to me that the natives of some
neighbouring island might be now in the large bay, on
the northeast coast, and that I might run myself into
great danger by going there ; but then I thought it best
to know the worst, for I could never enjoy any comfort
while fearing some unknown danger; besides I could
approach very warily and perhaps get a sight of them
unperceived. I longed to set eyes on a fellow-being, if
I could do it safely; and I considered that with my fast
sailing boat, I could more securely approach them by
water than by land; and as I happened to have my gun
and some ammunition on board, I could frighten them by
firing it, if necessary. So with all these plans and cogi-
tations, I at last determined to continue my voyage to
Safety Bay, as I called it when I visited it last autumn.
The wind was contrary, but my boat now beat to
windward so well that I did not mind that; and in case
of a retreat, chased by an enemy, I should have a fair
wind, so I rather preferred it. As the sea was very
calm, I determined to land on the rocks, outside the bay,
_j
make fast the boat, and Neptune in her and taking my
spy-glass climb the rocks till I could get a sight of what
was going on there, without exposing myself to observa-
tion.
I did so, and very cautiously did I raise my head high
enough to look along the shores of the bay ; when, instead
of a half a dozen canoes and fifty naked savages, which
my imagination had pictured, there was nothing at all to
be seen but the gentle Pacific marking with a long line
of glittering bubbles the curved form of the shore. Very
agreeably disappointed, I returned to my boat and made
all sail for the bay. I landed on the east side, where I
had observed a fine stream of fresh water, in my former
visit; I intended to traverse the beach and look for tracks
in the sand, and for any sign of its having been visited by
human beings, since I was last here. I walked the
whole length of it, armed with a musket, and looking
earnestly for foot-prints, but saw none. Warm and
thirsty with walking so far on the sands, in a hot sun, I
made my way to the brook; and observed, with some dis-
may, that a path led to it which had certainly been made
in the grass, and through the bushes, since I was last
there. With a beating heart, I approached it; and there
I found proof enough that it had been visited; not by
savages, but by civilized man ; for there were pieces of
iron hoop lying about, one or two bungs, an old, black,
silk neckerchief, and a torn hat.
I was distracted now, between the fear that I had
missed an opportunity of returning to my friends, and the
idea that I had escaped falling into dangerous hands.
I knew not which to think; but tried to preserve my
composure, and observe coolly all I saw. In looking
about me very attentively, I perceived marks in the
earth of some extraordinary trampling of feet; the grass
was so trodden down, that it had not recovered itself,
and some of the roots were torn up. I even thought
I could see the faint traces of the heels of men's
shoes ; the fearful conjecture rushed upon me that here
had been a fierce encounter between some of my fellow
creatures, and it was abundantly confirmed, by my find-
ing in a bush, very nearthe spot, a dirk that had evident-
ly been covered with blood.
Here then was cause for thankfulness, that I had not
met with these bloody-minded men, whoever they were;
and then it flashed across my mind, how I had felt about
putting up a flag-staff on this side the island, and my
heart was filled with love and gratitude to the Gracious
Power who bestowed on me a conscience, capable of
directing me so wisely, in a matter in which my under-
standing could not have guided me. If my conscience
had not so clearly warned me against it, I should have
thought it very wise and prudent to set up a signal on
this side of the island, last autumn; and if I had done
so, it is most likely I should have fallen into the hands of
the men, whose deeds appeared so violent and alarming.
I now found a few shoe-marks in the earth, close to the
brook, and occasional tracks all the way by the side of
the stream to the sea-shore; and I judged from all I
could observe that these intruders on my peaceful abode,
had left it for the present at least.
I quitted the scene of strife too, as soon as I had
learned from it all I could ; and leaving the bay, which
no longer deserved the name of Safety, but rather that of
Terror, I doubled the cape that bounds it on the east,
and continued my voyage in a southerly direction, with a
range of high hills in sight, that run nearly parallel to the
coast, which I have often climbed, to survey from their
summits that part of the coast I was then on, These
hills gradually diminish as they approach the mouth of
Grand River, which I entered, and sailing across it, reach-
ed the well known shelter of Gordon Bay.
Though still harassed by the idea that there was a hu-
man being skulking about the island, who might be
watching to do me some harm, I felt more safe and com-
fortable on reaching this familiar spot; and when, after
making fast my boat, I walked up the valley, the agreea-
ble associations with that lovely scene were so powerful,
that they quite exhilarated me, and made me rather
REFLECTION! ON RETURNING. 203
hope than fear to meet this unknown partner in the isl-
and. "If I could be sure there was but one, I would
search him out and make him meet me," said I to my-
self; but the fear of being overcome by numbers restrain-
ed me.
I do not know whether I have already mentioned
that I have a very pretty bower in Gordon Vale, which I
began to make the second spring, and which I have beau-
tified from time to time ever since. I have slept under
it many summer nights and taken many a noon-day nap
in it. There I now carried my supper and blanket, my
musket and ammunition; and accompanied by Neptune
and Poll, I took up my quarters for the night, in very
good spirits.
Having had no dinner, I took an early and hearty sup-
per, and lay down to sleep soon after, hoping to make
up for the rest I lost the night before.
A long and dreamless sleep made the whole night
seem but a mere point of time, and when I first awoke I
could not tell whether the night was spent or whether I
had but just lain down. The dawn of day however
soon convinced me how long and how soundly I had
slept, and I arose refreshed in mind and body, and re-
stored to my usual cheerfulness and composure.
As this part of the island was perfectly familiar to me,
I made the best of my way home, had a head wind to
the Land's End, and then sailed along before it till I
reached the creek, having circumnavigated my whole
dominions in three days ; and met with that which con-
vinces me that, like many other monarchs, I hold my
sovereignty by a very uncertain tenure, and am liable to
be dethroned by secret enemies.
As it was about the middle of the afternoon when I ar-
rived at my landing in the creek, I had plenty of time,
before dark, to inspect my store-house, water-wheel,
and forge, to see if they had been visited during my ab-
sence ; but though I found one door open that I believed
I left shut, I could not be certain that any one had been
there. I thought it prudent, however, to fasten up the
doors more securely than I was accustomed to do, be-
fore I left the creek for the night.
"Now," thought I, "that I am restored to the capital of
my kingdom, I feel like myself again, and the more I re-
flect on the probability of there being a man on the island,
the more 1 desire to meet with him. He may not be a
savage, he may be an European, escaped from the scuffle
in the Bay of Terror, and suffering far worse feelings
than I did, when first I landed here.
"I cannot imagine any situation more appalling to a
man with a guilty conscience, than the solitude of this
island. If there is a fellow being near me, who has led
a bad life, and is now made unhappy by it, I should
like to find him ; if he speaks my language, I would try
to comfort, soothe, and soften him, and I would tell him
where to go for pardon and for peace.
"If his life has been that of a buccaneer, and his heart
is ever so hardened, and he cannot understand a word
of English, I would endeavour to melt his heart by acts
of kindness; and I should not despair, in this solitude,
far from the bustle and the temptations of civilized life,
of seeing him become a better and a happier man, than
he had ever yet been." These thoughts made me earn-
estly hope, that the mysterious man of the lake was a
white person, and that I should find in him, a compan-
ion of my exile. I might learn from him the probability
of a ship's touching at the island, and what would be the
danger of my showing myself to the next crew that came
on shore to water.
After indulging this train of thought for a while, I took
op another supposition. The unknown might be a sav-
age, fierce in his temper, and accustomed to the lawless
indulgence of his appetites and passions. Even so, I
would like to hold communion with him. I would over-
come him by gentleness, or, if absolutely necessary, I
would first impress him with a sense of my power, by
the use of my fire-arms; and then I would show him
by acts of kindness that I had no intention to harm him.
He must have some feelings, some affections in common
with me, for we are of the same nature, both immortal
beings, both cared for by an Almighty Power. If he
is ignorant and debased, I would instruct him, and do
every thing in my power to improve and serve him.
The idea of doing good to any human being, seemed
to me, after living so long with nobody but myself to care
for, the greatest privilege of life; and I reflected on the
pleasure of taking care of and instructing a poor, untutor-
ed savage, till I hoped the unknown might prove to be a
being of this description.
I am writing this, on the day after my return, and
shall now mount Judy and carry it to the pyramid, for
I consider the uncertainty of my life increased by the
presence of a man on the island, who keeps himself con-
cealed; and if I should die by his hand, I wish my nar-
rative to be as complete as possible. I shall not venture
from home now, unarmed, but carry my musket wher-
ever I go; and with fire-arms and a faithful dog, I
am ready to meet the stranger at any time.
CHAPTER XXVIII.
HOPES RELINQUISHED A HATCHET LOST BREAD LOST
A MAI* ON THE ISLAND — THE STORE-HOUSE ENTERED
THE STRANOER WATCHED FOR — HIDE AND SEEK A
MAN FOUND —OBEDIENCE EXACTED—FIRST MEAL WITH
A OUEST FRIDAY LOST AND FOUND—FRIDAY AND NEP-
TUNE FRIDAY AND POLL — FRIDAY DRESSED FRIDAY
AT DINNER — FRIDAY'S HAIR CUT — HOW WE SPENT THE
AFTERNOON — FRIDAY'S QUARREL WITH NEPTUNE AW
EVENTFUL DAY ENDED — REMARKS ON FRIDAY SCARCI-
TY OF INK.
FOR three weeks after I saw the foot-prints in the
sand, my mind was constantly occupied with thinking,
whether there was a man on the island or not, and what
18
206 HOPES RELINQUISHED.
sort of a person he was; and my time was chiefly de-
voted to walking about, with my gun and dog, in search
of him. I visited the little lake twice, but could see no
trace of a living being. The tracks on the sand were
gone, and the place was as smooth as if the foot of man
had never pressed it. I climbed the hills and gazed in
every direction, with my spy-glass, but saw no traces
of there being a soul on the island besides myself.
Inever could see the smoke of a fire, or find the ashes
where a fire had been ; and after so much fruitless search,
I began to think I must have been mistaken as to the
marks I saw being recently made, and that they might
have been the tracks of one of the party, who landed at
the Bay of Terror; so I very reluctantly gave up the
search, and returned to my usual occupations.
My barley was ripe and needed to be cut; and as I
had but two barrels of biscuit left, it was important to me
to make the best use of my little crop, by saving it all for
seed next year. I went to my store-house to get my
scythe, and found it all shut up just as I had left it, the
day I returned from my cruise ; and I sighed as I opened
it, to think how unnecessary my precaution had been.
I had brought from the wreck six scythes without
handles ; one I had mounted and used a good deal in
mowing, and as it had become dull, I thought I would
take a fresh one, to cut my barley with. I went to that
part of my store-house where I had put all my edge-
tools, to pick out a sharp scythe, and to my surprise
found the arrangement of my things altered, and one
large chisel missing. I had been so accustomed to place
my tools in one particular way, that I could hardly be-
lieve myself deceived; and yet it appeared impossible
for any one to have touched them but myself, locked up
as they were in this building. While trying to recollect
whether I had myself deranged the tools, I picked out a
sharp scythe and fixed it on the handle that I had al-
ready used. Having adjusted the wedge that was to
fasten them together, I looked about for a hatchet (usu-
ally kept in that place) to drive it in with, but could not
A HATCHET LOST BREAD LOST. 207
see it. There were other tools that would answer the
purpose as well, but I wished to know what I had done
with my hatchet; I therefore hunted all round for it, in-
side the building and out ; it was nowhere to be found.
I looked about the forge and the grindstone for it, but in
vain. Perhaps it was left in the boat. I went on board
to see ; but it was not there. I had always kept one at
the creek, and one on the terrace; it was possible that
I had accidentally carried both up to the terrace; so I
shouldered my scythe and walked up there to satisfy
myself. There was but one to be found. I did not
like to be so forgetful, and I tried very much to recol-
lect what I had done with this hatchet. I kept thinking
about it, while I was mowing my barley; but all my cogi-
tations ended in the firm conviction, that the last time I
had seen it, was when I -returned from my cruise, and
carried it with the rest of my things to the store-house.
I could hardly believe it was not still there; repeated re-
searches, however, convinced me it was not, and I gave
it up as one of the unaccountable events of life.
A few days after this, I was arranging some things in
the store-house, when, on moving a cask that I supposed
full of biscuit, I perceived by its lightness that it must be
almost empty. It was marked on the head "bread"
in my own hand-writing; it was the last cask but one
of that valuable article, and I knew it to have been full
some weeks before.
Amazed at the change, I knocked out the head and
found more than two thirds of the contents gone. It
was not worm eaten and there was no appearance of
rats having made their way into the cask; how then
could it be! I never was more puzzled in my life. I
felt sure that all the casks I headed up, were full of
bread, and yet here was one with only a few pounds in
it. I began to think my memory or my senses had fail-
ed me; and while gazing at the cask as if to ask an ex-
planation of that inanimate object, I perceived that the
hoops, at the opposite end to that which I had opened,
looked as if they had been started. I turned it up and
208 A MAN ON THE ISLAND.
found a part of the head slipped on one side; this could
not have been loosened without hands, for I knew the
cask to have been whole and tight when I last moved it.
The idea now flashed upon my mind, that there was a
man on the island, and that he had found his way into
this house. He had taken the chisel; he had stolen the
hatchet; and he had helped himself to my bread. All
the mysteries that had so puzzled me were cleared up;
I said to myself, "I need no longer doubt the evidence
of my own senses; the foot-prints were recently made,
and a man is here, near me, and has been on this very
spot!"
When I had recovered from this new surprise, I look-
ed about to see what other traces I could find of my un-
bidden guest, and to discover how he had got into the
house; for I had bolted and barred one door inside;
and had put a padlock on the outside of the other, and
there were no marks of either having been opened. I
examined the walls and the ground around the building to
see if they had been undermined, for I thought it possible
this wild man of the woods might work himself a passage
under ground, like a mole ; but there was no appear-
ance of any such thing. I looked at the roof to see if
an entrance had been made there, but the thatch on the
outside seemed untouched. I perceived, however, that
on the inside, it looked a little rough and loose, at one of
the front corners; and on examination, was convinced
it had been removed, since I placed it there. The peg
that fastened it was missing, and the straw, instead of
being pressed down in a very tight and compact man-
ner, was laid on very loosely. Here then the intruder
entered! Here he means to enter again! I was
amused at his ingenuity, in contriving to replace the
thatch so well as to conceal his place of entrance, and it
struck me that I might perhaps catch him in his own
trap.
If I could only see him enter, and be sure that he
had no fire-arms, I could follow him in, at his own hole,
and make him my prisoner; for let him be what he
would, I longed to see him, and convince him he was
welcome to share all my goods, without being at so much
pains to get them secretly.
I found several other casks that he had served like
the bread cask. That the poor, hungry, solitary crea-
ture should take my provisions, did not surprise me, for
I supposed he was some one brought up to deeds of vio-
lence, and ignorant of the rules of honesty; but I feared
from his taking the chisel and hatchet that he meant to
attack me, and make himself master of all my goods at
once ; so I determined to be very much on my guard,
and, instead of going about the island after him. to catch
him in the trap he had made for himself.
I replaced the things just as they were before with the
exception of such tools as I thought he might arm himself
with, if surprised in the building; those I removed to a
safe distance. Then I shut up the doors and went on
with my daily occupations as usual, only taking a longer
nap than common after dinner, that I might be ready to
watch all night for the stranger.
I wondered that in all my walks, I had never caught a
glimpse of this being, and that Neptune had never smelt
him out. I remembered, however, that the dog had
sometimes barked a great deal, when I could see noth-
ing to occasion it, and now it occurred to me that this
man was probably in ambush near me, and that it was
at him, Neptune barked. From his keeping himself so
closely concealed, and never leaving any tracks about
my buildings, I thought he must be an uncivilized being,
like the natives of the South Sea Islands, as savages are
generally very adroit in such things. But then his tak-
ing the chisel and hatchet was more like an European,
as I did not suppose an Indian would know the value of
edge-tools. I thought a white man would have been
glad to make himself known to me and become my com-
rade ; he must have discovered that I was alone on the
island, and if he watched my movements, he must have
seen me unarmed very often.
Thus wondering and conjecturing I passed the day;
18*
210 THE STRANGER WATCHED FOR.
and though I went about my work as usual, on purpose
to avoid raising any suspicion, if I was watched, I could
think of nothing but the probability of soon seeing a fel-
low creature.
I went to the cave at my usual hour; but when it was
dark, or rather when there was no light but what the
stars gave, I prepared for my night's watch, by fastening
up Neptune, and arming myself with a gun and an axe.
I walked very silently down to the creek; there I fixed
myself in a nook among the rocks, from which I could
plainly see the front wall of the store-house, and observe
the approach of any one towards it.
For the first hour, my heart beat very quickly and I
felt much agitated by the hope of soon beholding a fellow
creature ; but hour after hour passed away, and the
morning dawned without my having seen any thing but
the inanimate objects around me, or heard any thing but
the babbling of the brook, or the fall of the water higher
up the valley.
Very much disappointed, I quitted my post, and re-
turned to my cave for breakfast and a good sleep if I
could get it. Considering how unlikely it was that the
stranger should visit my premises every night, or that
my first watch should happen to be on the same night
he would choose, I was not discouraged in my plan of
watching; but repeated it for three successive nights,
without any better success. As I slept as much as was
necessary in the day-time, I was wakeful all night;
and knowing how softly a savage can step, I did not ex-
pect my ears to be of much use to me ; so I kept a sharp
look-out, and hardly took my eyes off of the building, lest
he should slip in unperceived. Late on the fourth night
of my watching, a little splashing of the water that was
unusual, attracted my attention; and looking towards
the brook I saw something large enough for a man, mov-
ing along in the water. My hopes were now raised to
the highest pitch, and in breathless expectation, I watch-
ed the approaching object. In my anxiety to examine
it, I had well nigh forgotten to keep out of sight myself;
HIDE AND SEEK. 211
and when I perceived it was really the form of a man, I
could hardly restrain myself from running forward to
meet him. This would, I knew, be the very way to
miss him ; for the moment he saw me he would probably
take to his heels, and leave me as ignorant as ever, who
and what he was.
I therefore put a strong guard on myself, and watched
him quietly from my hiding-place, while he waded slow-
ly up the brook. When he was opposite the store-house,
he took something from round his waist, stooped down,
rose up without it and walked two or three steps, then
stooped again, then rose and advanced as before. I
could not imagine what he was about; but I could see
he was a naked man, of a dark color and slender form,
and that he was unarmed. As he passed along very
near me, I perceived that he had a long leaf like that of
the cocoa-nut tree, which he laid on the ground before
him, to step upon, that he might leave no foot-marks.
When he had taken as many steps as its length would
allow, he bent it round his foot, and again brought it be-
fore him. In this way he proceeded to the store-house;
and going to the corner where I had supposed him to enter,
he pushed aside the thatch, and disappeared through the
roof. Now the time was come for me to act; and thinking
an axe the better weapon of the two, for close quarters, I
threw aside my gun ; and lighting a lamp which I had
with me for the purpose, I enlarged the opening in the
thatch and jumped in after him. I looked around, con-
fident of seeing the stranger, but saw no one. "O,"
thinks I to myself, "you expect to deceive me by hid-
ing, but I will soon find you." To prevent his escaping,
I fastened up the hole at which he had entered, very se-
curely, as I was prepared to do. I then placed my
lamp, where it would best light the whole building, and
began in good earnest the most interesting game of
hide and seek that I ever played. I hunted among my
goods, between casks, and in every hole and cranny
that I could think of. I unrolled the sails, and pulled
down piles of lumber, and turned almost every thing up-
212 A MAN FOUND*
side down, in looking for this hidden man ; yet no signs
of him were to be seen! I began to think he must
have glided by the house without entering at all; yet
I felt sure I had seen him go through the hole in the
roof, and I had found it open and entered the same way
myself. "He must be here," said I to myself, " unless
there is some other way for him to get out." I took
the lamp in my hand, and examined the walls, the roof,
and the cliff, to see if he had made an opening for him-
self, or had climbed them like a cat, in search of a hid-
ing-place. But all in vain. I renewed my search
among the goods ; I moved almost every thing ; I looked
again and again in the same places. Again I surveyed
the sides of the building, with the lamp lifted high over
my head. No one was to be seen. I stood amazed,
perplexed, and disappointed. While considering what I
had best do next, my eyes happened to rest on a sailor's
chest; seeing the hasp unfastened and swinging as if it
had been lately removed, it popped into my head to
look inside of it, though I thought it too small to hold a
man. I lifted the lid, and up jumped a poor, trembling
creature. He raised himself to a kneeling posture, and
uttered two or three sentences in a language unknown
to me; but by his clasped hands and imploring looks, I
supposed he was begging for mercy.
I laid my hand gently on his head, and looked him
kindly in the face. My feelings were touched by his
imploring countenance, and by my own reflections on
seeing a fellow man for the first time for three years and
a half. I supposed he perceived my emotion; for after
gazing fixedly at me, he took my hand very respectfully
and pressed it to his forehead. I made a sign to him to get
out of the chest and stand up before me; he did so with
a frightened look, and made gestures of submission. To
assure him of my kind feelings towards him, I imitated
his action and pressed his hand to my forehead ; on which
the poor creature threw himself on his knees before me,
and kissed my feet. I raised him up and embraced
him; then he clapped his hands, jumped for joy,
OBEDIENCE EXACTED. 213
made a great many gesticulations, and said a great
deal that I could not understand; and now and then he
spoke some words that sounded like Spanish, but I was
not sure it was that language. All his words and ges-
tures, however, seemed expressive of respect and grati-
tude to me.
I unbarred the door and led him out of the building,
taking care to keep fast hold of him all the time; for
though he seemed willing to accompany me, I was
afraid he was watching for an opportunity to escape. I
went towards the place where I had left my gun, that I
might take that and leave my lamp; but the moment
my companion saw the musket, he trembled all over,
and used the most imploring gestures. I did all I could
to assure him I would not hurt him, but the moment I
touched the gun he tried to get away from me; so, to
quiet his fears, I left it behind, and took him with me to
the terrace.
He seemed very willing to accompany me till we came
to the entrance of my cave; then he started back with a
look of horror, and trembled violently, and begged me
by his gestures not to put him in there. So I humor-
ed him, and went and sat under the trees with him; but I
wanted to give him something good to eat, and that I
could not do without leaving him a few minutes (which I
was afraid of doing), or taking him with me to the cave.
As I sat on my bench, and he on the grass beside me,
I fell into a long train of thought about my new-found
companion, and the course of conduct 1 ought to pursue
towards him. His having broken into my house and
taken my goods, gave me a right to prevent his doing so
any more; but as I had no wish to punish him for the
past, but only to show him a better mode of living, I
meant to use this right over him only for his own good.
It was clear to my mind, that as he was ignorant and
helpless, it was as much for his good to obey me, as it is
for a child's good to obey his parents. As he could not
be reasoned with, on account of his not understanding
my language, I must establish my authority by some act
214 FIRST MEAL WITH A GUEST.
that he could understand. I must show him that I was
stronger than he, but that if he obeyed me, I would only
use my power to protect him, and make him happy.
The sooner my authority was established the better, and
therefore I resolved to make him go with me into the
cave.
I made signs of eating to him and of offering him
victuals, which he readily understood; and led him to-
wards the cave, pointing to it as the place where we
should find something to eat, but he drew back and
shook his head. I motioned to him in a gentle but firm
way, that he must go; he implored again as he did be-
fore, but I did not give way as I did then ; I insisted on
his entering. Finding his entreating actions vain, he
ground his teeth together, and fixed himself in an atti-
tude of resistance. This seemed the moment for con-
vincing him, he must submit to my authority; so I
caught him up in my arms and carried him into the inner
cave. He shrieked as he entered, and covered his face
with his hands. I put him down gently on my bed, but
he kept his face covered and would not move; so I left
him to prepare an early breakfast for him and myself, as
it was about four o'clock in the morning.
I never set out a meal with so much pleasure as this;
for I never before had occasion to place two plates, and
two cups and saucers, on my table. Having some one
to share my repast, though it was, to be sure, a stranger
and an uncivilized being, was so much pleasanter than
eating it alone, that I was in great spirits, and cooked
several dishes of meat and fish, and roasted some sweet
potatoes, and made some coffee, and got together as
many good things as I could, to welcome the stranger.
I lighted my two lamps, and placed my old stool and
new chair for us to sit on. When all things were ready,
I went for the guest, and thinking it best to accustom
him to hear me speak, and to call him at once by some
name, I could think of nothing better than the name of
the day on which I found him ; so as this was Friday
morning, I called him Friday, and said, "Friday, come
and eat," with suitable actions to explain my words When I first spoke to him, he was sitting on the bed
and looking around him ; but when I approached him, he
threw himself down at full length, and hid his face from
me. I took his hand and pressed it as before, to my
forehead. This reassured him of my friendly feelings;
he embraced my knees as I stood beside him, looked
affectionately in my face, and jabbered away in his own
tongue something which he repeated several times, and
seemed very anxious to make me understand. Finding
all his efforts vain, he suffered me to lead him into the
next room, though he looked suspiciously around him. I
encouraged him to examine the place, and made signs to
him that there was no one near us, that he and I were
the only inhabitants. When at last the table, full of
good eatables, caught his eye, and I was about to do the
honors of the feast in a civilized manner, he reminded
me what sort of a guest I had, by seizing, with both
hands, the whole contents of a dish of fried fish, and
seating himself on the ground to eat it.
I longed to teach him better manners at once; but I
considered it would be safer to let him eat of these good
things, in his own way first, and then, when he knew
how well he liked them, make him behave as I did, in
order to obtain them.
So there he sat, on the ground, cramming his food
into his mouth with both hands, in the most disgusting
way. I gave him a part of every thing on the table, and
offered him a knife to cut his meat, but he preferred
tearing it in pieces with his teeth, and I let him have his
own way this once. I gave him a mug full of weak
coffee sweetened, and he drank it off as if he liked it
well. After eating an enormous meal, he jumped up
and began dancing and capering about, and singing a
sort of tune to which he kept time. I was glad to see
him so happy; but when I had cleared my table and put
away all the things, I wanted a nap before sunrise; so I.
led Friday to the bed in the inner cave, and made him
understand he was to lie down there and go to sleep.
He obeyed instantly, and then I took a mattrass and
216 FRIDAY LOST AND FOUND.
blanket, and having shut the door between the caves; I
lay down so close to it, that it could not be opened
without my awaking.
I slept soundly for two hours. On awaking, I could
hardly realize the fact of my having a fellow creature
near me; and when I did, I could not help sighing to
think how ignorant he was of such things as interested
me, and how different our habits were. It made me
feel sad, to recollect how he behaved at breakfast, and
how he disappointed me of the pleasure I expected, in
having a companion at table with me; but then I com-
forted myself by thinking how affectionate and amiable
he seemed, and that I could teach him better manners,
and make him more companionable every day.
I longed to see how Friday would look by daylight; so
I jumped up and entered his sleeping apartment. I look-
ed at the bed, he was not there! I looked all round the
cave, he was nowhere to be seen! My heart sank within
me at the idea of his having escaped, and I said to myself,
"No sooner found than lost! O it must not be! Friday,
you must not leave me!" I felt then how valuable his
company was, though he did behave like a savage ; and
I resolved to find him, if he was alive on the island.
Surprised, disappointed, and vexed with myself for
not having guarded, more effectually, against his running
away; I turned to go out of the cave, when I heard a low
moan, like some one in distress. I listened more atten-
tively ; it was certainly a person sobbing and crying.
The idea of the long narrow passage, with the preci-
pice at the end of it, and Friday fallen down there, now
rushed into my mind; and fearing the poor creature was
half killed, I lighted a lamp and hurried to his assistance.
The reality was not so bad as I feared ; he was not hurt,
only frightened: he had found his way out of the cave
by the narrow opening into this passage, which being very
much lumbered up, he could hardly move along, and had
not gone far, I suppose, before he lost himself and could
not tell how to get out; so there he was, squatting down
between two barrels, crying and sobbing as if his heart
would break.
FRIDAYAND NEPTUNE. 217
As soon as I appeared, he ran to me, and throwing
his arms round me, clung to me for protection. I
soothed and comforted him, and shewed him the nature
of the place he was in, by walking to the end of it with
my lamp ; but he was unwilling to examine it much, and
only wanted to get away. So I led him back to the
cave, piled up the stones, fixed the boards as they
were before, and motioned to him that he must not go
there again. I then showed him through the kitchen
into the open air; when he got out on the terrace,
and saw the ocean and the shores, the trees and the
grass, he soon forgot his alarm, and became very cheer-
ful. I saw he was observing every thing that was
new to him; but he did not handle any thing, which
showed a degree of self-command that surprised me.
I was every moment afraid of his darting off and leav-
ing me, and yet I did not like to appear to constrain
him. Knowing that people who have very little to do,
often think a great deal of what they eat, I determined
to bribe Friday to stay with me, by giving him good
things; so I brought him a fine bunch of raisins, which
he ate with evident pleasure.
While he was thus occupied, I went about my usual
morning work. The sun had been up some time, and
my lamas were calling to me to come and milk them and
turn them out to pasture for the day. Neptune, also,
who was tied up in the barn with them, was impatient to
be set at liberty. This must, I knew, be done with cau-
tion, lest he should frighten Friday. I therefore led the
dog out, holding in my hand the rope by which he had
been tied, fully expecting that he would greet the stran-
ger very roughly, and that Friday would be afraid of
him. To my surprise, the savage was not at all alarm-
ed at seeing him, or hearing him bark; but Neptune was
so frightened at the sight of Friday, that he would not
go near him, but skulked away with his tail between
his legs, just like a timid cur. This made Friday laugh
and run after him, till poor Neptune took to his heels,
and was out of .sight. I was afraid Friday would
19
follow, so I called him loudly by name and beckoned to
him to return; to my great relief he obeyed, and I
showed him I was pleased with him for so doing, by
smiles and caresses.
I next introduced him to another member of my
family. Mistress Poll was ready for her breakfast; so I
brought her out of the kitchen on my arm, and fed her
from a cup I held in my hand. Friday looked very
much surprised, and as if he considered this a fresh proof
of my wonderful power. A bird flew over our heads at
the moment, and he made a sign to me to call it down and
make it sit on his arm, as Poll did on mine. I shook
my head; then he asked me to make it sit on my arm;
again I refused; then he wanted Poll to sit on his arm.
I tried to make her go, but she would not quit me. Fear-
ing he would get bitten if he teased her, I gave him a
ripe plum to feed her with; but he did not understand
me, and put it in his own mouth. This disappointed
Poll of the treat she expected; so she flew at Friday,
screaming in her most discordant manner, and tried to
peck open his lips to get the plum. Friday now gave
her such a blow, as laid her on the ground, quiet enough;
and I was sadly afraid my amusing favorite was killed.
Friday was mightily pleased with what he had done,
until he observed my countenance, and then he looked
more surprised and puzzled than ever.
That I should call a bird from the air, or the woods,
to sit on my arm, as a proof of power, did not surprise
him so much, as that I should care any thing for the life
of the bird; and I shall never forget the inquiring
glances he gave me, while I was trying to restore my
favorite. After a while, Poll opened her round, black
eyes, shook her ruffled plumage, and seemed fast recov-
ering from the rude treatment she had received. I
then made signs to Friday, that he must never give her
such a blow again; he showed me his lip, that she had
bitten quite through. I understood his justification per-
fectly, but here my signs failed; for I could not, without
language, make him understand that Poll considered the FRIDAY DRESSED. 219
plum as hers, and knew no better than to peck open his
lips to get it. I shook my head at Poll to show him I did
not approve of her biting him, and gave him some more
plums to eat, while I replaced Poll on her perch.
I longed to see Friday dressed in a suit of my clothes,
as he had nothing on but a piece of cloth fastened round
his loins and hanging down half way to his knees; but
fearing to try his patience and obedience too much, I
waited for a good opportunity of proposing it. He soon
gave me one by coming up to me, opening the bosom of
my shirt, pointing to my white skin, and then to his
own dark; color and looking inquiringly at me. I could
not answer his question, if he meant to ask why we were
of different colors, so I evaded it by nodding to him,
bringing out a white linen shirt and a very thin pair of
trowsers, and inviting him to put them on, and be so far
like me. I believe the poor fellow thought, that by
covering himself up he should turn white, for he looked
very much pleased while I put the shirt and trowsers on
him; and though he hardly knew how to move his free
limbs, under the incumbrance of clothes, he was delight-
ed to wear them, and to compare them with mine. He
looked much better now that he was dressed, and much
larger also than before.
I placed him in a shady spot, where he could see me
milk my lamas, turn them out, clean their barn, and
do a great many little jobs which needed to be done, and
which my search after him had made me neglect. I
thought it would amuse him to see me at work, and so
it did. He watched every movement, and often made
signs of admiration and delight, when I did any thing
that showed strength. He was a little afraid of a lama,
if it came very near him, and I could not persuade him
to taste the milk; he turned from it with an expression
of disgust, and shook his head when I drank some of it,
as if he could not bear to see me. I observed him very
narrowly, because it was only by his actions and the ex-
pression of his countenance, that I could judge of his
present feelings and wishes, or form any idea of his
220 FRIDAY AT DINNER.
former habits. By his disgust to milk, I knew he had
not been used to live where they had cows, goats, or
asses; and by his not being afraid of Neptune, I con-
cluded he had been accustomed to dogs. In the course
of the forenoon, I went to my barley patch to tie up my
crop in bundles or sheaves. Friday went with me, and
I thought I saw in his face a wish to join in the work; so
I invited him to do as I did, and soon found that here he
was so expert, that I could learn of him ; he made a straw-
band to bind the sheaf with, better and quicker than I,
and he seemed delighted to help me.
As we had gone on so amicably through the forenoon,
and he had given no sign of wishing to leave me, I was
determined to begin his education that first day, by
teaching him how to sit and how to eat at table. He
again showed some unwillingness to enter the cave, but
followed me when I said very gravely, "Friday, come
here!" and was soon very much amused in looking at
my various utensils, and seeing me fry some pork, and
roast some sweet potatoes for our dinner. The hissing
and bubbling of the pork in the frying-pan diverted him
very much, and he laughed and talked to it. Once he
attempted to touch it, but the hot fat burnt him, and
taught him better manners. He watched me all the
while I was laying the table, but as soon as I dished up
the pork, I saw he was prepared to make a dash at it,
and bear off his hands full, as he did at breakfast. I
therefore made signs to him that he must not touch it,
saying at the same time very impressively, "No, no,
Friday." He seemed to understand me perfectly; for,
putting his hands behind him, he looked quietly on,
while I placed the dinner on the table, I then made
him sit as I did, instead of squatting on the floor, and
keep his hands still while I helped him. To all this he
submitted, very willingly; but when I tried to show him
how to use the knife and fork, he made bad work of it,
and grew so impatient to eat the meat before him, that I let him nearly satisfy his appetite with his fingers first,
and then induced him to use the knife and fork by giving
him more, on condition he should eat it properly. But
such work as he made of it to be sure! I had enough to
do to help laughing out at his awkward ways. He held
the knife and fork in every way but the right; some-
times he tried to cut with his fork, and put the meat into
his mouth with his knife, at the great risk of cutting his
lips; for he did not know which edge of the knife was
sharp, or which was blunt. When he had nearly done
his meal, I began mine; then he watched me, and tried
to imitate me, and improved very much before dinner
was over. I commended him by my looks and gestures,
and he seemed to know very well what I meant.
Oh how I wished that we spoke the same language!
How I longed to tell him a hundred things that I could
not express by action; to hear from him the story of his
life, and how he came to be cast, like myself, alone on
this desert island. Here we were, both full of thoughts
and feelings, wanting to communicate with each other,
and yet unable to do so, because we spoke different
languages. How we should ever talk together, I could
not imagine! It seemed to me nearly impossible, that
Friday should ever learn to speak English, without my
understanding his language so as to translate for him, till
I remembered, that children learn to speak in the same
way that Friday must learn English, that they generally
speak by the time they are two years old, and that when
removed to a foreign country, they learn a second lan-
guage, by only hearing it, much quicker than the first;
so I hoped that, in less than a year, Friday and I should
be able to converse together. He seemed to me so
much like a simple child, that I hoped he would learn
with the facility of one.
While we were at dinner, Neptune appeared and be-
gan to bark at the stranger. He now showed no signs
of fear, but treated Friday as an intruder, whom he
meant to be rid of. This change I attributed to Fri-
day's having clothes on. The poor fellow was now
afraid of Neptune, and I was obliged to scold the dog
19*
FRIDAY'S HAIR cvf.
and encourage the man, and use all my influence to
reconcile them to the presence of each other.
After dinner, I made Friday wash his face and hands
very thoroughly. I also tried to comb his hair, but it was
so matted together, I could not pass the comb through it
at all; so I thought it best to cut a good deal of it off; and
to reconcile him to this, I trimmed my own locks first.
This amused him very much; he called the scissors
oopak, and seemed much delighted with the execution
they did. He was a little frightened when they were
first brought near his own head; but as he felt nothing
unpleasant under the operation, he played with the hair
that fell down, and made no objection to my ridding him
of a large portion of it. The remainder I washed in
warm suds, till it was perfectly clean, and could be
combed quite smooth. Every thing that I did to Fri-
day improved his looks, and made him more like a civ-
ilized man; and that rewarded me for my pains.
He was a youth of about sixteen, as near as I could
judge, with a slender figure, but perfectly well made;
straight in his limbs, and active in his movements.
He had a very good countenance, particularly when he
smiled. His face was round and plump; his nose
small, with very full nostrils, but not flat like a negro's; his
mouth was well shaped, though the lips were rather thick,
and his teeth as white as any I ever saw. His color was
a kind of light-brown olive, that had rather a pleasing
effect, but cannot easily be described; his hair was
black and straight, and a great deal of vivacity sparkled
in his black eyes.
His docility and reverence for me astonished me,
and I could not help thinking, he considered me as some
superior being whom it was right for him to obey; for
he was as obedient as a good child to a beloved parent.
In the afternoon I walked with him down to the
creek, and when we approached the store-house, he
tried to tell me a long story; but his gestures were as
unintelligible to me as his language, and when he found
that though he raised his voice and repeated the same
HOW WE SPENT THE AFTERNOON. 223
sounds again and again, I could not understand him, he
looked much dejected for a few minutes.
I showed him the forge, but he did not care about
looking at any thing there. I set the water-wheel in
motion, and that made him laugh and clap his hands.
We next walked down the little valley, till we came
to the salt water, and saw my pretty boat afloat upon it.
Friday immediately motioned to me to go on board of
her; I assented, and went to pick up the rope that was
fast to her, and by which I could haul her up to my nat-
ural wharf; but Friday plunged at once, clothes and all,
into the water, and swam off to her. I waited to see
what he would do, and saw him spring very nimbly into
the boat, and beckon me to follow him.
I then pulled in the boat towards the shore, and step-
ped into her from the rock. Friday showed me how wet
his clothes were; and knowing how uncomfortable they
must feel, and fearing that he might take cold in them, I
advised him to pull them off, and hang them up in the
sun to dry. He made some very laughable attempts at
stripping them off, and could not extricate himself from
his new trammels without my assistance. We took a
very pleasant sail, which Friday enjoyed as much as I.
He did not understand working a boat, yet he showed
no surprise at my management of her.
Neptune met us on our return ; but as soon as he saw
Friday, he scampered off again, which convinced me
that it was the clothes that made the difference. As
they were now dry, I made Friday put them on again,
and we returned to the terrace. I then did my evening
work, while Friday looked on; and once in a while I
gave him some little job to do for me, which pleased
him very much.
When it was time for the lamas to be fed and milked
and put in the stable for the night, I sent Neptune af-
ter them to hasten them home, and he soon appeared
driving the flock before him.
This subjection of dumb animals to my power, seemed
to interest Friday much more than any of my mechani-
224 FRIDAY'S QUARREL WITH NEPTUNE.
cal contrivances ; which I attributed to his having knowl-
edge enough of wild animals, to understand the change
made in them by domestication; whereas, he did not
know enough about the arts of civilized life, to appreci-
ate my boat-building or masonry, my forge or water-
wheel.
My usual supper was roasted potatoes and milk; I
prepared a bowl of it for Friday, as well as one for my-
self, and placed it on the table before I called him in;
while he was playing with Neptune, and making friends
with him, as I thought. What was my consternation on
going for him, to find him in the act of strangling my
good dog!
I seized hold of Friday's hands, and loosened the cord
in time to save my faithful servant's life. When he re-
covered enough to see and know me, he licked my
hands and face, and I caressed him till he was quite re-
stored. While thus occupied, I was trying to moderate
my feelings so as to act properly towards Friday, and
thinking how I should make him understand, that he had
done very wrong. But when, at last, I looked round
upon him, I saw that he was already self-condemned.
My actions towards the dog had convinced him of his
fault, and he stood a little way off, looking like the pic-
ture of sorrow and contrition. When he caught my
eye, he threw himself on his knees, and begged my par-
don with the most intelligible gestures.
I beckoned him to me; he pointed to the dog, intimat-
ing that he was afraid of him; but I made Neptune lie
down, and encouraged Friday to approach. He did so,
tremblingly, and again threw himself on his knees be-
fore me. I then discovered that his shirt collar was
bloody, and that he had been severely bitten in the
neck; it was, therefore, in self-defence, that he had
used the dog so hardly, and my countenance relaxed
towards him.
He made light of his wound, but seemed very anxious
to know if he was restored to favor; so after scolding
Neptune for biting Friday, and showing Friday that he
AN EVENTFUL DAY ENDED. 225
must never again try to strangle Neptune, I let him see
that he was forgiven; at which, he made the most ex-
travagant gestures of delight and gratitude. He pros-
trated himself before me, placed my foot on his head,
to express his entire submission and willingness to serve
me, and then implored me not to let the dog bite him
again. I promised him protection, and tied up Neptune.
We then went to supper, and his second lesson in the art
of eating decently was rather more easy than the first.
I made him observe and imitate me, and he got on better
with a spoon than with a knife and fork; he ate the
milk with a great relish, not remembering, I suppose,
where it came from, and that he had shuddered at it in
the morning.
I made up a second bed in my sleeping apartment,
and let Friday occupy it with me; for after watching
him all day, I was convinced that he would not inten-
tionally do me any harm; and as he showed some fear
of that long narrow passage where he lost himself, and
of being left alone in the inner cave, I did not like to
shut him up in it for the night. Neither did I like to let
him lie in the outer cave, for fear of what mischief he
might ignorantly do to my goods, or to Poll. The only
precautions I took, were removing all destructive weap-
ons and edge-tools out of the apartment, fastening up the
door, so that it could not be opened without noise, and
hanging up a lamp to burn all night. This done, I went
quietly to bed, and slept in the same room with a sav-
age whom I had known but one day.
Thus ends the history of this memorable day, Friday,
which gave me my man Friday! I have been thus par-
ticular in my account of it, because every thing relating
to my finding and domesticating this companion of my
solitude was so interesting to me, I have not known what
to leave out; and as this was the most remarkable event
of my exile, and changed the whole tenor of my life, I
hope I may be excused for dwelling upon it so long.
This day had been one of such great excitement to
me from three in the morning till nine at night, that it
226 REMARKS ON FRIDAY.
seemed the longest one of my life. No one who has
not lived in perfect solitude, as I have done, for more
than three years, can conceive the wonderful change
produced by the presence of a fellow being; though of
a different race, speaking a different language, and
brought up in totally different habits. Notwithstanding
all the differences that exist, there are enough points of
resemblance to make me feel a strong fellowship with
him. He has many thoughts and feelings in common
with me, and to see the varied expression of a human
face, after being so long deprived of it, is an indescriba-
ble pleasure. I have looked so much at his fine open
countenance, that he has often been abashed by my
earnest gaze; and if he were an European, he would
think me a very rude fellow to stare at him so.
I did not go to sleep on that remarkable Friday,
without pouring out my heart in praise and thanksgiving
to God, for this new alleviation of my solitary condition.
I gratefully acknowledged the many blessings I had re-
ceived, since the time when, without food, or shelter,
without arms, ammunition, or tools, without fire or the
means of kindling one, I first allayed the pains of hunger,
by eating raw oysters on the shore. My condition has
been gradually improving ever since those first sad days;
and now when I am comfortably lodged, have plenty of
wholesome food and good clothing, and enjoy all the ne-
cessaries and many of the comforts of life, a crowning
blessing is added, in the company of a fellow man.
I have written this account ten days after finding
Friday, and in all that time I have been watching his
every movement, every change of countenance, with an
intense interest, only to be accounted for by my previous
solitude. I am obliged to put a strong guard on my feel-
ings, to prevent my showing this interest to Friday, in a
way that might make him conceited and exacting; though
I must do him the justice to say, that from all I have ob-
served in him, there is very little danger of his being
either the one or the other. He is modest, affectionate,
and obedient; and already begins to understand several
SCARCITY OF INK. 227
short sentences, and to speak some words. The feud
between him and Neptune is at an end. As soon as
the dog became accustomed to his color, and found
out that he was to be a part of my family,' he ceased his
hostilities; and the playfulness of Friday soon made him
very acceptable company to Neptune.
I am so delighted to have a companion, that I think I
could be contented to end my days here, if I only
felt secure from the intrusion of such visitors as left
traces of their violence in the Bay of Terror. But the
feeling of security, which I have enjoyed for more than
three years on this beautiful island, and which was one
of its greatest blessings is gone, never to be recalled.
Whenever I see a vessel approaching the island, I shall
be distracted between the hope of escape, and the fear
of changing my condition for the worse. I rejoice that
I settled myself on the southern side of the island, for
had I been on the northern side, I should hardly have
escaped the hands of those rude men who landed in the
bay; and I greatly prefer living and dying here, to falling
into the hands of buccaneers, or a fierce tribe of natives.
Having finished this long history of the longest day of
my life, I shall not write again for some time, lest I
write too much about Friday, and make my narrative
tedious. Another consideration warns me to be more
sparing in my details; my ink will soon fail me entirely.
It dries up in the ink-bottle very fast, and it is only late-
ly, that I have learnt the importance of keeping it closely
stopped, when I am not using it. Before I discovered
this, I lost a great deal in that way; and though the
black substance remains, when the watery particles are
evaporated, I cannot make as good ink by adding water
to it again. It does not incorporate as it did before, and
the color is not so good; I must therefore use my ink
sparingly, as there are no nut-galls here with which to
make any more.
STOLEN GOODS RETURNED.
CHAPTER XXIX.
STOLEN GOODS RETURNED — FRIDAY'S PLACE OF CONCEAL-
MENT— FRIDAY'S CANOE — FRIDAY'S COOKERY — CANOE
— FRIDAY'S PRESENT — FRIDAY IN MASQUERADE — A LES-
SON IN FENCING LANGUAOE.
IN resuming my narrative, after a considerable inter-
val, I must go back to the early days of my acquaintance
with Friday, and notice some particulars of his beha-
viour, which are so characteristic, that they ought not
to be omitted.
The morning after that long and memorable Friday, I slept later than usual; and on opening my eyes, I
was excessively startled, by finding my companion's face
close to mine; he was seated on the ground beside me,
and his white eye-balls were the first objects I saw. He
was anxiously waiting for me to awake, being impatient
to leave the cave for the open air. I soon gave him his
freedom, and went myself about my morning work ; but
what was my chagrin, at seeing him take to his heels
and run off into the woods, as fast as he could go. I
very much feared that he preferred his own wild life to
mine, that he meant to give me the slip, and to keep out
of my reach if he could; nevertheless I tried to per-
suade myself he was only exercising his limbs, and that
he would soon return. I therefore kept about my work,
and prepared breakfast for two; but though I delayed
far beyond my usual hour, I was obliged at last to eat
my meal alone, which I did with but little appetite.
I had just finished, and was putting away the things,
when Friday entered. He was out of breath with run-
ning, and had the lost hatchet in one hand, and a large
bundle of biscuits in the other, curiously packed togeth-
er, and tied up in leaves. These he laid at my feet
with many gestures, expressive of submission, and con-
trition for having robbed me.
His bringing back these things pleased me much; for
it showed, that there was a foundation in Friday's mind,
FRIDAY'S PLACE OF CONCEALMENT. 229
on which good principles might be built; and it con-
vinced me, he had no thoughts of separating his interests
from mine, but that he meant to live with me.
He tried very hard to tell me something about the
hatchet and the bread, but I could not understand his
gestures, any better than his words; so, after giving him
his breakfast, I offered to accompany him to the place
whence he had now brought them ; for I was very cu-
rious to see where he had hid himself, and find out what
he had done during the time of his concealment.
He led me at a brisk pace, and by the shortest cut,
to the vineyard; and seemed more acquainted with the
country than I was; for he brought me to a part of the
Rhine which I had never discovered. The river was
narrow, and the banks steep; some projecting rocks
formed a natural bridge nearly over it, and with one good
leap we crossed it dry-shod. We then entered a very
thick wood, and I was somewhat put to it to keep up with
Friday, as he threaded his way through the bushes with
the dexterity of an American Indian. There was no
path, and the foliage over our heads and all around us,
was so thick we could see nothing ; yet he pursued his
way with as much certainty, as if he had been walking
through an open country ; and brought me suddenly in-
to a little circular opening, enclosed on every side, and
at the top, by the thickest foliage, a sort of natural ar-
bour. It was so completely surrounded by trees and
shrubs, that I could not see where I had just entered,
and so shaded by leaves, that the light within resembled
twilight.
The shrubs which Friday had taken away from the
middle of this place, he had planted between the trees
that were round it, and so intertwined their branches,
that the space within could not be seen at all from the
outside. I am sure I should have passed by it a dozen
times without discovering it. A natural carpet of dry
leaves covered the floor of this rustic habitation, and
some fishing-tackle, cocoa-nut shells, and the remains of
crabs and other kinds of fish, showed that Friday had
20
lived on something besides my biscuit. His strong,
smooth, even fishing-lines were made of the fibre of co-
coa-nut husks; the hooks were of shell, and very well
shaped. I saw nothing in this habitation that looked
like a seat, or a bed, so I made signs to ask him where
he slept; he immediately threw himself on the ground, and placed his head on a log of wood, which he used as
a pillow, and seemed to consider an excellent accommo-
dation. When I had sufficiently admired Friday's
dwelling-place, I made signs to him to take his fishing-
tackle with him, and that we would now return home;
but he eagerly invited me to accompany him further,
and I consented ; for I wished to see all his contrivan-
ces, and learn all I could of his way of life. I was now
satisfied that he had made a very proper use of the hatch-
et he had carried off, but still I could not account for his
having taken the chisel.
After following Friday half a mile, through the thick-
est wilderness of shrubs and trees I ever saw, I found
myself in a little open spot, near the river, where he was
making a canoe out of the trunk of a tree. The outside
was already shaped, and he had made some progress in
hollowing it out, though his only instrument appeared to
be the lost chisel, transformed into what he calls a toe.
He had taken the steel part out of its proper handle, and
fixed it at right angles to a much longer one, thus mak-
ing a sort of small adze, which he used very dexterously
with one hand.
The canoe was a small one, and so placed as to be
easily launched into the river, yet quite concealed from
it; and I found it was situated very near the spot where
I once landed and entered the wood. How astonished
I should have been, had I stumbled upon this half-made
canoe!
Having now seen all Friday's handiwork, I return-
ed home, leaving him, after he had guided me through
the woods, to catch some fish for our dinner. About
noon, he arrived at the terrace with a number of small
fish, which he assured me were very good eating, and
I set him at work to dress them in his own way; though
I watched his mode of proceeding, in order to make him
do it with more cleanliness than savages are accustomed
to.
As soon as he found he was to perform the part of
cook, he collected a number of smooth stones which he
put in the fire to heat; and while that was doing, he dug
a hole in the earth, and gathered a bunch of green
leaves. I could not imagine what all this was for ; but
when the stones were hot, he laid a number of them in
the bottom of the hole; on these he scattered some
leaves; next he put in the fish, and covered them over
with leaves; and then he placed another layer of hot
stones, and covered it all up with earth ; leaving the
fish to be baked by the heat of the stones. This mode
of baking proved very good, and I remembered having
read of some of the South Sea Islanders cooking all their
provisions in this manner ; so this confirmed me in the
idea I had already formed, that Friday was a native of
some of those newly discovered islands.
When the dinner was dressed after his fashion, I made
him eat it after mine. His desire to please me made
him learn my customs very soon; though the fish bones,
which he had been used to separating with his fingers,
did plague him sadly, when he tried to manage them
with his knife and fork.
A few days after this, I was making some broth in a
large iron pot that hung over the fire ; and, (is Friday
wished to assist me, and had acted the part of cook so
well himself, I told him he might take the meat out of
the pot; expecting, to be sure, that he would do it with
a fork. But instead of that, he plunged his hand into
the scalding broth; and the first I knew of his clumsy
cookery, he was roaring and hopping about with a scald-
ed hand. I made him put it directly into a pail of cold
water, and hold it there till it was easy. I now found
out that he had never seen any thing boiled, and knew
nothing of hot liquors; his people bake every thing, as
he did the fish,
Knowing that every body is happier for being em-
floyed, and finding Friday well disposed to do whatever
set him about, I planned several little jobs of work for
him ; but I was so fond of his company, and took so
much pleasure only in looking at a fellow being, after
living so long alone, that I contrived to keep him near
me most of the time. When I let him work on his ca-
noe, I went to the place with him, and sat down in a
shady spot with a book in my hand ; but I hardly look-
ed into it, I was so occupied in observing him. He pro-
ceeded in hollowing out the log, differently from what
he began; for having now the command of fire, he
burnt out the inside, and then finished it off with his toe,
as he called the chisel he had so curiously mounted. I
tried to teach him the use of some of my tools, that
would do his work more expeditiously ; but he preferred
his own instrument, and liked nothing that required the
use of two hands at once. To sit and chip off a little
bit at a time with one hand was his delight; and he did
the work much faster than any one would suppose he
could.
Long after I thought the canoe was done, he dubbed
away with his toe, and took so much pains in finishing
it off, and rubbing it down with the skin of a fish that
was as good as sand-paper, and ornamenting it with a
rude kind of carved work, that I was surprised at his
perseverance. I must confess that mine did not equal
his; I grew tired of going so far, in warm weather, only
to watch him; and he went alone the latter part of the
time. When I asked if the canoe was done, I was so
often answered in the negative, that I left off inquiring.
I was therefore agreeably surprised one day, when work-
ing in my garden, by seeing a canoe approach the beach;
and if Friday had not been dressed in English clothes, I
might have supposed him a stranger, just arrived from
some distant island. He had made himself a paddle,
with which he pushed himself along over the waves;
and I was amused to see how dexterously he landed in
the surf, without filling his little bark, but drawing it up
after him, high and dry on the beach.
FRIDAY'S PKESENT — FRIDAY IN MASQUERADE. 233
I will now relate an incident that happened only a
week after I found Friday. I was sitting under the
trees, on my terrace, very busy mending my clothes,
when Friday approached me, looking half pleased, half
doubtful, and with some of his native gestures and bows,
presented me with what he called e ray; it was a neck-
lace and armlets, made of shells, very curiously strung
together. I signified my thanks, and admiration of his
present, as well as I could, and allowed him to decorate
me with them. He was delighted with this permission,
but was greatly puzzled to know how to place them to
the best advantage, on a person who wore an European
dress. He wanted to put them next my skin, and yet
he did not like to have them covered by my shirt; so,
at last, he put them outside, and tried to satisfy himself
with my being dressed in his offering; though he per-
ceived that these ornaments did not look so well on a
white man in clothes, as on a colored man, without
clothes.
I had observed him employing every spare minute,
in picking up shells on the beach, but I did not know
what they were designed for, till he brought me the
necklace and armlets ; then I encouraged him to make
another set for himself; for I had not full employment
for him then, of a more useful kind, and I thought that
was better than idleness. A few days after, he appear-
ed before me, such a savage-looking figure, that he quite
startled me. He was stripped of his English dress, with only the cloth on, which he calls maro, and orna-
mented with numerous necklaces, armlets, bracelets, and
bands round the knees, to which bones were suspended
that rattled as he moved; and on his head was a most
curious-looking mask or helmet, with a high crest of
green leaves. This mask only covered the forehead
and cheeks, leaving the nose bare; but the chin was
partly concealed, by strips of cloth hanging down from
the lower edge of the mask, intended I suppose to look
like a beard.
In this savage trim, he came and danced before me,
20*
234 A LESSON IN FENCING.
throwing his arms and legs about in the strangest manner;
and every now and then he acted and spouted, as if he
were performing a part in some comic piece. I wished
I could comprehend what he was saying, for it seemed
to divert him very much, and perhaps it might have
amused me, if I had understood it. As it was, howev-
er, it made me feel sad to see Friday look so like a sav-
age, when I wanted to civilize him and make him a fit
companion for me; so after looking at him awhile, I
made signs to him to go and put on his clothes again, and
take off that frightful mask.
He quickly perceived that I did not relish his per-
formance, and looked so dejected and disappointed,
that I was sorry I had shown my feelings so plainly.
To comfort him, I examined the mask, and commended
his ingenuity in making it out of a gourd, and arranging
the green twigs so as to look like a waving plume. I
even put it on my own head, and went through the broad-
sword exercise with it on. This restored Friday's cheer-
fulness; and thinking my dislike of his masquerade, was
because he was dressed up instead of me, he took off all his
trappings and offered to put them on me; but I refused
them all, and when he had put on his clothes, I made him
wear the necklaces and other ornaments outside of them.
This done, I put the helmet on his head again, and a
stick in his hand, and made him imitate some of the mo-
tions of my broad-sword exercise; thus giving him his
first lesson in fencing. He learnt so readily, and liked
it so well, that I hope he will become expert enough to
fence with me, and make it, in time, a real trial of
strength and skill between us.
We made various agreeable excursions together, and
Friday found a great many plants that he was well ac-
quainted with, but which were unknown to me; so I
encouraged him to collect them and show me their sev-
eral uses. As I had no name for them, I learnt his
nomenclature; and it delighted him, to hear me pro-
nounce a word of his language.
It was, at first, a great effort to me to talk to him at
LANGUAGE. 235
all, or to teach him the English language; for I had been
so long accustomed to silence, and could make him un-
derstand many things so much quicker by signs than by
words that I was often obliged to force myself to speak.
I knew it would be better for us both in the end, and that
we should enjoy each other's company much more
when we both spoke one language ; and Friday learnt
English so fast, I was encouraged to take the necessary
pains in teaching him. I was often at a loss to make
him understand the meaning of words, that were per-
fectly familiar to me ; and, in my endeavours to explain
to him. I have gained a great many new ideas myself.
I had never thought much about language, or how it is
formed, or how we learn it, till I began to teach Friday;
but now I am constantly thinking about the exact mean-
ing of words, that I may explain them to him.
He learned the name of every object he saw, and ev-
ery act he did, as fast as I told it to him. Thus nouns
and verbs were the first words he understood, and he
rarely forgot any thing. I taught him adjectives, by
making him observe the same quality in a great many
things, and then giving him the word for it. I saw him
one day look first at Poll's green plumage, and then at
the grass; and I took that opportunity of teaching him
the adjective green. I showed him every thing I could
that was green, and made him understand that those va-
rious objects were all alike in that one particular. He
was, one day, making wry faces at a very sour lime he
had been tasting, and I said to him, "sour — sour lime ;"
then I gave him an unripe plum and called it "sour
plum" then some sour milk; and he soon understood
that it was that particular quality, which he tasted in all,
that I called sour. I made him feel many things that
were rough, and many that were smooth, and gave him
the different words that expressed these qualities. In
this way he learned a great many adjectives, and could
join them very properly to the names of various objects
around him.
There was one kind of noun? which I found it impos-
sible to explain to him; such, for example, as strength,
heat, greenness, sourness, goodness; these words stand,
I believe, for what philosophers call abstract ideas, and
Friday seemed to have none such in his head. He
knew perfectly well what I meant by a strong man; but
the abstract idea, expressed by our word strength, he
could not understand at all. It was just the same with
other words of this description ; he could join the word
hot to any noun, and comprehend perfectly what it
meant, but if I spoke to him of heat by itself, he was
completely puzzled. He used the word good a great
deal, but he never knew what I meant by goodness;
and I think his own language must be without such words,
for if he had ever used any such, he would certainly
have learnt their meaning in English, when I took so
much pains to teach him. But he seemed incapable of
an abstract idea, he could not think of strength, or heat,
or goodness by itself, though he was constantly using the
corresponding adjectives.
His difficulties made me think a great deal about lan-
guage, and I have come to the conclusion that it is very
difficult to understand the nature of some of our com-
mon little words like to, for, and of. We learn them in
childhood, and use them properly, without reasoning
upon them at all ; but when I wanted to teach Friday
to use them, I was greatly puzzled. I taught him
above, below, beside, upon, by holding something above
the table, or below it, or on one side of it, or upon it.
But the word of seemed to mean so many things, I
could not explain it in that way, and I had to think about
it a good while, before I made out that it stands for a
relation of any sort, between two nouns. Whether I
speak of the relation of a myrtle tree to the woods in
general, and say the myrtle of the woods, or of the re-
lation of the woods in general to the myrtle, and say the
woods of the myrtle, which is quite a different relation, I
still use the little preposition of. If I say the father of
the son, or the son of the father, which is very different,
I still use the word of, to signify the connexion between
them.
FURTHER PARTICULARS OF FRIDAY. 237
I well remembered learning at school the definition of
a pronoun; but I never was aware how much we are in-
debted to those little words, till I heard Friday talk,
without using them, and grew quite tired of hearing him
begin every sentence with Friday, or with Father, in-
stead of 1 and you. He found it very difficult.to under-
stand, how I should mean himself, when he used it, and
yet mean me, when I used it. This made me reflect ON the nature of the word /, and then I was struck with its
opposite qualities; with its being, at once, a word of the
most precise, individual meaning, and, at the same time,
of the most general application. Every body says I, and
yet in each case it means only the one person who is
speaking.
These thoughts about language, interested me very
much; and I wished I could know what those persons
say about it, who have made the formation of language
their particular study. I dare say there are very curious
books in the world about this very subject, and a great
deal more known than I cap find out for myself.
CHAPTER XXX.
FURTHER PARTICULARS OF FRIDAY A VISIT TO THE BAY
OF TERROR FRIDAY'S ACCOUNT OF HIMSELF FRIDAY'S
FEAR OF A GUN FRIDAY'S GARDENING COMPANIONSHIP
. — SHARK'S TEETH.
THE first time I went out in my boat, after Friday had
finished his canoe, he chose to command his own vessel,
rather than sail with me. As the breeze was very light,
and my boat moved slowly over the water, he paddled
fast enough to make circles round me, and yet keep up
with me; showing the greatest dexterity in the manage-
ment of his canoe, and highly enjoying his superior
speed. I wanted to tell him he was my satellite, but t
knew he would not understand me; so I tried to make
him comprehend that the moon went round the earth,
as he did round me, but I found he had no conception
of the shape of the earth, or of its having air all round
it; so I was obliged to defer explaining to him my com-
parison, till he knew more English, and a little more as-
tronomy.
I was very desirous of visiting the Bay of Terror with
him, and finding out all he knew of the scenes that had
been acted there; but I waited for him to speak more
English, that I might better understand his account.
Meanwhile we traversed the island, in various directions.
Friday often surprised me by his activity in climbing
and jumping, and by the quickness with which he knew
what course to take, even among mountains and woods,
where I was most at a loss. I could beat him, however,
in running at speed any great distance; and my feats in
hunting gave Friday a high respect for my bodily pow-
ers. In swimming, he was greatly my superior; he
could swim five or six miles, and not appear at all fa-
tigued; and he could support himself in the water, in
almost any position, and seem almost as much at his ease
there, as on dry land.
Whenever I asked him how he came to the island, he
always said he swam here; and it was a long time be-
fore I could make out how he got within swimming dis-
tance. But as he improved in talking, he informed me
that he came in a large ship to the other end of the
island, and swam from the ship to the shore. He de-
scribed the vessel as coming from a "great land," far
off to the eastward of this island, and said the sun rose
and set eight times, while they were coming here. I
inquired what sort of a flag that ship had, if it was like
mine on Signal Hill; he said it was not, and tried to de-
scribe it, but I could not understand him. I therefore
took some of the ship's paints, and painted the flags of
several different nations; when that of Spain was shown
him, he clapped his hands, and made me understand that
wasjthe right one. He made signs, that the vessel some-
times carried a flag that was all red, by which I knew
she was a pirate. I had now no doubt it was the same
that had left traces of violence in the Bay of Terror.
Friday expressed his horror of the Spaniards, in va-
rious ways, and showed me how cruelly he had been
treated by them, and how we must hide ourselves, if we
saw a Spanish vessel coming. I readily agreed with
him, that we would conceal ourselves from any such
visitors. Then I pointed to my flag, on Signal Hill, and
asked him if he would hide himself from a vessel with
such a flag as that; to which he answered no, that he
should go to meet her, and ask the people on board to
carry him to his own country, which was far, far to the
west. I then found out that there had been a vessel,
with English colors, at the island he came from; and
that the people on board were white, and that their talk
sounded like mine. This convinced me that Friday
was a native of some of the newly discovered islands, in
the Pacific Ocean, and made me wonder that he had
tried to conceal himself from me, when I found he had
a good opinion of the English.
On conversing further with him, and telling him I was
one of the same people that went to his island, and
whom he thought so well of, he shook his head and
pointed to my beard, saying, "Kanacka Pericanny, *
no beard."
A great deal of explanation was necessary, to make
Friday believe that I was an Englishman, and belong-
ed to the same country that those came from who visited
his native island; as well as to make him understand
how I came here, and how much I wished to return to
my friends; but when he did comprehend me, there
seemed a new bond of union between us, for we were
both separated from our relations, and both wished to
return to them, and each pitied the other for his misfor-
tunes.
I often asked him why he was so afraid of me, when
* People of Britain.
240 A VISIT TO THE BAY OF TERROR.
he first lived on this island; but until he had learnt a
good deal of English, he could not explain the cause.
It seems he thought I had prisoners in my cave, and
from my always going about armed, he supposed I was
trying to catch him, and either kill or make him my
prisoner too; and the ill treatment he had received from
the Spaniards made him very suspicious and timid.
My various works made him think there must be
more than one man on the island ; and never seeing any
but me, he took it for granted there were prisoners in
the cave, who worked at my command, but never went
abroad. Dreading this fate for himself, he resolved to
keep out of my way, and leave the island as soon as an
opportunity offered.
Not long after this conversation, I went with him to the
Bay of Terror, and was there confirmed in all previous
surmises. I made out from Friday's account, that there
had been a mutiny on board the Spanish ship, and that
when two boats, full of men, were on shore watering,
the discontented sailors attacked the captain, mates, and
two seamen who had refused to join in the mutiny; and,
after a violent struggle, succeeded in killing them, for
they were taken by surprise, and the mutineers were two
to one against them. While this was going on, Friday
and two seamen were left on board to take care of the
ship, and saw it all very plainly. Friday showed me
the place, near the brook, where the five men were bu-
ried ; and before I perceived what he was about, he had
scratched away the earth, enough to prove the truth of
his story.
One of the seamen, who had always used him very
ill, was made captain, the red flag was hoisted, and they
had a grand carouse. Many of them got drunk, the
duty of the ship was neglected, and he was able to es-
cape in the night, by letting himself down the side of the
vessel and swimming under water a good way; when
he thought himself out of sight and hearing, he rose to
the surface and swam on till he reached the little cove,
where I lay the night after I saw the foot-prints.
FRIDAY'S ACCOUNT OF HIMSELF. 241
When I had learned all I could, of what had passed
in the Bay of Terror, I took him to that cove, which I
now named after him, Friday's Cove. There he show-
ed me where he concealed himself, how he lived for
many days, and where he was standing behind a tree,
when I saw his foot prints in the sand.
It seems he was as much frightened as I was, and plan*
ned various modes of escape ; and when I sank down on
the ground, he thought I was lying in ambush for him ; so
he stole off in an opposite direction. My gun and beard,
and my being on an island where the Spaniards came to
water, made him think me one of their gang ; and he de-
termined not to be caught, but to conceal himself, make
a canoe, and go off in her to any vessel that had a differ-
ent flag from that of the Spanish ship, where he had
suffered so much.
My kindness to him when I found him in the chest,
surprised him extremely, and touched his feelings so
much, that he felt towards me a little as he did to his own
father; and when he found I had no prisoners and there
was nothing terrible in the cave, and that I treated him
like one of my own family, he loved me like a son. All
this he told me, in his simple way, by half sentences and
gestures. Though I am but a few years older than
Friday, he always chooses to look upon me as his
father; and when I gave him leave to call me so, he
thought it a great privilege, and acknowledged his obli-
gation by touching the end of my nose with the end of
his, which is, he tells me, the universal mode of saluta-
tion with his people. This custom amused me very
much, and seemed very queer; but I found that my
English way of saluting with the lips, seemed equally
strange and laughable to Friday.
I have already mentioned the alarm ^which my gun
occasioned Friday, the night I found him in the chest,
and I may now observe that his terror was not easily
overcome. He must have seen men kill each other -
with guns ; for the first time I fired, after he was with me,
which was at a bird he did not see, it made him tremble
21
242 - FRIDAY'S TEAR OF A GUN.
and turn pale, and he stripped off his clothes to see
where he was wounded. Though he found himself un-
hurt, he was still frightened, and made signs to me not
to kill him. I assured him I would not injure him, and
pointing to the bird which had fallen to the ground, I
sent him to fetch it. While he was wondering and
looking to see how the bird was wounded, I reloaded my
gun; and seeing a large hawk sitting on a tree within
shot, I directed Friday's eyes towards it, making signs to
him that I would cause that bird to fall down dead, as I
had done the other. I pointed to the muzzle of the
fowling-piece, to the hawk, and to the ground, to make
him understand what I was going to do, and then fired.
The bird fell, and he stood like one frightened out of his
wits, notwithstanding all I had said to him. When I
made a sign to him to go and fetch the dead bird, he ran off; and would not come near me again, while I had the
gun in my hand.
I afterwards found, that he was the more amazed, be-
cause he did not see me put any thing into the musket;
he therefore thought it had some wonderful power in
itself, to kill any living creature that came near it. Sev-
eral days after this, I saw him standing at a respectful
distance from the gun, talking to it as if it were a rea-
sonable being; and after haranguing it some time, in his
own language, he added in the most plaintive tone,
"No, no, kill poor Friday."
When his confidence in me increased, and he under-
stood English better, I took the gun to pieces before
him, and explained to him every part, and how it was
loaded. I showed him, too, how gunpowder would ex-
plode, by putting a little on the ground and touching it
with a lighted stick ; and made him at length understand,
that it was the gunpowder exploding in the barrel, which
sent out the shot or ball so swiftly, that when it hit the
bird, it killed it. After this, he gradually overcame his
fear of a gun, and enjoyed going out with me, seeing me
shoot, and picking up the dead game.
Friday was very fond of assisting me in my garden,
FRIDAY'S GARDENING. 243
and I sometimes allowed him to weed a little; though
there was always danger of his pulling up what I meant
to preserve, as he had no idea of cultivating any thing
that was not good to eat, and I had a bed of wild flow-
ers which I was as fond of as of any vegetables. I liked
to observe the change produced in them by cultivation.
After a while I gave him a piece of ground to manage in
his own way; and I was really amused to see his
mode of proceeding.
The first thing he did was to find a spring on the side
of a hill, and conduct the water, by a small trench, to
his garden. Then he dug oblong square pits, about
eighteen inches deep ; and having stirred up the earth a
little deeper, he planted in them bunches of leaves be-
longing to a plant that abounds on the island, and pro-
duces a very large root which is excellent food,
called by him, taro. When his plants were all set
out, he turned the water into his pits and covered them
with it. I thought he would certainly kill them, but he
told me that this was the way they always cultivated
taro in his country. He was right, the plants lived and
grew finely, and his crop of large roots was a valuable
addition to our esculent vegetables.
Seeing my garden was suffering from a long drought,
Friday offered to water it as effectually as he had done
his own, though in rather a differept way. I consented;
and having brought water to it from a spring at a dis-
tance, he dug little trenches across it and connected
them, so that the water flowed from one to another and
moistened it all equally.
I was, at first, so curious to know all I could learn
from Friday, and to understand his movements, that I
was constantly watching him, and inquiring of him what
his people did, and setting him to work in his own way,
that I might see what he could do. While thus engag-
ed, I thought but little of showing him any of my arts and
Inventions; but after a while, having occasion to repair
some of the iron work about my boat, I took him with
me to my forge, where he was much amazed to see me
COMPANIONSHIP.
blow the furnace, heat the iron red hot, and then shape
it as I wished. He liked nothing better than to watch
me at work, and to help me, and wait upon me in any
way he could. My stock of charcoal being nearly out,
I set about making some more, and found Friday's
assistance in chopping down trees, stripping them,
and cutting and piling the wood, very valuable. After
performing all my tasks alone for years, I highly enjoyed
the privilege of working in company with a fellow being,
and was surprised to find how much more two pair of
hands could do than one. I expected to do twice as
much, but the difference was far greater. We could lift
together four times the weight that I could move alone;
I should have built my store-house and pyramid in a
quarter the time, and with far less trouble and pains, if I
had been assisted then by Friday, as I now am.
I did not, however, regret my past labors and ex-
traordinary efforts, for I knew they had been very useful
to my mind and body; I only recalled them, that I
might the better understand the value of a companion.
A far less amiable youth than Friday, would have been
welcome to me in my solitude; and for such an aSec-
tionate, docile, intelligent, agreeable companion as I now
possessed, I could hardly find words to describe my
satisfaction, or express my gratitude to God.
When Friday first lived with me, I felt a little con-
cerned about our future subsistence. Some of the
stores, brought from the wreck, did not keep very well,
partly owing to the climate, and partly to their having
been damaged by salt water, on board the Thames; and
I thought I must make greater exertions than ever, to
secure food enough for us both. But in this I was quite
mistaken ; for-my companion's knowledge of the produc-
tions of the island increased my resources, and his culti-
vation of taro was so successful, that I was soon relieved
from all anxiety on the subject, and saw with indiffer-
ence the rapid consumption of the ship's stores.
Friday had been acquainted with the art of making
salt by evaporation, in his own country; so with his as-
245
sistance, I increased the number of my salt-pans, and by
the end of the summer, had as much of that valuable ar-
ticle as I needed, for all purposes. His expertness in
fishing was such, that he could supply the table constant-
ly, and without its occupying much of his time. There
was one kind of fish that he was continually looking out
for, and disappointed at not finding. Supposing that he
only wished for it as a delicate morsel to eat, I was sur-
prised at his caring so much about it. Happening to be
fishing one day on the north side of the island, he ex-
pressed great joy at having caught the fish he had so
long sought for in vain. After a grand struggle with his
prisoner, I was amazed to see him drag a young shark
into the boat. I now found that it was for the sake of
the teeth, that he had so desired to catch one of this
kind of fish. He had been accustomed to use them as
tools of various sorts; and his expertness in cutting hair
with a shark's tooth, and carving wood with it, surprised
me exceedingly. He carved his paddle all over, in a
small neat pattern, now he had this favorite instrument
to do it with, and ornamented some cocoa-nut shells in
the same way. He made a very light, convenient water
dipper of a gourd, and on this he exercised his ingenui-
ty, in a different manner; he drew a pattern all over it
with a hot wire, and made it look as if it was painted
with a delicate, brown color. I admired this so much,
that I hung it up to be looked at, and would not suffer
it to be used as a dipper.
21*
248 MEASURES OF CONCEALMENT.
without some very sorrowful feelings that I made up my
mind to this ; but while I was gazing, through my tears,
at the interesting object on the ocean, I thought of the
numerous proofs I had had, of the kind protection of my
Heavenly Father, and resolved to trust in Him still. I
then felt a strong conviction arise in my mind, that a safe
mode of deliverance would come in due time, and my
sadness passed away.
When we first saw the vessel, she was sailing before a
fine southerly breeze, and coming towards the shoals
very fast; and thinking the people on board would be ex-
amining the coast, through their spy-glasses, we did not
dare to show ourselves on the terrace, but peeped anx-
iously at them through our leafy screen. Presently
they altered their course, sailed round the Lands' End,
and disappeared behind the hills. We had no doubt
they were gone to the Bay of Terror; and as soon as
they were out of sight, we began our preparations for
concealment, by carrying into the cave every thing that
was lying about on the terrace, and might betray
our living there. I pulled down my shell fountain, took
away my rustic seat, and removed all traces of myself,
that could be got rid of. Friday concealed the chim-
ney of my kitchen, and the opening in the roof, by plac-
ing branches of trees so as to look like a natural growth
in the fissure. Then we sawed off some very thick set
shrubs close to the ground, and carried them inside of
the willow fence and placed them before the mouth of
the cave, so as to hide it entirely, and look as though they
were growing there. When all this was done, I hoped
that if the strangers should find their way to the terrace,
they would not discover my subterranean abode ; but
that they would take the lama's shed to be the only work
of man there. In case they should enter the cave, I
provided for our retreat into the inner apartment, by pil-
ing up things before the door so as completely to hide it,
and yet leave an opening for us to slip through. I
thought it very unlikely that they would make any strict
search, where they had no reason to suppose any one
was concealed ; nevertheless I removed the boards that
barricadoed the narrow entrance to the long passage, that
we might retreat there if necessary. Friday's experi-
ence of the chest, made him doubt the safety of any
such hiding-place ; he would much rather have trusted
to the woods, as he was very expert in gliding unseen
and unheard among the leaves; but after trying in vain
to persuade me to commit myself to his guidance, he
resolved to share my retreat, though I gave him leave to
provide for himself in any way he chose. His feelings
seemed much hurt at my proposing to him to separate
himself from me, and he exclaimed in the most affec-
tionate manner, "Friday no leave dear father; wicked
mans kill father, kill Friday too." I was quite touched
by this proof of fidelity ; I embraced him, and assured
him that I felt no doubt of our being perfectly safe in the
caves, for the Spaniards would not search for us, as I
did for him, when I knew him to be in the store-house.
Our preparations being completed on the terrace, we
took Neptune and Poll to the creek, and fastened them
up in the store-house, giving each a good allowance of
food. We thought it would be dangerous to keep them
with us, lest their noises might betray us; and by putting
them there, we hoped the strangers might suppose that
part of the island to be our head quarters, and the store-
house our only dwelling-place. I had little doubt that
our visitors would break into this building, and wantonly
destroy many of my goods ; therefore I loaded Friday
and myself with some of the most valuable small arti-
cles, and locking up the doors I reluctantly left my dumb
friends to their fate, and set off on my return to the ter-
race. As I ascended the side of the creek, I cast a last
look at my pretty boat, and sighed to think that she would
probably be stolen, or so injured as to be useless; but I
said nothing of my feelings to Friday, for light-hearted
as he naturally was, he now appeared much more 'cast
down and alarmed than I was.
When we reached the terrace, I happened to say, that
I wished I knew if the vessel had come to, anchor m the
bay ; on this the good-natured fellow insisted on going
to the top of a certain hill, that commanded a view of
the bay, to ascertain the fact for me.
I tried to dissuade him, as it was a distance of several
miles by the shortest cut, and he would have to swim a
river, climb precipices by moonlight, and be absent
many hours to accomplish his purpose. He was how-
ever so desirous of going, and so sure of his own powers
of eluding observation, that at last I consented.
Having supped together, Friday prepared for his
journey, by taking off his English clothes; this surprised
me, till he pointed out the advantage of his dark skin,
and the danger of having any thing light-colored about
him, as well as the hindrance such garments would be to
him in swimming or running very swiftly, as he had not
always been accustomed to them. I settled it with Fri-
day that if the vessel had not come to anchor, he should
return directly to tell me so ; but if she had anchored, the
people would most likely sleep on board, and therefore
he should remain where he could see their movements,
till he discovered preparations for coming on shore in
the morning; and then he should watch their motions,
and give me timely notice of their approach. This mis-
sion suited him exactly, and he begged me to be quite
easy during his absence, to depend entirely on his watch-
fulness, and to go to bed, and sleep as usual. I thank-
ed him for his kind care over me, and took an affection-
ate leave of Friday for the night. I knew it would suit
his disposition much better, to be out reconnoitering, than
to be shut up with me in the cave; and therefore,
though I disliked very much to lose his company at such
a time, I parted from him cheerfully, and promised to
go to bed, and sleep if I could.
The latter, I found impossible, for though I was per-
fectly composed, and had no doubt the Spaniards were
all on board their vessel, my mind was too full of thought
for me to lose myself in sleep; and as it seemed most
prudent not to light a lamp, I spent the night in silence,
in darkness, and in safety.
With the morning light came the danger of discovery,
and the expectation of Friday's return; but as I depend-
ed on his giving me timely notice of the strangers' move-
ments, I ventured as far as the shed, milked my lamas,
and gave them their liberty. While I was doing this, I
was very much startled by the report of a gun. Con-
vinced that the Spaniards were at hand, I hastened back
to my cave, and began to wonder that Friday had not
returned; and then it flashed into my mind, that the gun
I had just heard might have been aimed at him, and my
heart sank within me at the idea. I reproached myself
for letting the poor fellow leave me; and could I have
been certain that he was killed by that shot. I should
have given myself up to the Spaniards, and run the risk
of captivity or death, rather than live again without Fri-
day, in the perfect solitude of this island.
I still hoped, however, that my valued companion was
safe; so I determined to conceal myself if I could.
Presently I heard loud voices very near me, and per-
ceived that the speakers were above my cave, close to
the crack in the roof. They spoke the Spanish lan-
guage, and I recognised some of the coarse expressions
which I had so often heard on board the Santa Maria.
Having experienced kindness from the hands of Span-
iards once, I should certainly have discovered myself to
these strangers and trusted to their generosity, if I had
not felt something in my mind, which restrained me from
it, and reminded me of my feelings about putting up a
signal on the northern part of the island. As I had rea-
son to rejoice that I attended to my feelings on that oc-
casion, I thought it best to trust to them now. I strength-
ened myself in this resolution by calling to mind what
Friday had told me of his experience and that of the
English prisoners on board a Spanish vessel. While
thinking of the fate of my countrymen, I was very much
startled by a shower of earth and stones from the crack
in the roof, occasioned, I suppose, by some one's stumb-
ling into it. I dreaded lest this might lead them to ex-
amine the ground and find out my chimney, which would
252 SPANIARDS ON THE TERRACE.
certainly betray the habitation. Shouts from several of
the party were followed by an angry altercation, and this
diverted their attention from the cause of the accident.
I had been so long removed from all noise and strife,
that the high words and angry tones which now met my
ear, were appalling to me, and I could not help say-
ing to myself—" How can thy creatures, O God, be so
unlike thee?"
After quarrelling some time, they were silenced by an
exclamation from one of the party; and I heard their
steps approach the edge of the precipice, against which
the lama's shed was built. After a short silence,
another burst of more good-humored voices was heard,
and they scampered off in various directions. I had
no doubt they had caught sight of the shed, and
were coming to the terrace to examine it. It proved
exactly so, and I began to tremble lest my retreat should
be discovered.
I longed so much to see some of my fellow beings,
some of the same race with myself, that I could not help
peeping at them, through the bushes at the entrance of
my cave ; but the willow trees were so thick a screen,
that I could hardly catch a glimpse of them.
A pause followed their arrival at the shed, and then
they set to work, like crazy creatures, to destroy it.
They all fell upon the little building with shouts, expres-
sive of a wild delight in destruction; when they were
fully engaged in tearing down the timbers, and breaking
up every thing about it, I ventured on my hands and
knees, as far as the willow fence to look at them through
it; and such a set of banditti as they appeared, I never
saw before! Dark, fierce countenances, with great
black whiskers and mustaches, were rendered still more
formidable by their athletic forms, armed with the most
deadly weapons.
I gazed at them a few moments in utter amazement,
and then retreated to my inner cave, scarce daring to
breathe as I went, so fearful was I of falling into their
hands!
FRIDAY IN A SWOON. 253
My anxiety, however, to know what they would do
next was so great, that I could not rest so far off; and I
was just entering the kitchen, from behind the pile of
boards, barrels, and boxes, that I had placed to conceal
the communication between the caves, when a new and
appalling sight rivetted me to the spot, and seemed to
stop every pulse in me. I saw a man's legs coming
down through the crack in the roof! These wretches,
thought I, have discovered my habitation, and will carry
on their work of destruction here. As soon as I had
power to move, I retreated softly to my lodging-room
and shut the door after me. A hand was upon it,
on the other side ; I held it fast, and my heart beat vio-
lently, as I pictured to myself the fierce Spaniard that
was pulling against me, and thought how vain my resis-
tance must prove. But what was the change in my feel-
ings, when I heard Friday's voice, assuring me in a low
murmur it was only he! I opened the door, and re-
ceived the poor fellow in my arms. We dared not
speak, but our gestures showed how glad we both were
to meet again.
My joy, however, was soon interrupted by a fresh
cause of alarm. Friday fell down senseless at my feet.
Not knowing the cause or the extent of his malady, I fear-
ed he was dead, and was so agitated that I was entirely at
a loss what to do. There I was, supporting him in a sit-
ting posture, feeling his heart and his wrist, to see if
there were any pulsation, and speaking to him, instead
of using the simple means of restoration which I was
well acquainted with, but did not think of, because I had
lost my presence of mind. After spending some min-
utes in this foolish way, I made a strong effort to com-
pose myself; and then it occurred to me that he was in a
swoon, and that I ought to lay him down flat, and give
him fresh air and cold water. So I carried him to the
entrance of the outer cave, and laid him down. Hear-
ing no more sounds from the Spaniards, I ventured to
the spring for some water, with which I bathed his fore-
head and wet his lips.
22
I then perceived that he was bleeding profusely ; this
was probably the reason of his fainting, and it might
cause his death, if not stopped in time. Again my pres-
ence of mind nearly forsook me. I had but just enough
command of myself, to turn my mind to God, for sup-
port and guidance in this trying moment, when every
thing depended on my doing the best thing immediately.
By fixing my thoughts on Him who is strength to the
weak, I became calm, and so far regained the use of my
reason, as to be able to think what I could do, to relieve
my poor Friday from his dangerous situation.
I had seen various balsams, and spirits of turpentine,
used to stop bleeding, but I had none of these things.
At last I thought of salt; that I had, and I was on the
point of going to fetch it, when I remembered what a very
sensible army surgeon said, one day, to my father, about
using styptics.* He condemned all such applications, as
being superfluous where there was no large artery open-
ed, and useless where there was; he recommended pres-
sure in the former case, and tying up the ends of the ar-
teries in the latter. All this, which it takes so long to
write, passed very quickly through my mind, while I was
examining Friday's injury, and ascertaining that it was
a simple flesh wound, in the thigh. Observing that the
bleeding was less in consequence of Friday's swoon con-
tinuing, I determined to bandage it up, and try the good
surgeon's remedy for slight hemorrhage, before I at-
tempted to restore his senses. From all appearan-
ces it was a gun-shot wound ; and I had no doubt that
Friday received it, when I heard the report of a gun
and felt so uneasy about him.
While tearing up old linen, and applying the bandages
to his thigh in the best manner, it occurred to me, that I
was perhaps binding up a musket ball in the wound, and
that I ought to probe it, in order to ascertain the fact.
Again, the opinions of the sensible surgeon came to my
recollection ; and while I was shuddering at the idea of
* Medicines which have the quality of stopping hemorrhage
or discharges of blood.
my unskilful probing, I remembered his saying that a
great deal more harm was done by probing, than the ball
itself would do, if left in. The ball, he said, having a
round, smooth surface, did'not generally occasion any in-
convenience ; and he gave my father several instances of
balls being left in flesh wounds, and never troubling the
patient at all. I little thought, when I stood beside my
father, a boy of twelve years of age, and listened to this
conversation, that it would ever be so useful to me. But
I saw then that my father had a high opinion of the sense
of the gentleman, which, together with the pleasure of
hearing him describe bad wounds, narrow escapes, and
bloody battles, fixed my attention; and now, in this re-
mote spot, and in this exigency, I profited by what I
then heard. I neither probed the wound, nor applied
any styptics, but simply bound it up ; hoping it would
heal by what surgeons call the first intention, which is
merely keeping the air from it. When this was done,
I used every means in my power to restore Friday to
animation. I put burnt feathers under his nose, fan-
ned his face, rubbed his body, and tried to make him
swallow some drops of a cordial, that was among my
stores; but it was long before I could perceive any signs
of life. At last a short sob with a little muscular motion
gave some relief to my anxiety; and I persevered in the
use of my simple remedies, till he opened his eyes and
drew a long breath. His thoughts came back still more
slowly than his pulse. The first words he spoke, were
in his own language, and when I called him by name he
stared at me, and repeated the word "Friday," as if
he had never heard it before. I now feared he had been
frightened out of his wits, and that he had forgotten all
the English he had learned.
To bring back his thoughts to what had lately happen-
ed, I turned his attention to his wound; the moment he
saw it, he thought of the Spaniards, and asked some
question about them, very eagerly, in his own language.
Supposing it was an inquiry as to where they were, I told
they were all gone; this satisfied him, and he look-
256 FRIDAY IN TROUBLE.
ed again at his bandaged limb, and wanted to remove the
linen and examine it. I told him his father had put that
on to cure his wound, and that if he let it alone, it would
soon be well.
His countenance now showed the revival of his affec-
tion for me, and he poured out his feelings in his own
language. I did not like to remind him that all he said
was unintelligible to me, for fear of interrupting him in
the recovery of his thoughts; so I let him go on till I per-
ceived that he was accusing himself of something wrong,
and imploring forgiveness; then I told him he must
speak English or I could not understand him. When it
flashed upon him that I had not comprehended any thing
he had been saying, he burst into a passionate flood of
tears, and seemed to despair of expressing, in a foreign
language, the feelings he was so full of. His pulse
now became very quick, and I feared fever and inflam-
mation, if he were not kept quiet; so I soothed him,
and touched noses with him ; persuaded him to drink a
little milk, and then told him he must go to bed, and get
some sleep. At this he exclaimed, "No, no, no sleep!
bad Friday, sleep too much." I now suspected what it
was that moved him; he had fallen asleep on his watch
the preceding night, the Spaniards had landed unknown
to him, and he was distressed by his want of faithfulness
to me. I said every thing I could, to convince him it
was a pardonable fault, and that I had not suffered by it.
I then tried to make him understand that he was severely
wounded, and would be very sick and perhaps die, if he
did not do as I bade him. He made very light of his
wound, though I saw it pained him a good deal, when I
carried him to his bed. He wished to tell me all about
his nocturnal expedition, but I would not let him. I
showed him I was not angry with him for the past, but
that he must keep quiet now. I watched his wound,
fearing that all this emotion would make it bleed afresh,
but it did not. Having sat by him, and held his hand
till he fell asleep, I left him, to do my morning's work;
and then took a long nap myself, to make up for my
sleepless night.
PEARS FOR NEPTUNE AND POLL. 257
When I awoke in the afternoon, no sound of the in-
truders was to be heard; but I sighed to think that they
had probably carried on their work of destruction at the
creek, and had perhaps ill-treated my dumb favorites.
I could hardly bear to think of my faithful Neptune, or
amusing Poll, being in the power of those ruffians; yet
I could not blame myself for putting them there, for if
they had remained in the cave, they would certainly
have betrayed me. Strange voices would have made
Neptune bark violently, and whenever he did so, Mistress
Poll always screamed in chorus. I had become so ac-
customed to their society, that I missed them greatly;
every now and then, as I was engaged in my domestic
affairs, and thinking of my absent family, my imagina-
tion made me fancy I heard them making noises of dis-
tress; but when I went to the mouth of the cave and
listened, all was as still as if there were no living crea-
ture on the island besides myself. I thought of my val-
uable store-house with its contents, and of my forge and
water-wheel, and feared they were now reduced to a
heap of ruins. This silence only proved the deed was done. My pretty boat too, that would probably be
stolen, or so injured as to be useless; and I regretted
that I had not thought of sinking her, which would have
concealed her entirely from observation. I reproached
myself the more for not having taken this precaution,
when it occurred to me that the Spaniards would be very
sure, on seeing that boat at anchor, that there was some
civilized being on the island, and might in consequence
make a more thorough search.
After tormenting myself some time in this useless way,
I resolved, as Friday was doing well, had taken some
light nourishment, and gone to sleep again, to run off to
the creek, and ascertain the extent of the mischief done
by the Spaniards. I felt sure that they had left this part
of the island, so I proceeded very fearlessly till I reach-
ed the creek; then I approached the buildings under
cover of some bushes, and was soon relieved from the
fear of finding them laid waste, by seeing through the
22*
leaves the thatch of my store-house, as usual. The forge
was unmolested, and my pretty boat sat upon the water
uninjured. I hastened to unlock the door of the store-
house, and was affectionately greeted by my two favo-
rites, whom I found in good health and spirits; though
very anxious to leave their new dwelling-place for their
old one. I did not think it quite safe to indulge them in
this at present ; so I took my leave of them and return-
ed to look after my patient, though Neptune's whine
went to my heart, and I longed to have him at home
with me.
I found Friday awake, and anxiously wishing for my
appearance. When I told him where I had been, he
was delighted to hear that all was safe, and Neptune and
Poll well.
Greatly refreshed by the tranquil sleep he had enjoyed,
he was now able to tell me his adventures, and how he was
wounded. I listened with great interest to a very long sto-
ry, and interpreted many gestures before I understood his
narrative, the substance of which was as follows. When
he arrived in sight of the bay, the vessel was at anchor,
and he concluded all hands were on board. So he plac-
ed himself in a sheltered nook, intending to doze and
watch by turns ; but he fell into a deep sleep, and did
not wake till near sunrise. As soon as he aroused, he
found a party of Spaniards very near him; their voices
warned him not to move, for, being surrounded by thick
bushes, his only safety was in lying close and escaping
observation. The strangers passed very near him ; and
he trembled all over, when he perceived them to be his
former shipmates and tormenters. As soon as they had
gone from the mountain, in a southerly direction, Friday
took a view of the bay and saw a boat going off to the ves-
sel, loaded with water-casks that they had already filled;
he then made all haste to reach me, before the Spaniards
should arrive at the terrace. In his anxiety to precede
them, and give me warning of their approach, he ven-
tured too near them, and was obliged to climb a large
myrtle tree, and trust to its thick foliage for concealing
him from observation. The motion he made among the
( branches, attracted the attention of one of the party, who
immediately fired his musket into the tree. The charge
was lodged in poor Friday's thigh, but he had the forti-
tude and presence of mind, not to utter a sound, or make
the least movement; and the ruffians passed on, sup-
posing there was nothing there.
When they were out of sight, he came down from his
hiding-place with great difficulty, for his whole limb was
jarred by the blow and the wound bled a good deal;
but he was determined to give me notice of the approach
of the Spaniards, if he possibly could ; so he hobbled
along as fast as his wound would permit, and arrived on
Fort Hill, while they were engaged tearing down the
shed, and entered the cave by the crack in the roof, as
the shortest way of getting to me and ascertaining my
safety.
Though Friday made no display of his attachment to
me, in this account of himself, I could see very plainly
that my safety had been nearest his heart all the
while he was absent, and that he considered himself so
blameworthy for sleeping when he ought to have watched,
that he deserved no pity for his wound. I was however
of a very different opinion. I made every allowance
for his having slept at his post, and greatly regretted his
having exposed himself, on my account, to his present
sufferings.
260
CHAPTER XXXII.
FRIDAY'S WOUND — VISIT TO THE BAY OF TERROR — HYMJT
— NEPTUNE'S SYMPATHY — FRIDAY LEARNING TO READ —
FRIDAY LEARNING TO RIDE—STARTLED BY A GROAN ——
COURAGE DISPLAYED EXPLORING CAVES SEARCHING
FOR FRIDAY — FRIDAY FOUND.
THE day after Friday's accident, his wound became
very painful; I was convinced that it would not heal by
"the first intention," that it must be inflamed, and that
it would probably suppurate * before it could get well.
Friday, too, was uneasy about it, and wanted me to get the
leaves of a certain plant, which he had told me was good
for wounds, and let him chew them and apply them to
his leg. This was a good hint for me; and by uniting
his skill and mine, the limb was treated very successfully.
I gathered a large quantity of the leaves he had pointed
out, but instead of chewing them, I boiled them in wa-
ter; and having bathed the wound well with this herb
tea, I put on a large, warm poultice of the leaves. Fri-
day allowed that this felt very comfortable, though he
would have preferred his own way of making the
poultice.
As it was necessary to keep Friday quiet, and his
limb horizontal, I made up a bed for him in the outer
cave, that he might have light and be with me. To
prevent his thinking about his wounded leg, I gave him
various light work to do, as he lay in bed; and when
more useful occupation failed, he amused himself with
carving a little turtle in wood, and did it very well. He
wished me to wear it, tied on my finger; but I told him
such ornaments were in the way, and that it was very
troublesome to wear them; nevertheless, I would keep
this for his sake, and put it up where I could look at it
• A wound is said to suppurate, when matter is formed in
it; this is the proper and healthy termination of inflammation,
and is the means employed by nature, to get rid of such pasta as are too much injured to recover.
very often. So I hung it on a nail, between my looking-
glass and watch, which pleased him very much. Friday's wound went through the usual stages of in-
flammation and suppuration, before it healed; but my
simple treatment by fomentations and poultices, answer-
ed very well; and when all the bruised and deadened
parts had come away, it healed up rapidly. By careful
attention to his diet, taking only light food, and that spar-
ingly, he escaped a fever. The confinement was very
irksome to him, and he felt so well, that he could not be-
lieve it necessary to refrain from eating as much as he
wanted; nevertheless, his love for me and confidence in
my judgment made him perfectly docile, and for this he
was rewarded, by a rapid recovery.
A few days after the visit from the Spaniards, I made
an excursion in my boat, to the Bay of Terror, to see
what traces they had left, and to be sure that the vessel
was gone. I approached with the same caution I had
formerly used, but all was still as if the foot of man had
never touched the shore; so sailing round the point, I
crossed the bay and landed near the watering-place. A
path was now made very visible between the beach and
the spring of water, and a silk handkerchief and some
tools had been left on the ground; these traces of my
fellow beings were extremely interesting to me, in my
lonely condition, and I hoped and believed the time would
come when some of my race would visit this island
whom I should not need to shun, but who would be the
means of my returning to my country and my friends.
I had, occasionally, a full conviction that I should not
live out my days here, but that in God's own time the
means of deliverance would come, if I did nothing to
prevent things taking their proper course.
I was now fully convinced, by my past experience,
that certain feelings were given me by my Heavenly
Father, for my guidance, in cases where I could not of
myself find out the best course ; and I resolved never to
slight these blessed intimations, but to keep my mind al-
ways open and attentive to such impressions.
262 HYMN — NEPTUNE'S SYMPATHY.
I spent an hour very agreeably, under the shade of a
wide-spreading laurel, thinking of the goodness and
power of God; feeling that he was indeed the Father of
my Spirit, and that I could look to him for protection,
guidance, and comfort, with the same confiding love that
a little child feels for the best of earthly parents.
Every thing around me, as well as within me, spoke
of the goodness and power of God; the bright, blue sky,
and the light floating clouds; the rustling of the leaves
by the gentle south-wind, their rich foliage and deep
shade; the sunny bank and the sparkling rivulet; the
song of birds, and the hum of insects; and above all, the
ceaseless murmur of the ocean wave, as it reached the
pebbly beach, all, all spoke the praises of their great Crea-
tor, and seemed to join their voices with mine, as I sang
the following hymn of my own composing.
HYMN.
My Heavenly Father! all I see
Around me and above,
Sends forth a hymn of praise to thee,
And speaks thy boundless love.
The clear blue sky is full of thee,
The woods so dark and lone;
The soft south-wind, the sounding sea,
Worship the Holy One.
The humming of the insect throng,
The prattling, sparkling rill, -
The birds with their melodious song
Repeat thy praises still.
And thou dost hear them every one,
Father, thou nearest me;
I know that I am not alone,
When I but think of thee.
When I returned from this delightful excursion, I
brought my dumb friends from their place of banishment;
and had great pleasure in witnessing their joy at being
again in their old quarters, and Friday's happiness in
having their company. Neptune perceived directly,
FRIDAY LEARNING TO READ. 263
that something was the matter with Friday, and the ex-
pression of his countenance, with now and then a little
low whine, spoke plainly his sympathy and pity; nor
could he feel easy or satisfied till he saw me dress the
wound; and so found out all he could of the evil, and
that Friday and I were on good terms in regard to it.
After witnessing this dressing, he never showed any
more feeling about it; but was a cheerful companion to
Friday, whenever he had no inducement to be abroad.
He was more fond of me than of Friday, and whenever I
was actively engaged out of doors, he always chose to
accompany me; but when I was working near home, he
would run off and visit Friday, from time to time. I
amused myself with making him act as carrier between
us, sending Friday flowers and fruits, tied round the
dog's neck, and he sending me some trifle in return.
This communication between Friday and me, while
he was confined with his lame leg, amused him very
much; and as he was one day expressing his pleasure
m it, and caressing Neptune for his services as carrier, I
told him we could have much more pleasure in this way,
if he knew how to read; for then I could send him
words written on a board, or shell, or leaf, that would be
as good as talking to him. This idea pleased him so
much, that he begged me to teach him to read, and de-
clared he would learn as fast as possible. As he had
never before shown the least inclination to learn, I was
glad to see him interested in the subject, and determined
to make it as easy and pleasant to him as I could.
I knew that learning the alphabet and spelling sylla-
bles, would be very tedious work, so I thought I would
try to teach him whole words at once. To do this, I
made a number of wooden tallies, and on each I printed
the name of something he was familiar with, such as
water, milk, taro, raisins, &c.; then I showed him what
each one meant, by putting the substance and the name
together, and making him pronounce the word very dis-
tinctly. By looking very attentively at these words, he
learned to distinguish them, and to know what substance
each one stood for, when separated from it. When he
had thus learnt his first lesson, I took the tallies he had
been studying, and carried them with me, when I went
out to work. Presently, I tied one of them round Nep-
tune's neck, and sent him back to Friday with it. The
dog returned, bringing the article named, and my pupil
was delighted with thus proving his knowledge of the
printed word. When he had learned a great many
nouns, in this way, I taught him other parts of speech
in the same manner; and having once interested him in
learning to read, by this easy method, I afterwards con-
tinued his education more according to rule, and during
the wet season he made considerable progress; but
more of this hereafter.
I must now go back a little way in my narrative, and
observe, that Friday had lived with me some time before
he happened to see me ride upon Judy; and I never
shall forget his surprise, when he first beheld me ap-
proaching him on the lama. I was trotting home from
Gordon Vale, where I had been to get some young Pi-
mento trees, to plant on the terrace, when Friday caught
sight of me. He gazed at first, in stupid amazement, un-
certain what it was he saw; on being convinced it was 1,
he jumped and laughed, supposing I was only doing it for
fun, as he sometimes bestrode the dog, without bearing
his weight on him. When I dismounted, I invited him
to get on, and up he jumped as nimbly as a mountebank
at a fair; but Judy was so anxious to get to her shed,
and have the food I always gave her after carrying me,
that she made a spring, which left Friday far behind
her, flat on his back. He jumped up very quickly,
walked orFto another part of the terrace, and began to
do something, as a pretence for hiding his face, and to
conceal his mortification at being thrown.
I was sorry to see that Friday cared about such a
thing, and wondered what there was in such a trifle, to
disturb him. If he had understood English well enough,
I should have reasoned him out of his foolish feelings,
and told him that no one ought to feel vexed or mortified,
STARTLED BY A GROAN. 265
at any accident of the kind; but as he could not under-
stand this, I let him know it was Judy's fault, and not his
or mine, by speaking to her in a scolding tone, and say-
ing, "No, no, Judy, throw Friday down."
By the time she was fed, and some other little jobs
done, Friday had recovered his good humor and
sprightly manner; but it was long before I could per-
suade him to mount again upon Judy's back; not till he
was recovering from his wound, and wished very much
to accompany me into the woods. He was well enough
to ride, but not to walk so far, and I told him he might
go if he would ride Judy. He mounted very timidly,
though I assured him Judy would not jump now, as she
had before done; when he found that she stood as still
as a rock, while he placed himself on her back, he
gained some confidence, and I let him sit awhile before
I led her forward. When at last she began to move,
though in the gentlest manner, he looked very much fright-
ened, held on with both hands by her soft hair, and beg-
ged to be allowed to get off. I encouraged him, how-
ever, by assuring him there was no danger; and before
he had proceeded a mile, he got over his alarm. I led
Judy all the way, for fear a sudden movement of hers
should hurt Friday's lame leg; and when he became ac-
customed to the motion of the animal under him, he en-
joyed the ride exceedingly. He patted and caressed
old Judy for carrying him so well, and showed the kind-
ness of his nature by saying to me very often, "Father,
Judy tired?" or else, "Judy tired, Father; Friday
walk." I told him how strong lamas were, and gave
him some account of horses, and how much they are
used in England. He expressed a strong desire to see
my country, and asked me to let him go with me there,
when I returned. This request threw me into a reverie,
which Friday's natural politeness prevented him from
disturbing, and we went along some distance in silence.
We were picking our steps among loose stones and
fragments of rock, in a hollow on the side of a mountain,
when a very unusual sound startled us both, and made
23
266 COURAGE DISPLAYED.
us stop and look at each other for an explanation. It
seemed to me like the groan of a man in bodily pain.
Friday thought it was a Spaniard, who had left the pi-
ratical ship, as he had done; and having whispered his
suspicions to me, he begged me to go back to the cave
on Judy, and leave him to lie in wait for the stranger,
with my hatchet; as he put his hand on the weapon,
which hung in my belt, I saw by the fire in his eye,
that he meant to despatch the Spaniard with it if he had
an opportunity.
I told him that the sound we heard was one of dis-
tress, and that I meant to find the person, and assist him,
and make him our friend, if I could. Friday shook his
head, and said, "Spanar shoot father, Spanar gun hurt
bad ;" and then he put his arm round my neck as I stood
by the lama, and tried all in his power to keep me from
looking for the Spaniard. But a second groan directed
my eyes to a small opening in the rocks, which looked
as if it might be the entrance to a cave; so I disengaged
myself from Friday, and pressed cautiously into it. I saw nothing but a large cavity in the rocks. I made
my way into it, and peering round its dark sides, was
very much startled, by finding a pair of great, black
eyes fixed upon me. Here, thought I, is one of those
fierce Spaniards, sure enough, and I am in his power if
he is armed.
Summoning up all my courage, I determined to speak
to him; so I inquired who he was, and what was the
matter; first in English, and then in what little Spanish
I had learnt on board the Santa Maria. The stranger
did not answer, but kept his eyes fixed upon me, and
gave another groan. The man is too ill to speak,
thought I, and yet he holds his head up wonderfully.
My eyes were now accustomed to the darkness of the
place, and I could see more clearly than when I entered;
so I crossed the cave to approach the Spaniard, and
found only an old he lama, who had come here to die.
The light from the entrance of the cave, shone directly
in his eyes, and made them visible, when no other part
of him could be distinguished.
EXPLORING CAVES. 267
Having been so deceived myself, I thought I would
try the effect on Friday, and prove his courage too; I
therefore called to him for assistance, as if I were en-
gaged with an enemy, and needed help. The good
fellow came with all speed, armed with stones that he
picked up as he entered; and the moment he saw those
great eyes in the back part of the cave, he sent one of
the stones full at the head of the lama. The poor old
creature rolled over and died. Meanwhile, Friday
found out his mistake, and we came out into the fresh
air, to talk over the adventure, and dig a grave for the
lama, that he need not spoil the air of the cave; which
we agreed would be an excellent hiding-place, if sur-
prised by an enemy in this part of the island. The old
lama's coat was so fine, and thick, and long, that we did
not like to lose it, so we skinned him before we buried
him. I told Friday I should take particular pains in
tannins; and preserving that skin, and keep it as a trophy
of our false alarm and true courage.
We next made a torch of some dry, resinous wood,
lighted it by my gun-lock and spunk, and with this we
explored the cave. It was about twelve paces deep, of
an irregular shape, and on the farther side of it, we ob-
served an opening that went in deeper; but it was so
low, that we could only enter it on our hands and
knees. I was determined, however, to see where it led,
and Friday was resolved to follow me; so I went first
with the torch, and we crept along several yards without
coming to any thing. The air was oppressive, or rather
there did not seem Jo be enough of it, in this narrow
passage, to feed the torch and us too, and I had a great
mind to turn back; but knowing how unsatisfied I should
feel, if I did, I persevered a little longer, and perceived
some fresher air to reach my lungs. This encouraged
me, and soon after the passage became larger, then
opened suddenly into a vast grotto; and wherever the
light of the torch fell, the sides and roof shone as if made
of glass. The floor was very damp, and drops were
continually falling on it from the roof, I stood at the
268 SEARCHING FOR FRIDAY.
entrance, in silent wonder and admiration, for I never
saw any thing so beautiful of its kind.
I had heard of the caves in Derbyshire, and did not
doubt that this was of the same material; formed, as
they are, by the dropping of water that has earthy par-
ticles in it, which being left behind, make these brilliant
crystals. From the roof, hung down long points of a
white and yellow substance, that glistened in the light;
but with only one torch, I could not see half the beauties
of the place. I walked all round it to ascertain if it
communicated with any more caves, and was surprised
that Friday did not follow me. I invited him in, but he
shook his head and remained at the entrance, with an
expression of awe in his face. I afterwards found, that
he supposed the place sacred to some divinity of the
island, and was afraid of provoking the wrath of the un-
seen proprietor, if he entered it.
Having ascertained that there was no other opening
but the one at which we entered, and exploring as much
as I could with one torch, I prepared to return as we
came. Friday was so impatient to reach the outer air,
that he begged leave to go first; and I let him ; though I
chose to keep the torch in my own hand, for fear he
should carelessly extinguish it. With this incumbrance,
I could not creep so fast as Friday, who was soon out of
sight. On arriving at the first cave we had entered, I
expected trf see him, but he was not there; I supposed
he was without, waiting for me in the open air; but on
looking there for him, he was nowhere to be seen. I
called, but he did not answer. I thought he was hiding
himself, and looked behind the rocks and bushes; then
I re-entered the old lama's cave, and looked all round it,
for Friday. I called to him to come directly, as it was
time to go home, but heard not a sound in reply. A
f«ar now rushed upon my mind that he had missed his
way in coming through the narrow passage, and was be-
wildered in some other opening that I had not observed.
Having lost myself once in a sand-pit, when I was a
boy, and come very near staying all night, because the
passages were all so much alike I could not tell one from
another, or find the one which led out of the labyrinth ; I
thought it most likely, that such was Friday's case. That
I might not lose myself too, in looking for him, I took a
pocket full of berries with me to mark the way by which
I entered, and went in pursuit of my poor boy, who
would, I knew, be very much alarmed.
I called aloud to let him know I was at hand, but I
only heard the echoes of my own voice, which were
very loud and startling. I marked the way to the grotto,
by strewing berries as I went, and saw no openings that
branched off from it in that direction; but as I returned,
I saw one that forked off a little more to the left, than
the one which led out into the open air. It was smaller
than the right one, and if Friday had not led the way he
never would have got into it, for the opening was hardly
wide enough for my shoulders. I squeezed into it, how-
ever, in pursuit of Friday, and called to him again, but
heard nothing of him. After proceeding a few yards, I
came to three larger openings; which of these he had
taken I could not tell, and as my torch was nearly burnt
out, I did not like to venture any further without a fresh
one. I therefore returned to the outside of the moun-
tain, feeling a great deal for poor Friday's situation, but
convinced the only way to rescue him was to use proper
caution in going after him. Rashness, on my part,
would only endanger us both; and the idea of starving
to death under ground, because we could not find the
way out, was not a very pleasant prospect.
While preparing another torch, it occurred to me that
the shortest and surest way of finding Friday would be
to go home and get Neptune, who could trace him by
his scent. We had left the dog behind us, because his
gambols excited Judy to cut capers, and I wished her to
be very quiet under Friday, as it was his first ride. As
soon as I thought of Neptune, I jumped upon Judy, who
was feeding near at hand, and rode home after him. I
also brought some lamps to assist in the search, and was
back again as soon as possible, knowing how very long
23*
every minute would seem to poor Friday, frightened and
perplexed as he must be.
When I arrived with Neptune, at the first cave, I tried
to send him into the narrow entrance alone, but he would
not go. So I lighted two lamps, and taking one in each
hand I crept along first, and did better resting the bot-
toms of the lamps on the ground and supporting my weight
equally on both arms, than when carrying a torch, and
creeping on one hand only. Neptune followed close at
my heels, and when we came to the fork I stopped, and tri-
ed to make him go into the left hand passage before me,
which I at last succeeded in doing, by calling Friday
several times, and then saying to him, "Go, seek." I
now put down one lamp and followed him with the other,
encouragiug him to seek for Friday. When he came
to the three openings, he smelt two of them and then
ran down the third, without trying the scent; just as if
he knew by reasoning, that if it was not either of the
others, it must be that. I marked the way with berries,
which I could feel on the ground if the lamps went out,
and followed Neptune many yards, and past several
branching passages, that would have entirely confounded
me; but Neptune trotted by them undoubtingly, guided
by his unerring sense of smell. Two or three more
turns through wider and rougher openings, brought us to
a little alcove, made of shining crystals; on the damp
floor of which, lay my poor Friday, breathless and
senseless.
I had heard of persons being frightened to death, and
for a few moments I feared this was the case with my
dear companion; but remembering that he was weaken-
ed by his long confinement and low diet, and observing
the air of these caves to be oppressive, I hoped he had
only fainted away. In that case even his situation was
critical enough, for here was no cold water, no fresh air;
I had nothing about me that I could administer to revive
him; and how could I take him, in his present state,
through those long narrow passages, which I could only
pass on all fours, myself. I was really at my wits' end;
I knew not what to do. While considering, I sat down
and laid Friday's head and shoulders in my lap; as I
did this, a piece of woollen cloth that I wore as a sash
round my waist, to carry my hatchet in, accidentally got
into the flame of the lamp; the smell warned me of it,
and as it very much resembled the smell of burnt feath-
ers, I thought it might answer as well. I put the smoke
of it under Friday's nose, it revived him a little; I then
rubbed his body and limbs, and had no doubt he would
soon be restored, if I could but carry him to the open air.
Again I was puzzling myself to find a way of dragging
him through those narrow passages, when a new sound
met my ear. The neighing of a flock of lamas sounded
very near us, in an opposite direction to that by which I
had approached Friday. This gave me hope that there
was a nearer way out of this labyrinth; and, sure
enough, on examination, I found a short and easy cut to
the open air, by which I readily conveyed my patient,
and soon had the satisfaction of seeing him come to, and
enjoy his rescue from that alarming situation, where he
had suffered so much, that he could not then bear to
speak of it.
I went back for my lamps, and then placing Friday
on Judy, we returned home, much exhausted by the va-
rious exertions and excitements of the day.
CHAPTER XXXIII.
FRIDAY'S RELIGIOUS NOTIONS — A SECOND VISIT TO THE
GROTTO VALUEOF A COMPANION MAKING BUTTER.
I HAVE hitherto said very little about Friday's notions
of religion, because they were so confused, and so full
of gross superstitions and absurdities, that it was painful to
me to observe them, and useless to describe them.
272 FRIDAY'S RELIGIOUS NOTIONS.
I soon perceived that he and bis people believed there
were various good and evil spirits; that they worshipped
the good ones, and made offerings and prayers to them;
that they considered the soul to be immortal, and that all
were happy after death. Friday sometimes appeared
to think of one great and good spirit, as above all the
rest; but when I spoke to him of such a being, he al-
ways said something that disappointed me, and made me
deeply sensible how far he was from a rational and true
belief in the One God and Father of us all.
After our visit to the grotto, I perceived that he was
firmly convinced, an evil spirit had carried him away to
the place where I found him, and that Etee, as he
called it, had tried to kill him, but could not. I did all
I could, to convince him it was no such thing ; I told
him how he had lost his way, and that it was his foolish
fears, and his haste to get out, which had occasioned all
his trouble; but, though he had the greatest respect for
my opinions and knowledge in general, he could not
think me right now. He did not like to give up his be-
lief in evil spirits at all ; particularly, as in so doing, he
must blame himself instead of them. Friday never
did wrong intentionally, but whenever he made a mis-
take, or showed any want of judgment, or got into
any difficulty, he always considered it the work of Etee,
or some evil spirit; and I often had great difficulty in
convincing him, that no one was to blame but himself,
and in making him feel that it was all his own fault, and
might in future be avoided.
I had a great deal of conversation with Friday on
these subjects, at different times, and was led by what I
observed in him, to hope, that as his reason improved
and his knowledge increased, he would get rid of the
foolish notions he had learned in his own country, and
become really religious, instead of superstitious.
Friday often described to me the burying-places of
the chiefs of his people, which he called morai, and
which seemed to be places of worship, as well as burial-
grounds ; he said they were taboo, that is, sacred, and
that none but the priests were allowed to go into them.
He spoke of great wooden images being in them, which
were goddesses; and of high platforms, on which they
laid offerings for the gods ; he tried to describe to me
something made of wicker work, shaped like a pyramid,
but very high and narrow, and to tell me the use of it;
but I could not understand him, and I doubt whether he
knew the use of it himself.
When he first lived with me, if I told him not to touch
anything, he always asked if it was taboo; at first I an-
swered yes, thinking that word mcanlforbidden, but after-
terwards I found out that its real meaning was sacred; and
then I told him none of my goods were taboo; that
I might use them all, but that I thanked the Good Spirit
for them in my heart. I perceived that laying my hand
on my heart, or pointing there, conveyed no idea of what
I meant to Friday; for he had been taught to consider
his bowels as the seat of all feeling, and whenever he
spoke of his soul he always pointed there. -
The grotto we had accidentally discovered, he con-
sidered a morai, and that it was sacred to the gods and
goddesses of this island ; and he thought his being car-
ried away by an evil spirit, was a punishment for having
stood at its entrance.
I assured him no chiefs had ever been buried there,
and that we were probably the first human beings who
had ever entered it; still he insisted upon it that it was
taboo, and refused to go near it again. As I knew it
would require time and patience for the gradual improve-
ment of Friday's mind, I did not press him to accom-
pany me to the grotto; but I went alone, a few days af-
ter our first visit, and had such a very agreeable excur-
sion that I wished he could have shared it with me.
I took a dozen candles with me, which I made for the
purpose, of lama's fat, and some clay to stick them up
with to the sides of the grotto; and when my illumina-
tion was completed, it was the most brilliant spectacle I
ever beheld. A thousand crystals, as pure as diamonds,
reflected the light at various angles, and produced all the
274 VALUE OF A COMPANION.
colors of the rainbow or prism ; while, from the roof,
hung down glittering points of various sizes; some al-
most touched the floor, and looked like columns, sup-
porting the ceiling of some fairy palace. Nothing that I
ever read of, in the "Arabian Nights' Entertainment,"
surpassed in beauty and magnificence, this real work of
nature. Oh how I longed for some one to see it with
me, who would enjoy it as I did.
This was the last visit I made to the grotto this sea-
son; for, as the wet weather was approaching, I and Fri-
day, who was quite recovered from his wound, were
full of business, collecting fruits, vegetables, and fuel for
the winter.
Since I had the benefit of a fellow laborer, I had re-
moved my water-wheel, and mounted my grindstone in
the usual way ; as it was a pleasure to Friday, to turn it
for me, and the wheel hurt the effect of the water-fall,
near which I had made a little arbour, that I was fond of
sitting in.
I found Friday well acquainted with the process of mak-
ing salt from sea water, by evaporation ; and as my
stock of salt, brought from the wreck, was not large, I
made some new salt-pans this summer, of wood; and
succeeded very well in getting some very pure salt, be-
fore the rains set in.
Friday's company was a great stimulus to every un-
dertaking, and the pleasure of showing him how a thing
should be done, or how well it would look when done,
was a motive to exertion that I had long wanted. His
inquiries too were often very amusing, and sometimes
they led me to investigate things that had before escaped
my observation.
I remember his asking me if butter was not the fat of
English pigs, and his being very much surprised when I
told him it was made from milk. This put me upon try-
ing to make some, and showing him the process. I took
for a churn a straight-sided, earthen-ware jar, and made
a neat little dasher proportioned to it ; to the top of the
jar, I fitted a wooden cover, with a hole in it for the
MAKING BUTTER. 275
handle of the dasher to move in ; having then collected
all the cream that the lamas had afforded for a week
past, I began to churn, and called Friday to witness the
operation. He could hardly believe I was in earnest,
when I told him that I could beat the cream into butter,
and he asked me many questions about it, which I could
not possibly answer; for, though I had been accustom-
ed to see butter made from my earliest childhood, I nev-
er thought much about it till now.
After churning away nearly an hour, I showed Friday
the little grains of butter that were beginning to separate
from the butter-milk; when they became large enough
to appear like lumps of butter, he was convinced that
this was really the way in which it was made, and he
seemed as much delighted with my success, as if it had
proved him to be in the right, instead of me.
When all the butter was collected into one lump, he
was disappointed to find how much liquid still remained;
for he had imagined that the whole quantity would be
converted into a solid mass. This idea of Friday's made
me reflect upon the subject, more than I had ever be-
fore done; and I was surprised to find the butter-milk
still so thick, when so much solid substance had been
separated from it. The more I thought about this com-
mon affair of butter-making, the more at a loss I was to
understand the philosophy of it ; and I sighed to think
I had no book, or friend, to explain it to me. The little
lump of new butter looked well, and therefore I expect-
ed the flavor to be good; but it was so bitter, it was hard-
ly eatable ; and finding it the same when I churned
again, I did not repeat the experiment during the sum-
mer.
Among other works done this autumn, Friday and I
built a new shed for the lamas; and that it might escape
the curious eyes of strangers, we placed it among some
thick shrubs and trees, which grew in a recess of the
terrace, about two hundred yards to the east of our hab-
itation. I was sorry for this change, and so were my
dumb friends, whose preference was so great for their
276 READINGLESSONS.
old haunt, that we had much difficulty in reconciling them
to their new home.
When driven in by Neptune, at sunset, they would
always run first to the spot where their shed once stood,
and there remain till we led them with halters to their
new abode.
CHAPTER XXXIV.
READING LESSONS MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS—VARIOUS OC-
CUPATIONS DEATH OF JUDY MAKING INK MAKING
PAPER.
THE summer passed quickly away, and the winter
found us well prepared for it, not only as regarded pro-
visions and fuel, but by having plenty of occupation,
ready planned. My chief business was to be writing up
my narrative, which had been neglected for some months,
and teaching Friday to read; but, stimulated by a com-
panion, many other agreeable emplc yments were thought
of, and we spent the winter as happily as we had done
the summer.
Friday's improvement in reading surpassed my expec-
tations; for though, at the beginning, he learnt more
slowly than a child commonly does, his progress after-
wards was much more rapid. After teaching him. by
printing with chalk on a board, till he was tolerably fa-
miliar with the forms of the letters, I made reading les-
sons for him, by cutting words out of the foolish romance
I found in the wreck, and sticking them, with the gum of
a tree, on some coarse brown paper that I had among
my stores.
'When he first tried to read these small printed letters,
he was a good deal puzzled ; he could hardly believe
them to be shaped like those I had made with chalk,
and it tried his eyes to look at them. By reading a lit-
tle every day, he conquered this difficulty, and I inter-
ested him in the study, by making up short sentences
about himself and me, that he could fully understand
I employed him too in cutting up the words, and sorting
the letters, and I made a box full of divisions, like a
printer's case, to hold them; so that when I wanted to
compose a story for Friday, I had only to pick out the
letters and stick them on the paper, which was previously
gummed.
This occupation was very useful in familiarizing him
to the letters as well as to the small words, which were
left to be used whole. As he improved, I set him to
making words and sentences, for me to read ; and be-
fore three months were passed, he could read fluently
in Anson's Voyages, though he could not understand all
he read, by a great deal.
My friends will perhaps blame me for not teaching
Friday to read the Testament, before every thing else;
but I did not like to hear him blundering and hammer-
ing over the contents of that interesting volume, without
understanding its true meaning; and not having had a
Christian education, he was not yet prepared to have it
explained to him.
I am desirous of making him thoroughly understand
that there is one God, the creator and preserver of all
things, and that he is a Spirit who communicates with
our spirits, before I tell him any thing about the history of
this true religion, how it was preserved among the Jews,
or how it was restored and taught by Jesus Christ. But
I look forward with great pleasure to the time when Fri-
day will be able to understand and to feel the sublime
perfection of the character of Jesus Christ; and when
we shall read together of his wonderful power and ex-
treme meekness ; his heroic fortitude in bearing his own
trials, and his surpassing tenderness and compassion for
the woes of others. When Friday can comprehend and
admire all this, I shall feel the greatest interest in read-
ing the Testament with him; but until he can, I shall
24
278 MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
keep the precious volume from him, and only read to
him from time to time such parts as I can make him un-
derstand.
One of Friday's amusements during the rainy season,
was making what he thought musical instruments; but
they were such clumsy, rude contrivances, that I should
as soon think of calling a child's rattle, or a toy drum, a
musical instrument.
One was the shell of a dried gourd, fitted to a handle,
and with something put inside of it, that rattled when
the gourd was moved. With this rattle, he accompa-
nied himself in dancing, and the motions he went through
with it, were as systematic as the broad-sword exercise;
I had, therefore, no doubt it was a national dance.
Another musical instrument consisted of a hollow ves-
sel of wood, like a platter. He placed it on the ground
with the hollow side down, and beat upon it with a piece
of wood, tied under his foot. At the same time, he held a
stick about two feet long, in one hand, as we do a fiddle,
and beat upon that with a smaller stick ; this drum-
ming he accompanied by a vocal sound, that was rath-
er plaintive and agreeable.
Friday's attempts at making musical instruments, put
me upon thinking what I could do; and it occurred to
me that I might make a set of Pandean pipes, out of
reeds that grew on this island. Accordingly I set to
work, and, after many failures, succeeded at last in ar-
ranging and fastening together, side by side, seven reeds,
of the proper lengths to make seven notes, in very good
tune. After some discordant attempts, I played Old
Hundred upon it to my own satisfaction, and the amuse-
ment of Friday, who could not at first make up his
mind whether he liked it or not. When, however, he
became accustomed to my music, he grew fond of it,
and I taught him to keep time on his instruments, with
mine. I smiled sometimes to think, how amused my
musical friends in York would be, if they could have
heard my domestic concert; more especially when
Neptune and Poll chose to join chorus, as they some-
times did, Neptune in a howl, and Poll in a scream.
VARIOUS OCCUPATIONS DEATH OF JUDY. 279
Fencing was another of our amusements, and it af-
forded us excellent exercise when the rain kept us from
walking. I also made a checker board and men, and
taught Friday to play checkers, which he soon did very
well, and sometimes beat me. All these exercises of
ingenuity were good for Friday's mind, and assisted me
in his education. I began to teach him arithmetic to-
wards the end of winter, but I found it next to impossi-
ble to make him understand the simplest operations with
figures; so I gave that up in despair, and only taught
him to count, to add, subtract, and multiply, by doing the
sums in his head, when he had real objects before him to
practise on. All this he learnt very quickly, and grew
so fond of it that I used, at last, to give him quite diffi-
cult calculations to perform in his head; and he would
generally come out right in his answers. But I could
not make him understand how the little mark, called a
figure, stood for a certain number of articles of any sort.
That was too abstract an idea for Friday.
Once during the winter, we saw a vessel pass the isl-
and from east to west; but it blew rather fresh, and she
did not come very near the land. Several gales of
wind, and two very heavy thunder storms, distinguished
this season as the most tempestuous one I had passed
here.
One death, too, occurred in my family, which, though
it was not the most affecting one that could have hap-
pened in my limited household, was, nevertheless, a con-
siderable trial to my feelings. Judy, the first friend and
companion in my solitude; Judy, who refreshed me
with her milk, when I was too feeble to leave my bed;
who had long served me so faithfully, as the bearer of
my loaded panniers, and on whose back I had taken so
many safe and pleasant rides; Judy terminated her use-
ful life this winter. Friday and I buried her in a deep
grave, under a fine, tall tree, at the east end of the ter-
race; and made a little mound over her, which we sod-
ded. While doing this, I told Friday the whole of Ju-
280 MAKING INK MAKING PAPER.
dy's history, from the time I first threw the noose over
her neck, till he became acquainted with her; and this
made me feel her loss so much, that I could not help
shedding a few tears over her grave.
In bringing up my narrative to the end of this winter,
I used up all my ink and all my paper, and was very
much perplexed to think of some substitute for these
useful articles. I had long foreseen this want of writing
materials, and had made several experiments, in the
hope of finding some mixture that would answer instead
of ink.
There were no oak trees, and therefore no nut-galls
to be had ; but I should have made some other astringent
vegetable answer the purpose of galls, if I had had any
sulphate of iron to put with it to turn it black; but the
want of that made all my experiments vain.
I next thought of getting some bright color from vege-
table matter; but all such faded when dry, so as to be
hardly legible, on white paper; and in future I must
write on some less delicate substance, such as the bark
of trees, which would require a very black mark to be
long visible. A fall of soot in my chimney put it into
my head to make ink of that black substance. I first
mixed a little with water, but it settled again directly,
and hardly colored the water; then I knew it must be
mixed with some gummy liquid that would keep the
fine, black particles suspended in it. Having some
gum dissolved in a tea-cup, for sticking on the letters in
Friday's spelling-book, I mixed a quantity of soot with
it, till it was quite a thick, smooth paste; this I thinned
with water till it would flow through the nib of a pen;
and by making the slit rather longer than common, 1
could write very well with it. Here then was one want
supplied, and that too which had seemed at first to pre-
sent the greatest difficulties. Something to write upon
was next to be thought of. There was one kind of tree
on the island, that had leaves somewhat like the English
mulberry, the outer bark of which was very fine, and
peeled off in very thin layers, and I had no doubt I
MAKING PAPER. 281
could write on it; so, as soon as the weather would per-
mit, I went in search of some, and found, on trial, that
it answered perfectly well, as to its surface bearing the
ink, and its being easy and agreeable to write on; but I
could only procure it in small pieces, and, when perfectly
dry, it was ant to break. These objections kept me on
the look-out for something better, even while using this At last, I remembered Friday's description of the
manner in which his people make cloth from the bark of
trees; he said it would not bear wetting, and therefore,
when it rained, they changed their clothes, made of this
material, for matting. Thinking this cloth must be some-
thing like paper, I proposed to Friday to make me some.
He was delighted with the idea of supplying any want of
Ins dear father's, so to work he went in high spirits.
With my assistance, he drew up, by the roots, a number
of young trees, of the same kind that I had already used
the outer bark of; then he stripped off their branches
and cut off the roots and tops. I thought, to be sure,
those long, slender rods would never make a piece
of cloth wider than the scraps I had peeled off of larger
trees; but I said nothing; I let Friday go on in his own
way. He next made two slits in the bark the whole
length of the rod, and peeled it off very easily, by which
means each strip was about three or four inches wide.
Having thus drawn off the bark of all the rods he had
prepared, he placed it very carefully in the brook;
keeping it under water, by putting heavy stones on it.
When it was sufficiently soaked, Friday stripped him-
self, and sitting in the water with a flat, smooth board
across his lap, he laid a strip of bark with the inner side
down, upon the board, and scraped it very carefully
with the sharp edge of a shell; dipping it continually in
the water till all the outer coat was removed, and noth-
ing remained but the fine fibres of the inner coat.
When this was done, he spread some plantain leaves on
a smooth, flat place; and on them he laid his strips of
bark, one by the side of another, till they were about a
foot broad. In this way he put on three layers, taking
24*
great care to have the mass of an equal thickness all
over; if the bark was thinner in one place than another,
he put a thicker piece over it in the next layer. Thus
arranged, it lay all night; in the morning the water was
either drained off or evaporated, and the fibres adhered
so firmly together that the whole could be raised from
the ground in one piece. I now saw that there would
be no difficulty in having my sheets of paper as large as
I wanted, for this exceeded all the fools-cap paper I ever
saw; it was about twelve feet long and a foot wide.
While his bark was soaking, Friday had prepared his in-
struments; which, besides the lap-board and shell scra-
per, were a long piece of wood, made very smooth, to
beat it upon, and a square wooden club to beat it with.
Each side of the club was marked, lengthwise, with
small grooves or furrows of different degrees of fineness;
those on one side, being large enough to receive a small
pack-thread; the other sides finer in regular gradation,
so that the grooves on the fourth side, would receive only
a thread of fine sewing-silk. He beat the bark first
with the coarsest side of this club, then with the others
in succession. It spread very fast under the strokes,
but chiefly in width. The grooves in the club marked
it with the appearance of threads, which was, in Friday's
opinion, an essential part of the manufacture. When he
had beaten it a good while, with the finest side of his
club, he pronounced it done; and a most delicate fabric
it was! I admired and praised it to his heart's content.
If it had been designed for wearing apparel, the fine lines
upon it, which he considered a beauty, were certainly
not objectionable; but I knew they would be a disad-
vantage in writing, and proposed to him to finish it off
now with a smooth club, that would obliterate those lines.
He did not know how it would answer, but he was willing
to try; so I planed off one side of his club and he went
over it again, leaving a fine, smooth surface that answer-
ed much better for writing on. I then cut it into sheets,
of the size of common letter-paper, and polished the sur-
face a little with a very smooth stone; and though my
RETURN OF FINE WEATHER.
twenty-four sheets did not lie in so small a compass as a
quire of fine letter-paper, I was well satisfied with my
loose pile. My gummy ink wrote pretty well on it, and
I now had no fear of being obliged to leave my history
incomplete, for want of writing materials.
CHAPTER XXXV.
RETURN OF FINE WEATHER — RURAL PLEASURES — SADDLE-
MAKING—STUDY OF BIRDS — A FEATHER CLOAK—STUDY
OF INSECTS A DROUGHT ALARMING APPEARANCES
PRECAUTIONS AN AWFUL PAUSE AN EARTHQUAKE.
WITH the return of fine weather, we resumed our out-
door employments ; the garden and the barley field were
first attended to, and then the usual round of business
and amusement filled up the day, and sent us to our
mattrasses weary enough to sleep soundly. I spent a
good deal of time in navigating my boat, and having
now a compass, and being acquainted with the tides, I
ventured many miles from the island in various direc-
tions, sometimes attended by Friday in his canoe, and
sometimes with him in the boat.
Fishing, hunting, and shooting were also favorite
employments. Friday was so good a marksman with a
bow and arrow, that there was a constant rivalry be-
tween us; but he never learned to shoot well with a
gun, and I did not encourage him to practise much.
My stock of gunpowder was small, and I thought it best
to keep it in case of some emergency, in which I might
need it. Friday was very expert in throwing stones
with a sling; he could hit a bird at rest in that way, as
certainly as I could with a bow and arrow.
We had great pleasure in pruning and training the
vines, creepers, and shrubs, that grew around our arbours.
The one in Gordon Vale, was the most delightful bow-
284 RURAL PLEASURES.
er of leaves and flowers that can be imagined, and the
view of the cascade from it, beautiful beyond my powers
of description.
We carried our books and writing materials to this
lovely spot, and spent a day or two there every week.
A rustic table in the centre, and a long bench on each
side, accommodated us in our waking and sleeping
hours; and many a delightful slumber have I fallen into,
by the ceaseless sound of that foaming cascade, and within
the leafy walls of that arbour. It was there that I gener-
ally gave Friday his lessons in reading and writing, there
I wrote the latter part of my narrative, and there we used to
talk of our far distant homes, and I used to promise Friday
that, when I returned to England, he should go with me,
and I would show him some of the wonderful and curi-
ous things that I had told him about.
My arbor at the brook I was also very fond of, and
when engaged in working at the forge, or the store-
house, or on my boat, I used to take my noon-day nap
in it.
One of our chief amusements this summer, was riding
on lamas together. I broke and trained to the saddle,
Judy's son and daughter, whom I named Neddy and
Jenny. They were in their prime, and very handsome
animals. Friday profited so much by my lessons in
riding, that he became quite a graceful horseman; or,
o be more correct, I should say, lama-man.
With our united ingenuity, we contrived two very
good bridles; the bits were made of some steel tools,
that were of no use to me. I softened the steel by a
great heat, worked it to the shape I wanted, and then
restored its hardness by cooling it quickly. My first bit
proved too brittle for use, because I cooled it too sud-
denly; but after several experiments, I succeeded in
making it hard without being brittle, that is, I temper-
ed it.
The natural covering of the lama's back made so soft
a seat, that I had not thought of contriving any saddle to
ride on, till I was one day greatly incommoded by the
SADDLE MAKING STUDY OF BIRDS. 285
heat of the creature's body; then I bethought me of a
saddle, and that it would add much tp the pleasure of
riding. So to work I went, and having frequently been
in a saddler's shop when I was a boy, I recollected the
shape of a saddle-tree, and made one of hard, tough wood; but I was greatly at a loss to know how to stuff,
pad, and cover it, so as to make an easy seat, and one that
would sit comfortably on the lama's back, and not hurt
her anywhere. I had enough thick leather for the pur-
pose, that I had dressed myself; and after a great deal
of labor in wetting, stretching, tearing, and beginning
again, I at last stretched a piece of it all over the saddle-
tree; and fixed on some flaps, to keep my knees from
resting against the lama's body. The inside I stuffed
with lama's hair, and lined with a piece of blanket; thus,
by degrees, my rough work looked somewhat like the
picture I had in my mind of a saddle. When I found it did
not hurt the lama's back, I was well pleased ; and though
it was not so easy a seat as I had without it, it was a much
cooler one. I liked to have things complete, so I ad-
ded stirrups to my saddle, and found the use of them far
pleasanter than letting my legs hang dangling down, as I
had always done before. I thus found out, by degrees,
the comforts and advantages of those things which we
are so accustomed to in England, that we never think of
all their value until deprived of them. I could not
pursuade Friday that the use of a saddle was any im-
provement upon riding bare-back; he tried mine but
did not like it at all; so I had no inducement to make
one for him, which it would have given me great pleas-
ure to do, if he had wished for one.
I gave more attention to the birds of the island, this
summer, than I had ever done before. By writing a
short description of each, as I had a good opportunity of
examining its plumage and observing its habits, I found
out that there were fewer different kinds, than I had at
first imagined, and that no more than four were singing
birds; all the rest of the small birds had very brilliant
plumage but no song, and though hawks, owls, and sea-
286 STUDY OF BIRDS.
birds abounded, there were but few species of each. It
was Friday's hunting after a particular kind of bird, with
a bright scarlet breast, that first led me to observe these
pretty creatures so accurately ; and then the more I
learned about them, the more pleasure they afforded
me. If I had been asked a few months before, how ma-
ny different sorts of singing birds I had heard on the isl-
and, I should have answered at random,twenty at least;
but as soon as I learned to distinguish their peculiar
notes, I found my whole choir to consist of only four
distinct kinds, though in each of them there was a
pleasing variety.
The more I studied the subject, the more interested I
became; and at last I undertook to paint a specimen of
each different kind of bird on the island, nineteen in all.
I planed and seasoned some pieces of white wood, about
ten inches long and eight wide; and with the ship's
paints, I made some very coarse daubs of pictures, that
represented the shape and color of the birds. Though
I could not shade them, or make any touches delicate
enough to resemble the plumage, I took care to have
the outline correct; this I traced with a piece of stick,
sharpened and burnt in the fire, and I altered my sketch
again and again, till I got it right. The colors too, I
matched pretty well; and when I had done a good many,
and they were hung round the walls of my parlour-
kitchen, as I call my outer cave, they did look better
than the rocks they covered. For the sake of conven-
ience, in speaking of birds to Friday, I gave each a
name and wrote it on the board. If I had judged of
the merit of my performances, as other painters do, that
is, by the pleasure they afforded to other eyes than
mine, I should have thought myself an excellent artist.
Friday was perfectly delighted with my pictures, and
thought them wonderful likenesses of the birds; and
when I put a berry in the mouth of one, and a green
leaf in another, he was more charmed than ever.
In finding out the habits of different birds, Friday as-
sisted me very much, for he could get very near them
A FEATHER CLOAK. 287
unperceived, besides which, he had great patience in
watching them. All we could learn concerning them, I
wrote on the back of each picture, with my charcoal pen-
cil.
The hope of one day returning to my friends, and de-
scribing to them the various productions of the unknown
island I had so long inhabited, and the belief that these
coarse daubs of mine would be some assistance to me,
were no doubt part of my inducement to paint them;
but if I never quit this spot, I shall always be glad I un-
dertook it, because it has made me better acquainted
with the birds, than I should otherwise have been; it
has moreover afforded me many hours of agreeable em-
ployment, and has been a constant delight to Friday.
To return now to what first put me upon studying
birds. I perceived that Friday was very busy, killing
as many scarlet birds as he could find, also a good ma-
ny green and blue, and some white sea-birds, and pre-
serving their feathers; but as he evidently wished to
keep it a secret from me, I asked no questions. I con-
cluded he meant to surprise me with some savage con-
trivance, or grotesque ornament, such as his people wear.
After several weeks spent in this secret work, he one
day approached me unperceived, and suddenly threw
over my shoulders, a most beautiful cloak made of feath-
ers. The ground-work was white, with a pattern all
over it, of scarlet, blue, and green feathers. It had a
most brilliant effect, and I admired very much the inge-
nuity and patience that must have been exercised, in
making it.
The feathers were fastened to a small net-work of
coarse thread, or fine twine, which he had spun and
twisted from the fibre of a plant; and they were so neat-
ly laid on, one over another, that they lay as smoothly
as those on the breast of a bird. Friday was pleased
with my admiration of his handiwork and his taste, but
he said he had seen much handsomer cloaks, made of
feathers no bigger than his little finger nail. These are
found on the head of a certain bird that abounds in his
country; and as no more than four aref urnished by one
bird, the slaughter among the feathered tribe must be
very great, to make one cloak. The smaller the feath-
ers, the less liable to be ruffled, and the more like a fine
glossy satin it would look. In wearing my cloak to
please Friday, I soon had occasion to remark that I
could not keep my plumage in as good order as the birds.
I wanted their bills, their expertness, and their patience,
in adjusting every feather as they do.
The pleasure I found in observing birds, induced me
to notice more particularly the insects I met with ; and
at last I began to collect specimens, and arrange them
on a board, as I had seen done in museums. I first kill-
ed them with spirits of turpentine, and then fixed them,
with a needle, pin, nail, or thorn, to the board; and I was astonished to see the variety which I collected in
one week. Friday was very expert in catching them,
and those which were of a brilliant color he approved of
keeping; but when he saw me take as much pains to
secure a specimen of a brown moth, or a little black fly,
as I did to get the most splendid butterfly, or green and
gold beetle, he wondered at me, and tried to persuade
me to save only the handsomest.
I explained to him that those who study these things,
find some beauty, or some interesting particulars, in eve-
ry different kind; and that when I returned to England,
I wished to carry with me a complete collection of all
the insects to be found on the island. This desire to get
all, increased as my collection enlarged; and my ardor
in the pursuit was at last so great, that I have walked
twenty miles, and watched all night, to procure a speci-
men of a particular kind of night fly, that was only to be
found near a certain pool of water.
When I had collected a great many, I began to
arrange them in such order as their forms suggested. I
put all the butterflies together, all the moths, and all the
beetles; all the flies with one pair of transparent wings,
I divided from those with two pair. Then I classed
them according to the distinctions which I perceived, but
A DROUGHT. 289
having no knowledge how naturalists arrange insects in
regular classes and orders, I dare say I made great
blunders.
A month after I began to collect insects, I found that
my first specimens were already much injured, by very
small living animalcules, that preyed on them; this made
it necessary to enclose them in boxes, or drawers, as
fast as they were procured. So to work I went, with
my carpenter's tools, and made a tight box, into which I
fitted trays, that stood one upon another till it was full;
and they lifted out at the top. As I had heard of tobac-
co being used to keep moths from woollen clothes, I put
into each of these trays, a piece of very strong-scented
gum, found in the knots and veins of an old laurel tree
that I had occasion to cut down. The whole of this
kind of laurel, branches and leaves, has a strong aro-
matic odor, like something I have smelt in England
which I cannot remember the name of; but the yellow-
ish substance that I picked out of the knots has the strong-
est scent and retains it the longest; so I put this among
the dead insects, and had no more trouble in preserving
them.
I found Friday's mode of watering the land very use-
ful to the garden and barley field, this summer, for we
had the longest drought that I ever knew; we should
have lost all our crops, but for the supplies of water,
brought from the hill-side, in the little trenches that in-
tersected our land. At last, in the hottest part of sum-
mer, which here is in February, this spring of water
failed, as did several others in the neighbourhood. Even
the copious rill that made my shell fountain, dried up;
and the water in the brook was so much less than I had
ever before known it, that I was very seriously impressed
with the circumstance. I talked of the drought to Fri-
day, but he did not think it any thing very remarkable;
he only said in his lively way, " Clouds stay away a great
while, and then come very big, and fill all the trenches;
garden not dead yet, father." I could not, however,
think as lightly of it as Friday did; more especially,
25
290 ALARMING APPEARANCES.
when I found the cascade, in Gordon Vale, diminished
to a stream such as might come out of a common water-
ing pot.
On the 20th of February, the weather was oppres-
sively warm, and I laid myself down in the arbour to take
my afternoon nap; but though languid and tired, I could
not sleep; I missed the agreeable sound and refreshing
coolness of the cascade, and felt an anxiety about its dis-
appearance which banished all sleep from my eyes.
Not so Friday; he was in a deep slumber, and thought
not of any danger being near him.
I remembered reading some account of earthquakes, in
which the drying up of springs, was mentioned as a fore-
runner; and I had very strong apprehensions, on find-
ing the cascade so diminished, that the island was about
to suffer one of those awful convulsions. I tried to re-
member all I could of the former earthquake, and the
indications that preceded it; but I had not then noticed
any such circumstance, and all I could recollect was,
that the air was uncommonly still and sultry for some
hours before the shock. When this occurred to me, I
jumped up and ran out of the arbour, to observe the
weather. Every leaf was motionless, and the air seem-
ed too hot to breathe. I now called Friday, but without
telling him my fears, and we made the best of our way
back to the terrace ; for I resolved to collect some of my valuables, and take to my boat, with provision enough
to last a week, and there await the event.
As I was frequently out, sailing two or three days to-
gether, my preparations did not excite any surprise in
Friday ; though he thought my stock of provisions larg-
er than necessary. Having dispatched him with Nep-
tune and a well loaded lama to the creek, I hastily threw
into a large chest, a variety of useful articles, as well as
all my pictures and looking-glass, and dragged it out on
the terrace. My watch I put in my fob, and Friday's
carved turtle in my pocket, and whatever I could lay
my hand on readily, I brought out of the caves; for I
had every expectation -that another earthquake would
disturb this part of the range of hills, which was already
so broken by hollows and fissures.
A deep rumbling noise, which sounded like the dis-
charge of an hundred cannons, at a great distance, and
appeared to come from under the ground on which I
stood, now warned me to depart; and with my hands
and pockets full of little matters, my precious Testa-
ment under my arm, and Poll on my shoulder, I made as
much haste as I could to reach the creek. I found
Friday had brought the boat to the wharf, and was stow-
ing away the provisions I had sent down, all unsuspicious
of any impending danger. The instinct however of the
lama had warned her, and she looked wild and uneasy.
Hoping it might lead her to a place of safety, I gave her
her liberty, and she trotted slowly up the side of the
creek, frequently looking around her, and listening very
eagerly, as if she heard unusual noises. I had an op-
portunity of observing her as Friday and I went to the
brook, to fill two half barrels with water. When these
were on board, we pushed off; it was too dead a calm to
sail, so we rowed down the creek, and were soon on the
bosom of the ocean.
Here I felt much more safe than on shore, and de-
termined to keep my mind calm, and watch for the con-
vulsions of the earth which I expected every moment to
see. Friday perceived that something more than usual
was in my countenance; but I avoided all explanation
and quieted his suspicions, as I wished to see the effect
of an earthquake on him, and judge by his manner of
bearing it, whether he was accustomed to such things
in his own country.
There was one kind of fishing that Friday was very
fond of, because more difficult than any other; and he
asked me to keep the boat still in deep water, and let
him try his luck. I was glad of the opportunity of lying
off the south shore and watching the land, so I readily
consented; and Friday observed the day was made on
purpose for this kind of fishing, for the water was unusu-
ally smooth, add yet there was a mist in the air that
292 AN AWFUL PAUSE AN EARTHQUAKE.
prevented the fish from swimming too low for his line.
On hearing him say this, I looked up towards the sun,
and was struck with its dark, fiery appearance; the state
of the atmosphere was really appalling, and if Friday had
not been so engaged in his favorite sport, he must have
perceived it. He was always very silent when fishing,
and I had no inclination to speak ; so there we sat, in per-
fect stillness; and never shall I forget that half hour.
The ocean was like a mirror, and had a dark, unusual
tint all over it, while the air seemed stagnant. The sea
and land birds flew about in evident consternation, and
the only sound that broke the awful silence of that half
hour, was the distant neighing of the frightened lamas,
and the occasional scream of some large sea bird, as it
wheeled about in the air, conscious of approaching dan-
ger, and uncertain where to fly from it. At last, the
very fishes seemed aware that something unusual was go-
ing on, for they rose to the surface of the water in large
shoals; and then Friday looked up, and said very calm-
ly, he supposed we should have rain very soon, and then
father would be glad. His eye now caught mine, and he
perceived my emotion; but, at that moment, the boat ap-
peared to strike the bottom violently, and Friday exclaim-
ed "We are aground, father, push off." The moment
before, Friday's line showed that we were in deep wa-
ter, and yet we were now thrown backwards by the sud-
den jar of the boat. The water became violently agita-
ted, in long, deep swells, which ran up on the shore for
many yards, and then retired, leaving the beach bare far
below low water mark. We were so tossed about, we
could only keep our seats by holding on. Friday look-
ed very much terrified, but said nothing; he only placed
himself on the same thwart with me, and put his arm
round my waist. Feeling him do this, I encouraged
him in the best way I could; but I do not know what I
said. A low, rumbling noise filled our ears, and grew
louder and louder, till it burst out into such an explosion
as all the cannon in the world could not make, if fired
off at once. It made me shiver all over, it was so loud.
Afo EARTHQUAKE. 293
Friday threw himself down full length in the bottom of
the boat; and covering his face with his hands, there he
lay. Neptune whined most piteously, and Poll scream-
ed in terror. The rolling of the sea now carried the
boat swiftly forward till she nearly ran upon the rocks,
then hurried her off again more than a mile from the
shore.
I found all attempts to manage the boat with oars
useless, so I took them in; and bracing myself so as to
keep my seat, I galzed in utter amazement at the wonder-
ful agitation of the water, and looked earnestly at the
land, to see if I could discover any change there.
Another dreadful noise now filled the air, but I listened to
it with less agitation, and kept my eyes fixed on the hills
behind the terrace, when I distinctly saw them open and
a column of fire issue from them; large masses of rock
were loosened and rolled down upon the terrace; the
earth heaved and gaped, and then closed up again,
in the most fearful manner. Frightful as the agitation
of the water had appeared, I was thankful that I was on
it, instead of being amidst the heavings of the earth, and
the falling of rocks, trees, and stones. O what a grand,
yet appalling sight, it is, to see the earth, which seems so
solid, rise and sink, open and close up again!
I watched with peculiar interest the fate of Signal
Hill, well knowing that my pyramid, solid as it was,
could not resist these tremendous heavings of the earth,
and that it might be engulfed, in a moment, in one of
those openings, that were made and closed again by this
irresistible force. I could see the little monument that
contained my most valuable possession, the history of
my residence on this desolate island; and next to the
preservation of Friday's life and my own, I most anxiously
desired the safety of my manuscript. The rocks fell
around it, the earth sank away on each side of it, but
still it stood unhurt, only becoming more conspicuous
among the ruins; and when the shocks abated, there it
was quite safe, a pyramid of masonry on the top of a
pyramid of solid rock, making a remarkable looking
25*
monument indeed. But the manuscript was safe, and
I rejoiced at that.
One hill near the east end of the terrace disappeared
entirely, and a black cloud hung over the spot some
time; then it gradually rose up in the air and was dis-
persed. There were five distinct and tremendous
shocks, accompanied by a loud roaring, or a sharp,
crackling noise, and each time the boat trembled, as if it
had struck against something, though not so violently as
at first; and all through the evening there were lesser
shakings and quakings, accompanied by lesser noises.
My pretty terrace looked, from a distance, like a heap
of ruins; and I had no doubt that all traces of my subter-
ranean abode were destroyed.
The first words Friday spoke were, "What is it, fa-
ther?" and after the deep, solemn, and affecting sensa-
tions that I had experienced for two hours, it was a great
relief to be thus quietly and simply questioned, by my
only rational companion.
I bade him get up, and come and sit by me; then I
showed him the change in the appearance of the island,
and told him all I could about it; for he had never seen,
or felt, any thing like it before. He was very anxious
to know if it was all over, and I told him I believed the
worst of it was passed; then he beset me with ques-
tions, very few of which I could answer satisfactorily;
and being very much exhausted, I told him we would
talk more about it another time, but that we had better
take'some refreshment now.
Having supped in the boat, and fed our dumb friends,
we took advantage of a little southerly breeze that had
sprung up, and sailed round the east end of the island to
see all we could, while it was yet daylight. We ran
aground several times on new shoals formed by the
earthquake, and all the way we went, we saw traces of
the terrible convulsion.
I wondered at myself for having lived so at my ease
in those caves, after having experienced one earthquake,
and seen its effects on that very spot. But that shock
CHANGES IN GORDON TALE. 295
was so long ago and so soon over, that I had lost all fear
of a repetition of it. I had spent months together within
Fort Hill, without once remembering how it had been
convulsed, or that I was furnished with a bed-room by
the effects of an earthquake, or that I might be deprived
of it by another, and lose my life at the same time.
CHAPTER XXXVI.
CHANGES IN GORDON VALE — A DAY AND NIGHT AT ANCHOR
CONVERSATION ON EARTHQUAKES FIRST AND SECOND
CAUSES — THE RHINE AND VINEYARD BOAT ADRIFT
THE CREEK.
WE spent the night at anchor, and from the gathering
of the clouds, which hung very low, we expected every
moment to be drenched with rain. The sun, however
rose before the rain began to fall, and the shaking of the
earth, and unusual rolling of the sea, had ceased for some hours J I therefore thought we might venture to
land; and as I was very desirous of seeing what damage
the earthquake had done in Gordon Vale, we agreed to
carry our breakfast with us and eat it there.
As I ascended the valley from the bay, I was glad-
dened by the sound of the waterfall, long before I saw it;
when I arrived at my arbour I found it uninjured, though
fragments of rocks lay scattered around, that were not
there before.
It rejoiced my heart to find one of my homes still
habitable, and having deposited our basket of provisions
on the table, I went out to see what changes the earth-
quake had made. I now perceived that the whole ap-
pearance of the cascade was altered; from being very
high and narrow, it had become much lower and broad-
er. A large rock, over which it once bounded, had dis-
appeared; the whole form of the land at the head of the
valley was changed, I could hardly tell how. The co-
pious stream that once leaped from so great a height,
now seemed to be collected in a basin of half that ele-
vation, and discharged its more abundant waters in a
long line of falls; after which it found its way around
fragments of rocks that were newly fallen, which in
many places had entirely changed the course of the
stream.
It was a great disappointment to me to find my
favorite cascade thus altered; for when I heard it
from below, I fully expected to see it unchanged.
Though some might think it a grander fall now it was so
much enlarged, it had lost much of its picturesque beau-
ty, and was no longer the familiar object that I had gaz-
ed at so much, as to become quite attached to it.
I comforted myself as well as I could with finding my
arbour untouched; and when I saw how the earth had
slid about in various directions, and what huge rocks
had rolled down near it, I was astonished at its having
escaped.
Emboldened by spending one hour on shore, and
finding the earth firm again under my feet, I determined
to pass the day in coasting round the island, and land-
ing at various places, to see the effects of the earthquake.
I dreaded so much to see the devastation which I
knew it bad made at the terrace, that I shrunk from the
idea of going there; I therefore sailed along the eastern
shore, and visited the Bay of Terror. We saw some
new rents among the high hills, that run parallel with the
coast, but in the bay we found no traces of the late
convulsion of nature. Man alone made the terrors of
that place; and when I remembered the bloody deeds
that had been committed there, I thought how much I
should prefer being swallowed up by an opening in the
earth, to being murdered by my fellow beings.
While we were wandering about the bay, the clouds,
which had been gathering all the morning, began to
pour down torrents of rain; and, as there was no shelter
A DAYAND NIGHT AT ANCHOR. 297
for us on shore, we took to our boat. Observing the
ocean to look a little squally, we anchored in the most
sheltered part of the bay; for I was still afraid to trust
the earth, lest its quakings were not over, and made an
awning of our sails, which kept off a good deal of the
rain. Several violent gusts of wind made us very glad of
our sheltered situation ; and we spent the rest of that day
and the next night there.
During all these hours of confinement to the boat, we
felt no weariness, for our conversation was of the most
interesting kind. Friday had many questions to ask
about the earthquake, and, among other things, he wanted
to know if I did not believe it was an evil spirit that had
made it. I saw plainly that he considered all the havoc
we had witnessed as the work of his old enemy, Etee;
and I said all I could to convince him it was no such
thing. When I told him God made the earthquake, he
said, " Then God must be angry with us "; and he wished
to know how we had offended him, that we might do so
no more. To correct this mistake, I explained to him
that God was never angry, that he was a God of love,
and every thing he did was for the general good of his
creatures. I told him I had no doubt, that earthquakes
were of some great use, and did a vast deal of good to
the world in general; and if that were true, it would be
wise and benevolent in God to make them, although they
might incommode, or even kill, a few of his creatures.
I then gave Friday my way of accounting for earth-
quakes. I had before explained to him the shape of
the earth, and taught him the meaning of the words
diameter and circumference, centre and surface, and had
often shown him, by measuring the ground before him,
how much was a foot, yard, rod, fathom, and mile; so
that he understood what I meant, when I said the diam-
eter of the earth measured about 8,000 miles, and
therefore the centre must be 4,000 miles from the sur-
face. I now told him that, in the centre of the earth,
is supposed to be a great deal of hot matter, such as
melted iron, copper, and lead, burning coal and sulphur;
298 CONVERSATION ON EARTHQUAKES.
there is also a great deal of water in the earth; and
when the water comes upon these hot substances, it
changes into steam, such as comes out of the nose of the
tea-kettle; a little water makes a great deal of steam;
so we may suppose how much is made by a large quan-
tity; this steam must have room, so it bursts open the
earth.
I dare say my friends will laugh when they read of
my undertaking to explain the cause of earthquakes, and
think me very presumptuous to have any opinion about
it; but I once read, in a translation from the French, an
account of earthquakes, written by a man of the name of
Des Cartes, which clearly proved to my mind that they
are caused by vapor or steam, and the more I reflect
upon it the more reasonable it seems. I burst a pip-
kin once by boiling a little water in it, with the cover
fastened on very tightly. I spent a great deal of time,
breath, and patience, in explaining all this to Friday;
and, when he thoroughly understood me, he looked up
in a very animated manner, and said, "Then, Father,
Etee did not make the earthquake, and God did not
make it; but fire and water made it."
Here were two right ideas, and one very wrong one;
so I set to work again, to explain to him that God is the
first cause of every thing; the fire and water make the
earthquake, but God made the fire and water; so God
is the first cause of the earthquake, and the fire and wa-
ter are only second causes. I told him the turning of
the earth towards the sun, makes it daylight, and its
turning away from it makes night, so we say the motions
of the earth make day and night, and so they do; but
God makes the earth to turn round in the way it does,
so God is the first cause of day and night, and the mo-
tion of the earth is only the second cause. After I had
given him several such examples, I asked him to give
me one; and he proved that he fully understood me, by
saying, "The seed is what makes the tree grow, but
God made the seed all right for growing a tree, so God
is the first cause of the tree." I then asked him if the
FIRST AND SECOND CAUSES. 299
sun, air, water, and earth were not all necessary to make
the seed grow, and which of those were second, and
which first causes. He looked a little puzzled, and re-
peated over my words; then he replied, "All second
causes, father; for God made sun, God made air, God
made water, and God made earth. Friday can't think
of any first cause besides God. Is there any, father?"
I assured him there was no other first cause, but the
Creator and Preserver of all things, whom we call God;
that He was the beginning of every thing. Though I
had often said this to Friday before, he never under-
stood it so fully, nor felt the truth of it, as he did now.
This satisfactory conversation with Friday makes me
always look back with peculiar pleasure to that rainy
day, spent on board the Success, with only a sail to
shelter us.
We talked on these interesting subjects much more
than I have written, and our hearts were filled with the
love of God, and with admiration of his works. The
night was dark and stormy, and our slumbers were fre-
quenlly broken by the motions of the boat and the gusts
of wind; but we felt no fear, and when we could not
sleep, we talked again about the Great First Cause, and
his wonderful works, all designed for the good and hap-
piness of his creatures.
In the course of the night the rain ceased, the weather
became settled, and the sun rose most beautifully,
amidst fine piles of clouds, that looked like his purple
robes, fringed with gold. We and the boat and the
sails were soon dried in the sun's warm rays, and then
we breakfasted and proceeded on our coasting voyage.
We could see no traces of the earthquake on the
northern side of the island; but, as we approached the
Rhine, we saw fragments of trees floating on the waters;
and in one place, where the land is flat and covered
with thick woods, several acres had sunk down into the
water, till nothing but the topmost branches of the trees
were visible. This was a kind of havoc made by the
earthquake, such as I had not seen before; and when I
300 THE RHINE AND VINEYARD.
considered what great hearings and tossings of the earth
there must have been, to make such a change as this, I
did not wonder so much at the agitation of the water.
This sinking of the land made a sort of bay where the
mouth of the Rhine had been, and caused the salt water
to encroach upon the fresh. But on entering this new
formed bay, I could not see any river water, but only the
dry bed of gravel and stones, where the river had once
been. This astonished me so much, I resolved to land,
and walk up the left bank of the Rhine to the vineyard,
and see what had become of the river. I presently
came to a part of the bed, that was quite choaked up
with rocks, stones, earth, and fallen trees; these had
formed an embankment that dammed up the river and
had made it overflow a great part of the vineyard and
the low woods on the opposite bank, forming a large
lake. The whole appearance of the country was so al-
tered, I could hardly realize that I had ever seen it be-
fore.
Friday and I were standing on one end of the newly
formed dam, and trying to find certain objects by which
to judge of the extent of the innundation, when we heard
a loud crashing noise, and in an instant saw the middle
oft he embankment give way, and a mighty torrent of wa-
ters rush through the opening, roaring and widening as it
went, and carrying all before it, in its course. It was a
fine sight to behold, and I rejoiced that we happened to
be there, just at the right time to see the newly formed
lake, before the dam gave way, and also to witness the
emptying of its waters into the bed of the river.
It was pleasant to see the vineyard look again as it was
wont to do, and I did not doubt that this temporary in-
undation would increase its fertility.
We returned the same way we came, expecting to find
our boat where we had left her; but she had disappear-
ed entirely, leaving behind her only a piece of the painter
with which we had made her fast to the rock. She had
no doubt been sent adrift by the sudden rushing of such a
great body of water, and Poll was the only sailor on
BOAT ADRIFT THE CREEK. 301
board, to navigate her. Fearing some current would
carry her out of our reach, I proposed to Friday to go
across the strip of land, which divided us from the creek,
get his canoe, and paddle after the boat; but he said,
that as soon as he could see her, he would swim off and
bring her to me.
The light on the water was so dazzling to the eyes,
that we looked a good while before we could discern our
lost vessel; but at last Friday's sharp eyes espied her,
like a speck on the water. I thought her too far off for
him to attempt to swim to her; but he laughed at the
idea, and declared he could swim twice as far. So
away he went, only begging me to stand on the high land
by the present mouth of the river, and wave to him from
time to time, to direct his course toward the boat, as he
might not be able to see her himself.
I did so, whenever he looked round for guidance;
with surprising swiftness he reached the boat, and jump-
ed into her, as nimbly as if he were not the least fatigued.
The wind was on shore, and he set the sails and brought
her to me in a few minutes. Poll looked as composed,
as if she had not been cruizing alone; but when we all
got on board, she seemed very glad of our company,
and caressed Neptune in her most affectionate manner.
We now proceeded to the creek, where I dreaded to
see the alterations and devastation, made by the earth-
quake. My imagination was very busy as we approach-
ed, picturing the changes we might find. I fancied the
little valley of the brook filled up with earth and stones,
and its pretty, babbling stream buried under them. My
store-house and forge might be thrown down, or swallow-
ed up, or covered by the fall of the cliff upon it. I en-
tered the creek with a beating heart, and full of fearful
expectations. I sailed up as far as the natural wharf;
there was no perceptible damage done. I landed, leav-
ing Friday to discharge the cargo, and moor the vessel,
as the first mate should do. I walked up the valley,
and soon beheld the stone wall, and yellow thatch, as
perfect as ever. O how it gladdened my heart, to find

26
this favorite spot, and this valuable store-house of goods
uninjured.
As it was probable that all I ever possessed on the
terrace, was swallowed or buried up for ever, I must de-
pend entirely on what I had here. Finding this deposit
untouched, made me quite easy as to the means of liv-
ing; though I could not help regretting my pleasant
abode, under the hill, which long habit had rendered
very dear to me.
We found some of the ship's bedding, in the store-
house, and placed it in our arbour near the brook, de-
termining to make that our sleeping apartment for the
present, and convert the forge into a kitchen fireplace. I could not make up my mind to go to the terrace this
evening, so we spent the rest of the daylight in arrang-
ing our things, and establishing ourselves in our new
quarters; and retired early to our mattresses, to make
up for our disturbed rest the night before.
CHAPTER XXXVII.
CHANCES ON THE TERRACE NEDDY AND JENNY LOSSES
AND REGRETS—FEATHER PICTURES — VARIOUS CHANGES
WRECK OF THE THAMES SEEN — BUILDING A COTTAGEVARIOUS RESOURCES.
MY first thought on awaking, the next morning, was of
the lamas. We had seen nothing of them in our tour
the day before, and I very much feared they were all
destroyed by the earthquake. The wild ones always
fled, when alarmed, to the highest parts of the island;
and, as I had seen flame and smoke issue from several
of the highest peaks, I thought it most likely the whole
flock was killed. The tame ones, in such a time of ter-
ror, would be apt to return to their wild habits, and share
the same fate ; they might, however, have sought my
protection on the terrace, and this idea determined me
to visit that scene of desolation, directly after breakfast.
Hoping to recover many things by digging, Friday
and I shouldered our spades, and marched off in silence
towards the terrace. The earth was now as firm as if
it had never been moved ; the air was fresh and invig-
orating; the sky had lost its lurid hue, and looked as
serene and blue as the waters; the birds sang, and the
flowers perfumed the air. All nature seemed radiant with
smiles, after drinking in the plentiful moisture, that had
so long been needed, and which had fallen in torrents
after the earthquake.
We had not proceeded far, before we found the way
impeded by slides of earth, loose stones, and fragments
of rock, that were strewed profusely around. When, af-
ter a scrambling walk, we approached the place, once
so familiar to our eyes, it was so changed we could not
tell where we were, or recognise the spot we had inhabi-
ted. The grassy terrace was gone, a hill stood in the
midst of it, and all around was fresh earth and stones.
Friday and I looked at each other, and around us, in
silent astonishment ; every thing was so altered, that I
was quite bewildered, and could not even tell which was
Fort Hill, or whereabouts I was. At last, we both
thought of our gardens at the same moment; we looked
around for them, thinking they would be land-marks, that
would guide us in our search after other things. But
our very gardens and barley field had moved; the
whole side of the hill, below the terrace, had slid off an
eighth of a mile at least, but whether in a direct or slant-
ing line we could not tell.
We passed round the newly formed hill, hoping to
trace the terrace beyond it, and here the formation of
the ground was not so entirely altered ; we could con-
jecture where the lama shed had been, though it was
now covered up with earth and stones.
As we stood, talking over the wonderful changes
around us, we heard something like the neighing of
304 NEDDY AND JENNY LOSSES AND REGRETS.
lamas. It sounded to me a great way off, but Friday
thought it proceeded from within the earth, near us. We
now surveyed the ground very carefully, and were sure
we were near the spot where the shed stood ; we heard
the sound repeated several times, though very faintly,
and were convinced it proceeded from within the slide
of earth before us, which in all probability had covered
up the shed, without crushing it. We called aloud, as
we were used to do, to Neddy and Jenny ; they neigh-
ed, as if in reply; and to work we went to dig them
out. •
Long and hard did we labor, before we uncovered
any part of the shed; and after we were sure we had come to it, the earth kept falling down, as fast as we re-
moved it, and seemed to make our labor vain. An
occasional sound from our poor friends within, encour-
aged us; and after one of the hardest day's works, I
ever did, we had the great pleasure of delivering Neddy
and Jenny from their prison-house. They had fasted
many hours, and were delighted to regain their freedom.
By turns they cropped the nearest food, and caressed
us; and I could easily fancy that their large, dark eyes
expressed gratitude to their deliverers.
These two living treasures were all we could rescue
of our former possessions on the terrace; every thing
else was buried up, far below our power of penetrating.
What I most regretted, were my pictures; I had put
them into a chest, and dragged that out of the cave; but
as near as I could judge, the new hill stood directly over
it, and my ornithology was gone for ever. I comforted
myself by the reflection, that my insects were safe; for
the box which contained them, happened to be at the
store-house, where I had carried it, to put a fastening on
the cover, as my bench and tools were kept there. The
insects being safe, and the pleasure of having saved the
lives of Neddy and Jenny, helped to reconcile me to the
loss of many other things.
I could not give up my pleasant dwelling-place, and
familiar haunts on the terrace, my pretty fountain and
FEATHER PICTURES. 305
shady seat, without much regret; but there was one way
of viewing even this loss, which made it seem less of a
misfortune. If any part of my caves had remained hab-
itable, I should have been strongly inclined to return to
my old quarters, on the terrace, and thus run a great
risk of being buried alive there by another earthquake.
Now I was forced to abandon the terrace altogether, and
live entirely at the creek, where I determined to build
a convenient cottage, before the rainy season came.
I should have liked sleeping in my little arbour near
the brook, but for the mosquitos, which were very
troublesome at times, and obliged us to shut ourselves up
at night in the store-house, and made me regret the cool,
dark apartment, under the hill, which I had so long en-
joyed, free from all such annoyances.
As soon as we had got over the excitement of the
earthquake, and become settled and regular in our mode
of living, I thought about replacing my lost ornithology.
I could recall nearly all I had written of the habits of the
birds, and as I had become fond of painting their por-
traits, I prepared a fresh set of boards, for doing them
over again, before I recollected that all my paints, except
black and yellow, were buried up in the caves; of these
colors, I still had a considerable stock in my store-house,
but the rest were irrecoverably gone.
I next thought of stuffing them, but I had no idea how
to set about it. I had seen stuffed birds in museums,
but never inquired how they were prepared. I did not
know whether the skins alone were stuffed, or whether
the bones were left in, and the flesh dried on them. In
this dilemma, I remembered having seen, in the parlour
of an aged aunt of mine, some representations of birds,
made with the real feathers stuck on paper, and the bills
and legs painted. This seemed to me more practicable
than stuffing ; so I resolved to attempt it. I made a correct
outline on the board as before, and with a very strong
solution of gum, I stuck on some of the long, tail-feath-
ers first; cutting off the quill part, and covering up the
ends with the small downy feathers that grow about the
26*
306 VARIOUS CHANGES.
tail of the real bird. Then I went on, placing the feath-
ers that came next; I fastened them down to the board
as firmly as I could with gum, and laid them on very
smoothly, just so as to lap over one another, and produce
the best effect. Though I could not contrive to use up in
this way, a quarter part of the feathers that were on one
side of the real bird, I put on enough to make it look a
little raised and give one a tolerable idea of the plumage of the little red and blue paroquet, that I first attempted.
When Friday saw what I was about, he said, " Fath-
er paint birds, like Friday paint cloak." This speech of
his, reminded me how nicely he could arrange feath-
ers, and I immediately proposed to him to assist me in
my work. Nothing could please him better, and his
nimble fingers and patient disposition made him very use-
ful to me.
My first attempt in this new art, was sufficiently suc-
cessful, to encourage me to proceed; and I soon im-
proved so much, that I did the first one over again. As
fast as these feather portraits were finished, I shut them
up in a box with some of the aromatic gum that served
to preserve my insects, and thus kept them fresh and
perfect.
Though I have dwelt so long on this subject here, I
did not let the work interfere with my preparations for
building a house. We spent a certain portion of every
day, in burning shells for lime, bringing sand from a dis-
tance, collecting stones, or felling trees for the roof tim-
bers; and it was only as a recreation, after more severe
toil, that I indulged myself in working at my ornithology.
I wrote the descriptions over again, on the back of each
picture, and found I remembered them perfectly.
I must now go back a little in my narrative, to notice
a very serious change, produced by the Earthquake, in
my means, as well as mode of living. It deprived me
of my most important article of food ; the lamas were
all destroyed by it; except Neddy and Jenny, I could
not find one on the island.
Always keeping together in herds, and running to the
WRECK OF THE THAMES SEEN. 307
highest land when frightened, they were probably all
swallowed up in the tremendous convulsions of the hills.
Friday and I rode all over the island to ascertain the
fact, and became at last convinced that the two lamas we
had saved, were the only ones that remained alive.
This was to me a great loss, both as regarded food and
the pleasures of the chase; though of less consequence
now, than before I had Friday. His knowledge of escu-
lent vegetables, and his expertness in fishing, would give
me a sufficiency of food at all times. If I should re-
main on this island after all my European clothes were
worn out, I should prefer garments made of cloth man-
ufactured from the bark of trees, or of mats woven of
the fibres of plants, to the use of lama skins ; and I had
enough of the wool and hides, already drest, to serve all
my purposes for some years to come. My books and
writing materials were all saved by being at the arbour in
Gordon Vale.
The changes produced in various parts of the island,
by the earthquake, gave a new interest to our rides, and
when we thought we had seen them all, we were con-
tinually discovering some novelty or other, that had be-
fore escaped our observation. It was not till several
weeks had elapsed, that we saw the change made in
Grand River by the earthquake. The bed of the river
seemed, in one place, to have been heaved up above the
water, and there to have remained, altering the course
of the stream considerably, and bringing to light huge
timbers and fragments of the Thames. I had often
wondered that so few remains of that wreck had ever
come ashore; but now it appeared, that after beating to
pieces on the rocks, the lowest part of the hull had drift-
ed within the mouth of Grand River and there settled
down, in the sandy bed, till all was up-heaved together
by the earthquake.
The sight of those poor remains of the Thames, filled
my head with thoughts of returning to my native land,
and I visited the spot repeatedly, and examined the posi-
tion of the wreck, with a view to finding out if any thing
308 BUILDING A COTTAGE.
could be done with it; but it was in such a ruinous state,
and so far sunk in the sand, that it appeared a hopeless
undertaking. At first, I was a good deal carried away
by the schemes I formed about escaping from banish-
ment in a vessel constructed from this wreck, but in
time I came to view the subject more soberly, and to
reflect, that if I had a good stout vessel, built and rigged
completely, I could not navigate her, with no one to
help me but Friday. As I could not land any where on
the coast of South America, for fear of a worse impris-
onment than I suffered here, I must double Cape Horn,
or go through the Straits of Magellan; either of
which required more hands and more seamanship than I
possessed.
After coming to this conclusion, I mentioned the sub-
ject to Friday, who not only thought it impossible to do
any thing with the wreck, but wondered at my wishing
to leave the island. He loved me so well, and had be-
come so fond of the place, and of the life he led here,
that he had no wish beyond it; but I could never give
up the prospect of returning home, and every thing I did
had some reference to that cherished hope.
In the latter part of the dry season, we built our cot-
tage by the brook. I found it a very different thing to
act mason, with such an excellent tender as Friday,
from what it was, when I had to do all myself. I made
a low, one-story house, with two rooms in it, a fire-place
in one, and two windows in each. I put a thatched roof
to it, and had but one door, that I might the more easily
secure it against the attack of Spaniards. For this pur-
pose also, I made very strong inside shutters to the win-
dows. As I never wanted to exclude the air in any weath-
er, but only to keep out insects, I had a fine net-work
stretched across the windows, which answered the pur-
pose perfectly well, and I felt no want of glazed sashes.
I contrived several peep holes in the roof, into which I
put some window-glass, and which were entirely con-
cealed outside. These I made on purpose that I might
watch the movements of an enemy, if any should
approach my dwelling, when I was inside of it.
VARIOUS RESOURCES. 309
Our new habitation was embosomed in trees, and sur-
rounded by high rocks; and we hoped it might escape
all observation. To make it less conspicuous, we chose
for the roof, a kind of straw, or grass, that looked, when
dried, very much of the color of the rocks, in preference
to the kind of straw with which I had thatched the store-
house ; that was of a bright yellow, and therefore less
safe, though much prettier.
I was most puzzled about flooring my apartments.
The one with a fire-place, which I called my kitchen,
had fine gravel for its natural floor, so I only cut a drain
through it and left it as it was. The sleeping room was
covered with turf, and though nothing could be a prettier
carpet, at first, I knew the grass would die directly, be
trodden into the earth, and leave a very dirty floor.
To saw planks was too hard labor, as we had nothing
but a hand-saw; but trees were plenty, and I resolved
instead of sawing them into planks, just to square them
with an axe, and lay them down whole, side by side, all
over the bed-room floor. This would make a clean dry
surface, though not half so even and pleasant as the nat-
ural floor of my former bed-room.
When the heavy work was done, it was very agreeable
to fit up the inside of the house. Friday and 1 sawed
boards enough, to make a range of shelves in each room,
and a good-sized table in the kitchen. As we had so
much sawing to do, I thought the best way would be to
fit up a saw-pit at once, such as is always used in my
country. With two hand-saws I made one long one,
with a handle at each end; then Friday and I, one above
and the other below, could make long strokes, and get a
board sawed out, in a quarter of the time that either
could do it alone.
We had cooking utensils, crockery, mattrasses and
bedding enough at the store-house, to supply the place
of all we had lost by the earthquake; but on opening a
chest, that I thought was filled with sailors' clothing, I
was disappointed to find nothing but small blocks and
other things belonging to the rigging of a ship. I now
perceived that I had lost most of my clothing; but a little
industry and ingenuity would supply me with home-made
articles of dress, when those I had, should be worn out.
By way of being provided in time, and having the em-
ployment of tailoring for the winter months, I set Friday
to making cloth, as soon as the house was built, and the
boards sawed for the inside work. By the time I had
fitted up and furnished the two rooms, Friday had made
several large pieces of cloth, of various thicknesses; and
he collected fibres, to be spun and woven into mats, when
we should be confined by the rains. Thus prepared, we
saw the clouds gathering without any fear that the two
rainy months would seem tedious.
I had learned to make less, instead of greater, prepa-
ration for the winter. Friday liked to fish in the
rain, as well as in dry weather, and it never hurt him at
all. There were enough vegetables in season, all the
year round, so that no great store was necessary. We
gathered our crop of taro, and put it under cover, and I
made raisins as usual; these with fresh fish were our
chief food.
Our salt-pans succeeded very well, this summer ; and
during the great drought, before the earthquake, we
made an unusual quantity. I still had a small stock of
salt beef and pork on hand, which I had kept good by
boiling over the brine, or renewing it occasionally; and
being very successful in the chase, during the early part
of this summer, I had a good quantity of salted lama's
flesh on hand.
All my domestic concerns were in a prosperous way
before the earthquake. That produced great changes
in every thing, and made me feel like a stranger again
in my lonely isle; but after I was settled in my new cot-
tage, and my good lama Jenny presented me with a
pretty kid, and yielded me plenty of milk, I became
very well contented, forgot my losses, and learned to
make myself comfortable with what I had.
My most valuable possession was my large assortment
of tools, and they were all saved. My store-house too,
FIFTH WINTER. 311
was full of rigging, sails, casks, and various materials that
I had got out of the whaleman; and though not of any
immediate use, I knew by experience, that, in my situa-
tion, things may become useful which do not at first
seem likely to turn to any account.
As my pyramid had endured through such mighty
convulsions of the earth, without giving way, I thought
it was still the safest place for my manuscript; so there I
continued to deposit it, as fast as it was written.
I found it much slower work, to write on my new-
fashioned paper, and with gummy ink, than when I had
better materials; but by making long slits and broad
nibs to my pens, I managed to write several pages a day
during the rainy season.
CHAPTER XXXVIII.
FIFTH WINTER—FRIDAY'S EDUCATION — DOMESTIC MANtT-
FACTURES — VARIOUS DISTURBANCES —A THUNDER-STORM CONVERSATION ON ELECTRICITY.
I NOW entered upon the fifth winter of my sojourn
in this island, and I only wished it might be spent
as agreeably as the last. Our musical instruments,
broad-swords, writing materials, and books, had all es-
caped being buried up by the earthquake, in conse-
quence of their being at the arbour in Gordon Vale.
The checker board and men were lost, but Friday sup-
plied their place by a very pretty board, carved and in-
laid, and a set of men which he took great pains to make
uniform. We also made a set of chess men together;
and I taught Friday the moves, and the rules of the
game, being nearly all I knew myself; he was so
quick at making the necessary combinations, and enter-
ed into the spirit of the game so fully, that he soon play-
ed as well as I did; and many a long, rainy evening
have we played for three or four hours, without being
aware that one had passed. We both became so fond of chess, that we lost all relish for the more simple game
of checkers, which now seemed quite insipid. I soon
found that we were in danger of playing chess to excess;
and even in our peculiar situation, where time was not
very valuable, I felt as if we were doing wrong when we
played many hours every day; so we made a rule that
we would never begin till a certain hour in the evening,
and then play only two games.
Friday made great progress in his education at this
time, which he certainly would not have done, had he
been allowed to play chess as much as he was inclined.
I taught him to speak more correctly than he had ever
done before, and made him acquainted with the first ru-
diments of grammar. I set him copies in round hand,
and he learned to write, first with his finger on a board
covered with sand, and then with a burnt stick on wood;
and when he was once persuaded to hold the stick
properly in his fingers, he learnt to write very fast. He
wanted me to let him hold the stick any how, provided
he made the letters right; but I told him that after try-
ing his way, and all other ways, hundreds and thousands
of persons had agreed that one particular way was the
best. Then I showed him the advantages of holding
the pen, pencil or stick, as I had been taught, and as I
taught him; and I convinced him at length, that if it was
a little more difficult, or even a great deal more so, it
was best to hold it the right way, from the beginning, and
it would soon be as easy to him as his own manner of
grasping it.
This rainy season Friday succeeded in another point
of still greater difficulty, that of ciphering; he learned
the use of those nine little characters that stand for num-
bers of any thing, and understood at last the difference
which is made in their meaning, by changing their posi-
tion or by putting after them that important little round
mark which means something, or nothing, just as you
please to use it.
Friday had saved, as a curiosity, a very regularly
shaped, round gourd; on this he was preparing to trace a
pattern of leaves and lines, which he knew how to do with
a hot wire, when I proposed to show him, by means of it,
the shape of the large portions of land and water that
compose the earth. He had before learnt the shape of
the world we inhabit, and was directly struck with the
near resemblance which the shape of the gourd had to
it, for it was a little flattened at the stalk and blossom
ends.
I tried to trace upon it, the four great divisions of the
world, and thought I could do it at once ; but I found
myself very much at a loss immediately. For fear of
spoiling the gourd, I marked it first with chalk, and had
to rub out the lines a great many times before I could
make even Europe look at all right. I had studied
maps a good deal at home, and had them constantly be-
fore my eyes at school; and yet I could not satisfy
myself at all with any outline made from memory.
Even North and South America, which I thought I
could draw at once, were a grand puzzle to me. I
could not remember the shape of the piece of land
which joins the two continents, nor how high up to place
the Gulf of Mexico, nor where about to put California.
After practising a great deal on a piece of board, after
many trials and corrections, recollecting one thing af-
ter another, I at last got what seemed to me a tolera-
ble outline of the four quarters of the globe. I then
drew them on the gourd, and taught Friday the names of
them, and of the oceans which divide them from one an-
other. I dare say, I have made great blunders after all;
but if ever I can see any maps again, I will learn to
draw a correct outline of every principal country, for I
am quite ashamed of being so much at a loss.
Friday made some fine, soft mats for clothing, and I
acted tailor in converting them into trovvsers for our fu-
ture wear. I also turned seamstress, and with the nee-
dle and thread, found in the mate's till, I made, of Fri-
day's cloth, some garments, that partook of the nature of
27
shirts and jackets too; a little of each. One of these
nameless garments, and a pair of the matting trowsers,
would be a complete suit for hot weather, and defend
our bodies from sun and mosquitos.
Friday wove, under my direction, some straw hats
with broad brims; and, as he made the second much
better than the first, I encouraged him to try a third and
a fourth, that he might perfect himself in the work; at
last he completed six, and hung them up to the rafters, in
the order in which he had made them.
We prepared a good many fishing-lines, and plenty of
new bow-strings; and we brought the grindstone into the
kitchen and sharpened all our tools. I could never
grind an axe, without being made peculiarly sensible of
the pleasure and benefit of having a companion, nor
without comparing the easy manner in which I now did
it, with the trouble I once had in doing the same thing.
We had a great many of those sudden and short gales
of wind, which are common in this climate; and many
fine trees were blown down. When this happened in
the night, the noise startled us out of our sleep, and
alarmed us a good deal ; for we thought it the report of
fire-arms close to us. I heard this winter a great many
noises that were new to me, and which had never reach-
ed my ears in that quiet bed-room within Fort Hill; but
by degrees I learned to account for them all satisfac-
torily.
My new habitation, besides being more exposed to
noise, was not so weather-tight as my former one ; and
we sometimes had the rain streaming down on our beds,
or dropping on the table. I wondered that my second
attempt at a thatched roof should not be so good as the
first, till I found out, it was my peep holes that did all
the mischief. The thatch over them was not so thick
as elsewhere, and being more horizontal, the rain filtered
through, instead of running off; I therefore dispensed
with them for the present, and made the roof water-tight
at last.
Towards the close of the rainy season, we were one
night startled out of our sleep, by a noise like that of a
falling tree, but louder and more prolonged. I jumped
up in bed, with a beating heart, for I thought it might be
the beginning of another earthquake. Friday was awake
too, and he said, "A great many trees knocked down
that time, Father." But I knew that was not the cause,
as I could not hear any wind. While listening, and holding
my breath, that I might catch some second sound which
would explain the first, a sharp flash of lightning, and a
loud clap of thunder, relieved my mind from anxiety.
Though these came together, and I might reasonaby
fear the effects of lightning so near me, a thunder storm
seemed a mere trifling danger, compared with an earth-
quake. Concluding that the noise which awakened us,
was only a thunder clap, I lay down again very quietly.
The tempest however continued, and we could not
sleep ; so I entered into conversation with Friday about it.
I found that he knew very well that there was no danger
from a thunder storm, if the lightning and the thunder did
not come together, and that they always did come together
when anything was struck near us ; but he supposed that
it was the thunder that did all the mischief. I corrected
this notion by teaching him a little of w ha I had learned
about electricity from the lecturer in York. I told him that
the destruction attending thunder storms, was caused by
something very fine and invisible, that we knew very lit-
tle about; but which was called electricity; that in pass-
ing from one cloud to another, or from a cloud to the
earth, it moved along so rapidly that it struck fire out of
the air (as we strike fire by a flint and steel), and that
this causes the light which we call lightning. I informed
him that the thunder is only the noise produced by the
air, rushing in, to fill up the space which this invisible
substance makes as it passes along. Friday asked ma-
ny questions, about this unseen power, which would
have puzzled wiser heads than mine to answer.
When I said that the lightning and the thunder al-
ways come from the cloud at the same moment, he
could hardly believe me; but I explained it to him, by
316 CONVERSATION ON ELECTRICITS".
asking him, if he and a bird were to start at the same
instant to go down to the creek, which would get there
first. "O, the bird to be sure," said Friday, "I can't
run as fast as the bird flies." — "-Well," I replied, "it
is just so with the thunder, it cannot go so fast as the
lightning; they both set out together, but the lightning
gets here first." This he understood perfectly, and then, I made him comprehend that if his race with the bird
was a long one, the bird would arrive a good while before
him ; if it was only a short distance, the bird would not
be so much before him, and the shorter the way they
had to go, the less difference there would be; and if
he had but one step to take, he could take it as quickly
as the bird ; and just so it was with the thunder and light-
ning; when the cloud was very near us, it was but a
step to the earth, and then the thunder got here as soon
as the lightning. He could now understand very well,
that the farther off the cloud was, the longer the thunder; would be after the lightning; and I told him that philos-
ophers had calculated, how much faster one travelled
than the other. By knowing that all sounds, as well as
thunder, which is only one kind of sound, go a fifth
part of a mile in a second, they could tell by the num-
ber of seconds between the flash (when we know the
thunder sets off), and the time of our hearing it, exactly
how far off the cloud is. As we were talking, the flash-
es and claps were wider and wider apart, and by count^
ing very slowly, so as to make about a second of time
between each number, beginning when I saw the flash,
and stopping when I heard the clap, I could tell Friday
how far off the cloud was, that they both came from.
When I had counted five I told him it was a mile off;
soon after there was time to count ten between the flash
and the clap, and I asked him how far off that was ; to
which he readily answered "Two miles." But when I
counted six, seven, or nine between, he was puzzled;
and I had to explain to him, that he must allow five for
the first mile, and if he had one over, it was one fifth of
another mile, if two over, it was two fifths; when I had
counted nine, there were four over, so the whole distance
then was one mile and four fifths of another, or one fifth
short of two miles.
I could have told Friday a great deal more about light-
ning, which is very interesting and curious, and would
have pleased him very much, but I was afraid, that not
understanding me thoroughly, he would get some con-
fused notions in his head ; therefore I restained myself,
for I wished him to have clear ideas of every thing he
learned, and by teaching him a little at a time, and that
very thoroughly, I hoped to succeed.
As we were conversing together the tempest became
more and more distant, and I proposed to Friday to stop
talking and go to sleep ; but he was so animated by the
knowledge he had just gained, that he was not inclined
to forget himself in sleep. When we had been silent some
time, and I had nearly lost myself, he would startle me
with some fresh question, or observation. He remem-
bered that the first flash and clap that we heard, after
awaking, were close together, and he wondered what
harm it had done ; so to quiet his apprehensions. I rous-
ed myself and told him the lightning did not always
come down to the earth, when the cloud was very near
us ; it frequently passed from one cloud to another, and
very often it went into the water without doing any dam-
age to the earth. Friday now amused me very much
by asking if it did not kill the fishes. That was a thing
I had never thought of before, and I was obliged to con-
fess my ignorance on that point. His question, how ever, reminded me of what I had read of the torpedo;
and I told him there was a fish that could make electrici-
ty, and catch other fishes by it. On hearing this Fri-
day started up in his bed and exclaimed, "O Father!
can a fish make it flash out of the sea, as it does out of
the clouds !" — " O no, not so much as that," I replied, "it can make only a little of the same kind of electricity
which comes from the clouds. In the fish it is without
light or noise, and only enough to dart at the fishes it
wants to prey on. When they feel it, they become numb,
27*
318 A NEW WONDER.
and cannot get away from their enemy. Do you know,
Friday, what torpid means ?" — " Yes, father, turtles
torpid, when they lie still and do not eat, or move about
for long time." "Well, this fish is called torpedo, be-
cause he makes his prey torpid, in order to catch it." —
"Can he make a man torpid, father ?" — " No, he can
only make the hand and arm that he is touched with,
feel numb. I have seen a person, in England, who had
touched a torpedo; and he said the shock it gave him,
was like striking that tender part of the elbow, which
we call the crazy bone, very hard indeed; he felt it
from his fingers' ends, up to his shoulder; but it did not
last long."
When I had told Friday about this lightning fish, as
he called it, I insisted on his talking no more that night,
and was soon asleep myself; how long his wakefulness
lasted I do not know.
CHAPTER XXXIX.
A NEW WONDER — THE WATERS LET OFF — PAINFUL CHANG-
ES— SORROWFUL THOUGHTS FIFTH ANNIVERSARY.
WE slept late the following morning ; and when at last
we opened the door, to go forth on our usual business,
what was our astonishment, at finding our house sur-
rounded by water! The little elevation, on which the
cottage stood, was converted into an island, and the wa-
ters of the brook surrounded it on every side!
Well, thought I to myself, this is surprising enough.
What will happen next! surely the wonders of this
place, equal those I used to read of in the Arabian
Nights' Entertainment.
Friday used all the interjections he knew in English,
and had recourse to some in his native tongue, to ex-
THE WATERS LET off.
press his astonishment; then' he waded through the wa-
ter to show me how shallow it was. I followed him,
with this difference only, that I pulled up my trousers to the knees, and kept them dry, whilst he wet his.
We both hastened to the channel of the brook, below
this collection of waters, to see what had hemmed them
in, and made them overflow their banks, in this way.
There, at that very spot where I had once placed a
water-wheel, and where the fall is made higher and nar-
rower than any where else, by a natural dam of fallen
trees, earth, and stones, there we beheld a large rock! It
had fallen from a neighbouring cliff, and must have roll-
ed along till it lodged itself where it completely dammed up the water, made it overflow the banks, and surround
our cottage.
As I had no fancy for a wet floor to my house and
knew the water must rise a good deal higher, before it
could flow over the whole embankment, I determined to
make a vent for this newly formed lake. If my house
had not been in the way, I should have delighted to
watch the increase of this sheet of water, till it over-
flowed the dam and made a fine cascade; but as it was,
Friday and I worked very hard all day, undermining
the old embankment. Before sun-set, we made it so
weak that it began to give way, and we had just time to
scramble out of danger, when the weight of water from
above, carried all before it, and down rushed a fine tor-
rent! The sheet of still water disappeared rapidly;
the pretty banks of the brook were restored to sight, and
our house was no longer on an island.
After this was over, I visited the cliff from which the
huge fragment of rock had fallen, and found a large tree
riven and shivered to pieces by the lightning, on the very
spot where that immense fragment had been split off.
I could no longer doubt that the noise, which awoke
me in the night, proceeded from the destruction I now
witnessed, and was partly the thunder and partly the
falling and rolling of the rock afterwards. Large splin-
ters of wood, four or five feet long, that had been torn
from the tree, were stuck slantingly in the earth, and re-
quired a considerable effort to draw them out; so firmly
had they been driven in by that wonderful power which
is called lightning.
This change in the brook injured the picturesque ef-
fect of it from my cottage door. The noisy little fall,
which I loved to see and hear, was gone ; and the rock
that had taken its place, was but a poor substitute. The
former dam being broken away, the waters rolled down
a more gentle slope, and though they babbled as they
went, the effect was less agreeable to the eye or ear.
I was very much struck by the numerous changes I
had witnessed in this island, since I lived here. Rivers,
brooks, racks, shores, and shoals, and "the everlasting
hills " themselves had changed; my most familiar haunts
had disappeared, or were so altered as to lose all resem-
blance to what they had once been. Possessing no liv-
ing objects of affection, when I first lived here, I had
learned to love inanimate things, and my seat under the
trees on the terrace, the shell fountain and this little
sparkling fall, that had just been destroyed, were like so
many dear friends to me, and their loss was a serious
trial to my feelings. I comforted myself, however, after
a long reverie over them, with the reflection that I should
not perhaps spend all my life here, and in the event of
my leaving the island, I should have fewer ties to break,
fewer pleasant things to part with, when I undertook
another perilous voyage.
From thinking of the changes around me, I was nat-
urally led to think of those that might have happened at
home. The friends whom I so earnestly desired to see,
were they still living? If I ever reach my native land,
shall I find my home as I left it? Will my beloved pa-
rents still occupy the little green parlour, and my moth-
er spend her evenings in knitting and sewing as formerly,
while my father reads or writes at his great oak secreta-
ry, that heir-loom in the family? I see every article of
furniture, in that dear scene of my boyish days, and hav-
ing dwelt upon it so long, with an interest peculiar to
SORROWFUL THOUGHTS. 321
my situation, it would go to my heart to find any change
there.
If I am ever to return to my home and my kindred,
my earnest hope is, that I may find as little alteration
there as possible. The changes which come on gradu-
ally, we can bear, and sometimes we enjoy them ; but
those that take place during a long absence, affect us
painfully; many a school-boy's heart has ached, instead
of rejoicing, when, on returning home after a long separa-
tion, he has found his parents living in another, though a
better house, than when he left them.
If I have said less of the pains of absence, and of my
longings after home, in the latter part of my narrative,
than in the former, my friends must not suppose that I
have forgotten them, or that I am so contented here, as
not to wish to return to them. My desire to see them
again is as strong as ever, my love for them unchanged;
but I have become accustomed to my exile, to the pains
of separation; and knowing, that the expression of my
regrets, does but increase them, I have for a long time
refrained from noting down any of my feelings on the
subject.
There is one painful thought which I dwell upon more
than I ought, and which I have never even hinted at in
my narrative ; but since I am on the subject of my feel-
ings, I will mention it; for those who read this, may
never have imagined that there is such a trial for a man
in my situation. It is the idea that my parents and friends have, long ere this, given me up for dead ; and
that much as I think of them, they never think of me, as
an inhabitant of the earth. When this thought comes over me, I feel as though I were removed to another
world, and worse than dead. If I could only send a
whisper into my mother's ear, and tell her that her son
lives, and that her dear image is continually present to.
his mind, I could better support the pain of separation.
But this cannot be; I am shut out from all com-,
munion with the rest of world. Though I look upon the
game sun and moon, that my dear distant friends pehold?
322 FIFTH ANNIVERSARY.
they know it not; I am dead to them, and wherefore
should I be troubled if they think me really so.
Thus reasoning with myself, and thinking of my re-
markable fate, I have spent many hours; but in general
I am cheerful, and disposed to make the best of every
thing around me. My old friend Poll cheers me with
her parrot sayings ; Neptune's faithful services are a
great pleasure to me ; my lamas love me, and are loved
in return ; my adopted son and valuable companion,
Friday, is a crowning blessing, for which I cannot be too
thankful.
My occupations are various and agreeable, and the
task of instructing Friday is a most delightful, as well as
improving one to me. My situation is far better
than I could once have supposed it possible for it
to become; and yet, if all my enjoyments were
doubled, my heart would still long after my dear, distant
home, and the presence of my beloved father and moth-
er. With them, I could be happy any where ; with-
out them, I cannot call myself happy here, I am re-
signed, calm, content, and when wholly taken up with
the things about me, I am cheerful. Whenever I give
myself up to thinking of the past, or the future, I am har-
assed with vain regrets, or flattered with bright hopes
which remain so long unaccomplished, I fear they are
vain ones. Still hope is never extinguished; if it grows
faint for a time, it shines out again soon, and lures me on
to the future.
I have written down these reflections, on the fifth an-
niversary of my being cast on this desert island. I am
glad the day is over; for I am always dejected upon
these occasions, and I sometimes wish I could forget
them till they are passed, as I did the first one. But
some how or other I always think of them, and then I
cannot help keeping them with sorrowful musings.
Though I comfort myself with devotional feelings, and
sing hymns of praise and love to God, which raise my
heart for a time above the trials of this world, I am glad
when the day is over,
NEW HOPES. 323
With the return of dry weather, we resumed our out-
door occupations, but as nothing remarkable occurred
between the thunder storm and the anniversary of my
landing, I have made no notes upon what passed.
CHAPTER XL.
NEW HOPES A BOAT SEEN AT SEA DISTRESSED MARI-
NERS — RETURNING WITH SEVEN STRANGERS — SEVEN
STRANGERS LODGED AND TED ARRANGEMENTS AND RE-
FLECTIONS BREAKFAST INTERVIEW WITH CAPTAIN
SMI1 H — DEVOTIONAL EXERCISES — THE CAPTAIs's SPEECH
TO HIS MEN MY ADDRESS TO THEM.
LITTLE did I think when I finished my last chapter
on the fifth anniversary of my shipwreck, what a change
there would be in my life and prospects before I wrote
again. But a great and important event has taken place,
and deliverance is in prospect, though much remains to
be done, and many accidents may yet arise to prevent
its accomplishment. I bless and thank God that I have
lived to sue this day! My mind is so full of new
thoughts and feelings that I can hardly compose myself
enough to write ; but I must go back to the beginning
and tell exactly how all these strange events happened,
or my story will be incomplete.
About two weeks after the anniversary, Friday and I
were out sailing in the Success, and were lured away to
a considerable distance from the island, by the gambols
of a huge whale. I had never been so near one before,
and we were much interested in observing its movements,
seeing it spout water from its head, and make great waves
with the stroke of its fins or tail.
We had watched and followed it a long while, when
I said to Friday, " It is time to go home, we are a great
324 A BOAT SEEN AT SEA DISTRESSED MARINERS.
way from land, and the sun is getting low." Receiving
no reply to this, I looked at Friday and saw that he had
not heard me ; he seemed to be wholly absorbed in
looking at some far-distant object. My eyes followed
his, and I saw something like a black speck in the wa-
ter, which I took to be another whale ; so I said, "Come,
Friday, we have had whaling enough for to-day, let us
go home; ready about there." Friday begged me to
stop one minute, for he did not believe that was a whale,
it looked to him like a boat. On hearing this, I hunted
about for the perspective glass, and looking through it
perceived that Friday was right. It was a boat with
some kind of lading in it, but there were no signs of
any living being on board ; nothing stirred in it; it on-
ly floated on the water.
I was now as eager as Friday to see what this boat
contained, and find out where it came from. Sol made
all sail towards it, and frequently gazed at it through the
glass. Once I thought I saw something like a man's
head moving, but I could not be sure. A hope sprang
up in my mind, that it might contain some of my own
race. It was plain that it was not a canoe, and as there
was no vessel in sight all round, it could not be a boat's
crew coming purposely to molest us. It might be some
ship-wrecked countrymen of mine; my breath grew
short, and my heart beat quickly at the idea; but I said
not a word about it to Friday. As we neared it, I saw
a movement on board, an oar was lifted up with a shirt
tied to it; it did therefore contain living and civilized
beings! O how my heart throbbed! Friday feared
they were Spaniards, and wanted to run away from them.
I said, whatever they were, they were in distress ; and if
they were the worst of pirates, I would help them. When
we drew nearer still, several heads were raised and their
numbers looked formidable, if they had the will and the
power to harm us; but I believed them to be in distress
and continued to run towards them.
When within speaking distance I hailed them, but re-
ceived no answer; this alarmed Friday, and he begged
DISTRESSED MARINERS. 325
me not to go any nearer ; he thought they were lying in
wait to shoot us; I, however, thought differently, and ran
alongside the boat.
Clasped hands, glazed eyes, and haggard faces were
raised in silence towards us. I saw directly that they were
people perishing with hunger and fatigue. Their deplora-
ble condition required immediate aid ; I was obliged to
suppress all the overpowering emotions that were rising
to choak and unnerve me,-to summon all my firmness,
and exert my best judgment to administer properly to
these famishing seamen. One made signs that I should
give him something to drink ; so, bidding Friday lash the
boats together, I poured out water in whatever would
hold it, and handed it to them, as fast as I could ; eager-
ly did they all stretch out their hands for the long desired
draught; and seven famishing men soon emptied the
keg. I then took a large root of boiled taro, and divided
it among them. O how the poor creatures devoured it;
they held out their hands for more, but I had no more
on board; and I was glad of it, for I knew the danger of
giving them too much at once ; so I shook my head.
Not a word had been spoken till then, when one ex-
claimed, "Thank God; you have saved our lives!"
and then followed the most moving scenes I ever beheld.
There was not a dry eye among us. The strangers
were filled with gratitude to God and to me, for their un-
expected deliverance; and in their exhausted state, they
could more easily express it by tears than by words. I
was deeply touched by the sight of their extremity, and
entirely overcome by the sound of my own language,
and the pleasure of discovering that they were my coun-
trymen; Friday wept from sympathy with us all. How
long this affecting scene lasted, I cannot tell; but with-
out knowing how I got there, I found myself seated on a
thwart, in their boat, with the head of one of them rest-
ing on my shoulder. When I recovered my composure
enough to observe the evening sky, I knew it was time
to make all sail for the land, and that I must arouse my-
self to exertion, and think what ought to be done.
28
326 RETURNINGWITH SEVEN STRANGERS.
Addressing myself to one who looked as if he might be
the captain, I told him my name was Crusoe, that I lived
on the island which we saw in the distance, and that I
would now conduct them there, and do all in my power
to make them comfortable. The stranger replied that
his name was Smith, that he had lost his vessel by fire
ten days ago, since which they had been on the ocean,
in their open boat, and almost without food or water.
He was so exhausted by telling me this, that I beg-
ged him to say no more then, but to let me assist him
into my boat. I placed him by my side, in the stern of
the Success, and helped some others on board of her
also; then with their boat in tow,containing the rest of
the crew, we set sail for the island.
Captain Smith was so weak and drowsy, that but few
words passed between us, and we made our voyage to
the creek in silence. My head was full of new projects
and deeply interesting thoughts, and my heart was-orer-
flowing with emotion, that I should have vainly attempt-
ed to conceal, if my companion's eyes had not been clos-
ed in sleep. Finding a boat's crew at sea, and saving
them from starvation, would be an affecting incident to
the inhabitants of a crowded city, but no one can fully
realize what it was to me, in my solitude. Besides the
pleasure of serving my fellow beings, in distress ; besides
the delight of being restored to the society of men, like
myself, and hearing my own language, after an exile of
five years; besides this, and a great deal more, it was to
me the hope of deliverance from captivity. It seemed
to open the door of return to my native land, to my dear
parents ; and on this account it was most overpowering.
I was glad of this silent sail homeward; as it gave me
an opportunity of collecting my thoughts, subduing my
emotion, and arranging my immediate plans of opera-
tion. Fearing that the warmth of my feelings in thus
meeting with some of my countrymen, might make me
imprudent, and as I did not yet know what sort of men
I had to deal with, I determined to lodge them all for
that night in the store-house, under lock and key.
ARRANGEMENTS AND REFLECTIONS. 327
I run the boat up the creek, as far as I could, that I
might land my exhausted passengers, as near as possible
to their place of destination. It was almost dark, when
we arrived. The strangers felt the pains of hunger on
awaking, and I promised them more food, as soon as
they should be lodged in their quarters for the night.
Having previously instructed Friday what to do,
"marched them up to the store-house, and he soon fur-
nished them with as hearty a supper of vegetables and
fruits as it was safe for them to eat. I shook hands with
the captain, and took leave of him for the night, saying
he should be better accommodated in future, but I hop-
ed he would put up with this for the present, pointing to
a bed Friday had prepared for him in one corner of the
building. He seemed quite satisfied with his lodgings,
and attempted to thank me; but his emotion overcame
. him, and we parted in silence.
Friday and I now hastened to moor the boats, and
bring ashore the things we had left in them. I was truly
glad to find, in the strangers' boat, a proper mariner's
compass ; for the action of my little needle was very fee-
ble. I hoped to discover a quadrant there also, but was
disappointed.
Our lamas were waiting impatiently to be milked, and
Neptune, whom I had severely reprimanded for greet-
ing the unhappy strangers with barking and growling,
was endeavouring to make his peace by following my
steps in the humblest manner, and not daring to caress
me as usual. Late as it was, we accomplished all our
evening work, and made many preparations for the next
day, before we went to bed.
Friday's head hardly touched his pillow, before he
was lost in sleep; but I could not follow his example;
my mind was too full to allow of my sleeping; so there
I lay, thinking over the disasters of my poor countrymen,
their perilous situation and our timely aid ; or making
plans for our returning to England. That blessed an-
ticipation seemed likely now to be realized. The re-
mains of the Thames, which the earthquake had brought
328 BREAKFAST.
to view in Grand River, and seven stout mariners, prom-
ised a speedy deliverance from exile ; and the idea was
so exciting to me, I was afraid of dwelling upon it too
much, lest it should turn my brain.
I longed for the morning to come, that I might again
see and converse with my countrymen. I could hardly
refrain from visiting them in their sleep, I so desired to
look upon their faces again. At length these busy
thoughts were insensibly changed for still more busy
dreams, and the sun was up before I was again con-
scious of the agreeable events of the preceding evening.
I found Friday was already far advanced in his prep-
arations for a breakfast, suited to the number of the
company, but he had not seen the guests.
There was no sound from the store-house ; I therefore
supposed them still asleep; and being aware how much
they needed rest, I would not intrude upon them, but
assisted Friday in placing an empty barrel under a fine
spreading tree, that its head might serve for a table, on
which to set the sailors' breakfast, and in arranging
my own table, in the best manner, as I meant to invite
Captain Smith to join Friday and me at our meals.
Every thing was ready, and we had waited some time
for our guests to awake, when we heard them stirring;
presently there came one of the men, with a civil mes-
sage from his captain, asking me to lend him some clean
linen, a towel, soap, razors, &.c. I furnished him as well
as I could, from my own scanty wardrobe, and waited
rather impatiently for his toilette to be completed.
Meanwhile I conversed a little with the sailors, and saw
them helped to their breakfast, which they very much
needed.
When at last Captain Smith appeared, I was struck
with the change I saw in him. Relieved from the pres-
sure of hunger, refreshed by a good night's rest, washed,
shaved, and dressed clean, he looked like a different
man. His appearance now was very much in his favor,
and my heart warmed towards him at once.
Having greeted him very cordially, I led him to the
INTERVIEW WITH CAPTAIN SMITH. 229
table ; but we were both so much moved that we began
our meal in silence ; and little passed between us,
whilst it lasted, but the common civilities of the table.
Though each was desirous of knowing something of the
other, each seemed at a loss to begin his own story, or
make any inquiries.
As my guest seemed much my senior, I let him take
the lead ; at length, when we had done our meal, he
opened the conversation, by asking me the name of the
island we were upon. To this I replied, "I have some-
times called it the Island of Despair, but now I think it
will deserve a better name, and may be called the Island
of Escape." He then inquired under what government
it was ; to this I answered, "None but mine, I am sorry
to say." Expecting these expressions of mine would
make him apprehend something of the nature of my sit-
uation, and render it easy for me to explain it further, I
was disappointed to observe that he became more
thoughtful and serious, It seemed but fair for me to
take my turn at questioning ; so I broke a long silence,
by requesting him to give me the particulars of his dis-
aster.
He told me he was master of a fine ship, of three hun-
dred tons, called the Helen, bound from London to the
Northwest Coast, in the fur trade. He was prosecuting
his voyage very comfortably, and safely, as he thought,
when be was suddenly waked from his sleep, by the cry
of "fire," from several voices at once, and pulled out of
his berth by his mate; the cabin was already full of
smoke, and in five minutes the whole ship was in flames.
"I found," said Captain Smith, "that no exertions
could save the vessel, and that we must make all speed
to save our lives; so I ordered the boats to be lowered,
seized hold of a compass and light, my quadrant and
ship's papers." "A quadrant!" I involuntary exclaim-
ed, "have you a quadrant " ?" No," he replied,
"that fell overboard in the bustle and was lost; but I
rescued my papers, and hope they are still safe." I as-
sured him they were, and begged him to proceed.
28*
"Bread and water were next to be thought of ; but it
was impossible to come at any bread, except a small sup-
ply from the steward's pantry ; or any water, but the
cask that stood on deck half full. That was all I could
secure for my boat, and the mate obtained less. We
pushed off. As we did so, the flames burst out of the
cabin windows and the main hatchway. We pulled off
to a safe distance, then lay on our oars, watching the
rapid progress of the flames. In less than ten minutes,
she was one grand mass of fire ; fore and aft and aloft;
her masts and sails in a blaze, rocking to and fro, and
threatening every instant to fall. It was a grand sight,
sir!" continued Captain Smith, "and to persons in our
situation a most appalling one. There we were, in the
midst of the Pacific Ocean, with no known land near;
and the only prospect before us, starving or drowning.
While there is life, however, there is hope; and after
consulting with the mate, we determined to keep near
the Helen as long as she burned, thinking the light
might attract some passing vessel that would pick us up.
When all chance of aid from that was over, we agreed
to steer a northerly course, in the forlorn hope of meet-
ing with a sail, before we perished with hunger. You
must excuse my dwelling on the particulars of the dread-
ful ten days that followed.
"In a foggy night we lost all knowledge of the other
boat, and never saw her afterwards. My brave com-
panions behaved as well as men could do in such an ex-
tremity, and when all hope and all courage had forsaken
us, we prayed together that we might be saved from all
outrages, and bear our allotment as became Christians,
and then lay down to die, seeing no help near, and our
strength being nearly gone.
"How long we had remained prostrate and silent, I know
not, but it must have been several hours, and in that time
the boat drifted I suppose in sight of this island. Hap-
pening to lift my head, I saw you coming towards us,
and made a last effort to raise the signal which had so
often been raised before in vain.
"The rest you know, sir. We owe you our lives, and
are willing to show our gratitude in the best way we
can."
The recollection of his recent sufferings now agitated
Captain Smith extremely, and a long pause followed. I
could well understand his feelings, and therefore waited
for him to break the silence. When after some minutes
he became composed, his countenance assumed a new
and rather stern expression, and drawing himself up, he
said, very gravely— " Though I conclude, from your ap-
pearance and your accent, that you are a Spaniard;
and that this island is subject to no government, but what
your will imposes; I am encouraged by the kindness
you have already shown me and my companions, and
by your acquaintance with our language, to hope that you
have friendly feelings towards British mariners. If we
give you our services on all lawful occasions, whilst with
you, I trust you will not hinder our return to our own
country, whenever an opportunity may offer."
I was so astonished to find myself mistaken for a
Spanish pirate, that I heard him to the end, without
having the power to undeceive him. But when I told
him I was, like himself, the child of misfortune, and a
British seaman; and said to him, with tears in my eyes,
that we would both return to dear, happy England to-
gether, all his suspicions vanished, and we embraced
each other with the cordiality of fellow sufferers.
Confidence was now established between us, and I gave
him a very brief sketch of my unhappy fate; he listened
to me, as if he would devour every word, and showed
such a sympathy in my trials, as almost choked me in
the recital of them.
We had conversed a long time, and had both forgot-
ten that any were waiting for our orders, when Friday
put his head into the room and said, in an affected
tone of servility that made me smile, "Master, the men
say you are a pirate, and that they are afraid to trust
their good captain with you any longer; and if I don't
let them see he is safe, they will twist me. I don't
332 DEVOTIONAL EXERCISES.
know what twist is, but they look very fierce and frighten
Friday." By the time this was said, the men were crowding rather lumultuously round the door, but a few
words from their captain sent them peaceably away.
We then consulted on the best means of promoting
peace and happiness in our little community. Captain
Smith said his men were six as fine fellows as ever step-
ped a deck, but, like other sailors, they required disci-
pline; and he recommended me to begin strictly with
them, to call myself Governor of the island, and exer-
cise a wholesome authority over all. I told him that, as
he was older and more experienced than I was. he had
better take the command, and I would obey his orders.
This he positively refused, and spoke of my performan-
ces and exertions, in collecting around me so many com-
forts, as entitling me to reign over the island still.
When, however, I represented to him my fears, that I
should not know how to manage his sailors, and that
they would be better pleased to continue under his or-
ders, he agreed to be captain still, if I would be govern-
or. Captain Smith then proposed to call his men to-
gether, and perform their usual devotional exercises;
after which, he would explain to them their present situ-
ation, and the duties belonging to it.
We walked forth arm in arm, to a beautiful little knoll,
crowded with trees. One shout of the captain brought
his faithful followers round him. He motioned to them
to range themselves in a semicircle opposite to us;
Friday took his stand at my elbow; and then, in a very-
solemn and affecting manner, Captain Smith repeated,
from memory, a part of the service appointed by the
Church of England to be read at sea; to this he added
an extemporaneous prayer, suited to their recent escape
from imminent danger, the loss of their shipmates, and
our present situation on this desert isle. He was deep-
ly affected himself, and every word he uttered seemed
to reach the hearts of his hearers. The rough sailors
sobbed and wept aloud ; all our souls were mingled in
a deep and solemn feeling of adoration and trust, of
THE CAPTAIN'S SPEECH TO HIS MEN. 333
thanksgiving for past mercies, and dependence upon
God for present help; and when my guests raised their
voices together, in a hymn, which closed the services, it
seemed like the very outpouring of the soul before its
Creator and Preserver.
I never shall forget that singing, nor any part of those
morning exercises. It was so long since I had joined in
the worship of a congregation, that it was very over-
coming to my feelings. I could only lean against a tree,
cover my face, and weep. A long pause followed the
hymn, for all needed time to recover their composure.
I was lost in wonder and delight, at finding my new
companions to be religious men, and that the bond of
union between them and their commander was the love
of God. With this feeling in all our hearts, I knew
every thing would go well.
When our emotion had a little subsided, Captain Smith
explained to his men, that they were on an unknown
and desert island, the only inhabitants of which were
their deliverers, Governor Crusoe and his adopted son.
He then spoke in very high terms of my courage and
perseverance in conquering the greatest difficulties, and
made a strong representation of the change I had
wrought in my situation, by my own personal exertions,
aided by knowledge and ingenuity. He said too much
about that, but I could not prevent it.
"All this," continued Captain Smith, "we are to
profit by. Governor Crusoe generously admits us to the
shelter of his roof, and the use of his implements; to a
share in the food he has labored so hard to procure;
to the benefit of his knowledge of the resources of the
island; to the comforts which his ingenuity has contriv-
ed ; provided only that we acknowledge his authority,
and obey his orders. We owe him our lives, and that is
a great debt, for which we ought to render him our best
services ; but how much less would they be worth, if he
should say to us; 'Go to the other end of the island,
there live without any edgetool, and without fire, as I
did j conquer the difficulties of your situation, as I have
334 MY ADDRESS TO THEM.
done ; and when you have collected around you the
comforts that I have, we will deal together on equal
terms.' Even then, our merit would not equal his; for
we are seven, and he was alone ; entirely alone, on this
desert island. What a situation!
"The sufferings of our noble governor have taught him
to pity the misfortunes of others, and he bids me say that
we are welcome to share every thing he possesses on
fair and equal terms. We must give him our faithful
and willing service, and he will think and provide for all
our wants. We must be his loyal subjects, and he will
be our good king and governor."
He paused, and the men exclaimed with one accord,
"Long live the governor! God save the governor!"
The shout of many voices was so new to me, that it sent
a thrilling sensation all through me, and I was obliged to
lean on Friday for support.
Captain Smith then asked for a Bible; I handed him
my Testament, and he swore a solemn oath of fidelity and
submission to my authority. He then asked his men if
they were willing to do the same; they all said, " Yes,"
with hearty good will, and the captain swore each sepa-
rately.
By the time this ceremony was finished, I was com-
posed enough to address my new subjects. I promised
them every accommodation in my power, and observed
that we had but one common interest; that we all de-
sired to live peaceably and happily on the island, as long
as we were obliged to continue here; and we all hoped
to leave it as soon as possible, and return to dear old
England. I told them I had a plan in my head by
which I trusted we should all be speedily released from
banishment; that -it was for this purpose, I should re-
quire their services; but I had no wish to interfere
with the command of their excellent captain ; that they
should still consider themselves as his men, and he and I
would consult together for their good. This pleased
them very much, and they shouted, " Long live the cap-
tain! Long live the governor!"
Captain Smith now whispered me, to set them to work
about something at once, for nothing was so bad as idle-
ness for them. After consulting together, we agreed
that two should go and clean their boat, two should fish
with Friday, and the others might dig vegetables and
prepare them for dinner. These orders the captain gave
them in my name, and they were about to disperse; but
I stopped them, and having sent Friday away on an er-
rand, I took this early opportunity of telling them how
much I esteemed that colored youth. I told them he
was the son of a king in his own country ; and though he
waited upon me in my solitude, it was the service of
love, and I considered him as an adopted son. I then
described to them his excellent character, and faithful
conduct towards me; and dwelt upon his purity and in-
nocence. I ended by commending him to their good
offices and respect; and earnestly desiring them not to do
or say any thing that would hurt his feelings, or corrupt his
morals. With this I dismissed them to their several
tasks.
I then took Friday apart, and told him he must be-
have like a chief's son to the men who had come among
us; he must show them what to do, and tell them what
it was necessary for them to know ; but that he had bet-
ter not talk much to them. He nodded, as if he under-
stood me perfectly, and from that time I have never had
to interfere between him and the sailors. He always
treats them kindly, but never lets them take any undue
liberties with him, and they always appear very fond of
him.
336 DOMESTIC ARRANGEMENTS.
CHAPTER XLI.
FIRST DAYWITH THE STRANGERS DOMESTIC ARRANGE-
MENTS— SHOWING THE ISLAND —FRIDAY IN TROUBLE
FRIDAY COMFORTED.
THE first day spent with my countrymen was so full
of interest, that it seemed almost as long as that memo-
rable Friday, on which I found my good man of that
name. O how delightful it was to me to have the com-
pany of Captain Smith! A civilized being, one of the
same race with myself, my own countryman too, and
more than all the rest, a religious character! One who
was ready in all things to do the will of God, and to give
Him thanks; one who reverenced his conscience, and
endeavoured to do right in every action of his life. I
could do little else, that day, but look at him, and listen
to him. We spent hours in deep conversation. He
wished to hear all I could tell him of the island, of the
life I had led here, of Friday, and how he came to be
with me; and I listened eagerly to every thing he said
of himself, his men, and the dear country from which
he had so lately come.
The fishing party were very successful and returned
well laden. Friday baked the fish in his native way,
to the great amusement of the strangers; when it was
done, he and I and the captain took our dinner together.
Captain Smith proposed that one of his men should
wait upon us; but I had been so long without any such
attendance, that I much preferred waiting upon myself,
or having Friday's services; and when our guest saw
the simplicity of our meal, and that every thing was put
on the table at once, he agreed with me that we were
better without Tom Bowling, and could enjoy our con-
versation more by ourselves.
I employed Tom, however, to gather up what we
left, and serve his comrades under the tree, where the
barrel stood on which they had breakfasted. We had
SHOWING THE ISLAND. 337
plenty of pewter plates, and these with their jack-knives
were all they wanted. The fish and vegetables were
placed on the head of the barrel, and they sat round it,
on whatever they could find for seats, and made as
hearty a meal as any alderman in London. A draught
of water from the brook, with one of Friday's gourd
dippers for a drinking-cup, finished their repast. As
we sat by the cottage door, observing their movements,
I told Captain Smith, I supposed they missed their
allowance of grog very much; but I had none to give
them. He said he was glad of it; he wished there never
might be another drop of ardent spirits given to a
sailor; he rejoiced that his lads would be weaned from
it by necessity; he had wished to put a stop to the prac-
tice on board the Helen, but had not yet attempted
it. He said he never took any thing of the kind him-
self, and no one could enjoy better health, or bear
fatigue better than he did.
As we had spent the whole morning talking together
in-doors, I now proposed a walk. The Captain knew
his men would wish to explore the island, so he gave
them leave to follow us. I went first to Fort Hill and
the terrace, and described to them the changes made
there by the earthquake. Then we proceeded to Sig-
nal Hill. Captain Smith was much struck by the posi-
tion and appearance of my pyramid, and wondered how
I had ever contrived to build it on such a pinnacle. I
explained to him that, when I made my structure there,
the shape of the ground was quite different; only the
top of the rock was visible, round which I built the pyr-
amid; the rest of it was brought to light by the earth-
quake, which displaced the earth around it, and left the
bare rock as he now saw it. We all scrambled up it,
as Captain Smith had a great desire to see the manu-
script, and examine the monument. Having satisfied
the curiosity of all the party, I took them down the hill by a different route, and returned home by the coast.
I had great pleasure in showing my new friend all
my works and contrivances, because he so fully appre-
29
33b SHOWING THE ISLAND.elated the difficulties I had to contend with. He even
overrated my ingenuity, and sometimes abashed me by
his praises.
Several times, in the course of the day, I tried to talk
with Captain Smith about my plans of escape from the
island; but he was so delighted with the place, and so
interested in all he saw, that he was in no haste to get
away; and he would change the subject by asking me
some question about my past life. "Ah," thought I, "you
never lived here alone as I have; you have never been
five years away from all civilized beings, or you would
be as anxious to return as I am."
We made up a third bed for the Captain, in our
lodging-room, and let the sailors sleep on hay in the
store-house.
I must not close my account of this memorable day,
without mentioning how Neptune and Poll behaved to
our guests. The former soon made the acquaintance
of the sailors, and they enjoyed playing with him, and
he was gratified with being noticed and caressed; but
mistress Poll was not so sociably inclined. She seemed
troubled by the presence of strangers, and screamed and
fluttered her wings, when any of them went near her.
While we were at dinner, she got under the table, and
distinguishing the Captain's feet from mine, though I
had shoes on as well as he, she pecked at them with all
fury.
Several days were spent in showing the island to the
strangers; and though my heart was set on devising the
means of leaving it, I had great pleasure in pointing out
its beauties, and remarkable features, to Captain Smith.
He and I rode the lamas, and were accompanied by the
sailors on foot; as they would naturally wish to explore
this new region, we thought it best for them to do it in
company with us. Friday willingly gave up his lama
to Captain Smith, and walked by my side, or rode alter-
nately with me; his skill in fishing, his mode of cook-
ing, which could be practised any where, out of doors,
independent of all utensils, and his knowledge of the
best vegetables, and where they were most likely to be
found, made him a very important personage to us all.
Our first ride was to Grand River, that I might show
Captain Smith the wreck of the Thames, and tell him
my plans for returning to England. I proposed to dig
out the hull, float it off with casks, and then repair and
rig her. This he assured me was impossible; she was
too much of a wreck to be floated off, or repaired; but
he said she might be broken up, where she was, and
with the iron, timber, and planks that she would furnish,
we might build another smaller and more manageable
vessel.
I soon found that I was speaking with one, who knew
far more about the matter than I did; one who had
watched the progress of ship-building in his father's yard,
and knew the whole process, from the laying of the keel to
the finishing of the taffarel. It happened also that two of
his men had actually worked with ship-carpenters. All
this made me feel very sure of succeeding in the under-
taking, and I expressed my hopes that we should soon
be afloat in a sea-worthy vessel, and sailing away
towards old England.
"You forget," said Captain Smith, " that we have no
tools with us; what can hands do without tools ?" —
"You forget," I replied, "that I have a complete set
of tools, saved from that very wreck; and with hands
and tools too, and a head like yours to plan, what should
prevent our building a vessel, in which we could sail
round the world." "Well done, enterprise!" he ex-
claimed; "I admire your spirit, and if we succeed in
our ship-building, we will call the vessel The Enterprise,
in remembrance of this. But what shall we do for pro-
visions for so long a voyage?" "O," said I, "if you
will build the vessel, I will engage to victual her for a
six months' voyage." i( Very well," he replied; "I
will begin as soon as I have seen every part of your
island, and heard all your adventures."
From Grand River we proceeded to make the tour
of the island; and though it was on the whole a very
agreeable excursion, I must confess that the constant
sight and sound of so many persons travelling together,
was very fatiguing, and almost distracted me. I had
been so long in solitude, or with only one companion,
and had led so quiet a life, that I was at first pained and
disturbed by the presence of numbers. I sought relief
occasionally by wandering away from the party, and
being alone for a while. Sometimes Friday and I
would choose our quarters for the night out of sight and
hearing of our fellow travellers, that we might enjoy a
little quiet together, as we were wont to do.
When we had finished our land expedition, Captain
Smith was desirous of sailing round the coast in the
Success. None of my performances pleased him more
than that boat, and when he found how well she sailed,
he could not praise her enough. He wished to look for
a suitable place to make his building-yard, and to
survey the coast, its harbours, and inlets. The captain
and Friday went with me in the Success, and, by way
of keeping the sailors employed, we let them row after
us in their boat. Friday recommended the bank of the
Rhine, where he built his canoe, as a good place for our
operations; but on reaching the bay, formed at the
mouth of that river by the earthquake, we found a place
where the shores were steep and covered with fine
trees, such as we wanted for ship-timber, and we fixed
upon that for our building-yard. We dined in the Bay
of Terror, slept in Gordon Vale, and returned home the
next day.
The curiosity of Captain Smith and his men, in regard
to the island and my adventures upon it, being now
pretty well satisfied, they began their operations on the
wreck; and truly glad was I, when, having carried them
to the spot in the Success with their tools and their din-
ner, I left them hard at work. As they were to be
gone all day, I promised myself a good, quiet time alone
with Friday, and hastened home to enjoy it. I found
him sitting pensively at the door of the cottage, with
Poll on his shoulder, but insensible as to her caresses;
iir TIIOUBLE. 341
and I saw directly that the poor fellow was in trouble.
I thought he had been less gay than usual for several
days, and now his heart seemed very full; so I sat
down beside him, and observed what a happy day we
should have together with no one to interrupt us. He
was silent, but his breast heaved with suppressed emo-
tion. I then put my arm around him, and asked him if
he did not like to be alone with me, and if he had not
something to tell me that troubled him. This overcame
him entirely; and bursting into tears, he wept aloud as
he leaned upon my shoulder.
I said all I could to soothe and comfort him, and
when at length he could reply intelligibly, to my repeat-
ed question, "What is the matter, Friday?" he sobbed
out, "O father! Friday very unhappy, many days." —
"Why so?" I replied; "have you done any thing
wrong?" — "No, father, believe no."—"Has any
one done you any wrong ?" — " No, father, no body
wrong, but every thing changed; Friday never live
alone again with his father, and never be so happy again.
Now father talk, talk, all the time to the captain, no talk
to Friday, no teach Friday, no laugh, dance, sing, play
with Friday, as he did before white men come." When
he had said this, he wept again most piteously.
I felt for the poor fellow very much; there had been
a great change in our lives, which must be painful to
him. He had been my only companion, and engrossed
my whole attention so long, that he could not bear now
to divide it with another. It seemed to him that he was
deprived of his rights.
Some people would have told him he was jealous,
that jealousy was a wicked passion, and he must not
indulge it. But I saw there was no bad feeling in his
mind towards the strangers; he was merely grieving over
a real loss, and one which appeared to him greater than
it was; therefore I would not add to his suffering, by
blaming him for so natural a feeling. I merely tried to
convince him that my love for him was as great as ever,
and though we could not be so much together, or talk so
29*
342 FRIDAY COMFORTED.
much together as formerly, my interest in him was un-
changed. I told him he had gained a friend in Captain
Smith, and he could learn a great deal by hearing him
converse. "That is nothing," exclaimed Friday ; "I
love to hear father talk, and to be alone with father all
day, and all night too." — "I know it, Friday, and it is
very natural that you should feel so; but we shall never
live alone again; that was a peculiar situation; it had
many sorrows for me, and if you love me, Friday, you
should be glad for my sake that it is over." — " O, I do
love you, dear father; if father glad happy days are
gone, Friday will try to be glad too." And then he cri-
ed as if his heart would break, showing what a vain at-
tempt his was at gladness.
I told him my love for him was the same as when I
lived alone with him, and talked only to him; but he
shook his head, and said, " Father give more and more
love to Captain Smith, and have none left for poor Fri-
day." I assured him he was quite mistaken; that love was not like a piece of cloth, which could not be given
to two persons at once; it kept growing in the heart;
and the more persons there were to be loved, the more
love we had to give them, •' I have not," I added,
"taken away any of my love for you, to give to the cap-
tain; it is new love, just grown, that I have given to him."
This idea seemed to comfort him a little; so I went on
to tell him that, besides my love, he had the love of
Captain Smith and all his men; that, although he had
lost one kind of happiness, that of living alone with me,
he had a new kind, in making new friends, in seeing me
so happy with my countrymen, and in getting ready to
go home and see my father and mother. I asked him if
he would like to go to England with me. "Yes," he repli-
ed, " if you won't stay here with Friday; but I like bet-
ter than every thing to be here alone with my dear fath-
er." — " But that is a thing that cannot be; so which
do you like best, to go with me to England or to stay
here alone?" "O go with my dear father; Friday al-
ways go with father." As I could not take him to his
Own country, I would not mention his home and his real
father to him, I saw they were far from his thoughts,
and that he had no wish to leave me for them. I had
heard that the less civilized people are, the less they are
attached to their parents, after they are grown up; I
supposed, that my power of educating him, and unfold-
ing his mind, as his own father could not have done,
had made him love me best.
As he was now composed, I told him he would never
feel so unhappy about it again; that we always felt
changes most, when they first took place; and that he
would become accustomed to live among a great many
people, and to see me talk with others and not mind it
at all.
After this long conversation, Friday became more
cheerful, and learned to content himself with a smile and
a look, when I could not talk to him. I gave him an
interest in our preparations, by telling him I should have
more time to talk with him when we were on our voyage,
and by raising his curiosity as to the wonderful sights he
would see in my country.
CHAPTER XLII.
PREPARATIONS FOR A LONG VOYAGE --CONVERSATIONS —
TRAITS OF CHARACTER—SHIP-BUILDING — MATERIALS
FOR AN OUTFIT— A LAUNCH — DIFFERENCE IN CHARAC-
TER.
- WHEN the wreck was broken up, the materials were
all towed round to the spot fixed on for a building-yard;
and there Captain Smith and his men spent every day,
from sun-rise till dark, devoted to the construction of a
vessel, that was to bear us all away from the island.
While they were thus employed, Friday and I were equally
busy, in laying in a stock of provisions for the voyage.
344 CONVERSATIONS.
The large quantity of salt, we made last summer, was
of great use to us now; for we cured with it a great
deal of fish and terrapin flesh. We cultivated a large
crop of taro, and found where all the best vegetables
grew on the island, that we might hoe the ground around
them, and so improve upon nature's gardening. We
felt the loss of our lamas now very much. There were
none on the island, but Jenny and Neddy and their kid,
and we meant to carry these away alive.
After a hard day's work, and a hearty supper, the
sailors were glad to go directly to bed; but the captain,
who did network quite so hard, liked to sit up awhile with
Friday and me; and then we had a great deal of im-
proving conversation. Captain Smith was much sur-
prised to find Friday so far civilized; and when this
lively youth showed an acquaintance with subjects, of
which he expected him to be perfectly ignorant, he
would sometimes ask, where he learned so many
things. "Father tells me all," was his simple reply.
Friday's little accomplishments also were matter of the
greatest wonder to our guest; and he used to praise
him so much for his various performances, that I was
afraid he would make him vain, until I perceived that
Friday considered all encomiums bestowed on him, as
belonging entirely to me; he would smile and nod and
look at me exactly as if the captain was speaking in my
praise, instead of his. This modesty and simplicity pre-
vented his being made conceited by the admiration of
the captain or his men. When the sailors found out
that he was better educated than some of them, and that
he was accomplished too, they considered him as a prod-
igy, and almost idolized him. All favors were asked
through Mr. Friday, and all differences referred to him;
he was frequently to be seen, seated in the midst of
them, explaining something which they wished to learn,
whilst they listened in the most eager and attentive man-
ner, to his broken English.
Captain Smith had visited some of the South Sea
islands, though not the one from which Friday came;
and he would often compare with him the customs of
the different places, which, though they differed in some
respects, had a general resemblance that was very strik-
ing. He used to promise Friday that if he returned
safely to England, and lived to make another voyage to
the Northwest Coast, he would take him with him, and
try to find his island, and carry him back to his friends-
Friday always looked very grave, and never seemed so
much pleased with this proposal as we expected him to be.
I could not account for this indifference, until I heard him
tell Captain Smith, that his father had died since he left
him, and on inquiry I found his reason for thinking so was
a dream he had had. He told us that very soon after
he lived with me, his father came to him in his sleep,
and told him he had left his people, for a place with the
great Spirit, and that I was now to be his father. This no-
tion of my adopted son's explained to me his early and
entire submission to my will, also the profound respect,
with which he had always treated me; and as his be-
lief in his father's death made him perfectly contented to
live with me, I would not attempt, at this time, to cor-
rect his ideas about dreams.
In one of these evening conversations, I was telling
Captain Smith of my experiment in magnetizing nee-
dles, when Friday placed upon the table the little com-
pass I had made out of a shaving-box, and we compar-
ed it with the large mariner's compass belonging to the
captain. Though my needle varied considerably from
his, he considered it a very valuable substitute for a pro-
per compass, and thought we might have undertaken our
voyage with it if we had none better. The action of
my needle was so feeble that it was always in danger of
being disturbed, and I rejoiced that our new friends had
brought with them a more perfect instrument. But
O how much we regretted the loss of the quadrant.
The maps and charts, saved from the wreck, were now
very valuable to us; and we spent many hours over them,
sometimes looking for places which were the scenes of
former adventures, sometimes tracing our own intended
path upon the ocean, sometimes endeavouring to discov-
er whereabouts in the Pacific Ocean we actually were.
We satisfied ourselves that the island was not laid down
in any of the charts. Captain Smith's knowledge of his
latitude and longitude, when he lost his ship, did not
avail him much, he had been so drifted about since in an
open boat on the ocean. We were therefore obliged to
content ourselves with knowing that we were not very
far from the tropic of Capricorn, and that South Ameri-
ca was to the east of us. That being the case, we de-
termined that our best plan, in sailing homewards, would
be to steer due east, till we made the land, and then
keep a southerly course, with the land in sight, till
we reached the Straits of Magellan; through which
Captain Smith thought it would be advisable to pass,
rather than attempt to double the cape, in our small ves-
sel. So far, we had no doubt of finding our way very
well without a quadrant; but to cross the ocean, and
sail so many thousand miles, without seeing land, and
without any instrument for ascertaining our latitude, was
a very fearful and almost desperate undertaking. I had
however so much confidence in the experience and good
judgment of Captain Smith, that I was entirely willing
to attempt it, with him and his excellent crew. My
former sufferings had made me very cautious, almost funid, and nothing would have induced me to go to sea with
an ignorant commander; but I hoped that in sailing with
so able and good a man as Captain Smith, I should
overcome my dread of a long voyage; and though the
want of a quadrant was a very serious thing, I never once
thought of abandoning our project on that account.
I found, on comparing dates with Captain Smith, that
I had lost one day; It must have been during my se-
vere illness, when I was delirious. The only wonder
was, that I had not lost more, for when I lived alone,
there was little to mark the time, and no one to set me
right if I mistook one day for another, or forgot my dai-
ly notch ou the tree.
My new friend wondered greatly at my patience and
perseverance in making those feather pictures of the
birds of the island, and in collecting so many insects,
for he had no taste for such things. The prospect of
returning to England made me doubly glad that I had
done them, and I only regretted that I had not used
some of my former leisure, in making a collection of
dried plants; but it was now too late to think of it.
I had my hands full of other business, and my mind was
too much occupied and excited by the hope of returning
home, to undertake a work of so much labor and patience
as making an herbarium.
Captain Smith admired beautiful scenery, though he
had no taste for natural history; and he was almost as
fond of Gordon Vale, with its fine cascade, and my pretty
arbour, as I was myself. He thought such scenes favor-
able to devotion, and we generally had our Sunday ser-
vices in that beautiful grove of pimento trees, near the
water-fall.
Nothing could be more correct than the conduct of
the sailors; and while they were rendering their willing
service to their beloved captain, he tried to make them
feel that it was my orders they were obeying. Intimate
as he and I were with each other, he never omitted
paying me the respectful attention which his notions of
discipline required, thus setting his men an example of
the subordination he expected from them.
The vessel on the stocks was to be a schooner of sixty
tons; this, after mature deliberation, we determined to
be large enough for safety, and small enough for the con-
venience of keeping near the shore, and sailing among
the islands of the Straits of Magellan. The timbers
of the wreck proved very useful; though larger than
necessary, they saved some labor, and made the vessel
very strong. The planks too saved a good deal of saw-
ing, which was tedious work; and the iron was literally
worth its weight in gold, for it was far more useful to us
than gold would have been, and we found plenty of it
about the hull of the Thames.
348 MATERIALS FOR AN OUTFIT.
Frid T and I often volunteered to do a day's work on
the sch >< ner, either in sawing planks or hewing timber;
but my services were rarely accepted ; for Captain Smith
considered my department of victualling the vessel, so
important, he wished me to give all my time and thoughts
to that; and they went on so well with the ship-building,
I feared he would be ready first. We were anxious to
get away some time in March, that we might have the
best season for going through the Straits.
I had nearly enough spars, and sails, and rigging, saved
from the Thames, to out-fit our schooner; and what was
wanting of rigging could be made, under Friday's direc-
tion, of the fibrous plants he used for cordage. My stock
of blocks, large and small, was extremely useful; and
Captain Smith was continually astonished at the variety
of valuable things, that I pulled out of my famous store-
house. The forge, too,was a most essential accommodation,
and one of the sailors was so good a blacksmith, that I gave
up the anvil and hammer to him. The load of iron that
I lost in the creek, when I was coming on shore for the
last time, from the wreck, was pulled up from the bed of
mud, where it had lain ever since; and though much
rusted on the outside, it proved very valuable.
When I asked Captain Smith,one night, how he expected
to make an anchor, large enough to hold the schooner, of
our stock of iron, which, though considerable, was all
wanted for other purposes; he said, "I mean to make
such an anchor as the Chinese always use, for that will
exactly suit our means, and answer every purpose. They
make theirs of some heavy wood, with only one fluke,
and that is shod with iron: sometimes they plate them
all over with iron, but shoeing will be enough for us."
He then asked me what we were to do for a cable, as
he had seen nothing but short pieces of one among my
stores. I told him there was a hauser, cut in three pieces
only, and asked him if he could do any thing with that.
He seemed to think a spliced cable was but a poor de-
pendance; but as we could do no better, and might not
need a cable at all during our whole voyage, he said he
A LAUNCH. 349
would try and join it securely; and perhaps two pieces
out of three would be long enough for the schooner.
As the work advanced, the sailors became more and
more animated. When the tall trees were felled, for
the masts of our vessel, they performed wonders in getting
them down from where they grew to the bay, and in
putting them in their places. Never was there a com-
munity in greater harmony, or more industrious; and by
the time the island yielded its best fruits and most abun-
dant harvest, we expected to be ready to load our vessel
and depart.
At last the hull was completed, the paint dry, the
lower masts in, and the time fixed for launching. It was
an important crisis with us all; if the captain felt all the
responsibility of a master builder, I felt as owners some-
times do, and the beatings of my heart showed iny in-
terest in the vessel's going off well.
As governor of the island, the captain insisted on my
christening her, as the term is; and as the sailors would
think they could not have a prosperous voyoge, in a ves-
sel whose bows were not sprinkled with some kind of
liquor, at the time of launching, we prepared a glass
bottle full of colored water, to throw at her, and agreed
to call her The Enterprise.
She went off beautifully the moment the dog-shores
were struck away, and I was so engrossed in watching her
motion that I had well nigh forgotten to throw the bottle;
but Captain Smith cried out, before it was too late," Chris-
ten her, christen her." I threw the bottle after her, hard
enough to dash it in pieces against her bows, calling out
at the same time, "The Enterprise, God bless her!"
The air then rang with the huzzas of our little band, and
the schooner floated beautifully on the waters of the bay.
We towed her round that aright to the creek, where we
knew it would be most convenient to rig her, and there
Captain Smith had her very carefully moored. This
precaution proved very necessary; it blew very fresh,
for an hour or two in the night, and my boat went adrift,
and knocked a hole in her bottom, which caused her to
30
S50 CLOTHING.
sink near the entrance of the creek. As the water was
shallow, it was well she did sink; we might otherwise have
lost her entirely, which would have disappointed my good
friend Smith of taking her to England, That he was deter-
mined to do, not only on account of the use she might be
to us on the voyage, but to show, as he said, what one pair
of hands could do. When I reminded him that she was
not all my work, that I found the parts ready fashioned,
he replied, " That's very true, but still I cannot help won-
dering how one pair of hands could put the pieces to-
gether; for my part, I never could do any thing single-
handed ; if I want to twist and double a piece of string, I
always ask some one to help me."
This speech of the captain's reminded me, that my
play fellows, when I was a boy, used to call me "Self-
help," because I always did such things alone; and thus
may the character of a man be traced in his childhood.
CHAPTER' XLIH.
CLOTHING OUTFIT OF THE SCHOONER — BAG OF DOLLAR!
EMBARKATION VOYAGE — LAND SEEN WILD PI8-
EONS—ALBATROSS— STRAITS OF MAGELLAN — PATA-
GONIA.
I WAS pleased to observe how every thing we possess-
ed turned to some account; even the straw hats, with
broad brims, which Friday made in the winter, by way
of practising the art, were valuable presents to the sail-
ors, when they were working in a hot sun. Captain
Smith, too, was very glad to wear a pair of my matting
trowsers, to save his, when engaged in hard labor. I
had kept one good suit of European clothes by me, to
wear in case of my ever returning to civilized society;
but as I lost the chief part of my wardrobe, when my
OUTFIT OF THE SCHOONER. 351
residence on the terrace was destroyed, I had but little
to spare to Captain Smith ; and all summer I had worn
matting trowsers and the non-descript garment, between a
shirt and jacket, before mentioned. Talking one day
about clothing, we recollected that our men would need
some warmer garments, than the thin ones they now
wore; for, after being accustomed to this climate, they
would feel the cold, in the higher latitudes, very much.
Accordingly, Friday and I began the necessary labors
for supplying this deficiency. He wove some thicker
and coarser matting than any we had before used ; of
this we made nine pair of trowsers, and as we had not
buttons enough for all, we put on strings. Besides this,
we made long pea-jackets of lama skins, with the fur on;
and I was amused to think what a spectacle we should
be, when we were all dressed in our furs. The very
sight of a vessel, navigated by such hairy monsters, would
be enough to keep off pirates.
While Friday and I were busy tailoring, for the good
of the whole community, the rigging of the schooner
prospered finely. At first, Captain Smith was always
tearing, that we should fall short of some indispensable
article; but as he never came to me for any thing, that
I did not immediately supply him with from my store-
house, or find a good substitute for, he learned at last to
have the greatest confidence in my resources.
As our preparations advanced, and the time of our
departure approached, I felt some regrets at the idea of
leaving for ever all my familiar haunts, in this beautiful
island ; but my heart never once misgave me, as to the
propriety and safety of the undertaking. I never felt
about it, as I did about the flag-staff, or I should have
been afraid to attempt it.
We had windows and berths in the cabin, and my
household furniture furnished it nicely. A convenient
pantry opened out of it, with some rough shelves, having
holes in them to hold our crockery, and nails to hang
things on. Just forward of the cabin, was a very com-
modious place, fitted up for my valued lamas, Jenny,
Neddy, and the kid; for whom I laid in a good stock
of their favorite plant. The forecastle was fitted up for
the sailors; in their berths, as we had only three mat-
trasses, we put clean, sweet hay, and I had just a blank-
et for each, and some rugs to spare. When the schoon-
er was completely rigged, but before her cabin was
done, Captain Smith made trial of her sailing. He
found that she minded her helm quick enough, and
would sail quite fast going large, or before the wind,
but close hauled, he had nothing to boast of; owing he
said, to her being rather short, ibr her breadth of beam.
Several cruises in her, round the island, gave us all great
confidence in the good schooner Enterprise, and made
us long to be on our grand voyage.
I had provisions enough headed up in casks, to half
load the schooner, when her water should be ON board;
but that we left to the last. I took care to caution
Captain Smith against shifting ballast; and it was well I
did, for though he had stones in the lowest part of the
vessel, he had not taken any measures to prevent their
rolling to one side.
A good sleeping-place for Neptune, and a perch for
Poll, were not forgotten, and in place of hen-coops, we
had pens for live terrapins, that we might not be wholly
without fresh meat. My partial friend, Smith, insisted
on taking with us several specimens of the ill-shaped
earthen-ware pipkins and lamps that I made myself, with
every thing else that he thought creditable to my inge-
nuity. Even our musical instruments, broad-swords,
clumsy chess-men, he determined to put on board ; and
if the vessel would have held the pyramid, store-house,
and cottage, he would have liked to take them with us
also. He could hardly bear to leave any thing behind.
Amidst all my active employments, I would find time
to make a short sketch of my life on the island, to be
deposited in the pyramid; so that if any thing happened
to us, or to the long narrative which I should take
with me, there might still be a memorial left of my ad-
ventures, which some chance or other might carry to
my friends.
BAG OF DOLLARS EMBARKATION. 353
Now that I was about to return to civilized life, the
money which had so long been useless to me, appeared
of some value. That found in Gordon Bay was buried
up in the caves, but the bag of dollars, brought from on
board the Thames, was in my possession, and amounted
to the value of twenty pounds sterling; enough to pay
our harbour dues, and to carry us to our friends after
we landed.
I felt some scruples as to the right I had to this morr-
ey; but Captain Smith told me it was honestly mine by
all the laws of England, and that I surely had as much
right to it, as to the provisions which I had not hesitated
to appropriate. To me, however, there appeared a dif-
ference between using the provisions and materials which
I was in such absolute need of, and which could not pos-
sibly benefit any one else if I did not take them, and
spending this money, which I might do without, and could
perhaps restore to its former owner; so I secretly re-
solved to spend as little of it as possible, to replace what-
ever I took as soon as I was able, and to inquire out the
owners of the Thames and return the whole to them.
We converted the forge into a fire-place for our ca-
boose,* and having made all the arrangements we could
think of, as necessary to our comfort in so long a voyage,
we lived on board several days, by way of finding out if
we had omitted any thing material, which could be sup-
plied before we left the island.
At last the day came for our final embarkation; and
having carried all our live stock on board, with every
thing movable that was of any value, we all assembled,
for the last time, within the walls of our cottage, and de-
routly implored the blessing of God on our undertaking.
My feelings of joy at deliverance, and sorrow at leav-
ing my old haunts, were so nearly balanced, that I was
perfectly calm ; but poor Friday wept aloud, and em-
braced the door-posts of the house and one of his favo-
rite trees. I exerted myself to soothe and comfort him;
* A cooking-place on the deck of a vessel.
30*
354 VOYAGE.
but his passionate grief would have its way for a while;
so I put my arm round him and supported his tottering
steps to the place of embarkation. We rowed towards
the schooner, in solemn silence, interrupted only by the
sobs of my poor boy.
At noon on the fifteenth of March, 17—, we set sail
from "Crusoe's Island," as the captain called it in his
log-book; and, with a fair wind, steered directly for the
main. We all felt very serious at undertaking so long
and perilous a voyage, in a small vessel so rudely built,
and without any quadrant; but the natural cheerfulness
of the sailors soon returned. Friday's grief was too vio-
lent to last, and after the first night spent at sea, we began
to feel at home and tolerably safe in our little bark.
The captain kept his reckoning as well as he could,
with such poor time-pieces as we had on board, for we
were anxious to form a correct estimate of the distance
of the island from the continent of South America. The
weather was delightful and the wind fair, for many days,
and we proceeded on our voyage as prosperously as we
could wish.
I never interfered in the command of the vessel,
though Captain Smith treated me as though I were Ad-
miral of a fleet, and he only captain of THEflag-ship.
We had our meals regularly cooked, by Tom Bow-
ling, and served in the cabin, in very good style; but I
chose to be steward myself, so far as dealing out the pro-
visions went. This I did with my own hand, every day,
giving strict injunctions to avoid waste, for we had none
to spare.
As six seamen were sufficient to navigate the schoon-
er, Friday and I acted as cabin passengers, only begging
the captain to call upon us, whenever we could be use-
ful. I employed myself, part of every day, in writing up
my narrative, which had been neglected during our busy
time of preparation for the voyage ; in teaching Friday,
and talking with him, to his heart's content. We enjoyed
all the pleasures of a sea voyage in fine weather; we
watched the porpoises and dolphins sporting around us;
LAND SEEN WILD PIGEONS. 355
saw the gorgeous piles of clouds that accompanied the
rising and setting of the sun; leaned, by the hour, over
the sides of the vessel, looking at the sparkles of liquid
fire that marked her way in a dark night, and which we
supposed to be occasioned by small luminous animals in
the water, that have the power of giving out their light,
as glow-worms do.
We had been ten days out, when land was seen from
the mast-head, and our hearts were made to throb, by
the welcome sound of "Land O " some minutes before
we could see it from the deck. Friday's observations
on this circumstance convinced me, that my lessons on
the shape of the earth had not been thrown away.
Never were any people made more happy, by the
sight of land, than we were; for it set our minds at rest,
as to our being nearly where we thought we were. We
stood in very near the coast, by way of assuring our-
selves, that it was the continent of South America that
we saw, and not some island merely. When this was
clearly ascertained, we altered our course, and proceed-
ed in a southerly direction. The schooner did not sail
quite so fast with a side, as a fair wind, but we had fine
weather and went along very well.
As we got farther south, we passed along the shores
of islands that Captain Smith recognised, and this was to
me, who had been so long in an unknown region, a very
great pleasure. We kept a sharp look out for gathering
storms, as we got into high latitudes; but, though we
frequently came into a sea, that showed the wind had
lately been very high there, we did not experience one
heavy blow, as sailors say.
As we approached the straits, we saw large flocks of
what are called Cape pigeons, flying in various direc-
tions. They looked just like our tame pigeons, and did
not seem at all shy. Sometimes they surrounded the ves-
sel in vast numbers, and fluttered about her in order to pick
up any eatable that might be thrown overboard. The
sailors threw out slush * to them, which floated on the
* The fat that swims on the surface of the water in boiling
meat.
ALBATROSS.
water, and they picked it all up directly. Thinking they
would be a valuable addition to our sea stores, I baited
some hooks with fat pork, and fastened them at intervals
to a line that I threw out over the stern. Captain Smith
showed me a much more effectual way of catching them.
He took several fathoms of fine twine, which the wind
would blow out nearly straight, over the lee quarter, in
the direction of these birds, and as they hovered over
the tempting slush, their wings would become entangled
in the string, and dozens of them were caught and drawn
on board by this simple contrivance. They were, how-
ever, so lean, and so fishy and strong in their flavor, that
we could not eat many of them.
The weather being uncommonly fine, the Albatross,
that magnificent bird of these high latitudes, flew very
near us. Once when we were becalmed, a noble, great
fellow lighted on the crosstrees, and a sailor crept
up very softly, and made the end of a rope fast to
one of his legs. The other end being fastened to the
vessel, when the Albatross tried to fly away, he was
pulled down to the deck by the sailors. I should have
liked very much to carry this monstrous bird alive to
England ; but he proved such an outrageous prisoner,
pecking at every one with his strong bill, braying like an
ass, and flapping his great wings, that I suffered the sail-
ors to put him to death. His spread wings measured
from tip to tip, twelve feet, and the length of his body
from his bill to his tail was five feet. His skin was so
thick, that I thought I could take it off, with only cutting
it open on the breast and throat; so I resolved to try
my hand at stuffing it, with such materials as I had on
board.
Friday and I worked away a great while, and at last
succeeded so far as to make the Albatross stand on his
wired legs, hold up his head, and look somewhat like a
live bird. The resemblance was sufficient to enable
Friday to play a trick on the sailors with it, which near-
ly robbed me of the fruit of my labors. When the hands
were at dinner in the forecastle, Friday stole softly to
STRAITS OF MAGELLAN PATAGONIA. 357
the hatchway, and opening the great wings of the alba-
tross dropped it down among them. Thinking it alive,
they were put into a grand stir, and attacked the dead
bird so roughly that its plumage was very much ruffled.
When they discovered their mistake, it made a fine laugh
among them; and Friday was so delighted with the suc-
cess of his joke, that I would not spoil his fun, by com-
plaining of its effect upon my stuffed specimen. He,
however, soon perceived that it was injured, and was so
sorry for it, that he blamed himself for his thoughtless-
ness, much more than I did.
We had been twenty-seven days at sea, when we made
the Straits of Magellan, and entered that labyrinth of
islands, rocks, and crooked coasts. The current set, as
Captain Smith had supposed, from west to east, which
favored our course, and the prevailing wind was fair.
On our right, was Terra del Fnego, or the land of fire, as
it is called, from the burning mountains which are on it;
and on our left was Patagonia, or the land of giants. I
had read accounts of these people being ten or twelve
feet high, and had of course a great curiosity to see them;
so Friday and I kept a sharp look-out for the giants on
one side, and the burning mountains on the other.
We were subject to sudden changes of wind, which
came in puffs off the land, and were occasionally baffled
by the eddies, among the islands; it was only by great
care, and constant sounding, that we avoided running
aground. Captain Smith and all his men were such ex-
cellent navigators, and so attentive to their business, that
I felt very easy about the working of the vessel, and only
desired to see and know all I could of the land on each
side of us.
At last the winds and waters favored our wishes;
Captain Smith was obliged to run in under the shore of
the main land, and we saw, through the spy-glass, that
we should pass very near a settlement of the natives. We
earnestly gazed at the huts, hoping to see some of their
inhabitants ; and presently half a dozen men were seen
approaching the beach opposite their village, but, to our
358 PATAGONIA.
great disappointment, they looked no bigger than our-
selves. Friday suggested that the persons we saw might
be only the young children of the giants; but I knew by
their looks and manner of moving, that they were full
grown men; and began to think that what I had read
about them was all a fable.
I had been very desirous of landing among the giants
and becoming acquainted with their mode of living; but
Captain Smith had dissuaded me from doing what would
retard our voyage, and might endanger our safety ; and
now that I had seen some of them, and was so disap-
pointed as to their size, I was quite cured of my desire
to go on shore.
The natives gazed at us, and beckoned us to them;
some appeared thrown into consternation at our approach;
others held up vegetables in their hands, and invited us
to land and get them. But we passed by, without stop-
ping ; and it was only owing to our being becalmed once,
between two islands, that we had any more intercourse
with them. On that occasion several of them swam off
to the schooner and came on board ; and then we had an
opportunity of correcting both our first and second esti-
mates of their height; though not so tall as some trav-
ellers represent, they must be taller than any other race
of men, judging by the seven who came on board the
Enterprise, and comparing them with Captain Smith,
whom we knew to be six feet high. One was a little
shorter than the captain, four were full his height, one
was a head taller, and one, head and shoulders above him.
This last might really be called a giant, for he was cer-
tainly above eight feet high. They were all well formed,
of a dark copper color, with straight, black hair, and had
their faces frightfully painted. We entertained our guests
as well as we could afford. But they ate so voraciously,
that they made great inroads on our stores; and they only
left off eating, because they had cleared the table of
every thing on it, even to a can of lamp oil, that happened
to be standing there; which they emptied without
ceremony, and with every appearance of relishing the
ROUGH WEATHER. 359
draught extremely. We dismissed these voracious vis-
itors with some trifling presents, and hoped to see no
more of them. As we made no head-way that night,
but continued becalmed among the islands, we had anoth-
er visit from them in the morning. They came now,
loaded with presents of vegetables, and some kind of ani-
mals recently killed, resembling hares, which were very
acceptable; but as we did not wish for any further in-
tercourse with these people, and made them no presents
in return, they soon left us. They wore feather caps,
and were dressed in skins with the fur on.
Soon after they went on shore, a breeze sprung up,
which carried us quickly out of sight of the Patagonian
village; and we never afterwards saw any of the race,
except at a great distance. Once we saw some on horse-
back, and either the horses were very small, or the riders
very large; but they were so far off that we could not
decide which. We were, however, well satisfied that
the common accounts which travellers have given of the
Patagonians were exaggerated.
So much for the land on our left; that on the right
disappointed us also. We saw no burning mountains,
and nothing but dreary, uncultivated wastes. Captain
Smith thinks the volcanoes are on the south side of the
island, and not visible from the straits.
CHAPTER XL1V.
ROUGH WEATHER — PORTUGUESE MAN OP WAR—CROSSING
THE LINE — CAPE VERDE ISLANDS — VOYAOB CONTINUED
— CONCLUSION.
WE were ten days going through the straits, and
a most anxious time it was to our good commander. He
hardly slept at all; and was on deck almost the whole
of every night. I offered to relieve him, but he said my
eyes were not sharp enough to keep a good look-out.
The habit of gazing at distant objects, enables sailors to
see much farther by day, and much more clearly by
night, than those who live on land. I was surprised at
the difference, when I compared my sight with Captain
Smith's.
After leaving the straits, we had some very rough
weather, which tried the strength of our vessel and rigging
to the utmost, fatigued the hands extremely, and made me
so sea-sick, I was good for nothing. The schooner proved
tight and strong in every part, but we found her a very
dull sailer, when close-hauled. It was well for us all,
that our commander was so experienced; for if he had
not known all about the trade winds, we should have at-
tempted to cross the ocean directly against them, which
would have been tedious indeed. He thought it best,
on every account, to coast along the eastern shore of
South America, till we approached the equator, and
then take advantage of the southwest wind, which blows
near the line, to waft us across those mighty waters,
make the coast of Africa, and thence visit the Cape
Verde Islands, or enter some friendly port, from which
we could take a fresh departure.
Two weeks after we left the straits, we got into the
trade winds, which in this part of our voyage were
favorable; and then we had such fine weather, that we
had nothing to do but to spread all our canvass, and
glide along over the waves without altering the position
of a sail, for days together. I was forcibly reminded by
this, of my voyage in the Santa Maria; but how differ-
ent were all my feelings now, from what they were then!
Full of extravagant hopes and wishes, I then desired
nothing so much as to see distant countries, and wander
far away from home. Now my roaming propensities
were all gone, and the first wish of my heart was to re-
turn to my happy home, never more to leave it.
During this part of our voyage, we frequently saw
vessels at a great distance, but were never near enough
to be spoken with, till we approached the most easterly
PORTUGUESE MAN OF WAR. 361
part of the coast of Brazil. Then we perceived a large
ship bearing down towards us, as if determined to speak
us. She had a Portuguese flag, and looked like a
man of war. We knew not whether we had most to
hope or fear, from an intercourse with these strangers;
but as it was unavoidable, we answered the summons to
declare what we were, by hoisting our English ensign.
She then made signals for us to lie to, and send a boat
on board. We obeyed, and Captain Smith went off in
his own boat, rowed by four men, determined to tell the
truth, whether he was believed or not.
In an hour he returned, looking so animated and
smiling, that on seeing his face through the spy-glass, I was relieved from all anxiety. Presently he was follow-
ed by a boat from the ship, and had just time enough to
tell me before it arrived, that he had been well received
and his story believed, and that the Portuguese com-
mander was coming on board to see the vessel and
equipment, and pay his compliments to me. Instructed
in the etiquette of the matter by my good friend Smith,
I received Captain Roderiguez, h s first Lieutenant, and
Secretary, as politely as I could. As Captain Smith
spoke Portuguese, he showed the strangers over the ves-
sel, and explained every thing to them; while I talked
with the Secretary and tried hard to understand his brok-
en English.
Some grapes and cocoa-nuts were set out on the cab-
in table, as the best refreshments we could offer our
guests ; and they seemed well pleased to taste any of
the productions of the unknown island. They all said
many civil things about our schooner and its outfit, and
Captain Roderiguez tried to say something very fine,
about the wonders I had done, when I lived alone, by
which I found my partial friend had been puffing me;
but it was plainly to be seen, that the great object of
their visit was to learn all they could about the posi-
tion of the island we had come from, with a view to find-
ing it, and taking possession of it.
We gave them all the information we could; and
31
362 CROSSING THE LINE.
when they asked what they could do for us in return,
besides supplying us with provisions, I asked for a quad-
rant; and was overjoyed to find that they had one which
they were willing to spare us. When the good old Portu-
guese commander returned on board his vessel, he sent
us a generous present of beef, pork, and bread, besides
small stores. Wine and spirits Captain Smith declined,
but gladly accepted a few casks of water, and went him-
self for the quadrant, which he received with the warm-
est acknowledgments.
This happy rencounter put us all in the finest spirits,
and we proceeded on our voyage now in a more direct
course. We were no longer afraid of losing ourselves,
nor obliged to grope along in sight of land. With a
compass and quadrant, we could cross the ocean in any
direction, and take the shortest course to old England.
When we crossed the line, as it is called, I found the
sailors had been trying to play off some of their jokes
upon Friday. They told him we were coming to a
part of the ocean, over which a line was stretched, that
must be cut before we could pass; and they tried to
persuade him to sit on the bowsprit with a hatchet in his
hand, ready to divide the rope. As Friday had heard
so many things from me, that were equally strange, but
which he had no doubt were true, he might have be-
lieved this, if when he inquired what line it was, one of
them had not called it the equinoctial line. That unde-
ceived him at once, for I had fully explained to him,
that that was an imaginary line only ; so with all simplici-
ty he began explaining it to the sailors, never suspecting
that their account of it was meant for a trick upon him.
Disappointed as they were of their fun, they were will-
ing to praise Friday's sagacity, and to wonder at his
knowledge.
Captain Smith told us, he never suffered those coarse
tricks to be played on board his vessel, which are some-
times practised in crossing the line; for when he first
went to sea, he was himself so inhumanly treated, on such
an occasion, that he resolved to put a stop to it, when-
CAPE VERDE ISLANDS. 363
ever he should be commander. Sailors are so fond of
frightening and tormenting all those who cross the line
for the first time, that it is very difficult to prevent it;
and Smith said the only way was to make it a matter of
agreement when the crew were shipped.
The hot weather of the low latitudes spoiled most of
our vegetables and fresh provisions, and our hands began
to droop on their salt fare; so Captain Smith thought
it would be advisable to touch at the Cape Verde Isl-
ands. He had frequently been there, was well acquaint-
ed with the authorities, gnd knew nothing would refresh
his lads more than some of the fine vegetables and de-
licious fruits of those islands.
The day that we expected to make St. Jago, it did
not come in sight, and we listened in vain for that thril-
ling sound of " Land O!" But at dawn, the next morn-
ing, the wished for speck appeared in the horizon, and
was announced to us from the mast-head. Favorable
breezes wafted us towards the group of isles, and in due
time we dropped our Chinese anchor in a harbour of
San Jago, opposite an ill built village, which is called
the city of Puerto Praya.
This first approach to the haunts of civilized man, after
my long banishment, was very overpowering to my feel-
ings. At Captain Smith's request, I had already taken
off my beard, as close as scissors would cut it; and now
he wished me to shave and dress myself in my European
suit of clothes, and go ashore with him. So we both
made the best toilette we could ; and leaving Friday and
two veteran sailors on board, we were pulled ashore in
the captain's boat by the rest of his crew.
As we had no regular ship's papers or custom-house
clearance to show, we were obliged to tell our story ; and
it so interested all who heard it, that we were made wel-
come to whatever we wanted. What we were most
anxious to get, was almost as scarce with them as with
us; and that was good water. These islands are sub-
ject to excessive droughts between their periodical
rains, and what water they have is only from ponds and
wells.
Our remarkable situation obtained for us the privilege
of filling several water-casks, which was the greatest
favor the suffering inhabitants of this parched soil
could bestow. The boat-load of fine vegetables and
fruits which they gave us was of little comparative value
with them. They brought us large supplies of rice, maize,
salt, sweet potatoes, figs, water-melons, bananas, pa-
paws, grapes, and the finest oranges and lemons that I
ever saw any where.
The people, though originally Portuguese, have be-
come very much like Africans, And I thought that some
of the men in authority were negroes. Numbers came
on board our little vessel, to see what a few hands had
accomplished, on a desert island ; every hour the inter-
est seemed to increase, the wonder to grow, and we soon
saw that we should be subject to very troublesome visi-
tors if we staid through another day. Boats were throng-
ing round our vessel till a late hour in the evening; and
though every one brought a contribution of fruit or vege-
tables, we were obliged to watch very closely to prevent
their paying themselves for these pretended presents,
with something we could ill spare.
When, therefore, we were left alone, and most of the lights in the city were extinguished, we took our depar-
ture from St. Jago, thankful for the kind treatment we
had received, but glad to escape from further intercourse
with such an ignorant and miserable people. Captain
Smith told me I must not judge of the whole island by
Puerto Praya; that the ancient capital St. Jago and
Ribeira Grande, where the Portuguese Governor resides,
are much better built, and contain some large houses.
We now continued our voyage with fresh spirit, and
earnestly hoped that the next land we made might be the
coast of England. I was surprised that Captain Smith
did not keep a more northerly course after leaving the
Cape Verde Islands ; but he said he wished to avoid the
immense fields of sea-weed which extend over thousands
of square leagues to the north and northwest of those isl-
ands. We had a great variety of weather, and met with
CONCLUSION. 365
some accidents, such as carrying away a small spar and
splitting a sail to pieces; but with none which the presence
of mind of Captain Smith, the activity of his sailors, and
the resources of the vessel could not repair.
We were spoken several times, but not by any one
having authority to make us declare what we were, and
general answers sufficed.
On this blessed day, the 10th of August, we have made
the land! It is the coast of England that we see!
We hope to be up with the Scilly light before sun-set.
My adventures are, I trust, ended ; and the last voyage I
ever wish to make, is nearly completed. I therefore
hasten to finish this narrative, before I am too much agi-
tated by a nearer approach to my home, or too much
occupied by new scenes, to be able to write.
Remembering always the uncertainty of life, and that
I might not live to complete my homeward voyage, I
have continued my narrative to the present time; and if
any thing should occur to prevent my reaching home at
last, I beg my dear parents to accept this manuscript
from the hand of
their unalterably attached son,
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
POSTSCRIPT.
SINCE closing the foregoing narrative, I have had the
inexpressible happiness of embracing my beloved parents,
returning to the same endeared home that I had so often
thought of in my exile, and finding all my family alive.
My long banishment from the busy scenes of civilized
life, together with the agitating hopes and fears which
filled my mind as I approached my native place, render-
ed me very unfit to travel among strangers; therefore we
agreed that Hull should be the first port we would make.
Our arrival there created a great sensation. The story of
the strange-looking schooner, and her still more extraor-
dinary passengers, spread over the city with astonishing
rapidity; and I should have become a public gazing-stock,
if Captain Smith had not left one of his trusty fellows in
command of the vessel, and taken me and Friday off
post-haste to York. There he left us, in a private
apartment of an hotel, while he kindly undertook to pre-
pare my parents for the return of a son, whom they had
long since mourned as dead.
He began by communicating to them vague rumors
of my being alive, in some distant country; and by de-
grees he became more particular in his account, until he
told them, I was probably on my way home now. Be-
fore he had told the whole, my mother guessed the truth;
and, almost frantic with joy, she would have run out in
the streets to look for me, but was prevented by my fath-
er, who endeavoured to calm her feelings, while the good
captain returned to the hotel for me.
I almost flew to the well remembered house; I enter-
ed the green parlour, and clasped my mother in my arms!
The scene which followed I cannot attempt to describe.
I was so altered that my parents could not have re-
cognised me ; and had my mother stopped to look at me,
she would probably have hesitated to take me in her
arms, as her lost son. Our feelings of affection for each
other were, however, unaltered; and she felt the bond,
even while she looked in vain for the image, which she
had cherished in her memory as mine.
If I was altered, so were my parents. They both
looked twenty years older than when I parted from them.
I could not doubt that it was grief for my untimely fate,
which had furrowed the cheek of my mother, and silver-
ed the head of my father; and I wept bitter tears of sor-
row and contrition for the suffering I had occasioned
them.
Many agitating meetings followed with other members
of my family; and for many days I was constantly re-
ceiving visits, from all who had the least claim to an ac-
quaintance with the family.
Friday was early introduced to my father and moth-
er, as the valued partner and soother of my exile; and
when Captain Smith brought my live-stock home and a
cart-load of my baggage, our yard was thronged from
morning till night; so eager were people to see what-
ever came from the unknown island.
While this daily exhibition was going on, we had
large family meetings at home, every evening, to hear
my narrative read ; and the interest they all took in it,
far exceeded my expectations, and richly rewarded me
for all the pains it had cost me.
It was presently known in the city, that I had a writ-
ten account of my adventures, and we had numerous ur-
gent requests to lend it for perusal ; but my father said
it would soon be worn out and rendered illegible, if it
passed through the hands of half the persons who wish-
ed for it.
After some family discussion of the matter, it was de-
termined that we had better print my narrative at once.
One of my brothers advised its being put into some
scholar's hand, to be corrected and re-written; but my
mother was very desirous that it should be published
just as it was, and on consulting a learned friend his
advice agreed with her wishes. Accordingly my simple
story is lo be sent to press, accompanied by an ac-
count of my childhood, furnished by a relation of my
mother, and some sketches of certain scenes, which
happened to strike the fancy of one of my hearers.
If this description of my sufferings and consolations
serve to impress the minds of its readers with the value
of a good education, the importance of early religious
impressions, and the power we all possess of so turning
our hearts to God, as to become reconciled to the worst
misfortunes, I shall not regret that I have consented to
its publication.
THE END.
CHILDRE N'S
ROBINSON CRUSOE;
ORTHE
REMARKABLE ADVENTURES
OF AN ENGLISHMAN,
WHO LIVED FIVE YEARSON AN UNKNOWN AND UNINHABITED
ISLAND OFTHE PACIFIC OCEAN.
BY A LADY.
I am monarch of all I survey,
My right there is none to dispute;
From the centre all round to the sea,
I am lord of the fowl and the brute.
COWPER.
EMBELLISHED WITH CUT S.
•
BOSTON:
HILLIARD, GRAY, LITTLE, AND WILKINS.
1830.
BE IT REMEMBERED, That on the eleventh day of December
A. D. 1830, in the fifty fifth year of the Independence of the United
States of America, Hilliard, Gray, Little, and Wilkins, of the said
District, have deposited in this office the title of a book, the right
whereof they claim as proprietors, in the words following, to wit:
"The Children's Robinson Crusoe; or the Remarkable Adventures
of an Englishman, who lived Five Years on an Unknown and Uninhab-
ited Island in the Pacific Ocean. By a Lady.
I am monarch of all I survey,
My right there is none to dispute;
From the centre all rr.und to the sea,
I am lord of the fowl and the brute.
Cowper.
Embellished with Cuts."
In conformity to the act of the Congress of the United States,
entitled, "An Act for the encouragement of learning, by'securing the
copies of maps, charts, and books, to the authors and proprietors of
such copies, during the times therein mentioned "; and also to an act
entitled, " An Act supplementary to an Act, entitled,' An Act for the
encouragement of learning, by securing the copies of maps, charts,
and books to the authors and proprietors of such copies, during the
times therein mentioned'; and extending the benefits thereof to the
arts of designing, engraving, and etching historical and other prints."
JNO. W. DAVIS,
Clerk of the District of Maaiachusetts.
CAMBRIDGE:
PRIJCTED BY E. W. METCALF AND CO.
IT will very naturally be asked, why another is added
to the numerous stories, already in circulation, founded
on De Foe's interesting fiction, and purporting to be
abridgments of it, for the use of children, or variations
of the story, intended to render it more instructive. To
this, it may be replied, that the abridgments lose much
of the spirit and graphic manner of the original, while
they retain certain parts, that are ill adapted to the perusal
of children of the present day. The stories which vary
materially from the original tale, may have a merit of
their own; but they have not the distinguishing features of
De Foe's narrative, while they far exceed his in the
exhibition of the marvellous and improbable. To those
who love and respect the minds of children as they ought
to be loved and respected, the impropriety of so exciting
them must be apparent.
These objections to the various new "Robinson Cru-
soes" in circulation, determine some parents to put the
original work into the hands of their children; and re-
membering only the delight with which they pored over
its pages in their own childhood, they forget how much
was skipped over as unintelligible in those juvenile read-
ings, and are not aware of its want of adaptation to the
state of education at the present day.
The great merit of De Foe's work is its natural-
ness; it seems to be exactly what it purports to be,
the narrative of a profane, ill-educated, run-away appren-
tice of the seventeenth century ; and with perfect con-
sistency of character even his better feelings have a
stamp of vulgarity and superstition. But can such a
tale, though perfect in itself, be suited to children who
have been carefully guarded from all profaneness, vulgar-
ity, and superstition 1 It was written for grown persons,
particularly that class to which the hero is supposed to be-
long; and the very skilful manner in which it was adapted
to them, makes it unfit for the perusal of children. There
is necessarily much in it which they cannot comprehend,
and much that a judicious parent would hope they
might pass over without understanding; yet the story is
so fascinating, that the book is constantly read by chil-
dren, with the most intense interest; and Robinson Cru-
soe, with all his faults, his disobedience to his parents, and
his inordinate love of adventure, becomes their favorite and
admired hero.
The best modern writers for children have considered
it important, that characters which excite in them a
deep interest, should be represented as models of those
qualities which we wish them to admire and cultivate;
and it occurred to the writer of the following story, that
the fascination of De Foe's hero might be enlisted on the
side of industry, perseverance, resignation to the will of
God, and numerous other good qualities of which he
might be supposed an example.
With this view, the Children's Robinson Crusoe is here
represented as an amiable and well educated youth, early
trained to habits of observation and reflection, and capa-
ble of pure and exalted feelings of religion; a hero, in
short, whom children may safely love and admire, yet not
faultless, or they could not sympathize with him. In
consequence of the mismanagement of his own mind, he
grows up with a strong bias for a sailor's life, which is
the occasion of all his misfortunes, whilst his good quali-
ties alleviate his sufferings under them.
He goes to sea with the consent, though against the
wishes, of his parents; and meets, immediately, with disas-
ters, which occasion his being cast ashore on a desert
island. There his sufferings cure him of all his wandering
propensities; and he feels nothing but regret at having
left his comfortable home, and contrition for having acted
contrary to the inclination of his parents. All the pros-
perous voyages and bold enterprises, which in the original
tale precede Robinson Crusoe's life on the island, and
which are calculated to encourage a love of roaming over
the world, are here purposely omitted; and as this story
closes with the hero's return to England, after spending
five years in solitude, there is no danger of its fostering,
in the reader, any spirit of adventure, like that which De
Foe's narrative has been known to infuse.
As much information about domestic arts as could well
be interwoven with the story, has been introduced ; but
without attempting to make the book a child's Encyclopae-
dia, which would be apt to be occasionally consulted rath-
er than read. The hero is here left for a while destitute
of all those materials, which the original Robinson
Crusoe obtained from the vessel he was wrecked in, with
a view of making the young reader fully sensible of the
value of iron, of edgctools, and of all those means which
civilized life furnishes. This has been done in some of
the abridgments, already before the public; but the ob-
6
jection to them is, that Robinson Crusoe is made to per-
form impossibilities, with only shells and stones for tools.
Some of the ingenious contrivances, however, which those
works contain, have been adopted in this ; though most
of the incidents are either borrowed from the old story,
or are entirely new.
The Life and Adventures of Alexander Selkirk,
lately published from authentic sources, has furnished
some anecdotes; and from that work the author has
taken her description of the beautiful scenery and
abundant productions of her unknown island. As goats
were carried by the Spaniards, from South America to
the island of Juan Fernandez, and there increased to a
large flock, it has been considered allowable to place la-
mas, in the same way, on this supposed island of the
Pacific; and as a more interesting and important class of
animals, they were preferred. Robinson's fall from a preci-
pice, with a lama under him, is copied from the account
of a similar accident that happened to Alexander Selkirk
with a goat, which was thought to have saved his life by
breaking the fall.
The man Friday, of the Children's Robinson Crusoe
is supposed to be a native of the Sandwich Islands, which
were discovered about the time of the date of this story.
Their inhabitants being of a mild, affectionate, and tracta-
ble nature, it was thought they might furnish a very teacha-
ble and interesting Friday; and for the representations
here given of the manners and customs of that people, the
writer has the authority of an enlightened traveller, who
has been much among them, and to whom she is indebt-
ed for many valuable hints, which she begs leave grate-
fully to acknowledge.
The religious sentiments here inculcated are not those
of any particular creed; nothing has been admitted
which is not common to all Christians; those simple
views of love to God and constant dependence upon him,
which were most likely to be suggested by the circum-
stances of Robinson Crusoe's situation, and which
children can best understand and sympathize with, are all
that the writer has attempted, leaving to parents the sa-
cred charge of directing the minds of their offspring to
particular doctrines.
Notwithstanding the reasons here given for this under-
taking, the author is very sensible that, in its execution, it
falls far short of what such a book might be. She thinks
with Rousseau," that it might be made a great in-
strument in the education of children, leading their
minds to a philosophical investigation of man's social na-
ture, and introducing them to trains of thought, which
no other story could so well suggest; and the only con-
siderations, which induce the writer of this volume to of-
* "Puisqu'il nous faut absolument des livres, il en existe un qui
foumit, a mon gré, le plus heureux, traite d'education naturelle. Ce
livre sera le premier que lira mon Emile : seul il compose™ durant
long-temps toute sa bibliotheque, et il y tiendra toujours une place
distinguce. 11 sera le texte auquel tons nos entretiens sur les sciences
naturelles ne serviront que de comrnentaires. 11 servira d'epreuve
durant nos piogres a Tetat de notre ju^einent, et taut que notre gout
ne sera pas gate, sa lecture nous plaira toujours. Quel est done ce
merveilleux here ? Est-ce Aiistote, est-ce Pline, est-ce Buffon?
Nonl c-est Robinson Crusoe.
"Robinson Crusoe dans son isle, seul, depourvu de 1'assistance de
ses semblables et des instrumens de tous les arts, pourvoyant cepen-
tlunl a sa subsistance, a sa conservation, et se procurant meme une
sorte de bien-etre ; voila un objet interessant pour tout age, et qu'on
a mille nioyens de rendre agreable aux enfans.
"Ce roman, deharrasse de tout son fatras, commencant au naufrage
de Robinson pres de son isle, et linissant a 1'ariivee du vaisseau qui
vicnt 1'en tirer, fera tout a la fois 1'ainusemeut et I'instruction d'Emile
durant 1'epoque dont il est ici question."
fer her imperfect attempt to the public, are founded in
the belief, that it comes nearer what is wanted, than those
which have preceded it, that its influence will be favora-
ble to the cause of truth, social order, and religion,
and that it contains nothing incompatible with that
love and respect for childhood, in which it was writ-
ten, and with which it is now commended to the careful
and anxious parent, who may be seeking among the load-
ed counters of the children's bookseller, a safe and use-
ful book.
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
CHAPTER I.
CHILDHOOD OF ROBINSON CRUSOE.
ROBINSON CRUSOE was the youngest son of a respect-
able broker in the city of York. His parents took great
pains with his education, and not only sent him to the
best schools in York, but supplied him with entertain-
ing and instructive books to read at home; and as his
brothers were all much older than himself, and there
were no playmates for him in the family, he became
more studious than most boys of his age. He loved to
hear grown persons talk, and was the constant compan-
ion of his father when business called him from home.
Mr. Crusoe took pleasure in answering his little son's
numerous questions as to how things were made; he
often took him to see the different tradesmen at their
work and explain to him what they were doing; and
as Robinson was not one of those giddy children who
like to see every thing but never examine any thing at-
tentively, he learned to understand the common arts of
life pretty well.
His father gave him a set of carpenter's tools and a
little room for a workshop, and when he was nine years
1
old he could make boxes, and stools, and benches; and
though the boxes were not always very neatly dove-
tailed together, and sometimes one leg of a stool would
be shorter than the rest, his parents encouraged him to
persevere, and told him he would do better every time
he tried. In basket-making he was very successful; and
from an old blind man, who lived near his father's house
and maintained himself by weaving baskets and mats,
Robinson learned the art. He used to do many kind
things for the blind man, who in return taught him to
make basket-work almost as neat as his own ; and he not
only supplied his mother's house with baskets, but fre-
quently made presents of them to his friends.
When he was old enough to work in a garden, his
father gave him a small piece of ground to manage as
he pleased; he had a spade, rake, hoe, and wheel-
barrow of the right size for him to work with conven-
iently; and his great ambition used to be to have a dish
of pease out of his little garden, before there were any fit
for use in his father's large one.
Robinson was very fond of studying natural history,
and whenever there was a show of wild beasts in the
city, his father allowed him to go and see them as
often as he pleased; he would examine each animal
separately, and read the account of it in some book
of natural history; and sometimes he would take the
book with him, and spend hours in reading and compar-
ing the description and the plates with the real animal.
In this way he became acquainted with each specimen,
and never confounded tigers, panthers, and leopards
all together, as some children do.
Robinson took great pleasure in reading about the
manners and customs of different countries; and every
book of voyages and travels that he could get hold of,
he read through with delight. When he grew older, his
fondness for this kind of reading increased; and as he
could not understand all the hardships and sufferings
which travellers and navigators are obliged to bear,
he thought their life must be the pleasantest in the world.
About this time, there was a great deal said of cir-
cumnavigating the globe; some very enterprising voy-
ages were made; the newspapers and journals were
full of accounts of newly found islands in the Pacific
ocean; many false stories were circulated about coun-
tries recently discovered and their marvellous produc-
tions; and Robinson's head was filled with these things.
Much was then believed which has since been contra-
dicted, and voyages of discovery were the fashion of the
day.
When Robinson was fifteen years old, his father told
him he must now make choice of some business that he
would like to follow, and learn to provide for himself, as
his elder brothers had done. Robinson's parents had
often talked about this to their son, and urged him to
make up his mind as to what he would prefer; but
he had always objected to every employment they
had proposed, not because he was idle and wished
to do nothing, but because his great desire to travel and
see different countries made him wish above all things
to be a sailor and go to sea.
When he told his parents what his choice was, they
were very much astonished as well as grieved ; and they
tried to convince him that he had chosen an occupa-
tion that he was not fit for. They explained to him
the great hardships and privations of a sailor's life,
told him he must work night and day, be exposed to
storms, often be in wet clothes for days together, and
sometimes not have enough to eat; they reminded
him too, that vessels were often wrecked, and that he
might be drowned, or obliged to go on shore among
savages.
All his parents said, against a sailor's life, made no
impression upon Robinson's mind, because it was filled
with his own false notions about the pleasures of going
to sea. His father told him, he would teach him to be a
broker, and as soon as he was old enough, he would take
him into partnership; and he explained to him all the
advantages of such a business, and showed him so clearly
what an easy and pleasant life he might lead in the city
of York, that if Robinson had not, for a longtime before,
set his heart on being a sailor, he would certainly have
made up his mind at once, to take his father's advice
and remain with him. But Robinson had read so many
accounts of voyages and different countries, that he
longed to make a voyage himself, and to see some
other country besides England; and, though he would
not think of going to sea without the consent of his
parents, he did not feel willing to give it up and stay
quietly on shore.
After many long conversations on the subject, his
parents determined that, as they could not convince him,
he had better stay at home, they would not oblige him
to do so out of mere obedience to their will.
When Mr. Crusoe told his son their determination, he
added, "Now, Robinson, if you go to sea, it must be
as a common sailor, and you must work your way up, as
well as you can; for they only make good captains,
'who come in over the bows,' which is the sailor's phrase
for beginning as a common hand." To this Robinson
readily agreed, and thanked his parents very heartily for
allowing him to follow the strong inclination he felt to be
a sailor; and from that time, he could talk and think of
nothing else, but the new life he was going to lead.
Every evening after supper, he would get a map of the
world that he had won as a prize at school, and spread
it on the table, and trace upon it the various voyages that
he wished to make; whilst his father would smile at his
extravagant wishes, and remind him that he made none
but fair weather voyages on that paper, but his real voy-
ages would be full of difficulties and dangers that he
never thought of now; and then his mother would sigh
and wipe away the tears that stood in her eyes, and tell
him how much she wished he could be contented to
remain on dry land, and give up his foolish fancy for
sailing all over the world. When she talked in this
way, it made Robinson, who loved his mother dearly,
feel very unhappy, and he would slip away to bed, as
soon as he could, to get rid of his unpleasant feelings;
and when he fell asleep, he was sure to dream of what
filled his thoughts all day. The voyages he made in
his sleep were all prosperous, and he would often sail
round the world, and see every curious thing that he
remembered to have read about, in the course of one
night; and then he would awake in the morning, more
eager than ever to begin that life which he expected to
find as agreeable in reality, as it was in his dreams.
Poor Robinson! If he could have known what would
afterwards happen to him, how glad he would have been
to stay at home and follow any business, rather than go
to sea and suffer all that befell him.
His father told him he must remain at school one year
longer and learn navigation, and then if he continued of
the same mind, he would fit him out and send him to
sea, as a common hand, with the best captain, and in the
best ship, he could find in Hull.
As Robinson knew how very useful it would be to
him to learn to navigate a vessel, and that without it he
could never rise to be a mate or master of a ship, he ap-
plied himself very industriously to his new studies ; in his
leisure hours, he made a complete model of a ship, like
the one he had seen, and rigged it, by which he learnt
how a real ship is rigged; and a boy of his acquaintance,
who had been at sea, helped him, and told him the name
of every part. Robinson's parents hoped that his fond-
ness for going to sea would be lessened, by being with
the boy who taught him to rig his model; for that youth
had been one voyage, and disliked it so much that he
preferred doing any thing on land, to going again on the
water. But Robinson, like many other foolish people,
did not like, when he had fixed his heart upon a thing,
to hear any body speak against it; and therefore, instead
of getting all the information he could from his young
friend, and so correcting some of his own wrong notions,
he begged him never to say a word against a sailor's life,
for a sailor he was determined to be, and he was sure
he should like it, if no one else did. Now if Robinson
1*
had been a little more reasonable and less wilful, he
would have wished to hear all that could be said against
his favorite plan, as well as for it, before he made up his
mind; but like a silly boy, he made up his mind first,
and then would not listen to any thing that could be said
against it.
During the year that Robinson was studying naviga-
tion, a course of lectures was given in the city, on Nat-
ural Philosophy, which his father wished him to attend;
but Robinson said, it would be of no use to a sailor to
know such things, and he would rather not. His
father, however, was kind enough to explain to him
how all sorts of knowledge might be useful to a sailor,
told him that the more he knew, the more pleas-
ure and information he would get from seeing foreign
countries, and showed him that in all the common
things that we do every day, he would find it useful to
know just what those lectures would teach him; so he
advised Robinson to try and fix his attention upon them
and learn all he could. Robinson promised he would,
and regularly attended the lectures; how much he
learned from them will be seen in the course of his
story.
At length the time came for Robinson to go to sea,
and his kind parents fitted him out with all the comforts
and conveniences that a sailor could desire. He had a
very nice chest made to hold his clothes, with a little
box fixed inside of it, called a till, to hold his money
and any very small things that he might have; his
mother had plenty of checked and baize shirts made for
him, besides jackets and trowsers such as sailors wear;
and his father gave him a set of maps and charts, a
quadrant and compass, and a good silver watch. A
little girl of his acquaintance made a large thread-case
for him, and filled it with such needles and thread as
would be most useful to him; and when she gave it to
him, she said, "As you will go away from all the
friends who would be glad to mend your clothes for
you, here is something to help you to do it for yourself."
Robinson thanked her for her useful present, and told
her, he thought it would be fine fun to turn seamstress,
when he had nothing better to do. "There I shall sit,"
said he, " on the clean, white deck of the vessel, and sew
up the holes in my stockings, whilst the ship is gliding
over the beautiful blue water, and the dolphins are sport-
ing round her bows, and the sea-birds are making circles
in the air, and the sailors are singing songs or telling
stories around me. O how happy I shall be!" "Ah!"
said the little girl, "just so my poor brother Edward
thought, when he set his heart upon being a soldier; no-
body could make him believe what a hard life a sol-
dier's is ; he used to talk just as you do, Robinson, about
the pleasures he expected to find in it; but he soon per-
ceived his mistake, poor fellow, when he was sick of a
fever, among strangers, and had no one to care any thing
about him; and now that he has been shut up for years
in a dismal prison, I dare say he thinks what a fool he
was, to fancy a soldier's life must be a pleasant one.
So it will be with you, Robinson; you will find out
your mistake when it is too late." "I hope not, Mary,"
said Robinson, as he turned away from her, feeling
pretty serious at what she had said, but not wishing to
show it.
Many voyages were talked of for Robinson, and he
and his father made several visits to Kingston, upon the
river Hull, a port of great commerce, thirty-six miles
from York. The foreign trade of that place is chiefly
up the Baltic, and Robinson's father advised him to go
there for his first voyage. But he did not like so short a
one as that; his mind was full of Lord Anson's sail-
ing round the world, and nothing would satisfy him but
crossing some great ocean. So at last his father found a
vessel that was going to the North American Colonies,
the captain of which he knew something of, and consid-
ered a fit person for his son to sail with; and Robinson
was delighted with the idea of being shipped as a sailor
on board the Neptune, a fine ship of three hundred tons'
burthen.
Robinson had frequently been on board vessels; but
he generally staid on the deck, or went into the cabin,
and he had never thought much of the accommodations
he should have as a common sailor, till his father took
him into the forecastle* of the Neptune, and showed him
the damp, narrow, dark berthjf that would be his bed,
telling him that one of them served for two sailors, as half
the crew were always on deck, and that when he took his
turn to watch on the deck, one of the men who had been
watching would take the berth he left. He told him
also, that his chest would be the only seat he would
have, that there never was any more light in the fore-
castle, than what came down the hatchway,^ and that
he would have no table set for his meals, but must sit on
his chest, and eat out of a small wooden tub, called a
kid, with an iron spoon, or off a hard biscuit for a plate,
with his jack-knife, like all the rest of the sailors; and
then he desired Robinson to look at the rough set of
men he would be obliged to live with, and consider
whether he would be the happier for exchanging his
comfortable home for such a place as that. Robinson
looked very grave, and his father told him, it was not at
all too late to change his mind, that all his friends
would rejoice to have him stay on shore, and he
might now give up going to sea entirely. Robinson
colored and hesitated, and then asked his father, if he
could think well of a person who should give up a great
object, because of some bodily inconvenience, add-
ing, "I thought you admired men who bore hardships
well." "So I do," replied his father, " when hardships
cannot be avoided; if I was very poor, and could not
provide for you in any other way, but by making a
sailor of you, I should like to see you undertake it cour-
* An apartment under the most forward part of the deck,
where sailors eat and sleep.
t A boxed-up shelf at the side of the vessel, in which bed-
ding is put, and people sleep.
t A hole in the deck by which sailors pass in and out of the
forecastle.
ageously, and make the best of every thing; but when
there is no need of your going to sea, when you can be
better provided for in many other ways, there is no merit
in running into difficulties to see how well you can bear
them. What object can you have in going to sea, that
can make you prefer this ship to your own comfortable
home?"
"O dear father! pray don't say a word more against
it. I have an object; I want to see the world; I have
set my heart upon it, ever since I was ten years old ; and
now I cannot give it up, indeed I cannot, though I own,
I never thought of sleeping in such a dismal hole as
this." "I dare say not," said his father; "and you will
meet with many more dismal things in a sailor's life, that
you never thought of; but since nothing can convince you
of your folly, you must go and find it out for yourself."
So saying, he turned away from Robinson, and went
up on deck to tell the captain that his son would go
with him, and ask what day he must join the vessel.
Mr. Crusoe and his son then returned to York, and as
Robinson appeared as cheerful as usual, and continued
his preparations for going, his father lost all hope of his
changing his mind, though he frequently observed to
him that it was not too late to give up his voyage, if he
thought better of it.
Robinson persevered in his resolution to see the world,
and his friends took a sorrowful leave of him on the
10th of June, 17—. He embarked at Hull, on board
the good ship Neptune, Captain Gordon, bound to
Virginia; but as the vessel and crew were not heard of
after they left the Downs, they were all given up for
lost, and Robinson Crusoe was mourned as dead by his
affectionate family.
[The preceding account of Robinson Crusoe's child-
hood is furnished by a friend of his mother, as an intro-
duction to his own narrative written during his residence
on a desert island.]
REASONS FOR WRITING—LEAVING HOME — SEA-SICKNESS
— A SQUALL,— A GALE OF WIND—LOSS OF THE NEP-
TUNE.
I, ROBINSON CRUSOE, mariner, of the city of York,
England, being cast away on this desert island, on the
14tli of October, 17—; and, having spent two years
here in perfect solitude, have resolved to write down all
I can remember of my past history, from the time I
quitted my native land to the present, and then continue
my narrative, as long as I remain in this uninhabited
spot.
It has pleased Providence to send me some allevia-
tion of my difficulties, in the stores and tools furnished
by a wreck, driven on the shoals ; and being now pro-
vided with all that is necessary to my bodily comfort, and
having provisions enough by me to last many months, I
make use of the writing materials, found in the wreck, to
write my own history. I begin it on the second anni-
versary of my being cast ashore here.
Having lived so long without a human being to speak
to, or a book to read, I have amused myself by contin-
ually thinking over all the circumstances of my life, and
particularly those which led to my shipwreck on this
island; every little detail of my voyage is as fresh in
my memory, as if it happened yesterday ; and I shall
set the whole down exactly as I have been accustomed
to call it to mind when thinking it over.
I recollect too, perfectly, my first days of misery on
this island, and how I became gradually reconciled to
my solitude. My first attempts at making myself a hab-
itation, all the difficulties I met with, and my various
contrivances to supply the place of tools, are all fresh in
my recollection ; and it will be a pleasure and satisfaction
for me to put all this in writing, though no eye but mine
may ever see it.
If ever I return to social life, I will take it with me,
to show my friends what shifts a man can make, when
driven to them by necessity, and to prove that, in the
most forlorn condition of life, he need not despair,
but that, by the proper regulation of his mind, and a firm
trust in God, he may enjoy a good deal of happiness
under the most adverse circumstances.
If I die here, I will put my manuscript in the safest
place I can make for it, and so mark the spot that any
one, landing on this side the island, shall be attracted to
it; with the hope that, through such means, it may be car-
ried to England, and give my friends there an account
of the life and adventures of poor Robinson Crusoe.
Narrative of the Life and Adventures of Robinson Cru-
soe, written by Himself, on a Desert Island.
FROM ten years of age, I was possessed with the idea
that a sailor's life was the best in the world, and I set
my heart so firmly on following the seas, that nothing my
good parents and friends could say, to dissuade me from
it, had the least effect; so I left a comfortable home and
good prospects on shore, to seek my fortune in sailing
over the world, and gratify my curiosity in seeing dif-
ferent countries, little thinking, to be sure, how soon all
my voyages would end, or that my knowledge of foreign
parts would be confined to an uninhabited island of a
few miles in extent.
I well remember though, how much my heart mis-
gave me, as the time drew near for me to sail, how
sorrowful all my friends were, what discouraging
speeches every body made about my going to sea, and
that I found it much harder than I expected, to leave my
happy home and part from my dear father and mother.
The last evening before I left home, I felt wretchedly;
again and again it came into my head that I had better
give it all up, and stay quietly where I was; all that my
friends had said to me, without making the least impres-
sion, now rushed into my mind with great force; and I
saw how reasonable it was, and, at the bottom of my
heart, I wished I was not going, but had not courage to
say so. I was afraid.of being laughed at, and ashamed
of acknowledging that I had changed my mind ; so, like
a fool that I was, I hid what was passing within me,
kept to my determination, and thus brought on my-
self all the misery I have since endured. May my false
shame and foolish pride be a warning to others!
I passed a wretched night ; and the next morning,
when I embraced my weeping mother for the last time,
I could hardly help saying, "I will not go "; but I shut
my lips tight, and forced myself away, in an agony of
mind that I cannot describe. But if I had then known all
that was to happen to me, I could not have felt worse;
and I now think that I had those painful feelings be-
cause it was not right for me to go.
I reached Hull just in time to join the good ship Nep-
tune, as the crew were weighing anchor. The bustle
and novelty of all around me, turned my thoughts from
home and the dear friends I had left; and as I had now
lost all the good opportunities I had had of changing my
plan of life, I resolved to bear its hardships as well as I
could, and make the best of every thing ; thinking that
if I did not like it, after one voyage, I could give it up,
and spend the rest of my life with my friends in England.
The weather was fine, the waters of the Hum-
ber were smooth, and I recovered my spirits, as the ship,
under full sail, glided down that fine, broad river, which
serves as a mouth for the Trent, the Ouse, the Der-
went, and several other streams. I soon began talking
with the sailors, and one of them, perceiving my love of
adventures, gave me a marvellous account of something
that I now believe never happened ; and I was taking it
all for true, when I suddenly felt so giddy, I could not
stand, without holding fast of something; then I felt
very warm and miserably sick all over, and not knowing
what ailed me, I cried out, "O dear! what is the mat-
ter with me?" This made the sailors burst out in a
loud laugh; they told me I was sea-sick, and made such
sport of my sufferings, that as soon as I had relieved my
stomach, I was glad to get away, and creep into my
berth, in the forecastle ; and as I was too sick to be of
any use on deck, I was allowed to lie there all night.
I could not sleep much, on account of the various noises
all around me ; the dashing of the waves against the
sides and bows of the vessel sounded so loud, and seem-
ed so near my ear, that I could hardly believe the water
was not coming into my berth; then the rattling of
the ropes on the deck, the heavy tread of the sail-
ors, the singing noise they made in hoisting, with the
whistling and rushing of the wind through the sails and
rigging, were all sounds so new to me, that I could
not help listening to them, instead of sleeping.
When I came on deck, in the morning, I was ex-
tremely surprised to find myself so far from land ; and I
made the sailors laugh, by asking where the river was
that we were sailing down the night before. I was told
that we were now on the North Sea or German Ocean,
many leagues from the Humber, and that we were off
Spurn Head ; when I grew sick with the Ocean swell,
which we came into just there. I was surprised to find
so much motion in the water, when there was so little
wind ; but I soon found that the waves of the Ocean sel-
dom cease to roll, even in a dead calm. For three days I
continued very sick, but after that I began to get bet-
ter. When I had any thing to do, that I could not
leave, it would keep off the sickness for a while; and
as I was inclined to be industrious, I learnt my duty as
a sailor very quickly, and often surprised the old hands
on board by imitating them so exactly. A person who
goes to sea, for the first time, is always laughed at and
called a land-lubber; but I bore all the sailors' jokes
good-humoredly. and by being civil and obliging to
every body, I soon became a general favorite, and in-
stead of faring the worse for being a green-hand, every
one seemed disposed to make my situation, as agreeable
to me as possible, and to save me from any very hard
duty. The weather was remarkably fine, and the winds
favorable ; and we soon reached the Straits of Dover, and
passed through the British Channel. During this part
of our voyage, we could see the coast, at a distance, all the
time; but when we had passed the Land's End, in
Cornwall, and the Scilly Isles, a brisk wind soon carried
us entirely out of sight of all land; and then there was
nothing to be seen but the wide waters all around, and
the sky and clouds above.
A few days after we lost sight of land, I was surprised
to hear the captain give orders to take in most of the
sails; for it appeared to me that we were sailing along
very pleasantly, and I could see no reason why we
should shorten sail and go more slowly. I was surprised
too, to observe with what activity the sailors sprung to
their work, and what haste every body was in. I did not
know, then, how quickly sailors can see when it
is going to blow very hard. They are constantly looking
at the water and the clouds, and observing every little
change in their appearance, and can perceive that the
wind is blowing very fresh, at a distance of several miles,
some minutes before it reaches them ; and then they take
in most of the sails, and prepare for it, as well as they
can. They had just got every thing snug, on board the
Neptune, when the squall * struck her, with such force,
that she was thrown on her beam ends, or laid down side-
ways, so that her lower yardsf almost touched the water.
I was thrown down by the suddenness of the motion, and
slid to the lower side of the deck ; but I had presence of
mind enough to catch hold of something as I went, or I
might have gone overboard. In a few moments the ves-
sel righted J again, and I was able to get upon my feet;
but she pitched and tossed about so violently, that I was
obliged to hold on by something all the time, or I should
have fallen again. One of the sailors told me, that if
* A sudden gust of violent wind.
t Poles that go across the masts at different distances, to
which the sails are fastened.
J Became upright.
they had not seen the squall, before it came, and pre-
pared for it, it would most likely have upset the vessel,
and he added, "So now you see the use of keeping a
good look-out at sea."
In half an hour, the wind abated, and they set* alittle more sail. I asked why they did that, when the sea
was still so rough, and the vessel tossed about as much as
ever; and I was told that she would be much steadier
under more sail, and, as the wind had gone down, there
was no risk in doing it. I was pleased to observe
what command the captain's knowledge gave him over
the vessel ; and though I was becoming more acquainted
with the danger of the sea, I felt increased confidence
in the skill that could provide against it. The sailors
watched the weather very closely all the afternoon, and
before night closed in, there was every sign of a
heavy gale coming on; and we all prepared for it
accordingly. Seeing me look very serious, one of the
sailors told me not to be frightened, for that with a good
ship under them, like the Neptune, and plenty of sea-
room,! there was very little danger, even in a storm, I was glad to hear this; for though I was not fright-
ened, I liked to know how much danger they expected
to be in; I resolved to attend to every thing that pass-
ed, and try to be as quiet and collected as the most
experienced sailors. I had always felt a great curiosity
to know what a storm at sea really was; but though I
was now about to be gratified, I felt more serious
than I expected to do; I could not help thinking of my
pleasant home and dear parents, and comparing their
situation with my own. My attention was however
soon called away from these thoughts, by the duty I had
to do; I was afterwards so occupied in watching the
vessel, and listening to the wind, and observing the
enormous waves, that I thought no more of any thing but
the present scene. It blew very hard all night, and I
* Spread out.
f Sufficient distance from shore.
could not be persuaded to take my turn below; * for I
could not make up my mind to go to sleep, in the midst
of such a gale, as some of the sailors did. By day-
break, the next morning, the wind abated a little, and as
it became fair for us to steer our course, we scudded be-
fore it all day, and went very fast, though we had only a
foresail and close-reefed i- main top-sail set. At last I
was tired out with watching the vessel, and the weather,
and I slept most of the forenoon. When I came on
deck again, I was surprised to find no alteration in the
weather. I had no idea of a gale lasting so long, and
asked the sailors, if it was not likely soon to be over; but
they shook their heads, and said they thought it would
blow harder before it blew less. And sure enough, that
afternoon, the wind increased, the clouds thickened, it
suddenly became unusually dark, and thundered and
lightened terribly. I knew by the flashes of lightning
being followed so quickly by the thunder, that the clouds,
which were full of electricity, must be very near us, and
as I had never before heard such long and loud peals of
thunder, or seen such very bright flashes of lightning, I
thought there must be great danger of the vessel being
struck by the lightning and shivered to pieces; but, as I
could not discover any appearance of alarm in the
countenances of those about me, I kept my fears to my-
self, and stood ready to do as others did, if any thing
should happen. I now suppose that all on board the
ship knew the danger they were in from the lightning,
as well as I did ; but they had been in such storms be-
fore, and had escaped unhurt; they also knew that
the best way to avoid danger, was not to be alarmed by
it; so they quietly awaited whatever might happen. They
had besides great confidence in their captain, and he
seemed as perfectly calm and self-possessed, as if it were
fine weather. Every flash of lightning showed me the
monstrous size of the waves, which looked, each time
they broke near the vessel, as if they would overwhelm
* Under deck.
t Tied up in part, so as to be spread as little as possible.
her; and sometimes we actually shipped a sea* that swept
the deck fore and aft,^ and obliged every one to hold
fast, to avoid being carried over-board. When the vessel
rose on the top of a great wave, she seemed to be on a
pinnacle, with a deep gulf on every side of her ; and when
she sank down again into the trough of the sea, she
appeared to be in a deep pit, and ready to be buried un-
der the waters that rose on every side of her, almost as
high as her masts; but when I observed her to descend
safely from the pinnacle, and rise as safely out of the
deep pit, a great many times, I became accustomed to
the size of the waves, and was not alarmed by them.
The storm lasted several hours; at length a flash of
lightning, more vivid than any before, struck the main-
mast I and mizen-mast,^ and shivered both. When the
lightning struck the masts, and the cracking of the wood
was heard with the thunder, I thought the whole vessel
was split to pieces, and I expected to find myself in the
water the next minute; I was therefore astonished to
hear Captain Gordon give his orders about cutting away
the rigging, and clearing the deck of the broken masts,
in the same calm voice he always used.
The behaviour of the captain gave me fresh courage,
and I helped to execute the commands, so coolly and
distinctly given. The first mate was sent to examine
whether the hull of the vessel had been injured by the
lightning; he returned with a face of alarm, and told the
captain that the vessel had sprung a leak, and there was
already considerable water in her hold. This made our
danger very great; but the captain preserved his pres-
ence of mind, and quietly said, "Set the men at the
pumps, and fire signal guns; there may be some ves-
sel within hearing, though there is none in sight." Whilst
that was doing, the captain told me to assist him in throw-
ing overboard every thing we could move, in order to
lighten the ship as much as possible, and keep her from
* Had a wave break over and deluge the deck.
t From one end to the other.
j Middle and highest mast. § The hindermost mast.
2*
sinking as long as we could, in hopes some other vessel
would come to our assistance. Though we pumped as
fast as we could, the water in the hold became deeper
and deeper, and the captain was convinced the ship must
soon sink; he therefore consulted with the mates as to
what they had better do. The last flash of lightning
had been followed by a torrent of rain, which, though it
appeared to me to increase the difficulties of our situa-
tion, was, I found, of great use, in lessening the waves
and quieting the waters. The captain observed this, and
as the wind began to abate, he proposed that we
should all get into the boats, taking some bread and
water and a compass with us, and row away from the
vessel, before she sank under us. Whilst the rest were
lowering the boats and getting the provisions into them,
the captain and I continued to fire the signal guns as
long as we could. My courage was kept up by that of
Captain Gordon, who was the last to leave the vessel.
We rowed away from her as fast as we were able, and
when we were far enough off, to escape being drawn in
by the vortex she would make in going down, we lay
upon our oars to see her sink. After settling down
lower and lower in the water, she suddenly made a
plunge and went down, bows foremost, with the water
spouting out of the cabin windows. There was some-
thing grand in that plunge, which made me shiver all
over; some of the sailors looked very solemn, and
spoke of the vessel as if it was a living creature. We
were all glad that we had left the ship in time to
avoid sinking with her ; but what would become of us in
the midst of the ocean, in small boats, and with only
a few days' provision, was still very uncertain. We
were considering the danger of our situation, when, to
our great relief, we heard a gun fired, in answer to our
signals of distress ; and when it stopped raining and the
clouds cleared away, we could see a large vessel com-
ing directly towards us. The captain took off his shirt,
which was white, and tied it by the sleeves to one of the
oars, and stuck it up in the boat for a flag, knowing how
>—-
GO

much more difficult it would be for the people on board
the ship to see so low an object as a boat, than for
those in the boats to see the ship; the mate in the other
boat did the same with his checked shirt; and we soon had
the pleasure of observing a flag hoisted on board the ship,
which was to let us know that we were seen, and should
be relieved. In half an hour more we were all on board
of a large Spanish ship, bound to South America. Being
extremely fatigued, as well as wet, and cold, and hun-
gry, we were very glad to accept the kindness of stran-
gers, and be where we could get shelter, food, and
dry clothes, all of which were freely offered us by the
Spaniards, who, though they could not speak or under-
stand English, made themselves intelligible by signs.
CHAPTER III.
CHANCE OF PROSPECTS THE SANTA MARIA — TEDIOUSNESS
OFTHE VOYAGE NEW EMPLOYMENTS CHANGE OF
WEATHER FALKLAND ISLANDS SEALS PENGUINS
PASSAGE OF THE SOUND STATEN ISLAND BEHAVIOUR
OF MANEGRO UNKNOWN LAND SHIPWRECK ESCAPE
FROM DROWNING.
WHEN, after a sound and refreshing sleep, I went on
deck, I found my ship-mates looking very dejected, and
talking over the misfortune of losing the Neptune and
their own private losses, and regretting that the ship,
which had picked them up, was bound to South Amer-
ica. I had been so rejoiced, to get into a place of safety,
that I never once thought of the loss of my clothes and
every thing that I had on board the Neptune, till I heard
the sailors talking of what they had lost; and then I
remembered that I now had nothing in the world but one
suit of clothes, and no money to buy more. I wondered
what I should do ; but recollecting that all my companions
were in a like situation, I thought I could do as they did,
and manage as well as they. As soon as South Amer-
ica was mentioned, I eagerly inquired to what part of it
the ship was bound; and hearing that it was to Callao,
in Peru, I asked what they knew about that country.
All they could tell me was, that the Spaniards had
possession of it, and would not suffer any other nation to
trade thither; and that they had plenty of gold and silver
there, but it would cost an Englishman his life to pick any
of it up, though he trod it under foot at every step. As I
could get no further information respecting the present
state of Peru, I called to mind all I had read about it
in the history of America; and recollecting how ex-
tremely interested I had been in the account of the
Peruvians, and of their conquest by the cruel Pizarro, I
felt a strong desire to see that people, and visit the
places where those events had happened. I considered
too, that as Peru lies on the western side of South Amer-
ica, I should cross the equator, sail over the South Atlan-
tic ocean, and go round Cape Horn, in order to get there;
I should thus see a great deal of the world, and be in a
tropical climate; by passing into the southern temperate
zone, I should see grand constellations, that I had never
seen before; I thought, too, we might touch at some
islands on our way, and put into some other ports be-
sides Callao. Thus, on the whole, I considered the
change in our prospects, occasioned by the loss of the
Neptune, as very favorable to my desire of seeing the
world; for though I felt for my ship-mates, who had no
such wish, and therefore regretted the accident very
much. I could not help rejoicing on my own account.
I had neither money nor clothes; but I knew many kinds
of work by which I could earn a living, and I determined
that my hands should labor for the gratification of my
mind.
Pleased as I was with my new prospects, I found a
great many disagreeable things in my present situation.
The Spanish ship, called Santa Maria, and commanded
by Captain Manegro, was very different from the Nep-
tune; being ill-shaped, she was a dull sailer, and
was besides extremely filthy and full of vermin; the
berths were the most odious, dirty holes that ever
any decent person was obliged to sleep in; the provis-
ions also were so bad, and cooked in a way so disgusting
to English stomachs, that I could hardly eat them; but
whenever I complained to my ship-mates, they made
light of the badness of the food, and only hoped the
quantity on board would be found sufficient to last
us to the end of such a long voyage, as this was likely
to be.
The captain and crew, on board this ship, were very
much inferior to those of the Neptune. Though I could
not understand a word they said, I soon discovered that
the captain was a passionate man, neither respected nor
beloved by his crew; and that the sailors were lazy and
disobedient, fond of playing cards, smoking, and swear-
ing. The Santa Maria had lost several of her hands
since she left Old Spain; two were washed overboard
in the late storm; one had died of a fever soon after
they sailed ; and thus the captain was very glad of the
assistance of our shijHwrecked mariners, in working the vessel.
The voyage now became extremely tedious to me; I,
who had before been the most reconciled to our change
of situation, was now the first to complain ; and my friends
would sometimes reproach me with my impatience, and re*
mind me how pleased I had been with the idea of a long
voyage; but I did not know then how little variety there
would be in it. And when we got into the trade winds,
which I longed for so much, the days were more tedious
than ever, for there was nothing at all to he done; the
sails remained in one position, from one week's end to
another. Even the variety of climate which I experU
enced on approaching the equator, was less agreeable to
me than I expected ; and I found the heat of the sun so
great, that I wished myself again in a temperate zone.
The want of necessary occupation very much increas-
ed my restless and uncomfortable feelings; and though I
could find to do about the ship, and helped to put the
Santa Maria in better order than she had been in for
years, yet there were many hours, each day, that
I was obliged to spend in idleness. O, how I long-
ed for some book to read! the most uninteresting
one, that ever was written, would have been a treasure
to me. But no book could I get; and having lost all
my things, I had no pens, ink, or paper, that I might
amuse myself with writing.
One day, however, I found a bit of chalk, and with
that I began making figures on the deck, and calculat-
ing sums; two hours passed away, while I was thus
employed, without my perceiving how time went. Re-
joiced at the discovery, I resolved to employ part of
every day in that way; and though my piece of chalk
was soon used up, and no more could be had, I con-
trived to make a little piece of charcoal answer as well.
Finding me so occupied with my figures, that I no lon-
ger complained, as I had before done, of the tediousness
of the voyage, the English sailors began to take an inter-
est in them too. As they had not been so well educat-
ed as I was, they asked me to teach them, which I
found great pleasure in doing; and my school of Arith-
metic beguiled me of some hours, each day, very
pleasantly. Two of the Spanish sailors, when they per-
ceived that we Englishmen were using the same figures
which they were accustomed to, took some interest in what
was going on, and began to learn also; and in return,
they taught me the names of every thing on board the
vessel, as well as to count in the Spanish language.
When Captain Gordon found how I was employed, and
how much I disliked idleness, he kindly offered to go
over with me, by means of my charcoal pencil, the
problems and calculations that belong to the art of Navi-
gation; which was of great use to me, in refreshing my
memory, and occupying my mind agreeably ; and when
the sailors had made some progress in Arithmetic, I
taught them the lessons I had learnt from the captain.
This continued as long as we were in fine weather
latitudes, and had little to do in working the ship; but
when we approached Cape Horn, the weather became
tempestuous, and we were obliged to give up our stud-
ies, for more active employment. We became anx-
ious too, for our water and provisions ran very short;
and though it was the intention of the Spanish
captain to touch at the Falkland Islands to get wa-
ter and wild fowl, there were some apprehensions felt
by the English sailors, that we had missed of those
islands altogether. Westerly winds had prevailed for a
long time, and we feared that they had set us so far east,
that we should run by them, without being near enough
to see them. We had no confidence in the captain's
reckoning ; * there was no quadrant on board, and the
charts were very poor; the ship was badly* worked, and
the voyage made longer than necessary, by the bad sea-
manship of the master; and yet he was so obstinate and
passionate, that no one dared to advise him. Accord-
ing to his reckoning, we ought to have made f the islands
three days before they actually appeared. At last, when
the only salt meat on board was cooking, and the last
cask of water was on tap, we were relieved from the
worst apprehensions, by the thrilling sound of "Land
O!" O what a welcome sight was that group of unin-
habited islands! after such a tedious voyage, and so
many fears of having passed them.
We entered a sound, between the two largest of them,
and found good anchorage, opposite a fine beach of hard
sand. I was all impatience to set foot on the land, and,
fortunately for me, the captain ordered me into the boat
that took him, the mate, and Captain Gordon ashore.
When we ran the boat aground, and jumped out on
dry land, I was almost wild with delight; every sense
was regaled. I threw off my shoes, and ran barefoot,
on the sand, for a mile. After being confined, so long,
* An account, kept by the captain, of the daily progress of
the vessel.
t Sea-phrase for seen.
to the narrow bounds of a vessel's deck, the sensation of
freedom was enchanting. When I returned I found
my comrades drinking largely, at a fine rivulet of
pure water, that was running and sparkling over the
beach, to the sea; and I could not help throw-
ing myself down by it, at full length, and drinking of it
horse fashion, as sailors say. After the bad water we
had been using for weeks, the taste of this was delicious;
I could barely drink enough of it. And so it was with ev-
ery one present; they drank as though they would never
be satisfied.
There were no trees to be seen any where ; but the
land was covered with tall, rank grass. The beach
was bordered with numerous little hillocks, that seemed
to be formed by the decay of the coarse grass, resem-
bling sedge, that grew upon them, and hid the sand that
was interspersed among them. I was amusing myself
with stepping, or jumping, from one of these hillocks to
another, when my bare foot slipped off the little emi-
nence, and rested on something cold, and wet, and slip-
pery, and full of muscular motion; a sound between a
squeak and a grunt followed, and then a most hideous
roar, as loud as a lion's, completed my horror and alarm.
I lost my balance, as the creature moved under my feet,
and fell down upon him; and there I rolled about,
among the grass, between two hillocks that hindered my
rising, with this roaring monster creeping out from under
me. Every drop of blood seemed to curdle in my
veins, and I expected to be torn in pieces every instant.
At last I made out to rise, and run to my companions,
who looked almost as much alarmed as I was; and turn-
ing round to face the enemy at a distance, I saw seven
great, shaggy animals, half beast, half fish, issuing from
the sedgy border of the beach, and making towards us.
Captain Gordon exclaimed, "Kill all you can ; they
are very good eating." Being near our boat, we arm-
ed ourselves, some with muskets, others with oars,
and began our attack. The animals were endeav-
ouring to reach the water, but having only tails
and fins to push themselves along with, they advanced
but slowly. We beat them over the back, as hard as
we could, but without making any impression on them;
we fired at them, and several balls took effect; 'yet
the creatures proceeded toward the sea, upsetting every
one who came in their way. At last we discovered their
snouts to be the most vulnerable part; a few blows
there stopped their progress, and we made five of them
prisoners.
When we rested from our labors, I begged to know
what these terrible-looking creatures were, and was told
they were sea-lions. Captain Gordon called them shag-
gy seals, and said that their skins were very valuable ; that
they contained a great deal of blubber, which made very
good oil; and that their flesh was palatable food. Delight-
ed with this addition to our sea-stores, we secured them in
the boat, and then proceeded to explore the island
further.
We found large flocks of ducks and other sea-fowl, so
tame that we could drive them before us, and fire into
them, before they attempted to fly. In this way,
great slaughter was made among them. On advancing
into the island, our attention was suddenly fixed upon a
ridge of land, just above us, on which were ranged, in
the most regular order, what appeared to me a number
of little children, of the same age and size, and dressed
alike, with their arms extended. I could think of noth-
ing but a charity school, with an uniform of brown frocks
and white aprons. After gazing a moment, in silent
amazement, I perceived the heads to be those of birds,
and recognised the shape and position of the penguin, as
described and drawn in books.
We next had a fine battle with the penguins; but were
not so successful as with the seals, for they bit so hard,
we could not hold them, and we could manage to carry
only one on board the vessel; that one we took alive, and
to keep him safe, during the night, the captain ordered
us to put him in the pen, with a pig that we had on deck, the last of our live stock. We did so, and left
3
the two strangers, to make each other's acquaintance;
but in the morning, to our great surprise, we found
there had been a mortal combat between them, which
had ended in the death of the pig.
We spent two days at anchor in the sound, and, by
turns, all the ship's company were allowed to go on
shore, and refresh themselves; but there were no more
adventures, like those I was engaged in. The hands,
that were left on board the vessel, were busied in skin-
ning the seals, boiling the blubber, and salting the meat
for future use. We took in a good supply of excellent
water; and on the third day after we made the land, we
proceeded on our voyage.
There were some deliberations, in the cabin, as to the
course we had best take; whether we should leave the
sound the way we entered it, and sail round to the
eastward of the group of islands, or whether we should
find a passage through the sound, and so keep nearer the
cape, and nearer the west wind that was continually
blowing. Captain Gordon advised to the former course,
as he found that no one on board had ever passed
through the sound, and they had no chart of it. This
determined the obstinate Manegro to try the passage
through the islands. By keeping a boat out ahead, to
sound the way, we got safely through; but there were,
in some places, such quantities of sea-weed, that this of
itself threatened wholly to obstruct our passage; we
could but just force the ship through it. We pulled up
«ome of the smaller plants of this weed, which is like what
we call kelp, and found that it grew with one large stem,
very deep in the water, and that it had a wide spreading
head to it, which floated very near the surface. From
the strength of its stalks, I could easily believe what a
sailor told me, about its being used for fishing-lines and
cordage in some parts of the world.
After we had got safely through the islands, we were glad
we had taken that course, as it would make it easier to.
get round the cape; still I perceived that Captain Gor-
don was anxious, and the English sailors were very
watchful. The third night after we left the Falkland
Islands, we were all startled by the cry of " Land O!
land close aboard, over the larboard* bow." Captain
Gordon was on deck in a moment, and gave the neces-
sary orders for altering the vessel's course ; for there was
not a moment to be lost, and the master of the vessel was
below. Every one was astonished, at seeing land on
our left; if it had been on the right, we should have
thought all was well. In a few minutes, we were close
in with the land on the starboard f side. To me, who
was unaccustomed to the appearance of land at sea in
a dark night, it looked like a high wall that we were
running directly against; and well it was for us that it
was a bold shore, for we had only just time to tack and
keep clear of the steep rocks that rose on either side of us.
The Spaniards were very much alarmed, and began
to call upon their saints. The captain allowed he did
not know where we were; but after consulting the mis-
erable charts on board, Captain Gordon came to the
conclusion, that we were in the channel, between Staten
Island and the main land, and, as he had heard of ves-
sels going through there before, he determined to keep
on. Daylight soon appeared, and we could then see
our way very well; but the current was so strong, and
the eddies so numerous, that we were strangely whirled
about. Although there was a good breeze from the
West, and we had several sails set, we were sometimes
turned completely round by an eddy, just as if we had
been a mere log on the water. By the good sense of
Captain Gordon, however, and the good conduct of the
English sailors, we did get safely through the strait, and
reach the open sea near the cape.
As soon as we were out of danger, Captain Gordon
gave up his command, and treated the master of the
ship as though nothing had happened; but Captain
Manegro had one of those little minds, that cannot bear
the superiority of others, and he was shy and jealous of
Captain Gordon on account of the services he had
rendered.
* Left side. t Right side.
Mancgro was a very ignorant man. If he had never
had an opportunity of learning, he had no reason to be
ashamed of his ignorance ; it was his misfortune, not his
fault; and if he had acknowledged it, he might have
benefited by the company of Captain Gordon; but in-
stead of that, he tried to conceal it, and affected to
despise every thing he did not understand.
He seemed to think he could hide his ignorance, by
being very authoritative in his manner, and severe in his
punishments, which, as he was a passionate man, were
often very unjust. My heart would sometimes swell with
indignation, and my eyes fill with tears, at the injustice
which the Spanish sailors were obliged to suffer; but
my comrades cautioned me against showing what I felt,
as it would only make matters worse.
I was often provoked, to see how uncivilly Manegro
treated Captain Gordon, whom I loved and admired,
more and more every day, for his mildness and for-
bearance toward our ignorant commander.
On one occasion, in doubling * the cape, we were in
great danger; and the difference between the two cap-
tains was most striking. The man, whose business it was
to command the vessel, was so frightened, he could not
give a single order; but kept calling upon all the saints
he could think of, to come and save them; and cried
and lamented over his situation, like a distracted crea-
ture. Whilst our good captain, seeing we might be
lost, for want only of a little presence of mind, if he did
not take the command, seized the helm himself, and gave
a few clear directions to his own men, who were watch-
ing him, and hoping he would do so; and, in a few min-
utes, all danger was over.
The Spanish captain was so overjoyed at finding
himself in safety, that he knelt down before Captain
Gordon, and kissed his hands, and thanked him over
and over again. But his gratitude was not of a kind to
last long; it was soon changed into dislike of the person
that had done him a service; and he became as jealous
* Going round.
as ever of Captain Gordon's superior knowledge and
presence of mind. He would not hear any observation
from him on the management of the ship, and was
ready to quarrel with every one who knew more than
himself.
We had a great deal of tempestuous weather, in
doubling Cape Horn; and as the currents were very
strong, and the sea rough, and the reckoning but poorly
kept, we hardly knew when we really had doubled it.
We continued to have heavy gales of wind, after we
knew that we were several hundred miles from the
cape, and our voyage became every day more unpleas-
ant. Our provisions were scanty and poor ; we were all
on short allowance, and heartily tired of our voyage,
counting the days and weeks that must still be endured
before we reached our destined port.
About three weeks after we left Cape Horn, we
were sailing along, under close-reefed topsails, with
as much wind as we could bear, when we were all
thrown into consternation, by the cry of " Land right
ahead." That which is so cheering a sound, when
expected, is an equally alarming one, when not expect-
ed; for if the seaman finds land where he only look-
ed for water, he knows that he cannot be where he
supposed himself; and this, on the ocean, is a fearful
predicament.
Manegro now pretended to be very knowing; he said
he knew very well what land it was, and he meant to
go ashore there, and get some fresh provisions. Cap-
tain Gordon advised keeping off till the wind abated, or
sailing round the island, and entering a port to the
leeward. But our obstinate commander insisted upon keeping on
just as we were. The wind was increasing every
moment, and we were anxiously expecting orders to
shorten sail, or alter our course, when a gust came that
nearly capsized us, and carried away several sails. All
was dismay and confusion; Captain Manegro refused
*11 aid from Captain Gordon, while he gave contradic-
3*
tory orders to his men, and we suddenly perceived
breakers very near us. The wind was blowing us di-
rectly upon a reef of rocks, and the vessel was unman-
ageable.
When it was too late, Captain Gordon's voice was
heard, amid the roar of the waves, the whistling of the
wind, and the cracking of spars. Anchors were let go,
and some judicious measures taken; but the breakers
were all around us, and nothing could save the vessel
from destruction. She was driven upon the rocks with
such force, that none of us could keep his feet;
and, after striking three times, she remained immovably
fixed upon the reef, and the sea broke all over her.
The force of the waves now filled me with fear and
"amazement. While we were afloat, the vessel had
borne a great deal of tossing about, without injury, be-
cause she moved with the waves; but, as soon as she
was firmly fixed, and could not give way before the
dashing waters, their mighty power was apparent, and it
seemed to me, that the vessel must be destroyed in a
few minutes. I was convinced by all I saw, that we
were in the greatest possible danger ; the Spaniards
gave themselves up to useless cries and lamentations;
the Englishmen gathered round their captain, to consult
on what they had better do.
He said the vessel must soon go to pieces, and there-
fore, though the sea was so rough that a boat could hard-"
ly live in it, he thought they had better take to the boats.,
and see what could be done in them; they might be
carried towards the land, without capsizing, and get into
some sheltered bay or creek. Just as they came to this
determination, a great wave broke away part of the
stern, and carried off a boat that was hanging there.
There was then but one boat left, and that was only
large enough to hold, with safety, a part of those on
board; so one of the English sailors proposed that they
should go off in her, and leave the Spaniards behind, as
they would not do any thing to help themselves, and
it was their obstinacy and ignorance that had brought
us into this situation. But our good captain would
not listen to such selfish advice; he said, "They saved
our lives once, and we will try to save theirs now; at
least we will give them a chance with ourselves." So,
while his men were getting ready to launch the long boat,
he called the Spaniards. As he had before saved them
from shipwreck, all, who were not too much alarmed to
listen to any thing, came upon deck, when they heard
his voice. With his direction and assistance, the boat was
launched, and all on deck got into her ; though not
without great difficulty and danger. The boat was so
tossed about by the waves, that she was sometimes a
great way from the vessel; and then she was again dashed
up so near, that we feared she would be broken in
pieces against the side of the ship.
We rowed as well as we could towards the land,
and as the boat drew very little water compared with the
ship, we passed over the reef on which the vessel had
stuck fast, and proceeded in safety about half a league;
but as we approached the land, we saw nothing like
any bay or inlet, and the breaking of the waves on the
beach made it impossible to land; we could but just
keep the boat from filling with water, where we were;
and nearer the shore, it would be entirely out of our
power.
In this situation there was nothing more to be done,
and those in the boat, who were good and wise, were
quietly making up their minds to be drowned in a few
minutes ; when a monstrous wave, larger than all the
rest, overturned the boat, and covered us all with its
mighty waters.
As I was a good swimmer, I did not lose my presence
of mind, when I found myself under water; I tried to
rise to the surface, that I might take breath ; this, how-
ever, I could not do ; the motion of the waves was so
great, it baffled me ; and I must soon have been suffocat-
ed, if that very force had not carried me so far toward the
beach, that when it was spent, and the wave went back
again, it left me upon the sand in shallow water.
Though much exhausted with the exertions I had made,
and the want of breath, I struggled successfully against
the under-tow,* and advanced towards the land ; but I
had not proceeded far, before I saw the sea coming af-
ter me, like a high wall. I knew it would carry me
towards the shore, so I gave myself up to its power, and
held my breath, and kept my strength, that I might
struggle against it, when it retired again. In this way I
approached nearer and nearer to the land with every
wave; till at last I felt ground with my feet. The next
moment my head was out of water, and I could breathe
freely!
I stood still a moment, to recover my breath, and
then ran forward as hard as I could. Again I was cov-
ered, many feet deep, with water, and carried along with
the breaker; but I managed as before, and resisted the
under-tow, and was again on my feet with my head out
of water, and a good deal nearer land. Once, as the sea
was carrying me along very swiftly, I struck against a
rock, which hurt me very much, and disabled me from
struggling against the retreat of the waves; but, happily
for me, I thought of holding on by the rock, and so re-
sisted the under-tow. There I remained, supporting
myself by the rock, till I recovered from the blow; while
several waves passed over me, and retired again. After
this, a few more runs, between the breakers, brought me
quite out of the water; I had just strength enough left
to walk up the beach, above the mark of high tide, when
my knees bent under me, and I sank down on the dry
sand. Here I had hardly realized my escape, and felt the
joy of present safety, when, exhausted by the great exer-
tions I had made, I fainted away.
* The name given by sailors to the water which runs back
from the beach after the wave is spent.
CHAPTER IV.
MISERABLE SITUATION — BETTER FEELINGS -FIRST NIGHT
ON THE ISLAND FIRST WALK SAD REFLECTIONS—
AGREEABLE SURPRISE THE BEACH WANT OF TOOLS.
How long my swoon lasted, it is impossible for me to
say, and it is almost as impossible for me to describe
how I felt on recovering from it. It was some time be-
fore I could recollect what had happened to me; but,
by degrees, the sight of the wreck at a distance, the
blowing of the wind, and dashing of the waves, helped
me to recall the disasters, which occasioned my being
where I now found myself. At last, the dreadful cer-
tainty, that I alone, of all that were on board, had reach-
ed the shore alive, burst upon me, and made me truly
miserable. Let whoever reads this, consider well the
circumstances of my wretched condition, or they can
form no idea of my feelings.
There I was. cold, wet, hungry, and thirsty; without
any thing in the world, but the wet clothes I had on. I
was alone, in an unknown country; it might be full of
savages and wild beasts; I could see no traces of culti-
vation; I had no fishing-tackle, to get fish; no gun, to
shoot birds ; no means of lighting a fire. I was far, very
far, from my pleasant home and dear parents, and could
not hope ever to see them again. In this dismal situa-
tion, I could not rejoice in having saved myself from
drowning; for I expected a worse death. I walked up
and down the beach, in a state of agitation not to be de-
scribed. I wrung my hands, and cried, and sobbed
aloud, and reproached myself, in the bitterest manner,
with the folly and obstinacy which had brought me to
this wretched condition ; till, quite exhausted, I sat
down on a large stone ; and, resting my head on my
knee, I fell into a silent agony of despair.
How long I sat there, I cannot tell; but I was roused
from that fit of dejection, by a distressing sensation of
thirst. I bore this for some time ; at last it overcame
my reluctance to move, and I went in search of water.
I looked fearfully around, to see if any savage man,
or wild beast, were near me; but seeing no living crea-
ture, I walked slowly up the beach, and made my way
over long grass and through shrubs, towards a place
where the form of the ground and the slope of the
woods made me think there might be a valley, with a
stream of fresh water in it. After wandering about for
some time, I came to a narrow vale or dingle, the sides
of which were clothed with beautiful flowering shrubs
and trees; and there I heard the pleasant sound of a
brook. Winding among rocks, that sometimes broke it
into small cascades, I found a clear sparkling stream, of
which I drank plentifully. Greatly refreshed by my
draught, I seated myself on the grass, at the foot of a
beautiful, large tree, with leaves like a laurel; and there,
in that sheltered spot, I began to reflect more calmly on
my sad condition.
The anguish of my heart subsided. I remembered
there was One Friend, from whom no outward circum-
stances could separate me. My Heavenly Father was
as near me there, as in my own happy home. By
thinking on the power and goodness of God, my courage
and strength revived, and after much serious meditation,
my soul was comforted. I resolved to trust in God en-
tirely, and do the best I could to continue the life that
had been so remarkably preserved amid the greatest
dangers.
Just as I had formed this good resolution, I heard the
most melodious warbling of birds, in the bushes near
me, and the sound cheered my heart; "Those birds are
happy here," said I to myself, "and why may not I be
happy too?" The thought that they had companions,
and I had none, again filled my eyes with tears, and my
heart with sorrow; but it was not of that distracting
kind, which I had felt before ; it was a tender feeling,
that made me lift up my heart to God, and trust entirely
to his loving-kindness and tender mercy.
The birds were not at all afraid of me, but flew about
so near me, that I could observe them getting their food;
and I said to myself, "Will not the same Power that di-
rects them to their proper nourishment, and supports
their life, also guide and sustain me?" I felt an assur-
ance, in my heart, that it would ; and being very hungry,
I returned to the beach, and looked there for something
eatable. I had not walked far, when I found some oys-
ters, and something like limpets, only much larger. As
I had been accustomed to eat such shell-fish raw, I sat-
isfied my appetite pretty well. I had great diffi-
culty in opening some of the oysters, as I had no knife,
and could not always succeed in catching them with
their shells open, long enough to put a stick or stone in,
to prevent their closing.
When I had finished my meal, it was about sunset;
the wind had abated, but it began lo rain very fast, and
I returned to the little valley, to seek a shelter for the
night. I could have found a dry spot under the dense
foliage of many trees, and lain very comfortably on the
grass, but I was afraid of wild beasts. I knew that such
animals keep very quiet during the day, and roam
about at night in search of their prey; and therefore it
would not be safe to lie on the grass, without any thing
around me to keep them off. I had no means of mak-
ing any defence; so at last, I thought my best plan
would be, to follow the example of the birds, and sleep
in a tree. I found one, whose thick foliage would
screen me from rain, and whose numerous crooked
branches made it easy to climb ; and in it I fixed my-
self, as securely as I could, and being very much ex-
hausted, I soon feel asleep.
My slumbers were disturbed by frightful dreams. I
fancied the boat upset, and myself again struggling
with the waves; and, making a motion in my sleep, as
if to reach the shore, I fell down out of the tree. My
joy, on awaking, was great, to find that I had only been
dreaming, and that I really was on dry land and not
struggling in the water; and, as I had not climbed up
very high into the tree, and the tall grass was thick
around it, my fall did not hurt me much; and bodily pain
seemed very trifling, compared to the distress of my
mind in the dream.
I placed myself, once more, in the tree, and deter-
mined to lie awake the rest of the night, rather than run
the risk of dreaming again that I was shipwrecked; but
fatigue overcame this resolution, and I soon fell into a
profound sleep, which lasted till the day was far ad-
vanced.
I awoke refreshed, and with a keen appetite for my
breakfast. Leaving my airy bed, I washed my hands
and face in the brook, before I remembered that I had
no towel, or cloth of any kind, to wipe them with. They
dried however, as I walked to the shore, to look for
shell-fish for my breakfast.
To my great disappointment, the tide was high; and
there were no oysters, or limpets, to be found. The
water was full of fishes, to be sure ; but I could not
make up my mind then, to eat such fish raw, even if I
had had the means of taking them.
The dread of being starved to death, now rushed up- on my mind, and, for a few minutes, nearly overpow-
ered me; but my good mother had always taught me to
consider God as a kind Parent, who sees all our wants,
and provides bountifully for them. I now remembered,
and felt the comfort of her instructions; I thought upon
the goodness of God, and my mind became tranquil.
It occurred to me, that though I had failed of getting
fish for my breakfast, there might be wild fruits inland,
that would satisfy my appetite as well; so I walked
away from the shore, and seeing a high hill, that appear-
ed about a mile from where I was, I determined to as-
cend it, and take a survey of the country, and look for
something eatable, as I went along. I walked, for some
distance, over a sandy soil, partially covered with tall,
rank grass, and then I came to rocks and bushes ; but I
looked in vain for any berries. Every thing was grow-
ing luxuriantly, and various beautiful flowers met my eye,
but no fruits were to be seen. All the productions of
the earth were like those of a fine spring; and when I re-
flected, that I must be between twenty and thirty degrees
from the equinoctial line, and in south latitude, I was
satisfied that it must be the spring-time of the year
in this region ; and that, in due season, these brilliant
and beautiful blossoms would give place to berries and
fruits, that might prove wholesome food.
With this consoling hope, I pursued my way, and be-
gan to ascend the hill I had seen at a distance. I
found it more difficult to climb, than I had anticipated;
and I was often obliged to go a great way round, in or-
der to avoid perpendicular cliffs, or thick, impassable
woods. But my desire of getting a good view of the
country, and ascertaining whether I was on an island or
on the main-land, and the hope of finding some plant
with ripe fruit, urged me on. After a long and toilsome
ascent, I found myself on the bare summit of a very
high hill ; and discovered, that I was on a small island,
whence I could see nothing but the wide ocean all around
me. I looked for the wrecked vessel, but it had entire-
ly disappeared; the loss of that last vestige of civiliza-
tion made me feel more lonely than ever.
I looked very earnestly, in every direction, to see if
there were any traces of the island being inhabited, but
could discover none ; though I had feared to meet with
savages, I felt very melancholy when I was convinced I
was alone on an uninhabited island. "Here then,"
said I to myself, "I must pass the remainder of my life,
on this desert island, in the middle of the ocean, far
away from my friends, who will never know what has
become of me. I shall never see the face of any hu-
man being again. Here I must live and die alone."
As I thus realized my dismal situation, I could not
help shedding a flood of tears, and inwardly exclaiming,
"O my dear parents! if you could see your unhappy
son as he now is, you would pity and forgive him.
You will never know how severely he is punished for
not taking your advice; here I must live and die,
unpitied and unknown!" As these thoughts passed
through my mind, I wept bitterly, and almost wished I
had been drowned with the rest of the ship's company;
but something within reproved me for that thought, and
I repressed the half-formed wish.
I have since seen the folly of anticipating evil; for my
situation, bad as it seemed then, has not proved so utter-
ly miserable as I feared; and if I had not given way
to the fear of starving, and other apprehensions, I
should have spared myself some very unhappy hours.
Almost exhausted by fasting and sorrow, I began to
descend the hill, intending to reach the shore by the
time the tide left it, and look for shell-fish to allay the
pains of hunger, which began to be very severe.
My feet had become very sore and tender, with so
much walking on rough ground, and in thin, old shoes;
to favor them I took the smoothest paths, and in doing
so I insensibly wandered away from that side of the hill,
by which I went up ; and when I arrived at the bottom
of it, I found myself still very far from the shore, where
I expected to get the food I so much needed. This
was a great disappointment, as I feared my strength
would hardly last, to carry me back to that part of the
coast where I had found the oysters. The trees were
so thick around me, I could not see which way to go; but
by observing the sun, I could tell the points of the com-
pass, and direct my steps accordingly ; for I remember-
ed that the beach, on which I landed, was on the south
side of the island, and run east and west. As I walked
along, frequently casting my eyes upward, to see that I
kept a right course, I observed some very curious-look-
ing trees, with tall, naked stems, and a great tuft of leaves
on the top. I had seen such in paintings, but could not,
at once, recall what they were; as I approached them,
I saw, among the long, drooping leaves, some very large
three-sided things; and thinking it possible they might be
good to eat, I threw stones at them, till I knocked one
down. It was nearly as large as my head, covered
with a husk that was tough, and full of fibres, and came
off with difficulty ; but what was my joy and delight,
when I discovered, by the inside shell, that it was a
cocoa-nut! I had often seen and tasted cocoa-nuts
in England; but I had never seen one with the
husk on, which was the reason I did not know what
this was, as soon as I saw it. I quickly broke the shell
on a stone, drank off the delicious milk it contained, and
then devoured the kernel. One did not satisfy me,
half-starved as I was; so I knocked down a second, and
ate that as voraciously as the first. While I was thus
satisfying my appetite, my eyes filled with tears of joy
and gratitude, for this new relief in my distress; and I
felt, more sensibly than ever, that I ought not to despair,
but to do the best I could in the present moment, and
remain unconcerned about my future subsistence.
I had seen sketches of trees like these, in some books
of travels; but they were called palm trees; and the
pictures gave me such a poor idea of them, and how
they actually looked, that I was now very much struck
with their grand appearance and singular way of grow-
ing. Though I thought it likely there were more cocoa-
nut trees, on the island, I marked the spot where this
cluster of them stood; and, taking with me one of the
broken nut-shells for a drinking-cup, I continued my
way to the beach.
The tide had receded, a considerable distance; but I
could only find a few oysters and limpets, not enough
to make a meal of, which made me doubly glad that
I had found the cocoa-nuts. I had the prudence not
to eat the oysters I now picked up, but saved them for
my next meal.
I found some fragments of the boat, that had been
dashed to pieces on the rocks the day before, and a
couple of oars that had been washed ashore; but none
of the bodies of my shipmates. The oars and frag-
ments of the boat, I carefully collected, and carried,
with my oysters, to the shady valley of the brook,
where I meant to pass the night in the same tree I had
already lodged in.
Being now relieved from the fear of immediate dan-
ger from savages or wild beasts, as I had seen no tra-
ces of either during my day's journey, I began to feel
something like security in the pleasant retreat I had
found by the brook. Seating myself on a grassy bank,
I tried to plan some kind of habitation ; but the total
want of tools seemed to render it impossible for me to
do any thing. If I had had a spade, or an axe, or a
knife, or any iron tool, I could have contrived many
things for my comfort and security ; but without any of
these implements, what could be done! Careful, as
sailors generally are, to have their jack-knives tied to a
button-hole, I had been so unfortunate as to lose mine,
just after the wreck of the Neptune. I had two more
knives in my chest, but that went down with the ship.
All the while I was on board the Santa Maria, I was very
much incommoded by the want of a knife; but I little
thought it would soon prove the most serious loss I ev-
er met with. I had reason, now, to regret my knife
more than I can express; every plan, that came into
my head, for bettering my situation, failed for want of
it; and I went to my tree for the night, very much de-
pressed in spirits by the helplessness of my condition.
CHAPTER V.
SECOND EXCURSION—A TERRACE AND CAVE DISCOVERED
ENLARGING THE CAVE A WILLOW HEDGE — ROPE
LADDER SUNDAY — AN ALMANAC—A FLAG.
MY position in the tree, though improved by placing a
piece of plank among the branches, was not comfortable
enough to make me sleep after day-light; I therefore
made an early breakfast of the oysters, I had collected the
evening before, and set off on a long walk, resolved to see
as much as I could of the island, before the noon-day sun
should make it oppressively warm. I found the coun*-
try beautifully undulated, plentifully watered, and filled
with a great variety of vegetable productions. I looked
earnestly at every plant and tree, as I went along, in
hopes of discovering something that I might safely eat;
but every thing looked strange to me, except a water
plant, which so resembled the water-cress of England,
that I ventured to taste it; and, finding the flavor the
same, I ate a good deal of it, and relished it well. I
regretted, at every step, that I knew nothing of botany;
and remembered with shame and sorrow, that I used to
laugh at a boy of my acquaintance, for studying it, and
trying to understand the nature of different plants that
he found growing wild in the fields. "O that I had
done the same," exclaimed I, "and then I might find
some wholesome food among these numerous weeds,
and distinguish those which are poisonous, from those
which are good to eat." Though I knew nothing of
botany, my habit of observing every thing that I saw
done, enabled me to make one valuable discovery dur-
ing my walk.
Happening to pluck up some long stalks of a plant,
resembling a nettle, that grew in my way, I observed
that they were composed of numerous fibres, so tough
that I could hardly break them; and, recollecting to
have seen hemp dressed, I thought this looked a good
deal like it, only smaller; so I gathered a large bundle
of it, tied it up with some of the stalks, and slung it over
my shoulder, that I might try, at my leisure, if it could
be made into cordage.
The chief object of my excursion was, to look for
some hollow among the rocks, or natural cave in the
earth, where I might sleep in safety, instead of perching,
like a bird, in a tree. I wished to fix on some spot,
which should be shaded from the noon-day sun, and
yet high enough to command a view of the ocean ; for
to that I looked continually, in the hope of discovering
a vessel near enough for some communication by signal.
4*
I thought so much of being taken off, that I could not
bear to be out of sight of the ocean, even for a few
hours at a time. Vain hope ! idle expectation! how
long and how fondly indulged!
After wandering about, for several hours, among the
wo od and hills on the same side of the island where I
first landed, I found a smooth, grassy terrace, on the
south side of a steep, rocky hill ; it looked as if a piece
of the hill had been cut out, to make this level spot, and
the rocks rose up behind it, as steep as the side of a
house; so that it was perfectly protected on the north.
This terrace was about two hundred paces long, and
twenty broad; and from the front edge of it, the land
sloped gently down to the low ground near the beach.
There were large fragments of rock scattered over
it, as if by some great convulsion of the earth in ages
past; and small clusters of trees dotted the terrace,
very ornamentally. Numerous shrubs and plants grew
among the rocks that bounded it on the north, and it
looked as if it were made for the site of a romantic cot-
tage. No situation could have suited me better, if I had
had the means of building myself any kind of hut; but,
as I could not make a shelter for myself without tools, I was obliged to look for one ready made, in the earth,
or among the rocks, as animals do. Being very warm
and thirsty from my walk, I searched about for a spring
of water; and, in so doing, discovered a small, hollow
place in the steep side of the hill. This, enlarged a lit-
tle, would be exactly what I wanted ; but how to make
it big enough to sleep in, without a pick-axe, spade,
shovel, or any iron tool, was the grand difficulty. I de-
termined, however, not to give up so fine a situation,
without exerting all my ingenuity to adapt it to my pur-
pose; and I was still more encouraged to undertake it,
when I perceived, at a small distance, a beautiful, clear
stream of water, trickling out of a crevice in the rock.
The more I observed the advantages of this remarkable
spot, the more determined I was to make it my resi-
dence ; and though I had nothing but my hands to work
with, I resolved to scoop out the earth with them, rath-
er than give up sleeping in the cave.
Having refreshed myself by a good draught of water,
I made the best of my way back to the sea-side. This
I now reached by a much shorter route, than I had tak-
en in discovering the terrace. I hastened back, that I
might gather shell-fish while the tide was low; and in
this I was more successful than before. While wan-
dering over the beach, I found a very large, strong shell,
with a sharp edge to it, which I thought would serve
me instead of a spade, and answer much better than my
hands had done, to scoop the earth out from the little
cave. With the aid of this tool, I hoped to make it
large enough to sleep in that night.
When I had satisfied my appetite, I carried my bun-
dle of nettles, and the large shell, to the side of the
brook, and there I tied up the plant in small
bunches, and put it in the water to rot the woody part of
the stalk, a process I had seen adopted with regard to
hemp. By the time that was done, I was so tired, that I
lay down on the green bank to rest myself; and before
I was aware of it, I fell fast asleep. My position was so
much more comfortable, than when perched in the tree,
that I was more refreshed by that hour's nap, than by
any sleep I had had for many nights. As wild beasts
generally sleep during the heat of the day, I thought it
would be advisable for me always to take a nap on the
grass at noon.
When I awoke, I hastened by the shortest way to the
terrace; and, carrying the great shell with me, began to
work most industriously at enlarging the cave. By pa-
tiently removing a little earth and few stones at a time, I
made some progress; but it was so much slower than I
expected, that I was obliged to give up all thoughts of
sleeping there that night. It also occurred to me, that
it would not be safe to lodge there, without some means
of defending the entrance; for though it was well guard-
ed by the high rock at the back, there was nothing in
front of the terrace to keep off savages or wild beasts.
The cave, when made large enough to sleep in, would
be too contracted if the entrance were closed up entire-
ly; it was therefore necessary to contrive some bar-
rier, that would protect me while the mouth of the
cave was left open. I was greatly puzzled to think of
any kind of defence, which it was in my power to make;
but, by reflecting upon it all the while I was digging out
the cave, this way of doing it came at last into my head.
I had seen a great many young willow trees at the
foot of the hill, which I knew could be easily transplant-
ed, as their roots do not grow deep in the earth; I
therefore resolved to pull up a number of them, and
plant them close together, in a serai-circle, round the
entrance of the cave. They would be some protection
at once, and when they grew larger and fixed them-
selves in the earth, they would make a very effectual
barrier.
I returned to my tree that night, after a hard day's
work, but more comforted and cheerful than I had been
since my shipwreck. I longed to stretch my tired
limbs, at full length on the grass, but the fear of wild
animals, roaring about in search of prey, sent me to my
tree for the night.
For many days, I devoted myself to digging out my
cave and transplanting trees; and though the want of
proper tools made it very laborious, I persevered, and
succeeded beyond my expectations. While thus occu-
pied, I dined every day on shell-fish, and breakfasted
and supped on cocoa-nuts and water-cresses. I in-
dulged myself too with an afternoon nap on the grassy
bank, by the side of the brook, whose murmuring sound
lulled me to sleep.
One day, thinking the nettles might have lain long
enough for the woody part to separate easily, I took
them out of the water, and spread them in thin layers
on the grass to dry ; I next pounded them with a large
stick, as I had seen flax pounded ; and succeeded per-
fectly in freeing the fibres from the stem. They were of
a good length, and could be twisted into pack-thread.
Much pleased with the success of this experiment, I
went on twisting and doubling the string, till I made
some very strong cord. It was not quite so even
as that made by rope-makers, for I had no wheel to
twist the threads, nor a second person to assist me; but
rough and clumsy as it was, it soon proved of great ser-
vice to me.
I went on with my work very diligently ; and planted
tree after tree, until I formed a complete semi-circle
round the cave. But as a single row of such saplings,
did not seem sufficient, I spared no pains, but planted a
second row, outside of the first. I then interwove the
branches of the two rows together, and at last hit upon
the plan of filling up the space between with the earth
and stones I was removing from the cave. This made
the barrier very strong. Every morning and evening
I watered my little hedge ; but this was a tedious pro-
cess, as I had nothing bigger than a cocoa-nut shell to
carry the water in. I was however rewarded for all my
labor by seeing the willows alive and growing after their
removal.
My plan was to make no opening in the hedge, lest I
should not be able to secure it firmly if attacked ; so,
when I had nearly completed it, I spent a whole day in
making a rope ladder out of my cordage. The rock,
behind the cave, was about as high as the second story
of a house ; and on the top of it was a tree. To this I
fastened one end of the ladder, and fixed the other to
the ground, beside the cave, by means of stakes driven
in firmly. I then tried to mount by it, and finding I
could go up and down very safely I completed the bar-
rier, and piled up, on the inside of it, the rest of the
rubbish taken from the cave.
When I had worked a little longer at enlarging my
cave, I came to hard points of rock that I could not pos-
sibly remove with my hands or shell. O how I longed
for an iron crow! but as I knew that wishing was of no
use, I tried to think of something that might answer the
purpose. I remembered seeing, on the beach, some hard,
green stones scattered about; and on examining them I
found one, the sight of which made my heart leap for joy.
It was nearly in the form of a wedge, with a very sharp
edge to it. Searching further I found another that was
equally well fitted for my purpose. It was very thick
and heavy at one end, while at the other it was small
and easily grasped; so that I could use it as a mallet
or hammer.
Delighted with my new tools, I set to work with them
immediately. I applied the sharp edge of the wedge
to the rock, and striking it with the mallet, I broke off a
large piece. In this way I cleared the cave of all the
sharp projecting rocks inside of it ; and made it large
enough for me to lie at ease, and be at some distance
from the mouth.
I had before plucked up with my hands a quantity of
grass, and dried it in the sun; this hay I now threw
down from above into the enclosure, and made a most
comfortable bed of it at the back part of my new lodg-
ing-room.
From this time, I was able to sleep on a dry, soft,
sweet-scented bed, sheltered from wind, rain, and sun.
Those who have always been able to stretch their
weary limbs on a good bed, in a secure place, can hard-
ly imagine how delighted I was with my rude accommo-
dations ; their being obtained too by my own industry
and ingenuity, gave me a sense of self-approbation that
I cannot describe. I went to sleep that night, feeling
happier than I could have thought it possible for me to
be on this uninhabited island.
The following day was Sunday. I remembered it
as soon as I awoke. I recollected too that I had always
been in the habit of putting on clean linen on the sab-
bath; but now I had no clothes of any kind, except
those I had worn so long. I determined, however, to
make myself as clean as I could ; so I bathed in the
brook, and left my shirt to soak in the stream, tied by
its sleeves to a bush.
On my way back to my new habitation, I gathered
47
cocoa-nuts enough to last all day; and then rested
from all my labors, and spent the day in serious medita-
tion, devout prayer, and tender recollections of my far-
distant home, and the dear friends whom I feared I
should never see more.
As I was counting over the number of days that I had
been on the island, and trying to remember on what day
of the month I was wrecked, it occurred to me that I
should soon lose all knowledge how time passed, if I
did not mark the days, as they went by. The next
morning, therefore, I set. to work to make myself an
almanac, by which I could count the days regularly.
Having no paper, pens, or ink, or any thing on which
I could write, I chose one of several trees, that stood
close together and had very smooth bark; on this I
made a scratch, with the edge of a shell, for every day
I had been on the island, and a longer scratch for
Sunday.
When this was accomplished, I considered the impor-
tance of having some kind of signal put up, to give no-
tice, if a vessel should happen to pass by, that there
was somebody on the island who needed assistance. I
could easily find a tree, for a flag-staff; but what to
make use of for a flag puzzled me extremely. At last,
I made up my mind to give up my only shirt for the
purpose ; "I have but one," said I to myself; "it can-
not last long, and when in rags I must do without it;
so I had better give it up at once, and use it in the only
way in which it can possibly do me any great service.
If it should make a vessel stop and take me off this desert
island, it will certainly be the best use I can put it to."
Thus resolved, I washed my old shirt in the brook,
made it look as white as I could, and left it to dry in
the sun, while I explored the hills on the south side of
the island, and searched for a tall, straight tree that could
be converted into a flag-staff by stripping it of its
branches.
On a point of land, higher than the hill on which I
lived, and more to the eastward, I found a solitary tree,
with a straight trunk, that would serve my purpose
extremely well, if I could get the branches off, and so
make it look enough like the work of man, to attract the
attention of a sailor; but without any iron tools, this
seemed impossible. I resolved, however, to try my
wedge and mallet; and, by very great patience and
perseverance, I succeeded in removing a good many of
the upper branches. Finding it such slow work, I con-
cluded to leave the larger boughs below, and fasten
my shirt, to the top of the bare stem above; and after
two days' hard labor, I had the satisfaction of seeing my
flag flying in the air, well secured, and sufficiently con-
spicuous.
The high point of land, on which I had placed it, I
called Signal Hill ; it is in sight from the ground above
my cave, and commands a more extensive prospect,
than the hill under which I live, and to which I have
given the name of Fort Hill, from my fortifications on
its side.
CHAPTER VI.
PREPARATIONS FOR A THIRD EXCURSION LAMAS — CURI-
OUS COOKERY—ATHUNDER STORM.
I HAD now eaten up most of the cocoa-nuts that grew
on the only trees of the kind which I had yet seen; and
the shore furnished me with such a scanty supply of shell-fish, that I began to be uneasy about getting food
enough to keep me from starving.
I had been so constantly employed in making a safe
retreat to sleep in, that I had explored only a small part
of the island; but now I determined to travel over it,
and seek for more cocoa-nuts, and other articles of food.
Being considerably weakened by the hard fare to
which I had been exposed, since I was wrecked, and for
some time before, I found the noon-day sun very op-
pressive; and having no hat to shelter my head from its
ardent rays, I spent half a day in making an umbrella,
to shade me on my intended journey. I had neither
silk nor whalebone; nor had I a knife or scissors, sew-
ing-thread or needle; yet I contrived to make some-
thing that answered all the purpose of a large parasol.
I found a kind of willow, the branches of which were
very slender and pliable; with these, I wove a circular
piece of wicker-tvork, like the cover of a round basket;
to the hollow side, I fastened a stick, and made it firm
by tying it with pack-thread. Then from a young palm
tree, whose top I could reach by a little climbing, I
gathered some large leaves, with which I covered the
outside of my wicker-work. Thus I contrived to make
a screen for my head, which the sun's rays could not
penetrate; and I was as much pleased with this basket-
work umbrella, as ever any little girl was with a new
silk parasol.
The rest of the day I employed in making a bag to
hold any provisions I might be so happy as to find in
my excursion; and having a good stock of pack-thread
by me, I thought I would net one with that. I took a
piece of reed, that grew in the marshy ground near the
sea, to form the meshes on; and fastened the end of the
string to a smooth twig six inches in length, for a needle;
and though it was very inconvenient to net with a long
string hanging about, instead of being wound up, as it is
on a proper netting-needle, yet, as I was an expert netter,
I managed with it; and before night, I had a good-sized
bag, with a string in the top, by which I could hang it
round my neck.
Having thus completed the preparations for my jour-
ney, I went to bed, slept well, and rose as soon as the
first rays of light made their way into my apartment. I
tied a large cord round my waist; into which I stuck
my stone mallet, and with my bag and umbrella I began
my day's march. I went first to the beach and break-
fasted on what I could find there; then to the group of
5
cocoa-nut trees, to furnish my bag with a nut, that I
might have something to eat at noon, if my morning's
walk should not lead me to a new stock of provisions.
The morning was delightful; the sun was rising in all
his glory, and appeared to ascend out of the sea. A
variety of birds were singing their morning songs, and
rejoicing at the return of light; the air was pure and re-
freshing, and the plants and flowering shrubs gave out
the sweetest scents. I walked cheerfully forward, on
my tour of discovery; but, as I was not yet assured
that the island did not contain beasts of prey or sava-
ges, I avoided, as much as possible, all forests and thick-
ets; and kept, as much as I could, on open ground,
which allowed of my looking around me. Unfortu-
nately, those high, open places were the barrenest spots
on the whole island, so that I walked a long way without
meeting with any thing that could repay me for my
trouble. Seeing some pretty flowers, that resembled
the convolvulus, and reminded me forcibly of my own
garden, in dear, distant England, I gathered several;
and, in pulling at the vine, I happened to pluck up the
roots; they looked a little like potatoes, and thinking
they might be eatable, I put a couple of them in my bag
with the flowers.
After wandering about all the forenoon, I felt the
want of food and rest; and having just arrived on the
banks of a pretty rivulet, I sat down under the shade of
a fine branching tree, with leaves like a laurel, to eat
the cocoa-nut I had brought with me. I had just begun
my repast, when, all at once, I heard a noise like the
trampling of many animals. I started up on my feet,
and seizing my stone mallet, and holding my umbrella
before me as a shield, I prepared to defend myself
against the attack of some wild beasts. I soon saw a
troop of four-legged creatures coming towards me ; but
my alarm was turned at once to joy, on perceiving them
to be that most harmless and useful of animals, the lama
or Peruvian camel.
They trotted by, without appearing to see me, and
pursued their way to the rivulet, where I suppose they
were accustomed to drink. I watched their movements
unobserved. I had once seen a lama, in a collection of
wild beasts exhibited at York, and remembered read-
ing an account of the Peruvians taming them, and using
them as beasts of burden, just as Europeans do mules
and horses. I knew too that warm, soft clothing was
made from their hair or wool, and that their flesh was
excellent food. This thought brought with it a strong
desire to taste a piece of meat, which I had not done
for so long a time; and I determined to kill one of them,
if I could. For this purpose, I placed myself close to
the spot by which they had passed, partly hid behind a
tree, with my mallet in my hand, and waited their re-
turn from the rivulet. A young one happening to come
very near my place of concealment, I gave it such a
stroke on the back of its neck, as laid it dead at my feet
in a moment.
I never remembered, till I had killed the lama, that I
had no fire to dress it by, nor the means of lighting one.
I had no flint, steel, matches, or tinder; and though I could strike fire with two hard stones, I could make no
use of the spark, without some kind of tinder; and how
to procure that, I was entirely at a loss. I had read of
savages rubbing two dry sticks together till they take
fire; and the moment I recollected that, I was satisfied
I could do the same, and therefore promised myself a
good meal of cooked meat that evening. *
Having rested sufficiently, and eaten a cocoa-nut, I
prepared to carry home my dead game. If I could
have opened the body, as hunters do, and got rid of its
contents, my load would have been much lighter; but
the want of a knife, or any sharp instrument, made that
impossible; so I threw the whole carcass over my shoul-
der, and turned my steps homeward.
On my way, I made another agreeable discovery, and
that was, of a group of lemon trees; they had fruit and
blossoms on them, and some ripe lemons had fallen to
the ground; these I picked up and put in my bag. Af-
ter a long and warm walk, I reached the terrace with
my various acquisitions. My eagerness to eat a bit of
meat made me set to work directly to skin the lama.
But this I found impossible, with such a poor tool
as a stone wedge. After pulling and hacking away
at it for some time, I was obliged to content myself
with the tongue, which I succeeded in pulling out whole;
and I could not help smacking my lips, at the thought
of eating such a delicate morsel, as I knew that would
be, when cooked. I next set to work to kindle a fire
by rubbing two pieces of dry wood together, and ex-
pected to see it light at once. I rubbed so briskly that
the sweat ran down my face in large drops, but I could
not raise a spark; for when the wood was heated enough
to smoke, I was so tired I could not rub a moment lon-
ger. While I stopped to rest and recover my breath,
the wood cooled, and all my labor was lost. I worked
away in this manner a long time, and tried many differ-
ent kinds of wood, but all to no purpose. I could never
do more than make the wood smoke a little. At last I
gave up in despair, threw away my sticks, and lay down
on the grass exhausted and disappointed. 1 indulged in
many sad thoughts, and mourned bitterly over my lonely
condition. "If I only had a companion," said I to my-
self, " he could rub when I was tired, and we should
soon procure fire; but alone here, I am worse off than
the savages."
After some time spent in these mournful reflections,
hunger made me think of eating the meat raw; but on
trying it I found it so tough, I could hardly bite it, and
the taste was so unlike that of cooked meat, that I could
not relish it at all; and I went to my cave for the night,
feeling very hungry and tired and melancholy. Sleep,
however, soon came to my relief, and I forgot my
troubles for a while.
The first thing I thought of, on awaking the next
morning, was the flesh of the lama, which only wanted
a fire to make it delicious food. As I lay reflecting up-
on it, and trying to remember how savage nations cook
their meat, or prepare it without the use of fire, I recol-
lected having read an account of the Tartars putting
the meat, they mean to eat, under their saddles, and
cooking it by the heat of the horse's body, as they ride
along; this heat, I said to myself, may be given to the
meat in another way, as well as by the horse's back; so
up I jumped and began a new experiment in cookery.
I found two pieces of thin, flat stone; between them I
placed the lama's tongue, and began to strike upon the
upper stone with my mallet. These blows I continued,
without intermission, for eight or ten minutes; and feel-
ing the stone grow hot, I went on striking it with re-
doubled activity for half an hour or more. By that
time, the meat had become, partly by the heat and part-
ly by the blows, quite tender and fit to eat; and to one,
who had not eaten any animal food for such a length
of time, it tasted very well. I was so hungry that the
lama's tongue did not half satisfy me; so I made great
exertions to pull off a part of the skin, and get a piece
of the flesh to cook in the same manner; and at last I
succeeded. I made this still more palatable, by squeez-
ing a little lemon juice over it; and the excellent meal
I now made, repaid me for all my labor. I ate it with
a thankful heart, and was greatly refreshed and strength-
ened by it.
I could not help feeling sad, when I reflected on the
helplessness occasioned by the want of a common pock-
et knife; with that, I could have skinned the lama, and
saved the skin whole for various purposes. I could
have eaten my meat, too, much more comfortably, with
a knife to cut it, instead of tearing it to pieces with my
fingers and teeth, as I had been obliged to do. I turn-
ed my mind from these vain regrets, by thinking over
all I had read about the lama, and then a thought occur-
red to me which proved a most happy one. It struck
me that, as the lamas suckle their young, they must have
milk; and if I could catch one of the mothers alive, I
could use her milk as food, and have the pleasure of her
company too. Delighted with this idea, I was revolving
5*
in my mind the best way to catch one, when a violent
shower of rain obliged me to shelter myself in the cave.
It was the first shower that had fallen since I was cast
upon the island; and though heavy dews and fogs had
partly supplied the place of rain, and prevented the
earth's being very much parched, I welcomed the show-
er, anticipating the pleasure of walking out after it was
over, and enjoying the freshness of every thing that had
been washed by it.
The rain became heavier every moment, till it seemed
to run in streams from the clouds, rather than to fall in
drops. I had never seen such rain before, but I had
read of its being common in the West Indies. Pres-
ently it began to thunder and lighten violently. At each
flash the cave seemed illuminated, and after each blaze
of light there came such loud claps of thunder, as I had
never before heard.
I knew how useful storms are in clearing the air, and
that men and animals, trees and plants, are refreshed and
invigorated by them; therefore I was not sorry to see
one. I rejoiced that I had a cave to shelter me from
the rain, and only feared that my barrier might be un-
dermined by the floods of water that came down on all
all sides. I kept my eyes fixed upon it with some anx-
iety, and was very sorry to see some of the earth and
stones washed away; but it happened very fortunately,
that there was one weak place, in this barrier, at which
the rain found a passage; for otherwise, it would have
collected inside, till the quantity of water would have
been so great, as to carry away all my works of defence
at once. As it was, it made an opening for itself, and
ran off harmlessly.
The rain continued so long, that I was obliged to give
up all thoughts of making any excursion that day; but
as I sat in my cave, contemplating my barrier and the
breach made in it by the rain, I resolved not to close it
up entirely, as before, but to leave a space to pass in
and out, and secure it at night as well as I could. Nev-
er having had any alarm, from man or beast, since I had
been on the island, I began to think so much precaution
unnecessary. Also the convenience of a passage in and
out would be very great, and save my climbing the ladder
so often, and running round the hill to my terrace. In
the evening I made my gateway, and secured it with the
two oars I had, till I could get something better. Then
I went to bed, full of schemes for catching lamas with
nooses, as the Peruvians do wild horses, and dreamt all
night that I was in the midst of lamas, and horses, and
Peruvians.
CHAPTER VII.
CATCHING A LAMA ALIVE — THE CAPTIVE LAMA — EFFORTS
TO GET A FIRE NEW RESOURCES.
FULL of my new schemes, for catching lamas alive, I
rose with the sun, and began my preparations for break-
fasting on another piece of meat, cooked between stones,
as before; but the remaining flesh of the lama was spoil-
ed, the weather being extremely sultry when I killed it.
So I buried it, at a distance from my cave, and went to
the beach in search of other food. There I found, in
the crevices of the rocks, some large, round balls, that
looked like eggs, having soft shells resembling parch-
ment. Supposing them to be the production of some
large sea-fowl, I sucked one of them, found it palatable
food, and made a very good breakfast in spite of my
disappointment about the meat. I then prepared a
noose in such a manner, that it should not choke the
lama, but'only draw up to the size of its neck; and
throwing the rope over my shoulder, I marched off, ac-
coutred as before. The country was greatly improved
by the rain; all the vegetable world seemed clad in new
beauty, and the birds sang over my head more merrily
than ever. I now penetrated into the island by new
paths, and much more beautiful ones than I had before
Seen. I crossed some very pretty valleys, abounding in
shrubs and flowers, berries and other kinds of fruits.
Some of these resembled a little the fruits I had been
accustomed to, in my own country, but most of them
were such as I had never before seen. The fear of
being poisoned could not restrain me from the tempting
banquet spread before me by the hand of nature, and I
ate without injury of several of the fruits.
Before the sun had reached the highest point of his
course, I had crossed the range of hills that run nearly
east and west (on the south side of which I live), and
penetrated several miles into the country, without seeing
any living creature except birds, or discovering the least
trace of any human being. I began to fear that, in
changing my course, I should miss of the lamas alto-
gether; but being weary with my long walk and the
heat of the day, I resolved to rest myself at the first
shady place I should find. Seeing a winding river at a
little distance, I walked that way, and presently came to
a beautiful, wooded spot on its banks. From childhood
I had always admired and loved fine scenery, and this
taste was now a source of great pleasure to me. I laid
myself down on a smooth, grassy bank, and forgot for a
while my unhappy situation, in contemplating the beau-
ties of nature around me. But I never remained long
unemployed without having painful thoughts, and my
mind soon turned to the dear friends and sweet home
that were so far off; my tears began to flow, and there
is no knowing how long I might have indulged in un-
profitable sorrow, had not the well remembered sound
of the lamas' footsteps roused me to action.
I jumped up, and had just time to place myself be-
hind a large tree, and adjust my noose properly, before
they appeared. I fixed my eye upon a mother with
two young ones following her; and as she moved gently
by my place of concealment, I had no difficulty in throw-
ing the loop over her head. The bound she gave on feel-
ing the rope touch her, drew it close round her throat,
and had well nigh pulled the end of it out of my hand.
Perceiving that her struggles would soon free her from
my hold, I made the end of the rope fast by giving it
a turn round the trunk of a small tree. Thus secured,
she jumped and pulled in vain, till she tired herself out.
The young ones played many pranks about her, wonder-
ing, no doubt, what ailed their poor mother. I sympa-
thized so much with her unwillingness to be made a cap-
tive, that I had serious thoughts of letting her go; but at
length I yielded to reason. Knowing how useful she
would be to me, and that she would, in time, be recon-
ciled to captivity, I resolved to lead her home if I could.
I might have caught as many as I pleased, for my
presence did not alarm them in the least; they passed
by me as unconcerned, as if I were a tree or a stone.
This should have satisfied me that the island was unin-
habited; for whenever the power of man has been felt,
his approach is feared by all inferior animals.
The flock of lamas drank at the river, and then trot-
ted off again into the woods; and when I thought my prisoner was sufficiently exhausted to be manageable, I
began to lead her to her future home, while her kids
followed close after us.
At first she stepped along very quietly, and I began
to think I should have no more difficulty with her; but
she soon undeceived me, and began such a set of capers
that I was obliged to throw away my umbrella, and then,
with both hands, I could but just keep hold of the cord.
Sometimes she showed her anger by stamping on the
ground with her fore feet; then she would bound as
high as my head, and draw me along with such force as
nearly threw me down; now and then she would stand
entirely still, and fix her Jarge, dark eyes upon me, lay
back her ears, and spit in my face, I had seen an ani-
mal of this kind do the same thing before at a show of
wild beasts, or I might have supposed it a peculiar mark
of scorn and indignation at my treatment of her.
Occasionally she would allow me to lead her along
for some distance; but, at intervals during the whole
route, she was very refractory; and I was so worn out
with the exertions I had made, that when I reached my
terrace, I could only tie her to a tree, and go at once to
my soft bed of hay, where falling asleep directly, my
whole night's rest seemed like one short nap.
I well remember that my first sensation on awaking
was hunger, for I had eaten nothing for twenty-four
hours but the eggs that I found on the rocks, and some
wild fruits gathered on my long walk; and this was a
spare diet for one who had taken so much exercise. I
rose, determined to kill one kid for present use, and by
so doing secure to myself a part of the mother's milk;
but when I joined my new companions, and saw the
pretty gambols and joyous faces of the young ones, and
the subdued appearance of their captive mother, I could
not bring myself to take the life of either. I tried, how-
ever, to get some milk from the old one, but in vain; so
I supposed the rightful claimants, the kids, had been be-
forehand with me, and left nothing for their new master.
But I afterwards found that the lama withheld her milk
at pleasure; and it was not till she became tame, that I
could get a drop from her.
I went to the beach for a breakfast, and found more
of the same kind of eggs, and plenty of oysters; both
good kinds of food to eat raw. I was now convinced
that there was no danger of my starving to death, while
I had strength and health to obtain and eat the raw vi-
ands within my reach; but still I foresaw many acci-
dents, that might happen, to cut off these resources. I
strongly desired, therefore, to have a stock of vegetables
and fruits near my cave, together with a flock of lamas,
and a fire to cook with. As I had already done more
towards making my situation tolerable, than I had at first
thought possible for a man to do alone and without tools,
I resolved not to despair of effecting a great deal more.
I now turned all my thoughts to the invention of some
method for obtaining a fire. I tried to make tinder of
dried leaves and decayed wood, and the ravelings of my
cotton stockings ; but none of these would take fire
from the sparks produced by striking together two pie-
ces of quartz; again and again I lamented my igno-
rance of the substance called spunk, used by the sailors
to light their cigars with. I remembered perfectly how
it looked, and thought from its appearance it must be a
marine plant. I therefore spent many hours looking for
it among the rocks and sea weed; but all in vain. At
last, as I was one day in a thick wood looking for cocoa-
nuts, I seated myself under the shade of a fine branch-
ing tree of a kind unknown to me; and, upon exam-
ining its bark, I saw, growing out of it, a fungus that
looked so exactly like spunk, I could not doubt that it
was the very thing I had been in search of. As I al-
ways carried two stones in my pocket that would strike
fire, I made the experiment at once ; but alas! without
success; every spark fell lifeless on the fungus. I was
disappointed, but not discouraged; it came into my
head that it might require to be dried before it was used.
I therefore looked about, to find some that had been
severed from the tree long enough to dry, or for a dead
tree, on which it might have grown and died with its
parent stem. The latter soon presented itself, and my
heart beat perceptibly quicker, as I struck the stones
together over this dry fungus, and found to my great joy
that it kindled immediately. With the lighted spunk, I
set fire to some dry leaves and broken twigs, that lay
about, and delighted my eyes with the sight of a blaze,
that I might fully realize the certainty that I possessed
that "best of servants, and worst of masters " — a fire.
As I had nothing with me to cook, I suffered the fire
to burn out; but collected, very carefully, all the spunk
I could find, and carried it home. Having no meat in
my possession, and my three lamas being now such
pets that I could not bear to kill one of them, I went
to the beach for something to cook ; intending, if I found nothing else, to gather some oysters and roast
them.
As I reached the sands, I saw something on them like
a large roundish stone, where I had never remarked one
before; on approaching it, I perceived that it moved on
four legs; and when I overtook it, I found it to be a kind
of turtle, though not exactly like the green turtles, that
are brought to England from the West Indies.
I quickly stopped its march toward the sea, by turn-
ing it over on its back, which made it quite helpless.
Then, following its track to the place it had just come from,
on the sands, I found, lightly covered, a large deposit of
the soft eggs, which I had eaten for birds' eggs, but
which, I was now convinced, belonged to this creature.
Having my bag by my side, I put several of them in
it, with pea-weed between, to prevent their breaking;
and then took the turtle on my shoulder, and walked
back to my terrace. I thought he weighed a good ma-
ny pounds, when I first lifted him up; and before I
reached home, his weight seemed doubled. I had
scarcely strength to ascend the terrace with him on my
shoulder, so much was I weakened by the want of nour-
ishing food, properly cooked.
From descriptions I had read of a kind of turtle or
tortoise, found in some of the South Sea islands, and
called terrapin, I knew this must be of the same kind,
and if so, very good to eat; I was therefore determined
to kill him at once, and dress some of the meat. But
this was easier said than done; for he had drawn his
head into his shell, and covered it so closely with his
hard, scaly legs, that it was impossible to get at it. His
legs, when drawn up, presented a tough, hard substance,
that just filled up the interstices of his shell; and made
him as invulnerable as a knight in complete armour. I
rolled him over and over, and tried every means I
could think of, to make him alter his position; but all in
vain. There he remained, immoveably closed up ; well
knowing that his safety depended on his being perfectly
passive.
This was a most tantalizing situation for a hungry
man like me; if I had possessed a hatchet, I should
quickly have divided his upper from his lower shell; but
how to do that with my stone wedge and mallet I did
not know. Disliking, however, to mangle the poor crea-
ture without killing him at once, I determined to make a
fire and roast my eggs, and let him alone a while longer.
In rummaging round for materials to light a fire with,
I found the roots which I had gathered long before, and
which belonged to a vine like the convolvulus; these, I
also thought of roasting, and having made a fine cheer-
ful fire, and got a good bed of ashes, I put them and the
eggs into it.
The eggs were done long before the roots, and as my
appetite was very keen, I could not wait for the whole
dinner to be served up at once, but began on the first
dish; and never did any thing taste so well to me. No
one can imagine the luxury of eating cooked victuals,
who has not lived for months on raw provisions, as I
had done. To me these eggs, though of a coarse kind,
and eaten without salt, which they very much needed,
tasted deliciously; and when I reflected on the various
benefits to be derived from fire, my heart overflowed
with gratitude to the Giver of all good gifts, for this great
blessing.
When I had done my dinner, I found my boxed-up
friend had walked off, unobserved, to a considerable
distance; but as soon as I came near him, he shut him-
self up as before; so I put him on his back, within my
enclosure, and left him.
I now set to work to make a fishing-net of the string
I had amused myself with spinning, at various times,
from the fibres of the nettle. I knew I could catch a
variety of fish, which, with the help of fire, would be excellent eating, though quite useless to me without;
and as I lived near the sea, in which they abounded,
they would be a very convenient article of food.
I let my fire burn out, and some hours after with-
drew the roots from the warm ashes, and found them a
most excellent vegetable, in texture like a potatoe, but
much sweeter. Of these and a drink of lama's milk,
obtained for the first time, I made a most luxurious sup-
per; and went to bed, in excellent spirits, and full of
schemes for the future.
6
ADDITIONAL COMFORTS.
CHAPTER VIII.
COMFORTS — ROAST MEAT—THE LAMA LOADED
TALKING — FISHING—STATE OF MIND—ANTICIPATIONS —
PREPARATIONS.
THE first days, which I spent on this island, made
such a deep impression on my mind, that I can remem-
ber precisely what I did each day ; but as week after
week passed away, and I became accustomed to my
situation, I cannot so distinctly recollect the manner in
which my time was employed. Though I know the
order of events, I cannot now tell how many days pass-
ed, after I caught the live lamas, and before I found the
spunk, but I know it was several; and during that time,
there were some little matters, which I have omitted to
put down in their proper place, but which I will now
mention.
Not knowing that lamas have stomachs somewhat
like camels, and that they do not drink often, I thought
it important to have a good watering-place for them; so
I put a large shell under the little stream, that flowed
out of the rock near my cave. This shell was at least
two feet long, and about sixteen inches broad, of an irreg-
ular oval shape, with deep notches in the margin, of a
pink color inside, and highly polished. The constant
flowing of the stream kept it full of water, and made it
run over at all these notches. It had thus a very pretty
effect, and doubly repaid me, by its beauty as well as
usefulness, for the hard tug I had in bringing it from the
beach to my terrace.
About the same time, I made myself a comfortable
seat, under the shade of a tree, near my pretty fountain,
by placing a piece of the plank that was washed ashore
from the wrecked boat, on some stones; and there I fre-
quently sat, to enjoy the company of my dumb compan-
ions, the lamas, which had become quite tame. The
young ones soon followed me about, and put their noses
into my hand, to find if I had any berries for them, as I
often brought home from the woods such as I observed
them to be fond of. By robbing them of a little of their
mother's milk every day, they were soon weaned; and
I had the full benefit of the old one's milk, which I used
to keep in cocoa-nut shells, and drink out of the same.
After I found the spunk, I was very desirous of eating
some roast meat, not only for the sake of its taste, but
because I hoped it would restore my strength, which
was considerably wasted ; so I went into the country
behind the hills, and killed a young lama, and brought
it home on my back. I thought the load would tire
me less than the exertion of leading it home; and, besides,
I knew that if.I brought it home alive, I should be
unwilling to kill it at all.
The pleasure of eating this sort of food was dearly
bought; great was the trouble it cost me, to tear off a
part of the skin, divide the limbs, or get off a piece of
the flesh, without a knife, or edged tool of any sort,
unless my stone wedge may be so called. I was forced
to use my teeth and nails, and pull and tear the flesh
apart, which was so disagreeable to me, that I could
hardly bring myself to do it.
When I had at last succeeded in separating a proper
sized piece to roast, I made a good fire, in a sheltered
nook of the rocks, near my cave. I then took for a
spit a slender branch, and having run it through the meat,
I rested the ends on two forked sticks, stuck into the
ground before the fire. This was all done and the
meat began to scorch, before I remembered that it
ought to be basted with something, or it would burn on
the outside before it was done through. Having seen
my mother's cook use salt and water for this purpose, I
put my meat a little way back from the fire, while I ran
with two cocoa-nut shells, to the sea-side, for some salt
water. When I had brought it to the spot, I found a
dripping-pan was still wanting to complete my means of
cooking ; so, to supply that deficiency, I took my shell
shovel, washed it clean, and placed it under the meat,
while I poured on the salt water ; this soon mixed, in
the shell, with the juices that dropped from the meat,
and made very good dripping.
I made a basting-ladle, by sticking a shell into a slit
in the end of a twig; with this I basted the meat well,
all the time it was roasting. It seemed to me to be a
great while cooking; partly, I suppose, owing to my
impatience, and partly in consequence of the fire not
being enclosed, and there being nothing round the meat
to reflect the heat on the side farthest from the fire, as
the tinned screen does in my mother's kitchen. Consid-
ering my slender preparations, however, I performed the
duties of a cook to my own satisfaction entirely. The
crackling of the wood was music to my ear, and the
sight of the fire delighted me, though its heat made the
sweat run down my face.
At last however, the meat seemed thoroughly done;
and for want of a dish, I took it up in the dripping-pan, or
shell shovel, and placed it on a large, flat rock for a
table. Without a knife, fork, or plate, I was obliged to
use my fingers and eat out of the dish ; but hunger and
necessity will reconcile one to many things ; so I made
light of these inconveniences, and the meat certainly
tasted better than the best dressed dish that was ever
served up to me before. All that was wanting to make
the meal delicious, was bread and salt; those two com-
mon articles of food would now have been to me the
greatest delicacies. The dryest crust, the blackest rye
bread that I ever saw in England, would have been a
treat to me ; and I wondered that I had not valued
bread more when at home. I regretted that I had not
procured more of the excellent roots resembling potatoes
sweetened, and roasted them to eat with my meat; but
that was a luxury reserved for another time. Soon
afterwards, I made a business of gathering a large quan-
tity of those roots; but, as the vine was out of blossom,
and I was not well acquainted with the leaf, I had at
first some difficulty in finding it.
Remembering that the Peruvians use the lama as a
beast of burthen, I determined to try to make mine
useful in that way. It was necessary to have some
contrivance for holding the load on the back of the
lama; so after a good deal of consideration, I thought
of attempting to make some panniers, such as are slung
over the backs of mules, in countries where those animals
carry all the burthens.
I found enough of the proper kind of willow for
wicker-work, growing near the terrace; but I had great
difficulty in getting off twigs enough for my purpose,
as the wood was very tough, and I had nothing to cut it
with. When once I had procured my stock, it was no
trouble to me to weave the panniers; for I learned the
art of basket-making when a boy, and had not forgotten
how to set to work. To be sure, I had never woven
any thing of the shape I now wanted, with one flat side,
to go next the lama; but I succeeded tolerably well,
and made a pair of panniers, that were pretty good
mates, and sufficiently strong and capacious.
These I slung over the back of the lama with a stout
cord; and that this might not hurt her, I put it over a
piece of bark with a stuffing of grass under it, like the
little saddle used in a cart-harness, and made all fast
with a string.
I had for some time accustomed the old lama to be
led about; and as I often took her to graze on the herbs
she liked best, she was always willing to accompany me.
But when I fastened the empty panniers on her back,
she was really frightened, and tried to run away from
them ; to prevent this, I made blinders for her, of bark,
and fastened them on with my cordage. This produced
the desired effect; for, though she was a little uneasy
at first, on feeling something on her back, she was not
alarmed by it. I accustomed her first to a small load,
and then to a heavier one, until by degrees she did all
the work I had occasion for.
With this excellent help, I brought to my cave a good
stock of the sweet potatoes, as I called them; also ber-
ries and fruits and various kinds of nuts, besides cocoa-
6*
nuts, that I found to be palatable food. I even made
her bear one of her own species on her back, when I
had killed it for eating.
I hardly need say that I became very fond of this use-
ful creature, and often contrasted my first walk with her,
through the woods, with the journeys that we now made
together. The kids generally followed in our train, but
were not old enough to share our toils. Wild lamas
would sometimes approach us, when we were out on
these excursions, and show some astonishment at their
sister in harness; but she took very little notice of them,
and seemed perfectly contented with her lot. The kids
would join the herd and sport with them awhile, but
soon left them again, to return to my side, which was a
proof of attachment that pleased me very much.
The affection of these animals was a great comfort to
me in my solitude ; I used to talk to them just as if they
could understand me, and so try to cheat myself into a
belief, that they were more to me than their natures
were capable of. I had another reason for this; I fear-
ed I might forget how to speak, if I did not practise ; and
as I always hoped to be taken off the island by a pass-
ing vessel, I wished to be able to speak intelligibly.
Every Sunday, I used to recite aloud all the hymns and
chapters that I could remember; and having learned a
good many, in my childhood, it kept me spouting for an
hour or more. At other times, I would repeat songs,
tell stories, and narrate my own adventures, for the sake
of practice. Any one who had heard me, and seen me
addressing my lamas as if they were human beings,
would certainly have thought me crazy.
My terrapin became one of my family, and finding I
no longer tried to injure him, he walked about, at his
ease, within my barrier. Occasionally I let him out on
the terrace, when the kids would try to play with him;
but his grave demeanor baffled them, and prevented any
intercourse.
The difficulty of preparing meat for eating made me
live a great deal on fish, and I succeeded very well in
contriving some fishing-tackle. I netted a bag and then
fastened it to a hoop made of a twig bent round; this I
tried to tie to the flat end of an oar, but for want of a
notch in the car, which I had no knife to make, the
string continually slipped off; instead, therefore, of the
oar, I was obliged to get a straight branch of a tree with
a small fork at the end. It was very difficult to sever
even this slender limb from the trunk without any iron
tool, but when I succeeded, it answered the purpose
nicely ; for I could put the hoop into the fork, and tie
each tine to the side of the hoop securely. With this
instrument I often scooped up three or four fine fish at
once, besides crabs, which I found to be excellent food
and easily cooked, for I could roast them in their shell
and eat them out of it. As I had no pot to boil any thing
in, I was obliged to roast all my fish, or cook them in the
ashes.
Procuring and preparing food, with such small means
as I had of doing either, took up a great deal of time;
and every thing spoiled so quickly, in this warm climate,
that I could do little more than provide for each day as it
came. It was, however, very happy for me, that I had
this constant employment; for when I was not obliged to
exert myself, I spent hours in melancholy reverie, with
my eyes fixed on the ocean, hoping to spy out a sail.
During the first month of my solitary life, I was subject
to sudden changes in my feelings. After being very
busy and cheerful for a while, some trifle would re-
mind me of my misfortunes, and throw me into a state
of dejection that would last for hours. When worn out
with vain regrets, I used to turn my mind to God; and
when I lifted up my heavy heart to that ever-present
Friend, my sorrow would gradually subside. The more
I thought on the goodness of my Heavenly Father, the
more I loved him; and with that love, came peace and
comfort to my soul. After experiencing this blessed re-
lief many times, I learned to seek it sooner, and thus my
fits of melancholy became shorter, and returned less fre-
quently; but what I suffered during that first summer
can never be told,%or comprehended by any who have
not been similarly situated.
When I had been on the island six months, by my
reckoning, I found it would be inconvenient to count the
weeks as they became more numerous; and therefore I
added another column to my calendar by taking another
tree and making a notch on that for every four weeks.
But as I hoped to get away before it would be necessa-
ry to count years, I would not make any arrangements
for such a long period.
On first coming here, I found every thing in the beauty
of spring; the vegetable world was putting forth buds
and blossoms in October, just as it does in April and
May, in England; and knowing that, in southern lati-
tudes, the seasons are reversed, I considered that I had
a long summer before me. In this, I was not mistaken.
For many months the weather was fine, though rather
oppressively warm, with occasional thunder storms and
sudden gusts of wind, that blew for a few minutes, or
half an hour, and then were as suddenly over. But
when I had enjoyed this fine weather for six months, I
began to think what sort of change I might expect. The
few cocoa-nut and lemon trees, that I had found, con-
vinced me I need not fear any cold weather; but I had
read of mild climates that were subject to long continu-
ed rains. Thinking that might be the case here, and re-
membering the torrents that fell during a thunder
storm, I determined to provide against such a time as
well as I could.
As I had not yet explored much of the island, or
found out half its resources, I resolved on making an
extensive tour while the fine weather lasted. It will
seem strange that I should not sooner have visited every
part of the small spot of earth to which I was confined;
but several reasons prevented it. My shoes being
soon worn out, my feet blistered, and continued very ten-
der for a long while. Besides this, I always liked to be in
sight of the ocean from the south side of the island; it
increased my sadness togo away from the coast, even for
a few hours. I feared, too, that there were savages on
the other side of the mountains, which divided the north
from the south part of the island, and I dreaded discov-
ering myself to them. These, and many other smaller
circumstances, had hitherto kept me from wandering
far; but now my feet were hardened by use, my fears
were allayed by long continued safety, and I was bent
on making the tour of the island by the coast, as well
as examining the interior. I therefore prepared for an
excursion of several days.
My umbrella was often inconvenient; sol made a cap
of wicker-work, and covered it very thickly with leaves
to defend my head from the sun, and contrived a brim
of leaves, likewise, to shade my eyes and neck. I also
made a pair of smaller panniers and blinders for the
young lamas, and put halters about their necks, and
pack-saddles, of bark and hay, on their backs. Having
trained them for a few days before I set off, and found
them very tractable, I thought I could make them carry
the panniers alternately, and lead the one that was load-
ed, leaving the other at liberty to follow, till her turn
came. I took with me some spare ropes and string, my
stone wedge and mallet, and a cocoa-nut shell for a
drinking-cup, some spunk and stones to strike fire with,
my fishing-net and the bag I wore suspended round my
neck. This was all the treasure I possessed in the way
of implements except my shell shovel, and I resolved
not to leave that behind, fearing I might want it in my
journey. I took a few baked potatoes with me, for pres-
ent use, trusting for a further supply of eatables on the
way; and thus prepared I set forward. But the history
of this excursion deserves a fresh chapter and a new
pen. I have written all the foregoing with the same one,
lest my stock should not hold out; and without mending
it, as I have no penknife.
CHAPTER IX.
DEPARTURE LAND'S END — GORDON VALE — GORDON BAY —
NAIL COVE—MOSQUITO RIVER—A SURPRISE.
AMONG other preparations for my journey, I had
climbed to the top of Signal Hill, to take a survey of the
country, and learn something of the coast, that might
serve to guide me in my course; but objects look so
differently, when viewed from a height, that I was not
much the wiser for my toilsome ascent. I discovered,
however, that the range of hills, on the south side of
which I lived, extended a good way to the eastward,
and that the land seemed to be in the form of a point or
promontory. As I had never been far in that direction,
I resolved to take that course, and, by keeping along at
the foot of the hills, see where it would lead me.
Every thing favored my departure, and I set off in
excellent spirits, on this tour of observation and discov-
ery. I kept as near the coast on my right hand, as I
could without encountering rocks, for I wished to under-
stand the shape of the island and know all its bays and
coves ; while the range of hills on my left was a general
guide.
After walking slowly about three hours, as well as I
could judge by the sun, the hills gradually disappeared,
and I came to a smooth, grassy cape, or ridge of land,
that sloped down to the coast on each side. The her-
bage here was short and sweet, so I let the lamas
graze, while I walked forward far enough to ascertain
that this point of land was really what it seemed. The
waves gently kissed the shore on each side, and the
stillness of the water, far and near, reminded me that it
was justly named the Pacific Ocean. There was not a
cloud in the sky, or a breath of air to be felt; and as
the sun was now pretty high, the heat was oppressive.
Being satisfied that the cape terminated in a rocky point,
and that there was nothing further to be seen, I named
it the "Land's End," after the last corner I saw of old
England, which it somewhat resembles in shape; and
hastened back to my lamas, determined to seek a shady
spot, in which to rest myself and them.
I now followed the coast on the opposite side of the
cape, and soon found myself on the northern side of the
same range of hills. 1 then struck more inland, and
came to a narrow valley, that appeared to extend from
the hills to the coast, and to be full of trees, for I could
see their tops from the high land by which I approached
it; and I did not doubt that I should there find water
as well as shade.
The sound of a mountain stream saluted my ear, as
soon as I began to descend the wooded sides of this val-
ley; but what was my surprise and delight, when, from
a rock a few yards lower down, I beheld the prettiest
water-fall I ever saw!
A considerable stream leaped from a perpendicular
cliff, at the head of this dingle, into a large basin, formed
in the rocks many yards below; and then found its way,
by various romantic windings and lesser falls, to the sea.
The groves, on each side, were free from underwood,
and perfumed the air with their delicious odors. I
was lost in admiration at the great variety and beau-
ty of the trees around me; most of them were such
as I had either never seen, or seen only of a much
smaller size. Here were myrtles and laurels as large as
forest trees, besides lofty palms and numerous pimentos.
From every part of this last tree proceeded a grateful
perfume that filled the air. In an account I once read
of Jamaica, there was a particular description of the
pimento, by which I knew it as soon as I saw and smelt
it; it is much valued there for its seeds, which are used
as spice all over Europe, and called in England allspice,
or Jamaica pepper. The trees were now in fruit;
and I determined to return here when the time came
for gathering the berries, and supply myself with a stock
of spice, to season my food with, instead of salt.
Where the stream ran smoothly along, its banks were
of the most vivid green, interspersed with flowers of
various hues. Such a scene of enchantment I never
before beheld; and I sighed to think, that there was no
human being to admire it with me; no one, to whom I
could say, "How beautiful this is!"
The impatience of my dumb companions to reach a
particular kind of herbage, that grew near the water,
aroused me from my reverie; and I accompanied them
to a part of the stream, where its glassy surface was
unbroken by a ripple ; and no one would have suspected
it to be in rapid motion towards the sea, unless a leaf or
a stick, floating upon it, showed the rate at which it
moved.
Here I unloaded the lamas, and gave them their lib-
erty, while I refreshed myself with some of the older
one's milk, and the roasted potatoes I had brought with
me; and at the same time feasted my eyes on the beau-
ties around me, and thought of my dear native land and
her smiling landscapes.
At first, I thought I should be happier for living in
this delightful valley ; but, on further consideration, I
knew I could never bear to be out of sight of those
"wide waters," towards which I constantly looked for
deliverance from my solitude. My first and last act,
every day, was to climb, by my rope ladder, to the high
land above the cave, and look out for a vessel; the bare
possibility of escape was more to me, than all this fine
scenery, much as I admired it. So I resolved to con-
tinue my residence at the cave, but to make frequent
visits to this romantic spot; and in imitation of other trav-
ellers, who give names to the places they discover, I
called this Gordon Vale, in remembrance of my late
excellent friend and commander.
Having eaten my dinner, I fell asleep, and so passed
away the warmest part of the day. On awaking, I found
my faithful attendants sleeping close by me, and the
head of one resting on my leg. The attachment and
confidence, thus displayed, was a cordial to my heart,
and brought tears to my eyes. As soon as I moved,
they started up and seemed as ready as I was, to con-
tinue their journey.
I reloaded them, and went down the vale to the coast,
where the mountain stream emptied itself into a pretty
little sheltered bay, and was so shallow we could easily
ford it.
I followed the sweep of the bay, and was examining
some curious sea-weed, such as I had not before seen,
when a most unexpected sight fixed my eyes — frag-
ments of sailors' clothes, like those I wore, and numer-
ous human bones lying among them. I was convinced
that I here saw the remains of my own shipmates, whose
bodies had floated ashore, and been quickly consumed
by birds of prey and insects.
I could not, at first, account for the clothes being so
torn; but, after a while, I supposed it to be done by the
birds of prey, in order to come at the flesh within them.
The pieces which had buttons on them, I picked up and
threw into my panniers, also the shoes, though a good
deal injured by salt water and the sun. I then set to
work, to bury the bones, and the rest of the fragments.
This I did, out of respect to the memory of my former
companions, and for my own satisfaction; for to them
I knew it could not be of the least consequence.
While working, sorrowfully enough, at putting the
bones into a grave, dug for the purpose with my shell
shovel, I made a most valuable discovery; it was noth-
ing less than a jack-knife! I found it still tied, in true
sailor fashion, to a button-hole of a jacket. No one can
at all imagine how I felt on taking possession of this
knife, all rusty as it was, unless situated like me; which
I hope no one ever will be. My joy seemed too much
for me ; and being already a good deal overcome by my
occupation, I cried and laughed by turns, like a fool.
Finding this treasure put it in my head to look for
other articles that might be in the pockets, or fallen out
among the bones; and I was happy enough to pick up
another knife, a better one than the first, three tobacco-
boxes and a broken watch, with chain, key, and seal,
which I knew to be the captain's. This made my .tears
flow afresh, as it convinced me that some of the bones,
I was then burying, had belonged to my excellent com-
mander.
I also found some Spanish dollars and half-dollars, but
they were so perfectly useless to me, I hardly thought
it worth while to pick them up ; and I could not help
saying aloud, as I compared the real value of silver and
iron, "I would not exchange one of my - rusty iron
knives, for a hundred pounds of silver, or of gold either."
I wondered that men should ever set such a value
upon those metals ; not considering at that moment, as
I now do, that they are valued, when coined into money,
as the representatives of useful articles of food, clothing,
&.c.; a convenient kind of substitute, that can always be
exchanged for the necessaries of life, among civilized
people.
When I had finished burying the remains of my com-
panions, I collected all I had reserved for my own use;
and having carefully secured my precious knives and the
watch, I threw the rest into my panniers, only putting
the money into the tobacco-boxes.
I then marched off from Gordon Vale and Gordon
Bay, well satisfied with the names I had given to those
places, and feeling very rich in my new acquisitions.
Finding these bodies on this side of the island, made
me think it likely I might discover others, as well as
parts of the wrecked boat, and perhaps of the ship Santa
Maria herself; as she disappeared from the sand bank,
the night after I reached the island, when the wind blew
very hard for two or three hours, and was probably
dashed to pieces. I now followed the coast closer than
ever; and visited every part that looked like a bay, or
inlet, or cove, where I thought it likely any thing might
be washed on shore. But though two hours' walking
brought me to another small bay, I found nothing but
some pieces of plank, too heavy for me to carry away;
these I dragged a little farther from the water that they
75
might not float away, in case I should want them at
some future time; and carefully extracting all I could
of the rusty nails, that were sticking in them, I tied
them up in a piece of cloth so as not to lose one of
them ; well knowing the value of iron, and of any thing
sharp-pointed, like a nail.
I now thought it was time to look for a sheltered spot
to spend the night in, as well as for some provisions for
my supper. My fishing-net soon procured me a crab,
and two or three fishes ; these I put in my panniers, lest
the land productions, of this part of the island should
not serve me for food ; and then, having determined to
call this second bay Nail Cove, I turned my steps inland,
and left the seashore for that day.
A beautiful wood, the top of which was illumined by
the red glow of the setting sun, looked very inviting ; and
I made my way to it over a plain covered with grass as
high as my shoulders, which was very tiresome walking.
The lamas would not go first, to beat a path for me;
they knew better, and chose to follow in my wake.*
This high grass was very dry, and looked a little like
a ripe crop of oats; for the seeds grew on the top of the
stalks in the manner of oats, only smaller. They some-
times thrashed my lips as I passed along, and I found
they had quite a good, farinaceous taste; so I put
some of them in my pocket, hoping to make them grow
near my cave, and improve by cultivation, but they
never came to any thing.
After walking at least three quarters of a mile through
this high grass, I came to a little sluggish stream, which
separated me from the wood where I intended to sleep;
but, as the banks of it afforded some sweet herbage for
my companions, I altered my mind, and resolved to pass
the night on this side of it. A dry, gravelly bank prom-
ised me a good place to sleep on, as I had now little
fear of man or beast; and plenty of dry wood, lying
about, offered me the means of making a fire.
* The track a vessel leaves in the water.
I congratulated myself on having brought my supper
with me, from the seashore, as I here saw nothing
eatable, except some cresses that grew in the brook. I
unloaded my lamas, milked the old one, and set them
all at liberty to get their own meal, while I cooked mine.
But I soon found, that this would prove no place of rest
for me, for I was beset by mosquitos on every side;
the first I had met with on the island, and coming no
doubt from some stagnant waters, near this sluggish
stream, which was so unlike the mountain torrents and
sparkling brooks, that I had before met with. I hastened
to kindle a fire, that I might screen myself from the
attacks of these tormenting insects, by getting to leeward *
of the smoke. I roasted my crab, and tried to eat it,
but could not enjoy my supper, on account of the mos-
quitos; and I determined to quit the spot, before I
attempted to sleep. The moon was just risen, and by
her light I found my way, with my reloaded lamas, across
the stream, which I called Mosquito River. It was not
without difficulty that I crossed, as there was a good deal
of mud and soft ground on each side. A cloud of
mosquitos still followed me, and I feared I should not
get rid of them by changing my quarters; but as I
ascended the high ground opposite, a brisk wind sud-
denly arose, and delivered me at once from my tormenttors. A long, barren slope led from the river to the
wood, which clothed the side of the hill; and, on reach-
ing the skirts of it, I turned to see the prospect, and had
a very fine viewof the country below. I now perceived,
that in crossing the plain of high grass, I had had the
mouth of a large river on my right; into which, the small
stream, that I had just crossed, emptied itself.
Being very much fatigued, by my day's march, I
threw myself down on the first dry and sheltered spot I
could find ; and my lamas were no sooner unloaded,
than they did the same. I observed that they never
feed at night; they only sleep and ruminate, being in that
respect like the domestic cow.
* The side towards which the wind blows.
I soon lost all consciousness of where I was, in a deep
slumber; how long it continued, or what awaked me, I
know not; but on opening my eyes I beheld a most
appalling sight. Vast clouds of smoke and sheets of
flame, were rolling over the plain below. I rubbed my
eyes and stood up, to convince myself I was really
awake ; and then gazed, in silent amazement, at the
wide-spreading conflagration, so suddenly and unac-
countably kindled. A gentle breeze fanned the flame,
and carried it over the plain at a rapid rate. It was a
grand sight, and accompanied by such a loud, crackling,
roaring noise, as made it quite awful. As I gazed upon
it, I shuddered to think how little the power of man
could do, to arrest the progress of such a fire as this;
and I felt grateful for my own safety, which I thought I
might possibly owe to those tormenting mosquitos, that
drove me across the river.
I watched the progress of the fire, till it had swept
across the plain, and began to diminish for want of the
dry fuel it had there found ; and when it was almost ex-
tinct, I dropped asleep again, from exhaustion of mind
and body.
CHAPTER X.
SECOND DAY'S JOURNEY — BREAD-FRUIT— CHANGE or MIND
PARROTS — MOUNTAINS — STRANGE NOISE — GRAPES
RETURN SUPPER.
MY second day's journey was so much less remarka-
ble than the first, that I do not remember half so much
about it. One thing, however, I must not omit to no-
tice, and that is, my discovering the cause of the fire, the
night before. In the morning, the plain presented a dis-
mal appearance, blackened all over by the burnt stalks
of grass; and as I gazed at it, I observed that this black
appearance extended, in one place, to the gravelly bank,
7*
by the side of which I lighted my fire. The truth then
flashed on my mind. The fire had been communicated
by dried leaves and sticks, that lay on the top
of the bank, to the grass on the plain, and I was
myself the innocent cause of the destruction I had
witnessed. I resolved to take a lesson of caution,
for the future, from this accident, and never again to
leave a large blazing fire to burn out unheeded.
On crossing the top of the wooded hill, on the south-
east side of which I had passed the night, and coming to
an opening in the trees, I saw the large river, the mouth of
which I had discovered by moon-light; it was flowing
majestically through a wide valley, bounded on each
side by more woody mountains, than any I had yet seen.
I spent the whole day in this valley ; travelling, some-
times in a forest, sometimes on open ground, and often
changing my course without perceiving it; till I came to
a height, from which I could see the river, the course of
which I was trying to pursue. The beauty of several
small valleys tempted me to explore them, and delayed
me some hours; but as my object was to see as much
as I could of the island, I did not regret it. At night-fall,
I found myself in that part of the vale, where a sudden
bend of the river to the west seemed to enclose it entirely.
A dry nook, among some sheltering rocks, with a bed of
fern leaves, received my weary limbs, after a light sup-
per of milk and berries; and undisturbed repose restored
my vigor for the morrow.
My interest in exploring the country increased as I
proceeded; and though travelling where there are no
roads or paths, is very hard work; and depending for
food- on wh u one can find, is a very uncertain way of
living, I enjoyed myself more, during this journey, than
at any time since I was wrecked.
My third day's journey was entirely among the moun-
tains. As I could not cross the river with my loaded
lamas, I followed its course among the hills; and was
rewarded for my pains, by discovering new arid beauti-
ful productions.
Of various trees, that met my view, and were entirely
new to me, one kind particularly attracted my attention.
It was as large as a middling-sized oak, but with a
straight trunk. The branches came out very regularly
and horizontally from it, on every side, beginning about
twelve feet from the ground ; the lower ones being the
longest, and the next set of branches shorter, and so on,
up to the top. The shape of the tree was beautifully reg-
ular. The leaves were about a foot and a half long,
very thick and soft, and yielded a milky juice, when
squeezed. The fruit of this superb tree was as remark-
able as the foliage ; large, pale green balls hung from every
part of it, heart-shaped, and of the size of a child's head.
I never saw a richer looking fruit ; but whether it was
eatable or not, I did not know ; and I determined, that
if it were possible, I would handle as well as see it. I
could not climb the bare trunk, and so get to the
branches, and thence to the fruit; what then was to
be done? I threw stones at the fruit, to knock it down,
as I did cocoa-nuts; but it was too tender to bear a
blow without injury, and too firmly fixed to the stalk to
fall off. At last I thought of a way of getting at
it. I threw the end of a rope over one of the long
horizontal branches, and having pulled it down within
my reach, gathered several specimens of the fruit. It
had a thin skin ; and on breaking it open, I found a
substance more like new bread, than any thing else;
it had very little taste, and that was sweetish. The
sight of it reminded me strongly of the wheat bread in
my father's house, and made me long fora slice of it
very much. While thinking about it, it popped into
my head that I had heard or read of a tree, called the
bread-fruit tree; and that this might be it. As the fruit
was not very palatable when raw, I resolved to try it
cooked ; for it looked so good, I thought it must be eatable.
Being about the time that I usually dined and rested,
I unloaded my lamas, and kindled a fire with my spunk.
This fruit seemed too tender to bear baking in the ashes,
and as I had no utensil for boiling, I tried roasting it.
Every few minutes, I cut out a little piece with my
knife, and tasted it, to find out what effect the fire had
on it. Every time I tasted, it was improved ; till at
last it was so like bread, that I could no longer doubt it
was the true bread-fruit, and that I had made a
very valuable discovery. With this bread, and the
lama's milk, I made an excellent meal; and before leav-
ing the spot, I gathered enough to load my lamas, with
what was already in their panniers.
I amused myself, as I went along, with cutting sticks
with my new found tool, the jack-knife; and prom-
ised myself great advantages from it, when I should
return to my cave, and have leisure to clean off the rust
and sharpen it on a stone. I slept the third night in a
pretty grove of trees, on the side of a hill, surround-
ed by mountains. I did not fall asleep immediately,
but lay on a bed of dry leaves, looking at the moon and
stars. Nothing made me feel the great distance which
separated me from my friends, more than the appear-
ance of the heavens in a clear night. Instead of the
Great and Little Bear, and all those familiar constella-
tions, I beheld a large assemblage of stars, that were
entirely new to me; I could only distinguish among the
polar constellations that called the Cross. While gazing
on its brilliant stars, my thoughts turned on dear Eng-
land and those I loved there, and suddenly it crossed
my mind that a vessel might pass the island, without my
knowing it, while I was so far inland, and that I might
thus lose an opportunity of escape from solitude. The idea
made me miserable for a while ; I blamed myself for
ever leaving the coast, and wished myself back at my
cave so much, that I could hardly wait for daylight, to
return. After fretting and lamenting for some time, I
began to consider whether I was not wrong in making
myself unhappy in this way ; and then I thought over the
great advantages I had gained by my excursion, and was
quite ashamed of myself. Before I went to sleep, I
settled it in my own mind, that I had nothing to regret
in having taken this journey; but that it was time for
me to turn my steps towards my cave, and find my way
back again to the coast.
I was awakened, the next morning, by strange noises
that mingled in my dreams, before they roused me
entirely ; when quite awake, I could not tell what tp
make of them, until I discovered a tree, at some little
distance, covered with parrots, that seemed to be hold-
ing a council, in which all were talkers and none hear-
ers.
I wished to catch one of these parrots alive, and carry
it home with me, that I might teach it to talk, and so
have the pleasure of hearing a few words uttered by a
different voice from my own. For this purpose, I hastily
made some loops of twine, with slip-knots, and fastened
them to the ground by suitable stakes, cut with my jack-
knife; then I strewed some crumbs of bread-fruit over
them for bait, and withdrew to eat my breakfast, and
watch the effect of my gins, from a distance. But
though the saucy creatures came and ate up the crumbs,
and looked very knowingly at the loops and sticks; they
walked over the string, without happening to catch their
feet in one of the loops, and I was too anxious to reach
the seashore, to spend any more time in ensnaring par-
rots. But I named the grove after them ; and resumed
my walk, as soon as I had finished my breakfast and
loaded my lamas.
I now kept the rising sun on my left hand, and march-
ed directly south, knowing that my cave must be in that
direction ; and as I had been travelling n a northwest-
erly course, ever since I left the Land's End, I thought
it would be but a short cut, across the country, to my
abode on the terrace. I found it, however, a much
longer journey than I expected; for, though the distance
was not great, the nature of the ground was such, that I
was three days in accomplishing it. The first day I was
entirely among mountains; and they so bewildered me,
that I frequently walked many miles out of my way. At
night I took up my quarters by the side of a considerable
river, which ran across my path, and effectually pre-
vented my going any farther in that direction. I stretch-
ed my weary limbs on a grassy bank, and had not
yet fallen asleep, but was looking at the stars, and
observing the stillness of the night and clearness of the
atmosphere, when every nerve in me was shaken by a
loud crashing noise, such as I never before heard. It
reverberated among the mountains in the most solemn
manner, and then died away, making the stillness that
succeeded most striking and appalling. It was some
time before I could breathe freely, and when I recovered
my composure, I felt oppressed by the remarkable still-
ness of the night. This I had experienced before,
but the loud noise was new to me. I could not under-
stand it for some time; but as I knew it must have a
natural cause, I tried to think what it could be. At last
I came to the conclusion, that it must be either a fall-
ing rock, or a falling tree ; and as it had not affected my
safety, I resolved not to be kept awake by it. After
asking the protection of God for the night, I fell asleep
and rested well.
In the morning, I surveyed the right bank of the riv-
er for some place shallow enough to be forded ; for,
though I could easily have swum across it myself, and
so could my lamas too, without their loads, I was obliged
to devise some means of taking my goods and chattels
over. The stream was deep and rapid, and there was
no possibility of crossing it thereabouts ; so we were
forced to turn our faces eastward, and go up the valley
by the side of the river. I soon found that it took a
bend to the south, which favored my course; and by
going over a high hill, I got rid of the river, and saw no
more of it. But the precipices and chasms, that I met
with, frequently turned me out of my way, and prevented
my getting much nearer the coast, after a long and
fatiguing day's march. I lived, during this part of my
journey, on bread-fruit and milk. The third day I
was allured from my direct southerly course, by a
fertile looking plain to the west; and there I met with a
rich reward for all my toilsome journey over the moun-<
tains, an abundance of fine ripe grapes, on which
I feasted both my eyes and palate, and found them
very refreshing. The vines hung in beautiful fes-
toons from tree to tree, or covered, with their rich
foliage and fruit, the smaller bushes and shrubs that
grew in their way. Numerous trees, such as I had seen
elsewhere, and many that were new to me. adorn-
ed this beautiful plain, which was bordered on the
north and south by a river, on the east by the moun-
tains, and extended to the west further than I had time
to go. I was very desirous of taking away with me some
of these delicious grapes; but how to carry them, with-
out crushing them by their own weight was the difficulty.
At last I thought of tying some bunches to the edges of
the panniers on the inside, and in this way I brought off
a small supply, resolving to go there again very soon
and procure more. I also gathered some ripe lemons
on this luxuriant spot, which I called my vineyard. The
river that lay to the south of this plain, intercepted my
course homeward, and obliged me to go up its banks till
I found a shallow place, at which to ford it. I now
approached the range of hills on the south side of which
I lived, and saw a flock of lamas sporting on their sides.
This was a most fortunate encounter; for being now pos-
sessed of a knife, I longed much to eat some roast meat,
properly cut and carved. Yet I had neither time nor
strength to go out of my way in search of them. At-
tracted by the tame lamas, they came very near us, and
seemed to be observing the difference between these
loaded animals and themselves. I therefore had no
difficulty in knocking down a young one with my stone
mallet. On seeing their comrade fall, they all took to
their heels and scampered off among the hills.
I shall never forget the satisfaction I felt in having a
sharp instrument, with which to cut open the lama and
take out the contents of the body. I put it across the
back of the unloaded kid, and tied the feet under her.
Soon afterwards, I reached a part of the hill where I
had frequently been before, and felt something of the
pleasure that travellers do, on approaching their homes;
though mine was nothing but a cave on a desert island,
and contained no friend to greet me on my return.
When I came over the brow of the hill on which I lived,
and was again in sight of the ocean and the beach on
which I first landed, my heart swelled with a variety of
emotions that caused me a flood of tears ; and I should
have thrown myself down on the grass, and indulged in a
long and painful reverie, had not the necessity of follow-
ing my lamas, who were trotting nimbly towards their
well known home, obliged me to hurry forward to unload
them.
The sight of my flourishing hedge, pretty foun-
tain, and comfortable retreat, the cave, awakened better
feelings, and made me glad to get back to my accustomed
abode ; and when I had reflected on the treasures I had
acquired in my excursion, I became quite cheerful.
Being very hungry and in need of nourishing food, I
resolved to have a meat supper; so I set about skin-
ning the dead lama with my jack-knife, while it was yet
light enough for me to see to do it. I cut off a good
slice of the haunch, and roasted it as well as I could
without any salt water to baste it with ; and having season-
ed it with lemon juice, I ate it with a good relish ; all the
better too for having a knife to cut it with, and some
roasted bread-fruit to eat with it. This was the best
meal I had yet made on the island; and after my long
privations it seemed so excellent, that I thought nothing
could be better. The business of preparing my supper
had driven away all sad thoughts; I ate it with a thank-
ful heart, and went to bed composed and happy.
When I lay down on my bed of hay, I felt a lump
under me that never was there before ; and on thrust-
ing my hand through the hay to feel what it could be, I
discovered my old friend, the terrapin! He had probably
taken possession of my bed for one of his long naps of
two or three months, and little expected to be disturbed
till he was ready to come forth; but I soon showed him
the way out of my sleeping apartment, and covered him
up with hay in a nook outside of the cave.
It was not time yet for the terrapin to lie dormant, as
his brethren were to be seen walking about the shores;
but I suppose that, being a prisoner and deprived of his
usual walks, he betook himself to sleep, because he had
nothing else to do.
CHAPTER XI.
LAYING IN STORES RIDING THE LAMA — RAINY SEASON
— INACTIVITY—* AN ALARM — A LAMP.
THE morning after my return from my journey, I
spent in overhauling the treasure, of various kinds, that I
had brought home with me. Different ledges of rock,
in my cave, served for shelves; on these I arranged my
bread-fruit, and stowed away my tobacco-boxes filled
with silver coin, and the old shoes and pieces of clothing
and nails, that I had picked up in Gordon Bay and Nail
Cove. The bunches of grapes, I hung up in the sun to
dry ; and took care to put them out of the reach of the la-
mas, who liked grapes as well as their master. My
precious jack-knives I kept always about me, well se-
cured to button-holes, that I might not lose them in any
of my walks and jumps. With one of them, I cut
some small stakes, and stretched out the lama's skin on
the grass, that it might dry in the sun, and be of some
service to me afterwards.
I found it took up so much time to cook victuals three
times a day, that 1 now dressed enough at once to make
several meals, and ate it cold. As long as the lama's
flesh lasted, I desired nothing but that and the bread-
fruit. I found, however, that a large portion of the meat
spoiled before I could eat it, and I tried to invent some
way of preserving it; which, as I had no salt, was very
difficult.
8
I remembered having read, that the Peruvians cut up
their meat in long strips, and hang it in the sun to dry j
and I tried this experiment, but it did not succeed, owingr
I suppose, to the air being moister here than in Peru,
where it is remarkably dry. I next tried to make the
water of the ocean answer instead of brine. I put a
piece of meat in a hollow of the rock, which I filled with
salt water by means of a capital dipper, made with four
cocoa-nut shells, tied upon an oar; with this I soon
baled up water enough to fill the hollow, and having
put the meat in, I laid a clean stone on it to keep it
under water. Here it kept longer than in the open air,
but not long enough for me to depend on a stock of pro-
visions so cured.
The day that I was disappointed, by the meat's spoil-
ing which was in salt water, I found, on the shore, a fine,
large terrapin; and happening to have a stick in my hand
with a fork at the end of it, I went softly behind the crea-
ture, and pinned his head to the sand with my stick, in
such a mpnner, that he could not draw it into his shell,
and then I easily severed it from his body with my jack-
knife. The nourishing food I had lately eaten, had so
restored my strength, that I easily shouldered this heavy
terrapin, and carried him to my terrace. There I cut
open his shell and cooked some of the flesh, which I
found to be delicious food, of a much fiaer flavor than
the lama, and so much fatter, that I was at no loss for
any thing to baste it with. I had found a deep recess in
the rock, near my cave, where I made my fire. Being
sheltered from the wind, it burnt pretty steadily, and a
good quantity of ashes retained the heat, and enabled me
to roast and bake pretty well. Still I was greatly in
want of cooking utensils, and, next to a knife, an iron pot
would have been the greatest gain to me.
Having cooked as much of the terrapin as I could eat
while good, I regretted very much that the rest should
spoil. While I was thinking what I could possibly do with
it, my eyes rested on a thick column of smoke, that
was rising perpendicularly from my fire, by the side of a
smooth rock ; and it suddenly came into my head, that I
might preserve meat by smoking it. When I had once
thought of this way, I wondered it had not occurred to
me before, for I had seen flitches of bacon smoked in the
chimney of my father's kitchen; and though they were
salted first, I trusted that the smoke might do without the
salt.
As I could not drive nails into the rock to hang the
meat on, I fixed two poles, one on each side of the fire,
and made the ends meet above it, high enough not to
burn, and low enough for the meat, suspended between
them, to hang in the thickest of the smoke. I selected
the leanest part of the terrapin to dry; and having hung
it up, and made a good fire under it, I preserved the fat,
by melting it in my shovel and pouring it while hot into
a cocoa-nut shell. This I thought would do to baste a
lean lama, or might be used as butter with the bread-
fruit or sweet potato, when I was too busy to prepare a
dish of meat. It never served me for either of these
purposes, but proved far more valuable in another way,
as will appear hereafter. The upper shell of the terra-
pin, which was very rounding, I scraped out clean, and
set in the sun to dry. It made me an excellent vessel,
fit for various uses; and the under shell, which was
nearly flat, I prepared in the same way, and employed as
a plate.
My plan of smoking succeeded so well, that I made sev-
eral excursions after lamas, in order to get their meat
and prepare a stock of provisions for the winter, before
the fine weather should be over. I found the lamas had
become shy of me and my tame companions. I was
often obliged to spend hours in ambush, in order to get
a chance of killing one. Sometimes I attempted to run
down a young one; and as my activity and speed increas-
ed much with practice, I was soon able to catch them
in this way. I kept some alive and increased my flock
of tame ones, as well as added to my store of smoked
meat. Between my hunting excursions, of which I be-
came very fond, I occupied myself in digging up a fresh
stock of sweet potatoes; and with the help of my lamas
I brought home a large supply of that excellent vege-
table.
The grapes which I had hung up in the sun dried so well,
that I determined to' have a good store of them by me.
Accordingly, I went to the rich plain I called my vine-
yard, before the grapes were over ripe; and as I could
not, with all my contrivances of sticks put across the
panniers, carry home many in this fresh state, I resolved
to gather a large quantity, leave them to dry there, and
go for them when they had become raisins, and could
bear transportation. I brought home with me, in one of
these excursions, several dozen limes and lemons, from
trees that grew in the vineyard; and, as the best means
of keeping them, I surrounded each one with soft, dry
hay, and stacked them up in a corner of my cave. The
dried grapes proved excellent. I brought home two
large panniers nearly full of them, and for want of some-
thing else to put them in, I let them remain in the pan-
niers and stand where they could in my cave, which be-
gan to be so filled up, I had hardly room to move in. Ex-
pecting a very rainy season when the winter should set in,
I was anxious to have all my provisions within the shelter
of my cave ; and that being only about ten or eleven feet
deep, by eight or nine wide, my bed and stores nearly
filled it. As fast as the meat which I hung in the smoke
was sufficiently dried to keep, I removed it to the cave;
some of it I hung up, and some I packed in dry sand,
hoping that would help to preserve it, if not sufficiently
smoked. The lamas' tongues I took particular pains
with, and they kept perfectly well for months.
When I had secured a good stock of these provisions,
which were to be had without going far from home, I
determined to make an excursion to Gordon Vale, and
gather some of the pimento berries, or allspice, which
must, I supposed, be ripe by that time. As the clouds
began to gather and the weather looked threatening, I
was desirous of going there and back as quickly as pos-
sible; sp I thought I would try to make my old lama
perform the duty of a saddle-horse. As I mounted her
very gently, with her blinders on, she made no opposition
to it; but when I was seated on her back, I could not
make her go forward; she waited to see me by her
side. When I spoke to her, she would turn round to
look for me. By degrees, however, I coaxed her to
proceed; and by the time we were a mile from home,
she trotted off with me at a brisk pace, and I found the
motion agreeable and exhilarating. Her thick, soft
wool and hair made a very good saddle, and I en-
joyed my ride to Gordon Vale exceedingly. That ro-
mantic spot charmed me as much on my second visit as
before; and, had not the weather warned me to lose no
time, I could have lingered about those groves, and that
waterfall, for hours. As it was, however, I hastened to
fill the small panniers I had brought, with the green ber-
ries that contain the spice, and made the best of my way
home again. I arrived just in time to avoid a drenching
shower, and was truly glad to find myself safe within my
cave. I only regretted it was not large enough to hold
my lamas too. A clump of trees which grew on my
terrace were their shelter; and by feeding them every
evening with a plant they were very fond of, and keep-
ing one tethered, I easily prevented' the others from stray-
ing.
This proved to be the beginning of winter ; and though
I was tolerably well prepared for it, there were still many
things left undone that would have added greatly to my
comfort, by giving me employment when confined to my
cave.
I regretted that I had not laid in a stock of the fibrous
nettle, and soaked and dried it, ready for twisting into
pack-thread and cordage; as that would have been an
excellent occupation for me during the many hours that
I sat with nothing to do but to watch the torrents of rain
that fell, with occasional intermissions, for several weeks.
One difficulty now presented itself which I had never
once thought of before the rainy season set in 5 and that
was, how to make a fire, in the midst of so much wet.
8*
My cave was too small, and too much crowded with com-
bustible matter, for me to light one inside of it; and
without, every thing was so wet, that it was scarcely pos-
sible to make the wood burn. I was obliged, whenever
I did make a fire, to rob myself of some of the hay I slept on for kindling-stuff.
My smoked meat I ate raw. By cutting it In Very
thin shavings, with my jack-knife, I could chew it, and,
by degrees, I learned to like it tolerably well. When-
ever the rain ceased long enough for me to make a fire, I
improved the opportunity to bake as much provision as I
could consume while it was good. In these intervals I
visited the shore, and picked up oysters and crabs to
vary my diet.
I found it necessary to be very careful not to wet my
clothes at this time, for if I did I could not dry them
again for a great while, having no fire constantly burning;
and no sun-shine; besides the air was chilly, and as I
had no room to exercise in my cave, I thought it would
certainly make me ill, if I sat still in wet clothes. I miss-
ed my accustomed exercise exceedingly, and felt the want of useful occupation so much, that my time passed
very heavily. I lost my appetite too, and my food did
not taste good to me, as it used to do, when I returned to it after a day's hard work in the open air. During
the nights, which were now so long that I could not sleep
through them, I used to lie in the dark, thinking of
my far distant parents and friends, and lamenting my
unhappy condition. For the first week after the rain set
in, I used, as soon as it was dark, to throw myself on my
bed and begin a melancholy train of reflections; till one
evening, my mind was suddenly impressed with a strong
conviction, that I was doing wrong in thus indulging sad
thoughts and useless regrets. I always knew that it was
foolish to do so, but now it appeared to me great ingrati-
tude to that benevolent Being who had comforted and
supported me in the severest trials, and who had led me
to find so many alleviations in my solitude. Struck to
the heart by this sense of my ingratitude, I earnestly de-
sired to value my blessings as I ought, and by degrees
my mind became so tranquil and happy, that I was sur-
prised at myself. I was sure that God loved me, and
my heart was full of love to Him; and the happiness of
loving Him, as I then did, was so great, that I thought I
could be content to live alone on that island all my life,
if I could be always in that frame of mind. After this,
I spent a great many hours in pleasant meditation, and
happy thoughts about God, and his care over his crea-
tures; and the nights did not seem so tedious as they had
before done.
One of my few amusements at this time was feed-
ing my flock of lamas, on a kind of berry that they
are very fond of, and of which I had laid in a good
stock for their use. After wandering about all day, and
sheltering themselves from the rain among the trees and
rocks, they would come a little before sunset to the en-
closure before my cave, and, when I let them in, they
eagerly devoured all I chose to give them. Sometimes
they tried hard to get into my cave, and it was as much
as I could do to keep them from taking possession of my
apartment, and helping themselves to my provisions ; but
as soon as they had taken their allowance of berries, and
I had stroked and patted them a while, I generally drove
them out of my enclosure, and barricadoed the entrance
with branches of trees. One night after doing this, I
seated myself on a pannier, turned upside down, at the
entrance of my cave, to watch the last rays of the sun,
whose slanting beams were visible on the watery atmo-
sphere, and was deep in thought, when I heard a sound
behind me like a person sighing deeply. It went through
me like an electric shock, and so amazed and startled
me, that my knees trembled under me, as I jumped up
and stepped into the cave to see whence the sound pro-
ceeded. It was so dark I could see nothing, and so still
that I heard nothing, but the beatings of my own heart.
I felt about, but could discover nothing, and concluded,
at last," that I must have been mistaken; perhaps I had
sighed myself, and some part of the cave had returned
the sound to my ear. Thus I reasoned with myself, but
still I was not satisfied, and I earnestly wished I had a
light to see if any living thing was in the cave besides
myself. I then recollected the cocoa-nut shells that
I had filled with the fat of the terrapin, which had
soon become too rancid to eat; this I knew would burn
if I could contrive a wick for it. After much consid-
eration, and trying several things that would not do, I put
my hand on the ravellings of my cotton stockings, which
I had attempted to use for tinder without success ; and
doubling up a short piece and twisting it slightly, till
I made a wick about as large as that of a tallow candle,
I stuck it into the grease, and having struck fire on
my spunk, I blew it till it lighted the cotton wick. This
interesting occupation made me forget all about the un-
accountable sigh; but on looking round my cave, to see it
illuminated by my new lamp, I was surprised and amus-
ed to perceive that I had an uninvited guest, sleeping
very quietly in the farthest corner. A young lama, which
had escaped my observation when I drove out the flock,
had preferred good quarters to good company, and it
was a long breath of hers that I had mistaken for a sigh.
I could not bear to turn her out that night in the rain;
so, after amusing myself some time with my lamp, and
finding it succeed perfectly well, I put it out and went to
bed.
CHAPTER XII.
AND ARROWS — A FIf OF SICKNESS—UNEXPECTED
RELIEF RECOVERY NEW CLOTHES.
HAVING accustomed myself to a great deal of exer-
cise, I suffered much during the rainy season from the
want of it, though I took advantage of every interval of
fair weather to stretch my limbs, by running on the hills
behind my cave, or down to the shore and back again.
My unavoidable idleness, too, was a great trial of my
patience. Though I did not indulge melancholy
thoughts, after the first week, and had many happy
feelings and delightful meditations upon the great Cre-
ator and his works, I still wished to find something for
my hands to do, as I sat in my cave from morning till
night.
At last, I thought of making some bows and arrows,
and learning to shoot at a mark, which would prepare
me for a new kind of sport when the fine weather re-
turned. I made several excursions between the show-
ers, or rather torrents, and brought home several large
bundles of rods and branches of various trees, before I
found any thing suitable for a bow; and when, after
much pains and labor, I discovered a kind of wood that
was elastic and supple enough for the purpose, it was so
tough, that I had great difficulty in severing the branch
with my jack-knife. I did succeed, however, and had
great satisfaction in shaping it into a bow. I also made
a great number of arrows, and winged them with the
feathers of a large bird, that I found dead on the shore.
I knew they would not fly steadily, unless they were
loaded with something heavy; nor do much execution,
without being sharp pointed, and, at the same time, not li-
able to break; but how to unite these properties was the
difficulty. I had read of savages that fix fish-bones,
and sharp stones, to the end of their arrows; I tried
both, but the bones were too light, and the stones were
not sharp enough. I made but a clumsy piece of work
of it at that time. How I afterwards succeeded, will
be seen when I come to that part of my story.
In looking for wood to make my bow and arrows of, I
came across a large bed of that kind of nettle which fur-
nished the fibres for my twine and cordage. Finding the
rain had so completely soaked the stalks, that the fibres
separated very easily, I carried home a good supply of it;
and had ample employment in spinning and twisting it
for future use. With some of it, I made new fishing-nets,
and a stock of strings for my bow, which I took particu-
lar care to make smooth and strong.
I had now so much occupation, that the dark, rainy
days did not give me daylight enough for all I wanted to
do, and I found my cocoa-nut lamp very convenient. As
the fat was consumed, I cut away the sides of the shell,
that I might have all the advantage of the light which the
blazing wick could give; and by the decrease of it I
judged how time passed, and avoided sitting up too late,
which I might have done without perceiving it, when
busily engaged.
About this time, I made myself a sort of high bench for
a table, and a three-legged stool, out of the pieces of
plank that I picked up on the shore, immediately after
my shipwreck; with my jack-knife I cut holes in the
corners, and stuck in legs, made of the boughs of trees,
and wedged them in very tight. These two articles,
simple as they were, added greatly to my comfort; and
could not have been procured without the use of a knife.
Now I believe I have related all that happened to me,
before I fell ill, which was a new and unexpected trial
that befell me towards the close of the rainy season, and
was, I suppose, a seasoning sickness, that few escape on
first living in a new climate.
I was seized with shivering fits, pains in my head and
limbs, and a burning thirst; all these symptoms came on
so quickly, that I had only time to fill some cocoa-nut
shell:, with water, and set them by the side of my bed,
before I was obliged to throw myself upon it, in utter
helplessness. I had often thought how miserable my
condition would be, in case of my being ill; but had al-
ways hoped my active life and hard fare would preserve
me from it; and, as I lived almost like wild animals, I
hoped to escape sickness, and die suddenly, as they gen-
erally do. I now perceived that I was not to be so fa-
vored; I was to experience the miseries of that situation in
which, of all others, we are most dependent on the kind-
ness of our friends, without the aid of any human being.
My heart sunk within me at the thought; and, overcome
by bodily and mental suffering, I wept aloud. This
emotion increased the pain in my head, and I soon found
myself in a burning fever, and felt so badly all over, that
I had no doubt my death was near at hand. This idea
comforted and calmed me; for I had, for some time past,
regarded death as a friend, that would deliver me from
all my present trials, and unite me for ever to that Good
and Great Spirit, who had been my support in this soli-
tude. I dreaded a long fit of sickness, without any one
to assist me; but I welcomed the idea of death, and only
hoped it would come quickly, and relieve me from my
sufferings.
Thinking of this desirable change, I turned my mind
on that Almighty Father, whose love had so often filled my
heart, and made me happy in spite of my desolate con-
dition; and I was surprised to find, how much less I felt
the pain of my body, when my thoughts were fixed on
God. How long I continued in this state, I know not.
I remember suffering much from thirst, after I had
drained my nut-shells dry; and I have an indistinct
recollection of going to the fountain, and drinking plenti-
fully of its crystal water. But whether I did so, or
whether I only dreamt it, I cannot say ; though from what
afterwards occurred, I think it probable, that in the de-
lirium of fever, I went there and drank, and that it pro-
duced a favorable crisis; for I remember being in a pro-
fuse perspiration, and very sleepy; and when I came to
the full use of my reason, the fever had left me, and all
my pain was gone. I could not at first recollect what
had happened. On trying to get up, I found myself so
excessively weak and helpless, that I could not doubt I
had been ill and delirious; but it was long before I
could recall all the circumstances I have here set down.
I had scarce strength to turn myself on my bed of
hay, and I could not sit up five minutes, or stand at all.
In this condition, what was to become of me! There
was no human being to bring me the little nourishment I
so much needed; and I expected nothing, but to starve
to death, which was, I knew, a lingering and painful way
of dying.
I however soon became resigned even to this; my
heart was full of love to God, and I felt willing to submit
to any thing.
I judged by the shadows at the mouth of the cave,
that it was near sunset, and was tonsidering how long I
should probably live without food, when I heard the
sound of the lama's footsteps, and the next instant my
old friend was at my side. She seemed surprised to see
me lying there, instead of being ready to feed her with
her favorite berries; and while she was surveying me, I
resolved to make an effort to use the little strength I had
in milking her. I put my hand accidentally on an emp-
ty cocoa-nut shell, and she no sooner perceived my in-
tention, than she placed herself so conveniently, that I
easily drew from her as much as I required, and drank
it off. Never was there a more acceptable draught, or
more seasonable relief; it gave new vigor to my ex-
hausted body, and filled my heart with wonder, love, and
praise.
I was very much puzzled, to know how the lama found
her way into my enclosure; because I knew that I had
fastened up the opening, after filling the cocoa-nut shells
with water, just before I took to my bed; but I have
since concluded, that I must have gone to the fountain
in my delirium, and left the pass open on my return,
thus enabling the faithful creature to render me this kind
service. She rewarded herself by eating heartily of
the berries she was so fond of, and then went away.
Revived by the milk, I contrived to crawl to that cor-
ner of my cave, where I kept my raisins; and by eating
a few of them, at several different times the next day, I did very well, till the lama came again, and again suppli-
ed me with a delicious draught of milk. She was now
accompanied by the rest of the lamas, and they made an
end of their berries very quickly. If my raisins had not
been well secured, they would have eaten them too; for
I had no power to prevent their doing as they pleased.
The rains were abated, and the weather was very fine, or
I suppose I should have had the whole flock to sleep in
my cave, not being able to drive them out; but as it
was, they preferred another lodging, much to my com-
fort and satisfaction.
In a few days I was able to walk about a little, and to
enjoy the beautiful appearance that every thing was put-
ting on since the rains had ceased. The fineness of the
weather aided much in my recovery; and as soon as I
was well enough to venture on a long walk, I went into
the woods with my bow and arrows to try my skill in
archery by shooting at birds. Considering the clumsi-
ness of my arrows, I succeeded tolerably well; for I
killed two birds in twenty shots. And though it cost me
a great deal of fatigue and the loss of many arrows, I
was well satisfied with my day's sport, and had a good
meal of the birds, which I roasted, and ate with an excel-
lent appetite.
I found the pimento berry, or Jamaica pepper, very
useful in seasoning my food, instead of salt; the want of
which was for several months a serious inconvenience
to me. I often revolved in my mind the possibility of
obtaining some, not only as a seasoning to render my
food more palatable, but as a means of preserving meat;
but all my schemes failed at that time for want of proper
tools.
The weather was now that of a fine, mild spring ; but
vegetation was much more tardy than I had ever seen it
in England. Dame Nature seemed to be taking advan-
tage of the long summer before her, to do her work
as slowly as possibly. The singing of birds, however,
and the agreeable temperature, rendered my walks
delightful ; and, after my long confinement to such nar-
row bounds, I highly prized the privilege of again ex-
ercising in the open air.
It was about this time, that my clothes became so
ragged and worn, that at every leap or run I took, they
would split out or give way in some new place; and I
found it absolutely necessary to invent some kind of cov-
ering for my body. The difficulty of the task made
me think of accustoming myself to go without clothes, as
some savages do; but, on trying the experiment, I found
9
many inconveniences that I had never thought of. The
heat of the sun scorched my skin till it almost blistered;
the mosquitos, which had become numerous in some
parts of the island since the rainy season, tormented me
sadly; and I was continually scratching and hurting my-
self in passing through the woods. Besides all this, I
felt so uncomfortable in this savage state, that I could
not bring myself to bear it.
Clothes therefore being absolutely necessary to my
comfort, I set about contriving some out of the skins of
the lamas which I had killed for my stock of smoked
meat. These skins I had stretched and dried in the
sun, but had not tanned them ; and therefore they were
stiff and brittle, and proved very difficult materials to
work into any shape that could be worn without chaf-
ing me. They were besides much too warm a
covering for the climate; but as I had nothing else to
make clothes of, I resolved to use these for the present,
and to tan some skins for future use. Accordingly, I
cut out a jacket and a pair of trowsers, as well as I could,
by using my old clothes for a pattern, and making my
new ones a good deal larger. I sewed up the seams, by
making holes in the skin with a sharp pointed nail, and
then pushing the thread through with my fingers. This
was very slow work, but still the edges were fastened
together, and I went on very patiently with my clumsy
tailoring. At last I remembered seeing shoe-makers fix
a bristle to the end of their thread to make it go through
more easily; and though I could not get any bris-
tles or shoe-makers' wax, I thought I might find
something that would answer as well. After trying
thorns, and straws, and several other things, I found that
a fish-bone would do pretty well, and by means of a row
of fine notches on one end, I could tie the thread to it
without its slipping off; and with this contrivance I got
on a little faster. The buttons on my old clothes being
made of horn or metal, they were not worn out; so
I transferred them to the new ones, and made slits serve
for button-holes.
After working very industriously for many hours, I
completed my suit of clothes; and, though they were
such shapeless things, as hardly deserved the name of
jacket and trowsers, they served to cover my body with-
out impeding its movements; whereas the old rags had
become so troublesome, I was glad to throw them off.
As soon as I was equipped, I took my bow and arrows,
and went into the woods to shoot birds. On my way I
passed a little pond of water made by the late rains;
being smooth as glass, it reflected my image like a mir-
ror, and when I caught a sight of it, I was so aston-
ished at my wild and savage appearance, that I hardly
knew myself. My hair had grown very long and thick
and fell over my neck and shoulders, whilst, in front, I
parted it and hitched it behind my ears. My beard cov-
ered my upper lip and chin. This hairy appear-
ance, added to the fur of the lama skins in which
I was dressed, gave me a wild and almost ferocious look.
My wicker hat, covered with leaves, was not the most
becoming head-dress in the world, and with my bow
«nd arrows in my hand, I might have passed for an
Indian warrior among my friends in England; for none
of them could possibly have recognised, in the figure I
then cut, the smooth-faced and blooming youth whom
they parted from in York.
CHAPTER XIII.
RESOURCES—SALT-MAKING SLIDE OF EARTH—ANNIVER-
SARY — LIME SALT-MAKING A HAY STACK — POTTERY.
WHEN I was once equipped in a new suit of clothes,
I spent most of my time in the open air, and made up
for my long confinement to the cave, by wandering about
the island a great deal. After I was recovered from
and having a plenty of animal food and a fire to cook it
by, I soon regained my strength, and became broader and
stouter in my figure, than I ever was before. My chief
amusement was chasing lamas, and by constant prac-
tice I became very swift of foot, and an expert climber
among the crags and precipices of the mountains that
they frequent.
I had now experienced what a winter was in this fine
climate; I had explored a great part of the island ; I
had acquired some regular habits of living, and I began
to feel at home in my domain, and accustomed to soli-
tude. My greatest wants were salt, bread, and a kettle;
for the first I had used Jamaica pepper, but it was a
very poor substitute ; for the second I had bread-fruit,
when in season, but that was only a small part of the
year; as for the last, I could find nothing to supply its
place.
The sweet, mealy roots which I called potatoes, were
a very valuable article of food; and I determined to
keep a good stock of them always by me. I thought a
little of making a garden near my cave, and planting it
with those roots and other esculent vegetables; but
considering the difficulty of fencing it in from the lamas,
and my ignorance of the proper method of cultivating
these vegetables, I resolved to trust to nature's planting,
and only take the best advantage of her bounty, It was
no objection to me, that the places where the sweet potatoes grew wild, were a good way from my cave ; as.
I had nothing better to do, than to go after them with
my lama and panniers.
Having given up all thoughts of a garden, there were
two other projects that ran in my head, on which I
dwelt a great deal; one was for enlarging my cave, the
other for making salt. The former I knew to be practi-
cable; it only required industry and perseverance in
removing piece by piece a loose rocky ledge; but the
latter puzzled me extremely. I knew that sea water
contained salt, in solution, but how to come at it I could
not tell,
In all the accounts I had ever read, or heard, of mak-
ing salt from salt springs or sea water, the process con-
sisted in boiling ; and I had no pot, or kettle, or other
utensil in which to boil any thing. I had read in some
book of voyages, that the natives of an island in the
Pacific Ocean, make salt from sea water, by suspend-
ing it in a large leaf over a fire ; but I had seen no leaf
on the island, that was at all like the one there described.
Still I was not discouraged; I went on thinking about
it, and trying to remember all I had ever learnt of
evaporation and crystallization, which I knew to be the
two things necessary in order to make salt. At last I
recollected that in the course oflectures, which I attended
in York the winter before I left home, the lecturer said
that the sun produced evaporation ; that clouds were
formed by the small particles of water which his heat
caused to rise from rivers, lakes, and oceans. I had
moreover often remarked how quickly the sun dries up
or evaporates, in the morning, the dew that collects on
Elants in the night; so I resolved to try whether the
eat of the sun, which is very great here in the middle
of the day, would not evaporate the water and leave the
salt, if I put some sea water in a shallow place, where
the sun would shine on it all day long.
For this purpose 1 formed a shallow pan of earth,
above high-water mark, and undertook to fill it with sea-
water, with my cocoa-nut dipper; but the water would
sink into the earth and disappear. This puzzled me a
good deal, for I could not see why the water did not
stay above ground there as well as on the beach, where
the sea remained upon it. So I lay down, well tired
with my fruitless exertions, to ponder on the subject, and
after a while I came to the conclusion that the beach
was so small compared to the waters that rolled upon it,
that if it soaked up all it could, it would make no per-
ceptible difference; and I have since found that below
the level of the sea at high water, the sand is always full
of moisture.
My next attempt was to form a pan of clay; and I
9*
made an excursion with my lamas to a narrow valley,
where I had observed some appearance of a clay soil*
On approaching the spot I could not recognise it; the
valley seemed to be filled up and changed entirely. On
scrambling up a bank of loose earth and stones, I be-
held such a phenomenon as I had read of, but never
expected to see. It was what was called a slide of
earth. Since I was last there a large tract of land had
slidden down from the side of the mountain, and half filled
the valley. I discovered that the bed of earth thus re-
moved, had rested upon a slanting, smooth rock; and
when moistened by excessive rains, it could not, I sup-
pose, keep its place, but glided off. I regretted that I
had not seen this piece of land in motion, for it must
have been a very grand sight; and to view it in safety,
from a distance, would be something like seeing a fine
ship launched, only the spectacle would be far more
sublime.
After gazing some time at the novel scene before me,
and tracing the outline of the slide on the side of the
mountain, and wishing again and again that I had seen it
move, I led my lamas to the nearest part of a large bed
of clay exposed by the slide, and, having loaded them, I
made the best of my way home.
It cost me a good deal of labor to construct my clay
pan, and fill it; but it held the water so well, I was quite
repaid for my trouble, and hoped now to succeed in
my important undertaking. But as evaporation is a slow
process, I was obliged to make up my mind to wait
patiently for a considerable time.
It was on a fine moonlight evening that I completed
my clay pan, and filled it with salt water. Having fed
my lamas and made my daily notch on the tree, I sat
down by the fountain to enjoy the moonlight scene, and
meditate a little before I went to bed.
While reflecting on the past and anticipating the
future, I recollected that when I last numbered the
notches which stood for months in my calendar, it want-
ed but a few weeks of the anniversary of my shipwreck,
the memorable 14th of October. I had resolved to
keep the day very solemnly, to dedicate it to religious
exercises, and fond recollections and tender thoughts of
my dear, distant home, and the loved friends I must never
see more.
Wishing to plan my work with some reference to this
intended day of solemn rest, I went to examine my reck-
oning. As I had counted only four weeks to a month, I
knew it would require thirteen such months and one day
to make a year, so I made my calculations accordingly;
and to my great surprise and disappointment, I found
that the evening was come of that long expected anniver-
sary, and I had spent it in a far different way from what
I intended. I felt vexed and provoked with myself for
my inadvertence, and returned to my rustic seat near
the fount lin, so out of sorts that my conscience told me
it was not right.
I tried to persuade myself that I was grieved at losing
an opportunity of exercising my mind religiously ; but
reason told me I might devote any other day to that pur-
pose quite as well as this particular one that was past;
and, after examining myself some time, I was obliged to
acknowledge that I was sorry to have lost so favorable
an opportunity of making myself melancholy, and indulg-
ing vain regrets; and that it was much better for me to
be employed usefully and cheerfully, as I had been the
whole of the day, than to spend it as I intended.
My thoughts turned quite often enough on my far dis-
tant friends, without appointing a special time for think-
ing of them ; and every day it was equally my duty and
my happiness to think of God, to love him with my
whole heart, and thank him for all his mercies.
Having thus reasoned myself out of my foolish regrets
and lifted up my heart in prayer to my Heavenly Fath-
er, I went to bed and slept in peace.
Knowing by experience, that the best way to prevent
impatience, as to the result of an experiment, is to set to
work industriously about something else, I turned my
attention from my salt-pan, and leaving it to the power
of the sun, I began my operations for tanning leather.
As there are no oak trees here, J was obliged to search
for bark that would best answer the purpose, and soak
i^ in water, to find out what kind made the water
taste most astringent, or had most of the tanning princi-
ple in it. It happened to be the very best season for
stripping off bark, for the sap was running freely, and
made it come off very easily; so I pulled off a good deal
more than I then wanted for tanning leather, and piled it
up for future use. This afterwards proved very service-
able in many other ways. I broke up the bark as well
as I could, with my hands and knife; with great labor I
dug a deep hole in the earth, and lined it with clay; this
I filled with bark and water, and suspended some lama
skins in the liquor. Those which I first tried had the
hair on; but I resolved, if I could get any lime, to dress
others without it, and make good leather if I could.
As I was no mineralogist, I could not tell whether
there was lime stone to be found or not; but as I knew
lime could be made from shells, I collected a large
quantity and put them in a dry and sheltered nook,
among the rocks, and heaped up plenty of dry wood
among them, and then set fire to the pile and tended it
well, to keep the shells in the hottest part of it. When
I thought, by their crumbling, that they were burnt
enough, I tried one of them by wetting it with fresh wa-
ter, and was delighted to find that it immediately hissed
and smoked, and could be mixed into a paste with the
water, just like burnt lime-stone.
The success of this experiment was very important to
me on another account, besides that of removing the
hair from the lama skins: I hoped it would enable me
to build a chimney and fireplace, and make something
like a little kitchen, in which I could have a fire in rainy*
weather.
With all these schemes in my head, and experiments
on my hands, I was very busy and tolerably cheerful from
morning till night; though the idea, that I had now
entered o;i the second year of my banishment from hu-
man society would come across my mind occasionally,
and make me feel very sad.
I did not go near my salt-pan for some time, that I
might find the experiment well advanced when I did
visit it; my vexation and disappointment may therefore
be imagined, when I found the clay all cracked to pie-
ces, and the water leaked out. I knew bricks were
made of clay and were dried in the sun without crack-
ing, and therefore I wondered why my clay pan had
failed me so entirely. Perhaps I had not worked the
clay enough; so I began again. After kneading and
mixing it well, I made another pan and heaped up the
sand round the outside, to protect the «dges from the
sun, and, having filled it with sea-water, tried the experi-
ment over again. This time the water did not leak, it
evaporated; and every time I tasted it, I found it more
salt; and though it became bitter also, I felt almost sure
of success.
At last I was certain that my purpose was accom-
plished, for I saw a white substance deposited in the
bottom of the pan. Overjoyed at this discovery, and
impatient to realize the success of my experiment, I
made a hole in the side of the pan and let the water off,
then tasted the deposit and found no flavor of salt in
it! I was never more surprised or more severely disap-
pointed, and at first I resolved to give it all up in de-
spair; but, after some useless repining, I thought I
would try to find out the reason of my disappointment.
The water had certainly been very salt and very bit-
ter; yet here was a substance that was neither, and the
salt must still be in solution in the water. On tasting a
little of it, which still remained in one corner of the pan,
I found it excessively salt, and somewhat bitter. I then
saw the great mistake I had made in drawing off and
wasting the water when the salt in it was probably just
about to crystallize. I was so provoked with myself that
I found it harder to bear with my own folly and precipi-
tancy, than with an unavoidable misfortune. To prove
whether my supposition was correct, I carefully removed
all the white deposit, which looked like lime, and which
I have since found to be such, and left the small remain-
ing quantity of salt water to crystallize if it would; and
the result showed I was right. In a few days I found
some perfect crystals of salt in the pan, and could only
blame myself for not having a much larger quantity.
The moisture that remained was still very bitter, but had
lost all taste of salt. The spoonful of salt thus obtained,
served to season a few meals, and was so grateful to my
palate, and invigorating to my whole frame, that I set to
work with fresh zeal to profit by my experience in mak-
ing more. The clay pan was repaired and filled again;
and while the water was evaporating, I pursued my other
plans. I did not forget to make hay while the sun shone,
literally, as well as metaphorically; for I pulled up a
large quantity of fine grass, and made it into very nice,
sweet hay ; this I stacked up on my terrace, and cover-
ed with the bark I had by me. I remember feeling
particularly pleased with this piece of work, and congrat-
ulating myself on having done it in true farmer-like style;
but my conceit was soon taken out of me, by seeing
some smoke issue from the top of my stack, and,
to save it from burning up, I was forced to pull it
all apart, and dry the hay more thoroughly. I knew
that moisture was the cause of its smoking, and that it would soon be in a blaze and be consumed; but I puzzled
myself in vain, to find out how moisture could kindle a
fire! I cannot now understand it at all ; but if ever I
am again in reach of a book that can explain it, I will
find out all about it; and I shall lay it up in my mind as
a mode of getting fire, if I am ever again without other
means.
As I had no way of cutting down trees, I used the
limbs and branches that I found on the ground for fire-
wood; but as this was rather a scanty supply, and col-
lected with great labor, I often regretted that I had
neither axe nor saw to help myself with. Sometimes
the lightning did me good service by splitting and shiver-
ing trees on the hills, and then I used to collect the
fragments.
Being now sure that salt could be made by evapora-
tion in the sun, I made two more salt-pans of clay like
the first, and placed them on different levels, one below
the other, that I might draw off the water into the second
one, when it had deposited the lime in the first, and then
clean that out and fill it afresh. While working and
mixing the clay for this purpose, it occurred to me that
I could make some useful utensils of clay; and possibly,
some that would hold water, and stand fire.
Overjoyed at this thought, I tried the experiment at
once ; but it would have set any one a laughing, to see
the awkward attempts I made at forming a pipkin * out
of clay. Such one-sided things, of such unequal thick-
ness, were never seen before. Sometimes the clay was
so soft, that it fell in or fell out; and the vessels would
not bear their own weight. Some dried too suddenly in
the sun, and cracked, and fell to pieces; but at last, after
many disappointments and much patient labor, I made
two tolerably well shaped pipkins, and dried them in the
sun very hard. But after all, they would not hold any
liquid; it all filtered through them; then I remem-
bered something about glazing earthen ware, and mixing
sand with the clay. So I tried a fresh set of experi-
ments, on some finer clay mixed with sand, and resolved
to burn these vessels in the fire, as well as dry them in
the sun, hoping the heat would melt the sand, and so
glaze the pots. I made several, but fortunately I tried
the effect of burning them, on one alone ; that I put in-
to the centre of a very hot fire, and away it went, crack-
ed all to pieces, as I ought to have known it would
be beforehand.
The next I heated gradually; and that did not crack.
I watched it and tended the fire many hours, in hopes it
would come out glazed and fit for use; but alas! I was
again disappointed, and entirely at a loss what to do next.
While considering the subject, and turning about the
utensil in my hand, I discovered one little spot on the
* An earthen-ware pot, used instead of an iron vessel to
cook in, by the poor.
bottom of it, that was perfectly glazed ; this gave me
new life and energy, to find out a glazing for my earthen
ware ; because this convinced me there was a substance
within my reach, that would do it. Accordingly, I ex-
amined every step I had taken, and tried to remember
where I had set it down and every thing I had done
with it, from first to last; but I could not account far that one spot of glazing, unless a few drops of salt wa-
ter from my pans, had got on the clay. I did not think
it at all likely that this would produce any such effect, and
was on the point of giving it up without a trial, when I
thought I would just satisfy myself it was not that, by
dipping another of my pipkins into strong salt water,
and burning it in the fire. I did so, and to my inexpres-
sible joy and great surprise, it came out well glazed inside
and out! Here then I had a vessel in which I could
boil my food, and was at once possessed of what I had
so long desired, and had thought that nothing but the
materials and skill of a regular manufacturer could furnish.
I lost no time in boiling a piece of meat and some
sweet potatoes in it; and by adding a little pepper and
salt, I made very good broth of the liquor, though I had
nothing to thicken it with, as I had seen my mother's
cook thicken her soups.
Nothing could taste better to me than this dinner of
boiled meat, simple as it was! It was such a novelty
that it relished highly, and all the more for being obtain-
ed by my own ingenuity and perseverance ; indeed it
was that which made me care about it at all ; for I am
not of the dainty sort, and care not what I eat, if it is but wholesome food and there is enough of it.
CHAPTER XIV.
A GREAT CATASTROPHE — AN UNEXPECTED CALAMITY —
NEW PLANS A DISCOVERT PHILOSOPHIZING A
STRANGE PHENOMENON ADDITIONAL ACCOMMODATION3
AND CONTRIVANCES.
I NEXT turned my thougnts upon building a sheltered
fireplace and chimney; I had made lime enough for the
purpose, and carried it to my terrace, and had collected
there sand and stones sufficient to enable me to begin;
but I had not quite settled where to place it, or how to
contrive it to the best advantage, when an event occur-
red that made a great change in my situation, and is one
of the most remarkable and wonderful of my life. It
has left such an impression on my memory, that I can
recount every particular just as it happened.
It was about noon, on one of the hottest and stillest
days I ever experienced; not a breath of wind moved
upon the face of the waters; not a leaf stirred; the only
cloud in the sky had been motionless for hours, and I
was reposing under the shade of some fine trees, near
my favorite brook, when I heard a low, rumbling sound,
which seemed to come from under the ground, on which
I was lying. I raised my head; the sound grew louder,
and then died away ; the earth trembled as it does during
a heavy discharge of artillery; and I was instantly pos-
sessed with the idea, that it was the report of cannon at
a distance, and that a ship might be in sight. I started
up, to run to the nearest spot that commanded a view of
the coast; but before I had proceeded many steps, I was
suddenly thrown prostrate on the ground, by a shock
which I now knew to be that of an earthquake. I shall
never forget what an awful thing it was to feel this earth,
which we consider so firm and solid, heave and shake un-
der me like something afloat. Not knowing what would
come next, I thought it best to lie where I was; and
this I was the more willing to do, on account of a sensa-
10
tion at my stomach, like sea-sickness; which, with the
alarm I felt, made me unable to stand. While lying
there, many appalling thoughts passed through my mind.
I had read of islands in the ocean, that were thrown up by an earthquake, and, after remaining above water a few
years, suddenly disappeared. I thought this might be
one of that sort, and that the island was now going to be
swallowed up again in the mighty deep. This, and many
other frightful ideas, crossed my imagination, and filled
me with dread for a few minutes; but I soon turned
my thoughts upon that Almighty Friend, in whom is no
change, and on whom we can firmly rely, for the safety
and happiness of our souls, even though the world itself
should crumble to pieces under us. As soon as my mind
was fixed on God, it became calm; and I was able to
bear with tolerable composure the next shock, which was much more violent than the first, and attended with
a loud noise, such as cannot be described; for it was un-
like any other noise that I ever heard. The earth heav-
ed less than before, but shook more. I lay with my
face downwards, my head resting on my arms, and my
eyes shut, scarce daring to breathe, while the vibra-
tion lasted. Long after it had subsided, I remained
motionless, expecting another shock; but that proved to
be the last; and when my fear of a repetition of it was
passed away, I sat for some time on the ground, thinking
on the mighty convulsion which must have taken place
within the earth, thus to affect the surface. I felt thank-
ful that I had not been swallowed up in one of those
chasms, that are said to open in the ground, and then
close again immediately. I remembered meeting with
accounts of earthquakes far more terrible than this, the
horrors of which I could now appreciate much better
than when I read about them, in dear, happy England,
where such calamities are little known.
Thus I sat, meditating upon this awful event, till I
was recovered from its effects, and inclined to return to
my business on the terrace; but great was my coasternation when, on approaching my place of abode, I be-
held stones, and earth, and fragments of rock, scattered
around; and, on reaching my cave, I perceived it to be
half filled with rubbish, and that there was a rent in the hill
directly over it, which spoiled the roof of my habitation.
This new misfortune afflicted me greatly, for, rude as
my dwelling was, it was a comfortable home to me, and
was endeared by many interesting associations. It had
sheltered me from the heavy rains and sudden gales of
winter, and was of vast importance to me as a store-
house, no less than as a dwelling-place. Besides, it had
Cost me much hard labor to make it what it was; and to
see it all destroyed, filled me with sadness. After the
first shock to my feelings was over, I began to find some
comfort in the thought that I was not in the cave at the
time of the catastrophe, and that it happened during the
dry season, as I could sleep without its shelter while pre-
paring a new abode for the winter. To do this, now
became my chief concern.
I thought a good deal of building a hut of stones, laid
in mortar; but how to roof it in was the difficulty, unpro-
vided as I was with tools. I could cover it with bark,
or cocoa-nut leaves; but there must be a wooden frame
to rest the covering upon; and to make any sort of raf-
ters with only a jack-knife, seemed impossible. If I had
only possessed an axe, I could have built myself a log
cabin, and made as many roofs as I wanted ; but without
any edgetool larger than a knife, my powers were very
small. At one time, I thought of building a circular
wall, round a tall, straight tree, and then making the roof
by fastening pieces of bark in a slanting position from
the tree to the wall; but I had not nails enough, to nail
the bark to the tree, and even if I could fasten it in some
other way, I knew I could not make the roof tight
enough to keep out the pouring rains of the wet season.
I surveyed my cave again and again, to see if I could
not make that once more habitable, by clearing out the
loose earth and stones, and covering over the slit or rent
in the top. After mature deliberation, I resolved to
make the attempt.
throwing it into a pannier, carried it to a proper dis-
tance, and thus by slow degrees, I lessened the pile in
the cave.
My old lama helped me a little, for I had taught her
to kneel down to be loaded, as camels do. Now I made
her kneel, while I filled a pannier on each side of her,
just full enough for her to rise pretty easily; then she
carried the dirt away for me; I followed, and emptied
the panniers, without taking them off her back. At first,
she did not like the rattling of the earth and stones so
near her legs, but she soon learned to bear it very qui-
etly.
As I removed the earth, I saw that the damage to my
cave was greater than I had at first supposed; the rent
which spoiled the roof, extended through the back part
of the cave ; but the floor, being solid rock, remained un-
injured; and when I could scramble over the loose
earth, I found a narrow, dark passage made by the
earthquake.
Eager to know the extent of it, and what other open-
ings had been made in the hill, I groped about till I
found my cocoa-nut lamp; and having lighted it, I ex-
plored, with a mixture of curiosity and trepidation, these
cracks and openings in the earth. I held the lamp so
as to show my footing at every step, and proceeded sev-
eral yards in a narrow pass, just wide enough for me to
walk in without rubbing against the sides; which were
of a white, compact texture, and as even and perpendic-
ular as if they had been cut with tools. It was well for
me, that I looked carefully to my footing ; for after going
some distance, the fissure widened very much, and the
rock, on which I had been walking, terminated abruptly.
I held the lamp out as far as I could, to see what was
beyond; but I could only discern a dark abyss beneath
my feet, i threw a small fragment of rock into it, and
after falling a great way, I heard it plash in water.
Having discovered all I then could, I retraced my steps,
and was glad to see daylight at the end of the passage.
As I was about to re-enter my cave, I observed some-
thing like an opening in a rock, on my left hand ; it was
just large enough for me to squeeze through; but what
was my wonder and delight, when I found myself in an-
other cave, larger and more regularly formed than the
one I had lived in! Here then was a habitation, better
than any I could build, and all ready to receive me and
my stores! I stood still, for some time, in perfect
amazement and delight; then I walked round it, and
held my lamp up to the sides; and found them so reg-
ular and smooth, that I thought they must have been
formed so by the action of water. Perhaps the sea
might once have covered much more of the island than
it now does; and my terrace might have been under the
ocean, and the washing of the waves might have made
these caves.
Then there was another way which I thought of in
"accounting for them. They might have been formed by
fresh water, dissolving and carrying off with it the softer
particles, that once filled up the cave; and the water in
"the deep abyss, at the end of the narrow passage, made
me think this very likely. But let the cave be formed
as it might, I was delighted to find it, and determined to
fit it up for my habitation, against the next rainy season.
While exploring my new-found apartment, it crossed
-my mind several times, that there might be danger in
living in a cave, since the island was subject to earth-
quakes; but my fear was not great enough to overcome
other considerations in favor of it; and as I had lived
safely so many months in a cave, and been away from
it when the earthquake happened, I persuaded myself
that I should be equally fortunate in future.
I now went on with the work of clearing my old cave
with fresh spirit; for as that would be my entry, or ante-
chamber, I wished to have it in order. While shovel-
ling, or rather shelling away the earth, it occurred to me
that I could make a very good kitchen of this outer cave,
and that the crack in the roof would serve a capital pur-
10*
pose, for I could build a chimney up through it, and so
carry the smoke out of my house.
When I thought of this contrivance, I was standing
near the opening into the narrow passage, and being
greatly delighted, I clapped my hands and shouted out
"capital"; but the next moment I was startled almost
out of my wits; for an echo repeated the noise I had
made, and the word " capital" was so distinctly return-
ed, that it was exactly like a human being imitating me.
After the first surprise was over, I knew it must be an
echo; and then I amused myself very much with it, and
had great pleasure in hearing my words repeated, though
they were only my own sounds, sent back to me by caves
and rocks.
Strange as it may seem to my friends, if they should
ever read this history, I must say that I never was hap-
pier in my life, than while I was arranging these two
caves for my kitchen and lodging-room. My work pros-
pered finely; I succeeded very well in building a chim-
ney, and making a kind of fireplace, with loose stones
and fragments of rocks, that I found lying about, near at
hand; and I take some credit to myself for the contriv-
ance I used to supply the place of scaffolding, which
enabled me to build the chimney higher than my head, I fixed into the wall projecting stones, that I could stand
upon, and so reach higher and higher, till I carried
the chimney tip through the top of the cave, and could
work upon it from above. As I was obliged to make
my chimney pretty large, owing to the clumsiness of my
materials, I thought the rain, which falls very perpendic-
ularly in the wet season, would certainly come down in
sufficient quantity to put out my fire; so, to obviate that
difficulty, I made a tile of clay, which was so shaped as
to protect the top of the chimney from rain, and yet let
out the smoke. I was so pleased with my fireplace,
that I could hardly wait for the mortar to dry, and the
masonry to become solid, before I lighted a fire in k;
and when at last I thought it would do to try the ex-
periment, I found it to answer perfectly well; which so de-
lighted me, that I danced and capered about like a child.
As very little light could find its way into my new
apartment, I left open the crack across my kitchen roof,
till I should be obliged to close it on account of the rain;
this I meant to do with bark laid across, and loaded with
stones, to keep it in its place. The light, that came
through this crack, enabled me to do many things in the
inner cave without a lamp; though it did seem a very
dark place, when I first entered it, out of broad day-
light.
It gave me great pleasure to arrange my stores in my
new room, and make up a nice bed of sweet, fresh, new
hay. 1 easily cut places in the sides of the cave, and so
made shelves to put my little utensils upon ; for the rock
was as soft and crumbling as chalk. Never was a little
girl more happy in arranging a new baby-house, than I
was in furnishing my rude apartment with the few goods
and chattels I possessed.
CHAPTER XV.
i BOWER — A PARROT—DOMESTIC MANOTACTURES — AR-
RANGEMENTS FOR WINTER SECOND RAINY SEASON.
THIS second summer passed swiftly away, while I di-
vided my time among my salt-works, pottery, and tan-
pits, hunting, shooting, and making exploring excursions
over the island. I found a short cut over the hills to
Gordon Vale, and I frequently carried my dinner with
me, and spent the whole day in that enchanting spot. I
made a very pretty bower there, by planting young trees
in a regular form, and near together; then training
creepers about their trunks, and making the topmost
branches meet to cover it in. By watering and pruning,
rt became, by the end of the summer, a very shady re-
treat, and a sufficient shelter from moderate rains. In
it, I placed upon stones a piece of plank, brought from
Nail Cove, which made a settee long enough for me to
stretch myself upon it at full length. There I took many
a noon-day nap and sometimes spent the night.
In crossing Oat Plain this summer, I found it covered
with a fresh crop of grass, of quite a different kind from
what grew there before, I was at first surprised, that
the fire had not destroyed every seed in the earth; but,
on further reflection, I remembered what my young
friend, the botanist, once said to me about seeds, when
he tried to interest me in his pursuits; and if this ever
reaches my friends in England, I request them to tell
him, I remembered that conversation in my solitude, and
wished I had learned more of him. He told me that
there are a great many more seeds produced, than are
usually wanted; on purpose, it would seem, to provide
against accidents; and when a fire destroys all vegeta-
tion to a certain depth, there are still seeds in the earth
below, that are ready to start up and supply the loss.
He related, also, many curious facts about seeds, their
manner of spreading themselves over the earth, and
their power of resisting decay, which I recollect with
pleasure.
In one of my excursions, I went as far as Parrot
Grove, and was saluted, as before, with the inharmoni-
ous notes of these gay birds, that, in a wild state, seem
formed to please the eye more than the ear.
Knowing that they can be made to imitate the human
voice, I was very desirous of procuring a young one that
I could teach; and, after many fruitless attempts, I suc-
ceeded in making one prisoner. The poor little crea-
ture was hardly fledged, and could not fly; I found it
on the ground, and supposed it must have fallen out of its
nest. I carried it home in a pannier, covered over with
boughs and leaves, so that it could not escape.
The addition of a parrot to my family, pleased me
much, and I determined as soon as the fine weather was
over, and I had more leisure, to make her a cage; which
I thought I could do with wicker work, as I was quite
a skilful basket-weaver. Till then, I tied a small
weight to her foot, which prevented her flying, but allow-
ed her to walk about. She soon became tame and fa-
miliar; but it was long before I could teach her to pro-
nounce even her own name, Poll.
To return now to the history of my domestic manufac-
tures. My tan-pit gave me a great deal of trouble.
Changing the water and tan, was quite a job with such
poor tools as I had ; sometimes it leaked, and then I had
a deal of irouble to find the leak and mend it; but as
the skins appeared to be doing very well, their texture
approaching nearer, every day, to that of leather, I was
encouraged to persevere. I had just time enough to
complete the process, and dry the skins, before the rains
began.
My salt-works succeeded very well when there was no
rain; but, in the driest weather and with every attention on
my part, I could not hasten the process of evaporation or
crystallization; that must go on in its own slow way.
As my three pnns were all small, I could not make
salt enough to cure any meat for the winter; I could
only get as much as I should want to season my food
with, as I ate it.
Encouraged by my success in making, baking, and
glazing one pipkin, I made a great many more vessels,
of various sizes; but as their shapes were not very regu-
lar, I did not know what names to give them. They
were a good deal like the worst shaped crucibles I ever
saw; still they answered my purpose as well as the most
beautifully moulded China vases and cups could have
done; and when I had completed a good many vessels,
and ranged them on a shelf in my kitchen, I was as well
satisfied as any lady in England with a closet full of rare
and valuable china. I esteemed things now according
to their usefulness, not their beauty.
I found the chimney very convenient to smoke my
meat in for the winter ; but as I should not now be oblig-
ed to eat it raw, I dried it less than before, and found it,
when soaked and boiled, quite palatable.
I laid in a good stock of vegetables and fruits; and
dried so many grapes, that any one would have thought
I meant to live on them altogether. I also provided large
bundles of willow wands for basket stuff, soaked nettle
stalks for cordage, and dried wood for fuel. I had,
moreover, plenty of room to stow every thing under cov-
er in my two caves.
I was now so well prepared for the rainy season, that
I only dreaded it on account of the confinement to which
I should be subjected, and its injurious effects upon my
health; I was, therefore, considering how I should con-
trive to exercise within my house, and how I could diet
myself to avoid disease, when it occurred to me that,
with my present hairy garments, I might perhaps set the
rains at defiance, and exercise in the open air, even in
the wet season. To make it still safer to do so, I made
myself a second suit of clothes from skins, dressed with
the hair on ; and then when I came in wet, I could change
my garments for others that were dry and equally warm.
My second attempt at tailoring was an improvement
on the first; and the skins that had been tanned, were
so much more soft and agreeable, that I always put them
on to exercise in.
At last the fine, serene sky, which had not been ob-
scured except by a passing cloud or a welcome thunder
storm, for several months, became overcast; the wind
whistled ominously through the trees; the ocean became
dark and rough; and the rainy season was ushered in
by a gale of wind, that blew violently for a few hours.
When it subsided, the rain began to pour down in floods,
and I gladly sought the shelter of my inner cave. Among
other earthen vessels, I had made some for lamps; and
having saved a great deal of oil and fat, from turtles and
lamas, I hoped to be well provided with light during the
dark days I was to spend in my new parlour ; but my rav-
elled cotton stocking would not last through the season;
so I was obliged to think what I should do for wicks
when that was gone.
My lamas continued to be as useful and as dear to me
as ever. The old one had a kid during the fine weath-
er; and, as I now had room enough, I allowed her
and her young one to shelter themselves in my kitchen.
I fastened the mother by a halter, and fed her with the
plant she was most fond of; I shared her milk with the
kid, that was suffered to go at large, and often got pun-
ished for his impertinence. Once he put his nose into
some hot broth, which scalded him. Another time he
offended Poll, and she made him feel her sharp bill in a
way that taught him to keep his distance in future. One
day he walked off through the narrow passage, and I
fully expected he would fall from the rock at the end and
be killed; so I followed gently after him and pulled him
back by the hind leg. He singed and scorched himself
continually against the hot stones of the fireplace, and
would often play about the wood pile till he threw it all
down on himself or his mother.
These mischievous tricks amused me, and though he
sometimes plagued me a little, I could not bear to de-
prive him of his liberty. To prevent any accident with
either of the lamas, as the old one was sometimes loose,
I blocked up the narrow passage beyond the entrance to
my parlour, with the wood I had collected for fuel; this
was also useful in giving me more room in the kitchen.
I found my parrot a very entertaining companion and
very affectionate too; she loved to be caressed and talk-
ed to, and was always delighted to sit on my hand, to be
fed by me, and have her head rubbed; but though I
talked to her a great deal, she did not learn to speak
that winter. I made her a very commodious wicker
cage with a swing in it, that she took great pleasure in,
when shut up ; but she loved so well to be at liberty, that
I only put her in the cage occasionally.
This second winter was far less tedious to me than
the former; I was better prepared for it, and I knew what
to expect from the first, and made up my mind to it. I
also found that I could expose myself in my shaggy coat
to the hardest rain, without any inconvenience; and I
smiled to think that my rude garments were a better de-
fence from weather, than the best suit of English broad- cloth. In my wet walks, I needed a different hat from
that I had worn in summer; and I accordingly made
a frame of wicker-work, as near like a broad brimmed
hat as I could, and covered it with lama skin, putting the
hair outside, that it might shed the rain; and though
much heavier than my leafy head-dress, it suited the
weather far better, and kept my head and neck perfectly
dry.
Though I took frequent runs in the open air, for the
sake of exercise, my chief occupations were within my
dwelling; and, during the latter part of the time, I found
work enough within doors, for exercise and pleasure too.
On being better acquainted with the form and position
of my inner apartment, I felt sure that it approached very
near the outer one, at one particular point; and as it
would be very convenient to have a passage directly out
of one into the other, I resolved to see what could be
done.
To work I went, with my green stone wedge and mal-
let, and soon convinced myself it was practicable. The
reverberation in both caves, occasioned by the blows on
the rock, in breaking it away, was so powerful that
at first it almost stunned me; but I became accustomed
to the sound, and after laboring very diligently many
days, a good opening was made between the two caves.
I have heard of ladies being very much pleased with
having their drawing-rooms open into each other; but
they were not more delighted than I was, when I had a
passage-way from my kitchen to my parlour, large enough
for me to walk through erect, with elbow-room on each
side. As the former entrance from the narrow passage
was now of no use, I shut it up with a piece of plank,
and felt better satisfied than ever with my accommoda-
tions.
Towards the end of the rainy season, all my cotton
wicks were used up. I spent several evenings in the
dark, before I could think of a substitute. At last I re-
membered seeing candles, used in cottages, that were
called rush lights; the name led me to the conclusion,
that the wicks were made of rushes; and though I look-
ed in vain, on the marshy grounds near the terrace, for
any thing like the English rush, I found other plants
with pithy stems; and after several experiments, I suc-
ceeded in making very good wicks of pith, and was nev-
er afterwards at a loss for a light.
When it had rained with little interruption for two
months, the return of fine weather was preceded by a
violent storm of thunder and lightning, accompanied by
a heavy gale of wind. I never before heard such loud,
crackling thunder, or saw such vivid lightning. An
English thunder storm is nothing compared with it.
The wind, too, blew a perfect hurricane for a few hours.
This storm came on about sunset, and lasted all the
first part of the night; but after listening to it till I was tired, I fell asleep, and did not awake again till the
morning was far advanced.
It rained'hard all the next day, and I hardly stirred
out of the cave ; but the morning after, the sky was
clear, and there was every appearance of fine, settled
weather. I was impatient to go forth and view the isl-
and after the storm; but the sight, which that morning's
light disclosed, must be described in a separate chapter.
CHAPTER XVI.
A WRECK VISIT TO THE WRECK — A RAFT — A NARROW
ESCAPE — VALUABLES SECURED—A NIGHTLY VISITOR.
HAVING hastily despatched my breakfast in order to
go out and see the effects of the storm, I mounted my
ladder to take a general survey of the scene from the
top of Fort Hill. Instantly my eyes were fixed upon a
sight so new, so strange, and so full of interest, that
11
I remained in one attitude, with my head stretched out
and my eyes straining open in dumb amazement, for I
know not how long. Tbe object I was so eagerly look-
ing at, was a wrecked vessel, aground on a shoal not
far from the reef on which the Santa Maria was lost.
As I gazed upon it, and thought of the probable fate
of the crew, and remembered my own shipwreck, my
feelings were so wrought up that they quite overpowered
me; my knees trembled and bent under me, and I sank
upon the grass in a flood of tears.
How long I indulged this useless emotion, I do not
remember. But I well recollect what it was, that made
me jump on my feet, and run towards the shore; it was
the idea that some one or more of the crew might have
reached land in safety, as I had done ; and the hope of
finding a fellow being, a companion in my solitude, gave
new strength and fleetness to my limbs. I ran about
the beach, examined every nook among the rocks, and
made the air resound with my shouts; but all in vain,
no human voice responded to mine, and my heart sank
within me, as I gave up the hope of meeting with a fel-
low man. I frequently turned my eyes on the wreck, to
see if there were not some one remaining on it, but
there was no appearance of any human being on the
deck, cleared as it was of every thing that could be car-
ried away by the force of the waves. It was not till I
had given up all hope of greeting any living being, saved,
like myself, from destruction, and my mind had become
more calm, that I thought of the possibility of visiting the
wreck, and finding things in it, that would be useful to
me in my solitude. In my various fishing excursions, as
well as in swimming for pleasure, I had thoroughly ex-
plored the coast towards the Land's End, and the shoals
near it; I knew that at low water it would be easy for
me to reach the wreck by wading and swimming, and I
impatiently awaited the ebbing of the tide.
The mere sight of this shattered vessel, of any thing
made by human hands and tools, was so exciting hat I
could think of nothing else; I could not eat, or drink,
or do any thing but sit on the rocks opposite the vessel
with my eyes fixed on the interesting spectacle, waiting
for the proper time of tide. At last I thought it would
do to set out; so I stripped off my leathern suit and wad-
ed off towards the object on which all my thoughts now
turned. I made a circuit to avoid deep water, and with
some swimming reached the grand shoal on which the
vessel lay. As I approached her I heard a sound which,
to my excited imagination, seemed nothing less than a
human voice. O how my heart beat, and how eagerly
I pressed forward, to find the sufferer and relieve him!
In a moment I fancied the meeting I hoped for, with a
fellow-being; another sound, like the first, confirmed
me in my expectation; and breathless with hope I reach-
ed the side of the vessel.
Here an unthought of difficulty presented itself. As
the vessel lay aground, she was so high out of water,
that I saw no means of climbing up her rounding and
slippery sides. Twice I waded round her, to see if I
could discover any way of getting into her ; the second
time I espied a small piece of rope, hanging down by
the fore-chains *. I reached this with some difficulty, and
finding it fast at the other end, I climbed up by it to the
deck and hurried to the cabin. The dead-lights f were
in, which made it so dark I could hardly see any thing.
I spoke, but no one answered. I felt in the berths, but
found no body. I stumbled over things on the floor,
till by degrees my sight became clearer, and by the
feeble light which came down the gangway f I saw traces
of the recent departure of the former occupants of the
cabin. On the table stood an open writing-desk, which
* Short pieces of large chain, or crooked pieces of iron,
bolted to the sides of the ship abreast of the foremast, to
which are fastened the ends of large ropes, called shrouds,
which, at the other end, are attached to the foremast, near its
top, for the purpose of supporting the mast
f Window-shutters used only in a storm.
f The stair-case leading from the deck to the cabin.
appeared to have been hastily emptied of its con-
tents; an evidence as it seemed to me, that the
owner had hopes of saving his life, when he abandoned
the vessel ; otherwise he would not have taken those
things with him. A repetition of the sound I had
before heard, now hurried me forward again, in my search for some living being. I approached the spot
whence it proceeded ; I heard it more distinctly; I
pushed open a sliding door, and out leaped a large, black
dog!
My disappointment was extreme ; I felt provoked
with myself for being so carried away by my hopes and
wishes, as to have mistaken the whining of a dog, for a
human voice.
Convinced now that there was no probability of find-
ing any fellow being on board, I pursued my examina-
tion more calmly. I found that the ship was bulged,*and had a great deal of water in her hold; but as she
had drifted stern foremost on the sand-bank, that
part of her was so lifted up that the cabin and the run -f-
of the ship were dry, though the forecastle was full of
water.
I saw by the papers that were still left in the above-
mentioned desk, that the ship's name was the Thames,
and that she was a London whaler. It was very in-
teresting and affecting to me to see the traces of human
beings all around me. I had dwelt so long in a spot,
where I had reason to believe no man but myself had
ever lived, that to be where I knew that men, my
countrymen too, had recently been, gave rise to new
and overpowering thoughts. I was so exhausted by the
strong emotions I had experienced, and the exertions I
had made to reach the vessel, that I feared my strength
* This is said of a vessel when she has a hole in her bot-
tom that lets in water.
t That part of the vessel which is under the cabin floor.
It is entered by a trap-door in the cabin floor, and contains a
store of provisions.
would fail me before I had accomplished half I wished,
if I did not take some nourishment and endeavour to re-
gain my usual composure. I therefore went in search
of bread, and soon found some in the steward's pantry.
I might have considered it rather uninviting when I lived
at home, and ate good household bread every day; but
after my being nearly two years without tasting a mouthful
of bread of any kind, this hard, brown biscuit was most
delicious. As I refreshed myself with it, I reasoned
myself into greater calmness, and began to see that,
although I was disappointed of finding some one on board,
I might derive great advantage from the vessel's being
driven on this shore; and I resolved to make the best
use I could of it.
My experience had taught me, that tools were the
greatest treasure I could possess ; so, while I was still
eating, I went about looking for the carpenter's chest;
and as the vessel was an English whaleman, I found an
excellent assortment of the most useful tools. O how
pleased I was to see and handle an axe, a saw, chisels,
gimblets, hammers, planes, &c. I could not refrain
from examining and trying them all, anticipating the
pleasure I should have in using them. I had already
fancied myself doing wonders with them on the island,
when my spirits were suddenly damped by recollecting
that I had no boat to carry any thing ashore in. I
was however, so accustomed to depend on my own con-
trivances, and had accomplished so many things which
had at first appeared impossible, that I did not despair
of getting all these tools safe on shore in some way or
other. I resolved, if I could do nothing better, to tie an
axe and a saw to my back, and swim ashore with them
at any rate. The afternoon was very fine, the sea was
become calm, and though it was some distance from the
wreck to the beach opposite my dwelling, it was not
very far to the rocky shore nearest the shoal; and if I
could only land the tools on any part of the coast, I knew
I could easily transport them afterwards wherever I
pleased. My first plan was to get an empty half-barrel
11*
head up the tools in it, and float them ashore in that, pushing it before me as I swam over the deep places,
and carrying it, where the water was too shallow for it
to float. I was trying to get at a cask for this purpose,
when, seeing some spare spars between decks, it
occurred to me that I could make a raft, and carry
the whole chest of tools and many other things
ashore, quite dry and safe. To work I went with great
spirit, and carried up four small spars on deck; having
fastened a rope to one end of each, I threw them over-
board and tied them to the side of the ship, to keep them
from floating away; then I lowered myself down into
the water and lashed the ends of these spars together,in
the form of a hollow square, and on this frame I placed
some short pieces of plank that I also found between
decks. Here then was a raft made at once, on
which I could stand perfectly dry and secure; but I
found that my weight alone brought it down to the wa-
ter, and an additional load would sink it below the sur-
face. I therefore looked about the ship for some more
spars, and found a spare topmast which would be very
buoyant, I knew, from its size, if I could but get it into
the water; so I took a saw out of the carpenter's chest
and sawed it into four pieces; and with great pains and
labor I got these tied under my raft, and found they
buoyed it up finely out of the water. Besides this I laid
on more pieces of plank, and secured them with ropes
and nails, so that they could not slip off. Now my raft
floated high enough for me to venture to put the tool-
chest upon it. The tide had risen so much, that the
height of the ship's deck from the water was not nearly
so great, as when I first climbed up the bows; and by
the help of ropes fastened to the vessel at one end, then
passed round the chest and held in my hands at the oth-
er, I lowered the precious burden down to the wooden
platform, or raft.
As I had now done working in the water, and intend-
ed to go ashore with my goods, I dressed myself in a
suit of sailor's clothes, of which I found a good many in
the officers' cabin ; and having collected all the best
articles, I packed one chest full of them and lowered
that to the raft, as I had done the other. In rummaging
about the wreck, I met with a great many more things
that would be extremely useful to me, and was quite
puzzled what to take first ; but I remembered the dan-
ger there was of losing all, if I attempted too much. So
for fear some change in the weather might pre-
vent my reaching land with my inestimable treasure, I
hurried away, leaving many tempting things behind me,
and only taking, besides the two chests, an iron pot, two
guns, and some powder and shot. One oar was all I
could find, but that would be useful as a rudder to steer
with; the tide was rising and the current setting towards
the west end of the island ; what little wind there was
blew directly on shore, and the water was remarkably
smooth. With every prospect of a safe passage, I push-
ed off from the side of the ship, and while I could
feel bottom shoved the raft along, by the help of my
oar. When I was beyond the sand bank the wind and
tide floated me along, in the very direction I wished to
go. It was a beautiful evening, the sensation of floating
over the bright blue waters, by the unseen power of wind
and tide, was delightful ; and, as I sat upon the chest of
tools and thought of its valuable contents, I was so happy
that I forgot my disappointment at not finding a fellow
creature on board the wreck. I also enjoyed being once
more dressed in well-shaped clothes, made of soft ma-
terials: all except the shoes and stockings felt very com-
fortably ; but these cramped my feet so much, that I did
not keep them on long, I had gone barefoot till I dis-
liked the feeling of any covering, however large or easy.
The more I reflected on the choice I had made of
things to be first secured, the better pleased I was;
and I hoped, if the weather continued favorable,
to make many other trips, and bring off a great deal
more.
When I had got about half way, I perceived that my
raft drifted more to the west, and as I approached the
land, I could not steer it straight for the beach; so I let
it float westward, trusting that when I got near the creek
or inlet of the sea, into which my favorite brook empti-
ed itself, the indraught would enable me to land there.
As soon as I had passed the rocks which terminate
the beach on the west, I found a strong current setting
into the creek, and was quickly carried in that direction.
I tried to keep as near the middle of the stream as I
could; but not being well acquainted with the shores,
and a raft being difficult to steer, one end of it ran
aground upon a shoal, which raised it so much on that
side, that all my precious cargo had like to have slip-
ped off into the water. Seeing the danger I was in of
losing my treasure at last, I sej my back firmly against the chests and kept them from sliding off, while I held
the smaller things with my hands. In this situation I
could not move without endangering my goods, and I
could make no efforts to push off the raft ; but I knew
the tide was rising, and if I could hold out to keep the
things as they were, for a few minutes, I hoped the other
end would gradually float as high as that which rested
on the ground, and so relieve me.
The time appeared to me very long, that I stood in
this constrained posture; and I almost despaired of the
raft becoming level again, when I perceived the weight
on my back to lessen gradually, and soon after all
was afloat and drifting safely up the creek. I kept in
the deepest water till I approached a certain spot,
where I knew the bottom was level; so I pushed my raft
over it, and kept it there with my oar, stuck into the
mud, till I could wade ashore and pull it after me as far
as it would float; then making it fast with a rope to a
large stone, I kept it there till the tide fell and left it
high and dry.
It was not till I had thus secured my new possessions
that I thought any thing about the dog, which had
raised my expectations so high, and then disappointed
them. He had rushed by me when liberated, and dis-
appeared ; and I had been so engrossed by other things,
that I had entirely forgotten him from that time, till my
cargo was safely landed. I now wondered what had
become of him, and hoped to find him on the island;
but I would not leave my precious tools for any thing,
till I had them safely deposited in my inner cave. Ac-
cordingly I labored hard at my task all the rest of the
afternoon, assisted by my lamas, and when I went to
bed that night, I had my two great chests, one of tools,
the other of clothing, securely placed in my sleeping
apartment; my iron pot graced my kitchen, and the
powder and guns were put in a dry spot, away from all
danger of sparks, from fire or lamps. O how rich I
felt, and how full my mind was of schemes for the im-
provement of my condition! Tired as I was with such
a day of excitement and exertion, it was long before I
closed my eyes in sleep; and when I did lose myself,
it was only to dream of wrecks, and rafts, and diffi-
culties such as I had experienced during the day.
Again I heard sounds that I was sure were human,
and again I eagerly pursued them. My imagination
exceeded the reality ; the search was longer than before,
and my hopes were oftener raised and disappointed.
I was so affected by my dream that my emotions awak-
ened me; but even then, I did not lose the sounds that
had so moved me. I started up, rubbed my eyes, and lis-
tened with breathless attention ; the sounds continued at
intervals. I endeavoured to collect my thoughts and judge
calmly of what I heard; then I discovered it to be
the same noise which had before deceived me, and that
it proceeded from the entrance to my apartment, which
was barricaded at night, to keep out the young lama.
I was now very glad to hear the sound, and rejoiced at
the return of the dog. I thought of the strong attach-
ment often formed between a dog and his master, and
felt that I should gain in this the next best companion to
a rational one.
Supposing he must be very hungry, I determined to
rise and strike a light, and begin the acquaintance imme-
diately by feeding him ; but on letting him in, he soon
convinced me that he was in no mood to form a new
friendship. He ran by me into the cave, intent only on
finding the scent of his old friends ; having gone round
the apartment with his nose to the floor, he scampered
off again towards the shore, in spite of every effort I
could make to detain him by kindness, or to call him
back. Disappointed as I was, I could not help admiring
his attachment to his lost master, and I comforted my-
self with the hope, that he would ere long give up his
vain search, and transfer his affection to me, I per-
ceived, as I passed through the kitchen, that he had help-
ed himself to food ; I did not doubt that when he
wanted a fresh supply he would return to the same spot,
and gradually become domesticated. After this noc-
turnal visit I slept soundly till morning.
CHAPTER XVII.
SECOND VISIT TO THE WRECK DOCt'S BEHAVIOUR A TES-
TAMENT — A SECOND DRAFT — AN ASSORTED CARGO — A
SAFE LANDING A HUNGRY GUEST.
As soon as I was up the next morning, and had made my
daily arrangements, I was impatient to be again on board
the wreck. The weather was as fine as the day before,
and I was greatly inclined to swim the whole way, rath-
er than wait for low tide. On second thought, however,
I gave that up, for fear the currents among the rocks
and shoals might be too strong for me, or I should be
exhausted by swimming so far. I thought a little of
taking the raft off to the ship; but, considering the dan-
ger there was of my not being able to guide it to the
point I wished to reach, and of my being carried out to
sea, I resolved to trust to making another ; and while
waiting for the tide to fall, I laid my plans, and determin-
ed what it would be most important to secure next. It
then came into my head for the first time, that I might
possibly have found some books on board the vessel;
and I blamed myself severely, for not thinking of them
next to tools. I wondered I had not seen any in the
cabin ; but then I remembered how dark the cabin
was, and that any books which might be on board,
would most likely be in the officers' state rooms, as
their little sleeping-closets are called. I now resolv-
ed to make a thorough search after what was most desir-
able next to tools.
Of all eatables, I most desired bread and salt. Of
the latter I had never made enough in my little salt-pans,
to season all the meat I ate, and had none to cure pro-
visions with ; the taste I had of the former, the day be-
fore, made me long for a hard, brown biscuit, more than
I ever did for cakes, or sweet-meats, when a child.
As soon as it would do to set off, I started for the
wreck with no other garments except a shirt and a pair
of thin cotton trousers which I thought I could swim in
without difficulty.
As I approached the vessel, I saw the dog looking
earnestly at me from the deck. I could not doubt that
the sight of me made him hope that one of his old
friends was coming back, and I greatly pitied him for the
disappointment he must soon feel. When I reached
the deck he smelt me, and then walked slowly away,
and laid himself down by the gang-way, with a counte-
nance so expressive of sorrow, that it went to my heart.
I spoke to him and attempted to caress him, but he took
no notice of me, and looked all the while so solemn and
thoughtful, that I felt almost as much for him as if he had
been a rational being. He was of the Newfoundland
breed, and very large, with a fine expressive face; and
his silent grief was so touching, that it would soon have
made me melancholy, if the desire I felt to find
some books had not hurried me away to the cabin.
There on a little shelf in one of the state-rooms I
found three or four volumes, and hastened with them to
the light, to see what they were ; the first one I opened,
was an old romance about knights and squires, and so
was the second ; thus I began to fear, I had gained nothing
that would amuse or instruct me. The third book, how-
ever, looked more promising, and proved to be Moore's
Navigator; and the fourth was to my great joy and sat-
isfaction a Testament. This I pressed to my lips, re-
solving to study it well and never to part from it.
Valuable as my time was, and much as I had to do, I
could not help sitting down on the cabin stairs, and read-
ing a few verses out of the precious book that I had so
often heard my mother read aloud at home, I happen-
ed to turn to the latter part of the 6th chapter of
Matthew ; the dependence on God which it teaches,
had been so brought home to my mind, by my own ex-
perience, that my whole heart assented to the truth of
every sentence, and it seemed to me far more beautiful,
and full of meaning, than it had ever done before.
Having finished the chapter and pondered upon it
awhile, I concluded that though we were not to make
ourselves anxious about the morrow, we ought to do dil-
igently what appears to be the duty of the present day;
so I jumped up and went to work.
Another raft was to be made, and there were no more
spars to make it of; but I had thought of what would
do quite as well, namely, empty casks ; and, as the ves-
sel was a whaler, and had not half her cargo of oil on
board, I found plenty of them. They were packed to-
gether so tightly, that it was with great difficulty I could
start any of them ; but when I had loosened one, the
rest were easily removed.
I had trouble enough in tying the barrels together;
being round and slippery, and tapering off at each end,
it was very hard to make the rope stay round the biggest
part; and when, after great pains and perseverance, I
succeeded in that, I had as much more trouble in fixing
planks upon them. But when all was made fast, I found
my second raft much more buoyant than the first. Hav-
ing carried the carpenter's chest with all its contents on
shore, I should have been at a loss for tools, had I not
found several hatchets about the vessel, and a keg of
nails and spikes, which enabled me to make my raft.
These I also wanted to carry on shore, for iron had be-
come so important to me, that I coveted all I saw; but
I left one hatchet and some nails, for future use on board
the vessel.
I now went in search of salt, and soon found a cask
nearly full of it; but it was so heavy, I could not move
it; and as my time was very precious, I considered
how I could convey its contents in the quickest man-
ner to my raft. The best way I could think of was
this. I placed an empty cask on the raft, which floated
close to the side of the vessel, and having found two
pails of nearly equal size, I slung them by a rope over
my shoulders, and carried them full of salt up the cabin
stairs, and from the deck poured their contents into the
cask on the raft. In this way, I soon removed all the
salt; and then I carried up bread in the same manner,
and filled three casks with good hard biscuit. Finding
the raft so buoyant that these four barrels hardly sank it
perceptibly, I packed on it a variety of other things, such
as a barrel of salt beef, and another of pork, a bag of cof-
fee and some sugar; a seaman's chest filled with crock-
ery and tin ware, knives, forks, and spoons. On this, I piled up the bedding I found in the cabin; and amoug
it, I safely deposited a spy-glass and the captain's writ-
ing desk, with a store of pens, ink, and paper, that I found
in a locker. I looked every where for a compass and a
quadrant, but could not find any ; so I concluded that
they were taken by the captain and crew, when they
abandoned the vessel. Some spare sails that I found
between decks, and some coils of rope called whale
lines, I also brought away ; besides some iron hoops
and many other articles, that I need not name. When
I had loaded the raft as heavily as I thought it safe to
do, and had scarcely left room enough for myself to
move upon it, I recollected that I had no oar to steer it
with ; for I had taken ashore with me the only one I
could find, and left it there.
12
I now looked about for something that would serve
the purpose of an oar ; and happening to find care-
fuly stowed away, a number of long, narrow, cedar
boards, about six inches wide and half an inch thick, I
tried to get one of them for a rudder. In pulling at it,
I threw down the whole pile, and discovered a number
of new oars, fine long ones such as whalemen use! I
hastily seized one, and having tried in vain to coax the
dog to accompany me, I jumped on my raft; fixed two
spikes in one end, just wide enough apart to receive the
oar as a rudder; and pushed off. The wind and tide were
quite as favorable as they were the day before; and I ar-
rived without any accident at a place in the creek, which
I had explored in the morning, and which, at high wa-
ter, made a fine, natural wharf of rock, the side of which
I could approach without running aground. I moored
my raft and unloaded it with great ease; for, having
headed up the casks of provisions before I piled on other
things, I could now roll them on shore at once.
What a relief it was to my mind, when all these goods
were safely landed on the island! How rich I felt I
How thankful I was that this valuable wreck had been
driven on shore, within my reach!
I thought a great deal of the poor fellows, who had
abandoned it; and could not help regretting that they
had not stuck by the vessel. In that case their lives
would probably have been saved ; and I should have had
companions to dwell with me. By our united exer-
tions we might have built a boat, large enough to carry
us away from this lonely island, to the abodes of our fel-
low men.
Many such trains of thought passed through my mind,
while engaged on the wreck, and in transporting my
treasures from the creek to my dwelling-place. The
latter task I might have taken very leisurely, as the fine
weather was now set in, and.the goods were safe enough
any where; but I had so much pleasure in arranging
them in my two caves, and in looking over and handling
the utensils I was now in possession of, that I worked
very hard all the rest of the day, and carried a good
many of the things to the terrace. My lamas never
were so loaded before; but they were in excellent spir-
its, and assisted me finely. The barrels of provisions I
left on the shore by the creek, above high water mark.
Looking out, for the last time, before I retired to
rest, on the beautiful moonlight, as it made the long line
of sandy beach distinctly visible, I perceived a small,
dark object come out of the water, and soon distinguished
it to be my unsociable acquaintance, the dog. I con-
cluded that hunger had driven him from his sad and
lonely watch on the deck of the vessel, and determined,
if possible, to win his favor by giving him a good meal
from my own hand.
He received it with some signs of pleasure and grati-
tude; he licked my hand, and wagged his tail, and even
followed me into my kitchen; but happening to go rath-
er nearer Poll's cage than she liked, she made such a
frightful noise as drove away all his social feelings at once,
and off he went again to his melancholy station on the
wreck.
He continued to come ashore for food every night;
but as long as the vessel lay there, he kept his station on
her deck.
CHAPTER XVIII.VARIOUS ACQUISITIONS A VALUABLE DISCOVERY—CARE
LESSNESS— THE LAST TRIP SUNDAY READING A
FAITHFUL FRIEND.
FOR eight days the weather continued the same;
during that period, I made ten more excursions to the
wreck, bringing off, each time, large cargoes of goods.
The difficulty of finding materials for a raft increased
every trip; there were plenty of casks to be had, but
planks and boards became scarce; and I was obliged to
use bulkheads,* doors, hatches,\ and whatever else I
could find, that would serve for a platform on the barrels.
Wanting, one day, some short pieces of board to com-
plete the floor of my raft, I was about to saw in two one
of the long, narrow, cedar boards before mentioned;
being struck, however, with their number, uniformity,
and nice workmanship, I stopped to think for what pos-
sible use they could be intended; and although I did not
then find out, I thought it most prudent not to cut or de-
stroy them, but to carry them all on shore as they were,
when I had nothing of more value to load my raft with.
While busy in selecting various articles for transportation,
the idea of those mysterious boards would force itself
upon my attention; and two or three times I left my
work to re-examine them; but all to no purpose at that
time. My greatest prize, this trip, was a grindstone,
which I accidentally put my hand on when groping
about that part of the vessel which had the most water -
in it. Had I not been very strong and well accustomed
to exert my muscles, I never could have lifted it from
where I found it; but I was resolved to possess myself,
if possible, of so very important an article; and I suc-
ceeded in getting it safely to land. Two brass lamps, a
large ball of wick-yarn, and a tinder-box, with a flint and
steel, were valuable additions to my household goods.
Notwithstanding my earthen-ware lamps had answered
far better than none, these brass ones were more easily
trimmed and carried about. A flint and steel also gave
better sparks, than two pieces of quartz, valuable as they
had been to me. When the tinder-box first met my
eye, it reminded me forcibly of the time, when such an
article would have been to me the greatest treasure next
to a knife; and, though I had contrived so well to sup-
ply its place, I was glad to have a more complete ap-
* The partitions in a vessel are so called*
I Covers to the openings in the deck.
paratus. The experience of the past year made me
highly prize all the conveniences of life, which I had
been obliged to do without, and a common tinder-bos
now appeared to me a great acquisition.
I lighted a lamp, that I might examine the run of
the ship, and see better what was in the dark cabin; and
thus many things were brought to view that I was
glad to secure.
As I passed about with the lamp in my hand, I caught
sight, unexpectedly, of my own face in a small looking-
glass, that hung in the cabin; and it gave me such a
start, as made my heart beat violently for a few minutes.
It was so long since I had seen myself, that I hardly rec-
ognised my face, and at the first glance, I took it for that
of another man ; but the deception was only for a mo-
ment, after which I gazed at myself with great curiosity
and some complacency.
If this account is ever read by my friends, they will
be inclined to laugh at me, when they learn that I car-
ried this looking-glass very carefully to my cave, and
hung it up in a convenient place, that I might frequently
view myself in it. But the truth is, I did not do it from
vanity; it was merely for the sake of seeing a human
face, and gladly would I have exchanged this image of
my own, for that of any fellow being.
Continuing my examination by lamp light, I was very
much struck with the manner in which things were stow-
ed away, so as to take up the least possible room. Near
the pile of cedar boards, I discovered, packed away so
snugly that I had never seen them before, a great many
curiously shaped pieces of wood. Many of them just
alike, and of such neat workmanship, that I thought
these and the boards might belong together. After con-
sidering them very attentively, for some time, I exclaim-
ed aloud, "A boat! These are materials to build a
boat with! Here are the knees and ribs! This must
be meant for a keel, and this for the stem! But where
is the sternpost and rudder!" I then recollected that
whaleboats are made sharp at both ends and steered
12*
with an oar. Overjoyed at finding these materials for
boat building, I hastened to place them on the raft and
looked forward to the happy time, when I should put
them together, not without a hope that they might even-
tually be the means of my return to society. My next
most important discovery was, a cask of lime, a pair of
blacksmith's bellows, and all the materials for building a
forge. These I joyfully transported to the island; and
I got the lime ashore dry.
When I had brought off all the rigging and sails that I
could find, and a great quantity of stores of all kinds, I
began cutting up the cables in pieces, as long as I could
lift, and bringing them on shore too; also harpoons, lan-
ces, and little spades, used in cutting up whales. Of these,
as well as of hoops and nail-rods, I found a great stock,
and valued them highly as iron that could be converted
to other uses. I also found a number of scythes without
handles, a spade, two iron shovels, and several large cop-
per dippers, that I was very glad to obtain.
All my voyages were prosperous except one, and that
was the last, when my raft was heavily laden with pieces
of cable, harpoons, and other iron implements, I sup-
pose that constant success had made me less careful, and
as my cargo was not the most valuable I had brought off,
I was very easy about it, and did not steer as well as
usual. My carelessness met with its just punishment, for
all my goods were tumbled into the creek, and I got a
good ducking myself.
It was on a Wednesday that I first boarded the wreck,
and on the following Friday week, I brought off my last
cargo, having made in all twelve trips, and carried away
almost every thing that one pair of hands could move.
There being no masts standing, I could not use a tackle
and fall * to hoist up things with, out of the hold f and
from between decks, or else I might have saved myself a
great deal of time and trouble, I was obliged to carry
* Pulleys and ropes adjusted so as to hoist up weights,
f A large space in the lower part of the vessel under the
lower deck, where the chief part of the cargo is placed.
every thing upon deck by hand, which was tedious
enough; but by patient industry and perseverance, I had
possessed myself of a large quantity of very useful articles.
I determined as long as the weather would permit, to go on
board every day, for when I thought there was nothing
left worth taking, I still discovered some new treasure; and
if the fine weather had continued, I suppose I should have
brought away the vessel itself piecemeal. As it was,
I sawed out a part of her side, and took out some things
in that way that I could not otherwise get at. On Sat-
urday morning the sky was overcast, and there were in-
dications of a change of weather; but during the day I
ventured on board the wreck notwithstanding this, and in
searching about the cabin once more, I found a locker
which I had not before opened. In it were a large pair
of scissors and a bag of dollars. As money was wholly
useless to a person living alone, I had serious thoughts of
leaving it on board the ship, to go to the bottom of the
sea with her. The hope, however, of being taken off
the island, by a passing vessel, never left me; and as in
that case I might again find some use for such an article,
I determined to save it. When I had worked some time
at tearing up a part of the vessel's deck, to make anoth-
er raft, I perceived that a brisk wind had sprung up from
the north-east, which would entirely prevent my getting
it on shore. The water was becoming darker and
rougher every minute, and the gathering clouds warned
me to leave the wreck as soon as possible.
I hastened, therefore, to put the few things I wished
to take with me, into a small keg; to this I fastened a
rope, which I meant to tie round my waist with a knot,
that could be easily loosened, if the keg became trouble-
some; I then lowered it down to the water, but it would
not float; the keg was not large enough to support the
weight it contained; I was therefore obliged to exchange
it for a half-barrel, which was more buoyant. I re-
turned by the shoals and rocks, wading and swimming
alternately; carrying the half-barrel in shallow water,
and pulling it after me when it floated. In this manner,
I reached the rocky shore, eastward of the beach, and
landed my last load safely.
By the time I arrived at the terrace, the wind had ris-
en very much and the waves were dashing over the
stranded vessel. In the night it blew very hard for two
or three hours, and when I looked out, the next morning,
the wreck had entirely disappeared. I immediately
thought of the faithful servant and sincere mourner, the
dog, and wondered what had become of him; the food I
had placed for him was consumed, though he was no
where to be seen.
As this was Sunday morning, and there was now no
necessity for my doing any work, I determined to rest
and keep the day in the best way I could. I well re-
member the comfort I had in washing and dressing my-
self that day; for I had the luxury of using a towel, for
the first time for two years, and of putting on clean linen,
and well made clothes. My breakfast, too, was an un-
usual one; for I treated myself with some coffee and
bread and butter, from my new stores. When I had
done my morning's work, I took my Testament to the
shady seat by the fountain, and there I pored over the
precious volume I had been so long deprived of. So
deeply was I interested in it, so eagerly did I devour its
once familiar contents, that the forenoon was gone before
I was aware of it. I read for three hours without know-
ing it to be more than one; but when I did leave off, I
found myself very much exhausted in mind and body
by this unwonted application, and not disposed for any
other Sunday exercises; I therefore made a light meal
of cold victuals, and set out for a walk to the seashore.
In a sheltered nook of the rocks, I found the faithful dog,
seated with his face to the sea and looking towards the
spot where the vessel had lain. I spoke to him, in a
lively and affectionate manner, and thinking Neptune
would be a good name for him, I so called him. He
immediately came to me, wagging his tail, and showed
himself really glad to see me, and disposed to cultivate
my acquaintance. Whether I had accidentally hit upon
his real name and that conciliated him, or whether he
was now without any hope of finding his old friend and
ready to make a new one, I could not tell; but from that
time he adopted me as his master, and became my faith-
ful and affectionate companion; never leaving me by day
or night, except to execute my commands, and always
ready to exert his utmost powers in my service.
When I returned from my long and agreeable walk,
rendered doubly pleasant by the company of my intelli-
gent though dumb companion, I felt disposed to pour out
my heart in thanksgiving to the great source of all good,
for the numerous mercies I had received from Him, and
to recite my hymns and chapters and serious pieces, as I
was accustomed to do on the Sabbath. When these ex-
ercises were ended, I again took up my Testament, and
read till the lengthened shadows of the trees warned me
that it was time to attend to my household concerns.
Reading was such a novelty and such a treat to me,
that I suppose I should have continued it through the
evening, if a pain and weakness in my eyes had not ad-
monished me to leave off. After being so long out of
the habit of reading, I suppose it strained my eyes to
look at such small objects as letters, and that I made an
exertion to see them which I was not aware of.
I afterwards thought it was better for me, on another
account, to lay aside the book. I had read so much
that I could not clearly recollect one quarter of it;
whereas the half chapter that I read, by itself, on board
the vessel, had made such an impression on my mind,
that I could repeat every word of it by rote. This con-
vinced me that I ought, in future, to limit myself to such
a portion as I could take in and remember, and thus have
it to meditate upon when going about my business.
CHAPTER XIX.
ARRANGEMENTS—LETTERS — A WATCH — CONTENTS Or A
CHEST—ANEW FLAG—TOO MUCH LEISURE NEW PRO-
JECTS — SECOND ANNIVERSARY.
AFTER the disappearance of the wreck, I devoted al!
my time for a week to examining, sorting, and arranging
my various goods and chattels. My caves were so lum-
bered up, that they seemed already full; yet many things
were still at the creek, and the terrace was strewed with
bulky articles.
Having taken a lesson on board ship, in stowing away
things in the smallest compass, I thought it likely that,
with order and good contrivance, I might ,get all my
things into the two caves and the long, narrow passage
beyond; but I doubted whether that was desirable, for,
in case of another earthquake, they might all be buried
up at once, under such a load of earth as I could not re-
move. The possibility of such an accident, determined
me to make a temporary store-house, of spars and sails,
in a pleasant, shady spot, close by my favorite brook and
not far from the landing-place in the creek; and to carry
thither all the stores which still remained on the shore
and which did not require to be kept cool. O what a
pleasure it was to me to use good tools! the mere driv-
ing a nail with a proper iron hammer was a treat. Hav-
ing made my store-house secure against a summer show-
er, which was all I had to fear for some months to come,
I stowed into it a great variety of things, with as many
empty casks as it would conveniently hold, because they
would shrink and become leaky by exposure to the heat
of the sun; but all the beef, pork, butter, cheese, and
other provisions, that required to be kept cooler still, I
deposited in my inner cave or the narrow passage, which
formed an excellent store-closet. I had now so much
to do with casks, that I became quite expert at rollin
and managing them, though awkward enough, when
first began to move them on board the wreck; those
that were filled with provisions, I rolled all the way from
the landing at the creek, to the terrace, a distance of
more than a mile of rising ground. It took me a good
while to be sure, and made me very tired, but my time
was of little value when I had nothing to do but to take
care of myself, and rest was the sweeter for toil.
Between these heavy jobs, I indulged myself in the
lighter and more agreeable task of examining the con-
tents of several seamen's chests, which I had filled up
with small articles and brought away, without looking at
the things already in them, or opening the tills.
In one of these, I found several letters addressed to
"James McIntyre, second mate of the ship Thames."
They were all in the same hand-writing, but only one
had any post mark, and I could not make out what the
name of the place was. The seals were all broken
open, and the letters appeared to have been much read.
I found them tied together with a rope-yarn. Sitting
with them in my hand, I fell into a deep reverie, on the
probable fate of the person to whom they were address-
ed, and the sufferings of the writer, when, after vainly
expecting his return, all was given up for lost. This led
me to think of my own friends, who had probably mourn-
ed me as dead; and brought up so many painful thoughts
that a flood of tears followed, and I was obliged to quit
these memorials of affection, take a turn on the terrace,
and attend to some of my daily concerns in order to
recover my composure.
I had been taught to consider it a very mean action
to read any manuscript that was not intended for my pe-
rusal, and when I lived among men, I never had the
least desire to look into any papers or letters that did not
concern me ; I was therefore greatly surprised at the curi-
osity I now felt, to read the letters that had accidentally
fallen into my hands.
I was ashamed of my feelings, and determined not to
gratify them; so I put the letters out of sight and tried to
forget them, by occupying myself with other interesting
personal effects, that I found in the chests and tills; such
as a thread-case well filled with needles and thread, a
present no doubt from some kind female friend or rela-
tion ; the sight of it reminded me directly of the one I
had possessed, and of Mary's speech when she gave it
to me, which proved a foreboding of what actually
befell me. I was in danger of falling into another mel-
ancholy reverie, when I was suddenly cheered up by
the welcome sight of a watch; a large, bright-looking,
silver watch lay among the miscellaneous contents of this
till. I had always wished for one very much, and now
I had tools, I had intended trying to mend the one I
found in Gordon Vale; but it was so much broken and
so rusted that this was quite a hopeless task, and I rejoiced
exceedingly in finding one that appeared to be whole.
I seized it and applied the key to it, but, to my great dis-
appointment, it unwound as fast as I tried to wind it; I
then looked at the works and saw that the chain was
broken, which was enough to account for its doing so.
If this was all the injury, I knew I could mend it; so to
work I went directly, and though I did not use any watch-
maker's tool, but merely a woman's implements, needle
and thread, I soon had the satisfaction of winding and
setting the watch, and hearing it tick. There seemed to
me to be real company in the ticking of that watch, and
I hung it up in a conspicuous place.
As soon as I had looked and listened to it enough, my
thoughts returned to those letters, and I felt the strong-
est desire to read them. Cut ofFas I was from all social
intercourse, I longed to share in the thoughts of other
minds; to peruse these written pages, which were proba-
bly the outpourings of family affection, appeared to me
the greatest pleasure I could have in my present situa-
tion; but I remembered how I had always regarded
looking into other peoples' letters, and I determined not
to do it. So, to divert my thoughts, I went again to over-
hauling the tills in the mate's chest; and as their con-
tents were very characteristic of the profession and prov-
ed very useful to me, I will here note down the principal
items.—Two razors, one covered with rust; a box-wood
shaving-box with a brush beside it; a small looking-glass;
a coarse and a fine tooth comb; a small horn filled with
grease, and stuck full of sail-needles; a mounted palm
which is the kind of thimble sail-makers use ; two spare
jack-knives ; a small marline spike; a rusty pair of scis-
sors, a broken breast-pin in the shape of an anchor;
eleven horn buttons; and other trifles too numerous to
mention.
In the bottom of the chest I found to my great joy
four more books; a volume of Anson's Voyages; an old
romance in two volumes, with the title-page torn out of
each, and all the leaves soiled and defaced ; and "The
Complete Letter-Writer." Much as I wanted books, I
was disappointed in the contents of these; with the first I
was very familiar; the romance did not promise to be at
all instructive from the few pages I read in it; and the
last, being mere models of letters and not the expression
of real feeling, was uninteresting. I put them however
on the shelf with my other books, and went on sorting
and arranging my various possessions.
Those, who have always lived surrounded by every
article of necessity and even luxury, can form little
idea of the pleasurable feelings I experienced, in see-
ing, handling, and using such common things as a tea-
cup and saucer, a knife, fork, and spoon, a pewter tea-
pot, or even a tin cup. All these things looked beauti-
ful to me, and I was really delighted with arranging
them on shelves cut in the soft, rocky sides of my inner
apartment. As I had a great many more of these arti-
ticles than I had occasion to use, I thought it prudent to
pack up what I did not immediately want in a chest, and
deposit them in my store-house, at the brook, lest anoth-
er earthquake should deprive me of my subterranean
treasures. For the same reason I divided my tools, and
kept part of them at each place.
Among the articles brought from the wreck, but not
yet named in this narrative, was a suit of colors; and in
taking possession of them, I could not help contrasting
13
the condition of the good ship Thames when, with her
colors flying, and all her valuable stores on board for a
long whaling voyage, she sailed down the river whose
name she bore, with her forlorn appearance when, desert-
ed by her captain and crew, stripped of her masts and
sails, she was driven, tempest-tost, on this shoal. I now
overhauled this suit of colors, and determined that one of
them should grace my flag-staff, in place of the poor old
shirt, a very small fragment of which now remained.
As I was possessed of pulleys and ropes in plenty, I
meant to rig the flag-staff properly, in order to hoist and
lower the flag at pleasure. So one afternoon, I shoul-
dered an axe and a saw, a line and pulley, and walked
off to Signal Hill, with other tools in my pockets, and an
English jack* inmy hand. It was quite an amusement
to me, to climb the tree and pull down the old rag, and
then fix my little block firmly to the top of the stem, and
reeve the line through it. Having done this, I finished the
work of stripping the tree of its branches. While thus
employed, I could not help comparing the ease with
which I now chopped or sawed off large limbs, with the
difficulty I formerly had in getting off the small topmost
branches. "So much for edgetools," thought I, as I look-
ed at my useful axe and saw. When stripped of its
limbs, this tall, straight tree made an excellent flag-staff;
and having joined together the two ends of the line that
was rove through the block, I tied the flag to the line
and then pulled away till it was up to the block. The
loop was easily fastened to the trunk of the tree. The
ensign f made a fine show, and now I felt sure that no
English captain would come in sight of it, without mak-
ing an inquiry into its meaning.
At the end of a week, devoted to assorting and arrang-
ing my goods, I got my house into tolerable order; and
the things I was obliged to leave at the creek and upon
the terrace, were conveniently placed. I was now so well
* A certain flag so called.
t Another name for the same flag.
off for provisions and utensils that I had a great deal of
leisure. Not being obliged to hunt the lama, or fish for
my daily food, and having now no inducement to tan
leather, or make pipkins, or contrive salt-pans, I became
rather indolent for a while ; and, as with other idlers, time
soon hung heavy on my hands. The week after I com-
pleted my arrangements, seemed longer to me, as it pass-
ed, than any previous one, since the first month I spent
on this island. I did nothing but read, and lounge about,
or play with Neptune and send him after sticks into the
water, and shoot a little in the woods, for mere amuse-
ment.
I found my body languid, and my mind sluggish and
apt to fall into sad reveries. On seriously considering
my condition, I saw there was danger of my newly ac-
quired treasures depriving me of what was far more val-
uable than any outward possession — health and cheer-
fulness; and I firmly resolved not to be so unwise and
so ungrateful to the Giver of all these gifts, as to suffer
them to become snares instead of blessings.
I was convinced that active employment, both of
body and mind, were necessary to my health and happi-
ness ; and that even on a desert island I had no right to
waste my time in idleness. I endeavoured to fix on a
plan of regular employment, and numerous schemes
were formed and rejected. Large as was my present
supply of provisions, I knew it would not last good more
than two years ; and as I might live here much longer
than that, it was most prudent to keep up the habit of
using such productions as the island afforded, for then
I should not miss my present luxuries so much, when
they were gone. These considerations made hunting
once or twice a week enter into all my plans. I wished
there was something that I felt obliged to do, for I al-
ways preferred necessary labor to what was done for the
mere sake of employment. At length it occurred to me,
that I must have a store-house, to keep my goods secure
from rain, before the wet season came ; and I resolved to
set about building one directly. The more I thought of
it, the more necessary it seemed, and I rejoiced in being
obliged to set to work and in having tools to work with.
Thinking it best to divide my time between hard labor
and sedentary employments, I was planning a course of
exercises in writing and reading, when the idea struck
me for the first time, that I could write a narrative of
my own adventures.
The thought pleased me extremely ; for, next to the
desire of seeing my distant friends, was the wish that they
should be informed of my fate; and I resolved to put
my manuscript as fast as it was written, in some safe and
conspicuous place, so that if I should die here, it might
be found by any one who should touch at the island.
It will perhaps seem very strange that I did not imme-
diately set to work to build a boat out of the materials I
was so rejoiced to find; but various considerations made
me defer it. I had never sailed a boat, or seen one
built. I feared I should not succeed, and dreaded the
disappointment. I disliked the idea also of throwing
away my life, which had become bearable and almost
agreeable, in a fruitless attempt to improve my condi-
tion ; and the fear of exchanging my peaceful and inde-
pendent mode of living, for one of slavery among the
savages, more than counterbalanced my desire of seek-
ing companions, in on open boat, on an unknown sea.
When the idea of writing an account of my shipwreck
and residence on a desert island, came into my head, I resolved to complete that before I risked myself in a
sea voyage ; so that if I perished, my history might re-
main, and be one day made known to my fellow-men.
If it never reaches my own friends, I wish others to know
what I have endured, and what hardships and sufferings
a man may live through, and yet keep a stout heart and
trust in God through every thing.
The second anniversary of my shipwreck approached,
and I thought the best way of keeping it would be, to
begin upon that day both my great works, the store-house,
and the history of my adventures; but the memorable
14th of October returned before I had sufficiently set-
tied my plan of building, to begin. As I was not now so
fully occupied as before, the day did not slip by unob-
served. The moment I awoke I remembered it, and
my thoughts turned involuntarily on my far distant friends,
and the trying scenes I had passed through since I parted
from them. My mind being thus full of the subject, it
appeared to be the very time for beginning my nar-
rative, and accordingly I devoted most of the day to
writing. This occupation, by fixing my attention on the
earliest events of my history and exercising my intellect,
prevented my being as melancholy as I should have
been, if I had spent the day in thinking over all the trou-
bles I had met with, since I left my father's house. In
the evening, when I had tired myself with writing, I took
a walk to my favorite brook. Happening to seat my-
self on the very spot where I sat when I first visited the
little valley, I remembered that it was there I felt the be-
ginning of peace and calmness in my soul, after my ship-
wreck ; and my heart turned with renewed thankfulness
to God for his great goodness to me then, and his con-
tinued mercies ever since. A long train of thought fol-
lowed, in which, instead of numbering my trials as I had
often planned to do on this anniversary, I numbered my
blessings, and remembered how often all sense of loneli-
ness had been removed, by drawing near in spirit to God.
By meditating upon Him, by loving Him, by trusting in
Him, my sorrow had often been turned to joy, and I had
spent my time contentedly, even on a desert island.
These thoughts brought to mind the following hymn,
written by a French lady, and altered by me to suit my
own situation. I sung it with a full heart and loud voice,
before I quitted the spot for the night.
1.
"O Thou! by long experience tried,
Near whom no grief can long abide;
Dear Lord, how full of sweet content
I pass my years of banishment.
13*
"All scenes alike engaging prove
To souls impressed with sacred love;
Where'er they dwell, they dwell in Theer
In heaven, on earth, or on the sea.
3.
"To me remains nor place nor time;
My home is in an unknown crime. I can be calm and free from care
On any shore, since God is there.
4.
"Could I be cast where Thou art notr
That were indeed a dreadful lot;
But regions none remote I call,
Secure of finding God in all"
CHAPTER XX.
DIFFICULTIES A3 A WRITER — A STOREHOUSEMAKIPf*
CHARCOAL — WORKING AT A FORSE THE STOREHOUSE FINISHED.
Now that I was resolved on building and writing,
which would exercise both body and mind, I felt myself
justified in living for a while on my sea-stores, as it
took less time to prepare them ; so I divided the day
very methodically between my domestic affairs, the
erection of a store-house, and the history of my own ad-
ventures. I used to work hard morning and afternoon,
and write in the middle of the day, when it was too warm
to labor in the sun. I generally returned from my work
a little before noon ; ate my dinner in the cool shade of
my outer cave, with Poll on one side and Neptune on the
other, each being fed occasionally by a nice bit from my
plate. After dinner I washed my dishes, like a pro-
fessed cook, and put every thing away in its proper
place. Then I threw myself on my bed and slept half an
hour. This refreshed me and made me feel bright
for my writing, when I again seated myself at the
mouth of the cave, with the portable writing-desk, found
in the cabin of the Thames, placed on my clumsy table.
I found writing my own history much slower work
than I at first expected. I loved to dwell on every mi-
nute particular, in hopes it might be read by my dear
parents, who would wish to know every thing about their
poor lost son; and I was so out of the habit of writing,
that I made a great many mistakes, and altered and alter-
ed till the manuscript was illegible, and required to be
written all over again. This wasted my materials, of
which I had not a very large stock ; and when I found that
I had used up a quire of paper without telling more than a
quarter of my story, I became more careful, and consid-
ered better what I was going to say, before I put it
down. Sometimes my hand trembled so much, after
hard work, that I could scarcely write at all; but still it
was a very agreeable employment, and I seldom let a
day pass without adding something to my narrative. I
fear my friends will have a very poor opinion of my au-
thorship, when I acknowledge that I did not bring my
history up to the time of writing, till I was confined to
my cave by the next rainy season. Nevertheless I love
to tell, not only truth, but the whole truth; for I have
no wish to appear better or cleverer than I really am;
and if my readers will only sympathize in my trials and
sufferings, they are welcome to laugh at my weaknesses.
I was a good while deciding how to build my store-
house. My first idea was to make a log cabin, as I had
read of the early settlers doing in the woods of America;
but I feared that I could not lift and manage trees large
enough for my purpose; and as I did not need a warm
building, but merely a shelter from rain, I gave that up.
Mud walls and a thatched roof, like a Welsh or Irish
cottage, next occurred to me ; but to work in mud like a
beaver was not very inviting, so this too was rejected. I
was determined to build near my favorite book, among
the romantic slopes and rocks, trees and shrubs, that
ornament the little valley through which it ripples, before
it loses itself in the salt water of the creek. I could not
however make up my mind as to the materials or shape of
the building, till one day I observed a smooth, perpen-
dicular cliff, about eighteen feet high, and decided to
take that for one wall of the house. Some tall straight
trees grew at the foot of it, and by cutting down three
of them, I could make a clear space large enough for the
building, while those that remained would serve for
corner posts, and assist me, if I built of wood, in making
the side opposite to the cliff. A low front wall and a
long sloping roof, like that of a green-house, seemed to
me the easiest form to build, and having fixed upon
a thatched roofs and wattled ends,f I began to make
my preparations accordingly.
I fitted a handle to one of those scythes which I had
found on board the Thames, and with that I cut some
Tery tall, rank grass, the stalks of which were as big as
oat-straw, and spread it to dry, against I was ready to
thatch my house. The art of doing this, I had learnt
when a boy, by observing some laborers at work on a
cottage, and persuading them to let me try my hand at
it; and though they went over my work after me, and
did it better than my strength would allow me to do it,
yet I learnt the method, and felt sure that I could now
practise it.
After much cogitation, I -determined to turn mason,
and build the front wall of stone and mortar; the form-
er abounded on the spot, and the latter I could easily
make, having plenty of quick-lime among my stores, and
sand and water close at hand; and as the chief weight
of the roof would be on this front wall, I knew it ought to
be strong.
Trowels, plummet, leather apron, and every thing necessary to a mason, were found in the wreck; so I went
to work with great pleasure to dig the foundation of the
* A covering of straw or reeds, laid on very thick over th*
roof timbers, and fastened down with willow bands and wood-
en peg*.
t Slender branches woven together.
wall by line and measure, and then to build it as much
like a mason as I could. It was to be twenty-five feet
long, five feet high, and as thin as I could conveniently
make it with irregular fragments of rock, and yet have
it strong enough to support the roof.
It was so agreeable to me to work with good tools,
that I had great pleasure in building this wall ; and I
succeeded so well that instead of using the trees for
corner posts, I avoided them. Turning the corners with
my masonry, I continued the wall across the ends, leav-
ing spaces for door-ways, and making the end walls at
first no higher than the front one.
By the time I had done this, I had become so expert
with the trowel and mortar, that I thought it would be
the shortest way to build up the ends of stone high
enough to meet the roof. To do this I must have a
stage and a ladder; the former I made by resting the
ends of boards on barrels, and then putting another row
of barrels on the boards, and another set of boards on
them, and so on till the stage was as high as I wanted it;
the ladder was easily made out of the variety of small
spars that I now possessed, and I soon produced
a very good-looking substantial one, ten feet long.
With this, I could carry stones and mortar up to the
staging; but my masonry went on much more slowly
than before, for I found climbing up a ladder, and hold-
ing, at the same time, a large stone or a bucket of mortar
on my shoulder, no very easy task. 1 persevered how-
ever, and built up the ends till they were fifteen feet
high where they joined the cliff, and sloped gradually
down to the front wall.
My next business was to cut down tall, straight saplings
for rafters, and make notches in the cliff, three feet
from the top, to receive one end of each, while the other
rested on the front wall. Knowing it would be very dif-
ficult to prevent the rain from coming into the house,
where the roof joined the cliff, I thought it would help
the matter to make the joining at some distance below the
top of the rock ; and as that was a little overhanging, I
hoped the rain would fall on the roof beyond the joining,
and so be conducted off.
I nailed pieces of wood across from timber to timber,
close enough together to support the thatch ; which I put
on in a masterly manner, and had the satisfaction of
seeing a tight, even, and very sloping roof, that would
carry off a deluge of rain.
I made a large door-way at each end of the building,
for the sake of admitting light and air to my goods; and
found plenty of boards and bulkheads, out of which I
made two capital doors; but what to do for hinges I did
not know. A whaling vessel has almost every thing on
board, but I could not find a pair of hinges among all
my stores; and when I had made my doors, I was
greatly disappointed at not being able to hang them. Hav-
ing succeeded so well in every part of my new building,
I did not like to have the doors incomplete, or fastened
up in any bungling manner; so I resolved, whilst my
hand was in as a mason, and I had mortar made, to set
up the forge I had found in the wreck, make some char-
coal to use in it, and try to form a pair of hinges out of
the iron in which I abounded.
As I had often seen charcoal made, I had no difficulty
in doing it except that of selecting a spot near at hand,
which I was willing to have disfigured by a charcoal pit;
for I loved the little valley of the brook so well, I could
not bear to have it there. At last I fixed on a place,
dug up the turf, made a shallow pit, and arranged
the wood in it so as to give it air enough to char, with-
out allowing it to blaze and consume to ashes. When I
had piled up wood enough, I covered it over with turf
and earth ; and leaving a sufficient number of vent-holes,
as I thought, I set fire to it in several places. It did not
burn well, but soon went out; I made more openings
and kindled it again, and then it burnt freely, and sent
out columns of black smoke at every vent-hole. In a
sheltered nook among the rocks of my favorite valley I
set up my forge ; to build the chimney, hang the bel-
lows, and fix the anvil, was a great amusement to me,
and required no more ingenuity than I possessed ; but
whether I should be able to perform the part of black-
smith, and make any thing that would serve the purpose
of a hinge, I was a little doubtful; though, having all the
tools necessary, I was resolved to do my utmost to suc-
ceed.
When it was time to look after my charcoal, I opened
the pit and found plenty of ashes, but very little coal!
It had burnt too freely, and consumed instead of charring.
There was however enough to fill a pair of panniers, and
my faithful lama brought it to the forge for me. I had
not felt a doubt about being able to make charcoal, it
seemed such a simple operation ; but I found it required
experience, and it was not till 1 had tried several times,
that I could feel a certainty of succeeding.
Quite different from this was my experience at the
forge ; what had appeared very difficult proved tolera-
bly easy. I found I could heat iron, and hold it, and
hammer it into what shape I pleased, with far more facil-
ity than I had anticipated. My only mistakes were not
getting the iron hot enough to weld, which requires it to
be more than red-hot, and my hammering it too much
in trying to make the work smooth, and so reducing the
size more than I intended. My hinges were of the sim-
ple construction that I had seen on gates, a sort of large
iron eye with a staple that hooked into it. When these
were made and put on, and the two doors hung, I was
greatly pleased ; and the work of a smith was so agreedble to me, that I afterwards amused myself very often
with fashioning iron into various shapes. Among other
things, I made some arrow-heads, for I had become fond
of shooting with a bow when I had very clumsy arrows;
and now that I could make very good ones, I liked it
better than shooting with a gun.
My new store-house had quite a pretty effect under
the shade of the fine trees that grew close around it. It
reminded me of the pretty thatched cottage of the Eng-
lish peasant, and to make the resemblance still stronger,
I white-washed the walls with lime. It was complete
DOW in all respects but the floor; and though there could
not be a prettier carpet for it, than the fine greensward
that now covered it, I knew that would be so damp in the
rainy season as to be unfit to set my goods on. I there-
fore dug two narrow, deep trenches across it, and as the
wall was now settled and dry enough not to be injured
by it, I continued the trench under the foundation
and a good way beyond the building, to a slope in the
ground that would carry off the water. These drains I
filled with large stones put in loosely, and felt confident
they would make the ground dry within the building.
I forgot to say in the proper place, that in ridding my-
self of the three trees that stood within the walls of my
building, I did not cut them down entirely, but only took
off their branching tops, and left the trunks standing as
high as they could without interfering with the roof,
knowing they would be very useful; some of the forks
too, made by the branches, I left for the purpose of lay-
ing poles and cedar boards across from tree to tree,
and of hanging things upon them. When the building
was finished, I spent three days in cutting my name and
the date of its completion on a large stone in the wall.
It cost me many weeks of hard labor to build this
store-house ; but I had a great deal of pleasure and sat-
isfaction in doing it, was cheerful and healthy all the
time, and felt richly rewarded for my exertions when all
my goods and chattels were safely removed, from their
temporary shelter, to this substantial place of deposit,
and I saw them arranged in proper order within its walls.
There was another consideration which made me par-
ticularly well satisfied with this piece of work. It was
likely to last much longer than I should, and if the island
were visited after my death, it would afford proof that a
civilized being had resided here, and might lead to the
discovery of my manuscript.
CHAPTER XXI.
i
BUILDING A PYRAMID NEPTUNE'S SERVICES — THE PYRA-
MID COMPLETED A «RII»DSTONE.
To make a safe and conspicuous place of deposit for
my manuscript, was my next undertaking; and being
quite in the spirit of building, I lost no time in setting
about the necessary preparations. A stone monument on
Signal Hill was what I was resolved upon ; and whilst I
was thinking about the shape of the structure, I busied
myself in transporting my tools and materials to the spot
where it was to stand.
My old lama, whom I called Judy, did me good ser-
vice in carrying up lime and sand ; and the mortar was
made and the stones were selected before I could decide
on the form of the monument. Great strength and solidity
were necessary, to withstand the wind in this exposed situ-
ation; and yet it must not be so shapeless as to be mis-
taken at a distance for a mass of rock, or it would be
useless. After puzzling over the subject till I was tired
of it, and altering my mind so often that I seemed likely
not to set about it at all, I at last fixed upon a small pyra-
mid as the most enduring form, and one which I could
most easily build; it would also be readily distinguished
from the surrounding rocks.
Thinking it would help me forward with my work, I
took an irregular shaped rock for the centre, and de-
termined to build my pyramid around it. In order to
make the four sides equal, I dug a foundation eight feet
square, and placed a pole upright in the rock, so that the
top of it should be twelve feet from the ground, and
equally distant from each corner of the foundation. To
this pole I fastened four lines, and brought them down to
the four corners of the square base ; these marked out
the exact shape of the pyramid, and enabled me to build
it very evenly. ",
14
As the prevailing winds were from the south, the cav-
ity for the manuscript was to be on the northern or most
sheltered side ; there I meant to have a chamber two
feet square, smooth-plastered within, and closed by an
iron door. All the rest of the pyramid Was to be of
solid masonry.
The summit of Signal Hill was composed of ledges of
rock, with natural seams; I was thus able to separate
large slabs, and if I had had a fellow-laborer to help me
lift and transport them, the work would soon have
been completed. As it was, I proceeded but slowly,
though I made all the use I could of levers and rollers,
and even rigged a tackle to a neighbouring tree,
that I might the better move large pieces of the rock.
Very often the labor of a whole hour would be lost, for
the want of another hand to keep a rope from slipping,
or to push one end of a stone round while I held the
other, or to afford some such slight service as any second
person could have rendered me; I then sighed over my
lonely condition. After a while, I thought of making a
little cart on which to carry the stones from the
quarry to the monument. This I at length did by taking
the large lignum vitee * sheaves f out of four blocks,
and fastening them with axles to a broad piece of
plank. With a rope I could easily draw this vehicle
along, and it proved to be of great service to me ; for I
could rest my arms, after placing the stone on the cart,
before I lifted it to its place, while I moved it forward
by the rope passing round my waist.
I accidentally found out an easy way of splitting the
rock with wooden wedges. I had driven some in, very
hard and very close together, without success, when I
was obliged by a shower to quit my work for that even-
ing; on my return, the next morning, the rock was split.
The wedges were so swelled by the rain as to produce
* A kind of dark, heavy, firm wood,
t The grooved wheels of a pulley.
that effect; and, availing myself of this hint, I was able
to proceed more rapidly.
While working on the pyramid I had exercise enough,
without walking to and from Signal Hill, twice a day j
so I used to ride backwards and forwards upon Judy,
and tether her, while I was at work, by a long rope,
kept on her neck for the purpose. One day she pulled
up the stake, to which the rope was fastened, and walk-
ed off among the hills. When I perceived she was gone,
I looked about for her in every direction; I climbed the
rocks and called after her, but all to no purpose ; and I
gave her up for that day. But my watchful companion,
Neptune, understood what was the matter, and off he
went full speed, in the track of the lama. I saw how
eager he was in the pursuit, but did not believe he would
be able to catch her if he found where she was. At the
end of an hour however, I saw the poor fellow laboring
up the hill very slowly, panting as if he were very much
tired, and holding the rope in his mouth, by which he
led the lama back to me. I suppose she gave him a
long run before he caught her; but when I saw them,
she was letting him lead her along very submissively.
Another day she broke loose as before, and I sent
Neptune after her, feeling very sure that he would soon
return with her; but to my surprise he returned without
her. I looked gravely at him, and immediately he set
off again; but came back in half an hour as before, with-
out the lama. He now jumped upon me, barked and
yelped, and ran a little way down the hill, and then back
again to me, as though he wanted me to follow him. I
did so, and then he ran on delighted; and, after winding
about among the hills for a considerable distance, he
brought me to where my poor old lama was fastened by
her tether to a tree. She had run round it till she had
wound the rope all up on the trunk ; and there she was,
lying down close to it, looking quite subdued and for-
lorn. I soon released her and led her back, with
Neptune for a guide, or I could not have found the short-
est way to my work
There was no water nearer the top of Signal Hill, tharr
a quarter of a mile ; and as I frequently wished to drink
when working so hard under an ardent sun, I taught
Neptune to bring me water in a cocoa-nut shell which I
fitted up for the purpose with a bale like a bucket. I
used to put the handle in his mouth and point to the
spring, when away he would scamper, dip it in the
stream and bring it to me about half or one third full.
I took great pains to teach him to bring it more careful-
ly so as not to spill so much; but he generally gave some
unlucky jump before he got back, that made his self-
command the rest of the way of no use.
After many days of constant labor the monument be-
gan to look as I expected and hoped it would. As I ap-
proached the top, I hammered the stones very carefully,
that the form might be regular and true. With the upper-
most one of all, I took great pains, and as it was a pret-
ty large piece, it cost me much exertion to raise it to its
place ; but it formed a very complete apex to the pyra-
mid, and so rewarded me for all my trouble.
On the whole, this humble imitation of the greatest
wonders of the world, was a respectable miniature ; and
I flattered myself it was as remarkable a production for
one pair of hands, as the pyramids of Egypt were for
the thousands that probably worked upon them.
On the largest and smoothest stone in the pyramid, I
carved my name, and the date of my shipwreck, with
the words " LOOK WITHIN "; and fearing this inscription
might, in time, become illegible by the wearing away of
the stone, I made one of iron letters out of nail rods, and
put it on the side where the iron door was. It took me
a great while to make all this iron work to my satisfac-
tion, and fasten the letters securely to the stone, but it
was at last accomplished ; it looked very well, and was
very substantial. I then made, out of a very hard kind of
wood that grew on the island, a box of my best work-
manship, to hold my manuscript; and only waited for
the monument to be dry enough to deposit there what
was already written.
By the time all these works were accomplished, my
tools needed grinding very much, and I found I must
rig my grindstone so as to turn and grind at the same
time, or I could not use it at all. I had so often stood
by the side of the knife and scissors grinders in the streets
of York, and watched the motion of their large wheel
and treadle, that I was at no loss bow to fit up my grind-
stone. For a wheel I nailed two pieces of plank togeth-
er and sawed them round by a chalk mark made with a
string fastened in the centre. I cut a groove in the edge to
receive the band, and made an iron axle for it with a
bell-crank* to fasten the treadle f to; and another iron
axle for the grindstone and the little drums that was to
carry the band. When these parts were prepared, I
made the frame and legs, and the box for water under
the stone ; for I had heard my father tell my mother nev-
er to employ a grinder that ground with a dry stone, as
it takes all the temper out 5 of the steel. My mounted
grindstone looked very grand and workman-like; but
when I put on the band and tried to turn it with my foot,
I found, to my mortification and surprise, that it would
not go round at all. The treadle sank under my foot,
but never rose again. I sat down before it, and putting
my elbows on my knees, and resting my chin on my
hands, I determined to reason upon it till I found out
where I had failed. I now remembered that the lectur-
er I heard in York, explained all about fly-wheels, and
momentum, and treadles, and cranks ; he showed us also
some pretty models, and related some curious facts that in-
terested the audience very much; but just in the mid-
dle of his explanations, a stray dog walked up to the
lecturer's table, and looked so knowingly in his face,
that I could not help being diverted by it; thus, like a
* A crooked axle of this shape, f~l
t The part the foot is placed upon to produce motion,
j The broad wheel over which the band passes.
§ Softens it.
14*
simpleton, I suffered the foolery this incident gave rise
to among my companions, to take off my attention from
the lecture entirely, and in this way, I missed the in-
formation which would now be so useful to me. I sigh-
ed over my folly, and then tried to exert my ingenuity
in finding out what I might have then learned. After
thinking some time, I perceived that my wheel and
drum were not large and heavy enough for the size of
the grindstone; and that, if I were to make them in the
same proportion with that of the scissors-grinder, they
would be too large to be moved by the foot; 1 accord-
ingly began to think that I should be obliged to contrive
some means of turning my grindstone by water power,
which would be a long and difficult business for one pair
of hands. My thoughts then wandered to my father's
back-yard, and the many times that I had turned his
grindstone for him. I recollected too, that in playing
with the grindstone I used to turn it very fast for some
time and then let go the crank, when it would fly round
several times of itself before it stopped. When this oc-
curred to me, I thought the same force which turned the
handle after I let go of it, would raise a treadle; as soon
as this possibility struck me, I went to work and fixed
the axle with the bell-crank and treadle to the grindstone
itself, instead of having a separate wheel. Full of doubts
and fears, I put my foot upon the treadle ; it went down
and rose again! I could continue the motion with my
foot, and make it turn very fast. Here then, I supposed,
was an end to my difficulties. But another disappoint-
ment awaited me ; when I applied my axe to the stone,
it went slower and slower, till at length it stopped, and
no exertions of my foot and leg were able to keep it
moving. This partial success, however, put me on a
right train of thought. It seemed to me that the force
which raised the treadle was made by the weight of the
stone, and the quickness with which it moved ; if there-
fore, I could increase either of these powers, I should get
force enough to turn it, when grinding a tool. The rate
of its going I could not increase, but its weight I could;
so I cut out of the trunk of a tree, the size of which was
a little smaller round than the grindstone, a piece a foot
thick, and boring a hole through it, I put it on the axle
by the side of the stone. On trying the treadle it mov-
ed better than before; but even now it would not grind
an axe ; the most I could do was to sharpen my jack-
knives, and some small tools.
Very much disappointed at the small success which
attended all my labors and contrivances, and convinced
now that I never could grind an axe without some great-
er power than that of my foot, I gave up the matter for
the present, hoping some bright thought would occur to
me when my mind was less wearied with the subject.
CHAPTER XXII.
VARIOUS OCCUPATIONS —NEPTUNE—NEW CONTRIVANCE*
— NEPTUNE'S PERFORMANCE—A WATER-WHEEL.
IN the next three or four weeks, I made severa.1 excur-
sions among the woods and mountains, and visited the
vineyard in search of some ripe grapes, and Gordon
Vale to enjoy its beauty and its perfumes. I had, be-
sides, several fine lama hunts, and tried my new iron-
headed arrows with very good success. I believe that
what made me so fond of shooting with a bow, was having
heard in my childhood many stories of the famous English
archer, Robin Hood, who could split a willow wand at
one hundred yards' distance, together with my hav-
ing once attended, with my father, a meeting of John of
Gaunt's Bowmen,* and seen prize archery.
Besides this enjoyment of the fine weather, beau-
tiful scenery, and luxuriant vegetation, I busied myself in
* The name of a society that practices archery, and shoots
for prizes once a year.
winter. As I was obliged to carry it home on the backs
of my lamas, in a sort of cradle made for the purpose, I
did not wish to increase the load by carrying any sap in
the wood.
In all my excursions I was accompanied by Neptune,
except when I hunted, and then I was obliged to leave
him tied up at home ; for he made the lamas very wild
by running after them, and spoiled my sport entirely,
without being of the least use. These animals had be-
come so shy, that it was with difficulty I could approach
them. As they always ran for the highest land, when
pursued, I used to have very fatiguing chases, and often
returned without any success. Their flesh, however, not
being now necessary to me for food, I did not like to
shoot them ; I merely wished to hunt them and run
them down, for the sake of the sport and exercise, and
that I might be able to catch them when necessary.
When Neptune was first added to my family, he did
not know how to behave himself to the lamas; I was
often obliged to interfere in their gambols to prevent his
playing too roughly^with the kids, and I had to chastise
him several times for driving them away, when they were
returning home at night.
After a while, however, he came to understand mat-
ters so well that, when they staid later than usual, he
would go after them and drive them home. By the
time Neptune and I had lived together a few months, he
understood every thing I said to him, and used even to
read my countenance wonderfully. His intelligence
seemed to me so nearly to resemble reason, that I valu-
ed his company exceedingly ; and if he was missing for
an hour or two, I felt lonely and uneasy at his ab-
sence.
Neptune did not get on with Mistress Poll so well as with
the other members of my family. She received all his
advances very ungraciously, and never let him approach
her without pocking his nose with her sharp bill, and
raising her voice in most discordant notes. I was some-
165
times amused, and sometimes provoked, with the silly
creature, for her continued hostility to one who never
offended her; but he was never disturbed by it, and al-
ways treated her as if she were of too little consequence
for him to resent any thing she did. It was curious
enough, that the first attempt she made at speaking
should be pronouncing the name of him she so disliked;
but she heard me say "Nep, Nep, poor Nep," so much
oftener than "Poll, Poll, pretty Poll," that she learnt to
repeat those words very distinctly, before she tried her
own name. I never shall forget the sensation it gave me,
when I first heard a word spoken on that island, by
another mouth than my own.
In all my various occupations and excursions, I kept
thinking about my grindstone, and trying to invent some
mode of turning it; for both my axes and all three of my
hatchets had become so blunt, I could hardly use them
at all. It frequently occurred to me, when near the
brook, that I should be obliged to use some of its pretty
little cascades to turn the grindstone; but the trouble and
labor of making a dam and a water-wheel seemed to me
so great, that I delayed in hopes of finding some easier
way. The idea of a small wind-mill occurred to me, as
a possible contrivance, but there were many objections to
that. After various plans, formed and rejected, I resolved
at last on trying a very simple method, suggested to me
by thinking about home, and the customs of my father's
house, where all the meat was roasted by a turnspit dog moving a large, hollow wheel or tread-mill, by his own
weight. "I will make a tread-mill," said I to myself,
"and teach Neptune to turn it." Very confident of
success, I made two large pieces of frame-work that
answered for a double set of spokes, and joined them to-
gether by staves, cut in pieces as long as I wanted the
wheel to be wide. I hung the wheel on an iron axle,
by putting one end of the axle on the fork of a small
tree and resting the other on a piece of plank fixed up-
right in the ground to receive it. On this end of the
axle I placed a little wheel with a groove in it, and on
the axle of the grindstone another, and then connected
them by a smooth cord. I turned the wheel with my
hand and the stone went round perfectly well. "Now,"
thought I, " if I can only teach Neptune to run in this
wheel, I shall be set up." I first coaxed him into it, by
placing his dinner there, and fixing the wheel so that
it should not turn round; but he did not like it very
well, and he jumped out as soon as he had done eating.
I had contrived the wheel so that I could shut him in-
to it, if I pleased, and meant, if no other way succeeded,
to teach him as young turnspits are taught in England,
and as I had often seen my mother's cook train puppies,
viz. by putting a little piece of hot coal into the wheel
behind him, which falling against his heels would urge
him forward, and keep him going till he should under-
stand what was required of him. But I could not bear
the idea of hurting my good dumb friend, if I could pos-
sibly do without it; and by dint of playing and coaxing,
and commanding and rewarding him, I taught him what
I wanted of him, without the hot coal,
Neptune trotted off finely, and round went the wheel
under him, while he remained in the same place. If he
could have reasoned a little upon his employment he
would have wondered how it could be, that he never
moved from the same spot though he was running as
hard as he could.
The grindstone turned very well though not very fast,
and sanguine of success I applied the edge of my axe to
it. Disappointment again attended all my efforts to
grind so large a tool. The dog's weight was only
sufficien to overcome the weight of the stone and
carry that round ; — the moment I bore upon the stone
hard enough to do any good, the dog was obliged
to stand still, for the wheel would not move under him.
I was greatly chagrined at losing so much time, pains,
and contrivance, and rather provoked with myself for
not having reasoned upon it, before I began to make the
wheel, enough to satisfy myself it would not succeed. But
the most trying thought of all was, that if I had attended
to the lecturer in York, I should have saved myself this
disappointment, and made a water-wheel at once.
When I had recovered from my chagrin enough to feel
in spirits to set about my water-works, I perceived that
my past labor would not be wholly in vain, as the large
wheel I had made for the dog to run in, would, with a
little alteration, serve for a water-wheel.
I first surveyed the brook, to find the best place
for a dam and water-course, and discovered a spot
higher up than I usually went, where nature seem-
ed to have done the work for me. The waters of the
brook were here collected in a natural basin, formed by
a quantity of stones and earth which had gathered about
some aged trees that had fallen across the stream. This
natural dam made a sufficient head of water for an
under-shot wheel, and the principal outlet was close to the
left bank of the stream, on which were all my other
works. Now the first thing to be done, was to get rid
of the water while I made my race, and set up my
wheel; and the readiest mode seemed to be, to stop up
this outlet in a temporary manner, and let the water rise,
till it found vent at some other place. There was some
danger, to besure, that the increased pressure would
carry away the whole embankment, and thus spoil my
project; but I ventured it, and anxiously watched the
little basin, filling higher and higher, till at length it dis-
charged itself without injury to the natural dam, and at
a convenient distance.
I now planted firmly, in the bed of the brook, two posts,
to support the wheel; and having made a large wooden
trough for a race, I secured it in a slanting direction, one
end joining the temporary dam, and the other reaching to
where I thought the lower part of my wheel would come.
Then I made a substantial frame and gate at the top of the
race, to let the water in, when the dam should be remov-
ed. Neptune's tread-mill was converted into a water-
wheel by placing on the outside of it a series of projecting
pieces, called, I believe, float-boards, which would catch
the water as it fell, and cause the wheel to turn round. I
made the axle to extend beyond the post nearest the bank
and over the green margin of the brook, as the grindstone
was to be fitted to that end of it. Having filled up the
space around my face firmly with stones and sods, and
hung my wheel, I took away my temporary dam, and let
the water come against the gate. So far all promised
well, and with a beating heart I proceeded to raise the
gate. The water rushed down the race upon the floats
with such force and splashing that I started back, and the
next instant the wheel went round to my entire satisfac-
tion, with a regular motion and at a quicker rate than
I expected.
Now remained the oft repeated test of applying the
edge of a broad axe to the surface of the stone. Twice
before, the stone had turned as well as it did now, but
had ceased to move on applying the axe; so with a
trembling hand and fearful heart I held it to the stone.
It did not alter its pace. I thought my anxiety made my
hand weak, and that I did not bear on hard enough ; so I
pressed harder and heard the welcome sound of the grit
of the stone taking hold of the iron, and saw a bright
line made along the edge of the axe without sensibly al-
tering the motion of the wheel.
This experiment succeeded completely, and I was de-
lighted.
CHAPTER XXIII.
A SHED BUILT — VALUE OF BREAD — HOW TIME GOES — A
BAY DISCOVERED A NARROW ESCAPE NEPTUNE ACT-
ING NURSE.
I OBSERVED with pleasure that the lamas I had tamed,
became more and more dependent. Weaned from their
natural habits, they were less capable of taking care of
themselves, and relied more upon me; and as one of
the great trials of my situation was having no one but
myself to care for, I was rejoiced to find these dumb
creatures look up to me for food and shelter. The de-
sire they had shown to take refuge from the rain in my
cave, determined me to construct a shed for them on the
terrace; and as there were eight now domesticated, it
required a good-sized building to accommodate them.
I placed it against a perpendicular cliff and made use of
a thatched roof, like that of my store-house; but instead
of a low front wall, I let the roof timbers rest on the
ground, and left both ends open for air and light. A rough
kind of manger held their provender; and when they
were all ranged along in my rude stable, and fastened by
their halters, they looked quite like a stud, and gave me
a pleasure superior to that of a German prince, whose
steeds inhabit a building fit for a palace.
I had not forgotten to gather a good stock of the plant
that the lamas were most fond of; and as it grew only on
the highest hills, I often devoted a whole day at a time
to collecting and bringing it home. I used to ride Judy,
when I went on these foraging expeditions, in the service
of her own species; and she would carry me, of her own
accord, to the places where the plant was abundant.
If I muzzled her, to prevent her eating it, she would look
further and find more; and when her panniers were
filled, I let her satisfy herself, before we returned.
All this summer I lived chiefly on bread and fruits.
In my hunting and shooting excursions, I used to
put three or four hard biscuits in my pocket, and these,
with the wild fruits of the island, made me a delicious
repast, wherever I was. I dried a large quantity of fine
grapes, and packed them down close in a clean, dry
half-barrel, where they kept as well as those sold in box-
es in England.
Though I lived so much without animal food this
summer, I did not lose my strength, because I had the
staff of life, as bread is truly called; and there is so
much nourishment in wheat, that it kept up my health
and strength finely. I even felt better with this diet in
very warm weather, than when I ate meat. But I saw,
with concern, that my stock of bread diminished fast; I
dreaded being again without that first and best of all
15
kinds of food. If I had had any wheat in the kernel, I
should have tried to raise my own bread-stuff; but there
was none among all my stores- In looking for wheat,
however, I found a bag of barley, put up, no doubt, to
feed fowls on; so I determined to plant some of it, and see
if I could not get a crop of this inferior grain, before my
wheat bread was all consumed. I had once tasted bar-
ley bread and thought it very tolerable.
I knew how many operations, requiring new contriv-
ances, would be necessary, before a crop of barley, even
if it grew and ripened well, could be converted into a
loaf of bread ; but I did not despair, now I had tools, of
accomplishing the whole process, if the grain did but
come to perfection. I could not tell whether it would
be best to sow the seed in the autumn or the spring; so I
thought I would sow half at one season, and half at the
other. Accordingly, I set to work; selecting a piece of
ground, I dug it over with a spade, and then made a
rake serve the purpose of a harrow, throwing in the seed
as I had seen farmers do. This sort of work was quite
new to me; I liked it so much that I resolved to have a
garden in the spring, and amuse myself with cultivating
vegetables and flowers, although nature's gardening was
carried on around me upon so grand a scale.
I tried to be regular and methodical in the distribution
of my time and labors, and had generally made a point
of writing and reading a little every day ; still my writing
advanced but slowly. When deeply engaged in any im-
portant work, I sometimes gave myself up to it entirely,
and was often too tired to do any thing at night, but get
supper for myself and my dumb companions, and go di-
rectly to bed.
The various occupations of this summer made it pass
away very agreeably; though, on looking back to the
storm that drove the wreck on shore, at the end of the
last rainy season, the interval seemed a long one. The
weeks were so marked by different pieces of work, at-
tempted or accomplished, and especially by the great and
exciting task of clearing the wreck of its valuables,
that this period seemed longer than the whole time that
preceded it.
I looked forward with pleasure to the approaching
winter, when there would be nothing to tempt me abroad,
and I could devote myself to writing my history. My
heart filled with joy and gratitude, when I contrasted my
situation now with what it was at the beginning of the
first rainy season I spent on the island.
In one of my lama hunts, during the latter part of
summer, I made a discovery, which proved that I had
not yet explored the whole of the island. I suppose the
mountains had deceived me, and by turning me out of
my intended course, had prevented my visiting a bay on
the northeast side, till now; when I unexpectedly came
upon it, and found a sheltered situation for vessels to lie
at anchor in. My heart sank within me, as I reflected
on the possibility of a merchantman or whaleman having
put in there, for wood or water, since I had been on the
island, and of my having missed an opportunity of being
taken off. After a careful examination of the shore, and
the ground about the nearest springs, I satisfied myself
that no one had lately been there; but considering it far
more likely that a vessel should approach the island on
the north side, where this fine bay would afford them
shelter, than on the south, where there are so many rocks
and shoals, I thought of putting up a signal on one of the
high hills seen from the bay.
This, however, I was prevented from doing, by an un-
accountable sense of danger, which always arose in my
mind, whenever I thought of setting about it. I had
never felt so about my first signal; and it seemed to me
so foolish and inconsistent to have a flag on one side of
the island and none on the other, that I once made some
preparations for erecting a second; but all my cheerful-
ness forsook me, and I felt as though I was about to do
something wrong; I therefore gave it up. The peaceful,
happy feelings I had, when I resolved not to put up this
flag, satisfied me I was right, though I could not see
the reason of it, The more I attend to what passes in
my own mind, the more my heart is filled with love for
the Great Creator of that mind, and the more dependent
I feel upon him for help and guidance in all I do, or
think, or feel.
When I read the Scriptures in this perfect solitude,
they speak to me with new force and beauty; many ex-
pressions I now understand for the first time, and many
sentences which I used to think mere figures of speech,
I find to be literally true in my own experience.
I have now come to the last material circumstance
that occurred, before the wet weather began in good
earnest. There had been a few showers, and the
clouds were gathering; but I thought I would take one
more ramble on the hills, and have one more lama hunt,
before I gave up the sport for the season.
The ground was rather wet and slippery ; but I became
deeply engaged in chasing a young lama, and had fol-
lowed her to some high ground, full of precipices and
crags, when she trotted up a slanting ledge of rock that
led to the brow of a perpendicular cliff. Stepping
along in a zig-zag course, to avoid the steepness of the
ascent and secure a footing, I saw her directly over me,
and her hind legs within reach. In my eagerness to
seize hold of her, I threw my whole weight on one foot;
it slipped from under me and I fell to a great depth be-
low, dragging the lama with me (for I held her firmly by
one leg), and we rolled and tumbled together to the bot-
tom of the cliff. My senses forsook me in falling, and I
know not how long I lay on the ground before I recov-
ered them; but when I opened my eyes, I was lying
upon a dead lama, very much bruised, and my clothes
were stained with blood; but on trying to move, I
found I had the use of all my limbs. A sprain in my
ancle and some severe bruises were all the injury I had
received, in a fall which had killed the lama; and I did
not doubt, that bringing the animal down with me had
broken my fall, and perhaps saved my life.
Thankful to have escaped so well from such a foolish
and useless risk of life, I made the best of my way home.
Walking, however, was extremely painful, and I was
nearly exhausted by suffering and fatigue, when I met
one of my lamas grazing at the foot of Fort Hill; I
gladly mounted her and rode home.
Neptune greeted me very affectionately, and seemed
to understand directly that something unusual was the
matter; for he looked on with a countenance that ex-
pressed the greatest concern, while I wrapped up my
limbs with a plaster of salt and tallow, which, I had
learnt from my father, was the best thing in the world to
remove the soreness and stiffness of bruised and sprained
muscles. When I retired for the night, the good dog
took up his station, for the first time, at the foot of my
bed, like a kind nurse; and whenever I moved, he
awoke and watched me till I fell asleep again. It is
impossible for me to describe, how grateful to my feel-
ings was the conduct of this dumb friend; it often
brought tears into my eyes.
I congratulated myself that my accident had occurred
at the end of the pleasant season, and that I should lose
but little out-door exercise by it. The application I
used, cured the soreness and stiffness of my limbs; but it
was several weeks before I recovered from the sprain in
my ancle.
CHAPTER XXIV.
FAMILY ANECDOTES—A NEW TABLE — CHAIR-MAKING —
NEW USE OFA RAZOR — A CURIOUS WORM — END OFTHIRD WINTER.
As my arrangements were nearly completed before
my accident, and as the heavy rains came on soon after,
I had few inducements to venture out; my lame ancle,
therefore, had time enough to get well. With so many
comforts and even luxuries around me, I did not dread
the confinement at all, but determined to be very indus-
trious with my pen, and bring my narrative up to the
present time, before the fine weather should return.
I found Neptune a very amusing companion, and many
hours were insensibly beguiled, by the pleasure of teach-
ing him to perform certain tricks, and by settling quar-
rels between him and Poll. She behaved so ill to Nep-
tune, that I did not like to let her go at large; yet, as
she disliked her cage, I could not bear to keep her in it.
So I made a long perch for her, and placed it near the
mouth of the cave, high enough to prevent her peck-
ing at the dog; to this I fastened her, with a light chain,
made of iron wire, and a ring that traversed the perch.
Thus giving her as much liberty as she would use
properly.
When Poll once began to speak, she improved very
fast, and I taught her to say many things, just for the
sake of hearing words spoken, that I did not utter myself.
Though this parrot talk had no meaning, and the bird
did not know when she spoke my name, and when the
dog's, yet it gave me great pleasure to hear her say,
"Robin, poor Robin," or "Poor Robinson Crusoe,"
which she did very distinctly. She imitated my whist-
ling for the dog so exactly, that Neptune would come run-
ning to me, thinking it was I who called him; and she
added to her accomplishments a frightful noise, which
she meant for barking, but which I could well dispense
with.
One member of my family absconded, during the
time I was so busy on Signal Hill. My Jack-in-a-box,
as I called the terrapin, grew tired of solitude and made
his escape, which on reflection, I was not sorry for. To
separate him from his fellows, and lessen the number of
his enjoyments, when there was no necessity for it, and
when I could give him nothing in exchange for liberty,
was really cruel; and I regretted having kept him a
prisoner so long.
When any thing called me abroad in the rain, I was
glad to put on my suit of home-made clothes, which
Were a much better protection from the wet weather
than broadcloth. The first time I dressed myself up in
these hairy garments, Neptune did not know me at all,
but was much frightened at my uncouth appearance; and
it was some time before I could reconcile him to it, or
make him come near me. Whenever I exchanged
them for my European dress, he would jump upon me,
lick my face and hands, wag his tail, and show as much
joy, as if I had returned after an absence. This dog
was not, however, wanting in courage; he always met
any known danger bravely, but he was apt to be alarmed
at new sights. Much as I wished to get on with my
narrative, I could not write more than two or three hours
at a time without cramping and tiring my hand so much,
that my words became illegible and I was obliged to
change my occupation. When this was the case, I
found the use of tools the best relief; I was fond of car-
penter's work, and this I could do and yet continue think-
ing about my history, and so prepare matter for the next
time I sat down to write.
As my few wants were well supplied, I did not know ex-
actly what to make with my tools; and having no one to
work for but myself, I was apt to say, such and such a
thing will do well enough for me; why should I trouble
myself to contrive any thing better? This want of mo-
tive to exertion, was the reason why I did not do many
things that occurred to me, and will perhaps enter the
minds of my readers.
It was a pleasure to me to work, whenever I had a
sufficient inducement, and I often taxed all my ingenuity
to find one. At last I made myself believe I should
write better, if I had a less rickety support for my writ-
ing apparatus. Once convinced of this, I went to work
with great zeal and pleasure, to make a substantial, well
Eroportioned table. Thinking to improve upon my three-
igged bench, I determined that this new piece of furni-
ture should have four, well shaped legs; but after taking
great pains to have them all exactly of the same length, I
found there was not a place on the uneven floor of my
dwelling where they could all rest on the ground at once,
though I perceived that three would touch anywhere.
This taught me the necessity of returning to that num-
ber, and making my table suit my floor.
A higher and easier seat, I also found desirable; and I
undertook to make a chair with a back to it, because I
thought an easy posture of the body would be favora-
ble to recollection and composition, and nothing was
indifferent to me that would help me on with my history.
It was a difficult undertaking for me, to make a firm,
even, three-legged chair, with a leather seat and high
back; and I labored at it several days, before it was far
enough advanced for me to try it. When it was nearly
finished, I seated myself in it; but, to my great disap-
pointment, instead of finding any comfort or repose, I
never sat on so uneasy a chair. The back was too up-
right, the seat too narrow, and I felt as if I was slipping
out of it all the while; nothing could be more wearisome
than sitting in it. To work I went, to alter its whole
shape, and after many trials I at last formed a chair that
was tolerably comfortable, though not very good-look-
ing-
Another small piece of work was making a wooden
sword, with which to practise the broad-sword exercise;
this I found to be a very salutary exertion of the mus-
cles, and one which could be made in a small space.
It was well for me that my stock of quills were all
ready made into pens; for I did not possess a pen-
knife, and it was not till I had written a great deal, and
been so saving of my pens as to spoil the looks of a good
part of my writing, that I thought of trying to mend a
pen with a razor, and found it answer the purpose per-
fectly well. I was not afraid of spoiling the edge of this
instrument for its proper use, as I preferred wearing my
beard ; it protected my chin from the sun, and from the
attacks of mosquitos, and was much less troublesome than
shaving. Besides this, I always thought it a barbarous
custom to cut off this natural and appropriate ornament
of the face of man ; old pictures and busts, that repre-
sent persons with their beards, always looked very
comely to me; so I thought I might as well gratify my
taste, and consult my convenience, by letting mine grow.
Considering the uncertainty of life and health, and be-
ing very desirous that all which was written of my histo-
ry should be preserved from accident, I used, whenever
a chapter was completed, to button it up under my jack-
et, put on my hairy garments over the others, mount up-
on Judy, and ride off to the pyramid, to deposit it safely
in the box, in the little chamber of the monument.
By making it my chief business, to write as much as I
could every day and all through the long, rainy evenings,
I have at last brought up my narrative to the present
time ; and as the winter is not quite passed, I shall miss
this daily employment very much.
I will here add one remarkable incident which occur-
red to me last summer, but which I have omitted in its
proper place. During the hottest weather, and some
days after a long walk over swampy ground, I was troub-
led by an inflammation on my ancle. Thinking it was a
bile, I poulticed it, to bring it quickly to a head, that I
might not be hindered by it. One evening, I was chang-
ing the poultice by the light of a lamp, that shone full on
the inflamed spot, and saw something project from it in a
curious way. It was white, round, and smooth, of about
the size of a large bristle. I took hold of it and pulled
it gently ; it came out several inches. Amazed at this,
and not knowing how long or what it might be, and
fearful I was pulling out some part of my body, I stop-
ped to consider what I had best do.
As I sat with my eyes fixed upon this new object of
wonder, I perceived it to move a little; and keeping my
ancle quite still, I saw plainly that it was alive and ought
therefore to be removed; so I continued pulling gently,
till I had drawn it out twelve inches at least. My
amazement kept pace with the length of the worm, but
not my strength, for by the time I had pulled it out eigh-
teen inches, I was quite faint and qualmish ; so I re-
solved to do no more at it that night. But being very de-
sirous that this intruder should not return to his lurking
place in my flesh, I wound up what I had pulled out on
a stick, and bound up my ancle for the night. The next
morning, I went to work upon it again, pulling and
winding as I pulled, till I was lost in astonishment at the
length of the operation. Fearing that this slender crea-
ture would break in two, and that the part which re-
mained in my flesh would. trouble me, I was careful to
draw it out very gently ; but though I felt no pain, the
operation again brought on faintness and nausea, and I
was obliged to desist for some hours. In the evening
I rid myself of this extraordinary worm, which I had
wound upon a stick and could not therefore see its length
till it was unwound, when it measured more than five
feet; how much more I will not say ; for no one would
believe the whole truth, and what is already told is enough,
I fear, to make those, who do not know the author, disbe-
lieve the story. But if this is ever read by my parents
and friends, they will know, that what I gravely assert to
be true, is not to be doubted, and they will believe this
account of the hair worm as I call it. I never suffered
any further inconvenience; the wound healed up very
soon, and I preserved the worm in a bottle of spirits,
which I had among my stores, and which I came very
near not bringing on shore, thinking ardent spirits would
be entirely useless to one who never drank any in
his life. As I do not like to have the character of tell-
ing what are called travellers' stories, I shall put the bot-
tle, with the worm in it, in the pyramid; and I request
that whoever takes the manuscript, will also take the
bottle, and carry both together to my friends.
Now that my past history is completed, I shall not
mind running some risk of my life; therefore I intend,
when the fine weather returns, to try my hand at boat-
building, and if I succeed in putting together the materi-
als I have by me, I shall vary my amusements by sailing
about the shores of this beautiful island. I shall also pay
great attention to raising barley, and making the neces-
sary arrangements for converting it into bread. These
are my two great projects for the coming summer.
I shall now deposit this last chapter of my narrative
with the others, and continue the account of my resi-
dence here, by keeping a diary.
CHAPTER XXV.
THIRD ANNIVERSARY — BARLEY FIELD AND GARDEN—BOAT-
BUILDING— LAUNCH OF THE BOAT — ROWING AND SAIL-
ING— SHIFTING BALLAST—A HEAD WIND AN ALARM-
ING SITUATION—A FAVORABLE CHANGE.
WHEN I completed the foregoing part of my nar-
rative, I intended to continue it in the form of a diary;
but on further consideration, I am convinced that in so
doing, I should note down many things which might
seem interesting at the moment, but would not be worth
reading a little while after. There is not much variety
in my life from day to day, and my stock of writing ma-
terials is small ; so I have thought it best to write at in-
tervals of several months, and give a general account of
what has occurred.
The winter passed away as I have described, but the
weather continued unsettled longer than usual. I spent
the third anniversary of my shipwreck in reading, medi-
tating, and comparing my situation with that of travellers
who have fallen into the hands of savages or pirates,
or who have been made slaves by Moors or Turks.
By dwelling on the blessings which I had enjoyed in this
solitude, and thinking how much worse my condition
might have been, I did not feel so melancholy as on the
preceding anniversary.
When at last the clouds and vapors disappeared, and
the sun shone forth in all his splendor, I began my rides
and walks, which were rendered doubly agreeable by my
previous confinement.
I had the pleasure of finding that my store-house had
preserved my goods in excellent order; the thatched
roof had kept out the rain, and the drains had prevented
the ground on the inside from becoming moist enough
to hurt any thing.
I took down my water-wheel at the beginning of the
rainy season, for fear the brook should be so swelled as
to break, or carry it away. I now replaced it; also my
forge was set up again as before, that all might be ready
for the new business of boat-building.
The barley that was planted in the autumn made its
appearance above ground in the course of the winter,
but grew very slowly ; and I sowed the rest of the grain in
another patch by the side of it. As my lamas roamed
about at large in the summer, it was necessary to en-
close my barley field. To do this with the least labor
and in the shortest time, I cut down some small trees, of
a light, soft kind of wood, and split them up into long, nar-
row pieces ; these I piled up in a zig-zag form, by lay-
ing their ends together, in the same way that we place
our fingers when we lock our hands together. I never
saw such a railing, but I once heard a traveller describe
one, which he had seen in some foreign country, I for-
get where.
When I enclosed my barley field, I took in twice as
much ground as that crop occupied, that I might make a
garden of the rest; and I have spent many hours very
pleasantly in preparing the land and transplanting a vari-
ety of wild fruit trees and vegetables, flowering shrubs
and plants, most of which do pretty well; though, having
taken them from various situations, I cannot expect them
all to live in one spot, with the same degree of heat and
moisture, and the same kind of soil. My farm and gar-
den are situated on a gentle slope of rich land, very near
my terrace, and I have great pleasure in watching the
growth of my crops. When those labors were com-
pleted, which required to be done early in the spring, I
devoted myself to boat-building.
Considering my entire inexperience in the business, I
succeeded tolerably well; with what I had seen and
heard of ship-building I managed to begin in a pretty
ship-shape way, as sailors say ; though I have no doubt
that I took far more pains than was necessary for build-
ing a boat. I laid a row of blocks of wood on the shore,
near enough to high water mark, at spring-tide,* for the
ways f to enter the water, that the boat in launching might
float as she left them. Then I made the ways of the
smoothest plank I had, and a cradle f that would slide
very easily on the ways, and yet be kept firmly in its
place by shores § till the boat was ready to go off.
All this had been explained to me once, by a ship-
builder, in his yard, where I went with my father to see
a merchantman launched; but I doubt whether I should
ever have got much farther in the undertaking, had I
not found a keel and two stem pieces, and a complete set
of ribs all ready fashioned to my hand. I think the peo-
ple on board the Thames must have intended to build an
additional boat, and made all these preparations on their
voyage; for some of the parts were numbered to show
how they were to go together, which helped me greatly.
My interest in the work increased very much, as I went
on, and by the time I had all the frame up and began to
nail on the long, narrow cedar boards, I thought boat-
building the pleasantest business I had yet attempted.
The smallness of the ribs, and lightness and delicacy
of every part of this boat, surprised me. If I had been
contriving a boat for men to risk themselves in, on the
ocean, in pursuit of whales, I should have supposed it
necessary to make the timbers much larger and to
build it in a much more substantial manner. The
* The tide which happens at or soon after the new and
full moon, and which rises higher than other tides.
f Two long, sloping pieces of wood, down which the cradle
slides into the water.
t A wooden frame, that supports the vessel on the ways.
§ Pieces of wood that are placed in a slanting direction,
from the ground to the side of the vessel, as props.
16
elegance of the form too delighted me, when I had put
on all the boards, and could see the beautiful outline of
her swelling sides and long, tapering ends. Fitting up
the inside with thwarts,* a floor, and cuddies f at each
end, was very agreeable work, and occupied me many
days. I had much pleasure too in painting this boat
with the paint I had brought from the wreck. I made
the outside white, with one green stripe near the top,
and the inside 1 painted green and white, in an ornamen-
tal manner.
I longed so much to see my pretty piece of work dis-
encumbered of her cradle and shores, and floating in the
water, that I could hardly wait for the paint to dry before
I launched her.
To fill up the time, I occupied myself in making a
small anchor for the boat ; this was the heaviest job of
smith's work that I had done. It tried the strength of
my arms to the utmost, and required the greatest heat I
could produce to weld together the shank\ and flukes. §
When at last my beautiful boat was ready to be
launched, I could not help sighing to think that I had no
one to sympathize with me in my pleasure at having com-
pleted it, no one to say how well it was done, no one to
look on and see it move off towards the water, when the
last shore should be knocked away.
I was sitting on a rock, waiting for high water, when
these sad thoughts crowded upon me, and converted
what I had looked forward to, as a joyful occasion, into
a sorrowful one. "Time and tide wait for no man," or
I know not how long my melancholy reverie would have
lasted. The ways were greased, the tide was high, the
last prop was to be removed ; I struck it with a beating
heart; it fell before my axe, but the boat did not stir.
* The pieces that go across the inside of a boat, and make
seats for the sailors.
t Small apartments in a ship or boat to put things in, that
must be kept dry.
t The straight piece of iron that joins the flukes.
§ The part that sticks in the ground.
Surprised and disappointed, I looked about on every side
to find out the obstacle. The boat rested in the cradle,
the cradle on the ways, and I could see no reason why
she did not go off. I gave her a push with my hand;
that impulse was all she wanted, and away she went with
a gentle but increasing motion, till she dipped her bows
in the water, and floated off as light as an egg-shell. I
had fastened one end of a coil of rope to her, and with
it I checked her motion when she had reached the mid-
dle of the creek.
This complete success raised my spirits; and though
deprived of human sympathy, there was one faithful
friend present, whose noisy rejoicings were some substi-
tute for the cheers that always attend a good launch, and
whose carresses I received instead of the compliments
usually bestowed on the master builder. Neptune bark-
ed and jumped, as if he were almost frantic with excite-
ment, when the boat went off; then he came and fawn ed upon me, and licked my face and hands,—and last of
all, as if he meant to act out the doings of men on such
occasions, he went off to the boat. But there the pa-
rallel ended, for with all his strength and sagacity he could
not get on board.
For several days after my launch, I amused myself
with rowing or sculling about the creek, or venturing a
little beyond the mouth of it, and exploring the coast on
each side ; but as it was hard work for one pair of arms
to row so large a boat, I was very careful not to expose
myself to any strong current.
I next made some experiments in sailing as well as
rowing. With a mast fixed as I had seen it in other
boats, and the main royal sail of the Thames rigged so
as to be easily hoisted and lowered, I pushed off from
my natural wharf of rock, and sailed down the creek with
a side wind, which would, I knew, be fair both ways. I
enjoyed the motion extremely, and felt it quite a luxury
to be carried along without any muscular exertion. The
wind, though light, came in puffs over the land, and each
time it struck the boat, she leaned on one side in a fear-
ful manner. At first I thought she would inevitably up-
set, but I found she went so far and no farther; in smooth
water, therefore, there was no danger, though in any
thing of a sea she would certainly have filled. After a
while, I found the reason of this was, my having no bal-
last on board, and I laughed at myself for forgetting such
an essential thing, when I had remembered so many of
less consequence.
I found the whaleman's mode of steering with a long
oar very inconvenient, and determined to make arudder *
and tiller f before I took another voyage. To do this
I was obliged to exert my ingenuity at the forge in mak-
ing pintles J and gudgeons § to hang the rudder to the
boat with. But I was now so practised a blacksmith,
that I made much better work of it than when I first at-
tempted something of the same sort, as hinges for the
doors of my store-house.
My next sail was with a rudder and a sufficient quan-
tity of smooth, round stones for ballast, that I pick-
ed up on the shore. The boat now worked much bet-
ter. It did not toss about as before, and I made a con-
siderable voyage along the southern shore towards the
Land's End. By my knowledge of this part of the
coast I was able to avoid the shoals and rocks, and keep
in the deepest water. The weather was delightful, and
the soft south-wind just strong enough to make the boat
dance beautifully over the waves; and as I lolled at my
ease, and guided her by a gentle touch of the tiller, it
seemed possible for me to traverse, in this manner, the
whole expanse of waters that divided me from my fel-
low beings. It was quite an effort of mind to recall the
different appearance of this same ocean, when tossed
* A broad, flat piece of wood attached to the hind
part of a vessel by hinges, or gudgeons and pintles, by which
her course is governed.
t The handle that moves the rudder.
j Iron pins, that hook into the gudgeons, and are fast-
ened to the rudder.
§ Iron eyes, driven into the stern post, to receive the pintles
of the rudder.
-about by agale of wind, and to conceive how sudden
the transition might be, from my present safety to immi-
nent danger.
A slight circumstance, however, soon convinced me
that, without any change of weather, a little want of skill
would put my boat in jeopardy, though not my life, as I
could swim well enough to reach the shore, from any
part of the course I then steered. As I passed by the
hilly land and approached the Land's End, a puff of
wind made the boat heel * very much, and the ballast shift-
ing to the leeward side, prevented her rising again when
the wind abated. The waves also were a little higher
here, and every now and then one broke over the gun-
nel t.Another such puff, and the boat would certainly
fill and sink ; accordingly I lowered the sail as quickly as
possible, and began moving the ballast with my hands to
the higher side. When, by this means, the boat righted,^.
I opened the scuttle, 5 and baled out the water with a
copper dipper I had put on board for that purpose.
This accident reminded me of having seen in boats a
board, placed lengthwise in the bottom, which divided
the ballast into two portions; and now for the first time I
perceived that its use was to prevent the ballast from
shifting, as mine had done to the lower side. I there-
fore resolved to have such a contrivance myself, before I
made another excursion ; for the bare idea of losing my
pretty boat, now I had taken so much painslo build it,
and derived so much pleasure from it, greatly disturbed
me.
I doubled the cape which I call the Land's End, and
reached Gordon Bay without any further accident. There
I moored my little bark, and paid a visit to the beautiful
cascade and perfumed groves of the valley; when I had
made my dinner of some cold provision and taken a short
nap, it was four o'clock before I was aware of it.
* Lean down on one side.
f Gunnel or gunwale, the upper edge of the boat.
j Recovered her upright position.
\ A small part of the floor that takes up.
16*
I was awakened by my good dog Neptune, who was lick"
ing my hands and uttering low notes of delight at having
found me, for I left him tied up at home, not wishing for his
company in the boat, lest he might embarrass my move-
ments in working her ; and knowing, by experience, that
he would swim after me if at liberty. How he found
me out, I do not know, but there he was with the broken
rope by which I had fastened him, hanging about his
neck. After caressing him awhile, and rewarding him
for his affection with the remains of my cold dinner, I
re-embarked, leaving him to swim after me, or go by
land, as he pleased. The wind had changed to west, and
though very fair for my run to the Land's End, was very
unpropitious foe my return; but as I thought I under-
stood sailing on a wind, I expected to make a beating pas-
sage home, in a few hours. Neptune looked after me till
I turned the point, and then very wisely trotted off by land.
I steered my boat as near the wind as I could,
and tacked from time to time ; but my sail did not work
very well, and I regretted that I had not made a proper
sprit-sail instead of using this square one that belonged
to the Thames, which, though it did very well with a
fair wind, did not answer for beating. After doing my
best for three hours, and tacking a great many times, I
had not proceeded more than half a mile from the point,
when I found that I was contending against a strong current,
as well as a head wind. Despairing now of reaching the
creek, or even the beach, this evening, I thought I would
return to Gordon Bay; for there was no place short of
that, where I could land and leave my boat in safety;
and I could not bear to moor her, where she would
probably knock a hole in her bottom before morning. I
therefore put down the helm, and turned round towards
the point; but I was carried back the half mile I
had come, so swiftly, that I had passed it long before I
thought of putting about, so as to go round it; and when
I did, I could no more reach Gordon Bay, than I could
make my passage home. The wind and tide were too
much for me, and I was somewhat alarmed to find my
self carried away from the island, in an easterly direc-
tion, and the shades of night coming on. I did not
however lose my presence of mind, but did the only
thing that could be done. I continued tacking, and
beating up to windward, as well as my awkward sail
would permit, and so kept as near the land as I could,
hoping to avail myself of the first change in the wind, or
turn of tide. Soon after I was blown off from the point,
and while it was yet twilight, I observed something in
the water coming towards me, with a motion too uniform
for a fish; but it was some minutes before I discovered
it to be my faithful Neptune. When I turned back, he
was, I suppose, watching me from the land, and when
he found that the distance between us increased, he
swam off, and was so tired, that on reaching the boat, he
could hardly scramble into it with my assistance. That
he should thus come, to share my fate, when I consider-
ed it so full of danger and uncertainty, was quite touch-
ing, and made me welcome him with some emotion;
though I feared his weight and indiscreet movements
might add to the danger of the shifting ballast, should
the wind increase.
I was such a novice in sea-faring matters, and so ig-
norant of the management of a boat, that I hardly knew
what to apprehend, and yet I felt myself to be in a most
unpleasant situation. If the wind should increase, and
carry me out of sight of land, I should not know which
way to steer; for here in this southern hemisphere is no
pole-star to show which is south, and I reproached my-
self for not having observed the motions of the stars in
the Cross, sufficiently to regulate my course by them, as I
knew might be done. Here then I was, alone in a boat,
upon the wide ocean, without compass, or light, or pro-
vision, and carried off to sea by the wind and tide, just
as night was coming on.
Oh how desirable did my home, even on a desert
island, seem to me now, in comparison with my present
situation! How I blamed myself for venturing on the un-
stable element! How I wished myself ashore, on any
part of the island! I bitterly lamented having thought so
much of saving my boat from injury, as not to land when
and where I could, and let her take her chance.
While indulging these vain regrets, the twilight had
entirely disappeared, but the stars made it light enough
for me to discern the island, though it looked only like a
dark streak in the horizon; I kept my eyes constantly
turned towards it, fearing every moment to lose sight
of it.
I perceived the wind to change a little and become
more favorable ; and as I knew the tide must turn in a
short time, I was beginning to feel more at ease, when a
new and unthought of circumstance rendered my situa-
tion more precarious than ever. A thick fog arose,
which hid the island entirely, obscured the heavens,
and left me at the mercy of the wind and the waves,
without any means of knowing which way the land lay.
All exertions on my part were now useless, so I low-
ered the sail, unshipped the tiller,* and gave myself up
to my fate. I could not, at first, reflect on the danger
of my situation, without a feeling of despair, that made
me tremble all over; but by turning my mind to God,
and trusting in that Friend who never faileth, I became
calm enough to perceive that the wind was dying away,
and though the island was hidden from me by the fog,
the tide must soon turn, and then I should be carried
towards it. After some time spent in meditation upon
that Power which can calm the troubled soul, as surely
as it can still the raging sea, I became reconciled to my
situation; and being wearied by the exertions of the day,
the gentle, lulling motion of the boat closed my eyes in
sleep, and I enjoyed a sound and refreshing nap.
When I awoke, the stars were shining brightly upoa
me. As soon as I could recover my senses enough to
know where I was, I looked around me in hopes of see-
ing land, and to my great relief, found myself much
nearer to it than when the fog came on. As the wind
* Took it out of the place where it ia used.
was fair, I hoisted sail immediately, and was gently
wafted towards the home I so much wished to regain;
resolving, as I went, not to venture on the water again
without a proper sail that I could work to windward
with, ballast that would not shift, and a knowledge of the
tides and stars that would save me from such an adven-
ture in future.
CHAPTER XXVI.
MEASURES OF SAFETY—MAGNETISM — A NEEDLE MADE
MAGNETIC — BOAT NEW RIGGED—WANT OF KNOWLEDGE PREPARATIONS FOR A VOYAGE.
WHEN I was floating about on the waves, and lost in
the fog, I thought I should never venture again on the
ocean; but after enjoying the safety of land for a few
days, the sight of my pretty boat, sitting like a duck on
the water, made me long for another cruise. Consider-
ing moreover, that with greater prudence and forethought
I might have the pleasure without the danger, I deter-
mined to take all necessary measures for sailing about in
safety.
I watched the tides and made a table of the times of
high and low water. I looked at the stars more atten-
tively than I had ever before done; and being acquainted
with that splendid collection of stars called Orion, I per-
ceived that it always rose in the east, and set in the west;
and by observing several other constellations that did the
same, at different times of night, I made sure of knowing
the points of compass pretty nearly, provided the sky
was not overcast. But with all my star-gazing, I was
still at the mercy of the weather; and I sighed to think
how impossible it was to supply the place of that blessed
invention, the mariner's compass. With that, the sailor
finds his way over the pathless ocean, in the darkest
night, with even more certainty, than when he has all
the lights of heaven to guide him.
While thinking of the importance of the wonderful
stone, with which artificial steel magnets are made, I
remembered the old story of its being first discovered by
a shepherd, who, in tending his flock, felt his crook to be
suddenly attracted to one spot, by an invisible power;
and found on examination, that it was drawn down by a
large, black stone, which had the same effect on every
thing made of iron or steel.
I wished I could feel my spade fastened to the earth,
in the same way; this wish suggested the possibility of
finding a magnet, or load-stone, on the island.
From this time I was continually examining every
dark-colored, heavy stone I saw. I even took several
long walks and rides in search of the magnetic ore, but
without discovering any thing of the kind. I used to
carry a sewing-needle on my cuff, and apply it to every
thing that looked at all like a load-stone; but it never
showed any signs of attraction.
Although this search proved entirely vain, as far as re-
garded the object looked for, it was, nevertheless, of
great use to me in another way; for, by keeping my
mind upon the subject of magnetism, I was able to recall
much of what the lecturer in York said about it, particu-
larly the following facts :— that magnets have two dif-
ferent kinds of poles or ends ; that those which are alike,
or point the same way, repel each other, and those
which are unlike, attract each other; that magnets com-
municate these same properties to any small piece of
iron or steel placed near them, without any perceptible
loss of their own power; that the earth itself is a great
magnet, the poles of which are nearly the same as the
geographical poles, and that it communicates magnetism
to bars of iron, just as an artificial magnet does to a sew-
ing-needle.
All this made a lively impression on my mind, because
it was connected with the mariner's compass; but as I
never expected to be without a magnetic needle, or to
wish to make one, I did not retain all the lecturer said
about magnetizing needles. I recollected, however, his
telling us that the magnetic needle must be made of hard
steel, or it would soon lose its power. He described the
process of converting iron into steel by mixing it with
carbon* and then hardening it by heating it very hot,
and plunging it suddenly into cold water. This he called
tempering steel, and said it was more brittle and hard,
according as it was heated to a greater degree, and
cooled more quickly.
Reflecting on this part of the lecture, brought to mind
another that was more to my purpose ; for I was now bent
upon making a magnetic needle, if it could be done, by
the magnetism of the earth. Something was said about
heating a common needle, placed in the direction of the
earth's poles, and that when softened by heat, it imbibed
magnetic power from the earth; but what was to be
done with it afterwards, I could not call to mind. It ap-
peared to me reasonable, that the magnetism should be
retained by cooling the needle suddenly, and thus hard-
ening it; and this experiment I resolved to try.
Having drilled a hole near the middle of a large darn-
ing-needle, and adjusted it so that it would turn easily
on the point of another needle, fixed upright to receive
it, I placed it north and south in a bed of live coals; and,
when red hot, threw on cold water enough to deluge my
fire, and cool the needle very quickly. I hastily seized
it and balanced it on the pivot, prepared for it; but,
alas, neither end pointed to the north! I was disappoint-
ed, but not discouraged. I repeated the experiment
several times, tried different needles, and various de-
grees of heat; at last on balancing one of them, it
vibrated awhile, and then fixed itself very nearly north
and south! O how my heart throbbed with delight!
Here was a magnetic needle, with which to construct a
* Pure coal; when crystallized it is a diamond, and one of
the hardest substances known.
mariner's compass! Now I could sail over the ocean, in-
dependent of the sun and stars! Elated by my success,
I almost believed my new invention would enable me to
cross the ocean in an open boat.
I had great pleasure in marking off all the points of
the compass on the back of an old playing-card, found
in a seaman's chest, and in drawing ajleur de Us for the
north; this card 1 fixed in the bottom of a shaving-box,
and over it, on its pivot, I placed the needle, thus making
my mariner's compass complete.
While pursuing my search after loadstones and mak-
ing experiments on needles, I employed part of each
day in new rigging my boat. I now put two masts in her,
and made proper, well-shaped sprit-sails. In doing this,
I was truly glad to have the mounted palm, found in the
mate's till, and some of his sail-needles out of the horn,
already mentioned; for without them, I should have
been greatly puzzled to sew such stiff cloth as sails are
made of. A very pretty little reed that grows on the
island, split and bent into small hoops, answered to
fasten the sails to the masts, and made it very easy to
hoist and lower them. I arranged the sheets * of both
sails, so that I could manage them without leaving the
after part of the boat, where I was constantly needed at
the helm. While considering what would be the best
way to fix the ballast, so that it should not shift, it came
into my head that I might use, instead of stones, some
buoyant substance that would not sink the boat, if she
filled with water, as stones certainly would. I first
thought of a barrel of water for ballast, which would float
if the boat filled, and not weigh her down at all; but
then a barrel of oil seemed better still, for that was light-
er than water, and would help to keep her afloat when
full of water. I had two half-barrels, and as they would
lie snugger and be handier than one whole one, I put
them on board, and lashed them down firmly.
* Ropes fastened to the lower corners of a sail, by which its
position is altered.
While occupied with my boat, I did not neglect my
barley-field and garden, but kept them both in good or-
der, and had the pleasure of seeing my crop of grain
grow finely.
I also attended to my daily duties, and exercised with
my bow and arrow, and in hunting and fishing. I read
a little every evening, and watched the stars till bed-
time, and became so interested in them that I often rose
three or four times in the night to continue my observa-
tions. Oh, how I longed for a map of the heavens, or a
celestial globe, with the names of the constellations! What
pleasure I should have taken in making them all out,
and learning the right names of those groups of stars that
I was now becoming familiar with, but had no names for.
Here I was, with plenty of leisure, and a strong inclina-
tion for acquiring knowledge, but for want of more pre-
vious information and of books and instruments, I could
not do any thing worth mentioning.
If I had had any knowledge of botany before I left
England, I could have amused myself with collecting
and arranging dried specimens of plants; but as it was, I
had no pleasure in collecting them ignorantly, and with-
out any classification. It was the same with mineralogy
and entomology; a little knowledge of these things,
would have given me an interest in a great many objects
around me, which I now only gazed at ignorantly, or
passed by unnoticed.
December 12th, in the fourth year of my exile.
Having tried my new-rigged boat several times, and
found that she now works well to windward, I intend to
imitate the great navigators of old, on a small scale, to be
sure, by sailing round — not the world — but my world,
the island. I shall lay in provisions for a week, and
carry with me my compass, lantern and tinder-box,
fishing-tackle, bows and arrows, gun and ammunition,
cooking utensils, spy-glass, &c.
Neptune and Poll shall go as company for me and for
each other. They have become the best of friends ever
17
since Poll was knocked off the gunwale of the boat with
a chain fastened to her foot, when Neptune was generous
enough to forgive all her bad treatment, and plunge in after
her. He took her up very carefully by one wing, and
brought her back to me. Poll now likes to sit on the dog's
back, or run after him as fast as her short legs and par-
rot toes will permit; and when he is beyond her reach
and out of her sight, she keeps on her perch and looks
as if she were in the dumps, till he returns. Then she
shows her joy, by dancing up and down before him,
keeping close to him, and saying over all the words she
knows. When she unconsciously calls Neptune by
name, he looks as pleased as she. These two friends
are to be my shipmates, and as I mean to set sail to-
morrow, I must finish this chapter and deposit it in the
pyramid. As it may be the last one I shall live to write,
I have dated it, that my friends may know, in the event
of my death, about what time it happened.
CHAPTER XXVII.
BANKS OF THE RHINE ROCKY COAST — A LAKE DISCOV-
ERED— A GREAT SURPRISE AGITATING THOUGHTS
TRUST IN GOD — A WAKEFUL NIGHT VOYAGE CONTIN-
UED — VISIT TO THE BAY — GORDON VALE — REFLECTION?
ON RETURNING.
I AM safely returned from my voyage round the isl-
and ; but it has been such an eventful one, that I must
not trust myself to speak of it in general, before I give
the details, or my narrative will be less interesting.
On the 13th of December, the weather being to all
appearance settled and fine, and a gentle breeze blowing
from the south, I set sail from the creek in my good
boat, called the Success ; 1 steered about northwest,
keeping pretty near the coast, which is formed of
high rocks of a reddish color, and the most irregular
shapes, without any bay, cove, inlet, or shelter of any
kind, for three or four miles. I followed the direction
of the coast, steering more northerly, and my boat
dancing beautifully over the waves, with the wind just
on her quarter, and both sails drawingfinely. In a
very short time, I came up with a head land, and sailing
round it, found myself in the mouth of a river, which I
supposed to be the same that runs through the vineyard,
and which I called the Rhine. I went but a little way
up it, not knowing how shallow it might be, and fearing
very much to get my boat aground where my strength
could not push her off again; so I lowered my sails, ap-
proached a rock near enough to jump out, shoved off the
boat into deep water, and made her fast to the shore with
a long rope that sailors call a painter. Accompanied
by my shipmates, one on my shoulder and the other
trotting on before me, I walked along the left bank of
the river, far enough to ascertain that it certainly was
the one I supposed it to be. Seeing at a distance the
plain covered with vines, I could no longer doubt; but
as it was too early for grapes to be ripe, I did not go all
the way to the vineyard, but struck off at a right angle
with the river, to explore the country between it and the
coast. I found it to be undulated ground, covered with
rank grass and interspersed with trees and shrubs,
among which various birds were sporting about. Hav-
ing walked several miles, I returned to my boat, crossed
the mouth of the river, and landed on the other side.
I was weary of carrying Poll, so I left her chained to
the boat, and set off to explore the country on the right
bank of the Rhine, A thick wood, with a great deal of
under-brush, made it very difficult to penetrate far. I
persevered however, till I came to swampy ground,
which so increased the difficulty, that I gave it up.
Whistling to Neptune, who was far ahead of me, and
seemed very unwilling to return, I retraced my steps to
the river and got on board my boat, a good deal fatigued,
and much heated by my walk. As it was past my usual
dinner hour, and I had a good appetite, I dropped an-
chor in the shadow of a high rock, and dined before I proceeded on my voyage.
I then continued my cruise round the coast, looking out all the way for a good landing-place, where I could
safely leave my boat; for I was bent upon lying on shore
every night, if I could. I had brought a spare sail to
make a shelter for me to sleep under, and a blanket to
wrap myself in. I sailed five or six miles along a rock-
bound coast, without seeing a spot where a landing could
be made if there were any sea going, or where, if once
landed, a person could climb the rocks so as to get into
the country beyond them. Overhanging cliffs, and per-
pendicular rocks, and rugged points every where oppos-
ed themselves to the surge of the ocean, and made me
rejoice that I had not been wrecked on this side of the
island.
At last after a very pleasant sail of two hours, from
my last departure, I came to a small opening in the rocks,
where a few rods of something like a beach, promised
me a landing and safe moorings for my boat. As I
wished to explore this part of the country, I resolved
here to spend the night. I had kept the run of the
tides; so I knew that if my boat grounded, she would be
afloat again by the time I wanted her in the morning;
and as the bottom of this little bay seemed smooth and
free from rocks, I hauled her into it just far enough to
ground a little after high water, and float again a little
before.
The afternoon was delightful; a refreshing breeze had
set in from the west, and cooled the air. I left Poll
boat-keeper as before, and taking Neptune with me
walked inland in a southerly direction. A range of hills
were before me, which I hastened to ascend, that I
might get a distant prospect from them; and when, after
a scrambling walk, I reached the brow of one of them, a
new and pleasant landscape opened upon me. At the
distance of a mile was a beautiful little lake, surrounded
by fine trees and various flowering shrubs. I was sur-
prised that I had never happened to cast my eye upon
this spot before, in my numerous excursions over the isl-
and. But the rivers and mountains had so often turned
me out of my course, that having no particular object in
view, I had never systematically explored it.
As I gazed on the lovely scene below me, I reflected
on the comfort I enjoyed, in being free from all fear of
savages, wild beasts, and noxious reptiles. I had been
three years on the island, and had never seen any four-
footed animals, but lamas and terrapins. I had walked
through brakes and swamps, and untrodden woods, and
had never been alarmed by snakes or stung by any thing
bigger than a mosquito; and though my solitude had, at
times, been a very great trial to me, I had often felt it to
be far preferable to a life of dependence among a fierce
and uncivilized race of men, such as inhabit many of
the islands in the Southern Pacific Ocean. Reflecting
with great satisfaction and thankfulness on the safety and
beauty of the island, on which my lot was cast, I de-
scended from the hill and approached the lake.
The setting sun gilded the tops of the tall trees near
it, and cast long shadows on its glassy surface. Nep-
tune hurried forward and was soon bathing himself in its
pure waters. I sought another part of it that I might
quench my thirst, where be had not disturbed it; and
after forcing my way through a thick shrubbery of lau-
rels and myrtles, I came upon a part of the margin that
was of fine white sand. Looking down to observe the
quality of it, I beheld a sight that fixed me to the ground,
as motionless as a statue, and almost as breathless too.
To my great amazement, I beheld the print of a human
foot! It was so distinctly marked that it could not be
mistaken, and was repeated at the distance of a common
step, three times, crossing the sand in a slanting direc-
tion, and then vanished upon the grass and stones.
This astonishing sight so appalled me, that at first ev-
ery pulsation in me seemed to cease. I stood like one
transfixed, in the very attitude in which I was when it
first caught my eye ; and then it sent the blood rushing
17*
through my veins to my head and heart, till both throb-
bed violently, and I sunk down upon the sand, unable to
bear my own weight.
If I had ever been here before, I might have supposed
it my own track, for it was the print of a naked foot; but
I never had. The marks too had every appearance of
being very fresh. There was therefore another human
being besides myself, on the island. In the crowd of ideas
that whirled through my mind, I remember thinking it
might be one of my own shipmates whose foot-print I
saw, and I was about to raise my voice and halloo, after
the manner of an English sailor, in hopes of making him
come forth from his hiding-place, when the fear that it
might be the track of a savage stopped my mouth, and
fell like a weight on my heart. I might be, at that mo-
ment, surrounded by a band of fierce natives, who were
eyeing me from their ambush among the trees, ready to
pierce me with their arrows, or make me their prisoner
for life. A cold shiver passed over me at the thought,
I hid my face in my hands, as I lay prostrate on the
ground. How long this unreasonable agitation lasted, I
do not know, but as soon as I had self-command enough
to turn my mind to God, and trust to him in my despair, it began to subside. By degrees I became calm and ra-
tional, and could see how unlikely it was that there should
be any considerable number of men on the island, with-
out my having perceived something of them before now;
if there were, it was still more unlikely, that they should
lie in ambush for one defenceless individual whom they
could so easily overcome, and do as they pleased with.
I now raised myself up, and looked around; the same
lovely scene was before me, but the happy feeling of
safety was gone ; much as I had longed for the sight of
a human being, I now dreaded it. I wished myself at
home again in my cave, and was sorry I had ever made
this discovery. When I indulged this feeling, I felt con-
demned for it by my conscience, and this made me hope
that there was some hidden good, in that which now oc-
casioned me so much uneasiness. Fixing my heart
again devoutly and trustingly on God, a sweet feeling of
peace and assurance that all would yet be well, sprang
up in my mind, and melted me into tears; precious tears
of love and gratitude to Him, who is strength to the
weak, and a present help in every time of trouble.
Fortified by this communion with God, I felt renewed
strength in every limb; having drunk of the water be-
fore me, and called Neptune, I retraced my steps to the
little bay, intending, in consequence of what I had seen,
to spend the night afloat in my boat. In this however I
was disappointed by finding the tide had left her aground.
While thinking how I could best provide for my safety,
a delightful feeling arose in my mind of confidence in
God, and security every where. This convinced me I
might lie down any where, and be protected by Him
who had sent peace into my troubled soul.
I did not want any supper myself, but I fed my dumb
companions, and arranged my sails so as to make myself
a very comfortable bed in the bottom of my boat. It
was several hours before I could get any sleep; for,
though my fears were allayed, I could not help thinking
over the circumstance that had made such a change in
my condition. I said to myself, "I am no longer the
sole inhabitant of this island; some fellow-being is here
also; but he either conceals himself from me intention-
ally, or he is ignorant of my residence here. Perhaps
he does not dwell here; he may have been here lately
and have gone away again; but if so, whence does he
come and whither does he go? Is he alone, or one of
a company? When will he come again f Shall I ever
see him? Will he prove friendly? Can I ever make
a companion of him?" Thus conjecturing, hoping, and
wondering, I passed most of the night; and towards
morning, lost myself in a troubled sleep that did me little
good.
I was dreaming that I had just seen the foot-prints in
the sand, and heard myself called by name several times,
when I awoke; some one seemed speaking to me. I
thought In inst still be dreaming, so I rubbed my eyes
and sat up in the bottom of the boat, when I distinctly heard a voice saying, "Where are you, Robin Crusoe?
where are you? where have you been?" Startled al-
most out of my wits, I jumped up and looked around, ex-
pecting to see not only a human being, but some well
known friend. What then was my disappointment and
vexation, when I saw Poll sunning herself on the gun-
wale of the boat, and found it to be her senseless repeti-
tions that had so deceived me! As soon as I could re-
cover my composure, I separated the real events of the
preceding evening from my dreams, and finding my
boat afloat, I pushed off into deeper water, and there
anchored while I fed my dog and bird, and tried to eat
something myself; but I had no appetite, and felt per-
plexed as to the course I ought to pursue.
The morning was very fine, but the quiet pleasure of
my cruise was gone. I cannot possibly describe the
great change produced in me and all my views by that
foot-print in the sand! I hesitated about proceeding on
my voyage, for it occurred to me that the natives of some
neighbouring island might be now in the large bay, on
the northeast coast, and that I might run myself into
great danger by going there ; but then I thought it best
to know the worst, for I could never enjoy any comfort
while fearing some unknown danger; besides I could
approach very warily and perhaps get a sight of them
unperceived. I longed to set eyes on a fellow-being, if
I could do it safely; and I considered that with my fast
sailing boat, I could more securely approach them by
water than by land; and as I happened to have my gun
and some ammunition on board, I could frighten them by
firing it, if necessary. So with all these plans and cogi-
tations, I at last determined to continue my voyage to
Safety Bay, as I called it when I visited it last autumn.
The wind was contrary, but my boat now beat to
windward so well that I did not mind that; and in case
of a retreat, chased by an enemy, I should have a fair
wind, so I rather preferred it. As the sea was very
calm, I determined to land on the rocks, outside the bay,
_j
make fast the boat, and Neptune in her and taking my
spy-glass climb the rocks till I could get a sight of what
was going on there, without exposing myself to observa-
tion.
I did so, and very cautiously did I raise my head high
enough to look along the shores of the bay ; when, instead
of a half a dozen canoes and fifty naked savages, which
my imagination had pictured, there was nothing at all to
be seen but the gentle Pacific marking with a long line
of glittering bubbles the curved form of the shore. Very
agreeably disappointed, I returned to my boat and made
all sail for the bay. I landed on the east side, where I
had observed a fine stream of fresh water, in my former
visit; I intended to traverse the beach and look for tracks
in the sand, and for any sign of its having been visited by
human beings, since I was last here. I walked the
whole length of it, armed with a musket, and looking
earnestly for foot-prints, but saw none. Warm and
thirsty with walking so far on the sands, in a hot sun, I
made my way to the brook; and observed, with some dis-
may, that a path led to it which had certainly been made
in the grass, and through the bushes, since I was last
there. With a beating heart, I approached it; and there
I found proof enough that it had been visited; not by
savages, but by civilized man ; for there were pieces of
iron hoop lying about, one or two bungs, an old, black,
silk neckerchief, and a torn hat.
I was distracted now, between the fear that I had
missed an opportunity of returning to my friends, and the
idea that I had escaped falling into dangerous hands.
I knew not which to think; but tried to preserve my
composure, and observe coolly all I saw. In looking
about me very attentively, I perceived marks in the
earth of some extraordinary trampling of feet; the grass
was so trodden down, that it had not recovered itself,
and some of the roots were torn up. I even thought
I could see the faint traces of the heels of men's
shoes ; the fearful conjecture rushed upon me that here
had been a fierce encounter between some of my fellow
creatures, and it was abundantly confirmed, by my find-
ing in a bush, very nearthe spot, a dirk that had evident-
ly been covered with blood.
Here then was cause for thankfulness, that I had not
met with these bloody-minded men, whoever they were;
and then it flashed across my mind, how I had felt about
putting up a flag-staff on this side the island, and my
heart was filled with love and gratitude to the Gracious
Power who bestowed on me a conscience, capable of
directing me so wisely, in a matter in which my under-
standing could not have guided me. If my conscience
had not so clearly warned me against it, I should have
thought it very wise and prudent to set up a signal on
this side of the island, last autumn; and if I had done
so, it is most likely I should have fallen into the hands of
the men, whose deeds appeared so violent and alarming.
I now found a few shoe-marks in the earth, close to the
brook, and occasional tracks all the way by the side of
the stream to the sea-shore; and I judged from all I
could observe that these intruders on my peaceful abode,
had left it for the present at least.
I quitted the scene of strife too, as soon as I had
learned from it all I could ; and leaving the bay, which
no longer deserved the name of Safety, but rather that of
Terror, I doubled the cape that bounds it on the east,
and continued my voyage in a southerly direction, with a
range of high hills in sight, that run nearly parallel to the
coast, which I have often climbed, to survey from their
summits that part of the coast I was then on, These
hills gradually diminish as they approach the mouth of
Grand River, which I entered, and sailing across it, reach-
ed the well known shelter of Gordon Bay.
Though still harassed by the idea that there was a hu-
man being skulking about the island, who might be
watching to do me some harm, I felt more safe and com-
fortable on reaching this familiar spot; and when, after
making fast my boat, I walked up the valley, the agreea-
ble associations with that lovely scene were so powerful,
that they quite exhilarated me, and made me rather
hope than fear to meet this unknown partner in the isl-
and. "If I could be sure there was but one, I would
search him out and make him meet me," said I to my-
self; but the fear of being overcome by numbers restrain-
ed me.
I do not know whether I have already mentioned
that I have a very pretty bower in Gordon Vale, which I
began to make the second spring, and which I have beau-
tified from time to time ever since. I have slept under
it many summer nights and taken many a noon-day nap
in it. There I now carried my supper and blanket, my
musket and ammunition; and accompanied by Neptune
and Poll, I took up my quarters for the night, in very
good spirits.
Having had no dinner, I took an early and hearty sup-
per, and lay down to sleep soon after, hoping to make
up for the rest I lost the night before.
A long and dreamless sleep made the whole night
seem but a mere point of time, and when I first awoke I
could not tell whether the night was spent or whether I
had but just lain down. The dawn of day however
soon convinced me how long and how soundly I had
slept, and I arose refreshed in mind and body, and re-
stored to my usual cheerfulness and composure.
As this part of the island was perfectly familiar to me,
I made the best of my way home, had a head wind to
the Land's End, and then sailed along before it till I
reached the creek, having circumnavigated my whole
dominions in three days ; and met with that which con-
vinces me that, like many other monarchs, I hold my
sovereignty by a very uncertain tenure, and am liable to
be dethroned by secret enemies.
As it was about the middle of the afternoon when I ar-
rived at my landing in the creek, I had plenty of time,
before dark, to inspect my store-house, water-wheel,
and forge, to see if they had been visited during my ab-
sence ; but though I found one door open that I believed
I left shut, I could not be certain that any one had been
there. I thought it prudent, however, to fasten up the
doors more securely than I was accustomed to do, be-
fore I left the creek for the night.
"Now," thought I, "that I am restored to the capital of
my kingdom, I feel like myself again, and the more I re-
flect on the probability of there being a man on the island,
the more 1 desire to meet with him. He may not be a
savage, he may be an European, escaped from the scuffle
in the Bay of Terror, and suffering far worse feelings
than I did, when first I landed here.
"I cannot imagine any situation more appalling to a
man with a guilty conscience, than the solitude of this
island. If there is a fellow being near me, who has led
a bad life, and is now made unhappy by it, I should
like to find him ; if he speaks my language, I would try
to comfort, soothe, and soften him, and I would tell him
where to go for pardon and for peace.
"If his life has been that of a buccaneer, and his heart
is ever so hardened, and he cannot understand a word
of English, I would endeavour to melt his heart by acts
of kindness; and I should not despair, in this solitude,
far from the bustle and the temptations of civilized life,
of seeing him become a better and a happier man, than
he had ever yet been." These thoughts made me earn-
estly hope, that the mysterious man of the lake was a
white person, and that I should find in him, a compan-
ion of my exile. I might learn from him the probability
of a ship's touching at the island, and what would be the
danger of my showing myself to the next crew that came
on shore to water.
After indulging this train of thought for a while, I took
op another supposition. The unknown might be a sav-
age, fierce in his temper, and accustomed to the lawless
indulgence of his appetites and passions. Even so, I
would like to hold communion with him. I would over-
come him by gentleness, or, if absolutely necessary, I
would first impress him with a sense of my power, by
the use of my fire-arms; and then I would show him
by acts of kindness that I had no intention to harm him.
He must have some feelings, some affections in common
with me, for we are of the same nature, both immortal
beings, both cared for by an Almighty Power. If he
is ignorant and debased, I would instruct him, and do
every thing in my power to improve and serve him.
The idea of doing good to any human being, seemed
to me, after living so long with nobody but myself to care
for, the greatest privilege of life; and I reflected on the
pleasure of taking care of and instructing a poor, untutor-
ed savage, till I hoped the unknown might prove to be a
being of this description.
I am writing this, on the day after my return, and
shall now mount Judy and carry it to the pyramid, for
I consider the uncertainty of my life increased by the
presence of a man on the island, who keeps himself con-
cealed; and if I should die by his hand, I wish my nar-
rative to be as complete as possible. I shall not venture
from home now, unarmed, but carry my musket wher-
ever I go; and with fire-arms and a faithful dog, I
am ready to meet the stranger at any time.
CHAPTER XXVIII.
HOPES RELINQUISHED A HATCHET LOST BREAD LOST
A MAI* ON THE ISLAND — THE STORE-HOUSE ENTERED
THE STRANOER WATCHED FOR — HIDE AND SEEK A
MAN FOUND —OBEDIENCE EXACTED—FIRST MEAL WITH
A OUEST FRIDAY LOST AND FOUND—FRIDAY AND NEP-
TUNE FRIDAY AND POLL — FRIDAY DRESSED FRIDAY
AT DINNER — FRIDAY'S HAIR CUT — HOW WE SPENT THE
AFTERNOON — FRIDAY'S QUARREL WITH NEPTUNE AW
EVENTFUL DAY ENDED — REMARKS ON FRIDAY SCARCI-
TY OF INK.
FOR three weeks after I saw the foot-prints in the
sand, my mind was constantly occupied with thinking,
whether there was a man on the island or not, and what
18
sort of a person he was; and my time was chiefly de-
voted to walking about, with my gun and dog, in search
of him. I visited the little lake twice, but could see no
trace of a living being. The tracks on the sand were
gone, and the place was as smooth as if the foot of man
had never pressed it. I climbed the hills and gazed in
every direction, with my spy-glass, but saw no traces
of there being a soul on the island besides myself.
Inever could see the smoke of a fire, or find the ashes
where a fire had been ; and after so much fruitless search,
I began to think I must have been mistaken as to the
marks I saw being recently made, and that they might
have been the tracks of one of the party, who landed at
the Bay of Terror; so I very reluctantly gave up the
search, and returned to my usual occupations.
My barley was ripe and needed to be cut; and as I
had but two barrels of biscuit left, it was important to me
to make the best use of my little crop, by saving it all for
seed next year. I went to my store-house to get my
scythe, and found it all shut up just as I had left it, the
day I returned from my cruise ; and I sighed as I opened
it, to think how unnecessary my precaution had been.
I had brought from the wreck six scythes without
handles ; one I had mounted and used a good deal in
mowing, and as it had become dull, I thought I would
take a fresh one, to cut my barley with. I went to that
part of my store-house where I had put all my edge-
tools, to pick out a sharp scythe, and to my surprise
found the arrangement of my things altered, and one
large chisel missing. I had been so accustomed to place
my tools in one particular way, that I could hardly be-
lieve myself deceived; and yet it appeared impossible
for any one to have touched them but myself, locked up
as they were in this building. While trying to recollect
whether I had myself deranged the tools, I picked out a
sharp scythe and fixed it on the handle that I had al-
ready used. Having adjusted the wedge that was to
fasten them together, I looked about for a hatchet (usu-
ally kept in that place) to drive it in with, but could not
see it. There were other tools that would answer the
purpose as well, but I wished to know what I had done
with my hatchet; I therefore hunted all round for it, in-
side the building and out ; it was nowhere to be found.
I looked about the forge and the grindstone for it, but in
vain. Perhaps it was left in the boat. I went on board
to see ; but it was not there. I had always kept one at
the creek, and one on the terrace; it was possible that
I had accidentally carried both up to the terrace; so I
shouldered my scythe and walked up there to satisfy
myself. There was but one to be found. I did not
like to be so forgetful, and I tried very much to recol-
lect what I had done with this hatchet. I kept thinking
about it, while I was mowing my barley; but all my cogi-
tations ended in the firm conviction, that the last time I
had seen it, was when I -returned from my cruise, and
carried it with the rest of my things to the store-house.
I could hardly believe it was not still there; repeated re-
searches, however, convinced me it was not, and I gave
it up as one of the unaccountable events of life.
A few days after this, I was arranging some things in
the store-house, when, on moving a cask that I supposed
full of biscuit, I perceived by its lightness that it must be
almost empty. It was marked on the head "bread"
in my own hand-writing; it was the last cask but one
of that valuable article, and I knew it to have been full
some weeks before.
Amazed at the change, I knocked out the head and
found more than two thirds of the contents gone. It
was not worm eaten and there was no appearance of
rats having made their way into the cask; how then
could it be! I never was more puzzled in my life. I
felt sure that all the casks I headed up, were full of
bread, and yet here was one with only a few pounds in
it. I began to think my memory or my senses had fail-
ed me; and while gazing at the cask as if to ask an ex-
planation of that inanimate object, I perceived that the
hoops, at the opposite end to that which I had opened,
looked as if they had been started. I turned it up and
found a part of the head slipped on one side; this could
not have been loosened without hands, for I knew the
cask to have been whole and tight when I last moved it.
The idea now flashed upon my mind, that there was a
man on the island, and that he had found his way into
this house. He had taken the chisel; he had stolen the
hatchet; and he had helped himself to my bread. All
the mysteries that had so puzzled me were cleared up;
I said to myself, "I need no longer doubt the evidence
of my own senses; the foot-prints were recently made,
and a man is here, near me, and has been on this very
spot!"
When I had recovered from this new surprise, I look-
ed about to see what other traces I could find of my un-
bidden guest, and to discover how he had got into the
house; for I had bolted and barred one door inside;
and had put a padlock on the outside of the other, and
there were no marks of either having been opened. I
examined the walls and the ground around the building to
see if they had been undermined, for I thought it possible
this wild man of the woods might work himself a passage
under ground, like a mole ; but there was no appear-
ance of any such thing. I looked at the roof to see if
an entrance had been made there, but the thatch on the
outside seemed untouched. I perceived, however, that
on the inside, it looked a little rough and loose, at one of
the front corners; and on examination, was convinced
it had been removed, since I placed it there. The peg
that fastened it was missing, and the straw, instead of
being pressed down in a very tight and compact man-
ner, was laid on very loosely. Here then the intruder
entered! Here he means to enter again! I was
amused at his ingenuity, in contriving to replace the
thatch so well as to conceal his place of entrance, and it
struck me that I might perhaps catch him in his own
trap.
If I could only see him enter, and be sure that he
had no fire-arms, I could follow him in, at his own hole,
and make him my prisoner; for let him be what he
would, I longed to see him, and convince him he was
welcome to share all my goods, without being at so much
pains to get them secretly.
I found several other casks that he had served like
the bread cask. That the poor, hungry, solitary crea-
ture should take my provisions, did not surprise me, for
I supposed he was some one brought up to deeds of vio-
lence, and ignorant of the rules of honesty; but I feared
from his taking the chisel and hatchet that he meant to
attack me, and make himself master of all my goods at
once ; so I determined to be very much on my guard,
and, instead of going about the island after him. to catch
him in the trap he had made for himself.
I replaced the things just as they were before with the
exception of such tools as I thought he might arm himself
with, if surprised in the building; those I removed to a
safe distance. Then I shut up the doors and went on
with my daily occupations as usual, only taking a longer
nap than common after dinner, that I might be ready to
watch all night for the stranger.
I wondered that in all my walks, I had never caught a
glimpse of this being, and that Neptune had never smelt
him out. I remembered, however, that the dog had
sometimes barked a great deal, when I could see noth-
ing to occasion it, and now it occurred to me that this
man was probably in ambush near me, and that it was
at him, Neptune barked. From his keeping himself so
closely concealed, and never leaving any tracks about
my buildings, I thought he must be an uncivilized being,
like the natives of the South Sea Islands, as savages are
generally very adroit in such things. But then his tak-
ing the chisel and hatchet was more like an European,
as I did not suppose an Indian would know the value of
edge-tools. I thought a white man would have been
glad to make himself known to me and become my com-
rade ; he must have discovered that I was alone on the
island, and if he watched my movements, he must have
seen me unarmed very often.
Thus wondering and conjecturing I passed the day;
18*
and though I went about my work as usual, on purpose
to avoid raising any suspicion, if I was watched, I could
think of nothing but the probability of soon seeing a fel-
low creature.
I went to the cave at my usual hour; but when it was
dark, or rather when there was no light but what the
stars gave, I prepared for my night's watch, by fastening
up Neptune, and arming myself with a gun and an axe.
I walked very silently down to the creek; there I fixed
myself in a nook among the rocks, from which I could
plainly see the front wall of the store-house, and observe
the approach of any one towards it.
For the first hour, my heart beat very quickly and I
felt much agitated by the hope of soon beholding a fellow
creature ; but hour after hour passed away, and the
morning dawned without my having seen any thing but
the inanimate objects around me, or heard any thing but
the babbling of the brook, or the fall of the water higher
up the valley.
Very much disappointed, I quitted my post, and re-
turned to my cave for breakfast and a good sleep if I
could get it. Considering how unlikely it was that the
stranger should visit my premises every night, or that
my first watch should happen to be on the same night
he would choose, I was not discouraged in my plan of
watching; but repeated it for three successive nights,
without any better success. As I slept as much as was
necessary in the day-time, I was wakeful all night;
and knowing how softly a savage can step, I did not ex-
pect my ears to be of much use to me ; so I kept a sharp
look-out, and hardly took my eyes off of the building, lest
he should slip in unperceived. Late on the fourth night
of my watching, a little splashing of the water that was
unusual, attracted my attention; and looking towards
the brook I saw something large enough for a man, mov-
ing along in the water. My hopes were now raised to
the highest pitch, and in breathless expectation, I watch-
ed the approaching object. In my anxiety to examine
it, I had well nigh forgotten to keep out of sight myself;
and when I perceived it was really the form of a man, I
could hardly restrain myself from running forward to
meet him. This would, I knew, be the very way to
miss him ; for the moment he saw me he would probably
take to his heels, and leave me as ignorant as ever, who
and what he was.
I therefore put a strong guard on myself, and watched
him quietly from my hiding-place, while he waded slow-
ly up the brook. When he was opposite the store-house,
he took something from round his waist, stooped down,
rose up without it and walked two or three steps, then
stooped again, then rose and advanced as before. I
could not imagine what he was about; but I could see
he was a naked man, of a dark color and slender form,
and that he was unarmed. As he passed along very
near me, I perceived that he had a long leaf like that of
the cocoa-nut tree, which he laid on the ground before
him, to step upon, that he might leave no foot-marks.
When he had taken as many steps as its length would
allow, he bent it round his foot, and again brought it be-
fore him. In this way he proceeded to the store-house;
and going to the corner where I had supposed him to enter,
he pushed aside the thatch, and disappeared through the
roof. Now the time was come for me to act; and thinking
an axe the better weapon of the two, for close quarters, I
threw aside my gun ; and lighting a lamp which I had
with me for the purpose, I enlarged the opening in the
thatch and jumped in after him. I looked around, con-
fident of seeing the stranger, but saw no one. "O,"
thinks I to myself, "you expect to deceive me by hid-
ing, but I will soon find you." To prevent his escaping,
I fastened up the hole at which he had entered, very se-
curely, as I was prepared to do. I then placed my
lamp, where it would best light the whole building, and
began in good earnest the most interesting game of
hide and seek that I ever played. I hunted among my
goods, between casks, and in every hole and cranny
that I could think of. I unrolled the sails, and pulled
down piles of lumber, and turned almost every thing up-
side down, in looking for this hidden man ; yet no signs
of him were to be seen! I began to think he must
have glided by the house without entering at all; yet
I felt sure I had seen him go through the hole in the
roof, and I had found it open and entered the same way
myself. "He must be here," said I to myself, " unless
there is some other way for him to get out." I took
the lamp in my hand, and examined the walls, the roof,
and the cliff, to see if he had made an opening for him-
self, or had climbed them like a cat, in search of a hid-
ing-place. But all in vain. I renewed my search
among the goods ; I moved almost every thing ; I looked
again and again in the same places. Again I surveyed
the sides of the building, with the lamp lifted high over
my head. No one was to be seen. I stood amazed,
perplexed, and disappointed. While considering what I
had best do next, my eyes happened to rest on a sailor's
chest; seeing the hasp unfastened and swinging as if it
had been lately removed, it popped into my head to
look inside of it, though I thought it too small to hold a
man. I lifted the lid, and up jumped a poor, trembling
creature. He raised himself to a kneeling posture, and
uttered two or three sentences in a language unknown
to me; but by his clasped hands and imploring looks, I
supposed he was begging for mercy.
I laid my hand gently on his head, and looked him
kindly in the face. My feelings were touched by his
imploring countenance, and by my own reflections on
seeing a fellow man for the first time for three years and
a half. I supposed he perceived my emotion; for after
gazing fixedly at me, he took my hand very respectfully
and pressed it to his forehead. I made a sign to him to get
out of the chest and stand up before me; he did so with
a frightened look, and made gestures of submission. To
assure him of my kind feelings towards him, I imitated
his action and pressed his hand to my forehead ; on which
the poor creature threw himself on his knees before me,
and kissed my feet. I raised him up and embraced
him; then he clapped his hands, jumped for joy,
made a great many gesticulations, and said a great
deal that I could not understand; and now and then he
spoke some words that sounded like Spanish, but I was
not sure it was that language. All his words and ges-
tures, however, seemed expressive of respect and grati-
tude to me.
I unbarred the door and led him out of the building,
taking care to keep fast hold of him all the time; for
though he seemed willing to accompany me, I was
afraid he was watching for an opportunity to escape. I
went towards the place where I had left my gun, that I
might take that and leave my lamp; but the moment
my companion saw the musket, he trembled all over,
and used the most imploring gestures. I did all I could
to assure him I would not hurt him, but the moment I
touched the gun he tried to get away from me; so, to
quiet his fears, I left it behind, and took him with me to
the terrace.
He seemed very willing to accompany me till we came
to the entrance of my cave; then he started back with a
look of horror, and trembled violently, and begged me
by his gestures not to put him in there. So I humor-
ed him, and went and sat under the trees with him; but I
wanted to give him something good to eat, and that I
could not do without leaving him a few minutes (which I
was afraid of doing), or taking him with me to the cave.
As I sat on my bench, and he on the grass beside me,
I fell into a long train of thought about my new-found
companion, and the course of conduct 1 ought to pursue
towards him. His having broken into my house and
taken my goods, gave me a right to prevent his doing so
any more; but as I had no wish to punish him for the
past, but only to show him a better mode of living, I
meant to use this right over him only for his own good.
It was clear to my mind, that as he was ignorant and
helpless, it was as much for his good to obey me, as it is
for a child's good to obey his parents. As he could not
be reasoned with, on account of his not understanding
my language, I must establish my authority by some act
that he could understand. I must show him that I was
stronger than he, but that if he obeyed me, I would only
use my power to protect him, and make him happy.
The sooner my authority was established the better, and
therefore I resolved to make him go with me into the
cave.
I made signs of eating to him and of offering him
victuals, which he readily understood; and led him to-
wards the cave, pointing to it as the place where we
should find something to eat, but he drew back and
shook his head. I motioned to him in a gentle but firm
way, that he must go; he implored again as he did be-
fore, but I did not give way as I did then ; I insisted on
his entering. Finding his entreating actions vain, he
ground his teeth together, and fixed himself in an atti-
tude of resistance. This seemed the moment for con-
vincing him, he must submit to my authority; so I
caught him up in my arms and carried him into the inner
cave. He shrieked as he entered, and covered his face
with his hands. I put him down gently on my bed, but
he kept his face covered and would not move; so I left
him to prepare an early breakfast for him and myself, as
it was about four o'clock in the morning.
I never set out a meal with so much pleasure as this;
for I never before had occasion to place two plates, and
two cups and saucers, on my table. Having some one
to share my repast, though it was, to be sure, a stranger
and an uncivilized being, was so much pleasanter than
eating it alone, that I was in great spirits, and cooked
several dishes of meat and fish, and roasted some sweet
potatoes, and made some coffee, and got together as
many good things as I could, to welcome the stranger.
I lighted my two lamps, and placed my old stool and
new chair for us to sit on. When all things were ready,
I went for the guest, and thinking it best to accustom
him to hear me speak, and to call him at once by some
name, I could think of nothing better than the name of
the day on which I found him ; so as this was Friday
morning, I called him Friday, and said, "Friday, come
and eat," with suitable actions to explain my words When I first spoke to him, he was sitting on the bed
and looking around him ; but when I approached him, he
threw himself down at full length, and hid his face from
me. I took his hand and pressed it as before, to my
forehead. This reassured him of my friendly feelings;
he embraced my knees as I stood beside him, looked
affectionately in my face, and jabbered away in his own
tongue something which he repeated several times, and
seemed very anxious to make me understand. Finding
all his efforts vain, he suffered me to lead him into the
next room, though he looked suspiciously around him. I
encouraged him to examine the place, and made signs to
him that there was no one near us, that he and I were
the only inhabitants. When at last the table, full of
good eatables, caught his eye, and I was about to do the
honors of the feast in a civilized manner, he reminded
me what sort of a guest I had, by seizing, with both
hands, the whole contents of a dish of fried fish, and
seating himself on the ground to eat it.
I longed to teach him better manners at once; but I
considered it would be safer to let him eat of these good
things, in his own way first, and then, when he knew
how well he liked them, make him behave as I did, in
order to obtain them.
So there he sat, on the ground, cramming his food
into his mouth with both hands, in the most disgusting
way. I gave him a part of every thing on the table, and
offered him a knife to cut his meat, but he preferred
tearing it in pieces with his teeth, and I let him have his
own way this once. I gave him a mug full of weak
coffee sweetened, and he drank it off as if he liked it
well. After eating an enormous meal, he jumped up
and began dancing and capering about, and singing a
sort of tune to which he kept time. I was glad to see
him so happy; but when I had cleared my table and put
away all the things, I wanted a nap before sunrise; so I.
led Friday to the bed in the inner cave, and made him
understand he was to lie down there and go to sleep.
He obeyed instantly, and then I took a mattrass and
blanket, and having shut the door between the caves; I
lay down so close to it, that it could not be opened
without my awaking.
I slept soundly for two hours. On awaking, I could
hardly realize the fact of my having a fellow creature
near me; and when I did, I could not help sighing to
think how ignorant he was of such things as interested
me, and how different our habits were. It made me
feel sad, to recollect how he behaved at breakfast, and
how he disappointed me of the pleasure I expected, in
having a companion at table with me; but then I com-
forted myself by thinking how affectionate and amiable
he seemed, and that I could teach him better manners,
and make him more companionable every day.
I longed to see how Friday would look by daylight; so
I jumped up and entered his sleeping apartment. I look-
ed at the bed, he was not there! I looked all round the
cave, he was nowhere to be seen! My heart sank within
me at the idea of his having escaped, and I said to myself,
"No sooner found than lost! O it must not be! Friday,
you must not leave me!" I felt then how valuable his
company was, though he did behave like a savage ; and
I resolved to find him, if he was alive on the island.
Surprised, disappointed, and vexed with myself for
not having guarded, more effectually, against his running
away; I turned to go out of the cave, when I heard a low
moan, like some one in distress. I listened more atten-
tively ; it was certainly a person sobbing and crying.
The idea of the long narrow passage, with the preci-
pice at the end of it, and Friday fallen down there, now
rushed into my mind; and fearing the poor creature was
half killed, I lighted a lamp and hurried to his assistance.
The reality was not so bad as I feared ; he was not hurt,
only frightened: he had found his way out of the cave
by the narrow opening into this passage, which being very
much lumbered up, he could hardly move along, and had
not gone far, I suppose, before he lost himself and could
not tell how to get out; so there he was, squatting down
between two barrels, crying and sobbing as if his heart
would break.
As soon as I appeared, he ran to me, and throwing
his arms round me, clung to me for protection. I
soothed and comforted him, and shewed him the nature
of the place he was in, by walking to the end of it with
my lamp ; but he was unwilling to examine it much, and
only wanted to get away. So I led him back to the
cave, piled up the stones, fixed the boards as they
were before, and motioned to him that he must not go
there again. I then showed him through the kitchen
into the open air; when he got out on the terrace,
and saw the ocean and the shores, the trees and the
grass, he soon forgot his alarm, and became very cheer-
ful. I saw he was observing every thing that was
new to him; but he did not handle any thing, which
showed a degree of self-command that surprised me.
I was every moment afraid of his darting off and leav-
ing me, and yet I did not like to appear to constrain
him. Knowing that people who have very little to do,
often think a great deal of what they eat, I determined
to bribe Friday to stay with me, by giving him good
things; so I brought him a fine bunch of raisins, which
he ate with evident pleasure.
While he was thus occupied, I went about my usual
morning work. The sun had been up some time, and
my lamas were calling to me to come and milk them and
turn them out to pasture for the day. Neptune, also,
who was tied up in the barn with them, was impatient to
be set at liberty. This must, I knew, be done with cau-
tion, lest he should frighten Friday. I therefore led the
dog out, holding in my hand the rope by which he had
been tied, fully expecting that he would greet the stran-
ger very roughly, and that Friday would be afraid of
him. To my surprise, the savage was not at all alarm-
ed at seeing him, or hearing him bark; but Neptune was
so frightened at the sight of Friday, that he would not
go near him, but skulked away with his tail between
his legs, just like a timid cur. This made Friday laugh
and run after him, till poor Neptune took to his heels,
and was out of .sight. I was afraid Friday would
19
follow, so I called him loudly by name and beckoned to
him to return; to my great relief he obeyed, and I
showed him I was pleased with him for so doing, by
smiles and caresses.
I next introduced him to another member of my
family. Mistress Poll was ready for her breakfast; so I
brought her out of the kitchen on my arm, and fed her
from a cup I held in my hand. Friday looked very
much surprised, and as if he considered this a fresh proof
of my wonderful power. A bird flew over our heads at
the moment, and he made a sign to me to call it down and
make it sit on his arm, as Poll did on mine. I shook
my head; then he asked me to make it sit on my arm;
again I refused; then he wanted Poll to sit on his arm.
I tried to make her go, but she would not quit me. Fear-
ing he would get bitten if he teased her, I gave him a
ripe plum to feed her with; but he did not understand
me, and put it in his own mouth. This disappointed
Poll of the treat she expected; so she flew at Friday,
screaming in her most discordant manner, and tried to
peck open his lips to get the plum. Friday now gave
her such a blow, as laid her on the ground, quiet enough;
and I was sadly afraid my amusing favorite was killed.
Friday was mightily pleased with what he had done,
until he observed my countenance, and then he looked
more surprised and puzzled than ever.
That I should call a bird from the air, or the woods,
to sit on my arm, as a proof of power, did not surprise
him so much, as that I should care any thing for the life
of the bird; and I shall never forget the inquiring
glances he gave me, while I was trying to restore my
favorite. After a while, Poll opened her round, black
eyes, shook her ruffled plumage, and seemed fast recov-
ering from the rude treatment she had received. I
then made signs to Friday, that he must never give her
such a blow again; he showed me his lip, that she had
bitten quite through. I understood his justification per-
fectly, but here my signs failed; for I could not, without
language, make him understand that Poll considered the plum as hers, and knew no better than to peck open his
lips to get it. I shook my head at Poll to show him I did
not approve of her biting him, and gave him some more
plums to eat, while I replaced Poll on her perch.
I longed to see Friday dressed in a suit of my clothes,
as he had nothing on but a piece of cloth fastened round
his loins and hanging down half way to his knees; but
fearing to try his patience and obedience too much, I
waited for a good opportunity of proposing it. He soon
gave me one by coming up to me, opening the bosom of
my shirt, pointing to my white skin, and then to his
own dark; color and looking inquiringly at me. I could
not answer his question, if he meant to ask why we were
of different colors, so I evaded it by nodding to him,
bringing out a white linen shirt and a very thin pair of
trowsers, and inviting him to put them on, and be so far
like me. I believe the poor fellow thought, that by
covering himself up he should turn white, for he looked
very much pleased while I put the shirt and trowsers on
him; and though he hardly knew how to move his free
limbs, under the incumbrance of clothes, he was delight-
ed to wear them, and to compare them with mine. He
looked much better now that he was dressed, and much
larger also than before.
I placed him in a shady spot, where he could see me
milk my lamas, turn them out, clean their barn, and
do a great many little jobs which needed to be done, and
which my search after him had made me neglect. I
thought it would amuse him to see me at work, and so
it did. He watched every movement, and often made
signs of admiration and delight, when I did any thing
that showed strength. He was a little afraid of a lama,
if it came very near him, and I could not persuade him
to taste the milk; he turned from it with an expression
of disgust, and shook his head when I drank some of it,
as if he could not bear to see me. I observed him very
narrowly, because it was only by his actions and the ex-
pression of his countenance, that I could judge of his
present feelings and wishes, or form any idea of his
former habits. By his disgust to milk, I knew he had
not been used to live where they had cows, goats, or
asses; and by his not being afraid of Neptune, I con-
cluded he had been accustomed to dogs. In the course
of the forenoon, I went to my barley patch to tie up my
crop in bundles or sheaves. Friday went with me, and
I thought I saw in his face a wish to join in the work; so
I invited him to do as I did, and soon found that here he
was so expert, that I could learn of him ; he made a straw-
band to bind the sheaf with, better and quicker than I,
and he seemed delighted to help me.
As we had gone on so amicably through the forenoon,
and he had given no sign of wishing to leave me, I was
determined to begin his education that first day, by
teaching him how to sit and how to eat at table. He
again showed some unwillingness to enter the cave, but
followed me when I said very gravely, "Friday, come
here!" and was soon very much amused in looking at
my various utensils, and seeing me fry some pork, and
roast some sweet potatoes for our dinner. The hissing
and bubbling of the pork in the frying-pan diverted him
very much, and he laughed and talked to it. Once he
attempted to touch it, but the hot fat burnt him, and
taught him better manners. He watched me all the
while I was laying the table, but as soon as I dished up
the pork, I saw he was prepared to make a dash at it,
and bear off his hands full, as he did at breakfast. I
therefore made signs to him that he must not touch it,
saying at the same time very impressively, "No, no,
Friday." He seemed to understand me perfectly; for,
putting his hands behind him, he looked quietly on,
while I placed the dinner on the table, I then made
him sit as I did, instead of squatting on the floor, and
keep his hands still while I helped him. To all this he
submitted, very willingly; but when I tried to show him
how to use the knife and fork, he made bad work of it,
and grew so impatient to eat the meat before him, that I let him nearly satisfy his appetite with his fingers first,
and then induced him to use the knife and fork by giving
him more, on condition he should eat it properly. But
such work as he made of it to be sure! I had enough to
do to help laughing out at his awkward ways. He held
the knife and fork in every way but the right; some-
times he tried to cut with his fork, and put the meat into
his mouth with his knife, at the great risk of cutting his
lips; for he did not know which edge of the knife was
sharp, or which was blunt. When he had nearly done
his meal, I began mine; then he watched me, and tried
to imitate me, and improved very much before dinner
was over. I commended him by my looks and gestures,
and he seemed to know very well what I meant.
Oh how I wished that we spoke the same language!
How I longed to tell him a hundred things that I could
not express by action; to hear from him the story of his
life, and how he came to be cast, like myself, alone on
this desert island. Here we were, both full of thoughts
and feelings, wanting to communicate with each other,
and yet unable to do so, because we spoke different
languages. How we should ever talk together, I could
not imagine! It seemed to me nearly impossible, that
Friday should ever learn to speak English, without my
understanding his language so as to translate for him, till
I remembered, that children learn to speak in the same
way that Friday must learn English, that they generally
speak by the time they are two years old, and that when
removed to a foreign country, they learn a second lan-
guage, by only hearing it, much quicker than the first;
so I hoped that, in less than a year, Friday and I should
be able to converse together. He seemed to me so
much like a simple child, that I hoped he would learn
with the facility of one.
While we were at dinner, Neptune appeared and be-
gan to bark at the stranger. He now showed no signs
of fear, but treated Friday as an intruder, whom he
meant to be rid of. This change I attributed to Fri-
day's having clothes on. The poor fellow was now
afraid of Neptune, and I was obliged to scold the dog
19*
and encourage the man, and use all my influence to
reconcile them to the presence of each other.
After dinner, I made Friday wash his face and hands
very thoroughly. I also tried to comb his hair, but it was
so matted together, I could not pass the comb through it
at all; so I thought it best to cut a good deal of it off; and
to reconcile him to this, I trimmed my own locks first.
This amused him very much; he called the scissors
oopak, and seemed much delighted with the execution
they did. He was a little frightened when they were
first brought near his own head; but as he felt nothing
unpleasant under the operation, he played with the hair
that fell down, and made no objection to my ridding him
of a large portion of it. The remainder I washed in
warm suds, till it was perfectly clean, and could be
combed quite smooth. Every thing that I did to Fri-
day improved his looks, and made him more like a civ-
ilized man; and that rewarded me for my pains.
He was a youth of about sixteen, as near as I could
judge, with a slender figure, but perfectly well made;
straight in his limbs, and active in his movements.
He had a very good countenance, particularly when he
smiled. His face was round and plump; his nose
small, with very full nostrils, but not flat like a negro's; his
mouth was well shaped, though the lips were rather thick,
and his teeth as white as any I ever saw. His color was
a kind of light-brown olive, that had rather a pleasing
effect, but cannot easily be described; his hair was
black and straight, and a great deal of vivacity sparkled
in his black eyes.
His docility and reverence for me astonished me,
and I could not help thinking, he considered me as some
superior being whom it was right for him to obey; for
he was as obedient as a good child to a beloved parent.
In the afternoon I walked with him down to the
creek, and when we approached the store-house, he
tried to tell me a long story; but his gestures were as
unintelligible to me as his language, and when he found
that though he raised his voice and repeated the same
sounds again and again, I could not understand him, he
looked much dejected for a few minutes.
I showed him the forge, but he did not care about
looking at any thing there. I set the water-wheel in
motion, and that made him laugh and clap his hands.
We next walked down the little valley, till we came
to the salt water, and saw my pretty boat afloat upon it.
Friday immediately motioned to me to go on board of
her; I assented, and went to pick up the rope that was
fast to her, and by which I could haul her up to my nat-
ural wharf; but Friday plunged at once, clothes and all,
into the water, and swam off to her. I waited to see
what he would do, and saw him spring very nimbly into
the boat, and beckon me to follow him.
I then pulled in the boat towards the shore, and step-
ped into her from the rock. Friday showed me how wet
his clothes were; and knowing how uncomfortable they
must feel, and fearing that he might take cold in them, I
advised him to pull them off, and hang them up in the
sun to dry. He made some very laughable attempts at
stripping them off, and could not extricate himself from
his new trammels without my assistance. We took a
very pleasant sail, which Friday enjoyed as much as I.
He did not understand working a boat, yet he showed
no surprise at my management of her.
Neptune met us on our return ; but as soon as he saw
Friday, he scampered off again, which convinced me
that it was the clothes that made the difference. As
they were now dry, I made Friday put them on again,
and we returned to the terrace. I then did my evening
work, while Friday looked on; and once in a while I
gave him some little job to do for me, which pleased
him very much.
When it was time for the lamas to be fed and milked
and put in the stable for the night, I sent Neptune af-
ter them to hasten them home, and he soon appeared
driving the flock before him.
This subjection of dumb animals to my power, seemed
to interest Friday much more than any of my mechani-
cal contrivances ; which I attributed to his having knowl-
edge enough of wild animals, to understand the change
made in them by domestication; whereas, he did not
know enough about the arts of civilized life, to appreci-
ate my boat-building or masonry, my forge or water-
wheel.
My usual supper was roasted potatoes and milk; I
prepared a bowl of it for Friday, as well as one for my-
self, and placed it on the table before I called him in;
while he was playing with Neptune, and making friends
with him, as I thought. What was my consternation on
going for him, to find him in the act of strangling my
good dog!
I seized hold of Friday's hands, and loosened the cord
in time to save my faithful servant's life. When he re-
covered enough to see and know me, he licked my
hands and face, and I caressed him till he was quite re-
stored. While thus occupied, I was trying to moderate
my feelings so as to act properly towards Friday, and
thinking how I should make him understand, that he had
done very wrong. But when, at last, I looked round
upon him, I saw that he was already self-condemned.
My actions towards the dog had convinced him of his
fault, and he stood a little way off, looking like the pic-
ture of sorrow and contrition. When he caught my
eye, he threw himself on his knees, and begged my par-
don with the most intelligible gestures.
I beckoned him to me; he pointed to the dog, intimat-
ing that he was afraid of him; but I made Neptune lie
down, and encouraged Friday to approach. He did so,
tremblingly, and again threw himself on his knees be-
fore me. I then discovered that his shirt collar was
bloody, and that he had been severely bitten in the
neck; it was, therefore, in self-defence, that he had
used the dog so hardly, and my countenance relaxed
towards him.
He made light of his wound, but seemed very anxious
to know if he was restored to favor; so after scolding
Neptune for biting Friday, and showing Friday that he
must never again try to strangle Neptune, I let him see
that he was forgiven; at which, he made the most ex-
travagant gestures of delight and gratitude. He pros-
trated himself before me, placed my foot on his head,
to express his entire submission and willingness to serve
me, and then implored me not to let the dog bite him
again. I promised him protection, and tied up Neptune.
We then went to supper, and his second lesson in the art
of eating decently was rather more easy than the first.
I made him observe and imitate me, and he got on better
with a spoon than with a knife and fork; he ate the
milk with a great relish, not remembering, I suppose,
where it came from, and that he had shuddered at it in
the morning.
I made up a second bed in my sleeping apartment,
and let Friday occupy it with me; for after watching
him all day, I was convinced that he would not inten-
tionally do me any harm; and as he showed some fear
of that long narrow passage where he lost himself, and
of being left alone in the inner cave, I did not like to
shut him up in it for the night. Neither did I like to let
him lie in the outer cave, for fear of what mischief he
might ignorantly do to my goods, or to Poll. The only
precautions I took, were removing all destructive weap-
ons and edge-tools out of the apartment, fastening up the
door, so that it could not be opened without noise, and
hanging up a lamp to burn all night. This done, I went
quietly to bed, and slept in the same room with a sav-
age whom I had known but one day.
Thus ends the history of this memorable day, Friday,
which gave me my man Friday! I have been thus par-
ticular in my account of it, because every thing relating
to my finding and domesticating this companion of my
solitude was so interesting to me, I have not known what
to leave out; and as this was the most remarkable event
of my exile, and changed the whole tenor of my life, I
hope I may be excused for dwelling upon it so long.
This day had been one of such great excitement to
me from three in the morning till nine at night, that it
seemed the longest one of my life. No one who has
not lived in perfect solitude, as I have done, for more
than three years, can conceive the wonderful change
produced by the presence of a fellow being; though of
a different race, speaking a different language, and
brought up in totally different habits. Notwithstanding
all the differences that exist, there are enough points of
resemblance to make me feel a strong fellowship with
him. He has many thoughts and feelings in common
with me, and to see the varied expression of a human
face, after being so long deprived of it, is an indescriba-
ble pleasure. I have looked so much at his fine open
countenance, that he has often been abashed by my
earnest gaze; and if he were an European, he would
think me a very rude fellow to stare at him so.
I did not go to sleep on that remarkable Friday,
without pouring out my heart in praise and thanksgiving
to God, for this new alleviation of my solitary condition.
I gratefully acknowledged the many blessings I had re-
ceived, since the time when, without food, or shelter,
without arms, ammunition, or tools, without fire or the
means of kindling one, I first allayed the pains of hunger,
by eating raw oysters on the shore. My condition has
been gradually improving ever since those first sad days;
and now when I am comfortably lodged, have plenty of
wholesome food and good clothing, and enjoy all the ne-
cessaries and many of the comforts of life, a crowning
blessing is added, in the company of a fellow man.
I have written this account ten days after finding
Friday, and in all that time I have been watching his
every movement, every change of countenance, with an
intense interest, only to be accounted for by my previous
solitude. I am obliged to put a strong guard on my feel-
ings, to prevent my showing this interest to Friday, in a
way that might make him conceited and exacting; though
I must do him the justice to say, that from all I have ob-
served in him, there is very little danger of his being
either the one or the other. He is modest, affectionate,
and obedient; and already begins to understand several
short sentences, and to speak some words. The feud
between him and Neptune is at an end. As soon as
the dog became accustomed to his color, and found
out that he was to be a part of my family,' he ceased his
hostilities; and the playfulness of Friday soon made him
very acceptable company to Neptune.
I am so delighted to have a companion, that I think I
could be contented to end my days here, if I only
felt secure from the intrusion of such visitors as left
traces of their violence in the Bay of Terror. But the
feeling of security, which I have enjoyed for more than
three years on this beautiful island, and which was one
of its greatest blessings is gone, never to be recalled.
Whenever I see a vessel approaching the island, I shall
be distracted between the hope of escape, and the fear
of changing my condition for the worse. I rejoice that
I settled myself on the southern side of the island, for
had I been on the northern side, I should hardly have
escaped the hands of those rude men who landed in the
bay; and I greatly prefer living and dying here, to falling
into the hands of buccaneers, or a fierce tribe of natives.
Having finished this long history of the longest day of
my life, I shall not write again for some time, lest I
write too much about Friday, and make my narrative
tedious. Another consideration warns me to be more
sparing in my details; my ink will soon fail me entirely.
It dries up in the ink-bottle very fast, and it is only late-
ly, that I have learnt the importance of keeping it closely
stopped, when I am not using it. Before I discovered
this, I lost a great deal in that way; and though the
black substance remains, when the watery particles are
evaporated, I cannot make as good ink by adding water
to it again. It does not incorporate as it did before, and
the color is not so good; I must therefore use my ink
sparingly, as there are no nut-galls here with which to
make any more.
CHAPTER XXIX.
STOLEN GOODS RETURNED — FRIDAY'S PLACE OF CONCEAL-
MENT— FRIDAY'S CANOE — FRIDAY'S COOKERY — CANOE
— FRIDAY'S PRESENT — FRIDAY IN MASQUERADE — A LES-
SON IN FENCING LANGUAOE.
IN resuming my narrative, after a considerable inter-
val, I must go back to the early days of my acquaintance
with Friday, and notice some particulars of his beha-
viour, which are so characteristic, that they ought not
to be omitted.
The morning after that long and memorable Friday, I slept later than usual; and on opening my eyes, I
was excessively startled, by finding my companion's face
close to mine; he was seated on the ground beside me,
and his white eye-balls were the first objects I saw. He
was anxiously waiting for me to awake, being impatient
to leave the cave for the open air. I soon gave him his
freedom, and went myself about my morning work ; but
what was my chagrin, at seeing him take to his heels
and run off into the woods, as fast as he could go. I
very much feared that he preferred his own wild life to
mine, that he meant to give me the slip, and to keep out
of my reach if he could; nevertheless I tried to per-
suade myself he was only exercising his limbs, and that
he would soon return. I therefore kept about my work,
and prepared breakfast for two; but though I delayed
far beyond my usual hour, I was obliged at last to eat
my meal alone, which I did with but little appetite.
I had just finished, and was putting away the things,
when Friday entered. He was out of breath with run-
ning, and had the lost hatchet in one hand, and a large
bundle of biscuits in the other, curiously packed togeth-
er, and tied up in leaves. These he laid at my feet
with many gestures, expressive of submission, and con-
trition for having robbed me.
His bringing back these things pleased me much; for
it showed, that there was a foundation in Friday's mind,
on which good principles might be built; and it con-
vinced me, he had no thoughts of separating his interests
from mine, but that he meant to live with me.
He tried very hard to tell me something about the
hatchet and the bread, but I could not understand his
gestures, any better than his words; so, after giving him
his breakfast, I offered to accompany him to the place
whence he had now brought them ; for I was very cu-
rious to see where he had hid himself, and find out what
he had done during the time of his concealment.
He led me at a brisk pace, and by the shortest cut,
to the vineyard; and seemed more acquainted with the
country than I was; for he brought me to a part of the
Rhine which I had never discovered. The river was
narrow, and the banks steep; some projecting rocks
formed a natural bridge nearly over it, and with one good
leap we crossed it dry-shod. We then entered a very
thick wood, and I was somewhat put to it to keep up with
Friday, as he threaded his way through the bushes with
the dexterity of an American Indian. There was no
path, and the foliage over our heads and all around us,
was so thick we could see nothing ; yet he pursued his
way with as much certainty, as if he had been walking
through an open country ; and brought me suddenly in-
to a little circular opening, enclosed on every side, and
at the top, by the thickest foliage, a sort of natural ar-
bour. It was so completely surrounded by trees and
shrubs, that I could not see where I had just entered,
and so shaded by leaves, that the light within resembled
twilight.
The shrubs which Friday had taken away from the
middle of this place, he had planted between the trees
that were round it, and so intertwined their branches,
that the space within could not be seen at all from the
outside. I am sure I should have passed by it a dozen
times without discovering it. A natural carpet of dry
leaves covered the floor of this rustic habitation, and
some fishing-tackle, cocoa-nut shells, and the remains of
crabs and other kinds of fish, showed that Friday had
20
lived on something besides my biscuit. His strong,
smooth, even fishing-lines were made of the fibre of co-
coa-nut husks; the hooks were of shell, and very well
shaped. I saw nothing in this habitation that looked
like a seat, or a bed, so I made signs to ask him where
he slept; he immediately threw himself on the ground, and placed his head on a log of wood, which he used as
a pillow, and seemed to consider an excellent accommo-
dation. When I had sufficiently admired Friday's
dwelling-place, I made signs to him to take his fishing-
tackle with him, and that we would now return home;
but he eagerly invited me to accompany him further,
and I consented ; for I wished to see all his contrivan-
ces, and learn all I could of his way of life. I was now
satisfied that he had made a very proper use of the hatch-
et he had carried off, but still I could not account for his
having taken the chisel.
After following Friday half a mile, through the thick-
est wilderness of shrubs and trees I ever saw, I found
myself in a little open spot, near the river, where he was
making a canoe out of the trunk of a tree. The outside
was already shaped, and he had made some progress in
hollowing it out, though his only instrument appeared to
be the lost chisel, transformed into what he calls a toe.
He had taken the steel part out of its proper handle, and
fixed it at right angles to a much longer one, thus mak-
ing a sort of small adze, which he used very dexterously
with one hand.
The canoe was a small one, and so placed as to be
easily launched into the river, yet quite concealed from
it; and I found it was situated very near the spot where
I once landed and entered the wood. How astonished
I should have been, had I stumbled upon this half-made
canoe!
Having now seen all Friday's handiwork, I return-
ed home, leaving him, after he had guided me through
the woods, to catch some fish for our dinner. About
noon, he arrived at the terrace with a number of small
fish, which he assured me were very good eating, and
I set him at work to dress them in his own way; though
I watched his mode of proceeding, in order to make him
do it with more cleanliness than savages are accustomed
to.
As soon as he found he was to perform the part of
cook, he collected a number of smooth stones which he
put in the fire to heat; and while that was doing, he dug
a hole in the earth, and gathered a bunch of green
leaves. I could not imagine what all this was for ; but
when the stones were hot, he laid a number of them in
the bottom of the hole; on these he scattered some
leaves; next he put in the fish, and covered them over
with leaves; and then he placed another layer of hot
stones, and covered it all up with earth ; leaving the
fish to be baked by the heat of the stones. This mode
of baking proved very good, and I remembered having
read of some of the South Sea Islanders cooking all their
provisions in this manner ; so this confirmed me in the
idea I had already formed, that Friday was a native of
some of those newly discovered islands.
When the dinner was dressed after his fashion, I made
him eat it after mine. His desire to please me made
him learn my customs very soon; though the fish bones,
which he had been used to separating with his fingers,
did plague him sadly, when he tried to manage them
with his knife and fork.
A few days after this, I was making some broth in a
large iron pot that hung over the fire ; and, (is Friday
wished to assist me, and had acted the part of cook so
well himself, I told him he might take the meat out of
the pot; expecting, to be sure, that he would do it with
a fork. But instead of that, he plunged his hand into
the scalding broth; and the first I knew of his clumsy
cookery, he was roaring and hopping about with a scald-
ed hand. I made him put it directly into a pail of cold
water, and hold it there till it was easy. I now found
out that he had never seen any thing boiled, and knew
nothing of hot liquors; his people bake every thing, as
he did the fish,
Knowing that every body is happier for being em-
floyed, and finding Friday well disposed to do whatever
set him about, I planned several little jobs of work for
him ; but I was so fond of his company, and took so
much pleasure only in looking at a fellow being, after
living so long alone, that I contrived to keep him near
me most of the time. When I let him work on his ca-
noe, I went to the place with him, and sat down in a
shady spot with a book in my hand ; but I hardly look-
ed into it, I was so occupied in observing him. He pro-
ceeded in hollowing out the log, differently from what
he began; for having now the command of fire, he
burnt out the inside, and then finished it off with his toe,
as he called the chisel he had so curiously mounted. I
tried to teach him the use of some of my tools, that
would do his work more expeditiously ; but he preferred
his own instrument, and liked nothing that required the
use of two hands at once. To sit and chip off a little
bit at a time with one hand was his delight; and he did
the work much faster than any one would suppose he
could.
Long after I thought the canoe was done, he dubbed
away with his toe, and took so much pains in finishing
it off, and rubbing it down with the skin of a fish that
was as good as sand-paper, and ornamenting it with a
rude kind of carved work, that I was surprised at his
perseverance. I must confess that mine did not equal
his; I grew tired of going so far, in warm weather, only
to watch him; and he went alone the latter part of the
time. When I asked if the canoe was done, I was so
often answered in the negative, that I left off inquiring.
I was therefore agreeably surprised one day, when work-
ing in my garden, by seeing a canoe approach the beach;
and if Friday had not been dressed in English clothes, I
might have supposed him a stranger, just arrived from
some distant island. He had made himself a paddle,
with which he pushed himself along over the waves;
and I was amused to see how dexterously he landed in
the surf, without filling his little bark, but drawing it up
after him, high and dry on the beach.
I will now relate an incident that happened only a
week after I found Friday. I was sitting under the
trees, on my terrace, very busy mending my clothes,
when Friday approached me, looking half pleased, half
doubtful, and with some of his native gestures and bows,
presented me with what he called e ray; it was a neck-
lace and armlets, made of shells, very curiously strung
together. I signified my thanks, and admiration of his
present, as well as I could, and allowed him to decorate
me with them. He was delighted with this permission,
but was greatly puzzled to know how to place them to
the best advantage, on a person who wore an European
dress. He wanted to put them next my skin, and yet
he did not like to have them covered by my shirt; so,
at last, he put them outside, and tried to satisfy himself
with my being dressed in his offering; though he per-
ceived that these ornaments did not look so well on a
white man in clothes, as on a colored man, without
clothes.
I had observed him employing every spare minute,
in picking up shells on the beach, but I did not know
what they were designed for, till he brought me the
necklace and armlets ; then I encouraged him to make
another set for himself; for I had not full employment
for him then, of a more useful kind, and I thought that
was better than idleness. A few days after, he appear-
ed before me, such a savage-looking figure, that he quite
startled me. He was stripped of his English dress, with only the cloth on, which he calls maro, and orna-
mented with numerous necklaces, armlets, bracelets, and
bands round the knees, to which bones were suspended
that rattled as he moved; and on his head was a most
curious-looking mask or helmet, with a high crest of
green leaves. This mask only covered the forehead
and cheeks, leaving the nose bare; but the chin was
partly concealed, by strips of cloth hanging down from
the lower edge of the mask, intended I suppose to look
like a beard.
In this savage trim, he came and danced before me,
20*
throwing his arms and legs about in the strangest manner;
and every now and then he acted and spouted, as if he
were performing a part in some comic piece. I wished
I could comprehend what he was saying, for it seemed
to divert him very much, and perhaps it might have
amused me, if I had understood it. As it was, howev-
er, it made me feel sad to see Friday look so like a sav-
age, when I wanted to civilize him and make him a fit
companion for me; so after looking at him awhile, I
made signs to him to go and put on his clothes again, and
take off that frightful mask.
He quickly perceived that I did not relish his per-
formance, and looked so dejected and disappointed,
that I was sorry I had shown my feelings so plainly.
To comfort him, I examined the mask, and commended
his ingenuity in making it out of a gourd, and arranging
the green twigs so as to look like a waving plume. I
even put it on my own head, and went through the broad-
sword exercise with it on. This restored Friday's cheer-
fulness; and thinking my dislike of his masquerade, was
because he was dressed up instead of me, he took off all his
trappings and offered to put them on me; but I refused
them all, and when he had put on his clothes, I made him
wear the necklaces and other ornaments outside of them.
This done, I put the helmet on his head again, and a
stick in his hand, and made him imitate some of the mo-
tions of my broad-sword exercise; thus giving him his
first lesson in fencing. He learnt so readily, and liked
it so well, that I hope he will become expert enough to
fence with me, and make it, in time, a real trial of
strength and skill between us.
We made various agreeable excursions together, and
Friday found a great many plants that he was well ac-
quainted with, but which were unknown to me; so I
encouraged him to collect them and show me their sev-
eral uses. As I had no name for them, I learnt his
nomenclature; and it delighted him, to hear me pro-
nounce a word of his language.
It was, at first, a great effort to me to talk to him at
all, or to teach him the English language; for I had been
so long accustomed to silence, and could make him un-
derstand many things so much quicker by signs than by
words that I was often obliged to force myself to speak.
I knew it would be better for us both in the end, and that
we should enjoy each other's company much more
when we both spoke one language ; and Friday learnt
English so fast, I was encouraged to take the necessary
pains in teaching him. I was often at a loss to make
him understand the meaning of words, that were per-
fectly familiar to me ; and, in my endeavours to explain
to him. I have gained a great many new ideas myself.
I had never thought much about language, or how it is
formed, or how we learn it, till I began to teach Friday;
but now I am constantly thinking about the exact mean-
ing of words, that I may explain them to him.
He learned the name of every object he saw, and ev-
ery act he did, as fast as I told it to him. Thus nouns
and verbs were the first words he understood, and he
rarely forgot any thing. I taught him adjectives, by
making him observe the same quality in a great many
things, and then giving him the word for it. I saw him
one day look first at Poll's green plumage, and then at
the grass; and I took that opportunity of teaching him
the adjective green. I showed him every thing I could
that was green, and made him understand that those va-
rious objects were all alike in that one particular. He
was, one day, making wry faces at a very sour lime he
had been tasting, and I said to him, "sour — sour lime ;"
then I gave him an unripe plum and called it "sour
plum" then some sour milk; and he soon understood
that it was that particular quality, which he tasted in all,
that I called sour. I made him feel many things that
were rough, and many that were smooth, and gave him
the different words that expressed these qualities. In
this way he learned a great many adjectives, and could
join them very properly to the names of various objects
around him.
There was one kind of noun? which I found it impos-
sible to explain to him; such, for example, as strength,
heat, greenness, sourness, goodness; these words stand,
I believe, for what philosophers call abstract ideas, and
Friday seemed to have none such in his head. He
knew perfectly well what I meant by a strong man; but
the abstract idea, expressed by our word strength, he
could not understand at all. It was just the same with
other words of this description ; he could join the word
hot to any noun, and comprehend perfectly what it
meant, but if I spoke to him of heat by itself, he was
completely puzzled. He used the word good a great
deal, but he never knew what I meant by goodness;
and I think his own language must be without such words,
for if he had ever used any such, he would certainly
have learnt their meaning in English, when I took so
much pains to teach him. But he seemed incapable of
an abstract idea, he could not think of strength, or heat,
or goodness by itself, though he was constantly using the
corresponding adjectives.
His difficulties made me think a great deal about lan-
guage, and I have come to the conclusion that it is very
difficult to understand the nature of some of our com-
mon little words like to, for, and of. We learn them in
childhood, and use them properly, without reasoning
upon them at all ; but when I wanted to teach Friday
to use them, I was greatly puzzled. I taught him
above, below, beside, upon, by holding something above
the table, or below it, or on one side of it, or upon it.
But the word of seemed to mean so many things, I
could not explain it in that way, and I had to think about
it a good while, before I made out that it stands for a
relation of any sort, between two nouns. Whether I
speak of the relation of a myrtle tree to the woods in
general, and say the myrtle of the woods, or of the re-
lation of the woods in general to the myrtle, and say the
woods of the myrtle, which is quite a different relation, I
still use the little preposition of. If I say the father of
the son, or the son of the father, which is very different,
I still use the word of, to signify the connexion between
them.
I well remembered learning at school the definition of
a pronoun; but I never was aware how much we are in-
debted to those little words, till I heard Friday talk,
without using them, and grew quite tired of hearing him
begin every sentence with Friday, or with Father, in-
stead of 1 and you. He found it very difficult.to under-
stand, how I should mean himself, when he used it, and
yet mean me, when I used it. This made me reflect ON the nature of the word /, and then I was struck with its
opposite qualities; with its being, at once, a word of the
most precise, individual meaning, and, at the same time,
of the most general application. Every body says I, and
yet in each case it means only the one person who is
speaking.
These thoughts about language, interested me very
much; and I wished I could know what those persons
say about it, who have made the formation of language
their particular study. I dare say there are very curious
books in the world about this very subject, and a great
deal more known than I cap find out for myself.
CHAPTER XXX.
FURTHER PARTICULARS OF FRIDAY A VISIT TO THE BAY
OF TERROR FRIDAY'S ACCOUNT OF HIMSELF FRIDAY'S
FEAR OF A GUN FRIDAY'S GARDENING COMPANIONSHIP
. — SHARK'S TEETH.
THE first time I went out in my boat, after Friday had
finished his canoe, he chose to command his own vessel,
rather than sail with me. As the breeze was very light,
and my boat moved slowly over the water, he paddled
fast enough to make circles round me, and yet keep up
with me; showing the greatest dexterity in the manage-
ment of his canoe, and highly enjoying his superior
speed. I wanted to tell him he was my satellite, but t
knew he would not understand me; so I tried to make
him comprehend that the moon went round the earth,
as he did round me, but I found he had no conception
of the shape of the earth, or of its having air all round
it; so I was obliged to defer explaining to him my com-
parison, till he knew more English, and a little more as-
tronomy.
I was very desirous of visiting the Bay of Terror with
him, and finding out all he knew of the scenes that had
been acted there; but I waited for him to speak more
English, that I might better understand his account.
Meanwhile we traversed the island, in various directions.
Friday often surprised me by his activity in climbing
and jumping, and by the quickness with which he knew
what course to take, even among mountains and woods,
where I was most at a loss. I could beat him, however,
in running at speed any great distance; and my feats in
hunting gave Friday a high respect for my bodily pow-
ers. In swimming, he was greatly my superior; he
could swim five or six miles, and not appear at all fa-
tigued; and he could support himself in the water, in
almost any position, and seem almost as much at his ease
there, as on dry land.
Whenever I asked him how he came to the island, he
always said he swam here; and it was a long time be-
fore I could make out how he got within swimming dis-
tance. But as he improved in talking, he informed me
that he came in a large ship to the other end of the
island, and swam from the ship to the shore. He de-
scribed the vessel as coming from a "great land," far
off to the eastward of this island, and said the sun rose
and set eight times, while they were coming here. I
inquired what sort of a flag that ship had, if it was like
mine on Signal Hill; he said it was not, and tried to de-
scribe it, but I could not understand him. I therefore
took some of the ship's paints, and painted the flags of
several different nations; when that of Spain was shown
him, he clapped his hands, and made me understand that
wasjthe right one. He made signs, that the vessel some-
times carried a flag that was all red, by which I knew
she was a pirate. I had now no doubt it was the same
that had left traces of violence in the Bay of Terror.
Friday expressed his horror of the Spaniards, in va-
rious ways, and showed me how cruelly he had been
treated by them, and how we must hide ourselves, if we
saw a Spanish vessel coming. I readily agreed with
him, that we would conceal ourselves from any such
visitors. Then I pointed to my flag, on Signal Hill, and
asked him if he would hide himself from a vessel with
such a flag as that; to which he answered no, that he
should go to meet her, and ask the people on board to
carry him to his own country, which was far, far to the
west. I then found out that there had been a vessel,
with English colors, at the island he came from; and
that the people on board were white, and that their talk
sounded like mine. This convinced me that Friday
was a native of some of the newly discovered islands, in
the Pacific Ocean, and made me wonder that he had
tried to conceal himself from me, when I found he had
a good opinion of the English.
On conversing further with him, and telling him I was
one of the same people that went to his island, and
whom he thought so well of, he shook his head and
pointed to my beard, saying, "Kanacka Pericanny, *
no beard."
A great deal of explanation was necessary, to make
Friday believe that I was an Englishman, and belong-
ed to the same country that those came from who visited
his native island; as well as to make him understand
how I came here, and how much I wished to return to
my friends; but when he did comprehend me, there
seemed a new bond of union between us, for we were
both separated from our relations, and both wished to
return to them, and each pitied the other for his misfor-
tunes.
I often asked him why he was so afraid of me, when
* People of Britain.
he first lived on this island; but until he had learnt a
good deal of English, he could not explain the cause.
It seems he thought I had prisoners in my cave, and
from my always going about armed, he supposed I was
trying to catch him, and either kill or make him my
prisoner too; and the ill treatment he had received from
the Spaniards made him very suspicious and timid.
My various works made him think there must be
more than one man on the island ; and never seeing any
but me, he took it for granted there were prisoners in
the cave, who worked at my command, but never went
abroad. Dreading this fate for himself, he resolved to
keep out of my way, and leave the island as soon as an
opportunity offered.
Not long after this conversation, I went with him to the
Bay of Terror, and was there confirmed in all previous
surmises. I made out from Friday's account, that there
had been a mutiny on board the Spanish ship, and that
when two boats, full of men, were on shore watering,
the discontented sailors attacked the captain, mates, and
two seamen who had refused to join in the mutiny; and,
after a violent struggle, succeeded in killing them, for
they were taken by surprise, and the mutineers were two
to one against them. While this was going on, Friday
and two seamen were left on board to take care of the
ship, and saw it all very plainly. Friday showed me
the place, near the brook, where the five men were bu-
ried ; and before I perceived what he was about, he had
scratched away the earth, enough to prove the truth of
his story.
One of the seamen, who had always used him very
ill, was made captain, the red flag was hoisted, and they
had a grand carouse. Many of them got drunk, the
duty of the ship was neglected, and he was able to es-
cape in the night, by letting himself down the side of the
vessel and swimming under water a good way; when
he thought himself out of sight and hearing, he rose to
the surface and swam on till he reached the little cove,
where I lay the night after I saw the foot-prints.
When I had learned all I could, of what had passed
in the Bay of Terror, I took him to that cove, which I
now named after him, Friday's Cove. There he show-
ed me where he concealed himself, how he lived for
many days, and where he was standing behind a tree,
when I saw his foot prints in the sand.
It seems he was as much frightened as I was, and plan*
ned various modes of escape ; and when I sank down on
the ground, he thought I was lying in ambush for him ; so
he stole off in an opposite direction. My gun and beard,
and my being on an island where the Spaniards came to
water, made him think me one of their gang ; and he de-
termined not to be caught, but to conceal himself, make
a canoe, and go off in her to any vessel that had a differ-
ent flag from that of the Spanish ship, where he had
suffered so much.
My kindness to him when I found him in the chest,
surprised him extremely, and touched his feelings so
much, that he felt towards me a little as he did to his own
father; and when he found I had no prisoners and there
was nothing terrible in the cave, and that I treated him
like one of my own family, he loved me like a son. All
this he told me, in his simple way, by half sentences and
gestures. Though I am but a few years older than
Friday, he always chooses to look upon me as his
father; and when I gave him leave to call me so, he
thought it a great privilege, and acknowledged his obli-
gation by touching the end of my nose with the end of
his, which is, he tells me, the universal mode of saluta-
tion with his people. This custom amused me very
much, and seemed very queer; but I found that my
English way of saluting with the lips, seemed equally
strange and laughable to Friday.
I have already mentioned the alarm ^which my gun
occasioned Friday, the night I found him in the chest,
and I may now observe that his terror was not easily
overcome. He must have seen men kill each other -
with guns ; for the first time I fired, after he was with me,
which was at a bird he did not see, it made him tremble
21
and turn pale, and he stripped off his clothes to see
where he was wounded. Though he found himself un-
hurt, he was still frightened, and made signs to me not
to kill him. I assured him I would not injure him, and
pointing to the bird which had fallen to the ground, I
sent him to fetch it. While he was wondering and
looking to see how the bird was wounded, I reloaded my
gun; and seeing a large hawk sitting on a tree within
shot, I directed Friday's eyes towards it, making signs to
him that I would cause that bird to fall down dead, as I
had done the other. I pointed to the muzzle of the
fowling-piece, to the hawk, and to the ground, to make
him understand what I was going to do, and then fired.
The bird fell, and he stood like one frightened out of his
wits, notwithstanding all I had said to him. When I
made a sign to him to go and fetch the dead bird, he ran off; and would not come near me again, while I had the
gun in my hand.
I afterwards found, that he was the more amazed, be-
cause he did not see me put any thing into the musket;
he therefore thought it had some wonderful power in
itself, to kill any living creature that came near it. Sev-
eral days after this, I saw him standing at a respectful
distance from the gun, talking to it as if it were a rea-
sonable being; and after haranguing it some time, in his
own language, he added in the most plaintive tone,
"No, no, kill poor Friday."
When his confidence in me increased, and he under-
stood English better, I took the gun to pieces before
him, and explained to him every part, and how it was
loaded. I showed him, too, how gunpowder would ex-
plode, by putting a little on the ground and touching it
with a lighted stick ; and made him at length understand,
that it was the gunpowder exploding in the barrel, which
sent out the shot or ball so swiftly, that when it hit the
bird, it killed it. After this, he gradually overcame his
fear of a gun, and enjoyed going out with me, seeing me
shoot, and picking up the dead game.
Friday was very fond of assisting me in my garden,
and I sometimes allowed him to weed a little; though
there was always danger of his pulling up what I meant
to preserve, as he had no idea of cultivating any thing
that was not good to eat, and I had a bed of wild flow-
ers which I was as fond of as of any vegetables. I liked
to observe the change produced in them by cultivation.
After a while I gave him a piece of ground to manage in
his own way; and I was really amused to see his
mode of proceeding.
The first thing he did was to find a spring on the side
of a hill, and conduct the water, by a small trench, to
his garden. Then he dug oblong square pits, about
eighteen inches deep ; and having stirred up the earth a
little deeper, he planted in them bunches of leaves be-
longing to a plant that abounds on the island, and pro-
duces a very large root which is excellent food,
called by him, taro. When his plants were all set
out, he turned the water into his pits and covered them
with it. I thought he would certainly kill them, but he
told me that this was the way they always cultivated
taro in his country. He was right, the plants lived and
grew finely, and his crop of large roots was a valuable
addition to our esculent vegetables.
Seeing my garden was suffering from a long drought,
Friday offered to water it as effectually as he had done
his own, though in rather a differept way. I consented;
and having brought water to it from a spring at a dis-
tance, he dug little trenches across it and connected
them, so that the water flowed from one to another and
moistened it all equally.
I was, at first, so curious to know all I could learn
from Friday, and to understand his movements, that I
was constantly watching him, and inquiring of him what
his people did, and setting him to work in his own way,
that I might see what he could do. While thus engag-
ed, I thought but little of showing him any of my arts and
Inventions; but after a while, having occasion to repair
some of the iron work about my boat, I took him with
me to my forge, where he was much amazed to see me
blow the furnace, heat the iron red hot, and then shape
it as I wished. He liked nothing better than to watch
me at work, and to help me, and wait upon me in any
way he could. My stock of charcoal being nearly out,
I set about making some more, and found Friday's
assistance in chopping down trees, stripping them,
and cutting and piling the wood, very valuable. After
performing all my tasks alone for years, I highly enjoyed
the privilege of working in company with a fellow being,
and was surprised to find how much more two pair of
hands could do than one. I expected to do twice as
much, but the difference was far greater. We could lift
together four times the weight that I could move alone;
I should have built my store-house and pyramid in a
quarter the time, and with far less trouble and pains, if I
had been assisted then by Friday, as I now am.
I did not, however, regret my past labors and ex-
traordinary efforts, for I knew they had been very useful
to my mind and body; I only recalled them, that I
might the better understand the value of a companion.
A far less amiable youth than Friday, would have been
welcome to me in my solitude; and for such an aSec-
tionate, docile, intelligent, agreeable companion as I now
possessed, I could hardly find words to describe my
satisfaction, or express my gratitude to God.
When Friday first lived with me, I felt a little con-
cerned about our future subsistence. Some of the
stores, brought from the wreck, did not keep very well,
partly owing to the climate, and partly to their having
been damaged by salt water, on board the Thames; and
I thought I must make greater exertions than ever, to
secure food enough for us both. But in this I was quite
mistaken ; for-my companion's knowledge of the produc-
tions of the island increased my resources, and his culti-
vation of taro was so successful, that I was soon relieved
from all anxiety on the subject, and saw with indiffer-
ence the rapid consumption of the ship's stores.
Friday had been acquainted with the art of making
salt by evaporation, in his own country; so with his as-
sistance, I increased the number of my salt-pans, and by
the end of the summer, had as much of that valuable ar-
ticle as I needed, for all purposes. His expertness in
fishing was such, that he could supply the table constant-
ly, and without its occupying much of his time. There
was one kind of fish that he was continually looking out
for, and disappointed at not finding. Supposing that he
only wished for it as a delicate morsel to eat, I was sur-
prised at his caring so much about it. Happening to be
fishing one day on the north side of the island, he ex-
pressed great joy at having caught the fish he had so
long sought for in vain. After a grand struggle with his
prisoner, I was amazed to see him drag a young shark
into the boat. I now found that it was for the sake of
the teeth, that he had so desired to catch one of this
kind of fish. He had been accustomed to use them as
tools of various sorts; and his expertness in cutting hair
with a shark's tooth, and carving wood with it, surprised
me exceedingly. He carved his paddle all over, in a
small neat pattern, now he had this favorite instrument
to do it with, and ornamented some cocoa-nut shells in
the same way. He made a very light, convenient water
dipper of a gourd, and on this he exercised his ingenui-
ty, in a different manner; he drew a pattern all over it
with a hot wire, and made it look as if it was painted
with a delicate, brown color. I admired this so much,
that I hung it up to be looked at, and would not suffer
it to be used as a dipper.
21*
without some very sorrowful feelings that I made up my
mind to this ; but while I was gazing, through my tears,
at the interesting object on the ocean, I thought of the
numerous proofs I had had, of the kind protection of my
Heavenly Father, and resolved to trust in Him still. I
then felt a strong conviction arise in my mind, that a safe
mode of deliverance would come in due time, and my
sadness passed away.
When we first saw the vessel, she was sailing before a
fine southerly breeze, and coming towards the shoals
very fast; and thinking the people on board would be ex-
amining the coast, through their spy-glasses, we did not
dare to show ourselves on the terrace, but peeped anx-
iously at them through our leafy screen. Presently
they altered their course, sailed round the Lands' End,
and disappeared behind the hills. We had no doubt
they were gone to the Bay of Terror; and as soon as
they were out of sight, we began our preparations for
concealment, by carrying into the cave every thing that
was lying about on the terrace, and might betray
our living there. I pulled down my shell fountain, took
away my rustic seat, and removed all traces of myself,
that could be got rid of. Friday concealed the chim-
ney of my kitchen, and the opening in the roof, by plac-
ing branches of trees so as to look like a natural growth
in the fissure. Then we sawed off some very thick set
shrubs close to the ground, and carried them inside of
the willow fence and placed them before the mouth of
the cave, so as to hide it entirely, and look as though they
were growing there. When all this was done, I hoped
that if the strangers should find their way to the terrace,
they would not discover my subterranean abode ; but
that they would take the lama's shed to be the only work
of man there. In case they should enter the cave, I
provided for our retreat into the inner apartment, by pil-
ing up things before the door so as completely to hide it,
and yet leave an opening for us to slip through. I
thought it very unlikely that they would make any strict
search, where they had no reason to suppose any one
was concealed ; nevertheless I removed the boards that
barricadoed the narrow entrance to the long passage, that
we might retreat there if necessary. Friday's experi-
ence of the chest, made him doubt the safety of any
such hiding-place ; he would much rather have trusted
to the woods, as he was very expert in gliding unseen
and unheard among the leaves; but after trying in vain
to persuade me to commit myself to his guidance, he
resolved to share my retreat, though I gave him leave to
provide for himself in any way he chose. His feelings
seemed much hurt at my proposing to him to separate
himself from me, and he exclaimed in the most affec-
tionate manner, "Friday no leave dear father; wicked
mans kill father, kill Friday too." I was quite touched
by this proof of fidelity ; I embraced him, and assured
him that I felt no doubt of our being perfectly safe in the
caves, for the Spaniards would not search for us, as I
did for him, when I knew him to be in the store-house.
Our preparations being completed on the terrace, we
took Neptune and Poll to the creek, and fastened them
up in the store-house, giving each a good allowance of
food. We thought it would be dangerous to keep them
with us, lest their noises might betray us; and by putting
them there, we hoped the strangers might suppose that
part of the island to be our head quarters, and the store-
house our only dwelling-place. I had little doubt that
our visitors would break into this building, and wantonly
destroy many of my goods ; therefore I loaded Friday
and myself with some of the most valuable small arti-
cles, and locking up the doors I reluctantly left my dumb
friends to their fate, and set off on my return to the ter-
race. As I ascended the side of the creek, I cast a last
look at my pretty boat, and sighed to think that she would
probably be stolen, or so injured as to be useless; but I
said nothing of my feelings to Friday, for light-hearted
as he naturally was, he now appeared much more 'cast
down and alarmed than I was.
When we reached the terrace, I happened to say, that
I wished I knew if the vessel had come to, anchor m the
bay ; on this the good-natured fellow insisted on going
to the top of a certain hill, that commanded a view of
the bay, to ascertain the fact for me.
I tried to dissuade him, as it was a distance of several
miles by the shortest cut, and he would have to swim a
river, climb precipices by moonlight, and be absent
many hours to accomplish his purpose. He was how-
ever so desirous of going, and so sure of his own powers
of eluding observation, that at last I consented.
Having supped together, Friday prepared for his
journey, by taking off his English clothes; this surprised
me, till he pointed out the advantage of his dark skin,
and the danger of having any thing light-colored about
him, as well as the hindrance such garments would be to
him in swimming or running very swiftly, as he had not
always been accustomed to them. I settled it with Fri-
day that if the vessel had not come to anchor, he should
return directly to tell me so ; but if she had anchored, the
people would most likely sleep on board, and therefore
he should remain where he could see their movements,
till he discovered preparations for coming on shore in
the morning; and then he should watch their motions,
and give me timely notice of their approach. This mis-
sion suited him exactly, and he begged me to be quite
easy during his absence, to depend entirely on his watch-
fulness, and to go to bed, and sleep as usual. I thank-
ed him for his kind care over me, and took an affection-
ate leave of Friday for the night. I knew it would suit
his disposition much better, to be out reconnoitering, than
to be shut up with me in the cave; and therefore,
though I disliked very much to lose his company at such
a time, I parted from him cheerfully, and promised to
go to bed, and sleep if I could.
The latter, I found impossible, for though I was per-
fectly composed, and had no doubt the Spaniards were
all on board their vessel, my mind was too full of thought
for me to lose myself in sleep; and as it seemed most
prudent not to light a lamp, I spent the night in silence,
in darkness, and in safety.
With the morning light came the danger of discovery,
and the expectation of Friday's return; but as I depend-
ed on his giving me timely notice of the strangers' move-
ments, I ventured as far as the shed, milked my lamas,
and gave them their liberty. While I was doing this, I
was very much startled by the report of a gun. Con-
vinced that the Spaniards were at hand, I hastened back
to my cave, and began to wonder that Friday had not
returned; and then it flashed into my mind, that the gun
I had just heard might have been aimed at him, and my
heart sank within me at the idea. I reproached myself
for letting the poor fellow leave me; and could I have
been certain that he was killed by that shot. I should
have given myself up to the Spaniards, and run the risk
of captivity or death, rather than live again without Fri-
day, in the perfect solitude of this island.
I still hoped, however, that my valued companion was
safe; so I determined to conceal myself if I could.
Presently I heard loud voices very near me, and per-
ceived that the speakers were above my cave, close to
the crack in the roof. They spoke the Spanish lan-
guage, and I recognised some of the coarse expressions
which I had so often heard on board the Santa Maria.
Having experienced kindness from the hands of Span-
iards once, I should certainly have discovered myself to
these strangers and trusted to their generosity, if I had
not felt something in my mind, which restrained me from
it, and reminded me of my feelings about putting up a
signal on the northern part of the island. As I had rea-
son to rejoice that I attended to my feelings on that oc-
casion, I thought it best to trust to them now. I strength-
ened myself in this resolution by calling to mind what
Friday had told me of his experience and that of the
English prisoners on board a Spanish vessel. While
thinking of the fate of my countrymen, I was very much
startled by a shower of earth and stones from the crack
in the roof, occasioned, I suppose, by some one's stumb-
ling into it. I dreaded lest this might lead them to ex-
amine the ground and find out my chimney, which would
certainly betray the habitation. Shouts from several of
the party were followed by an angry altercation, and this
diverted their attention from the cause of the accident.
I had been so long removed from all noise and strife,
that the high words and angry tones which now met my
ear, were appalling to me, and I could not help say-
ing to myself—" How can thy creatures, O God, be so
unlike thee?"
After quarrelling some time, they were silenced by an
exclamation from one of the party; and I heard their
steps approach the edge of the precipice, against which
the lama's shed was built. After a short silence,
another burst of more good-humored voices was heard,
and they scampered off in various directions. I had
no doubt they had caught sight of the shed, and
were coming to the terrace to examine it. It proved
exactly so, and I began to tremble lest my retreat should
be discovered.
I longed so much to see some of my fellow beings,
some of the same race with myself, that I could not help
peeping at them, through the bushes at the entrance of
my cave ; but the willow trees were so thick a screen,
that I could hardly catch a glimpse of them.
A pause followed their arrival at the shed, and then
they set to work, like crazy creatures, to destroy it.
They all fell upon the little building with shouts, expres-
sive of a wild delight in destruction; when they were
fully engaged in tearing down the timbers, and breaking
up every thing about it, I ventured on my hands and
knees, as far as the willow fence to look at them through
it; and such a set of banditti as they appeared, I never
saw before! Dark, fierce countenances, with great
black whiskers and mustaches, were rendered still more
formidable by their athletic forms, armed with the most
deadly weapons.
I gazed at them a few moments in utter amazement,
and then retreated to my inner cave, scarce daring to
breathe as I went, so fearful was I of falling into their
hands!
My anxiety, however, to know what they would do
next was so great, that I could not rest so far off; and I
was just entering the kitchen, from behind the pile of
boards, barrels, and boxes, that I had placed to conceal
the communication between the caves, when a new and
appalling sight rivetted me to the spot, and seemed to
stop every pulse in me. I saw a man's legs coming
down through the crack in the roof! These wretches,
thought I, have discovered my habitation, and will carry
on their work of destruction here. As soon as I had
power to move, I retreated softly to my lodging-room
and shut the door after me. A hand was upon it,
on the other side ; I held it fast, and my heart beat vio-
lently, as I pictured to myself the fierce Spaniard that
was pulling against me, and thought how vain my resis-
tance must prove. But what was the change in my feel-
ings, when I heard Friday's voice, assuring me in a low
murmur it was only he! I opened the door, and re-
ceived the poor fellow in my arms. We dared not
speak, but our gestures showed how glad we both were
to meet again.
My joy, however, was soon interrupted by a fresh
cause of alarm. Friday fell down senseless at my feet.
Not knowing the cause or the extent of his malady, I fear-
ed he was dead, and was so agitated that I was entirely at
a loss what to do. There I was, supporting him in a sit-
ting posture, feeling his heart and his wrist, to see if
there were any pulsation, and speaking to him, instead
of using the simple means of restoration which I was
well acquainted with, but did not think of, because I had
lost my presence of mind. After spending some min-
utes in this foolish way, I made a strong effort to com-
pose myself; and then it occurred to me that he was in a
swoon, and that I ought to lay him down flat, and give
him fresh air and cold water. So I carried him to the
entrance of the outer cave, and laid him down. Hear-
ing no more sounds from the Spaniards, I ventured to
the spring for some water, with which I bathed his fore-
head and wet his lips.
22
I then perceived that he was bleeding profusely ; this
was probably the reason of his fainting, and it might
cause his death, if not stopped in time. Again my pres-
ence of mind nearly forsook me. I had but just enough
command of myself, to turn my mind to God, for sup-
port and guidance in this trying moment, when every
thing depended on my doing the best thing immediately.
By fixing my thoughts on Him who is strength to the
weak, I became calm, and so far regained the use of my
reason, as to be able to think what I could do, to relieve
my poor Friday from his dangerous situation.
I had seen various balsams, and spirits of turpentine,
used to stop bleeding, but I had none of these things.
At last I thought of salt; that I had, and I was on the
point of going to fetch it, when I remembered what a very
sensible army surgeon said, one day, to my father, about
using styptics.* He condemned all such applications, as
being superfluous where there was no large artery open-
ed, and useless where there was; he recommended pres-
sure in the former case, and tying up the ends of the ar-
teries in the latter. All this, which it takes so long to
write, passed very quickly through my mind, while I was
examining Friday's injury, and ascertaining that it was
a simple flesh wound, in the thigh. Observing that the
bleeding was less in consequence of Friday's swoon con-
tinuing, I determined to bandage it up, and try the good
surgeon's remedy for slight hemorrhage, before I at-
tempted to restore his senses. From all appearan-
ces it was a gun-shot wound ; and I had no doubt that
Friday received it, when I heard the report of a gun
and felt so uneasy about him.
While tearing up old linen, and applying the bandages
to his thigh in the best manner, it occurred to me, that I
was perhaps binding up a musket ball in the wound, and
that I ought to probe it, in order to ascertain the fact.
Again, the opinions of the sensible surgeon came to my
recollection ; and while I was shuddering at the idea of
* Medicines which have the quality of stopping hemorrhage
or discharges of blood.
my unskilful probing, I remembered his saying that a
great deal more harm was done by probing, than the ball
itself would do, if left in. The ball, he said, having a
round, smooth surface, did'not generally occasion any in-
convenience ; and he gave my father several instances of
balls being left in flesh wounds, and never troubling the
patient at all. I little thought, when I stood beside my
father, a boy of twelve years of age, and listened to this
conversation, that it would ever be so useful to me. But
I saw then that my father had a high opinion of the sense
of the gentleman, which, together with the pleasure of
hearing him describe bad wounds, narrow escapes, and
bloody battles, fixed my attention; and now, in this re-
mote spot, and in this exigency, I profited by what I
then heard. I neither probed the wound, nor applied
any styptics, but simply bound it up ; hoping it would
heal by what surgeons call the first intention, which is
merely keeping the air from it. When this was done,
I used every means in my power to restore Friday to
animation. I put burnt feathers under his nose, fan-
ned his face, rubbed his body, and tried to make him
swallow some drops of a cordial, that was among my
stores; but it was long before I could perceive any signs
of life. At last a short sob with a little muscular motion
gave some relief to my anxiety; and I persevered in the
use of my simple remedies, till he opened his eyes and
drew a long breath. His thoughts came back still more
slowly than his pulse. The first words he spoke, were
in his own language, and when I called him by name he
stared at me, and repeated the word "Friday," as if
he had never heard it before. I now feared he had been
frightened out of his wits, and that he had forgotten all
the English he had learned.
To bring back his thoughts to what had lately happen-
ed, I turned his attention to his wound; the moment he
saw it, he thought of the Spaniards, and asked some
question about them, very eagerly, in his own language.
Supposing it was an inquiry as to where they were, I told
they were all gone; this satisfied him, and he look-
ed again at his bandaged limb, and wanted to remove the
linen and examine it. I told him his father had put that
on to cure his wound, and that if he let it alone, it would
soon be well.
His countenance now showed the revival of his affec-
tion for me, and he poured out his feelings in his own
language. I did not like to remind him that all he said
was unintelligible to me, for fear of interrupting him in
the recovery of his thoughts; so I let him go on till I per-
ceived that he was accusing himself of something wrong,
and imploring forgiveness; then I told him he must
speak English or I could not understand him. When it
flashed upon him that I had not comprehended any thing
he had been saying, he burst into a passionate flood of
tears, and seemed to despair of expressing, in a foreign
language, the feelings he was so full of. His pulse
now became very quick, and I feared fever and inflam-
mation, if he were not kept quiet; so I soothed him,
and touched noses with him ; persuaded him to drink a
little milk, and then told him he must go to bed, and get
some sleep. At this he exclaimed, "No, no, no sleep!
bad Friday, sleep too much." I now suspected what it
was that moved him; he had fallen asleep on his watch
the preceding night, the Spaniards had landed unknown
to him, and he was distressed by his want of faithfulness
to me. I said every thing I could, to convince him it
was a pardonable fault, and that I had not suffered by it.
I then tried to make him understand that he was severely
wounded, and would be very sick and perhaps die, if he
did not do as I bade him. He made very light of his
wound, though I saw it pained him a good deal, when I
carried him to his bed. He wished to tell me all about
his nocturnal expedition, but I would not let him. I
showed him I was not angry with him for the past, but
that he must keep quiet now. I watched his wound,
fearing that all this emotion would make it bleed afresh,
but it did not. Having sat by him, and held his hand
till he fell asleep, I left him, to do my morning's work;
and then took a long nap myself, to make up for my
sleepless night.
When I awoke in the afternoon, no sound of the in-
truders was to be heard; but I sighed to think that they
had probably carried on their work of destruction at the
creek, and had perhaps ill-treated my dumb favorites.
I could hardly bear to think of my faithful Neptune, or
amusing Poll, being in the power of those ruffians; yet
I could not blame myself for putting them there, for if
they had remained in the cave, they would certainly
have betrayed me. Strange voices would have made
Neptune bark violently, and whenever he did so, Mistress
Poll always screamed in chorus. I had become so ac-
customed to their society, that I missed them greatly;
every now and then, as I was engaged in my domestic
affairs, and thinking of my absent family, my imagina-
tion made me fancy I heard them making noises of dis-
tress; but when I went to the mouth of the cave and
listened, all was as still as if there were no living crea-
ture on the island besides myself. I thought of my val-
uable store-house with its contents, and of my forge and
water-wheel, and feared they were now reduced to a
heap of ruins. This silence only proved the deed was done. My pretty boat too, that would probably be
stolen, or so injured as to be useless; and I regretted
that I had not thought of sinking her, which would have
concealed her entirely from observation. I reproached
myself the more for not having taken this precaution,
when it occurred to me that the Spaniards would be very
sure, on seeing that boat at anchor, that there was some
civilized being on the island, and might in consequence
make a more thorough search.
After tormenting myself some time in this useless way,
I resolved, as Friday was doing well, had taken some
light nourishment, and gone to sleep again, to run off to
the creek, and ascertain the extent of the mischief done
by the Spaniards. I felt sure that they had left this part
of the island, so I proceeded very fearlessly till I reach-
ed the creek; then I approached the buildings under
cover of some bushes, and was soon relieved from the
fear of finding them laid waste, by seeing through the
22*
leaves the thatch of my store-house, as usual. The forge
was unmolested, and my pretty boat sat upon the water
uninjured. I hastened to unlock the door of the store-
house, and was affectionately greeted by my two favo-
rites, whom I found in good health and spirits; though
very anxious to leave their new dwelling-place for their
old one. I did not think it quite safe to indulge them in
this at present ; so I took my leave of them and return-
ed to look after my patient, though Neptune's whine
went to my heart, and I longed to have him at home
with me.
I found Friday awake, and anxiously wishing for my
appearance. When I told him where I had been, he
was delighted to hear that all was safe, and Neptune and
Poll well.
Greatly refreshed by the tranquil sleep he had enjoyed,
he was now able to tell me his adventures, and how he was
wounded. I listened with great interest to a very long sto-
ry, and interpreted many gestures before I understood his
narrative, the substance of which was as follows. When
he arrived in sight of the bay, the vessel was at anchor,
and he concluded all hands were on board. So he plac-
ed himself in a sheltered nook, intending to doze and
watch by turns ; but he fell into a deep sleep, and did
not wake till near sunrise. As soon as he aroused, he
found a party of Spaniards very near him; their voices
warned him not to move, for, being surrounded by thick
bushes, his only safety was in lying close and escaping
observation. The strangers passed very near him ; and
he trembled all over, when he perceived them to be his
former shipmates and tormenters. As soon as they had
gone from the mountain, in a southerly direction, Friday
took a view of the bay and saw a boat going off to the ves-
sel, loaded with water-casks that they had already filled;
he then made all haste to reach me, before the Spaniards
should arrive at the terrace. In his anxiety to precede
them, and give me warning of their approach, he ven-
tured too near them, and was obliged to climb a large
myrtle tree, and trust to its thick foliage for concealing
him from observation. The motion he made among the
( branches, attracted the attention of one of the party, who
immediately fired his musket into the tree. The charge
was lodged in poor Friday's thigh, but he had the forti-
tude and presence of mind, not to utter a sound, or make
the least movement; and the ruffians passed on, sup-
posing there was nothing there.
When they were out of sight, he came down from his
hiding-place with great difficulty, for his whole limb was
jarred by the blow and the wound bled a good deal;
but he was determined to give me notice of the approach
of the Spaniards, if he possibly could ; so he hobbled
along as fast as his wound would permit, and arrived on
Fort Hill, while they were engaged tearing down the
shed, and entered the cave by the crack in the roof, as
the shortest way of getting to me and ascertaining my
safety.
Though Friday made no display of his attachment to
me, in this account of himself, I could see very plainly
that my safety had been nearest his heart all the
while he was absent, and that he considered himself so
blameworthy for sleeping when he ought to have watched,
that he deserved no pity for his wound. I was however
of a very different opinion. I made every allowance
for his having slept at his post, and greatly regretted his
having exposed himself, on my account, to his present
sufferings.
CHAPTER XXXII.
FRIDAY'S WOUND — VISIT TO THE BAY OF TERROR — HYMJT
— NEPTUNE'S SYMPATHY — FRIDAY LEARNING TO READ —
FRIDAY LEARNING TO RIDE—STARTLED BY A GROAN ——
COURAGE DISPLAYED EXPLORING CAVES SEARCHING
FOR FRIDAY — FRIDAY FOUND.
THE day after Friday's accident, his wound became
very painful; I was convinced that it would not heal by
"the first intention," that it must be inflamed, and that
it would probably suppurate * before it could get well.
Friday, too, was uneasy about it, and wanted me to get the
leaves of a certain plant, which he had told me was good
for wounds, and let him chew them and apply them to
his leg. This was a good hint for me; and by uniting
his skill and mine, the limb was treated very successfully.
I gathered a large quantity of the leaves he had pointed
out, but instead of chewing them, I boiled them in wa-
ter; and having bathed the wound well with this herb
tea, I put on a large, warm poultice of the leaves. Fri-
day allowed that this felt very comfortable, though he
would have preferred his own way of making the
poultice.
As it was necessary to keep Friday quiet, and his
limb horizontal, I made up a bed for him in the outer
cave, that he might have light and be with me. To
prevent his thinking about his wounded leg, I gave him
various light work to do, as he lay in bed; and when
more useful occupation failed, he amused himself with
carving a little turtle in wood, and did it very well. He
wished me to wear it, tied on my finger; but I told him
such ornaments were in the way, and that it was very
troublesome to wear them; nevertheless, I would keep
this for his sake, and put it up where I could look at it
• A wound is said to suppurate, when matter is formed in
it; this is the proper and healthy termination of inflammation,
and is the means employed by nature, to get rid of such pasta as are too much injured to recover.
very often. So I hung it on a nail, between my looking-
glass and watch, which pleased him very much. Friday's wound went through the usual stages of in-
flammation and suppuration, before it healed; but my
simple treatment by fomentations and poultices, answer-
ed very well; and when all the bruised and deadened
parts had come away, it healed up rapidly. By careful
attention to his diet, taking only light food, and that spar-
ingly, he escaped a fever. The confinement was very
irksome to him, and he felt so well, that he could not be-
lieve it necessary to refrain from eating as much as he
wanted; nevertheless, his love for me and confidence in
my judgment made him perfectly docile, and for this he
was rewarded, by a rapid recovery.
A few days after the visit from the Spaniards, I made
an excursion in my boat, to the Bay of Terror, to see
what traces they had left, and to be sure that the vessel
was gone. I approached with the same caution I had
formerly used, but all was still as if the foot of man had
never touched the shore; so sailing round the point, I
crossed the bay and landed near the watering-place. A
path was now made very visible between the beach and
the spring of water, and a silk handkerchief and some
tools had been left on the ground; these traces of my
fellow beings were extremely interesting to me, in my
lonely condition, and I hoped and believed the time would
come when some of my race would visit this island
whom I should not need to shun, but who would be the
means of my returning to my country and my friends.
I had, occasionally, a full conviction that I should not
live out my days here, but that in God's own time the
means of deliverance would come, if I did nothing to
prevent things taking their proper course.
I was now fully convinced, by my past experience,
that certain feelings were given me by my Heavenly
Father, for my guidance, in cases where I could not of
myself find out the best course ; and I resolved never to
slight these blessed intimations, but to keep my mind al-
ways open and attentive to such impressions.
I spent an hour very agreeably, under the shade of a
wide-spreading laurel, thinking of the goodness and
power of God; feeling that he was indeed the Father of
my Spirit, and that I could look to him for protection,
guidance, and comfort, with the same confiding love that
a little child feels for the best of earthly parents.
Every thing around me, as well as within me, spoke
of the goodness and power of God; the bright, blue sky,
and the light floating clouds; the rustling of the leaves
by the gentle south-wind, their rich foliage and deep
shade; the sunny bank and the sparkling rivulet; the
song of birds, and the hum of insects; and above all, the
ceaseless murmur of the ocean wave, as it reached the
pebbly beach, all, all spoke the praises of their great Crea-
tor, and seemed to join their voices with mine, as I sang
the following hymn of my own composing.
HYMN.
My Heavenly Father! all I see
Around me and above,
Sends forth a hymn of praise to thee,
And speaks thy boundless love.
The clear blue sky is full of thee,
The woods so dark and lone;
The soft south-wind, the sounding sea,
Worship the Holy One.
The humming of the insect throng,
The prattling, sparkling rill, -
The birds with their melodious song
Repeat thy praises still.
And thou dost hear them every one,
Father, thou nearest me;
I know that I am not alone,
When I but think of thee.
When I returned from this delightful excursion, I
brought my dumb friends from their place of banishment;
and had great pleasure in witnessing their joy at being
again in their old quarters, and Friday's happiness in
having their company. Neptune perceived directly,
that something was the matter with Friday, and the ex-
pression of his countenance, with now and then a little
low whine, spoke plainly his sympathy and pity; nor
could he feel easy or satisfied till he saw me dress the
wound; and so found out all he could of the evil, and
that Friday and I were on good terms in regard to it.
After witnessing this dressing, he never showed any
more feeling about it; but was a cheerful companion to
Friday, whenever he had no inducement to be abroad.
He was more fond of me than of Friday, and whenever I
was actively engaged out of doors, he always chose to
accompany me; but when I was working near home, he
would run off and visit Friday, from time to time. I
amused myself with making him act as carrier between
us, sending Friday flowers and fruits, tied round the
dog's neck, and he sending me some trifle in return.
This communication between Friday and me, while
he was confined with his lame leg, amused him very
much; and as he was one day expressing his pleasure
m it, and caressing Neptune for his services as carrier, I
told him we could have much more pleasure in this way,
if he knew how to read; for then I could send him
words written on a board, or shell, or leaf, that would be
as good as talking to him. This idea pleased him so
much, that he begged me to teach him to read, and de-
clared he would learn as fast as possible. As he had
never before shown the least inclination to learn, I was
glad to see him interested in the subject, and determined
to make it as easy and pleasant to him as I could.
I knew that learning the alphabet and spelling sylla-
bles, would be very tedious work, so I thought I would
try to teach him whole words at once. To do this, I
made a number of wooden tallies, and on each I printed
the name of something he was familiar with, such as
water, milk, taro, raisins, &c.; then I showed him what
each one meant, by putting the substance and the name
together, and making him pronounce the word very dis-
tinctly. By looking very attentively at these words, he
learned to distinguish them, and to know what substance
each one stood for, when separated from it. When he
had thus learnt his first lesson, I took the tallies he had
been studying, and carried them with me, when I went
out to work. Presently, I tied one of them round Nep-
tune's neck, and sent him back to Friday with it. The
dog returned, bringing the article named, and my pupil
was delighted with thus proving his knowledge of the
printed word. When he had learned a great many
nouns, in this way, I taught him other parts of speech
in the same manner; and having once interested him in
learning to read, by this easy method, I afterwards con-
tinued his education more according to rule, and during
the wet season he made considerable progress; but
more of this hereafter.
I must now go back a little way in my narrative, and
observe, that Friday had lived with me some time before
he happened to see me ride upon Judy; and I never
shall forget his surprise, when he first beheld me ap-
proaching him on the lama. I was trotting home from
Gordon Vale, where I had been to get some young Pi-
mento trees, to plant on the terrace, when Friday caught
sight of me. He gazed at first, in stupid amazement, un-
certain what it was he saw; on being convinced it was 1,
he jumped and laughed, supposing I was only doing it for
fun, as he sometimes bestrode the dog, without bearing
his weight on him. When I dismounted, I invited him
to get on, and up he jumped as nimbly as a mountebank
at a fair; but Judy was so anxious to get to her shed,
and have the food I always gave her after carrying me,
that she made a spring, which left Friday far behind
her, flat on his back. He jumped up very quickly,
walked orFto another part of the terrace, and began to
do something, as a pretence for hiding his face, and to
conceal his mortification at being thrown.
I was sorry to see that Friday cared about such a
thing, and wondered what there was in such a trifle, to
disturb him. If he had understood English well enough,
I should have reasoned him out of his foolish feelings,
and told him that no one ought to feel vexed or mortified,
at any accident of the kind; but as he could not under-
stand this, I let him know it was Judy's fault, and not his
or mine, by speaking to her in a scolding tone, and say-
ing, "No, no, Judy, throw Friday down."
By the time she was fed, and some other little jobs
done, Friday had recovered his good humor and
sprightly manner; but it was long before I could per-
suade him to mount again upon Judy's back; not till he
was recovering from his wound, and wished very much
to accompany me into the woods. He was well enough
to ride, but not to walk so far, and I told him he might
go if he would ride Judy. He mounted very timidly,
though I assured him Judy would not jump now, as she
had before done; when he found that she stood as still
as a rock, while he placed himself on her back, he
gained some confidence, and I let him sit awhile before
I led her forward. When at last she began to move,
though in the gentlest manner, he looked very much fright-
ened, held on with both hands by her soft hair, and beg-
ged to be allowed to get off. I encouraged him, how-
ever, by assuring him there was no danger; and before
he had proceeded a mile, he got over his alarm. I led
Judy all the way, for fear a sudden movement of hers
should hurt Friday's lame leg; and when he became ac-
customed to the motion of the animal under him, he en-
joyed the ride exceedingly. He patted and caressed
old Judy for carrying him so well, and showed the kind-
ness of his nature by saying to me very often, "Father,
Judy tired?" or else, "Judy tired, Father; Friday
walk." I told him how strong lamas were, and gave
him some account of horses, and how much they are
used in England. He expressed a strong desire to see
my country, and asked me to let him go with me there,
when I returned. This request threw me into a reverie,
which Friday's natural politeness prevented him from
disturbing, and we went along some distance in silence.
We were picking our steps among loose stones and
fragments of rock, in a hollow on the side of a mountain,
when a very unusual sound startled us both, and made
23
us stop and look at each other for an explanation. It
seemed to me like the groan of a man in bodily pain.
Friday thought it was a Spaniard, who had left the pi-
ratical ship, as he had done; and having whispered his
suspicions to me, he begged me to go back to the cave
on Judy, and leave him to lie in wait for the stranger,
with my hatchet; as he put his hand on the weapon,
which hung in my belt, I saw by the fire in his eye,
that he meant to despatch the Spaniard with it if he had
an opportunity.
I told him that the sound we heard was one of dis-
tress, and that I meant to find the person, and assist him,
and make him our friend, if I could. Friday shook his
head, and said, "Spanar shoot father, Spanar gun hurt
bad ;" and then he put his arm round my neck as I stood
by the lama, and tried all in his power to keep me from
looking for the Spaniard. But a second groan directed
my eyes to a small opening in the rocks, which looked
as if it might be the entrance to a cave; so I disengaged
myself from Friday, and pressed cautiously into it. I saw nothing but a large cavity in the rocks. I made
my way into it, and peering round its dark sides, was
very much startled, by finding a pair of great, black
eyes fixed upon me. Here, thought I, is one of those
fierce Spaniards, sure enough, and I am in his power if
he is armed.
Summoning up all my courage, I determined to speak
to him; so I inquired who he was, and what was the
matter; first in English, and then in what little Spanish
I had learnt on board the Santa Maria. The stranger
did not answer, but kept his eyes fixed upon me, and
gave another groan. The man is too ill to speak,
thought I, and yet he holds his head up wonderfully.
My eyes were now accustomed to the darkness of the
place, and I could see more clearly than when I entered;
so I crossed the cave to approach the Spaniard, and
found only an old he lama, who had come here to die.
The light from the entrance of the cave, shone directly
in his eyes, and made them visible, when no other part
of him could be distinguished.
Having been so deceived myself, I thought I would
try the effect on Friday, and prove his courage too; I
therefore called to him for assistance, as if I were en-
gaged with an enemy, and needed help. The good
fellow came with all speed, armed with stones that he
picked up as he entered; and the moment he saw those
great eyes in the back part of the cave, he sent one of
the stones full at the head of the lama. The poor old
creature rolled over and died. Meanwhile, Friday
found out his mistake, and we came out into the fresh
air, to talk over the adventure, and dig a grave for the
lama, that he need not spoil the air of the cave; which
we agreed would be an excellent hiding-place, if sur-
prised by an enemy in this part of the island. The old
lama's coat was so fine, and thick, and long, that we did
not like to lose it, so we skinned him before we buried
him. I told Friday I should take particular pains in
tannins; and preserving that skin, and keep it as a trophy
of our false alarm and true courage.
We next made a torch of some dry, resinous wood,
lighted it by my gun-lock and spunk, and with this we
explored the cave. It was about twelve paces deep, of
an irregular shape, and on the farther side of it, we ob-
served an opening that went in deeper; but it was so
low, that we could only enter it on our hands and
knees. I was determined, however, to see where it led,
and Friday was resolved to follow me; so I went first
with the torch, and we crept along several yards without
coming to any thing. The air was oppressive, or rather
there did not seem Jo be enough of it, in this narrow
passage, to feed the torch and us too, and I had a great
mind to turn back; but knowing how unsatisfied I should
feel, if I did, I persevered a little longer, and perceived
some fresher air to reach my lungs. This encouraged
me, and soon after the passage became larger, then
opened suddenly into a vast grotto; and wherever the
light of the torch fell, the sides and roof shone as if made
of glass. The floor was very damp, and drops were
continually falling on it from the roof, I stood at the
entrance, in silent wonder and admiration, for I never
saw any thing so beautiful of its kind.
I had heard of the caves in Derbyshire, and did not
doubt that this was of the same material; formed, as
they are, by the dropping of water that has earthy par-
ticles in it, which being left behind, make these brilliant
crystals. From the roof, hung down long points of a
white and yellow substance, that glistened in the light;
but with only one torch, I could not see half the beauties
of the place. I walked all round it to ascertain if it
communicated with any more caves, and was surprised
that Friday did not follow me. I invited him in, but he
shook his head and remained at the entrance, with an
expression of awe in his face. I afterwards found, that
he supposed the place sacred to some divinity of the
island, and was afraid of provoking the wrath of the un-
seen proprietor, if he entered it.
Having ascertained that there was no other opening
but the one at which we entered, and exploring as much
as I could with one torch, I prepared to return as we
came. Friday was so impatient to reach the outer air,
that he begged leave to go first; and I let him ; though I
chose to keep the torch in my own hand, for fear he
should carelessly extinguish it. With this incumbrance,
I could not creep so fast as Friday, who was soon out of
sight. On arriving at the first cave we had entered, I
expected trf see him, but he was not there; I supposed
he was without, waiting for me in the open air; but on
looking there for him, he was nowhere to be seen. I
called, but he did not answer. I thought he was hiding
himself, and looked behind the rocks and bushes; then
I re-entered the old lama's cave, and looked all round it,
for Friday. I called to him to come directly, as it was
time to go home, but heard not a sound in reply. A
f«ar now rushed upon my mind that he had missed his
way in coming through the narrow passage, and was be-
wildered in some other opening that I had not observed.
Having lost myself once in a sand-pit, when I was a
boy, and come very near staying all night, because the
passages were all so much alike I could not tell one from
another, or find the one which led out of the labyrinth ; I
thought it most likely, that such was Friday's case. That
I might not lose myself too, in looking for him, I took a
pocket full of berries with me to mark the way by which
I entered, and went in pursuit of my poor boy, who
would, I knew, be very much alarmed.
I called aloud to let him know I was at hand, but I
only heard the echoes of my own voice, which were
very loud and startling. I marked the way to the grotto,
by strewing berries as I went, and saw no openings that
branched off from it in that direction; but as I returned,
I saw one that forked off a little more to the left, than
the one which led out into the open air. It was smaller
than the right one, and if Friday had not led the way he
never would have got into it, for the opening was hardly
wide enough for my shoulders. I squeezed into it, how-
ever, in pursuit of Friday, and called to him again, but
heard nothing of him. After proceeding a few yards, I
came to three larger openings; which of these he had
taken I could not tell, and as my torch was nearly burnt
out, I did not like to venture any further without a fresh
one. I therefore returned to the outside of the moun-
tain, feeling a great deal for poor Friday's situation, but
convinced the only way to rescue him was to use proper
caution in going after him. Rashness, on my part,
would only endanger us both; and the idea of starving
to death under ground, because we could not find the
way out, was not a very pleasant prospect.
While preparing another torch, it occurred to me that
the shortest and surest way of finding Friday would be
to go home and get Neptune, who could trace him by
his scent. We had left the dog behind us, because his
gambols excited Judy to cut capers, and I wished her to
be very quiet under Friday, as it was his first ride. As
soon as I thought of Neptune, I jumped upon Judy, who
was feeding near at hand, and rode home after him. I
also brought some lamps to assist in the search, and was
back again as soon as possible, knowing how very long
23*
every minute would seem to poor Friday, frightened and
perplexed as he must be.
When I arrived with Neptune, at the first cave, I tried
to send him into the narrow entrance alone, but he would
not go. So I lighted two lamps, and taking one in each
hand I crept along first, and did better resting the bot-
toms of the lamps on the ground and supporting my weight
equally on both arms, than when carrying a torch, and
creeping on one hand only. Neptune followed close at
my heels, and when we came to the fork I stopped, and tri-
ed to make him go into the left hand passage before me,
which I at last succeeded in doing, by calling Friday
several times, and then saying to him, "Go, seek." I
now put down one lamp and followed him with the other,
encouragiug him to seek for Friday. When he came
to the three openings, he smelt two of them and then
ran down the third, without trying the scent; just as if
he knew by reasoning, that if it was not either of the
others, it must be that. I marked the way with berries,
which I could feel on the ground if the lamps went out,
and followed Neptune many yards, and past several
branching passages, that would have entirely confounded
me; but Neptune trotted by them undoubtingly, guided
by his unerring sense of smell. Two or three more
turns through wider and rougher openings, brought us to
a little alcove, made of shining crystals; on the damp
floor of which, lay my poor Friday, breathless and
senseless.
I had heard of persons being frightened to death, and
for a few moments I feared this was the case with my
dear companion; but remembering that he was weaken-
ed by his long confinement and low diet, and observing
the air of these caves to be oppressive, I hoped he had
only fainted away. In that case even his situation was
critical enough, for here was no cold water, no fresh air;
I had nothing about me that I could administer to revive
him; and how could I take him, in his present state,
through those long narrow passages, which I could only
pass on all fours, myself. I was really at my wits' end;
I knew not what to do. While considering, I sat down
and laid Friday's head and shoulders in my lap; as I
did this, a piece of woollen cloth that I wore as a sash
round my waist, to carry my hatchet in, accidentally got
into the flame of the lamp; the smell warned me of it,
and as it very much resembled the smell of burnt feath-
ers, I thought it might answer as well. I put the smoke
of it under Friday's nose, it revived him a little; I then
rubbed his body and limbs, and had no doubt he would
soon be restored, if I could but carry him to the open air.
Again I was puzzling myself to find a way of dragging
him through those narrow passages, when a new sound
met my ear. The neighing of a flock of lamas sounded
very near us, in an opposite direction to that by which I
had approached Friday. This gave me hope that there
was a nearer way out of this labyrinth; and, sure
enough, on examination, I found a short and easy cut to
the open air, by which I readily conveyed my patient,
and soon had the satisfaction of seeing him come to, and
enjoy his rescue from that alarming situation, where he
had suffered so much, that he could not then bear to
speak of it.
I went back for my lamps, and then placing Friday
on Judy, we returned home, much exhausted by the va-
rious exertions and excitements of the day.
CHAPTER XXXIII.
FRIDAY'S RELIGIOUS NOTIONS — A SECOND VISIT TO THE
GROTTO VALUEOF A COMPANION MAKING BUTTER.
I HAVE hitherto said very little about Friday's notions
of religion, because they were so confused, and so full
of gross superstitions and absurdities, that it was painful to
me to observe them, and useless to describe them.
I soon perceived that he and bis people believed there
were various good and evil spirits; that they worshipped
the good ones, and made offerings and prayers to them;
that they considered the soul to be immortal, and that all
were happy after death. Friday sometimes appeared
to think of one great and good spirit, as above all the
rest; but when I spoke to him of such a being, he al-
ways said something that disappointed me, and made me
deeply sensible how far he was from a rational and true
belief in the One God and Father of us all.
After our visit to the grotto, I perceived that he was
firmly convinced, an evil spirit had carried him away to
the place where I found him, and that Etee, as he
called it, had tried to kill him, but could not. I did all
I could, to convince him it was no such thing ; I told
him how he had lost his way, and that it was his foolish
fears, and his haste to get out, which had occasioned all
his trouble; but, though he had the greatest respect for
my opinions and knowledge in general, he could not
think me right now. He did not like to give up his be-
lief in evil spirits at all ; particularly, as in so doing, he
must blame himself instead of them. Friday never
did wrong intentionally, but whenever he made a mis-
take, or showed any want of judgment, or got into
any difficulty, he always considered it the work of Etee,
or some evil spirit; and I often had great difficulty in
convincing him, that no one was to blame but himself,
and in making him feel that it was all his own fault, and
might in future be avoided.
I had a great deal of conversation with Friday on
these subjects, at different times, and was led by what I
observed in him, to hope, that as his reason improved
and his knowledge increased, he would get rid of the
foolish notions he had learned in his own country, and
become really religious, instead of superstitious.
Friday often described to me the burying-places of
the chiefs of his people, which he called morai, and
which seemed to be places of worship, as well as burial-
grounds ; he said they were taboo, that is, sacred, and
that none but the priests were allowed to go into them.
He spoke of great wooden images being in them, which
were goddesses; and of high platforms, on which they
laid offerings for the gods ; he tried to describe to me
something made of wicker work, shaped like a pyramid,
but very high and narrow, and to tell me the use of it;
but I could not understand him, and I doubt whether he
knew the use of it himself.
When he first lived with me, if I told him not to touch
anything, he always asked if it was taboo; at first I an-
swered yes, thinking that word mcanlforbidden, but after-
terwards I found out that its real meaning was sacred; and
then I told him none of my goods were taboo; that
I might use them all, but that I thanked the Good Spirit
for them in my heart. I perceived that laying my hand
on my heart, or pointing there, conveyed no idea of what
I meant to Friday; for he had been taught to consider
his bowels as the seat of all feeling, and whenever he
spoke of his soul he always pointed there. -
The grotto we had accidentally discovered, he con-
sidered a morai, and that it was sacred to the gods and
goddesses of this island ; and he thought his being car-
ried away by an evil spirit, was a punishment for having
stood at its entrance.
I assured him no chiefs had ever been buried there,
and that we were probably the first human beings who
had ever entered it; still he insisted upon it that it was
taboo, and refused to go near it again. As I knew it
would require time and patience for the gradual improve-
ment of Friday's mind, I did not press him to accom-
pany me to the grotto; but I went alone, a few days af-
ter our first visit, and had such a very agreeable excur-
sion that I wished he could have shared it with me.
I took a dozen candles with me, which I made for the
purpose, of lama's fat, and some clay to stick them up
with to the sides of the grotto; and when my illumina-
tion was completed, it was the most brilliant spectacle I
ever beheld. A thousand crystals, as pure as diamonds,
reflected the light at various angles, and produced all the
colors of the rainbow or prism ; while, from the roof,
hung down glittering points of various sizes; some al-
most touched the floor, and looked like columns, sup-
porting the ceiling of some fairy palace. Nothing that I
ever read of, in the "Arabian Nights' Entertainment,"
surpassed in beauty and magnificence, this real work of
nature. Oh how I longed for some one to see it with
me, who would enjoy it as I did.
This was the last visit I made to the grotto this sea-
son; for, as the wet weather was approaching, I and Fri-
day, who was quite recovered from his wound, were
full of business, collecting fruits, vegetables, and fuel for
the winter.
Since I had the benefit of a fellow laborer, I had re-
moved my water-wheel, and mounted my grindstone in
the usual way ; as it was a pleasure to Friday, to turn it
for me, and the wheel hurt the effect of the water-fall,
near which I had made a little arbour, that I was fond of
sitting in.
I found Friday well acquainted with the process of mak-
ing salt from sea water, by evaporation ; and as my
stock of salt, brought from the wreck, was not large, I
made some new salt-pans this summer, of wood; and
succeeded very well in getting some very pure salt, be-
fore the rains set in.
Friday's company was a great stimulus to every un-
dertaking, and the pleasure of showing him how a thing
should be done, or how well it would look when done,
was a motive to exertion that I had long wanted. His
inquiries too were often very amusing, and sometimes
they led me to investigate things that had before escaped
my observation.
I remember his asking me if butter was not the fat of
English pigs, and his being very much surprised when I
told him it was made from milk. This put me upon try-
ing to make some, and showing him the process. I took
for a churn a straight-sided, earthen-ware jar, and made
a neat little dasher proportioned to it ; to the top of the
jar, I fitted a wooden cover, with a hole in it for the
handle of the dasher to move in ; having then collected
all the cream that the lamas had afforded for a week
past, I began to churn, and called Friday to witness the
operation. He could hardly believe I was in earnest,
when I told him that I could beat the cream into butter,
and he asked me many questions about it, which I could
not possibly answer; for, though I had been accustom-
ed to see butter made from my earliest childhood, I nev-
er thought much about it till now.
After churning away nearly an hour, I showed Friday
the little grains of butter that were beginning to separate
from the butter-milk; when they became large enough
to appear like lumps of butter, he was convinced that
this was really the way in which it was made, and he
seemed as much delighted with my success, as if it had
proved him to be in the right, instead of me.
When all the butter was collected into one lump, he
was disappointed to find how much liquid still remained;
for he had imagined that the whole quantity would be
converted into a solid mass. This idea of Friday's made
me reflect upon the subject, more than I had ever be-
fore done; and I was surprised to find the butter-milk
still so thick, when so much solid substance had been
separated from it. The more I thought about this com-
mon affair of butter-making, the more at a loss I was to
understand the philosophy of it ; and I sighed to think
I had no book, or friend, to explain it to me. The little
lump of new butter looked well, and therefore I expect-
ed the flavor to be good; but it was so bitter, it was hard-
ly eatable ; and finding it the same when I churned
again, I did not repeat the experiment during the sum-
mer.
Among other works done this autumn, Friday and I
built a new shed for the lamas; and that it might escape
the curious eyes of strangers, we placed it among some
thick shrubs and trees, which grew in a recess of the
terrace, about two hundred yards to the east of our hab-
itation. I was sorry for this change, and so were my
dumb friends, whose preference was so great for their
old haunt, that we had much difficulty in reconciling them
to their new home.
When driven in by Neptune, at sunset, they would
always run first to the spot where their shed once stood,
and there remain till we led them with halters to their
new abode.
CHAPTER XXXIV.
READING LESSONS MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS—VARIOUS OC-
CUPATIONS DEATH OF JUDY MAKING INK MAKING
PAPER.
THE summer passed quickly away, and the winter
found us well prepared for it, not only as regarded pro-
visions and fuel, but by having plenty of occupation,
ready planned. My chief business was to be writing up
my narrative, which had been neglected for some months,
and teaching Friday to read; but, stimulated by a com-
panion, many other agreeable emplc yments were thought
of, and we spent the winter as happily as we had done
the summer.
Friday's improvement in reading surpassed my expec-
tations; for though, at the beginning, he learnt more
slowly than a child commonly does, his progress after-
wards was much more rapid. After teaching him. by
printing with chalk on a board, till he was tolerably fa-
miliar with the forms of the letters, I made reading les-
sons for him, by cutting words out of the foolish romance
I found in the wreck, and sticking them, with the gum of
a tree, on some coarse brown paper that I had among
my stores.
'When he first tried to read these small printed letters,
he was a good deal puzzled ; he could hardly believe
them to be shaped like those I had made with chalk,
and it tried his eyes to look at them. By reading a lit-
tle every day, he conquered this difficulty, and I inter-
ested him in the study, by making up short sentences
about himself and me, that he could fully understand
I employed him too in cutting up the words, and sorting
the letters, and I made a box full of divisions, like a
printer's case, to hold them; so that when I wanted to
compose a story for Friday, I had only to pick out the
letters and stick them on the paper, which was previously
gummed.
This occupation was very useful in familiarizing him
to the letters as well as to the small words, which were
left to be used whole. As he improved, I set him to
making words and sentences, for me to read ; and be-
fore three months were passed, he could read fluently
in Anson's Voyages, though he could not understand all
he read, by a great deal.
My friends will perhaps blame me for not teaching
Friday to read the Testament, before every thing else;
but I did not like to hear him blundering and hammer-
ing over the contents of that interesting volume, without
understanding its true meaning; and not having had a
Christian education, he was not yet prepared to have it
explained to him.
I am desirous of making him thoroughly understand
that there is one God, the creator and preserver of all
things, and that he is a Spirit who communicates with
our spirits, before I tell him any thing about the history of
this true religion, how it was preserved among the Jews,
or how it was restored and taught by Jesus Christ. But
I look forward with great pleasure to the time when Fri-
day will be able to understand and to feel the sublime
perfection of the character of Jesus Christ; and when
we shall read together of his wonderful power and ex-
treme meekness ; his heroic fortitude in bearing his own
trials, and his surpassing tenderness and compassion for
the woes of others. When Friday can comprehend and
admire all this, I shall feel the greatest interest in read-
ing the Testament with him; but until he can, I shall
24
keep the precious volume from him, and only read to
him from time to time such parts as I can make him un-
derstand.
One of Friday's amusements during the rainy season,
was making what he thought musical instruments; but
they were such clumsy, rude contrivances, that I should
as soon think of calling a child's rattle, or a toy drum, a
musical instrument.
One was the shell of a dried gourd, fitted to a handle,
and with something put inside of it, that rattled when
the gourd was moved. With this rattle, he accompa-
nied himself in dancing, and the motions he went through
with it, were as systematic as the broad-sword exercise;
I had, therefore, no doubt it was a national dance.
Another musical instrument consisted of a hollow ves-
sel of wood, like a platter. He placed it on the ground
with the hollow side down, and beat upon it with a piece
of wood, tied under his foot. At the same time, he held a
stick about two feet long, in one hand, as we do a fiddle,
and beat upon that with a smaller stick ; this drum-
ming he accompanied by a vocal sound, that was rath-
er plaintive and agreeable.
Friday's attempts at making musical instruments, put
me upon thinking what I could do; and it occurred to
me that I might make a set of Pandean pipes, out of
reeds that grew on this island. Accordingly I set to
work, and, after many failures, succeeded at last in ar-
ranging and fastening together, side by side, seven reeds,
of the proper lengths to make seven notes, in very good
tune. After some discordant attempts, I played Old
Hundred upon it to my own satisfaction, and the amuse-
ment of Friday, who could not at first make up his
mind whether he liked it or not. When, however, he
became accustomed to my music, he grew fond of it,
and I taught him to keep time on his instruments, with
mine. I smiled sometimes to think, how amused my
musical friends in York would be, if they could have
heard my domestic concert; more especially when
Neptune and Poll chose to join chorus, as they some-
times did, Neptune in a howl, and Poll in a scream.
Fencing was another of our amusements, and it af-
forded us excellent exercise when the rain kept us from
walking. I also made a checker board and men, and
taught Friday to play checkers, which he soon did very
well, and sometimes beat me. All these exercises of
ingenuity were good for Friday's mind, and assisted me
in his education. I began to teach him arithmetic to-
wards the end of winter, but I found it next to impossi-
ble to make him understand the simplest operations with
figures; so I gave that up in despair, and only taught
him to count, to add, subtract, and multiply, by doing the
sums in his head, when he had real objects before him to
practise on. All this he learnt very quickly, and grew
so fond of it that I used, at last, to give him quite diffi-
cult calculations to perform in his head; and he would
generally come out right in his answers. But I could
not make him understand how the little mark, called a
figure, stood for a certain number of articles of any sort.
That was too abstract an idea for Friday.
Once during the winter, we saw a vessel pass the isl-
and from east to west; but it blew rather fresh, and she
did not come very near the land. Several gales of
wind, and two very heavy thunder storms, distinguished
this season as the most tempestuous one I had passed
here.
One death, too, occurred in my family, which, though
it was not the most affecting one that could have hap-
pened in my limited household, was, nevertheless, a con-
siderable trial to my feelings. Judy, the first friend and
companion in my solitude; Judy, who refreshed me
with her milk, when I was too feeble to leave my bed;
who had long served me so faithfully, as the bearer of
my loaded panniers, and on whose back I had taken so
many safe and pleasant rides; Judy terminated her use-
ful life this winter. Friday and I buried her in a deep
grave, under a fine, tall tree, at the east end of the ter-
race; and made a little mound over her, which we sod-
ded. While doing this, I told Friday the whole of Ju-
dy's history, from the time I first threw the noose over
her neck, till he became acquainted with her; and this
made me feel her loss so much, that I could not help
shedding a few tears over her grave.
In bringing up my narrative to the end of this winter,
I used up all my ink and all my paper, and was very
much perplexed to think of some substitute for these
useful articles. I had long foreseen this want of writing
materials, and had made several experiments, in the
hope of finding some mixture that would answer instead
of ink.
There were no oak trees, and therefore no nut-galls
to be had ; but I should have made some other astringent
vegetable answer the purpose of galls, if I had had any
sulphate of iron to put with it to turn it black; but the
want of that made all my experiments vain.
I next thought of getting some bright color from vege-
table matter; but all such faded when dry, so as to be
hardly legible, on white paper; and in future I must
write on some less delicate substance, such as the bark
of trees, which would require a very black mark to be
long visible. A fall of soot in my chimney put it into
my head to make ink of that black substance. I first
mixed a little with water, but it settled again directly,
and hardly colored the water; then I knew it must be
mixed with some gummy liquid that would keep the
fine, black particles suspended in it. Having some
gum dissolved in a tea-cup, for sticking on the letters in
Friday's spelling-book, I mixed a quantity of soot with
it, till it was quite a thick, smooth paste; this I thinned
with water till it would flow through the nib of a pen;
and by making the slit rather longer than common, 1
could write very well with it. Here then was one want
supplied, and that too which had seemed at first to pre-
sent the greatest difficulties. Something to write upon
was next to be thought of. There was one kind of tree
on the island, that had leaves somewhat like the English
mulberry, the outer bark of which was very fine, and
peeled off in very thin layers, and I had no doubt I
could write on it; so, as soon as the weather would per-
mit, I went in search of some, and found, on trial, that
it answered perfectly well, as to its surface bearing the
ink, and its being easy and agreeable to write on; but I
could only procure it in small pieces, and, when perfectly
dry, it was ant to break. These objections kept me on
the look-out for something better, even while using this At last, I remembered Friday's description of the
manner in which his people make cloth from the bark of
trees; he said it would not bear wetting, and therefore,
when it rained, they changed their clothes, made of this
material, for matting. Thinking this cloth must be some-
thing like paper, I proposed to Friday to make me some.
He was delighted with the idea of supplying any want of
Ins dear father's, so to work he went in high spirits.
With my assistance, he drew up, by the roots, a number
of young trees, of the same kind that I had already used
the outer bark of; then he stripped off their branches
and cut off the roots and tops. I thought, to be sure,
those long, slender rods would never make a piece
of cloth wider than the scraps I had peeled off of larger
trees; but I said nothing; I let Friday go on in his own
way. He next made two slits in the bark the whole
length of the rod, and peeled it off very easily, by which
means each strip was about three or four inches wide.
Having thus drawn off the bark of all the rods he had
prepared, he placed it very carefully in the brook;
keeping it under water, by putting heavy stones on it.
When it was sufficiently soaked, Friday stripped him-
self, and sitting in the water with a flat, smooth board
across his lap, he laid a strip of bark with the inner side
down, upon the board, and scraped it very carefully
with the sharp edge of a shell; dipping it continually in
the water till all the outer coat was removed, and noth-
ing remained but the fine fibres of the inner coat.
When this was done, he spread some plantain leaves on
a smooth, flat place; and on them he laid his strips of
bark, one by the side of another, till they were about a
foot broad. In this way he put on three layers, taking
24*
great care to have the mass of an equal thickness all
over; if the bark was thinner in one place than another,
he put a thicker piece over it in the next layer. Thus
arranged, it lay all night; in the morning the water was
either drained off or evaporated, and the fibres adhered
so firmly together that the whole could be raised from
the ground in one piece. I now saw that there would
be no difficulty in having my sheets of paper as large as
I wanted, for this exceeded all the fools-cap paper I ever
saw; it was about twelve feet long and a foot wide.
While his bark was soaking, Friday had prepared his in-
struments; which, besides the lap-board and shell scra-
per, were a long piece of wood, made very smooth, to
beat it upon, and a square wooden club to beat it with.
Each side of the club was marked, lengthwise, with
small grooves or furrows of different degrees of fineness;
those on one side, being large enough to receive a small
pack-thread; the other sides finer in regular gradation,
so that the grooves on the fourth side, would receive only
a thread of fine sewing-silk. He beat the bark first
with the coarsest side of this club, then with the others
in succession. It spread very fast under the strokes,
but chiefly in width. The grooves in the club marked
it with the appearance of threads, which was, in Friday's
opinion, an essential part of the manufacture. When he
had beaten it a good while, with the finest side of his
club, he pronounced it done; and a most delicate fabric
it was! I admired and praised it to his heart's content.
If it had been designed for wearing apparel, the fine lines
upon it, which he considered a beauty, were certainly
not objectionable; but I knew they would be a disad-
vantage in writing, and proposed to him to finish it off
now with a smooth club, that would obliterate those lines.
He did not know how it would answer, but he was willing
to try; so I planed off one side of his club and he went
over it again, leaving a fine, smooth surface that answer-
ed much better for writing on. I then cut it into sheets,
of the size of common letter-paper, and polished the sur-
face a little with a very smooth stone; and though my
twenty-four sheets did not lie in so small a compass as a
quire of fine letter-paper, I was well satisfied with my
loose pile. My gummy ink wrote pretty well on it, and
I now had no fear of being obliged to leave my history
incomplete, for want of writing materials.
CHAPTER XXXV.
RETURN OF FINE WEATHER — RURAL PLEASURES — SADDLE-
MAKING—STUDY OF BIRDS — A FEATHER CLOAK—STUDY
OF INSECTS A DROUGHT ALARMING APPEARANCES
PRECAUTIONS AN AWFUL PAUSE AN EARTHQUAKE.
WITH the return of fine weather, we resumed our out-
door employments ; the garden and the barley field were
first attended to, and then the usual round of business
and amusement filled up the day, and sent us to our
mattrasses weary enough to sleep soundly. I spent a
good deal of time in navigating my boat, and having
now a compass, and being acquainted with the tides, I
ventured many miles from the island in various direc-
tions, sometimes attended by Friday in his canoe, and
sometimes with him in the boat.
Fishing, hunting, and shooting were also favorite
employments. Friday was so good a marksman with a
bow and arrow, that there was a constant rivalry be-
tween us; but he never learned to shoot well with a
gun, and I did not encourage him to practise much.
My stock of gunpowder was small, and I thought it best
to keep it in case of some emergency, in which I might
need it. Friday was very expert in throwing stones
with a sling; he could hit a bird at rest in that way, as
certainly as I could with a bow and arrow.
We had great pleasure in pruning and training the
vines, creepers, and shrubs, that grew around our arbours.
The one in Gordon Vale, was the most delightful bow-
er of leaves and flowers that can be imagined, and the
view of the cascade from it, beautiful beyond my powers
of description.
We carried our books and writing materials to this
lovely spot, and spent a day or two there every week.
A rustic table in the centre, and a long bench on each
side, accommodated us in our waking and sleeping
hours; and many a delightful slumber have I fallen into,
by the ceaseless sound of that foaming cascade, and within
the leafy walls of that arbour. It was there that I gener-
ally gave Friday his lessons in reading and writing, there
I wrote the latter part of my narrative, and there we used to
talk of our far distant homes, and I used to promise Friday
that, when I returned to England, he should go with me,
and I would show him some of the wonderful and curi-
ous things that I had told him about.
My arbor at the brook I was also very fond of, and
when engaged in working at the forge, or the store-
house, or on my boat, I used to take my noon-day nap
in it.
One of our chief amusements this summer, was riding
on lamas together. I broke and trained to the saddle,
Judy's son and daughter, whom I named Neddy and
Jenny. They were in their prime, and very handsome
animals. Friday profited so much by my lessons in
riding, that he became quite a graceful horseman; or,
o be more correct, I should say, lama-man.
With our united ingenuity, we contrived two very
good bridles; the bits were made of some steel tools,
that were of no use to me. I softened the steel by a
great heat, worked it to the shape I wanted, and then
restored its hardness by cooling it quickly. My first bit
proved too brittle for use, because I cooled it too sud-
denly; but after several experiments, I succeeded in
making it hard without being brittle, that is, I temper-
ed it.
The natural covering of the lama's back made so soft
a seat, that I had not thought of contriving any saddle to
ride on, till I was one day greatly incommoded by the
heat of the creature's body; then I bethought me of a
saddle, and that it would add much tp the pleasure of
riding. So to work I went, and having frequently been
in a saddler's shop when I was a boy, I recollected the
shape of a saddle-tree, and made one of hard, tough wood; but I was greatly at a loss to know how to stuff,
pad, and cover it, so as to make an easy seat, and one that
would sit comfortably on the lama's back, and not hurt
her anywhere. I had enough thick leather for the pur-
pose, that I had dressed myself; and after a great deal
of labor in wetting, stretching, tearing, and beginning
again, I at last stretched a piece of it all over the saddle-
tree; and fixed on some flaps, to keep my knees from
resting against the lama's body. The inside I stuffed
with lama's hair, and lined with a piece of blanket; thus,
by degrees, my rough work looked somewhat like the
picture I had in my mind of a saddle. When I found it did
not hurt the lama's back, I was well pleased ; and though
it was not so easy a seat as I had without it, it was a much
cooler one. I liked to have things complete, so I ad-
ded stirrups to my saddle, and found the use of them far
pleasanter than letting my legs hang dangling down, as I
had always done before. I thus found out, by degrees,
the comforts and advantages of those things which we
are so accustomed to in England, that we never think of
all their value until deprived of them. I could not
pursuade Friday that the use of a saddle was any im-
provement upon riding bare-back; he tried mine but
did not like it at all; so I had no inducement to make
one for him, which it would have given me great pleas-
ure to do, if he had wished for one.
I gave more attention to the birds of the island, this
summer, than I had ever done before. By writing a
short description of each, as I had a good opportunity of
examining its plumage and observing its habits, I found
out that there were fewer different kinds, than I had at
first imagined, and that no more than four were singing
birds; all the rest of the small birds had very brilliant
plumage but no song, and though hawks, owls, and sea-
birds abounded, there were but few species of each. It
was Friday's hunting after a particular kind of bird, with
a bright scarlet breast, that first led me to observe these
pretty creatures so accurately ; and then the more I
learned about them, the more pleasure they afforded
me. If I had been asked a few months before, how ma-
ny different sorts of singing birds I had heard on the isl-
and, I should have answered at random,twenty at least;
but as soon as I learned to distinguish their peculiar
notes, I found my whole choir to consist of only four
distinct kinds, though in each of them there was a
pleasing variety.
The more I studied the subject, the more interested I
became; and at last I undertook to paint a specimen of
each different kind of bird on the island, nineteen in all.
I planed and seasoned some pieces of white wood, about
ten inches long and eight wide; and with the ship's
paints, I made some very coarse daubs of pictures, that
represented the shape and color of the birds. Though
I could not shade them, or make any touches delicate
enough to resemble the plumage, I took care to have
the outline correct; this I traced with a piece of stick,
sharpened and burnt in the fire, and I altered my sketch
again and again, till I got it right. The colors too, I
matched pretty well; and when I had done a good many,
and they were hung round the walls of my parlour-
kitchen, as I call my outer cave, they did look better
than the rocks they covered. For the sake of conven-
ience, in speaking of birds to Friday, I gave each a
name and wrote it on the board. If I had judged of
the merit of my performances, as other painters do, that
is, by the pleasure they afforded to other eyes than
mine, I should have thought myself an excellent artist.
Friday was perfectly delighted with my pictures, and
thought them wonderful likenesses of the birds; and
when I put a berry in the mouth of one, and a green
leaf in another, he was more charmed than ever.
In finding out the habits of different birds, Friday as-
sisted me very much, for he could get very near them
unperceived, besides which, he had great patience in
watching them. All we could learn concerning them, I
wrote on the back of each picture, with my charcoal pen-
cil.
The hope of one day returning to my friends, and de-
scribing to them the various productions of the unknown
island I had so long inhabited, and the belief that these
coarse daubs of mine would be some assistance to me,
were no doubt part of my inducement to paint them;
but if I never quit this spot, I shall always be glad I un-
dertook it, because it has made me better acquainted
with the birds, than I should otherwise have been; it
has moreover afforded me many hours of agreeable em-
ployment, and has been a constant delight to Friday.
To return now to what first put me upon studying
birds. I perceived that Friday was very busy, killing
as many scarlet birds as he could find, also a good ma-
ny green and blue, and some white sea-birds, and pre-
serving their feathers; but as he evidently wished to
keep it a secret from me, I asked no questions. I con-
cluded he meant to surprise me with some savage con-
trivance, or grotesque ornament, such as his people wear.
After several weeks spent in this secret work, he one
day approached me unperceived, and suddenly threw
over my shoulders, a most beautiful cloak made of feath-
ers. The ground-work was white, with a pattern all
over it, of scarlet, blue, and green feathers. It had a
most brilliant effect, and I admired very much the inge-
nuity and patience that must have been exercised, in
making it.
The feathers were fastened to a small net-work of
coarse thread, or fine twine, which he had spun and
twisted from the fibre of a plant; and they were so neat-
ly laid on, one over another, that they lay as smoothly
as those on the breast of a bird. Friday was pleased
with my admiration of his handiwork and his taste, but
he said he had seen much handsomer cloaks, made of
feathers no bigger than his little finger nail. These are
found on the head of a certain bird that abounds in his
country; and as no more than four aref urnished by one
bird, the slaughter among the feathered tribe must be
very great, to make one cloak. The smaller the feath-
ers, the less liable to be ruffled, and the more like a fine
glossy satin it would look. In wearing my cloak to
please Friday, I soon had occasion to remark that I
could not keep my plumage in as good order as the birds.
I wanted their bills, their expertness, and their patience,
in adjusting every feather as they do.
The pleasure I found in observing birds, induced me
to notice more particularly the insects I met with ; and
at last I began to collect specimens, and arrange them
on a board, as I had seen done in museums. I first kill-
ed them with spirits of turpentine, and then fixed them,
with a needle, pin, nail, or thorn, to the board; and I was astonished to see the variety which I collected in
one week. Friday was very expert in catching them,
and those which were of a brilliant color he approved of
keeping; but when he saw me take as much pains to
secure a specimen of a brown moth, or a little black fly,
as I did to get the most splendid butterfly, or green and
gold beetle, he wondered at me, and tried to persuade
me to save only the handsomest.
I explained to him that those who study these things,
find some beauty, or some interesting particulars, in eve-
ry different kind; and that when I returned to England,
I wished to carry with me a complete collection of all
the insects to be found on the island. This desire to get
all, increased as my collection enlarged; and my ardor
in the pursuit was at last so great, that I have walked
twenty miles, and watched all night, to procure a speci-
men of a particular kind of night fly, that was only to be
found near a certain pool of water.
When I had collected a great many, I began to
arrange them in such order as their forms suggested. I
put all the butterflies together, all the moths, and all the
beetles; all the flies with one pair of transparent wings,
I divided from those with two pair. Then I classed
them according to the distinctions which I perceived, but
having no knowledge how naturalists arrange insects in
regular classes and orders, I dare say I made great
blunders.
A month after I began to collect insects, I found that
my first specimens were already much injured, by very
small living animalcules, that preyed on them; this made
it necessary to enclose them in boxes, or drawers, as
fast as they were procured. So to work I went, with
my carpenter's tools, and made a tight box, into which I
fitted trays, that stood one upon another till it was full;
and they lifted out at the top. As I had heard of tobac-
co being used to keep moths from woollen clothes, I put
into each of these trays, a piece of very strong-scented
gum, found in the knots and veins of an old laurel tree
that I had occasion to cut down. The whole of this
kind of laurel, branches and leaves, has a strong aro-
matic odor, like something I have smelt in England
which I cannot remember the name of; but the yellow-
ish substance that I picked out of the knots has the strong-
est scent and retains it the longest; so I put this among
the dead insects, and had no more trouble in preserving
them.
I found Friday's mode of watering the land very use-
ful to the garden and barley field, this summer, for we
had the longest drought that I ever knew; we should
have lost all our crops, but for the supplies of water,
brought from the hill-side, in the little trenches that in-
tersected our land. At last, in the hottest part of sum-
mer, which here is in February, this spring of water
failed, as did several others in the neighbourhood. Even
the copious rill that made my shell fountain, dried up;
and the water in the brook was so much less than I had
ever before known it, that I was very seriously impressed
with the circumstance. I talked of the drought to Fri-
day, but he did not think it any thing very remarkable;
he only said in his lively way, " Clouds stay away a great
while, and then come very big, and fill all the trenches;
garden not dead yet, father." I could not, however,
think as lightly of it as Friday did; more especially,
25
when I found the cascade, in Gordon Vale, diminished
to a stream such as might come out of a common water-
ing pot.
On the 20th of February, the weather was oppres-
sively warm, and I laid myself down in the arbour to take
my afternoon nap; but though languid and tired, I could
not sleep; I missed the agreeable sound and refreshing
coolness of the cascade, and felt an anxiety about its dis-
appearance which banished all sleep from my eyes.
Not so Friday; he was in a deep slumber, and thought
not of any danger being near him.
I remembered reading some account of earthquakes, in
which the drying up of springs, was mentioned as a fore-
runner; and I had very strong apprehensions, on find-
ing the cascade so diminished, that the island was about
to suffer one of those awful convulsions. I tried to re-
member all I could of the former earthquake, and the
indications that preceded it; but I had not then noticed
any such circumstance, and all I could recollect was,
that the air was uncommonly still and sultry for some
hours before the shock. When this occurred to me, I
jumped up and ran out of the arbour, to observe the
weather. Every leaf was motionless, and the air seem-
ed too hot to breathe. I now called Friday, but without
telling him my fears, and we made the best of our way
back to the terrace ; for I resolved to collect some of my valuables, and take to my boat, with provision enough
to last a week, and there await the event.
As I was frequently out, sailing two or three days to-
gether, my preparations did not excite any surprise in
Friday ; though he thought my stock of provisions larg-
er than necessary. Having dispatched him with Nep-
tune and a well loaded lama to the creek, I hastily threw
into a large chest, a variety of useful articles, as well as
all my pictures and looking-glass, and dragged it out on
the terrace. My watch I put in my fob, and Friday's
carved turtle in my pocket, and whatever I could lay
my hand on readily, I brought out of the caves; for I
had every expectation -that another earthquake would
disturb this part of the range of hills, which was already
so broken by hollows and fissures.
A deep rumbling noise, which sounded like the dis-
charge of an hundred cannons, at a great distance, and
appeared to come from under the ground on which I
stood, now warned me to depart; and with my hands
and pockets full of little matters, my precious Testa-
ment under my arm, and Poll on my shoulder, I made as
much haste as I could to reach the creek. I found
Friday had brought the boat to the wharf, and was stow-
ing away the provisions I had sent down, all unsuspicious
of any impending danger. The instinct however of the
lama had warned her, and she looked wild and uneasy.
Hoping it might lead her to a place of safety, I gave her
her liberty, and she trotted slowly up the side of the
creek, frequently looking around her, and listening very
eagerly, as if she heard unusual noises. I had an op-
portunity of observing her as Friday and I went to the
brook, to fill two half barrels with water. When these
were on board, we pushed off; it was too dead a calm to
sail, so we rowed down the creek, and were soon on the
bosom of the ocean.
Here I felt much more safe than on shore, and de-
termined to keep my mind calm, and watch for the con-
vulsions of the earth which I expected every moment to
see. Friday perceived that something more than usual
was in my countenance; but I avoided all explanation
and quieted his suspicions, as I wished to see the effect
of an earthquake on him, and judge by his manner of
bearing it, whether he was accustomed to such things
in his own country.
There was one kind of fishing that Friday was very
fond of, because more difficult than any other; and he
asked me to keep the boat still in deep water, and let
him try his luck. I was glad of the opportunity of lying
off the south shore and watching the land, so I readily
consented; and Friday observed the day was made on
purpose for this kind of fishing, for the water was unusu-
ally smooth, add yet there was a mist in the air that
prevented the fish from swimming too low for his line.
On hearing him say this, I looked up towards the sun,
and was struck with its dark, fiery appearance; the state
of the atmosphere was really appalling, and if Friday had
not been so engaged in his favorite sport, he must have
perceived it. He was always very silent when fishing,
and I had no inclination to speak ; so there we sat, in per-
fect stillness; and never shall I forget that half hour.
The ocean was like a mirror, and had a dark, unusual
tint all over it, while the air seemed stagnant. The sea
and land birds flew about in evident consternation, and
the only sound that broke the awful silence of that half
hour, was the distant neighing of the frightened lamas,
and the occasional scream of some large sea bird, as it
wheeled about in the air, conscious of approaching dan-
ger, and uncertain where to fly from it. At last, the
very fishes seemed aware that something unusual was go-
ing on, for they rose to the surface of the water in large
shoals; and then Friday looked up, and said very calm-
ly, he supposed we should have rain very soon, and then
father would be glad. His eye now caught mine, and he
perceived my emotion; but, at that moment, the boat ap-
peared to strike the bottom violently, and Friday exclaim-
ed "We are aground, father, push off." The moment
before, Friday's line showed that we were in deep wa-
ter, and yet we were now thrown backwards by the sud-
den jar of the boat. The water became violently agita-
ted, in long, deep swells, which ran up on the shore for
many yards, and then retired, leaving the beach bare far
below low water mark. We were so tossed about, we
could only keep our seats by holding on. Friday look-
ed very much terrified, but said nothing; he only placed
himself on the same thwart with me, and put his arm
round my waist. Feeling him do this, I encouraged
him in the best way I could; but I do not know what I
said. A low, rumbling noise filled our ears, and grew
louder and louder, till it burst out into such an explosion
as all the cannon in the world could not make, if fired
off at once. It made me shiver all over, it was so loud.
Friday threw himself down full length in the bottom of
the boat; and covering his face with his hands, there he
lay. Neptune whined most piteously, and Poll scream-
ed in terror. The rolling of the sea now carried the
boat swiftly forward till she nearly ran upon the rocks,
then hurried her off again more than a mile from the
shore.
I found all attempts to manage the boat with oars
useless, so I took them in; and bracing myself so as to
keep my seat, I galzed in utter amazement at the wonder-
ful agitation of the water, and looked earnestly at the
land, to see if I could discover any change there.
Another dreadful noise now filled the air, but I listened to
it with less agitation, and kept my eyes fixed on the hills
behind the terrace, when I distinctly saw them open and
a column of fire issue from them; large masses of rock
were loosened and rolled down upon the terrace; the
earth heaved and gaped, and then closed up again,
in the most fearful manner. Frightful as the agitation
of the water had appeared, I was thankful that I was on
it, instead of being amidst the heavings of the earth, and
the falling of rocks, trees, and stones. O what a grand,
yet appalling sight, it is, to see the earth, which seems so
solid, rise and sink, open and close up again!
I watched with peculiar interest the fate of Signal
Hill, well knowing that my pyramid, solid as it was,
could not resist these tremendous heavings of the earth,
and that it might be engulfed, in a moment, in one of
those openings, that were made and closed again by this
irresistible force. I could see the little monument that
contained my most valuable possession, the history of
my residence on this desolate island; and next to the
preservation of Friday's life and my own, I most anxiously
desired the safety of my manuscript. The rocks fell
around it, the earth sank away on each side of it, but
still it stood unhurt, only becoming more conspicuous
among the ruins; and when the shocks abated, there it
was quite safe, a pyramid of masonry on the top of a
pyramid of solid rock, making a remarkable looking
25*
monument indeed. But the manuscript was safe, and
I rejoiced at that.
One hill near the east end of the terrace disappeared
entirely, and a black cloud hung over the spot some
time; then it gradually rose up in the air and was dis-
persed. There were five distinct and tremendous
shocks, accompanied by a loud roaring, or a sharp,
crackling noise, and each time the boat trembled, as if it
had struck against something, though not so violently as
at first; and all through the evening there were lesser
shakings and quakings, accompanied by lesser noises.
My pretty terrace looked, from a distance, like a heap
of ruins; and I had no doubt that all traces of my subter-
ranean abode were destroyed.
The first words Friday spoke were, "What is it, fa-
ther?" and after the deep, solemn, and affecting sensa-
tions that I had experienced for two hours, it was a great
relief to be thus quietly and simply questioned, by my
only rational companion.
I bade him get up, and come and sit by me; then I
showed him the change in the appearance of the island,
and told him all I could about it; for he had never seen,
or felt, any thing like it before. He was very anxious
to know if it was all over, and I told him I believed the
worst of it was passed; then he beset me with ques-
tions, very few of which I could answer satisfactorily;
and being very much exhausted, I told him we would
talk more about it another time, but that we had better
take'some refreshment now.
Having supped in the boat, and fed our dumb friends,
we took advantage of a little southerly breeze that had
sprung up, and sailed round the east end of the island to
see all we could, while it was yet daylight. We ran
aground several times on new shoals formed by the
earthquake, and all the way we went, we saw traces of
the terrible convulsion.
I wondered at myself for having lived so at my ease
in those caves, after having experienced one earthquake,
and seen its effects on that very spot. But that shock
was so long ago and so soon over, that I had lost all fear
of a repetition of it. I had spent months together within
Fort Hill, without once remembering how it had been
convulsed, or that I was furnished with a bed-room by
the effects of an earthquake, or that I might be deprived
of it by another, and lose my life at the same time.
CHAPTER XXXVI.
CHANGES IN GORDON VALE — A DAY AND NIGHT AT ANCHOR
CONVERSATION ON EARTHQUAKES FIRST AND SECOND
CAUSES — THE RHINE AND VINEYARD BOAT ADRIFT
THE CREEK.
WE spent the night at anchor, and from the gathering
of the clouds, which hung very low, we expected every
moment to be drenched with rain. The sun, however
rose before the rain began to fall, and the shaking of the
earth, and unusual rolling of the sea, had ceased for some hours J I therefore thought we might venture to
land; and as I was very desirous of seeing what damage
the earthquake had done in Gordon Vale, we agreed to
carry our breakfast with us and eat it there.
As I ascended the valley from the bay, I was glad-
dened by the sound of the waterfall, long before I saw it;
when I arrived at my arbour I found it uninjured, though
fragments of rocks lay scattered around, that were not
there before.
It rejoiced my heart to find one of my homes still
habitable, and having deposited our basket of provisions
on the table, I went out to see what changes the earth-
quake had made. I now perceived that the whole ap-
pearance of the cascade was altered; from being very
high and narrow, it had become much lower and broad-
er. A large rock, over which it once bounded, had dis-
appeared; the whole form of the land at the head of the
valley was changed, I could hardly tell how. The co-
pious stream that once leaped from so great a height,
now seemed to be collected in a basin of half that ele-
vation, and discharged its more abundant waters in a
long line of falls; after which it found its way around
fragments of rocks that were newly fallen, which in
many places had entirely changed the course of the
stream.
It was a great disappointment to me to find my
favorite cascade thus altered; for when I heard it
from below, I fully expected to see it unchanged.
Though some might think it a grander fall now it was so
much enlarged, it had lost much of its picturesque beau-
ty, and was no longer the familiar object that I had gaz-
ed at so much, as to become quite attached to it.
I comforted myself as well as I could with finding my
arbour untouched; and when I saw how the earth had
slid about in various directions, and what huge rocks
had rolled down near it, I was astonished at its having
escaped.
Emboldened by spending one hour on shore, and
finding the earth firm again under my feet, I determined
to pass the day in coasting round the island, and land-
ing at various places, to see the effects of the earthquake.
I dreaded so much to see the devastation which I
knew it bad made at the terrace, that I shrunk from the
idea of going there; I therefore sailed along the eastern
shore, and visited the Bay of Terror. We saw some
new rents among the high hills, that run parallel with the
coast, but in the bay we found no traces of the late
convulsion of nature. Man alone made the terrors of
that place; and when I remembered the bloody deeds
that had been committed there, I thought how much I
should prefer being swallowed up by an opening in the
earth, to being murdered by my fellow beings.
While we were wandering about the bay, the clouds,
which had been gathering all the morning, began to
pour down torrents of rain; and, as there was no shelter
for us on shore, we took to our boat. Observing the
ocean to look a little squally, we anchored in the most
sheltered part of the bay; for I was still afraid to trust
the earth, lest its quakings were not over, and made an
awning of our sails, which kept off a good deal of the
rain. Several violent gusts of wind made us very glad of
our sheltered situation ; and we spent the rest of that day
and the next night there.
During all these hours of confinement to the boat, we
felt no weariness, for our conversation was of the most
interesting kind. Friday had many questions to ask
about the earthquake, and, among other things, he wanted
to know if I did not believe it was an evil spirit that had
made it. I saw plainly that he considered all the havoc
we had witnessed as the work of his old enemy, Etee;
and I said all I could to convince him it was no such
thing. When I told him God made the earthquake, he
said, " Then God must be angry with us "; and he wished
to know how we had offended him, that we might do so
no more. To correct this mistake, I explained to him
that God was never angry, that he was a God of love,
and every thing he did was for the general good of his
creatures. I told him I had no doubt, that earthquakes
were of some great use, and did a vast deal of good to
the world in general; and if that were true, it would be
wise and benevolent in God to make them, although they
might incommode, or even kill, a few of his creatures.
I then gave Friday my way of accounting for earth-
quakes. I had before explained to him the shape of
the earth, and taught him the meaning of the words
diameter and circumference, centre and surface, and had
often shown him, by measuring the ground before him,
how much was a foot, yard, rod, fathom, and mile; so
that he understood what I meant, when I said the diam-
eter of the earth measured about 8,000 miles, and
therefore the centre must be 4,000 miles from the sur-
face. I now told him that, in the centre of the earth,
is supposed to be a great deal of hot matter, such as
melted iron, copper, and lead, burning coal and sulphur;
there is also a great deal of water in the earth; and
when the water comes upon these hot substances, it
changes into steam, such as comes out of the nose of the
tea-kettle; a little water makes a great deal of steam;
so we may suppose how much is made by a large quan-
tity; this steam must have room, so it bursts open the
earth.
I dare say my friends will laugh when they read of
my undertaking to explain the cause of earthquakes, and
think me very presumptuous to have any opinion about
it; but I once read, in a translation from the French, an
account of earthquakes, written by a man of the name of
Des Cartes, which clearly proved to my mind that they
are caused by vapor or steam, and the more I reflect
upon it the more reasonable it seems. I burst a pip-
kin once by boiling a little water in it, with the cover
fastened on very tightly. I spent a great deal of time,
breath, and patience, in explaining all this to Friday;
and, when he thoroughly understood me, he looked up
in a very animated manner, and said, "Then, Father,
Etee did not make the earthquake, and God did not
make it; but fire and water made it."
Here were two right ideas, and one very wrong one;
so I set to work again, to explain to him that God is the
first cause of every thing; the fire and water make the
earthquake, but God made the fire and water; so God
is the first cause of the earthquake, and the fire and wa-
ter are only second causes. I told him the turning of
the earth towards the sun, makes it daylight, and its
turning away from it makes night, so we say the motions
of the earth make day and night, and so they do; but
God makes the earth to turn round in the way it does,
so God is the first cause of day and night, and the mo-
tion of the earth is only the second cause. After I had
given him several such examples, I asked him to give
me one; and he proved that he fully understood me, by
saying, "The seed is what makes the tree grow, but
God made the seed all right for growing a tree, so God
is the first cause of the tree." I then asked him if the
sun, air, water, and earth were not all necessary to make
the seed grow, and which of those were second, and
which first causes. He looked a little puzzled, and re-
peated over my words; then he replied, "All second
causes, father; for God made sun, God made air, God
made water, and God made earth. Friday can't think
of any first cause besides God. Is there any, father?"
I assured him there was no other first cause, but the
Creator and Preserver of all things, whom we call God;
that He was the beginning of every thing. Though I
had often said this to Friday before, he never under-
stood it so fully, nor felt the truth of it, as he did now.
This satisfactory conversation with Friday makes me
always look back with peculiar pleasure to that rainy
day, spent on board the Success, with only a sail to
shelter us.
We talked on these interesting subjects much more
than I have written, and our hearts were filled with the
love of God, and with admiration of his works. The
night was dark and stormy, and our slumbers were fre-
quenlly broken by the motions of the boat and the gusts
of wind; but we felt no fear, and when we could not
sleep, we talked again about the Great First Cause, and
his wonderful works, all designed for the good and hap-
piness of his creatures.
In the course of the night the rain ceased, the weather
became settled, and the sun rose most beautifully,
amidst fine piles of clouds, that looked like his purple
robes, fringed with gold. We and the boat and the
sails were soon dried in the sun's warm rays, and then
we breakfasted and proceeded on our coasting voyage.
We could see no traces of the earthquake on the
northern side of the island; but, as we approached the
Rhine, we saw fragments of trees floating on the waters;
and in one place, where the land is flat and covered
with thick woods, several acres had sunk down into the
water, till nothing but the topmost branches of the trees
were visible. This was a kind of havoc made by the
earthquake, such as I had not seen before; and when I
considered what great hearings and tossings of the earth
there must have been, to make such a change as this, I
did not wonder so much at the agitation of the water.
This sinking of the land made a sort of bay where the
mouth of the Rhine had been, and caused the salt water
to encroach upon the fresh. But on entering this new
formed bay, I could not see any river water, but only the
dry bed of gravel and stones, where the river had once
been. This astonished me so much, I resolved to land,
and walk up the left bank of the Rhine to the vineyard,
and see what had become of the river. I presently
came to a part of the bed, that was quite choaked up
with rocks, stones, earth, and fallen trees; these had
formed an embankment that dammed up the river and
had made it overflow a great part of the vineyard and
the low woods on the opposite bank, forming a large
lake. The whole appearance of the country was so al-
tered, I could hardly realize that I had ever seen it be-
fore.
Friday and I were standing on one end of the newly
formed dam, and trying to find certain objects by which
to judge of the extent of the innundation, when we heard
a loud crashing noise, and in an instant saw the middle
oft he embankment give way, and a mighty torrent of wa-
ters rush through the opening, roaring and widening as it
went, and carrying all before it, in its course. It was a
fine sight to behold, and I rejoiced that we happened to
be there, just at the right time to see the newly formed
lake, before the dam gave way, and also to witness the
emptying of its waters into the bed of the river.
It was pleasant to see the vineyard look again as it was
wont to do, and I did not doubt that this temporary in-
undation would increase its fertility.
We returned the same way we came, expecting to find
our boat where we had left her; but she had disappear-
ed entirely, leaving behind her only a piece of the painter
with which we had made her fast to the rock. She had
no doubt been sent adrift by the sudden rushing of such a
great body of water, and Poll was the only sailor on
board, to navigate her. Fearing some current would
carry her out of our reach, I proposed to Friday to go
across the strip of land, which divided us from the creek,
get his canoe, and paddle after the boat; but he said,
that as soon as he could see her, he would swim off and
bring her to me.
The light on the water was so dazzling to the eyes,
that we looked a good while before we could discern our
lost vessel; but at last Friday's sharp eyes espied her,
like a speck on the water. I thought her too far off for
him to attempt to swim to her; but he laughed at the
idea, and declared he could swim twice as far. So
away he went, only begging me to stand on the high land
by the present mouth of the river, and wave to him from
time to time, to direct his course toward the boat, as he
might not be able to see her himself.
I did so, whenever he looked round for guidance;
with surprising swiftness he reached the boat, and jump-
ed into her, as nimbly as if he were not the least fatigued.
The wind was on shore, and he set the sails and brought
her to me in a few minutes. Poll looked as composed,
as if she had not been cruizing alone; but when we all
got on board, she seemed very glad of our company,
and caressed Neptune in her most affectionate manner.
We now proceeded to the creek, where I dreaded to
see the alterations and devastation, made by the earth-
quake. My imagination was very busy as we approach-
ed, picturing the changes we might find. I fancied the
little valley of the brook filled up with earth and stones,
and its pretty, babbling stream buried under them. My
store-house and forge might be thrown down, or swallow-
ed up, or covered by the fall of the cliff upon it. I en-
tered the creek with a beating heart, and full of fearful
expectations. I sailed up as far as the natural wharf;
there was no perceptible damage done. I landed, leav-
ing Friday to discharge the cargo, and moor the vessel,
as the first mate should do. I walked up the valley,
and soon beheld the stone wall, and yellow thatch, as
perfect as ever. O how it gladdened my heart, to find

26
this favorite spot, and this valuable store-house of goods
uninjured.
As it was probable that all I ever possessed on the
terrace, was swallowed or buried up for ever, I must de-
pend entirely on what I had here. Finding this deposit
untouched, made me quite easy as to the means of liv-
ing; though I could not help regretting my pleasant
abode, under the hill, which long habit had rendered
very dear to me.
We found some of the ship's bedding, in the store-
house, and placed it in our arbour near the brook, de-
termining to make that our sleeping apartment for the
present, and convert the forge into a kitchen fireplace. I could not make up my mind to go to the terrace this
evening, so we spent the rest of the daylight in arrang-
ing our things, and establishing ourselves in our new
quarters; and retired early to our mattresses, to make
up for our disturbed rest the night before.
CHAPTER XXXVII.
CHANCES ON THE TERRACE NEDDY AND JENNY LOSSES
AND REGRETS—FEATHER PICTURES — VARIOUS CHANGES
WRECK OF THE THAMES SEEN — BUILDING A COTTAGEVARIOUS RESOURCES.
MY first thought on awaking, the next morning, was of
the lamas. We had seen nothing of them in our tour
the day before, and I very much feared they were all
destroyed by the earthquake. The wild ones always
fled, when alarmed, to the highest parts of the island;
and, as I had seen flame and smoke issue from several
of the highest peaks, I thought it most likely the whole
flock was killed. The tame ones, in such a time of ter-
ror, would be apt to return to their wild habits, and share
the same fate ; they might, however, have sought my
protection on the terrace, and this idea determined me
to visit that scene of desolation, directly after breakfast.
Hoping to recover many things by digging, Friday
and I shouldered our spades, and marched off in silence
towards the terrace. The earth was now as firm as if
it had never been moved ; the air was fresh and invig-
orating; the sky had lost its lurid hue, and looked as
serene and blue as the waters; the birds sang, and the
flowers perfumed the air. All nature seemed radiant with
smiles, after drinking in the plentiful moisture, that had
so long been needed, and which had fallen in torrents
after the earthquake.
We had not proceeded far, before we found the way
impeded by slides of earth, loose stones, and fragments
of rock, that were strewed profusely around. When, af-
ter a scrambling walk, we approached the place, once
so familiar to our eyes, it was so changed we could not
tell where we were, or recognise the spot we had inhabi-
ted. The grassy terrace was gone, a hill stood in the
midst of it, and all around was fresh earth and stones.
Friday and I looked at each other, and around us, in
silent astonishment ; every thing was so altered, that I
was quite bewildered, and could not even tell which was
Fort Hill, or whereabouts I was. At last, we both
thought of our gardens at the same moment; we looked
around for them, thinking they would be land-marks, that
would guide us in our search after other things. But
our very gardens and barley field had moved; the
whole side of the hill, below the terrace, had slid off an
eighth of a mile at least, but whether in a direct or slant-
ing line we could not tell.
We passed round the newly formed hill, hoping to
trace the terrace beyond it, and here the formation of
the ground was not so entirely altered ; we could con-
jecture where the lama shed had been, though it was
now covered up with earth and stones.
As we stood, talking over the wonderful changes
around us, we heard something like the neighing of
lamas. It sounded to me a great way off, but Friday
thought it proceeded from within the earth, near us. We
now surveyed the ground very carefully, and were sure
we were near the spot where the shed stood ; we heard
the sound repeated several times, though very faintly,
and were convinced it proceeded from within the slide
of earth before us, which in all probability had covered
up the shed, without crushing it. We called aloud, as
we were used to do, to Neddy and Jenny ; they neigh-
ed, as if in reply; and to work we went to dig them
out. •
Long and hard did we labor, before we uncovered
any part of the shed; and after we were sure we had come to it, the earth kept falling down, as fast as we re-
moved it, and seemed to make our labor vain. An
occasional sound from our poor friends within, encour-
aged us; and after one of the hardest day's works, I
ever did, we had the great pleasure of delivering Neddy
and Jenny from their prison-house. They had fasted
many hours, and were delighted to regain their freedom.
By turns they cropped the nearest food, and caressed
us; and I could easily fancy that their large, dark eyes
expressed gratitude to their deliverers.
These two living treasures were all we could rescue
of our former possessions on the terrace; every thing
else was buried up, far below our power of penetrating.
What I most regretted, were my pictures; I had put
them into a chest, and dragged that out of the cave; but
as near as I could judge, the new hill stood directly over
it, and my ornithology was gone for ever. I comforted
myself by the reflection, that my insects were safe; for
the box which contained them, happened to be at the
store-house, where I had carried it, to put a fastening on
the cover, as my bench and tools were kept there. The
insects being safe, and the pleasure of having saved the
lives of Neddy and Jenny, helped to reconcile me to the
loss of many other things.
I could not give up my pleasant dwelling-place, and
familiar haunts on the terrace, my pretty fountain and
shady seat, without much regret; but there was one way
of viewing even this loss, which made it seem less of a
misfortune. If any part of my caves had remained hab-
itable, I should have been strongly inclined to return to
my old quarters, on the terrace, and thus run a great
risk of being buried alive there by another earthquake.
Now I was forced to abandon the terrace altogether, and
live entirely at the creek, where I determined to build
a convenient cottage, before the rainy season came.
I should have liked sleeping in my little arbour near
the brook, but for the mosquitos, which were very
troublesome at times, and obliged us to shut ourselves up
at night in the store-house, and made me regret the cool,
dark apartment, under the hill, which I had so long en-
joyed, free from all such annoyances.
As soon as we had got over the excitement of the
earthquake, and become settled and regular in our mode
of living, I thought about replacing my lost ornithology.
I could recall nearly all I had written of the habits of the
birds, and as I had become fond of painting their por-
traits, I prepared a fresh set of boards, for doing them
over again, before I recollected that all my paints, except
black and yellow, were buried up in the caves; of these
colors, I still had a considerable stock in my store-house,
but the rest were irrecoverably gone.
I next thought of stuffing them, but I had no idea how
to set about it. I had seen stuffed birds in museums,
but never inquired how they were prepared. I did not
know whether the skins alone were stuffed, or whether
the bones were left in, and the flesh dried on them. In
this dilemma, I remembered having seen, in the parlour
of an aged aunt of mine, some representations of birds,
made with the real feathers stuck on paper, and the bills
and legs painted. This seemed to me more practicable
than stuffing ; so I resolved to attempt it. I made a correct
outline on the board as before, and with a very strong
solution of gum, I stuck on some of the long, tail-feath-
ers first; cutting off the quill part, and covering up the
ends with the small downy feathers that grow about the
26*
tail of the real bird. Then I went on, placing the feath-
ers that came next; I fastened them down to the board
as firmly as I could with gum, and laid them on very
smoothly, just so as to lap over one another, and produce
the best effect. Though I could not contrive to use up in
this way, a quarter part of the feathers that were on one
side of the real bird, I put on enough to make it look a
little raised and give one a tolerable idea of the plumage of the little red and blue paroquet, that I first attempted.
When Friday saw what I was about, he said, " Fath-
er paint birds, like Friday paint cloak." This speech of
his, reminded me how nicely he could arrange feath-
ers, and I immediately proposed to him to assist me in
my work. Nothing could please him better, and his
nimble fingers and patient disposition made him very use-
ful to me.
My first attempt in this new art, was sufficiently suc-
cessful, to encourage me to proceed; and I soon im-
proved so much, that I did the first one over again. As
fast as these feather portraits were finished, I shut them
up in a box with some of the aromatic gum that served
to preserve my insects, and thus kept them fresh and
perfect.
Though I have dwelt so long on this subject here, I
did not let the work interfere with my preparations for
building a house. We spent a certain portion of every
day, in burning shells for lime, bringing sand from a dis-
tance, collecting stones, or felling trees for the roof tim-
bers; and it was only as a recreation, after more severe
toil, that I indulged myself in working at my ornithology.
I wrote the descriptions over again, on the back of each
picture, and found I remembered them perfectly.
I must now go back a little in my narrative, to notice
a very serious change, produced by the Earthquake, in
my means, as well as mode of living. It deprived me
of my most important article of food ; the lamas were
all destroyed by it; except Neddy and Jenny, I could
not find one on the island.
Always keeping together in herds, and running to the
highest land when frightened, they were probably all
swallowed up in the tremendous convulsions of the hills.
Friday and I rode all over the island to ascertain the
fact, and became at last convinced that the two lamas we
had saved, were the only ones that remained alive.
This was to me a great loss, both as regarded food and
the pleasures of the chase; though of less consequence
now, than before I had Friday. His knowledge of escu-
lent vegetables, and his expertness in fishing, would give
me a sufficiency of food at all times. If I should re-
main on this island after all my European clothes were
worn out, I should prefer garments made of cloth man-
ufactured from the bark of trees, or of mats woven of
the fibres of plants, to the use of lama skins ; and I had
enough of the wool and hides, already drest, to serve all
my purposes for some years to come. My books and
writing materials were all saved by being at the arbour in
Gordon Vale.
The changes produced in various parts of the island,
by the earthquake, gave a new interest to our rides, and
when we thought we had seen them all, we were con-
tinually discovering some novelty or other, that had be-
fore escaped our observation. It was not till several
weeks had elapsed, that we saw the change made in
Grand River by the earthquake. The bed of the river
seemed, in one place, to have been heaved up above the
water, and there to have remained, altering the course
of the stream considerably, and bringing to light huge
timbers and fragments of the Thames. I had often
wondered that so few remains of that wreck had ever
come ashore; but now it appeared, that after beating to
pieces on the rocks, the lowest part of the hull had drift-
ed within the mouth of Grand River and there settled
down, in the sandy bed, till all was up-heaved together
by the earthquake.
The sight of those poor remains of the Thames, filled
my head with thoughts of returning to my native land,
and I visited the spot repeatedly, and examined the posi-
tion of the wreck, with a view to finding out if any thing
could be done with it; but it was in such a ruinous state,
and so far sunk in the sand, that it appeared a hopeless
undertaking. At first, I was a good deal carried away
by the schemes I formed about escaping from banish-
ment in a vessel constructed from this wreck, but in
time I came to view the subject more soberly, and to
reflect, that if I had a good stout vessel, built and rigged
completely, I could not navigate her, with no one to
help me but Friday. As I could not land any where on
the coast of South America, for fear of a worse impris-
onment than I suffered here, I must double Cape Horn,
or go through the Straits of Magellan; either of
which required more hands and more seamanship than I
possessed.
After coming to this conclusion, I mentioned the sub-
ject to Friday, who not only thought it impossible to do
any thing with the wreck, but wondered at my wishing
to leave the island. He loved me so well, and had be-
come so fond of the place, and of the life he led here,
that he had no wish beyond it; but I could never give
up the prospect of returning home, and every thing I did
had some reference to that cherished hope.
In the latter part of the dry season, we built our cot-
tage by the brook. I found it a very different thing to
act mason, with such an excellent tender as Friday,
from what it was, when I had to do all myself. I made
a low, one-story house, with two rooms in it, a fire-place
in one, and two windows in each. I put a thatched roof
to it, and had but one door, that I might the more easily
secure it against the attack of Spaniards. For this pur-
pose also, I made very strong inside shutters to the win-
dows. As I never wanted to exclude the air in any weath-
er, but only to keep out insects, I had a fine net-work
stretched across the windows, which answered the pur-
pose perfectly well, and I felt no want of glazed sashes.
I contrived several peep holes in the roof, into which I
put some window-glass, and which were entirely con-
cealed outside. These I made on purpose that I might
watch the movements of an enemy, if any should
approach my dwelling, when I was inside of it.
Our new habitation was embosomed in trees, and sur-
rounded by high rocks; and we hoped it might escape
all observation. To make it less conspicuous, we chose
for the roof, a kind of straw, or grass, that looked, when
dried, very much of the color of the rocks, in preference
to the kind of straw with which I had thatched the store-
house ; that was of a bright yellow, and therefore less
safe, though much prettier.
I was most puzzled about flooring my apartments.
The one with a fire-place, which I called my kitchen,
had fine gravel for its natural floor, so I only cut a drain
through it and left it as it was. The sleeping room was
covered with turf, and though nothing could be a prettier
carpet, at first, I knew the grass would die directly, be
trodden into the earth, and leave a very dirty floor.
To saw planks was too hard labor, as we had nothing
but a hand-saw; but trees were plenty, and I resolved
instead of sawing them into planks, just to square them
with an axe, and lay them down whole, side by side, all
over the bed-room floor. This would make a clean dry
surface, though not half so even and pleasant as the nat-
ural floor of my former bed-room.
When the heavy work was done, it was very agreeable
to fit up the inside of the house. Friday and 1 sawed
boards enough, to make a range of shelves in each room,
and a good-sized table in the kitchen. As we had so
much sawing to do, I thought the best way would be to
fit up a saw-pit at once, such as is always used in my
country. With two hand-saws I made one long one,
with a handle at each end; then Friday and I, one above
and the other below, could make long strokes, and get a
board sawed out, in a quarter of the time that either
could do it alone.
We had cooking utensils, crockery, mattrasses and
bedding enough at the store-house, to supply the place
of all we had lost by the earthquake; but on opening a
chest, that I thought was filled with sailors' clothing, I
was disappointed to find nothing but small blocks and
other things belonging to the rigging of a ship. I now
perceived that I had lost most of my clothing; but a little
industry and ingenuity would supply me with home-made
articles of dress, when those I had, should be worn out.
By way of being provided in time, and having the em-
ployment of tailoring for the winter months, I set Friday
to making cloth, as soon as the house was built, and the
boards sawed for the inside work. By the time I had
fitted up and furnished the two rooms, Friday had made
several large pieces of cloth, of various thicknesses; and
he collected fibres, to be spun and woven into mats, when
we should be confined by the rains. Thus prepared, we
saw the clouds gathering without any fear that the two
rainy months would seem tedious.
I had learned to make less, instead of greater, prepa-
ration for the winter. Friday liked to fish in the
rain, as well as in dry weather, and it never hurt him at
all. There were enough vegetables in season, all the
year round, so that no great store was necessary. We
gathered our crop of taro, and put it under cover, and I
made raisins as usual; these with fresh fish were our
chief food.
Our salt-pans succeeded very well, this summer ; and
during the great drought, before the earthquake, we
made an unusual quantity. I still had a small stock of
salt beef and pork on hand, which I had kept good by
boiling over the brine, or renewing it occasionally; and
being very successful in the chase, during the early part
of this summer, I had a good quantity of salted lama's
flesh on hand.
All my domestic concerns were in a prosperous way
before the earthquake. That produced great changes
in every thing, and made me feel like a stranger again
in my lonely isle; but after I was settled in my new cot-
tage, and my good lama Jenny presented me with a
pretty kid, and yielded me plenty of milk, I became
very well contented, forgot my losses, and learned to
make myself comfortable with what I had.
My most valuable possession was my large assortment
of tools, and they were all saved. My store-house too,
was full of rigging, sails, casks, and various materials that
I had got out of the whaleman; and though not of any
immediate use, I knew by experience, that, in my situa-
tion, things may become useful which do not at first
seem likely to turn to any account.
As my pyramid had endured through such mighty
convulsions of the earth, without giving way, I thought
it was still the safest place for my manuscript; so there I
continued to deposit it, as fast as it was written.
I found it much slower work, to write on my new-
fashioned paper, and with gummy ink, than when I had
better materials; but by making long slits and broad
nibs to my pens, I managed to write several pages a day
during the rainy season.
CHAPTER XXXVIII.
FIFTH WINTER—FRIDAY'S EDUCATION — DOMESTIC MANtT-
FACTURES — VARIOUS DISTURBANCES —A THUNDER-STORM CONVERSATION ON ELECTRICITY.
I NOW entered upon the fifth winter of my sojourn
in this island, and I only wished it might be spent
as agreeably as the last. Our musical instruments,
broad-swords, writing materials, and books, had all es-
caped being buried up by the earthquake, in conse-
quence of their being at the arbour in Gordon Vale.
The checker board and men were lost, but Friday sup-
plied their place by a very pretty board, carved and in-
laid, and a set of men which he took great pains to make
uniform. We also made a set of chess men together;
and I taught Friday the moves, and the rules of the
game, being nearly all I knew myself; he was so
quick at making the necessary combinations, and enter-
ed into the spirit of the game so fully, that he soon play-
ed as well as I did; and many a long, rainy evening
have we played for three or four hours, without being
aware that one had passed. We both became so fond of chess, that we lost all relish for the more simple game
of checkers, which now seemed quite insipid. I soon
found that we were in danger of playing chess to excess;
and even in our peculiar situation, where time was not
very valuable, I felt as if we were doing wrong when we
played many hours every day; so we made a rule that
we would never begin till a certain hour in the evening,
and then play only two games.
Friday made great progress in his education at this
time, which he certainly would not have done, had he
been allowed to play chess as much as he was inclined.
I taught him to speak more correctly than he had ever
done before, and made him acquainted with the first ru-
diments of grammar. I set him copies in round hand,
and he learned to write, first with his finger on a board
covered with sand, and then with a burnt stick on wood;
and when he was once persuaded to hold the stick
properly in his fingers, he learnt to write very fast. He
wanted me to let him hold the stick any how, provided
he made the letters right; but I told him that after try-
ing his way, and all other ways, hundreds and thousands
of persons had agreed that one particular way was the
best. Then I showed him the advantages of holding
the pen, pencil or stick, as I had been taught, and as I
taught him; and I convinced him at length, that if it was
a little more difficult, or even a great deal more so, it
was best to hold it the right way, from the beginning, and
it would soon be as easy to him as his own manner of
grasping it.
This rainy season Friday succeeded in another point
of still greater difficulty, that of ciphering; he learned
the use of those nine little characters that stand for num-
bers of any thing, and understood at last the difference
which is made in their meaning, by changing their posi-
tion or by putting after them that important little round
mark which means something, or nothing, just as you
please to use it.
Friday had saved, as a curiosity, a very regularly
shaped, round gourd; on this he was preparing to trace a
pattern of leaves and lines, which he knew how to do with
a hot wire, when I proposed to show him, by means of it,
the shape of the large portions of land and water that
compose the earth. He had before learnt the shape of
the world we inhabit, and was directly struck with the
near resemblance which the shape of the gourd had to
it, for it was a little flattened at the stalk and blossom
ends.
I tried to trace upon it, the four great divisions of the
world, and thought I could do it at once ; but I found
myself very much at a loss immediately. For fear of
spoiling the gourd, I marked it first with chalk, and had
to rub out the lines a great many times before I could
make even Europe look at all right. I had studied
maps a good deal at home, and had them constantly be-
fore my eyes at school; and yet I could not satisfy
myself at all with any outline made from memory.
Even North and South America, which I thought I
could draw at once, were a grand puzzle to me. I
could not remember the shape of the piece of land
which joins the two continents, nor how high up to place
the Gulf of Mexico, nor where about to put California.
After practising a great deal on a piece of board, after
many trials and corrections, recollecting one thing af-
ter another, I at last got what seemed to me a tolera-
ble outline of the four quarters of the globe. I then
drew them on the gourd, and taught Friday the names of
them, and of the oceans which divide them from one an-
other. I dare say, I have made great blunders after all;
but if ever I can see any maps again, I will learn to
draw a correct outline of every principal country, for I
am quite ashamed of being so much at a loss.
Friday made some fine, soft mats for clothing, and I
acted tailor in converting them into trovvsers for our fu-
ture wear. I also turned seamstress, and with the nee-
dle and thread, found in the mate's till, I made, of Fri-
day's cloth, some garments, that partook of the nature of
27
shirts and jackets too; a little of each. One of these
nameless garments, and a pair of the matting trowsers,
would be a complete suit for hot weather, and defend
our bodies from sun and mosquitos.
Friday wove, under my direction, some straw hats
with broad brims; and, as he made the second much
better than the first, I encouraged him to try a third and
a fourth, that he might perfect himself in the work; at
last he completed six, and hung them up to the rafters, in
the order in which he had made them.
We prepared a good many fishing-lines, and plenty of
new bow-strings; and we brought the grindstone into the
kitchen and sharpened all our tools. I could never
grind an axe, without being made peculiarly sensible of
the pleasure and benefit of having a companion, nor
without comparing the easy manner in which I now did
it, with the trouble I once had in doing the same thing.
We had a great many of those sudden and short gales
of wind, which are common in this climate; and many
fine trees were blown down. When this happened in
the night, the noise startled us out of our sleep, and
alarmed us a good deal ; for we thought it the report of
fire-arms close to us. I heard this winter a great many
noises that were new to me, and which had never reach-
ed my ears in that quiet bed-room within Fort Hill; but
by degrees I learned to account for them all satisfac-
torily.
My new habitation, besides being more exposed to
noise, was not so weather-tight as my former one ; and
we sometimes had the rain streaming down on our beds,
or dropping on the table. I wondered that my second
attempt at a thatched roof should not be so good as the
first, till I found out, it was my peep holes that did all
the mischief. The thatch over them was not so thick
as elsewhere, and being more horizontal, the rain filtered
through, instead of running off; I therefore dispensed
with them for the present, and made the roof water-tight
at last.
Towards the close of the rainy season, we were one
night startled out of our sleep, by a noise like that of a
falling tree, but louder and more prolonged. I jumped
up in bed, with a beating heart, for I thought it might be
the beginning of another earthquake. Friday was awake
too, and he said, "A great many trees knocked down
that time, Father." But I knew that was not the cause,
as I could not hear any wind. While listening, and holding
my breath, that I might catch some second sound which
would explain the first, a sharp flash of lightning, and a
loud clap of thunder, relieved my mind from anxiety.
Though these came together, and I might reasonaby
fear the effects of lightning so near me, a thunder storm
seemed a mere trifling danger, compared with an earth-
quake. Concluding that the noise which awakened us,
was only a thunder clap, I lay down again very quietly.
The tempest however continued, and we could not
sleep ; so I entered into conversation with Friday about it.
I found that he knew very well that there was no danger
from a thunder storm, if the lightning and the thunder did
not come together, and that they always did come together
when anything was struck near us ; but he supposed that
it was the thunder that did all the mischief. I corrected
this notion by teaching him a little of w ha I had learned
about electricity from the lecturer in York. I told him that
the destruction attending thunder storms, was caused by
something very fine and invisible, that we knew very lit-
tle about; but which was called electricity; that in pass-
ing from one cloud to another, or from a cloud to the
earth, it moved along so rapidly that it struck fire out of
the air (as we strike fire by a flint and steel), and that
this causes the light which we call lightning. I informed
him that the thunder is only the noise produced by the
air, rushing in, to fill up the space which this invisible
substance makes as it passes along. Friday asked ma-
ny questions, about this unseen power, which would
have puzzled wiser heads than mine to answer.
When I said that the lightning and the thunder al-
ways come from the cloud at the same moment, he
could hardly believe me; but I explained it to him, by
asking him, if he and a bird were to start at the same
instant to go down to the creek, which would get there
first. "O, the bird to be sure," said Friday, "I can't
run as fast as the bird flies." — "-Well," I replied, "it
is just so with the thunder, it cannot go so fast as the
lightning; they both set out together, but the lightning
gets here first." This he understood perfectly, and then, I made him comprehend that if his race with the bird
was a long one, the bird would arrive a good while before
him ; if it was only a short distance, the bird would not
be so much before him, and the shorter the way they
had to go, the less difference there would be; and if
he had but one step to take, he could take it as quickly
as the bird ; and just so it was with the thunder and light-
ning; when the cloud was very near us, it was but a
step to the earth, and then the thunder got here as soon
as the lightning. He could now understand very well,
that the farther off the cloud was, the longer the thunder; would be after the lightning; and I told him that philos-
ophers had calculated, how much faster one travelled
than the other. By knowing that all sounds, as well as
thunder, which is only one kind of sound, go a fifth
part of a mile in a second, they could tell by the num-
ber of seconds between the flash (when we know the
thunder sets off), and the time of our hearing it, exactly
how far off the cloud is. As we were talking, the flash-
es and claps were wider and wider apart, and by count^
ing very slowly, so as to make about a second of time
between each number, beginning when I saw the flash,
and stopping when I heard the clap, I could tell Friday
how far off the cloud was, that they both came from.
When I had counted five I told him it was a mile off;
soon after there was time to count ten between the flash
and the clap, and I asked him how far off that was ; to
which he readily answered "Two miles." But when I
counted six, seven, or nine between, he was puzzled;
and I had to explain to him, that he must allow five for
the first mile, and if he had one over, it was one fifth of
another mile, if two over, it was two fifths; when I had
counted nine, there were four over, so the whole distance
then was one mile and four fifths of another, or one fifth
short of two miles.
I could have told Friday a great deal more about light-
ning, which is very interesting and curious, and would
have pleased him very much, but I was afraid, that not
understanding me thoroughly, he would get some con-
fused notions in his head ; therefore I restained myself,
for I wished him to have clear ideas of every thing he
learned, and by teaching him a little at a time, and that
very thoroughly, I hoped to succeed.
As we were conversing together the tempest became
more and more distant, and I proposed to Friday to stop
talking and go to sleep ; but he was so animated by the
knowledge he had just gained, that he was not inclined
to forget himself in sleep. When we had been silent some
time, and I had nearly lost myself, he would startle me
with some fresh question, or observation. He remem-
bered that the first flash and clap that we heard, after
awaking, were close together, and he wondered what
harm it had done ; so to quiet his apprehensions. I rous-
ed myself and told him the lightning did not always
come down to the earth, when the cloud was very near
us ; it frequently passed from one cloud to another, and
very often it went into the water without doing any dam-
age to the earth. Friday now amused me very much
by asking if it did not kill the fishes. That was a thing
I had never thought of before, and I was obliged to con-
fess my ignorance on that point. His question, how ever, reminded me of what I had read of the torpedo;
and I told him there was a fish that could make electrici-
ty, and catch other fishes by it. On hearing this Fri-
day started up in his bed and exclaimed, "O Father!
can a fish make it flash out of the sea, as it does out of
the clouds !" — " O no, not so much as that," I replied, "it can make only a little of the same kind of electricity
which comes from the clouds. In the fish it is without
light or noise, and only enough to dart at the fishes it
wants to prey on. When they feel it, they become numb,
27*
and cannot get away from their enemy. Do you know,
Friday, what torpid means ?" — " Yes, father, turtles
torpid, when they lie still and do not eat, or move about
for long time." "Well, this fish is called torpedo, be-
cause he makes his prey torpid, in order to catch it." —
"Can he make a man torpid, father ?" — " No, he can
only make the hand and arm that he is touched with,
feel numb. I have seen a person, in England, who had
touched a torpedo; and he said the shock it gave him,
was like striking that tender part of the elbow, which
we call the crazy bone, very hard indeed; he felt it
from his fingers' ends, up to his shoulder; but it did not
last long."
When I had told Friday about this lightning fish, as
he called it, I insisted on his talking no more that night,
and was soon asleep myself; how long his wakefulness
lasted I do not know.
CHAPTER XXXIX.
A NEW WONDER — THE WATERS LET OFF — PAINFUL CHANG-
ES— SORROWFUL THOUGHTS FIFTH ANNIVERSARY.
WE slept late the following morning ; and when at last
we opened the door, to go forth on our usual business,
what was our astonishment, at finding our house sur-
rounded by water! The little elevation, on which the
cottage stood, was converted into an island, and the wa-
ters of the brook surrounded it on every side!
Well, thought I to myself, this is surprising enough.
What will happen next! surely the wonders of this
place, equal those I used to read of in the Arabian
Nights' Entertainment.
Friday used all the interjections he knew in English,
and had recourse to some in his native tongue, to ex-
press his astonishment; then' he waded through the wa-
ter to show me how shallow it was. I followed him,
with this difference only, that I pulled up my trousers to the knees, and kept them dry, whilst he wet his.
We both hastened to the channel of the brook, below
this collection of waters, to see what had hemmed them
in, and made them overflow their banks, in this way.
There, at that very spot where I had once placed a
water-wheel, and where the fall is made higher and nar-
rower than any where else, by a natural dam of fallen
trees, earth, and stones, there we beheld a large rock! It
had fallen from a neighbouring cliff, and must have roll-
ed along till it lodged itself where it completely dammed up the water, made it overflow the banks, and surround
our cottage.
As I had no fancy for a wet floor to my house and
knew the water must rise a good deal higher, before it
could flow over the whole embankment, I determined to
make a vent for this newly formed lake. If my house
had not been in the way, I should have delighted to
watch the increase of this sheet of water, till it over-
flowed the dam and made a fine cascade; but as it was,
Friday and I worked very hard all day, undermining
the old embankment. Before sun-set, we made it so
weak that it began to give way, and we had just time to
scramble out of danger, when the weight of water from
above, carried all before it, and down rushed a fine tor-
rent! The sheet of still water disappeared rapidly;
the pretty banks of the brook were restored to sight, and
our house was no longer on an island.
After this was over, I visited the cliff from which the
huge fragment of rock had fallen, and found a large tree
riven and shivered to pieces by the lightning, on the very
spot where that immense fragment had been split off.
I could no longer doubt that the noise, which awoke
me in the night, proceeded from the destruction I now
witnessed, and was partly the thunder and partly the
falling and rolling of the rock afterwards. Large splin-
ters of wood, four or five feet long, that had been torn
from the tree, were stuck slantingly in the earth, and re-
quired a considerable effort to draw them out; so firmly
had they been driven in by that wonderful power which
is called lightning.
This change in the brook injured the picturesque ef-
fect of it from my cottage door. The noisy little fall,
which I loved to see and hear, was gone ; and the rock
that had taken its place, was but a poor substitute. The
former dam being broken away, the waters rolled down
a more gentle slope, and though they babbled as they
went, the effect was less agreeable to the eye or ear.
I was very much struck by the numerous changes I
had witnessed in this island, since I lived here. Rivers,
brooks, racks, shores, and shoals, and "the everlasting
hills " themselves had changed; my most familiar haunts
had disappeared, or were so altered as to lose all resem-
blance to what they had once been. Possessing no liv-
ing objects of affection, when I first lived here, I had
learned to love inanimate things, and my seat under the
trees on the terrace, the shell fountain and this little
sparkling fall, that had just been destroyed, were like so
many dear friends to me, and their loss was a serious
trial to my feelings. I comforted myself, however, after
a long reverie over them, with the reflection that I should
not perhaps spend all my life here, and in the event of
my leaving the island, I should have fewer ties to break,
fewer pleasant things to part with, when I undertook
another perilous voyage.
From thinking of the changes around me, I was nat-
urally led to think of those that might have happened at
home. The friends whom I so earnestly desired to see,
were they still living? If I ever reach my native land,
shall I find my home as I left it? Will my beloved pa-
rents still occupy the little green parlour, and my moth-
er spend her evenings in knitting and sewing as formerly,
while my father reads or writes at his great oak secreta-
ry, that heir-loom in the family? I see every article of
furniture, in that dear scene of my boyish days, and hav-
ing dwelt upon it so long, with an interest peculiar to
my situation, it would go to my heart to find any change
there.
If I am ever to return to my home and my kindred,
my earnest hope is, that I may find as little alteration
there as possible. The changes which come on gradu-
ally, we can bear, and sometimes we enjoy them ; but
those that take place during a long absence, affect us
painfully; many a school-boy's heart has ached, instead
of rejoicing, when, on returning home after a long separa-
tion, he has found his parents living in another, though a
better house, than when he left them.
If I have said less of the pains of absence, and of my
longings after home, in the latter part of my narrative,
than in the former, my friends must not suppose that I
have forgotten them, or that I am so contented here, as
not to wish to return to them. My desire to see them
again is as strong as ever, my love for them unchanged;
but I have become accustomed to my exile, to the pains
of separation; and knowing, that the expression of my
regrets, does but increase them, I have for a long time
refrained from noting down any of my feelings on the
subject.
There is one painful thought which I dwell upon more
than I ought, and which I have never even hinted at in
my narrative ; but since I am on the subject of my feel-
ings, I will mention it; for those who read this, may
never have imagined that there is such a trial for a man
in my situation. It is the idea that my parents and friends have, long ere this, given me up for dead ; and
that much as I think of them, they never think of me, as
an inhabitant of the earth. When this thought comes over me, I feel as though I were removed to another
world, and worse than dead. If I could only send a
whisper into my mother's ear, and tell her that her son
lives, and that her dear image is continually present to.
his mind, I could better support the pain of separation.
But this cannot be; I am shut out from all com-,
munion with the rest of world. Though I look upon the
game sun and moon, that my dear distant friends pehold?
they know it not; I am dead to them, and wherefore
should I be troubled if they think me really so.
Thus reasoning with myself, and thinking of my re-
markable fate, I have spent many hours; but in general
I am cheerful, and disposed to make the best of every
thing around me. My old friend Poll cheers me with
her parrot sayings ; Neptune's faithful services are a
great pleasure to me ; my lamas love me, and are loved
in return ; my adopted son and valuable companion,
Friday, is a crowning blessing, for which I cannot be too
thankful.
My occupations are various and agreeable, and the
task of instructing Friday is a most delightful, as well as
improving one to me. My situation is far better
than I could once have supposed it possible for it
to become; and yet, if all my enjoyments were
doubled, my heart would still long after my dear, distant
home, and the presence of my beloved father and moth-
er. With them, I could be happy any where ; with-
out them, I cannot call myself happy here, I am re-
signed, calm, content, and when wholly taken up with
the things about me, I am cheerful. Whenever I give
myself up to thinking of the past, or the future, I am har-
assed with vain regrets, or flattered with bright hopes
which remain so long unaccomplished, I fear they are
vain ones. Still hope is never extinguished; if it grows
faint for a time, it shines out again soon, and lures me on
to the future.
I have written down these reflections, on the fifth an-
niversary of my being cast on this desert island. I am
glad the day is over; for I am always dejected upon
these occasions, and I sometimes wish I could forget
them till they are passed, as I did the first one. But
some how or other I always think of them, and then I
cannot help keeping them with sorrowful musings.
Though I comfort myself with devotional feelings, and
sing hymns of praise and love to God, which raise my
heart for a time above the trials of this world, I am glad
when the day is over,
With the return of dry weather, we resumed our out-
door occupations, but as nothing remarkable occurred
between the thunder storm and the anniversary of my
landing, I have made no notes upon what passed.
CHAPTER XL.
NEW HOPES A BOAT SEEN AT SEA DISTRESSED MARI-
NERS — RETURNING WITH SEVEN STRANGERS — SEVEN
STRANGERS LODGED AND TED ARRANGEMENTS AND RE-
FLECTIONS BREAKFAST INTERVIEW WITH CAPTAIN
SMI1 H — DEVOTIONAL EXERCISES — THE CAPTAIs's SPEECH
TO HIS MEN MY ADDRESS TO THEM.
LITTLE did I think when I finished my last chapter
on the fifth anniversary of my shipwreck, what a change
there would be in my life and prospects before I wrote
again. But a great and important event has taken place,
and deliverance is in prospect, though much remains to
be done, and many accidents may yet arise to prevent
its accomplishment. I bless and thank God that I have
lived to sue this day! My mind is so full of new
thoughts and feelings that I can hardly compose myself
enough to write ; but I must go back to the beginning
and tell exactly how all these strange events happened,
or my story will be incomplete.
About two weeks after the anniversary, Friday and I
were out sailing in the Success, and were lured away to
a considerable distance from the island, by the gambols
of a huge whale. I had never been so near one before,
and we were much interested in observing its movements,
seeing it spout water from its head, and make great waves
with the stroke of its fins or tail.
We had watched and followed it a long while, when
I said to Friday, " It is time to go home, we are a great
way from land, and the sun is getting low." Receiving
no reply to this, I looked at Friday and saw that he had
not heard me ; he seemed to be wholly absorbed in
looking at some far-distant object. My eyes followed
his, and I saw something like a black speck in the wa-
ter, which I took to be another whale ; so I said, "Come,
Friday, we have had whaling enough for to-day, let us
go home; ready about there." Friday begged me to
stop one minute, for he did not believe that was a whale,
it looked to him like a boat. On hearing this, I hunted
about for the perspective glass, and looking through it
perceived that Friday was right. It was a boat with
some kind of lading in it, but there were no signs of
any living being on board ; nothing stirred in it; it on-
ly floated on the water.
I was now as eager as Friday to see what this boat
contained, and find out where it came from. Sol made
all sail towards it, and frequently gazed at it through the
glass. Once I thought I saw something like a man's
head moving, but I could not be sure. A hope sprang
up in my mind, that it might contain some of my own
race. It was plain that it was not a canoe, and as there
was no vessel in sight all round, it could not be a boat's
crew coming purposely to molest us. It might be some
ship-wrecked countrymen of mine; my breath grew
short, and my heart beat quickly at the idea; but I said
not a word about it to Friday. As we neared it, I saw
a movement on board, an oar was lifted up with a shirt
tied to it; it did therefore contain living and civilized
beings! O how my heart throbbed! Friday feared
they were Spaniards, and wanted to run away from them.
I said, whatever they were, they were in distress ; and if
they were the worst of pirates, I would help them. When
we drew nearer still, several heads were raised and their
numbers looked formidable, if they had the will and the
power to harm us; but I believed them to be in distress
and continued to run towards them.
When within speaking distance I hailed them, but re-
ceived no answer; this alarmed Friday, and he begged
me not to go any nearer ; he thought they were lying in
wait to shoot us; I, however, thought differently, and ran
alongside the boat.
Clasped hands, glazed eyes, and haggard faces were
raised in silence towards us. I saw directly that they were
people perishing with hunger and fatigue. Their deplora-
ble condition required immediate aid ; I was obliged to
suppress all the overpowering emotions that were rising
to choak and unnerve me,-to summon all my firmness,
and exert my best judgment to administer properly to
these famishing seamen. One made signs that I should
give him something to drink ; so, bidding Friday lash the
boats together, I poured out water in whatever would
hold it, and handed it to them, as fast as I could ; eager-
ly did they all stretch out their hands for the long desired
draught; and seven famishing men soon emptied the
keg. I then took a large root of boiled taro, and divided
it among them. O how the poor creatures devoured it;
they held out their hands for more, but I had no more
on board; and I was glad of it, for I knew the danger of
giving them too much at once ; so I shook my head.
Not a word had been spoken till then, when one ex-
claimed, "Thank God; you have saved our lives!"
and then followed the most moving scenes I ever beheld.
There was not a dry eye among us. The strangers
were filled with gratitude to God and to me, for their un-
expected deliverance; and in their exhausted state, they
could more easily express it by tears than by words. I
was deeply touched by the sight of their extremity, and
entirely overcome by the sound of my own language,
and the pleasure of discovering that they were my coun-
trymen; Friday wept from sympathy with us all. How
long this affecting scene lasted, I cannot tell; but with-
out knowing how I got there, I found myself seated on a
thwart, in their boat, with the head of one of them rest-
ing on my shoulder. When I recovered my composure
enough to observe the evening sky, I knew it was time
to make all sail for the land, and that I must arouse my-
self to exertion, and think what ought to be done.
28
Addressing myself to one who looked as if he might be
the captain, I told him my name was Crusoe, that I lived
on the island which we saw in the distance, and that I
would now conduct them there, and do all in my power
to make them comfortable. The stranger replied that
his name was Smith, that he had lost his vessel by fire
ten days ago, since which they had been on the ocean,
in their open boat, and almost without food or water.
He was so exhausted by telling me this, that I beg-
ged him to say no more then, but to let me assist him
into my boat. I placed him by my side, in the stern of
the Success, and helped some others on board of her
also; then with their boat in tow,containing the rest of
the crew, we set sail for the island.
Captain Smith was so weak and drowsy, that but few
words passed between us, and we made our voyage to
the creek in silence. My head was full of new projects
and deeply interesting thoughts, and my heart was-orer-
flowing with emotion, that I should have vainly attempt-
ed to conceal, if my companion's eyes had not been clos-
ed in sleep. Finding a boat's crew at sea, and saving
them from starvation, would be an affecting incident to
the inhabitants of a crowded city, but no one can fully
realize what it was to me, in my solitude. Besides the
pleasure of serving my fellow beings, in distress ; besides
the delight of being restored to the society of men, like
myself, and hearing my own language, after an exile of
five years; besides this, and a great deal more, it was to
me the hope of deliverance from captivity. It seemed
to open the door of return to my native land, to my dear
parents ; and on this account it was most overpowering.
I was glad of this silent sail homeward; as it gave me
an opportunity of collecting my thoughts, subduing my
emotion, and arranging my immediate plans of opera-
tion. Fearing that the warmth of my feelings in thus
meeting with some of my countrymen, might make me
imprudent, and as I did not yet know what sort of men
I had to deal with, I determined to lodge them all for
that night in the store-house, under lock and key.
I run the boat up the creek, as far as I could, that I
might land my exhausted passengers, as near as possible
to their place of destination. It was almost dark, when
we arrived. The strangers felt the pains of hunger on
awaking, and I promised them more food, as soon as
they should be lodged in their quarters for the night.
Having previously instructed Friday what to do,
"marched them up to the store-house, and he soon fur-
nished them with as hearty a supper of vegetables and
fruits as it was safe for them to eat. I shook hands with
the captain, and took leave of him for the night, saying
he should be better accommodated in future, but I hop-
ed he would put up with this for the present, pointing to
a bed Friday had prepared for him in one corner of the
building. He seemed quite satisfied with his lodgings,
and attempted to thank me; but his emotion overcame
. him, and we parted in silence.
Friday and I now hastened to moor the boats, and
bring ashore the things we had left in them. I was truly
glad to find, in the strangers' boat, a proper mariner's
compass ; for the action of my little needle was very fee-
ble. I hoped to discover a quadrant there also, but was
disappointed.
Our lamas were waiting impatiently to be milked, and
Neptune, whom I had severely reprimanded for greet-
ing the unhappy strangers with barking and growling,
was endeavouring to make his peace by following my
steps in the humblest manner, and not daring to caress
me as usual. Late as it was, we accomplished all our
evening work, and made many preparations for the next
day, before we went to bed.
Friday's head hardly touched his pillow, before he
was lost in sleep; but I could not follow his example;
my mind was too full to allow of my sleeping; so there
I lay, thinking over the disasters of my poor countrymen,
their perilous situation and our timely aid ; or making
plans for our returning to England. That blessed an-
ticipation seemed likely now to be realized. The re-
mains of the Thames, which the earthquake had brought
to view in Grand River, and seven stout mariners, prom-
ised a speedy deliverance from exile ; and the idea was
so exciting to me, I was afraid of dwelling upon it too
much, lest it should turn my brain.
I longed for the morning to come, that I might again
see and converse with my countrymen. I could hardly
refrain from visiting them in their sleep, I so desired to
look upon their faces again. At length these busy
thoughts were insensibly changed for still more busy
dreams, and the sun was up before I was again con-
scious of the agreeable events of the preceding evening.
I found Friday was already far advanced in his prep-
arations for a breakfast, suited to the number of the
company, but he had not seen the guests.
There was no sound from the store-house ; I therefore
supposed them still asleep; and being aware how much
they needed rest, I would not intrude upon them, but
assisted Friday in placing an empty barrel under a fine
spreading tree, that its head might serve for a table, on
which to set the sailors' breakfast, and in arranging
my own table, in the best manner, as I meant to invite
Captain Smith to join Friday and me at our meals.
Every thing was ready, and we had waited some time
for our guests to awake, when we heard them stirring;
presently there came one of the men, with a civil mes-
sage from his captain, asking me to lend him some clean
linen, a towel, soap, razors, &.c. I furnished him as well
as I could, from my own scanty wardrobe, and waited
rather impatiently for his toilette to be completed.
Meanwhile I conversed a little with the sailors, and saw
them helped to their breakfast, which they very much
needed.
When at last Captain Smith appeared, I was struck
with the change I saw in him. Relieved from the pres-
sure of hunger, refreshed by a good night's rest, washed,
shaved, and dressed clean, he looked like a different
man. His appearance now was very much in his favor,
and my heart warmed towards him at once.
Having greeted him very cordially, I led him to the
table ; but we were both so much moved that we began
our meal in silence ; and little passed between us,
whilst it lasted, but the common civilities of the table.
Though each was desirous of knowing something of the
other, each seemed at a loss to begin his own story, or
make any inquiries.
As my guest seemed much my senior, I let him take
the lead ; at length, when we had done our meal, he
opened the conversation, by asking me the name of the
island we were upon. To this I replied, "I have some-
times called it the Island of Despair, but now I think it
will deserve a better name, and may be called the Island
of Escape." He then inquired under what government
it was ; to this I answered, "None but mine, I am sorry
to say." Expecting these expressions of mine would
make him apprehend something of the nature of my sit-
uation, and render it easy for me to explain it further, I
was disappointed to observe that he became more
thoughtful and serious, It seemed but fair for me to
take my turn at questioning ; so I broke a long silence,
by requesting him to give me the particulars of his dis-
aster.
He told me he was master of a fine ship, of three hun-
dred tons, called the Helen, bound from London to the
Northwest Coast, in the fur trade. He was prosecuting
his voyage very comfortably, and safely, as he thought,
when be was suddenly waked from his sleep, by the cry
of "fire," from several voices at once, and pulled out of
his berth by his mate; the cabin was already full of
smoke, and in five minutes the whole ship was in flames.
"I found," said Captain Smith, "that no exertions
could save the vessel, and that we must make all speed
to save our lives; so I ordered the boats to be lowered,
seized hold of a compass and light, my quadrant and
ship's papers." "A quadrant!" I involuntary exclaim-
ed, "have you a quadrant " ?" No," he replied,
"that fell overboard in the bustle and was lost; but I
rescued my papers, and hope they are still safe." I as-
sured him they were, and begged him to proceed.
28*
"Bread and water were next to be thought of ; but it
was impossible to come at any bread, except a small sup-
ply from the steward's pantry ; or any water, but the
cask that stood on deck half full. That was all I could
secure for my boat, and the mate obtained less. We
pushed off. As we did so, the flames burst out of the
cabin windows and the main hatchway. We pulled off
to a safe distance, then lay on our oars, watching the
rapid progress of the flames. In less than ten minutes,
she was one grand mass of fire ; fore and aft and aloft;
her masts and sails in a blaze, rocking to and fro, and
threatening every instant to fall. It was a grand sight,
sir!" continued Captain Smith, "and to persons in our
situation a most appalling one. There we were, in the
midst of the Pacific Ocean, with no known land near;
and the only prospect before us, starving or drowning.
While there is life, however, there is hope; and after
consulting with the mate, we determined to keep near
the Helen as long as she burned, thinking the light
might attract some passing vessel that would pick us up.
When all chance of aid from that was over, we agreed
to steer a northerly course, in the forlorn hope of meet-
ing with a sail, before we perished with hunger. You
must excuse my dwelling on the particulars of the dread-
ful ten days that followed.
"In a foggy night we lost all knowledge of the other
boat, and never saw her afterwards. My brave com-
panions behaved as well as men could do in such an ex-
tremity, and when all hope and all courage had forsaken
us, we prayed together that we might be saved from all
outrages, and bear our allotment as became Christians,
and then lay down to die, seeing no help near, and our
strength being nearly gone.
"How long we had remained prostrate and silent, I know
not, but it must have been several hours, and in that time
the boat drifted I suppose in sight of this island. Hap-
pening to lift my head, I saw you coming towards us,
and made a last effort to raise the signal which had so
often been raised before in vain.
"The rest you know, sir. We owe you our lives, and
are willing to show our gratitude in the best way we
can."
The recollection of his recent sufferings now agitated
Captain Smith extremely, and a long pause followed. I
could well understand his feelings, and therefore waited
for him to break the silence. When after some minutes
he became composed, his countenance assumed a new
and rather stern expression, and drawing himself up, he
said, very gravely— " Though I conclude, from your ap-
pearance and your accent, that you are a Spaniard;
and that this island is subject to no government, but what
your will imposes; I am encouraged by the kindness
you have already shown me and my companions, and
by your acquaintance with our language, to hope that you
have friendly feelings towards British mariners. If we
give you our services on all lawful occasions, whilst with
you, I trust you will not hinder our return to our own
country, whenever an opportunity may offer."
I was so astonished to find myself mistaken for a
Spanish pirate, that I heard him to the end, without
having the power to undeceive him. But when I told
him I was, like himself, the child of misfortune, and a
British seaman; and said to him, with tears in my eyes,
that we would both return to dear, happy England to-
gether, all his suspicions vanished, and we embraced
each other with the cordiality of fellow sufferers.
Confidence was now established between us, and I gave
him a very brief sketch of my unhappy fate; he listened
to me, as if he would devour every word, and showed
such a sympathy in my trials, as almost choked me in
the recital of them.
We had conversed a long time, and had both forgot-
ten that any were waiting for our orders, when Friday
put his head into the room and said, in an affected
tone of servility that made me smile, "Master, the men
say you are a pirate, and that they are afraid to trust
their good captain with you any longer; and if I don't
let them see he is safe, they will twist me. I don't
know what twist is, but they look very fierce and frighten
Friday." By the time this was said, the men were crowding rather lumultuously round the door, but a few
words from their captain sent them peaceably away.
We then consulted on the best means of promoting
peace and happiness in our little community. Captain
Smith said his men were six as fine fellows as ever step-
ped a deck, but, like other sailors, they required disci-
pline; and he recommended me to begin strictly with
them, to call myself Governor of the island, and exer-
cise a wholesome authority over all. I told him that, as
he was older and more experienced than I was. he had
better take the command, and I would obey his orders.
This he positively refused, and spoke of my performan-
ces and exertions, in collecting around me so many com-
forts, as entitling me to reign over the island still.
When, however, I represented to him my fears, that I
should not know how to manage his sailors, and that
they would be better pleased to continue under his or-
ders, he agreed to be captain still, if I would be govern-
or. Captain Smith then proposed to call his men to-
gether, and perform their usual devotional exercises;
after which, he would explain to them their present situ-
ation, and the duties belonging to it.
We walked forth arm in arm, to a beautiful little knoll,
crowded with trees. One shout of the captain brought
his faithful followers round him. He motioned to them
to range themselves in a semicircle opposite to us;
Friday took his stand at my elbow; and then, in a very-
solemn and affecting manner, Captain Smith repeated,
from memory, a part of the service appointed by the
Church of England to be read at sea; to this he added
an extemporaneous prayer, suited to their recent escape
from imminent danger, the loss of their shipmates, and
our present situation on this desert isle. He was deep-
ly affected himself, and every word he uttered seemed
to reach the hearts of his hearers. The rough sailors
sobbed and wept aloud ; all our souls were mingled in
a deep and solemn feeling of adoration and trust, of
thanksgiving for past mercies, and dependence upon
God for present help; and when my guests raised their
voices together, in a hymn, which closed the services, it
seemed like the very outpouring of the soul before its
Creator and Preserver.
I never shall forget that singing, nor any part of those
morning exercises. It was so long since I had joined in
the worship of a congregation, that it was very over-
coming to my feelings. I could only lean against a tree,
cover my face, and weep. A long pause followed the
hymn, for all needed time to recover their composure.
I was lost in wonder and delight, at finding my new
companions to be religious men, and that the bond of
union between them and their commander was the love
of God. With this feeling in all our hearts, I knew
every thing would go well.
When our emotion had a little subsided, Captain Smith
explained to his men, that they were on an unknown
and desert island, the only inhabitants of which were
their deliverers, Governor Crusoe and his adopted son.
He then spoke in very high terms of my courage and
perseverance in conquering the greatest difficulties, and
made a strong representation of the change I had
wrought in my situation, by my own personal exertions,
aided by knowledge and ingenuity. He said too much
about that, but I could not prevent it.
"All this," continued Captain Smith, "we are to
profit by. Governor Crusoe generously admits us to the
shelter of his roof, and the use of his implements; to a
share in the food he has labored so hard to procure;
to the benefit of his knowledge of the resources of the
island; to the comforts which his ingenuity has contriv-
ed ; provided only that we acknowledge his authority,
and obey his orders. We owe him our lives, and that is
a great debt, for which we ought to render him our best
services ; but how much less would they be worth, if he
should say to us; 'Go to the other end of the island,
there live without any edgetool, and without fire, as I
did j conquer the difficulties of your situation, as I have
done ; and when you have collected around you the
comforts that I have, we will deal together on equal
terms.' Even then, our merit would not equal his; for
we are seven, and he was alone ; entirely alone, on this
desert island. What a situation!
"The sufferings of our noble governor have taught him
to pity the misfortunes of others, and he bids me say that
we are welcome to share every thing he possesses on
fair and equal terms. We must give him our faithful
and willing service, and he will think and provide for all
our wants. We must be his loyal subjects, and he will
be our good king and governor."
He paused, and the men exclaimed with one accord,
"Long live the governor! God save the governor!"
The shout of many voices was so new to me, that it sent
a thrilling sensation all through me, and I was obliged to
lean on Friday for support.
Captain Smith then asked for a Bible; I handed him
my Testament, and he swore a solemn oath of fidelity and
submission to my authority. He then asked his men if
they were willing to do the same; they all said, " Yes,"
with hearty good will, and the captain swore each sepa-
rately.
By the time this ceremony was finished, I was com-
posed enough to address my new subjects. I promised
them every accommodation in my power, and observed
that we had but one common interest; that we all de-
sired to live peaceably and happily on the island, as long
as we were obliged to continue here; and we all hoped
to leave it as soon as possible, and return to dear old
England. I told them I had a plan in my head by
which I trusted we should all be speedily released from
banishment; that -it was for this purpose, I should re-
quire their services; but I had no wish to interfere
with the command of their excellent captain ; that they
should still consider themselves as his men, and he and I
would consult together for their good. This pleased
them very much, and they shouted, " Long live the cap-
tain! Long live the governor!"
Captain Smith now whispered me, to set them to work
about something at once, for nothing was so bad as idle-
ness for them. After consulting together, we agreed
that two should go and clean their boat, two should fish
with Friday, and the others might dig vegetables and
prepare them for dinner. These orders the captain gave
them in my name, and they were about to disperse; but
I stopped them, and having sent Friday away on an er-
rand, I took this early opportunity of telling them how
much I esteemed that colored youth. I told them he
was the son of a king in his own country ; and though he
waited upon me in my solitude, it was the service of
love, and I considered him as an adopted son. I then
described to them his excellent character, and faithful
conduct towards me; and dwelt upon his purity and in-
nocence. I ended by commending him to their good
offices and respect; and earnestly desiring them not to do
or say any thing that would hurt his feelings, or corrupt his
morals. With this I dismissed them to their several
tasks.
I then took Friday apart, and told him he must be-
have like a chief's son to the men who had come among
us; he must show them what to do, and tell them what
it was necessary for them to know ; but that he had bet-
ter not talk much to them. He nodded, as if he under-
stood me perfectly, and from that time I have never had
to interfere between him and the sailors. He always
treats them kindly, but never lets them take any undue
liberties with him, and they always appear very fond of
him.
CHAPTER XLI.
FIRST DAYWITH THE STRANGERS DOMESTIC ARRANGE-
MENTS— SHOWING THE ISLAND —FRIDAY IN TROUBLE
FRIDAY COMFORTED.
THE first day spent with my countrymen was so full
of interest, that it seemed almost as long as that memo-
rable Friday, on which I found my good man of that
name. O how delightful it was to me to have the com-
pany of Captain Smith! A civilized being, one of the
same race with myself, my own countryman too, and
more than all the rest, a religious character! One who
was ready in all things to do the will of God, and to give
Him thanks; one who reverenced his conscience, and
endeavoured to do right in every action of his life. I
could do little else, that day, but look at him, and listen
to him. We spent hours in deep conversation. He
wished to hear all I could tell him of the island, of the
life I had led here, of Friday, and how he came to be
with me; and I listened eagerly to every thing he said
of himself, his men, and the dear country from which
he had so lately come.
The fishing party were very successful and returned
well laden. Friday baked the fish in his native way,
to the great amusement of the strangers; when it was
done, he and I and the captain took our dinner together.
Captain Smith proposed that one of his men should
wait upon us; but I had been so long without any such
attendance, that I much preferred waiting upon myself,
or having Friday's services; and when our guest saw
the simplicity of our meal, and that every thing was put
on the table at once, he agreed with me that we were
better without Tom Bowling, and could enjoy our con-
versation more by ourselves.
I employed Tom, however, to gather up what we
left, and serve his comrades under the tree, where the
barrel stood on which they had breakfasted. We had
plenty of pewter plates, and these with their jack-knives
were all they wanted. The fish and vegetables were
placed on the head of the barrel, and they sat round it,
on whatever they could find for seats, and made as
hearty a meal as any alderman in London. A draught
of water from the brook, with one of Friday's gourd
dippers for a drinking-cup, finished their repast. As
we sat by the cottage door, observing their movements,
I told Captain Smith, I supposed they missed their
allowance of grog very much; but I had none to give
them. He said he was glad of it; he wished there never
might be another drop of ardent spirits given to a
sailor; he rejoiced that his lads would be weaned from
it by necessity; he had wished to put a stop to the prac-
tice on board the Helen, but had not yet attempted
it. He said he never took any thing of the kind him-
self, and no one could enjoy better health, or bear
fatigue better than he did.
As we had spent the whole morning talking together
in-doors, I now proposed a walk. The Captain knew
his men would wish to explore the island, so he gave
them leave to follow us. I went first to Fort Hill and
the terrace, and described to them the changes made
there by the earthquake. Then we proceeded to Sig-
nal Hill. Captain Smith was much struck by the posi-
tion and appearance of my pyramid, and wondered how
I had ever contrived to build it on such a pinnacle. I
explained to him that, when I made my structure there,
the shape of the ground was quite different; only the
top of the rock was visible, round which I built the pyr-
amid; the rest of it was brought to light by the earth-
quake, which displaced the earth around it, and left the
bare rock as he now saw it. We all scrambled up it,
as Captain Smith had a great desire to see the manu-
script, and examine the monument. Having satisfied
the curiosity of all the party, I took them down the hill by a different route, and returned home by the coast.
I had great pleasure in showing my new friend all
my works and contrivances, because he so fully appre-
29
overrated my ingenuity, and sometimes abashed me by
his praises.
Several times, in the course of the day, I tried to talk
with Captain Smith about my plans of escape from the
island; but he was so delighted with the place, and so
interested in all he saw, that he was in no haste to get
away; and he would change the subject by asking me
some question about my past life. "Ah," thought I, "you
never lived here alone as I have; you have never been
five years away from all civilized beings, or you would
be as anxious to return as I am."
We made up a third bed for the Captain, in our
lodging-room, and let the sailors sleep on hay in the
store-house.
I must not close my account of this memorable day,
without mentioning how Neptune and Poll behaved to
our guests. The former soon made the acquaintance
of the sailors, and they enjoyed playing with him, and
he was gratified with being noticed and caressed; but
mistress Poll was not so sociably inclined. She seemed
troubled by the presence of strangers, and screamed and
fluttered her wings, when any of them went near her.
While we were at dinner, she got under the table, and
distinguishing the Captain's feet from mine, though I
had shoes on as well as he, she pecked at them with all
fury.
Several days were spent in showing the island to the
strangers; and though my heart was set on devising the
means of leaving it, I had great pleasure in pointing out
its beauties, and remarkable features, to Captain Smith.
He and I rode the lamas, and were accompanied by the
sailors on foot; as they would naturally wish to explore
this new region, we thought it best for them to do it in
company with us. Friday willingly gave up his lama
to Captain Smith, and walked by my side, or rode alter-
nately with me; his skill in fishing, his mode of cook-
ing, which could be practised any where, out of doors,
independent of all utensils, and his knowledge of the
best vegetables, and where they were most likely to be
found, made him a very important personage to us all.
Our first ride was to Grand River, that I might show
Captain Smith the wreck of the Thames, and tell him
my plans for returning to England. I proposed to dig
out the hull, float it off with casks, and then repair and
rig her. This he assured me was impossible; she was
too much of a wreck to be floated off, or repaired; but
he said she might be broken up, where she was, and
with the iron, timber, and planks that she would furnish,
we might build another smaller and more manageable
vessel.
I soon found that I was speaking with one, who knew
far more about the matter than I did; one who had
watched the progress of ship-building in his father's yard,
and knew the whole process, from the laying of the keel to
the finishing of the taffarel. It happened also that two of
his men had actually worked with ship-carpenters. All
this made me feel very sure of succeeding in the under-
taking, and I expressed my hopes that we should soon
be afloat in a sea-worthy vessel, and sailing away
towards old England.
"You forget," said Captain Smith, " that we have no
tools with us; what can hands do without tools ?" —
"You forget," I replied, "that I have a complete set
of tools, saved from that very wreck; and with hands
and tools too, and a head like yours to plan, what should
prevent our building a vessel, in which we could sail
round the world." "Well done, enterprise!" he ex-
claimed; "I admire your spirit, and if we succeed in
our ship-building, we will call the vessel The Enterprise,
in remembrance of this. But what shall we do for pro-
visions for so long a voyage?" "O," said I, "if you
will build the vessel, I will engage to victual her for a
six months' voyage." i( Very well," he replied; "I
will begin as soon as I have seen every part of your
island, and heard all your adventures."
From Grand River we proceeded to make the tour
of the island; and though it was on the whole a very
agreeable excursion, I must confess that the constant
sight and sound of so many persons travelling together,
was very fatiguing, and almost distracted me. I had
been so long in solitude, or with only one companion,
and had led so quiet a life, that I was at first pained and
disturbed by the presence of numbers. I sought relief
occasionally by wandering away from the party, and
being alone for a while. Sometimes Friday and I
would choose our quarters for the night out of sight and
hearing of our fellow travellers, that we might enjoy a
little quiet together, as we were wont to do.
When we had finished our land expedition, Captain
Smith was desirous of sailing round the coast in the
Success. None of my performances pleased him more
than that boat, and when he found how well she sailed,
he could not praise her enough. He wished to look for
a suitable place to make his building-yard, and to
survey the coast, its harbours, and inlets. The captain
and Friday went with me in the Success, and, by way
of keeping the sailors employed, we let them row after
us in their boat. Friday recommended the bank of the
Rhine, where he built his canoe, as a good place for our
operations; but on reaching the bay, formed at the
mouth of that river by the earthquake, we found a place
where the shores were steep and covered with fine
trees, such as we wanted for ship-timber, and we fixed
upon that for our building-yard. We dined in the Bay
of Terror, slept in Gordon Vale, and returned home the
next day.
The curiosity of Captain Smith and his men, in regard
to the island and my adventures upon it, being now
pretty well satisfied, they began their operations on the
wreck; and truly glad was I, when, having carried them
to the spot in the Success with their tools and their din-
ner, I left them hard at work. As they were to be
gone all day, I promised myself a good, quiet time alone
with Friday, and hastened home to enjoy it. I found
him sitting pensively at the door of the cottage, with
Poll on his shoulder, but insensible as to her caresses;
and I saw directly that the poor fellow was in trouble.
I thought he had been less gay than usual for several
days, and now his heart seemed very full; so I sat
down beside him, and observed what a happy day we
should have together with no one to interrupt us. He
was silent, but his breast heaved with suppressed emo-
tion. I then put my arm around him, and asked him if
he did not like to be alone with me, and if he had not
something to tell me that troubled him. This overcame
him entirely; and bursting into tears, he wept aloud as
he leaned upon my shoulder.
I said all I could to soothe and comfort him, and
when at length he could reply intelligibly, to my repeat-
ed question, "What is the matter, Friday?" he sobbed
out, "O father! Friday very unhappy, many days." —
"Why so?" I replied; "have you done any thing
wrong?" — "No, father, believe no."—"Has any
one done you any wrong ?" — " No, father, no body
wrong, but every thing changed; Friday never live
alone again with his father, and never be so happy again.
Now father talk, talk, all the time to the captain, no talk
to Friday, no teach Friday, no laugh, dance, sing, play
with Friday, as he did before white men come." When
he had said this, he wept again most piteously.
I felt for the poor fellow very much; there had been
a great change in our lives, which must be painful to
him. He had been my only companion, and engrossed
my whole attention so long, that he could not bear now
to divide it with another. It seemed to him that he was
deprived of his rights.
Some people would have told him he was jealous,
that jealousy was a wicked passion, and he must not
indulge it. But I saw there was no bad feeling in his
mind towards the strangers; he was merely grieving over
a real loss, and one which appeared to him greater than
it was; therefore I would not add to his suffering, by
blaming him for so natural a feeling. I merely tried to
convince him that my love for him was as great as ever,
and though we could not be so much together, or talk so
29*
much together as formerly, my interest in him was un-
changed. I told him he had gained a friend in Captain
Smith, and he could learn a great deal by hearing him
converse. "That is nothing," exclaimed Friday ; "I
love to hear father talk, and to be alone with father all
day, and all night too." — "I know it, Friday, and it is
very natural that you should feel so; but we shall never
live alone again; that was a peculiar situation; it had
many sorrows for me, and if you love me, Friday, you
should be glad for my sake that it is over." — " O, I do
love you, dear father; if father glad happy days are
gone, Friday will try to be glad too." And then he cri-
ed as if his heart would break, showing what a vain at-
tempt his was at gladness.
I told him my love for him was the same as when I
lived alone with him, and talked only to him; but he
shook his head, and said, " Father give more and more
love to Captain Smith, and have none left for poor Fri-
day." I assured him he was quite mistaken; that love was not like a piece of cloth, which could not be given
to two persons at once; it kept growing in the heart;
and the more persons there were to be loved, the more
love we had to give them, •' I have not," I added,
"taken away any of my love for you, to give to the cap-
tain; it is new love, just grown, that I have given to him."
This idea seemed to comfort him a little; so I went on
to tell him that, besides my love, he had the love of
Captain Smith and all his men; that, although he had
lost one kind of happiness, that of living alone with me,
he had a new kind, in making new friends, in seeing me
so happy with my countrymen, and in getting ready to
go home and see my father and mother. I asked him if
he would like to go to England with me. "Yes," he repli-
ed, " if you won't stay here with Friday; but I like bet-
ter than every thing to be here alone with my dear fath-
er." — " But that is a thing that cannot be; so which
do you like best, to go with me to England or to stay
here alone?" "O go with my dear father; Friday al-
ways go with father." As I could not take him to his
Own country, I would not mention his home and his real
father to him, I saw they were far from his thoughts,
and that he had no wish to leave me for them. I had
heard that the less civilized people are, the less they are
attached to their parents, after they are grown up; I
supposed, that my power of educating him, and unfold-
ing his mind, as his own father could not have done,
had made him love me best.
As he was now composed, I told him he would never
feel so unhappy about it again; that we always felt
changes most, when they first took place; and that he
would become accustomed to live among a great many
people, and to see me talk with others and not mind it
at all.
After this long conversation, Friday became more
cheerful, and learned to content himself with a smile and
a look, when I could not talk to him. I gave him an
interest in our preparations, by telling him I should have
more time to talk with him when we were on our voyage,
and by raising his curiosity as to the wonderful sights he
would see in my country.
CHAPTER XLII.
PREPARATIONS FOR A LONG VOYAGE --CONVERSATIONS —
TRAITS OF CHARACTER—SHIP-BUILDING — MATERIALS
FOR AN OUTFIT— A LAUNCH — DIFFERENCE IN CHARAC-
TER.
- WHEN the wreck was broken up, the materials were
all towed round to the spot fixed on for a building-yard;
and there Captain Smith and his men spent every day,
from sun-rise till dark, devoted to the construction of a
vessel, that was to bear us all away from the island.
While they were thus employed, Friday and I were equally
busy, in laying in a stock of provisions for the voyage.
The large quantity of salt, we made last summer, was
of great use to us now; for we cured with it a great
deal of fish and terrapin flesh. We cultivated a large
crop of taro, and found where all the best vegetables
grew on the island, that we might hoe the ground around
them, and so improve upon nature's gardening. We
felt the loss of our lamas now very much. There were
none on the island, but Jenny and Neddy and their kid,
and we meant to carry these away alive.
After a hard day's work, and a hearty supper, the
sailors were glad to go directly to bed; but the captain,
who did network quite so hard, liked to sit up awhile with
Friday and me; and then we had a great deal of im-
proving conversation. Captain Smith was much sur-
prised to find Friday so far civilized; and when this
lively youth showed an acquaintance with subjects, of
which he expected him to be perfectly ignorant, he
would sometimes ask, where he learned so many
things. "Father tells me all," was his simple reply.
Friday's little accomplishments also were matter of the
greatest wonder to our guest; and he used to praise
him so much for his various performances, that I was
afraid he would make him vain, until I perceived that
Friday considered all encomiums bestowed on him, as
belonging entirely to me; he would smile and nod and
look at me exactly as if the captain was speaking in my
praise, instead of his. This modesty and simplicity pre-
vented his being made conceited by the admiration of
the captain or his men. When the sailors found out
that he was better educated than some of them, and that
he was accomplished too, they considered him as a prod-
igy, and almost idolized him. All favors were asked
through Mr. Friday, and all differences referred to him;
he was frequently to be seen, seated in the midst of
them, explaining something which they wished to learn,
whilst they listened in the most eager and attentive man-
ner, to his broken English.
Captain Smith had visited some of the South Sea
islands, though not the one from which Friday came;
and he would often compare with him the customs of
the different places, which, though they differed in some
respects, had a general resemblance that was very strik-
ing. He used to promise Friday that if he returned
safely to England, and lived to make another voyage to
the Northwest Coast, he would take him with him, and
try to find his island, and carry him back to his friends-
Friday always looked very grave, and never seemed so
much pleased with this proposal as we expected him to be.
I could not account for this indifference, until I heard him
tell Captain Smith, that his father had died since he left
him, and on inquiry I found his reason for thinking so was
a dream he had had. He told us that very soon after
he lived with me, his father came to him in his sleep,
and told him he had left his people, for a place with the
great Spirit, and that I was now to be his father. This no-
tion of my adopted son's explained to me his early and
entire submission to my will, also the profound respect,
with which he had always treated me; and as his be-
lief in his father's death made him perfectly contented to
live with me, I would not attempt, at this time, to cor-
rect his ideas about dreams.
In one of these evening conversations, I was telling
Captain Smith of my experiment in magnetizing nee-
dles, when Friday placed upon the table the little com-
pass I had made out of a shaving-box, and we compar-
ed it with the large mariner's compass belonging to the
captain. Though my needle varied considerably from
his, he considered it a very valuable substitute for a pro-
per compass, and thought we might have undertaken our
voyage with it if we had none better. The action of
my needle was so feeble that it was always in danger of
being disturbed, and I rejoiced that our new friends had
brought with them a more perfect instrument. But
O how much we regretted the loss of the quadrant.
The maps and charts, saved from the wreck, were now
very valuable to us; and we spent many hours over them,
sometimes looking for places which were the scenes of
former adventures, sometimes tracing our own intended
path upon the ocean, sometimes endeavouring to discov-
er whereabouts in the Pacific Ocean we actually were.
We satisfied ourselves that the island was not laid down
in any of the charts. Captain Smith's knowledge of his
latitude and longitude, when he lost his ship, did not
avail him much, he had been so drifted about since in an
open boat on the ocean. We were therefore obliged to
content ourselves with knowing that we were not very
far from the tropic of Capricorn, and that South Ameri-
ca was to the east of us. That being the case, we de-
termined that our best plan, in sailing homewards, would
be to steer due east, till we made the land, and then
keep a southerly course, with the land in sight, till
we reached the Straits of Magellan; through which
Captain Smith thought it would be advisable to pass,
rather than attempt to double the cape, in our small ves-
sel. So far, we had no doubt of finding our way very
well without a quadrant; but to cross the ocean, and
sail so many thousand miles, without seeing land, and
without any instrument for ascertaining our latitude, was
a very fearful and almost desperate undertaking. I had
however so much confidence in the experience and good
judgment of Captain Smith, that I was entirely willing
to attempt it, with him and his excellent crew. My
former sufferings had made me very cautious, almost funid, and nothing would have induced me to go to sea with
an ignorant commander; but I hoped that in sailing with
so able and good a man as Captain Smith, I should
overcome my dread of a long voyage; and though the
want of a quadrant was a very serious thing, I never once
thought of abandoning our project on that account.
I found, on comparing dates with Captain Smith, that
I had lost one day; It must have been during my se-
vere illness, when I was delirious. The only wonder
was, that I had not lost more, for when I lived alone,
there was little to mark the time, and no one to set me
right if I mistook one day for another, or forgot my dai-
ly notch ou the tree.
My new friend wondered greatly at my patience and
perseverance in making those feather pictures of the
birds of the island, and in collecting so many insects,
for he had no taste for such things. The prospect of
returning to England made me doubly glad that I had
done them, and I only regretted that I had not used
some of my former leisure, in making a collection of
dried plants; but it was now too late to think of it.
I had my hands full of other business, and my mind was
too much occupied and excited by the hope of returning
home, to undertake a work of so much labor and patience
as making an herbarium.
Captain Smith admired beautiful scenery, though he
had no taste for natural history; and he was almost as
fond of Gordon Vale, with its fine cascade, and my pretty
arbour, as I was myself. He thought such scenes favor-
able to devotion, and we generally had our Sunday ser-
vices in that beautiful grove of pimento trees, near the
water-fall.
Nothing could be more correct than the conduct of
the sailors; and while they were rendering their willing
service to their beloved captain, he tried to make them
feel that it was my orders they were obeying. Intimate
as he and I were with each other, he never omitted
paying me the respectful attention which his notions of
discipline required, thus setting his men an example of
the subordination he expected from them.
The vessel on the stocks was to be a schooner of sixty
tons; this, after mature deliberation, we determined to
be large enough for safety, and small enough for the con-
venience of keeping near the shore, and sailing among
the islands of the Straits of Magellan. The timbers
of the wreck proved very useful; though larger than
necessary, they saved some labor, and made the vessel
very strong. The planks too saved a good deal of saw-
ing, which was tedious work; and the iron was literally
worth its weight in gold, for it was far more useful to us
than gold would have been, and we found plenty of it
about the hull of the Thames.
Frid T and I often volunteered to do a day's work on
the sch >< ner, either in sawing planks or hewing timber;
but my services were rarely accepted ; for Captain Smith
considered my department of victualling the vessel, so
important, he wished me to give all my time and thoughts
to that; and they went on so well with the ship-building,
I feared he would be ready first. We were anxious to
get away some time in March, that we might have the
best season for going through the Straits.
I had nearly enough spars, and sails, and rigging, saved
from the Thames, to out-fit our schooner; and what was
wanting of rigging could be made, under Friday's direc-
tion, of the fibrous plants he used for cordage. My stock
of blocks, large and small, was extremely useful; and
Captain Smith was continually astonished at the variety
of valuable things, that I pulled out of my famous store-
house. The forge, too,was a most essential accommodation,
and one of the sailors was so good a blacksmith, that I gave
up the anvil and hammer to him. The load of iron that
I lost in the creek, when I was coming on shore for the
last time, from the wreck, was pulled up from the bed of
mud, where it had lain ever since; and though much
rusted on the outside, it proved very valuable.
When I asked Captain Smith,one night, how he expected
to make an anchor, large enough to hold the schooner, of
our stock of iron, which, though considerable, was all
wanted for other purposes; he said, "I mean to make
such an anchor as the Chinese always use, for that will
exactly suit our means, and answer every purpose. They
make theirs of some heavy wood, with only one fluke,
and that is shod with iron: sometimes they plate them
all over with iron, but shoeing will be enough for us."
He then asked me what we were to do for a cable, as
he had seen nothing but short pieces of one among my
stores. I told him there was a hauser, cut in three pieces
only, and asked him if he could do any thing with that.
He seemed to think a spliced cable was but a poor de-
pendance; but as we could do no better, and might not
need a cable at all during our whole voyage, he said he
would try and join it securely; and perhaps two pieces
out of three would be long enough for the schooner.
As the work advanced, the sailors became more and
more animated. When the tall trees were felled, for
the masts of our vessel, they performed wonders in getting
them down from where they grew to the bay, and in
putting them in their places. Never was there a com-
munity in greater harmony, or more industrious; and by
the time the island yielded its best fruits and most abun-
dant harvest, we expected to be ready to load our vessel
and depart.
At last the hull was completed, the paint dry, the
lower masts in, and the time fixed for launching. It was
an important crisis with us all; if the captain felt all the
responsibility of a master builder, I felt as owners some-
times do, and the beatings of my heart showed iny in-
terest in the vessel's going off well.
As governor of the island, the captain insisted on my
christening her, as the term is; and as the sailors would
think they could not have a prosperous voyoge, in a ves-
sel whose bows were not sprinkled with some kind of
liquor, at the time of launching, we prepared a glass
bottle full of colored water, to throw at her, and agreed
to call her The Enterprise.
She went off beautifully the moment the dog-shores
were struck away, and I was so engrossed in watching her
motion that I had well nigh forgotten to throw the bottle;
but Captain Smith cried out, before it was too late," Chris-
ten her, christen her." I threw the bottle after her, hard
enough to dash it in pieces against her bows, calling out
at the same time, "The Enterprise, God bless her!"
The air then rang with the huzzas of our little band, and
the schooner floated beautifully on the waters of the bay.
We towed her round that aright to the creek, where we
knew it would be most convenient to rig her, and there
Captain Smith had her very carefully moored. This
precaution proved very necessary; it blew very fresh,
for an hour or two in the night, and my boat went adrift,
and knocked a hole in her bottom, which caused her to
30
sink near the entrance of the creek. As the water was
shallow, it was well she did sink; we might otherwise have
lost her entirely, which would have disappointed my good
friend Smith of taking her to England, That he was deter-
mined to do, not only on account of the use she might be
to us on the voyage, but to show, as he said, what one pair
of hands could do. When I reminded him that she was
not all my work, that I found the parts ready fashioned,
he replied, " That's very true, but still I cannot help won-
dering how one pair of hands could put the pieces to-
gether; for my part, I never could do any thing single-
handed ; if I want to twist and double a piece of string, I
always ask some one to help me."
This speech of the captain's reminded me, that my
play fellows, when I was a boy, used to call me "Self-
help," because I always did such things alone; and thus
may the character of a man be traced in his childhood.
CHAPTER' XLIH.
CLOTHING OUTFIT OF THE SCHOONER — BAG OF DOLLAR!
EMBARKATION VOYAGE — LAND SEEN WILD PI8-
EONS—ALBATROSS— STRAITS OF MAGELLAN — PATA-
GONIA.
I WAS pleased to observe how every thing we possess-
ed turned to some account; even the straw hats, with
broad brims, which Friday made in the winter, by way
of practising the art, were valuable presents to the sail-
ors, when they were working in a hot sun. Captain
Smith, too, was very glad to wear a pair of my matting
trowsers, to save his, when engaged in hard labor. I
had kept one good suit of European clothes by me, to
wear in case of my ever returning to civilized society;
but as I lost the chief part of my wardrobe, when my
residence on the terrace was destroyed, I had but little
to spare to Captain Smith ; and all summer I had worn
matting trowsers and the non-descript garment, between a
shirt and jacket, before mentioned. Talking one day
about clothing, we recollected that our men would need
some warmer garments, than the thin ones they now
wore; for, after being accustomed to this climate, they
would feel the cold, in the higher latitudes, very much.
Accordingly, Friday and I began the necessary labors
for supplying this deficiency. He wove some thicker
and coarser matting than any we had before used ; of
this we made nine pair of trowsers, and as we had not
buttons enough for all, we put on strings. Besides this,
we made long pea-jackets of lama skins, with the fur on;
and I was amused to think what a spectacle we should
be, when we were all dressed in our furs. The very
sight of a vessel, navigated by such hairy monsters, would
be enough to keep off pirates.
While Friday and I were busy tailoring, for the good
of the whole community, the rigging of the schooner
prospered finely. At first, Captain Smith was always
tearing, that we should fall short of some indispensable
article; but as he never came to me for any thing, that
I did not immediately supply him with from my store-
house, or find a good substitute for, he learned at last to
have the greatest confidence in my resources.
As our preparations advanced, and the time of our
departure approached, I felt some regrets at the idea of
leaving for ever all my familiar haunts, in this beautiful
island ; but my heart never once misgave me, as to the
propriety and safety of the undertaking. I never felt
about it, as I did about the flag-staff, or I should have
been afraid to attempt it.
We had windows and berths in the cabin, and my
household furniture furnished it nicely. A convenient
pantry opened out of it, with some rough shelves, having
holes in them to hold our crockery, and nails to hang
things on. Just forward of the cabin, was a very com-
modious place, fitted up for my valued lamas, Jenny,
Neddy, and the kid; for whom I laid in a good stock
of their favorite plant. The forecastle was fitted up for
the sailors; in their berths, as we had only three mat-
trasses, we put clean, sweet hay, and I had just a blank-
et for each, and some rugs to spare. When the schoon-
er was completely rigged, but before her cabin was
done, Captain Smith made trial of her sailing. He
found that she minded her helm quick enough, and
would sail quite fast going large, or before the wind,
but close hauled, he had nothing to boast of; owing he
said, to her being rather short, ibr her breadth of beam.
Several cruises in her, round the island, gave us all great
confidence in the good schooner Enterprise, and made
us long to be on our grand voyage.
I had provisions enough headed up in casks, to half
load the schooner, when her water should be ON board;
but that we left to the last. I took care to caution
Captain Smith against shifting ballast; and it was well I
did, for though he had stones in the lowest part of the
vessel, he had not taken any measures to prevent their
rolling to one side.
A good sleeping-place for Neptune, and a perch for
Poll, were not forgotten, and in place of hen-coops, we
had pens for live terrapins, that we might not be wholly
without fresh meat. My partial friend, Smith, insisted
on taking with us several specimens of the ill-shaped
earthen-ware pipkins and lamps that I made myself, with
every thing else that he thought creditable to my inge-
nuity. Even our musical instruments, broad-swords,
clumsy chess-men, he determined to put on board ; and
if the vessel would have held the pyramid, store-house,
and cottage, he would have liked to take them with us
also. He could hardly bear to leave any thing behind.
Amidst all my active employments, I would find time
to make a short sketch of my life on the island, to be
deposited in the pyramid; so that if any thing happened
to us, or to the long narrative which I should take
with me, there might still be a memorial left of my ad-
ventures, which some chance or other might carry to
my friends.
Now that I was about to return to civilized life, the
money which had so long been useless to me, appeared
of some value. That found in Gordon Bay was buried
up in the caves, but the bag of dollars, brought from on
board the Thames, was in my possession, and amounted
to the value of twenty pounds sterling; enough to pay
our harbour dues, and to carry us to our friends after
we landed.
I felt some scruples as to the right I had to this morr-
ey; but Captain Smith told me it was honestly mine by
all the laws of England, and that I surely had as much
right to it, as to the provisions which I had not hesitated
to appropriate. To me, however, there appeared a dif-
ference between using the provisions and materials which
I was in such absolute need of, and which could not pos-
sibly benefit any one else if I did not take them, and
spending this money, which I might do without, and could
perhaps restore to its former owner; so I secretly re-
solved to spend as little of it as possible, to replace what-
ever I took as soon as I was able, and to inquire out the
owners of the Thames and return the whole to them.
We converted the forge into a fire-place for our ca-
boose,* and having made all the arrangements we could
think of, as necessary to our comfort in so long a voyage,
we lived on board several days, by way of finding out if
we had omitted any thing material, which could be sup-
plied before we left the island.
At last the day came for our final embarkation; and
having carried all our live stock on board, with every
thing movable that was of any value, we all assembled,
for the last time, within the walls of our cottage, and de-
routly implored the blessing of God on our undertaking.
My feelings of joy at deliverance, and sorrow at leav-
ing my old haunts, were so nearly balanced, that I was
perfectly calm ; but poor Friday wept aloud, and em-
braced the door-posts of the house and one of his favo-
rite trees. I exerted myself to soothe and comfort him;
* A cooking-place on the deck of a vessel.
30*
but his passionate grief would have its way for a while;
so I put my arm round him and supported his tottering
steps to the place of embarkation. We rowed towards
the schooner, in solemn silence, interrupted only by the
sobs of my poor boy.
At noon on the fifteenth of March, 17—, we set sail
from "Crusoe's Island," as the captain called it in his
log-book; and, with a fair wind, steered directly for the
main. We all felt very serious at undertaking so long
and perilous a voyage, in a small vessel so rudely built,
and without any quadrant; but the natural cheerfulness
of the sailors soon returned. Friday's grief was too vio-
lent to last, and after the first night spent at sea, we began
to feel at home and tolerably safe in our little bark.
The captain kept his reckoning as well as he could,
with such poor time-pieces as we had on board, for we
were anxious to form a correct estimate of the distance
of the island from the continent of South America. The
weather was delightful and the wind fair, for many days,
and we proceeded on our voyage as prosperously as we
could wish.
I never interfered in the command of the vessel,
though Captain Smith treated me as though I were Ad-
miral of a fleet, and he only captain of THEflag-ship.
We had our meals regularly cooked, by Tom Bow-
ling, and served in the cabin, in very good style; but I
chose to be steward myself, so far as dealing out the pro-
visions went. This I did with my own hand, every day,
giving strict injunctions to avoid waste, for we had none
to spare.
As six seamen were sufficient to navigate the schoon-
er, Friday and I acted as cabin passengers, only begging
the captain to call upon us, whenever we could be use-
ful. I employed myself, part of every day, in writing up
my narrative, which had been neglected during our busy
time of preparation for the voyage ; in teaching Friday,
and talking with him, to his heart's content. We enjoyed
all the pleasures of a sea voyage in fine weather; we
watched the porpoises and dolphins sporting around us;
saw the gorgeous piles of clouds that accompanied the
rising and setting of the sun; leaned, by the hour, over
the sides of the vessel, looking at the sparkles of liquid
fire that marked her way in a dark night, and which we
supposed to be occasioned by small luminous animals in
the water, that have the power of giving out their light,
as glow-worms do.
We had been ten days out, when land was seen from
the mast-head, and our hearts were made to throb, by
the welcome sound of "Land O " some minutes before
we could see it from the deck. Friday's observations
on this circumstance convinced me, that my lessons on
the shape of the earth had not been thrown away.
Never were any people made more happy, by the
sight of land, than we were; for it set our minds at rest,
as to our being nearly where we thought we were. We
stood in very near the coast, by way of assuring our-
selves, that it was the continent of South America that
we saw, and not some island merely. When this was
clearly ascertained, we altered our course, and proceed-
ed in a southerly direction. The schooner did not sail
quite so fast with a side, as a fair wind, but we had fine
weather and went along very well.
As we got farther south, we passed along the shores
of islands that Captain Smith recognised, and this was to
me, who had been so long in an unknown region, a very
great pleasure. We kept a sharp look out for gathering
storms, as we got into high latitudes; but, though we
frequently came into a sea, that showed the wind had
lately been very high there, we did not experience one
heavy blow, as sailors say.
As we approached the straits, we saw large flocks of
what are called Cape pigeons, flying in various direc-
tions. They looked just like our tame pigeons, and did
not seem at all shy. Sometimes they surrounded the ves-
sel in vast numbers, and fluttered about her in order to pick
up any eatable that might be thrown overboard. The
sailors threw out slush * to them, which floated on the
* The fat that swims on the surface of the water in boiling
meat.
water, and they picked it all up directly. Thinking they
would be a valuable addition to our sea stores, I baited
some hooks with fat pork, and fastened them at intervals
to a line that I threw out over the stern. Captain Smith
showed me a much more effectual way of catching them.
He took several fathoms of fine twine, which the wind
would blow out nearly straight, over the lee quarter, in
the direction of these birds, and as they hovered over
the tempting slush, their wings would become entangled
in the string, and dozens of them were caught and drawn
on board by this simple contrivance. They were, how-
ever, so lean, and so fishy and strong in their flavor, that
we could not eat many of them.
The weather being uncommonly fine, the Albatross,
that magnificent bird of these high latitudes, flew very
near us. Once when we were becalmed, a noble, great
fellow lighted on the crosstrees, and a sailor crept
up very softly, and made the end of a rope fast to
one of his legs. The other end being fastened to the
vessel, when the Albatross tried to fly away, he was
pulled down to the deck by the sailors. I should have
liked very much to carry this monstrous bird alive to
England ; but he proved such an outrageous prisoner,
pecking at every one with his strong bill, braying like an
ass, and flapping his great wings, that I suffered the sail-
ors to put him to death. His spread wings measured
from tip to tip, twelve feet, and the length of his body
from his bill to his tail was five feet. His skin was so
thick, that I thought I could take it off, with only cutting
it open on the breast and throat; so I resolved to try
my hand at stuffing it, with such materials as I had on
board.
Friday and I worked away a great while, and at last
succeeded so far as to make the Albatross stand on his
wired legs, hold up his head, and look somewhat like a
live bird. The resemblance was sufficient to enable
Friday to play a trick on the sailors with it, which near-
ly robbed me of the fruit of my labors. When the hands
were at dinner in the forecastle, Friday stole softly to
the hatchway, and opening the great wings of the alba-
tross dropped it down among them. Thinking it alive,
they were put into a grand stir, and attacked the dead
bird so roughly that its plumage was very much ruffled.
When they discovered their mistake, it made a fine laugh
among them; and Friday was so delighted with the suc-
cess of his joke, that I would not spoil his fun, by com-
plaining of its effect upon my stuffed specimen. He,
however, soon perceived that it was injured, and was so
sorry for it, that he blamed himself for his thoughtless-
ness, much more than I did.
We had been twenty-seven days at sea, when we made
the Straits of Magellan, and entered that labyrinth of
islands, rocks, and crooked coasts. The current set, as
Captain Smith had supposed, from west to east, which
favored our course, and the prevailing wind was fair.
On our right, was Terra del Fnego, or the land of fire, as
it is called, from the burning mountains which are on it;
and on our left was Patagonia, or the land of giants. I
had read accounts of these people being ten or twelve
feet high, and had of course a great curiosity to see them;
so Friday and I kept a sharp look-out for the giants on
one side, and the burning mountains on the other.
We were subject to sudden changes of wind, which
came in puffs off the land, and were occasionally baffled
by the eddies, among the islands; it was only by great
care, and constant sounding, that we avoided running
aground. Captain Smith and all his men were such ex-
cellent navigators, and so attentive to their business, that
I felt very easy about the working of the vessel, and only
desired to see and know all I could of the land on each
side of us.
At last the winds and waters favored our wishes;
Captain Smith was obliged to run in under the shore of
the main land, and we saw, through the spy-glass, that
we should pass very near a settlement of the natives. We
earnestly gazed at the huts, hoping to see some of their
inhabitants ; and presently half a dozen men were seen
approaching the beach opposite their village, but, to our
great disappointment, they looked no bigger than our-
selves. Friday suggested that the persons we saw might
be only the young children of the giants; but I knew by
their looks and manner of moving, that they were full
grown men; and began to think that what I had read
about them was all a fable.
I had been very desirous of landing among the giants
and becoming acquainted with their mode of living; but
Captain Smith had dissuaded me from doing what would
retard our voyage, and might endanger our safety ; and
now that I had seen some of them, and was so disap-
pointed as to their size, I was quite cured of my desire
to go on shore.
The natives gazed at us, and beckoned us to them;
some appeared thrown into consternation at our approach;
others held up vegetables in their hands, and invited us
to land and get them. But we passed by, without stop-
ping ; and it was only owing to our being becalmed once,
between two islands, that we had any more intercourse
with them. On that occasion several of them swam off
to the schooner and came on board ; and then we had an
opportunity of correcting both our first and second esti-
mates of their height; though not so tall as some trav-
ellers represent, they must be taller than any other race
of men, judging by the seven who came on board the
Enterprise, and comparing them with Captain Smith,
whom we knew to be six feet high. One was a little
shorter than the captain, four were full his height, one
was a head taller, and one, head and shoulders above him.
This last might really be called a giant, for he was cer-
tainly above eight feet high. They were all well formed,
of a dark copper color, with straight, black hair, and had
their faces frightfully painted. We entertained our guests
as well as we could afford. But they ate so voraciously,
that they made great inroads on our stores; and they only
left off eating, because they had cleared the table of
every thing on it, even to a can of lamp oil, that happened
to be standing there; which they emptied without
ceremony, and with every appearance of relishing the
draught extremely. We dismissed these voracious vis-
itors with some trifling presents, and hoped to see no
more of them. As we made no head-way that night,
but continued becalmed among the islands, we had anoth-
er visit from them in the morning. They came now,
loaded with presents of vegetables, and some kind of ani-
mals recently killed, resembling hares, which were very
acceptable; but as we did not wish for any further in-
tercourse with these people, and made them no presents
in return, they soon left us. They wore feather caps,
and were dressed in skins with the fur on.
Soon after they went on shore, a breeze sprung up,
which carried us quickly out of sight of the Patagonian
village; and we never afterwards saw any of the race,
except at a great distance. Once we saw some on horse-
back, and either the horses were very small, or the riders
very large; but they were so far off that we could not
decide which. We were, however, well satisfied that
the common accounts which travellers have given of the
Patagonians were exaggerated.
So much for the land on our left; that on the right
disappointed us also. We saw no burning mountains,
and nothing but dreary, uncultivated wastes. Captain
Smith thinks the volcanoes are on the south side of the
island, and not visible from the straits.
CHAPTER XL1V.
ROUGH WEATHER — PORTUGUESE MAN OP WAR—CROSSING
THE LINE — CAPE VERDE ISLANDS — VOYAOB CONTINUED
— CONCLUSION.
WE were ten days going through the straits, and
a most anxious time it was to our good commander. He
hardly slept at all; and was on deck almost the whole
of every night. I offered to relieve him, but he said my
eyes were not sharp enough to keep a good look-out.
The habit of gazing at distant objects, enables sailors to
see much farther by day, and much more clearly by
night, than those who live on land. I was surprised at
the difference, when I compared my sight with Captain
Smith's.
After leaving the straits, we had some very rough
weather, which tried the strength of our vessel and rigging
to the utmost, fatigued the hands extremely, and made me
so sea-sick, I was good for nothing. The schooner proved
tight and strong in every part, but we found her a very
dull sailer, when close-hauled. It was well for us all,
that our commander was so experienced; for if he had
not known all about the trade winds, we should have at-
tempted to cross the ocean directly against them, which
would have been tedious indeed. He thought it best,
on every account, to coast along the eastern shore of
South America, till we approached the equator, and
then take advantage of the southwest wind, which blows
near the line, to waft us across those mighty waters,
make the coast of Africa, and thence visit the Cape
Verde Islands, or enter some friendly port, from which
we could take a fresh departure.
Two weeks after we left the straits, we got into the
trade winds, which in this part of our voyage were
favorable; and then we had such fine weather, that we
had nothing to do but to spread all our canvass, and
glide along over the waves without altering the position
of a sail, for days together. I was forcibly reminded by
this, of my voyage in the Santa Maria; but how differ-
ent were all my feelings now, from what they were then!
Full of extravagant hopes and wishes, I then desired
nothing so much as to see distant countries, and wander
far away from home. Now my roaming propensities
were all gone, and the first wish of my heart was to re-
turn to my happy home, never more to leave it.
During this part of our voyage, we frequently saw
vessels at a great distance, but were never near enough
to be spoken with, till we approached the most easterly
part of the coast of Brazil. Then we perceived a large
ship bearing down towards us, as if determined to speak
us. She had a Portuguese flag, and looked like a
man of war. We knew not whether we had most to
hope or fear, from an intercourse with these strangers;
but as it was unavoidable, we answered the summons to
declare what we were, by hoisting our English ensign.
She then made signals for us to lie to, and send a boat
on board. We obeyed, and Captain Smith went off in
his own boat, rowed by four men, determined to tell the
truth, whether he was believed or not.
In an hour he returned, looking so animated and
smiling, that on seeing his face through the spy-glass, I was relieved from all anxiety. Presently he was follow-
ed by a boat from the ship, and had just time enough to
tell me before it arrived, that he had been well received
and his story believed, and that the Portuguese com-
mander was coming on board to see the vessel and
equipment, and pay his compliments to me. Instructed
in the etiquette of the matter by my good friend Smith,
I received Captain Roderiguez, h s first Lieutenant, and
Secretary, as politely as I could. As Captain Smith
spoke Portuguese, he showed the strangers over the ves-
sel, and explained every thing to them; while I talked
with the Secretary and tried hard to understand his brok-
en English.
Some grapes and cocoa-nuts were set out on the cab-
in table, as the best refreshments we could offer our
guests ; and they seemed well pleased to taste any of
the productions of the unknown island. They all said
many civil things about our schooner and its outfit, and
Captain Roderiguez tried to say something very fine,
about the wonders I had done, when I lived alone, by
which I found my partial friend had been puffing me;
but it was plainly to be seen, that the great object of
their visit was to learn all they could about the posi-
tion of the island we had come from, with a view to find-
ing it, and taking possession of it.
We gave them all the information we could; and
31
when they asked what they could do for us in return,
besides supplying us with provisions, I asked for a quad-
rant; and was overjoyed to find that they had one which
they were willing to spare us. When the good old Portu-
guese commander returned on board his vessel, he sent
us a generous present of beef, pork, and bread, besides
small stores. Wine and spirits Captain Smith declined,
but gladly accepted a few casks of water, and went him-
self for the quadrant, which he received with the warm-
est acknowledgments.
This happy rencounter put us all in the finest spirits,
and we proceeded on our voyage now in a more direct
course. We were no longer afraid of losing ourselves,
nor obliged to grope along in sight of land. With a
compass and quadrant, we could cross the ocean in any
direction, and take the shortest course to old England.
When we crossed the line, as it is called, I found the
sailors had been trying to play off some of their jokes
upon Friday. They told him we were coming to a
part of the ocean, over which a line was stretched, that
must be cut before we could pass; and they tried to
persuade him to sit on the bowsprit with a hatchet in his
hand, ready to divide the rope. As Friday had heard
so many things from me, that were equally strange, but
which he had no doubt were true, he might have be-
lieved this, if when he inquired what line it was, one of
them had not called it the equinoctial line. That unde-
ceived him at once, for I had fully explained to him,
that that was an imaginary line only ; so with all simplici-
ty he began explaining it to the sailors, never suspecting
that their account of it was meant for a trick upon him.
Disappointed as they were of their fun, they were will-
ing to praise Friday's sagacity, and to wonder at his
knowledge.
Captain Smith told us, he never suffered those coarse
tricks to be played on board his vessel, which are some-
times practised in crossing the line; for when he first
went to sea, he was himself so inhumanly treated, on such
an occasion, that he resolved to put a stop to it, when-
ever he should be commander. Sailors are so fond of
frightening and tormenting all those who cross the line
for the first time, that it is very difficult to prevent it;
and Smith said the only way was to make it a matter of
agreement when the crew were shipped.
The hot weather of the low latitudes spoiled most of
our vegetables and fresh provisions, and our hands began
to droop on their salt fare; so Captain Smith thought
it would be advisable to touch at the Cape Verde Isl-
ands. He had frequently been there, was well acquaint-
ed with the authorities, gnd knew nothing would refresh
his lads more than some of the fine vegetables and de-
licious fruits of those islands.
The day that we expected to make St. Jago, it did
not come in sight, and we listened in vain for that thril-
ling sound of " Land O!" But at dawn, the next morn-
ing, the wished for speck appeared in the horizon, and
was announced to us from the mast-head. Favorable
breezes wafted us towards the group of isles, and in due
time we dropped our Chinese anchor in a harbour of
San Jago, opposite an ill built village, which is called
the city of Puerto Praya.
This first approach to the haunts of civilized man, after
my long banishment, was very overpowering to my feel-
ings. At Captain Smith's request, I had already taken
off my beard, as close as scissors would cut it; and now
he wished me to shave and dress myself in my European
suit of clothes, and go ashore with him. So we both
made the best toilette we could ; and leaving Friday and
two veteran sailors on board, we were pulled ashore in
the captain's boat by the rest of his crew.
As we had no regular ship's papers or custom-house
clearance to show, we were obliged to tell our story ; and
it so interested all who heard it, that we were made wel-
come to whatever we wanted. What we were most
anxious to get, was almost as scarce with them as with
us; and that was good water. These islands are sub-
ject to excessive droughts between their periodical
rains, and what water they have is only from ponds and
wells.
Our remarkable situation obtained for us the privilege
of filling several water-casks, which was the greatest
favor the suffering inhabitants of this parched soil
could bestow. The boat-load of fine vegetables and
fruits which they gave us was of little comparative value
with them. They brought us large supplies of rice, maize,
salt, sweet potatoes, figs, water-melons, bananas, pa-
paws, grapes, and the finest oranges and lemons that I
ever saw any where.
The people, though originally Portuguese, have be-
come very much like Africans, And I thought that some
of the men in authority were negroes. Numbers came
on board our little vessel, to see what a few hands had
accomplished, on a desert island ; every hour the inter-
est seemed to increase, the wonder to grow, and we soon
saw that we should be subject to very troublesome visi-
tors if we staid through another day. Boats were throng-
ing round our vessel till a late hour in the evening; and
though every one brought a contribution of fruit or vege-
tables, we were obliged to watch very closely to prevent
their paying themselves for these pretended presents,
with something we could ill spare.
When, therefore, we were left alone, and most of the lights in the city were extinguished, we took our depar-
ture from St. Jago, thankful for the kind treatment we
had received, but glad to escape from further intercourse
with such an ignorant and miserable people. Captain
Smith told me I must not judge of the whole island by
Puerto Praya; that the ancient capital St. Jago and
Ribeira Grande, where the Portuguese Governor resides,
are much better built, and contain some large houses.
We now continued our voyage with fresh spirit, and
earnestly hoped that the next land we made might be the
coast of England. I was surprised that Captain Smith
did not keep a more northerly course after leaving the
Cape Verde Islands ; but he said he wished to avoid the
immense fields of sea-weed which extend over thousands
of square leagues to the north and northwest of those isl-
ands. We had a great variety of weather, and met with
some accidents, such as carrying away a small spar and
splitting a sail to pieces; but with none which the presence
of mind of Captain Smith, the activity of his sailors, and
the resources of the vessel could not repair.
We were spoken several times, but not by any one
having authority to make us declare what we were, and
general answers sufficed.
On this blessed day, the 10th of August, we have made
the land! It is the coast of England that we see!
We hope to be up with the Scilly light before sun-set.
My adventures are, I trust, ended ; and the last voyage I
ever wish to make, is nearly completed. I therefore
hasten to finish this narrative, before I am too much agi-
tated by a nearer approach to my home, or too much
occupied by new scenes, to be able to write.
Remembering always the uncertainty of life, and that
I might not live to complete my homeward voyage, I
have continued my narrative to the present time; and if
any thing should occur to prevent my reaching home at
last, I beg my dear parents to accept this manuscript
from the hand of
their unalterably attached son,
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
POSTSCRIPT.
SINCE closing the foregoing narrative, I have had the
inexpressible happiness of embracing my beloved parents,
returning to the same endeared home that I had so often
thought of in my exile, and finding all my family alive.
My long banishment from the busy scenes of civilized
life, together with the agitating hopes and fears which
filled my mind as I approached my native place, render-
ed me very unfit to travel among strangers; therefore we
agreed that Hull should be the first port we would make.
Our arrival there created a great sensation. The story of
the strange-looking schooner, and her still more extraor-
dinary passengers, spread over the city with astonishing
rapidity; and I should have become a public gazing-stock,
if Captain Smith had not left one of his trusty fellows in
command of the vessel, and taken me and Friday off
post-haste to York. There he left us, in a private
apartment of an hotel, while he kindly undertook to pre-
pare my parents for the return of a son, whom they had
long since mourned as dead.
He began by communicating to them vague rumors
of my being alive, in some distant country; and by de-
grees he became more particular in his account, until he
told them, I was probably on my way home now. Be-
fore he had told the whole, my mother guessed the truth;
and, almost frantic with joy, she would have run out in
the streets to look for me, but was prevented by my fath-
er, who endeavoured to calm her feelings, while the good
captain returned to the hotel for me.
I almost flew to the well remembered house; I enter-
ed the green parlour, and clasped my mother in my arms!
The scene which followed I cannot attempt to describe.
I was so altered that my parents could not have re-
cognised me ; and had my mother stopped to look at me,
she would probably have hesitated to take me in her
arms, as her lost son. Our feelings of affection for each
other were, however, unaltered; and she felt the bond,
even while she looked in vain for the image, which she
had cherished in her memory as mine.
If I was altered, so were my parents. They both
looked twenty years older than when I parted from them.
I could not doubt that it was grief for my untimely fate,
which had furrowed the cheek of my mother, and silver-
ed the head of my father; and I wept bitter tears of sor-
row and contrition for the suffering I had occasioned
them.
Many agitating meetings followed with other members
of my family; and for many days I was constantly re-
ceiving visits, from all who had the least claim to an ac-
quaintance with the family.
Friday was early introduced to my father and moth-
er, as the valued partner and soother of my exile; and
when Captain Smith brought my live-stock home and a
cart-load of my baggage, our yard was thronged from
morning till night; so eager were people to see what-
ever came from the unknown island.
While this daily exhibition was going on, we had
large family meetings at home, every evening, to hear
my narrative read ; and the interest they all took in it,
far exceeded my expectations, and richly rewarded me
for all the pains it had cost me.
It was presently known in the city, that I had a writ-
ten account of my adventures, and we had numerous ur-
gent requests to lend it for perusal ; but my father said
it would soon be worn out and rendered illegible, if it
passed through the hands of half the persons who wish-
ed for it.
After some family discussion of the matter, it was de-
termined that we had better print my narrative at once.
One of my brothers advised its being put into some
scholar's hand, to be corrected and re-written; but my
mother was very desirous that it should be published
just as it was, and on consulting a learned friend his
advice agreed with her wishes. Accordingly my simple
story is lo be sent to press, accompanied by an ac-
count of my childhood, furnished by a relation of my
mother, and some sketches of certain scenes, which
happened to strike the fancy of one of my hearers.
If this description of my sufferings and consolations
serve to impress the minds of its readers with the value
of a good education, the importance of early religious
impressions, and the power we all possess of so turning
our hearts to God, as to become reconciled to the worst
misfortunes, I shall not regret that I have consented to
its publication.
THE END.
