 
 
 
 
 
THE
L I F E
AND MOST SURPRISING
ADVENTURES
O F
ROBINSON CRUSOE,,
of York, Mari n er,
Who lived eight and twenty years in an uninhabi-
ted island on the coast of America, near the
mouth of the great river Oroonoque,
With an account of his deliverance thence, and his
after surprising adventures.
FIFTEENTH EDITION, WITH CUTS.
EDINBURGH:
Printed for W. Darling, Advocate's-close, and
P. Anderson* Parliament-square.
M.DCC.LXXVIII,
THE
PREFACE.
IF ever the story of any private
man's adventures in the world
were worth making public, and were
acceptable when published, the editor
of this account thinks this will be so.
The wonders of this man's life ex-
ceed all that (he thinks) is to be found
extant; the life of one man being
scarce capable of a greater variety.
The story is told with modesty, with
seriousness,and with a religious appli-
cation of events to the uses to which
wife men always apply them, viz. to
the instruction of others by this ex-
ample, and to justify and honour the
wisdom of Providence in all the va-
riety of our circumstances, let them
happen h<jw they will.
The
iv
PREFACE.
The editor believes the thing to be
a just history of fact; neither is there
any appearance of fiction in it: and
though he is well aware there are ma-
ny, who, on account of the very singu-
lar preservations the author met with,
will give it the name of a romance;
yet, in which ever of these lights it sliali
.be-viewed, he imagines, that the im-
provement of it, as well to the diver-
lion, as to the instruction of the rea-
der, will be the fame; and, as such,
he thinks* without farther compliment
to the world, he does them a great
service in the publication*
THE
THE
LIFE and ADVENTURES
O F
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
IWas born at York, in the year 1632, of a repu-
table family. My father was a native of Bre-
men, who, by merchandising at Hull for some time,
gained a very plentiful fortune. He married my
mother at York, who received her first breath in that
country: and as her maiden name was Robinson, I
was called Robinson Kruetznaer^ which not being ea-
sily pronounced in the English tongue, we are com-
monly known by the name of Crusoe.
I was the youngest of three brothers. The eldest
was a lieutenant-colonel in Lockhart's regiment, but
slain by the Spaniards: what became of the other, I
could never learn.
No charge nor pains were wanting in my educa-
tion. My father designed me for the law 5 yet no-
thing would serve me but I must go to sea, both a-
gainst the will of my father, the tears of my mother,
and the entreaties of friends. One morning, my fa-
ther expostulated very warmly with me. What rea-
son, says he, have you to leave your native country,
where there must be a more certain prospect of con-
tent and happiness, to enter into a wandering condi-
tion of uneasiness and uncertainty I He reccmmend-
A ed
ed to me Agur's wish, Neither to desire poverty nor
riches; that a middle state of life was the most hap-
py; and that the high towering jhoughts of raising
our condition by wandering abroad, were surround-
ed with misery and danger, and often ended with
confusion aud disappointment. I entreat you, nay,
I command you, (says he), to desist from these inten-
tions. Consider your eldest brother, who laid down
his life for his honour, or rather lost it for his dis-
obedience to my will. If you will go, (added he), my
prayers shall however be offered for your preservati-
on; but a time may come, wlien, desolate, oppres-
sed, or forsaken, you may wish you had taken your
poor despised father's counsel. Fie pronounced
these words with such a moving and paternal elo-
quence, while floods of tears ran down his aged
cheeks, that it seemed to stem the torrent of my re-
solutions. But this soon wore off, and a little aster
1 informed my mother, that 1 could not settle at any
business, my resolutions were so strong to see the
world; and begged (lie would gain my fathers con-
sent only to go one voyage; which, if it did not prove
prosperous, 1 would never attempt a second. But my
desire was as vain as my folly in aiking. My mother
passionately expressed her dislike of this proposal,
telling me, That as Joe saw I was bent upon my envn
deftrutlion, contrary to their will and my duty^ fin
would fay no more> but leave me to myself to do what"
soever I pleased.
I was then, I think, nineteen years old, when one
time being at Hull, 1 met a school fellow of mine,
going along with his father, who was master of a ship,
to London ; and acquainting him with my wandering
desires, he assured me of a free passage, and a plenti-
ful sliareof what was necessary. Thus, without im-
ploring a blessing, or taking farewell of my parents,
1 took stripping on the first of September 165 1. We
set sail soon after; and our inip had scarce lest the
Humber astern, when there arose so violent a storm,
that, being extremely sea-sick, I concluded thejudg- .
merits of God deservedly followed me for my disobe*
dience to my dear parents. It was then 1 called to
mind the good advice of my father / how easy and
comfortable was a middle state of life; and I firmly
resolved, if it pleased God to set me on dry land
once more, I would return to cny parents, implore
their sorgivenness, and bid a final adieu to my wan-
dering inclinations.
Such were my thoughts while the storm continued;
but these good resolutions decreased with the danger;
more especially, when my companion came to me,
clapping me on the shoulder: What, Boh! said he,
sure you was not fright ncd last night ivitbscarce a
capful os wind ?—And da you, cried i, call such a via-
lent storm a capful os wind P A storm, you fool ydu>
feid he, this is nothing : a good ship and sea-room al-
ways baffles such a foolish squaw I of wind as that; but
you re afresh water sailor: Come boy, turn out, see
what fine weather we. have now, and a good howl of
punch will drown all your past sorrows. In short, the,
punch was made, I was drunk, and in one night's
time drowned both my repentance and my good re-
solutions, forgetting entirely the vows and pronr'fses
I made in my distress; and whenever any reflections
would return on me, what by company, and what
by diinking, I soon mastered those fits, as I deri-
ding! y called them. But this only made way for ano-
ther trial, whereby I could not but fee how much I
was beholden to kind Providence.
Upon the sixth day we came to an anchor in Har-
wich mad,where we lay wind-bound with some New-
castle snips; and there being good anchorage, and
our cables found, the seamen forgot their late foil
and danger, and spent the time as merry as if they
bad betn on shore. But on the eight day there a-
rofe a brisk gale of wind, which prevented our ti-
ding it up the river; and still increasing, our ship
rode forecastle in, and shipped several large seas.
A 2
It was not long before horror seized the stamen
themselves, and 1 heard the master express this me-
Jancbolly ejaculation,Lord have mercy vpon us^wcfhall
he all loll' and undone / Ffct my part, sick unto death,
1 kept my cabin, till the universal and teiribly dread-
ful apprehensions of our speedy fate made me get
upon deck: and there 1 was affrighted indeed. The
lea went mountains high: I could fee nothing but
distress around'us; two ihips had cut their masts on
board, and another was foundered \ two more that
had lost their anchors, were forced out to the mercy
of the ocean; and, to save our lives', we were forced
to cut our fore-mast and main-mast quite away.
Who is there so ignorant as not to judge cf my
dreadful condition? 1 was but a fresii-water sailor,
and therefore seemed more terrible. Our (hip was
very good, but over-loaded; which made the sailors
often cry out, She would founder: Words I then was
ignorant of. All this while the storm continuing,
and rather increasing, the master and the more so-
ber part of his men went to prayers, expecting death
every moment. In the middle of the night one cried
out, IVe had sprung a leak: another, That there was
four foot water in the hold. 1 was just ready to ex-
pire with fear, when immediately all hands were cal-
led to the pump \ and the men forced me also in that
extremity to snare with them in their labour. While
thus employed,the master espying some light colliers,
sired a gun as a signal of distress; and I not under-
standing what it meant, and thinking that either the
ship broke, or some dreadful thing happened, fell
into a swoon. Even in that common condition of
woe, nobody minded me, excepting to thrust me a-
skle with their feet, thinking me dead, and it was a
great while before I recovered.
Happy it was for us, when, upon the signal given,
they ventured out their boat to save our lives. All
our pumping had been in vain, and vain had all our
attempts been> had they not come to our stiip's side,
and
m- R OB UN S O N C R usp E. £
 
and dur jcnejri cast thc^^Tppe*; over the stern with a
buoy to;ii'fw^ich afu^^^^labotothey got hold- of*
and we halingthemTfto us^ gotj intp their boat, arid
left our (hip, which we ge^^
a quarter of an hdur^yi^Kt1^^|>|ea/aed what was
-infant by Founderin^^^^:W the men in-
*d3santly laboured tp:^l^^>^rp^-fhip; but the
sea ran so high, and-^|h^ wind ble^ hard, that
they thought it cgn^plent to hale.jwithin shore;
which, with great..?*2f|3|cuJty and danger, at last we
happily effected, landing at a place called Cromer^ not
farfrom Winterton light-house; from whence we
all walked to Yarmouth, where* as objects of pity,
many good people furnished us with necessaries to
carry us either to Hull or London.
, Srrange, that after all this, like the prodigal son,
I did not return ro my father; who, hearing of the
(hip's calamity, for a long time thought me intombed
in the deep. No doubt but I should have /Bared in
his fatted calf, as the scripture expresteth it: but my
ill fate still pushed- me on, in spite ofnhe powerful
convictions of reason and conscience.
When we hud been at Yarmouth three days, I met
my old companion, who had given me the invitati-
on to goon board along with his father. His behavi-
our ar.d speech was altered,:>nd in a melancholy man-
ner allied me how I did, telling his father who I wa%
and how I had. made this voyage for a" trial only to
proceed farther abroad* Upon.which the old gentle*
nun turning to me Young man, you ought never,
to goto [es. any more Jut to take this for a certainsign^
that you Will never prosper in a seafaring condition.
Sir, answered ly will you take the fame reiolution ? ft
is a different cafe, said he, it is my calling, anid.c&n-.,
fcqumtly my duty; [mt as you have made this voyage
for a trial, you fee what ill success heaven has fit lre~
fare your eyes \ and perhaps our miseries have been
en your accounts like Jonah in the ship of TarshitTu
But pray what are,you% and onsw[mt account .didyou
^ A 3 go
go to sea ? Upon which I very freely declared my
\vhole story; at the end os which he made this ex-
clamation. .Ye sacred powers! what had I committed
that such a wretch should enter into my (hip, to heap
upon me such a 3eluge os miseries! But soon recol-
lecting his passions, Young man, said he, if you do not
go hack, depend upon ity where ever you goy you will
meet with disasters and disappointments till your fa-
ther s words are fulfilled upon you. And so we parted.
I thought at first to return honve; but sliame op-
posed that good motion, as thinking 1 mould be laugh-
ed at by my neighbours and acquaintance. So strange
is the nature of youth, who are not ashamed to sinr
but yet ashamed to repent j and so far from being a-
fhamed of those actions for which they may be ac-
counted fools, they think it folly to return to their
duty, which is the principal mark of wisdom. In
short, I travelled up to London, resolving upon a voy-
age; and a voyage 1 soon heard of,by my acquaintance,
with a captain who took a fancy to me, to go to the
coast os Guinea. Having some money, and appearing
like a gentleman, I went on board, not as a common
sailor or foremost-man; nay, the commander a-
greed I mould go that voyage with him without any
expencej that 1 mould be his mess mate and com-
panionr and I was very velcome to carry any thing
with me, and make the best merchandise I could.
I blessed my happy fortune, and humbly thanked
my captain for this offer \ and acquainting my friends
in Yorkshire, forty pounds were sent me, the greatest
part of which my dear father and mother contri-
buted to, with which I bought toys and trifles, as the
captain directed me. My captain also taught me navi-
gation, how to keep an account of the ship's course,
take an observation, and led me into the knowledge
of several useful branches of the mathematics. And
indeed this voyage made me both a sailor and a mer-
chant; for I brought home five pounds nine'ounces
of gold dust for my adventure, which produced, at,
my
tny return jo London, almost three hundred pounds;
but in this voyage 1 was extremely sick, being thrown
into a violent calenture through excessive heat, tra-
ding upon the co*ast from the latitude os fifteen de-
grees north, even to the line itself.-%-r;.
But alas 1 my dear friend the captain soon departed
this life after his arrival. This was a sensible grief
to me; yet I resolved to go another voyage with his
mate, who had now got command of the ship. This
proved a very unsuccessful one ; for though I did not
carry quite a hundred pounds of my late acquired
weaith,(so that I had two hundred pounds left, which
I reposed with the captain's widow, who was an ho-
nest gentlewoman,) yet my misfortunes in this un-
happy voyage were very great. For our ship sailing to-
ward the Canary islands, we were chased by a Salee
rover ; and in spite of all the haste we could make, by
crouding as much canvas as our yards could spread,
or our masts carry, the pirate gained upon us, so that
we prepared ourselves to fight. They had eighteen
guns, and we had but twelve. About three in the
afternoon there was a desperate engagement, where-
in many were killed and wounded on both sides: but
finding ourselves overpowered witrTnumbers, our
ship disabled, and ourselves too impotent to have the
least hopes of success, we were forced to surrender 5
and accordingly were all carried prisoners into the
port of Sallee. Our men were sent to the Emperor's
court to be fold there , but the pirate captain taking
notice of me, kept me to be his own slave.
In this condition, I thought myself the most mise-
rable creature on earth, and the prophecy of my father
came afresh into my thoughts. However, my condi-
tion was better than 1 thought it to be, as will soon
appear. Some hopes indeed I had ttut my new pa-
tron would go to sea again, where he might be taken
by a Spanish or Portguese man of war, and then I
should be set at liberty. But in this I was mistaken;
for he never took rne with him, but left me to look
after
aster his little garden, and do the drugery of hi*
house -9 and when he returned from sea, wouid make
me lie in the cabin, and ]ook aster the (hip. I had
no one that I could communicate my thoughts to,
which were continually meditating my escape: no
Englishman,.'Irishman, or Scotsman here, but my-
self; and for two years I could fee nothing practi-
cable, but only pleased myself with'the imagination.
After some length of time, roy patron, as I found7,
grew so poor, that he could not fit out his ship as u*
sual; and then he used constantly, once or twice a*-
week, if the weather was fair, to go out a-fishing,
taking me and a young Moresco boy to row the boat;
and so much pleased was he with me for my dexte-
rity in catching the fish, that he would often fend me
with a Moor, who was one of his kinsmen, and the
Moresco youth, to catch a dish offish for him.
One morning as we were at the sport, there arose
such a thick fog, that we lost sight os the shore; and
rowing we knew not which way, we laboured all the
night, and in the morning found ourselves in the o-
cean, two leagues from land. However, we attained
there at length, and made the greatest haste, because
our stomachs were exceeding sharp and hungry. In
order to prevent such disasters for the future, my pa*
tron ordered a carpenter to build a little state-room
or cabin in the middle of the long-boat, with a place
behind it to steer and hail home the main meet, with
other conveniencies to keep him from the weather^
a?? also lockers to put in all manner of provisions*
with a handsome moulder-os-mutton sail, gibing o-
ver the cabin.
In this he frequently took us out a fishing; and
one time, inviting two or three persons os distinction
to go with him, made provisions extraordinary, provi-
ding also three fusees,with powder and shot, thaAbey
might have some sport at fowling along the sea coast.
The'next morning the boat was made clean, her an*
cient and pendents out, and every thing ready ;, but
their
9
their minds altering, my patron ordered us to go a-
fishing, for that his guests would certainly sup with
him that night. m
And now I began to think of my deliverance in-
deed. In order to this, I persuaded the moor to get
some provision on board, as not daring to meddle
with our patron's, and he taking my advice, we sto-
red ourselves with rush biscuit, and three jars of wa-
ter. Besides, I privately conveyed into the boat a
bottle osbrandy, some twine, thread, a hammer, hat-
chet, and a saw; and, in particular, some bees wax,
which was a great comfort to me, and served to make
candles. I then persuaded Mu!cy, (for so was the moor
called) to procure some powder and mot, pretending
to kill sea cudieus, which he innocently and readily
agreed to. In short, being provided with all things
necessary, we sailed out, resolving, for my own part,
to make my escape, tho* it should cost me my life.
When we had passed the castle, we sell to fishing;
but though I knew there was a bite, I dissembled the
matter, in order to put further out to sea. Accord-
ingly we ran a league further, when, giving the boy
the helm, and pretending to stoop for something, I
seined Muley by surprise, and threw him overboard.
As he was an excellent swimmer, he soon arose, and
made towards the boat; upon which I took out a
fusee, and presented at him: Muley% said I, 1 never
yet designed to do you any harm% and seek nothing now
but my redemption* I know you are able enough to swim
to store, and save your Use; but if you are resolved to
follow me, to the endangering of mine', the very mo*
ment you proceed I will sjoot you through the head.
The harmless creature, at these words, turned himself
from me, and I make no doubt got safe to land. Then
turning to the boy Xury, I perceived he trembled at
the action, but I put him out of all fear, telling him,
that if he would be true and faithful to me, I would
do well by him; and therefore, said I, you must stroke
your face to be faithfuls and, as the Turks have learned
yaits
yoUyfiucar by Mahomet, and the beardrsyour father,
or else 1 will throw you into the sea also. So innocent
did the child then look, and with such an obliging:
smile consented, that I readily believed him, and from
that day soreward began to love him entirely.
We then pursued our voyage, andjest they should
think me gone to the Streights mo*i$h, I kept to the
southward, to the truly Barbarian coast; but in the
dark os the evening, J changed my course, and steered
directly S and by E, that 1 might keep near the shore;
and having a fresh gale of wind, with a very pleasant
smooth sea, by thiee o'clock next day,I was 150 miles
beyond the Emperor of Morocco's dominions. Yet
still having the dreadful apprehension of being reta-
ken, I continued failing for rive days successively, till
such time as the wind shifting to the southward, mad©
me conclude, that if any vessel was in chafe of me,
they would proceed no further. After so much fa*
tigue and thought, I anchored at the mouth of a lit-
tle river, 1 knew net what, or where: neither did I
then see any people. What I principally wanted wafr
fresh water; and 1 was resolved about the dusk to
swim asttore: but no sooner did the gloomy clouds or
night begin to succeed the declining day, when we
heard such barking, roaring, and howling of wild
creatures, that one might have thought the very
strangest monsters of nature, or infernal spirits, hid
their residence there. Poor Xury, almost dead with
fear, entreated me not to go on shore that night. Sup-
pose Idont, Xury, said 1, and in the morning we
should see men who are worse than those we fear, what
then P 0 den we may give dem the shout gut, said he,
laughing^ and de gun make dent all run away. The
wit, and broken English which the boy had learned
among the captives of our nation, pleased me entire-
ly; and to add to his chearfulness, I gave him a drasn
of the bottle: we could get but little steep all the night
for those terrible howlings they made; and indeed
we were very much affrighted, when, by the roll-
ings of the water, and other tokens, we justly con-
cluded one of these monsters made towards our boat.
1 could not fee it till it came within two oars length,
when, taking my fusee, 1 let fly at him. Whether I
hit him or no, I cannot tell; but he made towards
the more, and th,e noise of my gun increased the stu-
penduous noise §f the monsters.
The next morning I was resolved to go on shore,
to get fresti water, and venture my life among the
beasts or savages, should either attack me. Xury said
he would take one of the jars, and bring me some. I
alked him why he would go, and not 1? The poor
boy answered, If wild mans come, they eat me, you go
away. A mind scarcely now to be imitated, so con-
trary to self-preservation, the most powerful law of
nature! This indeed increased my affection to the
child. Well, dear Xury, said I, we will both go ashore^
both kill wild mans, and they /ball eat neither of us.
So giving Xury a piece of bread to eat, and a dram,
we waded amore, carrying nothing with us but our
arms, and two jars for water. I did not go out of
fight of the boat, as dreading the savages coming
down the river in their canoes: but the boy seeing a
low descent or vale about a mile in the country, he
wandered to it; and then running back to me with
great precipitation, I thought he was pursued fey
some savages or wild beasts upon which I approach*
ed, resolving to perish, or protect him from danger.
As he came nearer to me, i saw something hanging
over his moulders, which was a creature he had shot
like a hare, but different in colour, and longer legs;
however, we were glad of it, for it proved whole-
some and nouristiing meet; but what added to our
joy was, my boy assured me there was plenty of wa-
ter, and that he fee no wild mans. And greater still
was our comfort, when we found fresti water in the
creek where we were when the tide was out, without
going so far up into the country.
Jn this place, I began to consider that the Canary
and
12
LIFE and ADVENTURES
and Cape de Verde islands lay not far off; but ha-
ving no instrument, L knew not what latitude, or
when to stand off to sea for them; yet my hopes
were, I should meet some of the English trading
vessels, wjio would relieve and take us in.
The place I was in was no doubt that wild coun-
try, inhabited only by a few, that lies between the
limperor of Morocco's dominions and the negroes.
It is filled with wild beasts, and the Moors use it for
hunting chiefly. Fa m this place I thought I saw
the top of the mountain TenerifFe in the Canaries,
which made me try twice to attain it, but as often
was I drove back, and so forced to pursue my for-
tune along shore.
Early one morning we came to an anchor under a
little point of land, but pretty high ; and the tide be-
ginning to flow, we lay ready to go further in, but
Xury, whose youthful and penetrating eyes were
sharper than mine, in a soft tone, desired me to keep
far from land, lest we should be devoured; for look
yonder mayfler^ and see de dreadful monster fast a-
Jleep on de side of de hill. Accordingly looking where
he pointed, I espied a fearful monster indeed. It was
a terrible great lion that lay on shore, covered as it
were by a shade of a piece of the hill. Xury, said I,
you shall go on shore and kill him. But the boy looked
amazed. Me killhimy says he, he eat me at one mouth %
meaning one mouthful. Upon which I bid him lie
still, and charging my biggest gun with two slugs,
and a good charge of powder, I took the best aim I
could to shoot him through the head ; but his leg ly-
ing over his nose, the slug broke his knee-bone. The
lion awaking with the pain, got up, but soon fell
down, giving the most hideous groan I ever heard;
but taking my second piece, I shot him through the
head, and then he lay struggling for life. Upon this
Xury took heart, and desired my leave to go on more.
Go then said I. Upon which, taking a little gun in
one hand, he swam to shore with the other, and co-
r\
ming close to the lion, put a period to his life, by
shooting him again through the head.
But this was speeding our ammunition in vain, the
flesh not being good to eat. Xury was like a cham-
pion, and comes on board for a hatchet to cut off the
head of his enemy; but not having strength to per-
form it, he cut off and brought me a foot. I be-
thought me however that his (kin, would be of use.
This work cost Xury and me a whole day: when
spreading it on the top of our cabin, the hot beams
of the fun effectually dried it in two days time, and
k afterwards served me for a bed to lie on.
And now we failed southerly, living sparingly on
our provisions, and went no oftner on shore than we
were obliged for fresli water. My design was to make
the river Gambia or Senegal, or any where about the
Cape de Verde, in hopes to meet some European
(hip. If Providence did not so favour me, my next
course was to seek for the islands, or lose my life a-
mong the negroes *, and, in a word, I put my whole
stress upon this, Either that 1 must meet with some
(hip, or certainly perish.
One day as we were failing along, we saw people
stand on the (here looking at us: we could also per-
ceive they were black, and stark naked. I was inclin-
ed to go on more; but Xury ciied, No, no; however,
I approached nearer, and I femnd they ran along the
more by me a long way. They had no weapons in
their hands, except one, who held a long stick, which
Xury told me was a launce, with which they could kill
at a great distance. I talked to them by signs, and
made them sensible I wanted something to eat-, they
beckoned to me to stop my boat, while two of them
ran up into the country, and in less than half an hour
came back* and brought with them two pieces of dry
flesh, and some corn, which we kindly accepted; and
to prevent any fears on either side, they brought the
food to the more, laid it down, then went and stood a
B great
great way off, tili we fetched it on board, and then
came close to us again.
But while we were returning tbanks to them, be-
ing all we could afford, two mighty creatures came
from the mountains, one as it were pursuing the o-
ther with great fury, which we were the rather in-
clined to believe, as they seldom appear but in the
night; and both these swiftly passing by the negroes,
jumped into the sea, wantonly swiming about, as
though the diversion of the waters had put a stop to
their fierceness. At last one of them coming nearer
to my boat than 1 expected, or desired, 1 mot him di-
rectly thro' the head; upon which he sunk imme-
diately, yet, rising again, would have willingly made
to the shore, but between the wound and the strang-
ling of the water, he died before he could reach it.
It is impossible to express the consternation the
poor negroes were in at the firing of my gun ; much
jess can 1 mention their surprise, when they perceived
the creature to be slain by it. 1 made signs to them
to draw near it with a rope, and then gave it to them
to hale on shore. It was a beautiful leopard, which
made me desire its skin; and the negroes seeming to
covet the carcase, 1 freely gave it to them. As for
tba other leopard, it made to shore, and ran with a
prodigious swiftness out of sight. The negroes ha-
ving kindly furnished me with water, and with what
roots and grains their country afforded, 1 took my
leave, and, after eleven days fail, came in sight of
the Cape deVerde, and the islands called by its name.
But the great distance 1 was from it, and fearing con-
trary winds would prevent my reaching them, 1 be-
gan to grow melancholy and dejected, when upon a
sudden Xury cried out, Master, mastery a ship with
a saili looking as affrighted as if it was his master's
ship sent in search of us. But 1 soon discovered she
was a Portuguese ship, as 1 thought, bound to the
coast of Guinea for negroes. Upon which 1 strove
for life to come up to them. But vain had it been,
if
if, through their perspective glasses, they had not per-
ceived us, and shortned their sail to let us come up.
Encouraged at this, 1 set up my patron's ancient, and
fired a gun, both as signals of distress j upon which
they very kindly lay too, so that in three hours time
1 came up with them. They spoke to me in Portu-
guese, Spanish, and French, but neither of these did
1 understand, till at length a Scots sailor called, and
then 1 told him 1 was an Englishman, who had e-
scaped fiom the moors at Salee, upon which they
took me kindly on board, with all my effects.
Surely none can express the inconceivable joy I felt
at this happy deliverance I who, from being a late mi-
serable and sojlprn creature, was not only relieved,
but in favour with the master of the (hip, to whom,
in return for my deliverance, I offered all I had. God
forbid, said he, that I should take any thing from you.
Every thing shall be delivered to yon when you come to
Brazil. If I have saved your life, it is no more than I
should expetl to receive myself from any other, wheny
in the same circumstances, Ishould happen to meet the
like deliverance. And should I take from you what
you have, and leave you at Brazil, why, this would be
only taking away a life I have given. My charity
teaches me better. Those ejsecls you have will support
you there, and provide you a passage home agaiti. And
indeed he acted with the strictest justice in what he
did, taking my things into his possession, and giving
mean exact inventory even to my earthen jars. He
bought my boat of me for the stiip's use, giving me a
note of eighty pieces of eight, payable at Brasil; and
if any body offered more, he would make it up. He
also gave me sixty pieces for my boy Xury. It was
with great reluctance I was prevailed upon to fell the
child's liberty, wlso had served me so faithfully ; but
the boy was willing himself; and it was agreed, that
alter ten years he mould be made free, upon his re-
nouncing Mahometifm, and embracing Christianity.
Having a pleasant voyage to the Brasils, we arrived
B z in
in the Bay de Todos los Santos, or All Saints Bay,
in twenty-two days after. And here I cannot forget
the generous treatment of the captain. He would take
nothing for my passage, gave me twenty ducats for
the leopard's Ikin, and thirty for the lion's. Every
thing he caused to be delivered, and what I would
fell he bought. In short, 1 made about 220 pieces of
my cargo; and with this stock I entered once moiej
as I may fay into the scene of life.
Being recommended to an honest planter, I lived
vith him till such time as I was informed of the man-
ner of their planting and making sugar; and feeing
how well they lived, and how suddenly they grew
rich, I was filkd with a desire to settle among them,
and resolved to get my money remitted to me, and to
purchase a plantation.
To be brief, I bought a settlement next door to an
honest and kind neighbour, born at Lisbon, of En-
glish parents, whose plantation joining to mine, we
improved very amicably together. Both our stocks
were low, and for two years we planted only for food:
but the third year we planted some tobacco, and each
of us dressed a large piece of ground the ensuing year
for planting canes. But now I found how much I
wanted assistance, and repented the loss of my dear
boy Xury.
Having none to assist me, my father's words came
into my mind; and I used to ask myself, if what I
sought was only a middle station of life, why could it
not as well be obtained in England as here? When I
pondered on this with regret, the thoughts of my late
deliverance forsook me. I had none to converse with
but my neighbour; no work to be done but by my
own hands; it often made me fay, my condition was
Jike to that of a man cast upon a desolate island. So
unhappy are we in our reflections, so forgetful of what
good things we receive ourselves, and so unthankful
for our deliverance from those calamities that others
endure.
I was
I was in some measure settled, before the captain,
who took me up, departed from the Brasils. One
day I went to him, and told him what flock I had in
London, desiring his assistance in getting it remitted
to which the good gentleman readily consented, but
would only have me send for half my money lest ic
should miscarry which, if it did, I might still have
the remainder tosuppo/t me : and so taking letters of
procuration from me, bid me trouble myself no far-
ther about it.
And indeed wonderful was his kindness towards
me ; for he not only procured the money I had drawn
for upon my captain's widow, but sent me over a ser-
vant, with a cargo proportionable to my condition.
He also sent me over tools of ail forts, iron work, and
utensils necessary for my plantation, and which pro-
ved of the greatest use to me in my business.
Wealth now accumulating on me, and uncommon-
success crowning my prosperous labours, I might
have rested happy in that middle state of life my fa-
ther had so often recommended; yet nothing would
content me, such was my evil genius, but I must
leave this happy station, for a foolislv ambition in ri-
sing; and thus, once more, I cast myself into the
deepest gulf of misery that ever poor creature fell in-
to. Having lived four years in Brasil, I had not only
learned the language, but contracted acquaintance
with the most eminent planters, and even the mer-
chants of St Salvadore; to whom once, by way of
discourse, having gi ven an account of my two voyages
to the coast of Guinea, and the manner of trading
there for mere trifles, by which we furnish our plan-
tations with negroes, they gave such attention to whar
I said, that three of them came one morning to me,,
and told me they had a secret proposal to make. Af-
ter injoining me ro secrecy,(it being an infringement
on the powers of the kings of Portugal and Spain),
they told me they had a mind to tit out a ship to go
to Guinea, in order to stock the plantation with ne-
B 3 grces3.
groes, which as they could not be publicly fold, they
would divide among them; and if I would go their
supercargo in the ship, to manage* the-trading part, I
should have an equal (hare of the negroes, without
providing any stock. The thing indeed was fair c-
nough, had I been in another condition. But I,
born to be my own destroyer, could not resist the pro-
posal, but accepted the offer, upon condition of their
looking after my plantation. So making a formal
will, I bequeathed my effects to my good friend the
captain, as my universal heir; but obliged him to
dispose of my effects as directed, one half of the pro-
duce to himself, and the other to be shipped to Eng-
land.
The ship heing fitted out, and all things.ready, we
set sail the first of September 1659,being the same day
eight year I left my father and mother in Yorkshire.
We sailed northward upon the coast, in order to gain
Africa, till we made Cape Augustine ; from whence,
going farther in the ocean, out of sight of land, we
ileered as though we were bound for the isle of Fernand
deNorenba, leaving the islands on the east ; and then
it was we met with a terrible tempest, which conti-
nued for twelve days successively, so that the winds
carried us wherefover they pleased. In this perplex-
ity, one of our men died, and one man and a boy
were washed over board. When the weather cleared
up a little, we found ourselves eleven degrees north
latitude, upon the coast of Guinea. Upon this the
captain gave reasons for returning *? which 1 opposed,
counselling him to stand away for Barbadoes, which,
as 1 supposed, might be attained in fifteen days. So
altering our course, we sailed north-west and by west,
in order to reach the leeward islands; but a second
storm succeeding, drove us to the westward; so that
we were justly afraid of falling into the hands of cruel
savages, or the paws of devouring beasts of prey.
In this great distress, one of our men early in the
morning, cried out, Land, land; which he had no
sooner
sooner cried out, but our ship struck upon a sand, and
in a moment the sea broke over her in such a man-
ner that we expected we should all have perished
immediately. We knew nothing where we were, or
upon what land we were driven; whether an island
or the main, inhabited or not inhabited; and we
could not so much as hope that the ship would hold
out many minutes, without breaking in pieces, ex-
cept the wind by a miracle should turn about imme-
diately. While we stood looking at one another,
expecting death every moment, the mate lays hold of
the boat, and with the help of the rest got her flung
over the ship's side, and getting all into her, being
eleven of us, committed ourselves to God's mercy,
and the wild sea. And now we saw that this last ef-
fort would not be a sufficient protection from death;
so high did the sea rise, that it was impossible the boat
should live. As to making fail, we had none ; neither
if we had, could we make use os any. So that when
we had rowed, or rather were driven about a league
and a half, a raging wave, like a lofty mountain,
came rolling a stern os us, and took us with such fu-
ry, that at once it overset the boat. Thus being swal-
lowed up in a moment, we had hardly time to call
upon the tremenduous name of God: much less to
implore, in dying ejaculations, his infinite mercy to
receive our departing fouls.
Men are generally counted insensible, when strug-
gling in the pangs of death; but while I was over-
whelmed with water, I had the most dreadful appre-
hensions imaginable; for the joys of heaven and the
torments of hell, seemed to present themselves before
me in these dying agonies, and even small space of
time, as it were, between life and death. I was go-
ing, 1 thought, I knew not whether, in a dismal gulf
unknown, and as yet unperceived, never to behold
my friends, nor the light of this world any more 1
Could J even have thought of annihilation, or a total
dissolution of foul as well asbody,the gloomy thoughts
of having no further being, no knowledge of what we
hoped for, but an eternal quietus^ without life or
sense; even that, I say, would rrave been enough to
strike me with horror and confusion / I strove how-
eves to the last extremity, while all my companions
were overpowered and intombed in the deep: and ic
was with great difficulty \ kept my breath till the
wave spent itself, and retiring back, Jest me on the
snore half dead with the water I had taken in. As
soon as I got on my feet, I ran as fast as 1 could, left
another wave should pursue me, and carry me back a-
gain. But, for all the haste 1 made, 1 could not a-
void it; for the sea came after me like a high moun-
tain, or furious enemy; so that my business was to
hold my breath, and by raising myself on the water,
preserve it by swimming. The next dreadful wave
buried me at once twenty or thirty feet deep, but at
the same time carried me with a mighty force and
swiftness toward the shore *, when raising myself, I
held out as well as possible, till at length the water
having spent itself, began to return, at which I struck
forward, and feeling ground with my feet, I took to
my heels again. Thus being served twice more, I
was at last dashed against a piece of a rock, in such
a manner as left me senseless but recovering a little
before the return of the wave, which, no doubt,
would then have overwhelmed me, I held fast by the
rock till those succeeding waves abated ; and then
fetching another run, was overtaken by a small wave,
which was soon conquered. But before any more
could overtake me, I reached the main land, where,
clambering up the clefts of the more, tired and al-
most spent, I su down on the grass, free from the
dangers of the foaming ocean.
No tongue can express the ecstasies and transports
that my foul felt at this happy deliverance. It was
like a reprieve to a dying malefactor, with the halter
about his neck, and ready to be turned off. I was
wrapt up in contemplation, and often lifted up my
hands3
hands, with the profoundest humility, to the divine
powers, for saving my life, when the rest of my com-
panions were all drowned. A.id now I began to cast
my eyes around, to behold what place 1 was in, and
what I had next to do. 1 could fee no house nor peo-
ple: I was wet, yet had no cloaths to shift me; hun-
gry and thirsty, yet nothing to eat or drink *, no wea-
pon to destroy any creature for my sustenance, nor de-
fend myself against derouring btasts. In shorr, i bad
nothing but a knife, a tobacco-pipe, and a box half
silled with tobacco. The darksome right corning up-
on me, increased my fears of being devoured by wild
creatures ; my mind was plunged in despair, and ha-
ving no prospect, as 1 thought, of life before me, I
prepared for another kind of death than what I had
lately escaped. I walked about a furlong to see if I
could find any fresh water, which I did, to my great
joy ; and taking a quid of tobacco to prevent hunger,
I got up into a thick bushy tree, and seating myself sa
that I could not fall, a deep sleep overtook me,and for
that night buried my sorrows in a quiet repose.
It was broad day the next morning before I awa-
ked; when 1 not only perceived the tempest was
ceased, but saw the sliip driven almost as far as the
rock before mentioned, which the waves had dashed
me against, and which was about a mile from the
place where 1 was. When I came down from my
apartment in the tree, I perceived the ship's boat two
miles distant on my right hand, lying on shore, as
the waves had cast her. I thought to have got to
her; but there being an inlet of water of about half
a mile's breadth between it and me, I returned again
towards the ship, as hoping to find something for my
more immediate subsistence. About noon when the
sea was calm, that I could come within a quarter of
a mile of her, it was to my grief I perceived that if
we had kept on board, all our lives had been saved.
These thoughts, and my solitude, drew tears from
my
my eyes, though all in vain. So resolving to get to
the ship, L stripped and leaped into the water *, when
swimming round her I was afraid I should not get
any thing to lay hold of; but it was my good fortune
to espy a small piece of ropi hang down by the fore-
chains so low, that, by the help of it, though with
great difficulty, 1 got into the forecastle of the (hip.
Here I found that the ship was bulged, and had a
great deal of water in her hold \ her stern was lifted
up against a bank, and her head almost to the water.
All her quarter, and what was there, were free and
dry. The provisions 1 found in good order,with which
I crammed my pockets; and, losing no time, ate
while I was doing other rhings 1 also found some
rum, of which I took a hearty dram; and now I
wanted for nothing except a boat, which indeed was
all, to carry away what was needful for me.
Necessity occasions quickness of thought. We had
several spare yards, a spare topmast or two, and two
or three large spars of wood. With these 1 fell to
woi k, and flung as many of them over board as I
could manage, tying every one of them with a rope
that they might not drive away. This done, I went
down the ship's side, and tied four of them fast toge-
ther at both ends, in form of a raft, and laying two
or three short pieces of plank upon them crosswise, I
found it would bear me, but not any considerable
weight. Upon which I went to work again^ cutting
a spare topmast into three lengths, adding them to
my raft with a great deal of labour and pains. J then
considered what I should load it with, it being not
able to bear a ponderous burden. And this 1 soon
thought of, first laying upon it all the planks and
boards I could get; next 1 lowered down three of the
seamen's chests, after 1 rud silled them with bread,
rice, three Dutch cheeses, five pieces of dried goats
ffesh, and some European corn, what little the rates had
spared; and for liquors, I found several cases of bot-
tles belonging to our skipper^ in which were some
cordial
cordial waters, and four or five gallons of rack, which
I stowed by themselves. By this time the tide begin-
ning to flow, i pe&ceived my coat, waistcoat, and
shirt swim away, which 1 had left on the shore; as
for my linen breeches and stockings, I swam with
them on to the ship : but I soon sound cloaths enough,
though I took no more than I wanted for the present.
My eyes were chiefly on tools to work with; and
after long search, I found out the carpenter's chest,
which I got safe down on my raft. I then looked for
arms and ammunition, and in the great cabin found
two good fowling-pieces, two pistols, several powder-
horns filled, a small bag of shot, and two old rusty
swords. I likewise found three barrels of powder,
two of which were good, but the third had taken wa-
ter, also two or three broken oars, two saws, an axe,
and a hammer. I then put to sea, and in getting to
more had three encouragements. 1. A smooth calm
sea. 2. The tide rising and setting in to the shore.
3. The little^ wind there was blew towards land. Af-
ter 1 had sailed about a mile, I found the raft to drive
a little distance from the place where I first landed,
and then 1 perceived an opening of the land, with
a strong current of the tide running into it; upon
which I kept in the middle of the stream. But great
was my concern, when on a sudden the fore part of
my raft ran aground; so that had I not, with great
difficulty for near half an hour, kept my back strain-
ing against the chests to keep my effects in their
places, all I had would have gone into the sea. But
after some time, the rising of the water caused the
raft to float again, and coming up a little river, with
land on both sides, I landed in a little cave, as near
the mouth as possible, the better to discover a sail, if
any such providentially pasted that way.
Not far off, I espied a hill of a stnpenduous height,
surrounded with lesser hills about it, and thither I was
resolved to go and view the country, that I might see
what part was best to fix my habitation in. Accord-
ingly
ingly, arming myself with a pistol, a fowling piece,
powder and bail, I ascended the mountain. There
I perceived 1 was in an island, encompassed by the
sea; no distant lands to be seen, but scattering rocks
that lay to the west: that it seemed to be a barren
place, and, as I thought, inhabited only by wild
beasts. T perceived abundance of fowls, but igno-
rant of what kind, or whether good for nourishment.
1 lliot one of them at my return, which occasioned a
confused screaming among the other birds; and I
found it, by its colours and beak, to be a kind of a
hawk, but its flesti was perfect carrion.
When I came to my raft, 1 brought my effects on
shore, which work spent that day entirely ; and fear-
ing that some cruel beasts might devour me in the
night time while I slept, I made a kind of hut or bar-
ricade with the chests and boards I had brought on
shore. That night I slept very comfortable; and the
next morning my thoughts were employed to make
a further attempt on the stiip, and bring away what
necessaries I could find, before another storm mould
break her to pieces. Accordingly I got on board as
before, and prepared a second raft, far more nice than
the first; upon which } brought away the carpenter's
stores, two or three bags full of nails, a great jack-
screw, a dozen or two of hatchets, and a grindstone.
I also took away several things that belonged to the
gunner, particularly two or three iron crows, two
barrels of musket bullets, another fowling piece, a
small quantity of powder, and a large bagful of
small shot. Besides these, I took all the men's cloaths
I could find, a spare foretop-fail, a hammock, and
some bedding; and thus, completing my second car-
go, I made all the haste to more I could, fearing some
wild beast might destroy what I had there already.
But I only found a little wild cat sitting on one of
the chests, who not seeming to sear me, or the gun
that I presented at her, I threw her a piece of biscuit,
which she instantly ate, and departed.
When
When I had gotten these cfflch on snore, I went
to work, in order to make me a little tent with the
sail and some poles^which I had cut for that purpose
and having finished it, what things might be dama-
ged by the weather I brought in, piling all the emp-
ty chests and calks in a circle, the better to fortify
it against any sudden attempt os man or beast. Af-
ter this, I blocked up the doors with some boards,
and an empty chest, turned the long way out. I then
charged my gun and pistol, and laying my bed on
the ground, slept as comfortably, till next morning,
as though I had been in a Christian country.
Now, though I had enough to subsist me a long
time, yet despairing of a sudden deliverance, or that
both ammunition and provision might be spent be-
fore such a thing happened, I coveted as much as I
could; and so long as the sliip remained in that con-
dition, I daily brought away one necessary or other;
particularly the rigging, fars,and cordage,some swine,
a barrel of wet powder, some sugar, a barrel of meal,
three casks of rum, and, what indeed was most wel-
come to me, a whole hogstiead of bread.
The next time I went, I cut the cables in pieces,
carried off a haulier whole, with a great deal of iron
work, and made an other raft with the mizen and
sprit-fail-yards; but this being so unwieldy, by the
too heavy burden I had upon it, and not being able
so dexterously to guide it as the former, both my
cargo and I were overturned. For my part, all the
damage 1 sustained was a wet skin ; and at low water,
after much labour in diving, I got most of the
cables, and some pieces of iron.
Thirteen days had i now been in the island, and
eleven times on board, bringing away all that was
possible; and, I believe, had the weather been calm,
I should have brought away the whole ship piece by
piece. As I was going the twelfth time, the wind
began to rife; however, I ventured at low water, and
rummaging the cabin, in a locker I found several ra-
C zorSj
26
LIFE and ADVENTURES
zors, scislars, and some dozens of knives and forks,
and in another thirty-six pounds, in pieces of eight,
silver and gold. Ah! simple vanity, said I, whom this
world so much dotes on, where is now thy virtue, thy
excellency to me ? you cannot procure me one thingneed-
ful} nor remove me from this desolate island to a place
of plenty. One of these knives, so meanly esteemed, is
to me more preferable than all this heap. E'en there-
fore remain where thou art, to sink in the deep as un-
regarded, even as a creature whose life is not worth
preserving. Yet, after all this exclamation, I wrapt
it up in a piece of canvass, and began to thinkof making
another raft \ but I soon perceived the wind begin to
arise, a fresh gale blowing from the shore, and the sky
overcast with clouds and darkness. So thinking a raft
to be in vain, 1 let myself into the water with what
things 1 had about me ; and it was with much difficulty
I £0t ashore, when soon after it blew a fearful storm.
That night I slept very contentedly in my little
tenjt, surrounded with all my effects; but when I
looked out in the morning, no more ship was to be
seen. This much surprised me for the present; yet,.
v.'hen I had considered I had lost no time, abated no
pains, and had got every thing useful out of her, I
comforted myself in the best manner, and entirely
submitted to the will os Providence.
My next thoughts were, how I should defend and
secure myself from savages and wild beasts, if any
such were in the island. At one time I thought of
digging a cave, at another I was for erecting a tent,
and, at Jength, I resolved to do both: The manner
ot form, of which will not, I* hope, be unpleafing to
describe.
When I considered the ground where I was, that
it was moorish, and had no fresti water near it, my
resolutions were to fearch'for a foil healthy and well
watered, where I might not only be flickered from
the, fun's scorching heat, but be more conveniently
Jituated, as well to be secured from wild men, and
beasts
beasts of prey, as more easily to discover any distant
sail, should it ever so happen.
And indeed k w^s not long before I had my desire.
I found a little plain near a rising hill, the front to-
wards which being as steep as a house-side, nothing
could descend on me frbm the top. On the side of
this rock was a little hollow place, resembling the en-
trance or door of a cave. Just before this place, on
the circle of the green, I resolved my tent should
stand. This plan did not much exceed a hundred
yards broad, and about twice as long, like a delight-
ful green before my door, with a pleasing, though ir-
regular descent every way to the low grounds by the
sea-side, lying on the N. N. W. side of the hill, so
that it was sheltered from the excessive heat of the sun*
After this I drew a semicirle, containing ten yards in
its semidiametcr, and twenty yards in the whole,
driving down two rows of strong stakes not six inches
from each other. Then wich the pieces of cable
which I had cut on board, I regularly laid them in the
circle between the piles up to their tops, which were
more than five feet out of the earth, and after drove
anocher row of piles looking within side against them,
between two or three feet high, which made me con-
clude it a little impregnable castle for men and beasts.
And for my better security I would have no daory
but entered in and" came out by the help of a ladder,
which i also made.
Here was my fence and fortress, into which I car-
ried all my riches, ammunition, and stores. After
which, working on the rock, what with the dirt and
stones I dug out, I not only raised my ground two
feet, but made a little cellar to my mansion-houie i
and this cost me many days lahour and pains. One
day in particular a shower of rain falling, thunder and
lightening ensued, which put me in terror lest my
powder should tak^. fire, and not only hinder my ne-
cessary subsistence, by killing me food, but even blow
up me and my habitation. To prevent which, I sell
C 2 tO
to making boxes and tags, in order to separate it, ha-
ving by me near \ 50 weight. And thus being esta-
bliihed as king of the island, ev^ry day 1 went out
with my gun to fee what I could kill that was fit to
cat. I soon perceived numbers of goats, but very shy;
yet having watched them narrowly, and seeing 1 could
better ihoot off the rocks than when in the* low
grounds, 1 happened to shoot a shoe-goat suckling a
young kid *, which not thinking its dam slain, stood
by her unconcerned *, and when 1 took the dead crea-
ture up, the young one followed me even to the in-
closure. 1 lifted the kid over the pales, and would
willingly have kept it alive : but finding it could not
be brought to eat, I was forced to flay it also for my
own subsistence.
Thus, entered into as strange a scene os life as ever
any man was in, 1 had_most melancholy apprehen-
sions concerning my deplorable condition; and ma-
ny times the tears would plentifully run down my
face, when I considered how 1 was debarred from all
communication with human kind. Yet while these
desponding cogitations would seem to imke me ac-
cuse Providence, other good thoughts would interpose
and reprove me after this manner: Well, supposing
you are desolate, is it not better to be so than totally
perilh? Why were you singled out to be saved, and
the rest destroyed? Why stiould you complain, when
not only your life is preserved, but the ship driven
even into your reach, in order to take what was ne-
cessary out of her for your subsistence? But to pro-
ceed. It was, by the account I kept, the 30th of
September, when I first landed on this ifl.md. About
twelve days after, fearing lest I stiould lose my rec-
koning of time, nay, even forget the Sabbath days,
for want of pen, ink, and paper, 1 carved with a knife
upon a large post, in great letters, and set it up, in
the similitude of a cross, on the sea-shore where I
landed, / came on shore, Sept. 30. 1059. Every day I
cut a notch with my knife on the suits of this square
post, and that on Sabbath was as long agnin as the
rest; and every first day of the month as long again
as that long one. Jn this manner I kept my calen-
dar, weekly, monthly, or yearly reckoning of time.
But had I made a more strict search, (as 1 did after-
wards), 1 need not have set up this mark. For among
the parcels belonging to the gunner, carpenter and
captain's mate, I found those very things I wanted;
particularly pens, ink, and paper; also 1 found two
or three compasses, some mathematical instruments,
dials, perspective glasses, books of navigation, three
English bibles,* and several ether good books, which
I carefully put up. Here I cannot but call to mind
our having a dog and two cats on board, whom I
made inhabitants with me in my castle. Though one
might think I had all the necessaries that were desire-
able, yet still 1 found several things wanting.- My
ink was daily wasting : I wanted needles, pins, and
thread to mend or keep my cloaths together; and
particularly a spade, pick-axe, or shovel, to remove
the earth. It was a year before I finished my little
bulwark; and having some intervals of relaxation*
after my daily wandering abroad for provision, I drew
up this plan, alternately, as creditor and debtor, to
remind me of the miseries and blessings of my life,
under so many various circumstances*
Evil.
/ am cast upon a desolate
island, having no hopes, no
pro/peel of a welcome de
liverance.
Hoiv miserably am Istn
gled out from the enjoy-
Good.
But yet I am preser-
ved, iv hi le my companions
ire perished in the raging
ocean.
T^t set apart to be spared
[from death. And he, who has
ment or company of all\so preserved me, can deli-
mankind,
Like an hermit (rather\
should I say a lonely ancho
rite) am Iforced from hu-
man conversation.
ver me from this condition.
However^ I have food
to eat, and even a hap-
fy prospeel os subfijUnce
whilst life endures,
C 3 My
Evil. Good.
My cloaths after some
time vjill be worn out;
and then 1jhall have none
to cover me.
When my ammunition is
wasted, then jhall 1 re
main without any defence
against wild men and
beasts.
1 have no creature, no
foul to speak to-, none to
beg astiftance from. Some
comfort would it be to re-
, sound my woes where I
am understood, and beg
assistance where I might
hope for relief
And now easing my mind a little by these reflec-
tions, I began to render my life as easy as possible,
I must here add, to the description I have given of
my habitation, that having raised a turf-wall against
the outside of it, I thatched it so close, as might keep
it from the inclemency of the weather; I also impro-
ved it within, enlarged my cave, and made a pas-
sage and a door in the rock, which came out beyond
the pale os my fortification. 1 next proceeded to make
a chair and table, and so began to such mecha-
nical arts as seemed to me practicable. When I
wanted a plank or board, 1 hewed down a tree with
my hatchet, making it as thin with my axe as possible*
and then smooth enough with an adze to answer my
designs: yet though 1 could make no more this way
than one board out of a tree, in length of time 1 got
boards enough to shelter all my stores, every thing
being regularly placed, and my guns securely hang-
ing against the side of the rock. This made it a
very
At present I enjoy what
is ab/gjutcly needful; and
the climate- is so hot, that
had I never so many, I
should hardly wear them.
Yet if it dots, J fee no
danger cf any to hurt me,
as in Africa; And what
if I had been cast away
upon that coast.
Is there not God to con-
verje to, and is not he able
to relieve thee? Already
has he afforded thee suste-
nance^ and put it in thy
power to provide for thy-
self till he sends thee a de-
liverance.
very pleasant sight to me, and being the result os vast
labour and diligence which leaving for a while, and
me to the enjoyment os, I shall give the reader an ac-
count os my journal from the day os my landing,
till the fixing and settling os my habitation, as here-
tofore shewn.
JOURNAL.
SEptember30th, 1659^1 unhappy Robinson Crusoe,
having suffered shipwreck, was driven on this
desobte ishnd, which I named the Desolate lsUnd of
Despair, the rest being swallowed up in the tempes-
tuous ocean. The next day I spent in consideration
of my unhappy circumstances, having no prospect
but of death, either to be starved with hunger, or de-
voured by bealls or merciless savages.
Octob. 1. That morning, with great comfort, 1 be-
held the (hip drove ashore. Some hopes 1 had, that
when the storm was abated, 1 might be able to get
some food and necessaries out of her; which 1 con-
ceived were not damaged, because the slvp did stand
upright. At this time 1 lamented the Joss of my com-
panions, and our misfortune in leaving the vessel.
When 1 perceived the ship as it were lie dry, 1 wa-
ded through the sands, then swam aboard, the wea-
ther being very rainy, and with scarcely at y wind.
To the 14th of this month, my time w^s employ-
ed in making voyages, every tide getting what 1
could or.t of the ship. The weather very wet and
uncertain.
Octob. 20. My raft, and all the goods thereon were
overset; yet 1 recovered most again at low water.
Octob. 25. It blew hard, and rained night and day,
when the ship went in pieces, so that nothing was
seen
seen os her but the wreck at low water. This day
] secured my goods from the inckmency of the wea-
ther.
Octob. 26. 1 wandered to fee Wi.ere 1 could find
a place convenient for my abode. 1 fixed upon a rock
in the evening, marked out a half-moon, intending
to erect a w^.l!, fortified with piles, lined within with
pieces of cables, and covered with turf.
Nov. 1. 1 erected my tent under a rock, and took
up my lodgings very contentedly in a hammock that
night.
Nov. 2. This day 1 fenced myself in with timber,
chests, and boards.
Nov. 3. 1 shot two wild-fowl, resembling ducks,
which were good to eat, and in the afternoon made
me a table.
Nov. 4. 1 began to live regularly. In the morn*
ning 1 allowed myself two or three hours to walk out
with my gun ; 1 then worked till near eleven o'clock;
and afterwards refreshed myself with what 1 had to
eat. From twelve to two 1 would lie down to sleep.
Extreme sultry weather. In the evening go to work
again.
Nov. 5. Went out with my gun and dog, shot
a wild cat with a soft skin, but her flesh was good for
nothing. The skins of those killed 1 preserved. In
my xeturn 1 perceived many wild birds, and was ter-
rified by some seals which made ofFtosea.
Nov. 6. Compleated my table.
Nov. 7. Fair weather. 1 worked till the 12th,
but omitted the 1 hh, which according to my cal-
culation, 1 supposed to be Sunday.
Nov. 13. Rain in abundance, which, however,
much cooled the earth; with thunder and lightening,
caused in me a terrible surprise. The weather clear-
ing, I seenred my powder in separate parcels.
Nov. 14.—16. 1 made little boxes for my powder,
lodging them in several places. I also shot a large
fowl, which proved excellent meat.
Nov.
\
Nov. 17. 1 began to dig in the rock, yet was obli-
ged to desist for want of a pick axe, shovel, and
wheel-barrow, hon crows 1 caused to supply the
place of the Erst; but- with all my art 1 could not
make a wheel-barrow.
Nov. 18. it was my fortune to find a tree, resem-
bling what the Brafilians call an iron tree. 1 had
like to have spoiled my axe with cutting it, being ve-
ry rurd and exceeding heavy: yet with much labour
and industry, 1 made a fort of a spade out of it.
Nov. 23. These tools being made, 1 daily carried
on my business ; eighteen days 1 allowed for enlarging
my cave, that it might serve me, not only for a ware-
house, but kitchen, parlour, and cellar. 1 commonly
lay in the tent, unless the weather was rainy that I
could not lie dry. So wet would it be at certain
seasons, that 1 was obliged to cover all within the pale
with long poles, in the form of rafters, leaning a-
gainst the rock, and load them with flags and large
leaves of trees, resembling a thatch.
Dec. 10. No sooner did 1 think my habitation fi-
nished, but suddenly a great deal os the top broke in,
so that it was a mercy 1 was not buried in the ruins.
This occasioned a great deal of pains and trouble to
4Tie, before 1 could make it firm and durable.
Dec. 17. I nailed up some shelves, and drove nails
and staples in the wall, and posts to hang things out
of the way.
Dec. 20. Every thing I got into its place, then
made a fort of addresser, and another table.
Dec, 24. 25. Rdin in abundance.
Dee. 26. Very fair weather.
Dec. 27 1 chanced to light on some goats, fhotonr,
wounded another; 1 led it home in a string, bound
up his leg, and cured it in a little time: at length it
became so tame and familiar as to feed before the
door, and follow me where 1 pleased. This put me
in mind to bring up tame creatures, in order to sup-
ply me with food after my ammunition was spent.
Dec.
Dec. 28, 29, 30. The weather being excessive hor,
with little air, obliged me for the molt part to keep
within doors.
Jan. 1. Still sultry. However, obliged by neces-
sity, I went out with my gun, and found a great store
of goats in the valleys they were exceedingly shy,
nor could any clog hunt them down.
Jail. 3, to 14 My employment this time was to
finish the wall before described, and search the island.
I discovered a kind of p'geons like our house-pigeons
in a nest among the rocks. 1 brought them home,
nursed them till they could fly, and then they left me.
After this 1 shot some, which, proved excellent food.
Some time I spent vainly in contriving to make a
cask; I may well fay it was vain, because I could
neither join the staves, or fix the heads, so as to
make it tight *, so leaving that, J topk some goats tal-
low I had by me, and a little oakum for the wick,and
provided myself with a lamp, which served me in-
stead os candles.
But now a very strange event happened. For be-
ing in the height of my search, what mould come in-
to my hand, but a bag which was used to hold corn
(as I supposed for the fowls,) so immediately resol-
ving to put gunpowder in it, I shook all the husks
and dirt upon one fide of the rock, little expecting
what the consequence would be. The rain had fal-
len plentifully a few days before; and about a month
after, to my great amazement, something began to
look out very green and flourishing: and when I
came to view it more nicely, every day,as it grew,
I found about ten or twelve ears of green barley ap-
peared in the very fame iliape and make as that in
England.
I can scarce express the agitations of my mind at
this sight. Hitherto 1 had looked upon the actions
of this life, no otherwise than only as the events of
blind chance and fortune. But now, the appear-
ance of this bailey, flourishing in a barren foil, and
my
35
my ignorance in not conceiving how it should come
there, made me conclude, that miracles were not yet
ceased: nay, I even^hought that God had appointed
it to grow there witftout any seed, purely, for my
sustenance in this miserable and desolate island. And
indeed such great effect this had upon me, that it of-
ten made me melt into tears, through a grateful
fense of God's mercies; and the greater still was my
thankfulness, when I perceived about this little field
of barley, some rice stalks, also wonderfully flourish-
ing.
While thus pleased in mind, I concluded there
must be more corn in the island; and therefore made
a diligent search narrowly among the rocks ; but not
being able to find any, on a sudden it came into my
mind, how I had shaken the husks of corn out of the
bag, and then my admiration ceased, with my grati-
tude to the divine Being, as thinking it was but na«
tural) and not to be conceived a miracle \ tho' even
the manner os its preservation might have made me
own it as a wonderful event of God's kind providence.
It was about the latter end of June when the ears
of this corn ripened, which I laid up very carefully,
together with 10 or 30 stalks of rice, expecting one
day I mould reap the fruit of my labour; yet four
years were expired before I could allow myself to eat
any barley bread, and much longer time before 1 had
any rice. After this, with indefatigable pains and
industry, for three or four months, at last 1 finished
my wall on the 14th of April, having no way to go
into it, but by a ladder against the wail.
April 16. 1 finished my ladder, and ascended it;
afterwards pulled it up, then let it down on the other
fide, and descended into my new habitation, where I
had space enough, and so fortified, that nothing could
attack me, without scaling the walls.
But what does all human pains and industry avail,
if the blessings of God do not crown our labours? Or,
who
who can stand before the Almighty, when he stretch-
eth forth his arm? For one time, as I was at the en-
trance of my cave, there happened such a dreadful
earthquake, that not only the Voof of the cave came
tumbling about my ears, but the posts seemed to crack
terribly at the fame time. This put me in great a-
mazement; and running to the ladder, and getting
ever the wall, I then plainly knew it was an earth-
quake, the place I stood on sustaining three terrible
shocks in less than three minutes. But judge of my
terror when I saw the top of a great rock roll into the
sea •, I then expected the island would be swallowed
up every moment: And what made the scene still
more dreadful, was to fee the sea thrown into the most
violent agitations and disorders by this tremenduous
accident.
For my part, I stood like a criminal at the place of
execution, ready to expire. At the moving of the
earth, I was, as it were, sea-sick; and very much a-
fraid lest the rock, under which was my fence and
habitation, stiould overwhelm me and it in a lasting
tomb.
When the third dreadful (hock had spent itself, my
spirits began to revive; yet still I would not venture
to ascend the ladder, but continued sitting, not know-
ing what I should do. So little grace had I then, as
only to fay, Lord have mercy upon me! and no sooner
was the earthquake over, but that pathetic prayer left
me.
It was not long after, when a horrrible tempest a-
rofe, at the fame time attended with a huiricane of
wind. The sea seemed mountains high, and the
waves rolled so impetuously, that nothing could be
perceived but froth and foam. Three hours did this
storm continue, and in so violent a manner, as to tear
the very , trees up by the roots, which was succeeded
by abundance of rain. When the tempest was over
I went to my tent; but the rain c6ming on in a fu-
rious manner, 1 was obliged to take (belter in the
cave,
cave, where I was forced to cut a channel through
my fortification to let the water out. It continued
raining all that night, and sometime the next day.
These accidents mada me resolve as soon as the wea-
ther cleared up, to build me a little hut in some
place, walled round to defend me from wild creatures
and savages; not doubting, but, at the next earth-
quake, the mountain would fall upon my habitation
and me, and swallow up all in its bowels.
April 16,—20. These days I spent in contriving
how and in what manner I should six my place of a-
bode. All this while I was under the most dreadful
apprehensions. When I looked round my habitation
every thing I found in its proper place. I had several
resolutions whether I should move or not: but at
length I resolved to stay where I was, till I found out
a convenient place where 1 might pitch my tent.
April 22. When I began to put my resolutions in
practice, 1 was stopt for want of tools and instru-
ments to work with. Most of my axes and hatchet*
were useless, occasioned by cutting the hard timber
that grew on the island. It took me up a full week
to make my grindstone of use to me; and at last I
found out a way to turn it about with my foot, by
help of a wheel and a string.
April 28, 29. These days was spent in grinding
my tools.
April 30 My bread falling short, I allowed my-
self but one biscuit a day.
May r. As I walked along the sea-more, I sound
a barrel of gunpowder, and several pieces of the
wreck, which the sea had flung up. Having secured
those, I made to the ship, whose stern was torn off,
aifd washed a great distance ashore; but the rest lay
in the sands. These I supposed was occasioned by the
earthquake. I now resolved to keep my old place of
abode, and also to go to the sliip that day, but thea
found it impossible.
D May
May 3. This day I went on board, and with tUf
saw sawed off one of the beams which kept her quar-,
ter deck. I then cleared the sand till flood.
May 4. I caught some fish,, out they were not
wholesome. The same day I also catched a young
dolphin. «
May 5. This day I also repaired to the wreck, and
sawed another piece of timber; and when the flood
came, I made a float of three great planks, which
was driven ashore by the tide.
May 6, 7, 8, 9. These days I brought off the iron
bolts, opened the deck with the iron crow, and car-
ried two planks to land, having made a way into the
very middle of the wreck.
May io,—14. All this time I spent in bringing
off great quantities of iron and timber.
May 15. Took with me two hatchets on purpose
to cut off some lead os the roll, but all too vain, for
it lay-too low under water.
May 16. I omitted going to the wreck this day;
for employing myself in looking out pigeons, I out-
staid my time.
May 17. I perceived several pieces of the wreck
blown ashore, which I found belonged to the head
of the {hip.
May 24. To this clay I worked on the wreck, and
with great difficulty loosened some things so much
with the crow, that at the first blowing tide several
casks floated out, and many of the feamens chests;
yet that day nothing came to land but a piece of tim-
ber, and a hogshead, which had some Brasil pork in
it. I continued working to the 15th of June, (ex-
cept necessary time for food and rest); and had I
known how to have built a boat, I had timber and
plank enough: I had also near a 100 weight of sheet-
lead.
June 16. As I was wandering towards the sea - fide,
I found a large tortoise or turtle, being the first I had
seen
» t
;f*fiy£jon the island, though, as I afterwards found,
thele were many on the other side of it.
June 17. This (jay I spent in cooking it, found in
her threescore eggl* and her flesh the most fa?oury
and pleasant I ever tasted in my life.
June 18. 1 staid within this day, there being a con-
tinual rain ; and it was something more chilly and
cold than usual..
June 19. Exceeding bad, taken with a trembling
and shivering.
June 20. Awake all night, my head racked with
pain, and feverish.
June 21. Sick unto death, and terrified with the
dismal apprehensions of my condition. Prayed to
God more frequently, but very confusedly*
June 22. Something better, but still uneasy in my
mind.
June 23. Again relapsed much as before.
June 24. Mended a second time.
June 25. A violent ague for seven hours, cold and
hot fits, succeeded with saint sweats.
June 26. Better, but very weak; yet I scrambled
out, mot a (he-goat, brought it home, and broiled
some of it: I would willingly have stewed it, and
made some broth, but had no pot.
June 27. All this day I was afflicted with an ague j
thirsty, yet could not help myself to water: Prayed
to God in these words; Lordy in pity, look upon me;
Lord have mercy upon me; have mercy upon me! As-
ter this I fell asleep, which I found had much refresh-
ed me when I awaked, 1 fell asleep a second time, and
sell into this strange and terrible fort of dream.
Methought I was sitting on the fame spot of ground,
« at the outside of the wall where I fat when the storm
blew after the earthquake ; and that I saw a man de-
scending from a great black cloud, and light upon the
ground. He was all over as bright as a flash of fire
that a little before surrounded him \ his countenance
inconceivably terrible; the earth as it were trembled
D 2 when
when he stept upon the ground, and flashes of fire
seemed to fill all the air. No sooner I thought him
landed upon the earth, but with a long speas or o-
ther weapon he made towards $fe 5 but first ascend-
ing a rising ground, his voice added to my amaze-
ment, when I thought I heard him pronounce these
dreadful words, Unhappy wretch ! seeing all these
things have not brought the to repentance^ thou shalt
immediately die. In pronouncing this dreadful sen-
tence, 1 thought he went to kill me with the spear that
wus in his hand.
Any body may think it impossible for me to express
the horrors of my mind at this vision ; and even when
1 awaked, this very dream made a deep impression
upon my mind. The little divine knowledge 1 had
received from my father's instructions, and that
was worn out by an uninterrupted series of seafaring
impiety for eight years space. Except what sickness
forced from me, 1 do not remember 1 had one thought
of lifting up my heart towards God; but rather had
a certain stupidity of foul, not having the least fense
of fear of the omnipotent Being when in distress, nor
of gratitude to him for his deliverances. Nay, when
] was on the desperate expedition on the desert Asri-
can shore, 1 cannot remember 1 had one thought of
what would become of me, or to beg his consolation
and assistance in my sufferings and distress. Whea
the Portugal captain took me up, and honourably
used me: Nay, farther, when 1 was even delivered
from drowning by escaping to this island, J never
Jooked upon it as a judgement, but only said 1 was
an unfortunate dog, and that's all. Indeed some se-
cret transports of foul 1 bad, which was not through
grace, but only a common flight of joy, that 1 wag
yet alive, when my companions were all drowned,
and no other joy could 1 conceive but what is com-
mon with the sailors over a bowl of punch, after they
have escaped the greatest dangers.
The likeliehood of wanting for neither food nor
conveniences, might have called upon me for a
thankful acknowledgement of Providence. Indeed
the growth of my corn touched me with some fense;
but that soon wore off again. The terrible earth-
quake pointed to me as it were the finger of God,
but my dreadful amazement continued no longer
than its duration. But now when my spirits began
to sink under the burthen of a strong distemper, and
1 could leisurely view the miseries of death pre-
sent themselves before my eyes, then 'my awakened
conscience began to reproach me with my past life,
in which 1 had so wickedly provoked the justice of
God, to pour down his vengeance upon me.
Such reflections as these oppressed me even in the
violence of my distemper. Some prayers 1 uttered
which only proceeded from my fear of death. But
when 1 considered my father's advice and prophecy,
1 could not forbear weeping; for he told me, That
if I did persist in my folly, 1 should not only be de-
prived of Gid*s blessing, but have time enough t& re-
flect upon my despising his instructions; and this in &
wretched time -when none could help me. And now
concluding it to be fulfilled, having no foul in the
island to administer any comfort to me, 1 prayed
earnestly to the Lord, that he would help me in this
my great calamity. And this, I think, was the first
time 1 prayed in sincerity for many years. But now
1 must return to my journal.
June 2&. Something refreshed with sleep, and the
fit quite off, 1 got up. My dream still occasioned in
me a great consternation; and fearing that the ague
might return the succeeding day, 1 concluded it time
to get something to comfort me. 1 filled a case-bottle
with water, and set it within the reach of my bed;
and to make it more nourishing, and less chilly, 1
Eut some rum into it. The next thing 1 did was to
oil me a piece of goat-flesh, of which 1 ate but little,
i was very weak; however, walked about, dreading
D 3 thf
the return of my distemper ; and at night 3 supped
on three of the turtle's eggs, which 1 roasted and ate,
beggmg God's blessing therewith.
After 1 had eaten, 1 attempts to walk again out
of doors with my gun; but was so weak, that I sat
down, and looked at the sea, which was smooth and
calm. While 1 continued here, these thoughts came
into my mind.
In what manner is the production of the earth and
Iba, which 1 have seen so much of? From whence
came myself, and all other creatures living, and of
what are we made?
Our beings were assuredly created by some al-
mighty invisible power, who framed the earth, the
sea, and air, and all therein. But what is that power?
Certainly it must follow, that God has created it
all. Yet, said I, if God has made all this, he must
be the ruler of them all, and what is relating there-
to; for certainly the power that makes, must indis-
putably have a power to guide and direct them. And
if this be so (as certainly it must), nothing can hap-
pen without his knowledge or appointment. Then
surely if nothing happens without God's appoint-
ment, certainly God has appointed these my suffer-
ings to befal me. And here I fixed my firm belief,
that it was his will that it mould be so; and then
proceeded to enquire, why should God deal with me
in this manner? Or, What have I done thus to de-
serve his indignation?
Here conscience flew in my face, reprehending me
as a blasphemer j crying with a loud and piercing
voice, Unworthy wretch I dare you ask what you have
done P Look upon your past life^ and Jee what you have
left undone? Ask thyself, Why thou wert not long
ago in the merciless hands of death? Why not
drowned in Yarmouth roads, or killed iri the fight
when the ship was taken by the Sallee man of war?
Why not entombed in- the bowels of wild beasts on
the African coast, or drowned here when all thy
companions suffered shipwreck in the ocean?
Struck dumb wi^jl these reflections, 1 rose tip in a
pensive manner, besfcg so thoughtful that 1 could not
go to fleep *, and searing the dreadful return of my
distemper, it caused me to remember that the Brasi-
lians used tobacco for almost all diseases. I then went
to my chest, in order to find some, where Heaven no
doubt dire&ed me to find a cure for both foul and
body ; for there I found one of the bibles, which, till
this time, J had neither leisure nor inclination to look
into ; 1 took both the tobacco and that out os the
chest, and laid them on the table. Several experi-
ments did I try with the tobacco: First I took a
piece of leaf, and chewed it but it being very green
and strong, almost stupified me. Next I steeped it
in some rum an hour or two, resolving when 1 went
to bed to take a dose of it: and in the third place, I
burnt some over a pan of fire, holding my nose over
it so long as I could endure it without suffocation.
In the intervals of this operation, though my head
was giddy and disturbed at the tobacco, I took up
the bible to read. No sooner did 1 open it, but there
appeared to me these words. Call on me in the day
of trouble, and I will deliver thee, and thou Jbalt glo*
rify me.
At first this sentence made a very deep impression
on my heart; but it soon wore off again, when I
considered the word delivermvzs foreign to me. And
as the children of Israel said, when they were pro-
mised flesh to eat, Can God spread a table in the wil-
derness ? in like manner 1 began to say, Can God
himself deliver me from this desolate island? How-
ever, the words would still return to my mind, and
afterwards made a greater impresiion upon me. As
it now was very late, and the tobacco had dozed my
head, T was inclined to fleep •, but before I would lie
down, I fell on my knees, and implored the promise
that God had made to me in the holy scriptures,
that is I called upon him in the day of trouble^ he
would deliver me. With much difficulty I aster drank
the rum, wherein I had steepedtthe tobacco; which
flying in my head, threw me* into such a profound
sleep, that it was three o'clock the next day before
I awaked; or rather, I believe, I slept two days, ha-
ving certainly lost a day in my account, and I could
never tell any other way. When I got up, my spi-
rits were lively and chearful ; my stomach much bet-
ter, being very hungry; and in short, no sit returned
the next day; which was the 29th, but I found my-
self much altered for the better.
The 30th, 1 went abroad with my gun, but not
far, and killed a sea-fowl or two, resembling a brand-
goose, which, however I cared not to eat when I
brought them home, but dined on two more of the
turtle's eggs. In the evening I renewed my medicine,
excepting that I did not take so large a quantity,
neither did I chew the leaf, or hold my head over the
smoke: but next day, wkich was the 1st of July, ha-
ving a little spice of the cold sit, I again took my me-
dicine as I did the first time.
July 3. The sit quite left me, but very weak. In
this condition, I often thought of these words, / will
deliver thee : and while at some times I would think
of the impossibility of it, other thoughts would re-
prehend me, for disregarding the deliverances I had
received, even from the most forlorn and distressed
condition. I asked myself, what regard have I had
toGod forhis abundant mercies ? have I done my part I
He has delivered mey but I have not glorified him »—
as if I had said, I ha<i not owned and been thankful
for these as deliverances, and how could I expect
greater? So much did this sensibly touch my heart,
that I gave God thanks for my recovery from sickness
in the most humble prostration.
July 4. This morning I began seriously to ponder
on what is written in the New Testament, resolving
to read a chapter every morning and night as long
as
as my thoughts would engage me. As soon as I set
about this work seriously, I found my heart deeply af-
fected with the imgiety of my past life these words
that 1 thought were'tfpoken to me in my dream revi-
ved, All these things have not brought thee to repen-
tance. After this, I begged of God to assist me with
his Holy Spirit in returning to my duty. One day,
in perusing the scriptures, I came to these words, He
is exalted a Prince and a Saviour, to give repentance^
and to give remission: immediately 1 laid down the
book, and, with uplifted hands to heaven, loudly
cried, 0 blessed Jesus> thou son of David, Jesus, thou ex-
alt ed Prince and Saviour, give me repentance! And
now indeed 1 prayed with a true fense of my conditi-
on, and a more certain hope founded on the word
of God. Now 1 had a different sense of these words,
Call on me, and I will deliver thee, that is, from the
dreadful load of guiit, which oppressed my sinful
foul, and not from a solitary life, which might rather
be called a blessing, (seing 1 wanted neither food
nor raiment), when compared with living among the
human race, surrounded with so much oppression,
misery, and affliction: In a word 1 came to this con-
clusion, that a deliverance from sin was a much greater
blessing than a deliverance from affliction. But again
1 proceed to my journal.
To the 14th of July, 1 walked about with my gun
Jittle and little at a time, having been reduced to the
greatest extremity of weakness. The applications
and experiments 1 used were perfectly new \ neither
could 1 recommend them to any one's practice. For
though it carried off the fit, it very much weakened
me; and 1 had frequently convulsions in my nerves
and limbs for some time. From hence 1 learned,
that going abroad in rainy weather, especially when
it was attended with storms, andhurricanes of wind,
was most pernicious so health. 1 had now been a-
bove ten months in the island and as 1 never had
seen any of the human kind, 1 therefore accounted
myself
myself as sole monarch; and as 1 grew better, having
secured my habitation to my mind, 1 resolved to make
a tour round my kingdom, in orjjerto make new dis-
coveries. /
The 15th of July 1 began my journey. 1 first went
to the creek, where 1 had brought my rafts on more;
and travelling farther, found the tide went no higher
than two miles up, where there was a little brook of
running waters,on the bank of which were many plea-
sant Savannas or meadows, plain, smooth, and cover-
ed with grass. On the rising parts, where 1 supposed
the water did not reich, 1 perceived a great deal of
tobacco growing to a very strong stalk. Several other
planis 1 likewise sound, the virtues of which 1 did not
understand. 1 searched a long time for the Cassava
root, which 1 knew the Indians in that climate made
their bread of \ but all in vain. There were several
plants us aloes, though at that time 1 knew not what
they were \ likewise 1 saw several sugar-cane, but
imperfect for want of cultivation. With these few
discoveries 1 came back that night, and slept conten-
tedly in my little castle.
The next day, being the 16th, going the fame way,
but farther than the day before, 1 found the country
more adorned with woods and trees. Here 1 percei-
ved different fruits in great abundance. Melons in
plenty lay on the ground, and clusters of grapes, ripe
and very rich, spread over the trees. You may ima-
gine 1 was glad of this discovery, yet ate very spa-
ringly, lest 1 should throw myself into a flux or fever.
The grapes 1 found of excellent use, for when 1 had
dried them in the sun, which preserved them as dried
raisins are kept, they proved very wholesome and nou-
rishing, and served me in those seasons when no grapes
were to be had.
The night drawing on apace, 1 ascended up a tree,
and slept very comfortably, though it was the first
time 1 had lain out of my habitation. And whest the
morning came, 1 proceeded with great pleasure out
my
my way, travelling about four miles, as I imagined
by the length of the valle;, directing my course north-
ward, there being a /idge of hiils on the south and
north fide of me. i£t the end of this valley, 1 came
to an opening,, where the country seemed to descend
to the west ; there 1 sound a little spring os fresh wa-
ter, proceeding out os the side os a hill, with its crystal
streams running directly east. And indeed here my
fenses were charmed with the most beautiful landscape
nature could afford : for the country appeared so flou-
rishing, green, and delightful, that to me it seemed
like a planted garden, 1 then descended on the side
os that delicious vale, when 1 found abundance of co-
coa, orange, lemon, and citron trees, but very wild
and barren at that time. As for the limes, they were
delightful and wholesome, the juice os which 1 after
used to mix in water, which made it very cool and re-
frestiing. And now 1 was resolved to carry home and
lay up a store of grapes, limes and lemons against the
approaching wet season. So laying them up in sepa-
rated parcels, and then taking a few of.each with me,
1 returned to my little castle, after having spent three
days in this journey. Before 1 got horne, the grapes
were so bruised that they utterly spoiled; the limes in-
deed were good, but of these 1 could bring only a few,
July 19. Having prepared two bags, 1 returned
thither again ;but to my great surprise found all the
grapes spread about, trod to pieces, and abundance
eaten, which made me conclude there were wild
beasts thereabouts. To prevent this happening again,
1 gathered a large quantity of the grapes, and hung
them upon the out branches of the trees, both to
keep them unhurt, and that they might cure and dry
in the fun : and having well loaded myself with limes
and lemons, 1 returned once more to my old place of
residence.
And now contemplating on the fruitfulness of this
valley, the pleasantness of its situation, its security
from
from storms, and the delightfulnese of the adjacent
woods, 1 concluded I was settled in the worst part of
the country, and therefore was • thinking to remove
my habitation. But when 1 considered again, that
though it was pleasant, it was off from the sea-side
where there was a possibility, some time or other, a
(hip might either be driven or fail by; and that to
inclose myself among hills and woods must certainly
put an end to my hopes of deliverance ; 1 resolved to
let my castle remain where Providence had first as-
signed it. Yet so ravished was 1 with this place, that
1 made me a little kind of bower, surrounding it with
a double hedge, as high as 1 could reach, well staked,
and filled with bulrushes; and having spent a great
part of the month of July, 1 think it was the first of
August before 1 began to enjoy my labour.
Aug. 3. Perceiving my grapes to be dry, 1 took
them from the trees, and they proved excellent good
raisins of the fun : the most of which 1 carried to my
cave*, and happy for me 1 did so, by which 1 saved
the best part of my winter food.
Aug. 14. This day it began to rain ; and though I
had made me a tent like the other, yet having no shel-
ter of a hill to keep me from storms, nor a cave behind
me to retreat to, 1 was obliged to return to my old
castle. The rain continued more or less every day, till
the middle of October; and sometimes so violently
that 1 could not stir out of my cave for several days.
This season 1 sound my family to increase ? for one
of my cats that ran away from me, and who 1 thought
had been dead, returned about August, with three
kittens at her heels, like herself, which 1 thought
strange, because both my cats were females, and the
wild cats of the island seemed to be of a different
kind from our European cats; but from these cats
proceeded such numbers, that 1 was forced to kill and
destroy them as 1 would do wild beasts or vermin.
To the 26th of this month 1 could not stir out, it
raining
raining incessantly; when beginning to want food,
I was compelled to venture twice, the first of which I
shot a goat, and afjerwards found a very large tor-
toise, she manner h( my regulating my food wai
thus: A bunch of raisins served me for breakfast; a
piece of goat's flesh or turtle broiled for my dinner,
and two or three turtle eggs for my supper. While.
the rain lasted, I daily worked two or three hours aC
enlarging my care, and by degrees worked it on to-
wards one side, till 1 came to the outside of the hill,
and made a door or way out, which came beyond my
fence or wall, and so I came in and out this way.
But after I had done this, f was'troubled to fee my-
self thus exposed; though I could not perceive any
thing to fear, a goat being the biggest creature 1 had
seen upon this island.
Sept. 30. Casting up my notches on my post, which <
amounted to 365, I concluded this to be the anni-
reifary of my landing; and therefore humbly pro-
strating myself on the ground, confessing my sins, ac-
knowledging God's righteous judgements upon me,
and praying to Jesus Christ to have mercy on me, I
fasted for twelve hours till the going down of the fun;
and then eating a biscuit and a bunch of grapes, laid
me on the bed, and with great comfort took my
night's repose. Till this time I never had distinguish-
ed the Sabbath day; but now I made a longer notch
than ordinary for the days of rest, and divided the
weeks as well as I could, though I found I had lost a
day or two in my account. My ink failing soon af-
ter, I omitted in my daily memorandum things of an
indifferent nature, and contented myself to write
down only the most remarkable events of my life.
The rainy and dry seasons appeared now regular to
me, and experience taught me how to provide for
them; yet,In one thing I am going to relate, my ex-
perience very much failed me. You may call to
mind what I have mentioned of some barley and rice
which I had saved; about thirty stalks of the former,
E and
and twenty of the latter; and at .that time the fun
being in its southern position, going from me, to-
gether with the rains, made me, conclude it a very
proper season to sow it. Accordingly I dug up a
piece os ground, with my wooden spade, and divi-
ding it in two parts, sowed about two-thirds of my
feed, preserving by me about a handful of each.
And happy it was I did so; fdr no rains falling, it
was choked up and never arjpeared above the earth
till the wet season came again, and then part of it
grew, as if it had been newly sown.
I was resolved still to make another trial; and
seeking for a rtioister piece of ground near my bower,
I there sowed the rest of my seed in February, a little
before the vernal equinox; which having the rainy
months of March and April to water it, yielded a
noble crop, and sprung up very pleasantly. I had still
saved part of the seed, not dariog to venture all 5 and
by "the time ) found out the proper seasons to sow in,
and that I might expect every year two seed-times
and two harvests, my stock amounted to above half a
peck of each sort of grain.
No sooner were the rains over, but the stakes
which I had cut from the trees, shot out like willows
the first year after lopping their heads. I was igno-
rant of the tree I cut them from: but they grew so
regularly beautiful, that they made a most lively ap-
pearance, and so flourished in three years time, that
J resolved to'cut more of them; and these soon grow-
ing, made a glorious fence, as afterwards I (hall ob-
serve.
And now I perceived that the seasons of the year
might generally-be divided, not into summer and
winter, as in Europe, but into wet and dry seasons,
us in this manner.
(" February,")
Half < March% > Rainy, sun coming near the E-
L^rih J quinox.
Halt
(April, 1 .
I May, I
Half \ June, \ Dry, sun getting north of the line.
\July, 1'
L August, J
C August, 1
Half < September* > Wet,the sun being then come back
C Otlober, J'
f Oclobcr, 1 •
J November,
Half {December, \ Dry,sun running south cs the line.
j January,
IFebruary, +
The wet seasons would continue longer or shorter
as the winds happened to blow. But having found
the ill consequences of being abroad in the rain, I
took care before hand to furniih myself with provi-
sions; and, during the wet months, fat within door*
as much as possible. At this time I contrived to make
many things that I wanted, though it cost me much
labour and pains before I could accomplish them.
The first I tried was to make a basket j but all the
twigs 1 could get proved so brittle, that 1 could not
then perform it. it now proved of great advantage
to me, that, when a boy, I took great delight in
standing at a basket-maker's in the fame town where
my father lived, to view them at work; and, like
other boys, curious to fee the manner of their work-
ing these things, and very officious to assist, 1 perfect-
ly learned the method of it, and wanted nothing but
the tools. And it coming into my mind, that the
twigs of that tree of which I made my stakes, might
be as tough as sallow, willow, or osiers, growing in
England, I resolved to make an experiment, and went
the next day to my country-seat, and found some sit
for my turn; and after cutting down a quantity with
my harchet, I dried them in my pale, and, when fit
to work with, carried them to my cave* where I em-
E a
ployed
ployed myself in making several sorts of baskets, In-
somuch that I could put hi whatsoever 1 phased. It
is true, they were not cleverly r$ade, yet they served
my turn upon all occasions.'
But still I wanted two necessary things. I had no
to hold my liquor, except two rundlets almost
full of rum, a few bottles of an ordinary size, and
some square case-bottles; neither had I a pot to boil
any thing in, only a large kettle*, unBt to make broth,
or stew a bit of meat: I wanted likewise at the be-
ginning os this dry season a tobacco pipe; but for
this 1 afterwards found an expedient.
1 kept myself employed in planting my second row
os stakes. But remembering that when 1 travelled up
ro the brook, 1 had a mind to fee the whole island, I
now resumed my intention, and taking my dog, gun,
hatchet, two biscuit-cakes, a great bunch of raisins,
with a larger quantity of powder and shot than usual,
1 began my journey. Having passed the vale where
my bower stood, 1 came within view of the sea lying
to the west; when, it being a clear day, 1 fairly des-
cried land, extending from the W. to the S. W. a*
fcout io or 15 leagues, as 1 concluded ; but could not
fay whether it was an island or a continent* Neither
could 1 tell what this place might be *, only thought
it was part of America, »nd where 1 might have
been in a miserable condition had 1 landed. Again,
} considered, that if this was the Spanish coast, cer-
tainly, one time or other, 1 mould see some (hip pass
by; and if it was not, then it must be the Savage
coast, between the Spanish country and Brasil, which
abounds with cannibals or man-eaters.
As 1 proceeded forward, 1 found this side of the
island much more pleasant than mine; the fidds fra-
grant, adorned with sweet flowers and verdant grafs,
together with several very fine woods. There were
parrots in plenty, which made me long for one to be
my companion ; but it was with great difficulty 1
could
could knock one ^own with my stick; and I kept
him at home some years, before I could get him to
call me by my name.
In the law grounds I found various forts of hares
and foxes, as I took them to be, but much different
from those in England. Several of these 1 killed, but
never ate them; neither indeed had 1 any occasion;
for abounding with goats, pigeons, turtle, and grape?,.
1 could defy Leadenhall market to furnish me a bet-
ter table. In this journey 1 did not travel above two
miles a day, because 1 took several turns and wind-
ings to fee what discoveries 1 could make, returning
weary enough to the place where 1 designed to rest
all night, which was either in a tree, or to a place
which 1 surrounded with stakes, that no wild crea-
ture might suddenly surprise me. When I came to
the sea shore, 1 was amazed to fee the splendor of it.
Its strand was covered with shells of the most beauti-
ful fish, and constantly abounding with innumerable
turtles, and fowls of many kinds, which 1 was igno-
rant of, except those called Penguins. 1 might have
shot as many as 1 pleased, but was spuing of mj am-
munition, rather chusing to kill a she-goat, which 1
did with much difficulty, on account of the flatnese
of the country.
Now, though this journey produced the most plea-
sing satisfaction, yet my habitation was so much to
my liking, that 1 did not repine at my being seated
on the worst part of the island. 1 continued my jour-
ney, travelling about twelve miles further towards the
east, where 1 set a great pile on the stiore for a mark,,
concluding that my next journey mould b«*ing me to
the other side of the island, east from my castle, and
so round till 1 came to my post again. As 1 had a
constant view of the country, 1 thought 1 could not
miss my way; but scarce had 1 travelled three miles,
when 1 descended into a very large valley, so sur-
rounded with hills covered with wood, that 1 having
no guide but by the fan, nor even then, unless 1 knew
E 3 well
well the position of the sun at that, time of the day;
and to add to my misfortune, the weather proving
very hazy, 1 was obliged to retur/i to my post by the
sea side, and so backwards the fame way 1 came. Jn
this journey my dog surprised a kid, and would have
killed it, had 1 not prevented him. As 1 had often
"been thinking of getting a kid or two, and so raising
a breed of tame goats to supply *me after my ammu-
nition was spent, i took this opportunity of begin-
ning: and having made a collar for this little crea-
ture with a string made of rope-yarn, 1 brought it
to my bower, and there inclosed and lest him ; and
having spent a month in this journey, at length 1 re-
turned to my old habitation.
No body can doubt of my satisfaction, when 1 re-
turned to my little castle, and reposed myself in my
hammock. After my journey 1 rested myself a week,
which time I employed in making a cage for my
pretty poll. 1 now began to consider of the poor kid
1 had Jest at the bower, and 1 immediately went to
fetch it home. When 1 came there, 1 sound the young
creature almost starved; 1 gave it some food, and tied
It as before: but there was no occasion, for it follow-
ed me like a dog; and, as 1 constantly fed it, it be-
came so loving, gentle, and fond, that it commenced
©ne of my domestics, and would never leave me.
The rainy season os the autumnal equinox being
row come, 1 kept the 30th of September in the most
solemn manner, as usual, it being the third year of
my abode in the island. 1 spent the whole day in ac-
knowledging God's mercies; in giving him thanks
for making this solitary life as agreeable, and less
finfuU t°an tnat °f human society; and for the com-
munications of his grace to my foul, in supporting,
comforting, and encouraging me to depend upon his
providence, and hope for his eternal presence in the
world to come.
Indeed 1 often did consider how much more happy
I was
J was in this state.of life than in that accursed man-
ner of living 1 formerly used: and sometimes when
hunting, or viewing, the country, the anguish of my
soul would break oujt upon me, and my ve"ry heart
would sink within me, to think of the woods, the
mountains, the deserts 1 was in; and how 1 was a
prisoner locked up within the eternal bars and bolts
of the ocean, in an uninhabited wilderness without
hopes, and without redemption. In this condition, 1
would often wring my hands, and weep like a child:
And even sometimes in the middle of my work this
fit would take me; and then 1 would sit down and
sigh, looking on the ground for an hour or two toge-
ther, till such time as my grief got vent in a flood of
tears.
One morning as 1 was sadly employed in this
manner, 1 opened my Bible, when immediately 1
fixed my eyes upon these words, / will never leave
theey nor forsake thee / Surely, thought 1, these
words are directed to me; or else why mould they
appear just at a moment when 1 am bemoaning my
forlorn condition? and if God does not forsake me,
what matters it, since he can make me more happy
in this state of life, than if 1 enjoyed the greatest:
splendor in the world f But while 1 was going to re-
turn God thanks for my present state, something
seemed to (hock my mind, as if it had thus said:
Unworthy wretch ! can you pretend to be thankful
for a condition, from which you would pray to be
delivered ! Here 1 stopt; and though 1 could not
fay, I thanked the Divine Majesty for being there,
yet 1 gave God thanks for placing to my view my
former wicked course of life, and granting me a true
knowledge of repentance. And whenever 1 opened
or shut the Bible, 1 blessed kind Providence, that di-
rected my good friend in England, to send it among
my goods without my order, and for assisting me to
save it from the power of the, raging ocean.
And now beginning my third year, my several
daily
daily employments were these, Firsts My duty to
Heaven, and diligently reading the holy scriptures,
which i did twice or thrice every day. Secondly^
Seeking provision with my gun, which commonly
took me up, when it did not rain, three hours every
morning. Thirdlyy The ordering, curing, preser-
ving, and cooking what I had killed, or catched for
my supply, which took me up a great part of the day:
for in the middle of the day the sun being in its
height, it was so hot, that I could not stir out so
that I had only but sour hours in the evening to work
in : and then the want of tool«,of assistance, and skill,,
wasted a great deal of time to little purpose. 1 was
no less than two and forty days making a board sit
for a long shelf, which two sawyers, with their tools
and saw-pit, would have cut out of the same tree in
half a day. It was of a large tree, as my board wai
to be broad. I was three days in cutting it down, and
two more in lopping off the bows, and reducing it
to a piece of timber, Thus I hacked and hewed off
each side, till it became light to move then I turned
it, made one side of it smooth and flat as a board
from end to end, then turning it downward, cutting
the other side, till I brought the plank to be about
three inches thick, and smooth on both sides. A*
ny body may judge my great labour and fatigue in
such a piece of work ; but this I went through with
patience, as also many other things that my circum-
stances made necessary for me to do.
The harvest months, November and December,
were now at hand, in which I had the pleasing prospect
of a very good crop. But here I met with a new mis-
fortune; for the goats and hares, having tasted of
the sweetness of the blade* kept it so mort, that it
had no strength to shoot up into a stalk. To pre-
vent this, I inclosed it with a hedge, and by day shot
some of its devourers *, and my dog, which 1 had
tied to the field-gate, keeping barking all night,.
so frightened these creatures, that I got entirely rid
of them.
But no sooner di<J I get rid of these, than other
enemies appeared, ,to wit, whole flocks of several
sorts of birds, who only waited till my back was
turned to ruin me. So much did this provoke me,
that 1 let fly, and killed three of the malefactors -r
and afterwards served them as they do notorious
thieves in England, 'hung them up in chains as a
terror to others. And indeed so good an effect had
this, that they not only forsook the corn, but all that
part of the island, so long as these criminals hung
there.
My corn having ripened apace, the latter end of
December, which was my second harvest:, I reaped it
with a scythe, made, of one of my broad swords. I
had no fatigue in cutting down my first crop, it was
so slender. The ears I carried home in a basket, rub-
bing it out with my hands instead of threihing it;
and when my harvest was over, found my half peck
of feed produced near two bushels of rice, and two
bushels and a half of barley. And now I plainly
foresaw, that, by God's goodness, I should be fur-
niflied with bread : but yet I was concerned, because
1 knew not how to grind or make meal of my corn,
nor bread, neither knew how to bake it. I would
not however taste any of the crop, but resolved to
preserve it against next season, and in the mean
while use my best endeavours to provide myself with
other food.
But where were my labours to end? The want of
a plough to turn up the earth, or shovel to dig it, I
conquered by making me a wooden spade: the want
of a harrow, I supplied myself with dragging over thfe
corn a-great bough of a tree. When it was growing
I was forced to fence it; when ripe to mow it,
carry it home, thresh it, part it from the chaff, and
save it. And after all, 1 wanted a mill to grind it,
fieve to dress it, yest and salt to make it into bread,
and an erven to bake it. This set n;y brains on work
to find some expedient for every one of these necessa-
ries against the next harvest. f
And now having more seed, my first care was to
prepare me more land. 1 pitched upon two large flat
pieces of ground near my castle for that purpose, in
which I sowed my seed, and fenced it with a good
hedge. This took me up thre? months ; by which
time the wet season coming on,#and the rain keeping
me within doors, I found several occasions to employ
myself 5 and while at work, used to divert myself
with talking to my parrot, learning him to know and
speak his own name Poll, the first welcome word I
ever heard spoke in the island. 1 had been a long
time contriving how to make earthen vessels, which
I wanted extremely; and when I considered the
heat of the climate, 1 did not doubt but if 1 could
find any such clay, I might, botch up a pot, strong
enough when dried inuthe sun to bear handling, and
to hold any thing that was dry, as corn, meal, and
other things.
To be short, the clay I found; but it would occa-
sion the most serious person to smile to see what awk-
ward ways 1 took, and what ugly mifhapen things I
made; how many either fell, out or cracked by the
violent heat of the fun, and fell in pieces when they
were removed ; so that I think it was two month*
time before I could perfect any thing; and even then
but two clumsy things in imitation of earthen jars.
These however I very gently placed in wicker bas*
kets, made on purpose for them, and between the
pot and the baskets, stussed it full of rice and barley
straw: and these I presumed would hold my dried
corn, and perhaps the meal when the corn was brui*
fed. As for the smaller things, 1 made them with
better success; such as little round pots, flat dishes^
pitchers, and pipkins, the fun baking them very
hard.
Yet still I wanted one thing absolutely necessary,.
and
and that was an ^arthen pot, not only to hold my li-
quid, but also to bear the fire, which none of these
could do. It once happened, that as I was putting
out my fire, I found therein a broken piece of one of
"my vessels burnt hard as a rock, and red as a tile.
-This made me thin^ of burning some pots; and ha-
ving no notion of kiln, or of glazing them with lead,
I fixed three large pipkins, and two or three pots in a
pile one upon another. The sire I piled round the
outside, and dry wood on the top, till I saw the pots
in the inside red hot, and found that they did not
crack at all; and when I perceived them perfectly red,
I let one of them stand in the fire about ksive or six
hours, till the clay melted by the extremity of the
heat, and would have run to glass, had 1 suffered it;
upon which I slacked my fire by degrees till the red-
ness abated; and watching them till the morning, I
found I had three very good pipkins, and two earthen
pots, as well burnt and fit for jpy turn as 1 could de-
sire.
-No joy could be greater than mine at this discove-
ry. For after this, 1 may fay, I wanted for no fort
of earthen ware. I filled one of my pipkins with wa-
ter to boil me some meat, which it did admirably well,
and with a piece of kid I made me some good broth,
as well as my circumstances would afford me at that
time.
The next concern 1 had was to get me a stone-mor-
tar to beat some corn in, instead of a mill to grind it.
Here indeed I was at a great loss, as not being fit for
a stone-cutter; and many days 1 spent to find out a
great stone big enough to cut hollow and make fit for
a mortar, and strong enough to bear the weight of a
pestil, that would break the corn without filling it
with sand. But all the stones of the island being of
a mouldering nature, rendered my search fruitless;
and then I resolved to look out a great block of hard
wood; which having soon sound, 1 formed it with my
axe and hammer) and then with infinite labour made
a
a hollow in it, just as the Indians of^Brasil make their
canoes. When I had finished this, 1 made a great
pestil of iron wood, and then laid them up against
my succeeding harvest.
My next business was to make me a sieve, to fist
my meal, and part it from the br^n and husk. Having
no fine thin canvass to search the meal through, I
could not tell what to do, Wftat linen I had was
reduced to rags: I had goats bair enough, but nei-
ther tools to work it, nor did I know how to spin it:
At length I remembered I had some neckcloths of
cailicoor muslin of the sailors, which I had brought
out of the ship, and with these I made three small
sieves, proper enough for the work.
1 come now to consider the baking part. The
want of an oven I supplied by making some earthen
pans very broad, but not deep. When I had a mind
to bake, I made a great fire upon'the hearth, the tiles
of which I made myself; and when the wood was
burnt into live coals, I spread them over it, till it be-
came very hot, then sweeping them away, I set down
my loaves, and whelming down the earthen pots upon
them, drew the ashes and coals all around the outside
of the pots to continue the heat ; and in this manner I
baked my barley loaves, as well as if 1 had been a
complete pastry-cook, and also made of the rice seve-
ral cakes and puddings.
It is no wonder, that all these things took me up
the best part of a year, since what intermediate time
] had was bestowed in managing my new harvest
and husbandry ; for in the proper season I reaped my
corn, carried it home, and laid it up in the ear in my
large baskets, till I had time to rub, instead of
threfliing it. And now indeed my corn increased so
much, that it produced me about twenty busliels of
barley, and as much of rice, that I not only began
to use it freely, but was thinking how to cnlarge-
my
my barns, and refolved to sow as much at a time as
would be sufficient' for me for a whole year.
All this while, tbp prospect of land, which I had
seen from the oth^r side of the island, ran in aiy
mind. 1 still meditated a deliverance from this
place, though the fe/r of greater misfortunes might
have deterred me frctai it. For allowing that 1 had
attained that place,. 1 run the hazard of being killed
and eaten by the devouring cannibals; and if they
were not so, yet I might be slain, as other Euro-
peans had been, who fell into their hands. 'Not-
withstanding all this, my thoughts ran continually
upon that shore. I now wished for my boy Xury,
and the long boat, with the shoulder of mutton sail;
I went to the ship's boat, that had been cast a great
way on the sliore in the late storm. She w*as remo-
ved but a little; but her bottom being turned up by
the impetuosity and fury of the waves and wind, I
fell to work with all the strength I had, and with le-
vers and rollers I had cut from the wood, to turn
her, and repair the damages she had sustained. This
work took me up three or four weeks, when finding
my little strength all in vain, 1 fell to undermining
it by digging away the sand, and so to make it fall
down, setting pieces of wood to thrust and guide it
in the fall. But after this was done, I was still un-
able to stir it up, or to get under it, much less to
move it forwards towards the water, and so 1 was forj
ced to give it over.
This disappointment however did not frighten me.
I began to think whether it was not possible for me
to make a canoe or perigua, such as the . Indians
make of the trunk of a tree. But here 1 lay under par-
ticular inconveniencies, want of tools to make- it,
and want of hands to move it in the water when it
was made. However, to work I went upon it*
.stopping all the inquiries I could make, with this
very simple answer 1 made to myself, Less first make
- F . >>
it, Til warrant Til find some way for other to get it
along when it is done.
I first cut down a cedar-tree,f which was five feet
ten inches diameter at the lowers part next the stump,
and four feet eleven inches diameter at the end of
twenty-two feet, after which itllessened for a space,
and then parted into branches.^ Twenty days was I
a hacking and hewing this tree at the bottom, four-
teen more in cutting off the branches and limbs, and
a whole month in shaping it like the bottom of a
boat. As for the inside, I was three weeks with a
mallet and chisscl, clearing it in such a manner, as
that it was big enough to carry 26 men, much big-
ger than any canoe I ever saw in my life, and conse*
quently sufficient to transport me and all my effects
to that wished for stiore 1 so ardently desired.
Nothing remained now, but indeed the greatest
difficulty to get into the water, it lying about ico
yards from it. To remedy the first inconvenience,
which was a rising hill between this boat and the
creek, with wonderful pains and labour I dug into
the surface os the earth, and made a declivity. But
when this was done, all the strength I had was as in-
sufficient to move it, as it was when 1 attempted to
move the boat. I then proceeded to measure the di-
stance of ground, resolving to make a canal, in cr-
uder to bring the water to the canoe, since I could not
bring the canoe to the water. But as this seemed
to be impracticable to myself alone, under the space
os eleven or twelve years, it brought me into some
sort of consideration: so that I concluded this also
to be impossible, and the attempt altogether vain. I
now saw, and not before, what 'stupidity it is to be-
gin work before we reckon its costs, or judge right*
]y our own abilities to go through with its perform-
ance. # .
In the height of this work, my fourth year expi-
red, from the time 1 was cast upon this island. At
this time 1 did not forget my anniversary \ but kept
it
I
i
it with rather greater devotion than before. For now
my hopes being frustrated, I looked upon this world
as a thing I had nothing to do with; and very well
might I fay, as father Abraham said unto Dives, Be~
tween me and thee ttrere is a gulf fixed. And indeed
I was separated fromlits wickedness too, having nei-
ther the Just of the mesh, the lust of the eye, nor the
pride of life; I had nothing to covet, being lord, king,
and emperor over the*whole country I had in posses-
sion, without dispute, and without controul: I had
loadings of corn, plenty of turtles, nmber in abun-
dance, and grapes above measure. What was all the
rest to me? The money I had by me lay as despica-
ble dross, which I would freely have given fora gross-
of tobacco pipes, or a hand mill to grind my corn:
in a word, the nature and experience of these things
dictated to me this just reflection; That the good
things of this world are no farther good to us, than
they are for our use; and that whatever we may
heap up to give others, we can but enjoy as much as-
we use, and no more.
These thoughts rendered my mind more easy than
usual. Every time I sat down to meat, I did it with
thankfulness, admiring the providential hand of God
who in this wilderness had spread a table to me. And
now I considered what 1 enjoyed, rather than what
1 wanted; compared my present condition with what
1 at first expected it (hould be •, how 1 mould have
done, if 1 had got nothing out of the ship: That I
must have perished before 1 had caught fish or tur-
tles \ or lived, had 1 found them, like a mere sa-
vage, by eating them raw, and pulling them in pie-
ces with my claws, like a beast. I next compared
my station to that which T deserved; how undutiful
I had been to my parents; how destitute of the fear
of God; how void of every thing that was good;
and how ungrateful for those abundant mercies I had
received from Heaven, being fed, as it were, by a
F 2 miracle,
•s
64 LIFE and ADVENlTU'RES
miracle, even as great as Elijah's b^ng fed by ravens;
and cast: on a place where there were no venomous
creatures to poison or devour ma; in short, making
, God's tender mercies matter oflgreat consolation, I
relinquished all sadness, and grlve way to content-
ment. 1
As long as my ink continued! which with water 1
made last as long as 1 could, 1 used to minute down
the days of the month, on wfiich any remarkable
thing happened. And,
First, 1 observed, that the same day 1 forsook my
parents and friends, and ran away to Hull, in order
to go to sea, the same day afterwards in the next year
3 was taken and made a slwe by the Sallee rovers:
That the very day 1 escaped out of the wreck of
the fliip in Yarmouth roads, a year after, on the fame
day 1 made my escape from Sallee in my patron's
lishing-boat.
And that on the 30th df September, being the day
of the year 1 was born on, on that day twenty-fix
years after, wns 1 miraculously saved, and cast afliorc
on this island.
The.next thing that wasted after my ink, was the
biscuit which 1 had brought out of the ship: and thoV
1 allowed myself but one cake a-day for above a year,
yet 1 was quite out of bread for nea-r a year, before i
got any corn of my own.
In the next place, my cloaths began to decay, and
my linen had been gone long before. However,-!
had preserved about three dozen of the sailors che-
quered sliirts, which proved a great refreshment to
me, when the violent beami of the sun would not
sutler me to bear any of the seamens heavy watch-
coats; which made me turn tailor, and, after a mi-
serable botching manner, convert them to jackets.
To preserve my head, 1 made me a cap of goat-
skins, with the hair outwards to keep out the rain;
which indeed served me so well, that afterwards I
, made
1 CRUSOE.
of ROilNSON iK
 
made me a waistcoat, and open knee'd breeches of the
fame: And then t contrived a sort of an umbrella,
covering it with (kins, which not only kept out the
heat of the fun, but the rain also. Thus being easy
and fettled in my mfrid, my chiefest happiness was
to converse with Gocm in most heavenly and comfort-
able ejaculations. I
For five years afters this 1 cannot fay any extraordi-
nary thing occurred to me. ftty chief employment
was to cure my raisins, and plant my barley and rice,
of both which I had a year's provision before-hand.
But though I was disappointed in my first canoe, I
made it, at intermediate times, my business ro make
a second, of much inferior size; and it was two years
before 1 sinistied it. But 1 perceived it would no-
wife answer my design of failing to the other more,
my thoughts were confined to take a tour round the
island, to fee what further discoveries 1 could make.
To this intent, after having moved her to the water,,
and tried how she would fail, 1 fitted up a little mast
to my boat, and made a fail of the ship's fails that lay
by me. I then made lockers or boxes at the end of
it, to put in necessaries, provisions, and ammunition,
which would preserve them dry, either from rain, or
the spray of the sea; and in the inside of the boat, 1
cut me a long hollow place to lay my gun, and to keep
it dry, made a flag to hang over it. My umbrella I
fixed in a step in the stera, like a mast, to keep the
heat of the fun off me. And now, resolving to fee the
circumference of my little kingdom, 1 victualled the*
ship for the voyage, putting in two dozen of my bar-
ley-bread loaves, an earthen pot full of parched rice, a
little bottle of rum, half a goat, powder and sliot,and
two watch-coats. It was the 6th of November, in
the sixth year of my reign, or captivity, that 1 set
out on this voyage j which was much longer than L
expected, being obliged to put farther out, by reason
cs thi rocks that lay a great way in the sea. And in-
F 3-
deed
66 LIFE and ADVEnIIuiVES
deed so much did these rocks surprise me, that 1 was
for putting back, fearing, that if F Ventured farther, it
would be out of my power to reiurn: in this uncer-
tainty 1 came to an anchor just fcff shore, to which I
waded with my gun on my shouj&er, and then climb-
ing up a hill, which overlookedlthat point, 1 saw the
full extent of it, and so J resolveJto run all hazards.
In this prospect: from the hirff 1 perceived a violent
current running to the east, coding very close to the
point; which 1 the more carefully observed, thinking
it dangerous, and that when 1 came to it, 1 might be
drove into the sea by its force, and not able to return
to the island •, and certainly it must have been so, had
1 not made this observation ; for on the other side was
the like current, with this^difference, that it set off at
a greater distance •, and 1 perceived there was a strong
eddy under the land; so that my chief business was to
work out of the first current, and conveniently get in-
to the eddy. Two days 1 staid here, the wind blow-
ing very brilkly E. S. E. which being contrary to the
current, leaves a great breach of the sea upon the
point; so it was neither fit for me to keep too near the
ihore on account of the breach ; nor stand at too great
a distance, for fear of the streams. That night the
wind abating, it grew so calm, that 1 ventured out v
and here 1 may be a monument to all rash and igno-
rant pilots: For 1 was no sooner come to the point,and
not above the boat's length from shore, but 1 was got
into a "deep water with a current like a mill, which
drove my boat along so violently,that it was impossible
for me to keep her near the edge of it, but forced me
more and more out from the eddy to the left of me;
and all 1 could do with my padlers was useless, there
being no wind to hesp me.
Now 1 began to look upon myself as quite lost,
since, as the current ran on both sides of the island, 1
was very certain they must join again, and then 1 had
no
'of RojslNSON CRUSOE. 67
no hopes but of jcrisliing for want in the sea, after
what provision i httd was spent, or before, if a storm
mould happen to anise.
Who can conceive the present anguish os rny mind
at this calamity? With longing eyes did 1 look up-
on my little kingdom, and thought the island the
pleasantest place in the universe, Happy, thrice hap-
py desert, said 1,'shall 1 never see thee more?
Wretched creature !#>yhither am 1 going? Why did
1 murmur at my lonesome condition, when now 1
would give the whole world to be thither again?
While 1 was thus complaining, 1 found myself to
be driven about two leagues into the sea; however, I
laboured till my strength was far spent, to ke^p my
boat as far north as possibly 1 could, to that side of
the current where the eddy lay on. About noon I
perceived a little breeze of wind spring up from the
S. S. E. which overjoyed my heart; and I was still
more elated, when, in about half an hout, it blew a
gentle sine gale. Had any thick weather sprung up,
1 had been lost another way; for having no compass
on board, 1 should never have found the way to steer
towards the island, is once it had disappeared ; but it
proving the contrary, 1 set up my mast again, spread
my sail, and stood away northward as much as 1
could to get rid of the current. And no sooner did
the boat begin to stretch away, but 1 perceived by the
clearness of the water, a change of the current
was near: for where it was strong, the water was
foul: and where it was clear, the current abated.
To the east 1 soon saw, about half a mile, a breach
of the sea upon some rocks, which caused it again to
separate; and as the main force of it drove away
more southwardly, leaving the rocks to the north-
east, so the other came back by the repulse of the
rocks, making a (harp eddy, which returned back
again to the north west with a very swift stream.
They who have experienced what it is to be re-
prieved upon the Udder, or to be saved from thieves
68 LIFE and ADVEMffuV.ES''
just going to take away their livea or such as have
been in the like calamities with rrjyown, may guess
my present excess of joy, how heartily 1 run my boat
into the stream of this eddy, Ad how joyfully I
spread my sail to the refreshing v/ind, standing chear-
fully before it, with a smart tide tinder soot. By the
assistance of this eddy, 1 was carjied above a league
home again, when, being in thtfwake of the island,
betwixt the two currents, 1 fourrti the water to he in
7i fort of a stand. About four o'clock in the afternoon,
1 reached within a league of the island, and perceived
the points of the rock, which caused this disaster,
stretching out, as I observed before, to the southward,
which throwing off the current more southwardly,
had occasioned another eddy to the north. But ha-
ving a fair brisk gale, 1 stretched across this eddy, and
in an hour came within a mile of the more, where I
soon landed, to my unspeakable comfort: and after an
humble prostration, thanking God for my deliverance,,
with a resolution to lay all thoughts of escaping aside,
1 brought my boat safe to a little cove, and laid me
down to take a welcome repose. When 1 awoke, 1
was considering how 1 might get my boat home, and
coasting along the sliore, 1 came to a good bay, which
ran up to a rivulet or brook, where finding a safe
harbour, 1 stowed her as safe as if she had been in
dry dock made on purpose for her.
I now perceived myself not far from the place
where before I had travelled on foot •, so taking no-
thing with me except my gun and umbrella, 1 began
my journey, and in the evening came to my bower,
where 1 again laid me down to rest. I had not slept
long before I was awakened in great surprise, by a
strange voice that called me several times, Robiny
Robin, Robin Crusoe^ poor Robin! Where are y$uy Ro~
bin Crusoe? where are you? where have you been?
So fast was I asleep nt first, that I did not awake
thoroughly, but being half asleep and half awake, 1
thought
 
thought I dreamefl that some body spoke to me. But
as the voice repealed Robinson Crusoe several times,
being terribly afrrigjpted, 1 .started up in the utmost
confusion ; and no looner were my eyes fully open,
but I beheld my pretty Poll sitting on the top of the
hedge, and soon kn^v that it was he that called me;
for just in such bewiling language 1 used to talk and
teach him ; which heH>exactly learned, that he would
sit upon my singer, a*nd lay his bill close to my face,
and cry, Poor Robinson Crusoe, where are you? -where
have you been ? how came you here? and such like
prattle 1 had constantly taught him. But even tho*
1 knew it to be the parrot, it was a great while be-
fore 1 could adjust myself; being amazed how,
the creature got thither, and that he should fix a-
boutthat place, and no where else. But now, being
assured it could be no other than my honest Poll, my
wonder ceased ; and reaching out my hand, and call-
ing familiarly Poll, the creature came to me, and
perched upon my thumb, as he was wont, constant-
ly pratting to me, with Poor Robinson Crusoe, and hsw
did I come here, and where had I been? as if the bird
was overjoyed to fee me : and so 1 took him home a-
long with me.
1 was now pretty well cured of my rambling to
sea; yet I could wish my boat, which had cost me so
much trouble and pains, on this side the island once
more, but which indeed was impracticable. 1 there-
fore began to lead a very retired life, living near a
twelvemonth in a very contented manner, wanting
for nothing except conversation. As to mechanic
labours, which my necessities obliged me to, 1 fancied
1 could upon occasion make a tolerable carpenter,
were the poor tools 1 had to work withal but good.
Besides, as 1 improved in my earthen ware,-1 contri-
ved to make them with a wheel, which 1 found much f
easier and better; making my work shapely, which
before was rude and ugly. But I think I was never
so elevated with my own performance or project, than
for
70 LIFE AND AD^ENfcTl^RES''
 
for being able to make a tobacco-Ripe j which tho'
it proved an awkward clumsy thing, yet it was very
found, and carried the smoke perfectly well, to my
great satisfaction. ]
I also improved my wicker wale, making me abun-
dance os necessary baskets, whilb, ^though not very
handsome, were very handy andfconvenient to fetch
things home in, as also for holc$r)g my stores, barley,
rice, and other provisions. •
My powder beginning to fail, made me examine
after what manner 1 should kill the goats or birds to
lire on, after it was all gone. Upon which 1 con-
trived many ways to ensnare the goats, and fee if I
could catch them alive, particularly a she-goat with
young. At last 1 had my desire; for making pit-
falls and traps, baited with barley and rice, 1 found one
morning in one of them an old he goat, and in the
other three kids, one tmJe, the other two females.
So boisterous was tne old one, that I could not
bring him away. But I forgot the old proverb, That
hunger zvill tame a tion: for had I kept him three or
four days without victuals, and then given him some
\rater with a little corn, he would have been as tame
as a young kid. The other creatures 1 bound with
strings together; but 1 had great difficulty before I
could bring them to my habitation. It was some
time before they would feed; but throwing them
sweet corn, it so much tempted them that they be-
gan to be tamer; from hence I concluded, that if I
designed to furnish myself with goats flesh, when my
ammunition was spent, the tamely breeding them up,
like a flock of meep, about my settlement, was the
only method 1 could take. I concluded also I must
separate the wild from the tame, or else they would
always run wild as they grew up , and the best way
for this, was to have some inclosed piece of ground,
well fenced, either with hedge or pale, to keep them
so effectually, that those within might not break out,
or those without break in. Such an undertaking
was
o f ROBINSON CRUSOE. 7r
was very great foi*one pair of hands; but as there
was an absolute necessity for doing it, my first care
was to find a convenient piece of ground where there
was likely to be herbage for them to eat, water to
di ink, and cover tolkeep them from the fun.
Here again I gate another instance of my igno-
rance and inexperience, pitching upon a piece of mea-
dow land so large, thjtt had 1 inclosed it, the hedge •
or pale must have been at least two miles about. In-
deed had it been ten miles, 1 had time enough to do
it in: but then I did not consider that my goats would
be as wild in so much compass as if they had had
the whole island, and consequently as difficult for me
to catch them. This thought came into my head,
after I had carried it on, I believe, about fifty yards:
I therefore altered my scheme, aud resolved to inclose
a piece of ground about 150 yards in length, and
100 in breadth, large enough for as many as would
maintain me till such time as my flock increased,
and then 1 could add more ground. 1 now vigorously
prosecuted my work, and it took me three months
in hedging the first piece; in which time I tethered
the three kids in the best part of it, feeding them as
near me as possible, to make them familiar; and in-
deed I very often would carry some ears of barley, or
a handful of-rice, and fed them out of my hand ; by
which they grew so tame, that when my inclosure was
finished, and I had let them loose, they would run
aster me for a handful of corn. This indeed answer-
ed my end, and in a year and a half's time 1 had a
flock of about twelve goats, kids and all, and in two
years after, they amounted to 43, besides,what 1 had
taken and killed for my sustenance. After which 1
inclosed five several pieces of ground to feed them in,
with pens to drive them into, that 1 might take them
as 1 had occasion.
In this project 1 likewise found additional bleflingSj
for 1 not only had plenty of goats flefli, but milk too,
which
 
which in my beginning 1 did noijso much as think
of. And indeed, though I never nad milked a cow,
much less a goat, or seen butter 6r cheese made, yet,
aster some essays and miscarriages, I made me both,
and never afterwards wanted. /
How mercifully can the omnipotent Power com-
fort his creatures, even in thejirndst of their greatest
calamities? How can he sweeSln the bitterest, provi-
dences, and give us reason to magnify him in dun-
geons or prisons? What a bounteous table was here
spread in a wilderness for me, where 1 expected no-
thing at first but to perish for hunger?
Certainly a Stoic would have smiled to have seen
me at dinner. There sat my royal majesty, an abso-
lute prince and ruler of my kingdom, attended by my
dutiful subjects, whom, if 1 pleased, I could either
hang, draw, quarter, give them liberty, or take it a-
vPay. When I dined, I seemed a king, eating alone,
none daring to presume to do so till 1 had done. Poll,
as is he had been my principal court-favourite, was
the only person permitted to talk with me. My old,
but faithful dog, now grown exceeding crazy, and
who had sound no species to multiply his kind upon,
continually fat at my right hand, while my two cats
fat on each fide of the table, expecting a bit from my
band, as a principal mark of my royal favour. These
•were not the cats I had brought from the sliip; they
had been dead long before, and interred near my ha-
bitation, by mine own hand *, bul one of them, as I
suppose, generating with a wild cat, a couple of their
young I had made tame, the rest run wild into the
woods, and in time grew so impudent, as to return
and plunder me of my stores, till such time as I
{hot a great many, and the rest left me without trou-
bling me any more. In this plentiful'manner did I
live, wanting for nothing but conversation. One
thing indeed concerned me, the want of my boat;
1 knew not which way to get her round the island.
One time 1 resolved to go along the shore by land to
her \
•f ROMNS^ON CRUSOE. 73
her; but had anyone in England met such a figure,
it would either ha|e afrighted them, or made them
burst into laughter: -Nay, I could not but smile my-
self at my habit, whi|:h I think in this place will be
very proper to descrilK.
The cap I wore upl.n my head was great, high, and
shapeless, made of a goat's (kin, with a flap or pent-
house hanging down^ehind, not only to keep the
sun from me, but to moot the rain off from running
into my neck, nothing being more pernicious than
the rain falling upon the flesh in these climates. I
had a short jacket of goats skin, whose hair hung
down such a length on either side, that it reached
down to the calves of my legs. As for shoes and
stockings, I had none, but made a resemblance of
something, I know not what to call them; they were
made like buskins, and laced on the sides4ike spatter-
dashes, barbarously shaped like the rest of my habit.
I had a broad belt of goats skin dried, girt round me
with a couple os thongs, instead of buckles; on each
of which, to supply the deficiency os sword and dag-
ger, hung my hatchet and saw. I had another beit,
not so broad, yet fastened in the same manner, which
hung over my shoulder, and at the end of it, under
my left arm, hung two pouches, made also of goats
ik'"!, to hold my powder and shot. My basket I car-
ried on my back, and my gun on my shoulder; and
over my head a great clumsy ugly goat skin umbrella,
which however next to my gun, was the most ne-
cessary thing about me. As for my face, the colour
was not so swarthy as the Mulattoes, or as might hate
been expected from one who took so little care of it,
in aclimate within nine or ten degrees of the equinox.
At one time my beard grew so long that it hung dowa
above a quarter of a yard; but as I had both razors
and feissars injstore, 1 cut it all off, and suffered none
to grow, except a large pair of Mahometan whiskers,
the like of which I had seen worn by some Turks at
Sallee, not long enough indeed to hang a hat upon,
G but.
r
 
but of such a monstrous size, as would have amazed
any in England to have seen. J
But all this was of n o consequence here, there be-
ing none to observe my behaviour or habit. And so,
without sear, and without contjfcl, 1 proceeded on my
journey, the prosecution of wftich took me up five
or six days. 1 first travelled alckig the sea shore, di-
rectly feo the place where 1 nrfljbrought my boat to an
anchor, to get upon the rocks •, but having now no
boat to take care of, 1 went by land a nearer way to
the fame height that I was before upon, when look-
ing forward to the point of the rock, whi<~h lay out,
and which 1 was forced to double with my boat, 1 was
amazed to fee the sea so smooth and quiet, there be-
ing no ripling motion, nor current, any more than
in other places. This made me ponder some time to
guess the reason of it, when at last 1 was convinced,
that the ebb setting from the west, and joining with
the current of water from some great river on shore,
must be the occasion of these rapid streams, and that
consequently, as the winds blew more westward! y,
or more southwardly, so the current came the nearer,
or went the farther from more. To satisfy my curiosir
ty, 1 waited there till evening, when the time of ebb
being made, 1 plainly perceived from the rock the cur-
rent again as before, with this difference, that it ^un
farther off, near half a league from the more ; where-
as, in my expedition, it set close upon it, furioufly
hurrying me and my canoe along with it, which, at
another time, it would not have done. And now 1
was convinced, that, by observing the ebbing and
slowing of the tide, I might easily bring my boat
round the island again. But when 1 began to think
of putting it in practice, the remembrance of the late
danger struck me with such horror, that 1 changed
my resolution, and formed another, which was more
safe, tho' more laborious; and this was to make an-
other canoe, and so have one for one side of the island,
and one for the other.
lhad
I had now two ijantations in the island; the first
my little fortificatifn, fort, or castle, with many large
and spacious improvements: for by this time 1 had
enlarged the cave behind me with several little caves,
one within another,\to hold my baskets, corn, and
straw. The piles wiQi which 1 made my wall were
grown so lofty and great as obscured my habitation.
And near this commodious and pleasant settlement,
lay my well cultivated and improved corn fields,
which kindly yielded me its fruit in the proper sea-
son. My second p'antation was that near my coun-
try feat, or little bower, where my grapes flourished,
and where having planted many stakes, I made inclo-
sures for my goats, so strongly fortified by labour anci
time that it was much stronger than a wall, and con*
sequently impossible for trhem to break through. As
for my bower itself, I kept it constantly in repair, and
cut the trees in such a manner as made them grow
thick and wild, and form a most delightful sliade. la
the centre of this stood my tent, thus erected. I had
driven four piles in the ground, spreading over it a
pit c • of the sliip's fail; beneath which, I made a
fort of coich with the skins of the creatures 1 had
fl >in, and other things •, and having laid thereon one
of the sailor's blankets, which 1 had saved from the
wreck of the ship, and covering myself with a great
watch-coat, 1 took up this place for my country re-
treat.
Very frequently from this settlement did I use to
visit my boat, and kept her in very good order. And
sometimes 1 would venture in her a cast or two from
short, but no farther, lest either a strong current, a
sudden stormy wind, or some unlucky accident, should
hurry me from the island, as before. But now 1'en-
treat your attention, whilst I proceed to inform you
of a new, but most surprising scene of life which here
befel me.
You may easily suppose, that, aster having been
here so long, nothing could be more amazing thaa
G 2 to
to see a human creature. One daV it happened, that
going to my boat, I saw the prin|of a man's naked
toot on the ihore, very evidenl on the sand, as the
toes, heel, and every part of it.» Had I seen an ap-
parition in the mod frightful fhfepe, I could not have
been more confounded. My willing ears gave the
strictest attention. I cast my cjcs around, but could
satisfy neither the one or the Aiher. 1 proceeded al-
ternately to every part of thelhore, but with equal
effect.; neither could 1 fee any other mark, tho' the
sand abdut it was as susceptible to take impression, as
that which was so plainly stamped. Thus, struck with
confusion and horror, 1 returned to my habitation,
frightened at every bufli and tree, taking every thing
for men; and possessed with the wildest ideas! That
night my eyes never closed. I formed nothing but the
most dismal imaginations, concluding it must be the
mark of the devil's foot which I had seen. For other-
wise how could any mortal come to this island?
Where was the ship that transported them ? and what
ilgns of any other footsteps? Though these seemed
•very strong reasons for such a supposition, y^t (thought
I) why. should the devil make the print os his foot to
tio purpose, as 1 can fee, when he might have taken
other ways to have terrified me? Why should he leave
his maik on the other side of the island, and that too
©n the sand, where the surging waves of the ocean
might soon have erased the impression. Surely this
action is not consistent with the subtilty of Satan, said
I to myself, but rather must be some dangerous crea-
ture, some wild savage of the main land over against 4
roe, that venturing too far in the ocean, has been
driven here, either by the violent currents or contra-
ry winds; and not caring to stay on this desolate
island, has gone back to sea again.
Happy indeed, thought I myself, that none of the
savages had seen me in that place: yet I was not al-
together without fear, lest, having found my boar,
they
they should return! in numbers and devour me, or at
least carry away a| my corn, and destroy my slock of
tame goats: in a word, all my religious hopes vanish-
ed, as though I thodght God could not now protect:
me by his power, w^o had so wonderfully pieserved
me so long. t
What various chains of providence are there in the
life of man? How clyngeable are our affections, ac-
cording to different circumstances? We love to-day
what we hate to morrow; we shun one hour what we
seek the next. This was evident in me in the most
conspicuous manner: for I, who before had so much
lamented my condition, in being banished from ail
human kind, was now even ready to expire, when I
considered that a man had set his foot on this desolate
island. But when I considered my station of life, de-
creed by the infinitely wise and good providence of
God; that I ought not to dispute my Creator's sove-
reignty, who had an undoubted right to govern and
dispose of his creatures as he thinks convenient; arid. -
that his justice and mercy could either punish or deli-
ver me: I say, when I considered all this, 1 comfort-
ably found it my duty to trust sincerely in him, pray
ardently to him, and humbly resign myself to his di-
vine will.
One morning, lying on my bed, these words of the
sacred writings came again info my mind, Call upon
fne in the day os trouble, and I -will deliver thee, and
thou Jhalt glorify me. Upon this sentence, rising
Kaore chearsully from my bed, 1 offered up my pray-
ers in the most heavenly manner: and when I had
done, taking up my Bible to read, these words appear-
ed sirst in my sight: Wait on the Lord* and he esgeed
cheer, and he /ballstrengthen thy heart: Wait 1say%
on the Lord. Such divine comfort did this give me,
as to remove all cause os sadness upon that occasion.
Thus, after a world of apprehensions and fears, for
three davs and nights, I at last ventured out of my
G 3 castle
castle, and milked my goats, one of which "was almost
spoiled for want of it. I next (th<Jugh in great sear)
visited my bower, and milked nay flocks there also;
when growing bolder, I went down to the shore again,
and measuring the print of the* foot to mine, to fee
perhaps whether I myself had Jnot occasioned that
mark, I found it much superior in largeness; and ib
returned home, now abfolutelytaonvinced, that either
some men had been ashore, or\hat the island must
be inhabited; and therefore that I might be surprised
before I was aware.
I now began to think of providing for my securi-
ty, and revolved in my mind many different schemes
for that purpose: I first proposed to cut down my in-
closures, and turn my tame cattle wild into the woods,
that the enemy might not find them, and frequent the
island in hopes of killing the fame. Secondly^ I was
for digging up my corn fidds for the very fame reason.
And, lastly^ I concluded to demolish my bower, lest
feeing a place of. human contrivance, they might
\come farther and find out and attack me in my little
castle.
Such notions did the fear of danger suggest to me;
and I looked, I thought, like the unfortunate king
Saul, when not only oppressed by the Philistines, but
also forsaken by God himself. And it is strange that
a little before, having entirely resigned myself to the
"will of God, I should now have little confidence in
him, fearing those more who could kill this fading
body, than he who could destroy my immortal so'il.
Sleep was an utter stranger to my eyes that night;
yet nature spsnt and tired, submitted to a silent re»
pose the next morning. And then, joining season
with my fear, 1 considered, that this delightful and
pleasant island might not be so entirely forsaken as I
might think but that the inhabitants from the o-
ther shore might sail either with design, or from ne-
cessity, by cross winds \ and if the latter circum-
stance?
stance, I had reason to believe they would depart the
first opportunity. ^However, my fear made me think
of a place for retreat upon an attack. I now repent-
ed that I had made my door to come out beyond my
fortification to remedy which, I resolved to make
me a second one. 1 fc^I to work, therefore* and drove
l^ctwixt that double row of trees, which 1 planted a-
bout iwelve years beftre, several strong piles, thick-
ening it with pieces of timber, and old cables, and
strengthening the foot of it with earth, which 1 dug
out of my own cave. 1 also made me seven holes,
wherein 1 planted my muskets like cannon, fitting
them into frames resembling carriages. This being
finished with indefatigable industry, for a great way
every where, 1 planted sticks of osier like a wood, a-
bout twenty thousand of them, leaving a large space
between them and my wall, that 1 might have room
to sec an enemy,and that they might not be sheltered
among the young trees, if they offered to approach
the out wall. And indeed scarce two years had
passed over my head, when there appeared a lovely
shady grove, and in six years it became a thick wood
perfectly impassible. For my safety 1 left no avenue
to go in or out; instead of which 1 set two ladders,
one to a part of the rock which was low, and then
broke in, leaving room to place another ladder upon
that, so that when 1 tock those down, it was impos-
sible for any man to descend without hurting himself:
and if they had, they would still be at the outside of
my outer wall. But while 1 took all these measures
of human prudence for my own preservation, 1 was
not altogether unmindful of other affairs. To pre-
serve my stock of tame goats, that the enemy should
not take all at once, 1 looked out for the most retired
part of the island, which was the place where 1 had
lost myself before mentioned, and there finding a fit
piece of ground, containing three acres, surrounded
with thick woods, 1 wrought so hard, that, in less
than a month's time, 1 fenced it so well round, that
my
• *
So LIFE ANt> ADVENTURES
my flocks were very well secured ii^t, and 1 put into
it tvro he-goats and ten {he ones. )
All this labour was occasioned purely by fearful
apprehensions, on account of the feeing the print of
a man's foot. And not contented yet with what I
had done, 1 searched for another place towards the
weft point of the island, where 1 might also retain
another flock. Then wanderingofehis errand more,
to the west of the island than ef^% had yet done,
and casting my eyes towards tne fe*a, methought 1
perceived a boat ata great distance, but could nor
poslibly tell what it was for want of my perspective
glass. 1 considered that it was no strange thing to fee
the print of a man's foot, and concluding them can-
nibals, blessed God for my being cast on the other side
of the island, where none of the savages, as I thought,
ever came. But when 1 came down the hill to the
shore, which was the S W point of the island, 1 was
soon confirmed in my opinion : nor can any one de-
scribe my horror and amazement, when 1 saw the
ground spread with skulls, h inds, feet, and bones of
human bodies; and particularly, 1 perceived a space
like a circle, in the midst os which had been a fire,
about which 1 conjectured these wretches fat, and
unnaturally sacrificed, and devoured their sellow-
creatures.
The horror and loathsomeness of this dreadful spec-
tacle, both confounded my senses, and made me dis-
charge from my stomach in an excessive manner. 1
then returned towards my habitation ; and in my way
thither, sliedding floods of tears, and falling down on
my bended knees, gave God thanks for making my
nature contrary to these wretches, and delivering me
so long out os their hands.
Though reason and my long residence here had as-
sured me, that these savages never came up to the
thick woody parts of the country, and that i had no
reason to be apprehensive of a discovery, yet such an
abhouence
abhorrence did 1 still retain, that for two years after
1 confined myself, only to my three plantations; I
mean my castle, country feat, and inclosure in the
woods. And though in process of time, my dread-
ful apprehensions began to wear away, yet my eyes
were more vigilant rbr fear of being surprised, and 1
was very cautious of uring my gun, lest being heard
by those creatures trÆy should proceed to attack me. -
1 resolved, howfH0, ^nansully to lose my life is they
did, and went armed with three pistols stuck in my
girdle; which, added to the description 1 have given
os myself before, made me look with a very formi-
dable appearance.
Thus my circumstances for some time remained
very calm and undisturbed; and when 1 compared
my condition to others, 1 found it was far from being
miserable. And indeed would all persons compare
their circumstances, not with those above them, but
with those innumerable unhappy objects beneath
them, 1 am sure we should not hear those daily mur-
murings and complainings that are in the world.
For my part, I wanted but few things. Indeed the
terror which the savages had put me in, spoiled
some inventions for myown conveniencies. One of my
projects was to brew me some beer •, a very whimsical
one indeed, when it is considered, that I had neither
casks sufficient, nor could I make any to preserve it
in ; neither had I hops to make it keep, yest to
make it work, nor a copper or kettle to make it
boil. Perhaps, indeed, after some years, 1 might
bring this to bear, as I had done other things. But
now my inventions were placed another way ; and
day and night I could think of nothing but how 1
might destroy some of these cannibals, when pro-
ceeding to their bloody entertainments; and so sa-
ving a victim from being sacrificed, that he might af-
ter become my servant. Many were my contrivan*
ces for this purpose, and as many more objections
occurred, after 1 had hatched them. I once contri-
ved
ved to dig a hole under the place^where they made
their fire, and put therein five or six pounds of gun-
powder, which would consequently blow up all those
that were near it •, but then 1 was loath to spend so
much upon them, Jest it should not do that certain
execution I could desire; and bfit only affright, and
cot kill them. Having laid tl ijj design aside, I again
proposed to myself to lie pritately in ambush, in
some convenient place, with my three guns double
loaded, and let fly at them in the midst of their
dreadful ceremony •, and having killed two or three of
them at every stiot, fall upon the rest suddenly with
my three pistols, and not let one mother's son escape.
This imagination pleased my fancy so much, that I
used to dream of it in the night time. To put my
design in execution, I was not long seeking for a
place very convenient for my purpose, where unseen
1 might behold every action of the savages. Here I
placed my two muskets, each of which was loaded
with a brace of slugs, -and four or five smaller bul-
lets, about the size of pistol bullets: the fowling-
piece was charged with near a handful of the largest
swan (hot ; and in every pistol were about sour bul-
lets. And thus all things being prepared, no sooner
would the welcome light spread over the element,
but like a giant refreshed -with wine, as the scripture
has it, would I issue forth from my castle, and from
a lofty hill, three miles distant, view if I could fee
any invaders approach unlawfully to my kingdom.
But having waited in vain two or three months,
It not only grew very tiresome to me, but brought me
into some consideration, and made me examine my-
self, what right 1 had to kill these creatures in this
manner,
If (argued I to myself) this unnatural custom of
theirs be a sin offensive to Heaven, it belongs to the
Divine Being, who alone has the vindictive power in
his hands, to stiower down his vengeance upon
them. And perhaps he does so, in making them be-
come
come one anotherls executioners. Or, if not, if God
thinks these doings just, according to the knowledge
they conceive, wlk authority have I to pretend to
thwart the decrees of Providence,which has permitted
these actions for so many ages,perhaps from almost the
beginning of the creition ? They never offended me,
what right have I tlien to concern myself in their
{hedding one another's hiood? And indeed I have
since known, they value no more to kill and devour a
captive taken in war, than we do to kill an ox, or eat
mutton. I then concluded, it necessarily followed,
that these people were no more murderers than Chri-
siians, who many times put whole troops to the sword,
after throwing down their arms. Again! considered,
that if I fell upon them, I should be as much in the
wrong as the Spaniards, who had committed the
greatest barbarities upon these people who never had
offended them in their whole lives ; as if the kingdom
of Spain was eminent for a race of men without com-
mon compassion to the miserable, a principal sign of
the most generous temper. These considerations
made me pause, and brought me to think I had taken
wrong measures in my resolution; I now argued with
myself, that it was better for me never to attack, but
to remain undiscovered as long as possibly I could;
thSt an opposite conduct would certainly prove de-
structive ; for as it was scarcely to be supposed 1 could -
kill them all, I might either be overpowered by the
remaining, or that some escaping, might bring thou-
sands to my certain destruction. And indeed religion
took their part so much as to convince me ho* contra-
ry it was to my duty to be guilty of shedding human
blood, innocent as to my particular, whatever they are
to one another; that I had nothing to do with it, but
leave ic to ;he God of all power and dominion, as I
said before, to do therein what seemed convenient to
his heavenly wisdom. And therefore on my knees I
thanked the Almighty for delivering me from blood-
guikinefs,
guiltiness, and begged his protection that I might ne-
ver fall into their hands. *
Thus,giving over an attempt wrtfich 1 had rashly be-
gun, J never ascended the hill on that occasion after-
wards *, I only removed my boat, which lay on the
other fide of the island ; and evenSr thing that belonged
to her, towards the east, into sj little cove, that there
might not be the least shadow qj discovery of any boat
near, or habitation upon the island. My castle then
became my cell, keeping always retired in it, except
when I went out to milk my she-goats, and order my
little flock in the wood, which was quite out of dan-
ger; for sure I was, that these savages never came
here with expectations to find any thing, and conse-
quently never wandered from the coast; however, as
they might have several times been on {hore as well
before as after my dreadful apprehensions, I looked
back with horror to think in what a state 1 might have
been, had 1 suddenly met them slenderly armed, with
one gun only loaded with small (hot; and how great
would have been my amazements if instead of seeing
the print of one man's foot, I had perceived fifteen or
twenty savages, who having once set their eyes upon
me, by the swiftness of their feet, would have left
me no possibility of escaping? These thoughts would
fink my very foul, so that I would fall into a deep me-
lancholy, till such time as the consideration of my gra-
titude to the Divine Being moved it from my heart.
I then fell into a contemplation of the secret springs
of providence; and how wonderfully we are deliver-
ed, when insensible of it; and when intricated in un-
certain mazes orlabyrinths of doubt or hesitation, what
secret hint directs us in the right way,when we intend-
ed to go out of it; nay, perhaps, contrary to our bu-
siness, fense, or inclination. Upon which, 1 fixed with-
in me this as a certain rule, never to disobey those se-
cret impressions of mind to the acting or not acting
any thing that offered, for which 1 yet could assign
no reason. But let it be how it will, the advantage
of this conduct: Tew eminently appeared in the latter
part of my abode dftthis island: I am a stranger in
determining whence these secret intimations of Pro-
vidence derive : yet methinks they are not only some
proof of the converses spirits, but also of the secret
communications xhef are supposed to have with
those who have not passed through the gloomy vale
of death.
These anxieties of mind, and the care of my pre-
servation, put a period to all future inventions and
contrivances, either for accommodation or conveni-
ence; I now eared not to drive a nail, chop a stick,
fire a gun, or make a fire, lest either the noise should
be heard, or the smoke discover me. And on this
account I used to burn my earthen ware privately in
3 cave, which I found in the wood, and which I made
convenient for that purpose; the principal cause
that brought me here was to make charcoal, so that
I might bake and dress my bread and meat without
any danger. At that time a curious accident hap-
pened me which I (hall now relate.
While I was cutting down some wood for making
my charcoal, I perceived a cavity behind a very
thick branch of underwood. Curious to look into it,
I attained its mouth, and perceived it sufficient for
me to stand upright in it* But when I had entered,
and took a further view, two rolling shining eyes,
like flaming stars, seemed to dart themselves at me;
so that I made ail the haste out that I could, as not
knowing whether it was the devil or a monster that
had taken his residence in that place. When I re-
covered a little from my surprise, I called myself a
thousand fools, for being afraid to fee the devil one
moment, who had now almost lived twenty years in
the most retired solitude. And therefore resuming
all the courage I had, I took up a flaming fire brand,and
in I rushed again. I had not proceeded above three
steps when I was more afrighted than before 5 foe
H then
then I heard a very loud sigh, like that of a human
creature in the greatest agony, succeeded with a bro-
ken noise, resembling words ha*rbcp rested, and then
a broken sigh again* Stepping back, Lord! (thought
1 to myseliwhere am 1 got? Into what inchanted
place have I plunged myself, iich as are reported to
contain miserable captives, til death puts an end to
their sorrow? And, indeed, ii\ such a great amaze-
ment was I, that it struck me into a cold sweat; and
had my hat been on my head, I believe my hair
would have moved it off. But again encouraging
myself with the hopes of God's protection, I pro-
ceeded forward, and, by the light of my firebrand,
perceived it to be a monstrous he-goat, lying on the
ground gasping for life, and dying of mere old age.
At first 1 stirred him, thinking to drive him out, and
the poor ancient creature strove to get upon his feet,
but was not able; so 1 e'en let him lie still, to af-
fright the savages, should they venture into this cave.
I now looked round me, and found the place but
small and shapeless. At the farther fide of it 1 per-
ceived a fort of an entrance, yet so low, as must
oblige me to creep on my hands and knees to it; so,
having no candle, I suspended my enterprise till the
next day, and then came provided with two large
ones of my own making.
Having crept upon my hands and feet through this
strait, I found the roof rose higher up, I think about
twenty feet. But surely never mortal saw such a glo-
rious sight before The roof and walls of this cave
reflected a hundred thousand lights to me from my
two candles, as though they were indenied with
shining gold, precious stones, or sparkling diamonds.
And indeed it was the most delightful cavity or grot-
to of its kind that could be desired, though entirely
dark.' The-floor was dry and level, and had a kind
of gravel upon it; no nauseous venomous creatures
to be seen there, neither any damp or wet about it. I
could find no fault but in the entrance, and 1 be^an
to
/
to think that even this might be very necessary for
my defence, and therefore resolved to make it my
most principal magazine. I brought hither twa
fowJing-pieces, and three muikets,-leaving only five
pieces at my castle, planted in the nature of cannon,
in a barrel of gun p|wder, which I took up out of
the sea, J brought awly about sixty pounds of good
powder, which were Æot'damaged; and these, with
a great quantity of lead for bullets, I removed from
my castle to this retreat, now fortified both by art
and nature.
1 fancied myself now like one of the giants of old,
who were said to live in caves and holes among the
rocks, inaccessible to any but themselves, or, at least,
most dangerous to attempt. And now I despised
both the cunning and strength of the savages, either
to find me out, or to hurt me.
But I must not forget the old goat, who caused my
fate dreadful amazement. The poor creature gave
up the ghost the day after my discovery j and it being
very difficult to drag him out, I dug his grave, and
honourably intombed him in the~ fame place where
he departed, with as much ceremony as any Welch-
goat that has been interred about the high mountain
Penmenmoure.
1 think I was now in the twenty-third year of my
reign, and my thoughts much easier* than fprmerly,
having contrived several pretty amusements4and di*
versions to pass away the time in a pleasant manner.
By this time my pretty Poll had learned to speak
English, and pronounce his words very articulately
and plain •, so that for many hours we used to,chat
together after a very familiar manner, and he lived
with me no less than twenty-six years. My dog, who-
was nineteen years old, sixteen of which he lived with
me, died sometime ago of mere old age. As for my
€ats, they multiplied so fast, that I was forced to kill
or diive them into the woods, except two or three,
which became my particular favourites, Besides
H. l these,.
these, I continually kept two or three houfhold kids
about me, whom 1 did learn to fe^d out of my hand,
and two more parrots who couff talk indifferently,
and call Robinson Crusoe, but not so excellently as
the first, as not taking that pains with them, i had
also several sea-fowls which I lad wounded and cut
their wings; and growing tarac, they used to breed
among the low trees about my*<:astle walls; all which
made my abode very agreeable.
But what unforeseen events suddenly destroy the
enjoyments of this uncertain state of life, when we
least expect them! It was now the month of Decem-
ber, in the southern solstice, and particular time of
my harvest, which required my attendance in the
fields; when going out pretty early one morning, be-
fore it was day-light, there appeared to me, from the
lea-shore, a flaming light, about two miles from me,
at the east end of the island, where I had observed
some savages had been before, not on the other side,
but to my great affliction it was on my side of the
island.
Struck with a terrible surprise, and my usual ap-
prehensions, that the savages would perceive my im-
provements, I returned directly to my castle, pulled
up the ladder after me, making all things look as wild
and natural as possibly I could. In the next place, I
put myself in a posture of defence, loading my mus-
kets and pistols, and committing myself to God's
protection, I resolved to defend myself tfll my last
breath. Two hours aster, impatient for intelligence.
1 set my ladder up to the side of the hill, where there
was a flat place, and then pulling the ladder after me,
ascended to the top, where laying myself on my bel-
ly, with my perspective glass, I perceived no less than
nine naked savages, sitting round a small sire, eating
as I supposed human flesh, with their two- canoes
haled on more, waiting for the flood to carry them
oss again. You cannot easily express the consterna-
tion I was in at this sight, especially seeing them near
me;
me; but when 1 perceived their coming must be al-
ways with the current of the ebb, I became more e|ff
fy in my thoughts,Wing very fully convinced, •.hat 1-
might go abroad with security all the time of flood,
if they were not before landed. And indeed this
proved just as I imagined; for no sooner did they all
take boat and paddle away, but the tide made N« W.
Before they went off titey danced, making ridiculous
postures and gestures, for above an hour, all stark
naked; but whether men or women, or both, I could
not perceive. When 1 saw them gone, I took two
guns upon my shoulders, ^an'd placing a couple of
pistols in my belt, with my great sword hanging by
my side, I went XO' the hill, where at fast I made a
discovery of these cannibals, and then saw there had
been three canoes mce of the savages on ihore at
that place, which, with the rest, were making over to
the main land.
But nothing could be more horrid to me, when go*
ing to the place of sacrifice, the blood, the bones, and
other mangled parts of human bodies appeared in my
fight; and (o fired was 1 with indignation, that 1 was
fully resolved to be revenged on the first that came
there, though 1 lost my life in the execution. It
tlven appeared to me, that the visits which they make
to this island are not very numerous, it being fifteen
months before they came again •, but still 1 was very
uneasy, by reason of the dismal apprehensions 1 had •
of their surprising me unawares; nor dared 1 oiTer
to sire a gun on that side of the island where they u-
fed to appear, lest, taking the alarm, they might re-
turn wfth many hundred canoes, and then God only
knows in what manner I stiould have made my end.
Thus was I a year or more before sfa-w any of these:
devouring cannibals again.
But to wave this, the following accident, which
demands attention for a while, eluded the force of
my thoughts in revenging myself on those heathens.
H 3 Oa,
On the 16th of May (according to my wooden ca-
lendar) the wind blew exceedingJiard, accompanied
with fbundance of lightening ?frd thunder all day,
and succeeded by a very stormy night. The seeming
anger of the heavens made me have recourse to my
Bible. Whilst; I was ferioustJ pondering upon it, I
was suddenly alarmed with thlnoise of a gun, which
I conjectured was fired upon* the ocean. Such an
unusual surprise made me start up in a minute, when,
with my ladder, ascending the mountain as before,
that vtry moment a flash of sire presaged the report
of another gun, which 1 presently heard, and found
it was from that part of the sea where the current
drove me away. I could not but then think, that
this must be a (hip m distress, and that these were
the melancholy signals fora speedy deliverance. Great
indeed was my sorrow upon this occasion but my
labours to assist them must have proved altogether
vain and fruitless. However, I brought together all
the dry w^od that was at hand, and making a pretty
large p" set it on fire on the hill. I was certain
they plainly perceived it, by their firing another gun
as soon as it began to blaze, and after that several
more from the same quarter. All night long I kept
up my fire: and when the air cleared up, I perceived
something a great way at sea, directly E. but could
not distinguish what it was, even with my glass, by
reason the weather was so very foggy out at sea.
However, keeping my eyes directly fixed upon it,
and perceiving it not to stir, I presently concluded
it must be a (hip at anchor, an4 so very hasty I
was to be satisfied, that taking my gun, I went to
the S. E. part of the island, to the fame rocks where
I had been formerly drove away by the current; in
which time the weather being perfectly cleared up*
to my great sorrow, 1 perceived the wreck of a sliip
cast away upon those hidden rocks I found when I
was out with my boat > and, which, by making a
kind
kind of an eddy, were the occasion of my preserva-
tion. .
Thus, what is oftc man's safety is another's ruin;
for undoubtedly this {hip had been driven on them in
the night, the wind blowing hard at E. N. E. Had
they perceived the iAand, as I now guessed they had
not, certainly, instead of having fired their guns for
help, they would ratfier have ventured in their boat,
and saved themselves that way. 1 then thought, that
perhaps they had done so, upon seeing my fire, and
were cast away in the attempt; for 1 perceived no
boat in the (hip. But then again I imagined, that
perhaps they had another vessel in company* which,
upon signal, saved their lives, and took the boat up;
or that; the boat might be driven into the main ocean,
where these poor creatures might be in the most mife-.
rable condition. But as all these conjectures were
very uncertain, I could do no more than commiserate
their distress, and thank God tor delivering me in
particular, when io many perished in the ocean.
When I considered ieriouHy every thing concerning
this wreck, and could perceive no way to suppose any
of them saved, 1 cannot explain by any possible force
of words, what longings my foul felt upon this sight,
often breaking out in this manner: O that there had
been but two or. three, nay even one person saved,
that we might have lived together, conversed with,'
and comforted one another-, and so much were my
desires moved, that when I- repeated these words,
** Oh! that there had been but one /" my hands
would so clinch together, and my fingers press the
palms of my hands so close, that, had any soft thing
been between, it would have crushed it involuntarily,
while my teeth would strike together, and set against
each other so strong, that it required some time for
me to part them.
'Till the last year of my being on this island, 1 ne-
ver knew whether or not any had been saved out of
this (hip. 1 had the affliction some time after, to fed
the corpse of a drowned boy come on shore, at the
end of the island which was next tfre shipwreck: there
was nothing on him but a seaman's waistcoat, a pair
of open knee'd linen drawers, and a blue linen shirt;
but no particular mark to guessfwhat nation he was
of. In his pocket were two pieJes of eight, and a to-
bacco pipe, the last of which 1'preferred much more
than 1 did the first. And now the calmness of the sea
tempted me to venture out in my boat to this wreck,
not only to get something necessary out of the ship,
but perhaps some living creature might be on board,
whose life 1 might preserve. This had such an influ-
ence upon my mind, that immediately 1 went home,
and prepared every thing necessary for the voyage,
carrying on board my boat provisions of all sorts, with
a good quantity of rum, fresh water, and a compass:
so putting off, 1 paddled the canoe along the shore,
till 1 came at last to the north east part of the island,
from whence 1 was to launch into the ocean; but
here the currents ran so violently, and appeared so
terrible, that my heart began to fail me; foreseeing,
that if 1 was driven into any of these currents, 1 might
be carried not only out of the reach or sight of the i-
sland, but even inevitably lost in the boiling surges
of the ocean.
So oppressed was 1 at these troubles, that 1 gave
over my enterprise, sailing to a little creek on the
shore, where stepping out 1 sat me down on a rising
hill, very pensive and thoughtful. 1 then perceived
.that the tide was turned, and the flood came on,
which made it impracticable for me to go out for so
many hours. To be more certain how the sets of
the tides or currents lay when the flood came in, 1
ascended a higher piece of ground, which overlook-
ed the sea both ways; and here I found, that as the
current of the ebb set out close by the south point of
the island, so the current of the flood set in close by
the shore of the north side; and all that 1 had to
do3
do, was to keep to the north of the island in my re-
turn.
That night 1 roofed myself in a canoe, covered
with my watch-coat instead of a blanker, the heavens
being my tester. 1 set out with the first of the tide
full north, till 1 felt t|e benefit of the current, which
•carried me at a great late eastward, yet not with such
impetuosity as besore,*as to take from me all govern-
ment of my canoe; so that in two hours time I came
up to the wreck, which appeared to me a most me-
lancholy sight. It seemed to be a Spanim vessel by
its building, stuck fast between two rocks; her stern
and quarter beaten to pieces by the sea; her mainmast
and foremast were brought off by the board; that
is, broken short off. As I approached nearer 1 per-
ceived a dog on board, who seeing me coming, yelp-
ed and cried; and no sooner did I call him, but the
poor creature jumped into the sea, out of which 1
took him up, almost famished with hunger and thirst;
so that when I gave him a cake of bread, no raven-
ous wolf could devour it more greedily: and he
drank to that degree of fresh water, that he would
have burst himself, had I suffered him.
The first sight I met with in the ship, were two
men drowned in the cook-room or forecastle, inclo-
sed in one another's arms: hence 1 very probably
supposed, that when the vessel struck in the storm,
so high and incessintly did the waters break in and
over her, that the men not being able to bear it,
were strangled by the constant rushing in of the
waves. There were several calks of liquor, whether
wine or brandy 1 coulc^noc be positive, which lay in
the lower hold, as were plainly perceptible by the
ebbing out of the water, yet were too large for me to
pretend to meddle with: likewise 1 perceived several
chests, which I supposed to belong to the seamen,
two of which 1 got into my boat, without exami-
ning what was in them. Had the stern of the (hip
being fixed, and the fore part broken off, I ihoulcf
have
have made a very prosperous-voyage; since, by what ,
I after fou^d-in these two chests, 1 could not other-
wise conclude, but [that the shi^must have abun-
dance os wealth on board \ nay is I must guess by
the course she steered, (he must hive been bound
from rhe Buenos Ayres, or the!Rio de Ja Plata, in
the souther-n part of Americas beyond the Brasils
to the Havanah, in the guljflrof Mexiqo, and so
perhaps to Spain. What became of the rest of her
sailors, I could not certainly'tell; and ail her riches
signified nothing at that time to any body.
Searching farther, 1 found a cask, containing a-
bout twenty gallons, full of liquor, which, with
some labour, 1 got into my boat, in a cabin were
several muskets, which 1 hit remain there; but took
away with me a great powder-horn, with about four
pounds of powder in it. 1 took also a fire shovel and
tongs, two brass kettles, a copper pot to make cho-
colate, and a grid-iron; all which were extremely
necessary to me, especially the fire shovel and tongs*
And so with this cargo, accompanied with my dog,
I came away, the tide serving for that purpose; and
the same evening, about an hour within night, 1 at-
tained the island,-aster the greatest toil and fatigue
imaginable. „
That night 1 reposed my wearied limbs in the
boat, resolving the next morning to harbour what 1
had gotten in my new-found subterraneous grotto;
and not carrying my cargo home to my ancient ca-
fUe. Having refreslied myself, and got all my ef-
fects on shore., I next proceeded to examine the par-
ticulars *, and so tapping the task, I found the liquor
to be a kind of a rum, but not like what we had at
the Brasils, nor indeed near so good. At the open-
ing of the chest, several things appeared very useful
to me; for instance, 1 found in one a very fine case
of bottles, containing the finest and best forts of cor-"
dial waters; each bottle held about three pints, cu-
riously tipt with silver. 1 found also two pots, fu]I
of the choicest sweetmeats, and two more which the
water had utterly spoiled. There were likewise se-
veral good shirts, Exceeding welcome to me, and a-
bout one dozen and a half of white linen handker-
chiefs and coloured neckcloths, the former of which
were absolutely necessary for wiping my face in a hot
day and in the till,\ found three bags of pieces of
eight, about eleven hundred in all, in one of which,
decently wrapt up in a piece of paper, were}six dou-
bloons of gold, and some small bars and wedges of
the fame metal, which I believe might weigh near a
pound. In the other chest, which 1 guessed to belong
to the gunner's mate, by the mean circumstances that
attended it, I only found some cloaths of very little „
value, exeept about two pounds of fine glazed powder,
in three stalks, kept, as 1 believe, for charging their
fowling-pieces on any occasion; so that, on the
whole, 1 had no great advantage by this voyage. The
money was indeed as mere dirt to me, useless and un-
profitable, all which 1 would have freely parted with
for two or three pair of English (hoes and stockings^
things that for many years 1 had not worn, except
lately those which I had taken off the feet of those un-
fortunate men 1 had found drowned'in the wreck, yet
not so good as English stioes, either for ease or service.
1 also sound in the seamen's chest about fifty pieces of
ei^ht in rials, but no gold; so concluded that what 1
took from the first belonged to an officer, the latter
appearing to have a much inferior person for its own-
er. However, as despicable as the money seemed, I
likewise lugged it to my cave, laying it up securely,
as J did the rest of my cargo; and after I had done
all this, I returned back to my boat, rowing or pad-
dling her along till I came to my old harbour, where
I carefully laid her up, and so made the best of my
way to my castle. When I arrived there, every thing
seemed safe and quiet: so that now my only business
was to repose myself after my wonted manner, and
take care of my domestic affairs, But tho' I might
have lived very easy, as wanting for nothing absolute-
ly needful, yet still 1 was more vigilant than usual
upon account of the savages, never going much a-
-broad ;. or, if I did, it was to the east part df the island,
where 1 was'well assured that trie savages never came,
and w,here 1 might not be troubled to carry that heavy
load of weapons for my defenc*e, as 1 was obliged to
do if 1 went the other way.
Two years did 1 live in ^his anxious condition, in
all which time, contrary to my former refolutions,my
head was silled with nothing but projects and designs,
how 1 might escape from this island ;and so much were
my wandering thoughts bent on a rambling disposi-
tion, that had 1 had the same boat that 1 went from
Sallee in, I should have ventured once more to the un-
certainty of the raging ocean.
I cannot however but consider myself as one of the
unhappy persons, who make themselves wretched by
their dissatisfaction with the stations which God has
'placed them in; for, not to take a review of my pri-
mitive condition and my father's excellent advice,/
(the going contrary to which was, as I may fay, my
original Jin), the following mistakes of the fame na-
ture certainly had been the means of my present un-
happy station. What business had 1 to leave a settled
fortune, and well stocked plantation, improving and
increasing, where, by this time, 1 might have been
worth a hundred thousand moidores, to turn super*
cargo to Guinea^ to fetch negroes, when time and
patience would have so much enlarged my stock at
home, as to be able to employ those whose more im-
mediate business it was to fetch them home, even to
my own door?
But as this is commonly the fate of young heads,
so a serious reflection upon the folly of it ordinarily
attends the exercise of future years, when the dear-
bought experience of time teaches us repentance.
Thus was it with me \ b-ut notwithstanding the
'thoughts
thoughts of my deliverance ran so strongly in my
mind, that it seemed to check all the dictates of rea--
son and philosophy.* And now to ustier in my kind
reader with great pleasure to the remaining part of
my relation, I flatter myself it will not be taken a-
miss, to give him an Account of my first conceptions
of the manner of escaping, and upon what foundation
I laid my foolish schemes.
Having retired to my castle, after my late voyage
to the (hip, my frigate laid up and secured, as usual,
and my condition the same as before, except being
richer, though I had as little occasion for riches as
the Indians of Peru had for gold, before the cruel
Spaniards came among them. One night in March,
being the rainy season, in the four and twentieth
year of my solitude, I lay down to sleep, very well
in health, without distemper, pain, or uncommon
uneasiness, either of body or mind; yet, notwith-
standing, I could not compose myself to sleep all the
night long. Ail this tedious while, it is impossible
to express what innumerable thoughts came into my
head. I traced quite over the whole history of my
life in miniature, from my utmost remembrance of
things till I came to this island ; and then proceeded
to examine every action and passage that had occurred
since I had taken poss-ssion of my kingdom. In my
reflections upon the latter, I was comparing the
happy posture of my affairs in the beginning of my
reign, to this life of anxiety, fear, and concern,
since I had discovered the print of a foot in the sand,
that while I continued without apprehension, I was
incapable of feeling the dread and terror I now suf-
fered. How thankful rather ought i to have been
for the knowledge of my danger, since the greatest
happiness one can be possessed of is to have sufficient
time to provide against it? How stupendous is the
goodness of Providence, which sets such narrow-
bounds to the sight and knowledge of human nature^
I that
that while men walk in the midst os so many dangers
they are kept serene and calm, by having the events
of things hid from their eyes, a"hd knowing nothing
of those many dangers that surround them, till, per-
haps, they arc dissipated and vanished away.
When 1 came more particularly to consider of the
real danger I had for so many years escaped *, how I
had walked about in the greatest security and tran-
quillity, at a time, perhaps, when even nothing but
the brow of the hill, a great tree, or the common ap-
proach of night, had interposed between me and the
destructive hand of the cannibals, who would devour
-me-with as good an appetite, as I would a pigeon
-or curlieu; surely all this, I fay, could not but make
me sincerely thankful to my great Preserver, whose
singular protection I acknowledged with the greatest
humility, and without which 1 must inevitably have
fallen into the cruel hands of those devourers.
Having thus discussed my thoughts in the clearest
manner, according to my weak understanding, I next
proceeded to consider the wretched nature of these
destroying savages, by seeming, though with great
reverence, to enquire, why God should give up any
of his creatures to such inhumanity, even to brutality
itself, to devour its own kind? But as this was rather
matter of abstruse speculation, and as my miserable
situation made me think this of mine the most un-
comfortable situation in the world, I then began ra-
ther to enquire what part of the world these wretches
lived in; how far off the coast was from whence they
came; why they ventured over so far from home;
what kind of boats conveyed them hither; and why
I could not order myself and my business so, that
I might be as able to attain their country, as they
were to ceme to my kingdom?
But then, thought I, how (hall I manage myself
Tvhen I come thither; what will become of me if
J fall into the hands of the savages? or how shall I
escape from them, if they make an attempt upon me?
and
and supposing I should not sail into their power, what
will I do for provision, or which way shall I bend my
course? These counter-thoughts threw me into the
greatest horror and confusion imaginable; but i^en
] still looked upon my present condition to be the
most miserable that possibly could be, and that nothing
could be worse, except death. For (thought 1) could
1 but attain the shore oT the main, 1 mighf, perhapSj
meet with some relies, or coast it along, as I did with
my boy Xury, on the African shore, till I came to
some inhabited country, where 1 might meet with
some relief, or sail in with some Christian ship that
might take me in and if 1 sailed, why then 1 could
but meet with death, which would put an end to all
my miseries. These thoughts 1 must confess, were
the fruit of a distempered mind, an impatient temper,
made desperate, as it were/by long continuance of
the troubles and the disappointments I had met with
in the wreck, where 1 hoped to have found some living
person to speak to, by whom 1 might have known iu
what place 1 was, and of the probable means of my
deliverance. Thus, while my thoughts were agitated,
my resignation to the will of Heaven was entirely sus-
pended! so that 1 had no power to fix my mind to
any thing, but to the project of a voyage to the main
land. And indeed so much was 1 ir.fiamed upon this
account, that it set my blood into a ferment, and my
pulse beat high, as though 1 had been in a fever, till
nature being, as it were, fatigued and exhausted with
the very thoughts of it, made me submit myself to a
silent repose.
In such a situation it is very strange, that 1 aid not
dream of what 1 was so intent upon j but, instead of
it, my mind roved on a quite different thing, altoge-
ther foreign. I dreamed, that as 1 was issuing from
my castle, one morning, as customary, 1 perceived
upon the more, two canoes, and eleven savages, co-
ming to land, who had brought with them another In-
dian, whom-they designed to make a sacrifice of, in
I 2 order
order to devour; but just as they were going to give
the fatal blow, methought the poor designed victim
jumped away, and ran directly snto my little thick
grove before my fortification, to abscond from his e-
nemies; when perceiving that the others did not fol-
low him that way, 1 appeared to him ; that he hum-
bly kneeled down before me, seeming to pray for my
assistance; upon which J shewed him my ladder,
made him ascend, carried him to my cave, and he
became my servant *, and when 1 had gotten this man,
3 said to myself, Now surely 1 may have some hopes to
attain the main land; for this fellow will serve me as
a pilot, tell me what to do, and where 1 must go for
provisions what places to shun, what to venture to,
and what to escape. But when 1 awaked, and found
all these inexpressible impressions of joy entirely va-
nished, I fell into the greatest dejection of spirit ima-
ginable.
Yet this dream brought me to reflect, that one sure
way of escaping was to get a savage *, that after 1 had
ventured my life to deliver him from the bloody jaws
of bis devourers, the natural fense he might have of
such a preservation, might inspire him with a lasting
gratitude and most sincere affection. But then this
objection reasonably interposed: How can 1 effect
this (thought I) without 1 attack a* whole caravan of
them,and kill them all ? Why should 1 proceed on such
a desperate attempt, which my scruples before had
suggested to be unlawful \ and indeed my heart trem-
bled at the thoughts of so much blood, tho' it were a
means to procure my deliverance. 'Tis true, 1 might
reasonably enough suppose these men to be real enemies
to my life, men who would devour me, was it in their
power, so that it was self preservation in the highest
degree to free myself by attacking them in my own de-
fence, as lawfully as if they were actually, assaulting
me: though all these things, 1 fay, seemed to me to be
of the greatest weight, yet, as I just said before, the
dreadful
dreadful thought os shedding human blood, struck
such a terror to my soul, that it was a long time be*
fore I could reconcile myself to it.
But how far will the ardency of desire prompt us
on i for, notwithstanding the many disputes and per-
plexities I had with myself, I at length resolved,
right or wrong, to get one of these savages into my
hands, cost what it vyould, or even though I should
ipse my life in the attempt. Inspired with this firm
resolution, I set all my wits at work, to find out what
methods 1 should take to answer my design: this in-
deed was so difficult a talk, that 1 could not pitch
upon any probable means to execute it. I therefore
resolved continually to be in a vigilant posture, to
perceive when the savages came on more, and to
leave the rest to the event, let the opportunities oster -
as they would.
Such were my fixed resolutions; and accordingly^
I set myself upon the scout, as often as I could, till >
such time as I was heartily tired of it. 1 waited for
above a year and a half, the greatest part of which
time I went out to the west and south-west corner of
the island almost every day, to look sot canoes, but
none appeared. This was a very great discourage-
ment; yet, though I was very much concerned, the
edge of my desire was as keen as ever; and the long-
er it seemed to be delayed, the more eager was I for
it. In a word, 1 never before was so careful to (him
the loathing sight os these savages, as I was now ea«
ger to be with them; and I thought myself suffici-
ently able to manage one, two, or even three savage?,"
if I had them, so as to make them my entire (laves,
to do whatsoever I should direct them, and prevent
their being able at any time to <io me a mischief.
Many times did I use to please myself with these
thoughts, with long and ardent expectations; but
nothing presenting, all my deep projected schemes,
and numerous fancies, vanished away, as though, ^
while 1 retained such thoughts, the decree o£ Provi-,
i 3 dense
dence was such, that no savages were to come near
me.
About a year and a half after, when I was seriously
musing of sundry other ways how I should attain my
end, one morning early I was very much surprised by
seeing no less than five canoes all on shore together on
my side the island, and the savages that belonged to
them all landed, and out of m^ fight. Such a num-
ber of them disconcerted all my measures; for, seeir~
so many boats, each of whiqh would contain six, ana
sometimes more, I could not tell what to think of it,
or how to order my measures, to attack twenty or
thirty men single handed : upon which, much dispiri-
ted and perplexed, 1 lay still in my castle, which,
however, I put in a proper posture for an attack; and
having formerly provided all that was necessary, was
soon ready to enter upon an engagement, should they
attempt it. Having waited for some time, my impa-
tient temper would let nie bear it no longer; I set my
guns at the foot of my ladder, and, as usual, ascen-
ded up to the top of the hill at two stages, standing
however in such a manner that my head did not ap-
pear above the hill, so that they could not easily per-
ceive me: and here, by the assistance of my perspec-
tive glass, 1 observed no less than thirty in number a-
r<ound a fire, feasting upon what meat they had dres-
sed : how they cooked it, or what it was, 1 could not
then perfectly tell; but they were all dancing and
capering about the flames, using many frightful and
barbarous gestures.
But while, with a curious eye, 1 was beholding these
wretches, my spirits funk within me, when 1 percei-
ved them drag two miserable creatures from the boats,
to act afresh the dreadful tragedy, as 1 supposed they
had done before. It was not long before one of them
fell upon the ground, knocked down, as I suppose,
with a club or wooden sword, for that was their man-
ner; while two or three others went immediately to
work, cutting him open for their cookery, and then
fell to devour him as they had done the former;
while the last unhappy captive was left by himself till
such time as they were ready for him. The poor
creature looked round him with a wishful eye, trem-
bling at the thoughts of death yet seeing himself a
little at liberty, nature that very moment, as it were,
inspired hirri with hopes of life: he started away from
them, and ran with .incredible swiftness along the
sands, directly to that part of the coast where my an-
cient and venerable castle stood.
You may well imagine 1 was dreadfully affrighted
upon this occasion, when, as I thought, they pursued
him in a whole body, all running towards my palace.
And now, indeed, 1 expected that part of my dream
was going to be fulfilled, and that he would certain-
ly fly to my grove for protection, but for the rest of
my dream, I could depend nothing on it, that the sa-
vages would pursue him thither, and find him there.
However, my spirits beginning to recover, I still kept
upon my guard; and I now plainly perceived there
were but three men out of the number that pursued
him. 1 was infinitely pleased with what swiftness the
poor creature run from his pursuers, gaining so much
ground of them, that 1 plainly perceived, could he
thus hold it out for half an hour, there was not the
least doubt but he would save his life from the power
of his enemies.
Between them and my castle there was a creek,the
very fame which 1 sailed into with all my effects from
the wreck of the ship, on the steep banks of which I
very much feared the poor victim would be taken, if
he could not swim for his escape ; but soon was 1 out
of pain for him, when I perceived he made nothing
of it, though at full tide; but with an intrepid cou-
rage, spurred on by the sense of danger, he plunged
into the flood, swimming over in about thirty strokes,
and then landing, ran with the fame strength and
swiftness as he did before. When the three pursuers
came to the creek, one of them, who 1 perceived
could
couk; not swim (happily for his part), returned back
to his company, while the others, with as equal cou-
rage, but much less swiftness, attained the other fide,
though they were resolved never to give over their
pursuit. Arrd now, or never, I thought was the time
for me to procure me a servant, companion, or assist-
ant; and that I was decreed by Providence to be the
instrument that should save the poor creature's life. I
immediately defce*.^ 'mytwo ladders with the great-
est expedition; I took up my two guns, which-1 said
before were at the bottom of them ; and getting up a-
gain with the same haste towards the hill,I made near-
er the sea. In a word, taking a short cut down the hill,
I interposed between the pursuers and pursued, halloo-
ing aloud to the latter, who venturing to look back,
was no doubt at first as much terrified at me as 1 at
them. I beckoned to him with my hand to return
back, in the mean time advancing towards the pur-
suers, and rushing on the foremost, 1 knocked him
down with the stock of my piece, and laid him flat
on the ground. I was very unwilling to fire, lest the
rest should hear, though at that distance 1 questioned
whether they could or no; and being out of sight of
the smoke, they could not easily have known what to
make of it. The other savage seeing his fellow fall,
stopped as if he had been amazed j when, advancing
towards him, 1 could perceive him take his bow from
his back, and fixing an arrow to it, was preparing to
(hoot at me, and without dispute might have lodged
the arrow in my breast; but, in this absolutely ne-
cessary cafe of self-preservation 1 immediately fired
at him and shot him dead, just as his hand was going
to draw the fatal string. All this while the savage who
had fled before stood still, and had the satisfaction to
see his enemies killed, as bethought, who designed'
to take away his life: so affrighted was he with the
fire and noise of my piece, that be stood as it were
Jike Lot's wife, fixed and iramoveabJe, without either
sense or motion. This obliged me to halloo to him
again, making theplainest signs I could to him to draw
nearer. I perceived he understood these tokens by his
approaching to me a little way, when, as if afraid I
should kill him too, he stopped again. Several times
did he advance, and as'often stop in this manner, till,
coming more to my view, I perceived him trembling, •
as if he was to undergo the fame fate. Upon which
1 looked upon him with a smiling countenance, and
stiil beckoning to him; atlength he came close to me,
and kneeled down, kissed the ground, laid his head
upon it, and taking ^me by my foot, set the fame up-
on his head : and this, as 1 understood afterwards, was
a token of swearing to be my slave for ever. I took
him up, and making much of him, encouraged him
in the best manner 1 could. But my work was not
yet finished ; for 1 perceived the savage whom I knock-
ed down, was not killed, but stunned wuh the blow,
and began to come to himself. Upon which 1 pointed
to my new servant, and (hewing him that his enemy
was not yet expired, he spoke some words to me, but
which I could not understand; yet being the first
found of a man's voice I had heard for above twenty-
five years, they were very pleasing to me. But there
was no time for reflection now, the wounded savage
recovering himself so far as to sit upon the ground,
which made my poor prisoner as much afraid as be-
fore; to put him out of which fear, I presented my
other gun at the man, with an intent to shoot him 5
but my savage, for so I must now call him, prevented
my siring, by making a motion to me, to lend him my
sword which hung naked in a belt by my side. No
sooner did I grant his request, but away he runs to his
enemy, and at one blow cut off his head as dexterous-
ly as the most accomplished executioner in Germany
could have done : for it seems these creatures make use
of wooden swords made of hard wood, which will bear
edge enough to cut off heads and arms at one blow.
When this valorous exploit was done, he came to me
laugh*
laughing, as a token of triumph, delivered me my
sword again, with abundance of surprising gestures,
laying it along, with the blooding and ghastly head
of the Indian at my sect.
The greatest astonishment that my new servant con-
ceived, was the manner of killing the savage at such a
distance, without a bow and arrow ; and such was his
longing desire to know it, thaf he first pointed to the
dead carcase, and then made signs to me to grant him
leave to go to him. Upon which I bid him go, and
as well_as I could, made him sensible I granted his
request. But when he came there, how wonderfully
was he struck with amazement? First he turned him
on one side, then on another, wondering he could
perceive no quantity of blood, he bleeding inwardly:
and arter sufficiently admiring the wound the bullet
had made in his breast, he took up his bow and ar-
rows, and came back again; upon which I turned to
go away, making many signs to him to follow, lest
the rest miffing their companions, might come in
pursuit of him. And this I found he understood
very well, by his making me to understand that his
design was to bury them, that they might not be
seen if it happened *, and which by signs again I
made him sensible I very much approved of. Imme-
diately he fell to work, and never was grave-digger
more dexterous in the world than he was •, for in an
instant, as 1 might fay, he scraped a large hole in the
sands with his hands, sufficient to bury the first la y
there he dragged him, and without any ceremony
he covered him over; in like manner he served the
other: so that 1 am sure no undertaker could be
more expert in his business; for all this was done!lnr
less than a quarter of an hour. 1 then called him a-
wav, and instead of carrying him directly to my
castle at first, I conveyed him to my cave, on the
further part of the island; and so my dream was not
fulfilled in that particular, that my grove should
prove an asylum or sanctuary to him.
Weary
Weary and faint, hungry and thirsty, undoubt-
edly must this poor creature be, supported chiefly by
that vivacity of spirit, and uncommon transports of
joy that his deliverance occasioned. Here 1 gave htm
bread, and a bunch of raisins to eat, and water to
drink, on which I fed very cheerfully, to his exceed-
ing refreshment. I then made him a convenient bed,
with a parcel of rice ftraw, and a blanket upon it, (a
bed which I used myself sometimes), and then point-
ing to it, made signs to him to lie down to sleep, up-
on which the poor creature went to take a welcome
repose.
Indeed he was a very comely handsome young fel-
low, extremely well made, with straight long limbs,
not too large, tall and well shaped, and, as near as I
could reckon, about twenty-six years of age. His
countenance had nothing in it fierce or surly, but
rather a sort of majesty in his face; and yet, espe-
cially when he smiled, he had all the sweetness and
softness of an European. His hair was not curled
like wool, as many of the blacks are, but long and
black, with the most beautiful, yet careless, tresses
spreading over his moulders. He had a very high
and large forehead, with a great vivacity and spark-
ling sharpness in his eyes. His skin was not so tawny
as the Virginians, Brasilians, or other Americans,,
but rather of a bright dun olive colour, that had
something agreeable in it, though not very easy to
give a description of. His face was round and plump,
with a small nose, very different from the flatness of
the negroes, a pretty small mouth, thin lips, fine
teeth, very well set, and white as the driven snow,
$n a word, such handsome features, and exact sym-
nxa*y in every part, made me consider, that 1 had
saved the life of an Indian prince, no less graceful
and accomplished than the great Oroonoko, whose
memorable behaviour and unhappy contingencies of
life have charmed the world, both to admiration of
his person, and compassion to his sufferings.
But let him be either prince or peasant, all my
happiness centered in this, that I had now got a good
servant or companion, to whom, as he deserved, I
was resolved to prove a kind master and lasting
friend. He had not, I think, slept above an hour,
when he awakened again, and while 1 was milking
my goats hard by, out he runs from the cave towards
me in my inclosure, and laying himself down on the
ground in the lowest prostration, made all the antic
gestures imaginable, to 'express his thankfulness to
me for being his deliverer. 1 confess, though the
manner of his behaviour seemed to be ludicrous e-
nough to occasion laughter, yet 1 was very much
moved at his affection, so that my heart melted with-
in me, fearing he might die away in excess of joy*
like reprieved malefactors ; especially as 1 was inca-
pable either to let him blood, or administer physic.
It were to be wimed, that Christians would take ex-
ample by this Heathen, to have a lasting remem-
brance of the benefits and deliverances they have re-
ceived, by the kind mediation and powerful interpo-
sition of their benefactors and deliverers : and it
would likewise be happy for mankind, were there no
occasion to blame many, who, instead of thankfully
acknowledging favours and benefits, rather abuse and
contemn those who have been the instruments to save
them from destruction.
But, leaving these just reflections, 1 return to the
object that occasioned them: for my man, to con-
clude the last ceremony of obedience, laid down his
head again on the ground, close to my foot, and set
my other foot upon his head, as he had done before,
making all the signs of subjection, servitude, and sub-
mission imaginable, to let me understand he would
serve me as long as his life endured. As 1 under-
stood him in many things, 1 made him sensible 1 was
very well pleased with him; and in a little time I
began to speak to him, and learn bim how to talk
to me again. In the first place, 1 made him un-
» derstand
derstand his name was to be Friday, because it was
upon that day I saved his life; then I taught him to
fay Mailer, which I made him sensible was to be my
name. I likewise taught him to fay Yes and No,
and to know what they meant. 1-gave him some
milk in an earthen pot, making him view me while
I drank it before him, and soaked my bread in it; I
gave him a cake of bread, and caused him soak it
likewise, to which he readily, consented, making signs
of the greatest satisfaction imaginable.
All that night did I keep him there, but no sooner
did the morning light appear, when 1 ordered him to
arise, and come along with me, with certain tokens
that I would give him some cloaths like mine, at which
he seemed very glad, being stark naked, witlrtut the
least covering whatever. As we passed by the place
where the two men had been interred, my man pointed
directly to their graves, {hewing me the marks that he
had made to find them again,giving me to understand
by sigm, that he would dig them up, and devour them.
At this 1 appeared extremely displeased, expressed my
utmost abhorr ence,as if I would vomit at the apprehen-
sions of it, beckoning with my hand to come awav,
which he did with the greatest reverence and submis-
sion. After this I conducted him to the top of the
hill, to view if the rest of the savages were yet remain-
ing there; but when 1 looked through my perspec-
tive glass, I could fee no appearance of them, nor of
their canoes; so that it was very evident they never
minded their deceased companions whom 1 had
slain: which, if they had, they would surely have
searched for, or left one boat behind for them to
follow, after they returned from their pursuit.
Curiosity, and a desire of satisfaction, animating me
with courage to fee this scene of barbarity, 1 took my
man Friday with me, putting a sword into his hand,
with the bow and arrows at his back, which I per-
ceived he could use very dexterously, causing him to
K carry
carry o#i gun for me, and I two for myself; and
thus equipped against all attacks, away we marched
directly to the place of their bloody entertainment.
But when I came there, I was struck with the utmost
horror at so dreadful a spectacle, whilst Friday was
no way concerned about it, being no doubt in his
turn one of these devourers. Here lay several hu-
man bones, there several pie*ces of mangled flesh,
half eaten, mangled and scorched, whilst streams of
blood ran promiscuously as waters from a fountain.
As I was musing on this dreadful sight, Friday took
all the pains he cou1d, by particular signs, to make
me understand, that they had brought over four
sprifoners to feast upon, three of whom they had
eaten i>. and that he was the fourth, pointing to
himself: that there having been a bloody battle be-
tween them and his great king, in the just defence
of whom he was taken prisoner, with many others \
r»il of these were carried ossto different places, to be
devoured by their conquerors; and that it was his
misfortune to be brought hither by these wretches
for the fame purpose.
After 1 was made sensible of these things, I caused
Fridayjo gather these horrid remains, and lay them
together upon a heap, which I ordered to be set on
'fire, and burnt them to ashes : my man, however, still
retained the nature of a cannibal, having a hanker-
ing stomach after some of the flesh; but such an ex-
treme abhorrence did 1 express at the least appear-
ance of it, that he durst not but conceal it: for 1
jnade him very sensible, that if he offered any such
thing, I would certainly moot him.
This being done, 1 carried my man with me to my
castle, and gave him a pair of linen drawers, which
] had taken out of the poor gunner's chest before
-mentioned ; and which, with a little alteration, fitted
him very well: in the next place, I made him a jer-
kin of goat skin, such as my skill was able to ma-
cage, and indeed 1 thought myself then a tolerable
V
good tailor. I gave him also a cap, which I made
of a hare's skin, very convenient and fashionable.
Thus, being cloathed tolerable well, my man was no
less proud of his habit, than 1 was in feeing him in
it. Indeed he went very awkwardly at first, the
drawers being too heavy on his thighs, not used to
bear any weight, and the sleeves or the waistcoat
galled his Ihouldcrs, and the inside of his arms; but
by.a little easing where he complained they hurt him,
and by using himself to them, ac length he took to
them very well.
My next concern was,\vhere L mould lodge him;
and that I might do well by him, and yet be perfect-
ly easy my sell, I ere6\ed a tent for him in the vacant
place between my two fortifications, in the inside of
the last, and outside of the sirst: and as there was
an entrance or door into my cave, I made a formal
framed door cafe, and a door to open on the inside;
1 barred it up in the night time, taking in my lad*
ders too; so that was my man to prove treacherous,
there could be no way to come at me in the inside of
my innermost wall, without making so much noise in
getting over, that it must needs waken me; for my
first wall had now a complete roof over it of long
poles, spreading over my tent, and leaning up to the
side of the mountain, "which was again laid cross
with smaller sticks instead of laths, and thatched over
a great thicki>ess with rice straw, which was as strong
its reeds; and at th<* hole of the place, left on pur-'
pose to go in or out by the ladxler, 1 had placed a kind
of a trap door, which, if it had been attempted ort
the outside, would not have opened at all, but have
fallen down, and made a great noise; and as to my
weapons, every night! took them ail to my bedside.
But there was no occasion for this precaution ; for
surely never master h*d a pore sincere, faithful, and
loving servant than Friday proved to me. Without
passion, sullenness, or design, perfectly obliging and
K 2 engaging,
/
engaging, his affections were as much tied to me, as
thole of a child to his parents : and I might venture to
fay, he would have sacrificed his life for the saving
mine, upon any occasion whatsoever. And indeed
the many testimonies he gave me of this, sufficiently
convinced me that I had no occasion to use these pre-
cautions. And here I could not but reflect, with
great wonder, that however ft has pleased the Al-
mighty in his providence, and in the government of
the creation, to take from so great a part of the world
of his creatures, the noblest uses to which their facul-
ties, and the powers of their fouls are adopted, yet
that he has bellowed upon them the f.ime reason, af-
fections, sentiments of kindness, and obligation, pas-
sions of resentment, sincerity, fidelity, and all the
capacities of doing and receiving good that he has
given us; and that when he is graciously pleased to
ester them occasions of exerting these, they are as
ready, nay, more ready, to apply them to the proper
uses' for which they were bestowed, than we often
are. These* thoughts would make me melancholy,
especially when 1 considered how mean a use we
mike of all these, even though we have these powers
'enlightened by the Holy Spirit of God/: and by the
knowledge of.his word, as an addition tp our under-
standing ; and why it has pleases the heavenly Wisdom
to conceal the like saving knowledge from so many
'millions of souls, who could certain ly^make a much
better use of it than generally mankind do at this
time. These reflections would sometimes lead me
so far, as to invade the sovereignty of providence, and
as it were, arraign the justice of such an arbitrary
disposition os things, that should obscure that light
from some, and reveal it to others, and yet expect a
Jike duty from all. But I closed it up, checking my
thoughts with this conclusion \Jxrfty That we were
•ignorant of that right and law by which,these should
be condemned; but that as the Almighty was neces-
sarily, and by the nature of. his essence, infinitely just
and
and holy; so it could not be otherwise, but.that if
these creatures were all destined to absence from him-
self, it was on account of sinning against that light,
which, as the scripture says, was a law to themselves,
and by such rules as their consciences would acknow-
ledge to be just, though the first foundation was not
discovered to us. And, 2<i/y, That stiil as we were
the clay in the hand* of the potter, no vessel could ^
thus fay to him, Why hast ihou fashioned me after
this manner?
I had not been above two or three days returned to
my castle, but my chief design was, how 1 should
bring Friday off from*his horrid way of feeding; and
to take from him that inhuman relish he, by nature,
had been accustomed to. I thought it my duty tolec
him taste other Sefh, which might the rather tempt
him to the fame abhorrence 1 so often expressed a-
gainst their accursed way of living. Upon which omc
morning 1 took him out with me, with an intention
to kill a kid out of the flock, and bring it home, and
dress it. As 1 was going, 1 perceived a she goat ly-
ing down in the made, and two young kids sitting by •
her. Immediately 1 catched hold of my man Friday,
and bidding him stand still, and not stir, 1 presented
my piece, and shot one of the kids. My poor ftrrvanr,
who had at a distance perceived me kill his adversary,
and yet did not know by what means, or how it was
done, stood trembling and surprised, and looked so a-?
mazed, that I thought he would have sunk into the
earth. He did not see the kid I aimed at, or behold I
had killed it, but ripped up his waistcoat to fee if he -
was not wounded, thinking my resolution was- to kill .
him ; for coming to me, he fell on his knees, earnest-
ly pronouncing many things which I did not under-
stand the meaning of; which at length I perceived*
was, that I would not take away his life.
Indeed 1 was much concerned to fee him in that
condition, where nature is upon the severest trial,
when the-immediate hand of death is ready to put for;
K 3 ever.
.ever a period to this mortal life: and indeed so much
compassion had I to this creature, that it was with
difficulty I kept from tears. But, however, as another
fort of countenance was necessary, and to convince
him that 1 would do him no harm, I took him, fmi-
Jrng, by the hand, then laughed at him, and pointing
to the kid which 1 had slain, made signs to him to
fetch it, which he did accordingly. No less curious
was he in viewing how the creature was killed, than
he was before in beholding the Indian ; which, while
he was admiring it, I charged my gun again, and pre-
sently perceived a great fowl like a hawk, perching
upon a tree within (hot j and therefore, to let Friday
understand what I was going to do, 1 called him to
me again, pointing at the fowl, which 1 found to be
a parrot. 1 made him understand that 1 would shoot
and kill that bird, accordingly 1 sired, and bad him
look, when immediately he saw the parrot fall down.
Again he stood like one amazed, notwithstanding all
1 had said to him; and the more confounded he was,
because he did not perceive me put any thing into my
gun. Undoubtedly a thing so utterly strange, carry-
ing death along with it, far or near, either to man or
beast, must certainly create the greater astonishment
to one who had never heard of such a thing in hisv
whole life: and really his amazement continued so
long, that had 1 allowed it, he would have prostrated
himself before me and my gun, with the greatest
worship and adoration. As for the gun in particular,
he would not so much as suffer his fingers to touch
it for several days after: he would come and commu-
nicate his thoughts to it, and talk to it, as if the
senseless piece had understood and answered him i
all this 1 could perceive him do, when he thought
jny back was turned : the chief intent of which was,
to desire it not to kill him, as 1 afterwards came ta
understand.
I never strove to prevent his admiration, nor hin-
der him from those comical gestures he used on such
occasions;
occasions \ but when his astonishment was a little 0-
ver, 1 made tokens to him to run and fetch the par-
rot that 1 had shot, which he accordingly did, staying
sometime longer than usual, by reason the bird, not
being quite dead, had fluttered some way farther
from the place where (he sell. In the mean time, as
he was looking for her, 1 took the advantage of char-
ging my gun again, that so 1 might be ready for any
other mark that offered ; but nothing more occurred
at that time. I brought home the kid, and the fame
evening took off the skin, and divided the carcase as
well as 1 could. Part of this flesh 1 stewed and boil-
ed in a pot 1 had for the purpose \ and then spread-
ing my table, I sat down, giving my man some of
it to eat, who was wonderfully pleased, and seemed
to like it very well; but what was most surprising
to him, was to fee me eat salt with it: upon which
he made me to understand the fait was vay bad for
me, when putting a little into his mouth, he seemed
to nauseate it in such a manner, as to spit and sputter
3t it, and then washed his mouth with fresh water:
but to mew him how contrary his opinion was to
mine, 1 put some meat into my mouth without salt,
and feigned to spit and sputter as much for the want
of it as he had done at it: yet all this proved of no
signification to Friday; and it was a long while be-
fore he could endure fait in his meat or broth, and
even then but a very st.ull quantity.
Thus, having fed him sufficiently with boiled meat
and broath at that time, the next day 1 was resolved
to feast him with a roasted piece of the kid; and ha-
ving no spit to fasten it, nor jack to turn it, 1 made
use of that common artifice which many of the people
in England have, that is, to set two poles upon-each
side of the fire, and one cross on the top, hanging the
meat on it with a string, and so turning round con*
tinually, roasted it in the fame manner as we read
bloody tyrants of old cruelly roasted the holy mar-
tyrs. This practice caused great admiration in my
maa
r
man Friday, being quite another way than that to
which the savages were accustomed. But when he
came to taste theiweetness and tenderness of the
stem, he expressed his entire satisfaction above a thou-
sand different ways \ and as 1 could not but under-
stand his meaning, you may be sure 1 was as won-
derfully pleased, especially when he made it also very
plain to me, that he would never, while he lived, eat
man's stem more.
It is now high time I mould set my new servant to
work; so next day 1 put him to beat out some com,
and fist it in the same manner as 1 had done before.
And really the fellow wa$ very quick and handy in
the execution of any thing 1 ordered him to go about.
1 made him understand that it was to make bread for
us to eat, and afterwards let him fee me bake it. In
short, he did every thing as 1 ordered him in a little
time as well as 1 could perform it myself.
But now, considering 1 had two mouths to feed in-
stead of one, it was necessary that 1 must provide more
ground for my harvest, and plant a larger quantity of
corn than 1 commonly used to do; upon which 1
marked out a larger piece of land, fencing it in, in
the fame manner as 1 had done before; in the exe-
cution of which, I must give Friday this good word,
that no man could work mor; hardy, or with better
will than he did; and when 1 made him sensible that
it was for bread to serve him as well as me, he then
very passionately made me understand, that he thought
1 had much more labour on his account than 1 had
for myself, and that no pains or diligence should be
wanting in him, if 1 would but direct; him in those
works where in he might proceed
I must certainly own, that this was the most plea*
font year 1 ever had it) the island; for after some time
Friday began to talk pretty well, and understood the
names of those things which 1 was wont to call for,
and the places where 1 used to send him so that my
long silent tongue, which had been usdese so many.
years,
years, except in an exclamatory manner, either for
deliverance or blessings, now began to be occupied in
teaching, and talking to my man Friday ; for indeed
I had such a singular satisfaction in the fellow him-
self, so innocent did his simple and unfeignedlionesty
appear more and more to me every day, that I really
began entirely to love him, and for his part, 1 be-
lieve there was no lov^ lost, and that his nature had
been more charmed with my exceeding kindness, and
his affections more placed upon me, than any other
object whatsoever among his own countrymen. I
once had a great mind to try if he had any hankering
inclination to his own country again: and, by this
time, having learned him the English so well, that he
could give me tolerable answers to any question which
I demanded, 1 aiked him, whether that nation to which
he belonged ever conquered in battle? This question
made Friday to smile, and to which he answered, yesy
yesy ivc always fight the better; as much as to fay, they
always got the better in fight. Upon which we pro-
ceeded on the following discourse. You say, said I,
that you always fight the better; why then, Friday,
how came you to be taken prisoner?
Friday, But for all that, my nation beat much.
Master* How,-say you, beat! if your nation beat
them, how came you to be taken \
Friday. They more many mans than my nation in
the place where me was, they take one, two, three,
and me : my nation much o?erbeat them in the yon-
der place where me now was, there my nation mans
beat one two, three, great toufands.
Master. Then why did not your men recover you
from the hands of your enemies I
Friday. They run one, two, or three, and me;
they make all go in the canoo •, my nation have no
canoo that time:
Master. 'Tis very well, Friday; but what does
your nation do with the prisoners they take ? Do they
carry them away and eat them as these have done?
Friday.
Friday. Yes, yes, my nation eat mans too, eat
up all. i
Master. To what place do they carry them "to be
devoured.
Friday. Go to other nations where they think.
Master. Do they bring them hither?
Friday. Yes, come over hither, come over other
place.
Master. And hafre you heen with them here, Fri-
day?
Friday. Yes, me been here, spointing to the north-
est of the island, being the side where they used to
land. J
Thus having got what account I could from my
man, I plainly understood, that he had been as bad
as any of the rest of the cannibals, having been for-
merly among the savages who used to come on shore
on the farthest part of the island, upon the fame bloody
occasion as he was brought hither for: and sometime
after I carried him to that place where he pointed *,
and no sooner did he come there, but he presently
knew the ground, signifying to me that he was once
there when they ate up twenty men, two women,
and a young child; but as he could not explain the
number in Fmglijh^ he did it by so many Hones in a
row, making a sign to me to count them.
This passage 1 have the rather mentioned, because
it led to things more important and useful for me to
know: for after I had this satisfactory discourse with
him, my next question was, how far it was from the
island to the shore, and whether the canoes were not
often loft in the ocean? To which he answered, there
was no danger; that no canoes were ever lost •, but
that after a little way out to the sea, there was a
strong current, and a wind always one way in the af-
ternoon. This I thought at first to be no more than
the sets of the tide, of going out or coming in; but
I afterward understood it was occasioned by the great
draught and reflux of the mighty river Oroonoko,
..in
in the^mouth or gulf of which I imagined my king-
dom fey; and that the land which I perceived to the
W. and N. W. must be the great island Trinidad, on
the north of the river. A thousand questions (if that
would satisfy me) did I ask Friday about the nature
of the country, the sea, the coasts, the inhabitants
and what nations were nearest them; to which que-
stions the poor fellow cfeclared all he" knew, with the
greatest openness and utmost sincerity. When I de-
manded of him the particular names of the various
nations of his fort of people, he could only answer
me in general, that they were called Carabe. Hence
it was 1 considered that these must be the Caribbees
so much taken notice of by our maps, to be on that
part of America, which reaches from the mouth of
the river Oroonoko to Guiania, and so on to St Mar-
tha. Then Friday proceeded to tell me, that up a
great way beyond the moon, as much as to fay, beyond
the setting of the moon, which must be W. from their
country, there dwelt white-bearded men, such as I
was, pointing to my whiikers, and that they kill
much mans. I was not ignorant with what barbarity
the Spaniards treated these creatures; so that 1 pre-
sently concluded it must be them, whose cruelties had
spread throughout America, to be remembered even
16 succeeding generations.
Well, you may be.lure, this knowledge, which the
imperfect information of my man had led me to, was
very comfortable to me, and made me so curious as
to ask him, how I might depart from this island, and
get amongst those white men ? He told me, Yes, yes, I
might go in tivo canoes. In two canoes, thought I,
Avh.it does my man mean; Surely he means one for
himself, and another for me 5 and if not, how must
two canoes hold me without being joined, or one
p*rt of my body being put in one, and another in the
other? and indeed it was a long while befpre I un-
derstood his meaning, which was, that it must be a
large boat, as big as two canoes, able to bear with
the
the waves, and not so liable to* be overwhelmed as
one must be. J
1 believe there is no state of life but what may be
happy, if people would but endeavour for their part
to make it so. He is not the happiest man that has
the most riches, but he that is content with what he
hath. Before I had my servant, I thought myself mi-
serable till I had him; and now that I enjoyed the
happy benefits of him, I still complained, and begged
a deliverance from a place of retirement, ease, and
plenty where.Providence had sufficiently blessed me.
In a word, from this time I entertained some hopes,
that one time or other I might find an opportunity to
make my escape from this istand, and that this poor
savage might be a great furtherance thereto.
All the time since my man became so intelligent as
to understand and speak to me, I spared no pains nor
diligence to instruct him, according to my poor stiare
of knowledge in the principles of religion, and the
adoration that he ought to pay to the True Cod. One
time as I very well remember, I asked him who made
him? At first the innocent creature did not under-
stand what I meant, but rather thought I asked him
who was his fatherupon which 1 took another way
to make him sensible, by demanding from him an an-
swer to this question. Friday, said I, who is it that
made the sea, this ground whereon we walk, and all
these hisls and woods which we behold? And here
indeed I did not miss of my intention; for he told
me, it was old Benamuckee (the god whom,1 supposed,
these savages adored) who lived a great way beyond
all. But as for his attributes, poor Friday was an
utter stranger. He could describe nothing of this
great person; and all that he could fay was, that he
was very old, much older than the sea and land, the
moon, or the stars. Friday, (said I again), if this
great and old person has made all things in the world,
how comes it to pass, tharall things, as you in par-
ticular, do not adore and worship him? Upon this,
looking
looking very grave, with a perfect sweet look of in-
nocence, he replied, Master> all things fay 0 to him>
by which it may reasonably bz supposed he meant ado-
ration. And where, said I, do the people of your
country go when they die? He answered, they all go
to Benamuckee. What, and those people that are eaten
up, do they go there? Benamuckee, said he, love yem
dearly; me pray to B*enamuckee in de canoe, end
Benamuckee -woud love vie when dey eat ame all up.
Such discourses as these had I with my man, and
such made me sensible, that the true God is worship-
ped, though under imperfect similitude; and that
the false adoration which the Heathens give to their
imaginary deity, is as great an argument of the divine
essence, as the most learned Atheist {falsely jo called)
can bring against it: for God will be glorified in his
works, let the denomination be what it will; and I
cannot be of that opinion which some conceive, that
God should decree men to \>c damned for want of a
right notion of saitb, in a place where the wisdom o£
the Almighty has not permitted it to be preached;
and therefore.cannot but conclude, that since obedi-
ence is the best sacrifice, these poor creatures, acting
by that light and knowledge which they are possessed
with, may undoubtedly obtain a happy salvation,
though not that enjoyment with,Christ, as his saints,
confessors, and martyrs must enjoy.
But laving these determinations aside, more fit for
divines than me to discuss, I began to instruct my
servant in the saving knowledge of the true Deity, in
which the directions of God's Holy spirit assisted me.
I listed up my hands to heaven, and pointing thereto,
told him, that the great Maker of heaven and eartk
lived there: that as his infinite power fashioned this
world out of a confused chaos, and made it in that
beautiful frame which we behold, so he governs and
-preserves it by his unbounded knowledge, sovereign
greatness, and peculiar providence ;that he was omni-
potent, could do every thing for us, give every thing
to us, and take every thing away from us: that he was
a rewarder and punilher of good and evil actions} that
there was nothing but what he knew, no thougms so
secret but what he could bring to light \ and thus, by
degrees, I opened his eyes, and described to him the
manner os the creation os the world, the situation of
paradise,the transgression of our first parents,the wick-
edness of God's peculiar people, and the universal
sins and abominations of the whole earth. When
these things were implanted in his mind, I told him,
that as God's justice was equal to his mercy, he resol-
ved to destroy this~world, till his Son Jesus Christ in-
terposed in our behalf; and, to procure ourredemption,
obtained leave of his heavenly Father to come down
from heaven into the world, where he took human na-
ture upon him, instructed us in our way to eternal
life, and died as a sacrifice for our sins *, that he was
now ascended into heaven, mediating for our pardon,
delivering our petitions, and obtaining all those good
benefits which we ask in his name, by humble and
hearty prayers, all which were heard at the throne of
heaven. As very frequently I used to inculcate things
into his mind, Friday one day told me, that if our-
great God could hear us beyond the fun, he must
surely be a greater God than their Benamuckee> who
lived but a little way off,and yet could not hear them
till they ascended the great mountains where he dwelt,
to speak to him. What, said I, Friday, did you go
thither to speak to him too? He answered, No, they
never went that were young men, none but old men
called their Oo-wakake, meaning the Indian priests,
who went to fay 0, (so he called saying their prayers),
and they returned back, and told them what Bena-
muckee said. From hence I could not but observe,
Jifw happy we Christians are, who have God's im-
mediate revelation for our certain guide; and that
our faith is neither misled, nor our reason imposed
upon, by any set of men such as these Indian im-
postors.'
- •
/)of ROBINSON CRUSOE. 123
But, to clear up this palpable cheat to my man
Friday, I told him, that the pretence of their ancient
men going up to the mountain to fay O to their god
Benatmickec was an imposture, and that their bring-
ing back an answer was all a (ham, if not worse ; for
if that there was any such thing spoken to them,
surely it must proceed from an infernal spirit. And
here I thought it necessary to enter into a long dis-
course with him, which I did after this manner.
Fnday, (said I), you must know that before this
world was made, there was an almighty power exist-
ing, by whose power all things were made, and whose
majesty Ova 11 have no end. To be glorified and ado-
red by beings of a heavenly nature, he created angels
and arch angels, that is, glorious spirits resembling
himself, to encompass his throne, eternally singing
forth his praise in the most heavenly sounds and di-
vine harmony. And, among this heavenly choir, Lu-
cifer bore a great sway, as being then one of the pe-
culiar favourites of these celestial abodes; but he^
contrary to that duty he owed his heavenly sovereign,
with unbounded ingratitude to his divine Creator*
not only envied him that adoration which was his
due, but thought to usurp that throne which he had
neither power to keep, nor title to pretend to. He
raised a dissension and civil war in heaven, and had
a number of angels to take his part. Unbounded fol-
ly i stupendous pride i thus to hope for victory, and
aspire above his powerful Creator! The Deity, not
fearful of such an enemy, yet justly provoked at this
rebellion, commissions his arch-angel Michael to lead
forth the heavenly host, and give him battle; the
advantage of which was quickly perceived, by Satan's
being overthrown, and-the prince of the air (for so
the devil was called) with all his fallen angels, driven
headlong into a dismal place, which Is called HelL
The recital of this truth made my man give the
greatest attention, and he expressed a great satisfac-
tion by his gestures, that God had sent the devil into
L 2 the
the deep hole. -And then I desired him to giv/great
heed'to what I had further to say. >
No sooner (procedced 1) was God freed from, and
the heavens clear of this arch-traitor, but the Father
speaks to the Son and Holy Spirit, who belonged to
his essence, and were equal to him in power and glory.
Come let us make man, (said he) incur own image, after
*ur own likeness. Gen. i. 26.no have dominion over
the creatures of the world which we have created.
And these he intended should glorify him in heaven,
according to their obedience in this state of probation
on earth, which was, as it were, to be the school to
train them up for these heavenly mansions. Now,
Satan seeing himself foiled, yet that God had not ta-
ken the power from him as prince of the air, whjch
power Heaven designed he Ihould retain, whereby
his creatures might be tried; in revenge for the dis-
grace he had received, he tempts Adam's wife Eve
to taste of the tree of knowledge of good and evil,
which God had forbidden. He appears to her in the
shape of a serpent, then a most beautiful creature,
and tells her, that it was no better than an imposi-
tion which God had put upon her and her husband,
not to eat of that fair fruit which he had created;
that the taste thereof would make them immortal like
God himself; and consequently as great and pewer-
sul as he. Upon which she not only eat thereof her-
self, but made'her husband eat also, which brought
tjiem both under the heavenly displeasure.
Here Friday expressed a great concern; Ah, poor
mans! (cried he) naughty womans! naughty devil!
make God not lovi de mans% make mans lik: devil
himself.
Fridays said I, God still loved mankind; and tho*
the devil tempted human nature so far, he would not
suffer them to have an absplute power over them. I
have told you-before of .his tender Jove to his people,
till they, like Lucifer, disobeyed his commands and
rebelled against him; and even then how Jesus Christ,
his only Son, came to save sinners. But still every
man {that lives in the world is under temptation and
trial. The devil has yet a power, as prince of the
air, to suggest evil cogitations into our minds, and
prompt us on to wicked actions, that he might glory
in our destruction. Whatever evil thoughts we have
proceed from him so that God, in this our distress*
expects we should appry ourselves to him by fervent
prayer for speedy redress. He is not like Benamuckce^,
to let none come near him but Ooivakakeey but suffers
the people as well as priests to offer themselves at his
feet, thereby to be delivered from the power and^
temptation of the devil.
But though at first my man Friday expressed some-
concern at the wickedness of Lucifer^ I found it not
so easy to imprint the right notions of him in hia-
mind, as it was about the divine essence of God: for
there nature assisted me in all my arguments, to (hew
to him plainly the necessity of a great first cause, and'
over*ruling governing power, of a secret directing
Providence, and of the equity and reasonableness of
paying adoration to our Creator; whereas there ap-
peared nothing of all this in the notion of an evil
spirit, of his first beginning, his nature, and above aLV
of his inclination to evil actions, and his power to
tempt us to the like. And indeed this unlearned In-
dian, by the mere force of nature, puzzled me with
one-particular question, more than ever 1 could have:
expected.
I had, it seems, one day been talking to him of
the omnipotent powet of God, and his infinite abhor-
rence of fin, insomuch that the scriptures styled him
a consuming fire to all the workers of iniquity \ and'
that it was in his power, whenever he pleased, to de-
stroy all the world in a mome.it, the greater part of:
which are continually offending him.
When, with a serious attention, he had listened
great while to what 1 said, after I had been tellings
him how the devil was God's enemy in the hearts of
L 3 meai
men, and used all his malice and skill to defeat the
good design of Providence, and destroy the kingdom
of Christ in the world, and so forth: Very well, ma-
ster, (said Friday), you say God is so strong, so great*
is he not much strong, much mightier than the
naughty devil? To be sure, Friday, said I, God is
more wife, and stronger than the serpent: he is above
the devil, which makes us pra«y to him, that he would
tread down Satan under our feet, enable us to resist
his violent temptations, and quench his fiery darts.
Why then, answered Friday quickly, if God, as youfay>
has much strong, much might as the devils uuhy God no
kill devil, make no more tempt, no more do -wicked?
You may be certain I was strangely surprised at
this question of my man's \ and though an old man^
I was but a young doctor, and consequently very ill
qualified for a casuist, or a resolver of intricate doubtg
in religion. And as it required some time for me to
study for an answer, I pretended not to hear him>,
nor to alk him what he said: but so earnest was he
for an answer, as not to forget his question, which he
repeated in the very fame broken words as above..
When I had recovered myself a little, Friday, said ly
God will at last punish him severely, being reserved for
judgement, and is to be cafl into the bottomless pit, to.
remain in fire everlasting* But all this did not satis-
fy Friday \ for returning upon me, he repeated my
words, keserve at last, me no understand; but
why not kilhdevil now, not kill devil, great, great
'while ago? Friday, said I, you may as well ask me why^
God does not kill you and me, when by our wicked
actions we so much offend his Divine Majesty? He
gives us time to repent of our fins, that thereby we
siay obtain pardon. At these words obtain pardon,
Friday mused a great while; and at last looking me
stedsastly in the face; Well, well, said he, that's very,
•well; so y07j, /, devil, all wicked mans} all preserve^
i$4pent God, pardon all.
Indeed here I was run down to the last extremity,,
whm
wfeerf.it became very evident to me, how mere natu-
ral notions will guide reasonable creatures to the
knowledge of a Deity, and to the homage due to the
supreme being of God; but, however, nothing but
divine revelation can form the knowledge of Jesus
Christ, and of a redemption purchased for us, of the
Mediator of the new covenant, and of an intercessor
at the footstool of GcTd's throne; and therefore the
gospel of our Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ, that is,
the Word and Spirit of God, promised for, the guide
and fanctifier of his people, are the most necessary in-
structors of the fouls of men, in the saving knowledge
of the Almighty, and the means to attain eternal
happiness.
And now I found it necessary to put an end to this
discourse between my nun and me; for which pur-
pose I rose up hastily, and made as if I had some oc-
casion to go out, fending Friday for something that
was a good way off, 1 then fell on my knees, and
besecched God that he would inspire me so far as to.
guide the poor savage in the knowledge of Christ, to
answer his questions more clearly, that his conscience
might be convinced, his eyes opened, and his sou]
laved. When he returned again, I entered into a
very long discourse with him, upon the subject of the
world's redemption by the Saviour of it, and the.
doctrine of repentance preached from heaven, toge-
ther with an holy faith in our blessed Redeemer jefua
Christ: and then I proceeded to explain to him, ac-
cording to my weak capacity, the reason why out Sa*
viour took not on him the nature os angels, but ra-
ther the feed of Abraham; and how the fallen angela
bad n© benefit by that redemption; and, lastly, that
he came only to the lost stieepof the house of Israels
and the like. God knows I had more sincerity than
knowledge in all the ways I took for this poor In*
diarts instruction \ and I must acknowledge, what I
believe every body that acts upon the fame prmciplc
^Ul findj that iu lading heavenly truths open before
him, 1 informed and instructed myself in many things,
that either I did not know, or had not perfectly con-
sidered before; so that however this poor creature
might be improved by my instruction, certain it is,
that J myself had great reason to be thankful to Pro-
vidence for sending him to me. His company allayed
my grief, and made my habitation comfortable; and
when I reflected, that the solitary life to which I had
been so long confined had made me to look further
towards heaven, by making me the instrument, under
Providence, to save the life, and for aught I know,
the soul of this poor savage, by bringing him to the
knowledge of Jesus Christ, it caused a secret joy to
spread through every part of my soul; and I fre-
quently rejoiced, that ever I was brought into this
place, which I once thought the most miserable pare
of the world.
In this thankful frame of mind did I afterwards
continue, while I abode on the island, and for three
years did my man and 1 live in the greatest enjoyment
of happiness. Indeed I believe the savage was as
good a Christian as I; and 1 hope we were equally
penitent; and such penitents as were comforted and
restored by God's Holy Spirit; for now we had the
word of the Lord to instruct us in the right way, as
much as if we had been on the English stiore.
By the constant application 1 made of the Scrip-
tures, 'as I jead them to my man Friday, I earnestly
endeavoured to make him understand every part of it,,
as much as lay in my power. He also, on the other
hand, by his very serious questions and inquiries,
made me a much better proficient in scripture-know-
ledge than I mould have been by my own private
reading and study. I must not omit another thing,
proceeding from the experience I had in my retire-
ment: it was that infinite and inexpressible blessing*,
the knowledge of God through Jesus Christ, which
was so plain and easy to be understood, as immediate-
ly to direct me to carry on the great work of sincere
repentance
repentance for my fins, and laying hold of a Saviour
for eternal life, to a practical stated reformation, and
obedience to all God's institutions, without the assist-
ance of a reverend and orthodox divine; and espe-
cially by this fame instruction, so to enlighten this sa-
vage creature, as to make him so good a Christian
as very few could exceed him. And there was only
this great thing wanting, that I had no authority to
administer the holy sacrament, that heavenly partici-
pation of Christ's body and blood; yet however we
rested ourselves content, that God would accept our
desires, and according to our faith have mercy on us.
But what we wanted one way was made up in a-
nother, and that was universal peace in our little
church. We had no disputes and wranglings about
the nature and quality of the holy, blessed, and un-
divided Trinity, no niceties in doctrine, or schemes
of church government; no four and morose dissen-
ters to impose more sublimated notions upon us, no
pedentr fophisters to confound us with unintelligible
mysteries: but, instead of all this,* we enjoyed the
most certain guide to Heaven, that is, the word of
God j besides which, we had the comfortable views
of his Spirit leading us to the truth, and making us
both willing and obedient to the instruction of his
word. As the knowledge and practice of this are
the principal means of salvation, I cannot see what
it avails any Christian church, or man, in the world,
to amuse himself with speculations and opinions, ex-
cept it be to display their particular vanity and affec-
tation.
You may well suppose* that, by the frequent dis-
course we had together, my man and me became most
intimately acquainted, and that there was but very
little that I could fay, but what Friday understood:
and indeed he spoke very fluently, though it was but
broken English. I now took a particular pleasure in
relating all my adventures, especially those that oc-
curred since my being cast on this island. I made
him understand that wonderful mystery, as hi con-
ceived, ofgun powder and bulltt, and taught him
how to shoot. I also presented to him a knife, which
pleased him exceedingly, making him a belt with a
frog hanging thereto, like those in which we wear
hangers in England; and instead of a hanger to put
in the frog, I gave him a hatchet, which was not only
as good, but even a better weapon upon many occasi-
ons. In a word, my man thus accoutered, looked
^pon himself as great as Don Quixotte, when that
celebrated champion went to combat the wind mill.
I next gave him a very particular descriprion of
the territories of Europe, and in a particular manner
of Old England, the place of m; nativity. I laid be-
fore him the manner of*our worshipping God, our
behaviour one to another, and how we trade in ships
to every part in the universe. 1 then told "him my
misfortune iu bang lhipwrecked, mowing him, as
near as 1 could, the place where the ship lay, which
had been gone long before; but 1 brought him to the
ruins of my boat, which before my whole strength
could not move, but now was almost rotten, aud
fallen to pieces. I observed my man Friday to view
this boat with an uncommon curiosity j which when
he had done, he stood pondering a great while, and
said nothing. At last, said I, Friday, what makes you
ponder so much? He replied, 0 Majier> me see like
boat come to place at my nation. ,
It was some time indeed before I understood what
my man meant; but examining strickly into it, I
plainly found, that such another boat resembling mine
had come upon the country where he dwelt; that is
to fay, by his farther explanation, that the boat was
driven there through violent storms and stress of wea-
ther. It then came into my mind, that some Euro-
pean {hip having been cast away, the poor distressed
creatures were forced ro have recourse to the boat to
save their lives j and being all, as J thought, drown-
ed, I never concerned myself to ask any thing con-
cerning
cewrirfg them, but my only inquiry was about the
boat, and what description my man could give of it.
Indeed Friday answered my demands very well,
making every thing very plain to my understanding 5
but beyond measure was 1 satisfied, when he told me,
with great warmth and ardour, 0 Master, we save
-white mans from drown; upon which 1 immediately
asked him, if there were" any white mans, as he called
them in the boat; Yes, yes, said he, the boat full\
very full of white mans. How many, Friday? said I,
hereupon he numbered his fingers, and counted se-
venteen. And when I asked him what became of
them all, and whether they lived or not? he replied,
Yes Dlafter, they all livejhey be live among my nation.
This information put hem thoughts into my head
that these must be those very men who before I con-
cluded had been swallowed up in the ocean after they
had lest their ship, that had struck upon the rocks of
my kingdom, and after escaping the fury of the deep,
landed upon the wild shore, and committed them-
selves to the fury of these devouring Indians.
The manner of their cruelties to one another, which
consequently, as 1 thought, must be acted with greater
barbarity to strangers, created in me a great anxrety,
and made me still more curious to a(k Friday concern-
ing them; he told me he was sure they still lived there,
having resided among them above four years, and
that the savages gave them victuals to live upon. But
pray, Friday, said 1, whence proceeded all this good
nature and generosity ? How came it to pass that they
did not kill and eat them, to please their devouring
appetites, and occasion so splendid an entertainment
among them I A>, no, said Friday, they not kiirem%
they make brother with Urn; by which I understood
there was a truce between them. And then 1 had a
more favourable opinion of the Indians, upon Fridays
uttering these words, My nation, t'tther nation no eat
tnanS) but when mans make war fight j as though he
had said, that neither -those of his kingdom, nor any
other
other nations that he knew of, ever ate their feYl<3w^
ereitares, but such as their law of arms allowed to
be devoured; that is, rhofe miserable captives, whose
misfortune it should be to be made prisoners of war.
Some considerable time after, upon a very pleasant
day, in most serene weather, my man and I stood up
on the-top os a hill, on. the east fide of the island,
whence 1 had once before beheld the continent of
America. I could not,re)I immediately what was the
matter; for suddenly Friday fell a jumping and dan-
cing as if he had been mad; and upon my demand-
ing the reason of his behaviour, 0 joy, said he, 0 glad!
there see my countrythere my nation, there live white
mans gethcr. And indeed such a rapturous fense of
pleasure appeared in his countenance, that his eyes
had an uncommon sparkling and brightness, and such
a strange eagerness, as if he had a longing desire to
be in his own country again. This made me not so
well satisfied with my man Friday as before ; for, by
this appearance, I made no dispute, but that if he
could get back thither again, he would not tmly be
unmindful of what religion I had taught him, but
likewise of the great obligation he owed me for his
wonderful deliverance: nay, that he would not only
inform his country men of me, but accompany hun-
dreds of them to my kingdom, and make me a mi-
serable sacrifice like those unhappy wretches taken in
battle.
Indeed I was very much to blame to have these
cruel and unjust suspicions, and must freely own I
wronged the poor creature very much, who was of a
quite contrary temper. And had he had that discern-
ing acutenefs which many Europeans have, he would
certainly have perceived my coldness and indifference,
and also have been very much concerned upon that
account-, as I was now more circumspected, I had
much lessened my kindness and familiarity with him,
and while this jealousy continued, 1 used that art-
ful way (now too much in fashion) the occasion of
strife
strifcHrtid dissension) of pumping him daily, thereby
to discover whether he was deceitful in his thoughts
and inclinations: but "certainly he had nothing ia
him but what was confident with the best principles^
both as a re.'igious Christian and a grateful friend;
and indeed 1 found every thing he said was so inge-
nuous and innocent, that I had no room of suspicion;
and, in spite of all uneasiness, he not only made me
entirely his own again, but also caused me much to
lament that 1 ever conceived one ill thought of him
As we were walking up the fame hill another day
when the weather was so hazy at sea, that I could
not perceive the continent, Friday, said I, don't you
wish yourself to be in your own country, your own
nation, among your oldTTriends and acquaintances I
Tes, said he, me much 0 glad to be at my own nation*
And what would you do there, Friday? Would you
turn wild again, eat man's flesh, and be a savage as
you were formerly ? No, no, (answered he, full of
concern and shaking his head( Friday now tell them
to live good, tell them pray Cod, tell them to eat corn-
bread, cattleflejh, milk, no eat men again, But surely*
replied 1, if you mould--offer to do all this, they will
kill you, and to manifest their contempt of such in-
struction., eat you up when they have done. He then
put on a grave, yet innocent and smooth counte-
nance, fiying, No, they no kill me, they willing love
learn: that is, that they would be very willing to
learn : adding withal, that they had learned much of
the bearded mans that come in the boat. Will you, said
J, go back again Friday? He smiled at that, and told
me, that he could not swim so far, But,' said I, I
will make a canoe for you : Tes, master, said he me
go if ym go, me no go if you stay. 1 go, Friday ! why*
would you have them eat me up, and devour your
kind master? No, no, said he, me make them not* eat
master me make th:m much loVeyou; that is, he would
tell them how 1 had slain his enemiesj and therebv
M saved
saved his life, for which reason he would makeMn>m
Jove me : and then he related to me, as well as he
was able, how exceeding kind those of his nation
were to the white, or bearded men, as he called them,
who, in their great calamity, were driven into their,
country.
It was from this time, indeed, 1 bad strong incli-
nations to venture over, and use my utmost efforts,
if possible, to join these white bearded men, who un-
doubtedly were Spaniards or Portuguese ; forethought
]> it must be certainly a better and (afer way to escape
when there is a good company, than for me alone,
from an island forty miles off the shore, and without
any assistance. Some days after, Friday and I being
at work, as usual, at the fame time diverting ourselves
'with various discourses, 1 told him I had a boat which
I would bestow upon him, whenever he pleased tore-
turn to his own nation : and to convince him of the
truth of whatl said, 1 took him with me to the other
fide of the island, where my frigate lay, and then ta-
king it from under the water, (for 1 always kept it
funk for fear of a discovery) we both went into it to
fee how it would manage such an expedition.
And really never could any be more dexterous in
rowing than my* faithful servant, making the boat go
as fast again as I cculd. Well, now, Friday, said f,
ihallwe now go to your so much desired nation ? But in-
stead os meeting with that chearfulness I expected, he
looked very dull and melancholy at my faying so j
which indeed at stist surprised me, till he made me
sensible, that his concern was about the boat's being
too small to go so far a voyage. Upon which I let
him understand 1 had a much bigger; and according
]y the next day went to the place where the first boat
Jay, which 1 had made, when all the strength I had,
or art 1 could use, failed me in my attempt to get it
into the water ; but now it" having lain in the fun
two and twenty years, and no care being taken of it
all that while, it became in a manner rotten. My
man
tmftrk)]d me, that such a boat would do very well to
the purpose, sufficient to carry eitougb vittle, dring,
breads for that was his manner of talking. In shore,
my mind being strongly fixed upon my design of go-
ing over with him to the continent, I very plainly
told him that we would both go and make a boat
full as big, and more proportionable than that where^
in he might safely rett!rn to his own nation.
These words made Fiiday look so very pensive,
that 1 thought he would have fallen at my feet. It
was some time before he could speak a word, which
made me ask him what was the matter with him?
He replied in a very soft and moving tone, What has
poor Friday dons? why are you angry mad withpoorfer* 
vant P What me done, 0 what me done? Friday, said I, .
you never yet have offended me *, what makes you *
think I am angry with you, when I am not angry at
all? You no angry, no angry * said he several times ; if
you be no angry, why den fend Friday over great water
to my own nation ? Why, surely, Friday, answered I,
did not you wish to be there when from a mountain
you beheld the place where you was born? and is it
not to satisfy your desires that I am willing to give
you leave to return thither? Yes, yes, said Friday, me
wish be theresure'nough, but me den wish majler there
too \ no wish Friday the re^ no majler there. In short,
he couid not endure the thoughts of going there with-
out me. I go there, Friday, said I, what (hall I do
there ?- He answered very quickly, 0 master yea
do great cha't much goodyyou teach all de wild mans to bs
good tame mans; y&u learn dem to be sober, live good
life) to know Cod and pray God, Alas i poor Friday,
said i, what can I do against their priests of Bena-
muckee, or indeed what good can I make your nation
sensible of, when I myself am but a poor ignorant
man ? ATo, no, majler, said he, you be no ignorant,yw
teachee me good, you teachte dem good. You (hall go
without me, Friday, said I, for I don't care to ac-
company you thither i I woald rather]ive in this so-
M 2 lituda
litude than venture among such inhuman savag^T^Go
your way, since you desire it,' and leave me alone by
myself, as 1 was before I saved your life.
Never was any creature more thunder-struck than
Friday was at these words. Go me away^ leave mas. er
awayy said he, after a long silence, noy /;<?, Friday die%
Friday live mt> master gone; as though he had (aid,
I neither can nor will leave, if my rrushr fends me
from him. And here I cannot but take notice of the
strong ties of friendship which many limes surpass
those of consanguinity: for often we find a great dis-
agreement-among kindred; and when there is any
seeming regard for each other, it is very seldom true,
and scarce ever lifting, if powerful inn rest, does not
bear the sway and that alone is often the occasion
of the greatest hatred in the world, which is to desire
the death of parents and relations, for the fake of ac-
quiring their fortunes: but there was no such thing
between my servant-and me: instead of which there
was the greatest gratitude, and the most sincere love \
he found me not only his deliverer, but his preserver
and comforter; not a severe and cruel tyrant, but a
. kind, loving, and .affable friend. He wanted for no
manner of sustenance; and when he was ill, or out
'of order, I was his physician, not only for his body,
but his foul; and therefore no wonder was it, that
such an innocent creature, long since divested of his
former natural .cruelty, should have an uncommon
concern, at so cruel a separation from me, which
pierced him to the very soul, and made him desire
even to die, rather than live without me.
Aster I had told Fiiday, in a very careless manner,
that he should be at his liberty as soon as the boat was
made, the language of his eyes expressed all imagi-
nable confusion \ when immediately running to one
of his hatchets, which he used to wear as a defensive
weapon, he gives it into my hand, with a heart so
full, that ne could scarcely speak. Friday, said I,
.what is it you mean \ what must i do with this \
Only
O'iitfkill Friday, said he, Friday care not live long.
But what must I kill you for t replied I again. Ah!
dear master y what made you Friday save from eat a me
up> so keep long Friday, make Friday love God and not
love Benamuckee> and now Friday fend away, never
fee Friday more. As though the poor creature ha4
said, Alas, my dearest kind master, how comes it to
pass, that after having ventured your precious life to
save me from the jaws ot" the devouring cannibals like
myself, after such a tender regard, to provide for ms
such a comfortable nourilhment, aud continuing so
iong a kind mailer, and a most sincere friend; and
after making me forsake the false notion of an Indian
Deity, and worship the true God in spirit and in
truth: aster all this, how comes it now, that you are
willing to fend me away to my former course os li-
ving, by which means undoubted!y we shall be dead
to each other; but greater must be my misfortune,,
that 1 shall never beholdxmy best friend I have in the
world any more. And this undoubtedly, though he
could not express himself so clearly, m\ist. be his sen-
timents ; for the tears ran down his cheeks in such 2.
plentiful manner, that I had much ado to refrain from
weeping also when I beheld the poor creaturt's afFec
tion; so that I wa>3 forced to comfort him in the best
manner I could, which I did, by telling him, if he
was content to abide with me, I mould be ever willing
to keep him.
After Friday's grief was something abated, more
sully to convince me os his affection, he said, 0 ma~
ster> me not care to be in my nation, leave you here; me *
desire nation learn good) that's all; meaning,-that his
desire was for the conversion of that barbarous people.
But as I had no apostolic mission, nor any concern
about their salvation, so i had not the least intention
or desire of undertaking it: and the strength of my
inclination, in order to escape, proceeded chiefly from
my late discourse with Friday, about these seventeen
white bearded men that had been driven upon,tL *
M 3 baiiajriaa.
barbarian coast, whom I designed to join, as the'ohty
means to further our escape. To which intent my
man and I went to search for a proper tree to fell*
whereof we might make a large periagua or canoe,
to undertake the voyage: and indeed we were not
long in finding one fit for our purpose, there being
enough of wood in the island.to have built a fleet of
Jarge vessels, but the thing we principally wanted was,
to get one so near the water, that we might launch it
after it was finished, and not commit so horrid a mis-
take as I had done once defore.
Well, after a great search for what was best and
molt convenient, Friday at last, whose judgement in
such affairs was much superior to mine, pitches up-
on a kind of wood the most fitting for it. To this
day I cannot tell the name of the tree, nor describe
it any other way, than only by saying, that it is very
like what we call fujlic> or betwixt that and the
Nicaragua wood, being much of the fame colour and
smell. But tho'ugh my man exceeded me in the
knowledge os the most proper tree, yet I shewed him
a much better and cleaner way to make a canoe than
ever he knew before: for he was for burning the
hollow or cavity of the tree, in order to make this
boat $ but I then told him how we might do it with
tools, learning him at the fame time how to use
them, which indeed he did very dexterously; so that
in a month's labour we finished it, making it very
handsome, by cutting the outside into the true shape
of a boat. Aster this it took us a full fortnight be-
fore we could get her into the water, which we did,
as it were, inch by inch, upon great rollers: but
when slie was in, (lie would have carried twenty men,
with all the ease imaginable.
As I was very well pleased* you may be sure, at the
launching of this man of war as mine, I was no less
amazed to behold with what dexterity my man would
manage her, turn her, and paddle her along. WeU,
Friday, said I, what do you think of it now? Do you
think
think this will carry us over? Tes, Master^ said he,
me venture over welly though great blow wind. But
my design was yet farther, which he was insensible os;
and that was to make a mast and fail, and to provide
her with an anchor and cable. As to a malt, that
was no difficult thing at all to procure j so 1 fixed
upon a straight young #cedar-tree, which I found near
the place, great plenty of it abounding in the island;
and setting Friday to cut it down, 1 gave him parti-
cular directions how to (hape and order it; but as to
the fail, that 1 managed myself. I very well knew I
had some old ones, or pieces of fails enough, which
had lain fix and twenty years by me; but not being
careful to preserve them, as thinking I should have
no occasion to use them any more, when 1 came to
look them over, 1 found them almost all rotten, ex-
cept two; and with these I went to work-, and aster
a great deal of pains and aukward tedious stitching
for want of needles, at length I sinimed a three cor~
nered ugly thing, like what we call in England a
shoulder of mutton fail, to go with a boom at bottom,
and a little small sprit at the top, like those which
our long-boats use, and which I very well knew how
to manage: especially since it was like that which I
had in my patrqji's fishing boat, when, with my boy
Xury, I made my escape from the Barbarian more.
It was near two months, I think, before I comple-
ted this work, that is, the rigging, and fitted my
mast and fails: and indeed they were nicely done,
having made a small stay, and a sail, or foresail to it,
to assist, if we mould turn to the westward; and,
which was still more, I fixed a rudder to the stern of
her, to steer with *, and though I was but a very in-
different flupwright, yett as I was sensible of the great
useful less and absolute necessity of a thing like this,
I applied myself to it with such a constant application,
that at last I accomplished my design: but what with
the many dull contrivances I had about it, and the
failure of many, things, it cost me as much pains
ia
in ordering as in making the boat. Besides, wtven all
this was done, 1 had my man to teach what belonged
to its navigation : for though he very well understood
how to paddle a canoe along, yet he was an utter stran-
ger to a fail and a rudder, and was amazed when he
saw me work the boat to and again in the sea, by
them, and how thte sail gibbejl and silled this way or
that way, as the course we sailed changed. Aster
some time, and a little use, I made all these things
very familiar to him, so that he became an expert
sailor, except in relation to the compass, and that I
could make him understand but little of. But as it
happened, there was seldom occasion for it, there
being but little cloudy weather, and scarce ever any
fog in those parts; the stars were al ways visible in the
night, and the shore perspicuous by day, except in
the rainy season, which confined everyone to his ha-
bitation.
Thus entered in the seven and twentieth year of
my reign, or captivity, which you please, (the last
three of which, blessed with the company of my man
Friday, ought not to .be reckoned), 1 kept the anni-
versary of my landing here, with the same thankful-
ness to God, for his tender mercies, as I did before;
and certainly, as I had great cause for a thankful ac-
knowledgement for my deliverance at fiist, I had
much greater now, for such singular and additional-
testimonies of the care of Providence over me, in all
my distresses, both of body and mind, and the great
hopes I badof being effectually and speedily deliver-
ed; for I had a strong impression upon my mind,
that 1 should not be another year in this island. But,
however, I still continued on with my husbandry,
digging, planiing, and fencVig, as usual; gathering
and curing my grapes, and doing' all other things that
were necessary.
And now the rainy season beginning to come on,
obliged me to keep the longer within doors; but be-
fore this, I Lrought my new vessel into the cnek,
where
•tvherel had landed my rafts from the ship, and ha-
ling her up to the shore, 1 ordered my nun Friday
to dig a dock sufficient to hold her in, and deep enough
to give her water, wherein she might float; and then,
when the tide was out, we made a strong dam cross
the end of it, to keep out the water; by which means
she lay dry, as to the tide from the and to keep
the rain from her, we thatched her over, as it were,
with houghs of trees, like a house; and so we waited
for the months of November and December, in which
1 designed to venture over the ocean.
No sooner did the seasonable weather begin to draw
near, but so much was I elevated with this new de-
signed adventure, that 1 daily prepared for the voy-
age. The first thing I thought on was, to lay by a
certain quantity of provisions, as a sufficient store for
such an expedition, intending in a week or fortnight's
time to open the dock, and launch out the boat for
that purpose. But one morning as I was very busy
upon something necessary for this occasion, I called
Friday to me, and bid hirn^go to the sea-stiorc, and
fee if he could find a turtle or tortoise, a thing which
we commonly had once a week, as much upon ac-
count of the eggs, as for the fake of the flesti. He
had not been long gone, but he came running back,
as though he was pursued for life, and as it were flew
over my outward wall, or fence, like one that felt not
the ground, or steps he set his feet on; and before I
had time to enquire the reason of his precipitation,
he cries out, 0 dear master, 0sorrow J sorrow J J3ad /
0 bad! Why, what's the matter, Friday? said I. 0
yonder*) yonder, said he, there be one, two, or three
canoes ! twot three. Surely (thought 1) there must be
six, by my man's way of reckoning \ but, on a stricter
inquiry, 1 found there were but three. Well, Friday,
said I, don't be terrified, I warrant you we will not
only defend ourselves against 'm, but kill the most
of these cruel savages. But though I comforted him
in the best manner 1 could, the poor creature trembled
so,
so, that I scarce knew what to do with him :'*0~m*z-
ftcr> said he, they come look Friday, cut pieces Friday,
cut a mt up. Why, Friday, said 1, they wiil eat me
up as well as you, and my danger is as great as yours.
But since it is so, we m\sst resolve to sight for our
lives. What fay you? can you sight, Friday? Yes,
said he very faintly, me Jhooty me kill ivhdt Icany but
there come great many numlfer. That's no matter,
said 1 again, our guns will terrify those that we do not
kill : L am very willing to stand by you to the last drop
of my blood I now tell me, if you will do the like by
me, and obey my o.d^rs in whatsoever I command?
Friday then answer ed, £$Sd//<:'r> me hfe Use /or you, me
die when you bid die. Thus concluding all questions
concerning his fidelity, immediately 1 fetched him a
good dram of rum, (of which I had been a very good
husband), and gave it him to comfort his heart.
After he had drank h, I ordered him to take the two
fowling pieces, which we always carried, and load
them with large swan shot* as big as small pistol bul-
lets; then I took four muskets, and loaded them with
two slugs, and five small bullets each, charging my
two pistols each with a brace. 1 hung my great sword,
as customary, naked to my side, and gave Friday his
hatchet, as a most excellent weapon for defence.
Thus prepared, I thought as well of myself as any
knight errant that ecer handled a sword and spear, I
took my perspective glass, and went up to the side of
the hill, to fee what I could discover; and I perceived
very soon, by the glass, that there were one and twen-
ty savages, three prisoners, and three canoes; and
that their chief concern seemed to be the triumphant
banquet upon the rhree poor human bodies-, a thing
which by this time 1 had observed was very common
with them. I also remarked, that they did not land
at that place from whence Friday made his escape,
but nearer to the creek, where the sliore was low,
and where a thick wood came very close to the sea.
My. soul was then silled with indignation and abhor-
rence
rence at such inhuman wretches, which put a period
to all my former thoughts in their vindication: nei-
ther would I give myself time to consider their right
os conq'yest, as I had done before; but descending
from the mountain, I came down to Friday, and told
him, I was resolved to go speedily to them and kill
them all ; asking him again in the same breath, if he
would stand by me? When by this time being reco-
vered from his fright, and his spirit much cheered with
the dram 1 had given him, he was very pleasant, yet
seriously telling me, as he did before, When I b.d
die, he would die.
And now it was, having fixed my resolution in so
strong a manner, that nothing could divest my breast
of its uncommon fury, 1 immediately divided the
loaded arms betwixt us. To my man Friday I gave a
pistol to stick in his girdle, with three guns upon his
shoulder, a weight too great I confess to bear; but
what must a poor king do, who had but one soldier in
the world? but to mew J made him bear no more
than what I would lay on myselfr I stuck the other
pistol in my girdle, and other three guns upon my
stioulders; nay something more, but that was like
Æsop's burden, a small bottle of rum, which was
soon lightened to our exceeding refreshment. Thus
we marched out, under a ponderous load of armour, •
like two invincible champions, with a quantity of
powder and bullets to stand our battle, andload again,
when the pieces were discharged. And now my or-
ders being to be obeyed, I charged Friday to keep
close behind me, and not to stir, or moor, or attempt
any thing till I commanded him; and, in the interim,
not to speak so much as one word. It was in this or-
der I fetched a compass to the right hand, of near a
mile, as well to get over the creek, as to attain the
wood; by this \ thought to come within shot of
them before I could be discerned; as I found by my
glass would not be difficult to accomplish.
But how fickle and wavering is the mind of men,
even
even in our greatest fury and strongest inclination?
For while I was taking this march, my resolution be-
gan to abate, not through fear of their numbers, who
were a parcel of naked unarmed wretches, but those
reflections occurred to my thoughts; What power
was I commissioned with, or what occasion or neces-
sity had I to go and imbrue my hands in human blood,
and murder people that had n'either done nor intend-
ed to do me any wrong? They were innocent in par-
ticular as to me; and their barbarous custom was not
only their misfortune, but a sign that God had left
them in the most immense stupidity; but. yet did not
warrant me to be a judge os their actions, much less
an executioner of his righteous judgements that, on
the contrary, whenever he thought sit, he would take
vengeance on -them himself, and punisli them in a
national way, according to their national crimes •, but
that was nothing at all to me, who had no concern
with them. Indeed my man Friday might justify
himself, because they were his declared enemies, of
that very fame nation that went to sacrifice him before,
and indeed it was lawful for him to attack them,
which I could not fay was so with respect to me. So
warmly did these things press upon my thoughts all
the way I went, that I only resolved to place myself
so as to behold their bloody entertainment, without
falling upon them, except something more than ordi-
nary, by God's special direction, should oblige me
thereto.
Thus fixed in my resolution, I entered in the thick
wood, (my man Friday following me close behind),
when with all possible weariness and silence T march-
ed till I came to the skirt of it, on that side which
was the nearest to them; for only one end of the wood
interposed between me and them. Upon which I
called very softly to Friday, and mewing him a great
tree, that was just at the corner of the wood, I order-
ed, him to repair thither, and bring me word, if
he could plainly perceive their actions: Accordingly,
be did-as I commanded him, and came back with
this melancholy fiery, that they were all about their
fire, eating the flesh of one of their prisoners; and
that another lay bound upon the sand, a little distant"
from them, which they designed for their next sacri-
fice and this, he tc\d me, was not one of their na-
tion, but one of those very bearded men, who was
driven by a storm into their country, and of whom
he had so often talked to me about. You may be sure,
that upon hearing this, my soul was ready to Gnk
within me; when ascending up into a tree, I saw
piaiidy by my glass, a white man, who lay upon
the beach of the sea, with his hands and feet tied
with fljgs, or things resembling rushes, being cover-
ed with cloaths, and seemed to be an European.
From the tree where I took this prospect, 1 perceived
another tree, and a thicket beyond it, about fifty
yards nearer to them than where I was; which, by
taking a small circle round, I might come at undis*
covered, and then I should be within half a shot of
these devourers. And this consideration alone, to be
more perfe£tly revenged upon them, made me with-
hold my pasliorit though* I was enraged to the highest
degree imaginable *, when going back about twenty
paces, I got behind some bushes, which held all the
way till 1 came to the other tree; and then I ascend-
ed to a little rising ground, not above eighteen yards
distance, and there 1 had a full view of these crea-
tures, and I could perceive all their actions. -' .
Such a sight did then appear, as obliged me not to
lose a moment's time. No lei's than nineteen of these
dreadful wretches fat upon the ground, close huddled
together, expressing all the delight imaginable at so
barbarous an entertainment; and they bad just sent
other two to murder this poor unhappy Christian^ and
bring him limb by limb to their fire \ for they were
just then going to untie the bands from his feet, in
order for death, as fetters are knocked off the feet of
malefactors before, they go to the place of execution.
Hereupon, immediately turning to my man, Now,
N Friday,
Friday, said I, mind what I say, fail in nothing; but
do exactly as yoa fee me do. . All which he promi-
sing he would perform, I set down one of my muskets,
and the fowling piece upon the ground, and Friday
did the fame by his; and with the other musket I
took my aim at the savages, bidding him do the like:
Are you ready, said I? Tes m/ijler, said he. Why
then fire at them, said J; and that very moment I
gave fire likewise.
I only killed one, and wounded two but my man
Friday, taking hi9 aim much better than I, killed
two, and wounded three. You may be sure they
were in a dreadful consternation, at such an unex-
pected disaster; and those who yet had escaped our
penetrating shot, immediately jumped upon their
feet, but were in such confusion, that they knew not
which way to run or look, not knowing from whence
their destruction came. We-then threw down our
pieces, and took up others, giving a second dreadful
volley *, but as they were loaded only with swan-shot,
or small pistol bullets, we perceived only two of them
fall; though many were wounded, who run yelling
and screaming about like mad creatures. Now, Fri-
day, said I, lay down your piece, and teke up the
musket, and follow me. He did so, with great cou-
rage, when shewing ourselves to the savages, we gave a
great sliout, and made directly to the poor victim who
would have been fierisiced, had not our first fire obli-
ged the butchers, with three others, to jump into a ca-
rioe. By my order, Friday fired at them, at which
ihot I thought he had killed them ill, by reason of their
falling to the bottom of the boat however, he killed
two,and mortally wounded a third. In the mean time,
I cut the flags that tied the hands and feet of the poor
creature, and lifting him up, asked him in the Por-
tuguese tongue, What he was? He answered me in
Latfn, Christ ianus; but so very weak and faint, that
he (ould scarce stand or speak. Immediately I gave
him a dram, and a piece of bread to cherish him,
and asked him^what countryman he was? He said,
E/paniola
Espaniola, and then uttered all the thankfulness
imaginable for his deliverance. Signior, (said I,
with as much Spanish as I was master of), let us
talk afterwards but sight now; here, take this sword
and pistol, and do what you can., And indeed he
did so with such courage and intrepidity, that he cut
two of them to pieces in an instant, the savages not
having the power to *fly for their lives. 1 ordered
Friday to run for those pieces we had left at the
tree, which he brought me with great swiftness,
and then 1 gave him my muFxcet, while I loaded the
rest. But now there happened a fierce encounter be-
tween the Spaniard and one of the savages, who had
made at him with one of their wooden swords; and
though the former was as brave as could be expect-
ed, having twice wounded his enemy in the head;
yet, being weak and faint, the Indian had thrown
him upon the ground, and was wresting my sword
out of his hand, which the Spaniard very wisely
quitting, drew out his pistol, and shot him through
the body before I could come near him, though f
was running to his assistance. As to Friday, he.pur-
sued the flying wretches with his hatchet, dispatch-
ing three, but the rest were too nimble for him. The
Spaniard taking one of the fowling-pieces, wounded
two, who running into the wood, Friday pursued
and killed one; but the other, notwithstanding his
wounds, plunged himself into the sea, and swam to
those two who were lest in the canoe, which, with
one wounded* were all that escaped out of one and
twenty, The account is as follows:
Killed at Jirst shvt 1 ^ Killed or died of 7
from the tree ~ 3 ^ their xuounds 3 ^
At the second shot 2 Escaped in the boat ~)
By Friday in the -boat % iuhereof 1 wound- > "4
Ditto of those frst ^ 2 ed, ifnot slain J
wounded
Ditto in the wood 1 Total
By the Spaniard 3
21
N1 The
The savages in the canoe worked very hard to
get out of our reach, and Friday was as eager in
pursuing them j and indeed I was no less anxious
about their escape, lest, aster trve news had been
carrkd to their people, they should return in mul-
titudes, and destroy us. So being resolved to pur~
lue them, I jumped into one of their canoes, and
bid Friday follow me; but n6 sooner was 1 in, than,
lo my surprise, I,sound another poor creature, bound
. band and foot for the slaughter, just as the Spaniard
had been, with very little life in him. Immedi-
ately 1 unbound him, and would have helped him
up j but he could neither stand nor speak, but
groaned so piteously, as thinking he was only un-
bound in order to be slain T Hereupon 1 bid Friday
speak to him, and tell him of his deliverance ; when
pulling out my bottle, 1 made the poor wretch drink
a" dram, which, with the joyful news he had recei-
ved, so revived his heart, that he fat up in the boat.
As soon as Friday began to hear him speak, and
look more fully in his face, it would have moved
any one to tears to perceive his uncommon trans-
ports of joy; for he kissed, embraced him, hug-
ged him, cried, laughed, hallooed, jumped about,
danced, fung, then cried again, wrung his hands,
beat his face and head, then fung and jumped about
again, like a distracted creature: so that it was a
gi'eat while before 1 could make him speak to me,
or tell me what was the matter with him; but
when he came to the liberty of his speech, at last he
told me it was his father.
Here indeed I was infinitely moved to fee that du-
tiful and tender affection this poor savage had to his
aged parent. He would sit down by him in the
boat, open his breast, and hold his father's head
close to his bosom, half an hour together, to che-
rish it then he took his arms and ancles, which
were stir? and numbed with binding, and chaffed and
rabbed them with his hands; by which means, per-
ceiving
eching what the case was, I gave him some rum,
which proved os great benefit to him.
While we were busy in this action, the savages
had gotten almost out of sight; and happy it was
we did not pursue them; for there arose from the
north-west, which continued aLl night long, such
a violent storm, that I could not suppose otherwise
but that they were a41 'drowned. After this, I call-
ed Friday to me, and asked him, is he had given his^
father any bread? He shook his head, and said,.
None, not one bity me eat a up all? so I gave him a
cake of bread out of a little pouch I carried for this
end. I likewise gave him a dram for himself, and
two or three bunches of raisins for his father. Both
these he carried to him, for he would make him drink
the dram to comfort him.
Away he then runs out of the boat as if he was be-
witched, with such an extraordinary swiftness, that
he was out of sight as it were in an instant; bur
at his return I perceived him slacken his pace, be-
cause he had something in his hand. And this I
found to be, as he approached nearer, an earthen
jug with some water to his father, with two more
cakes of bread, which he delivered into my hands.-
Being very thirsty myself, I drank some of the wa-
ter, of which when his father had drank sufficient-
ly, it more revived his spirits than all the rum I had
given him.
1 then called Friday to me, and ordered him to car-
ry the Spaniard one of the cakes, and some water,
who was reposing himself upon a green place under
trx? (hade of a tree, but so weak, that though he
.exerted himself, he could not stand upon his feet.
Upon which 1 ordered Friday to rub and bathe his
ancles with rum, as he did his father's* But every
minute he was employed in this, he would cast a
wishful eye towards the boat, where he left his fa-
ther vsitting; who suddenly disappearing, he flew
like lightening to him, and finding he only laid
N 3 .  himself
himself down to ease his limbs, he returned back ta
me presently; and then t spoke to the Spaniard to
let Friday help him, and lead him to the boat, in
order to be conveyed to my-dwelling, where I would
take care of him. Upon which, Friday took him
upon his back, and so carried him to the canoe,
setting him close by hisfather; and presently Pep-
ping out again, launched the boat off, and paddled
it along the shore falter than 1 could walk, though
the wind blew very hard too: and having brought
them safe to the creek, away he runs to fetch the
other canoe; which he brought to the creek al-
most as soon as I got to it by land; when wafting
me over, he took our new guests out of the boat;
but so weak were they, that 1 was forced to make
a kind of a hand-barrow; and when I came to my
castle, not being willing to make an entrance into
my wall, we made them a handsome tent, covered
with old sails, and boughs of trees, making two good
beds of rice straw, with blankets to lie upon, and
cover them. Thus, like an absolute king, over
subjects who owed their lives to me, I thought
myself very considerable, especially as I had now
three religions in my kingdom, my man Friday be-
ing a Protestant, his father a Pagan, and the Spa-
niard a Papist: but I gave liberty of conscience to
them all.
To get provisions for my poor weak subjects, I orr
clered Friday to kill me a yearling goat; which, when
he had done, 1 cut off the hinder quarters, and
chopping it into small pieces, boiled and stewed it,
putting barley and rice into the broth- This I car-
ried into their tent, set a table, dined with them my-
self, and encouraged them. Friday was my inter-
preter to his father, and indeed to the Spaniard too*
who spoke the language of the savages pretty well.
After dinner I ordered Friday to fetch home all our
arms from the field of battle, and the next day to
bury the dead bodies, which he did accordingly.
And
And now I made Friday enquire os his father whe*
ther he thought those savages had escaped the late
storm in their canoe; and if so, whether they would
not return with a power too great for us to resist?
He answered, that he thought it impossible they
could outlive the storm; or if they were driven
southwardly, they would come to a land where they
would as certainly be devoured, as if they were
drowned in the sea. And suppose they had attained
their own country, the strangeness of their fatal and
bloody attack, would make them tell their people*
that the rest of them were killed by thunder and
lightening, not by the hand "of man, but by two
heavenly spirits (meaning Friday and me) who were
sent from above to destroy them. And this, he said,
he knew, because he heard them say the same to one
another. And indeed he was on the right on't; for!
have heard since, that these four men gave out, that
whoever went into that inch-anted island, would be de-
stroyed by fire from the gods.
No can-es appearing some time aster, as I expected*
my apprehension ceased: Instead of which, my for-
mer thoughts of a voyage took place, especially when
Friday's father assured me 1 should have good li-
sa ge in his nation. As to the Spaniard, he told met
that sixteen more of his countrymen, and Portu-
guese, who had been shipwreckrd, made their e-
scape thither; that though they were in union with
the savages, yet they were very miserable for want
of provision and other necessaries. When I alked
him about the particulars of his voyage, he an-
swered, that their ship was bound from Rio de la
Plata to the Havannah; that when the (hip was lost,
only five men perished in the occean; the rest having
saved their lives in the boat, were now landed on the
main continent. And what do they intend to do
there • said I, He replied, -they have concerted mea-
sures to escape, by building a vessel, but that they
had neither tools nor provisions, so that all their de-
signs came to nothing. Supposing (said 1) I should
make a proposal, and invite them here, would they
not carry me prisoner to New Spain? He answered,
no: for he knew them to be such honest men, as
would scorn to act such inhuman baseness to their de-
liverer: That if 1 pleased, he ancl the old savage would
go over to them, talk with them about it, and bring
me an answer:'That they should all swear fidelity to
me as their leader, upon the holy sacrament : and
for his part," he would not only do the fame, but
fland by me to the last drop of his blood, should there
be occasion.
These solemn assurances made me resolve to grant
them relief, and to send these two over for that
purpose: but when e*very thing was ready, the Spa-
niard raised an objection, which carried a great deal
of weight in it: You know, Sir, said he, that ha-
ving been some time with you, I cannot but be sensible
of your Jlock of rice and corn, sufficient perhaps, for us
at pfefent, but not for them,should they come over pre-
sently; much less to vitlual a vessel for an intended
voyage. Want might be as great an occasion for them
to disagree and rebels as the children of Israel did
gainft God himself, when they wanted bread in the
wilderness. And therefore, my advice is to wait ano-
ther harvest, and in the mean time cultivate and im-
prove some mor-e land, whereby-we may have plenty of
provisions, in order to execute our design. *-
This advice of the Spaniard's 1 approved extreme-
ly; and so satisfied wasl of his fidelity, that 1 esteem-
ed him ever after. And thus we all four went to
wprk upon some more land, and against seed time we
had gotten so much cured and trimmed up, sufficient
to sow 22 bushels of barley on, and 16 jars of rice,
which was in mort all the feed we had to spare.
As we were four in number, and by this time all in
good health, we feared not a hundred Indians, should
they venture to attack us; and while the corn was
growing, 1 pitched upon some trees, fit to buiLd us a
Urge
forge vessel, in case the Spaniards came over ; which
being marked, I ordered Fridty and his father to cut
them down, appointing the Spaniards who was now
my privy counsel, to oversee and direct the work.
1 likewise increased my flocks of goats, by shooting
the wild dams, and bringing home their kids to my
inclosure: nor did I neglect: she grape season, but
cured them as usual, though J had such a quantity
now as would have filled 80 barrels with raisins.
And thus all of us being employed, they in working,
and I in providing for them, till harvest came, God
almighty blessed the increase of it so much, that from
twenty-two barrels of barley, we threshed out two
hundred and twenty, and the like quantity os rice,
sufficient to victual a Ihip sit to carry me and all the
Spaniards to any part of America.
Thus the principal objection being answered, by
a sufficient stock os provision, I sent ray two am-
bassadors over to the main-land, with a regal au-
thority to administer the oaths of allegiance and
fidelity, and have an instrument signed under their
hands, though I never asked whether they had pen,
ink or paper : when giving each of them a mulket,
eight charges of powder and ball, and provision e-
nough for eight days, they sailed away with a fair
gale, on a day when the moon was at full.
Scarce a fortnight had passed over my head, but
impatient for their return, I laid me down to sleep
one morning, when a strange accident happened,
which was ustvered in by my man's coming run-
ning to me, and calling aloud, Master y master > they
are co?ne> they are come* Upon which, not dream-
ing of any danger, out I jumped from my bed, put
on my cloaths, and hurried through my little grove;
when looking, towards the sea, i perceived a boat
about a league and a half distant, standing in for
the shore, with the wind fair. I beheld they did
not come from the side where the land lay on, but
from the southermost end of the island v so these
being
being none os the people we wanted, 1 ordered Fri-
day to lie still, till iuch time as 1 came down from
the mountain, which with my ladder 1 now ascend*
ed; in order to discover more sully what they were:
and now, with the help of my perspective'glass, 1
plainly perceived an Er.glifh (hip, which 1 conclu-
ded it to be, by the fashion of its long boat*, and which
filled me with such uncommon transports of joy, that
1 cannot tell how to describe \ and yet some secret
doubts hung about me, proceeding from 1 know not
what cause, as though 1 \hd reason to be upon my
guard. And indeed 1 w6uid have no man contemn
the secret hints, and intimations of danger, which
very often are given, when he may imagine there is
no possibility of its being real: had not 1 been
warned by this silent admonition 1 had been in a
worse situation than before, and perhaps inevitably
ruined.
Not long it was, before 1 perceived the boat to
approach the shore, as though they looked for a
place where they might conveniently land \ and at
last they ran their boat ashore upon the beach,
about half a mile's distance j which proved so much,
the happier for me, since, had they come into the
creek, they had landed just at my door, and might
not only have forced me out of my castle, but plun-
dered me of all 1 had in the world* Now*l was
fully convinced they wereall Englistimen, three of
which were unarmed and bound; when immedi-
ately the first four or five leaped on shore and took
those three out os the boat as prisoners * one of whom
] could perceive used the most passionate gestures of
intreaty, affliction, and despair, while the others, in
a lesser degree, stiewed abundance of concern.
Not knowing the meaning of this, I was very
much astonished, and 1 beckoned to Friday, who was
below, lo ascend the mountain, and likewise view
this sight. 0 master) fays he to me, you see Eng~
lifb mans eat prisoners as well as Savage mans. And
do
do youUhink they will eat them, Friday? said 1,
Yes> said Friday, they eat a all up. No, no, said 1,
Friday, 1 am much more concerned lest they murder
them ; but as for eating them up, that 1 am sure they
will never do.
And now 1 not only lamented my misfortune in
not having the Spaniard and Savage with me, but
also that J could not come within mot of them un-
perceived, (they having no fire arms among them),
and save these three men, whom 1 thought they were
going to kill with their swords. But some comfort
it was to me, that 1 perceived they were set at liber-
ty to go where they pleased, the rascally seamen
scattering about as though they had a mind to fee
the place: and so long did they negligently ramble,
that the tide had ebbed so low, as to leave the boat
aground. Nor were the two men that were in her
more circumspect: for having drunk a little too
much liquor, they fell fast asleep; but one of them
waking before the other, and perceiving the boat
too fast a-ground for his strength to move it, he hal-
looed out to the rest, who made all possible expedi-
tion to come to him: but, as Providence ordered
it, all their force was ineffectual to launch her, when
1 could hear them speak to one . another, Why^ let
her alone) Jack> cant ye, Jbe'll float next tide; by
which words I was fully convinced they were my
own countrymen. All this while I lay very quiet,
as being fully sensible it could be no less than ten
hours before the boat would be afloat, and then it
would be so dark, as that they could not easily per-
eeive me, by which means I should be at more li-
berty to hear their talk, and observe all their mo-
tions: not but that I prepared for my defence: yet
as I had now another fort of enemies to combat
with, I acted with more caution. 1 took two fu-
sees on my shoulders, and gave Friday three mulkets 5
besides, my formidable goat ikin coat, ^and mon-
strous cape, made me look as fierce and terrible as
Hercules
Hercules of old, especially when two pistdls were
stuck in my belt, and my naked sword hanjging by
my side.
It was my design at first not to make any attempt
till it was dark, but it being now two o'clock in
the very heat of the day, the sailors were all strag-
gling into the woods, and undoubtedly were lain
down to sleep. The three poor distressed creatures,
too anxious to get any repose, were, however, seated
under the (hade of a great tree, about a quarter of .a
mile from me. Upon which, without any more a-
do, 1 approached towards them, with my man fol-
lowing behind me, and, before 1 was perceived 1 cal-
led aloud to them in Spanish, What are yegentllrmen*
At these words they started up in a great confu-
sion,'1 when they beheld the strange figure 1 made,
they returned no answer, but seemed as if they would
•fly from me Gentlemen, (said 1 in English), don't be
afraid, perhaps you have a friend nearer than you ex-
petl. He must be from heaven, said one of them,
gravely pulling off his hat, for we are past all help in
this world. All help is from Heaven, (said 1) but. Sir,
as I have perceived every aclion between you and these
brutes since your landing, only inform me how to as-
sist you, and I will da it to the utmost of my power*
Am 1 talking .with God or man? said he, in
melting tears. Are you of human kind or an an-
gel? Sir, said 1, my poor habit may tell you I am a
man, and an Englishman, willing to assist you, having
hut this servant only: here are arms and ammuni-
tion : tell freely your condition, can we save you ? The
story, said he, is too long to relate, since our but-
chers are so near: but, Sir, 1 was master of that
ship, my men have mutinied, and it is a favour they
have put my mate, this passenger, and me, on shore,
without murdering us, though we expect nothing
but perishing here. Are your enemies gone? said 1.
No, replied he, (pointing to a thicket), th-src they
lie, wh?{e my heart trembles, lest, having seen aud
heard u4 they mould murder us all. Have they
fire-arms ?• said J, They have but two pieces, said
he, one of which is left in the boat. He also told
me there were two enormous villains among them,
that were the authors of this mutiny, who, if they
were killed or seized, might induce the rest to re-
turn to their obedience. Well, well, said I, let us
retire farther under the covering of the woods; and
there it was 1 made these conditions with him.
I. That while they staid in the island, they should
not pretend to any authority but should entirely
conform to my orders, and return to me the arms
which I should put into their hands.
II. That if the ship was recovered, they should
afford Fiiday and myself our passage gratis to Eng-
land.
When he had given me all the satisfaction I could
desire, I gave him and his two companions each ot
them a gun, with powder and ball sufficient, advi-
smg them to fire upon them as they lay sleeping.
The captain modestly said, that he was sorry to kill
them; though, on theother hand, to let these vil-
lains escape, who were the authors of his misery,
might be the ruin of us alL Well, said he, do as you
think fit: and so accordingly 1 fired, killing one of
the captain's chiefest enemies, and wounding the
other, who eagerly called for ash stance; but the
captain (who had reserved his piece) coming up to
him, Sirrahy said he, 'tis too late to call for ajftft*
anct> you should rather cry t& GcdtQ pardon your vil-
lany; and so knocked him down with the stock of
his gun: three others were also slightly wounded, who
at my approach, cried out for mercy* This the cap-
tain granted, upon condition that they would swear
to be true to him in recovering-the ship, which they
solemnly did; however, I obliged the captain to keep
them bound. Aster which I sent Friday and the
captains mate to secure the boat, and bring away
Q the
«
the oars and fails; when, at their return, th/ee men
coming back, and seeing their late distressed captain
now their conqueror, submitted to be bound also.
And then it was, that having more liberty, I related
the adventures of my whole life, which he heard
with a serious and wonderful attention. After this
I carried him and his two companions into my little
fortified castle, shewed them ail my conveniencies,
snd refreshed them with such provisions as I could
afford. When thi3 was^ over, we began to consider
abcut regaining the ship: he said, that there were
twenty-six hands on board, who knowing their lives
were forfeited by the law, for conspiracy and mu-
tiny, were so very hardened, that it would be
dangerous for our small company to attack them.
This was a reasonable inference indeed; but something
we must resolve on, and immediately put in executi-
on : we therefore heaved the boat upon the beach
so high that she could not (hoot off at high water
mark, and broke a hole in her not easily to be stop-
ped ; so that all the signals they gave for the boat
to come von board were in vain. This obliged
them .to fend another boat ashore, with ten men
:armed, whose faces the captain plainly descried, the
boatswain being the chief officer \ but he said there
were three honest lads among them, who were
forced into the conspiracy. Hereupon 1 gave him
fresh courage, (for I had perceived he was in con-
cern); in the. mean while securing our prisoners,
except two, whom we took to our assistance, we
thought ourselves able enough to adventure a battle.
"When the sailors landed, and beheld their boat in
that condition, they not only hallooed, but fired for
their companions to hear, yet they received no an-
swer. Thus struck them with horror and amaze-
ment, thinking their companions were murdeied,
they made as if they would return to the ship. 1 could
perceive the captain's countenance charge at this, till
of a sudden three naen were ordered to look aster the
boat
boat, while the other seven leapt on shore, in order
to seart h for their companions: and indeed they
came to the brow of the hill, near my ancient castle,
from whence they could fee to a great distance in
the woods, and there mouting and hallooing till tired
and weary, they at length seated themselves under a
spreading tree. My opinion was, that nothing
could be done till night, when I might use some
artifice to get them all out of the boat \ but of a
sudden they started up, and made to the sea-fide j
hereupon I ordered Friday and the captain's mate to
go over the creek, and halloo as loud as they could,
and so decoying them into the woods, come round
to me again. And this indeed had a good effect j for
they followed the noise, till coming westward to the
creek, they called for their boat to carry them over,
and taking one of the men out of her, left two to
look after her, having fastened her to the stump of a
little tree on more. Hereupon immediately the
captain and our party pasting the creek, out of their
sight, we furpriled them both, by the captain's knock-
ing down one, and ordering the other to surrender
upon pain of death, and who, being the honestest of
them all, sincerely joined with us. By this time it
was pretty late; when the rest returning to their
boat, which they found aground in the creek, the
tide out, and the men gone, they ran about wring-
ing their hands, crying it was an inchanted island,,
and that they should be all murdered by spirits or
devils. My men would willingly have fallen upon
them, but I would not agree to hazard any of our
party. But to be more certain, Friday and the
captain crawled upon their hands and feet as near
as possible j and when the boatswain approached in
sight, so eager was the captain, that he fired, and
killed him on the spot: Friday wounded the next
man, and a third ran away. Hereupon I advanced
with my whole army, and it being dark, I ordered
the men we had surprised with the boat, to call them
O 2 by
by their names, and to parley with them. /Accord-
ingly he called out aloud, Tom Smiths Tom\ Smith?
He answered, Who's that? Robinson? answered the
other,, for God's fake, Tom, surrender immediately,
eryouve all dead men. Who must we surrender to,
says Smith. To our captain and fifty men here, wlo
have taken me prisoner, wounded Will Fryes, and kill'
ed the boatswain* Shall we have quarters then ? said
he. Hereupon the captain calls out, You, Smith,
you know my voice, surrender immediately, and you
shall all have your lives granted except Will Atkins.
Hereupon Atkins cries out, What have I don?, Cap'
tain, more than the reft, who have been as bad as me?
But that was a lie, for he was the person that laid
hold of him, and bound him. However, he was or-
dered to submit to the governor's mercy, for such
was I called. And so laying down their arms, we
bound them all, and seized on their boat.
After this, the captain expostulated with them,
telling them, that the governor was an Englishman,
who might execute them there; but he thought they
would be sent to England, except Will Atkins, who
was ordered to prepare for death next morning.
Hereupon Atkins implored the captain to intercede
for his life, and the rest begged that they might not
be sent to England. This answered our project for
seizing the ship. For aster sending Atkins, and two
of the worst, fast bound'to the cave, and the rest
being committed to my bower, 1 sent the captain to
treat with them in the governor's name, offering
them pardon if they would assist in recovering the
ship. Upon which they all promised to stand by him
till the last drop of their blood: and whoever acted
treacherously, should be hanged in chains upon the
beach. They were all released on these assurances;
and then the captain repaired the other boat, making
his passenger captain of her, and gave him four men
well armed; while himself, his mate, and five
more, went in the other boat- By midnight they
came
came (within call of the ship, when the captain or-
dered Robinson to hail her, and tell them, that with
great difficulty they had found the men at fast. But
while they were discoursing, the captain, his mate,
and the rest entered, and knocked down the second-
mate, an? carpenter, secured those that were upon
the deck, by putting them under hatches, while the
other boat's crew entered and secured the forecastle;
then they broke into the round-house, where the
mate, aster some resistance, shot the pirate c. *- in
through the head, upon which all the rest yielded
themselves prisoners. And thus the ship being re-
covered, the joyful signal was fired, which I heard
with the greatest joy imaginable: nor was it Jong
before he brought the ship to an anchor at the creek's
mouth, where, coming to me unawares, Tbere^ fays
lie, my dearest friend and deliverer^ there is your Jhip%
and we are your servants; a comfort so unspeakable, .
as made me swoon in his arms, while, with grati-
tude to Heaven, we were tenderly embracing each
other.
Nothing now remained, but to consult what we
should do with the prisoners, whom he thought it
was not safe to take on board. Hereupon, concert-
ing with the captain, I droned myself in one of his
suits, and fending for them, told them, That as I
was going to leave the island, with all my people, if
they would tarry there, their lives should be spared j.
if nor, they should be hanged at the first port they
Came at. They agreed to stay. Hereupon, I told
them my whole story, charging them to be kind to
the Spaniards that were expected, gave them all my
arms, and informing them of every thing necessary
for their subsistence, I and my man Friday went on
board. But the next morning two of the men came
swimming to the strip's side, desiring the captain to
take them on board though he hanged them after-
wards, complaining mightily how barbarously the
pthtrs used them. Upon which 1 prevailed with the
O 3 captain
captain to take them in, and being severely/ whipt
and pickled, they proved more honest for the/future.
And so I bid farewell to this island, carrying along
with me my money, my parrot, umbrella, and goat*
skin cap; setting sail December 12. 1686, after
twenty-eight years, two months, and nineteen day*
residence, that fame day and month that I escaped
from Sallee, landing in England June 11. 1687, after
frv$ and thirty years absence from my native country,
v?Aiu.h rendered me altogether a stranger there.
Here I found my first captain's widow alive, who
had buried a second husband, btit in very mean cir-
cumstances, and whom I made mighty easy upon my
account. Soon after I went down to Yorklhire>
where all my family were expired, except two
listers, and as many of one of my brother's children.
1 found no provision had been made for me, they
concluding I had been long since dead; so that I
was but in a very slender station. Indeed the cap-
tain did me a great kmdness, by his report to the
owners, how I had delivered their (hip on the deso-
late island, upon which they made me a present os
-•200 1. Sterling. I Next went to Lisbon, taking my
man Friday with me, and there arriving in April, I
met the Portuguese captain, who had taken me on
board on the African coast', but being ancient, he
had left off the sea, and resigned all his business to
his son, who followed the Brasil trade. So altered
both of us were, that we did not know each other at
first, till I discovered myself more fully to him. Af-
ter a few embraces, 1 began to enquire of my con-
cerns; and then the old gentlemen told me, that it
was nine years since he had been at Brasil, where my
partner was then living, but my trustees were both
dead \ that he believed 1 should have a good account
of the product of my plantation that the imagina-
tion of nvy being lost had obliged my trustees to give
an estimate of my mare to the procurator-fiscal, who,
"inscase of my not returning, he had given one third to
the knig, and the rest to the monastery of St Augu-
stine -,j but if I put in my claim, or any one for me,
it wouJd be returned, except the yearly product,
which was given to the poor, I then desired him to
tell me what improvement he thought had been made
of my plantation, and whether he imagined it was
worth my while to look after it? He answered, he
did not kriow how much it was improved; but this
he was certain of, that my partner was grown vastly,
rich upon his half of it and that he had been in-
formed, that the king had 200 moidores per annum
for his third part. He added, that the survivers of
my trustees were persons of an ingenuous character^
that my partner could witness my title, my name
being registered in the country, by which means I
should indisputably recover a considerable sum of
money. But, answered I, how could my trustees
dispose of my effects, when I made you only my heir?
This he said was true; but there being no affidavit
made of my death, he could not act as my executor.
However he had ordered his son (then at Brasil) to
act by procuration upon my account, and he had ta-
ken possession of my sugar-house, having accounted
himself for eight years with my partner and trustees
for the profits, of which he would give me a very
good account.
And indeed this he performed very faithfully in
a few days, making himself indebted to me, 470 moi-
dores of gold, over and above what had been lost at
sea, after I had lest the place. And then he re-
counted to me what misfortunes he had gone thro*,
which forced my money out of his hands, to buy
part in a new ship buty says he, you shall not wanty
take thiSy and when my son returns^ every farthing
shall be said you. Upon which he put into my hind
a purse of 150 moidores in gold, as likewise the instru-
ment containi the title to theThip which his son
Was inland which he offered as security for the re-
mainder. But really when I saw so much goodness,
generofity3
generosity, tenderness, and real honesty, I hid not
the heart to accept it v for fear he should straiten
himself upon my account. It is true, said he,* it may
he so; but then the money is yours, net mine, and you
may have the greatest occasion for it* However, I
returned fifty os them back again, promising that
J would freely give him the other hundred when I
got my effects in my hands, and that I designed to
go myself for that purpose. But he told me he
could save me that trouble, and so caused me to en-
ter my name with a public notary, as likewise my
affidavit, with a procuration affixed to it i and this
he ordered me to fend in a letter to one of his ac-
quaintance, a merchant in Brasil; and indeed no-
thing could be more faithfully and honourably ob-
served; for in seven months tim« I had a very faith-
ful account of all my effects, what sums of money
were raised, what expended, and what remained for
my use: in a word, i found myself to be worth 5000/.
Sterling, and loco/, per annum. Nor was this all,
for my partner congratulated me upon my being a-
Jive, telling mc-how much my plantation was im-
proved, what negroes were at work, and how many
Ave Marias he had said to the Virgin Mary for my
preservation, desiring me to accept kindly some pre-
sents he had sent me, which I sound ffiewed the great-
eft generosity.
No sooner did the ship arrive, but I rewarded my
faithful captain, by returning him the hundred moi-
dores \ and not only forgiving him all "he owed me,
1 allowed him yearly a hundred more, and fifty to his
son, during their lives. And now being resolved to
go to England, 1 returned letters of thanks to the
prior of St Augustine, and in particular to my old
partner, with very suitable presents. By tne Cap-
tain's advice 1 was persuaded to go by land to Calais,
and there take passage for England ; when, as it hap-
pened, 1 got a*young English gentleman, a merchant's
(on at Lisbon, to accompany me, together with*two
English,
English, and two Portuguese gentlemen j so that,
with aJPortuguese servant, an English sailor, and my
man Friday, there were nine ot us in number.
Thus armed and equipped, we set out, and came to
Madrid, when, the summer decaying, we hasted to
Navarre j where we were informed, that there was
scarcely any passing, by reason os the prodigious
quantity of snow; so that we were obliged to abide
near twenty days at Pampeluna, and at last to uke
a guide to conduct us safe towards Thclouse. And
now twelve other gentlemen joining with us, toge-
ther with their servants, we had a very jolly company.
Away our guide led us by the frightful mountains,
and through so many intricate mazes and windings,
that we insensibly passed them, which, as we travel-
led along, ushered us into the prospect of the fruit-
ful and charming provinces of Languedoc and Glaf-
cogne.
But now came on two adventures, both tragical
and comical. First, our guide was encountered by
three wolves and a bear, who set upon him and his
horse, and wounded him in three places ; upon which
my man riding up to his assistance, mot one of them
dead upon the spot, which made the others retire to
the woods. But the pleafantest adventure was, to
behold my man attack the bear. *Tis such a crea-
ture, that if you let him alone, he will never meddle
with you: and this my man very well knew, and so
begging leave of me in broken English, he told us
be would make good laugh* Why, you silly fool, said
I, he'll eat you up at a mouthful. Eatee me up> re-
plied he, by way of scorn, me not only eatee hlmy but
make much good laugh. Upon which, pulling oss
his boots, he claps on his pumps, and running after
the monstrous beast, he called out, that he wanted
to discourse with him; and then throwing stones on
purpose+to incense him, the beast turns about in fury,
and with prodigious strides stiuffles after him. But
though he was not swift enough to keep up pace «
with
with Friday, who made up to us as it were for help,
yet being angry, You dog, said I, immediate'ly take
horsey and let us Jhoot the creature but he cried,
Dear master i no J booty me make you laugh much. And
so he turned about making iigns to follow, while the
bear ran after him, till coming to a great oak, he
ascended in a minute, leaving his gun at the bottom
of it. Nor did the bear make any difficulty of it,
but ascended like a cat, though his weight was very
great. You must consider I was not a little amazed
at the folly of my. man, as not perceiving any thing
to occasion our laughter, till such time as we rode
up nearer, and beheld the beast mounted upon the
oak> on the beginning of the fame branch, to which
Friday clung at the farther end, where the bear durst
noVCome. Hereupon Friday cried out, Now master,
me make you much laughs me make debear dance. Upon
which he fell a shaking the bough, which made the
creature look behind him, to fee how he could re-
treat. ,Then, as If the bear understood his stam-
mering Englisti; Why you no come Jarther% Mr Bear9
said he, pray9 Mr Bear, come farther : and then in-
deed we all burst into laughter, especially when we
perceived Friday dropjlike a squirrel upon the ground,
leaving the beafyto make the best of his way down
the tree. And now thinking it the most convenient
time to (hoot the creature, Friday cried out, 0 dear
master^ noJhoot,meJhoot by and by; when taking up
the gun, Me no Jhoot yet\ said he, me make once more
much laugh. And accordingly he was as good as hi*
word; for the creature descending backwards from
the tree very leisurely, before he could lay one foot
on the ground, Friday shot him through the ear
stone dead: and looking; to see whether we were
pleased, he burst out into a hearty laughter, saying,
So we kill de bear in my country, not with the gun
but with muff? long arrows. Thus ended our diver-
sion, to our ^reat satisfaction; especially in a place
where the terrible-howlings struck us with a conti-
nual
flual terror. But the snows now growing very deep,
particularly on the mountains, the ravenous creatures
were obliged to seek for sustenance in the villages,
where, coming by surprise on the country people,
they killed several os them, besides a great number
of their sheep and horses.
Our guide told us, we had yet one more dange-
rous place to pass by; and if there were any more
wolves in the country, there we should find them.
This was a small plain, encompassed with woods, to
get through a long lane, to the village where we
were to lodge. When we entered the wood, the fun
was within half an hour of setting*, and a little after
it was set, we came into the plain, which was not
above two furlongs over, and then we perceived 'five
great wolves cross the road, without taking notice
of us, and so swift as though they were pursuing af-
ter their prey. Hereupon our guide believing there
weie more coming, desired us to be upon our
guard. Accordingly our eyes were very circumspect,
fill about half a league farther, we perceived a dead
horse, and near a dozen of wolves devouring its car-
cafe. My man Friday fain would have fired at them,
but I would not permit him; nor had we gone half
over the plain, but we heard dreadful howlings in x
wood on our left, when presently we saw an hun-
dred come up against us, as though they had been
an experienced army. This obliged us to form our-
selves in the best manner; and then 1 ordered that
every other man mould sire, that those who did not
might be ready to give a second volley, mould they
advance upon us; and then every man mould make
use of his pistols. But there was no necessity for
this; for the enemy being terrified, stopped at the
noise of the fire four of them were shot dead, and
several others being wounded, went bleeding away,
as we could very plainly discover by tta snow. And
now remembering what had been often told me, that
such w;\s the m vjesty of a man's voice, as to strike
terror even into the fiercest creatures, I ordered all
our
our companions to halloo as laud at possible: and In
this notion I was not altogether mistaken j for they
immediately turned about upon the first halloo, and
began to retire; upon which, ordering a second vol-
ley in their rear, they galloped into the woods with
great precipitation.
Thus we had some small time to load our pieces
again, and then made all the haste we could on our
way; but we had not rode far, before we were
obliged to put ourselves in a posture of defence as
before, being alarmed with a very dreadful noise in
the same wood, on our left hand, the same way as we
were to pass, only that it was at some distance from
us. By this time the darksome clouds began to
spread over the elements, and the night grow-
ing very dufley, made it so much the more to our
disadvantage; but still the noise increasing, we were
fully assured, that it was the howling and yelling
of those ravenous creatures j when presently three
troops of wolves, on our front, appeared to our sight,
as though a great number of them had a design to fur-
round us, and devour us in spite of fate. But as they
did not fall upon us immediately, we proceeded on
our journey in as fwitt a manner as the roads would
permit our horses, which was only a large trot. It
was in this manner we travelled* till such time as we
discovered another wood, and had the prospect of its
entrance through which we were to pass, at the far-
thest side of the plain. But surely none can express
the terror we were in, when, approaching the lane,
we perceived a confused number of the fiercest wolves
standing, and as it were guarding its entrance. Nor
were we long in this amaaement, before another oc-
casion of horror presented itself; for suddenly we
heard the report os a gun at another opening into the
wood, and looking that way, out ran a horse bridled
and saddled, flying with the greatest swiftness, and no
less than sixteen or seventeen wolves pursuing aster
him, in order to devour the poor creature; and un-
questionably they did so, after they had run him
down,
clown, not being able to hold out that swiftness with
which he at first escaped them.
When we rode up to that entrance from whence
the horse came forth, there lay the carcasses of an-
other horse and two men, mangled and torn, by these
devouring wolves; and undoubtedly one of these men
was the person who fired the gun which we had
heard, for the piece lay by him; but alas / most of
the upper part of his body and his head were entomb-
ed in the bowels of these ravenous creatures.
What course to take, whether to proceed or re-
treat, we could not tell; but it was not long before
the wolves themselves made us c«me to a resolution:
for such numbers surrounded us, every one of whom
expected their prey, that were our bodies to be di-
vided among them, there would not be half a mouth-
ful a piece. But happy, very happy, it was for us,
that but a little way from the entrance, there lay
some very large timber trees, which I supposed had
been cut down and laid there for sale; amongst w hick
I drew my little troop, placing ourselves in a line be-
hind one long tree, which served us for a breast work,
when desiring them to alight, we stood in a triangle,
or three fronts, inclosing our horses in the centre, the
only place where we could preserve them.
Never certainly was there a more furious charge
than what the wolves made upon us in this place 5
and the sight of the horses, which was the principal
thing they aimed at, provoked their hunger, and add-
ed to their natural fierceness. They came on us
with a dreadful noise, that made the woods to ring
again ; and beginning to mount the pieces of timber,
I ordered every other man to fire as before directed |
and indeed so well did they take their aim, that they
killed several of-the wolves at the first volley; but
still we were obliged to keep a continual firing, by
reason they came on like devils, pushing one another
with jhe greatest fury. But our second volley some-
thing abated their courage, when stopping a little,
P we;
we hoped they would have made the best of their
way; however, it did not prove so, for oth^s made
a new attempt upon us, and though in four firings
we killed seventeen or eighteen of them, laming twice
as many, yet they several times successively came on,
as though they valued not their lives for the fake of
their prey.
Unwillingly was 1 to spend our last fhottoosudden-
ly, and therefore calling my other servant,and giving
him a horn of powder, bid him lay a large train
quite along the timber, which he did, while Friday
was charging my fusee and his own, with the greatest
dexerity. By this time the wolves coming up the
timber, set sire to the train* by snapping a dis-
charged pistol close on the powder. This so scorch-
ed and terrified them, that some fell down, and
others jumped in among' us; but these we imme-
diately dispatched, when all the rest frighted with
the light, which the darksome night caused to appear
mo;e dreadful, began at length to retire; upon which
ordering our last pistols to be sired at once, giving at
the fame time, a great shout, the wolves were obliged
to have recourse to their swiftness, and turn tail;
and then we sallied out upon twenty lame ones, cut*
ting them in pieces with our swords, which obliged
them to howl lamentably, to the terror of their fel-
lows, who resigned to us the sield as victorious con-
querors. And indeed I question whether Alexander
king of Macedonia^w any of his conquests, had more
occasion to triumph than we had; for he^vas but at-
tacked by numerous armies of soldiers; whereas our
little army was obliged to combat a legion of devils,
as it were worse than the cannibals, who the fame
moment, had they slain us, would have sacrificed us
to satisfy their voracious appetites. /
Thus ended our bloody battle with the beasts, ha-
ving killed threescore of them, and saved our live*
irom their fury. We still had a league farther to go,
when, as we went, our cars were saluted with their
most
most unwelcome bowlings, and we expected every
momenjjyanother attack. But in an hour's time we
arrived*^!* she town where we were to lodge; and
here we found the place strictly guarded, and all in
terrible confusion, as well they might, for seas of the
bears and wolves breaking into the village, in order
to prey upon their cattle and people. The next morn-
ing we were obliged to take a new guide, by reason
the other fell very bad of his wounds which he had
received as before mentioned. After we had reach-
ed Thouloufe, we came into a warm, pleasant, and
fruitful country, not infested with wolves, nor any
'fort of ravenous creatures; and when we told our
story there, they much blamed our guide for con-
ducting us through the forest at the foot of the moun-
tains, in such a severe season, when the snow obliged
the wolves to seek for shelter in the woods. When
we informed them in what manner we pJaced our-
selves, and the horses in the centre, they exceedingly
reprehended us, and told us, it was an hundred to
one but we had all been destroyed -9 for that it was
the very sight of the horses, their so much desired
prey, that made the wolves more ragingly furious
than they would have been, which was evident, by
their, being at other times really afraid of a gun;-
but then being exceeding hungry and furious, upon
that account, their eagerness to come at the horses
made them insensible of their danger; and that if we
h*d not, by a continual sire, and at last by the cun-
ning stratagem of the train of powder, got the better
of them, it had been great odds if their number had
not overpowered us; besides, it was a great mercy we
alighted from our horses, and fought them with that
courage and conduct, which, had we failed to do, e-
very man of us, wirh our beasts, had been devoured:
and indeed this was nothing but truth; fox never in
my t life was I so sensible of danger, as when three
hundred devils came roaring upon us, to shun whose
unwelcome company, if I was sure to meet a storm
P Z every
t
through France to take notice of, since other travel-
lers of greater learning and ingenuity have given si
more ample account than my pen is able to set forth.
From Thoulouse I travelled to Paris, from thence to
Calais, where I took shipping, and landed at Dover
the 1 4th of January, in a very cold season.
Thus, come to the end of my travels, lfoon dis-
covered my new found estate, and all the bills of
exchange I had brought were currently paid. The
good ancient widow, my only privy counsellor,
thought no pains nor care too great to procure my
advantage; nor had I ever occasion to blame her fi-
delityj which drew from me an ample reward. I was
for leaving my effects in her hands, intending to set
oat for Lisbon, and so to the Brasils (but as, in the
Desolate JJland> 1 had some doubts about the Romish
religion, so I knew there was little encouragement
to settle there, unless I would apostatize from the or-
thodox faith, or live in continual fear of the inqui-
sition. Upon this account I resolved to sell my plan-
tation ; and for that intent I wrote to my old friend
at Lisbon, who returned me an answer to my great
satisfaction ; which was, that he could fell it to good
account; however, if I thought it convenient to give
him liberty to offer it in my name to the two mer-
chants, the survivors of my trustees, residing at the
Brasils, who consequently understood its intrinsic va-
lue, having lived just upon the spot, and who I was
sensible were very rich, and therefore might be the
more willing to purchase it, he did not in the least
doubt but that I mould make four or five thousand
pieces of eight more of it than I could do if 1 disposed
of it in any other manner whatsoever.
You may be sure I could not but agree with this
kind and ingenuous proposal; and immediately 1 sent
*~ him an order to offer it to them, which he accord-
every week, I would rather go a thousand Jeagues by
 
Sngly did; so that, about eight months after, the (hip
being u^Aiat time returned, he gave me a satisfacto-
ry acarcmTTtrut they not only willingly accepted the
offer, but that they had also remitted 33,000 pieces
of eight to a correspondent of their own at Lisbon, in
order to pay for the purchase.
Hereupon in return I signed the instrument of sale
according to form, which they had sent from Lisbon,
and returned it again to my old friend, he having sent
me for my estate, bills of three hundred twenty-eight
thousand pieces of eight, reserving the payment of
one hundred moidores per annum, which I had al-
lowed him during life, likewise fifty to his son during
life also, according to my faithful promise, which the
plantation was to make good as a rent charge.
And thus having led my reader to the knowledge
of the first part of my life, so remarkable for the ma-
ny peculiar providences that attended it, floating in
an ocean of uncertainty and disappointment, ©f ad-
versity and prosperity, beginning foolishly, and yet
ended happily, methinks now that 1 am come to a
safe and pleasant haven, it is time to cast out my an-
chor, and laying up my vessel, bid for a while adieu
to foreign adventures. I had no other concerns to*
look zfter, but the care of my brother's two sons*
which, with the good widow's persuasions, obliged
me to continue at home seven years. One of these
children I bred up a gemleman, and the other an
experienced sailor, remarkable for his courage and
bravery. Besides this, I married a virtuous young
gentlewoman of a very good family, bj whom I had
Vwo sons and one daughter. But my ckar aud ten-
der wife leavir.g this earthly stage, (as in the second
part of my life you will hear), which rent my soul as
it were asunder, my native country became weary
and tiresome to me: and my nephew happening "to
come from the sea, tempted me to venture another
voyage to the East Indies, which I did in the year i6o4>,
P 3 at
at which time I visited my island, and informed my-
self os every thing that happened since myœjiarture.
One might reasonably imagine, thaf^wmt I had
suffered, together with an advanced age, and the
sear of losing, not only what I had gotten, but my
life also, might have choked up all the seeds of youth-
ful ambition and curiosity, and put a lasting period
to my wandering inclinations. But as nothing but
death can fully allay the active part of my life, no less
remarkable for the many various contingences of it;
you will next perceive how I visited my little king-
dom, saw my successors the Spaniards, had an ac-
count of the usage they met with from the English-
men, agreeing and disagreeing, uniting and separa-
ting, till at last they were subjected to the Spaniards,
who yet used them very honourably, together with
the wonderful and successful battles over the Indians,
who invaded, and thought to have conquered she
island, but were repelled by their invincible courage
and bravery, having taken eleven men and five wo-
men prisoners, by which at my return I found about
twenty young children on my little kingdom. Herel
staid twenty days, left them supplies of all necessary
things, as also a carpenter and smith, and shared the
island into parts, reserving the whole property t© my-
self. Nor will you be insensible, by the account
of these things, of several new adventures 1 have been
engaged in, the battles 1 have fought, the deliveran-
ces 1 have met with: and while, in the surprising re-
lation of such remarkable occurrences, 1 shall de-
scribe many of God's kindest providences to me in
particular, no less conspicuous in the fame goodness,
powerand majesty of ouf great Creator, (hewed, one
way or other, over the face of the earth, if duly ad-
verted to*
She
The further adventures of Robinson Crusoe, where-
in (Ms mutained several strange and surprising ac*
counts of his travels, and the most remarkable
transactions both by sea and land; and his wonder-
ful vision of the Angelic World.
\7T 7 HEN we consider the puissant force os Na-
VV ture, and what mighty influence it has
many times over the temper of the mind, it will be
no such great wonder to think, that my powerful
reason mould be overcome by a much stronger in-
clination. My late acquired kingdom ran con-
tinually in my thoughts all the day, and I dreamed
of it in the night; nay, 1 made it the continual sub-
ject of my talk, even to impertinence, when I was
awake. I had such vapours in my head, that I ac-
tually supposed myself at my castle; that I not only
perceived Friday's father, but the old Spaniard, and
the wicked failois, but that I talked and discoursed
with them about their manner of living; thati heard
these things related to me, which I found afterwards
to be but too true: and that I executed my judge-
ments with the greatest severity upon the offenders.
And indeed, this anticipating all the pleasing joys of
my life, scarcely afforded me one pleasant hour: my
dear and tender wife could not but take notice of it,
which drew these affectionate speeches from her:
My dear, said she, / am really persuaded that some
secret impulse from heaven occasions in you a determi-
nation to fee the island again; nor am I less sensible,
hut your being engaged to me, and these dear children,
is the only hinde ranee of your departure, I knwvy my
deary if I was in the grave, you would not long con- #
tinue at home; prevent not your happiness upon my
Accounty whose only comfort centers in you. All thzt
1 can objetl is, that such an hazardous undertaking is
no way consistent with a person of your years; but if
you are resolved to go, added she, weeping, only per-
mit me to bear you company y md thai is all that I desire.
 
Such endearing tenderness, graced with the most
innocent, and yet most powerful eharms,\jyought
me insensibly into my right understandings aJW when
I considered all the transactions of my life, and par-*
ticularly my new engagement; that I rud now one
child already born, and my wife big of another; and
that I had no occasion to seek for more riches, who
already was blessed with sufficiency, with much
struggling I altered my resolutions at last, resolving to
apply m)self to some business or other, which might
put a period to such wandering inclinations. Here*
upon I bought a little farm in the county of Bedford,
with a resolution to move thither: upon this there
was a pretty convenient house, surrounded with land
very capable of improvement, which suited my tem-
per as to planting, managing and cultivating. Nor
was I long before I entered upon my new settlement,
having bought ploughs, harrows, carts, waggons, hor*
ses, cows, and sheep; so that I now led the life of a
country-gentleman, and as happy in my retirement
as the greatest monarch in the world. And what
made me think my happiness the greater was, that I
* was in that middle Jiate of lise> which my father had
so often recommended, much resembling the felicity
os a rural retirement, whierris elegantly described by
the poet in these lines:
Free from all vices, free from c&ref
Age has no pain, and youth no snare.
But, in the midst of this my heppiness, I was sud-
denly plunged into the greatest sorrows that I could
possibly endure: for, when I least expected it, my
dear and tender wife was forced to submit to the ir-
resistible power as death, leaving this transitory ijse
for a better. It is impossible for me to express the
beauties of her mind, or the loveliness of her person;,
neither can I too much lament her loss, which my
latest breath shall record: her influence was greater
over me than the powers of my own reason, tbeim*
portunuies
portunities of friends, the instructions of a father, or
the m^l|mg tears of a tender and disconsolate mo-
ther: 1* a word, (he was the spirit of all my affairs,
and the centre of my enterprises. But now, since
the cruel hand of death had closed my dearest's eyes,
I seemed in my thoughts a stranger to the world; my
privy counsellor being gone, I was like a ship with-
out a pilot, that could only run before the wind.
And when I looked around me in this busy world,
one part labouring for bread, and the other squander-
ing away their estates, this put me in mind how 1 had
lived in my little kingdom, where both reason and
religion dictated to me, that there was something
that certainly was the reason and end of life, which
was far superior to what could be hoped for on this
fide the grave. My country delights were now as
insipid and dull, as music or science to those who
have neither taste nor ingenuity. In short, resolving
to leave off house-keeping, I lest my farm, and in t
few months returned to London.
But neither could that great city, so famous for its
variety of entertainment, afford me any agreeable
delight; a state of idleness 1 found to be the very
dregs of life, and most hurtful to body and foul. It
was now the beginning of the year 1694, at which
time my nephew (who, as I before observed, had
been brought up to the sea, and advanced to be cap-
tain of a ship) was returned from a short voyage to
Bilboa, the first he had made in that station. He
comes to me one morning, telling me, that some
merchants of his acquaintance had proposed to him to
go a voyage for them, to the East Indies and China,
in the manner of private traders: and now, uncle,
said he, if you11I accompany me thither, FH engage to
land you upon your old island, to visit thejlate of your
little kingdom.
Just before he came in, my thoughts were fixed
to get a patent for its possession, and then to fill it
with inhabitants. After I had paused a little while,
and looked stedfastly on him, What ievily or spirits
said
said I,sent you -with this unlucky errand? He started
at first, but recovering himself, when he \erceived
I wa's not offended, Sir, replied he, wITaVl have
proposed cannot, 1 hope, be styled unlucky, since
certainly you must be desirous to fee your little ter-
ritory, where you reigned with more content than
any of your brother kings in the universe. Nephew,
said I, if you will leave me there, and call for me as
you come back, I care not if 1 give my consent;
but he answered, that the merchants would not al-
low their vessel, loaden with an infinite value, to re-
turn there again, which was a month's fail out of the
way; besides, Sir, said be, if I should miscarry, was
your request granted, why then you would be locked
up as before. This indeed carried a great deal of
reason in it, but we found out a remedy, and that
was, to carry a framed Jloop on board, ready to be
set up in the island, by the assistance of some carpen-
ters, which we mould carry with us, that might be
fitted in a few days to go to sea. I was not long in
forming my resolution, which over-swayed my good
friend the widow's persuasions, and the natural affec-
tion 2 bore to my yoking children. I made my will,
and settled my estate in such a manner, that I was
perfectly sure that my poor infants would have justice
doiie them. The good widow not only undertook to
make provision for my voyage,^but also took the charge
of my domestic affairs, and to provide for my chil-
dren's education; and indeed no mother could take
more care, or understood that office better; for which
\ lived to reward, and return her my hearty thanks.
The beginning of January 1694-5, my nephew
being ready to fail, 1 and Friday went on board in
the Downs on the 8th, having, beside that sloop al-
ready mentioned, a very considerable cargo for my
new colony. Firsts I had some servants, whom I pro-
posed to leave there, as inhabitants, or to work while
1 staid there, as they should appear willing: there
were two carpenters, a smith, and a very ingenious
fellow who was Jack of all trades: for he was not on-
of robinson Crusoe. i*9
Iy a cooper by trade, but also he was dexterous at
making^!)eels and hand-mills to grind corn, likewise
a good mirnfr, and a good pot-maker. I also carri-
ed a taylor, who consented to stay in my plantation,
and proved a most necessary fellow in the island.
As to my cargo, it consisted of a sufficient quantity
of linen, and English stuffs, for cloathing the Spa-
niards that I expected to find there; as likewise
gloves, hats, shoes, stockings; together with beds,
bedding, and household stuff, especially kitchen uten-
sils, with pots, kettles, pewter, brass, &c. also nails,
tools of all forts, staples, hooks, hinges, and all o-
ther things necessary; ail which, I think, cost me a-
bout three hundred pounds. Nor was this all; for
1 carried an hundred spare-arms, muskets, and fusees,
besides some pistols, a considerable quantity of several
sorts of mot, two brass cannon, besides swords, cut-
lasses, and the iron part for some pikes and halberts.
1 ma<3e my nephew take with us two small quarter
deck guns, more than he had occasion for in his stiip,
to leave behind, if there was a necessity; that so we
might buiid a fort there, and man it against all op-
pose rs whatsoever. ,
Well, we put out to sea; and though I can't say
this voyage was so "^prosperous as my others had
been, yet contrary winds drove us so far northward,
that we were obliged to put in at Galway in Ireland,
where we lay wind bound twoand twenty days. Here
indeed our provisions were very cheap, and we add-
ed to our sliip's stores, by taking in several live
hogs, two cows and calves, which I then resolved to
put on shore in my island, if our necessities did not
call for them. On the 5th of February we failed
from Ireland, with a very fair gale, which lasted for
some days; and 1 think it was a'bout the 20th of
the fame month, late in the evening, when the mate
informed us, that he saw a flam of fire, and heard
a gun fired; and when he was speaking, a,boy came
in, and told us, that the boatswain had heard ano-
ther. Upon which we all ran to the quarter deck,
from
from whence in a sew .moments we perceived a ter-
rible fire at a distance. We hdd immediately re-
course to our reckonings, in which we wfTSTnl of o-
pinion, that there could be no land that way, it ap-
pearing to be at N. N. W. Hereupon we con-
cluded that some ship had taken fire at sea, and that
it could not be far off, by the report of the guns
which we had heard. We made up directly to it,
and in half an hour's time, the wind being fair, we
could plainly perceive a great ship on fire in the
middle of the sea. Touched with this unhappy
disaster, and considering my former circumstances,
when the Portuguese captain took me up, I imme-
diately ordered five guns to be fired, that the poor
creatures, not seeing us, it being dark, (though we
could perceive their flame), might be sensible there
was deliverance at hand, and consequently might en-
deavour to save themselves in their boat. Nor was
it long before the ship blew up in the air, and the
lire was extinguished in the ocean. But supposing
them all so be in their boats, we hung out our Ian-
terns, and kept firing till eight o'clock in the morn-
ing; when, with our perspectives, we beheld two
boats, full of people, making towards us, though
she tide was against them; then spreading out our
ancient, and hanging out a wast, as a signal for them
to come on board, in half an hoijr's time, we came
up to them, and took them all in, there being no
less than sixty-four men, women, and children. It
was a French merchant ship of 300 tons, homeward
bound from Quebec in the river of Canada. The ma-
ster informed me how^by the negligence of the steers-
man, the steerage was set on fire j that, at his out-
cry for help, the fire was, as they thought, totally
extinguist>ed; but that some sparks getting betweea
the timber, and within the deling, it proceeded into
the hold, where there was no resisting it ; that then
they got into their boats, as creatures in the last
extremity, with what provision they had, together
with oars, fails, and a compass, intending to go back
f
to Newfoundland, the wind blowing at S- E. and by
E. thou^jhere were several chances against them,
as storms to overset and sounder them, rains and colds
to benumb and perish their limbs, and contrary wind
to keep them back and starve them : but, said he,
in this our great distress, we heard the welcome re-
port of your guns, when, with unspeakable joy, ta-
king down our masts and fails, we were resolved to
lie by till morning; but perceiving your light, we
set our oars at work to keep our boat a-head, the
sooner to attain your (hip, the happy instrument of
our delirerance.
Indeed no one can express the joy of these poor
creatures on this occasion ; fear and grief are easily
set forth; sighs and tears, with a few motions of the
hands and head, are all the demonstrations of these
passions; but an excess of joy carries in it a thousand
extravagancies; especially, I think, amongst the
French, whose temper is allowed to be more volatile,
passionate, sprightly, and gay, than that of other na-
tions. Some were weeping, tearing themselves in
the greatest agonies of sorrow, and running stark
mad about the ship ; while the rest were stamping
with their feet, wringing their hands, singing,
laughing, swooning away, vomiting, fainting, with
a few returning hearty thanks to the Almighty, and
crossing themselves. I think, if 1 am not mistaken,
our surgeon was obliged to let thirty of them blood.
But among the passengers, there were two priests,
the one an old, and the other a young man; but
what amazed me the more, was, that the oldest was
in the worst plight \ for no sooner did he perceive him-
self freed from danger, but he dropt down, as it were
without life, and to every ones appearance, quite
dead; but the surgeon, chafing and rubbing his arm*
opened a vein, which at first dropped, and then
flowing more freely, the old man began to open his
eyes, and in a quarter of an hour was w*ll again.
But soon remembering his happy change, the joy of
which turned* his blood about faster than the vessels
CL could
could convey it, he became so feverish, as n\ade him
more fit for bedlam than any other pla>^^&ut the
surgeon giving him a sleepy dose, he was perfectly
composed the next morning.
Remarkable indeed was the behaviour of the young
priest. At his entrance on board the ship, he fell
on his face in the most humble prostration to the Al-
mighty. I thought indeed he had fallen into a
swoon, and so ran to he Ip him up; but he modestly
told me, he was returning his thanks to the Al-
mighty, desiring me to kave him a few moments,
and that next to his Creator, he would return me
thsnks also. And indeed be did so, about three
minutes afrer, with great seriousness and affection,
"While the tears stood in his eyes, which convinced
me of the gratitude of his foul. Nor did he less mow
his piety and wisdom, in applying himself to his
.country people, and labouring to compose them, by
the most powerful reasons, arguments, and persua-
sions. And when, indeed, these people had taken
,their night's repose, in such lodging* as our ship
would allow, we found nothing but the best of
manners, and the most civil acknowledgements, for
'which the French are eminently remarkable. The
next day the captain, and one of the priests, desired
to speak with me, and my nephew the commander.
They toid us, that they had saved some money, and
valuable things out of the ruined vessel, which was
at our service; only that they desired to be set on
{bore some where in our way. At the first my ne-
phew was for accepting the money, but I (who
knew how hard my cafe would have been had the
Portuguese captain served me so) persuaded him to
the contrary; and therefore told them, that as we
had done nothing but what we were obliged to do,
by nature and humanity, and what we ourselves
might expect from others in such calamity; so we
took them up to save them, not to plunder them, os
leave them naked upon the land, to peristi for want
•of subsistence, and therefore would not accept their
money;
money: but as to landing them, that wa* a great
difficulty''; for, being bound to the East Indies, it
was impofUSle wilfully to change our voyage upon
their particular account, nor could my nephew (who
was under charter party to pursue it by way ofBrasil)
answer it to the freighters. Ail that we could do, was
to put oui selves in the way of meeting some ships
home waid bound from the Weft Indies, that if pos-
sible they might get a passage to France or England*
Indeed they were very thankful for our first; kindness;
but were under great concern, especially the passen-
gers, at their being carried to the East Indies.
They begged therefore I would keep on the banks of
Newfoundland, where probably they might meet
with some ship or sloop to carry them to Canada, *
whence they came. As this was but a reasonable
request, 1 was inclined to grant it, since it was no
breach of charter-party, and that the laws of God
and nature obliged us to do what good we could to
our fellow creatures; and besides, the danger we
ourselves mould be in for want of provisions: so we
consented to carry them to Newfoundland, if wind
$nd weather would permit; if not, that we should
carry them to Martinico in the West Indies. But as
it happened, in a week's time, we made the banks of
Newfoundland, where the French people hired a
bark to carry them to France. But the young priest
being desirous to go to the East Indies, I readily a-
greed to it, because I liked his conversation, and
two or three of the French sailors also entered them-
selves on board pur strip.
Now directing our course for the West Indies.,
steering S. and by E. about twenty days, with lit-
tle wind, another adventure happened to exercise our
humanity. In the latitude of 27 degrees 5 min.
north, the 19th of March, 1694-5, we perceived a
fail, (our course S. E. and by S.), which bore up
to us, and then stie appeared to be a large vessel,
having lost her main-top mast, fore-mast, and boh-
sprit j when firing a gun as a signal of distress, wind
0^2 N.
N. N. W. we soon came to speak with her. She
was a ship of Bristol, bound home fromJBarbadoes,
cut of which road (he had been forced by a hurricane
ro the westward, in which they lost their mast.
They told us, their expectations were to fee the Ba-
hama islands, but were driven away by a strong
wind at N N. W. and having no fails to work the ship
with, but the main course, and a kind of square sail
upon a jury foremast, because they could not come
near the land, were endeavouring to stand for the
Canaries; nay, what was worse, besides all their fa-
tigue, they were almost starved for want of provisi-
on, having ate nothing for eleven days; all that they
had aboard was sugar, a barrel of fresh water, and
seven casks of rum, In this ship were three passen-
gers, a youth, his mother, and a maid servant, who
were in a most deplorable condition for want of food.
If I had not gone on board their sliip, the knowledge
of their misery had been concealed from me, and they
would have inevitably perished, though indeed their
second mate (who was captain, by reason the true
captain was not on board when the hurricane hap-
tXiied) had before informed me that there were such
persons on board, whom he supposed to be dead, be-
ing afraid to enquire after them, because he had no-
thing to give them for relief. Hereupon we resolved
to let them have what we could spare, ordering the
mate to bring some of his men on board us, which
he did accordingly as he and they looked like ske-
letons, when meat was set before them, I ordered
them to eat sparingly. But, however, they soon fell
sick, which obliged the surgeon to mix son^ething'in
their broth, which was to be to them both food and
physic. When they were fed, we ordered our mate
to carry them a sock of bread, and four or five
pieces of beef; but the surgeon charged them to see
it boiled, and to keep a guard on the cook-room, to
prevent the men from eating it raw, and consequent-
ly killing themselves with what was designed for
their relief. But particularly I desired the mate to
see what condition the poor passengers were in, and
the surgeon gave him a pitcher of the same broth
which helved prepared for the men. And being cu-
rious to fee this scene of misery myself, 1 took the
captain (as we called the mate of the ship) in our
own boat, and failed aster them.
Here was a fad sight indeed 1 scarce were the vic-
tuals half boiled in the pot, but they were ready to
break open the cook room door. To stay their sto-
machs, the mare gave them biscuits, which were
dipped in, and softened with the liquor of the meat,
which they call B rent fe; telling them, it was for
their own safety, that he was obliged to give them
but a little at a time: and so feeding them gradually,
their bellies were comfortably filled, and the men did
very well again. But when they came to the poor
gentlewoman in the^cabin, who for several days had*
.continued without food, giving what, stie had to her
son, they found her as it were in the arms of death.
She was sitting upon the floor of the deck, with hef
back up against the sides, between two ch airs, which
were lashed fast, and her head shrunk between her
shoulders, like a senseless corpse. Nothing was
wanting in my mate to revive and encourage her;
opening her lips, and putting some broth into her
mouth with a spoon. But not having strength to
speak, she lifted up her head with much difficulty,
intimating that it was now too late! at the fame time
pointing to the youth her son, as though (he desired
him to do what he could to save the lad \ and in a<
little after (he died.
The youth indeed was not so far.gone* yet lay
.stretched out in a cabin bed, like one that had scarce
any life. In his mouth was a piece of an old glove-
the rest of which Be had ate up. At first he vomit-
ed what the mate had given him; but at length be-
gan sensibly to revive, though in the greatest concern
for the death of his tender mother.
As to the poor maid, she lay by her mistress, like
One in the last pangs of death ; her limbs ,svcre distort-
o^3 ; td
ed, one os her hands was clasped round the frame of
a chair, which (he gripped so hard, that it was with
some difficulty we separated her siom ft: her other
arm lay over her head, and her feet lay both toge-
ther set fast againsr the frame of the cabin table: not
only being starved with hunger, but overcome with
grief for the loss of her mistress, whom she loved
most tenderly. It was a great while before the sur-
geon could bring her to life, and a much longer time
before she came to her fenses.
After we had failed with them some days, we sent
them five barrels of beef, one of pork, two hogs-
heads of biscuit, with pease, flour, and other things,
taking three calks of sugar, some rum, and some
pieces of eight for satisfaction, we left them, but took
the youth and 'maid with us, with all their goods.
The lad was about seventeen years old, very hand-
some, modest, sensible, and well bred, hut mighti-
ly concerned for the loss of his honoured mother,
Jjaving lost his father at Barbadoes but a few months
before. He beseeched the surgeon to intercede with
me to take him out of the ship for that the sailors,
not sparing a small sustenance, had starved his mo-
ther. But hunger has no bounds, no right, and
consequently is incapable of any compassion. When
the surgeon told him, that our voyage might put him
in bad circumstances, and farther from his friends,
he answered, he did not care, so he was delivered
from that terrible crew: that as the captain (mean-
ing me) had saved him'from death, so he was sure
he would do htm no harm; and as for the maid,
when she was restored to her fenses, me would be
no less thankful^ let us carry them where we would.
And indeed the surgeon so represented their case to
me, that I consented, and took them on board with
all their goods, except eleven hogstieads of sugar *
but the youth having a bill of lading, I made the
commander oblige himself to deliver a letter and the
deceased widow's goods to Mr Rogers, a merchant
in Bristol 5 but I believe the (hip was. lost at scay for
we
we could never hear what became of her afterwards,
We were now in the latitude of 19 deg. 32 min,
having as ye\ a tolerable good voyage. But, passing
by several little incidents relating to wind and wea-
ther, 1 (hall relate what is most remarkable concern-
ing my little kingdom, to which I was then draw-
ing near. I had great difficulty in finding it 5 for
as I came to, and went from it before, on the south
and cast side of the island, as coming from the Bra-
sils *, so now, approaching between the main and the
island, not having any chart for the coast* nor land-
mark, it obliged us to go on shore on several islands in
the mouth of the river Oroonko, but to no purpose.
This 1 perceived, that what I thought was a conti-
nent before, was no such thing, but a long island,
or rather a ridge of sands. On one of these islands I
found some Spaniards, but they belonged to the
isle de Trinidad, who came hither in a sloop to make
fair, and to try to find some pearl musles. But at
length 1 came fair on the south side of my island, and
then I presently knew the countenance o£ my little
kingdom, so we brought the (hip safe to an anchor,
broadside within the little creek, where stood my
ancient and venerable castle.
No sooner did 1 see the place, but calling for Fri-
day, 1 asleed him where he was? But when he look-
ed a little, he clapped his hands, crying, 0 joy> 0
therey 0 yes^ 0 there / pointing to our old abode, and
then fell a dancing and capering as if he was mad,
and 1 had much ado to keep him from jumping into
the sea, to swim ashore. Friday, said 1, what do you
think, {hall we go see your father I At the men-
tioning his father's name the poor affectionate crea-
ture fell a weeping: No> no> fays he, me fee him n*
more) never fee poor father more! he long ago die> die
long ago; he much old man- You don't know that,
Friday, said 1, but shall we fee any body else I He
looks about, a nd pointing to the hill above my house,
cries oatr We fee> we seey there much men and there /
*rhich, though 1 could not perceive tbem with my
perspective
perspective glass, was true, by what the men thenr-
selves told me the next day.
When the English ancient was spre/d, and three
guns fired as a signal of friendship, we perceived a
smoke rise from t*he creek •, upon which I ordered
the boat out, taking Friday with me, and hanging
out a white flag of truce, I went on snore, accom-
panied also by the young friar, to whom I had rela-
ted the history of the first, part of my life: resides, we
had sixteen men well armed, in cafe we had met with
any opposition.
After we had rowed directly into the creek, the
first man I fixed my eye upon, was the Spaniard,
whose life 1 had saved, and whose face I perfectly
well knew. 1 ordered them all to stay in the board
for a while; but Friday perceiving his father at a
distance, would have jumped into the sea, had they
not let the boat go. No sooner was he on shore,
but he flew like a swift arrow out of a bow, to em-
brace his aged father. Certainly it would melt a
man of the firmest resolution, into the softest tears,
to fee with what uncommon transports of joy he sa-
luted him: he first kissed him, then stroked his face,
took him in his arms, laid him under a shady tree,
fat down by him, then looked as earnest at him as
one would do at a picture, for a quarter of an hour
together. After this, he would lie upon the ground,
stroke his legs, and kiss them, then get up and stare
#t him, as though he was bewitched : but the next
day one could not forbear laughter to fee his behavi-
our, for he would walk several hours wirb his father
-along the shore, leading him by the band, as though
he was a lady; while, every now and then he would
run to the boat, to get something for him, as a
Jump of sugar, dram, biscuit, or something or other
that was good. His frolics ran in another channel
in the afternoon; for when he set old Friday on tbe
ground, he would dance round him, making comi-
cal postures and gestuies; and all this wlule would
*
be telling him one story or other of his travels, and
adventures.
It was on*the icth of April, anno 1695, that 1 set
my /oot upon the island a second time. ' When my
faithful Spaniard, accompanied by one more, ap-
proached the boat, he little knew who i was, till I
discovered myself to him. Signior, laid I, in Portu-
guese, don't you know me? spoke never a word,
but giving his musket to his attendant, extended his
arms, and saying something in Spanilh, th.it I did not
then understand, he came foreward and embraced
me, faying, he was inexcusable, not to know his de-
liverer; who, like an angel sent from heaven, had
saved his life. He then beckoned to the man to call
out his companions, asking me, if I would walk to
my own habitation, and take possession, where I
should find some mean improvements j but indeed
they were extraordinary ones ; for they had planted
so many trees so close together, that the place was
like a labyrinth, which none could find jout, except
themselves, who knew its intricate windings. I ask-
ed him the meaning of all these fortifications; he
told me he would give a large account of what had
passed since my departure till this time, and how he
had subdued some English, who thought to be their
murderers, hoping I would not be displeased, since
necessity compelled them to it. As I knew they
were wicked villains, so I told him that 1 was not
only far from finding fault with it, but was rather
# heartily glad that they had subdued them. While
we were thus talking, the man whom he had sent
returned, accompanied by eleven more, but in such
habits, that it was impossible to tell what nations
they were of. He first turned to me, and pointing
to them, These, Sir, said he, are some of the gentle-
men who owe their lives to your goodness; then,
turning to them, and pointing to me, he made them
sensible who I was; and then indeed they saluted me
one by one, not as ordinary men, but as though
ihey had been ambassadors or noblemen, and I a tri-
umphant

umphaut conqueror; for their behaviour not only
agreed with a manlike, majestic gravity, but at the
same time was so obliging and courteous, as made
them admirable to the lait degree.
Before I relate the history of the transactions of my
kingdom, as I had it from the Spaniard's own mouth,
I must here insert what I omitted in my former re-
lation. The matter is this: Just before we weighed
anchor to set sail, there happened a quarrel on board
the ship, which had like to have occasioned a second
mutiny, till such time as the courageous captain, ta-
king two of the, most refractory prisoners, laid them
in irons, threatening, as they were concerned in the
former disorders, to have them hanged in England
for running away with the ship. This freightened
some of the rest, as thinking the captain would serve
them in the fame manner, though he seemed to give
them good words for the present. But the mate ha-
ving intelligence of this, made me acquainted with
their fears: so that, to make them more easy, and
ourselves more safe from their conspiracies, I was o-
bliged to go down, and pass my honour's word for it,
that, upon their good behaviour, all that was past
should be forgiven: in testimony of which, 1 order-
ed the two men's irons to be taken cfF, and them-
selves forgiven. But as this had brought us to an
, anchor that night, in which there was a calm, the
two men that had been in irons, stole each of them a
musket, and some other weapons, and taking the
ship's pinnace, not yet hauled up, ran away to their
brother rogues. The next morning we sent the long-
boat, with men, to pursue them, but all in vain ; the
mate, in revenge, would hive demolished my little
castle, burnt its furniture, and destroyed their plan-
tations, but having no orders for it, he did not put it
in execution. And thus there were five Englishmen
in the island, which caused great differences, as my
faithful Spaniard g ive me a perfect account of, in the
following manner;
You
You cannot, Sir, but remember tbe embassy you
sent me about, and what a disappointment we met
with, by your absence, at our return. There is but
little variety in .the relation of all our voyage, being
blessed with calm weather, and a smooth sea. Great
indeed was the joy of my countrymen to fee me a-
live, having acted as the principal man on board,
the captain of the shipwrecked vessel dying before;
nor was their surprise less, as knowing i was taken
prisoner by the savages of another nation, they had
thought me long since entombed in their monstrous
bowels. But when I shewed them the arms, ammu-
nition, and provisions I had brought, for them, they
looked upon me as a second Joseph advanced in
Pharaoh's court, and immediately prepared to come
along with me. Indeed they were obliged to trespass
upon their friendly savages, by borrowing two of
their canoes, under a pretext for fishing: and they
came away the next morning, but without any pro-
visions of their own, except a few roots, which
served them instead of bread. After three weeks
absence, we arrived at your habitation. Here we
met with three English sailors, who, I confess, gave
us provisions, and that letter of direction you had
left for us, which informed us how to bring up tame
goats, plant corn, cure grabes, make pots; and in
short, everything that was necessary for our use9
a?, in particular, I knew your method best, so taking
Friday's father to assist me, we managed all the af-
fairs; nor were the rest of the Spaniards wanting in
their kind offices, dressing food for the Englishmen,
who did nothing but ramble an * divert themselves ia
the woods, either (hooting parrots, or catching tortoi-
ses. But we had not been long astiore, before we were
informed of two more Englishmen, unnaturally turn-
ed out of their common place of residence by the
three others above mentioned: this made my Spa-
niards and me (whom they now -looked -upon as
their governor in your absence) endeavour to per-
suade them to take them ui| that we might * be as
one
one family •> but all our entreaties were in vain, so
that the poor fellows, finding nothing to be done
without industry, pitched there tents 'on the north
fide of the island, a iittle inclining to the West, for
fear of savages. Here they built two huts, one
to lodge, and the other to lay their stores in ; for
my good natured Spaniards giving them some feeds,
they dug and planted as I had done, and began to
live prettily. But while they were thus comfortably
going ©n, the three unnatural brutes, their country-
men, in a mere bullying humour, insulted them,
by faying, the governor (meaning you) had given
them pofleslion of the island, and d—mn 'em, they
should build no houses upon their ground, without
paying rent. The two honest men (for so let me
now distinguish them) thought their three country-
men only jested, and one of them invited them in,
to fee their fine habitations; while the other face-
tiously told them, that since they built tenements,
with great improvements, they should, according to
the custom of landlords, give them a longer lease;
at the fame time desiring them to fetch a scrivener
to draw the writings. One of these wretches swear-
ing he should pay for the jest, snatches up a fire-
brand, and clapping it to the outside of their hut,
very fairly set it on fire, which would soon have con-
sumed it, had not the honest man thrust, him away,
and trod it out with his feet. Hereupon the fellow
returns with a pole, with which he would have
ended his days, had not the poor man avoided the
blow *, when fetching his muiket he knocked down
the villain that 'begvi the quarrel. The other two
coming to assist their fellow, obliged the honest man
to take his musket also, and both of them presenting
their pieces, bid the villains stand off; and if they
did not lay down their arms, death should decide the
dispute one way or other. This brought them to a
parley, in which they agreed to take their wounded
man and be gone; but they were in the wrong that
they did not disarm them when they had the power,
and
and thgn make their complaint to me and my Spa-
niards for justice, which might have prevented their
farther designs against them. And indeed so many
trespasses did they afterwards commit, by treading
down their corn, {hooting their young kids and
goats, and plaguing them night and day, that
they resolved to come to my castle, challenge all
the three, and decide their right by one plain
battle, while the Spaniards stood by to fee fair play.
One day it happened, that two of my Spaniards (one
of whom understood En glim) being in the woods,
were met by one of the honest men, who complain-
ed how barbarous their countrymen had been in
destroying their corn, killing their milk-goat, and
three kids, which deprived them of their subsistence;
and that if we did not grant them relief, they must be
inevitably starved, and so they parted: but when
my Spaniards came home at night, and supper being
on the table, one of them began to reprehend the
Englishmen, but in a very mannerly way ; which they
resenting, replied, what business had their country-
men there without leave, when it was none of their
ground? Why, laid my Spaniard, calmly, Ingle fe y
they must not starve; but they replied, Let them
starve and be d-mn'd, they should neither plant nor
build, and d-mn them, they should be their ser-
vants, and work for them, for the island was theirs,
and they would burn all the huts they should find
in the land. By this rule, said my Spaniard, smiling,
we shall be your servants too. Aye, By G——d,and
so you {hall, replied the impudent rascal. Upon
which, starting up, Will Aitkins cries, Come, Jack,
let's have t'other brush with them; who dare to
build in our dominions? Thus leaving us something
heated with a just passion, .way they trooped, every
man having a gun, pistol, and sword, muttering some
threatening words, that we could then but imperfectly
understands That night they designed to murder their
two companions, and slept till midnight in the bower,
thinking to fall upon them in their sleep; ncr were
R the
the honest men less thoughtful concerning them;
for at this juncture they were coming to sind them
out, but in a much fairer way. As' soon as the
villains came to the huts, and found no body there,
they concluded that I and my Spaniards had given
them notice, and therefore swore to be revenged on
us. Then they demolished the poor men's habita-
tion; not by fire, as they attempted before, but
pulled down their houses, limb from limb, not lea-
ving stick nor stone on the ground where they stood,
broke their household stuff in pieces, tore up their
trees, spoiled their inclosures, and, in short, quite
ruined them of every thing they had. Had these
people mel together, no doubt but there would have
been a bloody battle; but Providence ordered it for
the better-, for just as the three were got together,
the two were at our castle; and when they left us,
the three came back again, but in a great rage,
scoffingly telling us what they had done; when one
taking hold of a Spaniard's hat, twirls it round, fay-
ing, And yoU) Seignior, Jack SpanhTd,sh*l! have tbt
same sauce, if you dont mend your manners. My Spa-
niard, a grave, but courageous man, knocked him
down with one blow of his fist; at which another
villain sired his pistol, and narrowly missed his body,
but wounded him a little in the ear. Hereat enraged,
the Spaniard takes up the fellow's musket whom he
had knocked down, and would have shot him, if I
xmd the rest had not come out, and taken their arms
from every one of them.
These Englishmen perceiving they had made all os
MS their enemies, began to cool; but notwithstand-
ing their better words, the Spaniards would not re-
turn them their arms again, telling them, they would
do them no manner of frurm, if they would live
peaceably •, but if they offered any injury to the plan-
tation or castle, they would shoot them as they
would do ravenous beast8. This made them so mad,
that they went away raging like furies of hell. They
were no sooner gone, but in came the two honest
men,
men, fired with the justest r?ge, if such can be, ha-
ving been ruined as aforesaid. And indeed it was
very hard, that nineteen of us should be bullied by
three villains, continually offending with impunity.
It was a great while, Sir, before we could persuade
the two Englishmen from pursuing, and undoubtedly
killing them with their fire-arms; but we promised
them justice should be done them, and, in the mean
time, they mould reside with us in our habitation. In
about five days after, these three vagrants, almost;
starved with hunger, drew near our grove, and per-
ceiving me, the governor, and two others, walking
by the fide of the creek, they very submissively desi-
red to be received into the family again. We told
them of their great incivility to us, and of their un«
natural baibarity to their countrymen \ but yet we
would fee to what the rest agreed to, and in half an
hour's time would bring them word. After some
debate, we called them in, where their two coun-
trymen laid a heavy charge against them, for not on-
ly ruining, but designing to murder them, which
they could not deny. But here I was forced to in-
terpose as a mediator, by obliging the two English-
men not to hurt them, being naked and unarmed,
and that the other three should make them restitu-
tion, by building their two huts, and fencing their
ground in the fame manner as it was before. Well,,
beingin a miserable condition, they submitted to this
at present, and lived some time regularly enough,
except as to the working part, which they did not
care for, but the Spaniards would have dispensed with
that, had they continued easy and quiet. Their arms
being given them again,, they scarce had them a week
when they became as troublesome as ever; but au
accident happening soon aster, obliged us to lay aside
private resentments', and look to our common preser-
vation.
One night, Sir, 1 went to bed, perfectly well in
health, and yet by no means could 1 compose myself
to sieep 5 upon which, being-very uneasy, I got up>
R 2 and
and looked out; but it being dark, I could perceive
nothing but the trees around our castle, I went to
bed again, but it was all one, I could net sleep, when
one of my Spaniards, hearing me walk about, asked
who it was that was up? I answered, it is 1. When
1 told him the occasion, Sir, said he, such things are
not to be slighted; for certainly there is some mis-
chief plotting against us. Where are the Englishmen
said I. He answered, in their huts; for they lay se-
parate from us, Sir, since the last mutiny. Well, said
I, some kind spirit gives this information for our ad-
vantage. Come, let us go abroad, and fee if any
thing offers to justify our fears. Upon which I and
some of my Spaniards went up the mountain, not by
the ladder, but through the grove; and then we were
struck with a panic fear on feeing a light, as though
it were a fire, at a very little distance, and hearing
the voice of several men. Hereupon we retreated
immediately, and raised the rest of our forces, and
made them sensible-of the impending danger-, but
with all my authority, I could not make them stay
where they were, so earnest were they to see how
things went. Indeed the darkness of the night gave
them opportunity enough to view them by the light
of their fire, undiscovered. As they were in diffe-
rent parties, and straggling over the shore, we were
much afraid that they mould find out our habitations*
and destroy our flocks of goats *, to prevent which,
we sent immediately an Englishman and two Spani-
ards to drive the goats into the valley where the cave
lay or, if there was occasion, into the cave itself.
As to ourselves, resuming our native courage, and
prudent conduct, had we not been divided, we durst
venture to attack an hundred of them ; but before it
was yes light, we resolved to send out Friday's fa-
ther as a spy, who immediately stripping himself
naked, gets among them undiscovered, and in two
hours time, brings word, that they were two parties
of two different nations, who lately having a bloody
battle with one another, happened to land by mere
chance
chance in the same island, to devour their miserable
prisoners; that they we're entirely ignorant of any .
person's inhabiting here; but rather being filled with
rage and fury against one another, he believed, that
as soon as day light appeared, there would be a ter-
rible engagement. Old Friday had scarce ended his
relation when we heard an uncommon noise, and
perceived that there was a horrid engagement be-
tween the two armies.
Such was the curiosity of our party, especially the
Englishmen, that they would not lie close, though
Old Friday told them their safety depended upon it;
and that is we had patience, we should behold the
savages kill one another. However, they used some
caution, by going further into the woods, and pla-
cing themselves in a convenient ptece to behold the
battle.
Never could there be a more bloody engagement,,
nor men of more invincible spirits, and prudent con-
duct, according to their way and manner of fighting.
It lasted near two hours, till that p?.rty which was
nearest to our castle began to decline, and at last to
fly from their conquerors. We were undoubtedly
put into a great consternation on this account, left
they should run into our grove, and consequently-
bring us into the like danger. Hereupon we re-
solved to kill the first that came, to prevent discove-
ry; and that too with our swords, and the butt end-
of our muskets, for fear the report of our guns strould
be heard.
And so indeed, as we thought, it. happened : for
three of the vanquished army crofling the creek, ran
directly to the place, as to a thick wood for flicker y.
nor was it long before our.scout gave us notice of it 5
as also, that the victors did nos think fit to pursue
ihem. Upon this I would not suffer them to be Hjfrf,.
but had them surprised and taken by our party:
and afterwards they proved very good servants to us,
keing stout young creatures, and able to do a great:
R-3. do&
deal of work. The remainder of the conquered sa-
vages fled to their canoes, and put out into the ocean,
"while the conquerors joining together,, shouted by
way of triumph, and about three in the afternoon
they also embarked for their own nation. Thus
we were freed at once from the savages and our fears^
not perceiving any of these creatures for some con-
siderable time after. We found two and thirty men
dead in the field of battle; some were slain with
long arrows, which we found sticking in their bodies;
and the rest were killed with great unwieldy wood-
en swords, which denoted their vast strength, and
of which we found seventeen, besides bows and ar-
rows: but we could not find one wounded creature
among them alive; for they either kill their enemies
quite, or carry those wounded away with them.
This terrible sight tamed the Englishmen for some
time, considering how unfortunate they might have
been, had they fallen into their hands, who would not
only kill them as enemies, but also for food, as we
do cattle; and indeed so much did this nauseate
their stomach?, that it not only made them very sick,
but more tractable to the common necessary busi-
ness of the whole society, planting, sowing, and
reaping, with the greatest signs of amity and friend-
ship; so that, being now all good friends, we began
to consider of circumstances in general; and the
first thing we thought of, was, whether, as we per-
ceived the savages haunted that side of the island,,
and there being more retired parts of it, and yet as
well suited to our manner of living, and equally to
our advantage, we ought not rather to move our
place os residence, and plant it in a much safer
place, both for the security of our corn and cattle?
Aster a long debate on this head, it was resolved*
or rather voted, nemine contradicenie> not to remove
our ancient castle, and that for this very good reason,
that some time or other we expected to hear from our
supreme governor, (meaning you Sir), whose mes-
sengers
sengers not finding us there, might think the place
demolished, and all his subjects destroyed by the sa-
vages* ,
As to the next concern, relating to our corn and
cattle, we consented to have them removed to the%
valley where the cave was, that being most proper*
and sufficient for both. But yet, when we consider-
ed further, we altered one part of our resolution;
which was, to remove part of our cattle hither, and
plant only part of our corn there: so that in case one
part was destroyed, the other might be preserved,'
Another resolution we took, which really had a great-
deal of prudence in ic *, and that was, in not trusting
the three savages whom we had taken prisoners*
with any knowledge of the plantations which we
had made in the valley, of what number of cattie we
had there, much less of tho cave, wherein we kept
several arms, and two barrels of powder you left for
us, at your departure from this island. But though
we could not change our habitation, we resolved
to make it more fortified and more secret. To this
end, Sir, as you had planted trees at some distance
before the entrance of your palace; so we, imita-
ting your example, planted and filled up the whole
space of ground, even to'•the banks of the creek, nayf
into the very ooze, where the tide flowed, not lea-
ving a place for landing: and among those I had
planted, they had intermingled so many short ones,
all of which growing wonderfully fast and thick, a
little dog scarcelv could find a passage through them.
Nor was this sufficient, as we thought; for we did
the fame to all the ground, to the right and left hand
of us, even to the top of the hill, without so muchr
as leaving a passage for ourselves, except by the lad-
der: which being taken down, nothing but what
had wings or witchcraft could pretend to come near
us. And indeed this was exceedingly well contri-
ved, especially to serve that occasion, for, which we
afterwards found it necessary.
Thus
Thus we lived two years in a happy retirement,,
having all this time not one visit from the savages.
Indeed one morning we had an alarm, which put us
in some amazement; for a few of my Spaniards be-
ing out very early, perceived no less than twenty
canoes, as it were coming on shore; upon which
returning home, with great precipitation, they gave
us the alarm, which obliged us to keep at home all
that day and the next, going out only in the night-
time to make our observation: but as good luck
would have it, they were upon another design, and
did not laud that time upon the island.
But now there happened another quarrel between
the three wicked Englishmen, and some of my Spa-
niards. The occasion was this: One of them being
enraged at one of the savages, whom he had taken
prisoner, for not being able to comprehend some-
thing which he was shewing him, snatched up a
hatchet in a great fury, not to correct, but to kill
him *, yet missing his head, gave him such a barba-
rous cut in the shoulder, that he had like to have
struck off his arm; at which one of my good natured
Spaniards interposed between the Englishman and
savage, beseeched the former not to murder the poor
creature \ but this kindness had like to have cost
the Spaniard his life, for the Englishman struck at
him in the fame manner, which he nimbly and
wisely avoiding, returned suddenly upon him with his
shovel (being all at work about their corn-land), and
very fairly knocked the brutish creature down.
Hereupon another Englishman, coming to his fel-
low's assistance, laid the good Spaniard on the earth;
when immediately two others coming to his relief,
were attacked by the third Englistiman, armed with
an iron cutless, who wounded them both. This up-
roar soon reached our ears/ when we rushed out
upon them, took the three Englishmen prisoners,.
and then our next question was, what we should do
with such mutiuous and impudent fellows, so furi-
ous, desperate, and idle, that they were mischievous
to
to the highest degree, and consequently not safe for
. the society to let them live among them.
Now, Sir, as 1 was governor in your absence, so
I also took the authority of a judge*, and having
them brought before me, I told them, that if tliey
had been of my country, 1 would have hanged every
mother's son of them j but since it was an Englishman
(meaning you, kind Sir,) to whom we were indebted
for our preservation and deliverance, 1 would in gra-
titude use them with all possible mildness but at
the fame time leaving them to the judgment of the
other two Englishmen-, who, I hoped, forgetting
their resentments, wouloSdeal impartially by them.
Hereupon one of his country men stood up: S/r,
said he, leave it not to us, for you may be sensible we
have reason to sentence them tothe gallows : besdes>Sir9
this fellow, Will Atkins and the two others, proposed
to us^thdt we might murder you all in your sleeps
which we would not consent to \ but knowing their in*
ability, and your vigilance, we did not think Jit to dis*
lover it before now.
How Seignior, said I, do you hear what is alled-
ged against you? what can you fay to justify so hor-
rid an action, as to murder us in cold blood? So far,
Sir, was the wretch from denying it, that he swore,
d -mn him but he would do it still. But what have
we done to you Seignior Atkins, said I, or what
will you gain by killing usi What shall we do
to prevent you? Must we kill you, or you kill us:
Why will you Seignior Atkins (said I smiling), put
us to such an unhappy dilemma, such a fatal necessi-
ty ; But so great a rage did my scoffing, and yet se-
vere jest, put him into, that he was going to fly at
me, and undoubtedly had attempted to kill me if he
had been possessed of weapons, and had not been pre-
vented by three Spaniards. This unparallelled and
villainous carriage, made us serioufly consider what
was to be done. The two Englistimen and the Spa-
niard, who had saved the poor Indian's life, mightily
petitioned me to hang one of them, for an example
to
to the others, which should be him that had twice at-
tempted to commit murder with his hatchet, it being
at that time thought impossible the poor slave should
recover. But they could never gain my consent to
put him to death, for the reasons above mentioned,
since it was an Englishman (even yourself) who was
my deliverer, and as merciful counsels are moll: pre-
vailing, when earnestly pressed, so I got them to be
of the fame opinion as to clemency. But to prevent
their doing us any further mischief, we all agreed,
that they should have no weapons, as sword, gun,
powder, or shot, but be expelled from the society, to
live as they pleased, by themselves; that neither the
two Englishmen, nor the rest os the Spaniards, mould
have conversation with them upon any account what-
soever: that they mould be kept from coming within
a certain distance of our castle; and if they dared to
offer us any violence, either by spoiling, burning,
killing, or destroying any of the corn, plantings,
buildings, fences, or cattle belonging to the society,
we would shoot them as freely as we would do beasts
of prey, in whatsoever p'-ce* wt* should s:::d them.
This sentence seemed very just to all but them-
selves; when, like a merciful judge, I called out to
the two honest Englishmen, saying, You must consi-
der they ought not tobe starved neither: and since it
will be some time before they can raise corn and cat-
tle of their own, let us give them some corn to last
them eight months, and for feed to fow> by which
time they'll raise some for themselves: let us also be-
stow upon them six milk goats, four he ones, and
fix kids, as well for their present support, as for a
further increase; with tools necessary for their work,
as hatchets, an axe, saw, and other things conveni-
ent to build them huts: all which were agreed to;
but before they took them in possession, I obliged
them solemnly to swear, never to attempt any thing
against us or their countrymen for the future. Thus
dismissing them from our society, they went away,
sullen and refractory, as though neither willing to go
"- nor
nor stay; however, seeing no remedy, they took what
provision was given them, proposing to chuse a conve-
nient place, .where they might live by themselves.
About five days after, they came to those limits
appointed, in order for more victuals, and sent me
word by one os my Spaniards, whom they called to,
where they had pitcfied their tents, and marked them-
selves out an habitation and plantation, at the N. E.
and most remote part of the island. And indeed
there they built themselves two very handsome cot-
tages, resembling our little castle, being under the
side os a mountain, wim some trees already growing
on three sides of it, so tfrat planting a sew more, it
would be obscured srorr^ sight, unless particularly
sought for. When these huts were finished, we gave
them some dry goat (kins for bedding and covering;
and upon their giving us fuller assurances of their
good behaviour for the suture, we gave them some
pease, barley, and rice for sowing, and whatever
tools we could spare.
Six months did they live in this separate conditi-
on, in which they got their first harvest in, the quan-
tity of which was but small, because they had p. ,.it-
ed but little land; for indeed all their plantations be-
ing to form, made it the more difficult, especially as
it was a thing out of their element; and when they
were obliged to make their boards and pots, &c. they
could make little or nothing of it. But the rainy sea-
son coming on, put them into a great perplexity for
want of a cave to keep their corn dry, and prevent
it from spoiling ; and so much did this humble them,
that they begged of my Spaniards to help them, to
which the good-natured men readily consented, and
in four days space worked a great hole in the side of
the hill for them, large enough for their purpose, 10
secure their corn and other things from the rain, tho*
not comparable to ours, which had several additional
apartments.
But a new whim possessed these rogues about three
quarters
quarters of a year after, which had like to have ruin-
ed us and themselves too: for, it seems being tired
and weary of this fort of living, which* made them
work for themselves, without hopes of changing their
condition, nothing would serve them, but they would
make a voyage to the continent, a/id try if they could
seize upon some of the savages,^and bring them over
as slaves, to do their drudgery., while they lived at
ease and pleasure.
Indeed the project was not so preposterous, if they
had not gone farther , but the^y neither did, nor pro-
posed any thing, but what had mischief in the de-
sign, or the event. One mjfrning these three fellows
came down to the limited station, and humbly desi-
red to be admitted to talk with us: which we readi-
ly granted \ they told us, in short, that being tired
of their manner of living, and the labour of their
hands, in such employments, not being sufficient to
v procure the necessaries of life, they only desired one
of the canoes we came over in, with some arms and
ammunition, for their defence, and they would seek
their fortunes abroad, and never trouble us any more.
To be sure, we were glad enough to get rid os such
wretched plagues ; but yet honesty made us ingenu-
ously represent to them, by what we ourselves had
suffered, the certain destruction they were running
"into, either of being starved to death, or murdered
by the savages. To this they very audaciously re-
plied, that they neither could nor would work; and
consequently, that they might as well be starved a-
broad as at home: and as to their falling into the
hands of the savages, why, if they were murdered,
that was nothing to us, there was an end of them,
neither had they any wives or children to cry after
them; nay, so intent were they upon their voyage,
that if the .Spaniards had not given them arms, so
they had but the canoe, they would have gone with-
out them.
Though we could not well spare our fire-arms, ra*
ther then they should go like naked men, we let them
have
have two muskets, a pistol, a cutlass, and three hat-
chets, which were thought very sufficient: we gave
them also goats "flesh, a great basket fuJJ of dried grapes,
a pot of fresh butter, a young live kid, and a large
canoe sufficient to carry twenty men. And thus,
with a mast, made ^f a/long pole, and a fail of six
large goats skins drie^ having a fair breeze, and a
flocd tide with themj they merrily sailed away, the
Spaniards calling after them, Bon veyajo, no man
ever expecting to fee them more.
When they were gon^ the Spaniards and English-
men would often say one to another, 0 how peace-
able do we now live^since^hose turbulent fellows have
left us? Nothing could be farther from their
thoughts, than to behold tneir faces any more; and
yet scarce two and twenty d^ys had pailVd over their
heads, but one of -the Englishmen, being abroad a-
planung, perceived at a distance, three men well
armed, approaching towards him. Away he flies
with speed to our castle, and tells me and the reft,
that we were all undone, for that strangers were
landed upon the island, and who they were he could
not tell; but added, that they were not savages, but
men habited, bearing arms. Why then, said I, we
have the less occasion to be concerned, since, is they
are not Indians, they must be friends; for I ain sure
there is no Christian people upon earth, but what
will do us good rather than harm. But while we
wTere considering of the event, up came the three
Englishmen, whose voices we quickly knew, and so
all our admiration ofthat nature ceased at once. And
our wonder was succeeded by another sort of inqui-
ry, which was* what could be the occasion of their re-
turning so quickly to the island, when we little ex-
pected, and much less desired their company? But
as this was better to be related by themselves, I or-
dered them to be brought in, when they gave me
the following relation of their voyage.
After two days fail, or something less, they reach-
ed land, where they found the people coming to give
S them
2o6 life and adventures
them another sort of reception than what they ex-
pected or desired: for as the sarages were armed
with bows and arrows, they durst n6t« venture on
'shore* but steered northward, six or seven hours, till
they gained an opening, by which they p3a;n!y per-
ceived, that the land that ap<r>ear£d from this place,
was not the main land but thVJTland. At their en-
trance into the opening of thejfea, they discovered
another island, on the right hand northward, and
-several more lying to the westward; but being re-
solved to goon shore some - where or other, they
put over to one os the western islands. Here they
found the natives very coprteous to them, giving
them several roots and dried fish; nay, ever? their
women too were as willing *to supply them with what
they could procure them to eat, bringing it a great
way to them upon their heads. Among these ho-
spitable Indiana they continued some days, inquiring
by signs and tokens, what rations lay around them;
and were informed, that there were several fierce
and terrible people lived every way, accustomed to
eat mankind: but for themselves, they never used
such diet, except those that were taken in battle, and
of them they made a solemn feast.
They Englishmen inquired how long it was since
they had a feast of that kind I They answered, about
two moons ago, pointing to the moon; and then
to two fingers; that, at this time their king had two
hundred prisoners, which were fattening up for the
slaughter. The Englishmen were mightily desirous
of feeing the prisoners, which the others mistaking,
thought they wanted some of them for their own
food: upon which they beckoned to them, pointing
to the rising, and then to the setting of the sun;
meaning, that by the time that it appeared in the east
next morning, they would bring them some; and
indeed they were as good as their word; for by that
time they brought eleven men and five women, just
as so many cows and oxen are brought to sea-port
towns, to victual a ship. But as brutisli as these
Englishmen
Englishmen were, their stomachs turned at the sight,
What to do in this cafe, they could not tell: to re-
fuse the prisoners, would have been the highest af-
front offered to the savage gentry j and to dispose ot
them, they knew not in what manner: however, they-
resolved to accept rfbeoi, and so gave them, in re-
turn, one of their ^urtchets, an old key, a knife,
and six or seven of thfeir bullets: things which, tho'
they were wholly ignorant of, yet seemed entirely
contented with; and dragging the poor wretches in-
to the boat, with their hands bound behind them,
delivered them to the EJnglimmen. Bat this obliged
them to put off as soon\as they had these presents,
lest the donors should hafe expected two or three of
them to be killed, and tb be invited to dinner the
next day: and so taking leave with all possible re-
spect and thanks, though neither of them understood
what the other said, they sailed away back to the
first island, and there set eight of the prisoners ac
liberty. In their voyage they endeavoured to com-
fort, and have some conversation with the poor cap-
tives; but it was impossible to make them sensible
of any thing: and nothing they could say, or give,
or do for them, could make them otherwise persua-
ded, but that they were unbound only to be devour-
ed: if they gave them any food,they thoughtk was only
to fatten them for the (laughter; or looked at any one
more particularly, the poor creature supposed itself to
be the first sacrifice : and even when we brought them
to our island, and began to use them with the greatest;
humanity and kindness, yet they expelled every day
that their new masters would devour them.
And thus, Sir, did these three strange Wanderers
conclude their unaccountable relation of their voy-
age, which was both amazing and entertaining. Here-
upon I asked them, where their new family was I
They told me, they had put them into one of their
huts, and they came to beg some victuals for them.
This, indeed, made us all long to fee them; and so
taking Friday's father with us, leaving, only two at our
S % - castle,
castle, we came down to behold these poor creatures.
When we arrived at the hut, (they being bound
again by the Englishmen, for fear of escaping), we
found them stark naked, expecting their fatal tra-
gedy: there were three lusty men, well shaped, with
straight and fair limbs, between, thirty and five and
thirty years old; and five \v*rfnen, two of them
might be frcm thirty to forty,Two more not above
four and twenty; and the last' comely tall maiden
of about seventeen. Indeed, all the women were
very agreeable, both in their nroportion and features,
except that they were tawny, which their modest
behaviour and otrur gracesrfiade amends for, when
they afterwards came to beiclothed.
This naked appearance, db^ether with their miser-
able circumstances, was no very comfortable fight
to my Spaniards, who, for their parts, I may ven-
ture, Sir, without flattery, to fay, are men of the
best behaviour, calmest tempers, and sweetest na-
ture, that can possibly be; for they immediately or-
dered Friday's father to fee if he knew any of them,
cr if he understood what they could fay. No soon-
er did the old Indian appear, but he looked at them
with great seriousness; yet, as they were not of his
nation, they were utter strangers to him, and none
could understand his speech or signs, but one wo-
man. This was enough to answer the design,
which was to a (Hi re them they would not be killed,
being Fallen into the hands of Christians, who ab-
horred such barbarity. When they were fully.satis-
fied of this, they expressed their joy, by such
strange gestures, and uncommon tones, as it is not
postible for me to describe. But the woman, their
interpreter, was ordered next to inquire, whether
(hey were content to be servants, and vvoulcl work
for the men, who had brought them hither to save
their lives I Hereupon (being at this time unbound)
they fell a capering 'and dancing, one taking this
thing upon her shoulders, and the other that, inti-
mating, that they were willing to do any thing for
them.
 
 
them. But now, Sir, having women among us, and
dreading th.it it might occasion some strife, if not
blood, 1 a Ike J the three men what they would do,
and how they intended to use these creatures, whe-
ther as ferrants or women? One of them very pert-
ly and readily anfoereck they would use them as
both. Gentlemen,\u/l, as you are your own ma-
sters, I am not going [o restrain you from that; but,,
meihinks, for avoidng, dissension among you, I
would only desire you'to engnge, that none of you
will take more than one for a woman or a wife, and*
that having taken this oVe, none else sliould presume
to touch her; for thougnVve have not a priestly au-
thority to marry you, vetlit is but reasonable, that
-whoever thus takes a wlinan, mould be obliged to
maintain her, since nobody else has any thing to do
with her: and this indeed appeared so just to all pre-
sent, that it was unanimously agreed to, The En-
glishmen then asked my Spaniards, whether they de-
signed to take any of them but they ail answered,.
No; some declaring they had already wives in Spain,
and others, that they cared not to join with infidels.
On the reverse, the Englishmen took each of them a
a temporary wife, and so set up a new method of li-
ving. As to Friday's father, the Spaniards, and-
the three savage servants we had taken in the late
battle, they all lived with me in our ancienr castle j.
and indeed we supplied the rruir* part of the island,
with food, as necessity required. But the rrrost re-
markable p^rt of the story is, how these Englishmen,*
who h id been so much at variance, mould agree a-
bout the choice of these women \ yet they took
way good enough to prevent quarelling among them-
selves. They set the live women in one os their huts,
and £oing themselves to the other, drew lots which
should have the fiifl choice. Now, he that had the
first lot went to the hut, and fetched out her he chose,
and it is remarkable, that he took her that was the
most homely and eldest of the number, which made
the rest of the Englishmen exceeding merry. The
S 3 Spaniaid;
 
Spaniards themselves could not but smile at it: but,
as it happened, the fellow had the best thought, in
chusing one sit for application and business: and in-
deed (he proved the best wife of all the parcel.
But when the poor creatures perceived themselves
placed in a row, and feparat^i o:\orby one, they were
again seized with an unsp^Lffcle terror, as now
thinking they were going to bafslain in earnest; and
when the Englishmen came tottake the first, the rest
set up a lamentable cry, chyt their arms around
her neck, and hanging about' her, took their last
farewell, as they thought, ifl such trembling ago-
nies, and affectionate embraces, as would have
softened the hardest heart/in the world, and made
she dryest eyes melt into fears •, nor could they be
persuaded but that they were going to die, till such
time as Fridays father made thtm sensible that the
Englishmen had chosen them for their wives, which
ended all their terror and concern on this occasion.
Well, after this, the Englishmen went to work, and
being assisted by my good natured Spaniard, in a few
hours they erected every one of them a new hut or
tent, for their separate lodging, since those they had
already were silled with tools, household stuff and
provision. They all continued on the north more of
» the island, but separate as before, the three wicked,
ones pitching farther off, and the two honest men
nearer our castle, so that the island seemed to be peo-
pled in three places, three towns beginning to be
built for that purpose. . And here I cannot but re-
mark what is very common, that the two honest men
had the worst wives, (I mean as to industry, cleanli-
ness and integrity,) while the three reprobates en-
joyed women of quite contrary qualities.
But another observation I made, was in favour of
the two honest men, to stiew what disparity there is
between a diligent application to business on the one
land, and a slothful, negligent, and idle temper on
the other. Both of them had the fame quantity of
ground laid out, and corn to sow sufficient for them;
but
 
but both did not make the same improvement, ei-
ther in their cultivation, or in their planting. The
two hone st men had a multitude of young trees plant-
ed about thei| habitations, so that when you ap-
proached near lhem, nothing appeared but a wood,
very pleasing ancSdelig-btful. Every thing they did
prospered and flour\ttj2p t their grapes planted in or-
der, seemed as thouan managed in a vineyard, and
were infinitely preferable to any of the others. Nor
were they wanting tolfind out a place of retreat, but
dug a cave in the mok retired part of a thick wood,
to secure their wives V>d chijdren, with their pro-
vision and chiefest good^l for round ed with innumer-
able stakes, and havingl most subtile entrance, in
cafe any mischief fhould| happen either from their
fellow countrymen, or the devouring savages.
As to the reprobates, (though I must own they
were much more civilized than before), instead of a
delightful wood surrounding their dwellings, we
fouod the words of King Solomon too nudy verified:
/ went by the vineyard of the slothful^ and it -was all
overgrown with thorns* In many places their crop
was obscured with weeds; the hedges having several
gaps in them, the wild goats had got in, and eaten
up the corn, and here and there was a dead bush,
to stop in those ga*ps for the present, which was no
more than (hutting the stable-door after the steed
was stolen away. But as to their wives, they (as I
observed before) were more diligent, and cleanly e-
nough, especially in their victuals, being instructed
by one of the honest men, who had been a cook's
mate on board a ship; and very well it was so; for
as he cooked himself, his companions and their fa-
milies lived as well as the idle husbands, who did
nothing but loiter about, fetch turtles eggs, catch
fisti and birds, and do any thiiig but work, and-lived
accordingly, while the diligent lived very handsomely
and plentifully, in the most comfortable manner.
And now, Sir, I come to lay before your eyes a
scene quite different from any thing that ever happen-
ed
 
ed us before, and perhaps ever besel you in al! the
time of your residence on this island. I shall inform
you os its original in the following manner.
One morning, Sir, very early, ther^ came five or
fix canoes of Indians on shore, irutflputably upon
their olvl custom of devouring thoir prisoners. All
that we had to do upon such a^occasion, was to lie
concealed, that they, not havinr any notice of in-
habitants, might depart quiets , alter performing
their bloody execution: whoever first discovered the
savages, was to give notice to Jill the three plantati-
ons to kv.ep within doors, arlfl then a proper scout
w'as to be placed to give inJelligence of their depar-
ture. But, notwithstanding! these wise measures, an
unhappy disaster discovered^ to the savages, which
wjs like to have caused the desolation of the whole
island: for, aster the savages were gone off in their
canoes, some of my Spaniards and 1 looking abroad,
2nd being inflamed with a curiosity to fee what they
had been doing, to our great amazement, beheld
three savages fust asleep on the ground, who, either
being gorged, could not awake wheu the others went
ess, or having wandered too far into the woods, did
not come back in time.
What to do wich them at first, we could not tell;
as for slaves, we had enough of them already; and as
to, kill them, neither Christianity nor humanity
would fust er us to ihed the blo^d of persons who ne-
ver did us wrong. We perceived they had no boat
left them to transport them to their own nation; and
that by letting them wander about, they might dis-
cover us, and inform the first savages that should
happen to land upon the fame bloody occasion, which
'information might entirely tuiri us; and therefore I
counselled mv Spaniard to secure them, and set them
about some work or other, till we could better dis-
pose os them.
Hereupon we all went back, and making them a-
wake, took them prisoners. It is impossible to ex-
press the horror they were in, especially when bound,
as
 
as thinking they were going to be murdered and
eaten, but we soon eased them os their sear as to
that point. ^Ve first took them to the bower, where
the chief of oi\f country work lay, as keeping goats,
planting corn,^c. and then carried them to the two
Englishmen's halJ^tiorA to help them in their busi-
ness: but happy it^sf for us all, we did not carry
them to our castle, asTy the sequel will appear. The
Englishmen indeed fcLnd them work to do; »>ut whe-
ther they did not guAd them strictly, or that they
thought they could i\t better themselves, I cannot
tell ; but one of thenN ran away into the woods,
aud they could not hearts him for a long time after.
Undoubtedly there wal reason enough to suppose
he got home in some of fie conoes, the savages re-
turning in about four weeks time, and going off in
the space of two days. You may be certain, Slr%
this thought could not but terrify us exceedingly,
and make us justly conclude that this savage would
inform his countrymen of our abode in the island,
how few and weak we were in comparison to their
numbers •> and we expected it would not be long
before the Englishmen would be attacked in their ha-
bitations, but the savages had not seen their places
of safety in the woods nor our castle, which it was a
great happiness they did not know.
Nor were we mistaken in our thoughts upon this
occasion, for about eight months after this, hx ca-
noes, with about ten men in each canoe, came sail-
ing By the north side of the island, which they were
never accustomed to do before, and landed about an
hour after sun rise, near a mile from the dwelling os
the two Englishmen, who it seems had the good for-
tune to discover them about a league off, so that it
was an hour before they could attain the more, and
some longer time before they could come at them.
And now being confirmed in this opinion, that they
were certainly betrayed, they immediately bound the
two slaves which were left, causing two of the three
men, which they brought with the women, and who
proved
 
proved very faithful, to lead them with their wives,
and other conveniences, unto their retired cave in the
wood, and there to bind-the two fello^* hand and
foot, till they had further orders. TVey then open-
ed their fences, where they kept L^eir milk goats,
and drove them all out, giving ufle goats liberty to
ramble in the woods, to ml^rthe savages believe
that they were wild ones $ butjthe slave h.ul given a
truer information, which mart them come to the
very inclosures. The two sighted men sent the
other slave of the three who rad been with them by
accident, to alarm the Spaniards, and desire their as-
sistance; in the mean U\rfy they took their arms
and ammunition, and male to the cave, where they
had sent their wives, and securing their slaves, seated
themselves in a private placet from whence they
might behold all the actions of the savages. Nor
had they gone far, when ascending a rising ground,
they could fee a little army of Indians approaching to
their beautiful dwelling, and, in a few moments
more, perceive the fame, and their furniture, to their
unspeakable grief, burning in a consuming flame:
and when this was done, they spread here and there,
searching every bush and place for the people, of
whom, it was very evident, they had information.
On which the two Englishmen, not thinking them-
selves secure where they stood, retreated about half
a mile higher into the country, rightly concluding,
that the farther the savages strolled, there would be
lesser numbers together: upon which they next took
their stand by the trunk of an old tree, very hollow
and large, whence they resolved to fee what would
offer: but they had not stood long there before two
savages came running directly towards them, as
though having knowledge of their being there, who
seemed resolved to attack them; a little farther were
three more, and five more behind them again, all
running the fame way. It cannot be imagined what
perplexity the poor men were in at this sight, think-
ing, that if assistance did not speedily come, their
 
cave
cave in the wood would be discovered, and conse-
quently all therein lost; so they resolved to resist
them there ; tend when overpowered, to ascend to
the top os the Ijees, where they might defend them-
selves as long a?Vheir ammunition lasted* and fell
their lives as deaSes possible to those devouring sa-
vages. Thus, sixeaVif their resolution, they next
considered, whether Iiey should fire at the first two,
or wait for the three,lmd so take the middle p^rty,
by which the two firfland the five last would be se-
parated. In this reflation the two savages also
confirmed them, by tuVing a little to another pare
of the wood; but the thrte, and the five after them,
came directly towards thi tree. Hereupon they re-
solved to take them in a direct line, as they approach-
ed nearer, because perhaps the first shot might hit
them all three; and upon this occasion, the man
who was to fire, charged his piece with three or four
bullets. And thus, while they were waiting, the sa-
vages came on, one of them was the runaway, who
had caused all the mischief; so they resolved he
should not escape, is they both fired at once. But
however, though they did not fire together, they were
ready charged; when the first that let fly, was too
good a marksman to miss his aim; for he killed the
for most outright, the second (who was the runaway
Indian,) fell on the ground, being (hot through the
body, but not dead, and the third was a little wound-
ed on the shoulder, who, sitting down on the ground,
fell a screaming in a most fearful manner. The noise
of the guns, which not only made the most resound-
ing echoes, from one side to another, but raised
the birds of all forts, fluttering with the most con-
fused noise, so much terrified the five savages behind,
that they stood flill at first, like so many inanimate
images. But when all things were in profound si-
lence, they came to the place where their companions
lar : and there, being not sensible that they were
liable to the same fate, stood over the wounded
man, undoubtedly inquiring the occasion of this fad
calamity \
 
calamity and it is as reasonable to suppose, he told
them, that it came by thunder and lightning from
the gods, having never seen nor heardÆf a gun be-
fore, in the whole course of their Mres. By this
time, the Englishmen having ]ou/sd their pieces,
fired both together a second Wop?hen seeing them
all fall immediately upon the^fround, they thought
they had killed every creature ct them. This made
them come up boldly before tley had charged their
guns, which indeed was a vrong step; for when
they came to the place, they found four.alive, two
of them very little wouruæd, and one not at all,
which obliged them to falfupon them with their
muskets. They first knoclfed the runaway savage on
the head, and another that" was but a little wound-
ed in the arm, and then put the other languishing
wretches out of their pain; while he th.it was not
hurt, with bending knees, and uplifted hands, made
piteous moans and signs to them to spare his life:
nor indeed were they unmerciful to the poor wretches,
but pointed to them to fit down at the root of a tree
hard by; and then one of the Englishmen, with a
piece of rope twine he had in his pocket by mere
chance, tying his two feet together, and his two
hands behind him, they left him there, making all
the haste they could after the other two, fearing they
should find out their cave: but though they could
not overtake them, they had they satisfaction to per-
ceive^them, at a distance, cross a valley towards the
sea, a quite contrary way to their retreat; upon
which they returned to the tree, to look after their
prisoner; but when they came there he was gone,
leaving the piece of rope-yarn wherewith he was
bound behind him.
Well, now they were as much concerned as ever,
as not knowing how near their enemies might be, or
in what numbers: mmediately they repaired to their
cave to fee if all was well there, and found every
thing safe, except the women, who were frighted
upon
 
217
upon their husbands account, whom now they loved
entirely- They had not been long here, before seven
of my SpaniaKis came to assist them; while the other
ten, their servants, and Friday's father, were gone to
defend their bowW. corn, and cattle, in cafe the sa-
vages should haveS^m/led so far. There accom-
panied the seven Spaniards, one of the three savages,
that had formerly beeji taken prisoners $ and with
them also, that very Ildian whom the Englishmen
had a little before left-Vnder the tree; for it seems
they passed by that wlw where the (laughter was
made, and so carried afljuig with them that poor
wretch that was left bounu. But so many prisoners
now becoming a burden ftp us, and searing the
dreadful consequence of tneir escaping, most of the
Spaniards and English urged the absolute necessity
there was of killing them for our common preser-
vation: but, Sir, the authority I bore as a gover-
nor, overruled that piece of cruelty; and then I
ordered them to be sent prisoners to the old cave in
the valley, bound hands and feet, with two Spaniards
to guard them.
So much encouraged were the Englishmen at the
approach os the Spaniards, and so great was their
fury against the savages, for destroying their habi-
tations, that they had not patience to stay any longer;
but, taking five Spaniards along with them, armed
with four muslcets, a pistol, and a quarter staff, away
they went in pursuit of their enemies. As they passed
by the place where the savages were stain, it was ve-
ry easy to be perceived that more of them had been
there, having attempted to carry off their dead bo-
dies, but found it impracticable. From a rising
ground, our party had the mortification to fee the
smoke that proceeded from the ruins; when coming
farther in sight of the stiore, they plainly perceived
that the savages had embarked in their canoes, and
were putting out to sea. This they were very sorry
for there being no coming at them to give them a
T parting
 
parting salute; but, however, they were glad enough
to get clear of such unwelcome guests.
Thus the two honest, but unfortunattÆnglishmen,
feeing ruined a second time, and their/mprovements
<]uite destroyed, most of my good natfTired Spaniards
helped them to rebuild andWe a>nuTisted them with
needful supplies ; nay, what ikrfrf>re remarkable, their
three mischievous countrymen/ when they heard it,
(which was after all these difaters were over, they
living remote eastward), very/friendly sympathised
with them, and worked for jfiem several days: so
that in a little time their halation was rebuilt, their
necessities supplied, and trfemlelves restored to their
former tranquillity. I
Though the savages hand nothing to boast of in
this adventure, (several canoes being driven ashore,
followed by two drowned creatures, having un-
doubtedly met with a storm at sea, that very night
they departed),yet it was natural to be supposed, that
those, whose better fortune it was to attain their na-
tive shore, would inflame their nation to another
ruinous attempt, with a greater force, to carry all
before them. And indeed so it happened; for, about
seven months after, our island was invaded with a
most formidable navy, no less than eight and twenty
canoes full of savages, armed with wooden swords,
monstrous clubs, bows, and arrows, an J suchlike in-
struments os war, landing at the east side of the island.
You may well, Sir, imagine, what consternation our
men were in upon this account, and how speedily
they were to execute their resolution, having only
that night's time allowed them. They knew, that
since they could not withstand their enemies, con-
cealment was the only way to procure their safety:
and thererore they took down the huts that were
built for the two Englishmen, and drove their slock
of goats, together with their own at the bower to the
old cave in the valley leaving as little appearance of
inhabitants as possible> and then posted themselves
with all their force at the plantation of the two men
 
As they expected, so it happened; for early the next
morning, the Indians, leaving their canoes at the east
end of theVÆand, came running along the Chore,
about two hundred and fifty in number, as near as
could be guesse\ Our army was but little indeed;
and what was our^gre^'est misfortune, we had not
The account, as to the
arms sufficient
men, Sir, is as folio
 
>w^
17 Spaniards.
5 Englijhmetu
1 Old Friday.
3 The three savages td
ken with the women,
who proved faithfuls
servants.
3 Other Jlavesy living
with the Spaniards.
11 Muskets.
5 Pistols.
3 Fowling-pieces.
2 Swords.
3 Old halberts.
5 Muskets, or fowling-'
pieces, taken from
the-sailors whom you
reduced.
As to our (laves, we gave three of them halberts,,
and the other three long slaves, with great iron
spikes at the end of them, with hatchets by their
sides: we also had hatchets sticking in our girdles,
besides the fire arms: nay, two of the women, in-
spired with Amazonian fortitude, could not be -dis-
suaded from sighting along with their dearest hus-
bands, and if they ditd, to die with them. Seeing
their resolution, we,gave them hatchets likewise*,
but what pleased them best, were the bows and ar-
rows (which they dexterously knew how to use) that
the Indians had left behind them, after their memo-
rable battle one against another.
Over this army, which, though little, was of great
intrepidity, 1 was constituted chief general and com-
mander; and knowing Will Atkins^ though exceed-
ing wicked, yet a man of invincible courage, I gave
him the power of commanding under me: he and
six men, with their muskets loaded, with six or seven
bullets a-piece, were planted just behind a small thick-
et of bustles, as an advanceci guard, having orders
to let the first pass by \ and then, when he fired into
T z "the
the middle of them, make a nimble retreat round
part of the wood, and so come in the rear of the
Spaniards, who were shaded by a thicket of trees;
for though the savages came on witbfthe fierceness
of lions, yet they wanted the subtilt^)f foxes, being
out of all manner of order,\and^fraggling in heaps
every way: aud indeed wheAWill Atkins, after fifty
of the savages had passed by, had ordered three of his
men to give sire, so great was iheir consternation, to
fee so many men killed and w#unded, an.d hear such
a dreadful noise, and yet not ^know whence it came,
that they were frightened {to the highest degree;
and when the second volfey was given, they con-
cluded no less but that th^ir companions were slain
by thunder and lightening«from heaven. In this no-
tion they would have continued, had Will Atkins
and his men retired as soon as they fired, according
to order; or had the rest been near them, to pour
in them shot continually, there might have been a
complete victory obtained; but staying to load their
pieces again, discovered the whole matter. They
were perceived by some of the scattering savages at a
distance, who let fly their arrows among them,
wounded Atkins himfclf,and ki lled his fellow English-
man, and one of the Indians taken with the women.
Our party did not fail to answer them, and in their
rerreat killed ahout twenty savages. Here I cannot
but take notice of our poor dying slave, who, though
itopt from his retreat by a fatal arrow, yet with his
staff and hatchet desperately and gallantly slsailed the
pursuers, and killed five of the savages, before his
life submitted ro a multiplicity of wounds. Nor is
v.- the cruelty or malice of the Indians to be less re-
marked, in breaking the aims, legs, and heads of
the two dead bodies, with their clubs and wooden
swords, after a most wretched manner. As Atkins
retreated, our party advanced, to interpose between
him and the savages; but after three volleys, we
were obliged to retreat also: for they were so nume-
rous and desperate, that they came up to our very
teeth,
 
teeth, shot their arrows like a cloud,and their wound-
ed men, enraged with cruel pain, fought like mad-
men. Thetalid not, however, think sit to follow us,
but drawing tRfcmselves up in a circle, they gave two
triumphant mouVfiin token of victory, though they
had the grief to le^e several of their wounded men
bleed to death beforeVbem.
After I had, Sir, drawn up our little army toge-
ther upon a rising gifcund, Atkins, wounded as he
was, would have had\s attack the whole body of the:
savages at once. I was extremely well pleased with
the gallantry of the man%f but, upon consideration, I
replied, You perceive, Signior Atkins, how their
wounded men fight ; let them alone till rfio mingy when
they will be faint, stiffs and fore', and then we shall
have fewer to combat with* To which Will-Atkins,
smiling, replied, That's very true. Seignior, and so
shall I too; and that's the reason I wouldfight than
now I am warm. We all answered, Seignior Atkins,
for your part, you have behaved very gallantly; and
if you are not able to approach the enemy in the
morning* we will fight for you, till then we think ic
convenient to wait, and so we tarried.
By the brightness of the moon that night, we per-
ceived the savages in great disorder about their dead1
and wounded men. This made us change our reso-
lution, and resolve to fall upon them in the night, if
we could give them one volley undiscovered. This>
we had a fair opportunity to do, by one of the two
Englishmen's leading us round, between the woods
and the sea Tide westward, and turning short south,
came privately to a place where the thickest: of therm
were. Unheard and unperceivM, eight of us sired a-
moult them, and did dreadful execution •, and in-
half a minute after, eight more of us let fly, killing-
and wounding abundance of them and then divide
ing ourselves into three bodies, eight persons i% each?
body, we marched from among the trees, to the very
teeth of the eneiBy^ fending forth the greatest shouts*
 
and acclamations. The savages hearing a different
noise from three quarters at once, stood in the utmost
confusion; but coming in sight of us, left fly a volley
of arrows, which wounded poor old E/iday, yet hap-
pily it did not prove mortal. We dm not however
give them a second opportunity, iftit rushing in a^
morrg them, we fired three severs ways, and then fell
to work with our swords, staves, hatchets, and the
butt-end of our muskets, withia fury not to be re-
lifted; so that, with the most Jaismal screaming and
howling, they had recourse to/their feet, to save their
lives by a speedy flight. Norfmust we forget the va-
lour of the two women, for they exposed themselves
%o the greatest dangers, killed many with their ar-
rows, and valiantly destroyed several more with their
hatchets.
In fighting these two battle9, we were so much ti-
led, that we did not then trouble ourselves to pursue
them to their canoes, in which we thought they
would presently put to the ocean; but there happen-
ing a dreadful storm at sea, which continuing all that
night, it not only prevented their voyage, but dashed
several of their boats to pieces against the beach, and
drove the rest so high upon the shore, that it requi-
red infinite pains to get them ofF. After our men
had taken some refreshment, and a little repose, they
resolved, early in the morning, to go towards the
place of their landing, and fee whether they were
gone off, or in what posture they remained. This
necessarily led them to the place of battle, where se-
veral of the savages were expiring; a sight no way
pleasing to generous minds, to delight in their mise-
ry, tho* obliged to conquer them by the law of arms >
but our own Indian slaves put them out of their pain,
by dispatching them with their hatchets. At length,
coming in view of the remainder of their army, we
found them leaning upon their knees, which were
berjdecl towards their mouth, and the head between
tjie two hands. Hereupon, coming within mulket-
 
shot of them, I ordered two pieces to be fired with-
out ball, in order to alarm them, that we might
plainly knovL whether they had the courage to ven-
ture another ^battle, or were utterly dispirited from
such an attempt\that so we might accordingly ma-
nage them. And indeed the project took very well;
for no sooner did the savages hear the first gun, and
.perceived the flash of the second, but they suddenly
started upon their feet, in the greatest consternation j
and when we appro\ched towards them, they ran
yowling and screaming away up the hill into the
country. If
We could rather, at first, have wished, that the
•weather had permitted them to have gone off to the
sea ; but when we considered, that their escape might
occasion the approach of multitudes, to our utter ruin
and dissolution, we were very well pleased the contra-
ry happened: and Will Atkins (who, though wound-
ed, would not part from us all this while) advised us
not to ler flip this advantage, but clapping between
them and their boats, deprive them of the capacity of
ever returning to plague the island : Iknow^ (said he)
there is but one objection you can make, which is, that
these creatures living like beasts in the wood, may
make excursions, rifle the plantations, and'deflroy the
tame goats: but then consider, we had better to da
with an hundred men, whom we can kill, or make staves,
if, at leisure, than with an hundred nations, whom it
ifimpojfible we jhould save ourselves from, much less
subdue. This advice, and these arguments being ap-
proved of, we set fire to their boats; and though they
wxre so wet that they would not burn entirely, yet
we made them incapable for swimming in the seas.
As soon as the Indians perceived what we were doing,
mariy of thenr ran out of the woods, in sight of us,
and kneeling down piteousty, cried out, Oa, Oa, Wa-
ramakoa, intimating, I suppose, that if we would
but spare their canoes, they would never trouble us
again.
But
But all their complaints, submissions, and entrea-
ties, were in vain: for self-preservation jobligrng us
to the contrary, we destroyed every on&bi them that
had escaped the fury of the ocean.^When the In-
dians perceived this, they raised afHamentable cry,
and ran into the woods, where tfiey continued run-
ning about, making the wood's ring with their la-
mentation. Here we should have considered, that
snaking these creatures thus deterate, we ought, at
the fame time, to have set a/ufficient guard upon
the plantations: for the savages, in their ranging
about, found out the bowrf, destroyed the fences,
trod the corn down under their feet, and tore up the
vines and grapes. It is true, we were always able
to sight these creatures; but as they were too swift for
us, and very numerous, we durst not go out single,
for fear of them; though that too was needless,,
they having no weapons, nor any materials to make
them; and indeed their extremity appeared in a lit-
tle time after.
Though the savages, as already mentioned, had
destroyed our bovver, and all our corn, grapes, &c.
yet we had still left our flock of cattle in the valley
by the cave, with some little corn that grew there,
and the plantation of Will Atkins and hi9 com-
panions, one of whom being killed by an arrow,
they were now reduced to two: it is remarkable,
that this-was the fellow who cut the poor Indian with
his hatchet, and had a design to murder me and my
countrymen the Spaniards. As our condition was
so low, we came to the resolution to drive the sava-
ges up to the farther part of the island, where no In-
dians landed: to kill as many of them as we could,
till we had reduced their number; and then to give
the remainder some corn to plant, and'to teach them
how to live by their daily labour. Accordingly we
pursued them with our guns, at the hearing of
whichi they were so terrified, that they would fall
to the giound. Every day ^we killed and wound-
ed some of them, and many we found starved to
death, so that our hearts began to relent at the sight
of such miserable objects. At last with great diffi-
culty, takingVme of them alive, and using him with
kindness and Widernefs, we brought him to Old
Friday, who talked to* him, and told him, how
good we would be to them all, giving them corn
and land to plane and leave in, and present nourish-
ment, provided they *vou]d keep within such bounds
as should be allotted\them, and not do prejudice to
others: Go then, said ke, and inform your countrymen
of this; which, if they yiU not agree to, every one of
them shall be Jlain.
The poor creatures, thoroughly humbled, being
reduced to about thirty-seven, joyfully accepted the
offer, and earnestly begged for food; hereupon we
sent twelve Spaniards and two Englishmen, well arm-
ed, together with Old Friday, and three Indian slaves,
who marched to the place where they were. The
slaves were loaded with a large quantity of bread,
and rice cakes, with three live goats: and the poor
Indians being ordered to sit down on the side of the
hill, they ate the victuals very thankfully, and have
proved faithful to the last, never trespassing beyond
their bounds, where, at this day, they quietly and
happily remain, and where we now and then vifited
them. They are confined to a neck of land about
a mile and a half broad, and three or four in length
on the south east corner of the island, the sea being
before, and lofty mountains behind them, free from
the appearance of canoes; and indeed their country-
men have never made any enquiry after them. We
gave them twelve hatchets, and three or four knives,
have taught them to build huts, make wooden spades*
plant corn, make bread, breed tame goats, and milk
them, as likewise, to make wicker-works* in which,
I must ingenuously confess, they infinitely outdo us,
having made themselves several pretty necessaries and
fancies, as baskets, sieves, bird-cages, and cupboards,
as
as stools, beds, and couches, no less useful than de-
lightful: and now they live the most innocent and
inoffensive creatures that ever were ft^dued in the
world, wanting nothing but wives tx/make them a
nation. ,'
Thus, kind Sir, have Pgiven you, according to
my ability, an impartial account of the various trans-
actions that have happened in the island since your
departure, to this clay: and we have great reason to
acknowledge the kind provide/ice os Heaven in our
merciful deliverance. When*you inspect your little
kingdom, you will find in it £>me little improvement,
your flocks increased, and your subjects augmented:
so that from a desolate island, as this was before your
wonderful deliverance upon it, here is a visible pro-
spect of its becoming a populous and well governed
little kingdom, to your immortal fame and glory.
The end os the Spanish governor's relation*
..<>....<>,...<-•.<>-...«* -....<>"-«>••«•* ..^..-4> .^.-.*'
The continuation of the life of Robinson Crusoe, both
of those passages that happened during the time of
his continuance on the islands and after his depar*
turef till he arrived again in his native country*
THere is no doubt to suppose, but that the pre-
cedent relation of my faithful Spaniard was
very agreeable, and no less surprising to me, to the
young priest, and to all who heard it: nor were these
people less pleased with those necessary utensils that
J brought them, such as the knives, feissars, spades,
shovels, and pick axes, with which they now adorn
their habitations. So much had they addicted them-
# selves to wicker-work, prompted by the ingenuity of
the Indians, who assisted them, that when 1 viewed
the Englishmen's colonies, they seemed at a distance
as though they had lived like bees in a hive: for
Will
Will Atkins, who was now become a very industri-
ous and sober man, had made himself a tent of bas-
ket-work, ir?xpannels, round the outside; the wall
was worked in as a basket, or strong squares,of thirty-
two in number, standing about seven feet high: in
the middle was another, not above twenty paces
round, but much stronger built, being of an octa-
gonal form, and in the eight corners stood eight
strong posts; round the top of which he laid strong
pieces, pinned with wooden pins, from which he
raised a pyramid for thfe roof, mighty pretty, 1 assure
you, and joined very wfll together with iron spikes,
which he made himself; for he had made him a
forge, with a pair of wooden bellows, and charcoal
for his work, forming an anvil out of one of the iron
crows to work upon, and in this man:*er would he
make himself hooks, staples, spikes, bolts, and hin-
ges. After he had pitched the roof of his innermost
tent, he made it so firm between the rafters with bas-
ket work, thatching that over again with rice straw,
and over that a large leaf of a tree, that his house was
as dry as if it had been tiled or slated. The outer
circuit was covered, as a lean-to, quite round this
inner apartment, laying long rafters from the thir-
ty two angies, to the top posts of the inner house, a*
bout twenty feet distance so that there was a space
like a walk betwixt the outer and inner wall very
near twenty feet in breadth. The inner place he
partitioned off with the same wicker-work, dividing
it into fix neat apartments, every one of which had a
door, first into the entry of the main tent, and ano-
ther into the space and walk that was round it, not
only convenient for retreat, but for circle, there was
a past age directly to the door of the inner house; on
either side was a wicker partition, and a door, by
which you go fust into a large room twenty two feet
wide, and about thirty long, and through that into
another of a smaller length, so that in the outmost
circle
circle were ten handsome rooms, six of which were
only to be come at through the apartments of the
inner tent, serving as retiring rooms to the respec-
tive chambers of the inner circle, and four very large
warehouses, which went in, through one another,
two on either hand of the passage that led through
the outward door to the inner tent. In short, no-
thing could be built more ingenuously, kept more
neat, or have better conveniences; and here lived the
three families, Will Atkins, his companion, their
wives and children, and the widow of the deceased.
As to religion, the men seWom taught their wives
the knowledge of God, any more than the sailors
custom of swearing by his name. The greatest im-
provement their wives had, was, they "taught them
to speak English, so as to be understood.
None of their children were then above six years
old; they were all fruitful enough, and, I think, the
cook's mate's wife was big of her sixth child.
When I enquired of the Spaniards about theit cir-
cumstances while among the savages, they told me,
that they abandoned themselves to'despair, reckoning
themselves a poor and miserable people, that had no
mean put into their hands, and consequently must
soon be starved to death. They owned, however,
that they were in the wrong to think so, and for re-
fusing the assistance that reason offered for their sup-
port, as well as future deliverance, confessing that
grief was a most insignificant passion, as it looked
upon things as without remedy, and having no hope
of good things to come; all which verified this no-
ted proverb:
In trouble to be troubled,
Is to have your trouble, doubled.
Nor did his remarks end here; for making obser-
vations upon my improvements, and on my condi-
tion ar first, infinitely worse than theirs, he told me,
thatEnglistimen had, in their distress, greater presence ,
of
of mind than those of any other country that he had
met with; arid that they and the Portuguese were
the worst men in the world ro struggle under mis-
fortunes. When they landed among the savages,
they found but little provision, except they would
turn cannibals, there being but a few roots and herbs,
with little substance in them, and of which the na-
tires gave them but very sparingly. Many were
the ways they took to civilize and teach the savages,
bur in vain: for they would not own them to be
their instructors, whose* lives were owing to their
bounty. Their extremities were very great, maa$
days being entirely without food, the savages there
being more indolent and less devouring than those
who had better supplies. When they went out to
battle, they were obliged to assist these people, in
one of which my faithful Spaniard being taken, had
like to have been devoured. They had lost their^m-
munition, which rendered their fire aims useless;
nor could they use t"he bows and arrows that were,
given them, so that while the armies were at a di-
stance, they had no chance, but when closesHhen
they could be of service with halberts and sharpened
sticks, put into the muzzles of their muskets. They
made themselves targets of wood, covered with the
flcins of wild beasts; and when one happened to be
knocked down, the reft of the company fought over
him till he recovered; and then standing close, in a
line, they would make their way through a thousand
savages. At the return of their friend, who they
thought had been entombed in the bowels of their
enemies, their joy was inconceivable. Nor were they
less surprised at the sight of the loaves of bread I had .
sent them, things that they had not seen for several-
years, at the fame time crossing and bkssing it, as
though it was manna sent from heaven: but when
they knew the errand, and perceived the boat whiehk
was to carry them to the person and place froaft
whence such relief came, this struck them withVttcl*
u * a
a surprise of joy as made some of them faint away,
and others burst out into tears.
This was the-summary account that I had from
them. I shall now inform the reader what I next
did for them, and in what condition I lest them. As
we were all of opinion that the savages would scarce
trouble them any more, so we had no apprehensions
on that score. 1 told them I was come purely to
establish, and not to remove them; and upon that
occasion, had not only brought them necessaries for
convenience and defence, but* also artificers, and o-
ther persons, both for their wecessary employments,
and to add to their number. They were all to-
gether when I thus talked to them; and before I
delivered to them the storss I had brought, I asked
them one by one, if they had entirely forgot their
first animosities, would engage in the strictest friend-
ship, and make hands with one another? On this
Will Atkins, with abundance of good humour,
said, they had afflictions enough to make them all
sober, and enemies enough to make them all friends:
as for himself, he would live and die among them,
owning, that what-the Spaniards had done to him,
his own mad humour had made necessary for them
to do. Nor had the Spaniards occasion to justify
their proceeding to me ; but they told me, that, since
Will Atkins had behaved himself so valiantly in
iight, and at other times shewed such a regard to
the common interest of them all, they had not only
forgotten all th3t was past, but thought he ought 26
much to be trusted with arms and necessaries as any
of them, which they testified by making him next
in command to the governor: and they most hear-
tily embraced the occasion of giving me this solemn
assurance, that they would never separate their in-
terest again as long as they lived.
After these kind declarations of friendship, we ap-
pointed all of us to dine together next day 5 upon
this ][ caused the {hip's cook and bis mate come on
\ shore
shore for that purpose,-to assist in dressing our din-
ner. We brought from the ship six pieces of beef,
and four of pork, together with our punch-bowl,
and materials to fill it:' and in particular, i gave them
ten bottles of French clajet, and ten of English beer,
which was very acceptable to them. The Spaniards
added to our feast five whole kids, which being roast-
ed, three of them were sent as fresh, meat to the
sailors on board, and the other two we ate ourselves.
After our merry and innocent feast was over, 1 be-
gan to distribute my targo among them* First, I
gave them linen sufficient to make every one of them
four shirts, and at the Spaniard's request made them
up six. The thin £nglish stuffs I allotted to make
every one a light coat like a frock, agreeable to the
climate, and left them such a quantity, as to make
more upon their decay; as also pumps, shoes, hns
and stockings. It is not to be expressed the pleasing
satisfaction which fat upon the countenances of
these poor men, when they perceived what care I
took of them, as if I had been a common father
to them all; and they all engaged never to leave
the ifland, till I gave my consent for their departure.
I then presented to them the people I brought, to wit,
the taylor, smith, and the two carpenters; but my
Jack of all trades was the most acceptable present I
could make them. My taylor sell immediately to
work, and made every one of them a stiirt; after
which, he learned the women how to sew and stitch,
thereby to become the more helpful to their husbands.
Neither were the carpenters less useful, taking in
pieces their clumsy things, instead of which they
made convenient and handsome tables, stools, bed-
steads, cup-boards, lockers and (helves. But when
I carried them to fee Will Atkin's basket-house,
they owned they never saw such a piece of natu-
ral ingenuity before: / am sitrex said one of the
carpenters, the man that built this has no need
Vz of
of us; you needt Siry do nothing but give him tools,
I divided the tools among them in t[iis manner;
to every man i g.vve a digging-spade, a shovel, and a
rake, as having r,o hi i rows or ploughs.; and to eve-
ry separate place a pick axe, a crow, a broad i*xe* ^
and a sow, with a (lore for a general supply, should
any be broken or wum out. 1 lest them also nails,
staple', hinges, hammers, chissels, knives, scissors,
and all forts ot tooiu and iron work; and for the use
of the smith, gave them three tons of unwrought
iron for a supply: and as to a'rms and ammunition,
1 stored them even to profusion, or at least to equip a
sufficient little army against all opposers whatsoever.
The young man (whose mother was unfortunately
starved to death), together with the ~rnaid, a pious
and well educated young woman, feeing things so
well ordered on shore (for I made them accompany
me,) and considering they had no occasion to go so
far a voyage as to the East Indies, they both desired of
me, that I would leave them there, and enter them
among my subjects. This I readily agreed to, or-
dering them a plat of ground, on which were three
little houses erected, environed with basket work,
paliifadoed like Atkins, and adjoining to his planta-
tion. So contrived were their tents, that each of
them had a room apart to lodge in, while the mid-
dle tent was not only their storehouse, but their place
for eating and drinking. At this time the two En-
glishmen removed their habitation to their former
place; so that now the island was divided into three
colonies ;firsts Those I have just now mentioned,
secondly, That of Will Atkirs, where there were four
families of Englishmen, with their wives and chiU
dren, the widow and her children : the young man,
and the maid, who, by the way we made a wife of be-
fore our departure; three savages, who were slaves \
the t-jilor, smith, (who served also as a "gunsmith),
and my other celebrated person called, Jack of all
trade*
trades. Thirdly, My chief colony, which consisted
of the Spaniards, with Old Friday, who still remained
at my old habitation, which was my capital city:
and surely never was there such a metroplis, it now
being hid in so obscure a grove, that a thousand
men might have ranged the island a month, and
looked purposely for it, without being able to find
it, though the Spaniards had enlarged its boundaries,
both without and within, in a most surprising man-
ner.
But now I think it high time to speak of the
young French prie*st of the order of St Benedict',
whose judicious and pious discourses, upon sundry oc-
casions, merit an extraordinary observation: nor can
his being a French Papist priest, I presume, give of-
fence to any of my readers, when they have this as-
surance from me, that he was a person of the most
courteous disposition, extensive charity, and exalted
piety. His arguments were always agreeable to rea-
son, and his conversation the most acceptable of any
person that I had ever yet met with in my life.
Sir, said he to me one fay, since under God (at the
fame time crossing his breast) you have not only saved
my life) but, by permitting me to go this voyage, have-
granted me the happiness of free conversation, I think
it my duty, as my profession obligeS'me, to save what
souls I can, by bringing them to the knoivledge of some
Catholic dotlrine, necessary to salvation; and since
these people are under your immediate government, in:
gratitude, justice, and decency for what you have
done for me, loser no farther points in religion9
than what skill merit your approbation* Being,
pleased with the modesty of his carriage, I told him.
he should not be the worse used for being of a differ-
ent persuasion, if, upon that very account, we did?
not differ in points of faith, not decent in a part o£
the country, where the poor Indians ought to be in-
structed in the knowledge of the true God and his
U $, Son
Son Jesus Christ. To this he replied, that conver-
sation might easily be separated from disputes that
he would discourse with me rather as a gentleman,
than a religious ; .but that if he did enter upon reli-
gious arguments, upon my desiring the same, I would
give him liberty to defend my own principles. He
farther added, that he would do all that became him
in his office, as a pried as well as a Christian, to pro-
cine the happiness of all that was in the fliip; that
though he could not pray with, he would pray for us,
on all occasions *. and then he told me several extra-
ordinary events of his life, within a few years past,
but particularly in this last, which was the most re-
markable: that in this voyage he had the misfor-
tune to be five times (hipped and unshipped: his first
design was to have gone for Martinico, for which, ta-
king (hip at St Malo, he was forced into Lisbon by
bad weather, the vessel running aground in the mouth
of the Tagus: that from thence he went on board
a Portuguese ship, bound to the Madeiras, whose ma-
ster being but an indifferent mariner, and out of his
reckoning, they were drove to Fial, where, selling
their commodity, which was corn, they resolved to
take in their loading at the Isle of May, and to fail
to Newfoundlands at the banks of which, meeting a
French (hip bound to Quebec, in the river of Canada,
and from thence to Martinico; in this (hip he em-
barked, the master of which dying at Quebec, that
voyage was suspended: and, lastly y (hipping himself
for France, this last stvip was destroyed by sire, as be-
fore has been related.
At this time we talked no further: but another
morning he comes to me, just as I was going to visit
the Englishmen's colony, and tells me, that as he
knew the prosperity of the island was my principal
desire, he had something to communicate, agreeable
to my design, by which perhaps he might put it,
more than he yet thought it was, in the way of the
benediction
benediction of Heaven. How, Sir? said I, in a sur-
prise, are v^c not yet in the way of God's blessing,
after all these signal providences and deliverances, of
which you have had such an ample relation? He re-
plied, I hope. Sir, you a,re in the way, and that your
good design will prosper; but still there are some a-
mong you that are not equally right in their actions;
and remember, J beseech you, Sir, that Achan, by his
crime, removed God's blessing from the camp of the
children of Israel; that though six and thirty were
entirely innocent, yet they became the objects of di-
vine vengeance, and bore the weight of the punish-
ment accordingly.
So sensibly was I touched with this discourse, and
so satisfied with that ardent piety that inflamed his
foul, that I desired him to accompany me to the En-
glishmen's plantations, which he was very glad of, by
reason these were the subjects of what he designed to
discourse with me about; and while we walked on to*
gether, he began in the following manner:
Sir, said he, 1 must confess it is a great unhappi-
nefs that we disagree in several doctrinal articles of
religion; but surely both of us acknowledge this,
that there is a God, who having given us some sta-
ted rules for our service and obedience, we ought not
willingly and knowingly to offend him, either by
neglecting what he has commanded, or by doing
what he has forbidden us. This truth every Christi-
an owns, that whenever any one presumptuously sins
against God's command, the Almighty then with-
draws his blessing from him ; every good man there-
fore ought certainly to prevent such neglect of, or
sin against God and his commands. I thanked the
young priest for expressing so great a 'concern for us,
and desired him to explain the particulars of what he
had observed, that, according to the parable of
Achan, I might remove the accursed thing from a-
moug us. Why then, Sir, said he, in the first
place,
1
place, you have four. Englishmen, who have taken
savage women to their wives, by whorg they have
several children, though none of them are legally
married, as the law of God and man requires ;,they,
1 fay, Sir, are no less than#adukerers, and as they
still live in adultery, are liable to the curse of God.
I know, Sir, you may object the want of a priest, or
clergyman of any kind; as also, pen, ink, and
paper, to write down a contract of marriage, and
have it signed between them. But neither this, nor
what the Spanish governor has told you of their
chusing by consent, can be reckoned a marriage,
nor any more than an agreement to keep them from
quarrelling among themselves; for, Sir, the essence*,
or sacrament of matrimony, (so he called it) not only
consists in mutual consent, but in the legal obliga-
tion which compels them to own and acknowledge
one another, to abstain from other persons, the men
to provide for their wives and children, and-the wo~
men to the fame and like conditions,mutatis mutandis
on their side: whereas, Sir, these men, upon their
own pleasure, on any occasion, may forsake those
women, and marry othejs, and by disowning their
children suffer them utterly to perish. Now, Sir,
added he,caf?God be honoured in such an unlawful.li-
berty as this? how can a blessing succeed the best en-
deavours, if men are allowed to live in so licentious a
way? I was indeed struck with the thing myself, and
though that they were much to blame, that no for-
mal contract had been made, though it had been
but breaking a stick between them, to engage them
to live as man and wife, never to separate; but love,
cherish, and comfort one another all their lives?
yet, Sir, said I,' when they took these women, I was
not here; and if it is adultery, it is past-my reme-
dy, and I cannot help it* True, «Si>, answered the
young priest, you cannot he charged with that part of
the crime which was done in your absence; but 1 be*
seech you, dont fatter jtursels, that you are under no
obligation
obligation now to put a period to it; which, if you
nfigletl to dq, guilt will be entirely on you alone,since
it is certainly in nobody's power but yours to alter
their condition. I must confess, I was so dull, that I
thought he meant I should part them ; and knowing
that this would put the whole island in confusion, I
told him I could not consent to it upon any account
whatsoever. Sir, said he, in a great surprise, / do
not mean that you should separate, but marry them by
a written contrail,signed by both man and wGmany
And by all the witnesses present, which all the Europe-
an laws decree to be of sufficient -efficacy. Amazed
with such true piety and sincerity, and considering
the validity of a written contract, I acknowledged all
that he said to be very just and kind, and that I would
discourse with the men about it; neither could I sec
what reason they could have not to let him marry
them, whose authority in that affair is owned to be
as authentic as if they were married by any of our
clergymen in England.
The next complaint he had to make to me, was
this, that though these English subjects of mine had
lived with these women seven years, and though they
were of good understanding, and capable of instruc-
tion, having learned not only to speak, but to read
English, yet all this while they had never taught
them any thing of the Christian religion, or the
knowledge of God, much less in what manner he
ought to be served. And is not this an unaccountable
negktl? said he warmly* Depend upon it\ God Al-
mighty will call them to account for such contempt*
And tho' J am not of your religion, yet I should be glad
to see these people released from the devil's power^ and
be saved by the principles of the Christian religion,
the knowledge of God, of a Redeemer, the resurrect ion >
mid of a suture state. But as it is not too late, if you
please to give me leave to insrutl them, 1 doubt not
hut IJballsupply this great defetly by bringing them
into
into the great circle of Christianity ^ even -while you
continue in the island,
I could hold no longer, but embracing him, told
him, with a thousand thanks, I would grant whate-
ver he requested, and desired him to proceed in the
third article, which he did in the following manner:
Sir, said he, it should be a maxim among all Chri-
stians, That Christian knowledge ought to be propa-
gated by\all possible means > and on all occasions. Upon
this account our church fends missionaries into Per-
sia, India, and China, men who are willing to die for
the fake of God and the Christian faith, in order to
bring poor infidels into the way of salvation. Now,
Sir, as here is an opportunity to convert seven and
thirty poor savages, I wonder how you can pass by
such an occasion of doing good, which is really worth
the expence of a man's whole life,
I must confess 1 Was so confounded at this discourse,
that I could not tell how to answer him* Sir, said
he, seeing me in disorder, / Jhall he very sorry if I
have given you offence. No, Sir, said I, I am rather
confounded; and you know my circumstances, that
being bound to the East Indies in a merchant ship, I
cannot wrong the owners so much, as to detain the
ship here, the men lying on victuals and wages on
their account. If 1 stay above twelve days, I must
pay 3 1. Sterling per diem of demurrage,nor must the
(hip stay above eight days more; so that I am unable
to engage in this work, unless I was to leave the
ship, and be reduced to my former condition. The
priest, though he owned this was hard upon me, yet
laid it to my conscience, whether the blessing of sa-
ving seven and thirty souls was not worth venturing
all that I had in the world? Sir, said I, it is very
true; hut as "you are an ecclesiastic, it naturally falls
into your profession, why therefore don't you rather
©sser to undertake it yourself, than press, me to it?
Upon this he turned about, making a very low bow,
I
I mod "humbly thank God and you, Sir, said he,
for so blesses a call 5 and most willingly undertake .
so glorious an office, which will sufficiently compen-
sate all the hazards and difficulties 1 have gone through
in a long and uncomfortable voyage.
While he was thus speaking, 1 could discover a
rapture in his face, by his colour going and coming;
at the fame time his eyes sparkled like fire, with all
the signs of the most: zealous transports. And when
I asked whether he was in earnest; Sir, said he, it
was to preach to the Indians, I consented to come a-
long with you; these infidels, even in this little
island, are infinitely of more worth than my poor
life: if so that 1 should prove the happy instrument
of saving these poor creatures souls, I care not if 1
never fee my native country again. One thing I
only beg of you more, is, that you would leave
Friday with me, to be my interpreter, without
whose assistance neither of us will understand each
other.
This request very sensibly troubled me, first upon
Friday's being bred a protestant, and, secondly, for
the affection 1 bore to him for his fidelity: but im-
mediately the remembrance of Friday's father co-
ming into my head, I recommended him to him as ha-
ving learned Spanish, which the priest also understood,
and so was thoroughly satisfied with him.
When we came to the Englishmen, after I had told
them what necessary things I had done for them, I
talked to them of the scandalous life they led, told
them what notice the clergyman had taken of it, and
asked them if they were married men or batchelors?
They answered, twa of them were widowers, and
the other three single men. But, said I, with what
conscience can you call these your wives, by whom
you have so many children, and yet are not lawfully
married? They all said, that they took them before
the governor as such, having nobody else to marry "*
them, which they thought as legal as if they had
had
had a parson. No doubt, said I, but in the eye of
God you are so: but unless I am assured os your ho-
nest intention never to desert these poor creatures, I
can do nothing more for you, neither cart you ex-
pect God's blessing while you live in such an open
course of adultery. Hereupon Will Atkins, who
spoke for the rest, told me, That they believed their
wives the most innocent and virtuous creatures in
the world; that they would never forsake them
while they had breath; and that if there was a cler-
gyman in the (hip, they would be married to them
with all their heart. 1 told you before, said I, that
1 have a minister with me, who shall marry you
to-morrow morning, if you are willing; so I would
have you consult to-night, wTith the rest about it.
I told him, the clergyman was a Frenchman, and
knew not a word of English, but that 1 would act as
a clerk between them. And indeed this .business met
with such speedy success, that they all told me, in a
few minutes after, that they were ready to be for-
mally married as soon as I pleased; with which in-
forming the priest, he was exceedingly rejoiced.
Nothing now remained, but that the women
should be made sensible of the meaning of the thing;
with which being well satisfied, they with their hus-
bands attended at my apartment the next morning:
there was my priest, habited in a black vest, some-
thing like a cassock, with a fasti round it, much re-
sembling a minister, and I was his interpreter. But
the seriousness of his behaviour, and the scruples he
made of marrying the women, who we/c not bap-
tized, gave them an exceeding reverence for his per-
son: nor indeed would he marry them at all, till he
obtained my liberty to discourse both with the men
*nd women, and then he told them, That in the
sight of all indifferent men, and in the sense of the
laws of society, they had lived in open adultery,
which nothing now hut their consent to marry, or
final separation, could put an end to j and even-here
was
was a difficulty with respect to the laws of Christian
matrimony, \n marrying a professed Christian to a
heathen idolater, unbaptized; but yet there was
time enough to make them profess the name cf
Christ, without which nothing could be done: that,
besides, he believed themselves very indifferent Chri-
stians: and consequently had not discoursed with
their wives upon that subject; and that unless they
promised him to do so, he could not marry them, as
being expressry forbidden by the laws of God/
All this they heard attentively, and owned readily,
But> Lords Sir! said Will Atkins to me, how should
we teach them religion, who know nothing $f it our-
selves? How can we talk to our wives of God, Jesus
Christ, heaven and hell? why, they would only lavgh
at us, who never yet have pradlised religion, hut on
the contrary, all manner of wickedness. Will Atkins,
said I, cannot you tell your wise, me is in the wrong,
and that her gods are idols, which can neither hear>
speak, nor understand; but that our God, who has
made, can destroy all things , that he rewards the
good, and punishes the wicked; and at last will
bring us to judgement? Cannot you tell her these
things? That's true, said Atkins, but then (he'll tell
me, it is utterly false, since I am not punished, and
sent to the devil, who hath been such a wicked crea-
ture* These words I interpreted to the priest! O!
said he, tell him his repentance will make him %
very good minister to his spouse, and qualify him to
preach on the mercy and long-suffering of a merciful
Being, who desires not the death of a sinner, and
even defers damnation to the last judgement-; this
will lead him to the above doctrine, and will make
him an excellent preacher to his wife. I repeated
this to Atkins, who, being more than ordinarily af-
fected with it, replied, 1 know all this, Sir, and a
great deal more; but how can 1 have the impudence
to talk thus to my wife, when my conscience wit*
nefles against me? ALAS! said he, (with tears in
^ Mi
bis eyes and giving a great sigh), as for repenting,
that is for ever past me. Past you! 4tkins> said I,
what do you mean? You know well enoughs said
he, what I mean; / mean it is too late.
When I told the priest wjiat he said, tlie poor af-
fectionate man could not refrain from weeping; but
recovering himself, Pray, Sir, said he^dfkbim if he
is contented that it is too late\ or is he c6?icfmedy and
wishes it were not so? This question I put fairly to
Atkins, who replied in a passion, Hoxu can I be ea-
sy in a state which I know must terminatein ??iy ruin?
for 1 really believe, Jome time or others shall cut my
throat,to put a period to my life, nd to the terrors
of my conscience.
At this the clergyman shook his head. Sir, said
he, pray tell him it is not too late; Christ will give
him repe?itance, if he has recourse to the merit of his
pass on. Does he think he is beyond the power of di-
vine mercy P there may indeed be a time when provok-
ed mercy will no longer strive, bat never toe* late for
men to repent in this world. 1 told Atkins every word
the priest had said, who then parted from us to talk to
his wife, while we discoursed with the rest. But
these were very stupid in religious matters, yet all
of them promised to do their endeavours to make
their wives turn Christians; and upon which promi-
ses the priest married the three couple. But as At-
kins was the only sincere convert, and of more
fense than the rest, my clergyman was earnestly in-
quiring after him: Sir, said he, let us walk out of
this labyrinth, and I dare fay we stjall find this poor
man preaching to his wife already. And indeed we
sound it true; for coming to the edge of the wood,
we perceived Atkins and his savage wise sitting under
the shade of a bum, in very earnest discourse: he
pointed to the sun, to the quarters ofjkhe earth, to
himself, to her, the woods, and the trees. Immediately
we could perceive him start upon his feet, fall down
upon his knees, and lift up both his hands \ at which
243
the tears ran down my clergyman's cheeks: but our -
great misfortjine was, we could not hear one word
that passed between them. Another time he would
embrace her, wiping the tears from her eyes, kissing
her with the greatest transports, and then both kneel
down for some minutes together. Such raptures of
joy did this occasion in my young priest, that he
could scarcely contain himself: And a little after
this, we observed by her morion, as frequently lift->
ing up her hands, and laying them on her breast,
that she was mightily affected with his discourse, and
so they withdrew from our sight.
When we came back, we found them both wait-
ing to be called in * upon which we agreed to exa*
mine him alone, and so 1 began thus to discourse him.
Prithee, Will Atkins, said f, what education had
you, What was your father?
IV. A. A better man than ever 1 mall be; he was,
Sir, a clergyman, who gave me good instruction, or
correction, which I despised like a brute, as 1 was,
and murdered my poor father.
Pr. Ha! a murderer 1
[Here the priest started and looked pah} as think-
ing he had really killed his fathers
R £V What, did you kill him with your hands?
IV. A. No, Sir, I cut not his throat, but broke his
heart, by the most unnatural turn of disobedience to
the tenderest and best of fathers.
R. C. Well, I pray God grant you repentance; 1 did
not ask you to extort a confession; but 1 asked you, be-
cause I see you have more knowledge of what is good
than your companions.
IV. A. O, Sir, whenever I look back upon my past
life, conscience upbraids me with my father; the sins
against our parents make the deepest wounds, and
their weigh* lies the heaviest upon the mind.
R. C. You talk, Will, too feelingly and sensibly
for me; I am not able to bear it.
IV. A. You bear it, Sir J you know nothing of it.
', R. G.
R. C. But yes, Atkins, I do; and every shore, val-
ley, and tree in this island, witness the a/iguiih of my
foul for my undutifuinefs to my.kind father, whom I
have murdered likewise: yet my repentance falis in-
finitely short of yours. B^r, Will, how comes the
fense of this matter to touch you just now?
IV, sL Sir, the work you have let me about has oc-
casioned it for talking to my wife afcfRfrf God and
religion, she has preached me such a fermon that I
shall retain it in lasting remembrance.
R. C. No, no, it ijs your own moving pious argu-
ments to her, has made conscience Æing them i^ack
upon you. But pray, Atkins, inform us what passed
between you and your wife, and in what manner did
you begin.
W, A. I talked to her of the laws of marriage, the
reason of such compacts, whereby order and justice is
maintained; without which men would run from
their wives and children, to the dissolution of families
or inheritances.
R. C. Well, and what did she say to all this?
IV. A. Sir, we began our discourse in the following
manner, which I shall exactly repeat according to my
mean capacity, if you think it worth your while to
honour it with your attention.
.U>.. ..<>....<>....*>»«•• «>•• -O- -O" "*>">•• •"*>• "O-"O""O- •*>- ~*V- ~4>-
^DIALOGUE between Will Atkins W bis
'wife in the wood.
py;r "\TOTJ tell me marriage God appoint *, have
S' X you God in your country?
W. A. Yes, child, God is in every nation.
Wife. No; great old Benamuckee god is in my
country, not yours
IV, A. My dear, God is in heaven, which he made \
he also made the earth, the sea, and all that is therein.
Wife. Why you not tell me much long ago f
W. A.
W. A. My dear, I have been a wicked wretch, ha-
ying a long jime lived without the knowledge of God
in the world.
Wife. What, not know great God in own nation \
No, nofgood ting? No say O to him \ that's strange -
W. A. But, my dear, many live as if ^there was no
God in heaven for all that.
Wise. Why God suffer this I why makee not live
well
W. A. It%our own faults, child.
Wise, But, if he much great, can makee kill, why no
makee kill when no serve him i no be good mans, no
cry O to him?
W. A. That's true, my dear, he may strike us dead,
but his abundant mercy spareth us.
Wise. Did not you tell God tankee for that?
W. A* No, I have neither thanked him for his mer-
cy, nor seared him for his power.
Wise. Then me not believe your God be good, nor
makee kill when you makee him angry.
W. A. Alas! must my wicked life hinder you from
believing in him?
Wife. How can me tink your God live there?
(Pointing to heaven ) Sure he no ken what you do
here?
W. A. Yes, yes, my dear, he hears us speak, sees
what we do, and knows what we even think.
Wife. Where then makee power strong, when he
hears you curse, swear de great damn?
W. A. My dear, this shews he is indeed a God
and not a man, who has such tender mercy \
Wise. Mercy! what you call mercy?
W. A. He pities and spares us: as he is our great
Creator, so is he also our tender father.
Wife. So God never angry, never kill wicked,
then he no good, no great mighty.
W. A. O my dear, don't say so, he is both; and
X 3 many
many times be shews terrible examples of his judge-
ment and vengeance. r
Wise, Then you makee de bargain with him you
do bad ting, he no hurt you, he hurt other mans.
W. A. No indeed, my sips are all Jffi||§Rptions
upon his goodness.
Wife. Well, and yet no makee you dead-^and you
give him no tankee neither? . " *"
W. A. It is true, I am an ungrateful, unthankful
dog that I am. A.";
Wife. Why, you fay, he makee you\ why, makee
you no much better then? •>*
W. A. It is I alone that have deformed myfelf, and
- abused his goodness. »A
Wife. Pray makee God know me, mc-ri^makee
him angry nor do bad ting.
W. A. You mean, my dear, that you desires would
teach you to know God: alas! poor dear cfceature *
he must teach thee, and not I. But I'll pray earnestly
to him to direct thee, and to forgive me, a miserably
sinner. [Hereupon he went a little distance^ and kneel'
ing downf prayed earnestly to God to enlighten her
mind9 and to pardon his fins: when this was done9
they continued their discourse thus.)
Wife. What you put down knee for? For what hold
up hand? Who you speak to?
W. A. My dear, I bowed in token of submission to
him that made me, and prayed that he would open
your eyes and understanding.
Wife. And can he do that too? And will he hear
what you fay I
W. A. Yes, my dear, he bids us pray* and has gi-
ven us promise that he will hear us.
Wife. When did he bid you pray? What, do you
tear him speak?
W. A. No, my dear, but God has spoken formerly
to good men from heaven: and by divine revelation
they have written all his laws down in a book.
Wife,
Wife. O where dat good book?
W. A. I have it not now by me: but one time or
other I (hall get it for you to read. Then he embraced
her with great affeclion.
Wife. Pray tell a mee, did Godteachee them write
that book?
W. A. Yes, and by that rule we know him to be
God. .
Wife. What way, what rule you know him?
W. A. Because he teaches what is good, just, and
holy ; and forbids all wicked and abominable actions
that incur his displeasure.
Wife. O me fain understand that, and if he do
all things you fay he do, surely he hear me say O to
him: he makee me good if I wish to be goqd -T
he no kill me if I love him; me tink, believe him
great God; me say O to him, along with you my
dear.
Here the poor man fell upon his knees, and made her<~
kneel down by him^praying with the greatest fervency*
that God would instrutl her by his Holy Spirit: and'
that God by his providence would fend them a Bible for-
both their infirutlions. And such was the early piety
of this new convert, that Jhe made him promise never
to forsake God any more, lefty being made dead as Jbe
called it) Jhe should not only want her infiruBory but-
himself be miserable in a long eternity.
Such surprising account as this was, proved very
affecting to us both, but particularly to the young
clergyman, who was mightily concerned he could
not talk to her himself. Sir, said he, there is some-
thing more to be dene to this woman than to marry
her: I mean, that she ought to be baptized. To
this I presently agreed: Pray, said he again, ask. her;
husband* whether he has ever talked to her of Jesus
Christ, the salvation of sinners, the nature of faith,
and redemption in and by him, of the Holy Spirit,,
the resurrection,. last judgement, and a future state;
but the poor fellow melted jnto tears at this question,
- saying
saying, that he had said something to her of these
things, but his inability to talk of them* made him
afraid lest her knowledge of them should rather
make her contemn religion, than be benefited by
it: but that if 1 would difcqurse with her, it would
be very evident, my labour would not be in vain.
Accordingly 1 called her in, and placing myself as
interpreter between the religious priest and the wo-
man, 1 entreated him to go on ; but surely never was
such a sermon preached by any clergyman in these
latter days, with so much zeal, knowledge, and sin-
cerity; in short, he brought the woman to embrace
the knowledge of Christ, and of redemption by him,
with so surprising a degree of understanding, that
flie made it her own request to be baptized.
He then performed his office in the sacrament of
baptism, first, by faying some words over to himself
in Latin, and then asked me to give her a name, as
being her godfather, and pouring a whole dish full
of water upon the woman's had, he said MARY,
I baptize thee in the name of the Father, and of the
Son, and of the Holy Ghost; so that none could
know of what religion he was. After this he pro-
nounced the benediction in Latin. Thus the woman
being made a Christian, he married her to Will At-
kins; which being finished, he affectionately exhort-
ed him to lead a holy life for the future; that since the
Almighty, by the convictions of his conscience, had
honoured him to be the instrument of his wife's
conversion, he should not dishonour the grace of
God, that while the savage was converted, the in-
ftrument should be cast away. Thus ended a cere-
mony, to me the most pleasant and agreeable 1 ever
pasted in my life.
The affairs of the island being settled, I was pre-
paring to go on board, when the young man (whose
mother was starved) came to me, saying, that as he
understood I had a clergyman with me, who had
married the Englistimen with savages, he had a
match
match to make between two Christians, which he
desired migju be finished before I departed. Think-
ing that it was he himself that had courted his mo-
ther's maid, I persuaded him not to do any thing
rashly upon the account of his solitary circumstances;
that the maid was an unequal match for him, both
in respect to substance and years; and that it was
very probable he would live to return to his own
country, where he might have a far better choice.
At these words, smiling, he interrupted me, thank-
ing me for my good advice: that as he had nothing
to beg of me, but a small settlement, with a servant
or two, or some few necessaries; so he hoped I
would not be unmindful of him when 1 returned to
England, but give his letters to his friends ; and that
when he was redeemed, the plantation and all its im-
provements, however valuable, should be returned
to me again. But as for the marriage he proposed,
that it was not himself, but that it was between my
Jack of all trades, and the maid Susan.
I was indeed agreeably surprised at the mentioning
this match, which seemed very suitable, the one being
a very ingenious fellow, and the other an excellent,
dexterous, and sensible housewife, sit to be gover-
ness of the whole island: so we married them the
someday; and as 1 was her father, and gave her
away, so I gave her a handsome portion, appoint-
ing her and her husband a convenient large space of
ground for their plantation. The sharing out of the
land I left to Will Atkins, who really divided it
very justly to every person's satisfaction: they only
desired one general writing under my hand for t!*e
whole, which I caused to be drawn up, signed, *ar*$
sealed to them, serting out their bounds, and giving
them a right to the whole possession of their respec-
tive plantations, with their improvements* to them
and their heirs, reserving all the rest of the island as my
own property, and a certain rent for every particular
plantation after eleven years. As to their laws and go-
vernment*
vernment, I exhorted them to love one another : and
as to the Indians who lived in a nook by themselves,
I allotted three or four of them plantations, and the
rest willingly chose to become servants to the other
families, by which means they were employed in
useful labour, and fared much better than they ciid
before. Besides, the savages being thus mixed with
the Christians, the work of their conversion might
be set on foot by the latter, in the clergyman's ab-
sence, to our equal satisfaction. Ihe young priest,
however, was a litcle anxious lest the Christians
should not be willing to do their parts in instructing
those poor Indians; I therefore told him, we should
call them all together; that he should speak to the
Spaniards who were Papists, and 1 to the English
who were Protestants, and make them promise that
they would never make any distinction in religion,
but teach the general true knowledge of God, and
his son Jesus Christ, in order to convert the poor
savages: and this indeed they all promised us ac-
cordingly.
When I came to Will Atkin's house, I found his
baptized wife, and the young woman newly married
to my Jack of all trades, were become great inti-
mates, and discoursing of religion together. O Sir,
says Will Atkins, when God has sinners to reconcile
to himself, he never wants an instructor; I knew I
was unworthy for so good a work, and therefore
this young woman has been sent hither as it were
from heaven, who is sufficient to convert a whole
island os savages. The young woman blushed, and
was going io rife; but 1 desired her to sit still, and
hoped that God would bless her in so good a work:
and then pulling out a bible, (which 1 brought on
purpose in my pocket for him.) Here Atkins, said I,
here is an assistant that perhaps you had not before.
So confounded was the poor man, that it was some
time before he could speak; at last turning to his
wife, My dear, he said, did I not tell you that God
could
could hear what we said .? Here's the book I prayed
for* when y,ou and I kneeled under the bush: God
then heard us, and now has sent it. The woman
was surprised, and thought really God had sent that
individual book from heaven; but I turned to the
young woman, and desired her to explain to the new
convert, that God may properly be said to answer our
petitions, when, in the course of his providence, such
particular things come to pass as we petitioned for.
This the young woman did effectually; but surely
Will Atkin'sjoy cannot be expressed j no man being
more thankful for any thing in the world, than he
was for his Bible, nor desired it from a better principle.
After several religious discourses, I desired the
young woman to give me an account of the anguish
she felt when she was starving to death for hunger;
to which she readily consented, and began in the
following manner.
"Sir," said she, (i all our victuals being gone,
after I had fasted one day, my stomach was very
sickifh, and at the approach of night, I was inclined
to yawning, and sleepy. When 1 slept upon the
couch three hours, I awaked a little refreshed: three
hours after my stomach being more and more sickifh,
1 lay down again, but could not sleep, being very
faint and ill. Thus I passed the second day with a
strange variery, first hunger, then sick again, with
Teachings to vomit: that night I dreamed I was at
Barbadoes, buying plenty of provisions, and dined
heartily. But when I awaked, my spirits were ex-
ceedingly funk, to find myself in the extremity of
famine. There wras but one glass of wine, which
being mixed with sugar, I drank up: but for want
of substance to digest upon, the fumes of it got into
my head, and made me senseless for some time. The
third day I was so ravenous and furious, that I could
have eaten a little child if it had come in my way;
during which time I was as mad as any creature in
bedlam.
bedlam. In one of these fits I fell down, and struck
my face against the corner of a pallet beo1, where my
mistress lay: the blood gushed out of my nose, but
by my excessive bleeding, both the violence of the fever
and the ravenous part of the#hunger abated. After
this I grew sick again, strove to vomit, but could not;
then bleeding a second time, I swooned away as dead;
when 1 came to myself I had a dreadful gnawing
pain in my stomach, which went off towards night
with a longing desire for food. I took a draught of
water and sugar, but it came up again; then I drank
water without sugar, and that staid with me. I laid
me down on the bed, praying God would take me a-
way; after I had slumbered, 1 thought myself a-dying,
therefore recommended my soul to God, and wished
some body would throw me into the sea. All this
while my departing mistrers lay by me; the last bit
of bread she had, me gave it to her dear child, ray
young master. The morning after, I sell into a vio-
lent passion of crying, and after that into hunger. I
spied the blood that came from my nose in a bason,
which I immediately swallowed up. At night I had
the usual variations, as pain in the stomach, sick,
sleepy and ravenous; and I had no thought but that
I mould die before morning. In the morning came on
terrible gripings in my bowels. At this time I
beard my young master's lamentations, by which I
understood his mother was dead: Soon after the sai-
lors cried, A fail, a sail, hallowing as if they were
distracted, for joy of that relies which afterward
we received from your hands*"
Surely never was a more distinct account of star-
ving to death than this. But to return to the disposi-
tion of things among my people, I did not take any
notice to them of the sloop that I had framed, ne ther
•would I leave them the two pieces of brass cannon,
or the two quarter deck guns that 1 had on board,
lest upon any disgust, they mould have separated,
or
or turned pirates, and so made the island a den of
thieves, instead of a plantation of lober pious people:
but leaving them in a flourishing condition, with a
promise to send them further relief from Brasil, as
sheep, hogs, and cows, (being obliged to kill the lat*
ter at sea, having no hay to feed them), I went on
board the (hip again, the fust of May 1695, after
having been twenty days among them: and next
morning, giving them a salute of five guns at parting,
we set sail for the Brasils. The third day, towards
evening, there happening a calm, and the current
being very strong, we were drove to die N. N. E. to-
wards the land. Some hours after we perceived the
sea covered as it were with something very black, not
easily at first to be discovered: upon which our chief
mate ascending the shrouds a little way, and taking a
view with a perspective glass, he cries out, an Army f
An army. You fool, said I, what do you mean ? Nay,
Sir, said he, don't be angry, 1 assure you it is not
only an army, but a.fleet too ; for I believe there-are
a thousand canoes paddling along, and making with
great haste towards us.
Indeed every one of us were surprised at this rela-
tion : and my nephew the captain could not tell what
to think of it, but thought we should all be devoured.
Nor was 1 free from concern, when 1 considered how
much we were becalmed, and what a strong current
set towards the shore: however, I encouraged him
not to be afraid, but bring the (hip to an anchor^ as
soon as we were certain that we must engage them.
Accordingly we did so, and furled all our sails: as to
the savages, we feared nothing, but only that they
might set the ship on sire, to prevent which I order-
ed them to get their boats our, and fasten them, one
close by the head, and the o^her by the stern, well
manned, with fkeets and buckets to extinguish, the
flames, stiould it so happen. The savages soon came
up with us, but there were not so many as the mate
had said j for instead of a thousand cauoes> there were
Y only
only one hundred and twenty; too many indeed for
us, several of their canoes containing about sixteen
or seventeen men.
As they approached us, they seemed to be in the
greatest amazement, not knowing what to make of us.
They rowed round the (hip, which occasioned us to
call to the men in the boats, not to suffer them to
come near them* Hereupon they beckoned to the
savages to keep back, which they accordingly did;
but at their retreat they let fly about fiftyxarrows a-
mong us, and very much wounded one of our men
in the longboat. I called to them not to fire upon any
account, but handing them down some deal boards,
the carpenters made them a kind of a fence to shield
them from the arrows. In half an hour after, they
came so near astern of us, that we had a perfect sight
of them; then they rowed a little farther out, till
they came directly alongside of us, and then approach-
ed so near, as they could hear us speak: this made
me order all our men to keep close, and get their
guns ready. In the mean time, I ordered Friday to
go out upon deck, and ask them in his language
what they meant? No sooner did he do so, but six
of the savages, who were in the foremost canoe, stoop-
ing down, (hewed us their naked backsides, as much
as to fay in English^ kiss our ;But Friday quickly
knew what this meant, by immediately crying out
they were going to moot: unfortunately for him,
poor creature 1 who fell under the cloud of three hun-
dred arrows, no less then seven piercing through his
body, killing one of the best servants, and faithfui-
lest of companions in all my solitudes and afflictions.
So enraged was I at the death of poor Friday, that
the guns, which before were charged with only pow-
der, to frighten them, I ordered to be loaded with
small mot; nor did the gunners faif in (heir aim, but
at this broadside split and overset thirteen or fourteen
of their canoes, which killed numbers of them, and
set the rest a-swimming: the others, frightned out
os their wits, little regarding theit fellows drowning,
scoured away as fast as they could. One poor wretch
our people took up, swimming for his life, an hour
after. He was very sullen at first, so that he would
neither eat nor speak: bin: I took a way to cure him,
by ordering them to throw him into the sea, which
they did, and then he came swimming back like a
cork, calling in his tongue, as i suppose, to save him,.
So we took him on board, but it was a long time be-
fore we could make him speak or understand English;
yet when we had taught him, he told Us, they were
going with their kings to fight a great battle: and
when we asked him, what made them come up to
us? he said, to makee de great "wonder look: where
it is to be noted, that those natives, and those of A-
frica, always add two e9s at the end of English words,
as niakee, takee> and the like, from which it is a
very difficult thing to make them break off.
Being now under fail, we took our last farewel of
poor honest Friday, and interred him with all possible
decency and solemnity; putting him into a coffin,
and committing him to the deep, at the fame time
causing eleven guns to be sired for him. Thus ended
the life of one of the most grateful, faithful, honest,
and affectionate servants, that ever any man was
blessed with in the world.
Having now a fair wind for Brasils, in about twelve
days time we made land in the latitude of five degrees
fouth of the line. Four days we kept on S; by E. in>
sight of shore, when we made cape St Augustine,and
in three days we came to an anchor off the bay of
All Saints. 1 had great difficulty here to get leave to
hold correspondence on shore; for neither the figure
of my partner, my two merchant trustees, nor the
fame of my wonderful preservation in the island, could
procure me the favour, till such time as the prior of
the monastery of the Augustines (to whom I had given
500 moidores) obtained leave from the governor, for
me personally, with the captain, 'and one more, toge-
Y 2 ther
ther with eight sailors, to come on shore ;_upon this
condition, that we should not land any^oods out of
the (hip, or carry away any person ^without licence-:
I round means however to get on shore three bales of
English goods, such as fine l>road cloths, fluffs, and
ib me linen, which I brought as a present for my part-
ner, who had sent me on board a present of fresh pro-
visions, wine, and sweetmeats, worth above thirty
moidores, including some tobacco, and three or four
fine gold medals.
Here I delivered my partner in gcods to the value
of ioo 1. Sterling, and obliged him to sit up the sloop
I bought, for the use of my island, in order to send
then*.-resrestiments: and so active'was he in this mat-
ter, that he had the vessel finished in a few d^ys, to
the master of which I gave particular instructions to
find the place. I soon loaded him with a small car-
go; and one of our sailors offered to settle there, upon
my letter to the Spanish governor, if I would allot
him tools and a plantation. This I willingly grant-
ed, and gave him the savage we had taken prisoner
to be his slave. All things bctfig ready for the voy-
age, my old partner told me, there was* an acquain-
tance of his, a Brasil planter, who having fallen un-
der the displeasure of the church, and in fear of the
inquisition, whrch obliged him to be concealed, would
be glad of such an opportunity to make his escape,
with his wife and two daughters; and if I wou:d al-
lot them a plantation in my island, he would give
• them a small stock to begin with, for that the officers
had already seized his effects 2nd estate, and left him
nothing but a little houfhold stuff, and two slaves.
This request I presently granted, concealing him and
his family on board our ship, till such time as the
sloop (where all the effects were) was gone out of
the bay, and then we put them on board, who car-
ried some materials, and plants for planting- sugar-
canes, along with them. By this sloop, among other
things, I sent my subjects 3 milk cows and 5 calves,
about
about 22 hogs, 3 sows big with pig, 2 mares and a
stone horse. # I also engaged three Portugal women
to go for sake of the Spaniards, which, with the per-
secuted man's two daughters, were sufficient, since
the rest had wives of their own, though in another
country: all which cargo arrived safe, no doubt to<
their exceeding comfort, who, with this addition,,
were about sixty or seventy people, besides children.
At this place my truly honest and pious clergyman
left me; for a (hip being ready to set sail for Lisbon,
he asked me leave to go thither; but I assure you, it
was with the greatest reluctancy I parted from a per-
son, whose virtue and piety merited the greatest e—
steem.
From the Brasils we made directly over the Atlan-
tic ocean to the Cape of Good Hope, having a toler-
able good voyage, steering for the most part S. E. We
were on a trading voyage, and had a supercargo on
board, who was to direct all the ship's motions after
stie arrived at the Cape-, only being limited to a cer-
tain number of days, or stay* by charter-party, at
the several ports she was to go to. At the Cape we
only took in fresh water, and then sailed for the
coast of Coromandel: we were there informed, that
a French man of war of 50 guns, and two large mer-
chant slitps, were sailed for the Indies, but we heard -
no more of them.
In our passage we touched at the island'of Mada-
gascar, where, though the inhabitants are naturally
fierce and treacherous, and go constantly armed with
bows and lances, yet for some time they treated us
civilly enough *, and, in exchange for knives, scilfars,.
and other trifles, they brought us eleven good fat bul-
locks, which we took partly for present frests vidtualSj
and the remainder to salt for the ship's use.
So curious was I to view every corner of the world
where I came to, that 1 went on more as often as I
could. One evening, when on shore, we observed
numbers of the people standing gazing at us at a di-
Y 3 stance*
ftance. We thought ourselves in no danger, as they
had hitherto used us kindly. However, .we cut three
boughs out of a tree, sticking them at a distance from
us, which, it seems, in that country, is not only a to-
ken of truce and amity, bur, when poles or boughs
are set up on the other fide, it is a sign the truce is
accepted. In these treaties, however, there is one
principal thing to be regarded, that neither party
come beyond one another's three poles or boughs *, so
that the middle space is not only secure, but is also
allowed as a market"for traffic and commerce: when
the truce is thus accepted, they (lick up their javelins
and lances at the first poles, and come on unarmed •,
but if :3my violence is offered, away they run to their
pole$»take up their weapons, and then the truce is
at an end. This evening it happened that a greater
number of people than usual, both men and women,
traded among us for such toys as we had, with such
great civility, that we made us a little tent of large
boughs of trees, some of the men resolving to lie
on shore all night. But, for my part, I and some o-
thers took our lodging in the boat, with boughs of
trees, spread over it, having a fail spread at the bottom
to lie upon. About two o'clock in the morning, we
were awakened by the firing os muskets, and our
men crying out for help, or else they would all be
murdered. Scarce had we time to get the boat ashore,
when our men came plunging themselves into the
water, with about four hundred of the islanders at
their heels. We took up seven of the men, three of
them very much wounded, and orve left behind killed,
while the enemy poured their arrows so thick among
us, that we were forced to make a barricade, with
boards lying at the side of the boat, to shield its from
danger: and having got ready our sire-arras,, we re-
turned them a volley, which wounded several of them,
as we could hear by their cries. In this condition
we lay till break of day, and then making signals of
distress to the ship, which my nephew the captain-
heard
heard and understood, he weighed anchor and stood
as near the ihore as possible, and then sent another
boat with ten hands in her to assist us \ but we called
to them not to come near, informing them of our
unhappy condition. However, they ventured : when
one of the men taking the end of a tow line in his
one hand, and keeping our boat between him and our
adversaries, swam on board us, and made fast our
line to the boat; upon this, slipping our cables, they
towed us out of the reach of their arrows, and quick-
ly after, a broadside was given them from the ffcip>
which made a most dreadful havock among them.
When we got on board, we examined into the occa-
sion of this fray ; the men who fled informed us, that
an old woman, who fold milk within the poles, had
brought a young woman with her, who carried roots
or herbs, the sight of whom so much tempted our
men, that they offered rudeness to the maid, at which
the old woman set up a great cry; nor would the
sailors part with the prize, but carried her among
the trees, while the old woman went and brought a
whole army down upon them. At the beginning of
the attack, one of our men was killed with a lance, and
the fellow, who began the mischief, paid dear enough
for his mistress, though as yet we did not know what
had become of him; the rest luckily escaped. The -
third night after the action, being curious to under*-
stand how affairs stood, i took the supercargo, and
twenty stout fellows with me, and landed about two
hours before midnight, at the fame place where those
Indians stood the night before, and there we divided
our -men into two bodies, the boatswain commanding
one, and I another. It was so dark, that we could
see nobody, neither did we hear any voice near us:
but by and by the boatswain falling over a dead bo-
dy, we agreed to halt till the moon should rise, which
we knew would be in an hour after. We perceived
here no fewer than two and thirty bodies upon the
ground, whereof two were not quite dead. Satisfied
with
with this discovery, I was for going on board again;
but the boatswain, and the rest told me, #they would
make a visit to the Indian town, where those dogs, so
they called them, resided, asking me at the same time
to go along with them; for tfiey did not doubt, be-
sides getting a good booty, but they /hould find Tom
Jestery there, for that was the unhappy man we mif-
fed. But I utterly refused to go, and commanded
them back, being unwilling to hazard their lives, as
the safety of the ship wholly depended upon them.
Notwithstanding all I could fay to them, they all left
me but one, and the supercargo: so we three return-
ed to the boat, where a boy was left, resolving to stay
till they returned. At parting, I told them I supposed
most of them would run the same fate with Tom
JefFery. To this they replied, Come boys, come a!ongy
ivesll warrant we'll come off"safe enough : and so away
they went, notwithstanding all my admonitions, ei-
ther concerning their own safety, or the preservation
of the sliip. Indeed they were gallantly armed, c-
very man having a musket, bayonet, and a pistol, be-
sides cutlasses, hangers, pole-axes, and hand grana*
does. They came to a few Indian houses at first,
which not being the town they expected, they went
farther, and finding a cow tied to a tree, they con-
cluded that she would be a sufficient guide, and so it
proved for after they untied hsr, she led them di-
rectly to the town, which consisted of above two hun-
dred houses, several families living in some of the huta
together. At their arrival, all being in a profound
sleep, the sailors agreed to divide themselves into
three bodies, and set three parts of the town on
fire at once, to kill those that were escaping, and
plunder the rest os the houses. Thus desperately re-
solved they went to work; but the first party had
not gone far, before they called out to the rest, that
they had found Tom Jessery; whereupon they all ran
up to the place, and found the poor fellow indeed
hanging up naked by one arm, and his throat cur
almost'
almost from ear to ear: in a bouse that was hard by
the tree they.found sixteen or seventeen Indians, who
had been concerned in the fray, two or three of them
being wounded, who were not gone to sleep; this
house they set on fire first, and in'a few minutes after
five or fix places more in the town appeared in flames.
The conflagration spread like wild-fire, their houses
being all .of wood, vind covered with flags or rushes.
The poor affrighted inhabitants endeavoured to run
out to save their lives, but they were driven back in-
to the flames by the sailors^ and killed without mer-
cy. At the first house above mentiontd, after the boat-
swain had slain two with his pole-ax, he threw a
hand-granade into the houfo, which bursting, made a
terrible havock, killing and wounding most of them;
and their king and most of his train, who were trien
in that house, fell victims to their fury, every crea-
ture of them being either smothered or burnt. Ail
this while they never fired a gun, lest the people should
awaken faster than they could overpower them. But
the fire awakened them fast enough, vhich obliged
our fellows to keep together in bodies- By this time
the whole town was in a flame, yet their fury rather
increased, calling out to one another to remember
Tom JrfFery. The terrible light of this conflagration
made me very uneasy, and roused my nephew the
captain, and the rest of his men, who knew nothing
of the matter. When he perceived the dreadful smoke,
and heard the guns go off, he readily concluded his
men were in danger; he therefore takes another
boat, and comes ashore himself, with thirteen men
well armed. He was greatly surprised to see me and
only two men in the boat, but more so when I told
him the story •, but though I argued with him, as h
did with his men, about <he danger of the voyage,
the interests of the merchants and owners, and the
safety of the mip, yet my nephew, like the rest, de-
clared, that he would rather lose the ship, his voyage,
bis life, and all, than his men should be lost for want
of
of help: and so away he went. For my part, seeing
him resolved to go, I had not power to fiay behind.
He ordered the pinnace back again for twelve men
more, and then we marched directly as the flame
guided us. But surely never .was such a scene of hor-
ror beheld, or more dismal cries heard, except when
Oliver Cromwell took Drogheda in Ireland, where
he neither spared man, woman, or child.
The sirsi object, 1 think, we met with, was the
ruins of one of their habitations, before which lay
four men and three women killed, and two more
burnt to death among the sire, which was now de-
caying. Nothing could appear more barbarous than
this revenge: none ,more cruel than the authors of
it. As we went on, the sire increased, and the cry
proceeded in proportion. We had not gone much
farther, when we beheld three naked women, follow-
ed by sixteen or seventeen men, flying with the
greatest swiftness from our men, who (hot one of
them in our sight. When they perceived us, whom
they supposed also their murderers, they set up a most
dreadful shriek, and both of them swooned away in
the fright. This was a sight which might have soft-
ened the hardest heart; and in pity we took some
ways to let them know we would not hurt them,
while the poor creatures, with bended knees, and lift-
up hands, made piteous lamentations to us to save
their lives. I ordered our men not to hurt any of
the pcor creatures whatsoever; but being willing to
understand the, occasion of all this, I went among
these unhappy wretches, who neither understood
me, nor the good I meant them. However, being
resolved to put an end to this barbarity, I ordered
the men to follow me. We had not gone fifty yards
before we came up with the boatswain, with four
of our men at his heels, all of them covered with
blood and dust, and in search of more people to sa-
tiate their vengeance. As soon as we saw them, we
called out, and made them understand who we were;
upon
upon which they came up to us, setting up a halloo
of triumph„in token that more help was come. Noble
captain, said he to my nephew, I'm glad you're come:
we have not half done with these villainous hell hound
dogs, we'll root out the, very nation of them from the
earth, and kill more than poor Tom has hairs upon
his head; and this he went on till I interrupted him.
Blood thrifty dog! said I, will your cruelty never
end? I charge you touch not one creature more; stop
your hands, and stand still, or ye're a dead man this
moment. Why, Sir, said he, you neither know
whom you are protecting, nor what they-have done;
but pray come hither, and behold an instance of com-
passion, if such can merit your clemency; and with
that he shewed me the poor fellow with his throat
cut, hanging upon the tree.
Indeed here was enough to sill their breasts with
rage, which however 1 thought had gone too far,
agreeable to these words of Jacob to his sons Simeon
and Levi, Cursed be their anger for it was fierce; and
their wrath for it was cruel. But this sight made
my nephew and the rest as bad as they; nay, my
nephew declared, his concern was only for his men;
as for the people, not a^soul of them ought to live.
Upon this the boatswain and eight more directly
turned about, and went to finish the intended tra-
gedy; which being out of my power to prevent, I
returned back both from the dismal sight, and the
piteous cries of those unfortunate creatures, who
were made victims to their fury. Indeed it was an
egregious piece of folly in me to return to the boat
with but one attendant; and I had very near paid
for it, having narrowly escaped forty armed Indians,
who had been alarmed by the conflagration; but
having passed the place where they stood, I got to
the boat, accompanied with the supercargo, and so
went on board, sending the pinnance back again, to
assist the men in what might happen. When I
had
had got to the boat, the fire was almost extinguish-
ed, and the noise was abated; but I had scarce been
half an hour on board the (hip, when I heard another
volley given by our sailors, and a great smoke, which,
as 1 afterwards found, wag our men falling upon
those houses and persons that stood between them
and the sea : but here they spared the wives and
children, and killed only the men, to the number of
about sixteen or seventeen. By the time they got to
the shore, the pinnace and the ship's boat were rea-
dy to receive them, and they all got safe on board,
not a man of them having received the least hurt, ex-
cept two, one of whom strained his foot, and the o-
ther burnt his hand a little *, for they met with no
resistance, the poor Indians being unprepared, a-
nrazed, and confounded.
I was extremely angry with every one of them,
but particularly with the captain, who, instead of
cooling the rage of the men, had prompted them on
to farther mischief, nor could he make me any
other excuse, but that as he was a man he could not
master his passions, at the sight of one of his men
so cruelly murdered. As for the rest, knowing they
were not under mv command, they took no notice
of my anger; but rather boasted of their revenge.
According to all their accounts, they killed or de-
stroyed about one hundred and fifty men, women,
and children, besides burning the town to allies*
They took their companion Tom Jessery from the
tree, covered him with some of the ruins, and so -lest
him. But however this action of our men might
seem to them justifiable, yet 1 always openly con-
demned^ it with the appelation of the Massacre of
Madagascar* For though they had slain this JefFery,
yet certainly he was the first aggressor, by attempt-
ing to violate the chastity of a young innocent wo-
man, who ventured down to them on the faith of
the public capitulation, which was so treacherously
broken.
While
While we were under sail, the boatswain would
often defend,this bloody action, by saying, that the
Indians bad broke the truce the night before, by foot-
ing one of our men without provocation; and the* the
poor fellow had taken a liftle liberty with the wench,
he ought not to have been murdered in so villainous a
manner : and that they had acted nothing but what the
divine laws commiJfiGned to be done to such homicides.
However, ) was in the fame mind as before, telling
them that they were murderers, and bid them depend
upon it, that God would blast their voyage for such
an unparallelled piece of barbarity.
When we came into the gulf os Persia, five of our
men, who ventured on shore, were either killed or
made slaves by the Arabians, the rest of them having
scarce time to escape to their boat* This made me
upbraid them afresh with the just retribution of Hea-
ven for such actions: upon'which the boatswain ve-
ry warmly asked me, whether those men on whom
the tower of Siloam fell were greater sinners than
the rest of the Galileans; and besides, Sir, said he,
none of these five poor men that are lost were with
us at the massacre of Madagascar, as you call if,
and therefore your reprehension is very unjust, and
your application improper. Besides, added he, you
are continually using the men very ill, upon this ac-
count, and being but a passenger yourself, we are
not obliged to bear it \ nor can we tell what ill de-
signs you may have to bring us to judgement for it n\
England; and therefore if you do not leave this dis-
course, as also not concern yourself with any of our
affairs, I will leave the ship, and not fail among such
dangerous company.
All this 1 heard very patiently; but it being often
repeated, I at length told him, the concern I had on
board was none of his business; that I was a consi-
derable owner in the ship, and therefore had a right
to speak in common, and that 1 was no way ac-
countable to him, nor to any body else. As .no
2 more
more passed for some time aster, I thought all had been
over. At this time we were in the road of Bengal,
where, going on shore with the supercargo, one day,
in the evening, as 1 was preparing to go on board, one
of the men came to me, and told me, I need not
trouble myself to come to the boat, for that the
cockswain and others had ordered him not to carry
me on board any more. This insolent message
much surprised me; yet I gave him no answer to it,
but went directly and acquainted the supercargo, en*
treating him to go on board, and by acquainting the
captain with it, prevent the mutiny which I percei-
ved would happen. But before 1 had spoken this,
the matter was effected on board: for no sooner
was he gone off in the boat, but the boatswain,
gunner, carpenter, and all the inferior officers, came
to the quarterdeck, desiring to speak with the cap-
tain; and there the boatswain made a long harangue,
exclaiming against me, as before mentioned •> that
if 1 had not gone ashore peaceably for my own di-
version, they, by violence, would have compelled me
for their satisfaction; that as they had shipped with
the captain, so they would faithfully serve turn;
but if 1 did not quit the ship, or the captain oblige
me to it, they would leave the snip immediately;
hereupon, turning his face about hy way of signal,
they all cried out, ONE and ALL, ONE and
ALL.
You may be sure, that though my nephew was a
man of great courage, yet he could not but be sur-
prised at their sudden and unexpected behaviour:
<md though he talked stoutly to them, and after-
wards expostulated with them, that in common
justice to me, who was a considerable owner in the
sliip, they could not turn me, as it were, out of my
own house, which might bring their lives in danger,
(hould they ever be taken in England: nay, though
he invited the boatswain on shore to accommodate
matters with me, yet all this, 1 fay, signified nothing:
they would have nothing to do with me, and
they were resolved to go on shore, if I came on
board. Well, said my nephew, if you arc so re-
solved, permit me to talk with him, and then I have
done: and so he came to me, giving me an account
os their resolution, how one and all designed to for-
sake the lliip when I came on bojrd, for which he
was mightily concerned. I am glad to fee you, ne-
phew, said I, and rejoice it is no worse, since they
have not rebelled again(t you: I only desire you to
send my necessary things oa shore, with a sufficient
sum of money, and 1 will find my way to England
as well as I can. Though this grieved my nephew
to the heart, yet there was no remedy but compli-
ance; in short, all my necessaries were sent me, and
so this matter was over in a few hours.
I think I was now near a thousand leagues farther
off England by sea than at my little kingdom, ex-
cept this difference, that i might travel by land over
the Great Mogul's country to Surar, from thence up
to Bassora, by sea up the Persian gulf, then take the
way of the Caravans over the Arabian desert to Alep-
po and Scanderoon, there take shipping to Italy, and
so travel by land into France, and from thence crosa
the sea to England.
My nephew left me two persons to attend me;
one of them was his servant, and the other clerk
to the purser, who engaged to be mine. I took lod-
gings in an English woman's house, where several
French, one Engjish, and two Italian merchants re- v
sided. The handsome entertainment I met with
here, occasioned me to stay nine months, considering
what course I should take. Some English goods I
had with me of great value, besides a thousand pieces
of eight, and a letter of credence for more, if there
was any such necessity. The goods 1 soon disposed of
to advantage, and bought here several good dia-
monds, which I could easily carry about with me.
One morning the English merchant came to me, as
Z 2 being
being very intimate together, Countryman, said he, 7
shave a projetl to communicate to you, which, I hope,
will suit to both our advantage. To be short, Sir, we
are both in a remote part of the worldsrom our country,
but yet in a place where men of business max get a
great deal of money. Now, if you will put a thousand
pounds to my thousand pounds, we will hire a flap to
cur satisatlion; you shall be captain, I will be mer-
chant, and we'll go a, trading voyage to China ; for
why should we Us still like irons, while the whole
world is in a continual mot ion.
• 'j his proposal soon got my consent, being very a-
greeahle to my rambling genius •, and the more so,
because I looked upon my countryman to be a very
sincere person ; it rt quired some time before we could
get a vessel to our mind, and sailors to man it so
cordingly; at length we bought a ship, and got an
English mate, boatswain, and gunner, a Dutch car-
penter, and three Portuguese foremast*men ; aad, for
want*of others, made shift with Indian seamen. We
first sailed to Achin, in the island of Sumatra, and then
to Si-am, where we bartered our wares for some ar-
rack and opium, the last of which bore a great price
among the Chinese; in a word, we went up to
Suskan, making a very great voyage; and, aster
eight months time, I returned to Bengal, very well
satisfied with this adventure, having not only got a
'sufficient quantity os money, but an insight of getting
a great deal more.
The next voyage my friend proposed to me, was
to go among the Spice islands, and bring home a load
of cloves from the Manillas, or thereabouts, islands
belonging partly to Spain, but where the D inch trade
very considerably. We were not long preparing for
this voyage, which we made no less successful than
the last, touching at Bornea, and several other places
which I do not perfectly remember, and returning
home in about five months time. We soon sold our
spices, which were chiefly cloves, and some nutmegs,
to the Persian merchants, who carried them away for
the gulf; and, in short, making five to one advan-
tage, were loaded with money.
Not long after my friend and I had made up out
accounts, to our entire satisfaction, there came in a
Dutch coaster from Batavia, of about two hundred
tons. The crew of this vessel pretended themselves
so sickly, that there were not hands sufficient to
undertake a voyage, and the captain having given
out that he intended to go to Europe, public notice
was given that the ship was to be fold. No sooner
did this come to our ears, but we bought the ship,
paid the master, and took possession. We would also
have very willingly entertained some of the men;
but they having received their (hare of booty, were
not to be found, being altogether fled to Agra, the
great city of the Mogul's residence; and from thence
were to travel to Surat, and so by sea to to the Per-
sian gulf. And indeed they had reason to fly in this
manner: for the truth of it was, the pretended cap*
tain was the gunner only, and not the commander r
that having been on a trading voyage, they were at-
tacked on shore by the Malayans, who killed three
men, and the captain: after whose death the other
eleven men run away with the snip to the bay of
Bengal, and left the mate and other five men more on
shore; but of this affair we shall have occasion to
speak at more length hereafter.
However they came by the ship, we thought we
bought it honestly *, neither did we suspect any thing
of the matter; when the man shewed us a bill of
sale for the (hip (undoubtedly forged to one Emanuel
Closterfhoven, which name he went by. And so
without any more to do, we picked up some Dutch
and English seamen, resolving for another voyage for
cloves among the Philippian and Malacca islands, in
short, we continued thus five or six years, trading
torn port to port with extraordinary success^ m
t\c seventh year we undertook a voyage to China,
Z 3 designing
designing to touch at Siam, and buy some rice by
the way. In this voyage, contrary winds beat us up
and down for a considerable time among the islands
in the straits of Malacca. No sooner were we clear
of those rugged seas but we perceived our ship had
sprung a leak^ which obliged us to put into the
river Cambodia, which lies northward of the gulf,
that goes up to Siam.
One day as i was on shore refreshing myself, there
comes to me an Englishman, who was a gunner's
mate on board an English East India ship, riding up
the river, near the city of CamK-dia, Sir, said he, you
may wonder at my business, having never seen me in
your Use; but though I am aft ranger ,1 have something
to tell you that very nearly concerns you'; and indeed it
is the imminent danger you are in has movedme to give
to you this timely notice. Danger ! said J, what danger?
I know of none, except my ship being leaky, for which
T design to have run her aground to-morrow morning.
.S/r, said he, I hope you will be better employed, when you
shall hear what I have to say to you. You know the town
os Cambodia is about 15 leagues up this river; about
three leagues on this fide of it, there lies two Dutch
and three English ships. And would you venture here%
without considering what strength you have to engage
them? I knew not what he meant by this discourfe,and
turning short upon him, Sir, said 1,1 know no reason I
have to be afraid cither of anyEnglish orDutch ships. I
am no interloper, and what business ha_ve they then
with me ? Well) Sir, said the man,if'you do think yourself
secure,all as I can fay, you must take your chance; how-
ever\lam very sorry you are so deaf to good advice,but
1a/sure you, if you do not put to sea immediately, youwill
be attacked by five long boats full of men, hanged your*
self for a pirate, if you are taken, and the particulars
examined afterwards. I thought Sir, added he, /
might have met with better reception for such a sin-
gular piece of service. Sir, said I, 1 never was un-
grateful to any man, but pray explain yourself, and 1%
go
go on board this minute, whether the leak be stopped
or no. Why, Sir, said he, to be short, because time is
precious, the* matter is this : Ton know well enough that
you was with the ship at Sumatra, where your captain
was murderedby the Malayans,n/z7£ three of his sailors,
and that either you, or softie who were on board you, ran
away with the ship, and aresince turned pirates at sea.
Novjy Sir> this is the sum os what I had to say; ana
J can positively assure you, that is you be taken? yeu will
be executed without much ceremony j for undoubtedly
you cannot but be sensible what little law merchant
ships shew to pirates, whenever they fall into their
unmerciful hands*
Sir, said 1, 1 thank you for your kind informa-
tion: and though I am sure no man could come
more honestly by the iliip than I have done; yet
knowing their enterprise, and being satisfied of your
honest intention, Til be upon my defence. Prithee
Sir> said the man, dent talk of being upon your defence^
the best you can make is to be out of danger; and
therefore, if you have any regard teyour life, and the
lives ofyour men, take the advantage, without fail, of
patting out to sea at high water; by which meaiisas
you have a whole tide before you, you will be gone too
far out of their reach before they can come down.
I am mighty well satisfied, said I, in this particu-
lar, and of your kindness, which merits my greatest
esteem ? pray, Sir, what amends shall I make you;
He replied, 1 know not what amends you are willing
to make, because you may have some doubts of its cer-
tainty: but to convince you of the truth of what I fay
I have one offer to make to you. On board one of the
English ships,I have nineteen months pay due to msfand
this Dutchman that is with me hassevenmonths pay
due to him, which if you will make good to us, we will
go along with you. If you fjallfnd that there is no-
thing in what we have said, then we fjall deft re no-
thing ; but when you &re convinced that we have saved
the
the ship, your Use, and the lives of the men, we will
leave the whole to your generosity.
So reasonable did this every way appear, that I
immediately consented, and we went directly on
board. As soon as we came on board, my partner
calls joyfully out, that the^y had stopped the leak!
Well, thank God, said I, but pray let us weigh
anchor forthwith. Weigh! said he, what is the
meaning of this hurry? Pray ask no questions, said
I, but all hands to work, without losing a moment's
time: upon which, in great surprise, the captain
was called, who immediately ordered the anchor to
be got up; and though the tide was not quite down,
yet being assisted with a little land breeze, we stood
out to sea. J then called my partner into the cabin,
and related the story at large, which was confirmed,
and more amplified by the two men 1 had brought
on board. Scarce had we finistied our discourse, up-
on this head, but a sailor came to the cabin door,
with a message from the captain, that we were
chased by five stoops full of armed men. Very well,
said I, it is plain now there is something in it. And
so going upon deck, 1 told all the men there was a
design for seizing the stiip, and of executing us for
pirates; and asked them, whether they would faith-
fully stand by us, and by one another? To which
they unanimously replied, that they would sight to
their last drop of blood. 1 then asked the captain,
which way he thought best for us to manage the
battle: Sir, said he, the only method is to keep them off
with our great Jbot as long as we are able, and then
have recourse to our small arms: and when both these
sail us, then retire to close quarters, when perhaps the
enemy, wanting materials, can neither brenk open our
bulk heads^ nor get in upon us. Mean time the gunner
was ordered to Dring two guns to bear fore and aft out
of the steerage, and so load them with musket bullets,
and small pieces of old iron and the deck being
cleared, we prepared for the engagement, still how-
ever,
ever, keeping out at sea. The boats followed us
with all the /ail they could make, and we could per-
ceive the two foremost were English, which outsailed
the rest by two leagues, and which we found would
come up with us: hereupon we fired a gun without
ball, intimating that they should bring to, and we
put out a flag of truce, as a signal for parley; but
finding them crouding after us, till they came with-
in shot, we took in our white, and hanging out the
red flag, immediately fired at them with ball: we
then called to them with a speaking trumpet, bidding
them at their peril keep off.
But all this signified nothing; for depending up-
on the strength that followed them, they were reso-
lutely bent for mischief: hereupon I ordered them to
bring the ship to, by which means, they laying upon
our' broadside, we let fly at them at once, one of
whom carried away the stern of the hindermost boat|
and obsiged them not only to take down their fail,
but made them all run to the head of the boat, to
keep them from sinking; and so slie lay by, having
enough of it. In the mean time we prepared to
welcome the foremost boat in the same manner.
While we were doing this, one of the three hinder-
most boats came up to the relief of that which was
disabled, and took the men out ofTier. We again
called to parley with them ; but instead of an answer,
one of the boats came close under our stern ; where-
upon our gunner let fly his two vchace guns, but
missing, the men in she boat shouted, and waving
their caps, came on with greater fury. To repair
this seeming disgrace, the gunner soon got ready,
and firing the second time, did a great deal of mis-
chief among the enemy. We waved again, and
bringing our quarter to bear upon them, fired three
guns more, when we found the boat a finking, and
several men already in the sea; hereupon, manning
our pinnace, I gave orders to save as many as they
could, and instantly to come on board, because the
rest
rest os their boats were approaching: accordingly
they did so, and took up three of them, one of
whom was almost past recovery and then crouding
all the fail we could, after our men came on board,
we stood out farther to sea^ so that the other three
boats gave over their chace, when they came up to
the first two Thus delivered from imminent dan-
ger, we changed our course to the eastward, quite
out of the course of all European (hips.
Being now at sea, and inquiring more particularly
of the two seamen, the meaning* of all this, the
Dutchman, at once, let us into the secret. He told
us, that the fellow who sold us the ship, was an ar-
rant thief, who had run away with her; that the
captain was treacherously murdered on the coast of
Malacca by the natives there, with three of his menj
that heK the Dutchman, and four more, being obli-
ged to have recourse to the woods for their safety,
at length escaped by means of a Dutch ship, in its
way to China, which had sent their boat on shore
for fresh water: That, after this he went to Batavia*
where two of the seamen belonging to the stiip (who
had deserted the rest in their travels) arrived, and
there gave an account that the fellow who ran away
with the ship had Ibid her at Bengal to a set of pi-
rates, who went a cruising, arid had already taken one
English and two Dutch ships richly laden.
Now, though this was absolutely false, yet con-
cerning us directly, my partner truly said, that our
deliverance was to be esteemed so much the more,
by reason had we fallen into their hands, we could
have expected nothing from them but immediate
death, considering our accusers would have been our
judges: and therefore his opinion was, to return, di-
rectly to Bengal, where being known, we could
prove how honestly we came by the ship, of whom
we bought her, and the like, and where we were
sure os some justice; at least would not be hanged
first, and judged afterwards. 1 was at first of my
partner's
partner's opinion; but when I had more seriously
considered of the matter, I told him we ran a great
hazard of attempting to return, being on the wrong
fide of the straits of Malacca, and that if, upon a-
larm given, we mould bf taken by the Dutch off Ba-
tavia or English elsewhere, our running away would
be a sufficient evidence to condemn us. This danger
indeed startled not only my partner, but likewise all
the ship's company; so we changed our former re-
solution, and resolved to go to the coast of Tonquin,
and so to that of China, where pursuing our first de-
sign was to trade, we might likewise have an oppor-
tunity to dispose of the stiip some way or other, and
to return to Bengal in any country vessel we could
procure. This being agreed to, we steered away
N. N. E. about 50 leagues off the usual course to the
east, which put us to some inconveniencies. As the
wind blew steadily against us, our voyage became
very tedious, and we began to be afraid of want of
provision ; and what was still worse, we apprehended,
that as those ships, from whose boats we had escaped
were bound to China, they might get before us and
have given fresh information, which might create
another vigorous pursuit. Indeed I could not help be-
ing grieved, when I considered that I, who had never
wronged or defrauded any person in my life, was
now pursued like a common thief; and, if taken,
to run the greatest danger os being executed as
such; and, though innocent, I found myself under
the necessity of flying for my safety * and thereby e-
scape being brought to shame, of which I was even
more afraid than of death itself. It was easy to read
my dejection in my countenance. My mind was op-
pressed, like those unhappy innocent persons, who,
being overpowered by blasphemous and perjured evi-
dences, wickedly resolved to take away their lives
or ruin their reputation, have no other recourse in
this world to ease their sorrow, but sighs, prayers,
and tears. My partner feeing me so concerned, en-
couraged
couraged me as well as he couM; and, after descri-
bing to me the several ports of that coasts he told me,
he would either put in on the coast of Cochinchina,
or else in the bay of Tonquin, from whence we might
go to Macao, a town once possessed by the Portu-
guese, and where still many European families reside.
To this place we steered, and early next morning
came in sight 0/ the coast; but thought it advifeable
to put into a small river where we could, either
over-land, or by the (hip's pinnace, know what ves-
sels were in any ports thereabouts. This happy step
proved our deliverance; for next morning there came
to the bay of Tonquin two Dutch (hips, and a
third without any colours; and, in the evening, two
English ships steered the fame course. The river
where we were, was but small, and ran but a few
leagues up the country northward; the country was
wild and barbarous, and the people thieves, having
no correspondence with any other nation, dealing
only in filh, oil, and such gross commodities; and
one barbarous custom they still retained, that when
any vessel was unhappily sliip wrecked upon their
coast, they make the men prisoners or slaves; so that
now we might fairly fay we were surrounded by e-
nemies both by sea and land.
As the ship had been leaky, we took the opportu-
nity in this place to search her, and to stop up the
places which let in the water. We accordingly,
lightened her, and bringing our guns and other
moveable things to one side, we essayed to bring her
down, that we might come at her bottom: but, up-
on second consideration, we did not think it safe to
let her lie on dry ground, neither indeed was the
place convenient for it. The inhabitants, not used
to such a sight as to fee a ship lie down on one side,
and heel in towards the shore, not perceiving her
men, who were at work on her bottom, with stages
and boats on the off-side, presently imagined the (hip
bad been cast away, and lay fast on the ground.
Agreeable
277
Agreeable to this supposition, they surrounded us
with ten or§ twelve large boats, with a resolution,
undoubtedly, to plunder the ship, and to carry away
those they sound alive for slaves to their king. But
when they perceived oijr men hard at work on the
ship's bottom and side, washing, graving, and stop-
ping her, it filled them all with such surprise, that
they stood gazing as though they were confounded.
Nor could we imagine what their design was; how-
ever, for fear of danger, we handed down arms and
ammunition to those at work, in order to defend
themselves; and indeed this precaution was abso-
lutely neceflary; for, in a quarter of an hour after,
the natives, concluding it was really a shipwreck,
and that we were saving our lives and goods, which
they thought belonged to them, came down upon
our men, as though it had been inpa line of battle.
We lay at present but in a very unfit posture to fight 5
and before the stages could be got dowu, or the men
in the boat come on board as they were ordered, the
Cochinchinefes were upon them, and two of their
boats boarding our longboat, they began to lay hold
of our men as prisoners. The first they seized was
a stout English sailor, who never fired his musicet,
like a fool, as I imagined, but laid it down in the
boat ; but he knew what he was doing; for by main
force he dragged the Pagan out of the boat into ours
by the two ears, and knocked his brains out against
the boat's gunnel: A Dutchman that was next him
snatched up the musket, and knocked down five
more with the butt end of it; however, this was
doing very little to their number; but a strange un-
expected accident, which rather merits laughter than
any thing else, gave our men a complete victory o-
ver them. *
It seems the carpenter, who was preparing to grave
the outside of the ship, as well as to pay the seams,
where he caulked, to stop the leaks, had gotten two
kettks just let down in the boat, one filled with
A a boiling
boiling pitch, and the other with rosin, tallow, oil,
and such stuff as the shipwrights use; tt\e carpenter's
man had a great iron laddie wirh which he used to
supply the workmen with hot stuff, and as two of
the enemy entered the boat .where the fellow stood,
he saluted them with a full laddie of the hot boiling
liquor, which the poor creatures being half naked,
made them roar out, and jump into the sea. Well
done, Jack, fays the carpenter, give them the other
dose •, and so stepping forward himself, takes a mop,
and dipping it into the pitch pot, he and his men so
plentifully flung it among them, as that none e-
scaped being scalded: upon which they all made the
best of their way, crying and howling in such a
frightful manner, that in all my adventures I sever
heard the like. And indeed never was I better
pleased with any conquest than I was with this, there
being so little blocdstied, and having an aversion to
killing such . savage wretches, (more than was ne-
cessary), as knowing they came on errands, which
their laws and customs made them think were just
and equitable. By this time all things being in or-
der, and the stiip fwiming, they found their mi-
stake, so they did not venture a second attack: Thus
ended our merry fight and having got some rice,
bread, roots, and sixteen good hogs on board the
day before, we set fail, not daring to go into the
bay of Tonquin, but steered N. E» towards the isle of
Formosa, or as though we would go to the Manillas,
or Philippine islands, for fear of meeting with any
European (hips. When we anchored at the isle For-
mosa, the inhabitants, not only courteously supplied us
with provisions and fresh water, but dealt very fairly
and honestly wirh ps in their bargains and agree-
ments. From this place we steered north, keeping
still off the coast of China, till we were beyond all
its ports where European (hips usually come; and at
length being come to the latitude-of thirty degrees,
we resolved to put into the first trading port we
sliould
should come at; and standing for the shore, a boat
came off two leagues to us with an old Portuguese
pilot on board, who offered his service; we very
gladly accepted him, and sent the boat back again.
And now having the old man on board, I talked to
him os going to Nanquin, the most northward part
of the coast ot China. What will you do there?
said he, smiling. I told him we would sell our cargo
and purchase calicoes, raw and wrought silks, tea,
or. and so return the same way back. O, said he,
you had better put in at Macao, where you may buy
China wares as cheap as at Nanquin, and fell your
opium at a greater advance. But, said I, we are
gentlemen as well as merchants, and design to fee
the great city of Pekin, and the magnificent court of
the monarch of China. Why then, said he, you
should go to Ningpo, where there is a navigable river
that goes through the heart of that vast empire, two
hundred and seventy leagues from the lea, which
crosses all the rivers, passes considerable hills, by the
help of the sluices and gates, and goes even up to
the city of Pekin. You may go to Nanquin, if you
please, and travel to Pekin, and there is a Dutch (hip
just before bound that way. At the name of a Dutch
or English ship, I was struck with confusion; they
being as great a terror to me in this vessel, as an
Alg£rine man of war is to them in the Mediterra-
nean. The old man finding me troubled, Sir, said
he, I hope the Dutch are not now at war with your
nation: No, said I, but God knows what liberty
they may take when out of the reach of the laAV.
Why, fays he, what occasion is there for peaceable
merchants to fear? For, believe me, they never
meddle with any but P IR A T E S.
At the mentioning of the word pirates^ my coun-
tenance turned to that of scarlet; nor was it possible
for me to conceal it from the old pilot; who taking
notice of it, Sir, said he, take what course you please^
I'll do you all the jcrvice I can* Signior, said 1* I
A a % am
am a little concerned at your mentioning pirate*; I
hope there are none such in these seas, because you
see in what a weak condition we are to defend our-
sel ves. 0 fir, said he, if that9s all, dont be concerned,
I don't remember one in theseas these fifteen years,
except about a month ago one was seen in the bay of
Siam, but (be is gone to the southward; neither was
fie built for a privateer, but was run away with by
a reprobate captain, and some of his men, the right
captain having been murdered by the Malayans.
What! said I, (as though ignorant of what had
happened), did they kill the captain I No, said he, it
is generally thought the Malayans murdered him ; but
perhaps they might procure them to do it, and there-
fore they justly deserve hanging. The rogues were
lately discovered in- the bay os Siam, in the river of
Cambodia, by some Dutchmen who belonged to the
ship, and had much ado to escape the Jive boats that
pursued them, but they have all given such an exatl
description of the ship, that wherever they find her,they
will be sure to know her, and they have solemnly swore
to give no quarter to the captain or the seamen, but
hang them every one up at the yard arm, without any
formal business of bringing them to a court of judi-
cature.
Being sensible, that, having the old man on
board, he was incapable of doing me any mischief,
Well, Signior, said I, it is for this very reason I
would have you carry us up to Nanquin, where nei-
ther English nor Dutch (hips come: and I must tell
you their captains are a parcel of rash, proud, inso-
lent rascals, that neither know what belongs to
justice, nor how to behave themselves as the laws of
God or nature direct. Fellows that would prove mur-
derers, to punilh robbers, and take upon them to
adjugs innocent men to death, without any proof
to prove them guilty; but perhaps I may live to call
them to account for it, in a place where they may
be taught how justice is to be executed. And so
1 told him all the story cf buying the ship, and how
we
we were saved by the means of two men: that the
murder of t,he captain by the Malayans, as also the
running-away with the (hip, 1 believed to be true v
but that we, who bought it, were turned pirates,
was a mere fiction, to, cover their cowardice and
foolish behaviour, when they attacked us, and the
blcod of those men we kill in our own just de-
fence, lay to their door, who sent to attack us by
surprise.
Sir> said the old man amazed, you have taken the
right course to flear to the north, and, if I might ad-
vise you, I would have you sell your ship in China, and
buy or build another in that country; and Til procure
people to buy the one and fill the other. Well, but Sig-
nior, said 1, if I sell the ihip in this manner, I may
bring some innocent persons into the fame danger as
I have gone through, perhaps worse, even death itself,
whereby I should be as guilty of their murder as vil-
lainous executioners. That nerd not trouble you, says:
the old man ; Flljind a way to prevent that;for these
commanders you talk of I know them very well, wid in-
form them rightly of the matter as you have related*
and I am persuaded they will not only believe me, but
atl more cautiously for the future. A nd will ^ou de-
liver one message from me to them 9 Yes, said he, if
you will give it under your hand, that I may prove
it is not my own production. Hereupon I wrote a
large account os their attacking me in their long-
boat, the pretended reason and unjust design of it's
that they had done what they might be ashamed ofr
and could not answer for at any tribunal in Eng-
land. But this letter was written in vain. Provi-
dence ordered things another way. We sailed di-
rectly for Nanquin, and in about thirteen days fail,
civme to an anchor at the south west point of the great
gulf os that phree, where we learned that two Dutch
ships were gone the length before us, and that we
should certainly fall into their hands. We were all
at a great loss in this exigency, and would very glad-
ly have been on stiore almost any where j but our
A a 3 old"
old pilot told me, that if I would soil to the south-
ward about two and forty leagues, there, was a little
port called Qujnchange, where no European ships e-
ver came, and where we might consider what was fur-
ther to be done. Accordingly we weighed anchor
the next day, calling only twice on shore by the way
to get fresh water. The country people very cour-
teously sold us roots, tea, rice, fowls, and other pro-
visions. After five days fail we came to the port, and
landed with unspeakable joy. We resolved to dispose
os ourselves and effects in any other way possible than
enter on board that ill-fated vessel more; for no state
can be more miserable than a continued fear, which
is a life of death, a confounder of our understandings,
that sets the imagination at work to form a thousand
frightful things that may never happen. And we
scarce sleep one night, without dreaming of halters,
yard arms, or gibbets; of sighting, being taken, and
being killed; nay, so violent were our apprehensions,
that we would bruise our hands and heads against the
sides of the cabin, as though actually engaged. The
story of the Dutch cruelty at Ampona often came in-
to our thoughts when awake; and, for my part, I
thought my condition very hard, that, after so many
difficulties, and such signal deliverances, 1 mould be
hanged in my old age, though innocent of any crime
that deserved such punilTiment; but then religion
would seem to represent to me, as though the voice
of it had said, consider O man! what sins you have
been formerly guilty of, which now thou art called
to.an account for, to expiate with thy blood! And
as to thy innocence, what art thou more innocent
than thy blessed Redeemer Jesus Christ, who suffered
for thy offences, and ro whose providence you ought
to submit, let what will happen? After this, natural
courage would inspire me to resist to the last drop of
blood, and sooner die than suffer myself to be taken
by boorish, rascally Dutchmen, who had arts to tor-
ment beyond death itself.
But now, thank kind heaven, being ashore, our
o]d pilot procured us a lodging and a warehouse for
our goods; it was a little hut, with a large warehouse
joining to it, all built with canes, and pallifadoed
round with large ones, .to keep out pilfering thieves,
which are very numerous in that country. The ma*
gistrates allowed us a little guard during the night,
and we employed a centinel with a kind of halbert for
three pence a-day. The fair or mart, we found, had
been over for some time; however, there remained
in the river four Junks and two Japan ships, the mer-
chants of the latter being on shore. In the first place,
our old pilot brought us acquainted with the mission-
ary Roman priests, who were converting the people
to Christianity: two of them were reserved, rigid,
and austere, applying themselves to the work they
came about with great earnestness \ but the third,
who was a Frenchman, called father Simon, was of a
freer conversation, not seemingly so serious and grave,
yet no worse Christian than the other two, one of
whom was a Potuguefe, and the other a Genoese*
Father Simon, it seems, was appointed to go to Pekin,
the royal feat of the Emperor of the Chinese \ and he
only waited for another priest, who was ordered from
Macao to accompany him. We never met together
but he was prompting me to keep him company in
his journey: Sir, said he, I will shew you the glo-
rious things of this mighty Empire, and a city, the ci-
ty of Pekin, far exceeding London or Paris, put them
both together. One day in particular, being at din-
ner with him, I shewed some inclination to go ; which
made him press the more upon me and my partner,
to gain our perfect consent. But, father Simon, said
my partner, what satisfaction can you have in our com*
panyy whom you esteem as heretics, and consequently bb-
jecls not worthy your regard? Oh I said he, you may
be as good Catholics in time as those I hope to con*
vert to our religion. And /?, and laid I, we shall have
you preaching to us all the way} instead of pleasing us
vjiib
ivith a description of the country. Si1, said he, how-
ever our religion may be vilified by some, people, it
is very certain it neither divests us of good manners
or Christian charity; and as we are gentlemen, as
such we may converse togethe rf without making one
another uneasy.
But we shall leave him a while, to consider our
ship and merchandise which we had to dispose of.
There was but very little trade in that place where we
were: and I was once resolved to venture to sail to
the river Kilam, and so to the city os Nanquin: but
Providence ordered it otherwise, by our old pilot's
bringing a Japan merchant to us, to fee what goods
we had. He immediately bought our opium, for
which he gave us a very good price in gold by weight,
some wedges of which were about ten or eleven oun-
ces. It came into my head, that perhaps he might
buy the ship too; and 1 ordered his interpreter to
propose it to him. He said nothing then, but shrunk
up his shoulders; yet in a few days after he came ac-
companied by a missionary priest, who was his inter-
preter, with this proposal, That as he had bought a
great quantity of our goods, he had not money enough
to purchase our ship ; but is I pleased, he would hire her
with all my men, to goto Japan, and from thence with
another loading to the Philippian islands, the freight
tf both which he would very willingly pay to us before;
and si their return to Japan, would buy theflnp. Up-
on this we asked the captain and his men, if they were
willing to go to Japan *, to which they unanimously
agreed. While this was in agitation, the young man
iny nephew left to attend me, told me, That as Idxd
not care to accept this prospetl os advantage, he would
manage it for me as I pleased^ and render me a faith'
ful account of his success, which should be wholly mine*
Indeed I was very unwilling to part with him: but
considering it might be for the young man's good, I
discoursed my partner about it, who, of his own ge-
nerosity, gave him his share of the vtssel, so that T
could
could do no otherwise than give him mine; but how-
ever, we let him have but the property of half of it,
and reserved a power, that when we met in England,
if he had obtained success, he should account to us
for one half of the profits of the (hip's freight, and
the other should be his own. Thus, having taken a
writing under his hand, away he sailed to Japan,
where the merchant dealt very honestly by him, got
him a licence to come on shore, sent him loaded to
the Philippines with a Japanese supercargo, from
whence he came back again loaded with European
goods, cloves, and other spiceries. By this voyage
he cleared a considerable sum of money, which de-
termined him not to sell his (hip, but to trade on his
own account : so he returned to the Manillas, where
getting acquaintance, he made his ship free, was
hired by the governor privately to go to Acapulco
in America, on the Mexican coast, with a licence to
travel to the great city of Mexico. This traffic
turned out greatly to account, and my friend find-
ing means to get to Jamaica, returned nine years af-
ter exceeding rich into England.
In parting with the ship, it comes in course to
consider of those men who had saved our lives whea
in the river of Cambodia : and though, by the way,
they were a couple of rogues, who thought to turn
pirates themselves, yet we paid them what they had
before demanded, and gave each of theai a small
sum of money, making the Englishman a girnner,
and the Dutchman a boatswain, with which they
were very well contented.
We* were now above 1000 leagues farther from
home than when at Bengal. All the.comfort we could
expect was, that there being another fair to be kept
in a month's time, we might not only purchase all
forts of that country's manufactures, but very possibly
find some Chinese junks, or vessels from Tonquin,to
be fold, which would carry us and our goods where-
soever we pleased. Upon these hopes, we resolved
to
to continue and to divert ourselves, we took several
little journeys in the country. About ten days after
we parted with our ship, we travelled to Tee the city
of Nanquin. This city lies .a latitude 30 cleg., north
of the line; it is regularly built, and the streets are
exactly straight, and cross one another, in direct
lines, which sets it out to the greatest advantage. At
our return we found the priest was come from Ma-
cao that was to accompany father Simon to Pckin.
That father earnestly solicited me to 2ccorr.p2ny him,
and I referred him to my partner. In sliort, we
both agreed, and prepared accordingly; and we were
so lucky as to have liberty to travel among the reti-
nue of one of their Mandarines, who is a principal
magistrate, and much reverenced by the people.
We were five and twenty days travelling through
this miserable country, infinitely populous, but as
indifferently cultivated; and yet their pride is infi-
nitely greater than their poverty, insomuch that the
priests themselves derided them. As we passed by the
house of one of their country gentlemen, two leagues
off Nanquin, we had the honour, forsooth, to
ride with the Chinese squire about two miles. Never
was Don Qmxotte so exactly imitated, never such a
compound of pomp and poverty seen before!
His habit, made of calico, was dirty, greasy, and
very proper for a Merry Andrew or Scaramouch, with
all its tawdry trappings, as hanging steeves, tassels,
6*c. though torn and rent in almost every part: his
vest underneath was no less dirty, but more greaiy,
resembling the most exquisite sloven, or greasy but-
cher. His horse (worse than Rosinante, or the famous
sieed of doughty Hudibras ) was a poor starved, de-
crepit thing, that would not fell for thirty shillings
in England : and yet this piece of worshipful pomp
was attended with ten or twelve staves, who guarded
their master to his country feat. We stopped at a
Jittle village for refreshment: and when we cams by
the country-feat of this great man, we found him fit-
ting under a tree before his door, eating a mess of
boiled rice, with a great piece of garlic in the middle,
and a bag filled with green pepper by him, and ano-
ther plant like ginger, together with a piece of lean
mutton in it; this was his Worship's repast : but
pray observe the state os the fool / two women slaves
brought him his food; which being laid before him,
two others appeared to perform their respective offi-
ces; one fed him with a spoon, while the other snap-
ped off what fell upon his beard and taffety vest, and
gave it to a particular favourite to eat. And thus
we lefr the wretch pleased with the conceit of our
admiring his magnificence, which rather merited our
scorn and detestation.
At length we arrived at the great city of Pekin, ac-
companied by two servants, and the old Portuguese
pilot, whose charges we bore, and who served us as
an interpreter by the way. We had scarce been a
week at Pekin, but he comes laughing to us, Ah!
Signior Inglese, said he, me something tell you make
your heart glad, but make me sorry ;for you bring me
here 25 days journey, and now you leave me go back
alone: and which way shall I make my port after,
without desbip) without de horse, without pecune?
so he called money in his broken Latin. -He then in-
formed me, that there was a great caravan of Musco-
vite and Polish merchants in the city, who were pre-
paring to set out for Muscovy by land within six
weeks; and that he was certain we would take this
opportunity, and consequently that he must go home
by himself. Indeed this news infinitely surprised and
pleased me. Are you certain of this? said 1. Yes,
Sir, said he, me sure it's true. And so he told me,
that having met an old acquaintance of his, an Arme-
nian, in the streetwho was among them,' and whs
had come from Astracan, with a design to go to Ton-
quin, but for certain reasons having altered his reso-
lution^ he was now resolved to go with, the caravan,
and to return by the river Wolgato Astracan. Well,
Siguior, said 1, don't be discontented about your re-
turning
turning alone; and if by this means I can find a passage
to England, it will be your own fault if you return to
Macao at all. And so consulting with *my partner
what wms best to be done, he referred it to me as I
pleased, having our affairs fo#well fettled at Bengal,
that if we could convert the good voyage we had made
in China silks, wrought raw, he would be satisfied to .
go to England, and so return to Bengal in the compa-
ny's ships. Thus resolved, we agreed, that is our pi-
lot would go with us, we would bear his charges either
to Moscow or England; and to give him in a present
the sum os 170 pounds Sterling. Hereupon, we cal-
led him in, and told him the cause os his complaint
should be removed, is he would accompany us with
the caravan; and therefore we desired to know his
mind. At this he shook his head, Great long jour*
ney said he, me no pecune carry me to Muscow, or
keep me there. But we soon put him out of that
Concern, by making him sensible of what we would
give him here to lay out to the best advantage; and
as for his charges, we would set him fase on shore,
God willing, either in Muscovy, or England, as he
pleased, at our own charge, except ihe carriage os his
goods. At this proposal he was like a man transpor-
ted, telling us, he would go with us all the world o-
ver ; and we made preparations for our journey ; but
it was near four months before all tbe merchants
were ready.
In the mean time, my partner and the pilot went
express to the port where we first put in, to dispose os
what goods had been left there, while I accompanied
a Chinese merchant, who was going to Nanquin, and ,
there bought 29 pieces of damask, with about 300
more of other fine fnks j and by the time my partner
returned to Pekin, I had them all carried thither: our
cargo in silks amounted to 45001. Sterling, which,
togethef with tea,.fine calicoes, nutmegs, and cloves,
loaded 18 camels for our share, besides what we rode
upon, with two or three spare horses, and two more
loaden with provisions. The company now was very
great,
great making about 400 horse, and above 120 men,
well armed a#nd provided. We were of several nations,
among whom were five Scots merchants inhabiting
in Muscow, and well experienced in trade.
We set out from Pejki/i the beginning of February
our style; and in two days more, we passed through
the gate of the great Ciiina wall, which was erected
as a fortification against the Tartars, being ic8 Eng-
lish miles long. We then entered a country not near
so populous, chiefly under the power of plundering
Tartars, several companies of whom we perceived rid-
ing on poor starved horses,contemptible as themselves,
without order or discipline. One time our leader for
the day gave us leave to go a hunting. But what do
you think we hunted, only a parcel of sheep, which
indeed exceeded any in the world for wildness and
swiftness *, but while we were pursuing this game, it
was our chance to meet with about forty Tartars, who
no sooner perceived us, but one of them blew a horn>
at the found of which there soon appeared a troop of
forty dr fifty more, at about a mile's distance. Here-
upon one of the Scots merchants (who knew their
way) ordered us to advance towards them, and attack
them immediately. As we advanced, they let fly a
volley of arrows,which happily fell a little short of us:
this made us halt a little, to return the compliment
with bullets ; and then being led up by the bold Scot,
we sired our pistols iu their faces, and drew out our
swords; but there was no occasion; for they flew like
timorous sheep, and only three of them remained,
beckoning to the rest to come back. But our brave com-
mander gallops up to them by himself, shot one dead,
knocks another off his horse, while the third raa
away: and thus ended our battle with the Tartars.
We travelled a month more through the emperor of
China's dominions: and at length coming to one of
their town's, about a day and a half's jdurney from the
city of Naum, I wanted to buy a camel. The person I
spoke to would have brought me one, but, like a fool,
I must go along with him, about two miles from the
B b village*
village. My old pilot and I walked on foot, forsooth,
for some variety, when coming to the plage where the
camels were kept as in a park guarded by Chinese sol-
diers, we there agreed and bought one, which the
Chinese man that came with* me led along the road.
But we had not gone far, before we were attacked by
five Tartars, mounted on horseback, two of whom
seized the man, took the camel from him, and rode
away, while the other three approached us, the "firstr
of whom suddenly seized me as I was drawing my
sword, the second knocked me down; but my old
trusty Portuguese, taking a pistol out of his pocket,
which I kn^w nothing of, and coming up to the fel-
low that struck me, he, wirh one hand, pulled him off
his horse, and then stiot him dead upon the spot ; then
taking his feymitar, he struck: at the man that stopt us,
but misting him, cut off one of his horse's ears, the
pain of which made him throw his rider to the ground.
The poor Chinese, who had led the camel, feeing the
Tartar down, rur\&to him, and seizing upon his pole-
axe, wrenched it from his hands, and knocked his
brains out. But there was another Tartar to deal
with, who seeming neither inclined to fight, nor to
sty, and my old man having begun to charge his pistol,
the very sight of it struck such a terror into the wretch,
that away he scoured, leaving my old pilot, rather my
champion and defender, an absolute victory.
By this time being awakened from my trance, I be-
gan to open my eyes, wondering where I was, having
quite forgot all that pasted •, but my fenses returning,
and'feeling a great pain in my head, and seeing the
fclood was running over my cloaths, 1 instantly jump-
ed upon my feet, and grasped my sword in my hand,
with a resolution to take revenge ; but no enemies now
remained, except the dead Tartar, with his horse
standing by him. The old man seeing^me recovered,
whom he thought slain, ran towards me, and embra-
ced me with the greatest tenderness, at the fame time
examining into my wound, which was far from being
mortal; when we returned to the village, the man de-
manded
manded payment for his camel, which I refusing, we
brought the cause before a Chinese judge, who acted
with great Impartiality: having heard both sides, he
asked the Chinese man that went with me, whose ser-
vant he was? Sir, said he, I am nobody's, but went
with the stranger, at his request: why then, said the
judge, you were the stranger's servant for the-time,
and the camel being delivered to his servant, it is the
fame as though delivered to himself, and accord-
ingly he must pay for it. Indeed the case wTas so fair-
ly stated, that I had nothing to object to it: so having
paid for that I was robbed of,, I sent for another, but
did not go myself to fetch it, as I had enough of that
sport before.
The city of Nauru is a frontier of the Chinese em-
pire, so fortified, as some will tell you, that millions
of Tartars cannot batter down their walls; by which
certainly one might think one of our cannons would
do more execution than all their legions.
When we were within a day's march of that city
we had information that the governor had sent mes-
sengers to every part of the road, to inform the tra-
vellers and caravans to halt, till a guard was sent to
protect them from the numerous bodies of Tartars that
lately appeared about the city. This news put us in-
to great consternation; but, obeying the orders, we
stopt, and two days after, there came two hundred sol-
diers from a garrison of the Chinese, and three hun-
dred more from Naum: thus guarded both in the
front and rear, with our men on the flanks, we bold-
ly advanced, thinking we were able to combat with
ten thousand Mogul Tartars, if they appeared.
Early next morning, in our march from a little
well situated town called Changu, aft»:r having pssled
a river, and entered upon a desert of about 15 or 16
miles over, we soon beheld, by a cloud of dust that
was raised, that the enemy was approaching. This
much dispirited the Chinese. My old pilot took no-
tice of it, and called out, Signior Inglese, those fel-
lows must be encouraged, or they will ruin us all:
B b z and
and I am afraid, if the Tartars attack us, they will all
run away. Why Signior, said I, what ijiall be 4one
in this cafe? Done, fays he, why, let fifty of our men
advance, and flank them on each wing. I know the
fellows will sight well enough in company. We ac-
cordingly took his advice, and marched fifty to the
right wing, and the fame number to the left, and
with the rest made a line of reserve, leaving the last
two hundred men to guard the camels, or to assist us
as occasion required.
Thus prepared, a party of the enemy came forward*
viewing our posture, and traversing the ground on the
front of our line. Hereupon we ordered the twa
wings to move on, and give them a salute with their
shot*, which accordingly was done. This put a stop
to their proceedings v for immediately wheeling off
to their left, they all marched away, and we saw no
more of them. They had undoubtedly given an ac-
count to their companions of what reception they
might expect* which made them so easily give over
their enterprise.
When we came to the city of Naum, we returned
the governor hearty thanks, and dispersed a hundred
crowns among the soldiers that guarded' us. We rest-
ed there one day, and then proceeded on our travels,
pasting several great rivers and deserts and on the
13th of April, we came to the frontiers «f Muscovy,
the first town of which was called Argun.
This happy occasion, as I thought, of coming in^
to a Christian couniry, made me congratulate the
Scots merchant upon it: he smiled at that, telling
me not to rejoice too soon; for, said he, except the
Russian soldiers in garrison, and a few inhabitants of
the cities uporf the,road, all the rest of this country,
for above a thousand miles, is inhabited by the most
ignorant and barbarous Pagans.
We advanced from the river Arguna by moderate
journeys, and found convenient garrisons on the road,
filled with Christian soldiers, for the security of com-
merce, and for the convenient lodgings of travellers;
but
but the inhabitants of the country were mere Pagans,
worshipping the moon, fun, and stars. We particular-
ly observed this idolatry near the river Arguna, ata
city inhabited by Tartars and Russians, called Neri-
sinky. Being curious to fee their way of living,
while the caravan continued to rest themselves inthis
city, I went to one of their villages, where there was
to be one of their solemn sacrifices. There 1 beheld,
upon the stump of an old tree, an idol of woody more
ugly than the representation of the devil himself: its
head resembled no living creature: its ears were as
big and as high as goat's horns, a crooked nose, sour
cornered mouth, and horrible teeth: it was clothed
in slice ps skins, had a great Tartar bonnet, with two
horns growing through it, and was eight foot high,
without feet, leg?, or proportion. Before this idol
there lay 16 or 17 people, who brought their offerings,
and were making their prayers, while at a distance
stood three men, and one bullock, as victims to thi3
ugly monster.
Such stupendous sacrileges as this, in robbing the
true God of his honour, filled me with the greatelt
astonishment and reflection which soon turning to
rage and fury, I rode up to the image, and cut in
pieces the bonnet that was upon his head with my
sword, soiihat it hung down by one of the horns,
while one of my men that was with me, pulled at it
by his sheep Ikin garment. Immediately an hideous
howling and outcry ran through the village, and two
of three hundered people coming about our ears, we
were obliged to fly for it.
But I had not done with the monster \ for the ca-
ravan being to rest three nights in the town, I told
the Scots merchant what I had seen, rand that I was
resolved to take sour or five men well armed with me,
in order to destroy the idol, and mew the people how
little reason they hid to trust in a god, who could not
save himself. At first he laughed at me, representir,g
the danger of it, and when it was destroyed, what
time h^d we to preach to them better things, whose
B b 3 zeal*
zeal and ignorance was in the highest degree, and
both unparallelled ? that if I should be taken by them,
I should be served as a poor ruffian, who* contemned
their worship; that is, to be stripped naked, and tied
to the top of the idol, there shot at" with arrows till
my body was full of them, and then burnt a sacrifice
to the monster; but, Sir, said he, since your zeal
carries you fa far, rather than you should be alone I
will accompany you, and bring a stout fellow equal
to yourself, if you will, to assist you in this design j
and accordingly he brought one captain Richardson,
who hearing the story, readily consented; but my
partner declined it, being altogether out os his way:
and so we fhree, and my man servant, resolved to exe-
cute this exploit about midnight; but upon second
thoughts we deferred it to the nex? night, by reason
that the caravan being to go from thence next morn-
ing, we should be out of the governor's power. The
better to effectuate my design, I procured a Tartar's
sheep skin robe, a bonnet, with a bow and arrows, and
every one of us got the Jike habits. The first night
we spent in mixing combustible matter with aqua-vi-
tæ, gun-powder, &c, having a good quantity os tar in
a little pot; next night we came up to the idol about
eleven o'clock, the moon being up. We found none
guarding it; but we perceived a light in the house,
where we had seen the priests before. One of our men
was for siring the hut, another for killing the people,
and a third for making them prisoners, while the idol
was destroyed. We" agreed to the latter; so knock*
ing at the door, we seized the first that opened it, and
stopping his mouth, and tying his feet, we left him;
We served the other two in like mannerand then?
the Scots merchant set fire to the composition, which
frightned them so much, that we brought them all
away prisoners to their wooden god. There we fell
to work with him, daubing him all over with tar
mixed with tallow and brimstone, stopped his eyes,
ears, and mouth full of gun-powder, with a great
piece of wild fire in his bonnet, and environed it with
dry forage- All this being done, we unloosed and
ungaged the prisoners, and set the idol on fire, which
the gun-powder blowing up, the shape of it w,as de-
formed, rent, and split, which the forage utterly con-
sumed; for we staid to see its destruction, lest the ig-
norant idolatrous people should have thrown them-
selves into the flames. And this we came away undis-
covered, the morning appearing as busy among our
fellow-travellers, as no body could have suspected any
other, but that we had been in our beds all night.
Next morning we set out, and had gone but a small
distance from the city, when there came a multitude
os the people os the country to the gates of the city-,
demanding satisfaction of the Russian governor for in-
sulting their priests,and burning their great Cham Chi-
Thaungu, who dwelt in the fun, and no mortal would
violate his image, but some Christian miscreants ; and
being already no less than thirty thousand strong, they
announced war against him and all his Christians.
The governor assured them he was ignorant of the
matter, and that none of his garrison had been abroad;
that indeed there was a caravfh that went away that
morning, and that he would fend after them to en-
quire into it; and whoever were the offenders, should
be delivered into their hands. This satisfied them for
the present, but the governor sent to inform us, that
if any of us had done it, we should make all the haste
away possible, while he kept them in play as long as
he could. Upon this we marched two days and two
nights, stopping but very little, till at last we arrived
at a-village called rlothus, and hasted to Jarawena,
another of the Czar's colonies. On the third day*
having entered the desert, and passed the lake called
Shaks Oser, we beheld a numerous body of horse on
the other side of it to the north, who supposed we had
passed on that side of the lake ; but having either sound
their mistake, or being certainly informed of the way
we took, they came upon us towards the dulk of the
evening, just as we had pitched our camp between
two little, but very thick woods, with a little river
running
running before our front, and some felled trees with
which we covered our rear; a precaution we always
took, and which we had just finished, w4ien the ene-
my came up. They did not fall on us immediately,
but sent three messengers, demanding the men who
bad insulted their priests, an^i burnt their god Cham
Chi Tbaun%u> that they might be burnt with sire, that
if this was complied with, they would peaceably de-
part ; but if not, they would destroy one and all of us.
Our men stared at one another on receipt of this mes-
sage, but Nobody was the word, as indeed nobody
knew it, but he who did it. Upon which the leader
of the caravan returned for answer, That they were
peaceable merchants, who meddled with none of
their priests and gods and therefore desired them
not to disturb, and put us to the necessity of defend-
ing ourselves. But so far was this from satisfying them,
that the next morning, coming to our right, they let
fly a volley of arrows among us, which happily did
r,ot hurt any, because we stieltered ourselves behind
our baggage. We expected however to come to a
closer engagement ; but were happily saved by a cun-
ning fellow, a cossaek, who obtaining leave of ihe
leader to go out, mounts his horse, rides directly from
our rear, and taking a circuit, comes up to the Tartars,
as though he had been sent express, and tells them a
formal story, that the wretches who had burnt the Cam
Chi TbaUngu% were gone to Siheilka, with a resolu-
tion to burn the god Shal Isar> belonging to the Ton-
guefes. Upon which, believing this cunning Tartar,
who was servant to our Muscovites', away they drove
to Siheilka, and in less than three minutes were out
of our sight, nor did we ever hear of them more.
v When we came to the city of Jarawena, we rested
five days, and then entered into a frightful desert,
which held us twenty three days march, infested with
several small companies of robbers, or Mogul Tartars,
who never had the courage to attack us. After we
had passed over this desert, we found several garrisons
to defend the caravans from the violence of the Tar-
tars.
tars. In particular the governor of Adinfkoy offered
us a guard of fifty men to the next station, if we ap-
prehended any danger. The people here retained
the fame paganism and barbarity, only they were not
so dangerous, being cpnquered "by the Muscovites.
The cioathing, both of men and women, is of the
skins of beasts, living under the ground in vaults and
caves, which have a communication with one another.
They have idols almost in every family *, besides, they
adore the fun and stars, water and snow j and the
least uncommon thing that happens in the elements
alarms them as much as thunder and lightening does
the unbelieving Jews.
Nothing remarkable occured in our march through
this country. When we had got through the desert,
after two days further travel, we came to Jenezo, a
Muscovite city, on the great river so called, which,
we were told, parted Europe from Asia. The inhabi-
tants here were very little better, though intermixed
with the Muscovites •, but the wonder will cease,
when I inform my reader of what was observed to
me, that the Czar rather converts the Tartars with
soldiers than clergymen, and is more proud to make
them faithful subjects, than good Christians.
From this city to the river Oby, we travelled over
•a pleasant, fruitful, but very uncultivated country, for
want of good management and people, and those few
are mostly Pagans. This is the place where the Mus-
covite criminals are banished to, if they are not put
to death. The next city we came to, was the capi-
tal city of Siberia, called Tobolski, when, having been
almost seven months on our journey, and winter draw-
ing on apace, my partner and I consulted about our
particular affairs, in what manner we should dispose
of ourselves. We had been told of fledges and rein-
deer to carry us over the snow in the winter season,
the snow being frozen so hard, that the fledges can rua
upon the surface without any dangerof going dowa*
As I was bound to England, J now behoved either to
go with the caravan to Jeroilaw, from thence west
t«
to Narva, and the gulf of Finland, and so by land or
sea to Denmark, or else I must leave the caravan ata
little town on the Dwina, and so to Archangel, where
I was certain of (hipping either to England, Holland,
or Hamburgh. One night I happened to get into the
company of an illustrious but banished prince, whose
company and virtues were such as made me propose
to him a method how he might obtain his liberty.
My dear friend, said he, as I am here happily free
from my miserable greatness, with all its attendants
$f pride, ambition, avarice, and luxury; if I should
escape from this place, theje pernicious feeds may a-
gain revive, to my lafling disquietude; therefore let
me remain in a blessed confinement, for I am but fie/b,
a mere man, luitb pafjions and affetlions as such; 0
be notmy friend and tempter too! Struck dumb with
surprise 1 Hood silent a while, nor was he in less dis-
order *, by which perceiving he wanted to give vent
to his mind, 1 desired him to consider of it, and so
withdraw. But about two hours after he came to
my apartment; Dear friend, said he, though lean*
not consent to accompany you, I shall have this satis-
faction in parting, that you leave me an honest man
fill; but as a tejlimony of my affetlion to you, be plea-
sed to accept this present of fables.
In return for this compliment, I sent my servant
next morning to his Lordship, with a small present of
tea, two pieces of China dairusk, and sour little wed-
ges of gold: but he only accepted the tea, one piece
of damask, and a piece of gold, for the curiosity of
the Japan stamp that was upon it. Not long aftsr
he sent for me, and told me, That what he had re-
fused himself, he hoped upon his account I would
grant to another, whom he mould name; In short,
it was his only son, who was about 200 miles distance
from him, on the other side of the Oby, whom he
said he would send for, if I gave my consent. This I
soon complied with : upon which he sent his servants
next day for his son, who returned in twenty days
time, bringing seven horses loaded with valuable furs.
At night the young lord was conducted incognito into
our apartment, where his father presented him to me.
We then concerted the best ways for travelling, and
after having bought a considerable quantity of fables,
black fox skins, sine ermines, <bc> (which I fold at
Archangel at a good price), we set out from this city
the beginning of June, making a small caravan, being
about thirty-two horses and camels, of which I repre-
sented the head. My young lord had with him a ve-
ry faithful Siberian servant, well acquainted with the
roads: we shunned the principal towns and cities, as
Tumen, Soli Kamofkoi, and several others, by rea-
son of their strictness in examining travellers, lest any
of the banished persons of distinction should escape.
Having passed the river Kama, we came to a city on
the European side, called Sploy Kamofkoi, where we
found the people mostly Pagans a£ before. We then
passed a defart of about two hundred miles over, but
in other places it is near seven hundred. In passing
this wild place, we were beset by a troop of men on
horseback, and about five and forty men armed with
bows and arrows. At first they looked earnestly on
us, and then placed themselves in our w7ay. We were
above sixteen men, and drew up a little line" before
our camels. My young lord sent out his Siberian ser-
vant to know who they were; but when he approach*
ed them, he neither knew a word they said, nor would
they admit him to come near them at his peril, but
prepared to shoot him. At his return he told us he
believed them to be Calmuck Tartars, and that he
thought there were more of them upon the defart.
This was but a small comfort to us ; yet seeing a little
grove about a quarter of a mile's distance, we moved
to it, by the old Portuguese pilot's advice, without
meeting with any opposition. Here we found a mar-
shy piece of ground, and a spring of water running
into a little brook on one side, which joined another
like it a little farther off, and these two formed the
head of the river called Writslu. As soon as we ar-
rived
rived, we went to work, tutring down great arms t>ff
the trees, and laying them hanging (not quite off)
from one tree to another. In this situation1 we waited
the motions, of the enemy, without perceiving any ad-
vancement th*y made towards us.. About two hours
before night, being joined by some others, in all a-
bout fourscore horse, among whom we fancied were
some women, they came upon us with great fury. We
fired without ball, calling to them in the Russian
tongue to know their business: but they, either not
knowing, or seeming not to understand us, came di-
rectly to the wood-side, not considering that we were
so fortified, as that they could not break in. Our old
pilot the Portuguese proved both our captain and en-
gineer, and desired us not to fire, till they came with-
in pistol-shot; and when he gave the word of com-
mand, then to take J:he surest aim: but he did not bid
us give sire, till they were within two pikes length of
us, and then we killed fourteen of them, wounded
several, as also their horses, having every one of us
loaded our pieces with two or three bullets at least.
So much were they surprised at our undauntedness,
that they retired about a hundred roods from us. In
the mean wkile, we loaded our pieces again, and sal-
lying out, secured four or five of their horses, whose
riders we found were killed, and perceived them to
be Tartars. About an hour after, they made another
attempt, to fee where they might break in; but find-
ing us ready to receive them, they retired.
All that night we wrought hard, in strengthening
our situation, and barricading rhe entrances into the
woods; but when day-light came, we had a very un-
welcome discovery; for the enemy being encouraged
by their assistance, had set up eleven or twelve tents
in form of a camp, about three quarters of a mile from
us. I must confess, I was never more concerned in
my life, giving myself and all that I had oycr for lost.
And my partner declared, that as the loss of his goods
would be his ruin, before they should be taken from
him, he would fight to the last drop of his blood.
301
as we could not pretend to force our way, we had
recourse to fa stratagem; we kindled a large fire,
which burnt all night; and no sooner was it dark, but
we pursued our journey towards the pole, or north
star, tnd travelling all «night, by six o'clock in the
morning we came to a Ruffian village, called Kcrtza,
and from thence came to a large town named Ozo-
noys, where we heard that several troops of Calmuck
Tartars had been abroad upon the defart, but that we
were past all danger. In five days after we came to
Veuflima, upon the river Witzedga ; from thence we
came to Lawrenskoy, on the third of July, where,
providing ourselves with two luggage boats and a
convenient bark, we embarked the seventh, and ar•
rived at Archangel the eighteenth, after a year, five
months, and three days journey, including the eight
months and odd days at Tobollki. We came from
Archangel the twentieth of August in the fame year,
and arrived at Hamburgh the thirtieth of September.
Here my partner and I made a very good sale of our
goods, both those of China and Siberia ; when, divi-
ding our effects, my share came to 3475 /. 17 x. 3 d.
after all the losses we had sustained, and charges we
had been at. Here the young lord took his leave of
me, in order to go to the court of Vienna, not only
to seek protection, but to correspond with his father's
friends. After we had staid four months in Ham-
burgh, I went from thence over land to the Hague,
where, embarking in the packet, I arrived in London
the tenth of January 1705, after ten years and nine
months absent from England.
Robinson Crusoe's Vision of the Angelic World.
£ Chap. I. Of SOLITUDE.
HO we ver solitude is looked upon as a restraint
to the pleasures of the world, in company and
- conversation, yet it is a happy state of exemption from
C c _ a
a sea of trouble, an inundation of vanity and vexatidn,
of confusion and disappointment. While we enjoy our-
selves, neither the joy nor sorrow of otheV men affect
us : we are then at liberty, with the voice of our foul,
to speak to God. By this w£ (bun such frequent tri-
vial discourse, as even becomes an obstruction to vir-
tue: and how often do we find, that we had reason
to wish we had not been in company, or said nothing
when we were there I for either we offend God by
the impiety of our discourse, or lay ourselves open to
the violence of designing people by our unguarded ex-
pressions; and frequently feel the coldness and treach-
ery of pretended friends, when once involved in
trouble and affliction; of such unfaithful intimates (I
should fay enemies) who rather by false innuendoes
would accumulate miseries upon us, than honestly as-
sist us when suffering under the hard hand of adversi-
ty. But in a state of solitude, when our tongues can-
not be heard, except by the great Majesty of heaven,
how happy are we in the blessed enjoyment of con-
versing with our Maker I it is then we make him our
friend, which sets us above the envy and contempt of
wicked men. When a man converses with himself,
he is sure that he does not converse with an enemy.
Our retreat should be to good company, and good
books. I mean not by solitude, that a man should
retire into'a cell, a desart, or a monastery: which
would be altogether an useless and unprofitable re-
straint: for as men are formed for society, and have
an absolute necessity and dependence upon one ano-
ther, so there is a retirement of the foul, with which
it converses in heaven, even in the midst of men;
and indeed no man is more sit to speak freely, than
he who can, without any violence to himself, refrain
his tongue, or keep silence altogether. As to reli-,
gion, it is by this the foul gets acquainted with the
hidden mysteries of the holy writings; here she finds
those flood of tears, in which good men wash them-
selves day and night, and only makes a visit to God,
and his holy angels. In this conversation the truest
peace
peace and most solid joy are to be found; it is a con-
tinual feast pf contentment on earth, and the means
of attaining everlasting happiness in heaven.
Chap. II. Of ff 0 NE S TT.
Honesty is a virtue beloved by good men, and
pretended to by all persons. In this there are several
degrees : to pay every man his own, is the common
law of honesty; but to do good to all mankind, is
the chancery law of honesty ; and this chancery-court
is in every man's breast, where hh; conscience is a lord
chancellor. Hence it is, that a miser, though he pays
every body their own, cannot be an honest man, when
he does not discharge the good offices that are in-
cumbent on a friendly, kind, and generous person:
for, faith th? prophet Isaiah, chap, xxxii ver. 7. 8.
The instruments of a churl are evil; he devifeth wick-
ed devices to destroy the poor with lying wordsy even
when the needy Jpeaketh right, But the liberal foul
devifeth liberal things, and by liberal things shall he
stand. It is certainly honesty to do every thing the
law requires; but mould we throw every poor debt-
or in prison till he has paid the utmost farthing, hang
every malefactor without mercy, ex;:st the penalty of
every bond, and the forfeiture of every indenture,
this would be downright cruelty, and not honesty:
and it is contrary to that general rule> To do to ano-
ther that which you would have done unto you. Some-
times necessity makes an honest man <\ knave : and a
rich man an honest man, because he has no occasion
to be a knave. The trial of honesty is this. Did
you ever want bread, and had your neighbour's loaf
in keeping; and would starve, rather shan eat it?
Were you ever arrested, having in your custody ano-
ther man's cash, and would rather go to goal, than
break it? if so, this indeed may be reckontd honesty.
For King Solomon tells us, That a good n&me is bet*
ter than lifey and is a precious ointments and which
C .c 2 when
ivben a man has once loJl\ ht has nothing left -worth
keeping.
Chap. III. Of suffering AFFLICTIONS.
Afflictions are common to all mankind and
whether they proceed from losses, disappointments, or
the malice of men, they often bring their advantages
along with them : fcr this shews man the vanity and
deceitfulnefs of this life, and is an' occasion of recti-
fying our measures, and bringing us to a more mo-
dest opinion of ourselves: it lells us, how necessary
the assistance of divine grace is unto us, when life itself
becomes a burden, and death even desireable •, but
when the greatest oppression^ornes upon us, we must
have recourse to patience, begging of God to give us
that virtue : and the more composed we are under a-
ny trouble, the more commendable is our wisdom,
and the larger will be our recompense. Let the pro-
vocation be what it will, whether from a good natur-
ed and conscientious, or a wicked, perverse, and vex-
atious man, all this we mould take as from the over-
ruling hand of Cod, as a punishment for our sins.
Many times injured innocence may be abused by false
oaths, or the potver of wicked, jealous, or malicious
men ; but we rftcu find it, like the palm, rife the
higher, the mere it is depressed; while the justice of
God is emineotly remarkable in punishing those, one
way or other, who desire to endeavour to procure the*
downfal of an innocent man :nor does God fail com-
forting an afHicled person, who with tears and prayers
solicits the throne of Heaven for deliverance and pro-
tection. David fays, That his foul was full cf trouble*
and his life drew near unto the grave. But certainly
David's afflictions made him eminently remarkable,
as particularly when pursued by King Saul, and hunt-
ed as a paitridge over the mountains. But one thing
which stands by innocence, is the love of God •, for
were we (o suffer disgrace, nay, an ignominious death
x / itself,
itself, what consolation does our innocence procure
at our latest, conflict, our last: moments!
Chap. IV. Of the immorality of conversation^ and
the vulgar errors of behaviour*
As conversation is a great part of human happiness,
so it is a pleasant fight to behold a sweet tempered
man, who is always fit for it; to fee an air of humour
2nd pleasantness fit ever upon his brow, and even
something angelic in his very countenance *, whereas,
if we observe a designing man, we shall find a mark
os involuntary sadness break in upon his joy? and a
certain insurrection in the soul, the natural concomi-
tant of profligate principles.
They err very much, who think religion, or a
strict morality, discomposes the mind, and renders it
unfit for conversation; for it rather inspires us to-
innocent mirth, without such a counterfeit joy as
vitious men appear with \ and indeed wit is as consist-
ent with religion, as religion is with good manners;,
nor is there any thing in the limitation of virtue and
religion that should abate the pleasures of this worlds
but on the contrary rather serves to increase them.
On the other hand, many men, by their own vice
and intemperance, disqualify themselves for con-
versation. Conversation is immoral, where the dis-
course is indecent, immodest, scandalous, slanderous*
and abusive. How great is their folly, and how much?
do they expose themselves, when they affront their
best friend, even God himself, who laughs at the foot
id ben his fear cometh?
The great scandal athristical and immoral discourse
gives to virtue, ought, methinks, to be punished by all"
good magistrates: make a man once cease to believe
a Godr and Ive has nothing left to limit his foul.
How incongruous is it to gopd government, that a
m m (hallbe punished for drunkenness, and yet hare
liberty to affront, and even deny the Majesty of hea-
ven I when if^ even among men, one gives the lie to
Cc 3 a
a/gentleman in company, or perhaps speaksan affront-
ing word, a quarrel will ensue, and a fombat, and
perhaps murder be the consequence: at the least, he
will prosecute him at law with the utmost virulence
and oppression. #
The next thing to be refrained, is obscene dis-
course,, which is the language only of proficients in
debauchery, who never repent but in a jail or hospi-
tal \ and whose carcases relish no better than their dis-
course, till the body becomes too nasty for the foul to
flay any longer in it.
Nor is false talking to be less avoided; for lying is
the sheep's cloathing hung upon the wolf's back: it is
the pharisee's prayer, the whore's buss, the hypocrite's
paint, the murderer's smile, the thief's cloak, it is
Joab's embrace, and Judah's kiss j in a word, it is
mankind's darling sin, and the devil's distinguishing
character. Some add lies to lies, till it not only comes
to be improbable, but even impossible too : others lie
for gain, to deceive, delude, and betray : and a third
lies for sport, or for sun. There are other liars, who
are personal and malicious; who foment differences,
and carry tales front one house to another, in order
to gratify their own envious tempers, without any
regard or reverence to truth.
Ch. V. Of the present Jiate of rcllgim in the niorld:.
I doubt, indeed, there is much more devotion than
religion in the world, more adoration than supplica-
tion, and more hypocrisy than sincerity: and it is ve-
ry melancholy to consider, what numbers of people
there are furnished with the powers of reason and gifts
of nature, and yet abandoned to the grossest ignorance
and depravity. But it would be uncharitable for us
to imagine (as some Papists abounding with too much
ill-nature, the only scandal to religion, do) that they
will certainly be in the state of damnation aster this
life ; for how can we think it consistent with the mer-
cy and goodatss of an infinite Being, to damn those
creatures,
creatures, when he has not furnished them with the
light of his gospel ? or how can fuch*proud, conceited,
and cruel bigots, prescribe rules to the justice and
mercy of God?
We are told by some people, that the great image
which king Nebuchadnezzer set up to be adored by
his people, held the representation of the fun in its
right hand, as the principal object of adoration. But
to wave this discourse of heathens, how many felf-
contradicting principles are there held tmong Chri-
stians? and how do we doom one another to the de-
vil, while all profess to worship the, fame Deity, and
to expect the fame salvation.
When L was at Portugal, there was held at that
time the court of justice of the inquisition. All the
criminals were carried in procession to the great
church, where eight of them were habited in gowns
and caps of canvass, whereon the torments of hell
were displayed, and they were condemned and burnt
for crimes against the catholic faith and blessed virgin-
I am sorry to make any reflection upon Christians:
but indeed in Italy the Roman religion seems the most
cruel and mercenary upon earth: and a very judici-
ous person, who travelled through Italy from Turkey,
tells us, "That there is only the face and outward
"pomp of religion there; that the church protects
"murderers and assassins, and then delivers the civil
li magistrates over to Satan for doing"justice; inter-
€< dicts whole kingdoms, and ssiuts up the churches
u for want of paying a few ecclesiastical dues, and
** so puts a stop to religion for want of their money:
*c that the court of inquisition burnt two men for
u speaking distionourably of the blessed virgin : and
the missionaries of China tolerated the -worshipping
u the devil by their new converts: that Italy was
u the theatre, where religion was the grand opera;
"and that the popish clergy were no other than the
"stage players/'
As to religion in Poland, they deny Christ to be the
Messiah, or that the Messiah has come in the flesh.
And as, to their Protestants, they are the followers of
Lælius Socinus, who denied our Saviour's divinity;
and have no concern about the divine inspiration of
the Holy Ghost.
In Muscovy their churches ire built of wood, and
indeed they have but wooded priests, though of the
Greek church: they pray as much to St Nicholas,
as Papists do to the Virgin Mary, for protection in
all their difficulties and afflictions.
As to Lutherans) they only differ from the Romans
ui believing confubstantiation, instead of transubstan-
tiation; but, like them, they are much pleased with
the external gallantry and pomp, more than the true
and real practice of it.
In France I found a world of priests, the streets
every where crouded with them, and the churches full
of women ; but surely never was a nation so full of
blind guides, so ignorant of religion, and even as
void of morals, as those people who confess their sins
to them.
Does it not seem strange, that while all men own
the Divine Being, there should be so many different
opinions as to the manner of paying him obedience
in the Christian church? I know not what reason to
assign for this, except it be their different capacities
and faculties.
And indeed, upon this account, we have perceived
in all Christian countries what mortal feuds have been
about religion: what wars and bloodshed have mo-
Jested Europe, til J the general pacification of the Ger-
man troubles at the treaty of Westphalia; and since
those times what persecution in the same country a-
mong the churches of the Lutherans; and should I
t?ke a prospect at home, what unhappy divisions are
between Christians in this kingdom, about Episcopa-
cy and prefoytery, the church os England men and
the dissenters *, opposing one another like St Paul and
$St Peter, even to the face; that is, they carry on the
dispute to the utmost extremity.
It might be a question, why there are such differen-
ces
ces in religious points, and why these breaches should
be more hot and irreconcileable ? Ail the answer I can
give to this1, is, that we inquire more concerning the
truth of religion, than any other nation in the world;
and the anxious concern we have about it, makes us
jealous of every opinion, and tenacious of our own:
and this is not because we are more furious and rash
than other people; but the truth is, we are more con-
cerned about them, and being sensible that the scrip-
ture is the great rule of faith, the standard for life and
doctrine, we have recourse to it ourselves, without
submitting to any pretended infallible judge on earth.
There is another question, pertinent to the former,
and that is, what remedy can we apply to this mala-
dy? And to this I must negatively answer, Not to be
less religious, that we may differ the less. This is
striking at the very root of all religious differences;
for certainly, were they to be carried on with 1
peaceable spirit, willing to be informed, our variety
os opinions would not have the name of differences;
nor should we separate in communion of charity,
though we did not agree in several articles of religion.
Nor is there a less useful question to start, namely,
where will our unhappy religious differences end?
To which, I hope, i may answer, in Heaven there
all unchristian and unbrotherly differences will find a
period; there we mall embrace many a sinner, that
here we think it a dishonour to converse with *, and
perceive many a heart we have broken here with cen-
sures, reproaching, and revilings, made whole again
by the balm of the fame Redeemer's blood. Here we
shall perceive there have been other flocks than those
of our fold ; that those we have excommunicated, have
been taken into that superior communion: and, in a
word, that those contradicting notions and principles,
which we thought inconsistent with true religion, we
shall then find reconcileable to themselves, to one ano-
ther, and to the fountain of truth. If any man afle me,
why our differences cannot be ended on earth v I an-
swer, were we all,thoroughly convinced, that then
they would be reconciled, we would put an end to
them before ; but this is impossible to bcfdone: for
as mens certain convictions of truth are not equal to
one another, or to the weight or signisicancy of such
veracity; lo neither can a general effect of this affair
be expected on this side of the grave.
Before I conclude this chapter, I (hall beg leave to
discourse a little of the wonderful excellency of ne-
gative religion and negative virtue. The latter sets
out, like the pharifee, with God, 1.thank thee; it is
a piece of religious pageantry, the hypocrite's hope:
and, in a word, it is positive vice: for it is either a
mask to deceive others, or a mist: to deceive ourselves.
A man that is clothed with negatives, thus argues : I
am not such a drunkard as my landlord, such a thief
as my tenent, such a swearer as his neighbour; nei-
ther am I cheat, an athiest, a rakish fellow, or a high-
wayman : no! I live a sober regular retired life: I
am a good man, I go to church, God I thank thee.
Now, though a man boasts of his virtuein contradic-
tion to the vices mentioned, yet a person had better
have them altogether, than the man himself 5 for he
is so full of himself, so persmded that he is good and
religious enough already,-th.it he has no thoughts of
any thing, except it be to pull off his hat to God A\»
mighty now and then, and thank him that he has no
occasion for him ; and has the vanity to think that his
neighbours must imagine well of him too.
The negative man, though he is no drunkard, is yet
intoxicated with the pride of his own worth: a good
neighbour and peace maker in other families, but a
tyrant in his own : appears in church fora mow, but
neve'r falls upon his knees in his closet; does all bis
alms before men to Lc seen of them ; eager in the du-
ties of the second table,but regardless of the first -> ap-
pears religious, to be taken notice of by men,but with-
out intercourse or communication between God and
his own foul: Pray, what is the man? or what
comfort is there of the life he lives? he is insensible
of faith, repentance, and a Christian mortified life;
3*1
in a word, he is perfectly a stranger to the essential
part of religion.
Let us for a while enter into the private and retired
part of his conversation: What notions has he of his
mifpent hours, and of the progress of time to the great
centre and gulf of life,'eternity r does he know how
to put a right value on time, or esteem the Jife-blood
of his foul, as it really is, and act in all the moments
of it, as one that must account for them i If then you
can form an equality between what he can do, and
what he (hall receive; less can it be founded upon
his negative virtue, or what he has forborn to do, and
if neither his negative nor positive piety can be equal
to the reward, and to the eternity that reward is to
last for, what then is to become of the Pharisee, when
he is to be judged by the sincerity of his repentance,
and rewarded according to the infinite grace of God,
with a state of blessedness to an endless eternity?
"When the negative man converses with the invisi-
ble world, he is filled with as much horror and dread
as Felix, when St Paul reasoned to him of temperance
righteousness, and of judgement to come: for Felix,
though a great philosopher, of great power and reve-
rence, was a negative man, and he was made sensible
by the apostle, that as a life of virtue and temperance,
was its own reward, by giving a healthy body, a clear
head, and a composed life *, so eternal happiness must
proceed from another spring*, namely, the infinite un-
bounded grace of a provoked God, who having erect-
ed a righteous tribunal, Jesus Christ would separate
such as by faith and repentance he had brought home
and united to himself by the grace of adoption, and
on the soot of his having laid down his life as a ran-
som, for them, had appointed them to salvation, when
all the philosophy, temperance, and righteousness in
the world besides had been ineffectual. And this, I fay
it was that made Felix, this negative man, tremble.
Chap. VI. Of listening to the voice of Providence.
Th e magnificent and wife King Solomon bids us cry
after
after knowledge, and lift our voice for understand-
ing; by which is meant, religious knowledge for it
follows: Then shalt thou understand the fear of the
Lord, andJind the knowledge of God. By which un-
doubtedly he meant, to inquire after #very thing that
he has permitted us to know, and not to search into
those ways that are unsearchable, and are effectually
locked up from our knowledge. Now, as listening to
the voice of providence is my present subject, I intend,
in the first place, to write to those who own, i. That
there is a God, a first great moving cause of all things,
and eternal power, prior, and consequently superior
to all created power or being. 2. That this eternal
power, which is God, is the sovereign creator and go-
verner of heaven and earth.
To avoid all needless distinctions, what persons in
the Godhead exercise the creating, and what the go-
verning power, I offer that glorious text, Pfal. xxxiii.
6. where the v/hole Trinity is entitled to the whole
creating work *, and therefore, in the next place, I
shall lay down these two propositions.
I. That the eternal Cod guides by his providence the
whole universe, which was created by his power.
II. That this providence manifests a particular care
ever, and concern in the governing and directing
man, the most noble creature upon earth.
It is plain, that natural religion proves the first, by
intimating the'necessity of a providence guiding and
governing the world, from the consequence of the
wisdom, justice, prescience, and goodness of the al-
mighty Creator; for otherwise it would be absurd to
think, that God should create a world, without any
care or providence over it, in guiding the operations
of nature, so as to preserve the order of his creation.
Revealed religion gives us a light into the care and
concern of his providence, by the climate's being made
habitable, the creatures subjected and made nourish-
ing, and all vegetative life made medicinal; and all
this for the fake of man, who is made viceroy to the
King of the earth. The short description I shall give
3*3
of providence is this: That it is that operation of the
power, of the wisdom, justice, and goodness of God,
by which he influences, governs, and directs, not on-
ly the means, but the events of all things, which con-
cern us in this sublunary world; the sovereignty of
which we ought always to reverence, obey its mo-
tions, observe its dictates, and listen to its voice. The
prudent man foreseeth theevil,andhideth himself; that
is, as I take ir, there is a secret providence intimates
to us, that some danger threatens, if we strive not to
shun it.
The same day that Sir John Hotham kept out Hull
against the royal martyr King Charles L the fame day
Sir John Hotham was put to death by the parliament
for that very action ; the fame day that the king himr-
self signed the warrant for the execution of the Earl
of Stafford, the same day of the month was he bar^
barously murdered by the blood thirsty Oliverian crew:
and the fame day that King James II. came to the
crown against the bill of exclusion, the fame day he
was voted abdicated by the parliament, and the throne
filled with King William and Queen Mary.
The voice of signal deliverance from sudden dan-
gers, is not only a just call to repentance, but a cau-
tion against falling into the like danger; but such who
are utterly careless of themselves after, (hew a lethar-
gy of the worst nature, which seems to me to be a kind
of practical atheism, or at least a living in a contempt
of Heaven, when he receives good at the hand of his
Maker, but is unconcerned from whence it comes,
or to thank the bountiful hand that gave it j neither
when he receives evil, does it alter his manner oflife,
or bring him to any state of humiliation.
We have a remarkable story of two soldiers being
condemned to death in Flanders. The general being
prevailed upon to spare one of them, ordered them to
cast dice upon the drum-head for their lives; the first:
having thrown two sixes, the second fell a wringing
'his hands, having so poor a chance to escape; how,-
ever, having thrown, he was surprised when he also
D d threw
threw other two sixes. The officer appointed to fee
the execution, ordered them to throw again; they
did so, and each of them threw fives; at which the
soldiers that stood round, shouted, and said neither
of them was to die. Upon this the officer acquainted
the council of war, who ordered them to throw a third
time, when they threw two fours; the general being
made acquainted with it, sent for the men, and par-
doned them: I love, says he, in such extraordinary
cases, to listen to the voice of providence.
We read in the holy writings, how God speaks to
men, by appearance of angels, or by dreams and vi-
sions of the night. As God appeared to Abraham,
Lot, and Jacob so angels have appeared to many in
other cafes, as to Manoah and his wife, Zachariah, the
Virgin Mary, and to the apostles; others have been
warned in a dream, as king Abimilech, the false pro-
phet Balaam, and many others.
It is certainly a very great and noble enquiry, what
we shall be after this life? for there is scarce a doubt
that there is a place reserved for the reception of our
fouls after death: for if we are to be, we must have
a where, which the scriptures assert by the examples
of Dives and Lazarus. The doctrine of spirits was
long believed before our Saviour's time; for when the
disciples of the blessed Jesus perceived our Saviour
walking on the sea, they were much surprised, as
though they had seen a spirit. Nay, in those ages of
the world, it was believed that spirits intermeddled in
the affairs of mankind ; and throughout the Old Tes-
tament I do not find any thing that in the least con-
tradicts it. AU the pains and labour that some learn*
ed men have taken to confute the story of the witch
of Endor, and the appearance of an old man person-
ating Samuel, cannot make such apparitions incon-
sistent with nature or religion: and it is plain, that
it was either>a good or bad spirit, that prophetically
told the unfortunate king what should happen the next
day; for said the Spirit, The Lord will deliver thee
into the hand of the Philistines s and tomorrow Jhalt
thou and thy sons be with me* Abun*
Abundance of strange notions possessed me, when I
was in the desolate island i especially on a moon shine
night, when every bush seemed a man, and every tree
a man on horseback. When I crept into the dismal
cave, where the old goat lay expiring, whose articu-
late groans even resembled those os a man, how was
I surprised I my blood chilled in my veins, a cold swea-
ty dew set on my sorehead, my hair stood upright,
and my joints, like Belshazzar's knees, struck againit
one another. And indeed, though I afterwards found
what it was, the remains of this surprise did not ws^f
off for a great while j and 1 had frequently returns of
those vapours on different occasions, and sometimes
without any occasion at all.
One night, aster having seen some appearance in
the air, as 1 had just lain down in my bed, one ot my
feet pained me after that came a numbness, fuceed-
cd with a tinkling in my blood; when on a sudden I
thought something alive lay upon me, from my knee,
to above half my leg. Upon this I flung myself out
of bed where I thought the creature lay: but finding
nothing, Lord deliver me from an evil spirits said I,
what can this be? When I lighted a candle, I could
perceive no living creature in the place with me but
the poor parrot, who being frighted, cried out, Hold
your tongue, and What's the matUr 'withyou? whiclv
words I had taught him, by fayrng so to him, when he
made such screaming noises as I did not like, Lordy
said I aloud, surely the dtvil has been here. Hold your
Jongue, says PolL 1 was then mad at the bird, and
putting on my cloaths, cried, I am terrible frighted*
What's the matter with you? fays Poll. You toad>
said I, I'll knock your brains out. Hold your tongue^
cried he again, and so fell a chattering, and calling
Robinson Crusoe as he did before. But after I had
composed myself, and went to bed again, 1 beganr
plainly to see it was, a distemper that affected my
nerves, and so my terrors vanished at once.
How intelligences are given or received, we do not
know j nor are we sensible how they are conveyed
D d z from,
from spirits unembodied, to ours that are in life or
on the.contrary from us to them: the latter certain-
ly is dope without the help of she organs, and ths
former is conveyed by the understanding, and the re-
tired faculties ot the foul.
The spirits, without the help of voices, converse,
and the more particular discoveries of the converse of
spirits, seem to me as follow to wit, dreams, voices,
noises, impulses, hints, apprehensions, involuntary
sadness, (yc.
Dreams of old were the ways by which God himself
. was pleased to warn men what services to perform,
and what to shun. Joseph was directed of God in a
dream to go to Egypt; and so were the wise- men warn-
ed in a dream to depart into their own country ano-
ther way, to avoid the fury of Herod. I am no: like
those who think dreams arc the mere dosings of a de-
lirious head, or the relics of a day's perplexities or
pleasures ; bur, on the contrary, I must; beg leave to
fay, I never met with any capital mischief in my life,
but I had fowe notice of k by a dream; and had I
not been a thoughtless unbelieving creature, I might
have taken many a warning, and avoided many of
the evils h afterwards fell into, merely by total ne-
glect of those dreams.
I was once present at a dispute between a layman
and a clergyman, upon the subject of dreams. The
first thought-no regard mould be given unto them:
that their communication from the invisible to the
visible world was a mere chimera; without any solid
foundation. For, i. said he, if dreams were from
the agency of any prescient being, the motive* would
be more direct, and the discoveries more plain; and
not by allegories and emblematic fancies, expressing
things imperfect and obscure. 2. Since, with the
notice of evil, fhere was not a power given to avoid
it, it is not likely to proceed from a spirit, but mere-
ly fortuitous. 3. That the inconstancy of such no-
tices, in cafes equally important, proves they did not
proceed from any such agent. 4. That as our most
\ distinct
distinct dreams had nothing in them of any signifi-
cancy, it would be irrational and vain to think that
they came? from heaven. And, 5. That as men were
not always thus warned or supplied with notice of
good or evil, so all men are not alike supplied witfo
them; and what reason could we give, why one man-
or one woman should not have the same hints-as an-
other.
To all this the clergyman gave answer; 1 • That ass
to the signification of dreams, and the objections a-
gainst them as-being, dark and doubtful,, they are ex-
pressed generally by hierog!> phical representations,*
similies, allusrons, and figurative emblematic ways, by
which means, for want of interpretation,, the thing,
was not understood, and consequently the evil not
shunned, z. That we charge God foolishly, to say*,
that he has given the notice of evil without the power
to avoid it; for if any one had not power to avoid the
evil, it was no notice to him; and it was want of
giving due heed to that notice, that men first neglect-
ed themselves, and then charged the judge of all the
earth with injustice. 3. That we ought not to fin&
fault with the inconstancy of these noticesr.but ratheir
with our weak understandings, by pretending dreams**
were not to be regarded, and negligent when the:
voice really spoke to us for our good. It is a mistake-
to fay, dreams have no import at all: we might witru
more reason have said, none that we could perceive:
the reason of, owing to our blindness and supine neo~
gligence, too secure at one time, and too much a-
iarmed at another; so that the spirit, which we migh&
be said to be conversing with in a dream,was con^-
stantly and equally kind and careful; but our powers:
are not always>in the fame state of action, not equal-
ly attentive to, or retentive of the hints that werer
gi^en. And, c- to answer the last question;, why
people are not equally supplied? This seemed to be no>
question>; for Providence itself might have some share-
in the direction of it, and then that providence might
ht limited by a superior direction; That as to the;
D d 3, caararibj
converse of spirits, he couldnot call it a stated cenverse;
.such a thing there was, but why there was so much
of it, and no more, was none of his business, and that
no such discovery had ever yet been made to man-
kind. Nor were we t6 imagine less of waking dresms,
trances, visions, noises, hints, impulses, and all the
waking testimonies of an invisible world, and of the
communication that there is between us and them,
which commonly entertain us with our eyes open.
One time my fancy soared on high, to see what dis-
coveries 1 could make in those clearer regions. I found
that such immense bodies as the fun, stars, planets,
and moon, in the great circle of the lower heaven, are
far from being found in the study of nature on the
surface of the earth. Here I saw many things that
we can entertain little or no notion of in a state of
common life, and the emptiness of our notion, that
the planets are habitable worlds, that is, created like
ours for the subsistence and existence of man and beast,
and the preservation of the vegetative and sensitive
life: no, no: this is, I allure you, a world of spirits \
for here I saw a clear demonstration of Satan being
the prince of the power of the airy keeping his court
or camp, with innumerable angels to attend him;
but his power is not so great as we imagine, he can
tempt us to the crime, but cannot force us to com-
mit it: Humanum eft peccare. Neither has the devil
power to force the world into a rebellion against Hea-
ven, though his legions are employed among savage
nations to set up their master for a god, who make
the Heathens either worship him in person, or by his
representatives, idols, and monsters, wjth the cruel sa-
crifices of human blood. Now, as to the limitations
of the devil's power, you must understand, that as
there are numbers of evil spirits employed in mischief,
so there are numbers of good angels sent from the
higher and blessed abodes to disconcert and oppose
their measures; and this every Christian, I hope, be-
lieves3 when he prays to God, the Faiher of spirits, to
. give,
give his angels charge over him while he slumbereth
and sleepeth. For if by these preventing powers, the
devil was "not restrained, the earth would be subjected
to dearth, droughts, and famine*, the air infected
with noxious fumes 5 and, in a word, mankind would
be utterly destroyed, which might oblige our Maker
(if I may be allowed the expression) to the necessity
of a new Fiat, or else have no more creatures to ho-
nour and worship him.
As the devil never wanted insinuators, I mall ob-
serve, that I learned a way how to make a man dream
os what I pleased. For instance, let us suppose one
to be sound asleep, let another lay his mouth close to
his ear, and whisper any thing so softly zs not to a-
wake him, the sleeping man shall dream of what has
been so whispered in his ear; nay, I can assure you,
those insinuating devils can do this even when we
are awake, which 1 call impulses of the mind: for
from whence, but from these insinuators, come our
causeless passions, involuntary wickedness, or sinful
desires? Who else form ideas in the mind of man
when he is asleep, or presents terrible or beautiful si*
gures to his fancy? Mr Milton represents the devil
tempting Eve in the shape of a toad, lying just at
her ear, when in her bower she lay fast asleep; and
brings in Eve telling Adam what an uneasy night's
rest (he had, and relating her dream to him. And
likewise 1 believe that good spirits have the fame in-
tercourse with us, in warning us against those things
that are evil, and prompting us to that which is good.
Were we to have the eyes of our fouls opened,
through the eyes of our bodies, we should fee this ve-
ry immediate region of air which we breath in,throng-
ed with spirits now invisible, and which otherwise
would be the most terrible: we should view the secret
transactions of those messengers who are employed
when the parting foul takes its leave of the reluctant
body, and perhaps fee things nature would shrink
back from with the utmost terror and amazement.
In a word, the curtain of providence for the disposi-
tion .
tion of things here, and the curtain of judgement for
the determination of the state of fouls hereafter, would
be alike drawn back; and what heart coifld support
here its future state of life, much less that of its fu-
ture state after life, even good or bad.
A gentleman of my acquaintance, being about se-
en miles distant from London, a friend that came to
dine with him, solicited him to go to the city. What,
said the gentleman, is there any occasion for me ! Nor
Sir, said the other, nothing at all, except the enjoy-
ment of your good company ; and so gave over impor-
tuning him. Just then a strong impulse of mind ur-
ged the gentleman, and pursued him like a voice^
with Go to London, Co to London. Hark ye, says
he to his friend, is all well at London? am I want-
ed there? Or did you a(k me to go with you on any
particular account I Are all my family well? Yes in-
deed Sir, said he, I perceived them all very hearty j
and I did not a(k you to go to London upon any par-
ticular account whatsoever, except it was for the fake
of your good company. Again he put off his resolu-
tion: but still the impulse suggested to him, Go to
London, and at length he did so. When he came
there, he sound a letter and messenger had been there
to seek him, and to tell him of a particular business,
which was first and last above a thousand pounds to
to him, and which might inevitably been lost, had he
not gone to London that night.
The obeying of several hints, or secret impulses ar-
gues great wisdom. 1 knew a man that was under
misfortunes, being guilty of misdemeanors against
the government; when absconding for fear of his ru-
in, all his friends advising him not to put himself in
the hands of the law, one morning as h« awaked, he
felt a strong impulse darting into hi& mind ihus> Write
a letter to them: and this was repeated several times
to his mind, and at last he answered to it, as if it had'
been a voice, Whom shall I write to? Immediately it
replied, Write to the judgt; and this impulse pursu-
ed him for several dap, till at length he took pen,-
•
and ink, and paper, and sat down to write to him;
when immediately words flowed from his pen, like
streams from a fair fountain, that charmed even him-
self with hopes of success. In short, the letter was
so strenuous in argument, so pathetic in its eloquence,
and so persuasively movin*, that when the judge had
read it, he sent him an answer he might be easy, he
would endeavour to make that matter light to him:
and indeed never left exerting himself,'till he had
stopt the prosecution, and restored him to his liberty
and family.
I knew a person who had so strong an impression
upon her mind, that the house she was in would be
burnt that very night, that she could not steep; the
impulse (he had upon her mind pressed her not to go
to bed, which, however, she got over, and went to
bed; but was so terrified with the thought, which
run in her mind, that the house would be burnt, that
she could not go to steep; but communicating her
apprehensions to another in the family,they were both
in such a fright, that they applied themselves to search
from the top of the house to the bottom, and to see
every fire and candle safe out, so that, as they all said,
it vras impossible that any thing could happen then,
and they sent to the neighbours on both sides to do
the like. Thus far they did well: but had she obey-
ed the hint which pressed upon her strangely, not to
go to bed, stie had done much better; for the sire
was actually kindled at that very time, though uot
broken out. About an hour after the whole family
was in bed, the house just over the way, directly op-
posite, was all in flames, and the wind, which was ve-
ry high, blowing the flame upon the house this gentle-
woman lived in, so silled it with smoak and sire, in a
few minutes, the street being narrow, that they had
not air to breathe, or time to do any thing, but jump
out of their beds, and save their lives. Had {her o-
beyed the hint given, and not gone, to bed, she might
have saved several things; hut the few moments (he
had spared to her, were but just sufficient to leap out
of bed, put some cloaths on, and get down stairs, for
the house was on fire in half a quarter of an hour.
While I am mentioning these things, rfcethinks it
is very bad that we should obey the whispers of evil
spirits, and not much rather receive the notices which
good ones are pleased to give. We never perceive the
misfortune of this, but when in real danger; and
then we cry, My mind misgave me when I was going
about it; but if so, why do you flight the caution?
Why not listen to it as to a voice? and then there
had been no reason to make this complaint.
I remember about 14 or 15 years ago (as to time I
cannot be very positive) there was a young clergyman
in the city of Dublin in Ireland, who dreamed a ve-
ry uncommon dream, That a gentleman had killed
his wife, a relation of his, by stabbing her in several
places; the fright of this awaked him, but finding it
a dream, he composed himself again to sleep, when he
dreamed a second time the same dream. This made
him a little uneasy \ but thinking it proceeded from
the impression made on his mind by the former, he
went to sleep again and dreamed the fame dream a
third time also. So troubled was he at this, that he
arose and knocked at his mother's chamber, told his
concern, and his apprehensions that all were not right
at his relation's house. Dear son, fays the good old
gentlewoman, do not mind these foolish dreams: and
1 very much wonder, that you being a person in ho-
ly orders, should have regard to such illusions. Up-
on this he went to bed again, fell a sleep, and dreamed
a fourth time as before. And then indeed he put on
his night gown, and went to Smithfield, the place
where his relation dwelt. Here it was, alas, he per-
ceived his dream too sadly fulfilled, by seeing his re-
lation, the young lady, big with child, who was a
Protestant, stabbed in seven places, by her barbarous
husband Mr Eustace, a violent Papist, only for some
discourses of religion that happened the day before.
After the wretch had stabbed her in three places, he
went to make his escape out at a window, but stic cried
out
out, My dear? don't leave me, come back) and Ifhali
be -well again. At which he returned in a hellisti
rage, and gave her four wounds more \ when, even in
this condition, rising from her bed, {he wrapped her-
self in her night-gown, and went to the Lord Bishop
ofRalpho's chamber-door (the bishop lodging at that
time in the house), my Lord, said (he, 0 My Lord
make haste unto me ; but as soon as his Lordship came
(he expired in his arms, resigning her precious foul
into the hands of Almighty God. The cruel
wretch her husband was Ihot by the pursuers, too good
a death for one who deserved the gibbet; and the la-
dy was universally lamented by all tender and religi-
ous people. And this tragical relation 1 have men-
tioned upon the account of that impulse or dream
that the clergyman had at the fatal time of the bloody
-action.
It might be expected I mould enter upon the sub-
ject of apparitions, and discourse concerning the rea-
lity of them; and whether they can revisit the place
of their former existence, and resume those faculties
of speech and shape as they had when living; bur,
as these are very doubtful matters, I shall only make
a few observations upon them.
I once heard of a man that would allow the reality
of apparitions, but laid it all upon the devil, thinking
that the fouls of men departed, or good men, did ne-
ver appear. To this very man something did appear:
he said, he saw the shape of an ancient man pass by
him in the dusk, who, holding up his hand in a
threatening posture, cried out, 0 -wicked man% re*
pent, repent. Terrified with this apparition, he con-
sulted several friends, who advised him to take the ad-
Tice. But, after all, it was not an apparition, but a
grave and-pious gentleman, who met him by mere
accident, and had been sensible of his wickedness;
and who never undeceived him, lest it should hinder
his reformation. Were we always willing to make
good use of Satan's real appearances, I know not
but it would go a great way to banilh him from the
"visible
visible world; for I am very positive, he would sel-
dom visit us, if he thought his coming would do us
any good: but so absolutely is he at the command of
Heaven, that he must go, even to do the woi k he ab-
hors.
Some people make a very ill use of the general no-
tion, that there are no apparitions or spirits at all;
which is worse than those who fancy they see them up-
on every occasion: for those carry their notions far-
ther, even to annihilate the devil, and believe no-
thing about him, neither of one kind or other: the
next step they come to is to conclude, There is no
God) and so atheism takes its rife in the fame sink,
with a carelessness about futurity. But there is no
occasion to enter upon an argument to prove the being
of the Almighty, or to illustrate his power.by words,
who has so many undeniable testimonies in the breasts
of every rational being* to prove his existence > and
we have sufficient proofs, enough to convince us of
the great fuperintendency of divine Providence in the
minutest affairs of this world ; the manifest existence
of the invisible world; the reality of spirits, and in-
telligence between us and them. What I have said, I
hope will not mislead any person,or be a means where-
by they may delude themselves: for I have spoken
of these things with the utmost seriousness of mind,
and with a sincere and ardent desire for the general
good and benefit of the world.
FINIS
